Rio Tinto has agreed to pay $38.1bn (£18.7bn) in cash for aluminium producer Alcan, trumping a hostile bid from rival miner Alcoa.

London-based Rio Tinto, the world's second-largest mining company, said this morning that Alcan's board of directors have agreed to the offer of $101 per share.

The bid is a 32.8% premium on Alcan's market valuation on Wednesday evening. It is 65% more than the company was worth on May 4, just before Alcoa offered $76 per share.

If the offer succeeds, a new aluminium producer called Rio Tinto Alcan will be created, based in Montreal.

Dick Evans, chief executive of Alcan, will become the head of the new entity.

Rio Tinto said the company would become the largest global producer of aluminium and bauxite, based on current production. It added the tie-up would create around $600m in synergies.

Rio Tinto's aluminium division represented under 10% of the overall group's net profit before the deal. But after the tie-up with Alcan, aluminium will represent just under 30% of the enlarged group's earnings.

Tom Albanese, Rio Tinto's new chief executive, is understood to have been keen to increase Rio's exposure to aluminium on the back of increasing Chinese demand. Before the deal, Rio was very much focused on copper and iron ore.

The offer surprised some analysts, who said Alcan's downstream division, which produces aluminium products, would not fit with Rio Tinto's overall upstream business.

But as part of the tie-up, Alcan's packaging business, part of the downstream division, will be sold off. Analysts say it could reach around $5bn, and some even suggested a buyer was already lined up.

Private equity firms have had interest in downstream mining assets in the past, and as such, are seen as a likely buyer for Alcan's packaging business. Apollo Management last year bought the downstream aluminium assets off Xstrata for $1.15bn, but it was unclear whether it would be interested in Alcan's unit.

The deal is seen as a significant shift in strategy for Rio Tinto.

The company has always been regarded as reluctant to take risks, and the price offered is a significant increase from Alcoa's $33bn offer for Alcan, made at the beginning of May.

Shares in Rio Tinto fell 61p, or 1.5%, to £39.32 as a result.

Analysts suggested this morning that another mining company such as BHP Billiton could yet launch its own offer for Alcan, although BHP, the world's largest miner, has been rumoured to be more interested in Alcoa.

Brazil's CVRD, Anglo American or Alcoa itself could yet trump Rio's offer for Alcan, although analysts said it was an extremely high price to beat.

Rio Tinto itself has been on the receiving end of takeover talk, with some speculating that it could be bid for by BHP Billiton. The Alcan deal would make that less of a possibility, but analysts said the enlarged Rio could still be a target, possibly for private equity or Chinese companies.