The Children's Hospital Central California Cardiothoracic Surgery Program provides the highest quality comprehensive intraoperative and post-operative care. The Children's Hospital Cardiothoracic Surgery team is part of the Northern California regional congenital heart program. Each year, the combined programs perform over 1,000 cardiothoracic operations which include the full spectrum of closed and open heart procedures. These include the simple and most complex repairs for newborns, infants, children, teenagers, and young adults with congenital cardiac defects and acquired cardiovascular disease.

Hawaii Pacific Health Heart Centers are home to a distinguished team of expert cardiologists who are setting the bar for cardiovascular care and cutting-edge technology for heart services in Hawaii. Our Heart Centers brings together four medical centers—Kapi'olani, Pali Momi, Straub, and Wilcox—that work together to diagnose and treat the full spectrum of heart and vascular conditions for all patients, from infants to those with advanced disease. Our faculty and attending physicians provide deep expertise across multiple specialties and conditions from congenital heart disease, women's heart health, structural and coronary heart disease, arrhythmia, hypertension, and cardiac rehabilitation.

Mercy Medical Center Redding is a 267-bed hospital sponsored by the Sisters of Mercy of Auburn, along with St. Elizabeth Community Hospital in Red Bluff and Mercy Medical Center Mt. Shasta. Our goal is to promote healing and wellness as well as to advocate for the poor. We deliver compassionate, high-quality health care to the people of the greater Redding area and surrounding North State communities.

The hospital has received the National Research Corporation's Consumer Choice Award for eight consecutive years. Additionally, Mercy Medical Center Redding was recently recognized by U.S. News & World Report for high performance in all five areas of adult treatment, including knee and hip replacement, heart failure, bypass surgery, and pulmonary disease. We've also been honored by the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association for our stroke program.

Mercy Medical Center Redding is part of the CommonSpirit system, which is one of the nation's largest health care systems with more than 142 hospitals in 21 states.

The Stanford Medicine Cancer Center in South Bay delivers access to some of the most acclaimed cancer care in the nation to families of San Jose, Santa Clara, Milpitas, Sunnyvale, Cupertino, and more. You benefit from convenient access to world-class, whole-person care delivered by Stanford Medicine physicians.

Our thoracic surgeons focus on cancers of the chest including tumors such as lung cancer, esophageal cancer, tumors of the chest wall, and tumors of the mediastinum (the space around the heart.)

Santa Clara Valley Medical Center (SCVMC) provides superior inpatient and outpatient care. The 524-bed hospital is recognized as providing a range of sophisticated specialty services. SCVMC is the only medical center in the region that provides some of these advanced services including a world-class Rehabilitation Center, Regional Burn Center, High-Risk Maternity Program, Trauma Center. The addition of the new state-of-the-art main hospital building adds to the advanced level of technology available at SCVMC.

Santa Clara Valley Medical Center is affiliated with nearby Stanford University School of Medicine, and with schools of nursing, allied health professional training and research centers in the San Francisco Bay Area. SCVMC also enjoys a fine reputation for carrying out its own medical education programs.

Santa Clara Valley Medical Center (SCVMC) provides superior inpatient and outpatient care. The 524-bed hospital is recognized as providing a range of sophisticated specialty services. SCVMC is the only medical center in the region that provides some of these advanced services including a world-class Rehabilitation Center, Regional Burn Center, High-Risk Maternity Program, Trauma Center. The addition of the new state-of-the-art main hospital building adds to the advanced level of technology available at SCVMC.

Santa Clara Valley Medical Center is affiliated with nearby Stanford University School of Medicine, and with schools of nursing, allied health professional training and research centers in the San Francisco Bay Area. SCVMC also enjoys a fine reputation for carrying out its own medical education programs.

VA Palo Alto Health Care System is a teaching hospital providing a full range of patient care services with state-of-the-art technology as well as education and research. Comprehensive health care is provided in areas of medicine, surgery, psychiatry, rehabilitation, neurology, oncology, dentistry, geriatrics, and extended care.

An affiliation with the Stanford University School of Medicine provides a rich academic environment including medical training for physicians in virtually all specialties and subspecialties. Over 1,300 University residents, interns, and students are trained each year.

Kaweah Health was founded in 1963 as a district hospital. They are the largest hospital in Tulare County and a certified level III Trauma Center. They work with more than 5,200 medical professionals. Their eight-campus healthcare district contains 613 beds. As the only local hospital in Visalia, they offer comprehensive health services including cardiac surgery, general surgery, cancer treatment, mental health services, orthopedic surgery, a renowned NICU and pediatric center, and more.

Recognized as the #2 Cardiac Surgery in California™ (Healthgrades™), partnered with Stanford University and Cleveland Clinic for top cardiac care.

Recognized as one of America’s 50 Best Hospitals for Cardiac Surgery™ for six years (2018-23, Healthgrades™).