1. John Birks "Dizzy" + Gillespie, one of the greatest Jazz trumpeters of 20th century and one of the main creators of the bebop movement in jazz, was born in Cheraw, South Carolina and died in Englewood, New Jersey. John Birks 'Dizzy' Gillespie

2. + Biography.  Dizzy Gillespie was the youngest of nine children. Because Dizzy;s father, James Gillespie, was a local bandleader, this meant that Dizzy had a lot of exposure to music as a child.  At age twelve he began to study music, and dropped out of boarding school at seventeen to move to Philadelphia, where he began to work as a musician.& joined Frankie Fairfax's band  It was while in Fairfax's band that he earned his lifelong nickname, due to his clownish behavior. moving on to New York City and Teddy Hill's big band in 1937, Later he played with Duke Ellington, Lionel Hampton, and Billie Holliday.

3. + Contributions& trademark.  Dizzy was an improviser building on the style of Roy Eldridge  He contributed by adding harmonic complexity previously unknown in jazz.  Dizzy’s beret, puffy cheeks, scat singing, bent horn and cheerful personality are what was essential in popularizing bebop music.

4. + Gillispie style & characteristics of bebop. Dizzy played with great speed, and used new rhythms and chord changes. He was full of inventions and had huge variety of facial expressions, he was a great entertainer.  Solo constructions.  Complex harmonic ideas.  Horns that where piano like  Improvising  BEBOP PLAYERS MADE LIBERAL USE OF "QUOTES"

5. + Dizzy, didn’t stop at bebop. In the late 1970s, Dizzy spent time mainly touring overseas visiting Africa, Australia, Cuba, Europe. His traveling lead him to new inspirations which is where he became involved with afro-cuban music. He was able to fuse Afro-American jazz and Afro- Cuban rhythms with the help of Bauza.

6. + Dizzy Gillispie Legacy.  Henever let his age slow him down, By 1989 Gillespie gave 300 performances in twenty-seven countries, appeared in one hundred U.S. cities in 31 states and the District of Columbia, headlined three television specials, performed with two symphonies, and recorded four albums.  Dizzy continued to play music into his late life. His last public appearance was in Seattle in February of 1992. Gillespie passed away in his sleep on October 6, 1993, at the age of 75.

7. + Salt & Peanuts.  Rhythm: Fast stream of notes w/off beat accents.  Instrumentation: saxophone, trumpet, piano, string, bass, drums.  Complex, clashing harmonies in introduction.  Fast tempo.  Rhythm changes  Call and response.  Frequent changes in note directions  Bluesy melody phase before solos.