Six Georgetown alumni were newly elected to the U.S. House of Representatives and one to the U.S. Senate in Tuesday’s Congressional elections.

The six alumni entering the House of Representatives are Democrat Stephanie Murphy of Florida (GRD ’04), Republican Francis Rooney of Florida (CAS ’75, GRD ’78), Republican Trey Hollingsworth of Indiana (GRD ’14), Republican John Faso of New York (GRD ’79), Republican Mike Gallagher of Wisconsin (GRD ’12, GRD ’13) and Democrat Pramila Jayapal of Washington (CAS ’86).

Jayapal will become the first Indian-American woman to serve in the U.S. House after succeeding Democrat Jim McDermott as the representative for Washington’s 7th district.

Democrat Chris Van Hollen of Maryland (GRD ’90) will join six incumbent alumni in the Senate, including Democrat Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont (GRD ’64) and Republican Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska (CAS ’80), who won re-election in their states Tuesday.

These alumni join a total of 22 members in the House and Senate in the 115th Congress who hold degrees from Georgetown, composed of 16 Democrats and six Republicans.

Republican Sen. Mark Kirk of Illinois (GRD ’92) is the only incumbent alumnus who did not win his re-election bid. Kirk lost to his Democratic opponent, Congresswoman Tammy Duckworth from Illinois’ 8th district.

Associate Vice President for Federal Relations Scott Fleming expressed pride in the alumni serving in Congress.

“Of course we are tremendously proud of these members of the Georgetown community who are, through public service, living our mission of educating men and women for others,” Fleming said. “We look forward to connecting them to university life as they assume their new positions.”

Government professor James Lengle said he consistently donates his own money to help elect Georgetown graduates.

“I’ve always contributed money to former students of mine who ran for public office regardless of political party. It’s my way of supporting and encouraging their commitment to public service,” Lengle said. “I’m very proud when Georgetown graduates act on ideals instilled by their education and by the values and mission of the university.