Abraham Isaac Kook, Orthodox Rabbi, 1865-1935, who saw Zionism as a part of a divine scheme which would result in the resettlement of the Jewish people in an area similar to the Biblical Israel because this was the land promised to the ancient Israelites by God. He was an early ideologue for religious Zionism.

Abū al- Faḑl (1844-1914, born in Iran) was a Bahāʾī scholar who spread the faith in Egypt starting in approximately 1910. Moreover, he went to Turkmenistan and the United States, where he also introduced people to Bahāʾī principles. Even though he is one of the apostels of Bahá'u'lláh, he never actually met him. As his actual name Muhammad reveals, he derived from a Muslim family and converted to Bahāʾī faith in 1876. Due to his conversion, he was arrested several times.

Abū al-Barāʿa al-Miṣrī is a member of ISIS and responsible for the bombing of St. Mark's Church in Alexandria, also related to as Palm Sunday Bombings from 2017. He was born in Kafr al-Shaykh on December 13, 1974. He has a polytechnic diploma. Furthermore, he is married with three children. He went to Syria on August 15, 2013, then went to Libanon and afterwards returned to Syria according to al-'Arabiya.

General Abū Bakr al-Jindī, born on January 20, 1949, is the current egyptian Minister of Local Development. He has a master degree in Strategic Resource Management and Military Sciences, and gratuated from High War College in Cairo, as well from National Defense University in Washington. Moreover, Abū Bakr al-Jindī occupies senior posts in the Egyptian Armed Forces Training Authority. He also served as the head of the US Department of Defense's US Relations Branch, the Assistant Defense Attaché in Washington, and then Assistant Secretary of Defense. Due to his military commitment, he was awarded several times.

An Andalusian polymath born in present day Cordoba, Spain. He was a leading proponent and codifier of the Zahiri school of Islamic thought, he is also called the father of comparative religious studies. He is best known for his work on ethics, history, jurisprudence, theology, and comparative religious studies.

Southern Sudanese woman and sister of Angelo Andrew, was arrested in her home village in South Sudan along with several other women by the SPLA in January 1991.