It's been seven years since Molly Rankin shared the stage with members of Sydney band The Hummingbirds, an indie and jangle pop group that formed in the 80s.

But a gift the singer-songwriter of Canadian band Alvvays — that's pronounced "always" — received during that tour still sparks fond memories.

"They sit on our piano to this day. They are just these treasured gems that we hold dear to our hearts."

Though Rankin's connection with the Sydney band dates back years earlier – with a friend sending through Alimony, a song by The Hummingbirds that inspired Alvvay's biggest early hit.

"The theme of [Alimony] found its way into one of our songs called Archie, Marry Me.

"It's safe to say there's a little bit of thematic lifting there. And it's a song that we covered for so long."

Finding inspiration

For their latest album, Rankin lifted from her own formative experiences in her hometown of Cape Breton in Nova Scotia, Canada and the "weird little cultural anomalies" that still stick out to her.

She fondly describes a reckless youth punctuated by the memory of a "rev".

"It's a wine cooler that has some weird extract in it … it should probably be illegal, but we would all drink those," she said.

The vodka-based cola beverage unlocks memories for Rankin, serving as the title for the band's third and latest album Blue Rev, and sparking the inspiration for the album's "flagship" song Belinda Says.

"It was the first time that I felt like I was really reflecting where I came from, in songwriting, which was a fun little world to crack into."

The song earned Alvvays their first Grammy Award nomination.

Memories of 'rowdy' crowds in Australia

That win came weeks before the group returned to Australian shores this month for a whirlwind tour.

"I was characterising this person going through a rough time as a teenager and flipping on the radio, and hearing [the Go-Go's singer] Belinda Carlisle, which was a huge thing for me as a teenager: having a companion in the radio," said Rankin.

"Having these friends singing these songs you felt like you had a really intimate relationship with those people."

It's a relationship Rankin and her bandmates want to cultivate with fans as they embark on live shows around Australia.

"It's just nice to feel like people are responding to the songs you're playing.

The band's take on dreamy shoegaze melodies and jangly indie pop is based around a "loud guitar 'Wall of Sound' element" that punctuates their lives shows.

"One thing that our band all agree on is that we love guitars and really menacing tones," Rankin said.

"I think this album [Blue Rev] does a better job of bringing out those moments on record."

Struggles creating Blue Rev

But the making of their latest album was less than smooth – battling lockdowns, stolen demos and a flooded studio.

"I did feel like something biblical was happening against me," Rankin jokes.

Many of the original ideas of Blue Rev were taped on a hand recorder, which was stolen by a thief who broke into her apartment.

"I lost a lot of the weird little happy accidents that happen when you're just trying things, frying ideas, throwing things at the wall to see what sticks," she said.

"Thankfully, I have a pretty good memory for the melodies I write so the core of the songs remain."

The day after the robbery, the Toronto basement that the band rehearse and record in was flooded thanks to "uncharacteristically heavy rainfall".

"All of our friends were there just comforting me about my loss of my demos, and we all were picking up patch cables and chorus echoes and amps and putting them on higher ground.

"You can only feel sorry for yourself for so long. You turn on the news and you're humbled by what else is happening."

As for the pandemic, Rankin says the extra time allowed the band to experiment with new ideas.

With a holiday break after the Australia leg of their tour, Rankin says she's excited to work up "different little ideas and fragments" for the band's new material.

"I am absolutely not a tour writer. I'm happy for those who are," she said.

"I like to be alone [to write] … taking all of those distractions away and really stripping that down to just your mind.

"That's a great opportunity to just cook up some ideas."