Beijing, China

Latitude and longitude coordinates are: 39.916668, 116.383331.

Beijing (北京市 ) is the capital city of the People's Republic of China, located in the northern part of the country. Beijing is the most populous capital city in the world. Beijing is a cultural, economic, business, and social life center of the country. It is a modern city with advanced infrastructure and plenty of landmarks. It is a very multi-cultured and multi-religious city, with plenty of people from various nations, religions, and cultures living side by side. Beijing has many prestigious and world-class universities that rank among the best in the world such as Beijing Normal University, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tsinghua University, Peking University, Renmin University of China, Beijing Institute of Technology, etc. The city is also home to the Headquarters of China Central Television. The 2008 Summer Olympics, also known as Beijing 2008, was held in Beijing, China.

The main landmarks and tourist attractions of Beijing include the Forbidden City Palace, National Museum of China, National Arts Museum, Beijing Botanical Garden, the Paleozoological Museum of China, Beijing Museum of National History, Beijing Exhibition Hall, Capital City Museum, Railway Museum, The Beijing Dongyue Temple, Yonghe Temple, Tanzhe Temple, Confucius Temple, the Temple of Earth, Beijing's Temple of Heaven, Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception, Peking Man Site at Zhoukoudian, the buildings on the Tiananmen Square, The Beijing Ancient Observatory, Fragrant Hills Park, Niujie Mosque, Church of the Saviour, St. Joseph's Church, Jade Belt Bridge, Lugou Bridge, Beijing Workers' Stadium, The Ming Tombs, Summer Palace, and many others. Beijing is an important transportation center in North China. The Beijing railway station was the biggest train station in China at the time. It has also two of the largest airports in the world: The Beijing Capital International Airport and Beijing Daxing International Airport.

Where is Beijing, China on Map?

Road map of Beijing, China shows where the location is placed.

Satellite Map of Beijing, China

Beijing, China Lat Long Coordinates Info