Ancestors

[children unknown]

Profile last modified 13 Aug 2024 | Created 18 Jun 2013

This page has been accessed 1,761 times.

Biography

Lucian Freud, in full Lucian Michael Freud (born December 8, 1922, Berlin, Germany—died July 20, 2011, London, England), British artist known for his work in portraiture and the nude. Sometimes called a realist, he painted in a highly individual style, which in his later years was characterized by impasto.

The son of the architect Ernst Freud and a grandson of Sigmund Freud, he immigrated with his family to England in 1933, becoming a naturalized citizen in 1939. He was trained at the Central School of Art in London, where he was as much known for his unconventional behaviour as for his drawing talent, and at the East Anglian School of Painting and Drawing in Dedham. Freud turned to painting full-time after WWII. His Interior at Paddington (1951) exhibits many of his lifelong concerns—the human figure rendered in a realist manner and imbued with a stark and evocative psychological intensity. Freud’s many portraits of his friends and associates and of members of the British gentry extended a grand English tradition. His series of paintings and drawings of his mother, begun in 1970 and continuing until the day after her death in 1989, are particularly frank and dramatic studies of intimate life passages.

Freud’s many studies of the nude make up a major part of his work. For 50 years he posed friends, neighbours, models, and family members in his studio, often as if strewn casually across dilapidated furniture, and confronted their nude flesh with both keen interest and a kind of clinical impassiveness. In this work he typically used a limited tonal range of creamy tans and browns. In studies such as Night Portrait (1985–86), Freud both highlighted and undercut the erotics of the female nude, opting out of the idealizing tendencies of much of the history of Western art. Beginning in the 1980s, Freud was increasingly drawn toward what could be called extreme body types. His work maintained the place of traditional subject matter in art while introducing personal and psychological attitudes that are fully modern.

Lucian's death was registered in the Jul-Aug-Sep quarter of 2011 in the Kensington and Chelsea district, London.[1]

Sources

↑ Death Registration: "England & Wales General Register Office"

GRO Online Indexes - Death (accessed 9 August 2024)

Freud, Lucian Michael (Year of birth: 1922).

GRO Reference: 2011 Jul-Aug-Sep in Kensington and Chelsea (239-1A) Entry Number 505265366.

Wikipedia entry for Lucian Freud

Acknowledgments

Thanks to William Arbuthnot for starting this profile. Click the Changes tab for the details of contributions by William and others.