British wartime mystery thriller full of Nazi agents and Allied spies.

Top boffin John Barrington (Leslie Banks) works on new weapons in a remote Scottish cottage which is also being used as a military hospital. An injured pilot (John Mills) arrives at the same time as a bunch of evacuees, including Ronald (George Cole), who fancies himself as a schoolboy Sherlock Holmes. Then a shady, inquisitive man who has booked to stay of the cottage, Dimble (Alastair Sim), turns up as well.

Plenty of fun and a little wartime propaganda to be had, and director Anthony Asquith provides plenty of tension and suspense as we try to work out who are the goodies and who are the baddies.

Jeanne De…

I did not know that Alistair Sim adopted George Cole as a protégé (Minder for my age group). They're both a big part of this criminally underseen mix of drama, comedy and wartime espionage.

Apparently Sim was a kind man, which creates an interesting contradiction to what I consider to be a villainous face. Blame Ebenezer(?)

Set in Scotland, Cottage To Let has likely been seen by very few people in recent years (it's free on YouTube UK in beautiful monochrome quality), but anyone who happens across it will discover a film of subtle eccentricity, but also one that is concerned with the events that consumed the world in 1941, namely WW2.

The film directed by Anthony Asquith, who made…

'I've got a wonderful memory for faces.'

'Well, I haven't, but I think I'd remember yours.'

Anthony Asquith is a director I'll continue to sing the praises of because he's seriously undervalued in my opinion and as a fellow countryman I feel obliged to get his name out there-Cottage to Let is a terrific little wartime espionage thriller with plenty of unexpected twists and reveals to maintain your interest, a surprising amount of comedy and some fabulous direction by Asquith. The cast is terrific-John Mills as a womanising Spitfire pilot, Leslie Banks as the gifted inventor with Nazi spies on his tail, Michael Wilding as his endearing assistant ​and a suitably creepy Alastair Sim as a suspicious lodger. This was…