Nancy Meyers' films are renowned for their comfortable covetable interiors; Meryl Streep's sprawling Mediterranean-style mansion in It's Complicated and Diane Keaton's elegant Hamptons beach house in Something's Gotta Give are particular favourites. There is, however, one which beats them all: the English cottage from the Christmas house-swapping rom-com The Holiday. It's undoubtedly one of the most charming houses we've ever seen on film, and it's the style closest to our hearts. Although the rooms of Rosehill Cottage only ever existed on a Hollywood sound stage, that doesn't make them any less covetable.

Where is the cottage from The Holiday?

Although the Rosehill Cottage of the film doesn't exist in reality - the exteriors were built from scratch in a field and the interiors are sets - Honeysuckle Cottage in Holmbury St Mary (which was for sale in 2021 and is now available on Airbnb) provided inspiration for the crew who designed it. The cottage is the home of Kate Winslet's character, who conducts a home swap with Cameron Diaz's LA mogul, and thus provides the setting for Diaz to fall in love with the dreamy Jude Law amidst her comedy dealings with the English countryside.

The cottage from The Holiday has become a phenomenon, summing up the best of the English cottage look and creating a dream of Christmas in the countryside for thousands. The exterior of the cottage, lightly dusted in snow, is like a composite of all the honey-coloured, sightly wonky cottages you can stumble across everywhere from the Cotswolds to Yorkshire, and the interiors encapsulate the perfectly imperfect, cosy look characteristic of the ideal cottage. All the features are there including wooden beams, an open fire, the slightly shabby country kitchen of our dreams, faded chintzes and that tiny, beautiful roll-top bath. Cottages come into their own in winter, and seeing first Kate Winslet and then Cameron Diaz occupying the space in their inimitable style certainly adds something to its desirability.

If you've caught the bug, scroll down to see how you can incorporate some of the atmosphere from the cottage from The Holiday into your own house.