Racing relations Alex and James Davison have never raced against each other on the track, until this weekend when the quick cousins face off at the second round of the 2012 Porsche City Index Carrera Cup Australia season.

The Porsche championship will feature a raft of new drivers for the Albert Park round, including former F1 driver Heinz-Harald Frentzen, 2011 championship runner-up Jonny Reid, Elite Class drivers Peter Hill and Michael Loccisano, who will race just days after the birth of his first born child, and Carrera Cup debutant James Davison.

Having won the opening round of the Porsche City Index Carrera Cup Australia championship at the Clipsal 500 a fortnight prior, Alex Davison enters Albert Park with the points lead and is looking forward to lining up against his cousin and McElrea Racing team-mate James for the first time in their careers.

“I’m looking forward to seeing James out on the track in Carrera Cup. He’s a very talented driver with some success at a high level over in America. He also had a successful test recently in the Carrera Cup car so I expect him to be running towards the front of the field this weekend,” said Alex.

James Davison makes his Carrera Cup debut at the Albert Park round having returned to Australia from a stint racing in the USA. There, the 25-year-old recorded an impressive second position outright in the second-tier open wheel formula, Indy Lights, in 2009 followed by competing in select races in the Grand-Am sports car championship.

“I’m really looking forward to putting myself up against the all-star competition this weekend, including Heinz-Harald Frentzen, along with some of the all-time successful Porsche drivers like Craig Baird and my cousin, Alex. It will be one of the most competitive races that I will have taken part in during my career,” said James.

“I was at Indianapolis when Alex won the Porsche Supercup race in 2002 and to think that I’d be team-mates with Alex 10 years on in the same cars is pretty cool.”

The Davison name will also feature in the V8 Supercars field at the Formula 1™ Qantas Australian Grand Prix, with Will Davison (Alex’s brother) racing for Ford Performance Racing. The trio’s grandfather, Lex Davison, was also a four-time winner of the Australian Grand Prix (1954, 1957, 1958 and 1961).

Meanwhile, Elite Class driver Michael Loccisano has had cause for celebration entering the Albert Park round, becoming a father just a few days before the event.

Loccisano and his partner Belinda celebrated the birth of their first child, Ocsar Michael Loccisano, on March 12. And with the new addition to the family, Loccisano expects a busy weekend juggling on-track and off-track commitments.

“I’ve been looking forward to getting back driving for a while. The baby was due a couple of weeks ago, which was the reason I didn’t race at the Clipsal 500. Now that the baby has arrived, I’m on a high and I’m looking forward to jumping back into the car and having a run with the guys,” said Loccisano.

“I expect it to be a pretty busy weekend with everything going on. It’ll be a bit of a juggle, but it’ll be a great weekend.”

James Koundouris enters the Albert Park round with the Elite Class points lead, ahead of last year’s class winner Max Twigg and 2012 rookie Tony Bates.

Opening practice of the Porsche City Index Carrera Cup Australia round at Albert Park will be held at 2:40pm on Thursday March 15.

Race Schedule

Thursday March 15

2:40pm – 3:00pm Practice (20 minutes)

4:50pm – 5:10pm Qualifying (20 minutes)

Friday March 16

6:20pm – 6:45pm Race 1 (10 laps)

Saturday March 17

12:30pm – 12:50pm Race 2 (8 laps)

Sunday March 18

2:10pm – 2:30pm Race 3 (8 laps)