VOCATIONAL STUDIES

– SECURITY RISKS ASSESSMENT –

(Title obtained: specialist for security risks assessment)

Obligatory module:

Sociology of the risks

Law and Corporate Security

Decision making process in crisis situations

Risk management system

Additional qualification: internal auditor of the integrated management system and / or management representative for management systems

Elective modules:

The student chooses one module with all the subjects in it.

Module 1: Security Risk Management

Risk assessment and planning in corporate / private security

Business continuity in Industry and Organizations

Social communication networks in crisis and disaster management

Additional qualification: certified security risk management expert

Module 2: Occupational Safety and Environment

Environmental safety regulatory framework

Safety and health at work

Health, safety and security risks

Additional qualification: certified expert in occupational safety and environmental safety

Module 3: Personal and Business Security

Security risk assessment in ICT systems

Protection of personal data

Protection of classified information, business secrets and fight against corruption

Additional qualification: certified IT Security expert / Data Protection Officer / GDPR Practitioner / internal auditor of the ISO 27000 system

Module 4: Risk in Engineering – Inspection Approach

Introduction to risk management

Risk management of pressure vessels

Risk assessments in inspection supervision

Additional qualification: Internal auditor of the integrated management system / or Management representative for management systems and Certified expert for risk management of pressure vessels and risk assessment in inspection supervision

Module 5: Qualitative and quantitative approaches to risk management

Risk management methods

Measuring the performance of sustainability and techno-economic assessment of risky projects

Business communication and management of intercultural differences

Additional qualification: Certified expert for the application of ISO 31010 risk management methods and / or Certified expert for the development of own feasibility studies of projects, as well as in the critical evaluation of feasibility studies of risky projects, submitted by consultants.

Additional qualification: Through specialist studies, the Faculty prepares for the additional qualification, recognized on the labor market, with the company TMS, which issues the certificate. The costs of preparation are included in the price of tuition, while a separate cost of taking the certificate is borne by the students.

INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE

BELT AND ROAD: SERBIA AND INITIATIVE 16+1

The Faculty of Security Studies of the University of Belgrade organized the third international conference dedicated to the New Silk Road, in the premises of the Club of Deputies in Belgrade entitled “Belt and Road: Serbia and Initiative 16+1 – experiences, achievements and perspectives”. This event was coorganised in cooperation with the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in the Republic of Serbia and the academic community of the People’s Republic of China, on April 19.

This year’s conference was thematically dedicated to the experiences that the Republic of Serbia has achieved over the past six years since the establishment of the multilateral framework “16 + 1”. A special accent was placed on the investment aspects and the various benefits that our country has achieved through membership in this unique Initiative. In this regard, the dominant topic was the presentation of various forms of economic presence of Chinese companies in the domestic market, as well as planned investments and future infrastructure projects.

At the very beginning, the Dean of the Faculty of Security Studies Dr. Vladimir N. Cvetković addressed the participants and guests, pointing out the academic significance of such a conference, and addressed in a closer subject that this year’s meeting was dedicated to.

Speech by Professor Vladimir N. Cvetkovic

After the dean`s welcome speech, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Ivica Dačić addressed the participants. In his speech, the Minister presented the diplomatic and political achievements of the Republic of Serbia in special mechanisms and working bodies within the 16 + 1 Initiative.

Speech by Minister Dačić

The next speaker, Her Excellency Ms. Chen Bo, the Ambassador Plenipotentiary and Extraordinary of the People’s Republic of China to the Republic of Serbia, addressed the meeting, and expressed optimism about further political and economic cooperation between the two countries.

At the very end of the official opening ceremony the Minister of Mining and Energy in the Government of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Aleksandar Antić addressed the participants. Mr. Antic said that the New Road Silk Project is the most important energy global project, and as such, represents a good development opportunity for the Republic of Serbia and the region of Central and Eastern Europe.

After the opening ceremony, the conference was held in four thematic panels. The first panel was dedicated to Serbia as a member of the 16 + 1 mechanism. Panelists were prof. Dr. Sju Gjen, prof. dr Milenko Dželetović, prof. Prof. Dr. Žarko Obradović, prof. Dr. Radoslav Pušić, as well as prof. Dr. Jiong Gong. The talks were dedicated to the bilateral relations of the Republic of Serbia and the People’s Republic of China, cultural diplomacy, as well as the challenges of further investments of Chinese companies in the Republic of Serbia. Panelists agreed that the participation of the Republic of Serbia in this initiative is a good example and an incentive for the countries of the region to more systematically approach the mutual cooperation in the construction of cross-border infrastructure projects.

The second panel was thematically oriented towards the 16 + 1 initiative, the current multilateral and bilateral relations, and the activities of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe with the People’s Republic of China. Panelists were prof. Dr. Matej Hrubec, prof. Dr. Andrej Radulescu, prof. Dr. Petar Stanojević, Ms. Matej Šimalčik and prof. Dr. Jao Jungsu. Panelists proposed several potential scenarios for mid-term development of the 16 + 1 Initiative and further forms of economic and, consequently, political deepened cooperation among the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.

In the third panel, speakers presented their works that contextualized the global vision of the Belt and Road initiative. The session of this panel was divided into two segments. The first segment` participants were prof. Dr. Hu Davei, prof. dr Vladimir N. Cvetković, doc. Dr. Julija Nikitina and prof. Dr. Siniša Tatalović. Panelists focused their attention on changes in the world order, the place of Serbia in relations with the great powers in the 21st century, and macroregional political flows in relations between the Russian Federation and the European Union towards the political initiatives of the People’s Republic of China. In the second segment of this panel participation was taken by prof. Dr. Magnus Ilmjarv, prof. Dr Monika Bartošević, prof. dr Minin Yevgeny Mihailovich, doc. Dr. Vladimir Eisenhamer and prof. Dr. Dušan Proroković. Panelists focused on subregional initiatives such as the idea of ​​intermarium, then the participation of Baltic countries in the 16 + 1 initiative, as well as the role of the Danube as a politically and economically cohesive element of cooperation between the countries of the region and the strategic thinking of the Chinese academic community on international relations.

Apart from the panellists, the work of the conference was attended by a large number of state officials of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the diplomatic corps and the academic community, as well as professional public from the country and abroad.

PRESS CLIPPING

The work of the conference attracted the attention of the local media. Numerous domestic print and electronic media were reporting about the meeting, its conclusions, as well as the guest’s visits.

RTS – Serbia is an important point on the New Silk Road

RTV – Serbia is an important point of the “New Silk Road”

TANJUG – Dačić: We will show unity and strength

Danas – Dačić: Serbia attaches great importance to cooperation with China and the initiative “Belt and Roud”

Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the RS – Intensive cooperation with friendly China and other countries involved in the initiative “Belt and Road”

China-Today – Symposium Belt and Road – Serbia and Cooperation 16 + 1

Previous conferences:

The 4th International Academic Conference on Human Security “Human Security and New Technologies”, organized by the Human Security Research Center and the Faculty of Security Studies (University of Belgrade), with the support of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development of the Republic of Serbia and the OSCE Mission to the Republic of Serbia, was held on 2 and 3 November 2018 at the Rectorate of the University of Belgrade. The conference was attended by over sixty researchers and scholars from Serbia and abroad and a considerable number of guests.

The Conference was opened by:

Petar Bulat, Vice-Rector of the University of Belgrade

Vladimir N. Cvetković, Dean of the Faculty of Security Studies

E. Mr Andrea Orizio, Head of the OSCE Mission to the Republic of Serbia

Goran Matić, Director of the Office of the National Security Council and Classified Information Protection

The keynote lectures were presented by Rastko Močnik (sociologist, psychoanalyst, literary theorist, translator and political activist from Slovenia), Bülent Sarper Аğır (Associate Professor of International Relations at Aydın Adnan Menderes University’s Faculty of Economics), Aleksej Tarasjev (evolutionary biologist from the Department of Evolutionary Biology at the Institute for Biological Research “Siniša Stanković” of the University of Belgrade) and Nathaniel Raymond (Lecturer at Yale University’s Jackson Institute of Global Affairs, USA).

Over the two-day conference, scholars, researchers and practitioners from twelve countries engaged in lively debates and exchanged their research findings, knowledge and experience of the nexus between human security and modern technology.

Two workshops for postgraduate students were held on the second day of the Conference: Data as People: Information, Rights, and the Future of Freedom, led by Nathaniel Raymond, and Use of Personal Protective Equipment in CBRN Training, presented by staff from the Vinča Institute of Nuclear Sciences.

For more details, visit the official website of the Conference: http://conference.human-security.info/

The Euro-Asian Energy Security Forum, an international conference organized by the Faculty of Security Studies – University of Belgrade, The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia and the Energypact Foundation, was held at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 26 and 27 October 2018.

The Belgrade conference was the inaugural part of the public-private Eurasian Energy Forum partnership aimed at connecting key international actors in government and business through a series of conferences to be held yearly in a European or Asian country.

The Forum concerns all aspects of energy security and critical infrastructure security and strives to establish a cooperation model for regional academic integrative processes and interregional initiatives as well as to ensure peace and stability across the vast area of Europe, Middle East, North Africa and Asia. At the same time, the Forum aims to create the conditions for fostering agreement frameworks between state and private actors on a voluntary basis. As one of the first countries to support the initiative, Serbia hosted the inaugural conference.

The inaugural conference in Belgrade set in motion discussions on academic and geopolitical aspects of energy security, critical infrastructure in Eurasia, ongoing and future economic projects, and perspectives for coordinated interstate cooperation in the area. Talks at the conference focused on various forms of cooperation – scholarly, geopolitical and diplomatic – on the introduction of necessary legal provisions, investments and specific projects relating to oil, gas, renewable energy sources and water supply, with special focus on the security of electricity supply. The project and conference were launched in November 2017, when the co-organizers signed a general Memorandum of Understanding, creating the formal conditions for the beginning of practical cooperation at the inaugural conference.

The conference also included the Euro-Asian Youth Council meeting, held on the second day. It brought together students and researchers in these areas with the aim of establishing a strong academic network of Eurasian universities.

First Day of the Conference

26 October 2018

Numerous officials from Serbia and abroad, diplomats, entrepreneurs and academics attended the first day of the conference. Donald D. Dudenhoeffer, Director of Operations of the Energypact Foundation, was the forum’s conférencier.

In the introductory session, the attendees were addressed by professor Vladimir N. Cvetković, Dean of the Faculty of Security Studies, Zoran Predić, State Secretary of the Ministry of Mining and Energy of the Republic of Serbia, Veljko Odalović, Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, and Alexandre S. Dimitrijević, President and Executive Director of the Energypact Foundation.

The conference was officially opened by the Minister of Mining and Energy of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Antić. He emphasized the significance of connecting different actors in developing a joint energy policy that will be an integral part of international relations and a source of political stability. Minister Antić’s address was followed by the ministerial statements of Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade of Hungary, Barsaman Pun, Minister of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation of Nepal, and George Stathakis, Minister of Environment and Energy of Greece. The first day also saw numerous bilateral meetings of the attending ministers.

In the Introductory Special Session, the attendees heard from Alexander Dybal, Deputy Director General of Corporate Communications in Gazprom Neft, and Yiwei Wang, Director of Institute of International Affairs of Renmin University of China.

The first session of the day, Energy Security: Enhancing National Security and Global and Regional Stability, initiated the discussion on energy security as a major segment of regional and global stability, with special focus on the Eurasian macroregion. The speakers and panellists included Branko Kovačević, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Public Enterprise “Elektroprivreda Srbije”, Andrey Kazantsev, Director of the Center for Central Asia and Afghanistan Research, MGIMO University, Daria Melnik, Advisor of the Energy Department of the Eurasian Economic Commission, Žarko Obradović, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Anita Richer, Programme Manager for South East Europe, OECD, and Petar Stanojević, Associate Professor at the Faculty of Security Studies, University of Belgrade.

In the second session, International Cooperation and Oil and Gas Supply Security, the participants engaged in constructive discussions on whether international cooperation enhances oil and gas supply security across Eurasia. The audience heard from Milan Zdravković, Executive Director at Srbijagas, Gulmira Rzayeva, Senior Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic Studies under the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, Károly Banai, Senior Advisor at Nord Stream 2, and Branislav Todorović, Research Associate at the National Technical University of Athens (NTUA).

In the third session, International Cooperation and Electricity Supply Security, the attendees heard from Donald D. Dudenhoeffer, Director of Operations of the Energypact Foundation, Ali Akbar Safavi, Head of International Relations at the Iranian Society of Instrumentation and Control Engineers (ISICE), Aziz Ameyoud, Director General of OS-Operateur du Systeme Electrique / SONELGAZ and Miloš Mladenović, Managing Director of SEEPEX.

Second Day of the Conference

27 October 2018

The second day of the First Euro-Asian Energy Security Forum was opened by First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia Ivica Dačić.

Address by the First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia Ivica Dačić at the First Euro-Asian Energy Security Forum

Minister Dačić’s address was followed by a special session with Igor Crnadak, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Ioannis Brachos, Secretary General for International Economic Relations at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Greece.

The next session, Diplomatic and Geopolitical Challenges of Global Integration Processes, launched a discussion on the impact of diplomatic and geopolitical challenges on global integration. The speakers included Dmitry Pankin, President of the Black Sea Trade & Development Bank, Vladimir N. Cvetković, Dean of the Faculty of Security Studies, Andrey Kazantsev, Director of the Center for Central Asia and Afghanistan Research, MGIMO University, and Yiwei Wang, Director of Institute of International Affairs at Renmin University of China.

The final session of the forum, Euro-Asian Youth Council: Challenges & Opportunities of the Integration Processes in Euro-Asian Space, provided the platform for young people to exchange opinions on the growing challenges of political and economic integration in Eurasia. The Euro-Asian Youth Council will encourage academic and professional ties between students and researchers in Eurasia and promote institutional cooperation among Eurasian universities. The speakers in this session included Ivanka Popović, Rector of the University of Belgrade, Danilo Potparić, Student Pro-rector of the University of Belgrade, and Mohammad Allagha, Secretary General of the Euro-Asian Youth Council.

Media Coverage of the Conference

The Euro-Asian Energy Security Forum attracted considerable interest from both Serbian and international media. Both printed and electronic media reported on the forum, the conclusions drawn by the participants, the attending ministers and the meetings held during the conference. These included: daily Politika, Novosti, Blic, Kurir, news agencies Tanjug and Beta, web portals Krstarica, Sputnik, Energetski portal and Infobrif as well as television stations from Serbia – RTS, RTV, N1, TV O2, TV B92, Studio B – and abroad – Hungarian Radio and Television Broadcaster, Republika Srpska Radio and Television (RTRS), Federalna televizija, portals Xinhua, Anadolu Agency, the official website of the Visegrád Group, portals Hungary Today and Spotlight Nepal.

Press Clipping:

1. Minister Szijjártó’s Speech:

http://www.kormany.hu/en/ministry-of-foreign-affairs-and-trade/news/close-cooperation-is-required-in-the-central-eastern-and-southern-parts-of-europe-within-the-field-of-energy-security 2. Krstarica Portal:

https://www.krstarica.com/vesti/ekonomija/forum-za-energetsku-bezbednost-evroazije-26-i-27-oktobra/ 3. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Republic of Serbia:

http://www.mfa.gov.rs/sr/index.php/pres-servis/saopstenja/20331–m-?lang=lat 4. Novosti:

http://www.novosti.rs/vesti/naslovna/drustvo/aktuelno.290.html:756989-Energetska-bezbednost—kljucna-u-medjunarodnim-odnosima 5. Anadolu Agency:

https://www.aa.com.tr/ba/balkan/forum-u-beogradu-energetska-bezbednost-zahteva-saradnju-na-globalnom-nivou/1294017 6. Tanjug Agency:

http://www.tanjug.rs/full-view.aspx?izb=437972 7. eKapija Portal:

https://www.ekapija.com/news/2293234/antic-srbija-spremna-da-se-prikljuci-gasovodu-turski-tok 8. N1:

http://rs.n1info.com/a430936/Biznis/Antic-Srbija-spremna-da-se-prikljuci-gasovodu-Turski-tok.html 9. Inreformator:

http://www.inreformator.ba/?p=73138 10. Infobrif: https://infobrif.rs/amp/2018/10/26/antic-turski-tok-je-ozbiljna-sansa-za-srbiju9918/ 11. RTS:

http://www.rts.rs/page/stories/sr/story/13/ekonomija/3303151/poziv-srbiji-za-pristupanje-crnomorskoj-trgovinskoj-i-razvojnoj-banci.html 12. SarajevoTimes: Minister of FA Igor Crnadak participated in the Euro-Asian Energy Security Forum

http://www.sarajevotimes.com/minister-of-fa-igor-crnadak-participated-in-the-euro-asian-energy-security-forum/ 13. Budapest Business Journal: Szijjártó urges tighter regional cooperation on energy security

https://bbj.hu/energy-environment/szijjarto-urges-tighter-regional-cooperation-on-energy-security_156855 14. Xinhuanet: EU to support Turkish Stream extension to Bulgaria, CEEC region

http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2018-10/27/c_137561135.htm 15. Visegrad Group website: Szijjarto calls for European cooperation on energy security

http://www.visegradgroup.eu/news/szijjarto-calls-for-181026 16. B92:

https://www.b92.net/biz/vesti/srbija.php?yyyy=2018&mm=10&dd=26&nav_id=1461199