Have you ever played horseshoes with commode lids?

If so, please email me. It'll make me feel better.

I was watching "Logan Lucky," Steven Soderbergh's new movie about a heist at a NASCAR race, and I was thoroughly enjoying it.

That is, until I saw two characters competitively tossing toilet seats.

These two guys act and speak like your Northern friend's bad impersonation of a hillbilly. (The two actors are from Los Angeles and ... wait for it ... Ireland.) And it ain't just the accents: Later, one of them says, "Hurtin' NASCAR is like hurtin' Amurica." Stalest line in the whole movie.

Basically, it felt to me like Soderbergh took the most "countrified" aspects of myself and my family (we play actual horseshoes, thankyouverymuch); parodied those traits in a loosey-goosey way; and then laughed at them.

But I'll admit I'm probably being too sensitive.

More: Best guilty pleasure movies for Labor Day weekend

For one thing, "Logan Lucky" is a comedy, not a documentary.

Also, the redneck sidekicks did make me laugh at least once: When Channing Tatum and Adam Driver ask if they'll help steal millions of dollars, the commode-lid tossers converse privately, (knuckle)heads together:

"What do you think?" one whispers.

"Yeah!" the other immediately replies.

"OK!"

And that's the whole conversation. I was rolling.

Most importantly, Hee and Haw make up only a small part of the film — one that's sweet, quirky and/or hilarious 90 percent of the time.

More: Katie picks her 5 favorite film franchises

Meanwhile, Tatum and Driver's accents sound more real, though I have no idea whether they sound like West Virginians.

And Driver steals every scene of dialogue with his character's serious, deliberate way of talking, made that much funnier by the voice. Just his drawn-out pronunciation of "cauleeflower" will make you laugh.

Supporting actor Daniel Craig could've bombed twice over in a comedic role with an American dialect, but he doesn't. He's pretty funny, and you never hear James Bond in his voice.

Farrah Mackenzie is convincing as Tatum's young daughter; Katie Holmes is perfectly tanned and hateful as his ex; David Denman fits the typecast just fine as Holmes' lame second husband; and Riley Keough is quietly sassy as Tatum and Driver's sister.

I'm not in love with heist movies, but if you're gonna watch one, this one's good. Even with a couple of walking stereotypes in the mix.

Then there's 'The Glass Castle'

Another recent release, "The Glass Castle" is also set in West Virginia for much of the action. The difference is, "Castle" is based on a memoir.

There's no NASCAR, no toilet-seat toss, no "cauleeflower." Nobody even speaks with a super thick accent, that I can remember.

But there is poverty. Pedophilia (from a grandparent). A trash heap in the yard. If these are Southern stereotypes — and not very funny ones, at that — they happen to be accurate, at least in this story.

Jeannette Walls and her three siblings grew up in the "care" of their recklessly independent, probably mentally ill parents: Rex, an alcoholic who concocted far-fetched stories and moneymaking ventures, and Rose Mary, who fancied herself an artist. Neither of the two held down a job for long.

The Walls family bounced around out West before landing in Rex Walls' declining hometown of Welch, West Virginia. The "Glass Castle" movie, adapted from Jeannette Wall's memoir of the same name, was shot partly in Welch.

As you might imagine, the film isn't exactly lighthearted.

But there is humor: An early scene in which the family "skedaddles" from a hospital in order to avoid paying a bill is timed as well as the "Lucky" heist. And the larger-than-life Rex, played to perfection by Woody Harrelson, chews through some hilarious dialogue.

More: Friendship, film noir and the best laid plans

Of course the underlying problems are in full view, and the "fun" is often lacking in the dysfunction. That's just how it was for the Walls kids.

But I've watched interviews with Jeannette Walls, and you know what? She laughs. A lot.

She laughs about things most people would cry over. But she laughs. And you know what else? She seems relatively well adjusted.

I'm not sure what Walls thinks of how "Logan Lucky" depicts blue-collar West Virginians, if she's even seen the movie.

But if she can look back on her raising with a twinkle in her eye, I can probably get over my self-righteousness and laugh at a Southern stereotype or two.

Especially since I once strolled into a pool hall in camouflage shorts, a Skynyrd tank top and a cowboy hat. (Alas, that was before camera phones.)

Oh and by the way, I Googled "horseshoes with toilet seats." There are videos.

Contact Katie Eubanks at 601-961-7050 or keubanks@gannett.com.