Although I'll keep this post as concise as possible , it is definitely worth highlighting some significant organisations, characters as they relate to our conversation above.

Catskill Fly Fishing Center and Museum (CFFCM)

Established with Elsie Derby as its first president in 1979, and formally constituted in 1981, the museum's current location was adopted in 1982. It sits on a 35-acre farm on the banks of the Willowemoc Creek. Being a tributary of the world-famous Beaverkill - the Willowemoc places the museum at the epicentre of American fly fishing traditions.

Figures including Theodore Gordon and flies such as the Quill Gordon and the Light Cahill (e.g below) are synonymous with the area. There seems to be a natural reciprocal appreciation between anglers of the Yorkshire Dales and the Catskills. North Country Spider aficionado Robert L Smith (who both John Shaner and myself know and fish with from time to time), wrote a great account of his visit in 2017. In Rob's piece you'll also find some photos of the wonderful set of flies (and the hatch chart) given to him by Dave Brandt - who is also mentioned in our conversation video above.

Along with current Directors John Kovach and Rob Ceccarini - the Fly Fishing Center counts on a dedicated collection of staff, trustees and advisors - including Joan Wulff who, again, appears in Rob's article linked above.

Dette Flies

In terms of American fly fishing history, Dette Trout Flies NY needs to be mentioned as - established in 1928 - it's the world's oldest surviving fly shop. The business recently proved to be as relevant, pro-active and significant as ever by being one of 250 outdoor organisations calling on the president to deny the permit application for the Pebble Mine, Bristol Bay.

The working desks of Walt Dette and daughter Mary Dette Clark also feature within the CFFCM collection to recognise their part in the fly fishing history of the region.

Hardy Fly Fishing & Technical Advice of John Shaner

I've mentioned the Lost World of Mr Hardy in my article that supports the Fishing Discoveries In Conversation with Howard Croston before. Here is some additional context that looks at the current and future direction of the company (to build on the picture of their renowned historic place within English and global fly fishing). John Shaner is a technical advisor for the Pure Fishing & Hardy companies.

Of course, as John mentions in the interview, it turns out that Marinaro didn't extend his appreciation of soft hackle wet flies to the flies of the Catskill fly fishing tradition. I guess we can't expect everything to have such neat symmetry - especially when it comes to fly fishing.

Let me know in the comments if you'd like to hear/see more from John from the banks of a river sometime.

Paul