Have you ever wondered who are the most beautiful women in the world? They are beautiful both with their minds and soul, they are successful and unstoppable in their respective field. They work super hard each and every day to become their best version, not only they are good looking they are also talented, humble, intelligent, and a hard-working individual.

Here are the names of the top 10 women who are the most beautiful women in the world.

1: Jodie Comer

The most beautiful woman in the world is Jodie Comer, a well-known British actress who tops the list. Her face was 94.52% accurate according to the ratio. Her work can be seen in films like Killing Eve, The White Princess, The Free Guy, and Help.

The actress, who is 29 years old, has received numerous honors. Comer was included in Forbes’ annual list of “30 Under 30” in February 2019 for being among the top 30 most influential people in Europe’s entertainment industry under the age of 30 and British Vogue’s list of “The Most Influential Girls of 2018” in December 2018.

2: Zendaya

Actress and singer Zendaya Maree Stoermer Coleman hail from America. With a ratio of 94.37%, she is ranked number two on the list. She is well-known for her varied Spiderman series roles, including those in Spider-Man: Homecoming, Dune, Malcolm & Marie, and The Greatest Showman. She has received numerous awards, including two Primetime Emmy Awards. Additionally, Zendaya was listed in Time magazine’s 2022 list of the 100 most influential people in the world.

3:Bella Hadid

Bella Hadid who is the sister of the famous personality and model Gigi Hadid is widely known for her eye-catching fashion sense. Hadid’s modeling career began only at the age of 16. In her early 20s, she received huge fame and success. According to the golden ratio of facial beauty, she is the most beautiful girl in the world. According to a study conducted by Dr.Julian DeSilva, supermodel Bella Hadid has the most perfect face with beauty test score of 94.35%, followed by singer Beyonce and actress Amber Heard.

Over the span of four years, Hadid has made twenty-seven appearances on international Vogue magazine covers. This model knows how to capture the attention of the audience during a ramp walk. According to her friends and family, Bella Hadid is extremely humble and polite.

4: Beyonce

Beyoncé is an American actress, singer, and songwriter. She placed fourth with an accuracy of 92.44%, making her the most beautiful woman. Beyoncé’s innovative artistry and vocals have earned her the title of most influential female musician of the twenty-first century, according to NPR. She made history by becoming the first female artist to have all seven of her studio albums debuts at number one in the US. She has acquired the title of “Queen Bey” as a result of her success, which has made her a cultural icon.

5: Ariana Grande

Ariana Grande is a singer-songwriter and actress from the United States of America. She placed number five on the list with an accuracy of 91.81%, making her the most attractive woman. The 29-year-old is well known for having a four-octave vocal range. Ariana Grande performs Pop and R&B music. She publishes original video albums. Her song “Thank you next” became immensely polular. Grande was one of 160 celebrities and artists who signed the ‘Bans Off Our Bodies’ full-page ad in The New York Times in May 2022 in support of abortion rights in the US.

6: Taylor Swift

Taylor Swift is best known among the audience for her beautiful heartwarming songs. This woman has a unique way of narrating a story through her written songs which makes her different from the rest of all. She is humble and polite in nature. She has gorgeous blue eyes with a beautiful facial shape which makes her the world’s most beautiful woman. She has got 91.64 percent in the beauty index of the Golden Ratio.

7: Jourdan Dunn

Jourdan Dunn, a British model, rose to the seventh spot on the list after acquiring 91.39 percent. The model is well-known for walking the Prada runway; she was the first black model to do so in ten years. The model has worked with numerous brands, such as H&M, Burberry, DNKY, Marcus, and Gap. She was also named the face of Maybelline New York in 2014.

8: Kim Kardashian

American media personality and entrepreneur Kim Kardashian scored 91.28% on the beauty test, making her the eighth most beautiful woman. Kardashian was listed among the top 100 influencers of 2015 by Time magazine. KKW Beauty and KKW Fragrance, two of Kardashian’s product lines, were introduced in 2017. On the television show Keeping Up With the Kardashians, the 42-year-old actress makes an appearance. Along with a former Carlyle Group partner, Kardashian established the private equity firm Sky Partners in April 2022. She debuted as a model during Paris Fashion Week on the Balenciaga catwalk alongside Nicole Kidman, Dua Lipa, and Christine Quinn.

9: Deepika Padukone

Deepika Padukone is one of the highest-paid actresses in the world and she is also the world’s most beautiful woman. She is the most beautiful and most paid actress in Bollywood. She has got 91.22 percent in the beauty index of the Golden Ratio.

She has done many hit films such as Bajirao Mastani, Piku, and most recently Pathaan, and many others. Her first Hollywood project is XXX: Return of Xander Cage in 2017. She runs a foundation named as Live Laugh Love to create awareness about mental health in India. She is the wife of the famous Bollywood Star Ranveer Singh.

10: Ho Yeon Jung

South Korean model and actress Ho Yeon Jung finished in the top 10 with a beauty test score of 89.63% on the list. She made her international runway debut during New York Fashion Week and quickly gained notoriety for her “fiery” red hair. She has received honors for her achievements, including the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Drama Series, among others. In 2021, Jung surpassed Lee Sung-Kyung and Song Hye-Kyo to become the South Korean actress with the most Instagram followers; as of December 2022, she had over 23 million.