The Plastic Mirage of an Impotent Rage Dillinger is Dead/Dillinger morto, (1969) Italy Director Marco Ferreri Screenplay Marco Ferreri and Sergio Bazzini Original Story by Rafael Azcona Produced by Ever Haggiag and Alfred Levy Director of Photography Mario Vulpiani Art Director Nicola Tamburo Editing Mirella Mercio With Michel Piccoli, Anita Pallenberg, Annie Girardot Runtime 95 minutes DVD USA, 2010 Produced and Distributed by The Criterion Collection (region 1) Aspect Ratio 1.66:1 Extras New video interviews with actor Michel Piccoli and Italian film historian Adriano Apr. Excerpts from a 1997 roundtable discussion about director Marco Ferreri, with film-makers Bernardo Bertolucci and Francesco Rosi and film historian Aldo Tassone, including clips of interviews with Ferreri. Theatrical trailer. New and improved subtitle translation. A booklet featuring an essay by film critic Michael Joshua Rowin and a selection of reprinted interviews with Ferreri.

Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow/Ieri, oggi, domani, (1963) Italy Director Vittorio De Sica Screenplay Eduardo De Filippo, Isabella Quarantotti (Adelina), Alberto Moravia, Cesare Zavattini, Billa Billa, Lorenza Zanuso (Anna), Cesare Zavattini (Mara) Producer Carlo Ponti Cinematography Giuseppe Rotunno Production Design Ezio Frigerio Costume Design Piero Tosi With Sophia Loren (Adelina, Anna, Mara), Marcello Mastroianni (Carmine, Renzo, Augusto Rusconi) Runtime 119 minutes DVD UK, 2009 Produced and Distributed by Eureka Entertainment (region 2) Aspect Ratio 2.35:1 Anamorphic Sound Mix Stereo Extras None

Mala Noche, (1986) USA Director Gus Van Sant Producer Gus Van Sant Runtime 78 minutes DVD USA, 2007 Produced and Distributed by The Criterion Collection (region 1) Extras New video interview with Gus Van Sant. Walt Curtis: The Perckerneck Poet, a documentary about the author of the book Mala Noche, directed by animator and Curtis's friend Bill Plympton. Storyboard gallery. Original trailer. A new essay by film critic Dennis Lim.