“The Nobel Peace Prize was awarded today to Al Gore, the former vice president, and to the United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change for its work to alert the world to the threat of global warming,” Walter Gibbs reports for The New York Times.

MacDailyNews Note: Al Gore is a member of Apple Inc.’s Board of Directors.

“The award is likely to renew calls from Mr. Gore’s supporters for him to run for president in 2008, joining an already crowded field of Democrats. Mr. Gore, who lost the 2000 presidential election to George W. Bush, has said he is not interested in running but has not flatly rejected the notion,” Gibbs reports.

“Mr. Gore, who was traveling in San Francisco, said in a statement that he was deeply honored to receive the prize and planned to donate his half of the prize to the Alliance for Climate Protection, a nonprofit climate group of which Mr. Gore chairs the board,” Gibbs reports.

“The Nobel award carries political ramifications in the United States, which the Nobel committee tried to minimize after its announcement today,” Gibbs reports. “The chairman of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, Ole Danbolt Mjoes, addressed reporters after the awards were announced and tried to dismiss repeated questions asking whether the awards were a criticism — direct or indirect — of the Bush administration.”

“In this decade, the Nobel Peace Prize has been given to prominent people and agencies who differ on a range of issues with the Bush administration, including former President Jimmy Carter, who won in 2002, and Mohamed ElBaradei, the director of the United Nations’ nuclear monitoring agency in Vienna, in 2005,” Gibbs reports.

“Global warming has been a powerful issue all this year, attracting more and more public attention. The film documenting Mr. Gore’s campaign to increase awareness of climate change, ‘An Inconvenient Truth,’ won an Academy Award this year,” Gibbs reports.

MacDailyNews Note: Gore’s “An Inconvenient Truth,” the highest-grossing documentary of 2006, featured copious use of Apple’s Keynote presentation software, even though many reviewers of the film incorrectly described it as a “PowerPoint” presentation. Apple Keynote use in Gore’s “An Inconvenient Truth” is featured here.

More in Gibbs’ full article here.

MacDailyNews Note: So far — in contrast to with Jimmy Carter’s Nobel Peace Prize win (and perhaps due at least in part to the reaction it precipitated back in 2002) — Apple.com has not been converted into a congratulations page for board member Gore.