Josef Pokorny of Chelmsford, MA; 79 CHELMSFORD – Josef Pokorny, 79, resident of Chelmsford, MA for 46 years, passed peacefully on March 20, 2018, at the LifeCare Center, Billerica, MA with his wife, Elisabeth, at his side.

Josef was born in Gyorsentivan, Hungary on November 23, 1938. He was the eldest son of Jozsef Pokorny and Erzsebet (Czifrik) Pokorny. He grew up in Budaors, Hungary, until leaving his beloved country in 1956 during the Hungarian Revolution. As an 18 year old refugee, Josef fled to Austria, then on to Germany where he met the love of his life, Elisabeth Wiedemann. They married in August 1962 and came to the United States in November 1962 sponsored by his uncle, Miklos Czifrik. They lived in Maynard, MA for eight years, eventually settling in Chelmsford, MA in 1971.

Josef was employed as a tool and die design engineer for forty years working at various positions in Germany and in the Merrimack Valley. He received his Tool & Die diploma in Goppingen, Germany. He later received his Mechanical Engineering certificate from La Salle University. He truly loved his work and his passion for designing continued long after his retirement. He loved tinkering in his garage and fixing anything brought to him, loving the challenge of repairing the broken.

Josef played semi-pro soccer in Europe and shared his talents with the Chelmsford Youth Soccer Association as a volunteer coach and referee throughout the 70’s and early 80’s. He loved all sports and was an avid Boston fan. He especially enjoyed supporting his grandchildren at their sporting events. He was an active member of the German Club of Walpole, MA and enjoyed sharing his Hungarian culture, traditions, music, dance and food, especially Elisabeth’s Hungarian goulash with many friends. He loved fishing, chess, and was always up for a game. Josef loved people and his social ways gained him many friends over the years. He was a communicant of St. Mary’s Church and had a deep faith in God. Josef was a caring, understanding, and loving husband, father and grandfather. He will be missed by all that knew him.

In addition to his wife Elisabeth, Josef leaves three daughters Gabriele Stritch and her husband James of Berlin, CT; Christine Cambrils of Hudson, NH; Elizabeth Maurais and her husband Gerald of Hopedale, MA; two brothers, Imre Pokorny of Goppingen, Germany; Laszlo Pokorny of Budaors, Hungary; a sister, Ilona Berecz of Budaors, Hungary. He was the proud grandfather of Kevin, Tyler, Aaron, Paul, Rita and Carrie. He was predeceased by his parents and sister, Erzsebet Beluscsak.

POKORNY – Relatives and friends may call at the BLAKE CHELMSFORD FUNERAL HOME, 24 Worthen St., Chelmsford, on Sunday, March 25 from 2-5 pm. His funeral Mass will be celebrated on Monday, March 26, at 11:00 am at St. Mary’s Church, 25 North Road, Chelmsford, MA. Interment will follow at St. Joseph’s Cemetery, Chelmsford.