THE mysterious dark matter thought to make up most of the Universe’s mass

could be made of particles 10 trillion times heavier than a proton, new research

suggests. If so, detectors might one day trap dark matter in the form of an

extremely heavy type of hydrogen.

More than 90 per cent of the matter in the Universe is invisible, and can be

detected only by its gravitational effects on stars and galaxies. Now

theoretical work done by Edward Kolb of Fermilab, near Chicago, suggests that

the dark matter sprang into being as superheavy particles moments after the

Universe formed. The particles would have been created at the end of the

inflationary epoch, the period of tremendous growth during the first split

second of the Universe’s existence.

The inflationary epoch was characterised by huge negative pressure.

Einstein’s general theory of relativity recognises pressure as a source of

gravity just like mass, so the huge pressure resulted in powerful gravity. “It

was the sudden removal of this gravity, when the Universe switched to a more

sedate expansion at the end of inflation, that could have produced superheavy

particles,” says Kolb.

During the inflationary epoch, particles and their antiparticles were

continually conjured out of nothing as energy was briefly borrowed from the

gravitational field. However, when inflation ended, the sudden change in gravity

pulled particles and their antiparticles farther apart, making it harder for

them to meet and annihilate each other. A similar change in gravity, in space

rather than time, causes a net production of particles in the vicinity of a

black hole, a process known as Hawking radiation.

Kolb’s team says it is the strength of gravity at the end of inflation that

determines the mass of superheavy particles. Although the strength is uncertain,

they calculate that it should have been enough to create particles about 10

trillion times heavier than a proton. Kolb’s team has also calculated the number

that would have appeared, and they say it is “just right to account for the

Universe’s dark matter”.

If true, this could be bad news for experimental physicists. Relatively few

particles would account for the dark matter, so the chances of detecting them

would be small. However, Kolb says there is no reason why such particles should

not be electrically charged or feel the strong force, making them easier to

find. A positively charged particle might even attract an electron to make a

superheavy kind of hydrogen that would be detectable.