The 2024 MLB season is in full swing, bringing us the excitement of America’s favorite pastime. However, despite the anticipation, blackouts continue to frustrate baseball fans. Suppose you find yourself away from home and yearn to enjoy uninterrupted streaming of your favorite MLB games while avoiding those pesky blackouts. In that case, we have the perfect solution for you – a Virtual Private Network (VPN).

Based on our research and testing, we’ll walk you through the step-by-step process of bypassing MLB.tv blackouts, allowing you to watch all the 2024 MLB games within and outside the United States. To successfully achieve this, you’ll need an active MLB subscription to eliminate blackouts and stream the entire MLB season without relying on cable TV. Additionally, you’ll require a desktop web browser like Chrome or Firefox, along with a reliable VPN.

The 2024 MLB regular season normally consists of 162 games.

Don’t let blackouts spoil your passion for the game. Let us guide you through unlocking a world of MLB entertainment in 2024 and beyond.

How to watch MLB blackout games with a VPN

Don’t worry if you don’t have time to read the full article, the instructions below have been fully tested by us and are quick and easy to follow.

Here’s how to watch MLB blackout games with a VPN and bypass blackouts:

Sign up for and download a good VPN service provider with plenty of bandwidth and server locations. We particularly recommend NordVPN.

Install the VPN app on your device and run it. NordVPN has apps for Mac, PC, iOS, Android, and more.

Connect to a server in a location where the MLB game you want to watch is not blacked out.

Open your web browser and go to MLB.tv to watch the game as you usually would.

If you encounter any issues, try clearing your browser cookies and cache. If you have any problems after this, your VPN provider should be able to help.

TIP In our testing we found that the cheapest NordVPN plan (Standard) works perfectly for mlb tv.

Bypass MLB blackouts with a VPN

Major League Baseball fans in the United States who bought MLB.tv subscriptions feel betrayed by the fact that they can’t watch all the games promised to them due to live blackouts. MLB.com’s own website claims subscribers, who pay $25 per month or $120 per year, can “watch every out-of-market game regular season game live or on-demand on over 400 supported devices.”

However, scroll down to the fine print, and the reality is quite different. Fans have expressed anger toward MLB.tv that many games are region-locked due to local licensing restrictions, forcing them to buy a cable or satellite TV subscription to watch. According to MLB.tv’s blackout policy:

“All live games streamed on any MLB.TV product and available through MLB.com At Bat are subject to local, regional or national blackouts. Except for certain MLB regular season and Postseason games as described below or in certain MLB Club home television territories for which MLBAM may offer in-market subscription Services, all live games will be blacked out in each applicable Club’s home television territory. If a game is blacked out in an area, it is not available for live game viewing through MLB.TV.”

Luckily, there’s a workaround. A VPN, or Virtual Private Network, reroutes all of a device’s internet traffic through a location of the user’s choosing. Fans can make it look like they are watching from a different state or country to bypass the blackout. Good VPNs usually require a monthly subscription fee, but it’s cheaper than buying cable TV.

What is a live blackout, exactly?

Before every MLB season, executives sit down and decide which broadcasting companies get the rights to which games. Often, a regional TV affiliate, such as your local Fox, NBC, or ABC TV station, gets exclusive rights to games played by the local teams, and they don’t share. They also don’t live stream games online much of the time. Even MLB can’t broadcast those games online or on TV within that geographic market.

You can find out which games will be blacked out in advance using MLB.tv’s regularly updated list or the MLB blackout map below.

These content rights often bar MLB.tv subscribers from watching the teams they care about most–the ones closest to them. The home and visiting teams’ broadcasts are blacked out in their respective regions.

Whenever a fan goes to watch a game on a web browser or the MLB.tv app, the app or website checks the device’s IP address. The IP address is used to determine the viewer’s location. The live stream is blocked if that viewer falls within the blackout region. Instead of a live stream, you’ll get one of the following error messages:

“We’re sorry. The broadcasters’ required blackout checks cannot be performed at this time. Please try again in a few moments.”

“We’re sorry. We have determined that you are located inside one of the applicable Club’s home television territories and are therefore blacked out of watching the game you selected. Live Audio of this game is available as part of your MLB.TV subscription.”

“Due to Major League Baseball exclusivities, live games occurring each Saturday with a scheduled start time after 1:10 PM ET or before 8:00 PM ET and each Sunday with a scheduled start time after 5:00 PM ET, will be blacked out in the United States.”

“Media Error. This game is temporarily unavailable. Please try again in a few moments.”

This video is not currently available due to local or national blackout restrictions. Please click “Learn More” if you require assistance.

The situation has been worsened by conflicts between TV companies like Comcast and Time Warner Cable, which further fragment the channels available on cable.

Bypass MLB.tv blackouts in a web browser

We have found, a VPN can change your IP address to that of another location. After you connect to a VPN server, clear your cookies and refresh the page where the game you want to watch is streaming.

Most VPNs have native clients you can easily download and install. After setup, just select a server location and hit connect.

We tested this out by connecting to a Chicago server and attempting to watch a Cubs game. Sure enough, we got a message alerting us the game was under a local blackout.

Next, we connected to servers in Canada using NordVPN, which worked flawlessly. A quick refresh was all that was needed to unblock the stream; no more blackout messages.

Some games are under national blackouts, so for this, we tested servers in Mexico and Argentina. This worked fine as well.

Ideally, you want to connect to the location closest to you but still beyond the blackout region. This speeds up the internet connection and results in a higher-quality stream. However, connecting to another country should work in case of a nationwide blackout. The one exception may be Canada, where some MLB teams hail from.

Bypassing MLB.tv blackouts on Android and iOS MLB At Bat app

If you want to bypass a blackout on the MLB At Bat app on iOS or Android, we’re sorry to inform you that this is much harder as of 2017. When we tested this before, we advised users to connect to a VPN server with an IP address outside their blackout market. Android users could then use a fake GPS app to spoof their location to match the one in their VPN.

This method no longer works. At Bat now requires your GPS location before viewing any game and can detect whether a mock location is used in Android. It will block the stream accordingly, instead showing the error message:

“At bat is unable to reliably verify your location. Tap Help below for more information about blackout restrictions.”

As of the 2017 season, bypassing MLB At Bat’s blackout restrictions requires Android phones and tablets to be rooted and iPhones and iPads to be jailbroken.

Below we’ll show you a few strategies you can try, but we make no guarantees that they will work.

Bypass MLB At Bat blackouts on Android

Root your Android phone. The process is complicated and can brick your device if not done correctly, so proceed cautiously. Because the root process varies by device, we do not provide instructions for this step.

Download and install FakeGPS or the GPS location-spoofing app of your choice (except for option C).

Download and install MLB At Bat (except for option C). If it’s already installed, clear your app cache data in your device’s storage settings.

From here, you have three options to try:

Option A:

Install Hide Mock Locations from the Xposed Module (requires root).

In Settings > Developer Options, enable “Allow mock locations” or, on newer versions of Android, choose your GPS location-spoofing app

Open Hide Mock Locations and set it to blacklist mode.

Add MLB At Bat to the blacklist

Open your GPS location-spoofing app and drop the pin outside your blackout region where a VPN server is available.

Open your VPN app and connect to a server close to the location you chose in the previous step.

Open MLB At Bat and stream the game!

Option B:

Move your GPS app from /data/app to /system/app using Root Explorer or a similar file manager app (requires root)

Restart your device.

In Settings > Developer Options, disable Mock Locations (if enabled)

Open your location-spoofing app and set your location to somewhere outside of the blackout region where a VPN server is available

Open your VPN app and connect to a server close to the location you chose in the previous step.

Open MLB At Bat and stream the game!

Option C:

Install XPrivacy from the Xposed Module (requires root).

When installing MLB At Bat, you will see a list of permissions. When this list appears, open your device Settings

Tap the Randomize Now button.

Set an IP address to a location outside of your blackout region (you can use your VPN’s IP address if you wish)

Restrict all permissions except Internet

In your Android settings, set Location to High Accuracy mode

Finish installing MLB At Bat, open it, and stream the game!

Should you run into issues with Option B, some users have reported that restarting into Recovery and clearing out Cache/Dalvik Cache can solve some problems. You can also try discarding your login info by using “delete data” in the MLB At Bat settings, then logging in again.

Bypass MLB At Bat blackouts on iOS

Jailbreak your iPhone or iPad. The process for doing this is complicated and can permanently brick your device if not done correctly, so proceed with caution. Jailbreaking varies depending on your iPad or iPhone model, so we do not provide instructions for this step.

Download and install Protect My Privacy (PMP) from the Cydia store

Download and install MLB At Bat and open the stream.

When MLB At Bat asks permission to view your location using your GPS, PMP will display a prompt. Choose the option to “protect” your location, which will substitute a random GPS location rather than simply blocking access

You may also need to connect to a VPN to change your IP address (to be confirmed)

Stream the game!

Note: Jailbreaking can be very risky and can cause permanent issues to your device. Before proceeding, we recommend reading our full guide to jailbreaking.

MLB.tv streaming FAQs