Birth Name: Amanda Joy Michalka

Place of Birth: Torrance, Los Angeles, California, United States

Date of Birth: April 10, 1991

Ethnicity:

*father – German

*mother – German, English, Irish, Scottish, Welsh

AJ Michalka is an American actress, musician, singer, and songwriter. She is the sister of actress and singer Aly Michalka (Alyson Renae Michalka). The two comprise pop rock duo Aly & AJ, also known as 78violet. Her roles include the films The Lovely Bones, Secretariat, Super 8, Grace Unplugged, Weepah Way for Now, and Support the Girls, and the shows The Goldbergs, Schooled, and, in voice performance, She-Ra and the Princesses of Power.

She is the daughter of Carrie and Mark Michalka. Her mother, also a musician, performed with the Christian band JC Band. AJ is a devout Christian.

AJ’s paternal grandfather was James I. Michalka (the son of Gustave/Gustav August Michalka and Edna Caroline Loll). James was born in Michigan. Gustave was born in Michigan, to German parents, Frank August Michalka and Mary Venefky/Venefly. Edna was also born in Michigan, also to German parents, Warner Loll and Henrietta Etta Krahn.

AJ’s paternal grandmother was Betty Anne Martin (the daughter of David Martin and Amelia “Emily” Yurk). Betty was born in Michigan. David and Amelia were both immigrants from what is listed as Russia. It is likely that they were both of ethnic German descent.

AJ’s maternal grandfather was Charles Malcolm Begley (the son of Newton Phillips Begley and Lula Maude Palmer). Charles was born in Virginia. Newton was the son of George Rogers Begley and Minerva Payne. Lula was the daughter of Eldridge Clinton Palmer and Barbara Alice/Ann Lane.

AJ’s maternal grandmother was Carmen Louise Wetzel (the daughter of August Wetzel and Harriet Louise McCausland). Carmen was born in Oregon. August was born in Minnesota, the son of German parents, Ignatius Wetzel and Frances F. Fischer, from Alsace. Harriet was the daughter of Alfred Ellis McCausland and Louise Agnes Meyer.

Sources: Genealogy of AJ Michalka – http://gw.geneanet.org

AJ’s paternal grandfather, James I. Michalka, on the 1930 U.S. Census – https://familysearch.org

AJ’s maternal grandfather, Charles Malcolm Begley, on the 1930 U.S. Census – https://www.familysearch.org