The French go hard in this surreal romance flick from 1986. The inspirations feel as though they come from somewhere between Terry Gilliam’s Brazil and Jan Svankmajer's Jabberwocky (the former potentially inspired by the latter as well), but the humor is incredibly “French”, meaning, a lot of characters experience severe tunnel vision and wax poetic on their love life. The entire message of the film (if not strictly meant as artful entertainment), is to make commentary on the male outlook on love, reducing it to the film’s title which is vocalized from a mysterious doll mask Christopher Lambert obsesses over. Something, something… “men are pigs”, or they are fragile, creepy romantics who attach to the first thing that gives them attention/affection.…

O único diretor que eu consigo imaginar fazendo um filme da Barbie capaz de demolir o edifício neoliberal que se constituiu ao longo dos anos com a elaboração, fabricação, venda e promoção da boneca, do que ela simboliza, do poder econômico que sustenta tanto a confecção desse produto quanto a manutenção do símbolo perpetuado pela figura da boneca loira que representa um ideal repressivo de feminilidade: Marco Ferreri.

Que de certa forma já fez pelo menos três vezes esse filme, o primeiro com a Ornella Muti (Il futuro è donna), o segundo com a Francesca Dellera (La carne) e o terceiro com a Sabrina Ferilli (Diario di un vizio). Três títulos que sozinhos já mostram quantos anos-luz à frente da…

So basically Blade Runner: 2049 as absurdist French New Wave. I was prepared to get annoyed by the overwhelming Frenchness a few minutes in as Christopher Lambert walks into the bedroom to meet his girl while covered by an oversized Zulu mask, but darn if I didn't end up being charmed and amused by the idiosyncratic satire at work—rambling disconnected man in futurist society turns to a cheap electronic key holder with a woman's face (that says "I LOVE YOU" when he whistles) as his only source of meaning, before losing the ability to whistle and falling into despair. There's no way to predict what'll happen scene to scene; it's like the worst excesses of Godard but funny, and some…

Two long favorite Marco Ferreri subjects, male insecurity and the commodification of contemporary life, getting a particularly delightful absurd treatment. The premise is rather simple, recently dumped Christopher Lambert finds a head doll who very easily answers "I Love You" and disappears into the pleasure of that simple mechanical reassurance. The words start as a funny mantra and grows increasing disturbing the more often the doll repeats with its monotone inhuman tone. Ferreri even shows Dillinger is Dead on TV so one knows the pathological behavior is part of long tradition noyt simple in his work. The movie has an artificial surface that is pleasant exagerated, its world is decayed believeble ours but with an apocalyptic undercurrent. I Love You…

Christophe Lambert stars in a 96 minute drama film directed by Marco Ferreri, about a man who becomes obsessed with a keychain.

One of Ferreri's more drama films but still fitting in some bizzarro elements and I think this is him at his most direct.

The peak moment here is when Lambert's character puts the talking keyholder/chain on the tv set or when he gets jealous when his roomate activates the voice on it or when it reacts to the women on the television.

And the pig thing is funny.

Again this all adds up to us as humans being stupid animals and possessive, choosing constructs instead of reality when we can't hack it. The tiger bouncy castle is bigger…