Template:Refimprove

List of years in literature (table) ... 1943 . 1944 . 1945 . 1946 . 1947 . 1948 . 1949 ...

1950 1951 1952 -1953- 1954 1955 1956

... 1957 . 1958 . 1959 . 1960 . 1961 . 1962 . 1963 ... In poetry: 1950 1951 1952 -1953- 1954 1955 1956 Art . Archaeology . Architecture . Literature . Music . Science +...

The year 1953 in literature involved some significant events and new books.

Events[]

January 22 - The Crucible, a drama by Arthur Miller, opens on Broadway.

February 19 - Censorship: The State of Georgia approves the first literature censorship board in the United States.

After five years as an English Teacher, Frederick Buechner moves to New York to become a full time writer.

Go Tell It on the Mountain by James Baldwin is published. In 2001, the book would be named as one of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century by the editorial board of the American Modern Library.

April 13 - The face of popular literature is transformed with the publication of Ian Fleming's first James Bond novel, Casino Royale.

Ronald Harwood becomes Sir Donald Wolfit's dresser.

John Dickson Carr writing as "Carter Dickson" publishes his final Sir Henry Merrivale mystery novel.

Ian Fleming's James Bond was first brought into the world in Casino Royale.

American novelist Howard Fast is awarded the Stalin Peace Prize.

New books[]

Sholom Aleichem - Adventures of Mottel the Cantor's Son

Isaac Asimov - Second Foundation

James Baldwin - Go Tell It on the Mountain

Saul Bellow - The Adventures of Augie March

Alfred Bester - The Demolished Man

Zealia Bishop - The Curse of Yig

Ray Bradbury

Fahrenheit 451

The Golden Apples of the Sun

Gwendolyn Brooks - Maud Martha

William S. Burroughs - Junkie

John Dickson Carr - The Cavalier's Cup (as by Carter Dickson)

Raymond Chandler - The Long Goodbye

Agatha Christie

After the Funeral

A Pocket Full of Rye

Arthur C. Clarke

Against the Fall of Night

Childhood's End

Beverly Cleary - Otis Spofford

Ivy Compton-Burnett - The Present and the Past

A. J. Cronin - Beyond This Place

L. Sprague de Camp

The Continent Makers and Other Tales of the Viagens

Sprague de Camp's New Anthology of Science Fiction

The Tritonian Ring and Other Pusadian Tales

L. Sprague de Camp and Fletcher Pratt - Tales from Gavagan's Bar

Lloyd C. Douglas - The Robe

Ian Fleming - Casino Royale

Ernest K. Gann - The High and the Mighty

Davis Grubb - The Night of the Hunter

Mark Harris - The Southpaw

L. P. Hartley - The Go-Between

James Hilton - Time and Time Again

David Karp - One

Ira Levin - A Kiss Before Dying

C. S. Lewis - The Silver Chair

James A. Michener - The Bridges at Toko-Ri

Zoe B. Oldenbourg - The Cornerstone

Mervyn Peake - Mr Pye

Ellery Queen - The Scarlet Letters

Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings - The Sojourner

Samuel Shellabarger - Lord Vanity

Wilmar H. Shiras - Children of the Atom

Rex Stout - The Golden Spiders

Leon Uris - Battle Cry

Boris Vian - Heartsnatcher

A. E. van Vogt - The Universe Maker

Evelyn Waugh - Love Among the Ruins

Ben Ames Williams - The Unconquered

John Wyndham - The Kraken Wakes

New drama[]

Arthur Adamov - Professor Taranne

Samuel Beckett - Waiting for Godot

Agatha Christie - Witness for the Prosecution

Max Frisch - The Fire Raisers

Witold Gombrowicz - The Marriage

Arthur Miller - The Crucible

Short stories[]

Roald Dahl - "Nunc Dimittis"

Poetry[]

Main article: 1953 in poetry

Faber Book of Twentieth Century Verse

Non-fiction[]

George Dangerfield - The Era of Good Feelings (Bancroft Prize)

L. Sprague de Camp - Science-Fiction Handbook

G. R. Elton - The Tudor Revolution in Government

Heinrich Harrer - Seven Years in Tibet

Nancy Mitford - Madame de Pompadour

Ludwig Wittgenstein - Philosophical Investigations

Births[]

February 10 - John Shirley, science fiction and horror writer

March 12 - Carl Hiaasen, author

March 25 - John Tierney, New York Times journalist

April 3 - Pieter Aspe, author of the "Inspector Van In" novels

April 20 - Sebastian Faulks, English novelist

May 19 - Victoria Wood, comedienne and writer

July 29 - Frank McGuinness, dramatist and poet

August 10 - Mark Doty, poet

September 23 - Nicholas Witchell, TV journalist

November 5 - Joyce Maynard, memoirist and former lover of J. D. Salinger

date unknown

Pat Cadigan, science fiction author

George Dyson, science historian

Peter Robinson, poet

Deaths[]

April 4 - Rachilde (Marguerite Vallette-Eymery), French author

April 9 - C. E. M. Joad, philosopher

April 24 - Alfred Vierkandt, sociologist

June 5 - Moelona, novelist and translator

June 25 - Richard Jebb, journalist

July 6 - Julia de Burgos, poet

July 16 - Hilaire Belloc, humorous poet, essayist and travel writer

August 30 - Maurice Nicoll, psychologist

November 8 - John van Melle, South African author

November 9 - Dylan Thomas, poet and author

November 27 - Eugene O'Neill, playwright

November 30 - Francis Picabia, painter, poet

date unknown

Idris Davies, poet

Gordon Hall Gerould, philologist

Alice Milligan, poet

T. F. Powys, novelist, brother of John Cowper Powys

Eirik Vandvik, classicist and translator

Awards[]

Carnegie Medal for children's literature: Edward Osmond, A Valley Grows Up

Christopher Award: Marie Killilea, Karen

Governor General's Award for Poetry or Drama: Douglas LePan, The Net and the Sword [1]

James Tait Black Memorial Prize for fiction: Margaret Kennedy, Troy Chimneys

James Tait Black Memorial Prize for biography: Carola Oman, Sir John Moore

National Book Award for Fiction: Ralph Ellison, Invisible Man

Newbery Medal for children's literature: Ann Nolan Clark, Secret of the Andes

Nobel Prize for Literature: Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill

Premio Nadal: Luisa Forrellad, Siempre en capilla

Pulitzer Prize for Drama: William Inge, Picnic

Pulitzer Prize for Fiction: Ernest Hemingway, The Old Man and the Sea

Pulitzer Prize for Poetry: Archibald MacLeish, Collected Poems 1917-1952

Queen's Gold Medal for Poetry: Arthur Waley

References[]

[]