Public Enemies

Theatrical Release Poster

Country United States Directed by Michael Mann Release Date 2009 Language English Studio Relativity Media

Tribecca Productions

Forward Pass Distributor Universal Pictures

Main Cast Character Actor John Dillinger Johnny Depp Melvin Purvis Christian Bale Billie Frechette Marion Cotillard John "Red" Hamilton Jason Clarke Charles Winstead Stephen Lang Homer Van Meter Stephen Dorff "Baby Face" Nelson Stephen Graham Charles "Pretty Boy" Floyd Channing Tatum Carter Baum Rory Cochrane J. Edgar Hoover Billy Crudup

The following weapons were used in the film Public Enemies:

WARNING! THIS PAGE CONTAINS SPOILERS!

Handguns

Colt 1911A1 Government Model

John Dillinger (Johnny Depp) carries two Colt 1911A1 Government Model pistols kept in a leather crossdraw shoulder holster rig throughout the film, although he rarely fires them. In the second bank robbery, he is seen pointing one of them at the bank manager as he opens the vault and the other at the lobby. Several of his gang members also carry and use them, including Harry "Pete" Pierpont (David Wenham), Homer Van Meter (Stephen Dorff), Walter Dietrich (James Russo), Charley Makley (Christian Stolte), and "Baby Face" Nelson (Stephen Graham). Charles "Pretty Boy" Floyd (Channing Tatum) reaches for a nickel M1911A1 when he is shot down in an Ohio field, but Purvis kicks it from his hand. The pistols used by the prison escapees (most of Dillinger's gang) in the opening scene are M1911A1s smuggled into the prison by Dillinger. FBI agents such as Melvin Purvis (Christian Bale) and Charles Winstead (Stephen Lang) also fire 1911A1s during the Little Bohemia and Biograph Theater scenes respectively.

While Dillinger was said to prefer .38 Super pistols in real life, there are currently no .38 Super blanks in the armorer industry, and all of the 1911A1s in the film were chambered in .45 ACP, except for the machine pistol. In the actual screenplay, the pistols are said to be "Colt .45 automatics".

Special

On the DVD featurette "Criminal Technology", Johnny Depp talks about his weaponry, including two ".45s".

Colt Model 1902

John "Red" Hamilton (Jason Clarke) fires a Colt Model 1902 at vigilantes and police during the Sioux Falls bank robbery after his Thompson runs out of ammunition.

Special

Hamilton's pistol during the Sioux Falls bank robbery is best seen during the DVD featurette "Criminal Technology".

Colt Model 1903 Pocket Hammerless

John Dillinger (Johnny Depp) keeps a Colt Model 1903 Pocket Hammerless as a secondary sidearm, most notably as a "pocket pistol" when hiding in Chicago after the Little Bohemia shootout. Earlier in the film, it is also seen when he places it on a hotel room table in Tucson. The script describes it as a "Colt .380 automatic", which was the pistol Dillinger was supposedly carrying the night he was killed on July 22, 1934 (which would actually make it a Model 1908).

Colt Official Police

The FBI agent who beats Billie Frechette, Harold Reinecke (Adam Mucci), carries a Colt Official Police. An Official Police is also seen inside the gun safe in the Crown Point jail.

Colt Police Positive

John Dillinger (Johnny Depp) takes a Colt Police Positive when he breaks out of Crown Point jail, tucking it in his waistband.

Colt Detective Special

Several FBI agents are seen with Colt Detective Specials, usually seen in their hip holsters. Melvin Purvis (Christian Bale) also has one holstered in one scene.

Colt New Service

A Colt New Service revolver with a 5 1/2" barrel is seen in a vigilante's hand before Nelson opens fire at him in Sioux Falls.

Smith & Wesson Military & Police

A Tucson policeman who removes Dillinger's handcuffs after he is arrested in the hotel has a very early production Smith & Wesson Military & Police revolver in his holster. It has the rounded hard rubber grips only used between 1899-1905.

Smith & Wesson Model 10

When Purvis tells FBI Agent Carter Baum (Rory Cochrane) to wait in the alley when going to arrest Nelson (Stephen Graham) in the apartment building, Baum draws a Smith & Wesson Model 10 that he later uses to fruitlessly trade shots with the Thompson-armed Nelson. Several other FBI agents are seen with Model 10s.

Special

On the DVD featurette "Criminal Technology", a Racine police officer is seen firing a Model 10 at Dillinger's gang from behind the car. In the actual film, this shot is too far away to tell what model of revolver he is using.

Submachine Gun, Machine Pistol & Automatic Rifle

Colt Thompson Hybrids

John Dillinger (Johnny Depp) and several of his gang members, notably "Baby Face" Nelson (Stephen Graham), Harry "Pete" Pierpont (David Wenham), and John "Red" Hamilton (Jason Clarke) have Thompson Submachine Guns, sometimes seen with the stock removed with a lanyard attached. Charles "Pretty Boy" Floyd (Channing Tatum) carries and fires one as he is being pursued by Purvis. During the breakout from Crown Point jail, Dillinger hands a Thompson to Herbert Youngblood (Michael Bentt). FBI Agent Melvin Purvis (Christian Bale) also uses a Thompson in several scenes. During the Little Bohemia shootout, there was a continuity error with Purvis' Thompson. He starts out with a drum magazine, but when reloading, continuity errors show him instantly switching to a stick magazine.

The guns used in the film were a mix of Colt M1921s (some the same used in Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull) with 1928 internals, M1928A1s refinished to look like M1921s (by adding a polished blued finish) and there were some Thompson hybrids that were built out of various models. (thanks goes to Steve Karnes for the information on the guns)

Deleted Scenes

Although featured in the trailer, some shots of Dillinger riding on a getaway car's running board holding a Thompson didn't make it into the final cut of the film. Based on the clothing and the fact that this scene appears in the script but not the film, it can be deduced that these scenes were supposed to be the gang's getaway from the Greencastle bank robbery (the second one shown in the film).

Special

On the DVD featurette "Criminal Technology", Johnny Depp and director Michael Mann both talk about the Thompson, with Depp referring to it as a "1921 Thompson" and how it should be aimed and fired like a rifle, rather than fired from the hip.

Dillinger's Colt .38 Super "Machine Pistol"

The real Dillinger and Nelson each owned a rather unique firearm at one point, a Colt Government Model chambered in .38 Super (which would pierce body armor when the .45 ACP round wouldn't) which was specially modified by gunsmith Hyman Lebman (also referred as Hyman S. Lehman) to fire full auto, loaded with an extended magazine, was fitted with a Thompson's foregrip and a Thompson's Cutts compensator to turn it into a miniaturized "machine pistol". In the film Dillinger is sadly never seen using it, and it is only wielded by Nelson (Stephen Graham), who uses it to fire out of the windows during the Little Bohemia shootout and later shoots Agent Carter Baum (Rory Cochrane). The Colt "machine pistol" used in the film was a Colt Government Model originally chambered in .38 Super that was converted to 9mm to fire blanks. Note before the Colt Mark IV Series 70 Government Models, Colt 38 Supers were not classified or marked as "Government Models". Since they aren't that common in the film industry it's easier to list them under the Government Model.

Browning Automatic Rifle

One of Dillinger's gang members, Homer Van Meter (Stephen Dorff), uses a Browning Automatic Rifle during several robberies. One of Purvis' FBI men is also seen firing a BAR during the Little Bohemia shootout. Van Meter's BAR has a notably shorter barrel than the standard models released, although it was actually Bonnie & Clyde who favored the sawed-off BARs, and not Dillinger's gang. The weapons were modified in the "Bonnie & Clyde" configuration and supplied by Gibbons Ltd. for the film. In a documentary about the film, Dorff joked that handling the weapon one-handed often felt like it weighed seventy-five pounds.

Trivia: The screenplay called for Van Meter to use a .351 Winchester rifle during the Racine bank robbery. Although he doesn't use it in this scene, Van Meter is later seen with a .351 Winchester during the Sioux Falls bank robbery.

Special

On the DVD featurette "Criminal Technology", Michael Mann and Stephen Dorff both talk about the heavy BAR and its use by Dorff in the film.

Rifles & Carbines

Mauser 98 Sporter

Melvin Purvis (Christian Bale) fires a half-stocked Mauser 98 Sporter when searching for "Pretty Boy" Floyd (Channing Tatum) in Ohio. He ultimately uses it to fatally wound Floyd after taking a well aimed shot at him as he flees, making use of the double set triggers to lighten the trigger pull and make his shot more accurate. This is a German-style purpose-built sporter with a ribbed barrel, double or set trigger, express sights and a flat "butter-knife" style bolt handle, and not a converted military rifle. It is not, as some have suggested, a Mannlicher-Schonauer, though they were quite popular among sportsmen of the era.

Trivia: Floyd was killed after Dillinger had died. However, Floyd's death scene mirrors the FBI's account - that Floyd was shot at long range by a sharpshooter, fell, and died.

The screenplay reads: "[Purvis] carries an 8mm Mauser sports rifle with a slim fore-stock and wrist and a turned-down bolt handle. It's the best rifle made in 1933".

M1903 Springfield

Some of the Indiana State Prison guards at Michigan City carry M1903 Springfield rifles, as do soldiers guarding the streets outside Crown Point jail several months later. These are not, as previously suggested, 1940s-era M1903A3s, but the correct M1903, identified by its humped upper handguard. A vigilante in Sioux Falls is also briefly seen with one.

U.S. Krag 1898

The uniformed Ohio police officers aiding in Purvis' pursuit of "Pretty Boy" Floyd carry US Krag rifles, most likely M1898s. Similarly, a plainclothes guard is seen carrying an M1898 Krag carbine when Dillinger leaves his interview at the jail.

Remington Model 8

John Dillinger (Johnny Depp) grabs a Remington Model 8 autoloading rifle during his breakout from Crown Point jail. These rifles are also seen in the hands of several FBI agents and policemen.

Winchester Model 1907

After Dillinger breaks out of Crown Point jail, a customized Winchester Model 1907 with a 10-round magazine and a Thompson foregrip enters the gang's armory, with Homer Van Meter (Stephen Dorff) using one during the Sioux Falls bank robbery and Ed Shouse (Michael Vieau) firing it during the Little Bohemia shootout. This is historically accurate since this weapon, built by gunsmith Hyman Lebman, was found among the weaponry in Dillinger's gang, seen in the photo linked from this article. John "Red" Hamilton (Jason Clarke) aims a Model 1907 at the mobster at the farmhouse after Dillinger's prison break. Earlier in the film, Purvis also tells his agents that they will receive, in addition to Thompsons and BARs, .351 Winchester semi-automatic rifles, most likely referring to the Model 1907.

Winchester Model 1892

Winchester Model 1892 rifles are used by prison guards at the Michigan City prison. One is also used by a vigilante to shoot Dillinger in the arm during the Sioux Falls bank robbery botched by "Baby Face" Nelson. The screenplay states this vigilante to be a deputy with a .44-40 Winchester.

Winchester Model 1894

Court officers carry Winchester Model 1894 rifles during Dillinger's arraignment in Crown Point.

Shotguns

Winchester Model 1897

Many law enforcement men use the Winchester Model 1897 pump-action shotgun throughout the film, including two FBI agents Carter Baum (Rory Cochrane) and Warren Barton (Madison Dirks), who are right behind Purvis as he chases Floyd in Ohio. Many of Dillinger's guards upon his arrival in Crown Point also have Riot and full-barreled models.

Winchester Model 1897 "Trench Gun"

When Billie Frechette (Marion Cotillard) is apprehended by the FBI, one of the agents is seen carrying the Winchester Model 1897 "Trench Gun" model with a heat-shield and a bayonet lug.

Winchester Model 1901

FBI Agent Charles Winstead (Stephen Lang) fires a sawed-off Winchester Model 1901 chambered in 10 Gauge during the Little Bohemia shootout. The script called for a "pump action 10-gauge", but Winstead used the 10-gauge Winchester Model 1901 lever-action shotgun.

Special

On the DVD featurette "Criminal Technology", Stephen Lang talks about the 10-gauge Winchester lever-action shotgun, referring to the weapon's looks and how it's the perfect weapon for the character of Charles Winstead.

Remington Model 11

John "Red" Hamilton (Jason Clarke) uses a sawed-off Remington Model 11 as his primary weapon during early scenes, such as the Indiana State Prison break and the Racine bank robbery. The lead Tucson policeman arresting Dillinger and several FBI agents also have Remington Model 11 shotguns, mostly with sawed-off stocks and barrels.

Machine Guns

Colt Model 1922

Army soldiers guarding the streets during Dillinger's Crown Point jail escape are seen manning a Colt Model 1922 machine gun.

Other

"Wooden Gun"