A day after his Socialist Party was humiliated at the polls, President Francois Mitterrand chose Gaullist former Finance Minister Edouard Balladur to head a conservative government for France.

In an address to the nation Monday night after the second round of elections that gave an overwhelming legislative majority to the conservatives, Mitterrand stressed that it was important to move quickly to honor the wishes of the electorate and enter a new era of divided government.

"You have expressed the will for another policy, and that choice will be scrupulously respected," the 76-year-old head of state declared.

Mitterrand said he chose Balladur, 63, to succeed Socialist Prime Minister Pierre Beregovoy, who resigned Monday, "not only because he is the most suitable to rally the different elements of the new majority, but because he is the most competent."

As he embarks on his second period of "cohabitation" government with his political foes since taking office in 1981, Mitterrand said he would continue to play a leading role in defining foreign and defense policy, two areas where France's constitution accords broad powers to the president.

Mitterrand declared that Europe and "the progressive unity of our continent" would be a major preoccupation of the presidency and the new French government. He emphasized the need to preserve the parity between the franc and the German mark as the linchpin of the European monetary system.

"Without this system, Europe would not exist," Mitterrand said.

The Socialists suffered a devastating defeat at the hands of the conservatives, who rolled up the largest legislative majority in recent French political history because of widespread voter dissatisfaction with high unemployment and corruption scandals.

Final returns after Sunday's runoff elections showed the conservative alliance winning 461 of the 577 seats in the National Assembly. Another 23 seats won by fellow rightists gave the conservatives a majority of 484 seats.

The Socialists won only 54 seats, which along with 16 allied leftists will give them their weakest bloc in the assembly since Mitterrand created the party more than two decades ago.

Balladur's appointment was widely expected in the aftermath of the conservative landslide. He maintains a comfortable, if distant relationship with Mitterrand and is respected by the Socialists as an effective manager. He was endorsed by the conservative alliance as its choice to head the new government and also ranked far ahead of other candidates in public opinion polls.