PARIS, Jan. 18 -- Prime Minister Edouard Balladur, the runaway favorite to become France's next president, on Wednesday confirmed he will run in elections to replace Socialist Francois Mitterrand. Balladur's anticipated announcement means he will challenge Paris Mayor Jacques Chirac, his long-time ally and fellow member of the center-right Rally for the Republic party, in the April polls. Chirac announced his presidential bid two months ago. 'I have decided to declare my candidacy for president of the republic,' Balladur said in a nationally televised speech. 'I am not the candidate of a party. What I hope to do is govern for all French people without discrimination,' he said, promising to 'restore morality, to fight corruption, to ensure security (and) respect for the law.' He said France 'must with all its strength and all its courage again become an example to the world, as it was in the time' of late president Charles de Gaulle. He also vowed to make France the 'motor of European progress,' which he said is 'essential for our future,' and the 'best servant of peace' in the world. The first round of the presidential elections is scheduled for April 23. If no candidate wins an outright majority, a runoff is to be held on May 7. Despite high unemployment and a series of corruption scandals involving members of his government, opinion polls have put Balladur well ahead of all his potential rivals, including Chirac. Cabinet ministers are split between the two RPR candidates, with most supporting Balladur.

The Socialist Party has still to decide on its candidate after outgoing European Commission President Jacques Delors shocked the left last month by refusing to run despite frontrunner status in opinion polls. Mitterrand, who will complete 14 years as head of state this year and who is suffering from prostate cancer, has said he will not seek a third term. Socialist leader Henri Emmanuelli on Wednesday became the third member of his party to seek its nomination. Popular former Culture minister Jack Lang and former Education minister Lionel Jospin have both already declared their presidential ambitions. 'Like millions of men and women in this country, I am not resigned to a victory by the right, because such a victory would give them political and economic power unprecedented in our contemporary history,' Emmanuelli said. Right-wing parties led by the RPR routed the Socialists in parliamentary elections in March 1993. But Chirac, then RPR president, allowed Balladur to become prime minister so he could concentrate on a presidential bid. RPR Secretary General Jean-Louis Debre on Wednesday said he regretted Balladur's decision to run for president. 'I still don't understand why (Balladur) is a candidate,' Debre told French television. 'He has systematically picked up the themes of Jacques Chirac... The prime minister should tell us how his proposals are different from those of Jacques Chirac in order to justify his candidacy.' Chirac, 62, a former prime minister, lost to Mitterrand in presidential elections in 1981 and 1988. Among other declared candidates this year are Jean-Marie Le Pen of the extreme right-wing National Front, Robert Hue of the French Communist Party and Philippe de Villiers of the Movement for France, which opposes the Maastricht Treaty on European unity.