Henry Searle made history as he became the first British Wimbledon Boys’ champion since Stoke City, Blackpool and England legend Sir Stanley Matthew’s son in 1962.

Searle ended Great Britain’s wait for a youth championship at All England Lawn after beating Russia’s Yaroslav Demin 64, 6-4 to see him lift the title without dropping a set all tournament.

Roared on by a boisterous home crowd alongside friends and family in the crowd, the 17-year-old followed in unlikely footsteps to win the coveted tournament that has previously been won by Roger Federer and Bjorn Borg.

And Searle will be hoping to mirror Matthews Jr’s dominance on the court after he won the Wimbledon Boys’ title in three consecutive years between 1960 and 1962.

READ MORE: Kate Middleton's sweet gesture to Wimbledon final loser Ons Jabeur as she breaks down

The son of the very first winner of the Ballon d’Or trophy in 1956, first attempted to follow his famous dad’s footsteps into football, but it soon dawned on him it would be impossible to handle the family name.

He admitted: “I was fairly good, but whoever I played, they kicked the s*** out of me. I came with a name, and the mentality was, 'We're going to get Stanley Matthews' son.'”

Can you remember Sir Stanley Matthews’ tennis-playing son? Let us know in the comments section.

But his senior tennis career failed to live up to the billing after Matthews Jr recorded his best finishes at Wimbledon in 1963 and 1969, only reaching the second round both years.

Looking back on his career and having to burden the name of his famous dad, Matthews Jr previously said: "Even though it wasn't football, it was a lot of pressure to live up to the name of Matthews.

“There would be pictures of my father and me in the papers, and they started to call me the next Fred Perry.

“Sure, being Dad's son opened some doors, but it also made things harder. Instead of being congratulated if I did well, I was expected to.

“And if I didn't do well, they'd say 'He's not as good as his father.' Unfortunately, that's how it is. It goes with the territory."

Like Matthews before him, Searle also grew up playing football but also decided to leave the sport behind to focus on his tennis, and he’s now beginning to reap the rewards of that decision.