Eddie Murphy has been announced as the recipient of next year’s Golden Globes’ lifetime achievement honor, the Cecil B. DeMille Award. The legendary comedian and actor will accept at what the revamped Hollywood Foreign Press Association is hoping will mark a comeback ceremony, following a year in which the group skipped naming a Cecil B. DeMille winner entirely while announcing its competitive category winners on Twitter.

“We’re honored to present this year’s Cecil B. DeMille Award to the iconic and highly esteemed Mr. Eddie Murphy,” HFPA president Helen Hoehne said in a statement. “We’re thrilled to be celebrating the lasting impact on film and television that his career—in front of and behind the camera—has had through the decades.”

Following a relatively quiet nominations morning for the Globes earlier this week, the news puts another point in the broadcast’s column as it and NBC hope to lure stars back to the Beverly Hilton for the star-studded event this ceremony used to be known for; questions remain about just how many stars will attend, with at least one high-profile nominee, Brendan Fraser, confirming he will not. The announcement of the 61-year-old Murphy’s honor follows the news that Emmy-winning comic Jerrod Carmichael will host the show.

Murphy won the Golden Globe and was nominated for the Academy Award for best supporting actor back in 2007, for Dreamgirls; he abruptly left the latter ceremony after losing his category to Little Miss Sunshine’s Alan Arkin, and that upset has since been widely credited to his derided comedy film, Norbit, hitting theaters close to the period of Oscar voting. Murphy has been nominated for five additional Globes, from his 1982 breakout 48 Hrs. to his 2019 comeback vehicle, Dolemite Is My Name, and won his first Emmy two years ago for guest-hosting Saturday Night Live.

Murphy follows recent honorees Jane Fonda, Tom Hanks, and Jeff Bridges. With the exception of 2018 honoree Oprah Winfrey (who’d won an honorary Oscar), Murphy is the first Cecil B. DeMille Award recipient in 20 years to have not won an Academy Award, going back to 2002’s Harrison Ford. He’s also the rare comedian to receive this lifetime-achievement prize. The HFPA recently introduced the Carol Burnett Award to recognize TV icons, having honored comedy greats like its namesake and Ellen DeGeneres so far. As to whether we’ll have two legendary funny people on the stage next month? We’ll have to wait and see.

The 2023 Golden Globes will air live from the Beverly Hilton in Los Angeles on January 10.

Hollywood

Emmys 2024 Nominations: The Biggest Snubs and Surprises

Selena Gomez finally makes the cut, while a few beloved Oscar winners surprisingly do not.

Award Season

How Will the Presidential Election Affect This Year’s Oscar Race?

The outcome of the 2016 election was ever present at the Academy Awards that followed four months later. Could this year be the same?

Award Season

Baby Reindeer’s Jessica Gunning Never Saw Martha as a Villain

“She’s so much more than that,” says the newly minted Emmy nominee of her breakout role in the Netflix hit series.

Award Season

Venice and Toronto Film Festival Lineups Raise Our Oscar Hopes

Hotly anticipated films like Joker: Folie à Deux and The Piano Lesson are mixed with some wild cards that could shake up awards season.

Movies

Reintroducing Humphrey Bogart: The Untold Stories of a Hollywood Icon’s Volatile Private Life

The Casablanca star’s career was shaped by his relationships with women, from his distant mother to the love of his life, Lauren Bacall. Those stories come to the forefront in a new documentary, Bogart: Life Comes in Flashes.

Award Season

Emmy Nominations 2024: See the Full List Here

Shōgun leads the full list of Emmy nominations 2024 with 25 nods, followed by The Bear, Only Murders in the Building, and True Detective: Night Country.

Television

EGOT Watch: Which 2024 Emmy Nominees Could Join the Club This Year?

With their most recent nomination for best original musical and lyrics, superstar songwriting duo Benj Pasek and Justin Paul must have an EGOT win on their minds. Even more stars have the potential to get halfway to EGOT status if they win big at the Emmys.

Award Season

Viggo Mortensen Speaks His Mind: On Amazon’s “Shameful” Decision, Green Book’s “Disingenuous” Critics, and Indie Film’s Unclear Future

The Oscar nominee, whose acclaimed new film, The Dead Don’t Hurt, has just hit VOD, offers his frank assessment of Hollywood.

Style

Radhika Jones on Jenna Ortega’s Rise to Stardom

The VF editor in chief charts the September cover star’s trajectory from nine-year-old working actor to global name—and now a producer on Wednesday.

Television

Tom Sandoval Sues Ariana Madix For Sharing Proof That He Cheated on Her

Madix’s lawyer responds that Sandoval is continuing to “torment” his ex with an “abhorrent” suit, which accuses Madix of invasion of privacy and distribution of explicit videos featuring Sandoval and their former Vanderpump Rules castmate Rachel Leviss.