Jane Fonda will receive the Cecil B. DeMille Award at this year’s Golden Globes, adding yet another statuette to her packed mantle. The Hollywood Foreign Press Association announced on Tuesday that she would be the 2021 recipient of the honorary award, praising her category-defying career as both a powerhouse movie star and an activist.

“The Hollywood Foreign Press Association takes great pride in bestowing the 2021 Cecil B. DeMille Award to Jane Fonda,” said HFPA president Ali Sar. “For more than five decades, Jane’s breadth of work has been anchored in her unrelenting activism, using her platform to address some of the most important social issues of our time. Her undeniable talent has gained her the highest level of recognition, and while her professional life has taken many turns, her unwavering commitment to evoking change has remained. We are honored to celebrate her achievements at the 2021 Golden Globe Awards.”

Fonda has won seven Golden Globes over the last six decades, picking up her first statuette in 1962 for most promising newcomer (a now defunct category) for the film Tall Story. Her most recent nod was for best supporting actress in 2015’s Youth. Fonda, who currently stars on the Netflix series Grace and Frankie, is also a two-time Oscar winner.

The 2020 Cecil B. DeMille recipient was Tom Hanks, who delivered a warm speech about his family and his love of acting, getting choked up at numerous points. Prior to Hanks, the award in recent years has been something of a political lightning rod, inspiring galvanizing speeches from 2017 recipient Meryl Streep and 2018 recipient Oprah Winfrey. (The 2019 recipient, Jeff Bridges, delivered a decidedly groovier speech.) Streep lambasted former president Donald Trump without ever uttering his name, while Winfrey delivered rousing support for the #MeToo movement. Her speech was so impactful that many viewed it as a de facto announcement of a potential presidential campaign (which, of course, it was not). Fonda, a decades-long activist, most recently getting arrested multiple times at a series of climate-crisis protests, likely won’t miss an opportunity to use the platform in a similar fashion.

This year’s Golden Globes will air on NBC on February 28. The ceremony will be hosted by Tina Fey and Amy Poehler, marking their fourth time emceeing the awards show.

More Great Stories From Vanity Fair

— Inside Bridgerton’s Sexy, Modern Makeover of the Regency Period Drama

— Borat’s Maria Bakalova Had a Sweet Reunion With Jeanise Jones

— Tina Fey and Robert Carlock Wrestle Clumsily With Politics in Mr. Mayor

— Blazing Blonde Bombshell: Barbara Payton’s Boulevard of Broken Dreams

— Bryan Cranston Dances With the Devil in Your Honor

— Meet Bridgerton’s Dreamboat Duke, Regé-Jean Page

— Stephen Colbert Answers the Proust Questionnaire

— From the Archive: San Simeon’s Child

— Not a subscriber? Join Vanity Fair to receive full access to VF.com and the complete online archive now.

Movies

The 25 Best Movies on Netflix to Stream Right Now

From comedy classics to recent Oscar winners, these are the titles you don’t want to miss.

Politics

Where Do the Obamas Stand on Joe Biden? “If President Obama Was All In, He’d Be All In.”

As the threat of another Trump presidency looms, America turns its eyes to Michelle and Barack Obama, still the most powerful politicians in the world—whether they like it or not.

Television

EGOT Watch: Which 2024 Emmy Nominees Could Join the Club This Year?

With their most recent nomination for best original musical and lyrics, superstar songwriting duo Benj Pasek and Justin Paul must have an EGOT win on their minds. Even more stars have the potential to get halfway to EGOT status if they win big at the Emmys.

Hollywood

Emmys 2024 Nominations: The Biggest Snubs and Surprises

Selena Gomez finally makes the cut, while a few beloved Oscar winners surprisingly do not.

Award Season

Emmy Nominations 2024: See the Full List Here

Shōgun leads the full list of Emmy nominations 2024 with 25 nods, followed by The Bear, Only Murders in the Building, and True Detective: Night Country.

Movies

When You’re 23 and Spielberg Calls: The Wild Origin Story of Jon M. Chu

In an excerpt from his new memoir, the director of Crazy Rich Asians and Wicked remembers the shock and awe.

Hollywood

Revisiting Hillbilly Elegy, the Memoir and Movie That Made Trump’s VP Pick, J.D. Vance, the Hero

Just as Donald Trump was sold to the masses with The Apprentice, his newly minted running mate was once given his own Hollywood vehicle.

Movies

The Dude Is Voting for Kamala Harris

Jeff Bridges, star of The Big Lebowski, hopped on the “White Dudes for Harris" fundraiser call and pledged his support for the Democratic Nominee: "I’m white, I’m a dude, and I’m for Harris.”

Television

In The Day of the Jackal, Eddie Redmayne’s Shape-Shifting Assassin Meets His Match

Lashana Lynch faces off against Redmayne in Peacock’s bold reimagining of the classic cat-and-mouse novel, a thrilling escape with unsettling political parallels.

Award Season

How Timothée Chalamet’s Bob Dylan Biopic Could Shape This Year’s Oscar Race

With A Complete Unknown, the Oscar nominee could be back in the race for the first time since his breakout in Call Me by Your Name. But that’s only the beginning of the awards potential for this movie.