Fans were quick to notice that two big awards were not shown during the 81st Golden Globe Awards. During the show, the Cecil B. DeMille and Carol Burnett achievement awards were not given out to any stars. Last year, they were given to Eddie Murphy and Ryan Murphy, respectively. This year, due to changes in the show, there was reportedly not enough time to present the awards.

The Cecil B. DeMille Award began in 1952 and was named after its first recipient, director Cecil B. DeMille, chosen because of his respected name and work. A year later the award was given to Walt Disney. The award is given annually but has skipped a few other years besides the current one. As of now, only 69 people in the world can say that they have won this prestigious award and only 16 of those people are women.

The Carol Burnett Award on the other hand is a very new honor. It began in 2019 when actor Carol Burnett received the award for “outstanding contributions to television on or off the screen.” So far, only Burnett, Ellen DeGeneres, the late Norman Lear, and Ryan Murphy have received this award, which is expected to return along with the Cecil B. DeMille Award next year.

This year, after several controversies in recent years, the Golden Globes changed up its ownership and status. It is now owned by PMC and show producer Dick Clark Prods. in a joint venture with Eldridge. The award show has also moved to CBS and Paramount+ after airing for decades on NBC. There was an increase in the number of categories to 25 and nominees from five to six in each category, so there was just not enough time to add in the lifetime achievement awards.

In addition, two new categories were added this year. The first was for Cinematic and Box Office Excellence, with eight nominees for the films that earned the most viewers of the year. Barbie took home the award. The other new category was Best Performance in Stand-Up Comedy on Television and Ricky Gervais won for his special Ricky Gervais: Armageddon. In case you missed the awards last night, you can stream it now on Paramount+ or the CBS app.