Movie finder Release calendar New releases Coming soon Reviews User reviews Search

Directed by Ted Kotcheff

Billy Two Hats 1974

PG

99 MIN

Overview Releases Reviews Cast crew Screenshots Movie Codes Products News Forum

Western

Romance

StudioWVG Medien

Release dateCountry US LanguageEnglish Runtime99 minRatedPGTechnical details 1.66:1

Movie plot tags

When someone gets killed during a bank robbery by Deans, half-breed Billy Two Hats and their partner, the robbers flee. Sheriff Gifford tracks the robbers, killing one of them and capturing Billy. Deans escapes, but during a successful plot to free Billy from the Sheriff, Deans is shot, leaving him unable to walk or ride a horse. Billy, not wanting to abandon his friend, builds an Indian cot to drag Deans behind the horse. With the Sheriff hot on their trail, Deans and Billy try to stay one step ahead of the many obstacles which threaten their lives and freedom.

When someone gets killed during a bank robbery by Deans, half-breed Billy Two Hats and their partner, the robbers flee. Sheriff Gifford tracks the robbers, killing one of them and capturing Billy. Deans escapes, but during a successful plot to free Billy from the Sheriff, Deans is shot, leaving him unable to walk or ride a horse. Billy, not wanting to abandon his friend, builds an Indian cot to drag Deans behind the horse. With the Sheriff hot on their trail, Deans and Billy try to stay one step ahead of the many obstacles which threaten their lives and freedom. (less)

Director: Ted Kotcheff

Writer: Alan Sharp

Starring: Gregory Peck, Desi Arnaz Jr., Jack Warden, David Huddleston, Sian Barbara Allen, John Pearce

Producers: Norman Jewison, Patrick J. Palmer

» See full cast & crew

Blu-ray reviews

4

fans

252

Blu-ray

collections

6

DVD

collections

4

Digital

collections

2

iTunes

collections

Similar titles you might also like

What is this?

Use the thumbs up and thumbs down icons to agree or disagree that the title is similar to Billy Two Hats. You can also suggest completely new similar titles to Billy Two Hats in the search box below.

Show more titles »« Show less titles

Similar titles suggested by members