Majin Buu is the creation of Bibidi (Babidi's father). Babidi is an evil wizard who wants to destroy everything. To do this he needs a certain amount of Ki to release Majin Buu from his containment. He uses Spopovitch and Yamu to drain Gohan's Super Saiyan 2 energy and then later uses the Ki that the Z fighters exert when they fight on the levels of Babidi's spaceship.

When Majin Vegeta blows up Babidi's spaceship, Majin Buu's containment survives and he is released. Majin Buu starts off as a rather fat doughy entity, this is because before Bibidi sealed him up for travel, he had absorbed the Grand Supreme Kai and lost some of his power, but gained a sweet tooth for cakes and chocolate and a good side. But when Mr. Satan finds him and eventually befriends him, he buys Majin Buu a puppy, which Buu names Bee. Mr. Satan eventually convinces Majin Buu that killing is bad and Buu says that he will kill no more. But soon after that, two would-be hunters shot Bee. This infuriated Majin Buu, but Bee still lived. Majin Buu healed Bee as good as new and started playing again. But while Buu played, Mr. Satan attacked the two hunters which led to Mr. Satan becoming very hurt. This made Majin Buu even more angry, which led him to venting lots of steam and eventually his stronger and more hate driven self, Evil Buu, the Buu that was a result of Kid Buu absorbing the West Supreme Kai.

Majin Buu and Evil Buu battle it out until Majin Buu tries to turn Super Buu into a piece of chocolate but Evil Buu bounces it back at Majin Buu and turns him into a piece of chocolate. Evil Buu eats the chocolate, and absorbs Majin Buu, completing the transformation into the Super Buu. Super Buu is just Majin Buu but with Evil Buu as the dominant character.

Super Buu fights Gotenks in the Hyperbolic Time Chamber after killing everybody on Earth from the lookout, and turning Chi-Chi into an egg and stepping on her. During the fight between Gotenks and Super Buu, Piccolo destroys the way back to the lookout, leaving the three of them stuck there. During a shouting match between Piccolo and Gotenks, Super Buu yells that he is hungry and creates a rip in the fabric of time, he steps through this and starts turning everyone on the lookout except Dende into candy. As Gotenks and Piccolo came through their own rip, Super Buu was finishing off his meal of people candy.