NOBARTV.CO.ID The controversial VAR referee returns to lead Indonesia, Indonesia will again have an important match in the U23 Asian Cup semifinal match against Uzbekistan. In the semifinal match, the VAR referee who gave a controversial decision in the Indonesia vs Qatar match will return to duty.

As is known, the Indonesian U23 national team squad some time ago was confirmed to have qualified for the semifinals of the 23 U2024 Asian Cup. This qualification was obtained by Marselino Ferdinan et al after crushing the resistance of South Korea U23 in the quarter-finals.

After drawing 2-2 with Korea in normal time until extra time, the two teams finally continued to determine the winner through a penalty shootout. In this penalty shootout round, one of the 12 Garuda squad shots was off the mark while 2 South Korean players' shots were saved by Ernando Ari. As a result, in the penalty round, the Garuda squad won with a score of 11-10.

After successfully defeating South Korea, the Indonesian National Team just had to wait for the results between Saudi Arabia vs Uzbekistan. And apparently, in the other semifinal match, Uzbekistan was confirmed to be Indonesia's opponent after being able to beat Saudi Arabia with a final score of 2-0. The Indonesia vs Uzbekistan duel will be held on Monday night tomorrow.

Whoever wins this duel, that team will certainly qualify for the final round of the 23 U2024 Asian Cup. Not only that, qualification will be accompanied by an automatic ticket to the 2024 Paris Olympics. So, 1st, 2nd and 3rd place in the 23 U2024 Asian Cup will be advanced to another prestigious tournament, namely the Paris Olympics. Meanwhile, for fourth place, the team must undergo a play-off match to be able to appear in this prestigious match.

However, one thing that is quite worrying ahead of the Indonesia vs Uzbekistan duel is related to the VAR referee who will control the match. It is known that AFC, as the organizer of the U23 Asian Cup, has again appointed Sivakorn Pu-udom as the VAR referee. Meanwhile, Sivakorn Pu-udom in the previous Indonesian match made several controversial decisions so that the main referee did not check the condition of the VAR.

So, in the Indonesia vs Qatar match on the first matchday of Group A, there were various very controversial referee decisions. The main referee Nasrullo Kabirnov gave the hosts an advantage because of his decisions. Nasrullo's decision - whether or not, depends a lot on the referee's VAR advice.

At that time, the VAR referee Sivakorn Pu-udom did not give advice to Nasrullo Kabirnov to cancel the red card received by Ivar Jenner. Sivakorn also did not provide important advice when Marselino Ferdinan was forced down by the Qatari player. As a result of the many decisions made by Nasrullo Kabirnov on Sivakorn's advice, the Garuda squad was ultimately defeated by Qatar with a final score of 2-0.

So, what about the Indonesia vs Uzbekistan match later? What is clear is that Sivakorn's presence is enough to make Indonesian national team supporters feel anxious.