Follow @FindCroatia

Osijek is the largest city in the east of Croatia and is economic and cultural centre of Slavonia ; a region of Eastern Croatia. Osijek is river port too; located on the right bank of the Drava River, about 25km upstream from its join with Danube River.The Capital of Slavonia and river port; located on the right bank of the Drava River, about 25km upstream from its join with Danube River. Osijek lies twenty-five kilometers upstream from the place where Drava flows into Danube in East Slavonia – a city and a port, the economic, transport and cultural center of Slavonia. The lowland of East Croatia, surrounded by rivers, is a true oasis for tourists who want to replace the city hustle and bustle with the quiet of greenery and a relaxed stay in intact nature at least for a while. It consists of the Uptown, the Fort (Tvrda), the Downtown and New Town (19th century), and Retfala. The important city institutions include the University, the Croatian National Theater, the Museum of Slavonia, the printery dating back to 1735, the gymnasium dating back to 1729, the drawing school, the zoo, the Cattle Breeding Promotion Center, the Sugar Beet Institute, etc..A multipurpose sport hall called the City Garden was built for the World Handball Championship , with five main halls and ancillary and supporting facilities – its exterior and interior designs will be a new urban trademark for Osijek.

The important places of interest in Osijek is Trg Ante Starcevica – the main square and Trg Svetog Roka ; a large boulevard along the Drava, as well as the pedestrian bridge that crosses to Baranja (another Croatian region). There is Zoological garden in Osijek too, located along the Drava River.

Osijek as a city is divided in four parts – Gornji Grad – The Upper Town, Tvrda – well known Baroque quarter, Donji Grad – The Lower Town and Novi Grad – the New Town.

Being on the Drava river, Osijek has a lot of opportunities for water sports during the summer time, as well as opportunities for hunting and angling in Kopacki Rit (Baranja) – the nature preserve park of Croatia.

Osijek has its own airport and is easily accessible from Zagreb, Beograd or Budapest.

History and Culture:

Baroque towers: Osijek’s Tvrda tower represents a successful combination of military, urban, administrative and sacral architectures. Its central square is dominated by the General Barracks building from 1726 with the most luxurious stone baroque portal in Croatia, and Kužni pil (a monument to Holy Trinity), the only one of its kind in Croatia in addition to the one in Požega.

Osijek holds many events throughout the year. They include the Croatian Tamboura Music Festival featuring tamboura orchestras from across Croatia, and Osijek Summer Nights – a series of outdoor culture & entertainment events with a rich commercial and catering offer. The Osijek City Day includes a rich culture & art program with thematic exhibitions. Numerous archeological finds and items of natural, historical and artistic value are kept at Osijek’s Museum of Slavonia established in 1877.

About Tambura Music : They say Osijek is a nursery of tamboura music. The first tamboura choir in Osijek was formed in 1847 by Pajo Kolaric, making tamboura the most popular folk instrument. Osijek thus became the tamboura center, not only of Croatia but the entire Slavic south.

Accommodation in Osijek

All hotels in Osijek – book here!

Hotel Osijek

The impressive Hotel Osijek is situated in the pedestrianized centre next to the banks of the Drava River. It offers panoramic views, fine cuisine, a spa area and free Wi-Fi. Prices from €110 – Number of rooms: 147 – Check Hotel Osijek, Osijek availability

Guesthouse Maksimilian

Situated in the historic Baroque centre of Osijek, Guesthouse Maksimilian is set in a fully refurbished building dating from the 19th century. It offers free parking and breakfast. Prices from €36 – Number of rooms: 6 – Check Guesthouse Maksimilian, Osijek availability

Hotel Silver

Hotel Silver is situated in the region of Slavonia in Osijek. It offers comfortable rooms with free wired internet access, air conditioning, SAT TV and room service. Prices from €27 – Number of rooms: 21 – Check Hotel Silver, Osijek availability

Hotel Mursa

Conveniently situated only a 15-minute walk from the centre of Osijek, Hotel Mursa is close to the railway and bus stations and a 30-minute drive to the airport. Prices from €43 – Number of rooms: 120 – Check Hotel Mursa, Osijek availability

Hotel Waldinger

Waldinger hotel is situated in the very heart of Slavonia, in the city of Osijek, secessionist centre of Croatia. The hotel is situated 100 metres from the main city square and the famous Osijek Promenade by the river Drava. Prices from €105 – Number of rooms: 16 – Check Hotel Waldinger, Osijek availability

All hotels in Osijek – book here!

List of all hotels in Osijek

Hostels, Apartments, Pansions, Private Accommodation in Osijek

Biljski Krokodil – We are a little but happy family surrounded by a lot of flowers and happy faces and if you are searching for a nice and silent sleep in our one ? bed ? and two – bed ? rooms with a view over a small forest. Visit us, we are expecting you! Prices from €21.35 – Check Biljski Krokodil, Osijek availability

Hostel Tufna – New cheap accommodation in Osijek! In addition to a good hotel selection, Osijek now got its first Hostel, Hostel Tufna! Hostel Tufna is located on the upper floor of the popular Tufna nightclub situated in the historic baroque part of the town – Tvrdja. Prices from €13.77 – Check Hostel Tufna, Osijek availability

All hostels in Osijek – book here!

List of all accommodation in Osijek

Osijek Travel Forum:

Ask questions and find answers about travelling to Osijek at our Slavonia and Baranja Travel Forum. Have a look at latest entries

Check Osijek Travel News from Osijek Travel Blog – a weblog about travel to Osijek. below are latest entries from Osijek Travel Blog:

Osijek Travel Info: