Worthy audience surprisingly Khalistan Commando Force (KCF) chief (63) heading the Khalistan Commando Force-Panjwar group Panjwar, also known as Malik Sardar Singh was killed in the gunfight in Johar Town Lahore, his shooter sustained injuries too. “The gunmen shot Panjwar in his head and he was pronounced dead on arrival at hospital, ”a Pakistani police officer said, adding his guard was also injured and succumbed later. The native of Panjwar village in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district, allegedly he joined the outfit in 1986 (prior to which he was working in a Indian Central Cooperative Bank in Sohal) Paramjit Singh. In the 1990s, Panjwar took charge of KCF, following the elimination of Labha Singh at the hands of Indian security forces & was designated as a terrorist by India under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in July 2020.He is believed by Indians to have crossed over to Pakistan and stayed in Lahore while his wife and children relocated to Germany. According to ‘India Today” report, on Saturday 06 May 2023 Paramjit Singh Panjwar, a most wanted Khalistani terrorist shot dead by unidentified gunmen in Lahore, the provincial capital of Pakistan’s Punjab province.

Panjwar was born in Panjwar village near Taran Taran India &reportedly was involved in reviving the Sikh insurgency, drug, liquor, explosive and weapons smuggling, ransom & murdering incidents Purportedly found indulged in several killings in Punjab, Panjwar & escaped to Pakistan in 1995-96.

He was inactive for the last couple of years, allegedly Panjwar had been operating from Lahore and was involved purportedly in arranging arms training for youths in Pakistan.

Was involved in trafficking of drugs and arms into India. After 2010, Panjwar had ventured into the business of real estate and heroin smuggling.

Pan war’s complicity in promoting drug trafficking and fake Indian currency notes (FICN) operation in Punjab are well documented by the Indians.

An eyewitness told the CTD that Panjwar was in the park around 6 am when a gunman came close to them and opened fire. After the firing, the assailant rushed to the gate of the society and fled along with his accomplice who was waiting for him outside,” he said. A source said the assailants had conducted a recce for a week.

Pakistan’s intelligence agencies, including the ISI, Military Intelligence and Counter-Terrorism Department (CTD), cordoned off the area and launched an investigation

Sarabjit Singh, Panjwar's elder brother, has urged the Centre to bring back his mortal remains so that he could be cremated as per rituals.

No group claimed responsibility for the attack. Lahore officials claimed Panjwar was a Pakistani Sikh and had nothing to do with any separatist movement in India & Pakistan.

The sad event is precisely full of mystic & an example of text book orchestration of terrorism in Pakistan by India ,straying foreign media to look askance on Pakistan as well as give all credit to PM of India for killing two birds with one stone? The question is why was he killed on a day when Chinese Foreign Minister was on a visit to Pakistan, Doha talks were underway,SOC Summit was being held in India ,Coronation ceremony of King Charles III was being screened alive. PM Shahbaz was in London defending FM Bilawal clumsy and fruitless visit of India. Meanwhile Imran Khan was moving for agitating mob for huge rallies all over Pakistan.

No group claimed responsibility for the attack. In Lahore some officials claimed to have said Panjwar was a Pakistani Sikh and had nothing to do with any separatist movement in India.

Will this incident bear any consequences, probability (40% not) or 60% may be yes? Anyhow India has defended again their amendments in Kashmir constitution bluntly, soon after Bilawal visit to tarnish Pakistan’s Image awkwardly?

3. Panjwar had joined the KCF in 1986. In 1986, the KCF was headed by Sukhdev Singh, alias Sukha Shapai, who was then serving as a police constable in Punjab (India). In 1989, Shapai was killed in a police encounter at Tanda in Hoshiarpur and thereafter, Kanwarjit Singh of Sultanwind in Amritsar became the KCF chief while Paramjit Singh Panjwar became its deputy chief. After Kanwarjit’s death, Panjwar became the KCF chief. Before he escaped to Pakistan in 1995-96, Panjwar was involved in a number of killings in Punjab, according to official sources. Though he was inactive for the last couple of years, Panjwar had been operating from Lahore and was involved in arranging arms training for youths in Pakistan. He was engaged in supplying arms and ammunition and subsequent infiltration into India for targeting VIPs and economic installations.“Panjwar’s complicity in promoting drug trade and fake Indian currency notes (FICN) operation in Punjab are well documented. Efforts are being made by his organization KCF to reactive former militants, sleeper cells and also those on bail and it has been in favour of forming a nexus with other forces hostile to India,” the ministry had said.

4. The KCF came into existence in February 1986 and the modus operandi of this organization was to commit bank robberies and kidnappings for ransom for use to purchase sophisticated weapons for terrorist activities. The banned outfit was involved in various terrorist attacks in India, which included a bomb attack in October 1988, killing 10 Rai Sikhs in Ferozepur and the killing of Major Gen BN Kumar, according to the ministry.Panjwar was also behind a number of IED explosions in Haryana, Chandigarh and Punjab, said sources. His wife, who along with two sons was staying in Germany, died in September 2022.Allegedly he had got Pakistan’s national ID card in the name of Gulzar Singh that is to say the invisible hands in India/Pakistan had planned to reactivate Panjwar by using his old contacts in Punjab in a bid to revive/control militancy. Panjwar had a large number of contacts in border districts, especially in Amritsar and Tarn Taran, during the militancy period in Punjab.