S. Decker Anstrom, Vice Chair Arena Stage

Decker Anstrom serves on the Board of Directors of Discovery, Inc., as well as on the boards of national nonprofit groups (Island Press; Climate Central; and Planet Forward).

Anstrom, who lives in Washington, D.C., served as U.S. Ambassador and Head of the U.S. Delegation to the 2011 and 2015 World Radiocommunication Conferences (WRC 12 and 15), held under the auspices of the International Telecommunications Union. WRC’s, which convene every three to four years, are treaty level conferences involving more than 150 countries that consider international and regional spectrum allocation and regulatory issues that support satellite, mobile, aviation, and other wireless services.

He retired as President of Landmark Communications and Chairman of The Weather Channel Companies in late 2008, following Landmark’s sale of The Weather Channel to NBC. He also served on the Board of Directors of the Comcast Corporation from 2001-2011.

Prior to his positions at Landmark (headquartered in Norfolk, VA), Anstrom had a long career in public service and in the communications industry. During the Carter Administration, he was a senior staff member in the White House Office of Management and Budget, working on the creation of the U.S. Department of Education, and then served in the White House Office of Presidential Personnel. He subsequently joined and later became President of Public Strategies, a Washington-based public policy consulting firm.

In 1987 he joined the National Cable Television Association (NCTA) as Executive Vice President; he became President and CEO in 1994. During his tenure he led the cable industry’s efforts that helped result in the Telecommunications Act of 1996. In 1999, Anstrom joined The Weather Channel Companies (TWCC — which included The Weather Channel cable network, weather.com, and WSI, the leading business-to-business weather provider) in Atlanta, GA as President and CEO. In 2002, he became President of Landmark Communications, a privately held, diversified media company that owned newspapers, local television stations, database centers and print and classified advertising businesses, as well as The Weather Channel Companies. In that position he also served as Chairman of TWCC.

In addition, Anstrom has served on numerous cable industry boards (including NCTA, which he chaired for two years), two nonprofit boards in the Hampton Roads area (the Chrysler Museum and public television and radio broadcaster WHRO), and on the Boards of the Chesapeake Bay Foundation, the Institute for Educational Leadership, and the National Environmental Education Foundation.

Anstrom received a BA degree from Macalester College (St. Paul, MN) and attended the Woodrow Wilson Graduate School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University for one year.

Darius Graham, Managing Director of Community Investment

Darius Graham joined the foundation in October 2023 as the Managing Director of Community Investment. In this role, he oversees the foundation’s grantmaking programs, strategic initiatives, and collaboratives. He leads the Community Investment team and serves on the foundation’s executive leadership team.

Previously as the Program Director for Baltimore at The Harry and Jeanette Weinberg Foundation, Darius guided the distribution of over $30 million in grants annually to nonprofits working across the areas of housing, health, workforce development, and education in Baltimore and beyond. In this role, he also developed and led strategic initiatives such as the Greenmount Life, Opportunity, and Wellness (GLOW) Initiative — an award-winning, multi-year, place-based strategy that unites residents and a network of over 30 nonprofits to ensure all residents of four central Baltimore neighborhoods can access and utilize comprehensive healthcare services, nutritious food, and enriching opportunities for youth. Other initiatives included the $25 million economic mobility initiative (Mobility LABs) in partnership with the Robin Hood Foundation and a $3.7 million initiative in Stockton, California to improve academic and civic outcomes.

Prior to that, Darius was the founding executive director of two university-wide innovation and entrepreneurship programs at Johns Hopkins University (Social Innovation Lab and FastForwardU) where he helped students, faculty, and local residents transform novel ideas and new technologies into viable ventures. Darius was the founder and executive director of DC Social Innovation Project, which supported the launch and growth of innovative community-based ventures tackling pressing social issues in Washington, DC. He began his career as an attorney in the Financial Restructuring practice group at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP.

Darius is a Civil Society Fellow with The Aspen Institute and ADL and a member of the Aspen Global Leadership Network. As an adjunct professor at the University of Denver and Goucher College, Darius has taught graduate courses on social entrepreneurship, public sector innovation, and nonprofit leadership. At the Baltimore Museum of Art, he serves as vice-chair of the board of trustees and chair of the governance committee. He previously served as co-chair of the board of directors of Community Law In Action, a mayor-appointed commissioner at Serve DC, and a Social Entrepreneur-In-Residence at University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of Business.

Darius' work and insights are highlighted in two books, Becoming a Changemaker: An Actionable, Inclusive Guide to Leading Positive Change at Any Level and In the Business of Change: How Social Entrepreneurs Are Disrupting Business as Usual. He has been a speaker at SXSW, SOCAP, Mission Investors Exchange, and Startup Champions; published in The Baltimore Sun, Inside Philanthropy, and more; and received honors from Ebony magazine, Baltimore Business Journal, and was recently named a GameChanger by Baltimore magazine. Darius is the author of Being the Difference: True Stories of Ordinary People Doing Extraordinary Things to Change the World. He received a B.A. summa cum laude from Florida A&M University and a J.D. from the University of California, Berkeley – School of Law.

Washington, D.C., September 22 – Today, the Greater Washington Community Foundation announced the appointment of Richard K. Bynum, Chief Corporate Responsibility Officer for The PNC Financial Services Group, as the new Chair of its Board of Trustees.

As Chair, Bynum will partner with President and CEO Tonia Wellons to lead the region’s largest public foundation with over $500 million in assets and $70 million in annual grants. As a regional foundation with a 50-year history of mobilizing philanthropic resources, The Community Foundation has invested more than $1.5 billion to build equitable, just, and thriving communities in the Greater Washington region.

Recognizing that our region’s biggest challenges stem from economic injustice -- the root cause of persistent inequities which have been exacerbated by the pandemic and economic crisis -- The Community Foundation staff and Trustees recently developed a bold new 10-year strategic plan to close our region’s racial wealth gap. The plan outlines how The Community Foundation will provide strong leadership to identify the most promising ways to close the gap and mobilize the resources and support to make it happen. This will include:

Leading with an equity lens that guides its operations, investments, and grantmaking.

Nearly doubling assets over the next ten years and building a permanent endowment in order to respond to the challenges and opportunities at scale.

Directing resources toward strengthening neighborhoods with the greatest needs and the BIPOC-led community organizations that serve them.

Investing in strategies to increase economic mobility and support individual and community wealth building.

“Richard is the right person to lead our Trustees as we embark on an ambitious plan to create a more prosperous future for our region,” said Tonia Wellons, President and CEO, Greater Washington Community Foundation. “He possesses an essential combination of strategic business acumen, investment expertise, and a strong commitment to this region. At this critical juncture, Richard understands that it will take all of us working together to achieve this vision for economic justice and he is primed and ready to step up to the challenge.”

“It is an honor and a privilege to serve as board chair for The Community Foundation,” said Bynum. “I am passionate about creating impact and driving change, especially in my home market of Greater Washington. Measurable and meaningful impact requires creative strategy and strong collaboration. I know my fellow Trustees are up to the task and I look forward to working together to seize the opportunities ahead.”

Bynum is an accomplished executive with nearly 20 years of executive leadership experience. As chief corporate responsibility officer for The PNC Financial Services Group and a member of its Executive Committee, Bynum leads the PNC Foundation, Community Affairs, ESG practice, Community Development Banking, and Diversity and Inclusion. In addition, Bynum is leading the implementation of PNC’s Community Benefits Plan through which the company will provide at least $88 billion in loans, investments, and other financial support to benefit communities of color and low- and moderate-income individuals and communities.

Recognized as one of region’s most influential business leaders by the Washington Business Journal, Bynum serves on the boards of numerous nonprofit and civic organizations, including the corporate council for the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History & Culture; the Economic Club of Washington, DC; the Wolf Trap National Park for the Performing Arts; the Federal City Council; the United Way of the National Capital Area; and the Virginia Early Childhood Foundation.

Bynum succeeds Katharine Weymouth who has served as Board Chair since September 2020. During her tenure as Chair, Weymouth oversaw the hiring of Tonia Wellons as permanent President and CEO in 2020 and she played a key role during the development of The Community Foundation’s new 10-year strategic plan. As a Community Foundation Trustee for the last 6 years, Weymouth continued a family tradition and legacy of giving and service to the Greater Washington region. Her grandmother (and namesake) Katharine Graham, who ran The Washington Post for more than two decades, also served on the board of The Community Foundation for nearly a decade. Weymouth previously served as Publisher and CEO of The Washington Post, and today she serves on the Board of Graham Holdings and advises several startup businesses.

Since its founding in 1973, The Community Foundation has mobilized philanthropic resources to support and strengthen the Greater Washington region and ensure it is a place where all residents can live, work, and thrive. Over the last few years, The Community Foundation has led the region’s largest coordinated philanthropic response to the COVID-19 pandemic – raising over $11 million in community support to help nonprofits meet the increased demand for food, shelter/housing, medical care, mental health services, legal aid, educational support, and more. Last year, the organization began implementing a new strategic plan to center racial equity and inclusion, align business practices with its values, and to close the racial wealth gap. Later this year, the organization will launch several new pilot programs focused on increasing economic mobility in marginalized communities throughout the region.

###

The Greater Washington Community Foundation ignites the power of philanthropy, catalyzes community impact, and responds to critical needs. For five decades, The Community Foundation has connected caring donors with nonprofits creating lasting change in DC, Montgomery County, Northern Virginia, and Prince George’s County. As the region’s largest local funder, we have invested more than $1.5 billion since 1973 to build racially equitable, just, and thriving communities where everyone prospers. Now, our strategic focus is to close our region’s racial wealth gap so that people of all races, places, and identities reach their full potential.

In honor of Pride Month, we sat down with Trustee Catherine Pino, co-founder of D&P Creative Strategies and one of our newest board members. Along with her wife Ingrid, Catherine has dedicated her life and her work to advocating for change in LGBTQ+ communities across the nation. As a Latina, she’s especially passionate about building bridges between Latino and LGBTQ+ communities.

Read on for our in-depth conversation with Catherine on her LGBTQ+ advocacy, and why intersectionality and authentic community listening are essential for meaningful change.

Community Foundation: You’re a co-founder of D&P Creative Strategies, a DC-based strategic consulting firm focused on inclusive and equitable advocacy. What initially inspired you to co-found D&P?

Catherine Pino: I have to say that it was really our love and desire to change the world. [My wife] Ingrid and I wanted to build a bridge between the Latino and LGBTQ+ communities. We knew there was a great deal of homophobia within the Latino community, and we felt compelled to try and change that narrative. We wanted to create an entity that would allow us to work on various of projects and issues. We were really adamant about being out and open about our love and who we were.

CF: In what ways have you seen these values show up in your work at D&P and beyond?

CP: Ingrid and I both have this sense of responsibility to improve conditions for marginalized [populations]. We always have the interests of the communities we represent at the forefront of our work to ensure they aren’t left behind. Our passion for what we do shows up in a variety of ways, including when we advise corporate executives on diversity, equity, and inclusion and corporate giving strategies. It also shows up in our advocacy on Capitol Hill.

It shows up in our film work, which we describe as a labor of love. We've produced six documentaries for HBO and PBS on identity. People telling their stories helps change hearts and minds.

Another way these values show up is through our political work. In 2008, Ingrid and I created PODER PAC, a political action committee dedicated to supporting Latina candidates as they run for Congress. After Hillary Clinton lost the 2008 Democratic primary, we created the PAC after traveling around the country as surrogates and meeting all these incredible Latinas who shared stories with us about how difficult it was to secure the resources they needed to run for office.

CF: You’ve done a lot of work in the LGBTQ+ space through an intersectionality lens, especially through your work on the Board of the Arcus Foundation. Can you tell us about some of the LGBTQ+ projects or initiatives you’ve spearheaded that have stuck with you? Why?

CP: One of my favorite projects of all time is Familia es Familia—Family is Family. We created a national education campaign to work on anti-bullying discrimination, family unity, and gay marriage. When we worked on this—before marriage equality—there was a lot of distrust between mainstream LGBTQ+ groups and Latinos. Many felt that Latinos and Blacks were more likely than whites to oppose same-sex marriage. Ingrid and I felt strongly that if we shared stories of LGBTQ+ Latinos, our family members and community members would be more accepting.

We were able to garner the support of over 25 national Hispanic organizations and partners, and created strong allies. We traveled across the country to various Hispanic conferences, held workshops, and talked to Latinos about our community. And we created lots of online resources, including videos of celebrity LGBTQ+ couples talking about anti-bullying and discrimination.

This campaign was highly instrumental in changing hearts and minds about acceptance of LGBTQ+ family members and, frankly, about marriage within the Latino community. It was beautiful to see how the Latino community grew and came around on many of these issues.

CF: Based on this work, how would you define “intersectionality?”

CP: Intersectionality really challenges us to look at how intersecting social identity, particularly minority identities, relates to systems and structures, inequity, and discrimination. It helps us make sense of how race, class, ethnicity, socioeconomic standing, gender, religion, and so much more can overlap and affect how others perceive you.

Take me, for instance. I’m Latina, a woman, and a lesbian raised by a single mom in a very low income, conservative Catholic family. Intersectionality is the way all of our multiple identities and dimensions intersect and, at least for me, embracing them.

CF: In what ways might we leverage this approach to create change for our LGBTQ+ neighbors in our region?

CP: Intersectionality means listening to others, examining our own privilege, and asking questions about who may be excluded or affected by our work. It means taking measurable action by intentionally including other voices and acknowledging the contributions of marginalized individuals. We must recognize that there are multiple forms of systemic discrimination or barriers to opportunity and multiple forms of prejudice that prevent LGBTQ+ people of color from being successful.

As a community foundation, the most important thing we can do is listen and respect the voices of those impacted by issues, be inclusive, and invite people into discussions to incorporate different perspectives.

CF Why did you decide to join The Community Foundation’s board?

CP: Most of my foundation experience has been at the national level, so I was genuinely excited to join an organization focused on local issues. I honestly believe that community foundations play a critical role in engaging the community, building community capacity, expanding financial capital, and educating the public about philanthropy. There isn’t always an understanding of the importance of giving, especially in minority communities. Ingrid and I try to do as much as we can to educate our communities about the importance of philanthropy. I believe that if you educate young people about philanthropy and about giving back early on, it will help become part of their world throughout their lives.

CF: Finally, what do you think lies ahead for us in terms of LGBTQ+ rights, and social justice—as a region and a nation?

CP: I still really believe we need the Equality Act. Many states don't have laws to protect people who are vulnerable to discrimination in key areas of life. I'm also really concerned about the anti-trans legislation popping up and in various states across the country. It’s been a record-breaking year for anti-trans legislation.

We need to be fierce advocates for trans and LGBTQ+ rights, especially for young youth of color. The Trevor Project recently published their annual survey on LGBTQ+ youth mental health, and 52% of all transgender and nonbinary young people reported seriously contemplating suicide in 2020. We’re just losing too many of our LGBTQ+ young people, and it breaks my heart. It’s really critical to provide mentorship and leadership for future generations.

Leading With Service

Trustee Veronica Jeon considers entrepreneurship—and service—core foundations of her career.

“I am a product of entrepreneurial parents, [and] I’ve always played a part in giving back. I’ve been blessed and fortunate to do that in my community where I live, work, and play,” she says.

As President and CEO of VSJ, Inc, a minority, woman-owned public relations and strategic communications firm, she serves clients across the nonprofit, corporate and government sectors. “Your success is our passion” is VSJ’s mission—a charge that also fulfills Veronica’s personal passion for service.

Veronica also serves as the Chair of the Prince George’s County Advisory Board and as an executive committee member of our Emerging Leader’s Impact Fund in Prince George’s County, helping determine the focus of grantmaking and rallying resources to deepen impact in the County.

In honor of Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Month, she shares what inspires her to continue to serve in philanthropy in our region—especially in this pivotal moment in our nation’s history.

“As we continue to emerge in Prince George’s County and beyond, I am committed to effectively grow the culture of philanthropy by advocating and leading initiatives; partnering to elevate and engage in philanthropy on all levels locally and regionally; and, mentoring the next generation of entrepreneurs and leaders,” says Veronica. “As a servant leader in this pivotal time in our nation’s history, I am of the belief that we all must lead in such a way to make others better as a result of our presence. And, in doing so, making sure that impact lasts in our absence.”

Empowering Others Towards Action

The Asian American Lead Youth Council, a group of high school and middle school AAPI youth who advocate for diversity and racial equity, is working hard to combat gentrification in DC’s Chinatown. A VoicesDMV Community Action Awards winner, the Council is leading efforts to uplift residents’ stories to raise awareness of the negative impacts of gentrification. Stories are shared on their project-dedicated website, and in their petitions for change to city leaders.

We are thrilled to welcome Ronnie Galvin as our new Managing Director for Community Investment. Ronnie oversees The Community Foundation team responsible for community leadership and discretionary funding programs, leading with his experience in and passion for racial equity and reparative justice. Below, hear from Ronnie on his dedication to community building and inspiration for joining The Community Foundation.

I am a community builder. This is the case in my personal and professional life. This essential part of my identity emerges from growing up in a tightly knit, self-determined, mutually supportive and accountable Black community in Miami, Florida. It was a place where elders were revered; every child was cherished; there was no such thing as hunger or homelessness; and every Black life not only mattered, but was celebrated and exalted.

I was birthed and raised in a Black working class family. My father professionally served 22 years as an enlisted airman in the United States Air Force. My mother was a domestic worker—herself coming from a long line of Black women deemed as the 'helping class.' They are now in the realm of the ancestors among many who provide counsel, inspiration, and protection for me as I come to this work.

I do this work in a space that has already been opened by my partner, soulmate, and collaborator—Dr. Yanique Redwood, President and CEO of the Consumer Health Foundation. She is the fiercest, most tenacious, and consistent freedom fighter, lover of our people and lover of me that I know. We co-parent two young-adult children, Alana and Darren, who are both finding their way in the world.

This feeling and experience of community is what inspires me. It has enriched my life beyond my wildest dreams and deepest longings. I am compelled to build and share this same experience with the Greater Washington Community Foundation Family, across the DMV region, and wherever our work takes us in this country and on the planet.

This fall, we bid a bittersweet farewell to Dan Mayers, the longest standing member of our Board of Trustees. Dan previously served as Chair of the Board of Trustees and of the Governance Board of The Community Foundation’s September 11 Survivors’ Fund. He also served as board chair of the Harvard Law School Visiting Committee, Legal Action Center, National Child Research Center, National Symphony Orchestra, Sidwell Friends School, and WETA.

Dan and his wife Karen credit The Community Foundation with informing their philanthropy and introducing them to the region’s most effective nonprofits going back many years.

More and more, they have focused their philanthropy on groups serving low-income individuals and families. Dan helped to guide The Community Foundation’s Neighbors in Need Fund, established during the recession to strengthen the region’s safety-net providers and services, and the couple were major donors to the fund.

Together we can end homelessness

In 2018, in an incredibly gracious act, Dan donated $100,000 to begin the Dan and Karen Mayers’ Challenge. The Challenge aimed to raise $1 million for the Partnership to End Homelessness. We are thrilled to announce that we met the $1 million challenge during the first year of the Partnership.

“In the past, homelessness was seen as an intractable problem,” says Dan. “Today, we have the leadership, tools, plan, and political will to end homelessness. The only thing missing is critical resources.”

“This is what community foundations do—they respond to community need,” adds Dan. “Time and again, I’ve witnessed The Community Foundation galvanize the generosity of concerned residents. I’ve seen compassionate people rally around urgent community needs, from natural disasters to 9/11 to the recession.”

We are so grateful to have worked with Dan, and for his years of service. Thank you for your investment in bettering our community.