Lessons in Tracing Aguascalientes Lineages

The following lineage report traces the ancestors of Jose Geronimo Ruvalcaba (1817-1884) who lived in Rincón de Romos, Aguascalientes. As is the case for many inhabitants of Aguascalientes, he was a descendant of the Ruiz de Esparza and Rubalcava families that came to Mexico in the Sixteenth Century. The origins of the González de Rubalcava family will be discussed in greater detail at the end of the report.

According to the geographer Peter Gerhard, in 1794, the population of Aguascalientes was at 27,874, of which 12,136 were classified as Indians, 6,646 were Spaniards, and 4,258 were mulattoes. The ancestors of Geronimo Ruvalcaba included people of many different classifications, but the farther back we go, the more people of Spanish extraction we are able to identify. Earlier generations of indigenous people did not have surnames, making their lineages difficult to trace. Several observations about the Lineage Report are:

Baptisms, Marriages and Burials are provided for many of the ancestors.

Throughout the 1600s, some people within La Asunción Parish were probably married or baptized in small chapels on private haciendas. Although the bulk of the Aguascalientes Parish records have been preserved, some of the church events that took place on private residences were not preserved in the parish.

Before 1620, the records for Aguascalientes and the adjacent settlement of Lagos de Moreno become scarce and less detailed. The marriages in Aguascalientes began in 1601, while the baptisms began in 1616. Some Lagos de Moreno records go back to the 1580s, but there are many gaps of missing records over the first few decades.

Most of the early Spanish families of Aguascalientes have been chronicled in various publications, but few paper documents for the 1500s exist in Aguascalientes and the surrounding areas. In some cases, published resources have been quoted.

There are numerous variant spellings of Ruvalcaba, including Rubalcava and Robalcava. When the family first came to Mexico, they were known as González de Rubalcava.

Aguascalientes

The historical geographer Peter Gerhard (1920-2006) discussed the various Spanish jurisdictions in Colonial Mexico in his book, “The North Frontier of New Spain” (Princeton University Press, 1982). He has described the early history of the Mexican state of Aguascalientes (“Hot Waters”), which is located in central Mexico.

Arrival of the Spaniards

When the Spaniards arrived in the 1520s, this area was located in Chichimec Indian territory and represented a frontier region between three indigenous groups: the Caxcanes, Zacatecos, and Guachichiles. The population of the Chichimecs at the time of contact has been estimated at about 8,500. Caxcán farmers inhabited the southwestern portion of present-day Aguascalientes. In the north lived the nomadic Zacatecos Indians. And to the east in the largest part of the state lived the warlike Guachichile Indians. The Caxcanes territory spread south and west through the Three-Fingers Border Region of present-day Zacatecas and Jalisco. The Zacatecos inhabited most of what is now known as Western Zacatecas. The widespread Guachichiles inhabited large portions of eastern Zacatecas, western San Luis Potosí, northeastern Jalisco (parts of Los Altos), western Guanajuato and parts of Aguascalientes.

A Land of War (1540-1590)

The Mixtón Rebellion of 1540-41 and the Chichimeca War of 1550-1600 made Nueva Galicia a war zone for many years. For the better part of four decades, the indigenous population of Aguascalientes and surrounding areas waged an unrelenting guerilla war against Spanish entrepreneurs and military forces and Indian laborers who traveled through the area. As a result many settlements were depopulated and the historian Peter Gerhard called the period from 1561 to 1589 a “period… of retrenchment when some haciendas were abandoned.”

The Founding of La Villa de Aguascalientes (1575)

From 1568 to 1580, Martin Enríquez de Almanza, serving as the Viceroy of Nueva España, decided to establish military outposts along the merchant routes to protect merchants and merchandise passing through the area from Zacatecas to Mexico City. The Viceroy believed that the garrisons would stand as a buffer against the hostile Indians occupying the area. This led to the founding of La Villa de Nuestra Señora de la Asunción de Aguascalientes (The Village of Our Lady of the Assumption of Aguascalientes) on October 22, 1575 by Doñ Gerónimo de Orozco, the President of the Royal Audiencia and Governor of Nueva Galicia. The founding of the villa was approved by King Felipe II, the ruling monarch in Spain.

However, even with the founding the Aguascalientes, the intensity of the Chichimeca War became overwhelming, and by 1582, the population of Aguascalientes had dwindled to one military commander, 16 soldiers and two citizen residents. In effect, the small settlement - located in the middle of the war zone - was under siege. But in the late 1580s, the threat of Indian attack started to diminish, as the Spanish authorities started peace negotiations with the indigenous groups of the region. The last Indian attack took place in 1593, after which the threat of hostile attack disappeared entirely and the region experienced a new peace.

An Era of Peace

The new-found peace of the 1590s, according to Peter Gerhard, “brought a tide of Spanish settlers beginning in the 1590s, mostly cattlemen and farmers, together with Indian and Negro retainers.” Because epidemics and war had reduced the indigenous population of the area, many slaves were brought into to labor alongside the Indians as the small village of Aguascalientes grew in size and stature.

The Early Years of La Villa

Gaspar de la Fuente claims that in 1610, he found 24 or 25 Spanish vecinos, about 50 families of mestizos, over 100 mulatos, 20 Negro slaves and only 10 Indians in La Villa. He explained that "most of these people worked on neighboring haciendas." It is likely that the twenty-five Spanish inhabitants may been included members of the Ruiz de Esparza, Alvarado, Tiscareno de Molina, and Luebana families.

The first marriages recorded in the parish at Asunción de Aguascalientes took place around 1601, and the first baptisms were recorded in 1616. However, marriages and baptisms of land-owners in the area may have taken place in some of small private chapels. Today, the Registros Parroquiales (Parish Registers) for La Parroquia de la Asunción (Assumption Parish) are available through the Family History Library are contained on 458 rolls of film and range from 1601 to 1961.

During the first decades that these registers were kept, dozens of marriages and baptisms were conducted for mestizos, negros, mulatos, and indios, who made up the majority of the population. It is interesting to note, however, that in some cases, the padrinos (sponsors and godparents) at these marriages and baptisms of mixed-race and African persons were Spanish individuals, most notably the Ruiz de Esparza family.

Asientos

Many families in this report lived in the area of Asientos, which is about 27 miles (44 kilometers) to the north of the City of Aguascalientes. In 1647, mining exploitation began near Asientos. From that time, Asientos experienced economic and demographic progress that was reaffirmed with the arrival of Agustín Mejía, a mestizo Gambusino native of San Luis Potosí, who certified the mining potential in 1706. By 1713, Asientos was granted the title of Villa.

Because of the Spanish colonial casta system, we are get an idea of what our ancestors looked like. According to Sindy Valdez, in “Understanding the Mexican Casta System: A Historical and Cultural Perspective”:

“The Casta system, with its complex layers and implications, was a product of colonial rule that deeply influenced societal structures and racial perceptions. Studying this part of history is not an endorsement of its principles but a recognition of its significant impact on the formation of modern Mexican society and culture. Understanding our past, however uncomfortable, is essential for appreciating the diversity and resilience of cultures shaped by historical events.”

She further states that, “In colonial Mexico, the Casta system was a rigid socio-racial classification imposed by Spanish colonial rule, designed to maintain a hierarchy based on ancestry. This system intricately categorized individuals based on their racial makeup, profoundly influencing their social status, rights, and opportunities. It is within this context that the primary categories of the Casta system emerged, each reflecting a specific racial mixture and societal position.”

Lessons for Tracing Your Own Family Tree

Each person who traces their lineage in Mexico has their own objective. Many of them want to:

1. Trace themselves back to indigenous ancestors;

2. Trace themselves back to the Spanish or French ancestors who came to Mexico many generations ago;

3. Want to learn more about the origins of their surnames;

4. Want to learn more about the history of the area where their ancestors lived.

Some people are only interested in tracking back to their indigenous ancestors. When they come across an ancestor in the earlier part of the Nineteenth Century who is classified as “Español,” they are inclined to quit tracing that branch and focus on other branches that will bring them to the long-sought after native ancestor.

However, if you ignore that “Español” person, you may be missing out on a fascinating story. The variation in skin tone within a family can be attributed to genetics. In fact, skin color can be determined by multiple genes, and the various combinations of genes from parents can result in a wide range of skin tones among siblings. As you will see in this Lineage Report below, the subject family had multiple siblings who received different casta classifications. As one example, after their 1782 marriage, Antonio Raphael Robalcava / Masias and Francesca de Herrera had at least seven children. Two were classified as Indians, three were considered to be mestizos, one was a mulata libre, and the last one was Española.

THE FIRST GENERATION: JOSE GERONIMO RUVALCABA AND HIS SIBLINGS

Lope Ruiz de Esparza in Aguascalientes

After arriving in Mexico, Lope is said to have married Francisca de Gabai Navarro y Moctezuma somewhere in Mexico City in 1594 or 1595. This marriage has not been located, and the records for Asunción Parish for those years have been lost.

According to the researchers Connie Dominguez and Mary Landers, Lope Ruiz de Esparza’s wife, Francisca Gabay, was also known as Francisca Gabai Navarro de Moctezuma, who was the daughter of Martin Navarro and Petronila Moctezuma.

The Early Years of Aguascalientes

At some point, Lope and Francesca made their way to Aguascalientes in the Spanish colony of Nueva Galicia. The town of Aguascalientes had been formally established by a decree of October 22, 1575 during the height of the Chichimeca War (1550-1590). As a result, the small villa got off to a bad start and during the height of the hostilities (1582-1585), the population of the villa was reduced to only one caudillo, two vecinos [residents] and 16 soldiers. However, the last Chichimec raid took place in 1593, after which the threat from native peoples quickly diminished. At this point Spanish settlers – mostly cattlemen and farmers – began arriving in Aguascalientes [Peter Gerhard, The North Frontier of New Spain (University of Oklahoma: 1993), pp. 63-65; Philip Wayne Powell, Solders, Indians and Silver (Center for Latin American Studies, Arizona State University: 1975), pp. 144, 154-155].

By 1610, the small town of Aguascalientes had some 25 Spanish residents, about fifty families of mestizos, at least 100 mulatos, twenty Black slaves, and ten Indians [Peter Gerhard, op. cit., p 65.] It is likely that these twenty-five Spanish inhabitants probably included persons with the surnames Ruiz de Esparza, Alvarado, Tiscareno de Molina, Luebana, and Fernandez de Vaulus. The Registros Parroquiales (Parish Registers) for La Parroquia de la Asunción (Assumption Parish) in Aguascalientes began at various points around this time: marriages in 1601, baptisms in 1616 and deaths in 1620. And the vast majority of the people who were baptized or married in this church in the early years were mulatos, mestizos and indios (as indicated by the 1610 tally).

The first evidence we have of Lope’s presence in Aguascalientes is an October 8th, 1611 marriage of two people who are described as servants (criados) of Pedro Fernandez de Vaulus (most likely a nephew of Francesca Gabai de Ruiz de Esparza). This marriage was performed in the presence (en presencia) of three people, one of whom was Lope Ruiz de Esparza.

Both Lope Ruiz de Esparza and his wife Francesca served as padrinos at numerous baptisms and marriages in the Aguascalientes during their long lives. However, their own children were not baptized in the Aguascalientes parish church until 1618. It is possible that records were kept in their private chapel in Morcenique and that these records were never turned over to the parish or may have been lost at some point.

Francesca and Lope in the 1648 Census of Aguascalientes

The following extract is from Rose Hardy and Dave Valdez’s “A Genealogical Look at the 1648 Padron of Aguascalientes.” Below is the household of Lope Ruiz de Esparza and his wife Maria Gavadi [Francesca Gabadi]. The padrón was a census of the people of the parish to determine who was taking the sacraments at a given time.

The Life of Alonso González de Ruvalcaba

Alonso González de Ruvalcaba was probably born around 1545, possibly born in Guadalajara. Some sources say Mexico City was his birthplace. His parents were Mateo (Matheo) Gonzalez de Rubalcava and Juana Gonzalez. We know that Mateo came from the Linares (Santander) region of Spain. Juana was the daughter of Ruy Gonzalez who distinguished himself in the Conquest of Mexico. He received a coat of arms from Carlos V. He was also known as an "Alcalde" and "regidor." There is also a letter Ruy wrote to Carlos V.

Captain Alonso Gonzalez de Ruvalcaba was a talented mason and an architect working under the master builder, Martin Casillas, in the construction of the second Cathedral of Guadalajara in the late 1560s. There were actually 3 stages of building. The first stage was an adobe structure. The cathedral website stated that he would have aided in the second stage. Thereafter he went to Patzcuaro (Michoacán) to aid in the construction of the cathedral there.

Details about the life of Alonso de Rubalcava (or Robalcaba) have been discussed in the following article by Mariano González-Leal: “Alonso de Robalcaba: Estudio Biográfico Sobre uno de Los Grandes Genearcas Alteños,” published in the SHHAR Genealogical Journal, Volume 5 (2003), pp. 63-77.

In 1570, at the approximate age of 40 years, Alonso moved to Patzcuaro, presently in Michoacán. Capitán Alonso González de Ruvalcaba was married in Patzcuaro, Michoacán to Beatriz Lopez de Fuenllana, a native of Patzcuaro and the daughter of “el conquistador,” Juan López de Baeza y Santaella and of Isabel Pérez de Fuenllana. Juan de Baeza had travelled with the Conquistador Nuño de Guzmán, in his path across Jalisco and Zacatecas in the early 1530s. Isabel Perez was the daughter of Francisco de Santaella.

Later, Alonso moved to the Teocaltiche region, where he married Beatriz. They are believed to have had ten children, the first of whom were born in Patzcuaro, while the last six are believed to have been born in Teocaltiche, which is a short distance from Villa Hidalgo. In the centuries to come, the Ruvalcaba surname spread throughout northern Jalisco, Aguascalientes, and southern Zacatecas. The children of Alonso and Beatriz included:

1. Matheo de Rubalcava, born around 1569/1570, who first married Jerónima Morales (around 1595) and later married Luisa de Avila

2. Alonso de Rubalcava, born around 1571.

3. Francisco de Rubalcava, born in 1573, who was married to Ana de la Paz in Mexico City. He died sometime before 1607.

4. Capitán Fulgencio González de Rubalcava (known as “El Viejo,” who was born in Teocaltiche in 1575 and moved to Santa María de los Lagos (now Lagos de Moreno) in 1613, where he married Luisa de Rodas Villegas y López de Nava.

5. Mariana González de Rubalcava who married Martin Pérez Gardea (or Pérez Domínguez)

6. Beatriz López who married Lorenzo Márquez by 1607.

7. Ursula González, who was married to Gabriel López de Nava in Teocaltiche around 1605, and eventually died in Aguascalientes in 1635.

8. María González de Rubalcava, who married Capitán Pedro de Huerta and died in Aguascalientes in 1644.

The Known Ancestors of Alonso González de Rubalcava According to WikiTree