Duke Selected as NCAA Championship Site for 2023 National Collegiate Fencing Championships and 2025 NCAA Division I Field Hockey Championship

October 14, 2020 (DURHAM, N.C.) – Duke University has been selected as host sites for the 2023 NCAA Fencing Championship and the 2025 NCAA Division I Field Hockey Championship, as announced by NCAA officials Wednesday. Bids to host the championships were jointly submitted by Duke University and the Durham Sports Commission (DSC) to continue to attract the highest level of collegiate sports competition to the Bull City.

The fencing championship comes to Durham for the first time since 1966 when Duke hosted the men’s-only team championship, while field hockey will host for the first time in program history. The 2023 National Collegiate Fencing Championship will be hosted on Coach K Court at historic Cameron Indoor Stadium, which will also be home to the 2022 ACC Fencing Championships. The field hockey event will be played at Williams Field at Jack Katz Stadium, complete with one of the best watering systems in the country, a state-of-the-art sound system and a new scoreboard. Williams Field at Jack Katz Stadium is also slated to host the 2020 ACC Field Hockey Championship.

“We are so thrilled to have won the bid for the 2023 NCAA Fencing Championships,” fencing head coach Alex Beguinet said. “Duke University has a reputation of hosting great events. Our annual home fencing meet is one of the best collegiate fencing competitions in the country. Our athletic facilities and event staff are among the best nationwide. We feel confident that between Duke and the city of Durham, this event will be amazing!”

“I’m so proud and thrilled to be able to hold a national championship here in Durham,” field hockey head coach Pam Bustin said. “Duke provides a great environment for the championship, not only our stadium, but the surrounding community. We couldn’t be more proud of our game operations crew, our facility, the city of Durham and everyone involved for making this possible.”

Duke and the DSC traveled to NCAA headquarters in September 2019 to network with championship managers and learn from the governing body what was expected of championship winning bids. Beyond having state-of-the-art facilities, communities bidding on events were expected to be engaged and welcoming to the student-athletes, creating a one-of-a-kind experience for all involved.

“This announcement is huge for both programs and Durham at large, as we know these championship events bring significant economic impact, support local jobs, and help drive sports culture in the community,” said Susan Amey, president & CEO of Discover Durham, managing partner of the DSC. “We were thrilled to have the opportunity to collaborate with Duke and put forth two winning bids.”

“Durham has a rich and storied sports history, which these two national championships will contribute to as we prepare for them in the years to come,” said Alyssa Duke, senior manager of events and operations at the DSC. “Durham has an active fencing community with some local facilities and clubs. We also know that the ACC and surrounding area is a hotbed for field hockey, with more girls in the area getting involved with the sport. We’re excited for both events to further engage the community while championing Durham as a premier destination for elite sporting events.”

This NCAA championship bid cycle marked the first time Duke and the DSC were able to partner on submitting applications, as the DSC was established only four years ago.

For additional media information, please contact Mike DeGeorge (Duke) and Margaret Pentrack (DSC). For more information about Duke Athletics, please visit GoDuke.com. More information about the DSC can be found at DurhamNCSports.com.

About Durham Sports Commission

The Durham Sports Commission (DSC) is a collaboration of the City of Durham, the County of Durham, the Greater Durham Chamber of Commerce and Discover Durham. The DSC was established in 2016 as a 501(c)(3) with a mission to create economic and social impact by leading the community’s efforts to attract, support, and promote youth, amateur, collegiate, and professional sporting and recreational events. The DSC provides leadership for sports-based initiatives and create positive economic impact and quality of life in Durham and the surrounding region. Be sure to follow the DSC on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram to keep up with all sports-related news in Durham, NC, and other announcements.

###