Samuel L. Jackson has been saying for years that he wants to reprise his role as Mace Windu in the Star Wars universe. He’s still incredibly passionate about playing this classic Star Wars character again and during a recent interview with Empire, when asked about Mace Windu, he said:

“HE’S NOT DEAD!!!”

In the follow-up question, he was asked what he would want to do in a Mace Windu Disney+ series, and Jackson responded:

“EVERYTHING YES!!”

So, there it is. Lucasfilm and Disney, if you’re seeing this, you should make this happen because the fans would freakin’ love it!

When previously talking about playing Mace Windu again, Jackson revealed that he pitched an idea for returning to The Mandalorian to director Bryce Dallas Howard. When asked about Windu’s possible return, Jackson said:

"Definitely. There's a huge history of people with one hand returning in Star Wars... The only person I've ever said that to about coming back was Bryce Dallas Howard, 'cause I just did a movie with her. And she directs episodes of The Mandalorian, so, 'You think you might be able to hook a brother up? I mean you like me, right?' She's like, 'I love you, you're amazing!' So, 'Put me back in there... Put me in, coach, I'm ready!' You know, I'll learn to lightsaber left-handed. Come on, hook me up."

It’s not hard to imagine that Mace survived after being smashed out of the window in Revenge of the Sith. We never actually saw him die. It would be really interesting if we saw him come face-to-face with Boba Fett. Temuera Morrison previously talked about this, saying: "Being a young teenager, fatherless and making his own way, he's got a few chips on his shoulders. I think that we'd better let Jon Favreau know that we should have another series where I start looking for Mace."

He also said: "I owe him big time for my dad. He's done. He's done. I've got my eye on him. He's top of the list, in fact."

It would be crazy if Lucasfilm and Disney continued to ignore this character. Now that Dave Filoni is leading the charge, though, maybe it might actually happen. We’ll just have to wait and see.