Peta Murgatroyd gives birth! DWTS alum welcomes third child with Maksim Chmerkovskiy and reveals VERY quick labor: 'Officially evicted!'

Dancing With The Stars professional Peta Murgatroyd has welcomed her third chold with husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy.

Allison Holker and Maksim Chmerkovskiy take a stylish twirl on red carpet at TV event in LA

Allison Holker and Maksim Chmerkovskiy took the 2024 Fox Spring Preview red carpet in contrasting looks.

Peta Murgatroyd is pregnant! DWTS alum announces she is expecting third child with husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy - months after welcoming second child

The Dancing With The Stars alum - who welcomed her second child last year - also wrote that she, as well as her husband Maks Chmerkovskiy, were 'sooooo happy.'

Ekin-Su Culculoglu reveals producers step in and warn islanders to change their ways if they receive a lot of hate and admits the show has been ruined by 'fame-hungry contestants'

Ekin-Su Culculoglu has shed light on what happens behind-the-scenes in the Love Island villa if anyone is receiving a lot of hate on the outside.

Ekin-Su Culculoglu is betrayed, poisoned and murdered on The Traitors US as fans brand Love Island star the 'most watchable person on TV'

The Essex-based actress, 29, rose to fame after winning Love Island in 2022 with boyfriend Davide Sanclimenti , but previously appeared in a Turkish soap opera.

Rumer Willis shows plenty of skin while in her bathtub as she says she is 'healing my trauma so I don't pass it on to my daughter' in heartfelt post

Rumer Willis is spending the first week of the year reflecting on the journey motherhood has taken her on so far. She welcomed her daughter Louella on April 18, 2023 with partner Derek Richard Thomas.

Allison Holker says she's 'so honored and grateful' as she joins the cast of So You Think You Can Dance as a judge nearly one year after death of husband Stephen 'Twitch' Boss

Holker, 35, who had appeared on the show in previous seasons, called the move, 'A full circle moment that has changed my life in quite literally every way.'

Cat Deeley returns to her hosting gig on US show in a blow to This Morning fans after she was 'being lined up to replace Holly Willoughby'

Cat Deeley is returning to host US reality TV show So You Think You Can Dance, despite rumours she was being eyed up to replace Holly Willoughby on This Morning.

Dancing with the Stars honors late judge Len Goodman with his wife Sue Barrett in attendance with emotional waltz routine led by Derek and Julianne Hough

Goodman, a regular on the series between 2005 until 2022, died in April at 78 after battling bone cancer, about four months after he retired from the ballroom competition.

Love Island winner Ekin-Su Cülcüloğlu signs up for star-studded US reality show - and has already started filming

The TV personality has joined a star-studded line-up for the new series of The Traitors US, and has already started filming.

DWTS pro Peta Murgatroyd cuddles up to newborn son Rio in new video... just days after giving birth: 'Love of my life'

Peta Murgatroyd looked blissfully happy while cuddling with her newborn son, Rio, in an new video, uploaded to her Instagram Story on Thursday morning.

Peta Murgatroyd and Maksim Chmerkovskiy reveal their newborn son's name as they share first photo of their adorable baby

The couple introduced their son Rio John Chmerkovskiy to the world via Instagram on Wednesday, along with the very-first photo of their newborn child.

Peta Murgatroyd gives birth! Dancing With The Stars pro welcomes baby number two with husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy (who cuddles the new bundle of joy) on Father's Day

Dancing With The Stars pro, Peta Murgatroyd, has welcomed her second child with husband and fellow dancer, Maksim Chmerkovskiy, who revealed the happy news on Instagram on Sunday.

Peta Murgatroyd shows off her growing baby bump with Maksim Chmerkovskiy as she commemorates 37 weeks of pregnancy

In the snaps, the 36-year-old professional dancer, who is 37 weeks into her pregnancy, and her 43-year-old husband held each other closely, and they also shared a kiss in the final snap.

Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Peta Murgatroyd reveal the sex of their second child with help from son Shai, 6

Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Peta Murgatroyd took to social media to announce the gender of their second child. Their son Shai, 6, hold up a piece of paper with the word 'boy' written on it.

Pregnant Peta Murgatroyd showcases her growing bump in a busty beach dress as she enjoys a lavish 'babymoon' dinner in Cabo

Pregnant Peta Murgatroyd showcased her cleavage and baby bump on Thursday when she wore a busty beach dress in a collection of Instagram pictures taken on a family 'babymoon' vacation.

Pregnant Peta Murgatroyd puts her growing bump center stage in a stylish nude SKIMS bikini during lavish 'babymoon' with family in Cabo

The star excitedly announced in January that she was expecting baby number two with her husband, Maksim Chmerkovskiy, after experiencing fertility struggles.

Peta Murgatroyd proudly shows off her burgeoning bump as she enjoys lavish 'babymoon' with husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy and son Shai in Los Cabos: 'Paradise!'

Dancing With The Stars pro, Peta Murgatroyd, happily showcased her growing baby bump as she donned a shimmering bikini in new snaps taken during her 'babymoon' to Los Cabos.

Dancing With the Stars vet Peta Murgatroyd displays her baby bump in black sweats as she hits 27 weeks: 'I promise there's only one baby in there'

Peta Murgatroyd is showing off her growing baby bump again in her ongoing documentation of her second child with husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy. They are parents to son Shai, six.

Pregnant DWTS pro Peta Murgatroyd dons black lingerie as she shows off her growing baby bump and applies self-tanner in new clip

The 36-year-old Dancing With The Stars pro donned black lingerie as she applied self-tanning mousse from her Peta Jane Beauty brand on her growing baby bump in a new clip.

Pregnant Peta Murgatroyd recreates Rihanna's Super Bowl halftime show... with help from her husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy and son Shai, six

For her reenactment Peta, 36, enlisted the help of her dashing husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy and their six-year-old son Shai. Peta and Maks both shot to fame as professionals on Dancing With The Stars.

Peta Murgatroyd, Maksim Chmerkovskiy and their son Shai meet their baby nephew Rome: 'One of the most special nights'

Peta Murgatroyd and husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy recently took their son Shai to meet their baby nephew Rome. She appeared on Instagram to share photos with fans on Tuesday.

Dancing With The Stars pros Peta Murgatroyd and Maksim Chmerkovskiy share an adorable video dancing with their son... as they await birth of second child

The Dancing With The Stars pros participated in the widely done TikTok dance to Beyonce's hit song Cuff It and invited their six-year-old son Shai to join in with them.

Oh baby! Pregnant Peta Murgatroyd and Maksim Chmerkovskiy gush they have spent 'a lifetime in Hollywood years' together on Valentine's Day

Peta Murgatroyd and Maksim Chmerkovskiy, who first met working on the Broadway production Burn the Floor in 2009, marked their tenth Valentine's Day together.

Peta Murgatroyd bares pregnant tummy in dance video alongside her husband of almost six years Maksim Chmerkovskiy

Peta Murgatroyd showed off her growing baby bump as she and Maksim Chmerkovskiy danced together. The Dancing with the Stars pro wore a tiny beige top that just barely covered her curves.

Peta Murgatroyd proudly celebrates her baby bump at '20 weeks' after IVF journey... and her husband Maks Chmerkovskiy raves: 'You're so hot'

The 36-year-old is expecting her second child by her husband and fellow Dancing With The Stars hoofer Maksim Chmerkovskiy, with whom she shares her son Shai, six.

Pregnant Dancing With The Stars pro Peta Murgatroyd glows as she steps out for coffee and pastries in LA

The 36-year-old is currently expecting her second baby with her dashing husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy, a fellow Dancing With The Stars staple with whom she shares her son Shai, six.

Bethenny Frankel, 52, flashes toned legs in a mini dress as she holds onto Maksim Chmerkovskiy... after bonding over helping war-torn Ukraine

The 52-year-old Real Housewives Of New York alum and the Dancing With The Stars pro dancer were arm-in-arm as they were dressed for the winter chill in New York City.

Maksim Chmerkovskiy recalls 'wild rollercoaster' relationship with Kirstie Alley as he pays tribute to former DWTS partner following her death at age 71

Taking to Instagram with a photo of them on the dance floor, Maksim recalled their 'rollercoaster relationship' and her 'wild' personality in a touching post shared shortly after news of her passing broke.

Peta Murgatroyd puts on leggy display in short romper as she and husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy take son Shai grocery shopping... after struggles with pregnancy

Peta Murgatroyd showed off her long legs in a very short romper while getting groceries at Whole Foods in Malibu. The professional dancer donned a white, long sleeve romper with brown stripes

Peta Murgatroyd and Maksim Chmerkovskiy step out with their son Shai, five, in Malibu... after she revealed she suffered three miscarriages in two years

Peta Murgatroyd revealed that she suffered three devastating miscarriages in two years, including one while her husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy was away in the Ukraine/

Maksim Chmerkovskiy carries his and wife Peta Murgatroyd's grocery bags as the couple head out on errand run in Malibu

Maksim Chmerkovskiy and wife Peta Murgatroyd were spotted stocking up on groceries in Malibu, California on Wednesday afternoon.

Maksim Chmerkovskiy spoils his mom with a shopping spree in LA... after returning home from Poland where he worked to help his native Ukraine

Maksim Chmerkovskiy looked happy to be back on U.S. soil as he took his mom shopping in Los Angeles on Friday.

Peta Murgatroyd has light-hearted moment with son Shai, five, as husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy continues working on helping Ukraine from Poland

Murgatroyd, 35, took to Instagram Thursday alongside her son Shai, five, as husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy, 42, continued to work on behalf of his native Ukraine from Poland.

Maksim Chmerkovskiy details latest efforts on helping Ukraine from Poland ... as his wife Peta Murgatroyd says 'he made the right decision' to go back to Europe to assist

The professional dancer, 42, took to Instagram alongside humanitarian Michael Capponi, 49, whose Global Empowerment Mission is working to help people impacted by the invasion.

'I feel guilty, I feel shame': DWTS pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy speaks out after being blasted for fleeing his native Ukraine on train packed with woman and children to safety of his Malibu home

Dancing with the Stars alum Maksim Chmerkovskiy admits he felt guilt and shame at fleeing his native Ukraine on a train packed with women and children.

Maksim Chmerkovskiy flies to Poland to aid Ukrainian refugees after being slammed as a coward for fleeing on train packed with women and children: Friends defended the dancer and say he had no duty to fight Putin's forces after moving to US when he was 14

Chmerkovskiy, 42, was in Kyiv filming World of Dance Ukraine when Putin invaded and escaped war on a train packed with women and children and returned home to Malibu in early March.

Ukrainian-born DWTS pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy, 42, is slammed as a 'coward' for fleeing war in Kyiv on train packed with women and kids then going on media blitz to talk about how he survived

Chmerkovskiy, 42, was in Ukraine for work when war broke out on February 24. He fled on a train filled with women and children from Kyiv, returning to the US last week.

'I felt embarrassed and guilty': DWTS pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy reflects on being only man on train packed with 'women and children' refugees while fleeing from war-torn Ukraine

Days after returning safely to the United States from war-torn Ukraine , Maksim Chmerkovskiy is dealing with survivors guilt, he told GMA on Friday.

Maksim Chmerkovskiy leans on wife Peta Murgatroyd back home in Los Angeles while dealing with 'shame' of fleeing war in Ukraine after escaping to Poland

He is home safe in Los Angeles after fleeing the war in Ukraine and Maksim Chmerkovsky, 42, appears to be leaning on his wife Peta Murgatroyd, 35, for support as he processes the trauma.

'I felt embarrassed and guilty': DWTS pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy reflects on being only man on train packed with 'women and children' refugees while fleeing from war-torn Ukraine

Days after returning safely to the United States from war-torn Ukraine, Maksim Chmerkovskiy is dealing with survivors guilt, he told GMA on Friday.

EXCLUSIVE: DWTS pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy pictured in Malibu after emotional reunion with wife Peta Murgatroyd and his 'traumatic' escape from war-torn Ukraine

Maksim Chmerkovskiy has was pictured in Malibu on Wednesday, just hours after he arrived home in Los Angeles after a 'traumatic' escape from war-torn Ukraine.

Safe at last! DWTS pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy arrives back in LA to emotional welcome from wife Peta Murgatroyd after 'traumatic' escape from war-torn Ukraine

The couple shared an emotional hug as Maks ended a harrowing journey that took him from Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine, to Warsaw in Poland and then on to America.

Dancing With The Stars pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy boards a flight to LA...after dramatic ordeal fleeing war-torn Ukraine amid Russian invasion

He reached Warsaw, Poland on Tuesday after fleeing his war-torn native Ukraine amid the Russian invasion.

EXCLUSIVE PICTURES: Maksim Chmerkovskiy's wife, Peta Murgatroyd, puts on a brave face with friend in Malibu after Dancing With The Stars pro's dramatic ordeal fleeing war-torn Ukraine amid Russian invasion

Peta Murgatroyd has been seen for the first time since her husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy's terrifying ordeal in war-torn Ukraine amid the Russian invasion.

Dancing With The Stars pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy timeline in Ukraine

Maksim Chmerkovskiy's timeline in Ukraine

Dancing With The Stars pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy reaches Poland after 31 hours of no sleep on 'traumatizing' train ride with women and children fleeing Russian invasion

Maksim Chmerkovskiy has reached Poland. The Dancing With The Stars pro has been documenting his journey fleeing his native country after the Russian invasion.

US 'Dancing with the Stars' professional Maksim Chmerkovskiy reveals he got arrested in Ukraine and is now trying to flee the country after Russian invasion: 'It was a reality check'

Maksim Chmerkovskiy revealed he was arrested while in Kyiv, Ukraine and is going to try and make his way out amid the Russian military assault on the country.

DWTS pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy says he's 'safe' in a bomb shelter in Ukraine while 'Kyiv is under serious attack'... as he shares haunting footage of explosions lighting up the city

The 42-year-old Dancing With The Stars pro paced around an underground parking garage serving as a bomb shelter as Russian forces continued the attack around him in Ukraine's capital Kyiv.

DWTS pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy slams former dance partner Kirstie Alley for tweeting about war on Ukraine: 'No one needs your prayer if you don't know what's real or fake'

Maksim Chmerkovskiy called out his former Dancing With The Star partner Kirstie Alley after she shared a now-deleted message about the conflict in Ukraine to her Twitter account on Friday.

Maksim Chmerkovskiy's wife Peta Murgatroyd is 'struggling' and asks for prayers for the DWTS pro's safe return to the United States as he remains in Kyiv following Russian invasion of Ukraine

Maksim Chmerkovskiy's wife Peta Murgatroyd is asking for prayers as the Ukrainian-born dancer remains in Kyiv following a Russian invasion into the country over night.

'S**t's going down': DWTS pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy breaks down in tears during emotional videos from Kyiv following Russian invasion of Ukraine ... as he takes to 'a bomb shelter' for safety

Ukrainian-born Dancing With the Stars pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy is fearing for his life and the lives of his friends in Kiev following a Russian invasion into the country over night.

DWTS couple Peta Murgatroyd and Maksim Chmerkovskiy pack on the PDA after reuniting in NYC

The 35-year-old Kiwi-born Aussie and the Ukrainian 41-year-old could not keep their hands or their lips off each other as they window shopped on Madison Avenue

Peta Murgatroyd and husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy can't keep their hands off each other as they walk to dinner in West Hollywood

Peta previously congratulated her DWTS co-star Artem Chigvintsev, who won season 29 during Monday's finale: 'I'm so happy that you finally did it Artem...truly my heart was happy for you.'

Maksim Chmerkovskiy steps out for grocery store run at Erewhon with three-year-old son Shai in LA

Maksim Chmerkovskiy, 40, has been enduring a strict quarantined lifestyle with wife Peta Murgatroyd, 33, and their three-year-old son Shai.

Dancing With The Stars couple Peta Murgatroyd and Maksim Chmerkovskiy share a passionate kiss in NYC

The Kiwi beauty and Ukrainian talent, 33 and 40, couldn't help but share a passionate smooch while taking in the sights and sounds of the city together.

DWTS pro Peta Murgatroyd celebrates being sworn in as a US citizen alongside husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy and their son Shai: 'This will always be home now'

DWTS pro Peta Murgatroyd celebrated being sworn in as a US citizen alongside husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy and their son Shai on Wednesday: 'This will always be home now.'

DWTS alums Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Peta Murgatroyd are all loved up as they arrive at LaPalme party in LA

The married dance pros gazed adoringly into each other's eyes as they posed for photos on the red carpet at the event.

Maksim Chmerkovskiy reveals how becoming a father factored into not returning to Dancing With The Stars: 'your chemistry changes'

Maksim Chmerkovskiy will not be back on Dancing With The Stars as a professional dancer. The 38-year old made the admission during an appearance on The Talk.

Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Peta Murgatroyd have a laugh at the Industry Dance Awards in Los Angeles

The married couple larked about on the red carpet before heading into the cancer benefit, hosted by their DWTS co-star Sharna Burgess.

Peta Murgatroyd says sex is a 'touchy subject' with Maksim Chmerkovskiy as she focuses on parenting

Peta Murgatroyd, speaking to Health in a new interview, said she's still striving to keep a balance in her sex life with husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy.

Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Peta Murgatroyd can't keep their hands off each other as they pack on the PDA during ice cream outing in NYC

They just celebrated their one year anniversary. And Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Peta Murgatroyd still couldn't keep their hands off each other during a stroll in NYC on Wednesday.

Maksim Chmerkovskiy reveals he wed Peta Murgatroyd in city hall ceremony ahead of lavish nuptials

Maksim and Peta celebrated their one-year wedding anniversary on Sunday. The dancers first met in 2009 when they were both cast in the Broadway production of Burn The Floor.

Family fun! Maksim Chmerkovskiy celebrates birthday by giving son Shai a piggyback ride on lunch outing with wife Peta Murgatroyd in LA

Dancing with the Star pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy celebrated his birthday with wife Peta Murgatroyd and son Shai in Los Angeles on Wednesday. He had a family day.

DWTS newlyweds Peta Murgatroyd and Maksim Chmerkovskiy get lunch with son Shai... after sharing cheeky swimsuit snap

This month marked the cherubic child's first birthday as well as the Ukrainian Mirrorball champ's 38th birthday, happening next Wednesday

'We're a great couple!' DWTS' Maksim Chmerkovskiy slams 'bickering' rumors about partner Vanessa Lachey

Eyebrows raised when the Ukrainian 37-year-old was replaced with eliminated pro Alan Bersten during the October 2 episode due to an 'unspecified personal issue'

Getting chummy! Maksim Chmerkovskiy hugs brother Val's girlfriend Jenna Johnson after Dancing With The Stars practice

The 37-year-old professional dancing champion found solace with the brunette beauty as they embraced in a loving hug before the duo parted ways on Friday in Los Angeles.

Feeling cheeky! Maksim Chmerkovskiy squeezes Peta Murgatroyd's rear as couple hug after heated talk outside DWTS studio amid Vanessa drama

He's said to have clashed with his Dancing With The Stars celebrity partner Vanessa Lachey.

United front! Vanessa Lachey and Maksim Chmerkovskiy hug it out after DWTS rehearsal following feud claims

If there is any bad blood between them, they certainly weren't letting it show. Maks was displaying more than just apparent affection as he showed off his guns in a tank top.

Back to it! Dance partners Vanessa Lachey and Maksim Chmerkovskiy head separately to DWTS rehearsals as they work to settle 'major feud'

The professional dancer, 37, looked determined to make amends as he toted a huge coffee order while making his way to Dancing With The Stars practice in Los Angeles on Friday.

Maksim Chmerkovskiy gets a kiss from wife Peta at rehearsals... as it's claimed feud with dance partner Vanessa Lachey is 'water under the bridge'

On Monday Dancing With The Stars pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy canceled his appearance on the show for 'personal reasons,' by Thursday the choreographer was back to work.

Future glitterball champ? Maksim Chmerkovskiy's son Shai gets a dance lesson from uncle Val in cute video

Maksim, 37, shared a video on Friday of his six-and-a-half-month-old son dancing under the expert eye of his brother Val, 31

Here come the newlyweds! Peta Murgatroyd takes the plunge as she steps out with Maksim Chmerkovskiy just weeks after their lavish wedding

Peta, 31, turned heads in a plunging and flowing black jumpsuit that clung to her svelte dancing physique. She was spotted alongside her husband in Los Angeles on Monday.

Just married! Peta Murgatroyd and Maksim Chmerkovskiy tie the knot in romantic and lavish wedding after nearly two-year engagement

The couple, who have six-month-old son Shai together, married in front of loved ones at the Oheka Castle in Long Island, New York on Saturday, according to People.