Credit: Getty Images (2)

Unexpected Celebrity Family Connections: Snoop Dogg and Brandy, Nicolas Cage and Sofia Coppola, More

Family dynasties are not uncommon in Hollywood, from Snoop Dogg and Brandy to Nicolas Cage and Sofia Coppola.

Brandy and her brother, Ray J, have another famous relative in their brood: Snoop Dogg, their first cousin. Snoop and Brandy even collaborated on a 2009 duet, “Special.”

Cage also has a famous cousin in the spotlight: Coppola. Both Cage and Sofia are members of the legendary Coppola family. Carmine and Italia Coppola had three children: August Floyd Coppola, Francis Ford Coppola and Talia Rose Coppola. (Cage is one of the sons of August, who died in 2009, and Sofia is the daughter of The Godfather director Francis Ford.)

Cage changed his last name from Coppola after working on 1982’s Fast Times at Ridgemont High.

“People would not stop saying things like, 'I love the smell of Nicolas in the morning,’” Cage said during an April 2022 Wired Autocomplete interview, quoting Apocalypse Now but swapping his first name for napalm. “It made it hard to work, and I said, 'I don't need this,' and changed it to Cage.”

The National Treasure star chose the last name Cage in homage to Marvel Comics’ Luke Cage and composer John Cage.

Keep scrolling to see more unexpected celebrity connections:

Credit: Getty Images (2)

Unexpected Celebrity Family Connections: Snoop Dogg and Brandy, Nicolas Cage and Sofia Coppola, More

Family dynasties are not uncommon in Hollywood, from Snoop Dogg and Brandy to Nicolas Cage and Sofia Coppola.

Brandy and her brother, Ray J, have another famous relative in their brood: Snoop Dogg, their first cousin. Snoop and Brandy even collaborated on a 2009 duet, “Special.”

Cage also has a famous cousin in the spotlight: Coppola. Both Cage and Sofia are members of the legendary Coppola family. Carmine and Italia Coppola had three children: August Floyd Coppola, Francis Ford Coppola and Talia Rose Coppola. (Cage is one of the sons of August, who died in 2009, and Sofia is the daughter of The Godfather director Francis Ford.)

Cage changed his last name from Coppola after working on 1982’s Fast Times at Ridgemont High.

“People would not stop saying things like, 'I love the smell of Nicolas in the morning,’” Cage said during an April 2022 Wired Autocomplete interview, quoting Apocalypse Now but swapping his first name for napalm. “It made it hard to work, and I said, 'I don't need this,' and changed it to Cage.”

The National Treasure star chose the last name Cage in homage to Marvel Comics’ Luke Cage and composer John Cage.

Keep scrolling to see more unexpected celebrity connections:

Credit: Frazer Harrison/Getty Images for HFA

Dakota Johnson and Antonio Banderas

Relationship: Stepparent and Stepchild

Banderas was married to Johnson’s mother, Melanie Griffith, between 1996 and 2015. (Griffith shares Dakota with ex Don Johnson.)

“I come from a family of many a marriage and I got very lucky. I got a bonus dad who I realized that, over time, is actually one of the most influential people in my whole life,” Dakota said at the 2019 Hollywood Film Awards. “When I was 6 years old, my mother married a man who brought an unbelievably bright light and a whole new world of creativity and culture — and one remarkably magical little sister — into our family.”

She added: “Antonio Banderas burst into our lives. He was so vibrant and so fun and so funny and his English was abstract and we found it absolutely amazing. He loved my mother, and my siblings and I so big, and so fiercely and so loud, that it would change all of our lives together.”

Griffith and Banderas share daughter Stella, who was born in 1996. The Working Girl star also shares son Alexander with ex-husband Steven Bauer.

Credit: Vince Bucci/Getty Images

Nicolas Cage and Sofia Coppola

Relationship: Cousins

“She’s so gifted, so talented,” Cage gushed during a November 2023 interview with Entertainment Tonight. “It was interesting because we were both in Toronto at the same time filming and she was filming [Priscilla] and I was filming [Dream Scenario], and I did text her and said, ‘You know, it’s kind of incredible that your dad is over there making a movie in Atlanta at the same time you’re making a movie and I’m making a movie in Toronto. This is great. This has got to be good luck for all of us.’”

Credit: Kevin Winter/Getty Images for AFI

Warren Beatty and Shirley MacLaine

Relationship: Siblings

MacLaine is three years older than her brother, with whom she’s had ups and downs over the years.

"Now is not one of them. We are fine now,” MacLaine told The Guardian in 2007. “I think we've been through a couple of lifetimes together. He's going through his left-brain intellectual lifetime now. He's on a very different path to me. But his kids are very interested in what I'm saying.”

She added: “As for beauty, Warren was the beautiful one in the family. That was the given.”

Credit: Alexandra Wyman/WireImage

Jason Momoa, Zoe Kravitz and Lenny Kravitz

Relationship: Stepparent and Stepchild, In-Laws

Kravitz was married to Lisa Bonet, with whom he shares daughter Zoë, from 1987 to 1993. After their split, Bonet started dating Momoa, with whom she shares two kids, in 2005. The Aquaman star always remained close with his stepdaughter and her biological father. (Momoa and Bonet eventually separated in 2022.)

“People can’t believe how tight Jason and I are, or how tight I still am with Zoë’s mom, how we all relate,” Lenny told Men’s Health in November 2020. “We just do it because that’s what you do. You let love rule, right? I mean, obviously, after a breakup, it’s work — it takes some work and time, healing and reflection.”

Credit: Kevin Mazur/WireImage

Debbie Reynolds, Carrie Fisher and Billie Lourd

Relationship: Mother and Daughters

Reynolds and singer Eddie Fisher, who were married from 1955 to 1959, shared daughter Carrie and son Todd. Carrie followed her parents into the entertainment industry, notably playing Princess Leia in the Star Wars franchise. Carrie and ex Bryan Lourd were parents to daughter Billie, who is also an actress.

Carrie died at age 60 in December 2016, one day before Reynolds passed away.

Billie joined her mom onscreen in Star Wars: The Last Jedi, which was released one year after Carrie’s death. “It was incredible,” Billie said on The Ellen DeGeneres Show. “I’m a big believer of things happening for a reason, and I think I ended up in that movie for a reason. It was really incredible for us to get to have that experience together.”