Boldy James has revealed he’s related to Snoop Dogg. During an interview with Acton Entertainment, the Detroit emcee detailed how he found out, stating that his family used to tell him that Uncle Snoop was his blood relative. Boldy also spoke about the physical comparisons he would get to the West Coast icon.

“My people used to always tell me that we was related to [Snoop and his family] even before I was doin’ music,” the Griselda artist said. “A lot of people tell me the ‘Speed Demon’ video with me and Alchemist, they tell me, with that Supreme jersey I had on, I looked like Snoop in ‘Gin and Juice’… and I don’t see the similarities a lot, but I get it.”

“There’s word from my family that that’s really my family. I just never met him or we never bumped into each other.”

The rapper, né James Clay Jones III, also spoke about Eminem reaching out to him earlier this year. After he was injured in a car accident, Em tweeted he was hoping for him to pull through. “Sending out best wishes for a quick recovery for The D’s own @boldyjames!!!,” Slim Shady xweeted at the time.

Jones, 41, opened up about that moment and expressed that it “meant a lot.”

“The Eminem shoutout, wishing me a speedy recovery, it definitely meant a lot because a lot of people that was close to me didn’t even wish me well in my situation, so that meant the world to me.”

On January 9, 2023, Boldy James was in a car accident, initially leaving the rapper in critical condition. His accident required him to have surgery for an injury to his neck.

“Boldy James was involved in a serious two-car accident in the Detroit metropolitan area,” a statement read. “I can confirm that Boldy arrived at the hospital in critical condition, suffering from broken vertebrae in his neck and orthopedic injuries. After undergoing extensive surgery on his neck, Boldy has been removed from the intensive care unit and is now in stable condition…Boldy and his family would like to express their gratitude to the incredible doctors and nurses that are taking care of him, and also to the communities’ emergency medical personnel and first responders.”