Virginia Motorsports Park

VMP is a multi-faced motorsports facility with a quarter-mile drag strip, truck and tractor pull arena and more, along with the Virginia NHRA Nationals. Located in Dinwiddie County, Va. the Virginia Motorsports Park is only 15 minutes away.

Visit the VMP Website Here

Beacon Theatre

A fully renovated state of the art historic concert venue with national artist performances all year long. The Beacon Theatre is located just 5 minutes East of I-295 on Route 10 in Hopewell, and just minutes from the hotel.

401 N. Main St. Hopewell, Virginia 23860

Visit thier website for a current schedule of events.

Ft. Gregg-Adams Army Base

(formerly Fort Lee Army Base)

Fort Gregg-Adams, is located in Prince George County, Virginia, and is a United States Army post and headquarters of the United States Army Combined Arms Support Command (CASCOM)/ Sustainment Center of Excellence (SCoE), the U.S. Army Quartermaster School, the U.S. Army Ordnance School, the U.S. Army Transportation School, the Army Logistics University (ALU), Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA), and the U.S. Defense Commissary Agency (DeCA).

Stay Over Suites supports the military and houses numerous military personal for long term stays and training and is located just minutes from the entrance of Ft. Lee. This military base was previously known as Fort Lee.

Shirley Plantation

Shirley Plantation is an estate located on the north bank of the James River in Charles City County, Virginia, USA. It is located on State Route 5, a scenic byway which runs between the independent cities of Richmond and Williamsburg. Shirley Plantation is the oldest active plantation in Virginia and is the oldest family-owned business in North America, dating back to 1614 with operations starting in 1638. The plantation was added to the National Register in 1969 and declared a National Historic Landmark in 1970

Upper Shirley Vineyards

Upper Shirley Vineyards offers riverfront views sitting on a tributary of the James River. With over 22 acres in vine, this beautiful Vineyard is an excellent day trip from Hopewell, located just 13. 2 miles North East from Stay-Over Suites. Upper Shirley Vineyards Bistro style restaurant and tasting room provides the perfect setting for wine tasting and relaxation.

For more information visit thier website here.

Pamplin Historical Park

One of “Virginia’s Best Places to Visit” according to the Travel Channel, and designated as a National Historic Landmark, Pamplin Historical Park & The National Museum of the Civil War Soldier offers a combination of high-tech museums and hands-on experiences. The Park has four world-class museums and four antebellum homes situated on 424 acres.

For more information visit thier website here.

Historic Old Towne Petersburg

Old Towne is an inviting culinary and shopping destination, with almost all of its restaurants and shops in historic structures. Its numerous individually owned quality restaurants offer Italian, Greek, Latin American, tea room, British pub, Southern Soul and Comfort Food, Coffeehouse, American, Deli Sandwich, BBQ, German and Sushi Fusion dining options. Old Towne also boasts approximately a dozen antique shops. Old Towne’s greatest asset is its variety and quantity of historic buildings. Steven Spielberg recognized this fact when he chose to film much of his award-winning movie “Lincoln” in Old Towne Petersburg in December 2011.

Explore more of Historic Old Towne Petersburg here. Explore Shopping and Dining options here.