Craig Anthony Fenton, 56, of Seymour, IN passed away unexpectedly on Thursday, September 7, 2023, at his residence. He was born on December 29, 1966, in Columbus, IN the son of James Fenton and Virginia “Ginny” (Stockelman) Fenton.

Craig is survived by his two children, Cade Anthony Fenton of Seymour, and Lores Eve Mellencamp also of Seymour; his father, James Fenton of Seymour; mother, Virginia “Ginny” Fenton of Seymour; one brother, Matt (Kristy) Fenton of Seymour; two sisters, Jessica (Derik) Nierman of Vallonia, IN, and Tracey (Matt) Schafstall of Seymour and his stepmother, Janice Fenton. In addition to his children, parents and siblings, Craig is also survived by his aunts and uncles, Jane (Tom) Powers, Susie Cusack, Charlotte (Ron) Pardieck, Rosalie Grabinski, Janet Hubbard, Marjorie Robertson, Peggy Yates, and Roger (Carol Marion) Stockelman, and several nieces and nephews and cousins.

Craig was preceded in death by his Paternal Grandparents, Marvin and Josephine Fenton, Maternal Grandparents, Edward and Margaret Stockelman; uncles, Pete Fenton, and Tom (Cheryl) Fenton.

Craig was a 1985 graduate of Seymour High School. While in high school was active on the tennis team and the wrestling team. After graduation he attended Ball State University. He worked for Dave O’Mara Contractor Inc. in North Vernon, IN as a paver for over twenty years. He later went and worked for All-Star Paving in Seymour.

Craig was a member of Immanuel Lutheran Church in Seymour. He had a strong love for his faith that he carried with him every day. He was also a member of the American Legion in Seymour. He enjoyed cooking, playing volleyball with friends and family and caring for his two dogs, Molly and Molsten and attending the Seymour Octoberfest.

Visitation for Craig will be held on Thursday, September 14, 2023, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. at Immanuel Lutheran Church in Seymour. Funeral services will follow the visitation on Thursday, September 14, 2023, at 2 p.m. at Immanuel Lutheran Church with Rev. Dr. Ralph Blomenberg and Rev. Philip E. Bloch officiating. Burial will follow at Immanuel Lutheran Cemetery in Seymour.

Memorial contributions may be made to the Jackson County Dog Shelter of Brownstown, IN, Immanuel Lutheran Child Care Ministry or to the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention Indiana Chapter.

Online condolences may be made at www.vossfuneralservice.com

Funeral arrangements have been entrusted with Voss & Sons Funeral and Cremation Services of Seymour, IN.