When Yemen's ruling party, the General People's Congress (GPC) pressures the President Ali Abdullah Saleh into rescinding his decision not to run in the 2006 presidential election, it grossly misses the point.

The issue is not about protecting the ruling party or personal interests, it's about protecting the interests of the country. The question that needs an answer is: will the president's re-election serve Yemen? The president himself boldly and honestly admits that it's time a young generation with new ideas took over.

Current government mismanagement and corruption notwithstanding, Saleh's accomplishments are indisputable, including reunification, opening up the oil industry, introducing a nascent multi-party parliamentary democracy and building Yemen's infrastructure.

When Saleh announced his intention to step down he did so to pave the way for the first peaceful transition of presidential power in Yemen, and to institute a system that will preserve and build upon those accomplishments.

Moreover, Saleh has strongly been advocating reform of government institutions such as the judiciary, the house of representatives and the executive branch. However, these institutions cannot govern effectively in the presence of a figure as overwhelming as Saleh, whose political history has created a personality cult.

Going forward, under a new president, Yemen will need strong institutions of governance with a clear separation of powers between the executive, legislative and judiciary branches coupled with real press freedoms.

Here is how we see the best way forward:

-Saleh must resist his party's pressure to run in the 2006 presidential elections. Instead we want him, for one electoral period, to be the out-of-office elder statesman and guardian of the peaceful transition of power, to ensure his departure does not result in chaos. Doing so will introduce this new culture to Yemen.

-During this transition period, government institutions and the separation of powers should be made more effective. Moreover, the grey area between the functions and accountability of the president and the prime minister must be defined better. Yemen cannot be a presidential and a parliamentary regime at the same time.

Either the president of the republic is fully in control as seems to be the case now and must therefore be liable for full accountability for his actions or the president must hold an honorary position and authority must be in the hands of an elected prime minister. A new prime minister, who will replace Abdul Kader Bajamal, offers the best opportunity to begin this process.

-The judiciary must be fully independent from both the legislative and executive branches. It is unacceptable that the president is also the chairman of the judiciary. The president's role should be limited to nominating members of the judiciary for approval by the house of representatives.

Once approved and appointed, the judges should not be removed by the fiat of a presidential decree but through a process laid down by the constitution, specifically only upon retirement, resignation, medical incapacitation or indictment for criminal offence. This will ensure the judges' ability to perform without fear of arbitrary removal.

Abolishing the ministry of information

-Constitutional provisions guaranteeing the freedom of press must be re-enforced. This can only be achieved by an Act passed by the house of representatives abolishing the ministry of information and a constitutional amendment prohibiting future Yemeni governments from ever creating it again.

The ministry of information's real function is to act as the government's information controlling tool, a role that has no place in a truly democratic society. Moreover, the same constitutional amendment should forbid the government from ever owning, operating or subsidising any public media organisation. Newspapers, TV and radio stations currently owned by the government must be privatised.

To make press freedom meaningful and real, the house of representatives must also pass a Freedom of Information Act that will give the press and the public more access to information and make it illegal for the government to hide information except under legitimate and proven national security considerations.

The military should be returned to the barracks and made to stay there. The function of the military is to protect the nation from foreign threats at its borders, not to move around in the cities. Moreover, the constitution must be amended to ban the military from holding the defence ministry portfolio.

A distinction needs to be made between the government whose role is to set economic policy and the central bank which alone is responsible for monetary policy. The overlap between the two institutions must be corrected.

The ongoing public debate in Yemen offers the best guarantee that Yemen will move from a country ruled by individuals to one governed by institutions with the correct checks and balances.

Abdullah Al Rahim is a Yemeni political writer.