HRH Princess Ghida Talal is a tireless advocate and fundraiser for the fight against cancer and the Chairperson of the King Hussein Cancer Foundation and Center in Amman, Jordan. Princess Ghida is married to HRH Prince Talal bin Muhammad of Jordan, the nephew of His Majesty the late King Hussein bin Talal and the first cousin of His Majesty King Abdullah II. Princess Ghida lives in Jordan with Prince Talal and their three children; Prince Hussein (born 1999) and twins Princess Rajaa and Prince Muhammad (born 2001).

Princess Ghida was born on July 11, 1963 in Beirut, Lebanon to Hany Salaam and Rajaa Arab. She is the eldest of four children from a politically prominent family in Lebanon. Her great grandfather, Salim Ali Salaam, was a distinguished figure in Beirut at the turn of the 20th century and held numerous public positions, including Deputy representing Beirut at the Ottoman Parliament. Her great uncle Saeb Salaam served as Prime Minister of Lebanon several times and his son Tammam was the Prime Minister of Lebanon from February 2014 until November 2016. Princess Ghida’s paternal grandmother belongs to a leading family of scholars from Jerusalem, the Khalidis.

Princess Ghida pursued her college education in the United States at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service in Washington, D.C. Growing up during the civil war in Lebanon, she became passionate about politics and decided to pursue a degree in International Politics and Economics. She graduated from Georgetown’s School of Foreign Service with magna cum laude honors, and a joint Bachelor’s and Master’s degree. Her earlier education was in Lebanon at the Collège Protestant Français where she graduated with both the French and Lebanese Baccalaureates.

Princess Ghida began her career in journalism as a researcher for the American Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News, in London. She then moved to Argentina as a correspondent for the London-based Sunday Times newspaper. Princess Ghida then worked with the wire agency Reuters in Beirut where she covered the Lebanese war and the country’s convoluted political scene. Her final job as a journalist was with the Financial Times of London.

In 1991, Princess Ghida married Prince Talal and moved to Jordan, where HM the late King Hussein asked her to establish the International Press Office of the Royal Hashemite Court and appointed her as his Press Secretary. In her new role, Princess Ghida oversaw all press activities for King Hussein and led a team of writers and press officers who covered all King Hussein’s official activities, such as state visits, press conferences and interviews. Princess Ghida also directed numerous research projects and produced many political and economic publications about Jordan. She served as Press Secretary until HM King Hussein passed away in 1999 after a long battle with cancer.

In 2001, HM King Abdullah II of Jordan appointed Princess Ghida as Chairperson of the King Hussein Cancer Foundation (KHCF) and Center (KHCC). At that time, the landscape for cancer care across the Middle East was extremely bleak, and there was a severe stigma associated with the disease.

Princess Ghida’s fight against cancer began shortly after she married HRH Prince Talal bin Muhammad, when he was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma. Thankfully, Prince Talal survived his diagnosis, however, during that time Princess Ghida witnessed firsthand the emotional and physical toll that cancer inflicts on patients and their families. She was determined to devote her life to fighting the disease, and in her leadership of KHCF/KHCC, Princess Ghida has transformed the quality of care offered to cancer patients in Jordan and the Arab world.

Today, KHCC stands as the cornerstone of cancer care in the Middle East, on par with the most advanced cancer institutions in the world, many of which it counts as close partners. Princess Ghida is recognized as a leading voice in the international cancer community, and her advocacy efforts and appearances have spanned the globe.