Based on Klaus Mann's novel Mephisto, a semi-biography of the influential theater director and actor Gustaf Gründgens, and therefore banned in Germany for 20 years, István Szabó's second attack to the spreading terror of the National Socialist German Workers' Party earned him the attention of the Academy for the second time and winning for the first time. A masterpiece of art direction and allegorical irony, Mephisto is a full-scaled and highly ambitious artwork that revives the times of the pre-WWII Germany and Europe with a tremendous cinematic artistry bringing along one of the greatest movie performances of the 20th Century by Klaus Maria Brandauer as the theater puppet Hendrik Höfgen.

The opening of the film is the artistic statement: theater.…

(Roger Ebert's Great Movies)

(Foreign language film)

Sacrificing one's morality for prestige and fame.

"What do they want from me now? After all, I am just an actor."

Mephisto was a film that caught my attention based on how striking its movie poster was on Roger Ebert's Great Movies list, with this eerie-looking figure painted in white next to a swastika. The story follows a German stage actor named Hendrik during the period when the Nazi regime was beginning to take control of the country. The Nazi politicians love his role as Mephisto, which is essentially the devil character in a version of the Faust story. His association with the Nazis heightens his social status, but at the same time…

Some elegant Nazi soul selling.

Pretty interesting. Wickedly shot, and everything looks great. Especially makeup/clothing and overall design. It starts slow but this is where the elegance tends to build off from- especially in a historic piece like this.

Towards the last half and especially the ending , we get more of the cruelty that’s bound to occur within the Third Reich and our “action” picks up. Maybe a tad bit long, but I wasn’t bothered much. Definitely a nice gem that Criterion’s provided me with again, an essential if you ask me.

We all know the consequences of throwing our honor in the garbage, all for the high price of fame. A good man , who’s become incorrect in his…

Flash bomb thought: the intersection of politics and art in E. European cinema. It is inescapable. Inexorably tied. Seen by Eastern Europeans (Czechs, Poles, Ukranians, etc.), this is not crude or "obvious"; this is political provocation of a sneaky kind. A Western reception has made it an arthouse darling, which it never tried to be in the first place. (The same process makes us consider "Shop on Main Street", "Bicycle Thieves", "Umbrellas of Cherbourg" as sappy drivel.) To a Western eye cultivated on such aesthetics, the blatantness of Szibo's symbolism can be grating. It is a matter of cultural difference. One must recognize this cultural difference, and not chock it up to the film being "bad" (a squirrely, horrid adjective).…

"My eyes are not my eyes. My legs are not mine, my face is not mine and my name is not my name, because I am an actor! Do you know what it means to be an actor? An actor is a mask among human beings."

Women Film Editors #93: Zsuzsa Csákány

When asked about her involvement in Nazi Germany's propagandistic cinema, the actress and singer Zarah Leander asserted that she'd been totally uninvolved with the Third Reich's power players, instead existing only an entertainer to distract the masses from their wartime woes. But of course that's ridiculous; any actor's decision to stay in Germany was as political an act as the decision to flee, whether it was because they…

A prime example of White Elephant Art, but not even very challenging or visually accomplished. Mephisto is dull, obvious, a chore to sit through. Give me Cabaret, Jansco, or the more perverse humor of Fassbinder any day over this. The Mephistification, then Faustification, of the lead actor (an ungrounded, uninteresting shell of a man with no interior on purpose) is too inorganic, too unconvincing to be believed. It doesn't even quite work as good Expressionism, because it stubbornly sticks to a tone of social realism in its depiction of the waning days of the Weimer Republic. There is one shot that makes me understand why the Cahiers Crew were so offended at the tracking shot in Kapo: the Communist-sympathizing friend…

I had wanted to see Mephisto for years, the poster and advertising materials alone promised Nazi decadence, Nazi depravity, Nazi hubris – I thought it could be another that could compare to Bob Fosse’s “Cabaret.” The material, though, is agonizingly shapeless to the point I was sometimes bored; it doesn’t feel like it’s kicking off to anything provocative until the 47-minute mark. So much of it is so austere and detached it made me miss the in-your-face lampoon of “Jojo Rabbit.” What the film does have is the central power and vanity of Klaus Maria Brandauer (“Never Say Never Again,” “Out of Africa”) as a theater actor during the rise of the Nazi party whose ambition it is to be…