KL Sentral Station, the state-of-the-art transportation hub for Kuala Lumpur’s integrated rail transportation, seamlessly links all urban and suburban residential, commercial and industrial areas.

KL Sentral Station is the name of Lot H, which is designated the transportation hub within its KL Sentral development project.

It is designed to house six rail networks was completed in December 2000 and the rail, retail and food and beverage operations commenced in April 2001.

Situated on 9.3 acres the main building has a gross floor area of half a million sq ft and the specifications were based on passenger projections till the year 2020, which is when Malaysia aspires to be a fully developed nation.

Transportation Hub

KL Sentral Station has an amazing connectivity has been established through direct access to six rail systems and links to major highways.

KL Sentral Structural Layout

KL Sentral Station is divided into separate sections for different types of rail services:

Transit Concourse, Level 1: Urban public transit services such as the KTM Komuter, KLIA Transit and the Kelana Jaya Line light rail transit.

Transit Concourse, Level 2: KTM inter-city trains.

KL City Air Terminal (KL CAT): KLIA Ekspres, and the high-speed rail service to Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA).

Maps

Videos

Here are some videos available on Youtube with regards to KL Sentral. Watch more videos on Youtube.

Facilities

KL Sentral Station has retail and food outlets and a food court. Hidden from public view, it also houses KTM’s maintenance depot beneath the complex.

Information Counter

Located within the Transit Concourse (Level 1) and Main Concourse (Level 2). Kindly consult the Customer Relations Officer should you need any information or assistance.

Rail Services Enquiry Office and Counter

Should you need relevant information on a particular rail service, its schedule or fares, just visit the rail service officer or counter located within the Transit and Main Concourse at level 1 and level 2.

Lost and Found

The Auxiliary Police will handle Lost and Found reports.

For further assistance, kindly approach Customer Relations Officer at information counter Level 1 & Level 2 OR

Proceed directly to Police Booth

Ticket Counter/Automatic Vending Machine

Train tickets can be purchased from the respective ticket counters located at the Transit and Main Concourse, or through automaticvending machines placed next to the entrance to the respective platform.

Surau

Prayer rooms are available for Muslim visitors and passengers. Located at Level 1 & Level 4.

Telecommunication

Public telephones, using coins & phone cards are available in and around the station for IDD and STD calls. Cards can be purchased at Information Counter Level 1 or Level 2

Taxi and Bus Services

Taxis and Buses are available to provide services from station to other destinations. For taxis service, kindly approach coupon counter at Level 2 while buses service are available at ground floor.

Special Handling

Wheel chairs for the disabled are made available upon request. Kindly inquire the service from the Customer Relations Officers at our Information Counter.

Banks / ATM / Foreign Exchange Counters

To cater to your banking and money changing needs, Banks, Automated Teller Machines and Foreign Exchange Counters are available at Level 1 and 2.

CCTV

Station areas are equipped with CCTV to monitor activities at the station as well as to ensure public safety.

Police Booth

Police Booth is located at Level 2, north entrance of the station

Clinic

Sentral Medicare is available at Level 2. It is under the Management of Idaman Medicare Sdn Bhd, Their operation hours are as follows:

Monday to Friday: 9.00 am – 8.00 pm

Saturday: 9.00 am – 6.00 pm

Sunday / Public Holiday: 9.00 am – 2.00 pm

Lockers

Lockers are available at Level 1, charges for the coin locker are RM 1.00 or RM 1.50 per usage. Please approach the Customer Relations Officer for assistance

Contact KL Sentral

Building Services Division, MRCB

Level 4, Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur, 50470 Kuala Lumpur

Tel: (603) – 2773 8888 (General Line)

Tel: (603) – 2773 8899 (Information Line)

Fax: (603) – 2260 3306

Web: www.klsentral.com.my

Some transport options available at KL Sentral to get you to LCCT:

KTM Komuter

To go to LCCT using KTM Komuter, You can go to any KTM Komuter station available at KL Sentral and then head towards Nilai Komuter station. There will be connecting feeder bus between Nilai station and LCCT.

The fees charged on travelling between KL Sentral Station and Nilai Komuter Station is RM4.70. When you reach Nilai Komuter Station, you can then take a feeder bus to LCCT.

Bus From To First Trip Last Trip Fare (RM) KR Travel KTM Nilai LCCT 5:00 am 12:30 am 2.00 Airport Liner KTM Komuter Station, Nilai LCCT 1.50

Note:

The transfer time from/to KLIA – LCCT is approximately 15 minutes.

Note: Frequency for KR Travel feeder bus is every 45 minutes.

KLIA Transit

Before you travel, check the official schedule

To confirm your schedule, please check out the Full Train & Shuttle bus schedule online.

KLIA Ekspres

First train departs at 5.00am and last train departs at 12.30am from KL Sentral and 1.00am from KLIA.

Frequency:

Every 15 minutes – Peak Hours

Every 20 minutes – Off Peak Hours

Peak Hours: Monday to Friday : 06:00hrs – 09:00hrs, 16:00hrs – 22:00hrs

Off Peak Hours:

After midnight – every 30 minutes

Entire Saturday & Sunday – every 20 minutes

Buses

From

To

Bus First Trip Last Trip Price

(one way) Price

(round-trip) KL Sentral Station LCCT SkyBus 3:00 am 10:00 pm RM9.00 RM18.00 AeroBus 3:15 am 10:30 pm RM8.00 RM14.00

A Photo Trip To KL Sentral Station, July 2006

(Visited 11,139 times, 3 visits today)