About the Book

This never-before-published Restored Edition uses the text of Edgar Rice Burroughs original manuscript and features rare and previously unpublished bonus materials from the archives of Edgar Rice Burroughs, Inc., in Tarzana, California.

Book Synopsis

NEVER-BEFORE-PUBLISHED RESTORED EDITION FROM EDGAR RICE BURROUGHS, INC.

In 1940, as the world hurtled into the darkness of global conflict, Edgar Rice Burroughs turned his legendary writing talents toward an interstellar tale of wonder and adventure set on a war-racked planet-one whose star was so distant that it was invisible to the Earth's most powerful telescopes. Featuring a protagonist who is transported to the planet Poloda by means reminiscent of John Carter's projection to Mars, Beyond the Farthest Star is set in a wholly unique solar system in which all the planets are aligned in the same orbit and connected by means of an atmosphere tube that allows for potential travel between worlds via airplane.

What has been unknown to readers is that the 1941 Blue Book magazine publication comprising Part I of Beyond the Farthest Star was heavily edited, with a substantial number of line edits on almost every page and several lengthy and meaningful passages-some more than a page long-excised throughout. That altered and abridged text was used as the basis for all book editions of the novel-until now. We are pleased to announce that we have gone back to Edgar Rice Burroughs' original typescript from our archives in Tarzana, California, and restored the author's preferred text of the novel in Beyond the Farthest Star: Restored Edition. Now, for the first time, enjoy this classic science fiction adventure in the way that Edgar Rice Burroughs intended it to be read!

Beyond the Farthest Star: Restored Edition features a newly commissioned frontispiece by renowned artist Mark Schultz; classic interior illustrations by Roy G. Krenkel; an introduction by noted science fiction author Paul Di Filippo; a preface by ERB, Inc. Director of Publishing Christopher Paul Carey discussing the restorations to the text; maps of the planet Poloda and the Omos star system; a diagram of the Unisan alphabet and numbers; and an extensive section of rare and previously unpublished bonus materials mined from the archives of Edgar Rice Burroughs, Inc., in Tarzana, California.

A PLANET IN PERIL

When Nazi warplanes blast an American fighter pilot out of the sky, he awakens not in the expected afterlife but on a far-flung planet-one of eleven interconnected worlds hurtling around a strangely constructed star system. On Poloda, he earns a new name-Tangor, one who came from nothing-and a new home among the brave people of Unis, a nation locked in perpetual war against the brutish, totalitarian Kapars. But when news comes of a powerful invention that could turn the tides of the conflict, Tangor must undertake a daring undercover mission behind enemy lines. There, in vile Kapara, he will not only risk life and limb, but also brand himself as a traitor in the eyes of his newfound friends, as he continues his fight for freedom beyond the farthest star!

Beyond the Farthest Star: Restored Edition (c) 1941, 1964, 2021 Edgar Rice Burroughs, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Trademark Beyond the Farthest Star(TM) Owned by Edgar Rice Burroughs, Inc.

Review Quotes

"[Beyond the Farthest Star] shows Burroughs working in fresh, surprising, deeply affecting territory vastly different from his two most famous franchises, the undying realms of John Carter and Tarzan." -Paul Di Filippo, author of The Steampunk Trilogy