The 5th arrondissement of Paris is soaked in cultural memory. Between the Panthéon and the Great Mosque of Paris, this area of Paris gives a lot of importance to collective memory.

Furthermore, it is traditionally considered as an intellectual and conservative area of Paris where a lot of scholars, journalists and writers live. The international students would also point that it is where the Sorbonne University is located.

For those who are in pursuit of knowledge and have an immeasurable thirst for knowledge, follow us in our journey to the 5th arrondissement of Paris!

Great figures

You got it, it is impossible to talk about the 5th arrondissement without bringing up this subject.

The Panthéon is one of the most important monuments of France. The reason is that it is the sanctuary of the nation’s History great figures. From the great writers like Victor Hugo and Emile Zola, to scientists like Pierre and Marie Curie, to resistance figures, politicians, religious figures and painters; some of the most important names of Human History were buried there. If you are planning to come to Paris, this is the place you must see at any cost!

Not far from the Panthéon, in the 5th arrondissement, you will also find the Great Mosque of Paris. Classified as a historic monument, it was built to pay tribute to the Muslim riflemen (from France’s colonial empire) who protected France from the Nazi invasion. It is also remembered as a place of solidarity and humanity where Muslim people from different nations gathered to build a sanctuary of peace where Jews and allied of the resistance were given asylum and protection. Even today, it welcomes people from all around the world to join the premises and learn about the edifice representing the Muslim community of France.

Green please!

How to define the 5th arrondissement of Paris without talking about its will to dignify everything? We talked about the great figures, now make way for our great mother nature.

The Jardin des Plantes of Paris, is the main botanical garden of the country that covers 28 hectares and is located on the left bank of the river Seine. Not only countless types of plants are taken care of the entire year in this magnificent and colorful panorama in one of the oldest zoo of the world.

For anyone who decides to spend a sunny afternoon in the Jardin des Plantes, it is impossible to resist entering in theMusée National d’Histoire Naturelle (in english, the National Museum of Natural History) . Its goals are both research and knowledge diffusion to the public.

Living a majestic life

We warned you, the 5th arrondissement of Paris is the place where everything is dignified. It is also a very popular place to live in, not only because of its beauty and its cultural wealth but also because it is a perfect balance between activities and education.

This is why Lodgis offers a large range of furnished rentals in the 5th arrondissement of Paris.

From studios to duplexes, to triplexes, the Parisian estate market specialists kept all the options opened for anyone who would like to live in such enchanting premises.

Speaking of dreams

The 5th arrondissement of Paris has around 18 theaters. For cinema lovers, this arrondissement is a real heaven. Besides, most of those theaters are independent. Once again, originality and culture have full powers. On a side note, the Panthéon’s theater is one of the oldest of Paris.

Not only you should make a stop the cinemas of the 5th arrondissement but you should definitely also go to show venues and enjoy their plays. Indeed at the border of the 6th arrondissement where is located the Latin Quarter of Paris, you will find the Théâtre de la Huchette that is very famous amongst Parisians.

Finally, you should definitely go from a stroll in the different neighborhoods of the 5th arrondissements of Paris where a lot of directors enjoy shooting their films.