Former Pakistan captain Inzamam ul Haq has levelled allegations of ball-tampering against Indian pacer Arshdeep Singh, who delivered an incredible bowling performance of 3/37 during the ICC T20 World Cup Super Eights clash against Australia. During a talk show, Inzamam questioned how Arshdeep was able to reverse-swing the ball in the 16th over while defending the target.

Motably, Arshdeep has been the joint-highest wicket-taker in the tournament with 15 scalps in six games at an average of 11.86 and an economy rate of 7.41. He is tied for most wickets in the competition with Afghanistan's Fazalhaq Farooqi.

“Arshdeep Singh when he was bowling the 15th over, the ball was reversing. is it too early (for reverse swing) with the new ball? This means the ball was ready for reverse swing by the 12th or the 13th over, Umpires should keep their eyes open (to spot) these things,” said Inzamam during a talk show.

During the show, Inzamam's former teammate Salim Malik agreed with him saying that when it comes to certain teams eyes remain shut.

“Inzy, I always say this, eyes are kept shut when it comes to some teams, and India is one of those teams. I remember in Zimbabwe, when Wasim (Akram) was bowling, he made it wet, and we all were surprised at it; as in how come one side was wet, and when I went and complained I was fined quite heavily,” said Malik.

Inzamam also stated that had it been a Pakistan bowler, a lot of noise would have been made.

“If it was Pakistani bowlers (reverse swinging the ball) this would have been a big issue (shor mach jaata). We know reverse swing very well and if Arshdeep can come in the 15th over and start reversing the ball, it means some serious work had been done before.

“Because for reverse swing … look Bumrah can do it, because of his action; but for some bowlers – their action and their speed, the ball has to be in that perfection condition and prepared well (to reverse). It could be that the wicket was hard and rough, that could be the reason (for the ball getting scruffed up on one side), but these things have to be noticed”.