It is a mystery that has gripped the world for almost three decades, and now police appear to have a new lead in the investigation into who killed Tupac Shakur.

The rapper was fatally hit by four bullets to the chest, arm and thigh as he and his record label boss Suge Knight waited at a red light outside Las Vegas' popular Club 662 at 11.15pm on September 7, 1996.

Despite several witnesses seeing a white cadillac pull up next to Suge's black BMW, and the shooting taking place in front of a bustling late night venue, justice has never been served.

Now the investigation has been revived, after Las Vegas police searched a home in the nearby city of Henderson, where they sought computers, laptops and articles about Tupac and his death.

Las Vegas Metropolitan Police said in a statement: 'LVMPD can confirm a search warrant was served in Henderson, Nevada on July 17, 2023, as part of the ongoing Tupac Shakur homicide investigation. We will have no further comment at this time.'

With the investigation said to be ongoing, a police spokesperson said he couldn't provide further details on the latest development in the case, including whether a suspect has been identified.

Here, MailOnline looks at what happened to the rapper, and who has been linked to his death.

What happened on the night of September 7, 1996?

Shakur was gunned down in his black BMW as it waited in a convoy of cars at a red light on Flamingo Road and Koval Lane on September 7, 1996.

The shooting occurred shortly after 11pm, as the 25-year-old rapper was leaving a Mike Tyson boxing match at the MGM Grand Hotel and Casino.

He was in the BMW with Suge Knight, his friend and the boss of his label Death Row Records, when the pair were fired on by an unknown assailant.

Tupac was hit four times, including once in the chest. He was taken to the University Medical Center of Southern Nevada, where he died six days later.

In a two-hour documentary in 2017, those who were by the rapper's bedside as he lay dying say the rapper indicated he knew who his killer is.

Tupac's murder remains unsolved but there are several theories about who may have been responsible.

Suspects in Tupac's killing

Notorious BIG

In 1995, Tupac claimed that Biggie knew of a planned robbery that had resulted in Tupac being shot and losing valuable jewelry.

Tupac then signed to the West Coast's Death Row records, which was run by feared Compton boss Suge Knight and was in direct competition with Bigge's own Bad Boy records, based in Manhattan.

Three months before his death, Tupac released the track 'Hit 'Em Up,' in which he claimed to have slept with Biggie's then-estranged wife.

But Biggie, who was himself gunned down six months later, denied shooting Tupac, and claimed he was recording tracks when the hit took place - though those claims have been questioned since.

Marion 'Suge' Knight

Some have also speculated that Tupac's former record producer, Marion 'Suge' Knight, may have been responsible.

At the time of his death, Tupac was about to leave Death Row Records. He had planned to start his own record company with Tha Outlaw Immortalz.

After his death, the record company was said to have been uncooperative with police.

And in an ABC interview following Tupac's death, Knight was asked, 'If you knew who killed Tupac, would you tell the police?' to which Suge replied 'absolutely not.'

Orlando 'Baby Lane' Anderson

Another possible suspect, identified in a 2002 LA Times investigation, was Orlando Anderson, a member of the Southside Crips gang.

That theory claimed that Shakur, Knight and several of their entourage had beaten up Anderson the same day as the shooting.

That attack was revenge for Anderson and other members of the Southside Crips for robbing a Death Row Records employee earlier in the year.

Las Vegas cops discounted the beating from their investigation, failed to follow up on claims by one of Tupac's friends that he witnessed the shooting, and didn't chase up a witness who may have seen the culprit's car, the LA Times reported.

Anderson, who denied the claims, was killed in a gang shooting in 1998.

But speculation about his involvement has abounded ever since, particularly after his uncle, Keefe D, identified him as a passenger in the car used in the drive-by shooting.

Keefe D

An apparent breakthrough came when Anderson's uncle, Keefe D, broke his silence more than 20 years after the killing.

Duane Keith Davis - also known as 'Keefe D' - confessed that he and Anderson were in the car when a fellow passenger pulled the trigger and shot dead Tupac

The former Crips gangster claimed they had been with two other men in the car that, but he refused to break 'street code' by revealing who the shooter was.

He stated only that, ''It just came from the backseat, bro.'

But, suffering from cancer in 2018 and telling interviewers he had 'nothing else to lose', Keefe D decided to make a bombshell revelation.

He claimed that there were four people in the car: Terrence 'T-Brown' Brown behind the wheel, Keefe D in the front passenger seat, plus Anderson and DeAndre 'Dre' Smith in the back.

The men were members of the Southside Crips gang, and Brown, Smith and Anderson have all since died.

Keefe D claimed it was his nephew that pulled the trigger and said he was in the car when Orlando 'Baby Lane' Anderson opened fire.

He made the bombshell confession during a taped conversation under immunity while filming the 10-part Netflix docuseries 'Unsolved, the Tupac and Biggie Murders'.

But of course, the killing remains unsolved to this day.

Did Tupac fake his own death?

A new documentary claims rapper Tupac Shakur is still alive after faking his own death and fleeing to New Mexico where he is being protected by the Navajo.

The film alleges Shakur escaped from University Medical Center in Las Vegas after he was gunned down in 1996.

Its creator, Rick Boss, purports that Shakur did not pass away in hospital and in fact sneaked out of the ward and fled to New Mexico to start a new life.

Many conspiracy theories have spread since the shooting of Shakur, often whipped up fans desperate for the rapper to still be alive.