In popular culture, Udham Singh is known as the avenger of Jallianwala Bagh massacre.

He is known as the "patient assassin", who waited 21 years to avenge the death of the innocents by assassinating British administrator Michael O’Dwyer in 1940. Considering this, it is surprising that his presence in popular discourse has remained relatively limited.

It is worth noting that while Reginald Dyer was the one who ordered the shooting at Jallianwala, Dwyer condoned his actions.

Early Life

Udham Singh was born on 26 December 1899, in the Sangrur district of Punjab. His birth name was Sher Singh. He had a very tough childhood as he lost his mother. While his father, Tehal Singh, decided to migrate to Amritsar to provide better education to his children, he too passed away soon.

He was then brought to the Khalsa orphanage in Amritsar when he was 5 and was had to self-sustain from an early age. At a time when Singh was growing up, Punjab was in deep political turmoil. The young boy grew up observing the intense political situations developing around him.

Beginnings

Singh joined the British Indian Army during the First World War as a manual labourer, serving overseas. It was after his return to India in 1919 that his life as a revolutionary began.

It was also the time when popular resentment was making its way through against the British in Punjab, fueled by the discontent with the way British used to recruit soldiers and make them a part of their army.

There was also resentment on how they forced contributions of funds towards World War I. Apart from these two issues, the British government passed the 'Rowlatt Act', which solely came into power to extend and strengthen the repressive wartime measures.

Due to such a stringent and repressive Act, Mahatma Gandhi called for a nationwide protest. He received an immensely positive response from Punjab. This left the then British administration in Punjab, namely Lt. Governor Michael O'Dwyer absolutely panic-stricken.

As protest spread across Punjab and the majority of the population supported Gandhi's protest, it left the administration in a state of panic. To regain control and order in the state, the Governor handed the charge of the situation to Brigadier-General Reginald Edward Harry Dyer. The first thing Dyer did to uproot tensions, was ban public gatherings, which according to him accumulated mass protests and riots.

Jallianwala Bagh Massacre

The turning point in Udham Singh's life came on that fateful day of April 13, 1919. On the day of the Baisakhi festival (festival of harvest), about 20,000 unarmed men, women and children gathered at Amritsar's Jallianwala Bagh. Many of them had come from out of towns unaware of the ban on public gatherings. Singh and his friends were present at Jallianwala as the turnout celebrated the festival in an open space.

While the crowd gathered to celebrate the festival, General Dyer arrived with his troops, sealed the only exit to the park and opened fire without any warning on the unarmed crowd.

The crowd ran for their lives, but there was nowhere to go. Many people lost their lives in the horrific massacre, but according to the official tally, there were 400 killed and 1,200 injured. However, unofficial records claim the count to be a lot higher.

Singh was just 20 years old when he witnessed such brutality. This incident shaped his future as it made him a part of the armed resistance that was unfolding in and outside of India.

The fight against the British

The ghastly incident was a catalyst in turning him from a faceless member of India’s oppressed masses into a man who would strike one of the most dramatic blows against the empire.

In the two decades of political activism that followed – activism that spanned four continents and more than 20 countries – Singh took on different names and occupations.

In 1927, Singh who was highly influenced by Bhagat Singh was asked to head back to India to help out with the revolution back in the country. Upon returning he was imprisoned for four years for running the Ghadr party's radical publication 'Ghadr Di Gunj'.

Even though Singh was released in 1931, he was under constant surveillance of the police because of his association with Bhagat Singh. He eventually escaped the surveillance and made his way to Germany to plan events for independence without any further intervention.

For years, he plotted his revenge against the perpetrators of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. All these years, he never forgot his eventual goal- the execution of Dwyer.

In March 1940, the moment finally came. He opened fire at Michael O’Dwyer in Caxton Hall in London, killing him on the spot. Singh was hanged four months later at Pentonville Prison and his mortal remains were handed over to India in 1974.