Sunam Udham Singh Wala is a city and a tehsil in Sangrur district in the Indian state of Punjab. The city of Sunam Udham Singh Wala , which falls in Sunam Udham Singh Wala tehsil, was previously known as Sunam, Punjab Government renamed[1] after the Indian freedom fighter and martyr Shaheed Udham Singh in 2006

Contents

1 Geography

2 Demographics

3 History

4 Shaheed Udham Singh

5 Samadh Baba Bhai Mool Chand Sahib Ji

6 Other famous religious places

7 Sitasar

8 Gurudwaras

9 Muslim community

10 Education

11 Hindu Sabha High School

12 Industries and trade

13 References

Geography

Sunam is located at 30.13°N 75.8°E. It has an average elevation of 231 metres (757 feet). Sunam falls under the district of Sangrur. Located on the Ludhiana-Hisar railway line, it is connected, by road with Patiala (64 km), Sangrur (13 km), Bathinda(95 km), Ludhiana (90 km), and Chandigarh (129 km).[2]

Demographics

As of 2011 India census,[3] Sunam had a population of 334,641. Males constitute 53.3% of the population and females 46.7%. Sunam has an average literacy rate of 75.6%, higher than the national average of 74.04%: male literacy is 79.6%, and female literacy is 71%. In Sunam, 11% of the population is under 6 years of age.

History

Sunam is listed in the Ain-i-Akbari as a pargana under the sarkar of Sirhind, producing a revenue of 7,067,696 dams for the imperial treasury and supplying a force of 2000 infantry and 500 cavalry. It had a brick fort at the time.[4]

Shaheed Udham Singh

Sunam is the birthplace of Shaheed Udham Singh, who shot former British Indian governor Michael O'Dwyer in revenge for his support of the notorious Jallianwala Bagh massacre on 13 March 1940.

Samadh Baba Bhai Mool Chand Sahib Ji

This is a place in Sunam where people from all religions/communities come to pay homage to a great saint of the 17th century. Descendants of his legacy are known as 'Bhaike' as they all are from a small village near Sunam named 'Bhai Ki Pishour'. Once every year they congregate in this ancestral village named ' Chhajjli' app. 10 km from Sunam, of theirs in a social gathering known as 'Babe Mitti'. Now some of them are settled in Sunam mostly known by their surname 'Moudgil Modgil Joshi'. This is by far the most visited place in Sunam.

Other famous religious places

Shaheed Udham Singh House

Baba Bhai Mool Chand Sahib Ji

Mata Modi Mandir

Naina Devi Mandir

Santoshi Mata Mandir

Suraj Kund

Seeta Sar Mandir

Mandir mohini poriyan

Geeta bhawan

Gurudwara Pehli Patshahi

Gurudwara Nanakpura sahib

Peer Baba Banna Banoi

Sitasar

It is an ancient tank spread over 80 bighas. It is said that Sita, wife of Lord Rama, washed her hair in this tank when she was turned out of the house by Rama. Even now the widows of the surrounding area come here and wash ltheir hair. It is also said that at one time kumb fair of the Punjab was held here. The tank is, now, not in good condition. Shiv Mandirs have been built in the south west and north of the tank. A small Shitla Mata Mandir has also been built in the south of the tank in which an ancient idol of Mata has been installed. This tank, it is said, was filled with the water of River Saraswati. In The Geographical Dictionary of Ancient And Mediaeval India 1927) The Mubarak Shahi gives us some idea of Firuz Shah's canal digging activity during this period. The river Sarsati (Saraswati) comes from the great mountains and falls into the Sutlej. An earthen hillock near a place called Barwar, Firuz was informed, separated the River Saraswati from the Salima canal (of Firuz Shah). If this hillock was dug up, the water of the Saraswati would flow into the canal which could then be taken to Sahrind or Sirhind, Mansurpura and further on to Sunam. Firuz went to the place and began digging up the hillock.

Gurudwaras

There are number of Gurudwaras in Sunam. The most well known is the Gurdwara of the first Guruji Guru Nanak Dev Ji. Gurudwara Pehli Patshahi well known as Wadda Gurudwara where Guruji stayed for a night. Gurudwara Sri Patshahi Pehli - Sunam

Sunam (SO`P`N, 75"48`E), an ancient town in Sangrur district of the Punjab, was visited by Guru Nanak during his travels through the Malva region. According to local tradition, he first stayed on the bank of the Sirhind stream, near what is now called Sita Sar. From there a devotee took him to his own house where a shrine was later established. It is located in the Gurdwara Mohalla and is known as Gurdwara Pahili Patshahi. The building constructed in 1919 was renovated in 1966. It consists of a rectangular hall, with a gallery at one end and a verandah in front. The sanctum in the centre of the hall is richly painted in multicoloured floral and geometrical designs. Three volumes of the Guru Granth Sahib are seated in it behind pipalleaf archways. There is a domed tower in front of the verandah. Rooms for the granthiand Guru ka Langar are across a narrow brickpaved courtyard. The Gurdwara is managed by a committee representing the sangat of the locality. Sri Guru Nanak Dev ji Sahib Ji visited this place on call of one old Mata ji. Kar Sewa of Gurdwara Sahib was started in year 1987 by Baba Jagtar Singh ji Kar Sewa Tarn Taran wale and was completed in year 1994 with cooperation of Jathedars and sangat

Before Partition of Punjab Sunam's population was predominantly Muslim, legend has it that if there would have been 1 more peer it would have been the first 'Peergah' (Makka) in the region with 100 peers but that did not happen as 1 peer lies just outside the boundary of the city and now Muslim Community constitutes about 15 families in Sunam. Peer Banna Banoi is an Islamic shrine in Sunam. People of all faiths pay homage as Peer Banna Banoi was a God fearing and a true Muslim who sacrificed his life on the day of his marriage to save the Hindu and Sikh girls from being kidnapped by the armed goons.

Education

Sunam has two colleges, the Guru Nanak Dev Dental College Sunam, and Shaheed Udham Singh Govt College Sunam.[5]

Hindu Sabha High School

This is one of three oldest public high schools of Sunam. Hindu Sabha High School Sunam was started on 19 February 1948. Sh. Karta Ram Jindal was the headmaster from 1965 till 1992 for almost 30 years, During his tenure school grew from 100 students to 2000 students. The school celebrated its silver jubilee in 1973 and Education minister Umrao Singh inaugurated school's biggest assembly hall. This school is a non-profit and semi-government school. Later the school was upgraded to Senior Secondary school. Also Hindu Sabha College for Women was started for Arts and other subjects.

Industries and trade

Sunam has a Grain Market, wholesale cloth market,wholesale utensils market and a Sarafa Bazar(Gold Jeweller's Market) in Town Side area of Sunam. Naya bazar and peeran wala Gate is the main bazzar of Sunam.