USA raced into a first-half lead through Clint Dempsey in the 10th minute to stun their more illustrious opponents, and a further shock was to be inflicted at a packed Ellis Park Stadium.

Landon Donavon coolly finished off a swift counter-attack from Charlie Davies in the 27th minute to double his side's lead, and leave Brazil's players and supporters utterly bewildered.

The second half was one-way traffic, as Brazil continued to pour pressure on their opponents with unrelenting waves of attacks, and Dunga's side got their eventual rewards.

Confederations Cup

Brazil back on top of the world

01/07/2009 at 13:50

A clinical finish from Luis Fabiano in the first minute of the second half gave his side the momentum they needed, and although a Kaka headed goal was wrongly adjudged to have not crossed the line, it did little to stifle their conviction.

Fabiano converted the rebound from Robinho's fierce shot in the 74th minute, which thundered off the crossbar, to prompt a double-defensive change from USA coach Bob Bradley.

As Brazil showered their opponent's box with crosses, it seemed that Fabiano's hat-trick may have been imminent, but it was the gangly defender Lucio who powered a headed winner with six minutes left from Elano's corner.

The match was officially dedicated by FIFA to Marc-Vivien Foe, who tragically died at the 2003 Confederations Cup in France at the semi-final stage playing for Cameroon, with both sets of players involved in the tributes.

Brazil dominated the early possession with Kaka a prominent presence in the side's attacks, and Robinho marauding down the left wing to test Jonathan Spector.

For all their attacking potency, Dunga's side looked hesitant and indecisive at the back, and USA capitalised in the tenth minute.

Spector escaped the shackles of the lightweight Andre Santos and whipped a cross into the penalty area from the right, and Dempsey stole into score his third goal in five appearances with a glancing touch to beat Julio Cesar at his far post.

Two minutes later, a delightful turn from Kaka on halfway released Robinho down the left, and the forward takes his shot early curling it to the far corner, but Tim Howard dived low to his right to tip the ball away.

At the other end, USA forward Charlie Davies bustled down the right wing, and his powerful run was hampered by a challenge from Gilberto, but to his credit the forward stayed on his feet when he could easily have gone down.

USA found themselves firmly under the cosh, but they broke through the pace of Donovan, and he finished with terrific composure to give his side the lead after Davies had slipped the ball through to him in the 27th minute.

Brazil were undeterred in their gung-ho approach, and Robinho released Andre Santos, who instead of cutting the ball back from the by-line attempted a shot from a tight angle, with Howard making a sharp.

Dunga was looking for a reaction in the second half from his underperforming Brazil side, and they responded in emphatic fashion.

Luis Fabiano received a delightful ball from Maicon and the striker swivelled and turned Jay De Merit, before firing past Howard to ignite his side's recovery in the opening minute of the half.

Kaka was then denied an equaliser after he stole in at the back post to meet a cross from Robinho with a downward header, and as Howard parried it away, replays suggested the ball had crossed the line.

Brazil, to their credit, did not let that injustice rattle them, and in the 74th minute Fabiano pounced to level the scores from close range after Robinho saw his initial shot cannon off the crossbar.

A deep corner from Elano was met by an imperious leap from centre-back Lucio, who beat Dempsey to the ball and powered the ball home with his head to clinch victory for his side.

Kaka was awarded the Golden Ball accolade for his performances throughout the tournament, with Brazil collecting their third Confederations Cup triumph.

Confederations Cup

FIFA open to goal-line technology

29/06/2009 at 17:46

Confederations Cup

Kaka: Brazil staying humble

29/06/2009 at 08:22