Doctor Who spin-off Tales of the TARDIS has been officially confirmed for a return.

The spin-off series was created to celebrate the 60th anniversary of Doctor Who last year and featured six special episodes. The show featured classic Doctors including Sylvester McCoy, Peter Davison and Colin Baker, alongside various former companions.

Now, according to Radio Times, a new episode will be released starring the 15th Doctor (Ncuti Gatwa) and companion Ruby Sunday (Millie Gibson).

Related: Doctor Who's first-ever movie is on TV this weekend

The new episode will air on BBC Four and BBC iPlayer at 8pm on June 20, (shortly before the season 14 finale). The original six episodes of Tales of the TARDIS are available to watch on the BBC iPlayer streaming service.

Aside from Gatwa and Gibson's involvement, details about the cast and story for the spin-off episode have been kept under wraps.

The recent special episodes saw Neil Patrick Harris play the Toymaker, after which Doctor Who showrunner Russell T Davies confirmed that season 14 will showcase a "legion" of "godlike characters".

Related: Doctor Who guest star Jonathan Groff talks "big challenge" to fit show's tone

With that in mind, there has been speculation that villain Sutekh will return for the special episode as a classic link to the series. Sutekh the Destroyer (played by Gabriel Woolf) was a god-like alien who tried to destroy all life in the universe, first appearing in 1975 alongside fourth Doctor Tom Baker.

Alternatively, Davies recently teased that the Doctor will "open up" about his long-lost family this season, suggesting we may see a return of the Doctor's granddaughter, Susan Foreman. Susan (played by Carole Ann Ford) was the Doctor's first ever companion and hasn't returned to the show in recent years. Could there be a family reunion on the cards?

Doctor Who debuts new episodes at midnight on Saturday, airing on BBC One in the UK and Disney+ elsewhere. Classic episodes of Doctor Who are available on BBC iPlayer in the UK.