Personal life

Prema was born on 6 January 1977 into Neravanda family, of the Kodava community to Chetticha and Kavery, in Bangalore. She received high school education in Mahila Seva Samaja High School and completed her Pre-university course in SSMRV college, Bangalore. As a student she was involved actively in sports and represented her school and college in high jump and volleyball events at the national level. Her younger brother Neravanda Aiyappa is a cricket player who represents Karnataka in Ranji Trophy. Her younger sister Indu lives in Dubai. She has filed a divorce petition in the Family Court, Bangalore in March 2016.

Film career

Prema began her career in the Rajkumar camp in 1995 starring with both Rajkumar sons' Shivarajkumar and Raghavendra Rajkumar in Savyasachi and Aata Hudugaata respectively. Though both films did not perform well at the box-office, she was given the lead role in yet another Shivarajkumar starrer Om. This was directed by Upendra. This film also brought her the Karnataka State Award for Best Actress.

The year 1996 saw her perform in the Sunil Kumar Desai directed Nammoora Mandara Hoove co-starring Shivarajkumar and Ramesh Aravind. In the same year, she branched out to Malayalam and Telugu film industries. Her Malayalam debut in The Prince opposite Mohanlal. Dharma Chakram was her Telugu debut film.

Her comeback was noted in the 1999 released Chandramuki Pranasakhi co-starring Ramesh Aravind and Bhavana. She also starred in Upendra in the same year which had 3 other actresses. The same year saw her pairing with the lead actor V. Ravichandran for the film Naanu Nanna Hendthiru. Her Telugu language film, Devi made a collection of Rs. 18 crores and its dubbed version was released in Hindi language.

The year 2000 saw 6 releases of Prema films of which Yajamana. It had prema playing the leading lady for Vishnuvardhan. The other notable film of her in this year was the Malayalam Daivathinte Makan.

2001 year proved again lucky to Prema since she began with Kanasugara, a remake of Tamil film Unnidathil Ennai Koduthen, which fetched her the Filmfare Award for Best Actress. She also won other awards for her portrayal of a simple housewife character.

Her main release in 2002 was Sunil Kumar Desai's musical Parva co-starring Vishnuvardhan and Roja Selvamani. In 2003, She was praised by critics for her complex role in the film Singaaravva. In 2004, Apthamitra, a remake of Malayalam Manichitrathazhu by P. Vasu where she had to play the leading lady to Vishnuvardhan. She starred in the film as a supporting actress.

She has acted with Vishnuvardhan a few times. She has shared her screen space with him in films like Yajamana, Apthamitra, Jamindaru, Kshana Kshanam, Ekadantha, Parva, Ellaranthalla Nanna Ganda.

Post her marriage in 2006, Prema acted in very few films as a supporting character and completely stopped acting after her last release Shishira in 2009. She has, thus far, acted in more than 70 movies in Kannada and more than 28 movies in Telugu.

She made her comeback for Matte Hutti Banda Upendra, Inti Prema remake of Soggade Chinni Nayana

Awards

1996: Karnataka State Film Award for Best Actress — Om

1996: Filmfare Best Actress — Om

1997: Nandi Award for Best Actress — Devi

2001: Filmfare Best Actress — Kanasugara

Udaya Award for Best Actress

Screen Videocon Award for Best Actress

Cinema Express Award for Best Actress

Chitrapremigala Sangha Award

Devikarani Memorial Award