Credentials

Details on Mordaunt’s educational background are not readily available online.

Background

Terence Mordaunt is the owner and chairman of First Corporate Shipping, the trading name of Bristol Port. In December 2019, Mordaunt became chairman of the UK’s principal climate science denial campaign group the Global Warming Policy Foundation, after having served as director of its advocacy arm, the Global Warming Policy Forum since April 2017.

Mordaunt stepped down as chairman in November 2019 and became a trustee of the GWPF in December 2019.

Mordaunt is a major Conservative party donor, having donated £34,600 to the Conservative party between 2003 and 2009, according to Electoral Register data. His companies also donated at least £135,000 to the party since 2008, including a £25,000 donation in 2017.

The Bristol Port Company also donated £100k to Vote Leave in 2016.

Stance on Climate Change

The Global Warming Poilcy Foundation, which Mordaunt chairs, has suggested “Policies to ‘stop climate change’ are based on climate models that completely failed to predict the lack of warming for the past two decades” and that “Carbon dioxide has been mercilessly demonized as ‘carbon pollution’, when in fact it is a benefit to the planet.”

Key Quotes

April 7, 2017

After joining the Global Warming Policy Forum’s board of directors, Mordaunt said:

“I am delighted to continue my support for the GWPF which has brought much needed rigour into the climate debate.”

Key Actions

February 18, 2021

Paymaster General and Conservative MP for Portsmouth North Penny Mordaunt received a £10,000 donation from Mordaunt’s firm First Corporate Consultants in January 2021, Byline Times revealed.

December 2019

Mordaunt became chairman of the UK’s principal climate science denial campaign group the Global Warming Policy Foundation.

June 12, 2019

A report by openDemocracy revealed that First Corporate Shipping, co-owned by Mordaunt and Sir David Ord, had donated £25,000 to both Boris Johnson and Jeremy Hunt’s Conservative Party leadership campaigns.

April 2017

Mordaunt became a director of the Global Warming Policy Forum, a subsidiary of the climate science denial campaign group, the Global Warming Policy Foundation.

Affiliations

Global Warming Policy Foundation (GWPF) — Trustee.

Global Warming Policy Foundation — Former chairman.

Global Warming Policy Forum — Former director.

Bristol Oil and Gas Limited — Director.

C2 Partners LLP — LLP Designated Member.

The Bristol Port Company — Chairman and co-owner.

Pendennis Shipyard Limited — Former Chairman. Listed as Director in Companies House records.

First Corporate Shipping Limited — Chairman/director.

The Outward Bound Trust — Trustee.

Bristol and Gloucester Pilot Boat Company — Director.

Actual Limited — Director.

Crestcredit Projects Limited — Director.

The Mordaunt Foundation — Trustee.

Social Media

Terence Mordaunt does not appear to be active on social media.

Publications

Terence Mordaunt does not appear to have published any articles, papers, or otherwise in major publications.

Other Resources

“Terence Mordaunt,” PowerBase.

Bloomberg Executive Profile: Terence Mordaunt.

Mordaunt Faimily History and Geneology.

Resources