Rock legends will be gathering together for the unveiling of a plaque in Cirencester (UK) that honours the town’s most famous musician.

Drummer Cozy Powell played in host of rock bands in the 80s including, The Jeff Beck Group, Rainbow, Whitesnake and Black Sabbath and was regarded as one of the best drummers of his generation.

In 1998 the rock world was in mourning when Cozy who loved fast cars was killed in a car accident on the M4. But Cozy’s memory lives on and Cirencester Town Council decided to create the plaque to remember him, which will be unveiled at the Corn Hall in the town on January 7th, by Queen guitarist Brian May who was good friends with Cozy.

And a number of Cozy’s rock star friends will also be attending the event including Black Sabbath lead guitarist and founder Tony Iommi and American musician Suzy Quatro, who is regarded as the first female bass player to become a major rock star.

British independent film director Lee Hutchings has announced plans to shoot a documentary about the life and times of Cozy.

Hutchings says “Featuring exclusive and extensive interviews with family, friends, work associates and fans, in between various archival footage, Dance With The Devil – The Cozy Powell Story will be an essential, in-depth and personal account of the man who, from humble beginnings, would go on to play an essential part in British and American rock drumming by playing in and alongside multiple bands and solo artists including Jeff Beck, Rainbow, Whitesnake, Black Sabbath and Brian May, as well as his own solo recordings including his signature instrumental ‘Dance With The Devil’, up until his tragic death in 1998.”

Powell – who had a fascination with fast cars and motorcycles – died on April 5 of ’98 when the Saab 9000 he was driving at a reported 104 mph went flying off the M4 motorway near Bristol, England, possibly because of a punctured rear tire. As well as speeding in bad weather, Powell had been drinking and was talking to his girlfriend on his mobile phone. He wasn’t wearing a seatbelt, either. He once said in an interview: “I drive like I drum–madly.”