NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Nov 24, 2014) - Information Builders, a leader in business intelligence (BI) and analytics, information integrity and integration solutions, today announced its commitment to helping organizations realize the full potential of their Hadoop deployments. By combining its flexible architecture and comprehensive information management capabilities with numerous partner integrations, the company delivers unmatched big data insights and value.

The demand for big data processing technologies is rising rapidly, with the global Hadoop market expected to exceed $50 billion by 2020, according to a recent report from Allied Market Research.1 A key driver of this growth is the increasing volume of both structured and unstructured enterprise data stemming from a variety of sources and formats. While this provides unprecedented opportunities to derive business value, organizations need a comprehensive information management approach to ensure the success of their big data initiatives.

To that end, Information Builders has invested in new partnerships with Hadoop vendors Cloudera, Hortonworks, and MapR as well as expanded relationships with big data partners HP Vertica and Pivotal. Recent enhancements include:

Optimized data access, including high-performance access through Apache Hive and Cloudera Impala. Extract, transform, and load (ETL), including use of bulk load utilities, in-memory loading capabilities, and in-database transformations

Predictive Analytics in database processing and in ETL data flow

Single stack for integration, data quality, analytics, BI, info app development, and end-user query

Cross-platform JOINs across all data types, structured and unstructured, for agile reporting

Analytics sandbox environment, enabling users to distill data from Hadoop into in-memory databases for high-speed analytics

These integrations lay the framework for ensuring Information Builders' customers can realize the maximum return on their Hadoop and big data investments. Building on this foundation, the company's integrity and integration solutions guarantee the real-time cleansing of data and that it efficiently integrates with existing applications and processes. Information Builders' intuitive BI and analytics platform, WebFOCUS, facilitates the analysis of large data sets and is designed to disseminate these insights to a wide array of stakeholders. The company's intuitive InfoApps™ provide self-service data visualization capabilities, enabling even non-technical business roles to benefit from Hadoop deployments.

Big data is industry agnostic -- it impacts companies across the spectrum -- and having the ability to manage it is a critical component of today's enterprise BI arsenal. Yellow Pages Canada, for example, relies on big data technology to deliver a high-level experience for its advertiser customers. "The ability to effectively harness and utilize big data is an integral function for our customer-facing application (YP Analytics), which collects approximately 52 billion rows of raw events in one table (for a 25 month rolling period)," said Richard Langlois, director of Customer and Advertiser Analytics. "The 52 billion row table is re-clustered (sorted) every day using Hadoop and we reuse our Hadoop cluster to create the Information Builders files required to repopulate the entire table, which is stored in dedicated columnar DB appliances in order to ensure sub second response time and high availability. Big data technology provided by companies like Cloudera, Infobright and Information Builders make that possible, thus enabling us to deliver the best possible insights to our customers."

"To say that the enterprise is inundated with information would be an understatement," said Gerald Cohen, president and CEO of Information Builders. "The combination of our Hadoop industry partnerships and our unique solution set provides the functionality needed to acquire, store, prepare, integrate and analyze today's historic data volumes. This ensures our customers benefit from the data deluge by reaping the maximum return on their Hadoop implementations, rather than becoming mired in their complexity."

1 Person, Lita. "Global Hadoop Market, Industry Growth, Size, Share, Insights, Analysis, Research, Report, Opportunities, Trends and Forecasts Through 2020," Allied Market Reseach, March 2014.