NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Feb 26, 2015) - Information Builders, a leader in business intelligence (BI) and analytics, information integrity, and integration solutions, today announced that it was positioned in the Leaders Quadrant of Gartner Inc.'s "Magic Quadrant for Business Intelligence and Analytics Platforms" for the eighth consecutive year. The recognition is based on the evaluation of the company's WebFOCUS BI and analytics platform and we believe speaks to the enduring value and ongoing evolution of the solution suite.

The ability to take analytic insights and turn them into monetary benefits using powerful operational BI is a key focus for organizations looking to gain a competitive edge in today's global economy. Empowering more users to derive data-backed insights helps companies streamline operations, boost customer loyalty and retention, identify new revenue streams and realize greater returns on existing investments. With WebFOCUS, Information Builders is uniquely equipped to help companies achieve these benefits and more. The platform delivers rich, consumable, interactive information to the widest range of stakeholders, including those who have not historically benefited from advanced BI. Highly customizable, the technology ensures individuals can explore and analyze data in the way each is most comfortable.

WebFOCUS also offers InfoApps™, interactive BI apps that are focused on a specific business problem and are available through a portal for an easy "app store-like" experience. InfoApps allow a broader base of users to access just the information that directly addresses their need, thus making BI more useful and approachable for a wider base. In addition, the platform features high performing mobile capabilities, providing real-time access to BI and analytics content on any device, regardless of Internet connection.

"Information Builders has been a long-time advocate for the importance of extending BI and analytics capabilities to a wide range of stakeholders, which is evident in our ongoing efforts to make BI more accessible and digestible for a broader user base," said Gerald Cohen, president and CEO, Information Builders. "We are proud to be recognized by Gartner as a leader in BI and analytics for the eighth consecutive year, and we believe this recognition is reflective of our ongoing efforts to empower more users with the ability to make intelligent, informed business decisions."

To access the Gartner Inc. "Magic Quadrant for Business Intelligence and Analytics Platforms" in its entirety, please click here.

About the Magic Quadrant

Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product, or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

About Information Builders