Happy Saturday POU!

So many crazy wild characters in the soaps, can’t get to them all. But for our last look, here’s for the One Life To Live fans!

Rachel Gannon, the biracial daughter of divorced Llanview lawyers Hank Gannon and Nora Hanen, comes to town in 1992 after her father is named district attorney of Llantano County. She soon enrolls in Llanview University studying law, where she befriends Kevin Buchanan, who had recently gained custody of his infant son Duke. Rachel and Kevin eventually begin a romantic relationship; their romance falls apart in 1993 as Kevin is wrongly accused of being a participant in the gang rape of Marty Saybrooke, a case in which Hank is the prosecutor, and Nora is the defense counsel for one of the suspects, Todd Manning.

Rachel Arrives in Llanview

In 1995, Rachel’s law studies falter, and she develops a dependency on prescription drugs, using her relationship with Dr. Ben Price to forge prescriptions. Feeling the pressure needing to live up to the reputation of her parents, her addiction advances to illegal drugs; Rachel obtains heroin from a drug dealer who works for her uncle, R.J. Gannon. Soon realizing that Rachel has a drug problem, R.J. stages an intervention, and Rachel checks herself into St. Anne’s for rehabilitation. She later escapes, and the family eventually tracks her to New York City, where she is mixed up in drugs and prostitution.

Rachel’s Intervention

During the family strife, the question of Rachel’s paternity is raised when R.J. reveals he and Nora had a one-night stand before she married Hank; it’s eventually confirmed that Hank is her father, and Rachel mends her relationship with her parents. Rachel recommits herself to recovery and begins working in the music business alongside her uncle R.J., then befriends Tea Delgado, only for Tea to fall in love with her old enemy Todd.

When Nora is in need of an assistant in late 1997, Rachel recommends Georgie Phillips, an old friend from law school. Upon taking the job, Georgie meets Nora’s husband Bo Buchanan, who she develops a psychotic fixation on. Georgie becomes obsessed with stealing Nora’s life and taking Bo for herself, alleging that she and Bo have been having an affair. During an angry confrontation with Rachel in the spring of 1998, Georgie grows increasingly unhinged, assaulting her and threatening Nora’s life. Rachel bludgeons Georgie to death in self-defense, then attempts to cover up her crime, and stays silent as Todd is fingered for the murder. When Todd unearths the truth and traps most of Llanview at the Buchanan family lodge, Rachel confesses.

Rachel kills Georgie

Nora is desperate to keep her daughter from going to jail, but Rachel has resigned herself to serving her time. Rachel is convicted of manslaughter and sent to Statesville Prison for a brief prison term; after her release, she moves back to Chicago and becomes involved in social work. She visits Llanview several times in the early 2000s, including when Nora was believed to be dead, and for her wedding to Daniel Colson.