This story is available exclusively to Business Insider subscribers. Become an Insider and start reading now. Have an account? .

"Hairspray" hit theaters in July 2007.

The musical film starred Nikki Blonsky (Tracy Turnblad), John Travolta (Edna Turnblad), and Zac Efron (Link Larkin).

Travolta has done a mix of TV and film roles in the years since, on dramas like "The People v. O. J. Simpson: American Crime Story."

Efron was already an A-lister when he landed his role in "Hairspray," but he's continued acting and currently stars on an unscripted travel show for Netflix called "Down to Earth With Zac Efron."

Visit Insider's homepage for more stories.

Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview

Thanks for signing up! Go to newsletter preferences

Thanks for signing up!

Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go.

Email address

By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. You can opt-out at any time by visiting our Preferences page or by clicking "unsubscribe" at the bottom of the email.

Advertisement

"Hairspray" was released in theaters in July 2007.

The film was based on a 1988 movie of the same name, which led to a Tony-winning Broadway show in the 2000s (also titled "Hairspray).

The 2007 remake starred Nikki Blonsky, a then-unknown actress, as Tracy Turnblad and featured a star-studded cast that included John Travolta, Zac Efron, and Michelle Pfeiffer.

This story is available exclusively to Business Insider subscribers. Become an Insider and start reading now. Have an account? .

Here's what the cast has been up to since the movie came out 13 years ago.

Advertisement

Nikki Blonsky made her film debut in "Hairspray," starring as Tracy Turnblad.

She lived in Baltimore, Maryland and loved to dance.

Advertisement

Blonsky's "Hairspray" role earned her a Golden Globes nomination.

She also won a Critics' Choice Award for her part as Tracy.

Blonsky went on to guest star on shows like "Ugly Betty" and "Smash," in addition to starring on a Freeform show called "Huge." More recently, she appeared in the 2019 horror movie "Ghost in the Graveyard."

The actress came out as gay in a video posted on TikTok in June 2020, which showed the actress lip-synching to Diana Ross' "I'm Coming Out."

Blonsky, who has performed at Pride events, told The Hollywood Reporter that she "had feelings all along.

"I just maybe didn't pay attention to them, I think is what it was," she said. "I have always been a career-driven person, so my relationships have been something that I didn't give a lot of care to."

Advertisement

John Travolta portrayed Edna Turnblad, Tracy's mother.

She owned a laundry business and preferred to stay at home because she was self-conscious of her appearance.

Advertisement

Travolta, known for showing off his musicality in films throughout his career, has primarily focused on dramatic roles in more recent years.

The actor voiced the titular character of the 2008 animated movie "Bolt," which starred Miley Cyrus. He also starred in action movies like "The Taking of Pelham 123," "From Paris With Love," and "Killing Season."

Travolta reunited with "Grease" costar Olivia Newton-John in 2012 for the joint holiday album "This Christmas." In 2019, they participated in a "Grease" sing-along event and Q&A in Florida. They even wore outfits similar to those of their musical characters.

Travolta also portrayed real-life lawyer Robert Shapiro on "The People v. O. J. Simpson: American Crime Story," which earned him nominations at the Golden Globes and Emmys.

Additionally, he appeared in Pitbull's 2019 music video for "3 to Tango."

In his latest role, Travolta stars alongside Kevin Hart in a comedy called "Die Hart" for Quibi, a new short-form video service.

Travolta has married actress Kelly Preston in 1991 and they welcomed three children named Ella, Benjamin, and Jett. Their eldest child, Jett, died in 2009 following a seizure.

In July 2020, Travolta revealed that Preston died following a two-year battle with breast cancer.

Advertisement

Zac Efron portrayed Link Larkin, a charming singer and lead dancer on "The Corny Collins Show."

He took an interest in Tracy when he first saw her dancing at school.

Advertisement

Efron stars on a new travel show for Netflix called "Down to Earth With Zac Efron."

Efron, who rose to fame as basketball player Troy Bolton in Disney's "High School Musical" franchise, has done a mix of different kinds of roles in the years since "Hairspray" was released.

He played the titular character in the 2010 drama "Charlie St. Cloud" and reunited with "Hairspray" costar Michelle Pfeiffer for the 2011 Gary Marshall rom-com "New Year's Eve." He also voiced a character in the animated movie "The Lorax," which starred Taylor Swift.

Similar to actors like Ryan Gosling, Channing Tatum, and Liam Hemsworth, Efron has also played the leading man in a film adaptation of a Nicholas Sparks novel. He portrayed Taylor Schilling's love interest in the 2012 movie "The Lucky One."

The actor has also showcased his comedic timing in R-rated comedies like "Neighbors," "Mike and Dave Need Wedding Dates," and "Baywatch."

He teamed up with Hugh Jackman and Zendaya for the 2017 musical film "The Greatest Showman" and portrayed real-life American serial killer Ted Bundy in the 2019 Netflix movie "Extremely Wicked, Shockingly Evil and Vile."

More recently, Efron voiced Fred in the animated movie "Scoob."

Advertisement

Amanda Bynes starred as Penny Pingleton, Tracy's best friend.

The two friends would run home every day after school to watch "The Corny Collins Show."

Advertisement

Bynes has stayed out of the spotlight for the most part and hasn't acted in years.

After "Hairspray," the former Nickelodeon actress starred as the titular character of the 2007 comedy "Sydney White" and appeared in two TV movies: "Living Proof" and "Canned."

Her last listed role was in the hit 2010 movie "Easy A," which starred Emma Stone. Bynes portrayed Marianne, the president of the school's Cross Your Heart club.

Bynes made headlines in the early 2010s due to charges including a DUI and marijuana possession. The DUI charge was dismissed in exchange for a plea deal while another judge dismissed the marijuana possession case in 2014.

The actress was placed under a 72-hour mental health hold in 2013 after allegedly setting a small fire in her neighbor's driveway, and her mother was granted temporary conservatorship over the actress.

In a 2018 interview with Paper magazine in November, Bynes revealed that she was receiving an associate's degree from the Fashion Institute of Design and Merchandising and hopes to complete her bachelor's degree as well. In June 2019, she shared a photo of herself at her graduation.

Bynes reportedly checked into a rehabilitation facility in January 2019 to deal with a stress-induced relapse and is working on staying sober.

In May 2020, on an unverified Instagram account called @amandabynesreal, the actress told fans that she's taking online classes so she could earn a bachelor's degree from FIDM.

Bynes also said that she "spent the last two months in treatment" and "w orked on coping skills to help with my social anxiety that caused me to drop out of school months ago."

"I'm now living in transitional living and doing therapy during the week," she said, adding that she's still engaged to "love of my life" Paul Michael.

Advertisement

James Marsden portrayed show host Corny Collins.

Corny recognized Tracy's talent and chose her to fill the vacant dancer position on his show.

Advertisement

Marsden starred alongside Jim Carrey in the 2020 movie "Sonic the Hedgehog," based on the beloved video game character.

Marsden was already an established star when he portrayed Corny Collins, thanks to roles in "The Notebook" and the "X-Men" franchise.

In the years after "Hairspray," the actor starred alongside Amy Adams in the musical film "Enchanted," played Katherine Heigl's love interest in the rom-com "27 Dresses," and portrayed Criss on the hit show "30 Rock."

Marsden also starred in comedies like "Sex Drive" and "Death at a Funeral." He portrayed John F. Kennedy in Lee Daniels' "The Butler," reprised his "X-Men" part as Scott Summers/Cyclops for the 2014 movie "X-Men: Days of Future Past," and starred in the 2013 "Anchorman" sequel.

More recently, Marsden starred as Teddy Flood on the first two seasons of HBO's "Westworld" and played two characters on Netflix's "Dead to Me."

Advertisement

Brittany Snow played mean girl Amber Von Tussle.

She was a dancer who dated Link and wanted to be the center of attention on "The Corny Collins Show."

Advertisement

Snow is perhaps best known for her role as Chloe in the "Pitch Perfect" films.

She played the character during three movies released between 2012 and 2017.

Snow has also guest-starred on shows like "Gossip Girl" and "Crazy Ex-Girlfriend." In 2019, she portrayed Blair Helms in the Netflix rom-com "Someone Great," which starred LaKeith Stanfield and Gina Rodriguez.

More recently, Snow starred on the Fox sitcom "Almost Family" with "Hannah Montana" alum Emily Osment.

The actress married real estate agent Tyler Stanaland in Malibu in 2020, a year after getting engaged.

Advertisement

Elijah Kelly portrayed a smooth dancer named Seaweed J. Stubbs.

He and Tracy bonded over their love for dance after meeting in the detention room. Seaweed also fell in love with Penny.

Advertisement

Kelley portrayed a singer named Andy on the Fox series "Star."

The show also starred "Hairspray" costar Queen Latifah.

Since "Hairspray," you may have seen Kelley in "Lee Daniels' The Butler," "The Wiz Live!" (in which he portrayed the scarecrow), and "The New Edition Story."

Advertisement

Michelle Pfeiffer starred as Velma Von Tussle, the film's antagonist.

She was the station manager at WYZT, which aired "The Corny Collins Show." Velma was also racist and only allowed Black dancers on the show for Negro Day.

Advertisement

Pfeiffer stars as Janet Van Dyne in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.

She made her debut as Janet, the original Wasp, in 2018's "Ant-Man and the Wasp" and briefly appeared in the 2019 blockbuster movie "Avengers: Endgame."

The Oscar-nominated actress also starred as villain Queen Ingrith in the 2019 "Maleficent" sequel titled "Maleficent: Mistress of Evil."

In 2012, Pfeiffer starred alongside Johnny Depp in the Tim Burton film "Dark Shadows," based on a soap opera of the same name. She also had roles in the horror movie "Mother!" and the 2017 whodunit film "Murder on the Orient Express."

Pfeiffer earned an Emmy nomination and a Golden Globe nod for her role as Ruth Madoff in the HBO biopic "The Wizard of Lies."

Advertisement

Christopher Walken portrayed Wilbur Turnblad, Tracy's dad.

He owned a joke store called the "Hardy-Har Hut."

Advertisement

Christopher Walken has starred in a variety of films since "Hairspray," from comedies to thrillers.

Walken has starred in comedies like "The Maiden Heist," "Seven Psychopaths," and "Father Figures." The actor also portrayed Zeus in the 2013 movie "Gods Behaving Badly" and starred as Gyp DeCarlo, a member of the Genovese crime family in New Jersey, in the 2014 biopic "Jersey Boys."

Walken played Captain Hook in NBC's "Peter Pan Live!" which starred Allison Williams, and voiced the orangutan King Louie in Jon Favreau's 2016 movie "The Jungle Book."

He earned his second Tony Award nomination in 2010 for his starring role in the play "A Behanding in Spokane."

More recently, Walken starred alongside John Turturro in the 2019 "Big Lebowski" spin-off titled "The Jesus Rolls."

Advertisement

Queen Latifah played Motormouth Maybelle, Seaweed's mother.

Motormouth was also a DJ and had her own record store.

Advertisement

Latifah portrayed real-life actress Hattie McDaniel on Netflix's new series called "Hollywood."

Over the years, Latifah has juggled her acting career with executive producing projects and releasing music.

The year after "Hairspray" hit theaters, Latifah won her first Golden Globe for best performance by an actress in a miniseries or a motion picture made for television for her role as Ana in "Life Support."

The actress has appeared in rom-coms like "What Happens in Vegas" and "Valentine's Day," both of which also starred Ashton Kutcher. In addition, Latifah has voiced a mammoth named Ellie in the animated "Ice Age" movies.

In 2017, Latifah teamed up with Jada Pinkett Smith, Tiffany Haddish, and Regina Hall for the hit comedy "Girls Trip."

Latifah also utilized her musicality for her role as Carlotta Brown on the Fox series "Star," which lasted for three seasons between 2016 and 2019. She served as s producer for the show, too.

The actress earned nominations at the Emmys and Golden Globes for her role as real-life blues singer Bessie Smith in the 2015 TV movie "Bessie."

She played the titular character of NBC's "The Wiz Live!" (which also starred "Hairspray" costar Kelley) and portrayed the iconic Disney villain Ursula for ABC's "The Little Mermaid Live!"

Advertisement

Allison Janney played Penny's uptight and strict mom named Prudy Pingleton.

Prudy called Tracy a "bad influence" on Penny and, like Velma, was also racist.

Advertisement

Advertisement

Tayla Parx portrayed Little Inez, Seaweed's younger sister.

At the end of the movie, she was crowned the winner of the annual Miss Teenage Hairspray pageant.

Advertisement

Parx is now a hit-making singer-songwriter.

After "Hairspray," Parx (whose real name is Taylor Parks) guest-starred on shows like "Victorious" and "True Jackson, VP."

Since then, she's focused on her music career, telling Rolling Stone that "music came first, but acting helped it evolve into a completely different story."

Parx released her debut album, "We Need to Talk," in 2019. She released a new song called "Dance Alone" in 2020 and is planning on dropping another album titled "Coping Mechanisms."

Parx is the genius behind chart-topping tracks like Ariana Grande's "Thank U, Next" (an artist who she frequently collaborates with); Panic! At the Disco's "High Hopes;" and Khalid and Normani's "Love Lies."

She's also written songs for artists like Jennifer Lopez, Christina Aguilera, and BTS.

Read next

Celebrities Movie

Advertisement