New South Wales has crumbled to its lowest ever first-class score, skittled for just 32 in the first innings of its Sheffield Shield clash against Tasmania in Hobart.

Jackson Bird was the chief destroyer, taking seven wickets for 18 runs off his 10 overs.

Peter Siddle and Sam Rainbird claimed one wicket each, with Blues paceman Sean Abbott unable to bat due to injury.

After Tasmania scored a first-innings total of 333 courtesy of half-centuries to Matt Wade (57), Tim Paine (87) and Bird (54), NSW's run chase got off to a terrible start, losing three wickets without scoring a run.

Opener Daniel Hughes and number three Daniel Solway both headed back to the pavilion in the first over after being dismissed leg before to Bird.

Siddle maintained the pressure at the other end, bowling his first of five maidens in his nine over spell, before NSW opener Kurtis Patterson edged one to Paine in Bird's second over.

Jason Sangha tried to get the scoreboard moving, but was out LBW off Siddle for nine.

Blues opener Nick Larkin was caught by Tasmanian opener Charlie Wakim an over later, leaving the visitors in dire straits at 5/13.

It didn't get any better for New South Wales, with Mitchell Starc (2), Trent Copeland (6) and Nathan Lyon (0) all falling victim to Bird's incredible spell.

Harry Conway was the last wicket to fall, caught behind in Rainbird's first over, leacing Peter Nevill stranded on 10 - NSW's highest score.

Tasmania refused to enforce the follow-on, instead going back out to bat with a 301 run lead.

It's New South Wales' lowest ever Sheffield Shield total and fourth lowest total in Shield history. The side's previous worst score of 53 came in the first innings of a 2007 Shield match against Tasmania in Hobart.

In that match, NSW was sent back in to bat again after falling well short of Tasmania's first innings total of 370.

Anchored by captain Dominic Thornely (138) and Ben Rohrer (163), New South Wales managed to score 498 to set Tasmania a target of 182 to win.

Opener Michael di Venuto followed up his first innings score of 181 with an unbeaten 79 as Tasmania claimed a seven wicket win.

Tim Paine played in both matches, opening Tasmania's batting with scores of 17 and 0 in 2007. Now a veteran, Paine top-scored in Tasmania's first innings this weekend and took two catches behind the stumps.

The lowest score in Sheffield Shield history is 27, set by South Australia in 1955. In 2004 SA also recorded the second-lowest score of 29, with Victoria owning the third lowest ever score of 31, set in 1907.