Daguerreotype of King Mongkut and Daughter, 1861

This item is a daguerreotype of King Rama IV, or King Mongkut, with his daughter Somdetch Chow-Fa-ying, which was sent as a ceremonial gift from King Mongkut of Siam to President James Buchanan. According to t ... More

Daguerreotype of King Mongkut and Daughter, 1861

This item is a daguerreotype of King Rama IV, or King Mongkut, with his daughter Somdetch Chow-Fa-ying, which was sent as a ceremonial gift from King Mongkut of Siam to President James Buchanan. According to t ... More

King Mongkut of Thailand

King Mongkut (Rama IV) of Siam (now Thailand). In this image, he wore a military uniform and sat on simple chair. The photograph was taken at Phra Apinaoniwet in the current Grand Palace. ไทย: พระบรมฉายาลักษณ ... More

King Mongkut Solar Eclipse Expedition

King Mongkut and party viewing a solar eclipse on the 18 August 1868. The King seated center in the middle of the pavilion, Sir Harry Ord (Governor of the Straits Settlements at Singpore) and the British party ... More

King Rama in full Regalia

King Mongkut (Rama IV) in full Reglia Public domain photograph of 19th-century male portrait, studio portrait photography, free to use, no copyright restrictions image - Picryl description

Mongkut & Debsirindra, Thailand

King Mongkut (Rama IV) and Queen Debsirindra of Siam, in 1856. Gift of King Mongkut, 1856; Harris Treaty Gifts; Department of Anthropology; cat. # E4003. Smithsonian Institution; National Anthropological Archi ... More

Mongkut and Chulalongkorn ceremony 1

Photograph showing the investiture ceremony of Prince Chulalongkorn (on the palanquin) his father King Mongkut is standing in the pavillion, Grand Palace, Bangkok, Siam

Mongkut and Chulalongkorn ceremony

Photograph showing the investiture ceremony of Prince Chulalongkorn (on the palanquin) his father King Mongkut is standing in the pavillion, Grand Palace, Bangkok, Siam

Mongkut in the Sangha

Photograph of King Mongkut in the white robes of a lay renunciant, observing the precepts.

Phongsawadan Ratchakan Thi Ha, vol 1, p 27

Original caption: "A photo of HM King Chom Klao the Lord Upon All Heads, wearing star decorations, with [his wife,] HM Thepsirinthra the Great Queen". ไทย: คำบรรยายดั้งเดิม: "พระบรมรูปพระบาทสมเด็จฯ พระจอมเกล้า ... More

Prachum Phongsawadan vol 19, p 3

King Rama IV of Siam presided over the reception of Sir Harry Ord, British governor of the Straits Settlements, held in the (now-defunct) district of Wa Ko, Siam (in present-day Prachuap Khiri Khan Province, T ... More

Rama IV do Sião em 1865 (Sociedade de Geografia de Lisboa)

King Rama IV of Siam, in an 1864 photograph in the collection of the Lisbon Geographic Society

Public Domain Images - SiamRoyals1875GeorgeEastmanHouseviaGetty

King Mongkut of Siam (far right), with a wife and some of his children. His heir, Chulalongkorn, sits next to him. This site lists the date as 1875, which is wrong as Mongkut died in 1868. Judging by the lan ... More