Original name: Невероятные приключения итальянцев в России

Genre: Adventure, Comedy, Crime

Country: Soviet Union, Italy

Duration: 104 min.

Story: In Italy, a dying woman tells her granddaughter that she hid her treasure many years ago in Russia, in the city of Leningrad. Other people (who were around when she died) also learn about it. Thus several people arrive in Leningrad trying to find the treasure, each one for himself/herself. What's worse - the only information they have is that the treasure is under a lion - and it's in Leningrad, a city known by its numerous statues of lions. The story gets even more interesting when the soviet militia (police) learns about the whole thing and send an undercover agent...

Genre: Adventure, Comedy, Crime

Country: Soviet Union

Duration: 94 min.

Story: Semyon Gorbunkov goes on a cruise with a smuggler on board. In Istanbul, he slips and breaks his arm. What he didn't know is that this was a signal for the gang of smugglers.

Style: humorous, feel good, light, realistic, funny ...

Audience: family outing

Plot: gem, cons and scams, smuggling, farce, nothing goes right, mistaken identity, smuggler, goofy hero, police station, secret mission, disorder, chases and races ...

Time: 60s, year 1969, 20th century

Place: soviet union, ussr, russia, istanbul turkey

Genre: Adventure, Comedy, Crime

Country: France, Italy, Spain

Duration: 111 min.

Story: In this Frenco-Italian gangster parody, a shop keeper on his way to an Italian holiday suffers a crash which totals his car. The culprit can only compensate his ruined trip by driving an American friends car from Napels to Bordeaux, but as it ...

Style: road movie, semi serious, humorous, realistic, funny ...

Audience: kids

Plot: car chase, anti hero, hitchhiker, gangster, odd couple, dishonesty, partner, disorder, drug dealing, criminal heroes, chase, unlikely criminals ...

Time: 60s

Place: france, paris france, naples italy, rome italy, southern italy ...

Genre: Adventure, Comedy, Crime

Country: France

Duration: 98 min.

Story: Grégoire Lecomte, the unlucky actor anxious to find a "real job", goes to take a screen test for a role of a killer, but gets to mafiosi by mistake. He takes their don for a producer, and they mistake him for a hitman with whom they had ...

Style: humorous, realistic, semi serious, suspenseful

Plot: contract killer, killer, gangster, danger, criminal heroes, dishonesty, disorder, hotel, down on your luck, comedy of errors, hitman, car ...

Time: 70s

Place: cannes, paris france, riviera

Genre: Adventure, Comedy, Drama, Musical, Romance

Country: Soviet Union

Duration: 82 min.

Story: In this comic but dated story, nerdy Shurik travels to Caucas in search of native legends and folklore. But what he finds is a beautiful girl whom, due to intoxication and deceit of the local "gang", he ends up literally stealing for the ...

Style: feel good, humorous, romantic, spoof

Audience: family outing, date night

Plot: student, corrupt official, couple relations, kidnapping, love affair, criminal gang, love and romance, human relationship, social relations, summer, iron curtain, caucasian ...

Place: soviet union, ussr, caucasus, russia

Genre: Adventure, Comedy, Mystery

Country: Soviet Union

Duration: 76 min.

TV show

Story: A former aristocrat Ippolit Vorobyaninov leads a miserable life in Soviet Russia. His mother-in-law reveals a secret to him - she hid family diamonds in one of the twelve chairs they once had. Vorobyaninov in cooperation with a young con artist ...

Style: entertaining, cynical, humorous, captivating, funny

Plot: hidden treasure, treasure hunt, follow your dream, reluctant partners, uninhibited rivalry, cons and scams, unlikely partners, it was all a dream, wealth, partners in crime, interwar period, love ...

Time: 1920s

Place: soviet union, russia

Genre: Action, Adventure, Comedy, Crime

Country: Russia

Duration: 94 min.

Story: Former prisoners captured plane. But on the way there was a failure, and to alleviate the weight of the aircraft, they throw overboard box with three hostages. The hostages managed to land safely. Now they have to stick together. And around a ...

Plot: drug, submarine, female nudity, bus, desert, sea, diamond, slave trade, terrorist, pilot, director, bare breasts ...

Place: russia, iran, syria

Genre: Comedy, Crime, Romance

Country: Soviet Union

Duration: 94 min.

Story: An insurance agent who moonlights as a carthief steals cars various crooks and never from the common people. He sells the stolen cars and gives the money to charity. His best friend, a cop, is assigned to bring in this modern robin hood.

Style: sincere, tense, captivating, suspense

Audience: kids

Plot: police, irony of fate, friendship, storytelling, dishonesty, escapades, post soviet, love, hamlet, stealing a car, car thief, shakespeare ...

Place: soviet union, ussr, russia

Genre: Comedy, Crime, Drama

Country: Soviet Union

Duration: 92 min.

Story: An old detective does not want to retire. The only way out is to prove to his boss that he still can catch criminals. The problem is that there were no crimes recently to work on. Together with his retired friend he decides to commit a perfect crime ...

Style: detective

Plot: art theft, elderly, investigator, museum, renovation, deception, cooking, robbery, theft, friend, criminal, layoff ...

Place: russia

Genre: Comedy, Drama, Romance

Country: Soviet Union

Duration: 192 min.

Story: A group of old friends have a tradition of going to a public bathing house on New Years eve. Occasionally too much vodka and beer makes two of them unconscious. The problem is that one of them (Sasha) has to go to Leningrad but another one (Zhenya) ...

Style: light, feel good, humorous, funny, romantic comedy ...

Audience: kids, family outing

Plot: new year, love and romance, fall in love, love triangle, disorder, comedy of errors, farce, unfulfillment, new year's eve, drunken man, social satire, uninhibited rivalry ...

Time: 70s, 20th century

Place: soviet union, siberia, moscow russia, st. petersburg russia, ussr ...

Genre: Comedy, Drama

Country: USA

Duration: 94 min.

Story: A treasure hunt. An aging ex-nobleman of the Czarist regime has finally adjusted to life under the commisars in Russia. Both he and the local priest find that the family jewels were hidden in a chair, one of a set of twelve. They return separately ...

Style: satirical, stylized, talky, philosophical, witty ...

Audience: family outing

Plot: treasure hunt, road trip, farce, mentor, corruption, betrayal, storytelling, life philosophy, greed, brutality, obsessive quest, odd couple ...

Time: 1920s, 20th century

Place: russia, soviet union, moscow russia

Genre: Comedy, Crime

Country: USA

Duration: 92 min.

Story: When the wealthy owner of an upscale brothel dies, our hero Victor, is sent on a wild goose chase to find the three beautiful heiresses. His only clue is that each of the three women have a hamster branded on their buttocks! When the girls are ...

Style: spy comedy, parody, spoof, independent film, detective

Audience: adult

Plot: spy, nudity, female nudity, sexploitation, sexual obsession, ex prostitute, mafioso, brothel, sadist, female impersonator, comedy duo, comedy team ...