The Peruvian Province, from 6° S in Peru to 42° S in Chile, is a highly productive coastal marine region whose biology and fossil record have long been studied separately but never integrated. To understand how past events and conditions affected today's species composition and interactions, we examined the role of extinction, colonization, geologic changes to explain previously unrecognized peculiar features of the biota and to compare the Peruvian Province's history to that of other climatically similar temperate coasts. We synthesized all available data on the benthic (or benthically feeding) biota, with emphasis on fossilizable taxa, for the interval from the Miocene (23–5.4 Ma) and Pliocene (5.4–2.5 Ma) to the present. We outline the history of ecological guilds including primary producers, herbivores, predators, and suspension‐feeders and document patterns of extinction, colonization, and geographic restriction. We identify twelve unusual attributes of the biota, most of which are the result of repeated episodes of extinction. Several guilds present during the Miocene and Pliocene are not represented in the province today, while groups such as kelps and perhaps intertidal predatory sea stars are relative newcomers. Guilds on soft bottoms and in sheltered habitats were severely affected by extinction, whereas those on hard bottoms were most affected by colonists and held their own in diversity. The Peruvian Province has not served as a biogeographic refuge, in contrast to the coasts of Australasia and Argentina, where lineages no longer present in the Peruvian Province survive. The loss of sheltered habitats since the Pliocene explains many of the present‐day peculiarities of the biota. The history of the province's biota explains its unique attributes. High productivity, a rich Southern Hemisphere heritage, and colonization from the north account for the present‐day composition and unusual characteristics of the biota.

A new genus of conoidean gastropods of the family Mangeliidae, Notopropebela gen. nov., is herein described to include N. profunda (Castellanos and Landoni, 1993) previously in the genus Propebela Iredale, 1918, and two new species from the deep waters off south-western Atlantic Argentine. This new genus is characterised by small rhomboid shells with axial riblets and spiral cords, absent operculum, and radula of semi-enrolled marginal teeth. Both new species are distinguished from N. profunda by the presence of pustules covering the shell. Notopropebela pustulata sp. nov. was collected at depths ranging from 530 to 2845 m off Argentina within the Mar del Plata Submarine Canyon in the north and Burdwood Bank surroundings in the south. Notopropebela petu sp. nov., distinguished from N. pustulata by a larger spire and subsutural ramp, was described from material collected from 210 m off Buenos Aires province. The radula and details of the shell and protoconch of both new species were studied from material deposited in the collections of Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales (MACN) and Museo de La Plata (MLP). We conclude that the genus Propebela is absent from the south-western Atlantic. http://www.zoobank.org/urn:lsid:zoobank.org:pub:act:BABC3CF0-0301-43D5-8F61-01EB94F7D647 http://www.zoobank.org/urn:lsid:zoobank.org:pub:act:CA51AFD6-0C1D-49C2-91EE-BF3F7DBA3625 http://www.zoobank.org/urn:lsid:zoobank.org:pub:act:D0130F68-6631-4368-91B1-5E68AF0B3C85

Beta diversity quantifies the spatial structuring of ecological communities and is a fundamental partition of biodiversity, central to understanding many macroecological phenomena in modern biology and paleobiology. Despite its common application in ecology, studies of beta diversity in the fossil record are relatively limited at regional spatial scales that are important for understanding macroevolutionary processes. The spatial scaling of beta diversity in the fossil record is poorly understood, but has significant implications due to temporal variation in the spatial distribution of fossil collections and the large spatiotemporal scales typically employed. Here we test the spatial scaling of several common measures of beta diversity using the Cenozoic shallow-marine molluscan fossil record of New Zealand and derive a spatially standardized time series of beta diversity. To measure spatial scaling, we use and compare grid-cell occupancy based on an equal-area grid and summed minimum spanning tree length, both based on reconstructed paleocoordinates of fossil collections. We find that beta diversity is spatially dependent at local to regional scales, regardless of the metric or spatial scaling utilized, and that spatial standardization significantly changes apparent temporal trends of beta diversity and, therefore, inferences about processes driving diversity change.

Fasciolariids are buccinoid neogastropods and key predators in the tropics and subtropics, comprising more than 500 species in the subfamilies Fasciolariinae, Fusininae and Peristerniinae. Tulip shells, horse-conchs, spindles, etc., have been grouped into heterogeneous combinations of unrelated species, while several generic names have been used to group conchologically similar species. The latest molecular phylogenetic study conflicts with the current circumscription of many genera, and even more so, with the three currently recognized subfamilies. This work is the first morphological approach to the phylogeny of fasciolariids, using a parsimony analysis in TnT of 53 taxa based on 100 characters. This analysis reveals a monophyletic Fasciolariidae, with the genera Dolicholatirus and Teralatirus representing the most basal clade in the family, followed by three nodes that correspond to a fusinine grade, which includes the genus Pseudolatirus (Peristerniinae). A terminal clade groups the peristerniine genera Peristernia and Fusolatirus, fasciolariines and the remaining peristerniines. Although none of these clades correspond to currently accepted taxonomic groups, the latter two clades are corroborated in the most recent multilocus molecular phylogeny. This study supports the utility of morphological data in the recovery of groups, even in the molecular era.

Plio-Pleistocene sediments exposed in the dissected hill country of the Lower Pohangina Valley and Manawatu Saddle provide a unique record of sedimentation adjacent to the actively uplifting main axial range, North Island, New Zealand. Located in the eastern Whanganui Basin, which has formed behind the active Hikurangi subduction zone, renowned for one of the most comprehensive Quaternary stratigraphic records in the world. The oldest beds in the succession, unconformably overlying Torlesse Group, comprise Mangapanian (3–2.4 Ma) very fine conglomerate, sandstone and mudstone of the Komako Formation. Subsequent deposition of Konewa Formation continued through to late Nukumaruan time (2.4–1.63 Ma), including large tracts of conglomerate now preserved across the Manawatu Saddle, clearly visible from the Saddle Road. Takapari Formation consists of early Castlecliffian (1.63–1 Ma) sediments characterised by a sudden influx of primary volcanic and reworked volcaniclastic material. Distinctive rhyolitic marker beds and molluscan bio-events provide a means of correlating and dating the succession from the Lower Pohangina Valley across the Whanganui Basin. We present the geology of the Lower Pohangina Valley on a 1:30,000 geological map, accompanying cross section and 3D model. A new stratigraphic framework is presented, integrating work in the Komako District, Pohangina Valley with Whanganui Basin stratigraphy through the application of tephrochronology and biostratigraphy. The Lower Pohangina Valley succession provides evidence for marine conditions prevailing across what is now part of the main axial range of New Zealand from c. 3 to 1.6 Ma. An influx of conglomerate, eroded from Torlesse Group, into the sedimentary record during early Nukumaruan time (2.4 Ma) is attributed to an early phase of tectonic uplift along the North Island Dextral Fault Belt (NIDFB), before closure of the ‘Manawatu Strait’ commenced in early Castlecliffian time (1.63 Ma).

Whanganui Basin is a unique global archive—nowhere else in the world is there yet documented a shallow marine basinal sequence, exposed on land, which spans the entire Quaternary. Slow basin subsidence, coupled with glacio-eustatic sea-level fluctuations, has produced a ca. 2 km-thick basin fill of dominantly shallow marine sediments, representing all odd-numbered (high sea-level) marine isotope stages of the last 2.6 Ma. Furthermore, uplift of the basin margins has resulted in a sequence of marine terraces extending back to almost 0.7 Ma. Loess deposits, up to 0.5 Ma in age, overlie the terraces. Pollen and plant phytolith analyses of terrace cover beds yield a paleovegetation and paleoclimatic record spanning much of the last 0.4 Ma. Proximity to the Taupo Volcanic Zone means that the Whanganui Basin contains many rhyolitic tephras for regional correlations and dating. Richly fossiliferous marine sediments also provide the basis for defining the Haweran, Castlecliffian, Nukumaruan and Mangapanian Stages of the New Zealand geological timescale.

Beu, A.G., August 2016. Molluscan death assemblages from uplifted Holocene terraces, Mahia Peninsula, New Zealand, interpreted from present-day intertidal ecology. Alcheringa 41, xxx–xxx. ISSN 0311-5518. Macrofossils from cover beds of marine terraces at Table Cape, Mahia Peninsula, uplifted coseismically ca 250, 1400, 1850 and 3500 years ago are compared with the fauna living on the nearby 200-m-wide intertidal rock platform. The inner platform is dry at low tide, apart from shallow pools containing Diloma aethiops and abundant but unexpected specimens of Zeacumantus subcarinatus and Cominella glandiformis exposed to the sun; all are common fossils in the terrace cover beds. The outer platform is carpeted densely with the alga Hormosira and shelters a diverse fauna, again all common fossils in the terrace cover beds. Sand and gravel containing shell fragments and supporting Zostera sea-grass turf unexpectedly covers ca 5% of the platform in low areas along the east coast. The fossil fauna is listed from 47 samples from two trenches excavated east–west and north–south through the terrace cover beds. Death assemblages of 158 molluscs, including 24 new records as fossils, and 11 taxa in other phyla delimit sediment derived from four shell accumulation sites identified around the present cape: storm beach, high-tidal strand line, hollows in the rock platform and Zostera flats. Up to 32 of the 47 samples (68%) possibly were deposited in Zostera flats; the rest were sand beach accumulations deposited at and near the high-tidal strand line. All fossils common in the cover beds lived on the rock platform. Differences between the deposits in the two trenches result from two factors. Protection along the east coast by protruding tephra beds and an outer rampart armoured with the macroalga Durvillaea prevented erosion of Zostera-supporting sediment which, therefore, was retained after each uplift event. The exposed eastern position of Table Cape also caused sediment to be transported predominantly westwards, onshore on the east coast but away from Table Cape along the north coast. A.G. Beu [a.beu@gns.cri.nz], Paleontology Department, GNS Science, PO Box 30368, Lower Hutt 5040, New Zealand.