Renowned shipbuilder Fincantieri announced today that they and Crystal were signing a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) for the construction of two state-of-the-art, high-end cruise ships, with the option for a third.

The new vessels will accommodate about 690 passengers who will enjoy all-suite acccommodations with private verandas and interior designs crafted by renowned architectural firms, not to mention one of the highest crew-to-passenger ratios at this level, ensuring personalized service and attention to detail.

In addition, there will be a single occupancy category specially designed for solo travelers.

The delivery of the first vessel is scheduled in spring 2028, with details regarding the second ship to be announced at a later date.

Long Partnership Sails Into the Future

Commenting in a media announcement, Pierroberto Folgiero, CEO and managing director of Fincantieri noted that “this order not only highlights the recovery of the cruise sector, but also reaffirms Fincantieri’s leadership, thanks to the operational excellence of our shipyards and the execution quality of our world-class supply chain. We are thrilled to partner with Crystal in pursuit of innovation and excellence guided by a ship owner who has always been close to our group, Manfredi Lefebvre d’Ovidio.”

D’Ovidio, Executive Chairman of A&K Travel Group—which acquired Crystal in 2022 and is the parent company of Abercrombie & Kent—also had a few words about this most recent partnership, an alliance that far predates the Crystal connection.

“This order is another milestone in the 40 years of productive collaboration between Fincantieri and my family that started with Sitmar Cruises, continued with Silversea and now is flourishing again with Crystal,” d’Ovidio said. “Our aim is to continue setting a new standard in cruising, offering our guests an unmatched level of service and sophistication.”

Cristina Lewis, CEO of A&K Travel Group added, “our aim is continue setting a new standard in cruising, offering our guests an unmatched level of service and sophistication.”