Silversea Cruises

Silversea is a cruise company reflecting generations of maritime and travel experience. In the early 1990s, the Lefebvre family of Rome, former owners of Sitmar Cruises, conceived and organized a unique cruise company pledging to build and operate the highest-quality ships in the ultra-luxury segment. The name “Silversea” was chosen because it connotes quality and luxury as well as capturing the romance and special sensations of the sea.

Silversea’s fleet was purpose-built for the ultra-luxury market, establishing a new class of smaller, intimate vessels that could slip into more exotic ports off the beaten path. The company’s elite vessels are specifically designed for fewer guests, more space and the highest levels of personalized service, delivered by Italian officers and European staff. All ocean view suites, most with private balcony, and open-seating dining options so guests dine when, where and with whom they desire, add to the very special ambiance created onboard. Silversea ships also incorporate the favorite amenities found on larger ships, such elaborate show lounges featuring nightly entertainment, casinos, a spa and state-of-the-art fitness facilities.

As an innovator in the ultra-luxury segment, Silversea is the favorite among modern affluent travelers with its all-inclusive pricing and unmatched onboard product enhanced by partnerships with the world’s most respected luxury brands – Bvlgari, Ferragamo, Davidoff and Relais & Châteaux. Today, Silversea is recognized as the defining elite luxury experience and is regularly lauded by leading consumer and trade publications.

Key Selling Points

An innovative pioneer in luxury cruising, Silversea’s all-suites fleet is rated “World’s Top Cruise Line”; the most all-inclusive product afloat. Fares include all onboard gratuities, butler service in all accommodations, complimentary in-suite bar and refrigerator stocked with each guest’s preferred beverage selections, complimentary beverages served throughout the ship — including fine wines, spirits and champagnes, and complimentary 24-hour room service includes dinner served course-by-course.

Caters to discerning guests (well-traveled¸ affluent and well-educated).

Exotic worldwide destinations.

A rewarding loyalty program.

Culinary Arts theme cruises feature acclaimed chefs of Relais & Châteaux.

Destinations: