Born into a farmer's family, Rama Rao Taraka Nandamuri got his bachelors of arts degree and took a job with the government. Married to Nandamuri Basavatarakam, he began acting in films, his first being Mana Desam (1949), in which he played a police officer. His first movie as a hero was Palletoori Pilla (1950), which was a huge hit. His subsequent movies--Showkar (1950), Pathala Bhairavi (1951), Malliswari (1951) and Chandraharam (1953)--established him as the premier hero in the Telugu film industry. He acted in a mythological role as Lord Krishna for the first time in Maya Bazaar (1957) and acted in most of the major roles in "Ramayana" and "Mahabharatam", even in Tamil films. He acted in a total of 254 films, including some Tamil and Hindi films. He suffered some career reversals in the late 1960s and early 1970s, but came back with a bang in the late 1970s with some major hits like Adavi Ramudu (1977), Yamagola (1977), Vetagadu (1979). Some of his major hits in the early 1980s include Sardar Papa Rayudu (1980), Bobbili Puli (1982), Kondaveeti Simham (1981). He became the first superstar of the Telugu films a position which was held by Chiranjeevi till around 2001. An intensely emotional person, he also directed films, built a studio and produced films. He established the TeluguDesam party in 1982 and within a year became the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh. He was an avid advocate of Telugu Pride and made sure his native state. He married Lakshmi Parvathi in 1993. He was re-elected by a landslide in 1994, but was ousted from power by an internal party coup in which his son-in-law and the present Chief Minister, Mr. Chandrababu Naidu, took over in 1995. He died less than six months later, in 1996 because of heart attack. His son Nandamuri Balakrishna is a famous actor in Telugu films. He is survived by six sons and three daughters.

Popularly known as Bapu was born on 15th December,1933 in Narsapur, Andhrapradesh. Before this Bapu met Ramana in Taylor high school in Narasapur where they studied as classmates for three years until second world war ended. Later when their families moved to Madras where they continued their studies, in 1945 All India Radio (Madras) published a children's story Amma maata vinakapothe which was written by Mollapudi Venkataramana for which Bapu worked as a cartoonist making this their first collaboration. Later Bapu was got graduated from University of Madras in B.com B.L in 1953 and 1955 respectively. Bapu became an expert cartoonist and painter own his own with his own style which caught everyone's eyes. Soon when Bapu wanted to make films Ramana also joined him. By the time Bapu became a director Ramana has got some chances as a writer in the industry. Later Bapu debuted with his directorial and written by Ramana Saakshi in 1967 starring Krishna and Vijaya nirmala which became an instant hit. Entire movie was known to be shot in just 17days completely in outdoors which was first of its kind at that time. This director-writer duo went on to make many well known and noted movies like Balaraju katha, Sampoorna ramayanam, Andala ramudu, Muthyala muggu, Seetha kalyanam, Bhaktha kannappa, Gorantha deepam, Manavoori pandavulu, Tyagayya, Manthrigaari viyyankudu, Pelli pustakam, Mister pellaam. Bapu and Ramana are known for their friendship in Telugu film industry even today. While they collaborated for Srirama Rajyam in 2011 Ramana passed away in the film making and soon after the film's release Bapu also passed away making this film their last one. Bapu has received 2 National film awards, 3 Filmfare awards, 7 state Nandi awards and prestigious Raghupathi Venkaiah award from the Government of Andhra Pradesh. Bapu's direction with simplistic and cultural aspects in his films is widely appreciated. Especially his way of showing lead actresses with 'Telugu thanam' is considered undeniably the best. Bapu also widely known for his paintings of characters of epics like ramayana and Mahabharata. Both Bapu and Ramana collaborated for some popular books namely Budugu, Kothi kommachi, Bommalu geeyandi. Bapu who is especially fond Lord Rama has drawn a numerous portraits of him which are unique in field of line drawing. He also received a Life time achievement award from Indian institute of cartoonists. He has designed and illustrated a number of books of puranas and folklore for which he received government awards. Bapu is also known for introducing a whole new font in Telugu which is known to be used even today.