Actress Michelle Williams and director Thomas Kail have married in a secret ceremony, reported Us Weekly.

Reports of their engagement were confirmed late last year. Now, the couple are expecting their first child together.

Williams was previously married to musician Phil Elverum and has a 14-year-old daughter whom she shared with late actor Heath Ledger.

Michelle Williams and Thomas Kail are officially husband and wife.

According to Us Weekly, the award-winning actress and Fosse/Verdon director wed in a secret ceremony. The couple's engagement was confirmed late last year after the two worked together on the FX miniseries, for which Williams won a Golden Globe for her role as Gwen Verdon.

Rumors of the pair secretly eloping began to circulate after the Daily Mail captured images of the two both donning wedding bands recently. Reportedly, the couple were aiming to get married before Williams gave birth.

"They're very happy and thrilled to be bringing a baby into the world," a source previously told Us Weekly.

Gregg DeGuire//Getty Images

Williams was previously married to musician Phil Elverum, though the two divorced after less than a year of marriage. The actress also has a 14-year-old daughter, Matilda Ledger, from her relationship with late actor Heath Ledger. Kail was previously married to actress Angela Christian.

Williams acknowledged her now-husband and her beloved daughter during a sentimental acceptance speech for best female actor at this year's Screen Actors Guild Awards.

"Tom, I share this with you. Matilda, it is one thing to be completely honest as an actor, it is another to be completely honest as a human being," said the actress. "That is just who you are and how you live. You teach me by being you. I love you and I am coming home."

Bianca Betancourt is the culture editor at HarpersBAZAAR.com, where she covers all things film, TV, music, and more. When she's not writing, she loves impulsively baking a batch of cookies, re-listening to the same early-2000s pop playlist, and stalking Mariah Carey's Twitter feed.

ncG1vNJzZmivp6x7qa3RqZyrq5KWx6Kt0WeaqKVfmLKtscGroK2xX6GutbHSrWaaa2FthnqEkm1mpqGTnbKtuMRmrqKknJ6urr%2BMrZ%2BopZGoeqytyKVkrJ2Tp7K1ecyaqauhkZyycA%3D%3D