The actor Ben Kingsley has secretly married a Brazilian former waitress half his age. The 63-year-old Oscar winner is said to have made bit part-actress Daniela Barbosa de Carneiro, 34, his fourth wife.

She became Lady Kingsley in front of just a dozen guests sworn to secrecy at a country house in Oxfordshire, on Monday.

After the service there was a reception at the 'Gandhi' actor's £2.5 million manor house near Chipping Norton.

Scroll down for more...

The father of four met Miss Barbosa over two years ago in Hollywood. Many expressed doubts as to whether the relationship between Sir Ben - who enjoys pottering in the garden and reading - and the "bombshell" would last.

Sadly Sir Ben, who insists on people using his knighthood when they refer to him, said he was too busy filming to go on honeymoon: "We're extremely happy.

"Daniela is like an ancient mythological princess. She has great deep dignity. She moves like an ocean liner."

Lady Kingsley, as she will now be known, is the daughter of a policeman from the impoverished north-eastern Bahia region of Brazil.

Sir Ben's marriage to the former Miss Barbosa is just the latest episode in the colourful soap opera that is his private life.

To date, the script includes: three failed marriages, four children by two different wives, a long-term live-in lover who was replaced by wife No 3 (also nearly half his age), whom he then jettisoned after discovering her embracing her lover in a photograph on the internet in 2005.

The question is, will it be fourth time lucky?

Miss Barbosa arrived in Britain as a penniless student who couldn't speak a word of English more than a decade ago. She worked as a waitress and model for a bridal shop in Camden, North London, while she pursued her ambition of becoming an actress.

In 1996, she met and married former husband, Ben Lavender. Mr Lavender, a doctor's son and successful systems analyst who lived in a mansion flat in London's Notting Hill.

Scroll down for more...

"I married in a hurry and it was a big mistake," said Mr Lavender, 39.

"There is a lot I would like to say about Daniela, but that part of my life is over and I don't want to drag it all up again."

Their divorce was finalised in 2003, those who know Miss Barbosa say her marriage ended around the time she got her "big acting break" in the low budget British comedy drama Emotional Backgammon about two years earlier.

"She never really spoke about her husband," said director Leon Herbert. "All I know is that by the time we had gone to America to promote the film, they had split up."

He added: "Daniela was very confident and very ballsy. She knew exactly what she wanted - and that was to be a Hollywood actress."

Was it a coincidence that her latest fiance; just happens to be one of Britain's most respected and famous actors, with a weakness for pretty and considerably younger women?

Certainly, it comes as no surprise to learn that Sir Ben's latest project is launching a production company with Miss Barbosa.

"Hopefully, we can finance and put together and produce our own films and material that I love, and stories that I think would be beautiful to tell. 'We' is myself and my fiance Daniela," he told a U.S. journalist earlier this year.

Scroll down for more...

For the ambitious Miss Barbosa, whose career highlights include an episode of Casualty, playing a maid in Sacha Baron Cohen's Ali G In Da House, and the role as a woman who turns down her boyfriend's proposal of marriage in Emotional Backgammon - which was described by one critic as an "awful misfire" - the patronage of Sir Ben must be very welcome indeed.

His relationship with Miss Barbosa has been the subject of gossip in showbusiness circles since he unveiled her on the red carpet of a Hollywood premiere last year.

The actor has even taken to dyeing his grey facial hair and sporting a goatee.

The next day, Sir Ben was to be found shading her from the sun under a black umbrella as they walked to lunch on Sunset Boulevard.

Only months earlier, he had been in the depths of despair after being humiliated by his 30-year-old third wife, German socialite Alexandra Christmann.

A German newspaper picture of her canoodling with another man in a Berlin club appeared on the internet, and Sir Ben was told about it by a friend.

"It's very difficult to learn on the internet that my wife had a boyfriend - I can't put it any other way," Sir Ben said. "I clicked on, went into shock and then clicked off."

Afterwards he would confide to friends that he might never trust another woman again.

Even so, there were two reasons why not everyone had sympathy for him. The first was that his own conduct towards his wives and girlfriends has sometimes been called into question.

Scroll down for more...

His first marriage, to actress Angela Morant, ended in divorce in 1972 after 10 years and two children together, Thomas and Jasmine. He then married theatre director Alison Sutcliffe, with whom he had sons Edmund and Ferdinand.

He left her in 1993 for actress Kate Townsend, 35. However, in February 2002 he fell for the blonde Miss Christmann after he spotted her in a Berlin restaurant.

Despite the small matter of live-in girlfriend Kate (not to mention the 30-year age gap), Sir Ben persuaded his new admirer to move to England to be with him.

Miss Townsend was "asked to leave" and Miss Christmann and her three-year-old daughter Lois were duly installed at his sumptuous Oxfordshire manor house.

Secondly, Sir Ben has gained an unfortunate reputation for pompous and pretentious behaviour, including his now (infamous)insistence that he be addressed as "Sir Ben" at all times.

The title was included on his passport and other documentation after he received a knighthood in 2001, and he even signs emails SBK(as in Sir Ben Kingsley).

Someone who unwittingly called him "Mr Kingsley" at a party received a stinging rebuke. "He looked at me in disgust," the guest told the Mail, "then said: 'You should call me Sir Ben' and cut me dead."

His high-handed attitude has won him few friends in the industry. An actor who worked with him on the 1993 film Twelfth Night said Kingsley kept himself aloof from everyone.

"He demanded the best caravan and refused to eat with the crew," said the source.

"That's quite normal for a star of his calibre, but he had an air of pomposity about him that other equally high-ranking actors don't have. He was fluffed up - like a cockatiel proud of his feathers."

That same year, back in Spelsbury - where Miss Barbosa is now the new Lady of the Manor - Sir Ben was invited to open the refurbished village hall.

After being introduced, he raised the arm of the blonde-haired little girl who was standing beside him and declared grandly: "This little girl is Lois. She comes from Berlin and this hall must symbolise the peace we must have throughout the world and the end to all wars.

"Lois is my stepdaughter and she is six. I want her to grow up in this village in peace, along with the rest of us, and that is what we must think about as we celebrate the reopening of this hall."

But within days of his saying those words, the photograph of Lois's mother kissing another man was posted on the internet. Not surprisingly,

since that cringeing speech - and the betrayal of Miss Christmann - Sir Ben has become more circumspect.

Friends of Miss Christmann - who has now become engaged to the man in the internet picture, film producer's son Sammy Brauner - claim it was not only Sir Ben's pomposity that led to the break-up of their marriage, but that she also found life in the Oxford countryside "stultifyingly dull".

Within months of marrying, in fact, Miss Christmann had persuaded her husband to rent her a flat in Berlin while he was filming away, and her daughter was enrolled in a private school in the city.

"The problem with Ben is that he loves younger women, but he also wants them to wait on the sidelines while he goes off to make a film for months on end," said one.

Will the same fate befall Daniela Barbosa? One suspects not. Already, as we know, she has persuaded Kingsley to set up a production company

to produce "life-enhancing films" - presumably starring Miss Barbosa.

"Like so many other Brazilians from poorer areas of the country, she came to London to better herself," said someone who knew her back in Brazil. "She is beautiful, exotic and very flirtatious, so I'm not surprised she has got a lot of attention.

"But Ben Kingsley seems way out of her league."

Not so long ago Miss Barbosa was a penniless student making ends meet waiting on tables in London. Now she lives in a grand house in the Cotswolds and is engaged to a multi-millionaire actor and knight of the realm.

And as Sir Ben himself once declared: "Age makes no difference when you love each other".