Former beauty queen and Blue Peter presenter Zoe Salmon has secretly married her Prince Charming, William Corrie, in Barbados. The couple, who first met at a mutual friend’s wedding five years ago, revealed that they were following family tradition by eloping.

"I can't wait to get home and tell everyone," said Zoe, who wed at the luxurious Sandy Lane beach resort, haunt of the rich and famous.

"I didn't even tell my mum and dad, although running off to get married does run in the family so they will be thrilled for us.

Zoe and William were married in an intimate ceremony © Addison Cumberbatch

"We'll have a big party when we get home, I'm sure of that," added the former Miss Northern Ireland. "I want an excuse to wear my dress and feel the magic again."

The TV presenter told HELLO!, which has exclusive details of the wedding, that she wore an ivory, beaded Berta gown with a long, detachable train.

"When I saw Zoe arrive I thought, 'Wow!'" said William of his bride.

The ceremony ended with a kiss before the newlyweds kicked off their shoes and headed for the beach.

"What was so lovely was that every single conversation we had that day was with each other," said Zoe. "It was really intimate and we had so much space to breathe and take in every special moment."

Read the full article in HELLO! magazine, out now.

Sign up to HELLO Daily! for the best royal, celebrity and lifestyle coverage

Email Address

By entering your details, you are agreeing to HELLO! Magazine User Data Protection Policy. You can unsubscribe at any time. For more information, please click here.

More Weddings

See more

Nicole Kidman's $20,000 wedding dress is a vintage masterpiece – see photo

The Big Little Lies actress married Keith Urban in 2006

Clare Balding's wife Alice Arnold: everything you need to know

BBC presenter Clare has been married since 2006

Rock heiress Faye Harris stuns in denim hotpants for hen party ahead of wedding to Ronnie Wood's son

Steve Harris' daughter Faye is preparing to marry Rolling Stones star Ronnie Wood's son Tyrone

GalleryAnant Ambani and Prince Charles's nuptials: Inside the top 5 most expensive weddings of all time

Anant Ambani and Radhika Merchant spent over $600 Million

Exclusive: How Victoria Beckham dodged dress 'disaster' pre-wedding

David and Victoria Beckham tied the knot in Dublin in 1999

Ambani bride Radhika dons iridescent bridesmaid dress and wedding jewels in unearthed video

Anant Ambani's new wife was her sister-in-law Isha Ambani's bridesmaid in 2020

Kate Hudson's rock-star dating history — from Chris Robinson to Danny Fujikawa

The Almost Famous star is also a mom-of-three with her three partners