The test drives have now started with the brand-new light rail tram train prototype that our customer Škoda Transtech provided for the Helsinki City Transport (HKL) in Finland. We are happy to have had an important role in the project!

We provided structural design and detail design and did the modelling and drawings. Our experts were also responsible for the correctness of the design structure. To be precise, we executed the design of the body, interior, insulation, external roofs, passage between wagons, bellows between wagons, door systems and electrification as well as air conditioning. We did the bogie design including FEM analysis and also the entire mechanics and electrification of the wagon excluding FEM analysis. Parts of the expert work as well as contact with suppliers and production was also our responsibility, in collaboration with Škoda Transtech.

Škoda Transtech’s contribution came from system responsibility, i.e. they had experts in each area. They were responsible for the main operation and specifications, and they handled contacts with HKL. The next step is to obtain type approval for the wagon series. The test drives with passengers will start in September.

The maximum length of the tram train is 44 meters with 5 modules and the maximum speed is 80 km/h.

The design was done with safety in mind. The front design protects the pedestrian in case of a collision. A shock absorber in the front and in the back reduces damages to the wagon or to another vehicle in case of an accident. All the headlights are led lights and there are informative lists with symbols to guide passengers in the door areas.

Moreover, the driver’s cabin is very ergonomic, and the visibility is optimised with windows and cameras. The fault diagnosis system guides the driver in any fault situation and helps the service personnel in locating the fault. There are many USB plugs inside the wagon where passengers can charge mobile devices, and the wagon is accessible for people in wheel chairs or with strollers.

Check out the new tram train from this video by HKL.

Great work rail vehicles team!