04/04/2017

Full Steam Ahead: An Additional 20 Trams with Voith Traction Systems are Destined for the Streets of Helsinki

Energy efficiency, reduced life cycle costs and increased availability were the key criteria used in order to secure the contract

The successful operation of the current fleet further assisted in securing this order

A conventional bogie mechanism is combined with modern low-floor technology

Helsinki/St. Pölten: Škoda ForCity Smart Artic low-floor trams will be relying on Voith located in St. Pölten, Austria, for the electrical drive systems utilized in the Helsinki tram fleet. These quiet, energy-efficient trams fitted with Voith traction systems combine a conventional bogie mechanism with modern low-floor technology. The first vehicles have been operating successfully in Helsinki for over three years and boast an availability rate of over 99 percent. The operator, Helsinki City Transport (HKL), acknowledged the successful operation of the vehicles by ordering another 20 units.

Finnish rail vehicle supplier Transtech Oy, which forms part of the Škoda Transportation Group, commissioned the first of the 40 new low-floor trams in 2013. Delivery of this series is scheduled for completion in 2017. The follow-up contract recently signed, includes the subsequent delivery of another 20 trams featuring complete drive systems from Voith. Each system comprises of high-voltage equipment, two double traction inverters and eight complete drive units, consisting of motor-gear units and complete wheel sets. The Voith scope of supply also includes the monitoring and diagnostics system for the entire vehicle.

The Artic© low-floor tram achieves a 100% low-floor configuration despite a freely pivoting bogie. A separate motor-gear unit with a continuous output of 65 kW drives each of the eight axles of the 27.6 m long vehicle. The traction motors receive their input power via two EmCon double traction inverters with a continuous output of 2 x 220 kVA each.

"The specifications to be met by trams in the Finnish capital are especially stringent due to the challenging weather conditions and the knock-on effects for the transport network," explains Alfred Gmeiner-Ghali, Vice President Sales & Marketing at Voith Digital Solutions Austria. "Alongside maximum driving comfort and minimal running costs, the particular robustness of the vehicle coupled with their reliable traction system were the decisive factors in awarding us the order for our electrical drive systems. We are delighted about this follow-up order and regard it as confirmation of our successful collaboration to date with Transtech Oy and operator HKL in particular."

Ollipella Heikkilä, Head of Rolling Stock at Helsinki City Transport is also impressed: "The high efficient and most reliable Voith traction systems in our new Škoda ForCity Smart Artic trams are an important part to achieve the lowest LCC we ever have experienced in Helsinki."

More information on low-floor trams fitted with Voith electrical drive systems can be found on both of these links: https://tinyurl.com/Traction- Inverter-EN and https://tinyurl.com/HKL-Helsinki-EN.

Voith Digital Solutions bundles Voith’s long standing automation and IT expertise with the know-how in the fields of water power, paper machines and drive engineering. This new Group Division works with new and existing customers to develop innovative products and services by driving IoT innovations and decisively shaping the digitalization process in the field of machine and plant engineering.

For 150 years, Voith technologies have been inspiring its customers, business partners and employees all over the world. Founded in 1867, Voith today has around 19,000 employees and earns 4.3 billion euros in sales. It has locations in more than 60 countries and is one of the largest family-owned companies in Europe. As a technology leader, Voith sets standards in the energy, oil & gas, paper, raw materials and transport & automotive markets.