Finland’s first light rail line, Raide-Jokeri, starts its operations on October 21st, and Lumikko’s thermal management solutions appear in every tram. Our HVAC (heating, ventilation and air conditioning) solutions will cool the journey between Helsinki’s Itäkeskus and Espoo’s Keilaniemi starting this Saturday.

The new 25-kilometer track enables tram travel in entirely new areas. This facilitates the transportation of many and provides connections to the metro and commuter trains.

“It is an honor to be part of this significant project that further facilitates sustainable transportation in Finland’s metropolitan area,” says Lumikko’s CEO Kimmo Pyykönen.

Raide-Jokeri, or light rail 15, is a significant project not only because it extends tram traffic outside the city center but also because it started its operations significantly ahead of schedule.

Utilizing braking energy

Lumikko is known for its expertise in HVAC solutions for moving equipment, and one of our proud achievements is the braking energy recovery system developed for trams. The system allows capturing and utilizing the energy generated during braking to heat the passenger cabin as needed.

“In a year, one tram uses about 120,000 kWh of energy for heating. Thanks to our solution, we can capture up to 74,000 kWh of braking energy per year,” says Ville Saikkonen, Lumikko’s Head of Product Development.

Energy efficiency and sustainable solutions guide Lumikko’s design and are evident in all choices, such as selecting electrical components that consume as little energy as possible.

Over 50 years in the field of moving equipment, 30 years with rolling stock

Lumikko has a long 50-year history of pioneering HVAC (Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning) and thermal management solutions for moving equipment. The opportunity to function the field of railway opened somewhat by chance, providing an excellent learning experience towards becoming pioneers in the field.

“We designed and implemented the first air conditioning solutions for diesel train cars in 1992. Today, Lumikko’s thermal management solutions are in almost every tram and double-decker train operating in Finland,” summarizes Saikkonen.

Light rail line 15 in a nutshell

Raide-Jokeri is Finland’s first light rail line, running between Helsinki and Espoo. It provides a fast and comfortable alternative to buses and cars.

Initially, Raide-Jokeri operates every 12 minutes, and in the future, possibly as often as every 6 minutes.

Raide-Jokeri is part of the development of public transportation in the Helsinki region, aiming to increase the share of public transportation and reduce traffic emissions. Raide-Jokeri is the first phase, followed by projects like the Kruunusillat initiative.

Learn more about Lumikko’s expertise in railway thermal management and HVAC solutions

Rolling stock

Local production and expertise add value | Skoda Transtech Ltd and Tampere Tramway Ltd

Developing the future tram | Lyyli Living Lab

Read more: