Amazing Truth Society: Through a desire to honor his daughter Hope’s memory, Sensei Ray Rodriguez runs a karate program for the children in the Hoboken Housing Authority. Karate is one the truest forms of self-expression and with honesty & much love for the craft, a student can appreciate what he or she is given. His dream is to give the ultimate gift of love by putting on fundraising shows to donate to hospitals for sick children.

2024: CPR classes, gaming and Movie Night, Uniforms, Food for kids and volunteers druing homework help.

The Association for Science in Autism Treatment (ASAT) is a small, but mighty, Hoboken-based organization that was founded in 1998. Our mission is to promote safe, effective, science-based treatments for autism by sharing accurate, timely, and sound information while also advocating for science to guide decisions on how we can best help individuals with autism. In so doing, we clarify unsubstantiated and inaccurate information about autism treatment (there are absolutely dangerous treatments being marketed to parents such as bleach therapy and chelation). We tirelessly strive to help individuals with autism and their families become more savvy consumers, so they are positioned to make the best possible choices, choices that meet their needs and are guided by best practices and the very best that science has to offer.m description

The Boys & Girls Club of Hudson County: The Boys & Girls Clubs of Hudson County, a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization, was founded in 1893 to create a positive place for the youth of Jersey City, NJ, expanding to Hoboken in 1984. In the years since, the Club has expanded its scope exponentially by offering a mix of Boys & Girls Clubs of America (BGCA) nationally developed programs and activities unique to our Club. Today, we serve more than 2,700 school age youth annually in 10 sites across Jersey City and Hoboken. The Boys and Girls Clubs of Hudson County's (BGCHC) mission is to inspire and enable all young people, especially those from disadvantaged circumstances, to realize their full potential as productive, responsible, and caring citizens. We offer a comprehensive array of services to meet the diverse needs and interests of our members. Daily after-school and summer activities typically fall into five core program areas, The Arts, Education and Career Development, Health and Wellness, Sports and Recreation, and Leadership and Character Development. The Boys & Girls Clubs of Hudson County provides kids and teens: a safe, positive, and inclusive environment to learn and grow; opportunities to build positive, meaningful and healthy connections with their peers and adults; high-quality strength-based activities and programs to explore and obtain skills necessary to make good decisions; experiences that foster hope, belonging and a sense of purpose; and opportunities for youth to lead, contribute their ideas, and be recognized. Our goal is to provide an exceptional Club experience that assures success is within reach of every young person who enters our doors, with all members on track to graduate from high school with a plan for the future, demonstrating good character and citizenship, and living a healthy lifestyle.

2024: STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering Arts and Math) Instructor at the Hoboken location

Community Lifestyle’s mission is to foster a commitment to youth and teens that will promote prosocial friendships strong interpersonal skills and reassert a sense of hope in the future. There are many issues facing New Jersey’s youth and teens. As the foundation of our future, our youth and teens must have an opportunity to obtain needed services to participate in social, recreational, and sporting activities to attend a safe and welcoming gathering place that is free from drugs and alcohol. By creating Community Lifestyle, we are focused on addressing these needs to improve access to services and investing in young people today, recognizing that our youth and teens are the foundation of our city’s future workers.

2024: Funding will support professionals to come in regularly to address issues including anger management and social-emotional skills for the campers

Computers For People Inc. was founded in 2019 by then 15 year old Dylan Zajac in Hoboken, NJ. The non-profit was formed through his vision to create a sustainable solution to the mass pollution of e-waste and the ever-growing digital divide. Computers 4 People has grown to a leading organization tackling the digital divide in the New York City Metropolitan area. They have collected, refurbished, and donated over 1400 computers impacting thousands to access job search, education/homework, telehealth, and more. These low-income individuals include formerly incarcerated, homeless, students, senior citizens, veterans, and refugees.

2024: Summer Intern to help students with computer building and refurbishment

HOPES Community Action Partnership Incorporated (HOPES) is a 60-year-old Community Action Agency established under the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 to combat poverty in Hoboken, New Jersey. Since we opened our doors, our work with and impact on low‐income families has grown beyond Hoboken and throughout different areas of New Jersey, including all of Hudson County and into Union County (Plainfield) and Somerset County. It is our mission to provide services that respond to the social, educational and training needs of individuals in an effort to overcome barriers and fight the causes of poverty; our vision to accelerate positive changes that transform the lives of families in our community; and, our goal to provide a responsive, culturally competent, and person-centered experience for each and every family we engage.

2024: Extending the Creative Wellness Program to youth in Hoboken who have been heavily impacted by the coronavirus pandemic

Team Walker’s mission is to improve the quality of life for the children of Jersey City through academic and recreation programs that empower the children’s minds, bodies and souls. By creating programs that provide safe and constructive alternatives to the negative influences that plague inner-city youth, and through a structured academic and recreational environment, the children learn the importance of education, responsibility, persistence, teamwork and unity. Team Walker also works to identify development projects to create affordable housing as well as sourcing revenue streams for continued maintenance and operational costs. With access to positive role models and hard-won accomplishments in combination with a heightened awareness of their capabilities, the children and the local community have the opportunity to improve their quality of life significantly.

2024: Team Walker's After School Program serves students in grades K through 10.

Its the mission of Team Wilderness to grow teamwork, leadership and character within our urban youth through wilderness excursions.

Our once small one-program organization now has FIVE SIGNATURE programs: two summer programs (Summer Treks and Wilderness on the Water), two after-school programs (Wilderness Club and Photography Club), and we also have Partnership Programs!

Since 2016 we have provided several hundred teens empowering outdoor adventures. Historically about 80% of our youth are free/reduced lunch recipients and receive scholarships to attend our programs.

In 2023, we served nearly 530teens for a total of over 8,600 hours of empowering outdoor excursions.

2024: After school program, Photography club instruction

The Flow Initiative's mission is to achieve menstrual equity for girls, women, and people who menstruate. Through programs, partnerships, and policy, the mission comes to life and reinforces The Flow Initiative as a national leader in period poverty.

Founded by Eiko La Boria in 2019, The Flow Initiative has emerged as a national leader on the frontlines of menstrual equity. To strengthen the organization’s mission, The Flow Initiative partnered with Sabrina Browne, a global menstrual health leader, to spearhead organizational partnerships and increase consumer awareness nationwide. Together, Eiko and Sabrina have worked with a variety of partners to address menstrual health issues and make a positive impact in local communities.

2024: Interactive workshops aimed at promoting mental wellness, ensuring equitable access to menstrual hygiene products for individuals experiencing period poverty, integrating comprehensive menstrual health education into school curricula