For most of Al Murray’s career as The Pub Landlord the joke – knuckle-headed Little Englander flailing to shore up the values of a vanishing past – has depended on the character’s underdog status. But since the 23 June referendum, he’s an underdog no more.

Hopes were high that Brexit, and Murray’s recent run against Nigel Farage for the parliamentary constituency of South Thanet, would sharpen the satirical claws of an act that can seem as much celebration as spoof of old-school chauvinism. But that’s not how it pans out. In fact, Brexit has left the landlord in no man’s land, between triumphalism and half-hearted critique.

You would expect him to be celebrating as that’s the logic of a character who made his name mocking Europe and fantasising about British exceptionalism. But Murray pulls back from that; the landlord even claims, oddly, not to have voted in the EU referendum.

Instead Murray ridicules Britain’s abandonment of an institution that has brought us 71 years of peace just so we can tell the French to “fuck off”. This is followed by a routine – strongly resembling a well-known Stewart Lee riff about “the Ukips” – tracing immigration back through the ages. It’s more stunt than joke, but the point is clear: there’s nothing unique about 21st century migration and, besides, we’re all immigrants anyway.

Which is fine, save that these remarks, and others, don’t seem to land as satire here. The landlord act is the perfect vehicle for laying bare the incoherence (if not the malevolence) of the attitudes that led to Brexit, and those that Brexit has legitimised.

But Murray doesn’t dig too deep. He keeps it affectionate. We’re invited to have a jolly laugh at the state of things, when jollity seems inadequate. Take, for example, the show’s titular song, Let’s Go Backwards Together. Its satirical point (“no more progress!”) is potent, but gets eclipsed in the leaden singalong that ensues – before we segue into a chorus of Rule Britannia, played out in a swirl of red, white and blue in the venue where union flags wave at the Last Night of the Proms.

It’s very odd, and generates mainly confusion about where the pub landlord (as opposed to Murray) stands on Brexit. I should add that this song, like the one about the internet in act one, is terrible – being musically and lyrically inert. Far better is the audience backchat that opens the show, although it overruns badly; 40 minutes in and we’re still waiting for Murray’s material.

By the second act he has moved on from Brexit and is addressing transgenderism, driverless cars and dick pics. There are flashes of Murray’s comic ability; in the image of him “smeared on a mountainside, half man, half suitcase” after a plane crash, and in the constipated dumbshow he performs when forced (horror of horrors) to listen to a woman’s problems. Elsewhere, it’s shouty and reliant on the same old gags about poofs and boobs.

It feels like a missed opportunity. After years on its sidelines, history has finally gifted the pub landlord an open goal – and he’s hoofed the ball way past the post.