Biography

Born: December 9, 1967

Country: USA

Joshua Bell, one of the top young violinists of our time, was born in 1967, in Bloomington, Indiana. Fortuitously, the small city in the limestone district of Indiana is the home of the Indiana University School of Music, which eventually assumed a decisive role in Bell’s musical development. Bell was exposed to music from an early age and began his violin studies with Mimi Zweig. Bell’s talents developed rapidly; he made his debut as a soloist in performance with the Bloomington Symphony Orchestra at the age of seven. The eminent violin teacher Josef Gingold, a member of Indiana University’s music faculty, took an interest in him and became his teacher; eventually Bell entered the University as a student. Bell’s studies with Gingold were supplemented by additional studies and master classes with Ivan Galamian and Henryk Szeryng. Bell came to wide national attention as a grand prize winner in the first annual Seventeen Magazine/General Motors National Concerto Competition in Rochester, NY. He soon appeared as a soloist with the Philadelphia Orchestra under Riccardo Muti on September 24, 1982 — the youngest person ever to appear with the orchestra as a soloist on a subscription concert. Bell’s 1985 Carnegie Hall debut with the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra was greeted with the kind of enthusiastic reviews that were a bellwether of his successful concert and recording career.

By the mid-’90s, Bell had recorded much of the standard violin repertoire, exhibiting a musically informed and winning personal style. His playing is lyrical and bright, marked by a high-minded approach and a smooth, silvery tone. In the late ’90s, Bell’s eclectic tastes and multifaceted talents found voice in a wide range of projects outside the realm of the traditional violin repertoire. Bell’s playing on John Corigliano’s score to The Red Violin (1998) was singled out as one of the film’s more memorable elements, while in 1999 he collaborated on a well-received CD of bluegrass-influenced music by composer Edgar Meyer. By the early 2000s, Bell was seen on numerous television programs and was even named one of People magazine’s “50 Most Beautiful People.” He continued to work with musicians outside the classical realm, such as Chick Corea and James Taylor, meanwhile performing with the world’s top orchestras and conductors. Other collaborations led to Bell’s establishing chamber music recital series in both London and Paris. Artists such as Steven Isserlis, Pamela Frank, Jean-Yves Thibaudet are his partners in these recitals and in recordings.

Joshua David Bell (born December 9, 1967) is an American grammy award-winning violinist and conductor.

Childhood

Bell was born in Bloomington, Indiana, United States. His mother, Shirley, was a therapist. His father, Alan P. Bell, was a psychologist, Professor Emeritus of Indiana University, in Bloomington, and a former Kinsey researcher. His father is of Scottish descent, and his mother is Jewish (his maternal grandfather was born in Israel and his maternal grandmother was from Minsk). Bell told The Jewish Journal, “I identify myself as being Jewish”.

Bell began taking violin lessons at the age of four after his mother discovered that her son had taken rubber bands from around the house and stretched them across the handles of his nine dresser drawers to pluck out music he had heard her play on the piano. His parents got a scaled-to-size violin for their then five-year-old son and started giving him lessons. A bright student, Bell took to the instrument but lived an otherwise normal midwest Indiana life playing video games and excelling at sports, namely tennis and bowling, even placing in a national tennis tournament at the age of ten.[5]

Bell studied as a child first under Donna Bricht, widow of Indiana University music faculty member Walter Bricht. His second teacher was Mimi Zweig, and then he switched to the violinist and pedagogue Josef Gingold after Bell’s parents assured Gingold that they were not interested in pushing their son in the study of the violin but simply wanted him to have the best teacher for his abilities. Satisfied that the boy was living a normal life, Gingold took Bell on as his student. By age 12, Bell was serious about the instrument, thanks in large part to Gingold’s inspiration.

At the age of 14, Bell appeared as a soloist with the Philadelphia Orchestra conducted by Riccardo Muti. He studied the violin at the Indiana University Jacobs School of Music and graduated from Bloomington High School North in 1984. In 1989, Bell received an Artist Diploma in Violin Performance from Indiana University. His alma mater also honored him with a Distinguished Alumni Service Award only two years after his graduation. He has been named an “Indiana Living Legend” and received the Indiana Governor’s Arts Award.

Career

Bell made his Carnegie Hall debut in 1985, at age 17, with the St. Louis Symphony. He has since performed with many of the world’s major orchestras and conductors. As well as the standard concerto repertoire, Bell has performed new works. Nicholas Maw’s violin concerto is dedicated to Bell, who premiered it in 1993 and won a Grammy Award for his recording of the piece. He performed the solo part on John Corigliano’s Oscar-winning soundtrack for the film The Red Violin and was also featured in Ladies in Lavender. Bell made an appearance in the movie Music of the Heart, a story about the power of music, with other notable violinists.

Bell’s instrument is a 300-year-old Stradivarius violin called the Gibson ex Huberman, which was made in 1713 during what is known as Antonio Stradivari’s “Golden Era.” This violin had been stolen twice from the previous owner, Bronisław Huberman; the last time the thief confessed to the act on his deathbed. Bell had held and played the violin, and its owner at the time, violinist Norbert Brainin, jokingly told Bell that the violin could be his for four million dollars. On 3 August 2001, Bell was in London to perform at The Proms, and stopped by J & A Beare before the concert. There, he learned that the violin was there, and about to be sold to a German industrialist to become part of a collection. Bell played this violin at that Proms concert that same evening. He later sold his previous violin, the Tom Taylor Stradivarius, for a little more than two million dollars and made the purchase of the Gibson ex Huberman for a little under the four million dollar asking price. The story of the theft, return, and subsequent acquisition by Bell is told in the 2013 documentary The Return of the Violin, directed by Haim Hecht. Bell’s first recording made with the Gibson ex Huberman was Romance of the Violin (for Sony Classical Records) in 2003.

Bell has served an artistic partner for the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra from 2004 until 2007, and as a visiting professor at the Royal Academy of Music in London. He also serves on the artists’ selection committee for the Kennedy Center Honors and is an Adjunct Associate Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Bell was awarded the Avery Fisher Prize on April 10, 2007, at Lincoln Center in New York City. The prize is given once every few years to classical instrumentalists for outstanding achievement. On May 3, 2007, the Indiana University Jacobs School of Music announced that Bell had joined the faculty as a senior lecturer.

Bell collaborated with film composer Hans Zimmer by providing violin solos for the soundtrack of the 2009 film Angels & Demons, based on Dan Brown’s 2000 novel of the same name.

In May 2011, Bell was named the new Music Director of the Academy of St Martin in the Fields (ASMF). Bell has recorded commercially with the ASMF for the Sony Classical label.[18] In July 2017, the ASMF announced the extension of Bell’s contract through 2020, an additional three years from his previous contract extension. Bell and the orchestra won the 2017 Helpmann Award for Best Individual Classical Music Performance.

In 2013, Bell accompanied Scarlett Johansson in the song “Before My Time”. Written by J. Ralph for the documentary Chasing Ice, the song received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Original Song.

In other media, Bell played himself in three episodes of Mozart in the Jungle in 2014, 2015, and 2016: the pilot episode, Touché Maestro, Touché, and Creative Solutions for Creative Lives. In 2016, he played a cameo role on the penultimate musical episode of Royal Pains. He also appeared as himself in episode 8 (“Quacktice Makes Perfect”) of the 2017 Netflix original series Julie’s Greenroom.

Washington Post experiment

In an experiment initiated by The Washington Post columnist Gene Weingarten, Bell donned a baseball cap and played as an incognito busker at the Metro subway station L’Enfant Plaza in Washington, D.C. on January 12, 2007. The experiment was videotaped on hidden camera; of the 1,097 people who passed by, only seven stopped to listen to him, and only one recognized him. For his nearly 45-minute performance, Bell collected $32.17 from 27 passersby (excluding $20 from the passerby who recognized him). Three days before, he earned considerably more playing the same repertoire at a concert. Weingarten won the 2008 Pulitzer Prize for Feature Writing for his article on the experiment. The Washington Post posted the video on YouTube and a feature-length documentary, Find Your Way: A Busker’s Documentary, chronicled Bell’s experience.

Personal life

Bell resides in the Gramercy Park neighborhood in Manhattan, New York. He has three sisters. Bell and a former girlfriend, Lisa Matricardi, have a son, Josef, born in 2007. They also have twin sons born in 2010. As of 2017, he is in a relationship with opera singer Larisa Martinez.

From waking up to Mozart’s Requiem to braving blizzards and blackouts to perform, the Academy of St Martin in the Fields music director tells us about his musical life

Vinyl or digital?

Vinyl. I love technology, and I’m always buying the latest computers and gadgets, but I don’t consider myself an audiophile. Perhaps it’s just nostalgia, but I enjoy the warmer sound you get from old records. Occasionally, I bring out my 78 record player and listen to the crackly records of Caruso and Fritz Kreisler that my teacher Josef Gingold gave me when I was a kid.

What was the first record you bought?

The first recording I remember buying was a cassette tape of Jascha Heifetzplaying the Wieniawski second violin concerto. I would listen to it at summer camp under my bedcovers after lights out. The first CD I bought was Mozart’s Requiem performed by Neville Marriner and the Academy of St Martin in the Fields (with Ileana Cotrubaș, Helen Watts, Robert Tear and John Shirley-Quirk). My first CD player had an alarm clock, and I set it to wake me up every day to this recording. My family thought it was a bit morbid, but I found it an inspiring way to start the morning!

What was the last piece of music you bought?

Last week I saw Hamilton on Broadway – the tickets were a birthday present. I was sceptical about it because of all the hype, and felt sure it must be overrated. But I was blown away by the music, the choreography, the story, and I was amazed by the originality of the production. I had to buy a CD of the cast recording.

What’s your musical guilty pleasure?

Genesis – my favourite rock band as a teenager. When I’m in my car, I love cranking up the volume to Supper’s Ready, or Lamb Lies Down on Broadway with Peter Gabriel. Come to think of it, why should I feel guilty about this? It’s great music!

If you had time learn a new instrument, what would it be?

The piano. I am still annoyed with my parents for not giving me piano lessons when I was a child. I guess because my sister played the piano they thought it was only right to let that be her thing.

Did you ever consider a career outside of music?

I love science, particularly physics, and I am also fascinated with molecular biology. I can imagine being some sort of scientist or medical researcher, and I’d crave something that involves discovery and invention. Luckily for me, music, in its own way, has both of those things.

What single thing would improve the classical concert?

I like it when there is less of a barrier between the artist and the audience. That’s why I enjoy performing or listening to chamber music in someone’s home. Performers could speak to audiences more, perhaps explain his or her unique take on the music – particularly if it’s a work the audience might not be familiar with. Presenters should keep experimenting with new ways to reach younger people – shorter concerts, “jeans concerts”, unconventional venues, etc – without diluting or dumbing down the music.

If you had to pick one work to introduce someone to classical music, what would it be?

Just one? There are so many pieces that would hook someone who is unfamiliar with classical music. The most obvious answer might be the best: Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony. It grabs you from the opening bar and never lets go. It may be the most popular piece of classical music ever, but the last time I directed the piece with the Academy of St Martin in the Fields, I thought afterwards that it is actually underrated.

What’s the most overrated classical work?

Although Ravel is one of my favourite composers, and the piece is a masterful exercise in orchestration, I could live the rest of my life without hearing the Bolero again.

Which non-classical musician would you like to work with?

Well, since I’m fresh off of seeing Hamilton on Broadway, I’m wondering if there is some way I could collaborate with Lin-Manuel Miranda. He is a genius.

What or where is the most unusual place or venue you’ve performed?

I was scheduled to play a recital in Washington DC, but a blizzard caused a power outage in the concert hall and the show was cancelled. I had been at the venue practising. I left the building, thinking that I now had the night off, and encountered about 50 people in the lobby who had made it there through two feet of snow. One lady walked for three hours only to find out the concert was cancelled. So I played for them right there in the dark, just on violin because there was no piano in the lobby. It was my most appreciative audience ever.

We’re giving you a time machine: which period or moment in musical history would you travel to and why?

My first idea would be to travel to ancient Rome. We know that they had music then, but what exactly did it sound like? Today we can only speculate. Or, if I had to choose a particular day, perhaps I would travel to 22 December 1808. I would get to hear, in a single concert, the premieres of Beethoven’s Fifth and Sixth Symphonies with the composer himself conducting. (Did he really follow his metronome markings?) As a bonus, I would get to hear a solo improvisation by Beethoven and also witness him play his Fourth Piano Concerto – my favourite – in its first public performance. Apparently, many in attendance that night did think that the four-hour concert was too long, but I wouldn’t mind.

Video: Joshua Bell on why Beethoven’s 4th and 7th symphonies just don’t get old.

Few new recordings of such canonical works as Beethoven symphonies can claim status as true events these days, but Joshua Bell’s first recording as Music Director of the Academy of St. Martin in the Fields is just that. He is the first American and first person to hold the title of Music Director since Sir Neville Marriner formed the orchestra in 1958. Bell both conducts and plays from the concertmaster chair, sometimes contributing to the fabric of sound with his instrument, other times lifting his bow to exhort and emphasize. The Washington Post says it best: “Bell alternated playing along with the first violins and conducting (with great physical animation) from his seat, sculpting the air expressively with his bow to bring forth a wealth of interpretive detail from the musicians. This was as superb a Beethoven Fourth as I’ve heard, delivered by a conductor of tremendous promise and genuine ideas who also happens to be one heck of a violinist.”

GTIN13: 0887654488121 Verschijningsdatum: 26. maart 2013 Aantal discs 1 Aantal tracks: 8 Speelduur: 72:18

Yes, that Joshua Bell.

In case you’ve forgotten or perhaps you never knew, award-winning violinist Joshua Bell has been the Music Director of the Academy of St. Martin in the Fields since 2011. Of course, he’s still a violinist, as he directs the orchestra from the concertmaster’s chair. Sill, it’s hard to keep up with all the changes in orchestras and conductors and doubly hard to think of Bell as anything but purely a violinist. Fortunately, his recordings should dispel any notion that he’s not fully up to the job. Here, he leads two highly accomplished Beethoven performances that help prove the point, the first recording in what promises to be a complete Beethoven symphony cycle.

Bell says that great conductors have fascinated him ever since he was kid, one of his first Beethoven heroes being Carlos Kleiber. Then, for a decade or more in his later career he dreamed of conducting as well as playing with an orchestra. He especially wanted the opportunity, he says, to combine what he had learned from historically informed conductors with the “power and flexibility” of a modern orchestra. He got his chance with the ASMF.

One can argue the advantages and disadvantages of an orchestra not having a traditional conductor, but Bell seems to do all right by the situation. There is nothing particularly new or revelatory about his readings; they are simply vibrant and spirited.

Bell begins the album with Beethoven’s Symphony No. 4 in B flat, Op. 60 (1806), which sometimes gets a little lost between the composer’s more influential and popular Third and Fifth Symphonies. By comparison, the Fourth can seem somewhat lightweight and maybe even a letdown. Nevertheless, in Bell’s hands the Fourth sounds more fleet-footed and important than ever. Hector Berlioz described the Fourth as “lively, nimble, joyous, or of a heavenly sweetness.” Bell takes him up on the description.

After the fairly lengthy introductory section, Maestro Bell leads the main Allegro subject at a brisk but never breathless pace, making it appear tauter than ever yet just as cheerful. The Adagioalso feels leaner than usual, although Bell maintains a moderately slow speed. The Scherzodisplays much vitality and again exudes a good cheer, leading to a finale of more substance and weight than one often hears. It’s a Fourth that offers the air of friendliness the music has always enjoyed while adding a little more vigor and power to the proceedings.

Beethoven wrote his Symphony No. 7 in A, Op. 92 in 1812, a half dozen years after the Fourth. Critics often associate it with elements of the dance (“The apotheosis of the dance,” as Wagner remarked), and it possesses a sprightly charm. The ASMF, always a refined ensemble, plays with commendable precision and grace, throwing a bit more verve and vivacity into things under Bell, who leads them in a spirited interpretation. He never hurries the rhythms in the opening movement, while making them all come alive in sprightly fashion. In addition, Bell points up the contrasts smoothly, almost effortlessly, giving the music less of the stop-and-go feeling some conductors impose upon it.

The second-movement, likened to a processional in the catacombs, remains solemn and invigorating at the same time. In other words, it never drags. The third-movement Presto under Bell is as ebullient as ever (disregard the booklet timing), moving nicely into the big finish, which comes off with requisite energy.

Indeed, if I had to characterize both performances at all, I’d have to say they are, above all, energetic, without being hectic or raucous. As for the qualities of the dance in the Seventh, well, maybe Bell doesn’t exactly define them as well as did the likes of Colin Davis (EMI) or even Karl Bohm (DG), who seem more balletic. Bell’s rendering seems more athletic, more like modern dance, with a bit more flinging around. In any case, it’s all great fun.

Bell and the Academy recorded the album at Air Lyndhurst Studios, London, in May of 2012. The sound is maybe not in the audiophile class, but it is lifelike enough. We hear in it good orchestral depth, good tonal balance, a warm studio ambience, and a wide dynamic range, with plenty of impact. Although the upper bass gets a tad heavy at times, it contributes to the music’s weight. Midrange clarity is not quite as transparent as I’ve heard, yet it is fairly natural and no doubt sounds the way it might sound live a short distance from the orchestra.

1 Symphony No. 4 in B Flat Major, Op. 60: I. Adagio – Allegro vivace

11:15

2 Symphony No. 4 in B Flat Major, Op. 60: Symphony No. 4 in B Flat Major, Op. 60: II. Adagio

9:25

3 Symphony No. 4 in B Flat Major, Op. 60: Symphony No. 4 in B Flat Major, Op. 60: III. Allegro molto e vivace

5:36

4 Symphony No. 4 in B Flat Major, Op. 60: Symphony No. 4 in B Flat Major, Op. 60: IV. Allegro ma non troppo

6:38

5 Symphony No. 7 in A Major, Op. 92: Symphony No. 7 in A Major, Op. 92: I. Poco sostenuto – Vivace

14:18

6 Symphony No. 7 in A Major, Op. 92: Symphony No. 7 in A Major, Op. 92: II. Allegretto

8:07

7 Symphony No. 7 in A Major, Op. 92: Symphony No. 7 in A Major, Op. 92: III. Presto – Assai meno presto (trio)

8:16

8

Symphony No. 7 in A Major, Op. 92: Symphony No. 7 in A Major, Op. 92: IV. Allegro con brio

8:40

JOSHUA BELL: I doubt the 9th Symphony will come any time soon. It is a formidable challenge, and it will definitely take a while. And for that immortal masterpiece, I may actually feel more comfortable standing on the podium.

GTIN13: 5099708950521 Verschijningsdatum: 13. mei 2002 Aantal discs 1 Aantal tracks: 10 Speelduur: 70:05

Joshua Bell’s first recordings of these warhorses stand apart from the hundreds of versions crowding the catalogs in at least one respect, namely his own cadenzas. Beethoven didn’t supply his own for the long first movement of his Violin Concerto, and Bell’s thoughtful, stylish emendation easily stands with the frequently played Kreisler and Joachim cadenzas as a viable option. His extroverted yet well-proportioned cadenza in the Mendelssohn may not match the original’s instant melodic appeal, but it certainly works. Elsewhere, Bell’s direct, clean-cut, utterly dependable virtuosity will not surprise his legions of fans, who won’t mind that the violin tends to dominate in the mix. Is that due to the engineering, or to Roger Norrington’s somewhat reticent accompaniments? You’d think a chamber orchestra would help the Mendelssohn’s bubbling woodwind licks emerge with greater clarity. Likewise, small forces are capable of richer, more tonally varied, and sustained string tone in the Beethoven’s slow movement, as one hears in the more confrontational and interesting Richard Kapp-Mela Tenenbaum collaboration.

Artistic Quality: 9

Sound Quality: 9

Joshua Bell’s fresh approach to these violin warhorses makes for an unexpectedly inviting listening experience. In the Mendelssohn he marries his bright tone to forthright phrasing in a manner that communicates the music’s emotion without sliding into the gooey sweetness heard in some interpretations. There’s little if anything hackneyed about Bell’s reading, indicating he’s thought about the work anew, right through to the stylistically appropriate cadenza he composed himself (Bell cites research that suggests Mendelssohn’s friend Ferdinand David may have actually composed the original cadenza). Roger Norrington’s crisp, period-informed style, with its pointed accents and propulsive energy easily fits in with Bell’s conception.

Bell’s Beethoven is of a similar stripe. There’s a youthful whimsy to his reading, although it’s tempered by an awareness of the work’s graceful majesty. Again, Bell supplies a cadenza of his own devising, which cleverly makes references to the Moonlight Sonata before carrying on in the discursive manner of Beethoven’s late string quartets. Norrington accompanies in the aggressive Beethoven style familiar from his symphony recordings. Sony’s recording slightly favors the soloist, but not to an unnatural degree as orchestral detail can be heard clearly, even in the soft passages. The CD booklet notes are evidently aimed at the newcomer to these works, and Bell’s performances do make for fine introductions. But seasoned listeners can enjoy them as well for their unique insights–a rare occurrence in today’s glutted CD catalog.

It is fascinating to speculate how far Joshua Bell’s readings of these two warhorse violin concertos have been affected by having a chamber group – the Camerata Salzburg under their period­influenced conductor‚ Sir Roger Norrington – as partners. The opening tutti of the Beethoven is clean and crisp rather than powerful‚ and the opening of the slow movement brings minimal use of vibrato by the strings‚ echoing period practice‚ giving an ethereal quality. As for the soloist‚ his tone seems sparer than in his earlier Decca recordings‚ clean and bright rather than warmly romantic‚ but that‚ I suspect‚ has much to do with the recording quality‚ which is relatively dry‚ so giving less bloom to the violin tone.

Not that the power of the Beethoven or the mercurial energy of the Mendelssohn are in short supply. The Beethoven may seem to be conceived on a smaller scale than usual‚ but clarity goes with concentration‚ and a speed rather faster than usual in this long first movement brings an extra tautness to its structure. Whether or not helped by the scale‚ Bell’s reading has plenty of light and shade‚ bringing mystery in the central development section. After his own impressive cadenza‚ just as long and demanding as the regular Kreisler one‚ Bell (or Norrington) then refuses to linger over the coda in a Romantic way‚ consistent with their whole approach.

The slow movement‚ after its ‘period’ start‚ is relatively light and delicate‚ with clean‚ pure tone from Bell‚ and the relative intimacy of the reading comes out more clearly than ever in the finale‚ with crisp timpani. There‚ too‚ Bell plays his own cadenza with plentiful double­stopping immaculately performed.

That he uses his own cadenza in the first movement of the Mendelssohn is rather more controversial when one is provided in the published score. In his thoughtful note Bell claims authority for his departure by suggesting that the published cadenza was mainly by Mendelssohn’s friend‚ Ferdinand David‚ not the composer. As in the Beethoven‚ he revels in exploiting the material. Evidently‚ he started writing his cadenza as a challenge to himself‚ ‘an amusing exercise’‚ but after much thought decided to include it in his recording as a ‘personal touch’‚ hoping it will not be seen as an insult to a masterpiece.

Perhaps more controversial is the coolness of the slow movement‚ very simple‚ pure and direct‚ totally avoiding sentimentality‚ though missing some of the warmth Bell brought to this movement in his earlier Decca version of the Concerto‚ a reading a shade more expansive in all three movements. The finale this time is very fast‚ light and sparkling‚ but with plenty of detail‚ again in a performance smaller in scale than even Kennedy’s with the ECO – one of his finest discs – let alone Perlman’s with the Concertgebouw‚ both of them warmer too. Yet Bell’s readings of both works are strong and distinctive‚ making up what he feels is an ideal coupling.

There are performances of great concertos that leave you admiring the soloist, and others that leave you admiring the composer. The ideal should be a mixture of both, which makes Joshua Bell’s Beethoven close to ideal and his Mendelssohn even closer. As for Anne-Sophie Mutter’s Beethoven, the playing is, as ever, technically and stylishly stunning. She has the kind of tone that forces you to listen – no remission for good behaviour. But it’s a long time since I’ve felt such a negative reaction to a recording of this concerto. Where Bell’s playing often draws the ear to felicities in the writing (as does Roger Norrington’s conducting), Mutter strikes me as intent on making Beethoven dance to her tune. The mysterious lead-back to the first movement recapitulation is weighed down with heavy, overly ‘meaningful’ phrasing; the frail-as-ghost-gossamer pianissimo after the cadenza is even more showily theatrical. Recent articles and letters in BBC Music Magazine are useful reminders that many people love this kind of over-the-top ‘interpretation’. If you are one of them, I wish you joy. But for me it’s Bell who sounds as though he has entered into a true creative relationship with the music, despite his lighter, less commanding tone. Of recent versions only the stunning Zehetmair/Brüggen period-instrument version of the Beethoven on Philips has more to reveal. And in the Mendelssohn, Bell is at least as convincing as any other modern performer on disc. Incidentally, Bell provides his own cadenzas in both concertos, interesting in the Mendelssohn, and a considerable improvement on the tradition-honoured Kreisler showpieces in the Beethoven.

4 Concerto for Violin and Orchestra in D Major, Op. 61: I. Allegro ma non troppo

by Joshua Bell;Sir Roger Norrington;Camerata Salzburg

23:49

5 Concerto for Violin and Orchestra in D Major, Op. 61 (Highlights): Concerto for Violin and Orchestra in D Major, Op. 61 (Highlights): Concerto for Violin and Orchestra in D Major, Op. 61 (Highlights): Concerto for Violin and Orchestra in D Major, Op. 61: II. Larghetto

by Joshua Bell

9:07

6 Concerto for Violin and Orchestra in D Major, Op. 61 (Highlights): Concerto for Violin and Orchestra in D Major, Op. 61 (Highlights): Concerto for Violin and Orchestra in D Major, Op. 61 (Highlights): Concerto for Violin and Orchestra in D Major, Op. 61: III. Rondo, Allegro

by Joshua Bell

9:21

GTIN13: 0889853952021 Verschijningsdatum: 18. augustus 2017 Aantal discs 14 Aantal tracks: 134 Speelduur: 851:20

Sony Classical announces the release of Joshua Bell – The Classical Collection, a 14-CD set of albums of classical repertoire that the internationally acclaimed, Grammy® Award winning violinist has recorded for the label over the past twenty years. The collection is available worldwide on August 18th, 2017. Displaying the unique breadth, versatility and breathtaking virtuosity, beguiling sensitivity and sheer tonal beauty that has made Bell an icon for audiences of all ages and musical tastes throughout the world, this new collection showcases Joshua Bellin cornerstones of the violin concerto repertoire, chamber music and concert pieces.

The repertoire in this career-spanning edition includes Bell’s 2008 recording of the Vivaldi Four Seasons with the Academy of St Martin in the Fields (for which Bell has served since 2011 as Music Director), the 2014 Bach release, also with the ASMF, and two of Joshua’s most popular albums Romance of the Violin and Voice of the Violin, where the violinist regales us with arrangements from Monteverdi, Mozart, Schubert, Chopin and Bellini to Dvo?ák, Debussy and Orff.

Other highlights from the collection include British composer Nicholas Maw’s Grammy® Award winning Violin Concerto , a work written for Bell in 1993, featuring the London Philharmonic Orchestra with Sir Roger Norrington, conductor; The Red Violin Concerto based on themes from John Corigliano’s score to the film The Red Violin, with the Philharmonia Orchestra London and Esa-Pekka Salonen and Leonard Bernstein’s cherished West Side Story Suite, also performed with the Philharmonia Orchestra London and David Zinman.

Rounding out this boxed set are Bell’s recordings of treasured masterpieces by Beethoven, Mendelssohn,Tchaikovsky, Brahms, Gershwin, Ravel, and Sibelius – accompanied by the Berlin Philharmonic and Michael Tilson Thomas, the Los Angeles Philharmonic and Esa-Pekka Salonen, the Salzburg Camerata with Sir Roger Norrington and Bell’s close friends and regular chamber music partners, cellist Steven Isserlis and pianist Jeremy Denk. Bell is also featured as Music Director in riveting performances of Beethoven’s Fourth and Seventh Symphonies with the Academy of St. Martin in the Fields.

Sony Music Masterworks comprises Masterworks, Sony Classical, OKeh, Portrait, Masterworks Broadway imprints. For email updates and information please visit www.sonymusicmasterworks.com/.

Joshua Bell Socials

Website: http://www.joshuabell.com/

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/joshuabellviolinist

Twitter: @joshuabellmusic

Instagram: @joshuabellmusic

Album Buy Link

Amazon – http://smarturl.it/JoshuaBellBox-cd

ACCENTUS Music is proud to present this year’s official Nobel Prize Concert from Stockholm, Sweden. This event of world class is produced by ACCENTUS Music for Nobel Media AB. American star violinist Joshua Bell and the Royal Stockholm Philharmonic Orchestra performed works by Beethoven, Tchaikovsky and Sibelius. As part of the official Nobel Week, the worlds most renowned artists are gathering each year to pay tribute to the Nobel Laureates. This years concert promises to become a special highlight in the series with the young and brilliant world famous American violinist Joshua Bell performing Tchaikovskys Violin Concerto in D major under Sakari Oramo, the Chief Conductor and Artistic Advisor of the Royal Stockholm Philharmonic Orchestra. The evening starts with Beethovens Leonore Ouverture and ends with Sibelius Symphony No. 5 in E flat major. BONUS: Interviews with Joshua Bell, Sakari Oramo and Mario Vargas Llosa, the 2010 Nobel Laureate in Literature

GTIN13: 4260234830095 Verschijningsdatum: 09. mei 2011 Aantal discs 1

Joshua Bell: 15 facts about the great violinist

From his debut at Carnegie Hall at 17, to some incognito busking on the Washington D.C. subway, Joshua Bell is one of today’s great stars of the violin, a best-selling recording artist and now a conductor.

1. A child prodigy

Joshua Bell was born in Bloomington, Indiana, on 9 December 1967. He began taking violin lessons at the age of four after his mother discovered that he had stretched rubber bands across the handles of his dresser drawer to pluck out music he had heard her play on the piano.

2. Soloist at 14

At the age of 14, Bell appeared as a soloist with the Philadelphia Orchestra conducted by Riccardo Muti. He studied the violin at the Indiana University Jacobs School of Music and went on to receive an Artist Diploma in Violin Performance from Indiana University in 1989.

3. Carnegie Hall debut

At 17, Bell made his Carnegie Hall debut with the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra. He has since performed with many of the world’s major orchestras and conductors.

4. Best-selling recording artist

An exclusive recording artist for Sony Classical, Joshua Bell has recorded more than 40 CDs since his first LP was made at the age of 18 on the Decca label.

5. Champion of new works

As well as playing the standard repertoire, Bell has performed many new works. Nicholas Maw’s violin concerto is dedicated to Bell, who premiered it in 1993 and won a Grammy Award for his recording.

6. Award-winning instrumentalist

Bell has won numerous awards including a Gramophone Award in 1998 for his recording of the Barber and Walton violin concertos. He is pictured here performing during the Classical BRIT Awards at the Royal Albert Hall in 2007.

7. A 300-year old Stradivarius

Joshua Bell’s instrument is a 300-year old Stradivarius violin called the ‘Gibson ex Huberman’, which was made in 1713 during what is known as Stradivari’s Golden Era. The violin had been stolen twice from the previous owner, Bronisław Huberman; the final time the thief confessed to the act on his deathbed.

8. Performer of film scores

Bell performed the violin solo for the Oscar-winning soundtrack for ‘The Red Violin’ and was also featured in the scores for ‘Ladies in Lavender’, ‘Angels & Demons’, ‘Iris’ and ‘Defiance’. He is pictured here with singer Michael Buble at the after party following the New York premiere of ‘The Devil Wears Prada’.

9. Tribute to Bernstein

Joshua Bell’s Grammy-nominated Bernstein recording included the premiere of the ‘West Side Story Suite’ as well as the composer’s ‘Serenade’. Bell is pictured here rehearsing a tribute to Bernstein for the 2002 Grammy Awards in Los Angeles.

10. Supporter of charity

Bell is involved with the The Painted Turtle charity where children with serious medical conditions have fun and are given support. He is pictured here with actor Jack Nicholson at the dedication of The Painted Turtle Camp on 22 May 2004 in Lake Hughes, California.

11. The anonymous busker

In an experiment conducted by ‘The Washington Post’, Bell performed as an incognito busker at a metro station in Washington D.C. on 12 January 2007. Of the more than 1000 people who passed by, only seven stopped to listen, and only one recognised him. He collected just $32.17 from 27 people (excluding $20 from the woman who recognised him).

12. Performing for the First Lady

Joshua Bell shakes hands with the U.S.A.’s First Lady Michelle Obama after performing at a classical music student workshop concert on 4 November 2009 in the East Room of the White House. The event was part of a series created by Mrs. Obama to highlight the importance of the arts and arts education.

13. Encouraging young talent

In 2007 Bell commissioned a violin concerto from the 15-year old composing prodigy Jay Greenberg. Bell gave the premiere with the Orchestra of Saint Luke’s at Carnegie Hall, New York, on 28 October of that year.

14. Performer and lecturer

Bell was awarded the Avery Fisher Prize on 10 April 2007 at the Lincoln Centre in New York City. The prize is given once every few years to classical instrumentalists for outstanding achievement. On 3 May 2007, the Indiana University Jacobs School of Music announced that Bell had joined the faculty as a senior lecturer.

15. Succeeding Sir Neville Marriner

On May 26, 2011, Bell was named Music Director of the British music ensemble, the Academy of St Martin in the Fields. He is the first and only other person to hold this post after the great conductor Sir Neville Marriner who founded the orchestra in 1958.