Marilyn Monroe and Arthur Miller Signed Financial Statement.

MONROE, Marilyn and Arthur Miller.

$7,500.00

Item Number: 114025

Rare original 1957 Woodbury Savings Bank financial statement signed by both Marilyn Monroe and Arthur Miller in the beginning of their five-year marriage. One page, partially printed, the statement is dated September 9, 1957 and lists the couple’s joint annual income as $50,000+, total expenses as $30,000+ or -, and amount of life insurance as $50,000+. The preparer has also listed Monroe as self-employed and President of Marilyn Monroe Production with a suit pending against the company as a corporation. Monroe and Miller’s ages are also listed respectively as 31 and 41. Signed at the conclusion of the document, “Arthur Miller” and “Marilyn Monroe Miller.” In very good condition. Accompanied by a mimeograph of the loan agreement for $35,000 for which the statement was prepared.

After filming for The Seven Year Itch wrapped up in November 1954, Monroe left Hollywood for the East Coast, where she and photographer Milton Greene founded their own production company, Marilyn Monroe Productions (MMP). Monroe asserted that she was no longer under contract to Fox, as it had not fulfilled its duties, such as paying her the promised bonus, beginning a year-long legal battle between her and Fox in January 1955. After founding MMP, Monroe moved to Manhattan and spent 1955 studying acting where she began dating actor Marlon Brando and playwright Arthur Miller. On June 29, Monroe and Miller were married at the Westchester County Court in White Plains, New York; two days later they had a Jewish ceremony at the home of Kay Brown, Miller's literary agent, in Waccabuc, New York. With the marriage, Monroe converted to Judaism, which led Egypt to ban all of her films. Due to Monroe's status as a sex symbol and Miller's image as an intellectual, the media saw the union as a mismatch, as evidenced by Variety's headline, "Egghead Weds Hourglass." Monroe and Miller separated after the filming of Lets Make Love in 1960, after both carried on extramarital affairs, Monroe with her co-star Yves Montand, and Miller with set photographer Inge Morath.