Iowa-based gaming owner and operator Elite Casino Resorts could be opening a temporary casino in Grand Island, Nebraska this fall. The provisional venue would allow guests to play on a number of offerings while construction of a permanent casino at the Fonner Park thoroughbred horse racing facility is underway.

According to Fonner Park Chief Executive Officer Chris Kotulak, Grand Island’s temporary casino could open as early as this fall. “I would expect a temporary casino facility to be in operation before the end of 2022, but probably not until closer to October,” he said, as reported by The Grand Island Independent.

However, the executive said an exact date for the opening would be hard to provide because there are “many variables” out of the company’s control. Through its temporary venue, Elite Casino Resorts, Fonner Park’s operator, will provide guests blackjack, roulette and craps, plus slot machines. It will also feature a small restaurant and bar area.

The gaming operator claims the temporary venue will “feel like a casino,” albeit a small one. The provisional facility will have close to 200 slots, about a third of more than 600 machines expected for the permanent casino. Construction of the Grand Island Casino Resort at Fonner Park could begin after this year's Nebraska State Fair and might be finalized by 2025.

A percentage of GGR from the casino will be allocated toward purse money for the horsemen, remarks the cited news source. Baxter Construction of Des Moines, Iowa, will act as the general contractor for both the temporary and permanent structures. Once the full casino is up and running, the transitory venue will be used for storage.

Fonner Park is a thoroughbred horse racing facility co-located with Eihusen Arena and the grounds of the Nebraska State Fair. It has held races since 1954, the year in which it opened. Construction of a casino at the racetrack was approved by Nebraska voters in November 2020, through a constitutional amendment.

The design of the casino is “inspired by the gently rolling plains” found throughout the state's landscape and “abstracting elements” found in the predominant agriculture and Midwest vernacular, according to the venue’s website.

The hotel and casino destination will include a 37,000 sqft casino game floor with 650 slot machines and 20 table games, a sportsbook, 4 restaurants inclusive of a rooftop dining experience, a show lounge and a sports bar.