Many famous couples have occupied the White House: George and Martha, Franklin and Eleanor, Jack and Jackie, Ron and Nancy.

But don’t forget about Rutherford and Lucy.

On Valentine’s Day, visitors to the Rutherford B. Hayes Presidential Library & Museums in Fremont can celebrate the epic romance between the 19th U.S. president and his wife, Lucy Webb Hayes.

Rutherford and Lucy Hayes were married for 36 years until Lucy’s death in 1889. After Lucy’s death, the former president referred to his marriage as “the most interesting fact” from his very interesting life.

The Valentine’s Day event will include tours of the first floor of the historic Hayes home at the Spiegel Grove estate. The tours also will include romantic stories about the couple, their courtship and their marriage.

The event also will feature costumed maids serving refreshments. Guests can partake of sparkling grape juice, chocolates and champagne, although Lucy, it must be noted, did not serve alcohol in the White House.

And guests can enjoy live music in the same parlor where the couple entertained their guests. Professional singer Joan Eckermann, who just so happens to also be the special events and volunteer coordinator at the library and museums, will perform.

Tours will start at 4:30, 6 and 7:30 p.m. Each tour lasts about 40 minutes, followed by 20 minutes of music. Tours are limited, and reserved tickets are required. Tickets cost $22 per person, or $40 per couple.

Tickets can be reserved online at rbhayes.org/events.

For more information, call 419-332-2081 or visit rbhayes.org.

Egyptian artifacts

Ancient Egyptians didn’t observe Valentine’s Day, which isn't surprising, seeing as how St. Valentine wasn’t even born until the third century.

But there will be a Valentine’s Day party celebrating the American debut of the new exhibit “Egypt: The Time of Pharaohs” at the Cincinnati Museum Center.

The official opening day is Friday, but the exhibit will kick off with a gala reception and after-party on Thursday evening.

The exhibit is touted as the largest traveling collection of ancient Egyptian artifacts ever assembled. More than 350 original artifacts, including the sphinx head of Hatshepsut, the longest-ruling female pharaoh, will be on display.

Other artifacts include the elaborately embalmed mummy of Ta-khar, a wealthy woman of Thebes; a papyrus scene of judgment from the Book of the Dead; and the ornately decorated coffin of Nakht, an official and priest.

The exhibit also will include detailed models of once-lost cities, temples and landscapes. Visitors also will find interactive multimedia displays, including the world’s first full-sized 3-D hologram of a mummy.

The Valentine’s Day opening reception will take place from 6 to 10 p.m. and includes visits with exhibit curators and archaeologists, light bites, cocktails and valet parking. Tickets cost $100.

Tickets to the “Pharaohs in Love” after-party cost $50. The event runs 8 to 10 p.m.

Tickets to view the exhibit, which will open Friday and runs through Aug. 18, cost $19.50, or $12.50 for children.

For more information or for tickets, call 1-800-733-2077 or visit www.cincymuseum.org.

Steve Stephens is the Dispatch travel and At Home writer. Email him at sstephens@dispatch.com or follow him on Twitter @SteveStephens.