Despite virtual or real books, reading helps you to think out of the box. Gone are those days filling your shelves with books and surfing it during your leisure time. The advent of Apple’s iPad changed the scenario of reading books. You can read any books anytime and anywhere. Your bookshelves have taken a new possession in the form if iBooks store at Apple platform. What do you prefer iPhone or iPad for reading? Both the models suits well for reading iBooks. What would be the perfect tool for a tireless read? The latest iPhone model ‘iPhone 11 Pro’ has a touch screen with 5.80-inch display screen whereas the breathtaking new iPad Mini launched with 7.9-inch screen display. The wider screen gives a better view without eye straining for long hours. It is the perfect time to transfer iBooks from iPhone to iPad optimally without any data loss.

Part 1: How to transfer iBooks from iPhone to iPad via iCloud

For a successful transfer of iBooks from iPhone to iPad via iCloud you must make use of the same Apple ID in both the devices. The underlying theory is simple, you have to sync your iBooks with the iCloud platform and make the books available in all your Apple devices effortlessly.

Step 1: Reach for iCloud

Tap the ‘Settings’ option on the home page of your iPhone and hit your iCloud account. Enter the Apple ID credentials and then go to the ‘iCloud’ option from the listed items.

Step 2: Enable iBooks

Tap the toggle button nearby ‘iCloud Drive’ and ‘iBooks’, turn it ‘On’ to enable the iBooks available in all your iOS devices. To synchronize few more details related to iBooks you must select ‘iBooks’ option from the ‘Settings’ menu in the home screen and enable the following options from the displayed items like ‘ Sync Bookmarks and Notes, Sync Collections, Online Content etc’.

In your iPad device, connect with the iCloud Drive using the same Apple ID to view the iBooks in your device. All updates related to the iBooks flashes on it immediately for ease access.

Part 2: How to transfer iBooks from iPhone to iPad via iTunes

The synchronization process between iPhone and iPad via iTunes takes place with an intermediate, a computer.

How a computer does play a part in the iBooks sync process?

If you want to make use of iTunes to transfer iBooks from iPhone to iPad then you must enable the sync option on the iTunes platform using a computer. Detailed steps were as follows

Step 1: Connect the iPhone

You must connect your iPhone with your computer using the USB cable and launch the iTunes program.

Step 2: Modify iBook settings in iTunes

You have to make sure that all the iBook collections are available with the connected iOS device. Tap your ‘iPhone’ on the ‘iTunes’ platform displayed on the computer screen. Now choose ‘Books’ at the left panel and tick the checkbox of the ‘Sync Books’ option in the right panel of the window. You can either go for ‘All Books’ or ‘Selected Books’ option. Finally hit the ‘Apply’ button below to save the changes in the settings.

Now you had a successful synchronization of iBooks with iTunes, which extends the access of iBooks in your iPad and all your iOS devices. All changes in your iBook collections will reflect on the iTunes environment thereby allowing you to read it from any iOS devices easily.

Part 3: How to transfer iBooks from iPhone to iPad via airdrop

What is Airdrop?

The Airdrop is similar to Bluetooth connectivity. You can connect your iOS devices in the air without using any sort of data cables to transfer files. The transaction between iOS devices occurs without any data loss. The process occurs quick and precise.

Step 1: Turn ‘On’ connectivity controls

Unlock your iPhone iOS device, tap the ‘Settings’ icon and turn on ‘Wi-Fi’ and ‘Bluetooth’ option

Step 2: Choose ‘Airdrop’

Open the ‘Control Centre’ by swiping the screen with your finger from below then tap ‘AirDrop’ option. In the next screen, based on the needs you can choose between ‘Everyone’ or ‘Contacts Only’.

Step 3: Choose the Book

Open the iBook app and select the book you want to share from the list.

Step 4: Share the Book

Turn on the ‘AirDrop’ option in your iPad and place the two devices closer for uninterrupted book transfer. Hit the ‘Share’ button at the top right side of the screen and select the target ‘iPad’ device from the pop up to commence the file transfer.

Soon after the transfer process, you can save the file in your iPad at your desired location.

Part 4: How to transfer iBooks from iPhone to iPad via email

Transfer iBooks from iPhone to iPad through Email attachment is a simple procedure but time-consuming. You should manually attach the files in the Email platform to establish this task.

Step 1: View the iBooks app

In the home screen of your iPhone, hit the iBooks app icon to view your favourite books

Step 2: Select the book

Tap the book you want to read and click the square icon with the arrow in the centre, from the popup list choose ‘Email’ to attach the book with your Email

Step 3: Enter your Email Address

In the Email screen, enter your email address and hit the ‘Send’ button. If you want to attach more books in this mail, then repeat the above two steps again.

Step 4: Access the Email

In your iPad, open your Email and download the file to enjoy a good at any time.

Conclusion

There are optimum ways to transfer iBooks from iPhone to iPad. You have to select a convenient method to accomplish this task satisfying a few criteria like faster, precise, no data loss, and simple steps etc. However, you can now access your favourite books at the iBooks store from any iOS gadgets with the help of the external storage like iCloud and iTunes. The innovative ‘AirDrop’ settings in the iPhone establish wireless connection to complete your transfer process in the finest way.