Reading eBooks on mobiles is more convenient than reading physical books. And it has become a popular trend to read eBooks on iPad, iPhone, Android or other mobile phones or tablets. If Â the e-book is published on a website, you can go to the website on your iPad and tap the link to the boook, then you can open and choose iBooks. If you have a collection of downloaded or purchased EPUBs, PDFs stored in computer, it would be struggling to transfer eBooks to iPad.

This article will introduce you top 3 ways to transfer eBooks (EPUBs, PDFs) to iPad Pro 2/Air 2/Mini 4 from Windows PC.

Part 1. Transfer Ebooks to iPad from Windows PC with WinX MediaTrans

What formats are the eBooks? Need to convert or not? iPad iBooks supported eBooks formats are .epub and .pdf. If the eBooks you'll gonna transfer to iPad are not in these two formats, you need an eBooks file converter to convert them to EPUB or PDF format.

As for purchased eBooks from iBooks or iTunes Store, they are protected and can only be played on certain authorized devices. And every time you sync eBooks to iPad from computer with iTunes, iTunes will vanish the original eBooks from your iPad, causing some data loss.

WinX MediaTrans supports transferring both free downloaded and purchased eBooks to any iPad model for normal playback. It is the most powerful and versatile iOS device data manager in market now.

Transfer eBooks to iPad Pro/Air/Mini from PC for reading in iPad iBooks app without data loss at lightning speed. And export iPad/iPhone purchased eBooks (EPUBs, PDFs), audio books in iTunes/iBooks Store to computer and release audio books free from protections for playback any other device.

Transfer photos, music, videos, ringtones, iTunes U, etc. between computer and iPad iPhone iPod with zero data loss. Manage iOS devices music library and edit music files. Auto convert video to MP4 and convert audio to MP3/AAC when transferred to iPad iPhone. Make free ringtones for iPhone.

Support exporting iTunes movies, music, audio books from iOS devices to computer and make them non-protected for later playback on PC and non-Apple devices flawlessly.

How to Transfer Ebooks (EPUBs, PDFs) to iPad Pro 2/Air 2/Mini 4 from Windows PC with WinX MediatRANS

Free download WinX MediaTrans (100% clean and secure) on your Windows 10/8/7/Vista/XP, etc. and follow the detailed step-by-step guide below to transfer free or purchased eBooks to iPad from computer with no hassle.

You can directly put free or purchased eBooks on iPad Pro, Air 2, Mini 4, etc. with WinX MediaTrans without data loss.

Step 1: Launch WinX MediaTrans and connect your iPad with computer via USB cable.

Step 2: Click Book button on the main interface to open the eBook manager interface.

Step 3: Then choose the category from the left column you want to add the eBooks to. If you'd like to add EPUBs to iPad, click Books (EPUB); if you want to transfer PDFs to iPad, choose PDFs catefory.

Step 4: Click Add Book icon on the top tool bar to open computer folder and select the eBooks files, EPUBs or PDFs, and add them into the program.

Step 5: Hit the blue Sync button to transfer the selected eBooks (EPUBs/PDFs) to iPad Pro 2/Air 2/Mini 4, etc. in a flash. Then you can freely read eBooks on iPad iBooks app wherever you are.