Lord knows how overwhelming it is to start again. Getting the list of books you had on an old gadget and having them installed on the new device is just nerve-wracking. It even waters down the excitement of using a new machine!

Not many people know how to transfer iBooks from iPad to iPad while some even wonder, “Is it possible to transfer iBooks from one iPad to another iPad?” Well, nothing is impossible with the current technology.

In this article, we will provide you with up to 4 verified and efficient ways to transfer iBooks easily and quickly. With the step by step guidelines below, we will assist you in ensuring a swift transition of iBooks from one iPad to another. You can then carry on reading like the movement never happened! Scroll on.

Part 1: Transfer iBooks from iPad to iPad with Mobile Trans

MobileTrans is an all-round application designed to make the transfer of files between gadgets smooth, easy, and fast. It can run with no lagging on all Android, iOS, and Windows devices. It accommodates transfer of up to 18 types of data such as photos, videos, notes, calendar, contacts, messages, and audio files from one device to another. The type of data supported varies based on the composition of the two gadgets involved. The transfer is done directly between the two iOS devices and in just four steps.

To use Mobile Trans to transfer iBooks to a new iPad,

Step 1: Launch MobileTrans

First, you have to install the application MobileTrans, then open it and select the Phone Transfer option.

Step 2: Connect iPads to a computer

Using a suitable Apple USB cable, connect the two iPads to the computer using the utility ports on the side of the PC. Once MobileTrans identifies the iPads, tap on the Flip button to select the Source and Destination devices accordingly.

Step 3: Select the iBooks and Start the transferring process

Next, from the Source iPad, choose the iBooks you wish to transfer to the new iPad and tap on the Start button. Ensure the connection remains stable throughout the transfer process.

To avoid multiple copies of the same book on the Destination iPad, check the ‘Clear data before copy’ option before tapping on Start. It ensures existing copies get deleted from the iPad.

Step 4: End of transfer

Once the transfer is complete, preview the iBooks on the Destination iPad to ensure all the selected data got copied. You can then disconnect and read on your new iPad.

Note: the amount of time taken to finish the process depends on the size of the files

Part 2: Transfer iBooks from iPad to iPad with iTunes

If you are looking to transfer iBooks from iPad to iPad without having to pay a dime or download third-party software, iTunes is convenient. As long as you have the book files backed up on iTunes on the original iPad, it is easy to restore the data to the new iPad via iTunes.

To transfer iBooks to the new iPad with iTunes, follow the guideline below:

Step 1: Connect the old iPad to computer

First of all, create a connection between your old iPad and the computer. Then, launch iTunes on the comp and click the iPad, followed by Summary.

Step 2: Back-Up iBooks in iTunes

Secondly, tap on This Computer and choose Back Up Now under the Backups module. This action will commence the backup process, which takes a while to finish.

Step 3: Connect new iPad to PC

Next, connect the new iPad to the comp using an Apple cable and launch iTunes. Tap on the iPad icon and select the Summary panel.

Step 4: Restore Backup

Now, find the Backups section and tap on Restore Backup. You will get a prompt to choose the latest backup on the list. Lastly, click Restore to begin transferring iBooks to the new iPad.

On the successful restoration of iBooks on the new iPad, you can enjoy reading your books from where you left. Please note that if there were any books on the new iPad before the backup process, they would get automatically deleted. To prevent this outcome, you could try alternative software to transfer iBooks to the new iPad.

Part 3: Transfer iBooks from iPad to iPad with Airdrop

In case the first two methods are not appealing to you, feel free to have iBooks transferred to a new iPad with Airdrop.

For those of you readers who are wondering “What is Airdrop?” your wonder ends at the end of this sentence! Airdrop is pretty much the same as Bluetooth. Just as Bluetooth is to Androids and Windows gadgets, so is Airdrop to iOS devices.

This way, you get to transfer iBooks from iPad to iPad without using data cables of any sort. It is just as good as the above methods (even better), and there is no loss of data during the sharing process. This method is fast and effective.

Here is the step-by-step guide to using it:

Step 1: Enable connectivity controls Access your iPad and go to Settings. Turn on Wi-Fi and Bluetooth by tapping on their icons.

Step 2: Select Airdrop

Secondly, launch the Control Centre by swiping with your finger, from the bottom of the screen, and click on Airdrop. From the window that appears, select either Contacts Only or Everyone as desired.

Step 3: Create the list of books you wish to transfer

Next, open the iBooks app and choose the books you want to move to the new iPad. You can select specific books or All Books, as you see fit.

Step 4: Transfer the selected books to the new iPad

We are about to finish. Now, enable Airdrop mode in the new iPad and put the two gadgets close to ensure the sharing process of the iBooks between the two iPads does not get interfered with.

Thereafter, tap on the Share button at top right side of the current interface. Finally, choose your visible new iPad from the window that appears. Now sit back and watch the transfer process pick up. It will take as long depending on the size of book files.

When the transferring is complete, you can select a preferred location on your new iPad to save the iBooks file.

So, now you can fix yourself your favorite beverage and get lost in the pages of your favorite book on your new iPad Mini with a fantastic screen display. Enjoy!

Part 4: Transfer iBooks from iPad to iPad with Settings

Last and the easiest method to transfer iBooks from iPad to new iPad, is through Settings! Yes, as long as you have a secure and stable Wi-Fi connection on both iPads, and a little discipline to follow the steps below, you are good to go.

Here we go:

Step 1: Turn on Syncing on old iPad

First, go to your old iPad and find Settings, then tap on iBooks. Next, click on Sync Bookmarks and Notes or Sync Collections.

Step 2: Turn on Sync mode on the new iPad

Take your new iPad and repeat the instructions above on it.

Step 3: Wait for the transfer to finish

Once the two iPads have iBooks sync mode activated, the transfer issue is easy and quick. Afterward, you can keep reading your books on the new iPad comfortably.

Very simple, right? Easy as 1, 2, 3!

Conclusion

Just like everything else in the universe, good and bad alike, we have come to the end of this sweet article on how to transfer iBooks from iPad to iPad. There are four ways to choose from to transfer iBooks to a new iPad successfully. Settings being the most simple of all, and Airdrop being enthralling. These two are wireless ways to handle iBooks transfer to a new iPad.

iTunes saves you the trouble of using third-party apps but require a little getting used to, especially for new users. Overall, I would recommend MobileTrans in case you want to try a professional tool to transfer iBooks to new iPads.

Finally, I believe it has been an enjoyable and educational read you will willingly share widely and empower others. Knowledge is power, right!