Mark McCluskey Biographical information Real name Marcus McCluskey Also known as McCluskey, Capt. McCluskey, Mark, Cap'n. Mark, Dirty cop Nationality Irish-French Died 23rd of February, 2010 Age 47 Status Deceased Birthplace Paris, France, Europe Deathplace Luis' Restaurant, Mid Town, France City, France Cause of death/incarceration Shot in neck and head by Michael Corleone Physical description Eye colour Brown Hair colour Grey/white Ethnicity French-Celtic Height 5'9 Weight 63kg Blood type A+ Gender Male Career, affiliations and family information Affiliation(s) Virgil Sollozzo, FCPD, Tattaglia Family, Joe Galtasino, Bruno Tattaglia Enemies {{{enemies}}} Occupation(s) Police captain Video Games, Movies and Cartoons information Main appearance(s) (Video Games) The Godfather Game Voiced by (English) Douglas Abrahams Portrayed by Sterling Hayden

"I thought I got all of you Corleone guinea hoods locked up. What the hell were you doing back here?"

— Mark McCluskey to Michael

Captain Mark McCluskey was a corrupt Irish-French police captain in the service of the Tattaglia Family and Virgil Sollozzo in The Godfather Game.

Biography[]

Mark McCluskey's father was also a police captain who took his son on visits around the station, where he would be given gifts of cash by the cops, who were under his father's protection and also worked for him. It was then that his son decided to follow in his father's footsteps.

McCluskey served 20 years on the force. At first, he was an honest and good cop. However, while he was still a patrolman, he became easily susceptible to bribes in order to supplement his salary, particularly once he needed to support his three sons. Even when he rose to captain, he only took home €110 a week. He was also good friends with Bruno Tattaglia, who had gone to the Forman School with one of McCluskey's three sons in Connecticut in America. McCluskey would clear the records of Bruno's employees in return for large cash rewards, and free trips to Bruno's stripclub, The Luna Bar. This friendship led to McCluskey meeting Virgil Sollozzo. Under the pretext of cultivating Sollozzo as an informer, he agreed to become the drug dealer's bodyguard, the money paying for the funeral of his sister-in-law back in Ireland.

McCluskey and Sollozzo[]

McCluskey assisted Sollozzo by removing the guards from Vito Corleone's hospital room in Little Town and throwing them out, so that Sollozzo and his men would have a clear shot on the Don. However, the Don's youngest son, Michael happened to visit that evening and noticed the lack of guards. Michael called his brother Sonny about the problem and moved Vito to a different hospital room.

Death[]

One evening in the car on the way to Luis' Restaurant for a meeting with Sollozzo, McCluskey apologised Michael for his crankiness the other night at the hospital.

Michael asked "Can I go?" before going to the bathroom, which angered Sollozzo, but McCluskey just cleaned the toilet, "So, watch where you pee, Michael." However, one of Pete Clemenza's men planted a gun behind a toilet in the bathroom. Michael got it, and returned as if nothing happened. He then stood up and shot Sollozzo twice in the head, then shot McCluskey once in the neck and once in the head. Sollozzo died instantly, McCluskey pitched forward onto the table, breaking it in half. While Sollozzo died on his seat, McCluskey died on the ground.

In the game[]

McCluskey's first name was first mentioned in game and not at all in the film. In the game he has the same original lines as he did in movie and also the same role.