Rage Against The Machine Biography

Rage Against the Machine (commonly abbreviated as RATM or shortened to Rage) is a Los Angeles, California-based rock band. Zack de la Rocha, bassist and backing vocalist Tim Commerford, guitarist Tom Morello, and drummer Brad Wilk formed the band in 1991. Their music reflects revolutionary political ideas. They have sold over 16 million records globally as of 2010. The band was nominated for induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in their first year of eligibility, in 2017, then again in 2018, 2019, and 2021, but all of their bids were unsuccessful. They are well known for their song “Killing In the Name”.

Rage Against the Machine’s self-titled first album was released in 1992 to financial and critical acclaim, earning them a spot at the 1993 Lollapalooza festival and a place on Rolling Stone’s list of the 500 best albums of all time in 2003. Evil Empire (1996) and The Battle of Los Angeles (1999), the band’s next two albums, were likewise successful, topping the Billboard 200 chart on both occasions. Rage Against the Machine became a popular and influential band throughout their first nine years, and had a significant influence on the nu metal genre that arose in the late 1990s and early 2000s. They were also voted No. 33 on VH1’s list of the 100 Greatest Hard Rock Artists.

Rage Against the Machine’s debut album went triple platinum thanks to significant radio play of the song “Killing in the Name,” a strong, driving piece with only eight lines of lyrics. On February 21, 1993, the BBC Radio 1 Top 40 singles show accidentally played the “Fuck You” version, which contains 17 uses of the word fuck.

In 2000, Rage Against the Machine released the cover album Renegades before disbanding due to De la Rocha’s departure due to escalating creative disputes. De la Rocha went solo, while the remainder of the band created the rock supergroup Audioslave with Chris Cornell, the former frontman of Soundgarden; Audioslave released three albums before disbanding in 2007. Rage Against the Machine announced a reunion in the same year, and the band performed together for the first time in seven years at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in April 2007. The band continued to perform at numerous live venues and festivals throughout the world for the next four years, omitting a sabbatical in 2009, before going on hiatus again in 2011. With B-Real, Chuck D, and DJ Lord, Morello, Commerford, and Wilk created Prophets of Rage in 2016, which produced one EP and one full-length studio album before disbanding in 2019.

After an eight-year break, Rage Against the Machine announced in November 2019 that they would reunite for a world tour. The tour was originally intended to begin in 2020, however due to the COVID-19 epidemic, it was postponed until 2021, then to 2022.

This is a list of their nominations and awards; Rage Against the Machine has won two Grammy Awards and has received six nominations. The band was also inducted into Kerrang”Hall !’s of Fame” in 2008. Rage Against the Machine were also awarded the NME Heroes of the Year Award in 2010. The band has also gotten three MTV Video Music Award nominations, but has yet to win one. In 2018, 2019, and 2021, Rage Against The Machine have been nominated for the Rock &amp; Roll Hall of Fame.

In a poll commissioned to commemorate the 70th Official Christmas Number 1 race, the UK Official Charts Company announced in 2021 that ‘Killing In The Name’ had been selected the ‘UK’s Favorite Christmas Number 1 of All Time’ (and as a tie-in with the book The Official Christmas No. 1 Singles Book by Michael Mulligan).

Rage Against The Machine Discography

Top Videos

Frequently Asked Questions

Who Was Lead Singer Of Rage Against The Machine?

The lead singer of Rage Against the Machine was Zack de la Rocha.

How Many Singer Of Rage Against The Machine?

There are four members of Rage Against the Machine. Singer Zack de la Rocha, bassist Tim Commerford, guitarist Tom Morello, and drummer Brad Wilk. The band formed in 1991 and released their self-titled debut album in 1992. They have since released three more studio albums, all of which have been highly acclaimed by critics. Rage Against the Machine is considered one of the most influential bands of the 1990s, and their music has been used in a number of films and television shows.

What Is Rage Against The Machine Most Popular Songs?

Some of Rage Against the Machine’s most popular songs include “Killing in the Name,” “Bombtrack,” and “Sleep Now in the Fire.” The band is known for their politically charged lyrics and aggressive sound, which has earned them a loyal following over the years.

What Music Genre Is Rage Against The Machine?

Rage Against the Machine is a rap metal band. Their music style combines elements of hip hop, heavy metal, and punk rock.

Who Wrote Rage Against The Machine Songs?

Most of the songs on Rage Against the Machine’s self-titled debut album were written by vocalist Zack de la Rocha, with contributions from guitarist Tom Morello. The album’s lead single, “Bombtrack”, was co-written by all four members of the band. Other notable tracks include “Killing in the Name”, “Take the Power Back”, and “Wake Up”. On their second album, Evil Empire, Morello took on a larger role in songwriting, co-writing all but one of the tracks. De la Rocha wrote the lyrics for all of the songs on the album. Notable tracks include “People of the Sun”, “Bulls on Parade”, and “Down Rodeo”.

Who Was The Most Famous Guitarist Of Rage Against The Machine?

The most famous guitarist of Rage Against The Machine was Tom Morello. He was known for his unique playing style, which incorporated elements of heavy metal, punk rock, and hip hop. Morello was also a highly political activist, and his lyrics often contained social and political commentary.

Most Searched For Rage Against The Machine Songs