This year's Nobel Prize for literature has been won by Hungarian author and Holocaust survivor Imre Kertész, whose autobiographical novels explore how individuals can survive when subjected to "barbaric" social forces.

Born in Budapest in 1929, Kertész was deported to Auschwitz at the age of 15, and was finally liberated from Buchenwald in 1945.

After working as a journalist on a Hungarian daily newspaper, he was dismissed after the communist takeover and conscripted into the army for two years. He began to write from his "voluntary prison cell" - a one-room flat in Budapest he shared with his wife - for the next 35 years, supporting himself as a freelance translator of German literature.

His first book, Sorstalansag (Fateless), appeared in a limited edition in 1975 after being rejected by a state publishing company and tells of the deportation of a teenager to Auschwitz.

It forms the first part of his "trilogy of those without a destiny", in which Kertész traces his past. Sorstalansag was singled out for praise by the Swedish Academy, the 216-year-old body of 18 lifetime members which makes the annual award, worth $1m.

"For him Auschwitz is not an exceptional occurrence," the Swedish Academy said. "It is the ultimate truth about human degradation in modern experience."

"The refusal to compromise in Kertesz's stance can be perceived clearly in his style, which is reminiscent of a thickset hawthorn hedge, dense and thorny for unsuspecting visitors."

Kertész's second novel, Fiasco (1988), features a hero who is a journalist, and the third, Kaddish for an Unborn Child (1992), is based around the idea of the Jewish prayer for the dead - the kaddish. Kertész has described his kaddish as being for the child he refuses to bring into a world which permitted the existence of Auschwitz.

Kertész's Nobel win is the latest in a series of honours for the author. He was awarded the Brandenburg Literature Prize in 1995, The Book Prize for European Understanding, Leipzig 1997, the Darmstadt Academy Prize in 1997, the Order "pour le mérite" and the World Literature Prize for 2000.

Excerpts from Fateless and Kaddish for a Child Not Born, written by Imre Kertész and translated by the Associated Press from Hungarian

Fateless

Buchenwald lies in a region of mountains and valleys, on the spine of an elevation. Its air is clean, All eyes are delighted by the diverse landscape, the encircling forests, the red tile-roofed villages houses in the valley below. The baths lie to the left. The prisoners are mostly friendly, although in a different way than in Auschwitz. Upon arrival, here too, you are met by a bath, barbers, disinfectant fluids and a change of clothes. The accessories of the cloak room are exactly the same as in Auschwitz. But the bath is warmer, the barbers do their work more meticulously and the cloak room attendant, even if just by a fleeting glance, tries to size up your measurements. Then it's into the hallway, before sliding glass windows and they inquire whether you have any gold teeth. Then, a compatriot of yours who has been here longer and even has hair writes your name in a big book. He gives you a yellow triangle, a wide strip and a band, both made of cloth. In the middle of the triangle there a letter U, a sign that you are, after all, also Hungarian. The band has a printed number on it, mine, for example, is 64921.

Kaddish for a Child Not Born

I might have probably said that this sentence is already even formally flawed, which is that, "There is no explanation for Auschwitz," since there is always an explanation for what exists. Even if, of course, they are by nature arbitrary, mistaken, of this and that sort. It is a fact that a fact has at least two lives. A fact-life and, to put it somehow, a spiritual life, a mode of existence, which is nothing other than explanation, the explanations, what is more, the over-explanation of facts, or at least the mass of explanations which in the end annihilate, or at least obscure, these facts. This unfortunate sentence, that, "There is no explanation for Auschwitz," is also an explanation with which the unfortunate author explains that we should be silent about Auschwitz, that there is no Auschwitz, or that there was no Auschwitz, because the only thing there is no explanation for, isn't it so, is for that which does not or did not exist.