HCA is currently seeking a part time Casual/Seasonal gate attendant for Westfield Heritage Village to work weekends from March to December, up to 8 hours per week including Sundays and public holidays when the Village is open to the public.

Job Summary:

Westfield Heritage Village is an over 150 hectare property within the City of Hamilton, midway between Cambridge and Hamilton near Rockton. The property is owned and managed by the Hamilton Conservation Authority. Westfield operates as a living history museum and provides special events for the general public, educational programs for students, unique heritage activities, weddings, business rentals and filming opportunities. On average 40, 000 visitors come to Westfield each year.

The Gate Attendant is the first point of contact for visitors to Westfield and strives to create an excellent customer service impression in their greeting and interaction. The attendant collects admission fees, sells vehicle passes and provides information about the Village, the day’s activities and about the Hamilton Conservation Authority in general.

Duties:

Act as cashier at the entrance gate accepting payment for entry, annual membership pass sales, gift cards and other ticketed events.

Greet and respond to visitor’s needs and provide direction/advice. Give excellent customer service.

Operate a cash register, count floats, print daily cash reports, process credit card and interact purchases. The gate attendant will be required to set-up and maintain their cashier station.

To work together with all staff and volunteers and be engaged in activities related to revenue generation.

Contribute to general housekeeping duties. Carry out other duties as assigned.

Qualifications:

Previous cashier/gate experience related work with the public is an asset, but additional training will be provided.

Applicants must possess good communication and interpersonal skills. A friendly and pleasant personality is essential.

Accuracy and attention to detail for cash

Able to work alone or with a partner

Working Conditions:

This position will be based at Westfield Heritage Village reporting to the Visitor Services Coordinator. There is no public transportation to this location. Most of the work will be from a heated admission kiosk, but some of the work may be outside in a variety of weather and temperature conditions. This position involves working Sundays and holidays between 6-8 hours a week.

Rate of Pay:

This is a casual position based on minimum wage. There is an opportunity to buy a discounted annual membership pass to the Hamilton Conservation Authority and to receive discounted admissions to other area attractions. Westfield is largely staffed by over 400 volunteers who help to provide a fun, energetic and unique working environment.

Application Process:

If you are interested, please send your cover letter and resume in PDF or MS Word format via email by 4pm Friday February 12, 2016 to:

Hamilton Conservation Authority

Attn: Christina Jager, Visitor Services Coordinator

Westfield Heritage Village

Email: cjager@conservationhamilton.ca (please specify job title in subject line)

www.conservationhamilton.ca

Although we appreciate the interest of all applicants, only those selected for an interview will be contacted. Accessibility accommodations are available for all parts of the recruitment process; applicants are asked to inform Human Resources for any disability required accommodations in advance.