1015 N Michillinda Avenue #314, Pasadena, CA 91107 (MLS# SR24158258) is a Condo property with 2 bedrooms, 1 full bathroom and 1 partial bathroom. 1015 N Michillinda Avenue #314 is currently listed for $640,000 and was received on August 01, 2024. Want to learn more about 1015 N Michillinda Avenue #314? Do you have questions about finding other Condo real estate for sale in Pasadena? You can browse all Pasadena real estate or contact a Coldwell Banker agent to request more information.

Based on information from California Regional Multiple Listing Service, Inc. as of 8/12/2024 . This information is for your personal, non-commercial use and may not be used for any purpose other than to identify prospective properties you may be interested in purchasing. Display of MLS data is usually deemed reliable but is NOT guaranteed accurate by the MLS. Buyers are responsible for verifying the accuracy of all information and should investigate the data themselves or retain appropriate professionals. Information from sources other than the Listing Agent may have been included in the MLS data. Unless otherwise specified in writing, Broker/Agent has not and will not verify any information obtained from other sources. The Broker/Agent providing the information contained herein may or may not have been the Listing and/or Selling Agent. The information provided is for consumers' personal, non-commercial use and may not be used for any purpose other than to identify prospective properties consumers may be interested in purchasing. All properties are subject to prior sale or withdrawal. All information provided is deemed reliable but is not guaranteed accurate, and should be independently verified.

Protect your home and budget with an American Home Shield® home warranty. Learn more!

Coldwell Banker Realty and Guaranteed Rate Affinity, LLC share common ownership and because of this relationship the brokerage may receive a financial or other benefit. You are not required to use Guaranteed Rate Affinity, LLC as a condition of purchase or sale of any real estate. Operating in the state of New York as GR Affinity, LLC in lieu of the legal name Guaranteed Rate Affinity, LLC.

Real estate agents affiliated with Coldwell Banker are independent contractor sales associates and are not employees of Coldwell Banker.

CalRE# - 00616212 Southern California 300 Commerce, Ste. 250, Irvine, CA 92602

©2024 Coldwell Banker. All Rights Reserved. Coldwell Banker and the Coldwell Banker logos are trademarks of Coldwell Banker Real Estate LLC. The Coldwell Banker® System is comprised of company owned offices which are owned by a subsidiary of Anywhere Advisors LLC and franchised offices which are independently owned and operated. The Coldwell Banker System fully supports the principles of the Fair Housing Act and the Equal Opportunity Act.