Slobodan Milosevic, the former Serbian leader indicted for war crimes for orchestrating the Balkan wars of the 1990s, was found dead in his prison cell near The Hague today, the UN tribunal said. Milosevic, 64, was found dead in his bed at a UN prison near The Hague, the tribunal said in a statement. He appeared to have died of natural causes, a tribunal press officer said. A full autopsy and toxicological examination have been ordered.

"The guard immediately alerted the detention unit officer in command and the medical officer. The latter confirmed that Slobodan Milosevic was dead," the statement said.

Milosevic had been on trial since February 2002, defending himself against 66 counts including genocide, in Croatia, Bosnia and Kosovo. Among the most serious charges he faced involved responsibility for the massacre of more than 8,000 Bosnian Muslims in the enclave of Srebrenica in July 1995. He also faced allegations concerning the 1999 war in Kosovo, which prompted Nato to launch a bombing campaign against Serbia.

The proceedings against Milosevic were repeatedly interrupted by his poor health and chronic heart condition. He recently asked to be released temporarily to go to Moscow for treatment at a heart clinic. The tribunal rejected the request, fearing he would not return to complete his trial. Milosevic's brother today said the UN tribunal was responsible for the former president's death because of its refusal of medical treatment.

Milosevic had been examined regularly by doctors after his frequent complaints of fatigue or ill health, but the tribunal could not immediately say when he last underwent a medical checkup. All detainees at the UN centre in Scheveningen are checked by a guard every half hour.

Steven Kay, a British lawyer who had been assigned to represent Milosevic, said that the former Serb leader would not have fled, and was not suicidal. "He said to me: 'I haven't taken on all this work just to walk away from it and not come back. I want to see this case through,"' Mr Kay told the BBC. Milosevic's trial had been in recess since last week to await his next defence witness. Milosevic was also waiting for a court decision on his request to subpoena the former US president, Bill Clinton, as a witness.

His death comes less than a week after the star witness in his trial, former Croatian Serb leader Milan Babic, was found dead in the same prison. His testimony in 2002 described a political and military command structure headed by Milosevic in Belgrade that operated behind the scenes. Babic, who was serving a 13-year prison sentence, committed suicide.

Milosevic's death will be a crushing blow to the tribunal and to those who were looking to establish an authoritative historical record of the Balkan wars. Although the witness testimony is on public record, history will be denied the judgment of a panel of legal experts weighing the evidence of his personal guilt and the story of his regime.

"It is pity he didn't live to the end of the trial to get the sentence he deserved," Croatian President Stipe Mesic said.

"Unfortunately, he did not face justice for crimes he has committed in Kosovo as well," Kosovo's deputy prime minister, Lufi Haziri, said in Pristina.

The European Union said Milosevic's death does not absolve Serbia of responsibility to hand over other war crimes suspects. The death "does not alter in any way the need to come to terms with the legacy of the Balkan wars," said Ursula Plassnik, the foreign minister of Austria, which currently holds the rotating EU president. Last month, the UN's highest court, the International Court of Justice in The Hague, began hearings on a claim by Bosnia that Serbia was responsible for genocide during the 1992-95 Bosnian war - the first time a state has been put on trial for the worst crime of international law.

Milosevic was due to complete his defence at the war crimes tribunal this summer. But during months of presenting his case, he barely touched on the Bosnian war or the Srebrenica massacre. Instead, he focused on the 1999 war in Kosovo.

The tribunal said Milosevic's family had been informed of his death. His wife, Mirjana Markovic, who was often accused of being the power behind the scenes during her husband's autocratic rule in the 1990s, has been in self-imposed exile in Russia since 2003.

His son, Marko, also lives in Russia, and his daughter, Marija, lives in Serb-controlled half of Bosnia.