Ohio Capital Exec To Be Honored By Homeport This Fall

Citing his 35-year commitment to the practical needs of families and seniors, Homeport will be honoring Hall of Fame affordable housing advocate and non-profit financier Hal Keller at its second annual “Voice & Vision” program on Oct. 13.

“The Homeport ‘Voice & Vision’ Award that Hal will be receiving honors individuals who have provided extraordinary commitment and dedication to the cause of affordable housing,” said Homeport Board of Directors Chair Chris Hune.

“Hal has made it his focus for more than 30 years to support not only Homeport’s mission, but other housing organizations and we are proud to recognize the impact he has made in Central Ohio as well as around the region,” Hune added.

Keller has been president of Columbus-based Ohio Capital Corporation for Housing since 1993. An independent non-profit organization, OCCH has raised more than $3.5 billion for Low Income Housing Tax Credit projects involving more than 725 transactions and 40,000 homes in Ohio and Kentucky.

Keller has been with OCCH since its inception in 1989, serving first as Director of Development.

Under Keller’s leadership, OCCH has also developed affiliated property management and supportive services organizations, Community Properties of Ohio Management Services (CPO), a lending subsidiary, Ohio Capital Finance Corporation, a certified Community Development Finance Institution (CDFI), and philanthropic arm, Ohio Capital Impact Corporation (OCIC).

In 2014, Keller was inducted into the national Affordable Housing Finance’s Housing Hall of Fame.

Bruce Luecke, Homeport’s Interim President & CEO, called Keller “unmatched” in raising awareness to the needs of low to moderate income people -- and in effectively tackling the financial side of making a difference.

“We look forward to recognizing and celebrating Hal’s achievements,” Luecke said.

Keller said he treasures the honor and the work Homeport has been able to accomplish in its 29-year existence.

“I am humbled that Homeport has chosen me to receive this year’s Voice & Vision Award. Homeport is a critical organization with a long history of community impact and service,” Keller said. “I am truly honored.”

Keller serves on the boards of a variety of organizations including the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, YMCA of Central Ohio, Affordable Housing Trust for Columbus and Franklin County, Ohio Housing Council, Habitat for Humanity of Ohio and PACT (Partners Achieving Community Transformation). He also serves on the boards of several national affordable housing trade associations.

He holds Master of Arts degrees in both Public Administration and Social Work from The Ohio State University and a Bachelor of Science in Applied Social Science from Case Western Reserve University.

Keller will receive Homeport’s Voice & Vision award at the fall program to be held at St. Charles Preparatory School’s Walter Commons, 2010 E. Broad Street in Columbus. The award was presented in 2015 to Maude Hill, Homeport's Vice President of Community and Government Relations.

Sponsorship opportunities for the Voice & Vision Award Celebration are available by contacting Homeport’s Director of Philanthropy, Julie Naporano, at Julie.Naporano@homeportohio.org or visiting homeportohio.org/sponsor.