A Leicestershire-born civil servant who sits on DMU’s Board of Governors has received one of the highest awards in The Queen’s Birthday Honours.

Jonathan Mills, who joined DMU in January of this year, has been made a Companion of the Order of the Bath, which is second only to a Damehood or Knighthood in the Order.

The Most Honourable Order of the Bath was established by King George I in 1725 although it is believed to originally date back as far as the eighth century when bathing was used as a symbol for purification.

It is awarded to members of the military or civil service for exemplary service. Jonathan’s honour was awarded for his contribution to labour market policy and strategy.

He is Director-General for Energy Supply in the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy. Until recently he was Director-General for Labour Market Policy and Implementation at the Department of Work and Pensions, where he was responsible for a wide range of programmes to help people into work.

During the COVID pandemic he led initiatives that provided support to young people in particular who would otherwise have struggled to find jobs. The Kickstart programme, for example, has provided employment for more than 150,000 people since 2019.

He has worked in the Civil Service for more than twenty years, including more than ten years at HM Treasury and senior leadership roles at the Department of Energy and Climate Change and at the Cabinet Office. He has also worked in local government.

Here Jonathan reveals what his children thought of him receiving an award, the advice he offers students as they set out into the world of work and how he is impressed by the optimism of DMU and Leicester.

What was the reaction from family - and also friends - once you were able to share the news about being made a Companion of the Order of the Bath?

My children (who are nine and eleven) are I think pleased and proud really, but they are not giving me any room to take myself too seriously as a result of it! I think it has given them a bit of a sense that when they were annoyed that I was working away (much of the time in the spare room during lockdown!) I was doing it for a reason.

It was lovely to be able to phone my parents to break the news the night before the announcement: I think my mum's initial reaction was relief that the reason I was phoning her at ten-thirty at night was to give her good news, not some emergency!

And it has been very nice to receive congratulations from friends and colleagues, some of whom I have not seen for years. It has been a nice prompt to get back in touch with them.

What does it mean personally as a civil servant to be made Companion of the Order of the Bath?

As a civil servant and a public servant we get things done through working with others. I've been fortunate to be part of a great team, all across the country, working together to help people find work during the last few years.

I'm really pleased that that effort has been recognised through this honour. I feel very privileged to have had the opportunity to lead it as Director-General for Labour Market Policy and Implementation in DWP.

You have achieved many things in your career. What advice would you give to our students as they set out on their journey into the world of work?

I have had some great opportunities in my career and am very glad I ended up doing what I've ended up doing - but if you asked me aged twenty-one what I wanted to do I would never have said civil servant (not least because I didn't really know what civil servants did).

So I'd say if you have a really strong idea about what you want to do with your life then great, go for it - but if you don't, don't worry and certainly give yourself some space to try things. Your perfect career may be something you would never consider until you've started it.

What is it that impresses you most about DMU as a member of the Board of Governors?

I'm really happy to have the opportunity to get involved in DMU - such an important part of life in Leicester, my home city. I love the energy and the way it is a part of a thriving city, and how it isn't afraid to change and to be part of the future. I'm really impressed by that optimism and that focus on looking forward, whether it's through having an inclusive, international university; through a world-leading commitment to sustainability; or through embracing new technologies for teaching and for research.