Norodom Sihanouk Archival Collection

Please note Series and Box numbers for retrieval.

Series 3: Film Scripts and Notes

Box 1: Films by Norodom Sihanouk

Article entitled “My Cinematography” by Norodom Sihanouk (undated) – in French

Notes about the film Apsara (1965) – in French

Press articles and images from the film Royal Cortege (1966) – in French

Script and working notes for the film The Enchanted Forest (1966) – in English and French

Notes about the film The Little Prince (1967) – in English and French

Script and working notes for the film Shadow over Angkor (1967) – in English, French and Russian

Article about the film The Joy of Living (1967) – in English and French

Script and working notes for the film Twilight (1968) – in English and French

Script and working notes for the film Rose de Bokor (1969) – in English and French

[Editorial note: The theme of this film is the confrontation (or rather historical “meeting”) in a small Cambodian town in 1945 of three kinds of “patriotism”: that of the local Cambodians, that of the French colonialists and that of the Japanese imperialists.]

Script and working notes for the film Tragic Fate (1969) – in English and French

[Editorial note: This was the last film made by Norodom Sihanouk in Cambodia prior to the coup d’etat of 18 March 1970. The film tells the story of a young, poor fisherman (Sok) who falls into disgrace with the Crown Prince of his country (Rithivong), as the latter wants to take Sok’s fiancée (Nary) as wife No. 2. When the King hears about his son's behaviour he orders him to return Nary to Sok, but the Crown Prince disobeys his father and escapes taking Nary with him. The King orders the Royal Guard to follow him and during the struggle that follows the King kills his son.]

Script and working notes for the film Phedre Khemara (1968/1970) – in French

[Editorial note: This film was initially scheduled to be made in 1968 but it was postponed until 1970 and then was never made.]

Script for the film The Mysterious City (1988) – in English and French

[Editorial note: This was the first film made by Norodom Sihanouk in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea) using Korean actors and the facilities of the film studios of the DPRK.]

Script for the film The Countess of Nokorom (1989) – in English and French

[Editorial note: The second film made by Norodom Sihanouk in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea) using former stars of the Cambodian film industry and Korean actors.]

Box 2: Films by Norodom Sihanouk

Script, working notes and images for the film Good Bye, my Love (1989) – in English and French

[Editorial note: The third film made by Norodom Sihanouk in the DPRK (North Korea) using members of the Royal Family and other Cambodians, as well as Korean actors.]

Proposed script for the film Mondulkiri (1990) – in French

Page 8 of the script is missing.

[Editorial note: This film was originally scheduled to be made in the DPRK (North Korea) but because of the series of meetings taking place in different cities to settle the Cambodian conflict, it was never made.]

Script, working notes and images for the film I Shall Never See You Again, Oh, my Beloved Kampuchea! (1991) – in French and English

[Editorial note: This was the last film made by Norodom Sihanouk in the DPRK (North Korea) prior to the settlement of the Cambodian conflict in October 1991 and his return to Cambodia in November of the same year.]

Proposed script, working notes and images for the film The Khmer Cid, originally to be made in North Korea (1991) – in French

[Editorial note: This film was originally scheduled to be made in North Korea during 1991, with Prince (now King) Norodom Sihamoni playing the leading role. It is an adaptation by Norodom Sihanouk of the play Le Cid, by the French playwright, Corneille.]

Script and images for the film Le Phare qui éclaire notre Vie (1991) – in French

Proposed script for the film Our Wedding at Mount Baiktou (1992) – in French

[Editorial note: This film was also scheduled to be made in North Korea, also starring Prince (now King) Norodom Sihamoni. The name is taken from Mount Baiktou, an extinct volcano about 300 kilometres from the North Korea capital, which served as a base for North Korean leader, Kim Il Sung, during the war.]

Script, working notes and images for the film My Village at Sunset (1992) – in English, French and Khmer

[Editorial note: This film, made in Cambodia in July/August 1992, was the first film directed by Norodom Sihanouk upon his return to his homeland after 21 years of exile. The theme of the film is the horror caused by landmines, which in early 1992 were estimated to be at more than 8 million in Cambodia and injuring and killing 500 people per month.]

Script, working notes and images for the film Peasants in Distress (1993) – in English, French and Khmer

Script for the film Fatality (1993) – in French

Script and images for the film Cresus, Saviour of Poor Women (1993) – in Khmer and French

Box 3: Films by Norodom Sihanouk

Script and images for the film Champa of Battambang (1993) – in Khmer and French

Script and images for the film The Ghost of my Beloved Wife (1993) – in Khmer and French

Script, working notes and images of the film To See Angkor and….Die (1994) – in English, French and Khmer

[Editorial note: The inspiration for this film was given to Norodom Sihanouk by a book on Angkor by Marc Riboud. In the beautiful setting of the Angkor temples, Norodom Sihanouk scripted a romantic and sad story.]

Script, working notes and images for the film Buddha, Dhamma, Sangha: The Only Haven! (1995) – in French

Script and images for the film Flower of Vietnam (1995) – in French

Script and images for the film The Last Days of Colonel Savath (1995) – in French

Note on the film Avatars of an Old Gentleman (1995) – in French

Script and images for the film The Heir of a Vanquished Secessionist (1996) – in French and English

Script and working notes for the film The Great Assassination (1997/98) – in French

Script for the film I Shall Wait (1998) – in English and French

Images from the film I Always Think of You (1988/1998)

[Editorial note: This film is a compilation of images taken from different films made by Norodom Sihanouk between 1988 and 1998. There is no script for the film, only images.]

Script and images for the film Lotus of Buddha (1999) – in Khmer and French

Script for the film The Choice of the Heart and Reason (1999) – in French

Script and images for the film Lon Nol, Lon Non and the Lonnolians (2005) – in French and Khmer

Script and images from two comedy films 1) Mekha et Akha and 2) You have a Niece, I have a Nephew (2005) – in English and French

[Editorial note: These two short “comedy films” critique the mores of Cambodian high society in the 21st century.]

Script, working notes and images for the film The Khmer Cid (2005) – in English, French and Khmer

[Editorial note: This film was originally conceived to be made in North Korea in 1991 with Prince (now King) Norodom Sihamoni as the leading actor. It was finally made in Cambodia with Cambodian actors.]

Script for the film The Chatelaine of Banareath (2005) – in English, French and Khmer

[Editorial note: This film was inspired by the famous novel La Chatelaine du Liban by the great French writer, Pierre Benoit.]

Script for the film Aurore (Lohetarun) (2005) – in English, French and Khmer

[Editorial note: Another film inspired by a novel, Koenigsmark, by the French writer Pierre Benoit.]

Script for the film Religion and Love (2005) – in English, French and Khmer

Script for the film The Lake of Happiness (2005) – in English, French and Khmer

Script for the film Who does not have a Mistress? (2006) – in English