LHD David Farrance (6/23/99, 5’11/180): Farrance is clearly one of the top two-way defensemen available for the draft, and we’ve seen enough of him to boldly confirm his reputation as a quality power play quarterback with top-four upside. We feel he doesn’t get enough credit for his defensive play, and being under six foot is part of the reason why. Still, he’s the NTDP’s top defenseman who logs top-pairing minutes, runs the power play and kills penalties. Farrance is capable of winning puck battles against bigger older players — he’s done it against NCAA competition and again last night, so we can only hope this gets recognized as he nears the draft. He did, however, make a critical turnover that led to a 2-on-0, but his reaction was quick enough to break up the play before a chance materialized. Farrance’s positioning was solid and used his lower body strength to keep his man near the cage clear of shooting lanes.

RHD Tommy Miller (3/6/99, 6’2/177): Miller was smooth and reliable all night, which is the recurring theme over close tro a dozen viewings. Like Gildon, he too has the misfortune of playing within a deep and talented defense corps with each individual capable of providing offense. Miller is a fluid skater who leeps his head up and makes tape-to-tape passes, and pressure rarely rattles him.

LW Joey Cassetti (2/28/99, 6’3/187): Cassetti is a physical two-way winger who kills penalties and finishes his checks. He’s had a tough time getting offensive zone starts and power play time, but last night was one of the few opportunities where his underrated hockey sense was on display. Cassetti is a tireless forechecker with good speed and an active stick. He’s capable of creating scoring chances off turnovers and knows how to enter a zone with the puck or position himself properly in support of a rush.

LW Nikita Popugaev (11/20/98, 6’6/202): The final score is not indicative of a collectively poor effort from the Cougars, who thanks to Popugaev could have easily taken multi-goal lead into the decisive second period. Playing on his off wing, the hulking Russian had one of his best all-around performance in what was the fourth time we viewed him. It’s odd that his skating is criticized, because we simply don’t see his forward or lateral mobility and quickness as any sort of hinderance. Popugaev displayed strength on the puck without telegraphing his intentions — Kelowna defenders had a tough time not only figuring out whether he was going to shoot or pass, but were kept honest by his ability from the right wing to cut inside on his backhand. He owns an excellent shot and release, and his massive wingspan allows him to keep the puck well beyond poke-check range. Popugaev remains a habitual over-handler, and there isn’t a 1-on-3 he’s shown to shy away from. Still, he curled and waited for trailers on multiple occasions while breaking for open lanes with his stick on the ice.

Popugaev’s been a bit of a disappointment since his trade from Moose Jaw to Prince George, tallying just four goals in 24 games. Granted, the Cougars are an excellent team with legitimate Memorial Cup aspirations, so it’s not as if they are leaning on him to produce every night. Some have soured on him, which is perfectly fine — the kid has to start burying the puck. Nevertheless, if he continues to produce all-around performances like he did against Kelowna, it will be difficult to keep him outside of the high second round, possibly the lower end of the first. Consider him the 2017 version of Tage Thomson, the big-bodied sniper who last year rarely scored at even strength but still went late in the first round of 2016 to St. Louis.

The NHL’s annual trade deadline has come and gone, and while this year’s less-than-impressive event failed to deliver on the promise of widespread excitement and intrigue, general managers once again doled out future draft choices for rentals and graybeards. Whether the moves work out or not remains to be seen. But if you’re part of the dumbfounded collective that saw teams trade away those ever-precious draft picks for aging relics or guys too expensive to keep, you’re probably still looking for answers. Or that unfinished bottle of vodka. Or both.

Using hindsight as our spotter, we’ve examined and assessed the last 45 years of NHL trades made on or around the trade deadline that involved draft picks of any kind. We did, however, omit the draft picks that were acuired on Deadline Day but later shipped for an additional team (or two) to use at the draft. For example, the Los Angeles Kings on Deadline Day ’07 acquired a second round pick in 2007 after trading defenseman Brent Sopel to the Vancouver Canucks and kept it to select Wayne Simmonds. On the other hand, the Tampa Bay Lightning, who in the winter of 2014 acquired Ryan Callahan and two first round picks from the New York Rangers in exchange for Martin St. Louis, later flipped both first rounder to the New York Islanders. For the sake of brevity, we kept trades that involved three teams or more out of the analysis. Furthermore, we listed only the key components traded for draft picks rather than include all those involved. Again, it was to keep this project short and to the point. Keep in mind that the tables below list only draft picks hat we considered to be notable, as this is a project showing both the positive and negative side of acquiring draft choices at the deadline.

Whatever the case may be, hearing or seeing the news that draft picks were traded can unleash a bevy of uncontrollable emotions. Compounding matters — especially in this era of “I need to know and I need to know NOW!” — are the cloudy trade specifics that seemingly take hours, sometimes days to sort out. So why all the fuss? Why am I making such a big deal about years and picks in say, 2019, when your team is gunning for a Cup run this year? Because going into Draft Day with an otherwise barren cupboard of picks not only robs an organization of assets, but makes most of us feel like a left-out preschooler who didn’t get invited to a birthday party. If you’re on the other end of the trade, it usually means your team stunk, gave up on the season and wanted to give the fans something — anything — to be excited about.

When it comes to improving their hockey clubs, front office types will always defer to trading their right to select players in the after-season entry draft rather than deal an established NHL player or a promising prospect. This fire-and-forget strategy in search of instant gratification makes total sense on the surface — there is no human element to consider when trading away a draft pick which on Deadline Day is nothing but a number on a board. There are no difficult phone calls to make or families to uproot. And like players, draft picks from an emotional standpoint are far easier to replace than the player a coach or GM has grown to love.

Nevertheless, whether bolstering a contender for the Stanley Cup or looking for a final piece to sneak into the playoffs, a general manager assuming risk on Deadline Day is most certainly part of his job description. And while he’ll justify mortgaging a portion of his team’s future with cliche after cliche, there’s always the possibility for regret. When it comes to trading draft picks, one man’s trash becomes another man’s treasure. And if you go by the list below, treasure is a subtle way of describing a diamond mine.

NHL Draft Boards are like Grandmothers and snowflakes — no two are alike. So it’s folly to think Team A was going to draft the same player chosen by Team B after acquirung the pick from Team A on Deadline Day. Still, fans are pretty protective of their team’s draft picks, and losing one (or a bunch) in one day is tough to get over.

LW Joel Teasdale (3/11/99, 5’11/190): Teasdale is a top-line left wing who plays an in-your-face game. His size is far from imposing, but he shows tremendous upper-body strength that wins puck battles, while his leg drive helps him power through opponents as he skates down the wing with speed. Teasdale likes to control the puck and takes direct routes to the net. His feet are constantly moving and there isn’t a loose puck he won’t get dirty for. He skates with a short stride and looks choppy, and while his overall speed is somewhat average, Teasdale moves with a purpose and displays excellent balance. He’ll take a beating in the low slot and uses a wide tripod to maintain a foothold while screening the goalie. His puck skills are above average, and he is more of a shooter than a passer.

LHD Antoine Crete-Belzile (8/19/99, 6’0 /188): Crete-Belzile has the potential to be a very good top-four support defender, and we’d like to think the warts he’s showing in relation to puck management have more to do with his age than anything else — he won’t turn 18 for another six months. There are times he looks outstanding — confident, decisive and crisp. Every four or five solid shifts, however, are generally followed by foul up. Crete-Belzile is a smart player from his blueline inward, as he uses quick reflexes and a solid understanding of play development to intercept passes and transition up ice. He wins his 50/50 battles more for his routes, anticipation, body positioning and active stick rather than relying on speed alone. With the puck on his stick, Crete-Belzile can look impressive, but crossing center ice turns into an adventure. He’s far more reliable when he stays within himself, covers the slot like a blanket and disrupts play around the net. Agile and poised in his own end, Crete-Belzile is inconsistent with his gap control but does have a quick first step and good closing speed. He moonlights as a second-unit option on the power play, but don’t expect much in terms of offense, creativity and point production.

LW/C Anthony Poulin (8/26/99, 5’9/185): Sneaky, crafty offensive player with very quick hands and excellent vision. Poulin made several high-end plays in traffic to find open linemates rather than take shots through clogged lanes. He’s a bit of a waterbug — undersized but feisty and relentless. Poulin displayed a hard, accurate shot with a quick release. He plays in a support role and didn’t get many offensive zone starts but looks like a selfless pass-first playmaker capable of producing with an expanded role.

RW Shaun Miller (6/4/99, 5’11/170): Miller is a 200-foot player who skates well and is difficult to knock off the puck. He has escapability and will weave in and around traffic while maintaining control of the puck. Plays and looks a lot bigger than his listed measurements, as he used his upper-body strength and balance to fend off defenders. His straight-line speed is good, but Miller will gain the zone more from patience and lateral movement than simply blowing past people. Miller can stop on a dime and his footwork helps him gain the extra second or two necessary to find an open option.

RW Denis Mikhnin (7/11/99, 5’10/166): Mikhnin is a three-zone skilled forward capable of shouldering top line responsibilities. He is a quick skater with excellent side-to-side maneuverability who can not only skate well, but also create a variety of plays off the rush, such as feathering accurate passes or incorporating trailers and backdoor-cutters. Mikhnin stickhandles with his head up and will walk the line long enough to draw opponents away from quality scoring areas. He is a sturdy player who displays strength and a willingness to battle for pucks in any corner of the ice. An undervalued aspect of his game is that he is responsible in his own zone and drops down into the slot to cover up for roaming teammates. Moreover, his hand-eye coordination and soft hands allow him to settle down or wire bouncing pucks. Always involved and looking to strike, Mikhnin is an opportunist who makes you pay for snoozing.

C Carson MacKinnon (8/21/99, 6’0/154): MacKinnon is a versatile two-way center who can also play the wing. He is a confident, low-maintenance playmaker with very good vision who understands the importance of timing — MacKinnon uses accurate touch or slap passes off the rush, making it difficult to telegraph his intentions. He’s a wiry kid but will play physical and get involved in puck battles, both serving him well on Rimouski’s first penalty killing unit. Playing with poise and eluding pressure are two things he does extremely well, and he can be counted on to move the puck out of his own end and into safety.

The Draft Analyst (New York) — Another Canadian major junior regular season has come and gone, and with the playoffs just a few days away, let’s take a quick breather and dig into the players who from a traditional standpoint produced impressive stats. This is the first in a series of reviews where we rank the leaders into categories, beginning today with Canadian Hockey League skaters. Subsequent posts will get into goalies and first-year draft eligibles before culminating with analytics leaders, courtesy of prospect-stats.com. Today we’ll feature the top players — drafted, undrafted or soon-to-be-drafted — who as you’ll see either performed above expectation or finished exactly where we thought they would.

You can’t say enough about Regina center Sam Steel, a late first-round selection of Anaheim last June. Steel is our pick for CHL Player of the Year (Mitch Marner and Connor McDavid were the previous two winners), and the staggering numbers speak for themselves. He recorded 81 assists and 131 points in just 66 games — a 61-point increase from his 2016 draft year! And with all due respect to Erie winger Alex DeBrincat — a Chicago Blackhawks prospect and the CHL’s top goal scorer with 65 — there isn’t a player in junior hockey who contributes more to his team than Steel, who wasn’t even considered the top center on his team, let alone the WHL. Neither DeBrincat, Steel nor QMJHL scoring leader and Columbus Blue Jackets pick Vitalii Abramov are players with size, as all three are listed under six feet tall. Still, the dual shoot-pass threat they present to opposing coaches is just one of the many reasons they are among the elite of hockey’s top prospects.

On defense, Quebec League rearguard Samuel Girard, a second round pick of Nashville in 2016, dished out a QMJHL-best 66 helpers after placing third a season ago. Like the three aforementioned forwards, Girard is on the smaller side at a listed 5’9. But his ability to distribute the puck and quarterback a power play is second to none among current CHLers. From a statistical standpoint, the Ontario Hockey League lost to promotion point producers such as Travis Dermott, Jakob Chychrun and Rasmus Andersson, allowing Erie’s undrafted overager Darren Raddysh to shine as the circuit’s top defender. Raddysh led all CHL defensemen in points-per-game average (1.29).

No review would be complete without mentioning draft prospects, beginning with Halifax center and Swiss phenom Nico Hischier, who topped all CHL rookies with a 1.51 points per game. Both Hischier and Finnish pivot Aleksi Heponiemi from the WHL’s Swift Current Broncos shared the CHL rookie scoring crown with 86 points apiece and are first-year draft eligibles for 2017, with Hischier expected to be one of the first players picked in the opening round.