Some players discovered at the annual Nestle Milo Basketball

Championships have hailed the sponsors for sustaining and developing the game

at the grassroots to empower youths.

Some of them, who spoke to newsmen at the final of the 14th

edition of the competition at the weekend in Lagos, said it had helped the

youth to develop their talents.

They said that some of the youths discovered from the

championships now play in big leagues around the world.

The youths cited Chukwudiebere Maduabum, who represented Air

Force Secondary School, Ikeja in 2007 and now plays for Denver Nuggets, Colorado

in the U.S.

Another is Benson Egemonye, who also represented St Thomas

Basic School, Benin in 2002 and is now playing for Heilongjiang Zhao Zhou Feng

Shen in China.

Muhammed Bukar, who played for Wahab Folawiyo School, Lagos

in 2002 and is now, playing for the Dodan Warriors Basketball Club of Lagos,

said that the competition had given the youths hope and employment.

He said that many of the players in both the female and male

national leagues were discovered from the championships.

“I am happy that Nestle Milo has been able to continue to

see that basketball was developed at the grassroots which is putting food on

some of our tables today,” Bukar said.

A female player, Nkechi Akashili, who represented Nana

College, Warri in 2003 and now plays for First Deepwater Basketball Club of

Lagos, said Nestle Milo made her what she is now.

Akashili, who also plays for the senior female national

team, D’ Tigress, said that if more companies could emulate the Nestle Nigeria

Plc, Nigeria would be one of the best basketball nations.

Jerry Edwin, who also played for Wahab Folawiyo in 2002 and

with Dodan Warriors of Lagos, pleaded with the company not to relent in their

quest to make life for youths meaningful.

The Nigeria Women Football League yesterday, announced Cross River as the host of the 2023/2024 NWFL Championship.

This is contained in a statement by the Chief Operating Officer of the NWFL, Modupe Shabi, issued yesterday in Abuja.

Shabi confirmed that the upcoming Championship, the league’s second division, will be held from August 31 to September 8, 2024, in Calabar, Cross River State.

The statement said, “Building on the successes of the 2024 NWFL season calendar, this Championship follows the Premiership Super Six finals hosted by Bayelsa, where Edo Queens emerged as first time winners in June.

“The draws and pre-match meetings will take place the day after the clubs arrive in Cross River on Thursday, August 29.”

She explained that participating clubs would be divided into four groups—A, B, C, and D—with eight matches scheduled at two venues on Matchday One, August 31, and another eight games on Matchday Two, September 1.

she added, “September 2, will be a rest day, while Matchday Three will be held on September 3, featuring eight matches, followed by Matchday Four on September 4, with eight additional matches.

“September 5, will serve as the second rest day with football action expected to resume on September 6 for Matchday Five, followed by the third rest day on September 7.

“The final Matchday Six on September 8 will see four matches played simultaneously at two venues to determine promotion and relegation.”

She said that over 17 registered clubs would compete in Cross Rivers State for this year’s Championship.

Shabi noted that the top two teams will be promoted to the NWFL Premiership, while two teams will be relegated to the third division of the women’s league in Nigeria.

The Minister of Sports Development, Senator John Enoh, has disclosed that Nigeria’s local and foreign-based athletes have received training grants and allowances.

This, the Minister said, was a testament to the Ministry’s concerns for the welfare of the country’s athletes.

Enoh, tweeting as #OwanEnoh, noted yesterday via his X.com handle, that this would be the “first time ever” that home-based athletes representing the country would receive training grants.

His tweets read, “In ensuring that all local, foreign and Olympics allowances are paid to all Team Nigeria athletes, I had another interactive session with the athletes at the games village in Paris as follow up on their welfare.

“Home-based athletes complained of never receiving training grants, as this has only been a privilege for their foreign-based counterparts representing the country.

“We have ensured for the first time ever, home-based athletes representing the country also receive training grants. Foreign and home-based athletes have now received training grants in addition to all other allowances already paid.”

The Minister stated that all athletes who represent the country “deserve training grants, as they all put in efforts and passion to represent the country. They are all deserving.

“There’s a lot of excitement at the games village and the athletes are greatly enthused for podium appearances.”

Nigerian athlete, Favour Ofili, qualified on Monday night for the final of the women’s 200 metres at the Olympic Games at the Stade de France in Paris, France.

She ran a season-best 22.05 seconds to place behind new women’s 100m champion, Julien Alfred of Saint Lucia in heat 1 of the semi-finals.

She joins seven others in yesterday evening’s final of the event, ranking third among the crowd.

In other sports, Nigerian wrestler, Blessing Oborududu, secured her place in the semi-finals of the women’s 68kg wrestling event at the Games as the world-ranked number 6 dominated her Canadian opponent, Linda Morais, with an 8-2 victory in the quarter-final match.

Also, the nation’s women’s senior basketball team, D’Tigress made it to the quarter-final of the event after being drawn against the United States at the 2024 Paris Olympics.

D’Tigress made history by securing Nigeria’s first-ever berth in the last eight of the Olympics basketball tournament after their impressive 79-70 victory over Canada in their final group game on Sunday.

Rangers International FC head coach, Fidelis Ilechukwu, has asked the fans to be patient with the team as the Flying Antelopes continue their rebuilding process ahead of the 2024-25 season.

The reigning Nigeria League champions were held to a 1-1 draw by Sierra Leone side, FC Kallon in the second match of the 2024 Coal City International Cup pre-season tournament at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Sunday.

Garando Tekena had shot the Flying Antelopes into a 10th-minute lead with a follow-up fiercely struck left-footed shot from about 25 meters after Isaac Caulker, the goalkeeper for F.C Kallon had bravely stopped his first attempt from a free kick.

Momoh Dumbuya got the leveller for his side in a swift counter-attack that saw Fofanah slide the ball past a hesitant backline of the ‘Flying Antelopes’ for Dumbuya to slide past on rushing, Lucky Abdullahi, who stood between the sticks for Rangers on 50 minutes.

Ilechukwu in his post-match interview insisted that Rangers would get it right and that he is using the preseason games to test the new players and also to perfect strategies ahead of their campaign in the CAF Champions League and other competitions.

“It was not a bad game for both sides. F.C. Kallon was a very physical side but we showed good character, especially in the second half, and having so many new players in my team as well as the understanding of the team is what matters to me,” Ilechukwu said.

“Our fans should not panic about the result because it is a preseason game. If we don’t use the preseason game to assess the team’s cohesion, technical, and tactical abilities, it may not be possible during the season proper. I assure our fans that we shall achieve all we want in the season because we have what it takes to do so.”