LOS ANGELES — He made movies that ranged from such sensitive interpretations of Islam as "The Message," to one of the horror movie genre's greatest classics, "Halloween."

In doing so, Moustapha Akkad helped make stars of director John Carpenter and actress Jamie Lee Curtis, and this week Hollywood mourned his loss.

"'Halloween' put me on the map, and I'm very sad to hear of his death," Carpenter said upon learning Akkad was among scores of people killed by suicide bombers who attacked three Jordanian hotels on Wednesday. The Syrian-born film producer was 75.

Carpenter remembered Akkad as a "very, very nice man" who gave him creative control of the first "Halloween" movie. That 1978 film not only boosted the careers of Carpenter and Curtis, its star, but resulted in seven sequels. It has been embraced by horror movie fans as one of the best examples of the genre.

Akkad had been greeting his daughter, Rima Akkad Monla, in the lobby of a Radisson hotel when the bombs exploded. He died Friday in a hospital of his wounds. Monla, 34, also died.

Akkad, who produced each of the "Halloween" films and produced and directed the religious-themed films "The Message and "Lion of the Desert," worked closely with Hollywood executive Bob Weinstein on a number of movies.

"Everyone at The Weinstein Co. is deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and colleague, Moustapha Akkad," Weinstein said Friday. "Our thoughts are with his family during this very difficult time."

Akkad was born in the northern Syrian city of Aleppo in July 1930, the eldest of eight siblings. He came to California in 1950 to study filmmaking after finishing his secondary studies in Syria, according to his sister, Leila Akkad.

After earning a degree in theater arts from UCLA, he went to work as a production assistant for renowned director Sam Peckinpah on the Western "Ride the High Country" in 1962.

Akkad's most serious efforts could be seen in his two dramas about the history of Islam: 1976's "The Message" and 1981's "Lion of the Desert." Both starred Anthony Quinn.

"The Message," about the Prophet Muhammad, was widely acclaimed in the Middle East, but in the United States a group of American Muslims declared it a sacrilege. They took hostages at three locations when the film opened and demanded that it not be shown again. It was a reaction that baffled Akkad.

"I made the film to bring the story of Islam, the story of 700 million people, to the West," he told The Associated Press in 1977.

"Lion of the Desert" told the story of a Muslim rebel who fought against Italy's World War II conquest of Libya.

Akka's daughter grew up in Los Angeles and was an avid polo player who graduated from the University of Southern California in 1995 with a degree in international relations.

She pursued a master's degree in Middle East studies at American University in Beirut, where she met her husband, Ziad Monla. The couple, married for six years, had two sons, ages 2 and 4.

She was buried in Tripoli, Lebanon.

Akkad also had three sons, Tarek, Malek and Zeido.

Funeral services were scheduled Sunday in his hometown of Aleppo, Syria.

Associated Press Writers Shafika Mattar in Amman, Jordan; Hussein Dakroub in Beirut, Lebanon; and Christina Almeida and Ian Gregor in Los Angeles contributed to this story.