Ali and Nathan had a beautiful June wedding day filled with sunshine at Upper Shirley Vineyards, in Charles City, Virginia. Upper Shirley is such a beautiful venue, with a ceremony space overlooking the water, a lovely outdoor patio space for cocktail hour, and a stunning, elegant indoor space! This unique wedding color palette is definitely a new favorite of mine!! Shades of purple, mauve, lilac, lavender and pops of dark wine paired with greenery, were the colors as a nod to JMU, where Ali and Nathan met and where their love story began. I especially loved that since I am a JMU alum too (Go Dukes!!) To bring their vision to life, we used lots of garden roses, ranunculus, lilac, sweet peas, stock and more- everything smelled SO good!! Ali’s wedding dress was absolutely beautiful, with such a classic and elegant style, and it looked so lovely paired with the wisteria colored bridesmaid dresses- so pretty!! To pull the wisteria shade into Ali’s look, we tied off her bouquet in our mauve-lavender toned “Secret Garden” silk ribbon, and it was a perfect match to the bridesmaid dresses. Their wedding day was photographed by Fowler Studios, who did such a wonderful job, and we loved working with the amazing team at Shelby White Events, and Upper Shirley Vineyards as well! These two are just the sweetest, and it was such a joy and honor to be a part of their wedding day! Scroll to the end of this post for a list of all the vendors who brought Ali and Nathan’s wedding day to life- and enjoy! 🙂

Venue: Upper Shirley Vineyards | Planner: Shelby White Events | Flowers: Courtney Inghram | Catering: Upper Shirley Vineyards | Officiant: Next Level Church | Photography: Fowler Studios | DJ + Lighting: Bobby B Events | Cake: Deb Wright | Beauty Team: Mobile Beauty | Linens: Classic Party Rentals | Videographer: Justin Bayless | Bridal Gown: David’s Bridal | Bridesmaids Dresses: Azazie | Men’s Attire: Jos. A. Bank | Transportation: Richmond Limousine | Invitations: Delaney Jeter| Favors: David’s Bridal | Welcome Sign Made by Bride at: AR Workshop | Signs with Calligraphy: Haylee Corner