WFBL

WFBL, located at 1390 kHz on the AM dial, is a talk and news radio station owned by Buckley Broadcasting and serving the city of Syracuse, New York.

Fairmount, New York

Fairmount is a hamlet (and census-designated place) in Onondaga County, New York, United States. The Fairmount area was originally part of the New York State Salt Reservation, but was annexed to the town of Camillus in 1834. Prior to that date, cens…

Camillus Plaza

Camillus Plaza (later Camillus Mall, now known as Camillus Commons) was a shopping mall in Camillus, New York.

Bishop Ludden Junior/Senior High School

Bishop Ludden Junior/Senior High School is a private, Roman Catholic high school in Syracuse, New York. It is located within the Roman Catholic Diocese of Syracuse.

Bishop Grimes Junior/Senior High School

Bishop Grimes Junior/Senior High School is a private, Roman Catholic high school in East Syracuse, New York. It is located within the Roman Catholic Diocese of Syracuse.

Archbold Gymnasium

Archbold Gymnasium is a gymnasium located on the campus of Syracuse University in Syracuse, New York. It was built in 1908 with money donated by John Dustin Archbold, a major benefactor of the university, who also funded the building of Archbold Sta…

WNYI

WNYI is a television station in Ithaca, New York, serving the Elmira and Syracuse television markets. The station, now owned by Daystar, had formerly broadcast on analogue UHF channel 52 before going silent in 2009 as a result of the US digital TV t…

Lakeland, New York

Lakeland is a hamlet (and census-designated place) in Onondaga County, New York, United States. The population was 2,786 at the 2010 census.

Cross Lake

Cross Lake is a lake on the border of Cayuga and Onondaga Counties in New York, United States. The lake lies within the boundaries of the traditional Onondaga Indian Nation, and is reputed in local tradition to be the boyhood home of Hiawatha, the g…

Camillus (village), New York

Camillus is a village in Onondaga County, New York, United States. The population was 1,213 at the 2010 census. The village takes its name from the town in which it is located.