Release Dates

The UK release date has been confirmed as July 17th 2006. The UK will enjoy a 20 title "monster box" collectors edition of all the Ultimate Edition DVDs, as well as individual releases of each film. All titles will be released simultaneously. The region two discs will retail for £16.99 RRP each, with the moster box retailing for £299 RRP.

The USA release has been split in to two phases. Phase 1 will comprise of two box sets, each containing five films. James Bond: The Ultimate Collection Vol. 1 will include two-disc sets of "Diamonds Are Forever," "Goldfinger," "The Living Daylights," "The Man With The Golden Gun" and "The World Is Not Enough". James Bond: The Ultimate Collection Vol. 2 will include "Die Another Day," "License To Kill," "The Spy Who Loved Me," "Thunderball" and "A View To A Kill". Volumes 1 & 2 will be released on 7th November 2006 and will retail for $89.98 each. Phase 2 will be released on 12th December 2006 and will comprise of James Bond: The Ultimate Collection Vol. 3 ("Goldeneye", "Live And Let Die", "For Your Eyes Only", "From Russia With Love", "On Her Majesty’s Secret Service") and James Bond: The Ultimate Collection Vol. 4 ("Dr. No", "You Only Live Twice", "Octopussy", "Tomorrow Never Dies", "Moonraker").

Buy All 4 Volumes - Collectors Pack (Amazon USA)

Preview Trailer (April 2006)

Some rental DVDs in the USA are now including a trailer for the forthcoming Ultimate Edition DVD series (the UK trailer has passed certification but has yet to appear).

The one minute and fifteen second long video announces highlights of the new collection (listed below) to the backdrop of clips from the films. The Ultimate Edition DVD series will consist of the 20 official Eon Productions movies packaged in new collector sets.

The BBFC previously listed a video trailer for "The Ultimate James Bond DVD Collection" back in September 2004. The promotional trailer ran for 1m 37s, but was not released due to the product release being delayed a year.

Audio

MI6 reported back in July 2003 that a long-term project to remaster the classic Bond film soundtracks was underway. These new Dolby 5.1 digitally enhanced soundtracks will be the major improvement to the releases of "Dr. No", "From Russia With Love", "Goldfinger", "Thunderball", "You Only Live Twice", "On Her Majesty's Secret Service", "Diamonds Are Forever", "Live And Let Die" and "The Man With The Golden Gun". The larger dynamic range of the modern technology should provide an exciting new dimension to the audio experience, but Bond purists need not worry though, as the original mono sound track will also feature on the DVD so you can switch back to the traditional if you desire.

Click here to read more

Update: It is now confirmed that the 5.1 remastering work will only be included for "Thunderball" to "The Man With The Golden Gun" inclusive.

Image Quality

Audio is not the only aspect of the films to benefit from this latest remastering. Brand new 4000 horizontal line (4K) digital film transfers will be made for all the movies from "Dr. No" through to and including "The World Is Not Enough", so 007 will look sharper than ever.

Click here to read more

Special Features

After something extra special? If you are not an audiophile of picture quality expert, there will also be extras to tempt you into buying a new set of DVDs. New documentaries and special bonus material will be added to the discs with exclusive interviews with cast and crew members from the past 42 years, along with rare and previously unseen footage from the productions.

See opposite for the latest BBFC listings

Packaging

In March 2003, DVDAnswers.com leaked prototype artwork for a James Bond DVD set. It was announced by the site as a "40th Anniversary" box set, but obviously, this milestone had already passed a year earlier.

Click here to read more