When Meghan Markle and Prince Harry announced their engagement in November 2017, the royal-to-be also confirmed that her career as an actress was coming to an end. “I don’t see it as giving anything up,” she said in her first joint interview with Harry following their engagement announcement. “I see it as a new change, a new chapter.” As she gets ready to enter that new chapter with her May 19 wedding, here’s a look back at Meghan’s filmography.

1. General Hospital (2002)

One of Meghan’s first TV roles was on an episode of the longest running soap opera in TV history. As a nurse named Jill, Meghan had a short line when Jax interrupted her phone call on the season 39 episode. With the lift of a finger (that basically screamed, Shut it, Jax), she said, “Just one second… I have his chart right here, Dr. Lambert, but I don’t see the notation anywhere.”

2. Century City (2004)

Set in the year 2030, this legal drama only aired a handful of episodes before CBS pulled the plug. Meghan played Natasha in a blink-and-you’ll-miss-it-moment. And yes, that’s Viola Davis crushing it as Hannah, one of the founding members of the LA-based firm.

3. Cuts (2005)

Remember when UPN and The WB merged to give way to The CW? This show was cancelled on UPN during the hoopla, which is tragic, because Meghan appeared on one episode, “My Boyfriend’s Back,” as a character named Cori.

4. A Lot Like Love (2005)

In the 2000s, Ashton Kutcher appeared in pretty much one movie (sometimes two) a year. One of those movies was Meghan's first-ever movie. Period. It's unclear why Ashton's character would be so ticked off at a future royal, but Kal Penn seemed to enjoy this scene with Natalie, who's from L.A. and loves a good pastel pink cowl neck sweater.

5. Love, Inc. (2005)

Another UPN show that didn't make the journey over to The CW way back when was Love, Inc., which starred Busy Phillips, and Holly Robinson Peete. The show centered around five matchmakers who worked at a dating agency and on episode nine, "One on One," the matchmakers help a client woo a subway station worker named Teresa Santos, played by Meghan.

6. Deal or No Deal (2006)

In 2006, Meghan worked as a briefcase model on several episodes of the Howie Mandel-hosted game show. Meghan's come a long way from getting excited about $5.

7. 1 vs. 100 (2006)

It's true: Bob Saget once hosted something that wasn't called America's Funniest Home Videos. In 2006, he was the face of the U.S. version the game show 1 vs. 100. If you still don't understand the premise after all these years, all you need to know is that Meghan appeared on one episode as part of the "100," or, specifically, "mob member number seven." She was one of three Deal or No Deal models in the pilot.

8. The War at Home (2006)

On "The Seventeen-Year Itch," a season one episode of the short-lived Fox sitcom starring Michael Rapaport (Gary on Friends), Meghan played Susan, who flirts with his character at work and leads him to believe she's interested. After he fantasizes about being in bed with her (while his wife is there), Susan reveals that she wants to set him up with her mother. It's not a very funny plot but if you've ever wanted to see Meghan give a fake presentation at a fake office, step right up!

9. Deceit (2006)

Meghan appeared in a number of TV movies during her acting career. Deceit, starring Emmanuelle Chriqui, was one of them. In the film, which follows a man who returns to his hometown after his father's death and has an affair with his best friend's wife, Meghan had a small role as Gwen.

10. CSI: NY (2006)

"I may have slept with Grant Jordan, but I didn't kill him." As maid Veronica Perez, Meghan mumbled these words to Stella (Melina Kanakaredes) and Flack (Eddie Cahill, aka Tag on Friends) after they interrupted her "cleaning session" with a client. The episode was called, "Murder Sings the Blues."

11. Good Behavior (2008)

Another year, another TV movie for Meghan, who played Sadie in the 2008 film that starred Mae Whitman, the great Catherine O'Hara, and Meghan's future Suits co-star, Patrick J. Adams.

12. 90210 (2008)

In The CW's 90210 reboot, Meghan had a two-episode stint as Wendy, who first pops up from Ethan's um, lap, while he's parked at school. Yes, Annie's face is all of us in this scene, then and now.

13. ‘Til Death (2008)

The Brad Garrett FOX sitcom welcomed Meghan during season three when she had a teeny tiny role playing a car saleswoman named Tara. Did the sale go through? Unclear! What did they even talk about in this scene? If you are fluent in Russian, please let me know. (The only clip out there is dubbed in Russian.)

14. The Apostles (2008)

In 2008, Meghan starred alongside Leslie Hope (Jack Bauer’s wife on 24) in a made-for-TV drama about cops. Whoever finds a trailer or still from the movie gets a prize (my respect and adoration) because I simply cannot afford a tiara or throne. If it helps, Meghan played someone named Kelly Calhoun.

15. Knight Rider (2009)

NBC failed to successfully reboot the 1982 David Hasselhoff series, but the lone season did bring the world Meghan’s brief appearance as Annie Ortiz, a cage fighter.

16. Without a Trace (2009)

Meghan’s TV career continued in 2009 with an episode of Without a Trace. On the season seven episode, “Chameleon,” a man disappears after faking his identity and posing as a college student. Meghan played a character named Holly Shepard.

17. Fringe (2009)

Meghan enjoyed a two-episode stay in the Joshua Jackson series, playing Junior FBI Agent Amy Jessup. Upon meeting Joshua’s character, Peter Bishop, she shuts him down with the following: “Can you explain exactly what you do?” “I’m the agent in charge,” and “It’s not that I don’t appreciate the petulance.” On that note, can anyone really explain what Peter did on the show?

18. The League (2009)

What’s more fun than being on TV? Playing a character who shares your name, of course. In 2009, Meghan appeared as Meghan on an episode of The League opposite Mark Duplass, who strikes up a conversation with her at a bar.

19. Remember Me (2010)

Meghan’s next movie starred Robert Pattinson, who was in between Twilight films when Remember Me was released. If you’ve never seen the movie, just know that (1) it will make you a little sad, (2) Meghan played a bartender named Megan, and (3) Meghan’s ex, Trevor Engelson, was one of the film’s producers.

20. CSI: Miami (2010)

On a season eight episode of CSI: Miami, Meghan played Officer Leah Montoya, who goes into a burning home after Calleigh (Emily Procter) only to get stuck on the way out. Meghan eventually makes it out via David Caruso’s strong arms.

21. Get Him to the Greek (2010)

Meghan had an uncredited role as Tatiana in Russell Brand and Jonah Hill’s 2010 comedy, and that’s basically all you need to know.

22. The Candidate (2010)

In this short film about a secret society “whose purpose is to find people who don’t deserve to live and to kill them with their thoughts,” Meghan played a secretary named Kat. Got 20 minutes? Watch it on YouTube.

23. The Boys and Girls Guide to Getting Down (2011)

This TV movie was a remake of a 2006 feature about a “night of partying in L.A” and included “helpful” tips on hooking up. Meghan, who played Dana, was part of an all-star cast that included Adam Pally (The Mindy Project) and Max Greenfield (New Girl).

24. Suits (2011 to 2018)

Meghan’s big break came in 2011 when she landed the role of paralegal Rachel Zane on the USA legal drama. In January 2018, the network confirmed that the show would have an eighth season, but not before saying goodbye to Rachel Zane and her on-screen forever love, Mike Ross (Patrick J. Adams) in the season seven finale in April. In total, Meghan appeared on 105 episodes.

25. Horrible Bosses (2011)

FedEx workers can be hot. Just ask Meghan, who played Jamie the FedEx girl in the 2011 comedy starring Jason Sudeikis and Jennifer Aniston.

26. Dysfunctional Friends (2012)

Meghan also made a brief appearance in Dysfunctional Friends, which tells the story about a male model who tries to reconnect with a group of friends after a tragic death. Meghan’s a photographer named Terry.

27. Castle (2012)

The world should have known that Meghan was bound for royalty after she appeared on an episode of Castle. (She probably won’t actually live in a real castle, but it’s a nice thought.) On her episode, Meghan played a serial killer named Charlotte Boyd who staged her murders to look like fairytales. If you must know, the episode was fittingly called, “Once Upon a Crime.”

28. Random Encounters (2013)

There’s a reason this movie was only released online, but Meghan was convincing as a girl named Mindy who loves to give advice to her friend, who just wants to find love in the big city! “Sometimes, you only get one shot,” Mindy offers, not long after yelling at her BFF, “You wanna be a hooker on Hollywood Boulevard?” Later, her friend says “Sometimes you say things that make me want to cry.” I mean, same.

29. When Sparks Fly (2014)

Meghan’s first Hallmark movie came in 2014 when she starred as Amy Peterson, a big shot, big city journalist who goes back to her wee hometown and yes, falls for her ex, Hank. “I haven’t thought about him in years and now I just can’t stop,” she says through tears in one scene, before telling Hank, “My home is with you.” Is your heart bursting? And are you proud of yourself for noticing the other big star of the movie, Lochlyn Munro, aka Betty’s dad on Riverdale?

30. Anti-Social (2015)

Meghan’s second-to-last movie was Anti-Social, a Hungarian-British crime drama that also starred Gregg Sulkin. In the film, which follows a motorcycle robbery gang that targets high-end London jewelers, Meghan plays Kirsten, girlfriend of one of the robbers (Sulkin). “He’s an artist, a street artist,” she says when asked about her boyf at one point.

31. Dater’s Handbook (2016)

If you need a break from watching and rewatching all the glorious moments from Meghan and Harry’s wedding in May, might I suggest putting on Dater’s Handbook? The film, Meghan’s second and final Hallmark gift, follows her character, Cass, and her adventures in dating. The only twist is that she’s following a set of rules from a self-help book and of course, fails miserably. As one character puts it, the whole journey should be about “heart, feelings.” Amen.

BONUS:

Meghan also starred in several TV commercials. In 2015 and 2016, she was the face Reitmans, the Canadian retail company. Before going public with her relationship with Prince Harry, Meghan launched a capsule collection for the brand.

In 2009, Meghan starred in a Tostitos commercial because it’s important to know what goes into your chip. Pretty sure that’s not her real voice, but good to know that her character hates Gary and his short shorts.

In her Suits days, Meghan starred in a commercial for Lexus, but as you can see, it was really an excuse for the actress to share her passion for food. Daniel Bouloud also makes an appearance, as does Meghan’s phone (because remember, she loved a good food gram).

Finally, Meghan went for this man’s skinny jeans while serving him Miller Lite in this treasure of a commercial.

Correction: An earlier version of this post shared an inaccurate image of Meghan from the film, Get Him to the Greek. While Meghan had an uncredited role in the movie, her scene did not involve kissing Russell Brand.