September 21, 2021

One of the most unique attributes in the Richmond Region is the Virginia Capital Trail. The 52-mile trail extends from downtown Richmond running southeast along scenic Route 5 to Williamsburg. Since 2015, after 40 years of efforts by elected officials and community members, this multi-use trail has been open for all to enjoy.

The Virginia Capital Trail Foundation, an organization that protects and enhances the trail, reports that ridership in 2020 increased by 42% when compared to 2019 — meaning about 1.2 million people utilized the Capital Trail. This increase was most likely prompted by the COVID-19 pandemic, which motivated people to enjoy the great outdoors given it was a safe way to socialize.

If you are looking for a fun and active way to tour the Richmond Region, the Capital Trail is just the place! As you travel along the trail there are several opportunities to stop, have a bite to eat, and relax before getting back on your bike. One of these locations being the Upper Shirley Vineyards. This estate, winery, restaurant, and wedding venue is the perfect place to pull off, enjoy a glass of wine and a beautiful view.

Upper Shirley Vineyard Offerings

Upper Shirley is situated on the James River in Charles City County. Just south of the vineyard is the Shirley Plantation, a colonial mansion and working farm. The plantation is a National Historic Landmark dating back to 1613, as well as the country’s oldest working farm. As you taste their varying wine selections the 14,000-square-foot property offers an amazing view of the Presquile National Wildlife Refuge.

Along with a full wine and food menu, the property offers a one-of-kind wedding venue for those looking for a location rich in history with gorgeous views. The offerings include the following: event spaces, bridal suite, groom’s den, ceremony lawn, stone patios, covered verandas, tasking room, and banquet room. The menu for the ceremony is professionally prepared by the Upper Shirley catering team.

The offerings don’t stop there as the vineyard hosts a variety of private and ongoing events for those interested!

Take a Break and Enjoy A Glass of Wine

The Virginia Capital Trail is full of opportunities — from the multi-use trail perfect for all levels of cyclists to the plethora of restaurants for the passionate foodies. Don’t be fooled by the nicely paved trail, the hills will elevate your heart rate but locations like the Upper Shirley Vineyards will help you refuel before hopping back on the trail!