The 24th annual festival will return to Sarasota Fairgrounds, featuring rockers FireHouse as the headliner.

A festival featuring rock music and revving motorcycles that's one of Sarasota's biggest annual events has announced its return next year.

The 24th annual Thunder by the Bay Music & Motorcycle Festival is scheduled for Feb. 18-20 at Sarasota Fairgrounds, where it's taken place since 2018. The event is organized by Suncoast Charities for Children, which provides financial support for area nonprofit agencies providing programs and services to special needs children, teens, adults and their families.

Ticket Newsletter: Sign up to receive the latest news on things to do, restaurants and more every Friday

Best rooftop bars and restaurants: for drinks, food and amazing views in Sarasota-Manatee

“Thanks to our generous sponsors, and everyone who attends, the festival continues to grow and make a significant charitable impact on individuals with special needs and their families right here in our local community," festival director Lucy Nicandri said in a statement. "Thunder by the Bay continues to welcome motorcycle enthusiasts, while also offering a very affordable outdoor event the entire family can enjoy together."

This year's musical headliner on Feb. 19 will be rock band FireHouse, best known for their ballads "Love of a Lifetime" and "When I Look Into Your Eyes" that were Top 10 hits in the early '90s. Past Thunder by the Bay headliners have included Molly Hatchet, Warrant and Blue Oyster Cult.

Along with FireHouse and other musical acts, with attendees encouraged to bring lawn chairs and blankets for seating in front of the outdoor stage, there will be vendors, motorcycle competitions, food court and more. There will also be a “Thunder Alley” inside Robarts Arena with motorcycle, car and truck displays.

PHOTOS: The 23rd annual Thunder by the Bay Music and Motorcycle Festival

A "United We Ride – America Strong” charity motorcycle ride will take place Feb. 20. There will also be multiple fundraising events ahead of the festival including a sporting clay tournament, kickoff party, private whiskey tasting at Cask & Ale, and fashion show at Sarasota Yacht Club.

Thunder by the Bay took place in downtown Sarasota for several years before moving to Lakewood Ranch in 2017, then its current Sarasota Fairgrounds location the following year.

General admission is $5 on Feb. 18 and 20 and $10 on Feb. 19, and free for those 12 years and under. For more information, visit thunderbythebay.org.

Email entertainment reporter Jimmy Geurts at jimmy.geurts@heraldtribune.com. Support local journalism by subscribing.