Reḥovot is a vibrant city on the coastal plain in central Israel and the heart of the country’s most productive citrus belt. The town was established in 1890 by Warsaw Jews as one of the first modern Zionist settlements. The newly founded city soon became economically self-sufficient due to its prosperous citrus groves and the many immigrant agricultural laborers that found work in the region.

Reḥovot was the first city to dismiss its Arab guards and to employ ha-Shomer, the Jewish settlement police under Ottoman rule before World War I.

Today, Rehovot is an academic city with just under 140,000 people. It is home to the Weizmann Institute of Science, one of the world’s premier research institutions, and to the Faculty of Agriculture, Food, and Environment of The Hebrew University.

In addition, the city is home to several historic sites, including the Weizmann House. The Weizmann House was built in 1936 as the private home of the first President of Israel, Chaim Weizmann, and first First Lady, Vera Weizmann. Designed by German-Jewish architect Erich Mendelsohn, the house is recognized as an architecturally significant 20th-century home and is now part of the Weizmann Institute of Science.

Furthermore, Rehovot’s main road, Herzl Street, is the city’s beating heart and is lined with shops and restaurants. Just to the west of the old city is Rehovot’s shopping mall (the central bus station), which hosts weekly food festivals during the summer. The local fruit and vegetable market is just outside the shopping mall on Bilu Street.

Last, the city’s two main academic institutes are north of the city, the world-famous Weizmann Institute of Science and the Robert H. Smith Faculty of Agriculture, Food & Environment (HUJI). There is also a developing hi-tech industrial park and plenty of cafés, bars, and restaurants.

Things to do in Rehovot:

The Ayalon Institute

First, I would recommend you to go and visit the Ayalon Institute! It was a secret ammunition factory set up by the Jewish underground. Based on Kibbutz Hill in Rehovot, the factory was disguised as a kibbutz that ran a laundry service to fool the British during the British Mandate. Today, it is a museum and a national historic site.

The Clore Garden of Science and Museum

In addition, The Clore Garden of Science and Museum is an open-air science museum that encourages visitors to touch, experiment, and play with the dozens of exhibits dotting the 2.5 acres of the garden. A great activity if you have kids with you!

The Weizmann House

Another place would be The Weizmann House! The house was the home of the first President of Israel, Chaim Weizmann, and the first First Lady, Vera Weizmann. The house sits atop a hill in Rehovot and is now part of the Weizmann Institute of Science. Designed by Jewish architect Erich Mendelsohn, the house is recognized as an architectural masterpiece. Here is a link to their website

HaTzofim Grove

Last is the HaTzofim Grove! The grove is filled with wildflowers and beautiful trees and is an excellent place for camping. Escape from the hectic city life and relax in this calm and cool environment.