When booking a hotel in Beijing, what are the most popular areas to stay in?

When visiting Beijing, many travelers choose to stay at hotels in the following areas: Tian'anmen Square and Wangfujing Area or Guomao Area.

What are some popular economy hotels in Beijing?

7 Days Inn (Beijing Temple of Heaven Dongmen Metro Station), Jingcheng Business Hotel (Beijing Shilihe Metro Station) and The Pagoda Light Hotel are popular economy hotels with good ratings.

How much do hotels in Beijing cost?

Based on hotel prices on Trip.com, the average cost per night for hotels in Beijing is USD 269. Hotel rates change often; this price is for reference only.

What are the most popular hotels in Beijing?

Whether you're traveling for business or going on vacation, there are many popular hotels to choose from in Beijing. Empark Prime Hotel Beijing, The Place Apartment Hotel and Beijing Unified Courtyard Hotel are all popular hotels to stay at.

At what hotels in Beijing can I try local breakfast foods?

A delicious breakfast is a great way to kick start your day. At Hotel MoMc, CitiGO Hotel Sanyuanqiao Beijing and Beijing Xinqiao Hotel , guests can enjoy Beijing-style breakfasts.

Which hotels in Beijing are suitable for families or travelers with kids?

Many people who travel with families or kids to Beijing choose to stay at Ziyang Shanzhuang Inn, Qiuguo Hotel (Beijing Xidan Financial Street Fuwai Hospital) and Badalingli Paobeyuan . These hotels are also priced inexpensively.

What luxury hotels are recommended in Beijing?

The Universal Studios Grand Hotel, Bai Fu Yi Hotel and Grand Millennium Beijing are some of the most popular luxury hotels in Beijing.

What hotels in Beijing are suitable for couples?

Whether you're going on a honeymoon or a vacation with your partner, Huanghuacheng Shuichangcheng Derunju, Beijing SIPO Boutique Hotel and Pebble Motel are some of the top hotels chosen by couples.

How much do hotels in Beijing cost on the weekend?

Based on hotel prices on Trip.com, the average cost per night on the weekend for hotels in Beijing is USD 303. Hotel rates change often; this price is for reference only.

When going on a business trip to Beijing, which hotels are the most popular with business travelers?

When it comes to business trips, choosing a hotel with convenient transportation links is important to many guests. Nuo Hotel Beijing, EAST Beijing and Grand Millennium Beijing have convenient transportation links and inexpensive prices. Consider staying at one of these hotels during your trip.

At which popular hotels in Beijing can I try local foods?

Those who like trying local foods might want to consider staying at Guo Ji Yi Yuan Hotel, Empark Prime Hotel Beijing or Beijing Xinqiao Hotel . There are lots of famous restaurants serving local dishes near these hotels.

Of all the hotels in Beijing, which hotels have the highest user ratings?

When traveling to Beijing for the first time, many travelers find it difficult to choose a hotel to stay in. According to Trip.com data, Beijing Zhongguancun Renmin University Light Residence, Hanting Beijing Wukesong 301 Hospital Hotel and TRUE GO (Beijing Anzhen Hospital store) are popular hotels with high ratings, making them good choices for your trip.

What popular hotels in Beijing have parking?

If you're planning on driving to Beijing, why not stay at Beijing Xinqiao Hotel, Empark Prime Hotel Beijing or base-Wangfujing Serviced Apartment ? These are all popular hotels with parking lots.

When traveling to Beijing, which hotels have pools?

Summer is a great season to take your kids or family on a trip to Beijing. Hotel New Otani Chang Fu Gong, Legendale Hotel Beijing and Park Hyatt Beijing are popular hotels with pools.

What are some popular hotels near Beijing Capital International Airport?

If you booked an early flight, you might want to stay at a hotel near Beijing Capital International Airport the night before departure. Capital Airport International Hotel, CITIC Hotel Beijing Airport and VOYAGE INTERNATIONAL HOTEL are popular choices for hotels to stay at.

What popular hotels have non-smoking rooms in Beijing?

Many guests care about the quality of the rooms they stay in and want to ensure that their rooms have fresh, clean air. The Place Apartment Hotel, Yitingzhenshe Hotel (Beijing Qianmen) and CitiGO Hotel Sanyuanqiao Beijing are all popular hotels in Beijing with non-smoking rooms.