An Eccentric Love Story: La drôlesse (English title: The Hussy) (1979)

La drôlesse was well-received by critics on its release. The film went on to compete for the Palme d'Or at the 1979 Cannes Film Festival. It lost to dual winners Apocalypse Now and The Tin Drum, but film's director Jacques Doillon received the festival's Young Cinema Award. The film is largely forgotten today.

IMDb provides a concise plot summary: "Misfit François kidnaps young Mado and takes her to live with him in the attic of his parents' home. A strange relationship evolves till the police comes upon them."

A film about a weird 20-year old guy who locks up an 11-year-old girl in an attic. How does that not get creepy? François (Claude Hébert) is a lonely, withdrawn young man who has been ignored by his insensitive mother and stepfather. He never gives the audience clear insight into his motives or objectives, but he is presumably looking for friend to acquire the affection and attention that he lacks at home. Mado (Madeleine Desdevises), who is neglected by her own family, can understand the loneliness that François feels. She develops a bond with her kidnapper and treats him with the kindness that she realizes he needs. Cannes Film Festival noted in its literature, "[T]he boy is not a good jailer and the prisoner quickly learns how to escape from the attic where he has shut her up. . . but she remains nevertheless."

It is a sweet and tender relationship, even though a creepiness lingers stubbornly at the fringes of their story. British filmmaker Eli Hayes has called the film "strange and disturbing (but surprisingly charming)." At one point, Mado tells François that she wants him to make her pregnant, but he explains to her that this wouldn't be a good idea and she accepts that. The issue passes as quickly as it arose. The relationship remains platonic.

Their interactions are filled with the clumsy and innocent fumblings of first love.

The word "drôlesse" refers to a young girl who, due to her lack of experience, is silly, awkward and naive. Mado was referred to as "odd" and "gawky" in reviews, which supports this assessment of her. But the Hussy title that was attached to film for English-language markets suggests a story of lust rather the story of love, companionship and isolation that the film actually provides.

The film is based on a true story, but no information is available on the real-life Mado and François. Did they form a deep emotional bond? Did their relationship remain platonic?

Desdevises' performance as Mado dominates the film. She is so self-assured in front of the camera that it is astonishing that she had no previous acting experience. She received other offers after this film, but she only made one more film before she quit acting to focus on school. Tragically, she died of leukemia at the age of 15.

Doillon later wrote and directed Ponette (1996), a heartbreaking drama that involves a four-year-old girl coping with the death of her mother.

↧

↧

For Your Viewing Pleasure: Lo scopone scientifico (English title: The Scientific Cardplayer) (1972)

Lo scopone scientifico, a dark comedy that centers on an intense high-stakes card game between an immensely wealthy couple (Bette Davis and Joseph Cotten) and an immensely poor couple (Alberto Sordi and Silvano Mangano), provides a unique and insightful perspective on the ills of class struggle and the even greater ills of false hope.

Davis, billed only as "The Millionairess," is a wealthy American obsessed with traveling to different parts of the world to play a popular local card game with a local poor couple. She advances the couple a million dollars with the objective of winning the money back before the end of the night. If she loses, the couple can walk away with millions of dollars. The problem is that she never loses. Sordi and Mangano's couple, Peppino and Antonia, have played this game with The Millionairess every year for the last eight years. They spend the entire year honing their skills with the hope that they will, for once, win.

The Millionairess seems to only do this to torture her poverty-stricken guests, watching it ravage them emotionally and spiritually to be given these big stacks of currency - a fortune that could undoubtedly transform their sad lives - and then have every crisp and shiny bill inexorably slip through their fingers. The money is irresistible bait laid in a trap by a demonic predator out to devour their souls.

Everyone in the town, including Peppino and Antonia's five children, follows the game based on status reports from the rich woman's servants. They are desperate for the native underdogs to clean out the woman (or "the oldie," as they call her).

The story takes a number of clever twists and turns, which keeps this film about four people playing cards fast-moving and exciting. The Millionairess, who is obsessed with winning, is as emotionally invested in the game as her guests. Her companion George, bullied by Davis for years, is a shell of a man.

On paper, Sordi and Mangano's characters are too hopeless and deluded to deserve sympathy, but these are master actors who know how to make an audience care for them. I found myself hoping beyond hope that they would win and, by the end of the film, I was as emotionally exhausted as the characters themselves.

↧

Recommended for Your Viewing Pleasure: La Ragazza Con La Pistola (English title: The Girl with the Pistol) (1968)

Assunta Patane (Monica Vitti), who lives in a small village in Sicily, has been taught to obey a strict code of honor that requires a woman to preserve her chastity until marriage. But Assunta is seduced by a handsome and charming womanizer, Vincenzo Maccaluso (Carlo Giuffre), in a torrid extramarital affair. Vincenzo tells Assunta that he intended to marry her, but he came to the conclusion as they made love that she kisses too well to be a virgin. Rather than marry a woman he assumes to be a whore, he quietly packs his bags and flees to England. According to the village code, the only way for Assunta to restore her honor is to find Vincenzo and kill him.

Assunta has a far way to go to adapt from the strict morality of her hometown village to the loose morality of Swinging Sixties London. Early on, the film derives much of its humor from the innocent foreigner coping with various "fish out of water" situations.

Tracking down Vincenzo proves to be a challenge. The man is an evasive prey, willing to change jobs and homes to avoid confronting his abandoned lover. At one point, he goes as far as faking his own death.

In the meantime, Assunta makes friends and trains to be a nurse. She goes through many twists and turns before she finally sheds her shame and heartbreak, finds independence as a high-paid model, and falls in love with a good-looking, kindhearted doctor. This may sound like an all too perfect Cinderella ending, but the character has to surmount a number of obstacles and manages in the end to earn her success through her determination, her work ethic, and her good heart. Also, it is not hard to believe that a woman with Vitti's looks and allure could do well as a model or attract the perfect man.

The film has a charm and cleverness that make it thoroughly entertaining. Vitti is delightful as she races around England and Scotland in her desperate effort to murder her former lover. No actor has ever been more sweet and adorable playing an unrelenting, steely-eyed assassin.

The film's director, Mario Monicelli, was responsible for many popular films, including Guardie e ladri (Cops and Robbers) (1951), I soliti ignoti (Big Deal on Madonna Street) (1958), La Grande Guerra (The Great War) (1959), I compagni (The Organizer) (1963), L'armata Brancaleone (For Love and Gold) (1966), Amici miei (My Friends) (1975), Caro Michele (1976), and Il Marchese del Grillo (The Marquis of Grillo) (1981).

La Ragazza Con La Pistola was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. It was outgunned by Sergei Bondarchuk's somber, sprawling epic War and Peace, which could have been titled Thousands of Men with The Musket.

In addition. . .

Here are scenes from other Monicelli films.

La Grande Guerra (1959)

Spoiler alert!

Il Marchese del Grillo (1981)

This is an early film appearance of Vitti in Le dritte (1958).

↧

Recommended for Your Viewing Pleasure: Il vigile (1960)

Il vigile (1960) uses a lively 11-minute tracking shot to acquaint the viewer with its obnoxious know-it-all lead character, Otello Celletti (Alberto Sordi). Otello, sent by his wife to buy milk, jauntily makes his way down the street and manages to annoy the various people he encounters. The man has no good qualities that can be seen. He is vain, tactless, lazy, and ungracious. He hasn't had a job in four years and has had to rely on his relatives to feed and house his family. His son, capable and sensible beyond his years, earns money as a mechanic. He acts like a responsible adult while his father acts like a silly child.

Andrea Bini, the author of Male Anxiety and Psychopathology in Film: Comedy Italian Style, wrote:

[Otello] is reduced to living the role of the child in his family, a disposition of authority represented by the motorcycle, which is handled by his son with a professional ability. The father-son roles are completely reversed, to the point that his son Remo complains that he is disturbing him and does not let the father turn the motorcycle on.

Otello eventually fulfills his wish to be a traffic cop. The town's mayor (Vittorio De Sica) finds this arrogant, oblivious fool to be a constant irritant, much like Herbert Lom's Chief Inspector Dreyfus later found Peter Sellers' arrogant, oblivious fool Inspector Clouseau to be a constant irritant.

I wrote in my book "I Won't Grow Up!" that Jerry Lewis cast himself in the role of America's postwar manchild. Sordi was Italy's postwar manchild, a role that he firmly established in Il seduttore (1954) and L'arte di arrangiarsi (1955). The bloody defeat that Italy suffered in the war had the greatest impact on young Italian men, who felt dispossessed, confused and humiliated. Bini wrote:

What makes Il vigile a comedy Italian style lies in the humoristic representation of a disoriented man lost in postwar Italy, a man who is enduring an identity crisis similar to that of the other characters played by Sordi in the early to mid-1950s.

Bini saw Sordi as a new type of film comedian. She wrote:

Differing from Totò, Chaplin, and the like, Sordi is the first comedian to use eccentric characterization to represent average members of society rather than limiting eccentricity to the depiction of outsiders unwilling and unable to adapt to social norms. Sordi's humor is always disturbing – whence his scant success for many years – because he is one of us, like us, so that the typical scapegoat mechanism in which we laugh at the comic butt as deviant does not apply.

. . .

We saw that the protagonist in a commedia may be funny and often become the butt of slapstick moments. This is, however, only a temporary condition – the sign that they still lack the maturity and the social identity they will eventually assume – the ending of the commedia is happy but not "funny." This situation of psychological and social confusion is essential in classic comedy plots, only to be followed by the restablishment of the harmony between the desires of the individual and the rules of the community. In contrast, Sordi introduces a new type of character, and therefore a new type of comedy, where this maturation process, which requires the integration of desires within the social norm, is disavowed. With Sordi, the maturation of the protagonist fails, revealing a basic condition of neurosis and even manifestations of psychosis. For this reason, Grande called commedia all'italiana"the epic of failure seen not like a mechanism that introduces to adulthood and 'teaches' access to society anymore (as in classical comedy), but as a permanent condition of living with no center or periphery" (2003, 87). With movies such as Un eroe dei nostri tempi, L'arte di arrangiarsi, and many others, Sordi established in Italian cinema his unsympathetic characters who reflect "the behavior of the middle-class Italian in the exhausting search for a new moral identity" (Brunetta 1991, 324). Sordi gave voice and body to a new Italian male who knows no duties, only desires: he is childish, conformist, cowardly, irresponsible, and sly.

Il vigile takes a significant turn when the zealous police officer issues the mayor a traffic ticket. The mayor, in a rush to see his mistress, failed to slow his car as he approached a dangerous curve. But the mayor, regardless of his guilt, is outraged to receive a ticket. Otello is, as usual, oblivious. The rookie officer believes that he is just doing his duty and assumes the mayor is only pretending to be angry to test his commitment to his job. The mayor suddenly loses patience and drives off. Otello, determined to enforce the law, speeds after him on his motorcycle and catches up with him at the mistress' villa. It is an awkward scene to say the least.

The mayor fires Otello the next day, which stirs up a public scandal. This absurdly awkward situation is based on a real-life incident in which a police officer, Ignazio Melon, issued a traffic ticket to Rome's Police Chief, Carmel Marzano. The ticket didn't infuriate Marzano as much as the fact that one of his own officers failed to recognize him.

In the film, the mayor has his staff devote their time to digging up dirt on Otello and his family. They learn that Othello's sister is a prostitute in Milan, his brother-in-law supplies his butcher shop with untaxed and uninspected meat purchased off the black market, his father was in military prison for three years for being drunk on guard duty and shooting at the king, and Otello never married his wife (she was married to a man who abandoned her and fled to Africa). Otello is crushed. He realizes that his family's reputation will be destroyed if he challenges the mayor in court. Otello, for all of his flaws, suddenly appears noble compared to the pompous, adulterous and vindictive mayor.

Many of Sordi's films involved corrupt public officials. The actor alternated between playing the corrupt official and a victim of the corrupt official.

Sordi, a film star in Italy for nearly a half a century, had a career that few could match. Sordi had his first starring role in Mamma mia, che impressione! (1951). . .

and his last starring role in Incontri proibiti (1998).

Reference source

Andrea Bini, Male Anxiety and Psychopathology in Film: Comedy Italian Style. New York, N. Y.: Springer (2015).

In addition. . .

Alberto Sordi in Due notti con Cleopatra (1954)

Plot summary: Cleopatra (Sophia Loren) conceals her absences from the palace by having a double take her place. A Roman soldier (Sordi) encounters the double and begins an affair with her without realizing her true identity.

↧

Preview to "The Great and Glorious Totò" Articles Series

↧

↧

The Great and Glorious Totò, Part 1 (1937 to 1949)

Totò in Fifa e arena (English title: Fear and Sand) (1948)

It is worthwhile for English-speaking comedy fans to break through language barriers and cultural barriers to find a way to one of the greatest film comedians of the twentieth century. He was the son of a marquis, born Antonio de Curtis Gagliardi Griffo Focas Comneno. He was known to his many fans simply as Totò.

Here is a list of select films from Totò's lengthy filmography.

Fermo con le mani! (English: Hands Off Me!) (1937)

Plot: A carefree Chaplinesque tramp moves from a job to job to support a Shirley Templesque orphan girl. In one of the film's memorable scene, he gets a job as Mussolini's barber.

Animali pazzi (English title: Mad Animals) (1939)

IMDb: "A baron [Totò] is obliged to marry his cousin within two days in order for him to get an inheritance. If he doesn't marry, the inheritance will go to an animal clinic."

San Giovanni decollato (English title: Saint John, the Beheaded) (1940)

A shoemaker who maintains an altar for John the Baptist is committed to finding out who has been stealing the oil that keeps his candle to the saint burning.

Totò nella fossa dei leoni (English title: Two Hearts Among the Beasts) (1943)

This clip does not have English subtitles, but Totò's vivid facial expressions and body language make him funny even without an understanding of his dialogue.

I due orfanelli (English title: The Two Orphans) (1947)

Totò al giro d Italia (English title: Totò Tours Italy) (1948)

I pompieri di Viggiù (English title: The Firemen of Viggiù) (1949)

Yvonne la Nuit (English title: Yvonne of the Night) (1949)

Totò cerca casa (English title: Totò Looks For a House) (1949)

A poor clerk, Beniamino Lomacchio (Totò), is desperate to find a home during a severe housing shortage. He agrees to take a job as a cemetery caretaker only because the job provides a home on the cemetery grounds. But the new caretaker finds it far too scary to spend his first night amid the graves.

L'imperatore di Capri (English title: The Emperor of Capri) (1949)

A gold digger mistakes a waiter for an Arab prince.

The best parts of the film are Totò's interactions with his wife's bratty young brother.

Totò le mokò (1949)

IMDb: "The mobster Pep le Mok (Totò) dies during a shootout with the police. His gang decide that his successor will be a relative of his from Naples: Antonio Lumaconi, a street musician."

↧

The Great and Glorious Totò, Part 2 (1950 to 1959)

Totò in Sette ore di guai (1951)

Figaro qua, Figaro là (English title: Figaro Here, Figaro There) (1950)

The film is an adaptation of the opera "The Barber of Seville." Figaro (Totò), a barber, is arrested for operating his shop on a Sunday. The barber later schemes with his nobleman friend, the Count of Almaviva, to undermine the governor, who refuses to allow the count to marry his daughter Rosina. The pair figure to abduct Rosina by arriving at an inn ahead of the governor and his daughter and posing as the innkeepers. But the plan goes awry when the inn is raided by bandits.

Totò cerca moglie (English title: Toto Looks for a Wife) (1950)

IMDb: "Aunt Agatha writes to Totò, informing him not to send him a penny more until he is married."

Totòtarzan (1950)

Le sei mogli di Barbablù (English title: Bluebeard's Six Wives) (1950)

Totò Esposito (Totò) tries to abduct his beloved to marry her, but he mistakenly kidnaps a homely woman named Carmela (Marcella Rovena). Carmela is smitten with Totò and will not let him escape her. She pursues him to the United States, India, Africa and the South Pole.

Totò sceicco (English title: Toto the Sheik) (1950)

Antonio (Totò) joins the foreign legion to forget a woman who scorned him.

47 morto che parla (1950)

Totò terzo uomo (English title: Toto the Third Man) (1951)

Sette ore di guai (English title: Seven Hours of Trouble) (1951)

A poor tailor (Totò) hopes that his grandmother will give him money for his son's baptism, but the wet nurse loses the son in a park and the tailor figures to rent another baby as a substitute until he can track down the missing child.

Guardie e ladri (English title: Cops and Robbers) (1951)

Throughout his career, Totò was often partnered with other popular Italian comedians, including Alberto Sordi, Peppino De Filippo and Aldo Fabrizi. Totò and Fabrizi made a perfect team in Guardie e ladri.

The film is remarkable in its effectiveness at presenting characters that are funny as well as sensitive. I laughed often at the characters, but I also cared about them a great deal. It is because I cared about the characters that I teared up a bit at the end. Guardie e ladri is regarded by many as the comedian's best film.

My favorite Totò films are the ones the comedian made in the 1950s.

Toto a colori (English title: Toto in Color) (1952)

IMDb: "A musician, Antonio Scannagatti (Totò), hopes to sell his composition, 'Epopea italiana,' to Tiscordi, one of the most important Italian impresarios."

Totò e i re di Roma (English title: Toto and the King of Rome) (1952)

Government bureaucracy is sharply ridiculed in Totò e i re di Roma. One particular subplot of the film stands out for me. The mayor puts his nephew, Palocco (Alberto Sordi), in charge of transforming the childhood home of the city's most famous resident, Maestro Calogero Belloni, into a museum. Palocco says of the home, "From slippers to glasses, everything is still intact, as the Maestro left it, when he flew up into the sky, the pure soul!" But he needs to recover the Maestro's parrot, which the man's niece donated to a zoo during the war. Ercole Pappalardo (Totò), the city archivist, is entrusted with the task of acquiring this exceptional bird. Palocco says excitedly, "It's a fantastic parrot! It can sing all the patriotic hymns and even parts of 'Ermengarde.'" He is insistent that Ercole recover the parrot quickly. He exclaims, "It's ours, it belongs to us, it belongs to the museum! They must give it to us! We must get that parrot!" Unfortunately, Ercole is informed by the zoo director that the parrot is dead. Italian resistance soldiers shot the bird during an insurgence. Ercole says, "They came upon it singing 'Giovinezza' [the official hymn of Mussolini's National Fascist Party] at the top of its lungs." "He deserved it," his friend Ferruccio (Aroldo Tieri) says. Ercole shakes his head in grim agreement. "It was a nasty parrot," he says.

Knowing that the mayor will be displeased with the news, Ercole finds another parrot and tries to teach it to sing a patriotic hymn. The ruse doesn't turn out well.

This premise was later used by the U. S. sitcoms The Gale Storm Show ("Singapore Fling," April 20, 1957) and Car 54, Where Are You? ("I Hate Captain Block," November 18, 1962).

Totò e le donne (English title: Toto and the Women) (1952)

Blogger Ric Quidam summarized the plot of Totò e le Donne as follows:

Filippo Scaparro [Totò] is convinced that the main source of trouble for men is women. He takes refuge in an attic to read his "giallo" [crime mystery pulp novels] in peace, smoke a cigar, and pray to his protector: Landru [famed serial wife killer Henri Désiré Landru]. A series of flashbacks evoke his relationships with women: wife, mistress, client, prostitute.

Totò frightens away a young man who has come by to take out his daughter (Giovanna Pala).

Una di quelle (English title: One of Those) (1953)

IMDb: "Rocco [Totò] and his brother Martino [Peppino De Filippo] are two rich country estate owners who descend into the city in search of adventure."

Rocco does not have the type of adventure that he expected. He visits a night club with the idea to pick up a prostitute and take her back to his hotel room. He meets a young woman, Maria (Lea Padovani), who is working for the first time as a prostitute. He learns that the woman is a widow who has a sick son that needs immediate care. Rocco makes it his mission to help the woman and her son. He finds a doctor (played by the film's director Aldo Fabrizi), who diagnoses the boy's illness as diphtheria. The boy is having trouble breathing and has a high fever Rocco rushes off to purchase a diphtheria vaccine at the pharmacy. He gets caught in a bad storm and struggles to return to Maria, who worries that her new benefactor has abandoned her. To her relief, Rocco returns and the vaccine restores her son's health. Maria admits to Rocco that she is not really a prostitute. He tells her that he already guess her situation. He invites her and her son to return with him to his country estate.

L'uomo la bestia e la virtù (English title: Man, Beast and Virtue) (1953)

Un turco napoletano (English title: Neapolitan Turk) (1953)

An escaped convict poses as a Turkish eunuch.

Il più comico spettacolo del mondo (English title: Funniest Show on Earth (1953)

Questa è la vita (English title: Of Life and Love) (1954) (segment "La patente")

IMDb User ItalianGerry: "The third episode [in this anthology film] is 'La patente' ('The License,' or as it was called in the U.S.A. 'The Jinx'). It is an amusing little anecdote about a man who wants to get certified as a jinx so that he can make money from his special abilities of warding off the evil eye."

Dov’è la libertà. . .? (English title: Where Is Freedom?) (1954)

A barber who committed murder in jealous rage is released from prison after twenty years. He cannot adjust himself to the changed world and decides to return to prison.

Tempi nostri (English title: A Slice of Life) (1954)

Miseria e nobiltà (English title: Poverty and Nobility) (1954)

A poor writer, Felice Sciosciammocca (Totò), poses as an aristocrat.

Il medico dei pazzi (English title: The Doctor of the Mad) (1954)

Il medico dei pazzi is based on a 1908 play of the same name by Eduardo Scarpetta. Scarpetta, a popular comedian and playwright, was the father of Totò's frequent co-star Peppino De Filippo. The film is the classic burlesque routine "Crazy House" cleverly expanded into a full-length feature. Felice Sciosciammocca (Totò) travels to Naples to visit his nephew Ciccillo (Aldo Giuffrè), who he believes to be a recent graduate of medical school. Uncle Felice has been led to believe he has been paying for his nephew's medical studies when in fact he has been financing his nephew's hedonistic lifestyle. Ciccillo, in desperate need of money to pay gambling debts to a loan shark, elicits help from his friend Michele to stage a new deception against his uncle. He claims that he is working as a psychiatrist at a mental health clinic and that he needs money to purchase an electroshock machine. He takes his uncle on the tour of the "clinic," which is actually a pensioners' hotel, and introduces him to the hotel's eccentric residents. The loan shark surreptitiously takes Ciccillo away before he can finish the tour and Felice panics thinking he has been suddenly left alone with dangerous psychiatric patients.

I tre ladri (English title: The Three Thieves) (1954)

L'Associazione Antonio De Curtis in arte Totò, a group formed by the comedian's daughter Liliana de Curtis and his niece Elena Anticoli de Curtis, provide a detailed plot summary for this clever film.

Tapioca [Totò] is a petty thief who gets caught often. To escape from a shopkeeper after the theft of a salami, he rushes through a skylight into a deserted stately home. After having satiated with the food found in the kitchen, he meets his old apprentice Gastone Cascarilla, who in the meantime has become a class thief: impeccable in tailcoats, hats and redingotes, he wants to extort money from the wealthy businessman Ornano, owner of the house. Gastone, in possession of the letters that his wife has sent to one of his many lovers, is given the combination of the safe from this. He manages to steal 10 million and escape undisturbed. Tapioca still remains in the house and is discovered while escaping. . . Ornano wants at all costs to get back the stolen money as without it he would go bankrupt. In fact, the money allowed him to support the entire financial empire of which he was the owner, acting as an "advance" for a whole series of operations at the limit of legality. To convince Tapioca to reveal where he put the money Ornano decides to fill his prison cell with gifts. . . [T]he cell is equipped with every comfort, with the guards transformed into servants and waiters. In a short time, Tapioca becomes a very popular person even abroad. . . The accused then declares himself guilty of the crime he did not commit. But at that moment Gastone intervenes in the courtroom, revealing that he was the author of the theft, distributing the money to everyone present and causing a tumult during which he has little difficulty escaping from the court's guards. Even Tapioca, almost disgusted by the violence of the crowd unleashed to collect the banknotes, manages to escape from the courtroom, refusing even the wad of bills offered to him by a man he once helped.

We learn in the final scene that the three thieves, Tapioca, Gastone and Ornano, have successfully joined forces and lead luxurious lives.

Totò cerca pace (English title: Toto Seeks Peace) (1954)

IMDb: "Two widowers decide to get married but their decision is continually hampered by their grandchildren, who are just interested in their inheritance."

L'oro Di Napoli (English title: The Gold of Naples) (1954) as Don Saverio Petrillo (segment "Il guappo")

Totò e Carolina (English title: Totò and Carolina) (1955)

Totò e Carolina is funny and heartfelt. A police officer, Antonio Caccavallo (Totò), is put in charge of returning a runaway girl to her rural village. It is not an easy job. To start, the girl is suicidal. Also, we eventually learn that the girl is pregnant. A tender relationship develops between the fatherly police officer and the troubled girl during their road trip.

Totò all'inferno (English title: Totò in Hell) (1955)

Antonio Marchi (Totò), an unhappy thief, fails several times to commit suicide, but then accidentally drowns in a river and ends up in hell.

Siamo uomini o caporali (English title: Are We Men or Corporals?) (1955)

Totò is imprisoned in a Nazi concentration camp during World War II.

Destinazione Piovarolo (English title: Destination Piovarolo) (1955)

A railwayman, Antonio La Quaglia (Totò), is excited to finally win a job as stationmaster until he learns his new station is in a rainy, remote village (Wikipedia: "The only entertainment of the stationmaster is to play chess games at distance via the telegraph with colleagues from other stations."). The story follows the stationmaster for the next seventeen years as he contends with unending politics to gain a transfer. He confronts the biggest obstacle to his transfer when he marries a Jewish teacher and finds that Fascist officials disapprove of the union.

Racconti romani (English title: Roman Tales) (1955)

Il coraggio (1955)

Commendatore Aristide Paoloni (Gino Cervi) saves Gennaro (Totò) from drowning in the Tiber River. But, as is often said, no good deed goes unpunished. Wikipedia explains: "Gennaro begins to disturb the quiet family life of the Commendatore, who soon begins to look for a way to kill the poor Gennaro."

La banda degli (English title: The Band of Honest Men) (1956)

This film is a favorite of mine.

Antonio Buonocore (Totò), a caretaker of an apartment building, visits an elderly tenant who is dying. The tenant, a former mint employee, tells him that he has a suitcase that contains engravings for bank notes and enough watermarked paper to print 10,000 liras. He says that he never had the courage to become a counterfeiter and wants Buonocore to throw the suitcase into the river to destroy its contents. Buonocore is an honest man, but he is at risk of losing his job for refusing to cooperate with a fraudulent accounting scheme proposed by his new boss Casoria (Luigi Pavese). So, he decides to go into the counterfeiting business. But he needs help. He enlists the cooperation of typographer Giuseppe Lo Turco (Peppino De Filippo) and painter Cardone (Giacomo Furia), both of whom are having their own financial problems.

The three men engage in earnest in their counterfeiting enterprise. Once they produce their first note, Buonocore tests if the note is passable by using it to buy a bar of soap at a tobacconist shop. He is visibly shaking as he hands over the note, but the tobacconist accepts the note without question.

Buonocore discovers that his eldest son Michele (Gabriele Tinti), a revenue officer, is heading an investigation to find the source of a recently discovered counterfeit note. Buonocore believes that this must be the note he gave to the tobacconist. He is afraid of being discovered and afraid that his illegal activities will reflect poorly on his son and possibly cost the young man his job. He convinces his cronies not to spend their fake lira and help him immediately to bury their equipment. Wikipedia notes:

The son, seeing this strange burial by chance, asks his father what he is doing, but Cardone does not think better than to say they are burying Mustafa, Buonocore's poodle, killed by a car. Antonio is therefore forced to get rid of the dog, and not having the courage to kill him, leaves him on the road, tied to a milestone. . . But Mustafa frees itself and returns home during a visit of Michele's supervisor.

Buonocore remains fearful to spend any of the fake money, but he sees Lo Turco buy expensive new shoes and Cardone buy himself a new coat.

Buonocore gets the idea that Michele is close to capturing him and figures that, if he immediately surrenders to his son, the young man will likely get a promotion. But, when he makes his confession, his son thinks his father is joking with him. He tells him that they have closed the case, having just finished arresting a group of professional counterfeiters from Switzerland. As it turns out, his son's investigation had nothing to do with his father's undertaking. Michele shows him a counterfeit note that he found at the the tobacconist shop. Buonocore recognizes a unique marking on the note. This is a note that he received at a pawn shop when he hocked his fobwatch. He realizes that he was so nervous at the tobacconist shop that he used this note to purchase the soap instead of the phony test note.

Buonocore gives his partners the good news. He is surprised to learn that, like him, his partners never had the courage to spend any of the bank notes, which means none of their notes have been in circulation for the revenue officers to find. Lo Turco explains that he purchased his new shoes with money he borrowed. Cardone says he took money out of his mother's mattress to buy his new coat.

The three men destroy the counterfeit notes and the suitcase in a bonfire. The final joke of the film occurs when Buonocore realizes that he mistakenly threw his pay envelope into the flames.

The film is good entertainment. The plot, counterfeiting materials falling into the hands of ordinary decent folk, is believable and engaging. The characters are humorous and sympathetic. And Toto's acting has never been better.

Totò, lascia o raddoppia? (1956)

A penniless duke (Totò) uses his knowledge of horseracing on a television quiz show to win the grand prize of five million lira. Before his final appearance on the show, he is kidnapped by a gangster who has bet against him winning the grand prize.

Totò, Peppino e la malafemmina (English title: Toto, Peppino, and the Hussy) (1956)

Ted Shen of The Chicago Reader favorably reviewed Totò, Peppino e... la malafemmina, writing:

Italian comedian Toto and his frequent sidekick Peppino De Filippo are bachelor brothers from the outskirts of Naples who set off for Milan to rescue their nephew from the designs of a voluptuous showgirl. The story takes quite a while to get moving, and the action sputters whenever the lovers occupy the screen alone, but once the two bumpkins arrive in town the surreal silliness takes over, many of the gags exploiting regional and class differences. This 1956 feature by Camillo Mastrocinque is oddly reminiscent of the work of Hollywood director Frank Tashlin (then hitting his peak), and the chemistry between Toto and Peppino often suggests Bob Hope and Bing Crosby.

Totò, Peppino e i fuorilegge (English title: Toto, Peppino and the Outlaws) (1956)

Antonio (Totò) is married to a wealthy woman who keeps him on a tight budget. He devises a plan with his friend (Peppino De Filippo) to stage his own kidnapping and collect the ransom money.

Totò, Vittorio e la dottoressa (English title: The Lady Doctor) (1957)

IMDb: "The fake private detective Mike Spillone [Totò] is hired by two old ladies to find out if Brigitte, the wife of their nephew Otello Bellomo, has a lover."

Totò e Marcellino (English title: Toto and Marcellino) (1958)

Il professore (Totò), a street musician, cares for an orphan boy (Pablito Calvo).

La legge è legge (English title: The Law Is the Law) (1958)

I solti ignoti (English title: Big Deal on Madonna Street) (1958)

Due to his great popularity, Totò was prominently featured in the film's marketing materials even though his role in the film was small.

Totò, Peppino e le fanatiche (English title: Toto, Peppino and the Fanatics) (1958)

Totò, Peppino e le fanatiche was the fifth of thirteen films that teamed Totò and Peppino De Filippo. The plot was an excuse to feature the comedians in a series of loosely connected episodes. The medical director of a psychiatric clinic runs tests on two patients, Antonio Vignanelli (Totò) and Peppino Caprioli (Peppino De Filippo). The men explain the hardships that they suffered in the outside world. It soon becomes apparent to the doctor that it was the stress of family life that cause the men to suffer mental breakdowns. When their spouses and adult children come to visit them, the doctor has attendants seize the family members and bind them in straitjackets while he discharges Antonio and Peppino to resume their lives without the encumbrance of their selfish family members.

Totò a Parigi (English: Toto in Paris) (1958)

The Marquis Gastone De Chemandel (Totò) encounters a vagabond who looks identical to him. In desperate need of money, the aristocrat concocts a plan to have the vagabond serve as his stand-in in a death scene shrewdly staged to look like an accident. This way, he will be able to collect an insurance settlement for his own death.

Totò nella luna (English title: Toto on the Moon) (1958)

Gambe d'oro (English title: Legs of Gold) (1958)

Totò plays Baron Luigi Fontana, the owner of an amateur football team.

Totò, Eva e il pennello proibito (English title: Totò in Madrid) (1959)

A talented painter Scorcelletti (Totò) is engaged by a swindler Raoul La Spada (Mario Carotenuto) to forge a Goya painting. La Spada's beautiful girlfriend Eva (Abbe Lane) convinces a celebrated art critic, Francisco Montiel (Louis de Funès), to authenticate the painting.

I tartassati (English title: The Overtaxed) (1959)

Mr. Pezzella (Totò), owner of a chic boutique, uses a shady accountant (Louis de Funès) to evade paying tax. But then an incorruptible tax inspector Topponi (Aldo Fabrizi), comes poking around and Pezzella works his hardest to get on Topponi's good side.

I ladri (English title: The Thieves) (1959)

Police Commissionar Di Savio (Totò) is on the hunt for stolen gold coins.

Arrangiatevi (English title: You're on Your Own) (1959)

A housing shortage leads Giuseppe Armentano (Peppino De Filippo) to move his family, including grandfather (Totò), into an abandoned brothel. He doesn't tell his family the history of the building, but his wife eventually finds out and threatens to leave him.

La cambiale (English title: The Promisory Note) (1959)

↧

The Great and Glorious Totò, Part 3 (1960 to 1967)

Noi duri (English title: Tough Guys) (1960)

L'Associazione Antonio De Curtis in arte Totò: "Fred Bombardone [Fred Buscaglione] is an FBI agent who is responsible for infiltrating, along with some of his men, in the nightclub of a drug trafficker known as the Algerian [Totò]."

Shorty before the film was due to be released, Buscaglione died in Rome in a car accident.

Signori si nasce (English title: Gentlemen Are Born) (1960)

IMDb User JAP_EMAIL:

This is indisputably a masterpiece. . . The main theme recalls that of the famous Poem by Aesop, The Ant and The Cricket: Two brothers live opposite lives, one being an extreme economizer and sober family man (Peppino/Pio), while the other just a big spender and pleasure-seeker (Totò/Zazà). The latter also boasts about a supposed nobleness whenever creditors complain about his debts and often he gets away with it this way. With his greed for money and sex, Zazà gets accidentally involved in the production of a stage revue; not having money of his own he tries to involve his rich brother into the business, just to please a young dancing girl he's fond of. The plot gets all the more entangled as new characters get into the picture all along, because of various misunderstandings. . . Being a comedy the muddle will eventually untangle, and all the characters will end up happy ever after.

Totò, Fabrizi e i giovani d'oggi (English title: Toto, Fabrizi and the Young People Today) (1960)

IMDb User Baldinotto da Pistoia: "Carlo is in love with Gabriella and he decides to marry her. She agrees but some problems begin when their parents meet. Giuseppe D'Amore [Aldo Fabrizi] and Antonio Cocuzza [Totò] have an instant dislike for each other and begin fighting over everything."

Letto a tre piazze (English title: The King-sized Bed) (1960)

Amalia (Nadia Grey) presumed that her husband Antonio (Totò) was dead after he failed to return from the Russian front during World War II. She eventually remarried and found happiness with her new husband (Peppino De Filippo). But now, after his long absence, Antonio has found his way home and expects Amalia to resume their marital relations.

Risate di gioia (English title: The Passionate Thief) (1960)

This is a film that I really enjoyed. Totò's performance is sensitive, genuine and funny.

IMDb User Miriam Kramer:

On New Year's Eve, an insecure, struggling actress (Anna Magnani) has nothing to do. When a colleague invites her to a New Year's party, she jumps at the opportunity. Accidentally she runs into an old acting acquaintance (Totò), who is helping a professional pickpocket (Ben Gazzara) steal from people during the hustle-bustle of New Year's Eve festivities. During the course of the evening, they have numerous crazy, humorous adventures all over Rome at different parties, restaurants, and even the Trevi fountain. Magnani's character (Tortorella) falls for Gazzara's character (Lello) without knowing what he's up to, while Totò tries to placate them both.

AllMovie critic Hal Erickson wrote:

This fast-paced crime comedy stars Anna Magnani as the fly in the ointment for a pair of disreputable types. Pickpockets Toto and Ben Gazzara don't want Magnani around while they ply their trade, but she manages to foul up their plans by falling in love with their "pigeon," American tourist Fred Clark. Gazzara briefly rids himself of Magnani by pinning a robbery rap on her. Upon her release from jail, she is reunited with Toto, who has loved her all along. Since it is established early on that Magnani is a movie extra and Toto an out-of-work actor, [scriptwriter] Risate di Giola gets away with a few jibes at the Italian film industry.

Chi si ferma è perduto (English title: Who Hesitates Is Lost) (1960)

Two clerks, Antonio Guardalavecchia (Totò) and Giuseppe Colabona (Peppino De Filippo), employ a series of underhanded tactics against each other to acquire a promotion from their new boss. This very funny film was directed by Sergio Corbucci, who later became well known for his ultraviolent spaghetti westerns and Bud Spencer and Terence Hill action comedies.

Totò, Peppino e. . . la dolce vita (1961)

Antonio Barbacane (Totò) is sent by a rich grandfather to Rome to bribe politicians to favor his land interests in a highway bill. But Antonio is instantly distracted by Rome's night life and manages to draw his moralistic cousin, Peppino (Peppino De Filippo), into his endless debauchery.

Sua Eccellenza si fermò a mangiare (English title: The So-Called Dr Biagio Tanzarella) (1961)

A thief (Totò) gains the confidence of a wealthy family by pretending to be Mussolini's personal physician and succeeds in his ultimate plot to steal their gold cutlery.

Totòtruffa '62 (1961)

Antonio (Totò), a poor man, devises various cons to pay for his daughter to study dance at a prestigious boarding school.

I due marescialli (English title: The Two Marshals) (1961)

Totò contro Maciste (English title: Toto vs. Maciste) (1962)

Wikipedia:

Totokamen is an entertainer and an illusionist who performs in various Egyptian nightclubs assisted by his manager, Tarantenkamen. Taking advantage of cheesy tricks, Totokamen pretends to be the son of the god Amun. The Pharaoh Ramses is meanwhile facing the betrayal of Maciste, who has decided to unleash a revolt against him, along with the Assyrians. To cope the emergency, a minister who had witnessed the spectacle of Totokamen is convinced that the man is really a demigod and that he is the right man to face Maciste.

Totò diabolicus (1962)

One by one, the heirs of a fortune (all played by Totò) are murdered by a mysterious killer who calls himself Diabolicus.

Lo smemorato di Collegno (1962)

The film is based on a true story. When a newspaper publishes the photo of an amnesia victim, the photo attracts the attention of several people, each of whom claims the man is a different person.

Totò e Peppino divisi a Berlino (English title: Toto and Peppino Divided in Berlin) (1962)

Shen summarized the plot of Totò e Peppino divisi a Berlino as follows:

Toto and Peppino De Filippo are a pair of Neapolitan clothes peddlers who emigrate to Berlin, only to find themselves ensnared in cold war politics. Bribed by neo-Nazis, Toto poses as an Italian general being tried for war crimes, but after Peppino blows his cover the two wind up fleeing the Americans, the Germans, and the Soviets combined.

Totò di notte (English title: Toto's First Night) (1962)

Street musicians Ninì (Totò) and Mimi (Erminio Macario) uses inheritance money from Mimi's grandmother to travel abroad. The producers had so much unused footage from this film that they put together a second film, Totòsexy.

I due colonnelli (English title: The Two Colonels) (1962)

During the World War II, the Italians and the English alternately occupy a village located between the Albanian and Grecian borders. The two colonels, the Italian Di Maggio (Totò) and the English Henderson (Walter Pidgeon), become good friends. When the German army orders Di Maggio to bomb the village and wipe out all of its occupants, Di Maggio refuses and is sentenced to death.

Totò contro i quattro (English title: Toto vs. the Four) (1963)

Chief Constable Saracino (Totò) is having a busy day. He wakes up to find his car has been stolen, a man claims a parrot tipped him off that his wife and her lover plan to murder him, and a man insists he can lead police to a serial killer but it turns out the serial killer is an actor playing a serial killer in a movie.

Il monaco di Monza (English title: The Monk of Monza) (1963)

An unemployed cobbler, Pasquale (Totò), poses as a monk to solicit funds from a beautiful widowed marquise, Fiorenza (Lisa Gastoni). To his surprise, Fiorenza implores him to prevent her forced marriage to the sinister Don Egidio (Nino Taranto).

Totò e Cleopatra (English title: Toto and Cleopatra) (1963)

Mark Antony's lookalike brother, Totònno (Totò), takes a break as slave trader to cuddle up with Cleopatra (Magali Noël).

Le motorizzate (1963) (segment "Il Vigile Ignoto")

A swindler (Totò) disguises as a traffic cop to collect high fines from unsuspecting drivers. His fines prove to be an effective deterrent to traffic violations. The mayor is ecstatic to see an end to reckless driving on the local roads.

Totòsexy (English title: Sexy Toto) (1963)

Gli onorevoli (English title: The Honorable) (1963)

Il comandante (English title: The Commandant) (1963)

A retired general, Antonio Cavalli (Totò), has trouble adjusting to civilian life and becomes a nuisance to his family. The comedian repeats an train track gag he performed years earlier in Animali pazzi (1939).

Le belle famiglie (English title: Beautiful Families) (1964) (segment "Amare è un po' morire")

Che fine ha fatto Totò baby? (English title: What Ever Happened to Baby Toto?) (1964)

Totò is at his most deranged in Che fine ha fatto Totò baby?. The film, a spoof of What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? (1962), has Totò go on a murder spree after unknowingly gathering up marijuana from a garden and including an abundant amount of the psychoactive plant in his dinner salad.

What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? (1962)

Totò d'Arabia (English title: Toto of Arabia) (1965)

Totò becomes a secret agent.

Gli amanti latini (English title: Latin Lovers) (1965) (segment "Amore e morte")

Rita, la figlia americana (English title: Rita the American Girl) (1965)

Professor Serafino Benvenuti (Totò), an ardent lover of classical music, is distressed that his adopted daughter Rita (Rita Pavone) wants to become a pop singer.

Uccellacci e Uccellini (English title: The Hawks and the Sparrows) (1966)

A pair of drifters trek through Rome with a crow that spouts Marxist views.

Operazione San Gennaro (English title: Treasure of San Gennaro) (1966)

Le streghe (English title: The Witches) (1967) (segment "La terra vista dalla luna")

This anthology film features Totò in a surreal third segment, "The Earth Seen from the Moon." Here is the summary provided by Wikipedia:

This comic episode, directed by [Pier Paolo] Pasolini, tells the story of a red-headed father and son, Ciancicato and Baciu Miao (Totò and Ninetto Davoli). Ciancicato has just lost his wife and wants to marry a new wife. Ciancicato finds a deaf girl [Silvana Mangano] among the shacks on the outskirts of Rome and makes her his bride. To buy a better house nearby, he concocts a plan for her to threaten to commit suicide (distraught by her sick children) by jumping from the Coliseum, and take a collection to save her, but she slips on a banana peel and falls, and is buried next to his former wife.

This is not the entire story. Ciancicato and Baciu return home to find the ghost of the deaf girl waiting for them. At first, they are horrified. But then they see that she hasn't changed and they happily welcome her back. The story ends with a title card that reads, "Moral: Whether you are dead or alive, it's all the same."

Il padre di famiglia (English title: The Head of the Family) (1967)

Capriccio all'italiana (English title: Caprice Italian Style) (1968)

Additional notes

Here are a few photos and clips to showcase the other Italian film comedians prominent during Totò's time.

Alberto Sordi

Eduardo De Filippo and Peppino De Filippo in Quei due (English title: Those Two) (1935)

Plot: A pair of struggling actors create a magic act to perform in provincial theaters. The men take a liking to a beautiful young woman they meet. When they learn she's out of work, they write a part for her in their act.

Peppino De Filippo in I due compari (1955)

Aldo Fabrizi

Aldo Fabrizi in Hanno rubato un tram (English title: They Stole a Tram) (1954)

Plot: A tram driver, Cesare Mancini (Fabrizi), is suspended for three months after getting into a fight with rowdy football fans who boarded his tram after a game. He tries to keep his suspension a secret from his family, but his family finds out and becomes upset with him. Feeling abandoned, he wanders through the city for much of the night and happens to wind up at the tram depot. On a sudden impulse, he steals a tram and rides it at full speed through the city. He stops to take on board a few passengers, including a drunkard, two prostitutes, an elderly couple, and a street musician. The musician plays his accordion while the others sing and dance. Mancini is arrested and put on trial.

The film was co-directed by Fabrizi and Sergio Leone.

Aldo Fabrizi in I due compari (English title: The Accomplices) (1955)

Plot: A father pays his daughter's tuition to a prestigious boarding school by peddling fake fountain pens in the market squares of Rome. The daughter, Giulietta (Giulia Rubini), believes that her father is a successful businessman, but she finds out the truth when she sees her father being arrested. She is so humiliated that she breaks off her engagement to Enrico Carletti (Leonardo Botta), the son of a rich industrialist. It takes Enrico's father (Carlo Ninchi), who knows that Enrico and Giulietta truly love each other, to get the couple back together.

Aldo Fabrizi in Signori, in carrozza! (English title: Rome-Paris-Rome) (1951)

IMDb User Salvatore Santangelo: "Vincenzo, a railwayman who works on the Rome to Paris line, has a wife in Italy and a mistress in France. . . When he's offered a job in Paris, he decides to move. Unfortunately for him, his wife and petulant brother in law come to Paris too. He will have to decide between the two women."

Aldo Fabrizi in Un militare e mezzo (1959)

Aldo Fabrizi in The Wonders of Aladdin (1961)

Reference sources

L'Associazione Antonio De Curtis in arte Totò https://www.associazioneantoniodecurtisinartetoto.com/index.php?option=com_sppagebuilder&view=page&id=89

Ric Quidam, "Monicelli-Steno-1952-Totò e le donne" (January 2, 2015). http://kebekmac.blogspot.com/2015/01/monicelli-steno-1952-toto-e-le-donne.html.

Ted Shen, "Toto, Peppino and the Berlin Wall," The Chicago Reader. https://www.chicagoreader.com/chicago/toto-peppino-and-the-berlin-wall/Film?oid=1068051.

Ted Shen, "Toto, Peppino and the Hussy," The Chicago Reader. https://www.chicagoreader.com/chicago/toto-peppino-and-the-hussy/Film?oid=1057742.

↧

The Ugliness of Modern Films, Part 1: Butchered Bodies and Vomit

The silent film is a beautiful art form. Since my early days, I have found the greatest pleasure watching films like Kid Brother or The General. But, at times, I could not help but feel sad about these same films because I knew that I was watching something special that had been lost to us forever. In the last two years, I have felt sadness watching most films made in the twentieth century. The Hollywood film, once transcendent, is now something far less special. The Hollywood film today is ugly and pointless. It moves me just as much as a wrapper floating on rainwater down a gutter drain.

It's wrong just to blame the Hollywood film. This trend has gone global. Let's take a look at U.K.-U.S. co-production, The Favourite (2018). The Favourite, a costume drama set in the early 18th century, examines the relationship of two cousins vying to be court favorites of Queen Anne. Everything about The Favourite is, by deliberate design, grotesque. Nicholas Barber of the BBC website wrote, "Yorgos Lanthimos's The Favourite is a filthy, violent and outrageous period comedy that drips with bad language and worse behaviour, and will appall anyone who is expecting a more conventional royal drama."

Two minutes into the film, we are introduced Emma Stone's character Abigail Masham, who looks bedraggled as she travels in a carriage en route to her new home in London. Abigail takes notice of a man sitting across from her. The two politely smile at each other. But then the man reaches down inside his pants and happily masturbates. The actor is in acknowledged in the film credits as "The Wanking Man." Am I supposed to believe that men in Eighteenth century England casually masturbated during public carriage rides? No, that is just something out of the nasty imagination of the film's scriptwriters. The vast majority of the film is nasty fake history.

Dominic Green of The Spectator praised Callum Lewin for his performance as "Nude Pomegranate Tory, a nude Tory who dances around in slow motion while being pelted with pomegranates." This depiction of a drunken, fruit-throwing parlor game is, plainly, a fiction. An actual parlor game that Queen Anne played was a word game called "News," which incorporated elements of verbal invention and gossip. But "News" did not meet Lanthimos's filthy, violent and outrageous standard and, therefore, was not part of the film.

We learn early in the film that Queen Anne suffers from gout. A pivotal scene of the film involves the queen's swollen and inflamed legs being wrapped in slices of beef to relieve the pain. Later, the queen gorges on blue-frosted cake and then vomits in a pot provided on cue by a servant. We are led to believe that the woman vomits often due to a weak stomach.

Alfred Hitchcock said that he was unwilling to make a costume picture because he needed to get detail into his stories and these sort of films lack detail. "Nobody in a costume picture ever goes to the toilet," he said. The Favourite is a film for those people who, like Hitchcock, think a baroness taking a dump or a queen vomiting is a detail that costume pictures have lacked for too long. Vomit-loving people do exist, as hard as it for me to believe. Ann Hornaday of The Washington Post, evidently a vomit lover, called the film "rapturously vulgar."

The most popular user review on IMDb (545 of 930 people found the review helpful) opens as follows:

Let me preface my review with me saying that I have never had a film experience where I have been genuinely uncomfortable in. I have watched The Human Centipede series, Saw, and plenty of other gory cinema that has hardly made me cringe. But for some odd reason, The Favourite made me cringe and feel sick half of the time.

The film, itself, suffers some cinematic form of gout.

The film has nothing to offer but ugliness. This becomes obvious very early in the story. Abigail has just started her new job as a scullery maid. A plump kitchen maid hands her a bucket of lye and instructs her to wash the floor, but she neglects to tell her that lye is dangerously corrosive and she needs to use gloves to handle it. Abigail is on her knees scrubbing the floor when she suddenly feels the chemical burning into her hands and she screams out horribly.

The kitchen maid grins as if she planned all along for the pretty new girl to burn her hands.

Only a misanthrope would believe that people behave in this manner. The scene transitions from Abigail screaming to the Queen screaming. Unbearable pain exists in every room of the palace.

A few minutes later, the kitchen maid grins again when Abigail is whipped for misconduct.

Last year, I was told that Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri is a comedy. I didn't believe it. This year, I was told that The Favourite is a comedy. Are you kidding me? Abigail is repeatedly shoved into the gloppiest of mud and comes up with her face splattered in copious flecks of soil and manure. But these few slapstick moments, more disgusting than funny, fail to nudge the film into the category of comedy.

Abigail's pain is not pratfall pain. Her pain is real pain.

Even in a rare moment that she smiles, cuts and bruises are visible on her face.

And, trust me, it won't be long before she can't help but howl in pain.

Let's get back to the queen's attack of gout. The queen is feverish, mumbling deliriously about an incident from her childhood when a boy held her down and dribbled his spit into her face. Everything about those few minutes are designed to nauseate the viewer. The music consists of screechy strings. The camera captures the action with a distorting fish-eyed lens while unsteadily roving about the palace chambers. The scene lapses into a disorienting series of dissolves. This could be designed to convey the queen's delirious state of mind. Maybe, maybe not. The editing is deliberately jumbled. Footage spliced into the middle of the scene shows something that hasn't happened yet: Abigail in the woods collecting an herbal remedy for the Queen's gout. It is an abrupt flash-forward that serves no purpose except to flout conventions of common sense chronology and disorient the viewer, who might otherwise lose interest in the Queen's gouty legs.

Then, we have Lanthimos' frequent use of whip pans in the film. Lanthimos' director of photography, Robbie Ryan, said, "There was only one shot where that whip pan happens, and I think he really enjoyed it. So he goes, 'Ooh, I want to try that a bit more.'"

Lanthimos piles up the technical gimmicks until all that is visible are the gimmicks. Giovanni Marchini Camia of BFI saw through these contrivances, writing:

And although Lanthimos employs fisheye lenses, whip pans, extreme slow motion, creeping dollies, showy dissolves and other such devices with desperate abandon – not to mention a bombastic soundtrack implemented with Greenaway-levels of insistence and production design Visconti might have deemed too baroque – no amount of ostentation proves sufficient to spruce up the insipid narrative, which strains to fulfil its two-hour running time as if it were a requirement of seriousness.

According to Chris O'Falt of IndieWire, it was in an effort to "[push] things further" that he "deviat[ed]. . . to use a fish-eye 6mm lens that creates very noticeable distortion." He noted, "It brings a garishness to a period film that would make other cinematographers balk."

Ryan said, "[Lanthimos] hates the idea of conventional film coverage — that would be hell to Yorgos. He couldn’t handle that. The idea of a shot-reverse, as far as two over-the-shoulders, he'd run out of the building. He'd be very disappointed if that's the way the journey was going to go." His objective was to give the film an exciting and different new look even more than it was to tell a good story. Ryan said, "When we were in prep, we were working through Panavision in the UK, and they were very cool to us." He explained to the people at Panavision that Lanthimos wanted the widest lens they had. He said, "[L]uckily, it’s the classic story of the lens that has been on a shelf for a long time. We dust it off, and it's this beautiful 6 mil lens, which Yorgos really enjoyed. He loved it once he saw it. To look at the lens is like looking at a piece of art, but it's very, very big, convex glass. I'd never seen it before, and we all had lots of fun clearing the film set from everybody when that lens went on — because it saw everything, really."

Lanthimos fully committed to the lens. Ryan said, "[W]e weren't shooting on other lenses. We weren't maybe doing the safe version of that. It was, a lot of the time, the kind of balls-out version of that. I thought that was very brave and I was going, 'Oh my god, okay.'" He told interviewers that he was thrilled to be working with the director. He said, "You don't know what’s coming next with that film, which I think is really nice. You're constantly surprised, and I think that's difficult in a costume drama, and very refreshing to see in a costume drama."

Ryan made it sound as if everything insightful about the film and everything funny about the film came from the lens. How did the lens make the film insightful? He said:

If you read between the lines what the lenses did for the film, the thing I [took from] watching the film was it felt very claustrophobic. By the nature of being able to see everything in front of you, you then get a sense that the characters are almost imprisoned in the location. Even though they have all this luxury and power, they are a little bit isolated in this world. . . [Y]ou get a feeling of no escape. I think one of the critiques of the film said it was like a playground that turns into a battleground that turns into a prison. I think that's a very good explanation of what the film tries to get across with these characters. I think the wide lenses are pretty integral to that, as well.

How did the lens make the film funny? Ryan told IndieWire: "There's an absurdist thing about that lens that it's kind of almost comical, but it's fantastical as well – it’s not totally out of place in the film, which you never would imagine." He told Deadline, "It's a comedy as well, so it lends to a bit of an odd aspect. I just think it’s a brave choice. It's a fun film, and I think he was certainly having fun when he put those lenses on. We were like, 'Whoa, that looks kind of mad.' But it definitely fitted."

Ostentatious, yes. But I can look past the ostentation of the film. What I find unforgiving is the overriding ugliness of the film. Lanthimos has suggested that he set out to immerse the audience into the madness and decadence of Queen Anne's palace. Ryan said, "This period was very much a decadent time. That's sort of what attracted Yorgos, this decadence and totally off-the-radar madness that these people were let have. Life was so polarized — the poverty was extreme, and the rich was extreme. You can say that about nowadays, but I don’t think it’s even touching the levels of what society had back then." A filmmaker cannot be fond of his audience if, for two straight hours, he rubs their faces in decay, depravity, misery and psychosis. He's like the kitchen maid. He thrusts a bucket of a caustic solution at an unsuspecting victim and grins as the solution burns into their flesh.

Understand, the entire film looked like this.

Not just one scene, the entire film. Does that make any sense to you? I couldn't believe this when I first saw it. Honestly, I thought something was wrong with my television or something was wrong with the DVD. If Lanthimos has every scene turned upside down for his next film, the critics will likely watch the film standing on their heads while applauding like mad seals for this audacious new form of cinematic storytelling.

Lanthimos follows the herd when it comes his ugly and shocking depiction of life and humanity, but he can screw a funny lens on his camera and brag he'd run out of the building before he would do anything conventional. Nothing could be more pretentious.

Eric Kandel, author of "The Age of Insight," wrote, "Art is. . . a process that leads to an Aha! moment, the sudden recognition that we have seen into another person's mind, and that allows us to see the truth underlying both the beauty and the ugliness depicted by the artist." But ugliness isn't always the truth. Sometimes, it is just ugliness. And, even if it is the truth, it is wrong to give the public an exclusive diet of the ugly truth.

Queen in a 1970 film

Queen in a 2018 film

Queen in a 2025 film

Wait, how did this pretty image slip past Lanthimos?

Today, Hollywood films are soulless. Take, for example, the new version of A Star is Born. The film opens with Jack (Bradley Cooper) singing to a noisy crowd at a California concert. After the concert, Jack goes to a drag bar, where he sees Ally (Lady Gaga) sing to a noisy crowd. He goes backstage to see Ally, talks briefly with her (Ally tells Jack her nose is too big and he tells her that her nose is lovely), and he ends up singing to her. The two leave the club and Ally sings to Jack in a parking lot. The next day, Jack has Ally picked up in a limousine so she can hear him sing in concert to yet another noisy crowd. The dialogue is kept to a minimum throughout these scenes (how could you hear them over the din?). We are expected to like Jack and Ally and accept that the couple is falling in love without learning much about the characters or seeing them make a genuine connection. No deep romantic relationship is built on nose flattery.

I was watching the film with my mother. At the time that Ally is watching Jack's concert performance, my mother turned to me with an unhappy look on her face. "Are you enjoying this?" she asked. My answer was a resounding "no." How does a filmmaker tell a love story without heartfelt emotions or intimate moments? We turned off the film.

During TCM's recent New Year's Eve showing of MGM's That's Entertainment trilogy, co-host Ben Mankiewicz flatly announced that he hates the MGM musicals. He dismissed these films as meaningless escapism. He said that he preferred films that were "confrontational," like Citizen Kane or Paths of Glory. That's a narrow criteria for films. The vast majority of classic films are far closer in nature to Singin' in the Rain than Paths of Glory. Very few classic films would pass the Mankiewicz Test. This likely explains the reason that Mankiewicz rarely shows affection for the films he introduces on TCM. He mostly comes across as too cool for the room. He has the grumpy persona of someone who would really rather be somewhere – anywhere - else. A new TCM host, Dave Karger, piped up to accuse the producers of That's Entertainment films of being racist for not including black artists in the first film. He acknowledged that That's Entertainment, Part II featured scenes with two black artists, Lena Horne and Ethel Waters, but he said that the second film was a compilation of B-side musical numbers and Horne and Waters deserved better. There is nothing second-rate about the musical numbers in That's Entertainment, Part II. It is a great film. But Mankiewicz and Karger are self-styled "progressives" who bear disdain for films from Hollywood's Golden Age. And they didn't care at all if their remarks threw a wet blanket on this joyous celebration.

Also on hand for this presentation were Eddie Muller and Alicia Malone. I respect Muller and Malone for their work as film historians. Muller, the author of "Dark City: The Lost World of Film Noir," is a leading authority on film noir. Alicia Malone is the author of "Backwards and in Heels: The Past, Present And Future Of Women Working In Film" and "The Female Gaze: Essential Movies Made by Women." Malone defended the MGM musicals against Mankiewicz's foolish assertions. I wish that I had a transcript of this discussion so that I could quote Malone's remarks exactly. Suffice to say, she spoke of the joy that an MGM musical brings to a person's heart.

Malone is an ideal successor to the late Robert Osborne. Osborne was the face of TCM for more than two decades. I loved the man. He was graceful, warm and knowledgeable in his capacity as TCM's primary host. Malone, too, is graceful, warm and knowledgeable.

Osborne was a big fan of MGM musicals, including On the Town (1949), Singin' In the Rain (1952), The Band Wagon (1953) and Seven Brides for Seven Brothers (1954). He understood the value of these films.

An MGM musical unfolds before our eyes as a marvelous celebration of humanity. The Wizard of Oz addresses crucial real world concerns - love, home, family, friendship, loyalty, bravery, evil. You understand what's most important in life after you watch The Wizard of Oz. You do not escape the real world, but confront the real world in the fullest and most glorious way possible. Citizen Kane is clever and stylish, but it doesn't touch your soul like The Wizard of Oz. Citizen Kane does nothing to inspire the viewer or raise his spirit like Singin' in the Rain.

Mankiewicz probably believes Citizen Kane was designed to confront the evils of capitalism and expose the American Dream as a fraud. But it wasn't Orson Welles' intention for the film to be seen as a critique of capitalism. Despite what some critics try to read into it (often quoting Joseph Cotton's remarks about the rise of organized labor), the film is not political. It is a character study that, in the end, attributes a man's failure to connect with others and find happiness to a damaged childhood and lost youth.

Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian wrote:

Perhaps it is the fault of Citizen Kane itself, that mysterious, almost Elizabethan fable of kingship, which so seductively posits the coexistence of greatness and failure. Martin Scorsese, in his brilliant commentary on the film, said that cinema normally generates empathy for its heroes, but the enigma of Kane frustrates this process. The audience wants to know and love Kane, but can't.

Peter Bogdanovich said, "[Citizen Kane] is about as negative a movie as you can imagine. Nobody gets what they want, it all ends in tragedy, and it's brilliantly done so that you forget that. . ."

Personally, I do have sympathy for Kane. The ending wouldn't be so tragic if Welles didn't generate sympathy for Kane. When all is said and done, the film is intense but it can hardly be called "confrontational."

Paths of Glory, based on a 1935 novel by Humphrey Cobb, presents a sad but important lesson. In war, the military institution is more important than the individual soldier, so much so that innocent soldiers can be executed by their commanding officers to preserve the institution.

David Simon, the creator of The Wire television series, wrote:

Humphrey Cobb gave us our last, failed century in a single, basic narrative. He told us of men devoured by the very institutions they served, without recourse, and for purposes petty, mechanical, and abstract.

Cobb, himself, wrote:

Where all these Journey's Ends and All Quiets fail utterly as anti-war propaganda, indeed where they become pro-war propaganda is in the stoicism, the self-abnegation, the idealism and romantic nobility which they portray. How the actors hate war, etc. but Christ, how nobly they suffer! And a regiment marching down a street behind a good band — everybody knows what that does to your reasonableness and logic. The only available effective anti-war propaganda that I know is photographs of butchered bodies —the more horrible the better.

Paths of Glory has butchered bodies. Mankiewicz presumably believes that "butchered bodies" films have far greater importance than films about love, joy and beauty. The uglier the film the better as far as he's concerned. Ugly films are praised by pretentious people as true and profound films. But they are usually not true and, if they aren't true, they can't be profound. Confrontational films are rarely anything more than useless political propaganda.

Cobb is right to trust only something as real and raw as photographs of butchered bodies. A variety of carefully staged images meticulously spliced together for a film is something entirely different and something that can never to be trusted by those who truly care about confronting the harsh realities of life.

It is evident on its face that the artistry of an MGM musical is genuinely beautiful. Bring back joy and beauty to the cinema.

Reference sources

- "Under the Influence David Simon Unravels the Moral Twists of Paths of Glory," Criterion, (May 9, 2018). https://www.criterion.com/current/posts/5636-david-simon-unravels-the-moral-twists-of-paths-of-glory.

Peter Bradshaw, The Guardian (April 25, 2015). https://www.theguardian.com/film/2015/apr/25/citizen-kane-rosebud.

Giovanni Marchini Camia, "The Favourite first look: Yorgos Lanthimos courts controversy but cops out: Olivia Colman, Rachel Weisz and Emma Stone play pointless power games in Yorgos Lanthimos’s baroque and profane regal romp that runs out of steam far too soon," BFI (January 7, 2019). https://www.bfi.org.uk/news-opinion/sight-sound-magazine/reviews-recommendations/the-favourite-yorgos-lanthimos-olivia-colman-emma-stone-rachel-weisz.

Dominic Green, "Court with its pants down," The Spectator (December 3, 2018) https://spectator.us/court-pants-favourite/.

Matt Grobar, "‘The Favourite’ DP Robbie Ryan Brings Fisheye Lenses & Fluid, Roving Camera To Yorgos Lanthimos' Madcap Period Piece," Deadline (November 6, 2018). https://deadline.com/2018/11/the-favourite-robbie-ryan-yorgos-lanthimos-cinematography-interview-1202494103/.

Ann Hornaday, "Imagine 'The Crown' but vulgar and hilariously perverse. That’s ‘The Favourite,’" The Washington Post (November 29, 2018). https://www.washingtonpost.com/goingoutguide/movies/imagine-the-crown-but-vulgar-and-hilariously-perverse-thats-the-favourite/2018/11/28/591af7ec-f018-11e8-96d4-0d23f2aaad09_story.html

Chris O'Falt, "‘The Favourite’: Oscar Nod Likely for DP Robbie Ryan, But Damned If He Knows Why Director Yorgos Lanthimos pushed his cinematographer to extremes with the use of very wide lenses, only natural light, and bold camera moves, IndieWire (December 12, 2018). https://www.indiewire.com/2018/12/the-favourite-cinematographer-robbie-ryan-yorgos-lanthimos-1202027430/.

David Simon, "Introduction: Paths of Glory by Humphrey Cobb," The Audacity of Despair (April 16, 2010). https://davidsimon.com/forward-paths-of-glory-by-humphrey-cobb/.

Adam Yuster, "NYFF: Martin Scorsese, Peter Bogdanovich Talk Orson Welles''Exhilarating and So Distressing' Final Film," The Hollywood Reporter (October 1, 2018). https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/martin-scorsese-orson-welles-exhilarating-distressing-final-film-1148441.

↧

↧

The Ugliness of Modern Films, Part 2: The True Evil of the Horror Film

I have been thinking about an article I wrote more than a year ago. In the article, I compared Annabelle: Creation (2017) to Poltergeist (1982) as a way to demonstrate the moral decline of the horror film. Since I wrote that article, an even more depraved horror film has been brought before the public. That film is Hereditary (2018).

Before I can discuss Hereditary, I need to establish a context for the film.

Horror films of Hollywood's Golden Age tended to have religious overtones. These were moral stories of good defeating evil. Dracula (1931) introduces a great evil.

The audience is thoroughly scared, but then the good guys restore order.

At the time, filmmakers respected religious morality, which is only reasonable. A group devotes itself to the cause of refinement as a way to advance themselves and produce a stable and productive society. Important to the refinement process is morals. It was under moral power that people turned away from their barbaric origins and produced great civilizations.

I have no problem with fair and sensible Breen-style censorship of films being used to protect morality and restrain malignant artists. A civilization cannot be sustained without the suppression of bad behavior. Behavior is a range of actions made by an individual in relationship with others. Communicating images, speech and expressions, which a filmmaker does, is a form of behavior and it should be regulated just as any other form of behavior. We can alternately categorize a film as a product and control it just as any other product. Just as we regulate bottled water for contaminants, we can regulate a film for contaminants. The question we must always ask is: Does this product inflict harm on the consumer?

A Hollywood film is far more commercial than artistic, but let's pretend for moment that it is plainly art. We imagine art as beautiful and life-affirming. We imagine the fantasy tales that are crafted by artists as escapist fun. But there is wicked art and sick fantasy. A film is a vile work if it acts to manipulate the viewer in a way that corrupts or diminishes him.

Plato believed that writers inspired bad behavior with stories that showed bad men succeeding and he believed that stories of this sort should be subjected to censorship. He wrote specifically, "[W]riters of prose. . . [say] that there are many examples of men who, though unjust, are happy, and of just men who are wretched, and that there is profit in injustice if it be concealed. . . I presume that we shall forbid them to say this sort of thing and command them to sing and fable the opposite."

Plato maintained that our manner "follow[s] and conform[s] to the disposition of the soul." He believed that art could upset our internal rhythms and that the disharmony that results will likely create bad thoughts and bad behavior. He wrote, "[S]eemliness and unseemliness are attendant upon the good rhythm and the bad."

Plato realized that man has something in his soul that "hunger[s] for tears and a good cry" and it is "[this] element in us that the poets satisfy and delight." But this is a part of us that, according to Plato, "has never been properly educated by reason or even by habit" and must be forcibly restrained to make us good people. The philosopher made it clear that there was no shame in "contemplating the woes of others," but it is wrong for a man to let prose cause him to "relax [his] guard" and "abandon himself to excess in his grief." He saw great danger in "vicarious pleasure." He wrote, "[W]hat we enjoy in others will inevitably react upon ourselves. For after feeding fat the emotion of pity there, it is not easy to restrain it in our own sufferings." He believed that "the same principle appl[ied] to the laughable." In his view, "comic representations. . . foster[ed] [a] youthful impudence." We are taught to detest clownish behavior as base and come to fear a loss of reputation if we, ourselves, behaved in that way. But our resistance is weakened when we "take intense pleasure in buffooneries that [we] would blush to practise [our]self."

Jessica Moss, a New York University philosophy professor, wrote:

[Plato] is not merely making the complaint that various influential poets happen to write ethically harmful poetry. Rather he has presented an argument "based on metaphysical and psychological theory" that only ethically harmful poetry - poetry that reflects and reinforces the flaws in popular morality - can compel us and move us with its portrayal of human affairs.

Socrates had similar views on the subject. His concern, according to Raphael Foshay of Athabasca University, was that "tragic displays. . . constitute dramatic force and evoke intense audience response " Parents teach their children restraint and fellowship while the tragic poets feed that part of the psyche that is excited by passion and conflict. Socrates wrote:

Now, then, irritable disposition affords much and varied imitation, while the prudent and quiet character, which is always nearly equal to itself, is neither easily imitated, nor, when imitated, easily understood especially by a festive assembly.

Foshay further explained:

Even "the best of us," [Socrates] says, "praise as a good poet the man who most puts us in this state" (605d) of heightened tragic emotion. In sum: "[F]or all the desires, pains, and pleasures in the soul that we say follow our action, poetic imitation produces similar results in us, for it fosters and waters them when they ought to be dried up, and sets them up as rulers in us" (606d). We ought, Socrates says, to be ruled by those things described in Book VI that do not draw us into conflict and contradiction, the ideals of "the just, fair, and moderate by nature" (501b).

Famed French filmmaker Henri-Georges Clouzot talked to an interviewer about the origins of his film project L'enfer. He said, "It all started with insomnia. I had this idea which was to dramatize the anxiety attacks I suffer every night and which keep me awake. So I wrote a 50-page treatment." He explained that he wanted to convey to an audience the obsessions that can poison a man's mind. The interviewer asked him, "Are you personally interested in the morbid and pathological?" Clouzot pushed back on the question, denying that he himself was "a pathological case." But he didn't seem sure about this. In the end, he did admit to having suffered depression at one time.

In fact, the filmmaker was viewed by many of his collaborators as troubled. He was known for his pessimistic attitude, controlling work habits, and violent outbursts. Actress Brigitte Bardot described Clouzot as "a negative being, forever at odds with himself and the world around him."

Henri was indeed a pathological case and, by expressing his anxieties, depressive thoughts and obsessions in L'enfer, he sought to spread his unique form of psychopathology to others. These ills that poisoned his mind were now to be brought forth by him to poison other minds. This is a grave problem we have in engaging uncritically with the auteur.

An artist can convey his pathology in a painting. A person looks at the painting, finds themselves affected by it in some way, and then they move on to the next painting. But a film is different than a painting. It takes hold of us and controls us in a way that a painting can never do. Unlike a painting, it is wholly immersive, creating a new reality for the viewer. And films tend to blend together in crazes, a tidal wave of emotional, psychological and political manipulation that comes crashing down on a helpless and unsuspecting public.

Was "body horror" a thing until David Cronenberg made it a thing? Cronenberg believes that neurology is "an incredible theme" that we should discuss. He said, "So much of our understanding of the human body comes from the need to deal with disease, things that we would never have thought to consider." But Cronenberg's shocking films like Rapid (1977), Shivers (1979) and The Brood (1979) do not provide a helpful discussion of body-ravaging diseases. They provide, instead, fodder for nightmares. And we have various imitators, including Stuart Gordon, Lloyd Kaufman, Clive Barker, John Landis, Eli Roth and Peter Jackson, who reinforced Cronenberg's idea and made "body horror" part of the national psyche.

Charlie Brooker, the creator of the dark television series Black Mirror, made a significant admission while speaking at a Wired Live event. He said, "One thing that people sometimes say about the show that slightly annoys me is. . . the show is inherently anti-technology or that it's warning people of the dangers of technology, which I really don't think it is. I think it's partly that I'm neurotic and worry about everything. I can worry about germs on a glass as much I would worry about social media. . . I worry about a lot of things." He admitted that he felt uneasy having to be on a stage too high off the ground for his comfort. He admitted being afraid of the crowd because he could envision a random audience member or members suddenly coming forward to attack him and maybe even kill him. He admitted that he checked the exits of the auditorium on his arrival to make sure he could make a quick escape if trouble of any sort arose.

Forget it if you thought (like me) that the series was designed to provide a helpful warning about technology. The fact that he sees his crowd of fans as homicidal maniacs explains the true ethos behind Black Mirror. When asked to explain the series' success, Brooker said plainly, "Maybe people are just monsters and they just like seeing characters suffer. There's always that [possibility]." So, Brooker is turning out a wicked product to be consumed by wicked people. Or is it possible that he is turning out wicked product that inspires people to be wicked?

Brooker offers his fans a poor bargain. He was frank on this point as he toured to promote the series' third season. He said:

Overall, across the season, we have more of a variety in tone. Because we're doing six episodes [rather than the usual three] this time around, we wanted to not always fling you into a pit of despair. Sometimes we kick a few fucking hope biscuits at you on the way down. Having said that, there are a few stories where we do fling you into a pit of despair and then piss on you. Because people seem to like that. But we didn't want to be like that all the time. We wanted to broaden the scope of the show in general.

Business as usual, according to Brooker, is to "fling you into a pit of despair and then piss on you." It is only because he has more time and can add a bit of variety to the series that he will "kick a few fucking hope biscuits at you." Obviously, Brooker intensely dislikes his fans and seeks to do them harm. His fans are monstrous beasts that he needs to trap in a pit and torture.

This exceeds the traditional scares of the horror film pioneers. Today's horror film folk are different. The men who create modern horror films tend to have an abusive relationship with those unfortunates who consume their work. It is not their objective to delight or edify fans. It is their objective to make fans miserable.

Brooker is a neurotic misanthrope. But other filmmakers contribute more than personal neurosis and deep-seated cynicism to this trend. It appears that Satanists are using the modern horror film to spread their malevolent influence. Their films exalt and celebrate evil forces.

Daring the filmmaker to momentarily scare you is different than what recent horror films are trying to do. In the latest reboot of Halloween, Michael Myers's first victim is a child. Of course it is. This is an ongoing trend meant to coarsen our spirits and normalize the murder of children. Is it any wonder legislators in New York cheered after passing a law that allowed the murder of babies? This is the same crowd roaring with glee to watch Michael Myers on a murderous rampage. In the end, they have had the idea of killing babies insinuated into their consciousness.

It wasn't always like this. The Exorcist (1973) involves a young girl possessed by an ancient Assyrian demon, Pazuzu. William Peter Blatty designed the "Exorcist" novel to strengthen the reader's faith in God. "It’s an argument for God," he said. "I intended it to be an apostolic work, to help people in their faith." He made this clear in a 2000 interview with The Times-Picayune of New Orleans that people should understand the point of his story was, simply: "That God exists and the universe itself will have a happy ending." As the novel, the film adaptation The Exorcist told us that faith in God gives us the power to ward off demons. Blatty emphasized to the film's director, William Friedkin, that he didn't want the film to give victory to the demon. This was such an important issue that, in 2000, Friedkin recut the film's ending to better clarify Blatty's point. A priest, Father Karras (Jason Miller), ends up sacrificing his life to expel Pazuzu from the girl's body.

Poltergeist (1982), which features a tight-knit family named the Freelings, is a film about the love, intimacy and faithfulness of a family. Spirits suddenly start to communicate with five-year-old daughter Carol Anne through the family's television set. The spirits are under the control of a demon known as the "Beast." They soon suck Carol Anne into an interdimensional portal. The family must work together as passionately as they ever have to rescue the child. The rescue in Poltergeist is a birth metaphor. Standing directly outside the portal, the mother Diane (JoBeth Williams) exclaims, "She just moved through me. My God! I felt her." She sounds like a pregnant mother who can feel her baby kick for the first time.

The couple reaffirms their wedding vows during the rescue.

Once the child is extracted from the portal, mother and daughter pass out from exhaustion covered in an ectoplasmic goo clearly meant to resemble afterbirth.

The film ends with the family checking into a hotel room after their entire home has been sucked into the portal. Dad (Craig T. Nelson) quickly unplugs the television and rolls it out onto the walkway outside the room. He now understands that the demons come to get you through the television.

We learn in the sequel, Poltergeist II: The Other Side, that the demon had taken human form in the 19th century to lead a utopian cult. He now sees a chance to return to Earth by possessing Carol Anne.

Again, the family rallies to protect the girl.

The film's Dracula figure doesn't stand a chance against them.

The demon assumes a large monstrous form, but the future "Mr. Incredible" Nelson stabs the beast in the heart with a charmed Native American spear.

The modern world is filled with dark men who mock the good messages of The Exorcist and Poltergeist. We are wise to avoid dark men and their works. One such dark man is Guillermo Del Toro, who is infatuated with satanic myths, occult symbolism and alchemy. Del Toro indicated in his Oscar acceptance speech that he made a deal with a devil to become a filmmaker. I have no reason to take this as a joke. A person cannot surround himself with devil worship symbols for years and claim it's just an act. At some point, the act becomes who you are. A person devoted to throwing up devil signs is, in the end, a loyal marketer of Satan.

Del Toro said that he intended for Pan's Labyrinth to be "a truly profane film." He said, "Some of my favorite writers (Borges, Blackwood, Machen, Dunsany) have explored the figure of the god Pan and the symbol of the labyrinth. These are things that I find very compelling and I am trying to mix them and play with them." (Del Toro message board, Answers Archive, Nov. 24, 2004)

Pan is the pagan god of sexual fertility, lust, sexual deviance, rape and torture. He is known for promoting sex orgies, bestiality and pedophilia. He is the inspiration for the satyr devil. The horns and cloven hooves of Satan, as depicted in much Christian literature and art, were taken directly from the images of Pan. Pan enjoys brutally raping virgin maidens, leaving them with their minds destroyed.

Del Toro said that a major influence of Pan's Labyrinth was Arthur Machen's 1890 novella "The Great God Pan," in which Pan impregnates a young woman to create the antichrist. The heroes of the book catch up to the antichrist, a demonic woman named Helen Vaughan, and force her to hang herself. Machen wrote:

Helen Vaughan did well to bind the cord about her neck and die, though the death was horrible. The blackened face, the hideous form upon the bed, changing and melting before your eyes from woman to man, from man to beast, and from beast to worse than beast, all the strange horror that you witness, surprises me but little.

Yet, del Toro leads a young girl into the arms of this seducer and devastator of young girls.

The entrance into this strange new place is more elaborate and seductive than Carole Anne's closet.

We see a similar relationship between Pan and a young girl in The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe (2005).

The girl in Pan's Labyrinth has no one to protect her. She lost her father before the story started and her mother is gravely ill (and eventually dies). She is fatally shot at the end of the film and she is taken (or dreams she is taken) into a supernatural realm.

Fantasy novelist Kevin Hearne is a passionate defender of Pan, who he believes has been besmirched by Christian writers. He noted:

Pan was unabashedly libidinous. A survey of statuary and bas-relief sculpture conducted by Fiona Pitt-Kethley left no doubt of this. In almost every instance she recorded, Pan’s manhood was fully aroused. . . Since Pan’s sexual nature was so evident, this might explain the Church’s readiness to hold up Pan as an example of profound moral turpitude. "Sexual passion, which suspends reason and easily leads to excess, was alien. . . to the asceticism of the Christians; a god of sexuality could easily be assimilated to the principle of evil" (Russell 126). Pan’s sexuality, when combined with his unwholesome visage, thus gave the ascetics exactly what they needed. . . Pan became the image of the devil. Pan’s entire physique was so gruesome to behold that the Church could almost point to Pan and say, "This is what happens to the sexually immoral."

. . .

It is not difficult to see here how Pan’s rampant sexuality, so sinful to Christians, made him an ideal candidate for demonization. This defamation of a once pastoral god was part of a vast campaign of religious propaganda designed to put the fear of the devil (where the fear of God didn’t seem to work) in the people’s hearts, for Christianity had several pantheons of old gods to conquer, and a personification of evil was efficacious in helping the process along. Thanks to Christianity, Pan literally became the world’s biggest scapegoat.

Hearne added, "St. Augustine of Hippo. . . rails at length in his Confessions about the perils of sexuality. He was the first to demonize Pan specifically for his sexuality (approximately 400 C.E.), going beyond the general Christian tendency to equate pagan deities with demons on general principle. . . Augustine's ideas were brought to America by the Puritans centuries later; they thought that the devil, horned and goat-footed, actually lived in the forest around Plymouth."

The Witch (2015), a film that clearly promotes devil worship, exploits the old New England lore that warns of evil supernatural beings that lurk in the woods. The Pan myth is conveyed in the film when a young boy goes mad after being raped in the woods by a witch. This is very similar to a scene in "The Great God Pan."

Annabelle: Creation is about death and sadism. Orphan children are running loose throughout the film without a strong parental figure in sight. The children's caretaker nun is useless. She doesn't even look or act like a real nun.

Could a scene have been deleted showing that this is really a sorority sister on her way to a Halloween party?

A crucifix shows up in the film, but it does nothing to ward off the demon. Dracula has the crucifix-wielding Professor Abraham Van Helsing to save the day while the man wielding a crucifix in Annabelle: Creation is brutally murdered within seconds.

To the makers of Annabelle: Creation, a crucifix is just a good design motif for marketing materials.

In the end, an orphan girl is abandoned by her negligent guardian to a demon. No one comes forth to rescue her.

Look at how isolated this young girl looks in this scene. How about this scene?

The frightened girls have no loving mother to take them in her arms. They simply go wandering through the film on their own.

Compare this to the imagery of Poltergeist.

Storytelling was created to empower man. It was meant to provide guidance, encouragement, inspiration and clarity. Today, storytelling is designed to confuse, frighten, corrupt and demoralize. These days, mass media works to frighten people and make them see themselves as perpetual victims. Why? Because it is easy to control weak and frightened people.

This video for the Billie Eilish song "Bury a Friend," which has 47 million views, is dark, demonic and depressing. What is the point of it if not to poison a person and make them feel weak?

Most people can tell you of a story about a horror film that traumatized them. I found an interesting comment in an Internet forum.

When I was 10 years old, I saw a TV commercial for the film 'The Shining'. It robbed me of sleep for a good month. The commercial wasn't gory. But the image of a father staggering after his own son with an axe in an otherwise serene snowfall was enough to make my brain implode at 10 years old. It's a testament to the emotional and spiritual impact a short scene, or image can have on your heart and mind.

Advertisers now spend 5.25 million dollars to run a 30-second ad during super bowl. They know the power and influence of cleverly crafted visuals and sound. So what is the result when millions of people – especially young boys and girls – are bombarded with disturbing visual and musical messaging all day, every day? The media are literally traumatizing society all day long – and we call it "entertainment".

Ari Aster wrote and directed last year's biggest horror hit, Hereditary. He said:

I remember that those films really just insinuated themselves into my consciousness and just didn’t let go. And I hated them for it. I really didn’t like it. I saw them when I was too young. But I also. . . I guess when I started making [Hereditary], I was thinking about those. I was thinking. . . I feel like there’s this dialogue that happens between an audience and a filmmaker. And especially in horror films, it's like the audience is going in and saying, I dare you. I dare you to scare me. I'm going in, and I hope you do, 'cause that’s why I’m here.

Poltergeist is, at its core, a family drama. So is Hereditary. Aster said, "[E]verything that’s there is family drama stuff, which actually, I think makes it more punishing, but it also makes it more. . . [T]here was about an hour more of material that was not horror, that was just about the family going through what they’re going through, and not communicating, and not doing what they need to do to come together." He said in another interview, "What do you do with the suspicion that you don’t really know the people you’re closest to? What do you do with fear of abandonment? The fear of somebody close to you changing? The film is really feeding on those fears." This is neurotic view of family, which can only come from a person who belonged to a deeply dysfunctional family.

Aster said, "The beautiful thing about the horror genre or just genre filmmaking in general is that you can take personal material and you can just sort of push it th