She's known for her riveting performance as Rayna Jaymes on the musical drama television show Nashville.

And Connie Britton showed she's still the one to watch while shining on the red carpet during the premiere of her new Showtime comedy series SMILF in Los Angeles on Monday night.

The 50-year-old actress and Showtime sweetheart Emmy Rossum, 31, enjoyed the festivities at the Harmony Gold Theater off Sunset Boulevard.

Scroll down for video

The American Horror Story alum looked stunning in a form-fitting black, white and red patterned dress.

She showed just the right amount of cleavage in the knee-length frock which also featured three-quarter length sleeves, and she accessorized her ensemble with some glittering jewelry from Sylva & Cie.

Her long golden hair was worn in loose curls and cascaded down past her shoulders.

Rossum was glowing as she strolled down the red carpet in a silky black dress with thick satin straps.

The carefully crafted empire waist dress featured a flowing high-low hem with unique stitching across her waistline.

Her chocolate brown hair was worn in loose waves and she sported a dark smokey eye with pale pink lips.

SMILF star Frankie Shaw looked purely angelic in a strapless white dress which featured a lacy panel over her chest.

The writer, director and leading lady in the new American comedy added a few dainty necklaces to her ensemble and a pair of strappy nude heels.

Her raven locks were swept to the side as her bright blue eyes pierced the crowd.

Rosie O'Donnell smiled from ear-to-ear as she sported an all-white ensemble with black leather boots.

The comedian stars as Shaw's mother in her first series regular role on television in the Showtime comedy SMILF.

The 30-minute comedy series is co-produced by ABC Signature Studios and Showtime, and also features Miguel Gomez and Samara Weaving.

Viewers can expect an honest and comedic look at Bridgette (Shaw), a young woman from Southie whose desires for relationships, sex and a career collide with the realities of young, single motherhood.