Scarlets head coach Nigel Davies says the region is in transition

Head coach Nigel Davies has promised new recruits to bolster the Scarlets' faltering season.

"It's something we've been very mindful of since we've come into this position," Davies told BBC Sport Wales.

"We've been very keen to look at where we need to strengthen, the type of player and the quality of player and we continue to do that.

"It's probably one of the biggest parts of the job... we inherited this squad and we have to drive things forward."

The Scarlets have no chance of advancing from the Heineken Cup pool stage with two rounds still to play, drawing one and losing three of their matches so far.

The west Wales region is also out of the EDF Cup, pipped to a semi-final place by Northampton Saints, and now have just the Magners League to concentrate on.

606: DEBATE

A mitigating factor has been a string of injuries, with the likes of Dafydd James, Gavin Evans, Rob Higgitt, Kees Meeuws and Gavin Thomas all missing with long-term problems.

"When we started the season with just three wingers in our squad we've paid the price, because we've played the vast majority of games with everybody but the winger on the wing so we won't find ourselves in that position again," Davies added.

"We've got a French winger who is training with us at the moment, who is just on a trial period.

"We've got a good crop of younger players who are coming through for us and we have to increase the quality of this group by bringing quality in."

Media reports suggest that the French player is Yannick N'Gog, a 26-year-old Sevens international who is currently without a club after spells with Clermont Auvergne, Bayonne and Agen.

As well as the unnamed Frenchman, it is understood that Australian utility back Daniel Halangahu could also be a recruitment target.

The 24-year-old Waratah is a natural fly-half, but he has also proved his versatility at full-back, inside centre and even scrum-half.

Although the Scarlets sit fifth in the Magners League, the Scarlets have admitted that the fans have not been flocking to watch them in the numbers required since the move to their new Parc Y Scarlets stadium.

The £23m, 15,300 capacity arena opened in November, since when the average home gate has been 7,700, the Scarlets having planned for a minimum of 9,200.

"There's a huge commitment within the region - as you can see from the facilities we've got - to be really at the forefront of European rugby. We're nowhere near that at the moment," Davies admitted.

"We are a team in transition, there's no doubt about that, you know I think people have to realise that whoever the coach is or isn't there is a transition period going on here and that's a fact of life."