Background

Joaquin Rafael Phoenix, originally born as Joaquin Rafael Bottom, was born in Rio Piedras to parents John Lee Bottom and Arlyn Bottom. His parents were devout members of the Children of God ministry. He has four siblings namely: River, Rain, Liberty, and Summer. Phoenix spent most of his childhood traveling with his family between Central and South America. However, his parents were disillusioned with the group’s theological viewpoint and eventually distanced themselves from it. They moved to the United States in 1978 and adopted the surname Phoenix. Taking in the traditions of his elder siblings, he began performing arts on the streets to help support the family financially. Soon after, the youngsters were discovered by a top Hollywood children’s agency, which helped them land roles in television shows and programs. Phoenix and his brother River toiled through the hardships of work and life until they could experience money and fame a decade later.

Phoenix was paired with famous actors to make a breakthrough. In Oliver Stone’s “U-Turn,” he starred with Sean Penn, Jennifer Lopez, and Billy Bob Thornton. Furthermore, he co-starred in “Return to Paradise” and “8MM” alongside Vince Vaughn in 1999. So far, he’d played protagonists or eccentrics, but he wasn’t about to be stuck in the circle. In “Gladiator,” he played Commodus, the wicked ruler of Rome. His depiction of a villain was so powerful and realistic that he was nominated for Best Actor in a Supporting Role at the 2001 Academy Awards. With such recognition, he was confident in moving on to the next huge smash and gave great hits during this time.

Phoenix first met his co-star Rooney Mara in 2012. The two developed a friendship and started dating. Four years later, during the filming of “Mary Magdalene,” their engagement was announced and the pair was rumored to be expecting their first child together the following year. It was revealed in late September 2020 that the couple had a boy who was named after Phoenix’s late brother, River.