Diplomatic Correspondents Association, Bangladesh (DCAB) arranged the event at the auditorium of Bangladesh Institute of International and Strategic Studies (BIISS).

They made the call at a seminar titled 'Media Engagement for Fair Elections' organised by Center for Governance Studies (CGS) at Bangladesh Institute of International Strategic Studies (BIISS) in the city's Eskaton area on Saturday.

He was speaking as the chief at a joint seminar titled "regional connectivity: opportunities and challenges" organized by Bangladesh Institute of International and Strategic Studies (BIISS)and Bangladesh Enterprise Institute (BEI) at the National Defence College in the city on Monday, said a press release of ISPR.

Major General A K M Abdur Rahman, Director General, BIISS chaired the first session where Ms Lam-ya-Mostaque from BIISS and Faiz Sobhan from BEI presented their keynote papers.

Scotland came up with the remarks while delivering a lecture at a seminar titled 'The Commonwealth Advantage: Progress and Potential' at Bangladesh Institute of International and Strategic Studies (BIISS) in the morning.

'If we are to uphold our charter, our values that are going to be incredibly important for us to look how we can work together, create those best practices, share them, force them and help to keep ourselves accountable for those matters.' Foreign Minister AH Mahmood Ali spoke at the event as the chief guest while State Minister for Foreign Affairs M Shahriar Alam as special guest with Ambassador Munshi Faiz Ahmad, Chairman of the Board of Governors of BIISS, chairing the session.

Bangladesh Institute of International and Strategic Studies (BIISS) in collaboration with the Konrad Adenauer Stiftung (KAS) organised the two-day regional conference on 'Importance of BRI and BBIN for South Asia' at its conference room in the capital.

The minister was addressing the inaugural function of a seminar titled 'Bangladesh's Graduation from LDCs: Opportunities, Challenges and Imperatives' at Bangladesh Institute of International and Strategic Studies (BIISS) in the city.

Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Bangladesh Institute of International and Strategic Studies (BIISS) organized the discussion titled 'Global Compacts for Migration and Refugee' at the BIISS auditorium in the city.

US Deputy Assistant Secretary Daniel Rosenblum while speaking at the Bangladesh Institute of International and Strategic Studies (BIISS) in the city on Tuesday said that Untied States greatly appreciate the security partnership with Bangladesh and highly value its role in maintaining international peace and security as one of the world's largest contributors of international peacekeeping forces.