i have visited the BP archives at Warwick University and found a photo of a Guy six wheeler of National Benzole , it was a rear view photo , the front angle photo was not in the folder , i am looking for the front nearside view of this vehicle , i am making plans to make the model in 1-50th scale can anybody help me find this photo , any info would be appreciated, many thanks , Tankerjack.

tankerjack:

i have visited the BP archives at Warwick University and found a photo of a Guy six wheeler of National Benzole , it was a rear view photo , the front angle photo was not in the folder , i am looking for the front nearside view of this vehicle , i am making plans to make the model in 1-50th scale can anybody help me find this photo , any info would be appreciated, many thanks , Tankerjack.

This is the nearest I can find Paul,a Regent Guy Warrior 6-legger.

[attachment=0]Darham Guy 6x4 National tanker .Thank you Chris , i visited the archives at Warwick university and i found photos of the Guy 6 wheeler , i managed to get side and a rear view but no front view , thanks for your reply hope your in good health and getting about , have you visited many shows lately ? , i am still on for Montgomery driving my Renault Premium , its got over 700,000 kms on the clock , starting to get problems with it now , radiator leaking about 3 litres a day , but surprisingly not boiling up at the present time but something will give way eventually. all the best Paul.

Hello

No photos (Sorry ) but you might be intersted to know that National Benzole ran 2 depots in West ■■■■■■■■ One at Workington Dock at one at Maryport. Both depots became part of BP Shell Mex in the 1960’s and eventually BP. The Maryport Depot was closed very early on and the Workington Depot continues to operate.

In North ■■■■■■■■ the company ran the Dalston Storage Depot, which is now owned by BP andis still a busy depot.

Both depots ran quite a number of tankers, all Leyland (I was told)

Kindest regards

CG

Thank you for your post Sniffy , yes i have the same photo you posted , i am in the same position regarding the front n/s or o/s view of the same vehicle many thanks. tankerjack.