Reducing health disparities

in California begins

with a strong vision

Sierra Health Foundation is a private philanthropy that forges new paths to promote health, racial equity and racial justice in partnership with communities, organizations and leaders.

We are committed to reducing health disparities through convening, educating and strategic grantmaking.

The Center at Sierra Health Foundation

We founded The Center in 2012 to deepen our impact statewide, with a special focus on the San Joaquin Valley. The Center works to promote health, racial equity and racial justice in communities throughout California with local, state and national partners.

Learn more about The Center.

Every person in California should be able to live a healthy life. That’s the vision we stand by and the journey we are committed to.

Our Programs and Initiatives

Sierra Health Foundation promotes health, racial equity and racial justice in 26 Northern California counties, while The Center works with local, state and national partners throughout the state.

Learn about our programs and initiatives.

Conference and Education Center

We provide a venue for nonprofit organizations and public agencies to engage in education, training and collaboration in support of their efforts to improve the well-being of individuals and communities.

Learn about the program and apply for meeting space.

Knowledge Center

We are committed to learning from our partners and then sharing and using that knowledge to inform decisions and to accelerate change.

Evaluation and Learning

Partnerships newsletter

Publications

Speaker Series

Access our Knowledge Center.

Recent News

Partnerships Fall 2023

Read the Fall 2023 issue of Partnerships to learn about new partners, get updates about our programs and access funding opportunities.

Partnerships Summer 2023

Read the Summer 2023 issue of Partnerships to learn about new partners, get updates about our programs and access funding opportunities.

Sierra Health Foundation invests over $1 million to address ongoing disparities in Californian communities

Today, Sierra Health Foundation announced an investment of $1.23 million across three initiatives that redress disparities for historically excluded communities across California. Each grantee has a unique approach, including chronicling lost narratives of historical injustices, providing crucial financial support to families and reducing economic and environmental inequities. Continue reading...