FOR THE LOVE OF BLACK GIRLS™

Virtual Summer Conversation Series

Black girls wrestle with very distinct challenges and distractions during their formative years – including preoccupation with their skin complexion, hair texture, and body type; navigating depression, emotional stress and trauma; difficulty perceiving long-range consequences of their actions; and weakened self-esteem. However, with each annual iteration of the UNIQUELY YOU SUMMIT COVER GIRL COHORT, Cover Girls are charged with creating a social justice project that engages their peers. In 2021, Cover Girls have decided to host a virtual “Summer Conversation Series” that invited Black girls their age to discuss these topics.

SATURDAY, mAY 22 @ 2-3:30 PM EST

Topic: Same Shade, Different Day

The May Conversation will address Racism & Colorism and their impact on and among Black girls.

“The Black female is assaulted in her tender years by all those common forces of nature at the same time that she is caught in the tripartite crossfire of masculine prejudice, white illogical hate and Black lack of power.” - Maya Angelou

SATURDAY, june 26 @ 2-3:30 PM EST

TOPIC: from curl to root

The topic for June will be Black Hair & Black Body Love, addressing Health and Wellness with Black girls.

Audre Lorde said it best, “Caring for myself is not self-indulgence, it is self-preservation, and that is an act of political warfare.”

SATURDAY, july 31 @ 2-3:30 PM EST

TOPIC: soulsista

For July, the Cover Girls will be discussing Black Girl Friendships with their peers.

Is solace anywhere more comforting than that in the arms of a sister? - Alice Walker

ABOUT THE COVER GIRL COHORT:

Annually, we select a group of middle and high school girls (11 to 18 years old) to represent the organization as the official faces & voices of UNIQUELY YOU SUMMIT, INC. for a period of 12 months. We do not use stock images at UYS, every image associated with the organization portrays real girls who are associated with our work.

cohort REQUIREMENTS (NO EXCEPTIONS):

Must be 11-18 years old

Must be a middle or high school student for the current & upcoming school year

Must provide a copy of most recent report card

Potential Cover Girls must have and maintain a “B” grade average

Must be a resident of the Continental United States

Must participate in the entire Virtual UNIQUELY YOU SUMMIT Weekend