Aug 6th 2024

Japanese band MONKEY MAJIK release music video for ‘Imposter’, from their 14th album ‘CIRCLES’

MONKEY MAJIK, a beloved four-piece rock band based in Japan's Miyagi Prefecture, have released a music video for ‘Imposter’, a track taken from their 14th album ‘CIRCLES’. Released on July 24, ‘CIRCLES’ is the band's 14th album to date.

MONKEY MAJIK – ‘Imposter’ official music video

https://youtu.be/hxqcjwIGmsQ

‘Imposter’ is a stylish up-tempo song set apart by its cool beat and bassline. The song is a love letter to the melodies and sounds of the 1980s where MONKEY MAJIK's music has its roots, but via their own unique filter. With references to the titular “imposter”, the lyrics describe the frustration and helplessness we all feel in everyday life, along with other feelings deep within the human heart.

The music video is a short movie of its own, themed on the concept of “people who hurry”. Check out the video along with the song.

The 10 songs on MONKEY MAJIK's 14th album ‘CIRCLES’ include the July 3 advance release ‘Scramble’; ‘The Good Life’, which was used as the ending theme for TV Osaka's midnight drama series 'Travel Your Life!'; ‘Borderline’, the theme song for the Nippon TV series ‘Burari Tochu Gesha no Tabi’; ‘Unknown’, the 20th anniversary song for Tohoku Rokin bank; and 'MONKEY MAJIK x Def Tech / O.G. Summer', a collaboration with Def Tech.

The DVD/Blu-ray edition includes ‘MONKEY MAJIK Studio Sessions 2024’, featuring footage of the band's first ever performance in a recording studio.

About MONKEY MAJIK

MONKEY MAJIK are a four-piece hybrid rock band based in Sendai, Miyagi Prefecture, Japan, comprising Canadian brothers Maynard (vocals and guitar) and Blaise (vocals and guitar), and Japanese rhythm section TAX (drums) and DICK (bass).

The band released their first single, ‘fly’, in 2006. Their second single ‘Around The World’ was used as the theme song for the Fuji TV drama series ‘Saiyuki’, becoming an explosive hit; later their song ‘Sora wa Marude’ was featured in a commercial and established the band's unique artistry. Since then, MONKEY MAJIK have written countless songs for commercials, TV drama series, anime series and movies, while also collaborating with and producing songs for numerous other artists.

This year, the band released the singles ‘The Good Life’ in January and ‘Borderline’ in April. In July, they hosted a music festival titled enigma music fes 2024; the show was held in Sendai, the band's base of operations, where they have been an active part of the community for many years.

Further information

WEBSITE | FACEBOOK | INSTAGRAM | TWITTER | YOUTUBE

discuss this in the forum |

bookmark/share with:

Press Release homepage / archives