The legislation on food products labeling, olive oil included, is governed by both EU and national level regulations, directives, and laws.

The purpose of this “bundle of regulations” is to indicate what “must”, what “may”, and what “may not” be indicated on the label.

In this episode, I’ll tell you which are the obligatory information you must include on your label. If you do not enter all the mandatory information on the label, you are liable to fines and penalties.

It is easy to list all the mandatory information: sales denomination, origin, net quantity, minimum storage term and expiration date, name or business name and address of the food business operator, batch, packaging location, harvest year, nutrition facts label.

All the given information was updated in 2020, so it is a good idea to check the reference legislation on the websites of the Ministry of Agricultural Policy, the Inspectorate of Fraud Repression and other relevant bodies as with all the legislations there is a succession of interpretations, new regulations and amendments.

The podcasts on labels are intended to be an informative guide and not an essential vademecum.

The label’s purpose is to describe what is in the container, allowing a consumer to know exactly what he/she is buying. Let’s see item by item what must be written on the label.

Sales denomination and category

There are four types of olive oils: extra virgin olive oil, virgin olive oil, olive oil – composed of refined olive oils and virgin olive oils, olive-pomace oil. Each of these categories should be accompanied with the respective description.

For extra virgin olive oil: “superior category olive oil obtained directly from olives and solely by mechanical means”.

For virgin olive oil: “olive oil obtained directly from olives and solely by mechanical means”

For olive oil: “oil containing olive oils that have undergone a refining process and oils obtained directly from olives”.

For olive-pomace oil: comprising exclusively oils obtained by treating the product obtained after the extraction of olive oil and oils obtained directly from olives. Or: “oil comprising exclusively oils obtained by processing olive pomace and oils obtained directly from olives.

The category of olive oil may be indicated in any part of the label. It does not need to be written together with the sales denomination.

Origin

The indication of origin – says the law – must be clear. While the indication of origin is mandatory for extra virgin and virgin olive oil, it is prohibited for olive oil and olive pomace oil.

The labels cannot use references to areas smaller than the state, unless olive oil belongs to the PDO (Protected Designation of Origin) or PGI (Protected Geographical Indication).

You can indicate on the label “Italian oil “, but you cannot write, for instance, Tuscan olive oil, unless it is a PDO or a PGI such as Extra Virgin Olive Oil PDO Chianti Classico or Extra Virgin Olive Oil Toscano IGP.

Generally speaking, we can say that the origin of the oil is determined by the state where the olives are harvested and the state where they are processed.

If a member state or the European Union is indicated on the label, it means that olives were harvested and processed in that state. So we may write that olive oil is Italian if olives were harvested and processed in Italy.

When the European Union is indicated as a place of origin on the label, it means that the olives were harvested and processed in the European Union. If olives are harvested in an EU Member state, but processed in another EU Member state, that information must be given on the label.

In the case of imported olive oils from non-EU countries, the origin can only be determined by the mill that processes the olives. For example, if you read on the label “South-African olive oil”, it can mean that the olives were harvested and processed in South Africa, or that the processing took place in South Africa and the olives were perhaps harvested in another state.

The designation of origin shall be described on the label, using one of the following mentions, as appropriate:

A – In the case of olive oils originating in a state of the European Community or a third country, a reference to the individual Member state, European Community or third country should be indicated (e.g. Italian, Tunisian, EC product);

B – In the case of olive oil blends originating from more than one Member state or third country, one of the following statements should be used:

“Blend of olive oils of European Union origin “ or a list of several Member states, or a name of geographical region larger than one state.

“Blend of olive oils not of European Union origin” or a list of several states, a name of a geographical region larger than one state.

“Blend of olive oils of European Union origin and not of European Union origin” or a list of several member states or third countries, a name of a geographical region larger than one country.

C – protected designation of origin or a protected geographical indication, in accordance with the provisions of the product specification concerned.

In the case of virgin or extra virgin olive oil extracted in a mill located in an EU member state or non-EU country other than that where the olives were harvested, the designation of origin must contain the following words:

“(Extra) virgin olive oil obtained in (the Union or the name of the Member State concerned) from olives harvested in (the Union or the name of the Member State or third country concerned)”. For example, extra virgin olive oil obtained in Italy from olives harvested in Tunisia.

Note that denomination sales and origin must be indicated close together as a “homogeneous body of text” in the same “main visual field.” Abbreviations are not acceptable.

Main visual field means that data must be visible on the front label allowing the customer to immediately identify the product. “Homogeneous body of text “ means that the characters, for each of the claims, must be the same size and the same font type.

Net quantity

Must be indicated with a numerical value followed by the chosen unit of measurement: liters, centiliters or mililitres. The letter “e” that follows the measurement unit has a decorative function today…

Today, measuring container bottles (explained in detail in the Podcast 30) are used. If you want to avoid unnecessary discussion with those who are still convinced the letter “e” is mandatory, just leave it on the label.

In any case, the quantity must be indicated on the label even when using “measuring container bottles” because it refers to the content and not to the capacity of the container itself.

It is possible to sell, for example, a half-full bottle as long as this is indicated on the label and the procedure for verifying the content (as explained in the previous podcast) is followed.

Expiration date

It indicates how long the product retains its properties under proper storage conditions. The minimum storage term can be expressed in the following ways:

A – Best before …when the date also includes the day of the month. For example 28/11/23 and the format is day, month, year.

B – Best before the end of… when only month and year are given on the label. For example November 2023.

In either case, you can add the date or an indication of where the date is printed (check the date indicated on cap). More on how to calculate this, in future podcasts.

Storage conditions

The label must state that the olive oil must be kept away from light and heat.

Name or business name and address of the business operator

By law, it is mandatory to indicate the name of the company that markets the product (business operator) and not the name and address of those who produce or package it.

A business operator is responsible for the information placed on olive oil packaging.

Though not mandatory, often, the activity that a business operator carries out is indicated too. For example, if the name of a business operator is preceded by a wording “produced by”, it means the business operator is also the miller who milled the olives and thus produced the oil itself.

The same wording cannot be used for an olive farmer who harvested his own olives, but the milling was done by a third party. In this case, the olive farmer did not produce the oil himself, but the raw material from which oil was obtained.

If the name of a business operator is preceded by a wording “produced and bottled by” it means that the business operator is the same mill that processed olives and bottled the oil.

If instead it only says “bottled by”, it means that the business operator of the oil only bottled it.

The olive oil intended for the final consumer must indicate the packaging plant on the label, only if the packaging plant is different from a business operator or if a brand name on the label does not include the packaging plant location.

If packaging is done by a different company, not a business operator, the packaging plant does not need to be indicated on the label. A sensible thing to do is to write the bare minimum: the less you write, the less likely you are to make a mistake.

Batch

It is defined as a set of sales units packed in identical circumstances. It is a responsibility of either a producer or packaging/bottling company. You will find a letter L on the label followed by a batch code. If a minimum conservation date is indicated with the day, month and year, i.e. “to be consumed preferably by…”, the batch info is not mandatory.

Harvest year

The wording of the expiration date should be preceded by the indication of “harvest year”.

European Union regulations provide that the label may only indicate the harvest year if 100% of the olive oil comes from that harvest. More stringent Italian legislation makes “harvest year” compulsory.

So if we read “harvest season” 2022/2023 or only 2022, it means that 100% of the oil comes from the fall 2022 harvest. So if there is an Italian olive oil bottle without an indication of the harvest year, it means that a bottle contains oils from different years. However, this rule does not apply to oils that are marketed in other EU states.

Nutritional declaration

Nutrition facts on the label merit their own podcast.