It's been 25 years since The Day Today first hit screens.

And to make the anniversary, the stars of the spoof current affairs and news show have come together for a team selfie.

The cult satire helped launch the careers of Rebecca Front, Armando Iannucci, Doon Mackichan, Peter Baynham, Patrick Marber, Steve Coogan, Chris Morris and David Schneider.

The team's grainy selfie has been posted on Twitter reports the Manchester Evening News .

The image has been celebrated by fans of the parody show which hit our screens on BB2 with its so-bonkers-it-could-be-true take on the modern world.

As quickly as it arrived, it had gone, in just six episodes, leaving behind both an indelible mark on the face of British comedy, and the hilarious gift that keeps on giving, Alan Patridge.

So what has the original cast been up to since the sun set on The Day Today:

Chris Morris

The Day Today started life as satirical radio programme On the Hour, which was written by Morris and Armando Iannucci before expanding to TV.

It launched Morris's iconic character, the self-important anchor who targeted guests and even his own news team.

After The Day Today, Morris developed the satirical news format with Brass Eye, which lampooned celebrities while focusing on big themes such as crime and drugs.

The episode Morris will be remembered for most was the Brass Eye special, which dealt with the moral panic surrounding paedophilia, and became one of the most complained about programmes in British television history.

Morris then helped create Nathan Barley, a sitcom which satirised hipsters, which he co-wrote with Charlie Brooker.

He also had an acting role in The IT Crowd before going on to direct his first feature-length film, Four Lions, which satirised Islamic terrorism.

Since 2012, he has directed four episodes of Iannucci's political comedy Veep and appeared onscreen in The Double and Stewart Lee's Comedy Vehicle.

His second feature film The Day Shall Come is due to premiere at South by Southwest in March.

Steve Coogan

The Middleton-born actor and comedian hit the big time with his role in The Day Today and introduced Alan Partridge to the world.

He went onto create the spoof chat show Knowing Me Knowing You with Alan Partridge and later the sitcom I'm Alan Partridge.

The success gave Coogan the platform to tour his other characters including Paul Calf and Portuguese Eurovision Song Contest winner Tony Ferrino.

He starred in films including The Parole Officer, 24 Hour Party People., Around the World in 80 Days and co-starred in The Other Guys, Tropic Thunder and the Night at the Museum, as well as collaborating with Rob Brydon in The Trip and A Cock and Bull Story.

Coogan has also branched out into more dramatic roles including Philomena, which he co-wrote.

He recently played Stan Laurel in the 2018 biopic Stan & Ollie.

Thankfully, Coogan has reprised Alan Partridge in a new series This Time With Alan Partridge.

Rebecca Front

Front is the daughter of Charles Front, the illustrator best known for the 1965 Beatles album Rubber Soul.

She found comedy success playing a range of 'correspondents' on The Day Today including Barbara Wintergreen, Rosy May and Valerie Sinatra.

She became a regular on the Alan Patridge show and had roles in The Smell of Reeves and Mortimer, Absolute Power and Absolutely Fabulous, as well as The Thick of It and Outnumbered.

Front also expanded to playing drama roles including You Can Choose Your Friends, The Rotters' Club, Kavanagh QC, Lewis and Jonathan Creek, as well as Doctor Who and Poldark.

More recently she has become a fixture on comedy panel shows including The News Quiz, Have I Got News for You and If I Ruled The World.

Doon Mackichan

Mackichan studied drama at the University of Manchester before finding success on The Day Today.

She had roles as the Collaterlie Sisters and Maria of The Bureau in the series.

Mackichan followed Morris onto Brass Eye and Nathan Barley, while meeting up with Coogan again on Knowing Me, Knowing You... with Alan Partridge, as well as becoming a regular on The Mary Whitehouse Experience.

She later found fame as one of the writers and stars of the Channel 4 comedy series Smack the Pony.

Since then she has had a number of TV, film and theatre roles.

Patrick Marber

Marber was behind one of the most iconic characters on The Day Today, Peter O'Hanraha-hanrahan the hapless news correspondent who famously "lost the news".

He also played characters Jaques-"Jaques" Liverot, Chapman Baxter and Guy of The Bureau.

Marber was a writer of The Day Today and later Knowing Me, Knowing You... with Alan Partridge.

As well as TV and radio, Marber found success as a playwright and director, particularly with Closer, which was adapted for the screen starring Julia Roberts, Jude Law, Natalie Portman, and Clive Owen.

Outside of showbiz, Marber is a director of Lewes FC.

David Schneider

After appearing in The Day Today, Schneider also had role in Knowing Me, Knowing You... with Alan Partridge and I'm Alan Partridge where he played the fictional BBC commissioning editor, Tony Hayers, helping create some of the most iconic scene from the series.

In the late 1990s he appeared in the topical satire The Friday Night Armistice alongside Armando Iannucci and Peter Baynham.

His other acting credits include TV shows Mr. Bean abnd Gimme Gimme Gimme as well as role in several movies, including The Saint, 28 Days Later, A Knight's Tale and Mission: Impossible.

Schneider is also an accomplished writer for TV, film and theatre, including 2017's The Death of Stalin, which he co-wrote with Armando Iannucci.

Armando Iannucci

After starting his career in radio Iannucci found fame as writer and producer for The Day Today, Knowing Me Knowing You with Alan Partridge and I'm Alan Partridge.

Iannucci also stepped in front of the camera, fronting the satirical Armistice review shows and The Armando Iannucci Shows for Channel 4.

Iannucci created the political sitcom The Thick of It and later the critically acclaimed feature film, In the Loop, before writing the HBO political satire Veep.

He followed this with the feature film The Death of Stalin in 2017 and is planning an adaptation of David Copperfield.

Peter Baynham

A long time collaborator with Armando Iannucci, Chris Morris and Steve Coogan, Baynham wrote for comedy TV series including Knowing Me Knowing You with Alan Partridge, Brass Eye and Jam.

In 2006 Baynham co-wrote the film Borat together with star Sacha Baron Cohen, Anthony Hines and Dan Mazer, for which they received a 2007 Oscar nomination for Best Adapted Screenplay.

He linked up again with Baron Cohen to write Brüno, and has credits for Arthur, Arthur Christmas, Hotel Transylvania, Alan Partridge: Alpha Papa and Grimsby.