HOPE, AR (KSLA) - A boyhood home of former President Bill Clinton could be back open to the public beginning Saturday.

Volunteers and National Park Service workers are moving items back into the structure at the President William Jefferson Clinton Birthplace Home National Historic Site, 117 S. Hervey St. in Hope, Ark.

It will be the first time the dwelling is open to the public since it was damaged by a suspected arson fire and graffiti about 3:20 a.m. Dec. 25.

The blaze resulted in extensive damage to the exterior plus smoke and water damage. Graffiti was found on the sidewalk leading up to a door on the east side of the house, as well as on the door itself.

The dwelling has been closed ever since the fire, but the historic site's visitor center has remained open and park rangers remain available to provide information.

While the birthplace home was being repaired, a video was created to give would-be visitors a virtual tour of the structure. "We 'hope' it helps," says a comment posted with the video shown above.

The site currently is hosting its Junior Ranger Explorer Camp. The camp for 10- to 13-year-olds runs July 25-28 with graduation at 5 p.m. on the last day. It's being held at University of Arkansas Community College at Hope/Texarkana and has included exploration of key locations in Texarkana, Hope, Hot Springs and Little Rock.

The house was owned by Clinton's grandparents. While he was born at Julia Chester Hospital in Hope, the house is where the 42nd president spent the first four years of his life with his widowed mother and maternal grandparents.

The structure became the nation's 33rd presidential site in March 2009. Two years later, it was designated as a presidential historic site.

Other buildings on the property, including the National Park headquarters and gift shop, were not involved in the fire.

Other ways to get more information about the historic site include calling (870) 777-4455, visiting Facebook, Twitter or YouTube or by sending email using this form.