Mad Cave is an indie comic publisher I’ve come to really love. One of my favorite graphic novels from 2023, Monomyth, was published by them. So many interesting works are being published in the indie space, and Mad Cave is doing great work.

When I saw that Mad Cave had an upcoming dark sci-fantasy starring a templar knight, I knew I needed to read it. Effortlessly blending sci-fi with dark fantasy, Crusader stands on its own as an indie gem, while still feeling reminiscent of the knighthood stories we all know and love.

Mad Cave / Goodreads

Synopsis

In the midst of the Third Crusade, an exceptionally brutal Templar Knight finds himself accidentally transported to a dangerous realm of magic and monsters.

A nameless Templar Knight from the Third Crusade finds himself magically transported to a mysterious world filled with sorcery and monsters. In order to survive, the ferocious Crusader must reevaluate his penchant for violent righteousness and make peace with both himself and this ruthless world. But will peace be enough to stop the deathless, power-hungry ghoul known only as The Pilgrim?

Review:

After a weird twist of fate, a Templar Knight from the Third Crusade finds himself twisted through time and space and dropped in a place very unlike the battle he left. He finds himself in a land of creatures, monsters beyond his imagination, and sorcery. Followed by a frightening ghoul, the Knight must choose his battles wisely and take his friends where he can get them if he is to survive this strange land.

There is something about Crusader that vaguely reminded me of “The Mandalorian.” There’s a man who can’t take off his helmet. He has a little goblin-like companion. Though Crusader doesn’t feel derivative, I would recommend it to fans of “The Mandalorian.” The vibe is very similar, although Crusader has a much creepier tone and look.

Art:

The art in Crusader is bleak, dark, and damp. I love how the art is unapologetic and does not hold back. The ending has a particularly unique smorgasbord of sci-fi weirdness, which I loved.

Final Thoughts:

I had a lot of fun with Crusader! If you like dark fantasy with a creepy overtone, you need to try Crusader. I have enjoyed most of the Mad Cave comics I’ve read, and Crusader is no different.

Rating: 4/5 stars

Thanks to the publisher for providing an advanced review copy. All the above thoughts are my own.