Dr. William H. Russell, Professor Emeritus of History at Geneva College, 85, of College Hill, Beaver Falls, died Wednesday, May 6, 2009, in Allegheny General Hospital.

Born May 27, 1923, in Bloomington, IN, he was the son of the late John Dale and Elsie Hattery Russell. He grew up in Chicago and served in the U.S. Army Air Corps during World War II from 1943 to 1946.

He received his Bachelor's and Master's degrees from the University of Chicago, and his Ph. D. from the University of Wisconsin. In 1954, he came to Beaver Falls to teach history at Geneva College and became dean of the college in 1963, serving until his retirement in 1985. For the next 10 years, he taught church history and was a part-time administrator at the Reformed Presbyterian Theological Seminary in Pittsburgh. He was an active member and served for 40 years as an elder in the College Hill Reformed Presbyterian Church and clerk of session for many years. He also served the congregation from time to time as a Sunday School teacher and precentor. He was a past member of the Beaver Valley Choral Society, a former member of the Board of Trustees of the Carnegie Free Library of Beaver Falls and the Board of Directors of the Beaver County Branch of the Pennsylvania Association for the Blind. For many years, he and his wife delivered for Meals on Wheels and his hobbies included bicycling and stamp collecting.

In addition to his parents, he was preceded in death by an infant sister, Mary, and by his older brother, Dr. John R. Russell.

He is survived by his wife of 53 years, Martha Irons Russell; a son, Dr. Dale William Russell, Palatine, IL; a daughter and son-in-law, Dr. Mary Louise Russell Pearth and her husband George, Pittsburgh; a sister-in-law, Jane Russell, Sewickley, and several nieces and nephews.

Friends will be received Saturday from 2 to 4 and 6 to 8 p.m. in the Hill & Kunselman Funeral Home, www.hillandkunselman.com 3801-4th Ave., College Hill, Beaver Falls. The funeral service will be held Monday at 10 a.m. in the College Hill Reformed Presbyterian Church with his pastor, the Rev. Richard C. Gamble, officiating.

Private interment in Beaver Falls Cemetery, Chippewa Township.

Memorial contributions may be made, if desired, to the College Hill Reformed Presbyterian Church, 3217 College Ave., Beaver Falls, or to Geneva College, 3200 College Ave., Beaver Falls, PA 15010.