William G. Russell, (84), of Beaver Oklahoma, passed away on March 5th. William, fondly known as Bill, was born to Roscoe (Mike) and Gertrude Russell, on April 23, 1938, In Dodge City Kansas. In 1941, at the age of three, Bill’s family moved to Beaver. Through his days in high school, Bill was well known for his cornet and trumpet playing expertise as well as his love for fast cars. In his adult years, he was a serious business man that continued the family Ford dealership into its 72nd year.

Aside from his love for fast cars, Bill enjoyed his time in community service with the Jaycees that included involvement with calling Saturday night Bingo, the many events surrounding the Cimarron Territory Celebration, the annual Old West Shootout and lighting the Town of Beaver’s 4th of July fireworks. He was also involved with the First Christian Church in the choir and by serving as a Deacon for many years. Bill was also known for his love of Duster sports and was a Sooner faithful that never missed a televised game. Many people that knew him remember his booming voice that could be heard over the crowd and his infectious laugh that made everyone smile. He was a big fan of the New York Yankee baseball team and a devoted enthusiast for the professional St. Louis/Phoenix Cardinal football team. He also displayed incredible love and devotion to his children and grandchildren with his constant attention given to the small details with each one of them. From a simple game of cards, playing catch or teaching the proper ways of thoughtfulness, he was always committed to their betterment.

Bill is preceded in death by his father and mother, his sister Mona, his son Shawn and granddaughter Kaylana. He is survived by his beloved wife Sue, of Beaver, his son Brock and wife Stacey, of Beaver, his daughter Stacey Leinen and husband Destin of Amarillo Texas, his daughter Stefanie Fulton and husband David of Kingston Oklahoma, his step daughter Amy Almond and husband Chris, of Knowles, and his step daughter Anna Davis and husband Kenny, of Pond Creek, as well as 14 grandchildren and 7 great grandchildren with another on the way.