As the commonwealth’s most comprehensive university and a leading research institution, Virginia Tech offers about 280 undergraduate and graduate degree programs to more than 38,000 undergraduate, graduate, and professional students across the commonwealth and manages a research portfolio of more than $556 million. The university fulfills its role as a land-grant institution by fostering a collaborative environment that integrates technology into all disciplines, so that the Virginia Tech community can serve as a force for positive change around the commonwealth, the country, and the world.

Through experiential learning, future-focused research, and an inclusive, spirited culture, Virginia Tech strives to accomplish the charge of its motto Ut Prosim (That I May Serve).

Virginia Tech has a 2,600-acre main campus in Blacksburg, Virginia; a significant presence across the commonwealth, including the Innovation Campus in Northern Virginia, the Health Sciences and Technology Campus in Roanoke, and sites in Newport News and Richmond; educational and research facilities across the state; a study-abroad site in Switzerland; and a 1,800-acre agriculture research farm near the main campus. The campus proper is located in the New River Valley and is 38 miles southwest of Roanoke.

At a glance

Enrollment (fall 2023)

More than 38,000 on and off campus

80 percent undergraduate; 20 percent graduate

57 percent male; 43 percent female

Admissions

52,365 applications for fall 2024 first-year class

3.5 percent increase in applicants identified as first-generation college students

Academics

110+ undergraduate majors

Comprehensive range of colleges and schools

120+ master’s and doctoral degree programs

Graduate School, Virginia-Maryland College of Veterinary Medicine, Virginia Tech Carilion School of Medicine, Honors College

Learn more about special academic programs, including the Honors College, studying abroad through the Global Education Office, and support for international students.

Faculty

2,575 instructional faculty members (both full and part-time)

49 percent of faculty are tenured

Fall 2023 student to faculty ratio: 13 to 1

Research

Top 6 percent of universities in the nation for research expenditures

Ranked No. 54 in the National Science Foundation’s Higher Education Research and Development Survey

142 invention disclosures, 25 license deals, and $80 million in corporate and foundation philanthropy in fiscal year 2023

230 acres, 36 buildings, and 225 companies housed in the Virginia Tech Corporate Research Center

University finances

$2.06 billion operating budget (2023-24)

$2.66 billion in assets and managed funds (as of June 30, 2022)

$1.7 billion endowment (as of June 30, 2022)

Mission statement

Inspired by our land-grant identity and guided by our motto, Ut Prosim (That I May Serve), Virginia Tech is an inclusive community of knowledge, discovery, and creativity dedicated to improving the quality of life and the human condition within the Commonwealth of Virginia and throughout the world.

Learn more about how we live out our mission:

Discover our commitment to inclusion and diversity.

Explore how we approach public service and discover Virginia Cooperative Extension, a dynamic organization that stimulates positive personal and social change leading to more productive lives, families, farms, and forests.

Get to know university leadership.

Athletics

Virginia Tech is a member of the Atlantic Coast Conference. NCAA Division I-A men's varsity sports at Tech are football, basketball, baseball, soccer, indoor and outdoor track, swimming and diving, wrestling, tennis, golf, and cross country. Women’s varsity sports are basketball, tennis, volleyball, swimming and diving, indoor and outdoor track, soccer, softball, lacrosse, golf, and cross country. Learn more at HokieSports.

An extensive recreational program provides opportunities for participation in numerous activities. The university also offers intramural sports and club-sports programs that allow students to compete against programs from other colleges and universities across the country.