Business leaders and visionaries across all technology verticals attend Tech Show London to shape their digital future.

Tech Show London is an award-winning event featuring an unparalleled line-up of world-renowned speakers and exhibitors.

They come together to present the most cutting-edge technologies and high-quality services, setting the stage for innovative digital transformation strategies.

Your complimentary ticket to Data Centre World grants you full access to all Tech Show London events, including Cloud Expo Europe, DevOps Live, Cloud & Cyber Security Expo, and Big Data & AI World.

This is your opportunity to explore the latest advancements from the largest data centres in the world, and discover the best in UK datacentres.

Learn more

Register your Interest

Explore Tech Show London 2024 Highlights

Explore the highlights of Tech Show London 2024. If you missed the excitement or couldn’t catch all the action, register your interest for 2025 to access exclusive on-demand content from industry leaders. Discover insights from experts involved in the biggest data centres and data centre hosting facilities worldwide, such as:

Juleah Love, Global Head of Brand Corporate Engagement - Yves Saint Laurent Beauty

Bernardo Mariano Junior, Chief Information Technology Officer - United Nations

Tom Read, CEO - Government Digital Service

Dr. Carolyn Mercer, Chief Technologist - NASA - National Aeronautics and Space Administration

Stay ahead in the fast-evolving tech landscape by connecting with the brightest minds and most influential leaders in the industry.

Learn about the dynamics of global datacentres, the latest trends in data centre hosting, and what it takes to rank amongst the biggest data centres in the world.

Register your interest for 2025

Data centres lay the critical foundation to serve our digital economy. Industry leaders gather at Data Centre World to strengthen the base of their digital enterprises.

Join a Dynamic Data Centre Community

Engage in unparalleled networking and collaboration with the vibrant data centre community. Forge partnerships that open up new routes for business transformation at this leading UK data centre event, and explore fresh avenues for transforming your business.

Explore Cutting-Edge Data Centre Solutions

Uncover a wealth of sustainable, secure, and scalable solutions. Staying up to date with data centre innovations is key to constructing a resilient infrastructure for your business. Want success for your data centre operations? Start securing that here with insights from the biggest data centres and data centre hosting experts from around the world.

Engage in Key Industry Conversations

In today's online world, data centers are the beating heart of every thriving business. Join us to supercharge your company's digital power and stay ahead of the competition. Rub shoulders with industry giants and learn from their example in enlightening sessions, demonstrations and in-person at their stands.

Register your Interest See who attends