Men's Basketball October 05, 2022

Steve Lavin Announces 2022-23 Men’s Basketball Staff

SAN DIEGO – San Diego Head Men's Basketball Coach Steve Lavin has announced the addition of eight members to his staff. John Moore, Tyus Edney, Patrick Sandle, Ryan Devlin, Jackson Doran, Billy McKnight, Chris Simpson, and Dan McGinley all join the program.

"We are pleased to announce our Torero Basketball staff," said Lavin. "This group brings a wealth of diverse experiences and expertise from all levels of basketball. I'm eager to work alongside this talented staff as we collaboratively build the USD program. This group will enhance and elevate the experience of each Torero scholar-athlete."

Moore, the all-time winningest head coach at NAIA Westmont College, will serve as assistant coach. Combined with five seasons at Fresno Pacific, Moore registered an overall record of 637-352. He was named 2019-20 NAIA Men's Basketball Coach of the Year after a 26-5 record and earned a #2 seed in the NAIA National Tournament. His accomplishments at Westmont include three Golden State Athletic Conference tournament championships and two regular season championships. Moore's teams qualified for the NAIA National Tournament 14 times, including a program record six consecutive seasons starting in 2015. Moore has also been involved with USA Basketball, serving as a court coach for the 2014 USA Basketball Men's U18 National Team and 2002 USA Men's U18 National Team.

Edney, a 1995 NCAA Men's Basketball Champion, joins the staff as an assistant coach. Most notably, Edney went the length of the court with 4.8 seconds remaining for a buzzer beater against Missouri in the NCAA tournament, giving the Bruins a 75-74 win in the second round. Led by Edney, UCLA went on to win the National Championship with a 32-1 season record. Coach Lavin was an assistant coach for all four years of Edney's UCLA career, and the duo helped the Bruins to a 102-25 record in that span. Edney was later selected by the Sacramento Kings in the second round of the 1995 NBA draft with the 47th overall pick, and played professionally until 2010. He returned to his alma mater as Director of Operations in 2010, and spent 2017-19 as an assistant coach. Most recently, Edney served as Director of Engagement.

With more than 30 years of college coaching experience, Sandle joins USD as an assistant coach. A standout at San Francisco State University from 1982-84, Sandle was a teammate of Steve Lavin and is a member of the school's athletic hall of fame. His coaching stops include LMU, Pittsburgh, UCLA, Northern Arizona, Fresno State, Saint Mary's, Santa Barbara City College, Skyline College, Sonoma State, and San Rafael High School. While at UCLA, he helped guide the Bruins to an NCAA Sweet Sixteen appearance and 20-plus win season under Lavin in 2001-02. In high school, Sandle helped lead Crenshaw to back-to-back Los Angeles city championships.

Devlin joins San Diego as the recruiting coordinator, and most recently served as an assistant coach at George Washington from 2019-22. A 17-year veteran of the coaching profession encompassing various roles within the collegiate, high school, and AAU levels, Devlin has worked with five NBA players - Tim Frazier, Josh Reaves, Lamar Stevens, Tony Carr and Carrick Felix. Other stops for Devlin include the College of Southern Idaho, Penn State, and Siena, where he helped recruit back-to-back MAAC Players of the Year. Devlin spent the 2008-09 season working at Montrose Christian School in Maryland, which he helped guide to a 21-3 record and peak national ranking of No. 1. He played an integral role in recruiting future NBA first round picks Terrence Ross and Justin Anderson, along with former Villanova standout Mouphtaou Yarou.

Doran, a Bay Area native with extensive experience within the West Coast Conference, is starting his first season with the Toreros. Serving as Chief of Staff, he will spearhead operational duties for the program. "Working for Coach Lavin at USD is truly a dream job," said Doran. "Having witnessed him revitalize the St. John's program to now playing a more active role, I'm forever grateful." Doran, once a student manager for Coach Lavin, sources from both his stops in the private sector as well as in high school (WCE), collegiate (LMU) and professional basketball (Charlotte Bobcats).

McKnight's role is Director of Player Development. He has been around basketball staffs for the last 22 years, beginning as the Head Coach at Tamalpais High School in 2000. From there, McKnight was a graduate manager at Oregon. From 2010-2014, he spent time in China in various coaching roles. McKnight returned to the United States as the Head Basketball Coach at Prolific Prep, with two stints from 2015-19 and 2021-22. In between, he served as head coach at the United States Basketball Academy in Oregon. McKnight graduated from UC San Diego in 1997, where was a student-athlete on the baseball team. He later received his MBA from Oregon in 2005.

Simpson joins USD as a video coordinator. Most recently, he was the head varsity basketball coach at Dymally High School in Los Angeles. Prior to that, he was a grad assistant at LMU and the Director of Operations at Wagner College in 2014-15. Simpson served as the video manager as an undergraduate at St. John's with Coach Lavin (2010-14). Other key experience includes the head manager at St. Benedict's Prep under coach Danny Hurley. Additionally, Simpson has worked as a sports analyst at Krossover Sports and in the Brooklyn Nets video operations department.

McGinley joins as a staff assistant. He most recently served as the Video Coordinator/Assistant Director of Basketball Operations at Saint Peter's in 2021-22, including a memorable run to the Elite Eight. McGinley's passion for basketball was handed down by his grandfather, Jack McGinley, a NYC Hall of Fame Coach. Daniel's brother, Jack, graduated from Villanova University, where he worked under Jay Wright (2011-15). He currently is a Manager in Basketball Operations at the NBA in New York City. McGinley graduated from the University of South Carolina in 2017 with a degree in PR and Sports Management.

The San Diego roster features 12 new players for 2022-23, in addition to returners Jase Townsend, Wayne McKinney III, Marcellus Earlington, Yavuz Gultekin, and Dominic Muncey.

To stay up to date with the program, follow @usdmbb on Twitter and Instagram.

Players Mentioned