The University of San Diego’s 31-day search to hire a new men’s basketball coach has come to an end.

Executive Director of Athletics Bill McGillis confirmed Wednesday night that the Toreros have hired former UCLA and St. John’s head coach Steve Lavin, 57.

Toreros players were notified Wednesday afternoon that individual meetings had been scheduled for Thursday to introduce them to their new coach. And Lavin’s Twitter bio was changed to say “@USDMBB Head Coach.”

Asked why Lavin, McGillis said, “A track record of winning basketball. He has a record of success that is very strong as a head coach leading two prominent programs.”

In a combined 12 seasons at UCLA and St. John’s, Lavin led eight teams to the NCAA Tournament, including four UCLA teams that advanced to the Sweet 16 and his first team to the Elite Eight.

“He’s successful. He’s a proven commodity,” McGillis said. “That’s an asset that at the end of the day was important to me.”

The team is expected to announce Lavin’s hiring at a Friday press conference.

Lavin’s hiring comes with a potential risk: He has only coached in five of the last 19 NCAA seasons, spending the bulk of that time as a broadcaster for multiple networks.

“I don’t think Steve Lavin has forgotten how to coach,” said McGillis. “He’s been involved in basketball for (more than) three decades. His time in broadcasting has provided him, I think, a very valuable perspective and insight to go along with the great work he’s done on the court.”

Then just 31 years old, Lavin was named UCLA’s interim head coach in 1996 after Jim Harrick was fired. The interim tag was removed in February and the Bruins wound up advancing to the Elite Eight.

During his UCLA tenure, Lavin was one of only two coaches in the country to lead a team to the Sweet 16 five times. The other: Duke’s Mike Krzyzewski.

Lavin was fired after the Bruins finished 10-19 in 2002-03.

His UCLA record was 145-78.

Lavin went into broadcasting after being fired by UCLA, then was hired as St. John’s coach in 2010.

In Lavin’s five seasons at St. John’s (2010-11 to 2014-15), the Red Storm made two NCAA and two NIT appearances, compiling a 92-72 record. He was on the sideline for only four games in 2011-12 while battling prostate cancer.

Lavin and St. John’s agreed to part ways in 2015 after a 21-12 season. His last game was a 76-64 loss to San Diego State in the opening round of the NCAA Tournament.

His career record in a combined 12 seasons at UCLA and St. John’s was 237-150 with eight NCAA Tournament appearances.

Lavin succeeds Sam Scholl, who was fired after three straight losing seasons. Scholl, who had one year remaining on his contract, finished 50-67.

McGillis’ search for USD’s 14th head coach was wide ranging, lasting a month in an era when schools hire new coaches in a matter of days to give them a head start in building a roster through the transfer portal. According to multiple sources, it included former college head coaches, current head coaches and assistants.

The early focus, sources said, was on veteran Yale coach James Jones, who eventually signed an extension with the Bulldogs after meeting with McGillis several times and visiting the USD campus two weeks ago.

UCLA assistant coach Darren Savino and Montana State head coach Danny Sprinkle are also known to have visited campus. Savino ultimately withdrew, and Montana State announced earlier Wednesday it agreed to a four-year extension with Sprinkle.

Other coaches who were pursued, according to sources, included Cuonzo Martin (fired by Missouri last month), Ben Howland (fired by Mississippi State), former Indiana State coach Greg Lansing and former Utah coach Larry Krystowiak, plus assistants Mike Burns (Boise State), Carlin Hartman (Florida) and Cody Toppert (Memphis).

Burns was a Toreros assistant for seven seasons, from 2008 through 2015.

Because USD is a private institution, it is not subject to release employment contracts through open record requests like public schools do. Scholl made just under $500,000 per year, according to federal tax returns from two years ago — although one source said he made closer to $700,000 last season.

One coach who was contacted by McGillis said he was told the job would pay between $800,000 and $1 million.

Norcross is a freelance writer. Staff writer Mark Zeigler contributed to this report.