Template:Infobox University

Northumbria University is a modern university located in Newcastle upon Tyne in North East England.

Schools

Northumbria offers approximately 500 study programmes through nine Schools:

Applied Sciences

Arts and Social Sciences

Built Environment

Design

Health, Community and Education

Computing, Engineering and Information Sciences

Law

Newcastle Business School

Psychology and Sports Sciences

Campuses

Location

The University has two campuses. The main campus, located in the City of Newcastle upon Tyne, is known as the City Campus.

A secondary campus is located a few miles outside of Newcastle, on Coach Lane, and is known as the Coach Lane Campus. The Coach Lane campus is home to School of Health, Community and Education Studies only, all others schools are located at the City Campus. A frequentTemplate:Specify free Shuttle Bus runs between the two campuses.

Development

The University is currently involved in a £100 million development project to improve and expand its city campus. This includes a new state-of-the-art seven acre site to be known as City Campus East, adjacent to the main campus, which will house the Schools of Law, Design and the Newcastle Business School.

Improvements to the City Campus West are also ongoing, and include a new footbridge timelapse linking the East and West Campuses across the central motorway, pedestrianisation and greening of the integrated teaching environment. The first phase of the expansion is due to be completed by September 2007.

The development project suffered a setback when, on the 9th April 2007, a building that was to be student flats burned to the ground during the night. The nearby School of Design also suffered minor heat damage before the blaze was brought under control. [1]

The City Campus East development as of May 3, 2006.

City Campus East as of July 6, 2006 looking across the central motorway.

History

Northumbria University has its origins in three regional colleges: Rutherford College of Technology, the College of Art & Industrial Design and the Municipal College of Commerce. An amalgamation of these three institutions formed the Newcastle Polytechnic in 1969, which became the major regional centre for the training of teachers with the incorporation of the City College of Education in 1974, and the Northern Counties College of Education in 1976.

Northumbria was inaugurated as a university in 1992, under the name University of Northumbria at Newcastle. The trading name was simplified to Northumbria University in 2002.

Notable alumni

Sting, English musician

Tunde Baiyewu, vocalist, lead singer of the Lighthouse Family

Steve Cram, English athlete and television presenter

Scott Henshall, fashion designer

Jonathan Ive, industrial designer, lead designer of the iMac and iPod

Alexei Mordashov, Russian business oligarch

Neil Marshall, film director

Paul Copley, actor

Toby Flood, England rugby international, and Newcastle Falcons.

Martin Corry, England rugby international, and Leicester Tigers.

Students' Union

Main article: Northumbria Students' Union

The Students' Union provides representation for all students studying at the University. It provides a range of student activities and several venues for students to socialise in a safe environment, chiefly at Bar One and Reds. It hosts a range of club nights, including the bi-weekly Rattled by the Rush, playing indie music, and Get Y' Skates On, which caters for the alternative types. The monthly student newspaper is called Northumbria Student, which includes the popular entertainments section Poly Scene.

References

Northumbria University website