Elsa Pataky, known as Elsa Lafuente Medianu, is a Spanish model and actress and also known as the wife of Chris Hemsworth. She is best known for playing Elena Neves in the Fast & Furious movies. Pataky has also appeared in Snakes on a Plane (2006), Giallo (2009), and Give ‘Em Hell, Malone (2009). She starred in the Spanish film Di Di Hollywood in 2019 and played a dual role as Mr. Norton and the Vuvalini General in Furiosa: A Mad Max Saga in 2024. She has recently appeared in the festivities of the Met Gala.

Elsa Pataky Wiki/Bio

Elsa’s real name is Elsa Lafuente Medianu, who was born on 18 July 1976 in Madrid, Spain and her age is 47 years old as of 2023. She is a follower of the Christian religion and holds Spanish nationality. Her height is around 5′ 5″ inches and her zodiac sign is Cancer.

Elsa Pataky Education

Elsa studied journalism at Universidad de San Pablo CEU and developed an interest in acting. She joined the Madrid theater company Teatro Cámara de Ángel Gutiérrez and left college to take a role in the Spanish TV series Al salir de Clase in 1997. Pataky speaks Spanish, Romanian, English, Italian, Portuguese, and French. She also said some words on being multilingual:

I’ve always thought it’s really important to know several languages and how much it can open doors to discover new cultures, experiences and communication with other countries. I’m lucky because my mum is from another country, so I heard two languages while I was growing up, but I was also obsessed with traveling all over the world to learn other languages, work in other places and speak with people from other countries.

Elsa Pataky Parents & Family

Elsa was brought up by her mother, Cristina Pataky Medianu, who is a publicist with Romanian and Hungarian roots, and her father, José Francisco Lafuente, is a Spanish biochemist. She has a younger half-brother, Cristian Prieto Medianu, who is a cinematographic director. She chose the surname Pataky to honor her Hungarian-Greek grandmother, Rosa Pataky.

Elsa Pataky Husband & Relationships

Pataky was in a relationship with French actor Michaël Youn from 2004 to 2006 and American actor Adrien Brody from 2006 to 2009. She began dating Australian actor Chris Hemsworth in early 2010 after they met through their agents.

They got married during the Christmas holidays in 2010 and have three children together, a daughter named India Rose Hemsworth, and twin sons Sasha Hemsworth and Tristan Hemsworth. In 2015, they moved from Los Angeles to Byron Bay, Australia.

Elsa Pataky Career Journey

Pataky joined the Madrid theater group Teatro Cámara de Ángel Gutiérrez before leaving school to act in the TV series Al salir de clase. She then worked on films co-produced with the UK and France and gained experience in English and French.

Pataky starred in the TV series Queen of Swords in 2000 as Señora Vera Hidalgo appeared in 14 out of 22 episodes. She also had a recurring role in Los Serrano as Raquel, a teacher in love with her student Marcos (Fran Perea).

Pataky has acted in over 10 Spanish films and co-starred in the French film Iznogoud in 2004. She appeared on the cover of Maxim in August 2006. In 2009, she was in the Mexican series Mujeres Asesinas and appeared in the films Give ‘Em Hell, Malone and Giallo.

She became the face of Time Force’s jewelry line Ultimate Jewel, alongside football star Cristiano Ronaldo. Pataky played Officer Elena Neves in Fast Five, with Dwayne Johnson. MTV Networks’ NextMovie.com named her a Breakout Star to Watch in 2011. She also stood in for Natalie Portman in Thor: The Dark World.

Pataky repeated her role as Elena Neves in Fast & Furious 6 (2013), Furious 7 (2015), and The Fate of the Furious in 2017. In 2018, Elsa also appeared in the Netflix series Tidelands as Adrielle Cuthbert. She played the lead role in Interceptor which was released in June 2022.

Pataky co-founded the skincare brand Purely Byron and launched its first product in 2022. By March 2023, Purely Byron was placed in administration and put up for sale, with BWX Group owning 47.4% and other stakeholders including Ido Leffler, Lance Kalish, and Chris Hemsworth’s Byron Bay 1st Management.

Elsa Pataky Net Worth

Elsa’s net worth is not available on social media platforms.

Elsa Pataky Instagram Presence

Elsa Pataky

Read Another Biographies