Biography:

Born : 13th February 1911,Kala Kader, Sialkot district, British,India

Died : 20th November, 1984, Lahore Punjab province, Pakistan

Occupation: Poet and journalist

Language: Punjabi, Russian, English, Urdu, Arabic , Persian

Nationality : Pakistani

Ethnicity: Pakistan

Education: Arabic literature, B.A (hons), M.A English literature, Master in Arts.

Alma mater: Murray College at Sialkot, Government College University, Punjab University.

Genres: Ghazal , Nazam

Literary movements: Progressive’s Writer’s Movement,Communist’s Poetry of Pakistan.

Notable works: Naqsh –e– Farayadi, Zindan Nama, Dast –e-Sabah

Notable Awards: MBE (1946), Niger Award (1953), Lenin Peace Prize (1962),HRC Peace Prize Nishan-e-Imtiaz (1990), Avicenna Prize (2006)

Faiz Ahmed Faiz studied English Literature and Philosophy. He began his career as a lecturer in English at Amritsar. After the Second World War, he turned to journalism and distinguished himself as the editor of “The Pakistan times”

He was revolutionary poet, and one of most famous poets of Urdu. He also wrote poems in Punjabi language as well. A notable member of the “Progressive Writers Movement” Faiz Ahmed Faiz was“MARXIST”. Listed FOUR times for Nobel Prize in poetry, he received LINEN PEACE PRIZE by SOVIET UNION in 1962.

Despite repeatedly accused of atheism military establishment, faiz’s poetry suggested a “religion” in general and with Islam in particular.

Major themes by Faiz:

Romanticism: (love and beauty)

He started writing poetry in 1931 or 1932, once more. His poetry of this period through was conformist poetry and about the more common subject like love.

مقام فیض کوی راہ میں جچا ہی نہیں

جو کوۓ یار سے نکلے تو سوۓ دار چلے

In Faiz’s own words, “The period between 1920 and 1930 constituted a state of carelessness, prosperity and exuberance, in which along with important national and political movements, in prose and poetry, there was an element of light heartedness, along with serious thinking and observation.

In this atmosphere, there was also the wonder of the beginning of love but we had just a glimpse of this period, when we reached the end of love’s companionship.”

The Ghazal “مجھ سے پہلی سی محبت میرے محبوب نہ مانگ” (ask me not for my beloved) is that type (that era) of poem.

Socialism + prol taric:

Proltaric was Russian revolution, which held in 1917.The aim of this revolution was, “make laws (policy) for labor class or in favor of labor class”

Moreover,Faiz was one of that revolution’s followers.

Socialism:

Faiz had tremendous sympathy for sufferings of the people. While he was teaching at the M.A.O College, he became friendly with vice Principal Sahabzada Mehmood-uz-zafar and his wife, Dr. Rasheed a Jahan. Both were committed socialists and lovers of literature as well. Under their influence faiz’s poetry underwent a tremendous change.

In these days, Faiz was writing his book “Dast –e- Sabah.

In his poetry, Faiz incorporated both values of beauty and social responsibilities. His message was couch in beautiful words with an almost wistful quality. That is why Faiz’s poetry was unlike the writings of his contemporaries, with a style more mellifluous, his tone soft, his poems smooth and flowing, unlike the works of other poets, which had stronger tone.

Faiz’s first collection, Naqash-e-Faryaadi, was published in 1941, same year he got married with Ellis Catherine, British woman in Srinagar Kashmir.

As faiz had adopted socialist ideologies, due to his ideologies he was against Hitler add Nazism, also when Germany invaded the USSR he felt compelled to join the fight, he left this job and joined the British Indian Army as a caption in 1942, he soon rose in the ranks and became Lieutenant Colonel in barely two years.

Progressive writer’s movement:

In 1935 in London, some writers with socialist ideologies set up the progressive writer’s movement. The movement emphasized the writer’s responsibilities towards spreading and promoting positive, healthy and just values through his writings. Faiz found himself in total agreement with the movement’s views and goals and this started a new phase in his writing career.Beauty did not have more artistic values, but it also had a social and moral value.

According to faiz poetry was a struggle in which, art and life demanded participation according to one’s abilities.Through this movement Faiz’s poetry had a new theme, THEME OF REALISM.

Pakistan politics:

1947 was the year that changed the history of the subcontinent, as well as the lives of many of its people.

نثار تیری گلیوں کے اے وطن کے جہاں

چلی ہے رسم کہ کو ی سر اٹھا کے نہ چلے

جو کوی چا ہنے والا طواف کو نکلے

نظر جھکا کے چلے، جسم و جان بچا کے چلے

Everyone was expecting that we would have a new country, New system, new government etc. Our scarifies and hard work is near to give shining morning.

But what happened?

When Pakistan came into being, the corrupted leaders and uneducated people were ruling the system and country. Nothing was new.

Progressive’s writer’smovement’s members were sold their self in front of rulers. Faiz, Sajjad Zaheer, Zaheer Kashmiri, Habib jalab, etc., were only remained. At that time faiz wrote freedom’s down in 15th August, 1947. He said in this, “This is that mornings do some more struggle.

Rebellion:

In 1951, faiz was arrested he was accused as being a co-conspirator, in the Rawalpindi conspiracy case.

Kro kuj jabeen per ser-e- kafan mery qatilo ko guman na ho.

K gharor-e-ishaq baankpun pas-e-marag hum ny bhula diya.

Faiz spent four years in Jail. He almost received death sentence but later he was awarded a much lesser sentences of two and half years.

The poems he wrote in jail were later copied in to the:

Dast-e-sabah (1953)

Zindannama (1956)

Faiz wanted that the government of Pakistan should be educated. The qualified MNAs and PMLs run the system.

Shift of faiz’s poetry from Romantism to Socialism and Humanism for this purpose he wrote his famous poem “mujhsypehli c muhabbatmerymehbobnamang”(ask me not my beloved).

This poem is actually showing his shift from Romantism to Socialism. Its translation in English is as below:

Don’t ask me for the same love, my sweetheart

I thought that life was radiant because of you

Why complain of worldly woes, once in your love-affliction

Your countenance brings eternity to the youth of spring

What else is there in the world but for the beauty of your eyes

If you were mine, my destiny would surrender to me

This was not so, only my wish for it to be

There are sufferings in the world other than the sufferings of love

There are pleasures other that the delight of our union

Dark, heinous spells of uncountable centuries.

Woven into rich silk and precious brocades

Being sold in every corner, bodies,

Covered in dirt, drenched in blood.

Bodies, burning in hot ovens of disease

Pus seeping from open, lacerating wounds.

My sight returns to this as well, I am helpless

Your beauty is heart-warming still, but I am helpless

There are sufferings in the world other than the suffering of love

There are pleasure other than the delight of our union

Don’t ask me for the same love, my sweetheart!

Now here is main shift of Faiz’s poetry. He left everything for humanity and socialism. Even his personal life.

Each star a rung,

Night comes down the spiral

Staircase of the evening.

The breeze passes by so very close

As if someone just happened to speak of love

In the courtyard,

Pure Humanism: (Love for Humanity)

Faiz was in favor of communist society. He wants equality in society. He was against poverty, lawlessness, and anarchy and monopoly system in society. He was in favor of ideal society. In which there is equality of wealth, honor, and resources. He does not believe in feudal system. He revolted against this system.

Tyranny on faiz:

After his revolt against traditional politics and system, he faced prison and faced the painful and teasing circumstances. He was criticized by literary people and even by the common person. Every men and women curse him and called him Non-religious and traitor. For a poet like Faiz who wrote for common people, it was a grey tyranny.

!آ گی فصل سکوں،چاک گریباں والو

سل گۓ ہونٹ، کو ی زخم سلے نہ سلے

دوستو! بزم سجاؤ کہ بہار آٰئ ہے۔

کھل گۓ زخم، کو ی پھول کھلے نہ کھلے۔

Progressive Writer’s Movement:

When Pakistan came into being, the members of progressive movement sold their self to the rulers of Pakistan.

Some of them remained; the important ones are below;

Ahmed NadeemQasimi

ZaheerKashmiri

HabibJalib

UstadDaman

FaizAhmed Faiz

ArifAbdul Makeen etc.

Faiz addressed those members who left the movement and said:

Akhri shab k humsafar faiz najany kia huy?