The past year can perhaps be best summarized as a time of transition for Camarillo. Plans for both the Conejo Creek development and the new high school moved forward, as the completion of the Springville Drive interchange set the stage for the soon-to-be-built Springville housing community.

In addition to developments related to the city’s growth, there were other news items of note in 2012.

California State University Channel Islands celebrated its 10-year anniversary, two hometown athletes won gold in London and the region’s political landscape saw significant changes.

Here then is a look back at the top 10 stories that shaped the city and its residents in 2012.

10. New fire chief

The Ventura County Fire Department named Mark Lorenzen fire chief after the retirem ent of Bob Roper in March. Roper, who held the post for 15 years—one of the longest tenures in the department’s 84-year history— left the fire department in an unsuccessful bid to challenge incumbent Steve Bennett for the District 1 county supervisor seat.

Lorenzen, a Santa Barbara resident and a firefighter for more than 21 years, was promoted from deputy chief. As chief, Lorenzen oversees an organization made up of 585 men and women, including firefi ghters, dispatchers, mechanics and administrative staff.

The department covers about 848 square miles in unincorporated Ventura County and six cities: Simi Valley, Moorpark, Thousand Oaks, Camarillo, Ojai and Port Hueneme.

9. Gold in London

Adding to their record-breaking collection of trophies, Bob and Mike Bryan won the men’s doubles tennis gold medal at the London 2012 Olympics in August. The top seeds—graduates of Rio Mesa High School—defeated second-seeded Frenchmen Michael Llodra and Jo-Wilfried Tsonga 6-4, 7-6 (2) in 88 minutes on Centre Court at the All England Club, Wimbledon.

Mike Bryan also partnered with Lisa Raymond to win the bronze medal in mixed doubles a day after winning gold.

8. Lawmaker returns

Freshman Assemblyman Jeff Gorell returned from a yearlong deployment in Afghanistan in March—the first California lawmaker called to active duty since World War II. The Camarillo Republican served as a military intelligence offi cer in the Helmand province.

A lieutenant commander in the Navy Reserve, Gorell returned two months before the June primary and was reelected to his Assembly seat in November as representative of the 44th District.

7. CSUCI turns 10

California State University Channel Islands celebrated its 10-year anniversary this year. The soft economy has kept enrollment at CSUCI far below the numbers anticipated when the campus was founded a decade ago, but student population at the university has increased this year, due in part, officials say, to the passage in November of Proposition 30, the governor’s tax initiative.

University officials said enrollment has grown to include 4,900 students.

6. Michael named PVSD superintendent

RaeAnne Michael was named Pleasant Valley School District’s superintendent in October. An educator in Camarillo since 1978, Michael replaced Luis Villegas, who served as chief of the K-8 district for five years. Michael climbed the district ranks and was the director of curriculum, instruction and assessment before taking over as head of the 11-school district.

5. Springville opens

The Camarillo City Council officially opened the Springville Drive interchange in June. The $45-million on- and offramps between Las Posas Road and Central Avenue on the 101 Freeway is considered to be critical to the future growth of Camarillo.

The interchange’s completion— it broke ground in 2010— will allow development to move forward on the Springville housing community on the north side of the freeway and the commercial properties on the south side of the freeway between the Camarillo Airport and the 101.

4. New faces in politics

The city, schools and park district boards saw new faces with the retirement or defeat of many long-serving incumbents after the November election.

Don Waunch’s retirement from the City Council gave way to the election of Bill Little. Steven Hall and Gary Davis replaced longtime Oxnard Union High School District board members Dick Jaquez and Steve Stocks, both of whom retired.

Kelly Long garnered the most votes to beat incumbent Warren Harwood for a seat on the Pleasant Valley school board, while Neal Dixon and Mike Mishler unseated longtime Pleasant Valley Recreation and Park District board members Patty Hamm and Paul Rockenstein.

3. Prop. 30 passes

Pleasant Valley and Oxnard Union school district officials breathed a sigh of relief as California voters passed the much-debated Prop. 30 in No- vember. The initiative, pushed by Gov. Jerry Brown, increases the state income tax for seven years on people who earn more than $250,000 annually and raises the California sales tax by one-quarter percent to 7.5 percent through 2017 to raise money for public education. PVSD Superintendent Michael said the K-8 district would have faced $2.5 million in cuts had the measure failed.

Gabe Soumakian, superintendent of OUHSD, said it would have been “catastrophic” for education had Prop. 30 not passed. California voters, wary of the ability of state lawmakers to manage the state budget, are dubious the tax hike will end cuts to public education in the years to come.

2. Brownley defeats Strickland

Ventura County’s political landscape was changed significantly in November at both state and federal levels. The new district boundaries led to an all-out battle between Democrat Julia Brownley and Republican Tony Strickland for the 26th Congressional District in one of the most expensive congressional races in the nation. In the end, West County’s highly Democratic cities carried Brownley, who replaces U.S. Rep. Elton Gallegly. Strickland left his state Senate seat to run for Congress— a move that opened the door for Democrat Hannah-Beth Jackson to win the 19th state Senate District race.

1. Conejo Creek

Although still in the lengthy environmental report planning phase, the increasing buzz and grass-roots activism surrounding the Conejo Creek Properties Special Plan—better known as the Conejo Creek development— makes the 740-acre project the top story in 2012.

Opponents say the development, to be built at the bottom of the Conejo Grade on the city’s east side, will pave over scenic farmland and clog roadways, while supporters point to the jobs it will create and the additional housing that will be needed as the city grows. A handful of community groups have formed to protest the project, which developers say won’t likely break ground until 2017 and isn’t expected to be completed until 2030.

Earlier this month, the Camarillo Planning Commission delayed until February its decision on whether to recommend or deny the certification of the development’s environmental report, after which the City Council will decide whether to certify the report, just two of the many steps required to move the development forward.