Spin Off: Armando Iannucci Speaks And In The Loop Reviewed

The reigning king of British comedy has taken his satire of political spin-doctoring, _The Thick of It_, to the big screen. Dave Moats appraises Armando Iannucci's first foray into feature film, _In the Loop_.

Trading Faces: 10 Body-Switching Movies

As the insipid-looking Zach Efron vehicle _17 Again_ threatens to invade our cinemas, David Bax from the Battleship Pretension podcast looks back on the often overlooked (and rightly so) body-switching film genre.

Let The Right One In: New Vampire Film Reviewed

Can coming-of-age vampire film _Let the Right One In_ rescue the blood-sucking genre? Josh Saco sinks his teeth in . . . .

Michael Winterbottom’s Genova: Reviewed

The new film from the director of _A Cock and Bull Story_, _A Mighty Heart_ and _24 Hour Party People_ is a meditation on loss and different ways of grieving. James Clarke sees it as Michael Winterbottom's unique interpretation of the ghost story genre.

The Best Hollywood Hoaxes for April Fool’s Day

In honour of April Fool's Day, The Quietus collects the best Hollywood Hoaxes: from Joaquin's beard to Marilyn's letters; from the Hollywood makeup artists who made Bigfoot to Kubrick's moon landing; from electric shocks in the cinema to faux documentaries with Herzog; it's all here.

The Damned United & A Handful Of Non-Shit Sports Films

_The Damned United_ is a lightweight version of David Peace's dark character study of football manager Brian Clough. Taylor Parkes picks apart this flawed football flick. Plus Jeremy Allen compiles a gallery of 10 sports films that weren't shit.

Do It Yourself: The Story Of Rough Trade Documentary Reviewed

Quietus scribe Alex Ogg, who's currently writing a book on the history of the independent label, makes a brew and settles down in front of the telly to watch a new documentary on the history of Rough Trade Records

Watchmen Reviewed: Has Zack Snyder Killed The Comic Book Adaptation?

It's one of the most talked about graphic novel adaptations in cinema history. But will creator Alan Moore's misgivings about filming Watchmen be realised?

Gran Torino And The Death Of The American Hero

_Gran Torino_, Clint's last acting role, sees an old-school Eastwood hero faced with the complex and sensitive issue of inner city gangs. Dave Moats wonders if he's he up to the task. Plus a gallery of cinematic swan songs.

ART WAR! An Appreciation Of The Films Of Jeff Keen

Jeff Keen has been making insanely creative, uncompromisingly original films since the early 60s. Dave Moats salutes his D.I.Y. ethos as the BFI release his entire oeuvre on DVD.

F**K Reviewed & A Profanisaurus Of Cinema’s Best Swearing

_F**K_, a documentary by the creators of _The Aristocrats_, mixes puerile humour with provocative questions to mixed results. David Moats puts the film, released this week by the ICA, in the context of the culture wars. Plus: we look at how cinema has best made use of cussin'.

Vicky Cristina Barcelona and Bizarre Love Triangles on Film

_Don't_ call it a comeback. Dave Moats explains how Woody Allen's much hyped 'return to form' succeeds despite the filmmaker's considerable legacy hanging over the proceedings. Plus The Quietus collects 10 more bizarre love triangles captured on screen.

Who Killed Nancy? New Sex Pistols Doc Reviewed

Who killed Nancy? Who Cares? A new documentary re-opens the debate surrounding the death of Sid Vicious' infamous girlfriend in the Chelsea Hotel. Jeremy Allen is not impressed.

The Laughing Noam – Manufacturing Consent Revisited

An easily digestible introduction to Chompers' media theories with added '09 content and relevance. But where is the animatronic breakdancing Marshall Macluhan? asks John Doran. All pictures courtesy of the BFI

Inside The Cabinet Of Dr. Caligari: A Classic Of Expressionist Cinema

The Quietus' horror expert Josh Saco talks about this Expressionist classic and examines how this once unasuming horror flick took on a life of its own.

Valkyrie: Riding Roughshod Over History?

We've come to expect Hollywood to rewrite history, says Luke Turner. But in the case of Von Stauffenberg, the mono-armed, cycloptic plotter who tried to blow up Hitler, is there even space to do this?

Setting The Standard: Role Models Reviewed

It might look like just another American comedy but don't be fooled. David Bax applauds this skillfully executed mainstream outing from from the crack comedy team responsible for cult classic _Wet Hot American Summer_.

Indie Auteur: A Conversation With Joe Swanberg, ‘Mumblecore’ Lynchpin

Chicago-based indie filmmaker and key figure in the regrettably named 'mumblecore' movement, Joe Swanberg discusses physics, graphic novels and working with non-actors to The Quietus as two of his films, _LOL_ and _Hannah Takes the Stairs_, are released in the UK by ICA films

Dave Gibbons On The Origins Of The Watchmen

Is there anything that he would do differently now? What is the future of the comic book? And, does a certain deity actually reside in Alan Moore's beard? Matt Kaufman talks to Dave Gibbons.

Gonzo: The Life and Work of Dr. Hunter S. Thompson: Reviewed

Gonzo disciple Marc Waldburger sings the praises of Alex Gibney's new documentary and wonders what the good doctor would have thought of Obama.

Who’s Better, Who’s Best: The Christmas Special Discussed

In anticipation of the Dr Who Christmas Special, our resident expert Joe Stannard looks back on chief writer Russell T Davies' contribution to the Whovian legacy: discussing queer politics, sentimentality and, of course, David Tennant's replacement...

Cinematic Santas – The Least Convincing And Naughtiest Santas on Film

In the spirit of humbuggery, The Quietus looks at some of the worst excuses for Santa ever to disgrace the silver screen, and provides Top Trumps-style stats on their performance. Whether they're slightly implausible or just plain evil, this bunch is a disgrace to the ruddy uniform.

Generation Terrorists: The Baader-Meinhof Group’s Legacy

The Baader-Meinhof Group must be turning in their graves after having helped the ailing German economy so much recently. Alex Burrows examines the mainstream’s new curiosity of the Red Army Faction and today’s acceptance of their once radical politics.

Choke and Cinema’s Most Adventurous Book Adaptations

_Fight Club_ author Chuck Palahniuk's work is notoriously difficult to translate into film. Dave Moats reviews the latest adaptation _Choke_ and collects the 10 most adventurous book to film adaptations.

Zack and Miri And The Sex Industry On The Silver Screen

Can Kevin Smith regain his crown from Judd Apatow? David Bax doesn't think so. We also cast an eye over the numerous ways the sex industry has been portrayed on the big screen.

Crap Horror Enters The 3rd Dimension: Scar 3D Reviewed

The Quietus test drives the latest 3D filmic experience - Real D and reviews _Scar 3D_ the lamentable torture-porn flick attached to it. Andrew Stimpson wonders how long we'll have to wait until someone puts 3D to good use?