Future basketball Hall of Famer Pau Gasol had fans around the world smiling as he shared a special moment with Kobe Bryant's children during the all-star weekend.

This weekend sees the NBA's best of the best meet in the three-day festivities with the rookie and celebrity game being held on Friday, dunk contest on the Saturday and the main all-star game on the Sunday. Throughout the weekend, NBA legends regularly return to witness the contests and reunite with team-mates and former rivals.

But none will be as heart-warming as Gasol being reunited with Bryant's children, the family he had been close to while being team-mates with Bryant.

Gasol and Bryant spent six years together at the Los Angeles Lakers and won back-to-back championships, defeating the Orlando Magic and Boston Celtics in the NBA finals.

Bryant would remain with the Lakers throughout his incredible 20-year career, winning five NBA championships and going down as one of the greatest NBA players of all-time alongside Michael Jordan.

On the way, he did not make too many friends, being seen as a player who was hard to play with, but the one team-mate who he seemingly loved the most had been Gasol, as the two remained close after retirement, too.

In 2020, Bryant and his 13-year-old daughter Gianna were tragically killed in the Calabasas helicopter crash which saw seven others lose their lives.

Since their tragic deaths, Gasol has remained close with the Bryant family, and was reunited with Kobe's two youngest daughters, Capri and Bianka as he held them both in his arms on the court. Vanessa Bryant shared the image on her Instagram account, with hundreds of fans reacting.

One said: "Uncle Pau is the man and Kobe would be so happy to see this." Another commented: "Pau Gasol is a beautiful human being. He cares for the kids as if they are his own!". Another wrote: "We love you Pau! Keep being a guardian angel for the Bryant family".

Gasol had been in Utah as he was named a finalist for the Hall of Fame, of which he is expected to be elected into after his incredible career. He also coached the Jordan Rising Stars rookie game.