National Benzole Mixture was a familiar British motor fuel (motor spirit) during the early and mid 20th century. The above badges show the National Benzole Company's distinctive logo, a visual identity that was furnished liberally across British garage forecourts during this period.

The fuel, which was a 50/50 mixture of benzole and petrol (benzole was a coal-tar product consisting of benzene and toluene), became a popular brand of fuel for the early motorist. The National Benzole Company (NBC), also made motor oils, as advertised on the smaller badges shown above. The centre badge, promotes the 50/50 National Benzole Mixture.

Its branding was particularly effective, underpinned by its vivid yellow colour scheme and the Roman god Mercury as the trademark. The trademark was freely applied to petrol pump globes and forecourt enamel advertising signs. The above badges would have been worn by garage employees that sold National Benzole.........and most garages in Britain sold this brand in the 1920s and 1930s. Mercury of course was the messenger/traveller god and was swift and 'fleet of foot'.......and therefore an excellent concept for a fuel promoting speed and efficiency. Mercury, or Mr Mercury, as proclaimed in early advertising, first debuted in1928 but the full body was quickly erased to incorporate just the head. In 1953, the Mercury trademark was re-stylised with a more modernistic streamlined representation, yet still retaining the distinctive 'yellow' theme and winged helmet.

During the early 1930s, there was a patriotic theme to their advertisements, underpinned by the copy line 'The Guaranteed British Motor Spirit'. An advert in the October, 1931 edition of 'The Motor' journal, promoting National Benzole's trade stand at Britain's Motor Show gave a very patriotic message:

'National Benzole is British. It is obtained through the carbonisation of British Coal, carried out in Britain by British labour and supported by British Capital. It is 100% British...........The fuel gives more miles per gallon and more power. It costs less to use because there's no waste. Ask for National - Be British in spirit and money in pocket'.

The 'British' emphasis on their advertising was of course an indirect swipe at other companies such as the Anglo-American Oil Company, Socony-Vacuum Oil Company Inc. and Russian Oil Products - selling their branded petrols of, for example, Mobil, Pratts and ROP. Motor fuel marketing during the 'between the wars years' was aggressive with more and more companies vying for a relatively new emerging motor car market.

National Benzole first appeared in 1919 and lasted until the 1960s. During the early 1960s, the word Benzole was dropped and simply rebranded as National.

Photography, layout and design: Argy58

(This image also exists as a high resolution jpeg and tiff - ideal for a

variety of print sizes e.g. A4, A3, A2 and A1. The current uploaded

format is for screen based viewing only: 72pi)