Expert Employment Solicitors & Lawyers

Thomas Mansfield Solicitors is an award winning firm of employment lawyers based in the United Kingdom. We provide representation and employment law advice for both employers and employees around the country and have established ourselves as industry leaders.

Founded in 2004 by Neill Thomas and Jonathan Mansfield, two experienced employment law solicitors, our firm has continued to grow and develop, and now has the capability to meet clients across 15 different locations throughout London and the south of England, including Sussex, Kent, Surrey, Hampshire, West Sussex & Berkshire.

At Thomas Mansfield, we made the decision to specialise in employment law so that we could focus on providing our clients with an unparalleled level of service and excellent value for money. Employment law is such a fast paced and ever-changing area of legislation, so we feel that our specific focus enables us to stay ahead of the game and sets us aside from our competitors.

Our trusted solicitors, available nationwide, have a wealth of experience across all types of organisations as well as the vital resources needed to provide expert advice to clients. From legal issues and disputes to a wide range of other HR related matters,our employment solicitors can help take the worry out of your situation. We take our client’s needs and concerns very seriously, and strive to achieve the best possible outcome in any situation.

Our key areas of expertise in UK employment law include the following:

Settlement agreements

Unfair dismissal

Constructive dismissal

Redundancy

Disability discrimination

Sex discrimination

Race discrimination

Age discrimination

Harassment

Bullying

Mediation services

Employment contracts and documentation

Non-compete restrictions and team moves

We can also provide support in related areas such as HR consultancy and Health and Safety.

As dedicated employment lawyers, we pride ourselves on our extensive legal knowledge of this area and our ability to deliver dependable, high quality, ethical employment law advice service to all of our clients. Our experienced HR consultants, mediators, and expert employment law solicitors advise on all aspects of HR strategy and day-to-day HR issues. We can also advise and guide larger projects, including organisational restructures and large-scale redundancies.

We can provide initial telephone guidance on all aspects of HR and employment law to both national and local employer clients of all sizes throughout the United Kingdom. Once we have thoroughly discussed your case, which can be done either face-to-face or via a telephone conference, we can then proceed to the next steps.

We have an up-front and honest policy regarding fees. In the initial meeting, are usually able to assess the merits of your case, your rights, and assess what the costs will likely be. Once we have agreed to take your case, we will provide ongoing support, expert advice, and act on your behalf. We can also represent you at an employment tribunal or in the civil courts.

For Employment Law Advice Contact Us Today!

So, if you have been affected by an employment law issue, or simply need to consult a dedicated team of experienced employment lawyers and specialists, get in touch with us today. Whatever your situation, you can be sure that the experts at Thomas Mansfield can help you.

Call us today on 03702 188 990 or send us an email, briefly outlining the nature of your enquiry, to [email protected]. Alternatively, you can request a call back.

Whatever your situation, if you want specialist professional advice on any employment law issue, telephone us today on 03702 188 990.

Our Locations