London: Australian actor Sarah Snook, who has stunned the West End with her one-woman performance in an Oscar Wilde classic, has joined an all-star shortlist of nominations for this year’s Olivier Awards.

Snook, the Emmy and Golden Globe-winning star of Succession, is currently in the middle of a 14-week run of The Picture of Dorian Gray, adapted and directed by Sydney Theatre Company’s Kip Williams at London’s Royal Haymarket Theatre.

The 36-year-old, who is best known for playing Shiv Roy in the hit TV show about a dysfunctional family fighting for control of their media empire, was nominated for best actress alongside Sex and the City star Sarah Jessica Parker for Plaza Suite, the 1968 Neil Simon play where she is appearing opposite her husband Matthew Broderick.

The Olivier Awards, named in honour of legendary British actor Sir Laurence Olivier, are recognised internationally as the highest honour in British theatre, equivalent to Broadway’s Tony Awards.

Many television, film and music stars received recognition, including Happy Valley star James Norton for A Little Life; American singer, songwriter, dancer and actress Nicole Scherzinger for Sunset Boulevard; Doctor Who’s David Tennant for his portrayal of Macbeth; and Fleabag’s Andrew Scott for Vanya.

Loading

In the play, originally performed by Eryn-Jean Norvill in the Australian production, Snook plays 26 characters surrounded by a camera crew, so her performance can be beamed onto overhead screens. The Australian production with Norvill wowed critics in Sydney and Melbourne, while Snook has been hailed by Fleet Street as a “chameleonic tour de force” and a performer of “exceptional pluck and mercurial power”.

“I’m pretty stoked, yeah, just a bit overwhelmed,” the Adelaide-born actress told the BBC on learning of her nomination. “Australia’s asleep so I haven’t called my parents yet to tell them. I’m excited when they wake up to give them a call.”

Marg Horwell – a multi-award-winning theatre, opera and film designer – secured the play’s only other nomination for best costume design, with the production itself overlooked as well as Williams.

Snook and Parker will contest the category against Northern Irish actor Laura Donnelly for The Hills Of California, Oscar-nominated Sophie Okonedo for Medea, and Jonathan Creek star Sheridan Smith for Shirley Valentine.

The Guardian described Snook’s performance as “tinglingly virtuoso”.

“It is all beautiful, brilliant, maniacally unmissable,” its critic Arifa Akbar wrote.

The Telegraph’s Dominic Cavendish said he had never seen a standing ovation so “swift or unanimous” as the one that greeted Snook at the end of her performance. And for once, Cavendish wrote, it “seemed fully justified”.

The hit musical Sunset Boulevard, a new production of Andrew Lloyd Webber’s story of a fading film star, received 11 nominations, including all the acting categories for a musical, as well as best musical revival, and best director for Jamie Lloyd.

Dear England, James Graham’s play about the life and times of Gareth Southgate as manager of England’s national football team, had nine nominations as the most nominated play, with nods including Joseph Fiennes for best actor.

The best new musical nominees are The Little Big Things, Next to Normal, Operation Mincemeat, and A Strange Loop. The best musical revival category also has a number of strong favourites, including Groundhog Day, Guys & Dolls, Hadestown, and Sunset Boulevard.

The annual awards will take place on Sunday, April 14, at the iconic Royal Albert Hall.