Nominations for the 2024 Olivier Awards are here!

On Tuesday, the Society of London Theatre announced nominations for this year's Laurence Olivier Awards, named after the late actor of the same name. Highlights among this year's nominees include Nicole Scherzinger, nominated for best actress in a musical for her performance in Sunset Boulevard, and Sarah Jessica Parker, who is nominated for best actress for Plaza Suite.

Other major celebrities nominated for awards Tuesday include David Tennant, who is nominated for best actor for his role in Macbeth; All of Us Strangers actor Andrew Scott, who is up for the same award for Vanya. Other nominees in that category include Joseph Fiennes (Dear England), Mark Gatiss (The Motive And The Cue) and James Norton (A Little Life).

Just two months after her 2023 Emmy Awards win for Succession, Sarah Snook is nominated alongside Parker, 58, for The Picture of Dorian Grey. Other actresses nominated in that best actress category include Laura Donnelly (The Hills of California), Sophie Okonedo (Medea) and Sheridan Smith (Shirley Valentine).

Parker's nomination for Plaza Suite, which costars husband Matthew Broderick, marks her first Olivier Award nomination. The pair previously starred in the production during a 2022 Broadway run.

Additionally, Snook, 36, received her first Olivier Award nomination Tuesday.

Scherzinger, 45, meanwhile, picked up her second nomination after previously earning a nod for best supporting actress for Cats in 2015.

Sunset Boulevard — a West End revival of the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical starring Scherzinger as Norma Desmond — is the most nominated musical production at this year's Olivier Awards, with 11 nominations including best musical revival.

Dear England, which stars Fiennes as the manager of England's national soccer team and scored 9 total nods, is the year's most nominated play.

Scherzinger explained to PEOPLE back in September why she chose to star in Sunset Boulevard in London over participating in season 11 of The Masked Singer. "This is where my talents truly lie. I’m still proving myself," she said at the time, noting that she was at first apprehensive when director Jamie Lloyd approached her about playing the musical's lead character.

"I didn’t get it, because I only ever had Glenn Close in my mind — and Gloria Swanson in the old film," she said. (Close originated the role on Broadway in 1993 and reprised the role on the West End and Broadway in 2016.)

"He was like, 'Don’t watch the movie, don’t listen to anybody else, just read the lines and listen to the music.' And when I did, I just fell in love with Norma. I didn’t realize that this is the role that I’ve been waiting to play all my life. We’re doing a completely different, new interpretation," said Scherzinger, who is set to lead the production's transfer to Broadway in 2024.

Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from celebrity news to compelling human interest stories.