Sanaya Irani's beauty secrets revealed! Here's everything you ever wanted to know about the Nach Baliye star contestant's skincare secrets.

Model-turned actress Sanaya Irani became popular on the small screen thanks to her major role in the Indian youth show Miley Jab Hum Tum, post the show she became a household name. The pretty actress is 33-year-old but she still has radiant skin and lovely tresses and manages to look flawless all the time. We had earlier shared with your Mouni Roy’s beauty secrets, here are some skincare secrets of the Nach Baliye star contestant Sanaya Irani.

Though Sanaya has flawless skin and great complexion, she follows a very simple skincare routine to take care of her skin. She follows the cleansing, toning and moisturizing routine thoroughly and also exfoliates her skin to keep it looking great.

Sanaya also believes that one drinking plenty of water and getting enough quality sleep also keeps her skin glowing. She keeps herself hydrated throughout the day and also loves to sleep to ensure that her body gets enough rest post her hectic work schedule.

She loves to pamper herself and indulges in spa treatments. She goes for a hair and body spa twice a month to rejuvenate her mind and to keep herself looking great. (ALSO READ Get Naagin actress Mouni Roy inspired makeup look! Watch video).

Though she has to put on makeup throughout her working hours, she does not like experimenting with brands. Sanaya prefers MAC when it comes to lipsticks and nail polishes, foundation by Chanel and blush by Maybelline as they suit her skin.

Sanaya also uses homemade remedies using herbal products as they do not have any harmful side effects on the skin. She makes a face mask natural ingredients such as wheat flower, milk cream, gram flour and curd and applies it on her face twice a week.

Found this story interesting? Like our Facebook page to read more such articles. Also, share your comments below. We would love to hear from you!

For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest Lifestyle News on India.com.