Every August 4th, traffic to the Borden plot in Oak Grove increases. Flowers, notes, stones, coins and other mementos are left at the grave site of Lizzie Borden. More rarely are the victims, the elderly couple, Andrew and Abby Borden remembered with tokens. The burial plot is easily found by following the black arrows painted on the asphalt to the left after passing under the Prospect Street arch.

William Almy , Andrew Borden’s business partner, and his family share the raised corner knoll. Head stones for Lizzie’s grandparents face out toward the road at the front of the lot.

Many individuals associated with the trial and with the Borden family, as well as friends and neighbors have found their final rest in Oak Grove.

Otis Skinner

Chances are slim today that the name of Otis Skinner or his daughter Cornelia would ring any bells except in the minds of students of the theatre. Otis Skinner, who enjoyed a successful career spanning fifty years, worked with the greats of the Charles Frohman stable of stars, the Immortal Madame Modjeska, and Edwin Booth, brother of the infamous John Wilkes Booth. Begining his work as a clerk, by age 18 he was begging his clergyman father for a theatre career. None other than P.T. Barnum. who knew the Skinners when they lived in Hartford, encouraged and supported Otis’ talent and potential for the stage. He is most remembered as a Shakespearian actor and for his great performance as the beggar in Kismet. He was a genial, gentle, friendly man- and much-loved by adoring fans. Cornelia was born into the business in Chicago in 1899 and debuted in her father’s acting company in 1921. The rest is history.

Cornelia inherited her father’s acting and writing genes and made her mark not only on the stage but in films, television, Broadway, and literary circles. She wrote for the New Yorker, and wrote, produced and starred in one-woman monologues based on famous and powerful women in history. Her amusing novel travelogue, Our Hearts Were Young And Gay was made into a successful Broadway play. The International Movie Data Base includes Cornelia’s filmography as follows by date:

The Swimmer (1968) [Actress …. Mrs. Hammar]

The Pleasure of His Company (1961) [Writer] (play)

“This Is Your Life: Charlie Ruggles” (1959) TV Episode [Actress …. Herself]

“What’s My Line?: (1959-03-29)” (1959) TV Episode [Actress …. Herself – Mystery Guest]

“What’s It For: (1957-10-12)” (1957) TV Episode [Self]

“The Alcoa Hour: Merry Christmas, Mr. Baxter (#2.5)” (1956) TV Episode [Actress …. Susan Baxter]

Max Liebman Presents: Dearest Enemy (1955) (TV) [Actress …. Mrs. Murray]

The Girl in the Red Velvet Swing (1955) [Actress …. Mrs. Thaw]

“Person to Person: (#2.40)” (1955) TV Episode [Actress …. Herself]

“Toast of the Town: (#7.8)” (1953) TV Episode [Actress …. Herself]

“Toast of the Town: (#5.32)” (1952) TV Episode [Actress …. Herself]

“General Electric Guest House: (1951-07-01)” (1951) TV Episode [Actress]

“Toast of the Town: (#4.14)” (1950) TV Episode [Actress …. Herself]

“Toast of the Town: (#4.7)” (1950) TV Episode [Actress …. Herself]

“This Is Show Business: (1950-04-30)” (1950) TV Episode [Actress …. Herself]

“The Girls” (1950) TV Series [Writer] (book “Our Hearts Were Young and Gay”)

… aka Young and Gay (original title (first two episodes title))

Our Hearts Were Young and Gay (1944) [Writer] (book)

The Uninvited (1944) [Actress …. Miss Holloway]

Stage Door Canteen (1943) [Actress …. Herself]

Kismet (1920) [Actress …. Miskah]

Cornelia married Manhattan stockbroker Alden Sanford Blodget- many thought an unlikely choice, and together they had one son. Cornelia Otis Skinner died in New York on July 9, 1979 and was buried beside her husband who had predeceased her by fifteen years. The mystery seems to be why Oak Grove- and why Fall River? R.I.P. – an amazing lady-and amazing career. Her grave is easily located on the hill just over the top of the Gothic-style mausoleum.

“Women keep a special corner of their hearts for sins they have never committed.”

“Woman’s virtue is man’s greatest invention.” Cornelia Otis Skinner

For many years, the small, tiled-roof building directly opposite to the office inside the main gate was used as a lavatory and lounge for the lady visitors to the cemetery, and a convenience during funerals for attendees. Currently it is a break room for cemetery staff. It once had the dubious distinction of being the space where the grisly autopsies of Abby and Andrew Borden took place under the eye of medical examiner, Dr. Dolan, city doctor J.H. Leary, Clerk of autopsy, D.E. Cone, and Dr. F.W. Draper of Boston who was called in by Attorney General Albert Pillsbury.

The stained glass lancet windows have been broken and are currently boarded up, but the original deep wainscotting, moldings, and lavatory tiles with a Greek key pattern are still intact.

Click on thumbnails for enlargements of wainscotting and tile

Long before the backhoe, the six-foot deep hole for the coffin had to be dug by hand with pickaxe and shovel. In the nineteenth century, during the iron cold winters in New England, sometimes it was necessary to store the coffin until the January thaw or Spring when the frost was out of the ground. There are several of these Egyptian Revival style holding tombs which were built into hills or mounds, each containing shelving on either side of the interior to hold 6-8 coffins. Today this particular tomb houses lawn mowing equipment. This holding tomb, which is at the west side of the cemetery near the main entrance, housed the two coffins of Abby and Andrew Borden for a week while city medical examiner, Dr. Dolan, arranged for a complete autopsy on the bodies to be held at Oak Grove in the Ladies Comfort Station. It was there that the two skulls were removed and held for trial evidence on August 11, 1892.