Next week there is the opportunity to ‘go behind the curtain’ at Wealden Crematorium. The public will be welcomed with an open day at the Wealden District Council-run facility on Wednesday 5th October between 11am-3pm.

Opened in 2019, the crematorium in Horam is set within 30 acres of beautiful landscaped grounds surrounded by wildflower meadows and woodland.

In addition to the crematorium – which has a ceremony hall that can seat more than 120 mourners, car parking for around 160 vehicles, services which can be relayed outside under cover via screens and speakers and webcast facilities – there are Gardens of Remembrance, vaults where ashes can rest peacefully and other memorials.

Since opening, more than 3,000 cremations have been held at the venue as more people choose the tranquil setting Wealden Crematorium offers rather than the increasingly busy crematoriums in neighbouring towns outside the district.

Wealden Crematorium helps charity with ICCM Metals Recucling Scheme

The crematorium has also donated more than £40,000 to various charities in the district through the ICCM Metals Recycling Scheme which, with written consent, allows bereaved families to donate metals after a cremation.

Councillor Pam Doodes, Wealden’s community and public health portfolio holder said, “Death is still a difficult subject for many of us to talk about, so for many hosting an open day at a crematorium may, at first, seem a little feel strange.

“The reason we are opening our doors to the public is to give an opportunity for people, from Wealden, East Sussex and further afield to come, take a look and ask questions to staff in a relaxed and friendly way atmosphere.”

Featured Business - Heathfield

Thorpe Gardens

Established in 1955 by the Dutch de Bruin family, Thorpe Gardens is known locally for their high-quality local produce and wide variety of specialty plants. Drawing on the experience of three generations, the retail nursery has brought colour and life into thousands of Sussex gardens over the last 69 years. Trading as a retail nursery, rather than as a garden centre, you can expect to find more plants and trees than cake and teas, and the passion for horticulture is integral to the business. You can always find a wide selection of plants available to integrate into your garden ready for the next season, many of which are grown locally, if not on the premises. We grow an extensive catalogue of plants and trees,. Thorpe Gardens: “We Grow and Sell”.