Place of Birth: Santa Barbara, California, U.S.

Date of Birth: September 18, 2001

Ethnicity:

*Ashkenazi Jewish (mother)

Luke Mullen is an American actor, filmmaker, director, and environmentalist.

Luke’s paternal grandmother likely is named Frances M.

Luke’s maternal grandfather was Stephen Bernard Canin (the son of Samuel Canin and Anna Goldberg). Stephen was born in New York. Samuel and Anna were born in New York, and were of European Jewish descent.

Luke’s maternal grandmother was Pearl Honig (the daughter of Solomon Honig and Yetta). Pearl was born in New York, to Austrian Jewish parents.

Place of Birth: New York, U.S.

Date of Birth: August 27, 2007

Ethnicity: Ashkenazi Jewish, Hispanic

Ariana Greenblatt is an American actress.

She is the daughter of Solimar and Shon Greenblatt, an actor.

Ariana’s paternal grandfather was named Kenneth David Greenblatt (the son of Doris).

Ariana’s paternal grandmother was named Sandra B. Benson (the daughter of Stanley Benson and Marie R.).

Ariana’s maternal grandparents were named Luis I. Colon and Sarah Justina O.

Source: Obituary of Ariana’s paternal great-aunt – https://obits.lohud.com

Birth Name: Noah L. Hathaway

Place of Birth: Los Angeles, California, United States

Date of Birth: November 13, 1971

Ethnicity:

*Ashkenazi Jewish (mother)

Noah Hathaway is an American actor. He is known for playing the warrior Atreyu in the film The Neverending Story, and for his role in Troll. Atryeu is a Native American-influenced character.

His father is actor Robert Hathaway. Robert is said to have Mohawk Native American ancestry. It is not clear if this is accurate.

Noah’s mother is Ashkenazi Jewish.

Noah’s maternal grandfather was Leon Ringler (the son of Saul Ringler and Hannah Jarmark). Leon was a Jewish emigrant from Naklo, Przemsyl, then in the Austro-Hungarian Empire, now in Poland. Saul was born in Chemitz. Hannah was the daughter of Isaac Jarmark and Frimet Neger.

Noah’s maternal grandmother was Lily/Lilly Ganca (the daughter of Frank/Francisco Ganka/Ganca and Regina Jackson). Lily was born in Montevideo, Montevideo Department, Uruguay. Frank was born in Brazil, to Russian Jewish parents, Morris Ganka and Toby. Regina was also Jewish.

Sources: Genealogy of Noah Hathaway (focusing on his mother’s side) – https://www.geni.com

Death record of Noah’s maternal great-grandfather, Frank/Francisco Ganka/Ganca – https://www.familysearch.org

Place of Birth: Los Angeles, California, U.S.

Date of Birth: March 30, 1997

Ethnicity:

*father – German

*maternal grandfather – Ashkenazi Jewish

*maternal grandmother – English (converted to Judaism)

Gideon Adlon is an American actress. She is the daughter of actress, screenwriter, producer, and director Pamela Adlon and Felix O. Adlon. Her sister is actress Odessa Adlon.

Gideon’s paternal grandfather is German director Percy Adlon (the son of Rudolf Laubenthal and Susanne Adlon). Rudolf was born in Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, North Rhine-Westphalia. Susanne was the daughter of Ludwig/Louis Anton Adlon, from Mainz, Darmstadt, Rhineland-Palatinate, and of Tilly.

Gideon’s maternal grandfather was Donald Maxwell “Don” Segall (the son of Harry Segall and Esther Fox). Donald was born in Massachusetts. Harry was born in Massachusetts, to Jewish parents from Russia/Ukraine, Frank Morton Segall and Fanny/Fannie Gussinoff. Esther was a Russian Jewish immigrant, and was the daughter of Morris Fox and Bessie Kantrovitz.

Gideon’s maternal grandmother is named Marina L. Marina was born in England. She converted to Judaism.

Sources: Genealogy of Gideon Adlon – https://www.geni.com

Death record of Gideon’s maternal grandfather, Donald Maxwell “Don” Segall – https://familysearch.org

Gideon’s maternal great-grandfather, Harry Segall, on the 1930 U.S. Census – https://familysearch.org

Date of Birth: c. 1993

Ethnicity:

*Ashkenazi Jewish (father)

*English, some Irish (mother)

David Corenswet is an American actor. He is known for co-starring on the show The Politian.

His father, John Corenswet, had been a stage actor.

David’s paternal grandfather was Sam J. Corenswet, Jr. (the son of Samuel/Sam Corenswet and Hilda Seelig). David’s grandfather Sam was born in Louisiana. David’s great-grandfather Sam was a Russian Jewish immigrant, and was the son of Solomon Corenswet and Rosa Rabinowitz. Hilda was born in Louisiana, the daughter of Philipp Wolf Seelig, a German Jewish immigrant, and of Dora Bertha Lazarus, who was born in Louisiana, to German Jewish parents.

David’s paternal grandmother was Ann/Anne R. Schornstein (the daughter of Richard Schornstein and Sarah Cecile Alcus). Ann was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. Richard was born in Texas, the son of Simel/Samuel Schornstein, who was a Jewish emigrant, from Welitchka, Austria, and of Emma Bonart, who was born in New York, to Jewish emigrant parents, her father from Krakow, Poland, and her mother from Schwerin, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Germany. Sarah was born in Louisiana, the daughter of Samuel/Sam T. Alcus, who was born in Louisiana, to German Jewish parents, and of Felicie/Felicia/Falicia Levy, who was born in Louisiana, to a German Jewish father and a French Jewish mother.

David’s maternal grandfather is author, lawyer, essayist, and poet Edward Packard (Edward B. Packard, Jr., the son of Edward Burtt Packard and Charlotte Eden/Stenson Burne). David’s grandfather Edward was born in New York, and created the concept for the Choose Your Own Adventure books. David’s great-grandfather Edward was born in Roslindale, Massachusetts, the son of Edward Henry Packard and Lillian Edna Burtt, who was born in Nova Scotia, Canada. Charlotte was the daughter of Richard Cotton Walker Burne, who was born in Dublin, Ireland; and of Charlotte Anna Stinson.

David’s maternal grandmother was Rosa Covington (the daughter of Robert Wells Covington and Rosa Robinson Barret). David’s grandmother Rosa was born in New York, to parents from Kentucky. Robert was the son of Robert Wells Covington and Mary Wickliffe Cooper. David’s great-grandmother Rosa was the daughter of Mason Wilson Brown Barret and Rosa Johnston Robinson.

Sources: Genealogy of David Corenswet (focusing on his father’s side) – https://www.geni.com

Marriage record of David’s paternal grandparents, Sam J. Corenswet, Jr. and Ann/Anne R. Schornstein – https://www.familysearch.org

David’s paternal grandfather, Sam J. Corenswet, Jr., on the 1930 U.S. Census – https://www.familysearch.org

Marriage records of David’s paternal great-grandparents, Samuel/Sam Corenswet and Hilda Seelig – https://www.familysearch.org

https://www.familysearch.org

David’s paternal great-grandmother, Hilda Seelig, on the 1900 U.S. Census – https://www.familysearch.org

Genealogy of David’s father (focusing on his own mother’s side) – https://www.ics.uci.edu

Marriage record of David’s paternal great-grandparents, Richard Schornstein and Sarah Cecile Alcus – https://www.familysearch.org

David’s paternal great-great-grandparents, Samuel/Sam T. Alcus and Felicie/Felicia/Falicia Levy, on the 1930 U.S. Census – https://www.familysearch.org

Marriage record of David’s maternal great-grandparents, Edward Burtt Packard and Charlotte Eden Rurne – https://www.familysearch.org

David’s maternal great-grandparents, Edward Burtt Packard and Charlotte Eden Burne, on the 1920 U.S. Census – https://www.familysearch.org

Birth records of David’s maternal great-grandmother, Charlotte Stenson Burne – https://www.familysearch.org

https://www.familysearch.org

Marriage records of David’s maternal great-great-grandparents, Richard Cotton Walker Burne and Charlotte Anna Stinson – https://www.familysearch.org

https://www.familysearch.org

https://www.familysearch.org

Obituary of David’s maternal grandmother, Rosa (Covington) Packard – https://www.cpti.ws

Birth Name: Madeleine Arbi Cornman

Place of Birth: Manhattan, New York, U.S.

Date of Birth: August 15, 1969

Ethnicity: Ashkenazi Jewish

Maddie Corman is an American actress. She is the daughter of Irene Kerman and Michael A. Cornman.

Maddie’s paternal grandfather was Noah Cornman (the son of Charles Cornman and Jennie). Noah was born in New York, to Russian Jewish parents.

Maddie’s paternal grandmother was named Jessie.

Maddie’s maternal grandfather was Murry Kerman (the son of Louis David Kerman and Yetta Haker). Louis was the son of Moses Kerman and Annie Eioler. Yetta was the daughter of Baruch Haker and Lea Traner.

Maddie’s maternal grandmother was Lillian Shapiro (the daughter of Sam Shapiro and Freda Rashkin). Sam was the son of Selig Shapiro and Bluma Gold. Freda was the daughter of Israel Rashkin and Jenny.

Sources: Maddie’s paternal grandfather, Noah Cornman, on the 1920 U.S. Census – https://www.familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:MJT2-2RP

Genealogy of Maddie’s mother – https://www.geni.com/people/Irene-Cornman/6000000058767176146

Place of Birth: Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada (likely)

Date of Birth: c. October 1997

Ethnicity: Ashkenazi Jewish (one quarter), German, Scandinavian, Welsh, Irish

Nick Wolfhard is a Canadian actor and musician. His brother is actor Finn Wolfhard.

Nick’s brother Finn has said:

…Wolfhard means, I think, heart of the wolf in German. What’s funny is I’m German, but then I’m like French – I’m French and German and then Jewish. It’s really weird. I have really weird blood. And then I go to Catholic school, which is really weird.

Finn has also specified:

My mother was adopted by a family of French, Irish, British and Canadian descent. My mother’s birth mother was from Wales and Ireland, but she didn’t know anything about her birth. Eventually, through genetic testing, my mom found out she was half-Jewish. On the other hand, my father thought he was Jewish, but found out he was actually from Germany and Scandinavia. My dad converted to Catholicism in his 40s, so the past year, he’s been attending Catholic school. It’s pretty complicated, but this is my background.

Nick’s maternal great-great-aunt was silent film and theatre actress Rita Jolivet.

Nick likely is descended from John Wolfgang Wolfhard, who was born, in 1903, in Bichofingen, Germany. John was the son of Karl Adolf Wolfhard and Mathilde Guth. Mathilde was a pastor’s daughter.

Nick’s paternal grandparents are named Michael Richard Wolfhard and Nora.

Nick’s adoptive maternal grandfather was Lawrence Charles LaTouche Jolivet (the son of Alfred Eugene Jolivet and Beatrice Wilhelmina Theodora LaTouche, later known as Trixie Witherbee). Nick’s grandfather Lawrence was born in Dieppe, France, and was raised at least partially in Stowe, England. Lawrence was president of the British Columbia Liberal Association. Nick’s great-grandfather Alfred was born in Richmond, Surrey, England, the son of parents from Paris, France, Charles Eugene Jolivet, who owned vineyards in France, and Pauline Hélène Vaillant/Vaillent/Valunt, a concert musician, whose own mother was of Welsh descent. Alfred’s sister was actress Rita Jolivet. Nick’s great-grandmother Beatrice was born in London, England, the daughter of James LaTouche/La Touche and Mary May Cummings/Cummins/Crimmins.

Nick’s adoptive maternal grandmother was Patricia Mary “Trish” Lynch (the daughter of Arthur Louis Lynch and Janet Hunter Elizabeth Doughty). Patricia was born in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. Arthur was born in Carleton, Ontario, Canada, of Irish descent, and was the son of William Joseph/John Lynch and Ann Josephine “Annie” Mullin. Janet was born in Wanstead, Essex, England, and was the daughter of George Bell/Sell Doughty and Janet Hunter Kerr, who was of Scottish descent.

Sources: History of the Wolfhard family – http://www.wolfhard.info

Article about Nick’s great-great-aunt, silent film actress Rita Jolivet – http://nightcrawlervideos.blogspot.com

Genealogy of Nick Wolfhard (focusing on his mother’s side) – https://www.geni.com

Marriage announcement of Nick’s maternal grandparents, Lawrence Charles LaTouche Jolivet and Patricia Mary Lynch – https://www.newspapers.com

Obituary of Nick’s maternal grandfather, Lawrence Charles LaTouche Jolivet – https://www.legacy.com

Marriage record of Nick’s maternal great-grandparents, Alfred Eugene Jolivet and Beatrice Wilhelmina Theodora (LaTouche) Witherbee – https://www.familysearch.org

Marriage records of Nick’s maternal great-great-grandparents, Charles Eugene Jolivet and Pauline Hélène Vaillant/Vaillent/Valunt – https://www.familysearch.org

https://www.familysearch.org

Genealogy of Nick’s maternal great-grandmother, Beatrice Wilhelmina Theodora LaTouche (focusing on her mother’s side) – https://www.geni.com

Death record of Nick’s maternal great-grandmother, Beatrice Wilhelmina Theodora (LaTouche) Witherbee Jolivet – https://www.familysearch.org

Death record of Nick’s maternal grandmother, Patricia Mary “Trish” (Lynch) Jolivet – https://www.familysearch.org

Birth Name: Jason Lawrence Olive

Place of Birth: Los Angeles, California, U.S.

Date of Birth: February 10, 1972

Ethnicity:

*African-American (father)

*Irish, Ashkenazi Jewish (mother)

Jason Olive is an American actor and model.

Jason is a cousin of actress Monique Gabriela Curnen. Jason’s mother and Monique’s father are siblings.

Jason is said to also have Chippewa (Ojibwe) Native American ancestry. It is not clear whether this ancestry has been documented/verified.

Jason’s paternal grandfather was Lewis/Louis Cortez Olive (the son of Hugh Olive and Mary Dunlap). Lewis was born in Tennessee, and was listed as “Negro” on the 1930 U.S. Census. Mary was born in Tennessee.

Jason’s paternal grandmother was Catherine Brown (the daughter of Henry Brown and Catherine Page). Jason’s grandmother Catherine was born in Kentucky, and was listed as “Negro” on the 1930 U.S.

Jason’s maternal grandfather was named Frank L. Curnen (the son of Edward Charles Curnen and Florence Mayer). Frank was born in Connecticut. Edward was born in New York, to Irish parents, Luke Curnen and Annie Doyle. Florence was born in New York, the daughter of Max/William Mayer, who was a German Jew, from Oberissenheim, Hessia, and of Sarah Rice, who was also Jewish.

Jason’s maternal grandmother was Mary/Marietta A. Atkinson (the daughter of Matthew Attkinson and Mary E. Kehoe). Mary was born in Illinois. Matthew was born in Illinois, the son of Matthew Attkinson, whose parents were Irish, and of Sarah Ann Nolan, whose parents were Irish. Mary was born in Illinois, the daughter of John Kehoe, whose parents were Irish, and of Mary E. Carolan, whose parents were Irish.

Sources: Marriage record of Jason’s paternal grandparents, Lewis Cortez Olive and Catherine Brown – http://www.familysearch.org

Obituary of Jason’s maternal grandfather, Frank L. Curnen – http://www.newspapers.com

Birth Name: Lisa Lenore Hanawalt

Place of Birth: Palo Alto, California, U.S.

Date of Birth: June 19, 1983

Ethnicity:

*German, English, Irish (father)

*Ashkenazi Jewish (mother)

Lisa Hanawalt is an American illustrator, writer, and cartoonist.

Her parents are biologists Graciela Spivak and Philip Hanawalt. Lisa’s mother was born in Argentina, into an Ukrainian Jewish family from Odessa.

Lisa’s paternal grandfather is Joseph Donald Hanawalt (the son of Daniel Replogle Hanawalt and Augusta Preston). Joseph was born in Pennsylvania. Daniel was born in Pennsylvania, the son of George Swigart Hanawalt and Barbara Brumbaugh Replogle. Augusta was born in New Jersey.

Lisa’s paternal grandmother is Lenore Smith (the daughter of Charles Courtland Smith and Lavena “Vena” Lautzenhiser). Lenore was born in Illinois. Charles was born in Tennessee, the son of Charles Coffin Smith and Frances Adelaide Anderson. Lavena was born in Indiana, the daughter of Dennis Lautzenhiser and Mary Ellen Ulsh.

Source: Genealogy of Lisa’s paternal grandparents, Joseph Donald Hanawalt and Lenore Smith – http://www.familysearch.org