The Journal of American College Health is the only scholarly publication devoted entirely to college students’ health.

Published bi-monthly by Taylor & Francis Group in cooperation with ACHA, this prize-winning journal covers developments and research in this broad field, including clinical and preventive medicine, health promotion, environmental health and safety, nursing assessment, interventions, management, pharmacy, and sports medicine. The journal regularly publishes major articles on student behaviors, mental health, and health care policies and includes a section for discussion of controversial issues.

Authorized ACHA members will receive an emailed link to access JACH online, as well as full access to the journal’s archives. An additional fee applies if you would like to receive mailed hard copy issues of the journal. Please check with your member representative if you are at a member school to see if all complimentary journal slots have been filled. If available, they can add you to the online journal list via the Roster Manager for free. Otherwise, there is a small fee.

Additional Information

Submissions

Instructions for Authors

Online submission website

Case Reports

The Journal of American College Health seeks to publish cases with clinically valuable lessons for college health professionals. Therefore, we encourage submissions that outline cases which present a diagnostic, ethical, or management challenge, or that highlight aspects of mechanisms of injury, pharmacology, or histopathology that are deemed of particular educational value for college health professionals. These papers are limited in length to 2,000 words (excluding the title page, abstract, acknowledgments, references, tables, and figures).

Case Reports may address, but are not limited to:

Important clinical lessons learned from practice

Emerging pathogenesis pertinent to college health

Lessons learned from practice

Rare conditions

Novel diagnostic criteria or measurement practices

Please consult the journal’s Instructions for Authors for full submissions requirements.

Brief Reports

Brief Reports may fall into one of two categories:

Describe new methods, techniques, or topics of general interest to the field of college health

Present the results of experiments/investigations that can be concisely reported with up to one table or figure.

These papers are limited in length to 2,000 words (excluding the title page, abstract, acknowledgments, references, tables, and figures). Overall, Brief Reports are intended to highlight interesting findings that do not warrant the space required of an original article.

Viewpoint

Viewpoint is a forum for opinions. Topics may be ethical, organizational, social, professional, or economic. Debate on controversial subjects is welcome. Manuscripts vary from 4 to 10 pages (1,000–2,500 words), but we prefer concise presentations. Tables and figures are unnecessary. References should follow the same format as that used in major articles.

Advertising

Contact Jeff Leonard.

Permission Requests

Contact Taylor and Francis Permissions Department.

Other Inquiries

JACH Managing Editor: Melody Harris

Associate Editor: Larry Olsen

JACH Cover Photos: A Showcase of Student Health and Wellness Centers

From 2006-2020, a student health or wellness center was pictured on the cover of each issue of the journal, along with a written description of the facility, including services provided, something about how it came to be built or fits into campus life, architectural facts, its history, etc. JACH Photo Editor Ted W. Grace, MD, MPH, former director of Student Health Services at Southern Illinois University Carbondale, led this project and solicited contributions from campuses everywhere. As the JACH moved to a primarily digital publication, the cover series was retired.

Please explore these covers here: