New Forest West MP Sir Desmond Swayne, formerly Mr Cameron's parliamentary private secretary, was speaking after the leaking of the apparent list sparked a row over alleged "cronyism".

Opposition MPs have called for a complete overhaul of the system after it was claimed the former PM is pushing to reward personal aides, political donors, and senior figures on the losing Remain campaign.

But Prime Minister Theresa May will not interfere with the official process of approving her predecessor David Cameron's resignation honours list despite allegations of cronyism, Downing Street has said.

Sir Desmond said: ''The reality is with any honours list there are names that will warm our hearts and names that will send us into an apoplectic rage."

Mr Watson called for resignation honours to be abolished.

He said: "I would abolish resignation honours and I think the significance of this list, the reason it's causing so much difficulty is that Desmond Swayne, a former minister, has let the cat out of the bag today.

"He said this is a way for David Cameron to pay his political debts to his allies. Look, the honours system isn't supposed to be like that, is it? It's supposed to reward unprecedented public service."

The row was sparked by reports that Mr Cameron had recommended knighthoods for four pro-EU cabinet colleagues, Philip Hammond, Michael Fallon, Patrick McLoughlin, and David Lidington.

Mr Cameron also requested a companion of honour award for George Osborne, who was dismissed as chancellor by Prime Minister Theresa May, according to reports.

Will Straw, head of the failed official pro-Remain campaign was proposed for a CBE, and more than 20 Downing Street staff were recommended for awards, according to the report.

Among those reported to be recommended for OBEs is Isabel Spearman, who helped Samantha Cameron with her diary and outfits for various engagements.

It was also claimed Mr Cameron recommended knighthoods for major Tory donors Ian Taylor and Andrew Cook.