Quicksand – Streaming Exclusively on Shudder

Film Premieres Friday 14 July

An American couple, on the brink of divorce, travel to Colombia for a work conference. While on a hike through the rainforest, a storm causes them to become trapped in a pit of quicksand. Unable to move, it becomes a struggle for survival as they battle the elements of the jungle and a venomous snake, in order to escape. Starring Carolina Gaitan (Encanto) and Allan Hawco (Tom Clancy’s Jack Ryan).

Sharksploitation – Streaming Exclusively on Shudder

Film Premieres Friday 21 July

In the wake of blockbuster classic Jaws, a new subgenre was born. This new documentary explores the weird, wild cinematic legacy of sharks on film and the world’s undying fascination. From director-producer Stephen Scarlata (Jodorowsky’s Dune).

Etheria Film Night 2023 – Streaming Exclusively on Shudder

Films Premiere Sunday 2 July through Monday 31 July

The acclaimed annual horror festival showcasing new horror, science fiction and fantasy films directed by women celebrates its 10th anniversary this year with the official festival line-up once again streaming exclusively on Shudder from July 2 through to July 31.

NEW ADDITIONS TO SHUDDER’S FILM LIBRARY

July 3

Day of the Dead (1985) – As the world is overrun by zombies, a group of scientists and military personnel sheltering in an underground bunker in Florida must determine how they should deal with the undead horde.

July 10

Baby Blood – When a strange creature crawls into a woman’s uterus, she becomes a killer in order to feed the tiny terror growing within her.

July 13

The Price We Pay – After a pawn shop robbery goes askew, two criminals take refuge at a remote farmhouse to try to let the heat die down but find something much more menacing.

July 17

Contorted – A family moves to a quiet and isolated place but suffers from nightmares on their very first day in the new home. The wife is anxious about a strange sound she hears in the warehouse, but her husband ignores her concerns. Meanwhile, the family’s nightmares are getting worse, to the point that they can hardly tell the difference between dreams and reality.

July 24

A Bittersweet Life -Things go wrong for a high-ranking mobster when he doesn’t proceed by his boss’s order.

Oldboy (2003) – After being kidnapped and imprisoned for fifteen years, Oh Dae-Su is released, only to learn that he must find his captor in five days.

Dead of Night (1945) – Guests invited to a weekend in the country share their supernatural stories, beginning with Walter Craig, who senses impending doom as his half-remembered recurring dream turns into reality.