DANIEL GERROLL is DR GLAS in JEFFREY HATCHER’S adaptation of the classic Swedish novel by HJALMAR SÖDERBERG. When you read this psychological thriller with its dashes of philosophical musings woven into intricate and intimate journal entries, DR GLAS stays deeply embedded in the imagination. Published in 1905 in Swedish it wasn’t until 1963 that there was an available English translation. In 1942 it was adapted for a film in black and white by Rune Carlsten and in 1968 Mai Zetterling directed a Danish version in color. Various stage adaptations have appeared all over Northern Europe but this adaptation by JEFFREY HATCHER, performed by DANIEL GERROLL, is the first serious American version.

“Award-winning British television and screen actor Daniel Gerroll (“The Blacklist” and “Chariots of Fire”) gives a captivating performance that delivers on all counts in his portrayal of an unfulfilled and alienated man whose initial joy in finding passion becomes obsession and ultimately menace. – Culture Vulture

WHERE: Whippoorwill Hall

North Castle Library

Kent Place

Armonk 10504

**(See note below if you are not familiar with this location already)

WHEN: May 7 – 12, 2024

(5 Performances, Tues.-Sun.)

5/7 at 7 p.m. (Talk Back)

5/8 at 2 p.m (Talk Back)

5/8 at 7 p.m (Talk Back)

5/9 at 7 p.m. (Talk Back)

5/12 at 7 p.m. (Talk Back)

The show is approximately 90 minutes long with no intermission

TICKETS:

Adults: $35

Seniors: $30

Seniors/Students/Veterans: $25

**Due to our new ticketing platform which allows for reserved seating, there is a fee added at checkout.

TALK BACKS: Participate in a unique discussion with the actors to learn their

perspectives about this provocative play. (Approximately

20 minutes in duration, immediately following each show).

*PLEASE NOTE:*

Parking is available at the North Castle Library

DOORS OPEN 30 MINUTES PRIOR TO SHOWTIME AND WE WILL NOT BE SEATING PEOPLE PRIOR.

If you would like to come early, we recommend grabbing a drink or cappuccino at our neighbors, Amore!

Talk backs will occur immediately after the show and will last approximately 20 min.

For those traveling from New York City, the closest train station is North White Plains and Uber is available both to and from the theatre. Here are a few tips:

The North White Plains train station is approximately 11 minutes away from the theatre

It is recommended you allow approx. 15 minutes for an Uber to arrive so please plan and request accordingly.

FYI: If you are not already familiar with the North Castle Library’s location, sometimes there is an issue with the googling the library’s address (which is technically 19 EAST Whippoorwill Road, Armonk). It might help to input Amore Pizza,, which shares a parking lot with the library, to make sure you are headed to the right place.

CONTACT:

Email: Info@KatonahClassicStage.com

Phone: 844-527-7469