BADIL Resource Center held its 4th Annual International Mobilization Course from 23 July – 2 August 2023 which was attended by 17 people from around the world involved in advocacy and mobilization for Palestinian rights.

The aim of the course is to enhance and strengthen international mobilization through increasing participants’ advocacy skills and knowledge, while giving them the opportunity to gain an in-depth understanding of the colonial-apartheid reality in Palestine.

During the 10-day period, participants were provided with legal analysis, workshops and lectures to understand the situation from an international law perspective as well as on the ground testimonies and field visits.

Through lectures and workshops, BADIL presented its rights-based approach to the question of Palestine, founded upon its legal analysis that Israel is perpetuating one system of domination with 3 pillars: forcible transfer, colonization and apartheid. BADIL also proposed a rigorous rights-based decolonization framework as the solution for justice and true peace.

The accuracy of BADIL’s analysis was evidenced through field visits across Mandatory Palestine to show the varying degrees of colonization and apartheid where Palestinian locals gave testimony to their oppression. The field visits’ locations included Aida Refugee Camp, Al Walaja, Jerusalem, the Old City of Hebron, the Jordan Valley, Haifa, Nazareth, the Naqab and many others.

Testimonies were heard from the descendant of survivors of Al Tantura massacre, Palestinian youth with Israeli citizenship experiencing Israelization and the challenges facing the fishermen of Jisr Al Zarqa, as well as many others.

The International Mobilization Course is an annual project within BADIL’s international advocacy program targeting activists, lawyers, scholars, and human rights defenders abroad working in solidarity for Palestinian inalienable rights. Through this course, BADIL relies heavily on its partnerships and relationships with Palestinian civil society - both community-based organizations and individuals. We would like to thank all the Palestinians that provided interventions for the course for your time, support and resilience.