Director: Rupert Wyatt; Screenwriter: William Monahan; Starring: Mark Wahlberg, Jessica Lange, John Goodman, Brie Larson, Michael K Williams, Alvin Ing, Anthony Kelley; Running time: 111 mins; Certificate: 15

Crime pays but blackjack most certainly doesn't in The Gambler, a so-so existential thriller based on the cult '70s film starring James Caan. Mark Wahlberg doesn't look too comfortable in those hand-me-down shoes, or with the tousled hair that is supposed to imply hours spent scratching his head over thoughts of his own mortality and the complete works of William Shakespeare.

He is no-one's idea of a literature professor and yet, that's the day job of James Bennett, whose nights are spent in high-stakes gambling dens run by Korean gangsters. The joy of winning is always short-lived because his next move is an all-or-nothing bet that leaves him with, guess what - nothing, except the threat of imminent death. It's this compulsion that tips the film into Albert Camus territory (he cites The Outsider in one of his lectures) because Bennett doesn't care whether he lives or dies, feeling his life is meaningless anyway.

Wahlberg can deliver a soliloquy on life as a game of chance with rat-a-tat rhythm, but he walks and talks like he's too cool for school, never properly conveying the deep well of angst that he keeps banging on about.

Jessica Lange provides the only hot-blooded turn as Bennett's mother, a formidable matriarch who has survived James's father and holds the keys to a sizeable family fortune. It's a terrible burden because she struggles to say no when the prodigal son comes cap in hand for upwards of a quarter-of-a-million dollars owed to Korean kingpin Mr Lee (Alvin Ing) and a good old-fashioned gangster who uses the King of Spades for a business card (Michael K Williams, Omar from The Wire).

In accordance with a standard formula, Bennett has seven days to pay up, or else... except that having little regard for his own life changes the stakes. British director Rupert Wyatt (Rise of the Planet of the Apes) keeps upping the tempo with fast cuts and bloody fistfights, but unfortunately he doesn't present a good enough case for Bennett to keep breathing.

That's partly miscasting. Wahlberg can deliver a soliloquy on life as a game of chance with rat-a-tat rhythm, but he walks and talks like he's too cool for school, never properly conveying the deep well of angst that he keeps banging on about.

John Goodman rivals him with some philosophical musings of his own, playing the veteran wise-guy whose untouchability is visualised in semi-nakedness at a sauna where he considers a deal to consolidate Bennett's debts. This is another bad move, but the vicious circularity of Bennett's problem is the essence of the story.

Still, it's hard to manage for Wyatt without lapsing into monotony. A get-rich-quick scheme that puts one of Bennett's students at risk (Anthony Kelley) throws a spoke in the wheel but it comes too late in the day, while his sterile romance with teacher's pet Amy (Brie Larson) is an afterthought.

Eventually, there is a break in the cycle, but when it does occur, that too feels like an empty gesture designed purely to try and satisfy a mainstream audience. The original film wasn't a box office hit, perhaps because there was no compromise at the end. At least that was staying true to the character, whereas this version (that credits original writer James Toback) is likely to falter mostly because Wyatt bet on the wrong horse.