(AUS) Queensland bikie cops accused of overreacting

Queensland police's anti-bikie squad has been accused of overreacting after a former gang member's house was raided and he was arrested over a drug driving offence.

The 41-year-old man and two younger men were arrested on Tuesday after police from task force Maxima allegedly found an SKS semi-automatic rifle, ammunition and methamphetamines at the Northgate address in Brisbane's north.

In a statement on Wednesday, police alleged Scott Robert Paton was a member of the motorcycle gang Highway 61 and said he had been charged with possessing ammunition and failing to appear in court.

However, when Paton faced the Brisbane Magistrates Court, the ammunitions charge had vanished and there was no mention of his gang association.

Paton's lawyer Debbie Kilroy said her client quit the bikie gang some time ago, and he'd been charged with failing to show up in court over a drug driving offence.

Ms Kilroy told the court Paton claims never to have received the notice to appear in June following a roadside swab that allegedly tested positive for amphetamines.

He was released on bail after his case was adjourned until January 30.

Outside court, Ms Kilroy said police were reacting to a public fear of bikies that was being whipped up by news reports.

"When we see men being charged for minor offences or fail to appear warrants that are not doing anything wrong, and when 10, 12 taskforce Maxima (officers) come at them with guns, that's a pretty scary event, not just for my client but for those in the community that witness that," she told reporters.

A 23-year-old man charged with possessing a weapon and drugs had his case adjourned until Thursday, while a 28-year-old man who was charged with drug possession is due to appear in court next month.

http://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/queensland/queensland-bikie-cops-accused-of-overreacting-20131120-2xv2k.html#ixzz2lEzgHirc

↧

↧

(USA) Dothan police captain lost job over association with an outlaw motorcycle gxxg

DOTHAN, Alabama -- A Dothan police captain was terminated after the department learned he was a known associate of an outlaw motorcycle gang.

The Dothan Eagle is reporting former captain Keith Gray’s name surfaced as part of an assault investigation involving the Outcast motorcycle club.

Dothan Police Chief Gregory Benton testified at an appeal hearing of Gray’s termination that an internal inquiry was started out of a concern of the criminal activity in the gang, the newspaper reported.

The former captain who worked for the department for nearly 30 years is not accused of criminal activity.

Gray is contesting his termination and in his hearing Tuesday said he didn’t think about the motorcycle group being involved in criminal activity. He wasn’t at the club house when an assault occurred there that sparked the police investigation.

Dothan officials also said Gray’s grounds for termination also included the viewing of a pornographic website with his work cell phone and using departmental computer programs for personal use.

http://blog.al.com/montgomery/2013/11/dothan_police_captain_lost_job.html

↧

(USA) Chief says he ordered inquiry as part of assault investigation

Dothan’s police chief said he ordered an internal inquiry into a former police captain after his name surfaced as part of an assault investigation involving a local motorcycle club.

Chief Gregory Benton said former police captain Keith Gray’s name was one of two that surfaced as part of an investigation into an assault.

Benton testified Tuesday during an appeal hearing of Gray's termination from the department held in front of the Dothan City Personnel Board. Benton said Gray’s name came up as a known associate of the outlaw motorcycle gang called Outcast.

“It’s a concern because of the criminal element of a one percent (outlaw) motorcycle gang,” Benton said. “It looks very bad that he associates with known felons. It could very well affect our working relationship with the public.”

Benton did not order an internal inquiry into the second officer mentioned because he was told the officer was no longer a part of the motorcycle club.

As part of the city’s evidence for the termination , City Attorney Len White played a video of Dothan police officers telling one of the assault suspects he could 'take care' of the pending charge against him if he gave them the name or names of police officers possibly associated with an outlaw motorcycle gang.

White told the personnel board Gray’s termination stemmed from his direct association with a known outlaw motorcycle gang.

“We are not alleging and never have alleged he has committed a crime,” White said. “He had knowledge he was directly associated with an outlaw motorcycle gang.”

Gray said he received a blessing from the Outcast Motorcycle Club because motorcycle clubs are often territorial.

“I went to Bessemer to talk with a person who is a member of Outcast,” Gray said. “I never thought about his club being engaged in criminal activity.”

Gray is contesting his termination with the assistance of Birmingham attorney Sonya Edwards.

The hearing started with Delvick McKay, the city’s personnel director, outlining the city’s grounds for terminating Gray. Gray was fired a couple of months ago from the department after serving nearly 30 years.

McKay read the grounds for termination, which included conduct unbecoming of an officer, membership of organizations, electronic messaging, truthfulness and a code of ethics violation dubbed ‘private life.’

McKay said the charges stemmed from police responding to an assault call at the “Outcast Motorcycle Club” located at 414 N. Appletree St. in late August. Police charged eight men with felony assault from a fight at the clubhouse that night.

Benton said Gray was not at the clubhouse on the night of the assault.

McKay said the grounds for Gray’s termination also involved the inappropriate viewing of a pornographic website with the department - issued cell phone, along with using departmental computer programs for personal use.

Personnel Board member Earl Tyson asked Gray if he knew any of the eight suspects arrested from the nightclub fight. Gray said he knew four of the men because of their involvement in motorcycle clubs, particularly ones prior to their joining the Outcast club.

Testimony

During his testimony Gray said he never knew the Outcast Motorcycle Club was labeled an outlaw motorcycle gang by the FBI until his interrogation by internal affairs officers.

“My club is not Outcast,” Gray said. “My club is Bama Boys Motorcycle Club Inc.”

White showed a picture of Gray shaking hands with the president of the Outcast Motorcycle Club, an outlaw motorcycle gang in Alabama. Gray acknowledged he received that man’s blessing to start a club, Bama Boys, in Anniston.

Personnel Board Chairperson Barbara Spann asked Gray to explain the difference between an outlaw motorcycle club (OMC) and others. Gray said OMCs are often territorial and are supposed to be the “rough of the rough.”

“They’re bikers. You avoid those people and you have your own life,” Gray said. “My club does charities and has given away toys at Walton Park.”

Gray also said women are not allowed to be members of an OMC, but he has several women who are members of his motorcycle club.

Tyson asked Gray about the difference between the veteran patriotic motorcycle groups and his motorcycle club. Gray said he didn’t know about their bylaws.

Board member Tim Shirley questioned why a blessing was needed. Gray said he got the blessing because some motorcycle clubs can be territorial.

“I have not had criminal activity involved in my club,” Gray said. “I wanted to start a chapter of Bama Boys, and didn’t want any trouble out of these guys.”

Gray said he’s only had minimal contact with Outcast by asking to coexist with them in Alabama.

“We did the minimum thing we needed to do to make sure our guys in Anniston and Dothan were safe,” Gray said.

White questioned whether Gray had to get a blessing from the Patriot Guard motorcycle group.

“My club is fine because we extended a courtesy, and that’s what we do in biking,” Gray said.

Gray denied ever viewing or accessing pornography on his department-issued cell phone.

“I feel like someone set me up,” Gray said.

Joseph Thompson, an analyst for the FBI, testified during the hearing that outlaw motorcycle gangs constitute a threat in Alabama.

Thompson also said the Bama Boys Motorcycle Club was not considered an outlaw motorcycle club.

However, White claims the Bama Boys serve as a support club for Outcast.

Gray’s attorney claims the case is just a witch hunt and asked for Gray to be reinstated to his position with back pay.

http://www.dothaneagle.com/news/article_e8a8ba0c-5180-11e3-9876-0019bb30f31a.html

↧

(AUS) Outlaw bikie Shane Bowden nowhere to be seen as Special Operations Group raid warehouse

NOTORIOUSLY violent interstate outlaw bikie Shane Bowden is believed to have moved to Victoria.

The former senior Queensland-based Fink is understood to have joined forces with the newly formed Mongols.

Detectives from the anti-bikie Taskforce Echo and Special Operations Group officers raided a property, where Bowden was thought to be living, in Nott St, Port Melbourne, about 6am yesterday.

Witnesses told the Herald Sun heavily armed police surrounded a warehouse and repeatedly called out on a megaphone: "Shane Bowden, come out with your hands up".

But the bikie was nowhere in sight.

Police had a warrant to search the property and intelligence suggesting Bowden was living in a mezzanine area above the workshop.

The raid came as Queensland continued its crackdown on bikies with tough new legislation aimed to drive outlaw motorcycle gangs out of the state.

Bowden, 41, has an extensive criminal history and was only released last year after almost seven years behind bars for his involvement in one of the nation's most brutal, all-in bloody brawls.

Dubbed the "Ballroom Blitz", the showdown saw Bowden shoot Melbourne killer bikie Wayne Hudson, a former Finks member, as payback for defecting to the Hells Angels.

At the time, he had been on parole for drug trafficking and property offences.

He had also been convicted of assaulting a woman outside a nightclub in 1998.

Bowden, declared by a judge as a serious violent offender, was a key figure in the Finks and of its "Terror Team" whose motto is "violence with attitude".

But he is understood to be part of a national "patch-over" of the Finks to the Mongols.

He has even reportedly removed his Finks tattoos from his arms and back.

Police sources say there is no search for Bowden, who is not wanted over any crimes.

Victorian Mongol MC president Frank Dieni said the raided premises was not linked to the club.

He said one of its members, not Bowden, had rented out a room at the warehouse temporarily.

"It's not owned by us," Mr Dieni said.

"It's not our clubhouse. It's not our premises. It's got nothing to do with us."

He could not confirm whether Bowden had been staying at the warehouse.

But he said Bowden was not a member of his chapter.

In the United States, the Mongols are the sworn enemy of the Hells Angels.

There are fears their move into Melbourne could ignite outlaw bikie tensions to flashpoint.

http://www.heraldsun.com.au/news/law-order/outlaw-bikie-shane-bowden-nowhere-to-be-seen-as-special-operations-group-raid-warehouse/story-fni0fee2-1226766390278

↧

(AUS) Bikie arrested doing burnouts

An associate of the Rebels will appear at court next month after the unlicensed driver was detected doing a burnout in an unregistered car.

Police from the Gang's Squad Strike Force Raptor Highway Patrol were patrolling Kurrajong Avenue, Mount Druitt on Sunday when they observed a vehicle conducting a large burnout.

Checks on the driver revealed his licence was suspended until 2014 and an inspection of the car showed its registration had expired in 2004 and it was carrying an altered front registration plate.

The burnout had caused a rear tyre to burst and the rear bumper to come off the vehicle.

The man, 24, was issued a court attendance notice for multiple traffic offences.

He will appear in Mount Druitt Local Court on December 19.

Strike Force Raptor was established by State Crime Command’s Gangs Squad in 2009.

It is a proactive and high-impact operation targeting outlaw motorcycle gangs and any associated criminal enterprises.

http://www.stmarysstar.com.au/story/1930586/bikie-arrested-doing-burnouts/?cs=1256

↧

↧

(AUS) Alleged bikie alters plea

A MAN who allegedly claimed to be a Rebels bikie before allegedly threatening to kill a woman's dog and family, and bomb her home, will face a Brisbane bail hearing in line with new anti-bikie laws.

Brenton David Jones, 28 of Emerald, was staying with his parents at Buderim last Thursday when he heard a woman outside arguing with his mother, which triggered an angry outburst.

Maroochydore Magistrates Court heard Jones allegedly told the woman, "No f****** police will come to my f****** home: I'm a Rebel.

"I'm going to kill your dog, I'm going to bomb your family home and kill your whole family."

During police questioning, Mr Jones argued that apart from threatening to smash the woman's phone, he did not make any threats.

He also said he never claimed to be a Rebel, although Police Prosecutor Senior Sergeant Dave Bradley told the court Mr Jones's address suggested otherwise.

"He said he did not associate with anyone who was a Rebel ... police checked his address and it was the address for the Central Highlands chapter of the Rebels (in Emerald)," Snr Sgt Bradley said.

He argued that the prevalence of bikies in recent media meant the claim to be a Rebel was "aggravating".

"This (behaviour) is so prevalent that the legislature have gone to great lengths to bring it into line," Snr Sgt Bradley said.

Mr Jones's alleged victim told police she had been unable to sleep since the incident in fear of a Rebels visit to her house.

Mr Jones had initially pleaded guilty to one charge of "threatening violence", but Magistrate Barry Barrett later asked that the wording be modified to include the various threats.

He then changed his plea to not guilty, forcing the matter into a bail hearing in Brisbane Magistrates Court tomorrow, in line with anti-bikie laws.

http://www.sunshinecoastdaily.com.au/news/alleged-bikie-alters-plea/2095555/

↧

(AUS) Stand up for our freedom

THE concerns of ordinary citizens of Queensland impacted by the political campaign to rid Queensland of 'criminal bikie gangs' rushed through Parliament without any consolation of any foundation has led to people's civil liberties being violated.

The media scaremongering directed by Government to gain support of the general public is leading to a 'Controlled institutionalized society'.

What ever happen to the responsible journalism reporting?

The main media is not reporting the true implications of affected ordinary citizen which have contacted them of the actually true situations happening!!!

Jack Dempsey MP, stated on ABC radio that there were 21 Rebels arrested for a list of crimes from the Gold Coast to Townsville when there were only two arrested in Brisbane?

Then there is the 16 arrested on the Sunshine Coast, why did he fail to tell the public that there was only one of the 16 charged, and none were actually Rebels?

Again media scaremongering, let the truth be heard.

At the Maroochydore Courthouse on Wednesday 13th November involving two witnesses in a case of Rebels MC Sunshine Coast Inc were told they were to leave the court or be arrested even when told they were there to give evidence.

A police officer told them he did not care and that they were breaking the law, denying the Incorporation the right to present its witnesses to the court, thus perverting the course of justice. I simply illustrate this for the lies & deception to the public.

Tuesday, 19th November, workers, unionists, lawyers, environmentalists, civil libertarians, community groups along with motorcyclist which whom I am one, attended a protest rally at Parliament House to voice our objections to Attorney-General Jarrod Bleijie's new 'VLAD' laws.

There are so many new laws introduced & amended by this Government that the ordinary Queenslander is unaware of that will affect them or a family member at one point in time, need to be made aware.

I wish to address my concerns regarding motorcyclist of which I have been for fifty years & am not associated with any "OMC" and any person whether a "bikie" or an ordinary citizen that do wrong are punished for any crimes that they commit, but through the correct judicial process, not Jarrod Bleijie, now Judge, Jury & Executioner, whereas Judges & even amnesty international have condemned the new laws.

These new laws do not pertain to motorcyclist & can be applied to any situation whereas more than two in a group are able to be detained on suspicion; these laws are already being applied in other circumstances, taking away our fundamental rules of natural justice & our freedom of association.

This law were portrayed to use against "OMC' which are less than 1% of the community yet affecting 60% or more of the law abiding public.

I wish to display a couple of examples of how these laws are being implemented:

Campbell Newman quoted "some innocent riders may be inconvenienced", & offers no apology.

• In Townsville, police "harassed" 14 motorcycle riders escorting the hearse from the funeral parlour to the cemetery of a 70-year-old woman who died of cancer even after they had informed the police prior & they were elderly folk not wearing jackets or patches

• At an Ipswich funeral, police interrupted to photograph the riders attending to honour the deceased wife of a club member, not "OMC'.

• Any motorcyclist attending a 'Charity Toy Run' is having their information collected from the organization & recorded by the police.

Where is the dignity or compassion as these are ordinary citizens of all life styles who simple ride a motorcycle? There is a long list of similar occurrences.

It appears that the police having exhausted their resources to incriminate 'OMC' have turned on the general public in attacking anyone, for instance, a motor vehicle was stopped for a RBT & a negative result given only to be told he had to submit to a police station within seven days to be fingerprinted & photographed simply because he fitted the profile of a 'bikie'.

And on Friday night the police raided the recreational (VVMC) Veterans Motorcycle Club at its clubhouse at Kingston south of Brisbane.

Most of its members are in their 60s and 70s.

The club is not on the list of 26 banned organisations included in the state's anti-bikie laws.

This is just the tip of the iceberg, under new laws introduced in the war on bikies, publicans face $11,000 fines for allowing members of declared outlaw motorcycle clubs to remain on their premises, but now to protect themself from prosecution simply because how are they to be identified as a 'bikie' have resorted to posting signs of "NO BIKIES or associates are permitted on these premises, TATTOOS, no Neck, Hand, Face or Intimating Tattoos" and there are many who have already been evicted throughout the state & a lot have never even owned a motorcycle.

Some of the new penalties to be imposed are not humane; you would be prosecuted if you treated an animal in the same manner.

I reiterate, I am NOT in support of Outlaw Motorcycle Gangs, only asking that the public take note & be better informed of the Newman's absurd new laws & how it affect all Queenslanders.

There is objection information to be found on most Government ministers' websites as to media & social outlets.

Please take the time to make an informed decision, regardless of your own political persuasion.

Deeply Concerned

http://www.thesatellite.com.au/news/stand-up-for-our-freedom/2095786/

↧

(AUS) Bikies ‘positive’ to drugs

FOUR bikies wearing Bandido Motocycle Club colors were put off the road on Saturday after testing positive to drugs.

Sergeant Patsy Haynes of Cobram Highway Patrol said the detection came as police continue to clamp down on drink and drug driving leading into the festive period.

Sgt Haynes said a motorcyclist member of Cobram Highway Patrol spotted six patched OMG (Outlaw Motorcycle Gang) riders enter the Hume Freeway at Wodonga late Saturday morning and organised for officers to pull over the riders at the Iron Bark Rest Area near Chiltern.

“They were all breath tested and drug tested, and four of the riders tested positive to the drug methamphetamines,” she said.

“All four agreed to come back to the Wodonga Police Station for a second test, which also proved positive.

“Those results meant the riders were prohibited from driving or riding for 12 hours.”

http://wangarattachronicle.com.au/2013/12/09/bikies-positive-to-drugs/

↧

(DK) Man dies in gxxg-related shooting

Man shot and killed last night in Næstved is believed to be a member of Westside Nation, defectors from the Bandidos gxxg.

A young man was shot and killed shortly after midnight last night in Næstved in what DR Nyheder reports was a gang-related shooting.

According to DR, the victim belonged to the biker gang Westside Nation, which is a gang made up of defectors from Bandidos. The public broadcaster reports that police have yet to determine who was responsible for the shooting, but have reason to believe that the Bandidos were involved.

Westside Nation has been in a running conflict with the Bandidos biker gang. The rivalry between the two groups led to a fire at Rødovre Storcenter in October and is also suspected of being the reason behind a fire at a Bandidos hangout in Helsingør last month.

http://cphpost.dk/news/man-dies-in-gang-related-shooting.8048.html

↧

↧

(CAN) Ex-Montreal cop charged with selling secrets to bikers to seek bail

MONTREAL – A retired Montreal police detective accused of trading sensitive information with biker gang members in exchange for money will argue for his freedom in the new year.

A lack of judges to hear Benoit Roberge’s case during the holiday season means proceedings wlll take place Jan. 8-9.

“Prior to my coming into the file, several attorneys were there, some had to get out because of conflict of interest or other situations,” Richard Perras, Roberge’s fifth lawyer since his October arrest, said Wednesday.

“When I got in, I got disclosure and we moved as fast as possible.”

Prosecutors have said they will oppose bail.

Roberge’s status as a police officer who testified regularly before the courts has complicated matters, requiring a Crown prosecutor from Quebec City to oversee the file.

Also, Roberge’s wife is a Montreal-based Crown prosecutor who specialized in fighting organized crime.

Roberge is facing one charge of obstructing justice, one of breach of trust and two related to gangsterism.

The former biker-gang expert has been detained since being arrested by provincial police just south of Montreal.

The veteran police officer, who spent the latter part of his career assigned to a specialized anti-biker gang unit, retired this past August.

Roberge was not present Wednesday. During his last court appearance, he complained he hadn’t been able to see much of the evidence against him, an allegation dismissed by the Crown.

Perras said getting evidence was complicated – the information includes “sensitive materials,” some of which was blacked out by police. He said it’s normal, given the type of information in the file.

“Certain passages don’t make sense because a great part of it is redacted,” Perras said. “We’re working on getting full disclosure. Eventually we will.”

A number of details have been reported in the media. On Monday, Radio-Canada said it had obtained excerpts of recorded conversations between Roberge and the late biker he’s been linked to – Rene Charlebois.

The report indicated that Charlebois was ultimately interested in sabotaging ongoing criminal cases against the Hells Angels and sought information about an informant key to a number of criminal trials.

Charlebois committed suicide earlier this year after being on the lam from a minimum-security prison and being the subject of a two-week manhunt.

“A lot of things have appeared in the media that seemed to be more comprehensive than what I received as disclosure,” Perras said, without verifying the information. “How the media got it remains a mystery.”

Reports say Roberge received as much as $500,000 in exchange for information.

Roberge has requested a trial by judge and jury but Perras acknowledged it is still several months away.

http://globalnews.ca/news/1023381/ex-montreal-cop-charged-with-selling-secrets-to-bikers-to-seek-bail/

↧

(AUS) Alleged Rebels' families hoping for Christmas bail

ALLEGED Rebel bikie's wife Tracey Carew rolled up her sleeves last night and stepped behind the counter of a takeaway food outlet.

It was something she had never had to do before, but she did it to ensure two of the local men in custody for having a beer together with friends at the Yandina Hotel did not lose their livelihoods altogether.

"I don't know all the ins and outs of it, but someone has to do it," said Mrs Carew, the wife of Joshua Carew, 30, of Yandina Creek, one of the five men detained.

"We don't have a choice."

Mrs Carew and the other wives and partners have been left wondering if those arrested early on Tuesday will be released on bail before Christmas.

The other four are Steven Michael Smith, 28, of Yandina, his brother Scott Michael Conley, 36, of Yandina, long-time friend Dan Whale, 26, of Yandina, also known among his friends as Dan Black, and Paul Jeffery Lansdowne, 57, of Eerwah Vale.

The men, who police allege are Rebel bikies or club associates, have been identified in CCTV footage as associating together in a public place on November 1 - a crime attracting a six-month jail term under the Vicious Lawless Association Disestablishment (VLAD) laws.

The men did not apply for bail when the matter was mentioned briefly in the Brisbane Magistrates Court yesterday.

They will reappear in court next Wednesday.

"They're hoping to come up to court one week before Christmas," Mrs Carew said.

"If they don't come home then, they won't be coming home for Christmas.

"It's devastating. We've spent the last month, all of us together, working out what we're going to do for Christmas. Now we're wondering who's going to be there - who will be celebrating Christmas and new year with us."

Without her husband, Mrs Carew attended a kindergarten break-up party yesterday for her young daughter. Another detainee's partner, who has children suffering ear, nose and throat complications, hopes she will be able to contact him in an emergency.

"It's just sad," Mrs Carew said. "She can't phone. He's going to worry about them."

http://www.sunshinecoastdaily.com.au/news/hopes-for-christmas-bail/2112772/

↧

(AUS) Free anti-VLAD tattoos from bikie sick of new laws

A SUNSHINE Coast bikie has shown his contempt for the Newman Government, offering customers free "I piss on the VLAD laws" tattoos at his Caloundra parlour.

Rebels member Angelo Garozzo, owner of Caloundra Tattoo Studio, says he will ink the protest against the State Government's bikie laws on anyone for free.

The government says the Vicious Lawless Association Disestablishment (VLAD) Bill was designed to crack down on the organised criminal elements of motorcycle clubs.

However, Mr Garozzo called the laws draconian, so cruel and unusual that the North Korean Government would not implement them, and so broad they could be applied to anyone.

He believed the laws were a pretext for the government to crack down on unions and vowed to fight them at every turn.

"The way they're presenting the VLAD laws, they're supposedly targeting bikies, but they don't even mention bikies," he said.

"It's so drastic. If one of us (a member of a motorcycle gang) breaks a law that you would normally get fined for, we get 15 years in solitary.

"If no one can see what's wrong with that, there's something wrong with this country.

"I'm just pissed off and this is my way of showing how serious it is and my contempt for Newman and his laws."

Mr Garozzo remains a member of the Rebels Kunda Park chapter, despite it being declared an outlaw organisation, and said he would "rather die" than hand in his colours.

He said he had been overwhelmed by demand for the free tattoo, which takes about five minutes to complete, with 100 customers taking up the offer.

He said most of the people who had come in for the free ink were ordinary people and he had a backlog of customers waiting for it.

"Most of the people coming in are just people off the street," he said.

"I've had parents come in to get them - people in their 50s and 60s."

http://www.sunshinecoastdaily.com.au/news/rush-for-free-bikie-law-tattoo/2112623/

↧

(AUS) Cyclist assaulted by Finks bikie: police

A cyclist needed stitches to his face and ear after a vicious assault at the hands of an alleged Finks bikie on the Gold Coast.

The 43-year-old cyclist was riding along Hope Island Road on Hope Island when he was nearly hit by a white van about 8am on Wednesday.

The cyclist hit the van with the palm of his hand as he tried to avoid a collision, police said.

Police claim the driver and alleged Finks member stepped out of the van after the near-hit, knocked the cyclist to the ground and continued to assault him.

The cyclist required stitches to cuts to his ear and face.

The driver, also aged 43, was charged with assault occasioning bodily harm and was due to face Southport Magistrates Court on Thursday morning.

http://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/queensland/cyclist-assaulted-by-finks-bikie-police-20131212-2z8ji.html#ixzz2nEHZtwET

↧

↧

(USA) 4 due for sentencing in Hells Angels chapel brawl

LAS VEGAS (AP) — Four men are due for sentencing in Las Vegas after pleading guilty in a 2008 brawl between Hells Angels and rival Mongols motorcycle gang members that left six people hurt at a downtown wedding chapel.

John Dawson, Dominic Orlando, Armando Porras and Brandon Young pleaded guilty in July and could each face one to five years in prison and a $10,000 fine at sentencing Wednesday in Clark County District Court.

The four men were among 13 indicted in 2010 on charges including attempted murder, conspiracy and taking part in activities of a criminal gang.

Police say security video shows Hells Angels at a wedding for the son of a Las Vegas chapter president brawling with Mongols members who arrived by coincidence for another ceremony at A Special Memory Wedding Chapel.

http://www.mynews3.com/content/news/story/Hells-Angels-Trial-Mongols-motorcycle-gang-members/WpTG_6tBfkqeqrbbvrLG0g.cspx

↧

(USA) Former local police officer charged with beating, robbing motorcycle club rival

(KMOV) – A former Uplands Park police officer faces charges after he allegedly attacked and robbed a member of a rival motorcycle club on Nov. 30.

Lamont “Puff” Aikens, 38, was charged with first-degree robbery and assault.

Police say Aikens, a member of the Hell’s Lovers motorcycle club, robbed and beat the victim during a charity event at the Masonic Lodge in the 4500 block of Olive St. around 11:30 p.m.

The charges come three years after Aikens killed an innocent driver during a police chase. The driver’s death eventually led to a $3 million wrongful death judgment.

Aikens is in custody on a $200,000 cash-only bond. His next hearing is scheduled for Jan. 14, 2014.

http://www.kmov.com/news/crime/Former-local-police-officer-charged-with-beating-robbing-motorcycle-club-rival-235441621.html

↧

(USA) Hells Angels in Legal Dispute Over East Village Clubhouse

In a case of Sons of Anarchy meets Huguette Clark, the Hells Angels are locked in a legal battle to keep their East Village clubhouse, where members of the motorcycle club/organized crime syndicate have lived since 1969. In 1983, then-president Sandy Alexander changed the building's deed to name himself and his family as rent-free tenants, and stipulate that his heirs "shall receive half of the proceeds" from the sale of the building. Then he went to jail for selling cocaine, got kicked out of the club in the '90s, and died in 2007. Now the Hells Angels are preemptively suing his second wife and daughter from another marriage to prevent them from trying to take over the building, which sits at the outskirts of the NYU's expansion and is now worth untold millions. A source told The Post that the club has no immediate plans to sell the building.

http://ny.curbed.com/archives/2013/12/11/hells_angels_in_legal_dispute_over_east_village_clubhouse.php

↧

(AUS) Hells Angels prospect charged with intimidating police officer - Strike Force Raptor

Officers from the Gangs Squad’s Strike Force Raptor have charged a man with intimidating a police officer who was responding to a traffic crash at Quakers Hills earlier this week.

On the evening of Wednesday 11 December 2013, police were responding to a traffic crash on Highfield Road, Quakers Hill, when the passenger of one of the vehicles allegedly became aggressive.

Police will allege the man made threats to one of the police officers.

Strike Force Raptor officers were notified of the incident and yesterday morning attended a home at Doonside and arrested a 22-year-old man.

He was taken to Quakers Hill Police Station and charged with intimidating a police officer in the execution of duty.

The Hells Angels prospect was granted conditional bail to appear at Blacktown Local Court on Friday 24 January 2014.

Strike Force Raptor was established by State Crime Command’s Gangs Squad in 2009. It is a proactive and high-impact operation targeting outlaw motorcycle gangs and any associated criminal enterprises.

http://www.police.nsw.gov.au/news/latest_releases?sq_content_src=%2BdXJsPWh0dHBzJTNBJTJGJTJGZWJpenByZC5wb2xpY2UubnN3Lmdvdi5hdSUyRm1lZGlhJTJGMzQ1MjIuaHRtbCZhbGw9MQ%3D%3D

↧

↧

(USA) Retired Cayuga County parole officer charged with stealing $66K over 20 months

Auburn, N.Y. -- A retired parole officer has been charged with stealing thousands of dollars by submitting phony time sheets, the New York State Police said Thursday.

Angelo J. Ervolina, of 4966 Rockefeller Road, Auburn, was charged with second-degree grand larceny and multiple counts of first-degree offering a false instrument for filing.

The charges stem from a state Department of Corrections and Community Supervision Inspector General's Office investigation into reported falsification of official records pertaining to time worked.

State police said that while Ervolina worked as a senior parole officer for the Department of Corrections and Community Supervision he falsified electronic time sheet records. Ervolina is accused of collecting about $66,000 over a 20 month period.

He was arraigned in Waterloo Town Court and released. He is scheduled to appear in court again on Jan. 9, 2014.

http://www.syracuse.com/news/index.ssf/2013/12/retired_cayuga_county_parole_officer_charged_with_stealing_66k_over_20_months.html

↧

(USA) Boston officer charged with pointing gun at pair

BOSTON (AP) — A Boston police officer is accused of pointing his personal laser-sighted handgun at two people in his neighborhood while off-duty and drunk.

Thirty-year-old Sandro Fonseca pleaded not guilty Thursday to assault with a dangerous weapon and carrying a firearm while intoxicated. A judge set his bail at $5,000 and ordered him to surrender his firearms and stay away from the alleged victims of the Wednesday night incident. He will be evaluated for drug and alcohol dependency, and is on paid leave from his job.

Prosecutors said Fonseca pointed the gun first at a man on the street, then at a woman that man summoned on a cellphone.

Fonseca's attorney Kenneth Anderson said his client is a Marine Corps veteran of Iraq who saved his Boston police patrol partner's life in gunfire with a drug suspect last summer.

http://www.timesunion.com/news/crime/article/Boston-officer-charged-with-pointing-gun-at-pair-5058360.php

↧

(USA) Bergen parole officer charged with stealing PBA funds

Prosecutors have filed theft charges against a veteran senior parole board officer for allegedly using PBA union funds to pay for his own legal bills.

According to Bergen County Prosecutor John L. Molinelli, PBA Local #326 delegate Juan Villalobos used union money to pay for his personal legal expenses. A senior parole officer for 19 years, Villalobos, 41, allegedly tried to cover his tracks between 2008 and 2010 as to where the funds were.

Molinelli did not reveal the amount taken, stating only that it was "under $10,000." He also did not disclose what the purported personal legal matter was.

Villalobos, of Ridgefield Park, was charged with theft by deception. He was released from jail after processing and faces arraignment on Thursday.

http://www.nj.com/bergen/index.ssf/2013/12/bergen_parole_officer_charged_with_stealing_pba_funds.html

↧