Barbara Rush, the Golden Globe-winning actress known for films including It Came from Outer Space, has died aged 97.

The star’s career spanned seven decades and she starred alongside Hollywood’s greatest stars including Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Paul Newman and Marlon Brando.

Rush died on Easter Sunday her daughter, senior Fox News correspondent Claudia Cowan, confirmed to Fox News Digital.

‘My wonderful mother passed away peacefully at 5:28 this evening. I was with her this morning and know she was waiting for me to return home safely to transition,’ Cowan told the publication.

‘It’s fitting she chose to leave on Easter as it was one of her favorite holidays and now, of course, Easter will have a deeper significance for me and my family.’

Rush’s death comes nearly four months after she celebrated her 97th birthday in early January.

Her daughter Claudia marked the celebration on Instagram and shared a picture of the two of them in conversation.

She captioned the post: ‘She is golden, she is a diamond, she glows like the moon and shines like the sun. Age does not diminish the light in her eyes, the sweetness of her heart ❤️, or the wisdom in her soul.

‘To me, she is 97 years young. Happy birthday to my beautiful mother, born Jan. 4, 1927. I love you.’

Rush made her screen debut in the 1950s in the comedy film The Goldbergs before going on to star in the science-fiction horror film It Came from Outer Space.

She won the Golden Globe Award for Most Promising Female Newcomer for her role as Ellen Fields in the movie.

Rush’s other major films include The Young Philadelphians opposite Newman, the Brando-starring The Young Lions and Robin and the 7 Hoods alongside Sinatra and Newman.

On television, she portrayed the devious Nora Clavicle in the series Batman and the mother of the female sci-fi action character Jaime Sommers in The Bionic Woman.

She was also known for playing the recurring role of Grandma Ruth Camden in the family drama 7th Heaven.

On the small screen, Rush’s other credits include the soaps Marsha Russell in Peyton Place and Nola Orsini in All My Children.

Rush’s first marriage was with actor Jeffrey Hunter and they shared on son together, Christopher Hunter.

After divorcing Hunter she married publicist Warren Cowan and welcomed a daughter, journalist Claudia.

Their marriage ended after a decade and she married sculptor Jim Gruzalski in 1970 before divorcing three years later.

From May 1997 until her death, Rush lived in the Harold Lloyd Estate in Beverly Hills, California.

If you’ve got a soap or TV story, video or pictures get in touch by emailing us soaps@metro.co.uk – we’d love to hear from you.

Join the community by leaving a comment below and stay updated on all things soaps on our homepage.

MORE : An Officer and a Gentleman star Louis Gossett Jr dies aged 87

MORE : Eric Morecambe’s wife Joan dies on her 97th birthday