Anita Molnar Farkas of Wyoming, Delaware, suffered a medical emergency on January 19 and passed away on Friday, January 20, 2023, at Bayhealth Hospital. She was 88.

She was born June 13, 1934, in Santos, Brazil, to the late Maria Simon Molnar and Alexandre Molnar of NagyVarad, Bihor, Hungary (Romania today) to whom had immigrated to Brazil in 1923, shortly after the First World War.

Anita was born and raised in Santos, Brazil where she loved spending time on the beach until moving to Sao Paulo, Brazil where she flourished and grew into a beautiful young woman, there she expanded her intellect and knowledge of the world through extensive reading of books and periodicals and anything else she could get her hands on and eventually taught herself seven different languages.

She met Mr. Paul G. Farkas, Sr. in 1966, Santos, while he was traveling and were married soon after before coming to the United States in 1967, where they settled in Woodside, Delaware to build a strong family and raised three sons.

She was an avid follower of the FIFA World Cup and a very proud fan of the Brazil National Football Team.

Anita was well known for working many years in retail and Jewelry Sales for several businesses in the Dover area and Dover Mall, including Zales, thru which she thoroughly loved meeting and engaging with new people every day during the 1990’s until her retiring in 2014.

She had a penchant to always having a warm smile that would quickly turn bright whenever asked about her accent in which she would reply back to “take a guess”… then the guessing game would begin.

She enjoyed spending time with her beloved sons, fresh seafood, especially shrimp, and steamed blue crabs with a cold beer. She was an avid animal lover with an affection for all animals, big and small, especially her grand “kitties” and ones that were in distress.

In addition to her late husband Paul Sr. (1998), she was preceded in death by her two sons, Alexander Phillip Farkas (1989) and Robert Edward Farkas (2022).

Anita is survived by her son, Paul G. Farkas Jr. of Camden-Wyoming.

And her two sisters, Thereza Molnar Mendes (Pinda, Brazil), and Elizabeth Molnar Alonso (Santos, Brazil), and their children, Eliane (LiLi), Nelson, Suzane (Suzi), Oscar, Paulo, Cinthya, Odair, Araci and Joel, in addition to numerous extended nieces and nephews, all in Brazil.

Funeral services will be held Thursday, February 2, 2023 at 6:00 pm, at Pippin Funeral Home, 119 West Camden-Wyoming Ave., Wyoming, DE, 19934. Friends may call prior to the services from 4-6 pm. Interment will be held in Mt. Olive Cemetery, February 3, 2023 at 10:00 am. (Departure from Pippin Funeral Home at 9:30 am).

In lieu of flowers, the family suggests contributions be made to:

Gift of Life, (https://www.giftoflife.org/contrib),

and to the SPCA, (https://www.aspca.org/ways-to-give).

To send letters of condolence, view the full obituary and sign the guestbook, please visit www.pippinfuneralhome.com