As I wrote in my review of John D. MacDonald’s 1957 novel, Cape Fear (aka The Executioners), I mainly experienced it to watch the film adaptations. Namely, the 1962 film adaption with “Big Bob” Robert Mitchum as the villain, Max Cady. I like to read first, watch second, compare and contrast if I can. I wrote and edited the review of MacDonald’s novel, and went to the couch to watch. The 1962 film is better than the 1957 novel, but not by much. I mentioned The Simpsons episode “Cape Feare” in my review of the novel. This film is what they parody in the episode. Cape Fear, the novel and Cape Fear, the 1962 film aren’t mirror images. Far from it, though the general premise and overall plot remain intact. Unfortunately, I’m a bit disappointed, and I’ll give this film a spot on the middle shelf.

Cape Fear hit theaters on June 15, 1962. It’s a Universal Pictures distribution with Melville Productions and Talbot Productions, serving as production companies. J. Lee Thompson sat in the director’s chair while Sy Bartlett served as producer. James R. Webb wrote the screenplay based on MacDonald’s novel, which apparently was The Executioners and later changed because of the title of the film. At 106 minutes, or roughly an hour and 46 minutes, it drags a bit, but not nearly as bad as the novel. Max Cady haunts the novel, but he’s out front in the film.

Gregory Peck plays our tortured hero, Sam Bowden. “Big Bob” Robert Mitchum plays the nemesis villain, Max Cady. Who else is on hand we may know? Well, Telly Savalas for one. He has hair even, and this serves as one of his first roles. Blink and you’ll miss The Andy Griffith Show alum Will Wright (Ben Weaver.)

There’s a lot of talk of rape in the novel. The word gets used a lot. You couldn’t use that word in the early 1960s film world, and censors didn’t even like “depicted or suggested violence against a child.” A lot of edits took place, whittling away 5 or six minutes of the film, but in the UK, Cape Fear still got a “X” rating. I wonder what they’d think of the 1991 film with Robert De Niro as Max Cady. I’ll watch and review that soon. Peck comes off wooden and stilted, and not very sympathetic. Mitchum, he’s the “star,” and hard to hate with those “sad dog eyes.” I’ve seen him in a better villainous role, The Night of the Hunter, from 1955. “Big Bob” didn’t even want to play Cady, I read. Peck and director Thompson had to persuade him with a delivery of flowers and a case of bourbon. I don’t know if I’ll watch this one again, but I think if you’ve read the original, or a Mitchum fan, it’s worth the watch. Hell, even a fan of “old school” The Simpsons.