SANTA ANA – Jackie and Randy Lee’s worlds revolved around their only child, Cara, a girl known for her big, dimpled smile and even bigger heart.

They describe their daughter as a caring young woman who made sure her family and friends knew she loved them and who had a zest for life.

“She was the center of the universe,” said Randy Lee in an interview Wednesday. “Everything was for her and with her.”

The sudden loss of their 20-year-old daughter, Cara Alexandra, on Valentine’s Day devastated the Santa Ana couple. The part-time college student and recreational leader for the city of Newport Beach died when a driver suspected of driving drunk crashed into a car she was riding in on the way home from a Lunar New Year celebration.

Officials said Gustavo Vega, 22, had more than twice the legal limit of alcohol in his system after he crashed into the car carrying Lee and her friend Hao Nguyen. The Lee family said Nguyen did not have alcohol in his system.

Vega, who is being held in lieu of $1 million bail, is charged with second-degree murder, possession of cocaine and misdemeanor hit-and-run for causing injuries to Nguyen. Vega, who had a DUI conviction in 2006, faces up to 15 years to life in prison if convicted.

“I’m going to make him see and care about the life he took,” said Jackie Lee, who with her husband talked to their daughter often about the dangers of drunken driving.

Cara Lee’s parents said they were grateful for the woman who stayed by Cara’s side and held her hand before emergency personnel responded. They were also stunned and grateful to receive such an outpouring of support.

Last week, more than 1,000 well-wishers – friends, old classmates, teachers, co-workers, family members – attended a viewing at Harbor Lawn-Mount Olive Memorial Park & Mortuary in Costa Mesa. Five hundred people attended a memorial service Friday.

“I knew she had friends, but I didn’t know she had this many,” said her father, Randy, a longtime employee of the city of Newport Beach. “We didn’t realize how many people she touched until the service.”

Cara Lee, who graduated from Saddleback High School in 2007, attended Orange Coast College in Costa Mesa part time. Just a month before her death, she received the news that she was free of the cervical cancer she had been diagnosed with two years earlier.

She never let the cancer slow her down, her parents said. She remained upbeat about her future, which she hoped would lead her to a modeling career.

Perhaps being an only child prompted her to adopt a family of friends, her parents said. One of Cara’s best friends, Andrea Alamos, 19, of Costa Mesa, lived with the Lee family for a few months.

“We were together all day, every day,” said Alamos, who described Cara as glowing and loving. “We’d text each other every day. We had a connection to each other that was indefinable.”

Another one of Cara’s best friends, Julio Cuellar, 21, said he bonded with her immediately after meeting her a year ago. The two were inseparable, often hanging out and confiding in each other during rough patches.

A few days before her death, Cara – who had a special bond with her mother and was known for writing notes and sending encouraging, bubbly text messages to her loved ones – wrote out a message for her mom in a bathroom mirror.

“Good morning Mom. I love you.” Later that day, she dropped by her dad’s desk and left a sticky note that read, “Have a good day Daddy. I love you.”

Monetary donations can be sent to Newport Beach City Employees Federal Credit Union, c/o Cara Lee, 425 Old Newport Blvd., Suite A, Newport Beach, CA 92663.