Click here to read the full article.

The fall TV season starts in about two months, and the landscape is starting to thin with notices of finales and cancellations. Such is the case with ABC’s crime drama How to Get Away with Murder, which will end with season 6.The show, one of Shonda Rhimes’s many ABC dramas, follows criminal defense professor Annelise Keating (Oscarwinner Viola Davis) and the law students she teaches. Murder plots and other hijinks have happened over the show’s subsequent five seasons — all with the goal of getting away with murder.

According to E! News the series announced on Thursday, July 11, that it will end with the upcoming season six, which will premiere on September 26. “Deciding to end this series was a brutal decision, but ultimately the story tells you what to do – as it did here,” said showrunner Peter Norwalk in a statement. Norwalk went on to say that the show had a prepared ending from the get-go, “Annalise Keating’s journey has always had a clear ending. Knowing I have 15 episodes left to finish her story, and the chance to give all the characters their own killer endings, is a gift rarely given to a series creator and I’m grateful to ABC and ABC Studios for the opportunity and creative freedom.”

Related stories

Katherine Heigl Responded to Rumors That She's Returning to Grey's Anatomy

Wait, Is The Bachelorette Dropping Hints About Who the Next Bachelor Will Be?

Mark Your Calendar, Because Grey's Anatomy Season 16 Is Coming soon

The series received attention when Davis became the first woman of color to win Emmy for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama in 2015. Since the,n Davis has become a TV mogul in her own right, recently producing a controversial reality show titled It’s a Man’s World.

Fans of the series have taken to Twitter to bemoan the show’s demise, with several hoping Netflix will take up the series. Interestingly, social media seems to believe the show was canceled by ABC, though Norwalk’s statement implies it was a decision he made. ABC did cancel several of their productions earlier in the summer, and HTGAWM was not included, so it’s difficult to see where this idea is coming from.

Either way Norwalk has a plan in motion that will hopefully appease long-term fans. With shows coming and going so quickly, for a series to last six years, the finale has to be legendary.