No. 14

Published on 20 October 2006

Household Change - Scotland in a European Setting

A Literature Review and Analysis

Gillian Miller MSc

The views expressed in this paper are those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of the National Records of Scotland (NRS).

This work summarises part of an investigation into the 2001 Census question ‘The Relationship Matrix’ (pages 4 and 5 of Scotland's Census April 2001 - Household Form H4 (Adobe Acrobat Portable Document Format) (544 Kb) carried out by the author for an MSc thesis. It describes family trends and notes the potential effect of the Matrix on the data and the interpretation of such trends.

Content:

Introduction

Changing Scotland

30 Years of Household Change in Scotland

Changing Household Size and Structure

Decreasing Fertility Rate

Marriage/ Divorce and Household Change

General Overview

Scotland's Place in the United Kingdom (UK) and Ireland

One Person Households

Married/ Cohabiting Couples with Children

Lone Parents Households

Married/ Cohabiting Couple Households Without Children

Other Households

Scotland's Place in Europe

Conclusion

References

List of Figures

Enquiries

Statistical Services in Scotland

A printable Adobe Acrobat Portable Document Format (PDF) version of the report - Household Change - Scotland in a European Setting (298 Kb) is available.

Download the latest version of Adobe Acrobat Reader free

Introduction

This work summarises part of an investigation into the 2001 Census question ‘The Relationship Matrix’ (pages 4 and 5 of Scotland's Census April 2001 - Household Form H4 (Adobe Acrobat Portable Document Format) (PDF 544 Kb) carried out by the author for an MSc thesis. It describes family trends and notes the potential effect of the Matrix on the data and the interpretation of such trends.

The Relationship Matrix data was obtained in the 2001 Census by asking that information be provided on the relationship of each person in the household to others in the same household. For households with up to 5 people in them, information was required on their relationship with the remaining people in the household. For example, in a 5 person household, for person 3 on the form, information was needed on their relationship with persons 1, 2, 4 and 5. Where a household contained 6 or more people, the same information was still required for the first 5 people in the household. For the remaining household residents (persons 6 and above), information was needed on their relationship with person 1 and with the two people given just before them on the form. For example, person 6 was required to give their relationship with persons 4 and 5 as well as person 1.

The Relationship Matrix data collected in 2001 was significantly more detailed than the information collected in the 1991 Census, where each person was only required to say what their relationship was to the first person on the Census form (person 1).

The 2001 Relationship Matrix evaluation data is complex so the evaluation is quite complicated and this paper is just one part. It provides a social context for an Occasional Paper on the statistical evaluation of the success of the relationship matrix. Two published papers have already provided summary evaluations of the matrix (Máté 1993 and Máté and Miller 2003).

Over the last 30 years there have been many changes in Scotland’s households. The traditional family household - a couple with a child or children - is less common now, while there has been an increase in one person and lone parent households. Concomitantly, there has been a significant decrease in the average household size and a corresponding increase in the total number of households over the last 30 years. These trends are expected to continue. The Scottish Executive (2006) projects an average household size of only 1.97 by 2024 - compared to 4.82 in 1901.

These trends have also been observed across the rest of the United Kingdom (UK) and Europe to varying degrees, in what has been termed the 'pluralisation of households' (Coleman and Salt 1992). Classifying households has become increasingly complex. Many developments in social policy rely on baseline information from the Census. With devolution and the rate and direction of demographic change in Scotland compared to the rest of the UK, there is increasing interest in and reliance on the accuracy of Census information on families and households, and to distinguish Scotland’s household patterns and trends from those of England and Wales.

This paper, in the form of a literature review of work over the last 30 years with statistical data, describes how Scotland’s households have changed over time and compares Scotland to the rest of the UK and Europe.

Note: The file above can be viewed in Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF).

Download the latest version of Adobe Acrobat Reader free

Changing Scotland

Introduction

'Households used to be created by marriage and dissolved by death – in between there were children' (Weeks, 1996). This is no longer true of all today’s households, whose creation does not require marriage and whose dissolution does not require death. Children now live in many different household types and a variety of family units.

This increasing diversity and complexity in household types Figure 1 (159 KB PDF) has been attributed to the following demographic factors:-

Delay in marriage / increasing number of late marriages;

Decrease in the marriage rate;

Increase in co-habitation;

Increase in illegitimacy;

Increase in the divorce rate; and

Decrease in the fertility rate.

As a result of these changes, the 'traditional' household - consisting of a married couple with child(ren) - is no longer the statistical norm. It has given way to lone parent households (in particular female-headed households), single person households, and unmarried person households (whether widowed, divorced, never married or co-habiting). This paper compares these changes - described as the increasing 'pluralisation' of Scottish households - with the rest of the UK and Ireland over the last 20 or 30 years.