Looking for a pretty baby girl name that exudes beauty and grace? Here are 100 beautiful girl names with unique meanings.

Table of contents

Want to choose a beautiful girl name that's just as lovely and rare as your baby girl?

We have a list of beautiful baby girl names that are unique and special. This list of girl names includes popular baby names that sound so pretty and feminine. Find girl names that mean “beautiful” in different languages and cultures. All of the unique baby girl names on this list are sure to make you smile!

Since the Social Security Administration keeps track of every child born in the United States, it's fairly easy to see which baby names are most popular. If you expect your baby girl to arrive soon and still are stuck on choosing the perfect name, then have no fear.

This way, you'll have plenty of options to choose from before your little one makes her debut into the world. After all, your precious baby deserves a name that fits her beauty!

More: 100 Warrior Girl Names that are Beautiful and Strong

Beautiful Girl Names with Meanings

Brittany - The anglicized version of Bretagne, which is a section of France

Gretchen - Several origins such as Greek, German, Persian, and Irish for "pearl"

Ruby - French for "red gem"

Jasmine - Persian for "a form of flowering olive"

Jessica - Hebrew for "wealthy one"

Valentina - Latin for "good health"

Ophelia - Greek for "useful" or "wise"

Erica - Scandinavian for "ever-powerful" or "honorable ruler"

Louise - Old German for "warrior maiden"

Genevieve - Welsh for "white wave"

Belle - Spanish for "beautiful"

Lola - Spanish for "strong woman"

Ava - Latin for "blooming"

Olivia - Latin for "olive tree" and "Old French for "peace"

Josephine - Hebrew for "he shall add"

Heidi - German for "noble" or "serene"

Quinn - Latin for "a girl who is as pretty as two" and Gaelic for "wise"

Hazel - Old English for "hazel tree"

Gabrielle - Hebrew for "God is my strength"

Natalie - Latin for "child born at Christmas"

Lillian - Latin for "form of the lily"

Eleanor - Greek for "mercy"

Abigail - Hebrew for ""a father's joy"

Isabella - Spanish for "consecrated to God"

Athena - Greek for "goddess of war"

Dahlia - Scandinavian for "valley"

Nina - Spanish for "girl" and Hebrew for "grace"

Holly - Old English for "holly bush"

Amelie - Variation of Amelia, also German for "industrious"

Elise - German for "noble" or Hebrew for "God's oath"

Juliet - French for "youthful"

Harper - Old Norse for "whaler"

Ingrid - Scandinavian for "hero's daughter"

Amelia - German for "industrious"

Audrey - Old English for "noble strength"

Pretty Girl Names with Meanings

Victoria - Latin for "victory"

Ariel - Hebrew for "lion of God"

Lydia - Greek for "woman from Persia" or "beauty"

Violet - Latin for "purple"

Layla - Arabic for "dark as the night"

Scarlett - Middle English for "deep red"

Kaylee - Arabic for "beloved" and Hebrew for "regal woman"

Cora - French for "beloved" or Greek for "heart"

Kristen - Greek for "bright-eyed"

Delilah - Hebrew for "delicate"

Deborah - Hebrew for "bee"

Callista - Greek for "most beautiful" or "pretty and bright-eyed"

Uma - Hindi for "mother" and also the name for the Hindu goddess Devi

Phoebe - Greek for "brilliant"

Kelly - Irish for "church" or "warrior"

Aurora - Latin for "gold" and Greek for "goddess of the dawn"

Arabella - German for "beautiful eagle"

Thea - Greek for "healer"

Angelina - Greek for "heavenly messenger"

Amara - Greek for "eternal beauty"

Savannah - Spanish for "flat tropical grassland"

Charlotte - French for "little and womanly"

Rebecca - Hebrew for "to tie" or "enchantingly beautiful"

Venus - Greek for the "Goddess of love"

Valerie - Latin for "strong"

Vivien - Latin for "living" or "lively"

Millie- Greek for "honey bee" or English for "gentle adviser"

Felicity - Latin for "fortunate" or "happy"

Penelope - Greek for "bobbin-weaver"

Sophia - Greek for "wisdom"

Fiona - Old English for "white"

Daphne - Greek for "laurel tree"

Sweet Girl Names with Meanings

Madison - English for "good"

Katherine - Greek for "pure"

Chloe - Greek for "lark"

Luna - Latin for "moon"

Blair - Gaelic for "plain"

Esme - Latin for "esteem"

Evelyn - English for "hazelnut"

Sydney - French for "from the city of Saint-Denis"

Colleen - Irish for "girl"

Meredith - Old Welsh for "protector of the sea" and Middle English for "joyful"

Greta - Greek for "precious jewel"

Mia - Italian for "mine"

Danielle - Hebrew for "judged by God"

Bailey - French for "bailiff" and Old English for "fortification"

Alexandria - Greek and English for "defender of mankind"

Faith - Latin for "trust"

Laurel - English for "crowned with laurel"

Giselle - English for "sword pledge"

Aria - Hebrew for "like a beautiful melody"

Bonnie - Scottish for "good"

Nora - Latin for "dignified" and Greek for "honor"

Emilia - Latin for "eager"

Tracey - Greek for "reaper" and French for "path"

Summer - English and Arabic origin name referring to the summer season

Haley - Norse for "hero" and Irish for "wise one"

Belinda - Spanish for "beautiful" or "pretty"

Shelby - English for "sheltered town"

Chanel - French for "canal" or "perfume"

Esmeralda - Spanish for "emerald"

Rosalie - Latin for "a flower"

Stella - Latin for "star"

Isla - Spanish or Scottish for "island"

Ivy - Old English for "vine"

What’s the Prettiest Name for a Girl?

When it comes to choosing a name for your daughter, there are endless options to consider. From classic names like Elizabeth and Catherine, to unique choices like Luna and Juniper, you're sure to find something that suits your little girl perfectly.

But what makes a name "pretty" anyway? Is it the sound of the name, its meaning, or something else entirely? That's ultimately up to personal preference, but some factors to consider when choosing the prettiest name for your daughter are sound, meaning, and popularity.

Sound: The way a name sounds can definitely contribute to its perceived prettiness. Soft and melodic names like Isabella and Sophia have been popular choices for years, while newer options like Aurora and Violet have gained popularity for their gentle sound.

Meaning: For some people, the meaning of a name is just as important as its sound. If you're looking for a pretty name that also holds significance, consider names like Felicity (meaning "happiness") or Arabella (meaning "beautiful").

Popularity: While popularity shouldn't be the main factor in choosing your daughter's name, it's worth considering. Some people prefer more unique names, while others like the idea of a popular name. Keep in mind that a name's popularity can also affect how "pretty" it is perceived.

What Is a Very Unique Girl Name?

If you're someone who loves unique names, you may be wondering what the most uncommon options are for your daughter. While there is no one answer to this question, here are a few factors that can contribute to a name being considered "very unique":

Origin: Names with non-English origins may seem more unique in certain regions or cultures. For example, the name Suri may be considered unique in the United States, but it's a common name in India.

Rare spellings: Even if a name itself isn't uncommon, changing the spelling can make it stand out. For example, Avery is a relatively popular name, but Avree or Averi are less common variations.

Uncommon letters: Names with uncommon letters like X or Z may be considered unique simply because they're not used as frequently. Examples of this include Xanthe and Zara.

Creativity: Some parents choose to create unique names by combining two or more existing names, or creating a name that is completely original. While these names may be difficult for others to pronounce at first, they are certainly unique!

What Is the Most Beautiful Sounding Girl Name?

Ultimately, the prettiest and most beautiful-sounding name for your daughter is one that you love and feel connected to, as it is a subjective choice. However, many people do consider the melodic sound of the name, its femininity, the number of syllables, and how lyrical it is.

Whether it's a classic or a one-of-a-kind name, what matters most is that it feels special to you and your family. So take your time, consider all of the factors, and choose a name that you and your daughter will cherish for a lifetime. Happy naming!

For more baby name inspiration check out these popular baby name lists:

Top 1000 Most Popular Baby Girl Names in the U.S.

Top 1000 Most Popular Baby Boy Names in the U.S.

The 100 Coolest Baby Names in the World

Considering one of these names? Pin it to save it for later: