Thank You to all who have donated to the Drake Family. 100% of your donation was forwarded to the family. Thank you for your generosity and compassion!

Thank You to all who have donated to the Drake Family. 100% of your donation was forwarded to the family. Thank you for your generosity and compassion! Thank You to all who have donated to the Drake Family. 100% of your donation was forwarded to the family. Thank you for your generosity and compassion!

Please support Livonia’s First Responders and the Livonia community.

Thank you to all who have made donations for the family of Cooper Drake. Cooper was tragically killed as a result of the tornado in Livonia on June 5, 2024. As of July 1, the Livonia First Responder Foundation has received 400 donations totaling $40,000!

Cooper’s obituary can be found here - https://www.fredwoodfuneralhome.com/obituary/Cooper-Drake

Our Mission

To empower Livonia’s first responders to go above and beyond in ensuring the health, safety, and well-being of their team members and the community.

About the Foundation

The fire has been extinguished, the accident cleaned up, the domestic disturbance calmed. But the dedicated men and women of the Livonia Police and Firefighters do not just coil up the hoses, issue citations, and head back to their stations. They go above and beyond in ensuring the health, safety, and well-being of their team members and the community.

Thank you to all who supported the Livonia First Responder Foundation through the purchase of Raffle Tickets for our 2024 Fundraiser! Your support is critical for us to achieve our goals of backing Livonia’s First Responders, their families and the Livonia Community. The drawing was held on Saturday, February 10, 2024 at Livonia Fire Station 3 on Seven Mile. We were honored to have Adam Nehasil, son of fallen Livonia Police Officer Larry Nehasil draw the winning tickets! The grand prize winning ticket number for the golf cart was ticket #1102, the Taste of Livonia gift cards was ticket #806 and the Super Bowl Basket was ticket #005. All of the winners have been notified. Once again, many thanks to all of our supporters!!

Events

The Foundation was initially funded by an event. The Livonia police and fire unions made monetary donations and a generous Livonia business owner purchased a brand new motorcycle which was raffled off to establish seed money for the Foundation.

Our goal is to raise $100,000 a year to help people affected by crisis or tragedy.

LEARN HOW YOU CAN HELP

Shop LFR Apparel

Support the Livonia First Responder Foundation by representing with your favorite apparel.