A Tree City USA since 1998, Livonia is one of the Michigan cities recognized nationally with this designation for its forestry program. As a Tree City, Livonia annually submits an application with the state and meets four standards:

Tree Board or Department: The Livonia Tree City Committee serves this function. The committee is made from representatives of City Council, Livonia Public Schools, Livonia's public service division, and several residents with vested tree-related interests.

Community Tree Ordinance: Livonia has several ordinances which focus on protection, maintenance, and proper planting of trees.

Community Forestry Program with an Annual Budget of at least $2 per capita: Livonia has easily achieved this requirement. Budgeted work includes removals, planting, section trimming, and maintenance trimming, as well as a current computerized inventory of right-of-way trees.

An Arbor Day Observance and Proclamation: Each year, the Mayor and City Council make a proclamation marking the date of Arbor Day. The City and past hosts of the event marks the date by flying the Tree City USA flag. For fourteen years, the City of Livonia has partnered with a rotating elementary school in the City. Students are involved in the program and tree-planting ceremony in an adjoining City park, on school property, or street right-of-way.

Arbor Day Foundation's Tree City USA Program

The Arbor Day Foundation's Tree City USA program, a partnership with the U.S. Forest Service and the National Association of State Foresters, was launched in 1976 with 42 communities in 15 states. Today, there are 3,409 Tree City USA communities with a combined population of more than 138 million people.

Exceeding the Standards

In 2013, 563 communities nationwide exceeded basic standards by receiving a Tree City Growth Award, demonstrating their commitment to going the extra mile in tree management and care. Livonia now has 10 Growth Awards and will receive another this year.

National Arbor Day Foundation