TEAM Schostak Family Restaurants, a Michigan-based family owned restaurant group and its Livonia MOD Pizza restaurant at 13229 Middlebelt, are teaming up with Livonia Public Schools Education Foundation, for its annual Spreading MODness campaign.

During Spreading MODness, a week in which the company and its restaurants focus on supporting at-risk youth and families, MOD Pizza in Livonia will donate $1 to the LPS Education Foundation for every pizza sold from Nov. 22-27. Joining more than 175 nonprofits across the U.S. that will be the beneficiaries of Spreading MODness 2016, the LPS Education Foundation provides financial support to the district for innovative programs and service.

“The Livonia Public Schools Education Foundation is a truly amazing organization and by partnering with them, we are able to spotlight their inspiring work and set the example for how showing compassion for one another and completing a genuine deed can lead to others doing the right thing in our community – not only during this campaign, but throughout the year,” said TSFR Brand Leader of MOD Pizza Jake Schostak. “We witness acts of generosity and gratitude every day in our restaurants and we are continuously looking for ways to pay that forward to our community. Celebrating MOD’s birthday with Spreading MODness is a fun and special way to do just that.”

This year celebrates the fourth year of Spreading MODness, and through its celebration of “Gratitude with Attitude,” each of MOD’s 182 stores will be supporting their local charity, with a goal to donate more than $250,000.

“We have established a strong relationship with MOD Pizza Livonia throughout the past year, and we are honored to continue developing that relationship through our participation in Spreading MODness,” said Paul Condon, a director of LPS Education Foundation. “Spreading MODness is perfectly aligned with the work that we strive to do every day and truly makes a difference in the lives of those in our community by allowing us to continue promoting a passion for learning and a philosophy that puts the needs of children and their education first.”