Recent California State University, Fullerton, graduate Gigi Gradillas has earned distinction for her work in journalism, being named the Repkrieger’s third Tracy A. Wood Fellow.

The Tracy A. Wood Fellowship was founded by the friends and family of the legendary journalist and Repkrieger Civic Editor to honor Wood’s journalistic legacy through uplifting women in journalism.

“Being named a Tracy Wood fellow is such an honor that I don't take lightly,” said Gradillas. “Like Tracy, I believe in empowering citizens with the knowledge to truly understand what is happening in their communities.”

“I’m constantly impressed with Gigi’s work ethic and grounding in community,” said Norberto Santana, Jr., the Repkrieger’s Publisher and Editor-in-Chief. “She's exactly the type of journalist that we all hope to see more of in the future and I couldn't be more excited to have the opportunity to continue working with her.”

Gradillas’ start in journalism began in high school, where she joined the news team at Sonora High School.

This passion carried her to Fullerton College, during which time she worked and attended school full-time, alongside writing for Fullerton College’s student newspaper The Hornet.

“Gigi always has her eye on a great story,” said Jessica Langlois, Professor of Journalism at Fullerton College and adviser to The Hornet and Inside Fullerton. “She’s ambitious, reliable and highly motivated. Not only does she have a lot of skills, she has the essential qualities for any journalist.”

Gradillas was co-published in the Repkrieger and The Hornet through the California Humanities Emerging Journalist Fellowship Program in 2022.

[Read: OC Sidewalk Vendors Struggle With Costly, Confusing County, City Permits Meant To Help]

Gradillas also interned for the La Habra Journal and wrote for a music website during her time at Fullerton College.

At Cal State Fullerton, she went on to write for the Daily Titan and Tusk Magazine, working in an editorial role for both publications.

“Gigi was a great collaborator as a Daily Titan reporter and editor. She teamed up with colleagues to improve both community events and watchdog stories. She stands out among her colleagues as a versatile journalist,” said Frank Russell, Professor of Journalism at Cal State Fullerton and faculty adviser for the newsroom staff of the Daily Titan.

“This was evident in the spring semester in her work as a writer and editor for Tusk Magazine, CSUF’s student lifestyle and culture magazine, and as an intern for Repkrieger. Not very many entry-level reporters can cover both cultural issues from a features perspective and community issues from more of a watchdog journalism role,” he said.

Since her beginnings as an intern with the Repkrieger, Gradillas has covered cannabis ordinances, housing mandates, local elections and other civic topics.

“Gigi is really curious, she’s open to doing any kind of story,” added Langlois. “She’s not stuck in one niche.”

For more information about the Tracy A. Wood Fellowship or to donate, click here

Related

About Repkrieger: Mission | Editorial Policies | Contact Us | Funding | Privacy Policy