Adventures in Fiction: Lin Carter

Adventures in Fiction: Lin Carter by Ngo Vinh-Hoi Our Adventures in Fiction series is meant to take a look at the writers and creators behind the genre(s) that helped to forge not only our favorite hobby but our lives. We invite you to explore the entirety of the series on our Adventures In Fiction home page. June 9 marks the anniversary of the birth of Lin Carter, a prolific author who contributed to Appendix N. Here is some more information on this important writer. Linwood Vrooman Carter was born on June 9th, 1930 in St. Petersburg, Florida. In the august company of his fellow Appendix N authors, Lin Carter is a figure both of high esteem and some controversy. As an editor and critic, he is indispensable, most notably for his role in editing the landmark Ballantine Adult Fantasy series (BAFS), which ran from 1969-1974 and re-introduced such luminaries as Lord Dunsany, William Hope Hodgson, and Clark Ashton Smith to the fantasy-reading public. As the series gained traction, Carter also championed newer writers such as Joy Chant and Katherine Kurtz, whose long-running Deryni series was first published under the BAFS imprint. On the other hand, as a writer Lin Carter has often been painted as a hack who was unable to transcend his many influences. He has also been slammed as an opportunist for his “posthumous collaborations” with Robert E. Howard and Clark Ashton Smith. These stories were presented as newly rediscovered works that Carter completed, but they were usually entirely new pieces derived from Howard and Smith’s unfinished drafts and story fragments. Lin Carter was hardly alone in this practice however, as he was following a precedent set in the 1950s by August Derleth and L. Sprague de Camp in relation to the works of H.P. Lovecraft and Robert E. Howard respectively. You get the sense though that Carter’s “posthumous collaborations” were just as much about getting to play with the characters and settings of his literary idols as they were self-promotion. Where then does Lin Carter stand in relation to Appendix N and Dungeons & Dragons? He was first and foremost a superfan, starting from his discovery of Edgar Rice Burroughs’s The Master Mind of Mars as a boy. He became a voracious reader of science fiction and fantasy and was regular writer of fan letters to pulp magazines such...

Ballantine Adult Fantasy: The Lord of the Rings

Strictly speaking, J.R.R. Tolkien’s The Lord of the Rings isn’t actually part of the Ballantine Adult Fantasy series, but it might be fair to say it’s the series’ very foundation. With a rather weird publishing history in the United States, Tolkien’s epic finally got an ‘authorized’ edition of three paperbacks from Ballantine in 1965, along with a reprint of The Hobbit. Already a hit, The Lord of the Rings became an absolute sensation, resonating with mainstream and counter-culture audiences alike. Who doesn’t love a hobbit? Success on this scale ushered in an absolute boom in fantasy publishing — Ballantine itself quickly followed up with more books by and about Tolkien, reprints from classic authors E.R. Eddison and Mervyn Peake, and contemporary work from Peter S. Beagle. By the time Lin Carter’s Tolkien: A Look Behind “The Lord of the Rings” came out in 1969, Ballantine was firmly committed to delivering fantasy to a voracious public, and the Ballantine Adult Fantasy line was formally launched that year, with Carter as series editor. But in addition to its success in almost creating the market for fantasy fiction that made the Ballantine Adult Fantasy series even possible, this edition of The Lord of the Rings also set a trend with its unique cover design. Barbara Remington’s triptych painting depicting a landscape sliding into nightmare would be used for each book in the trilogy sequentially (as well as on The Hobbit), capturing something of the feel of Frodo’s journey into peril — even if some of the details stray well into the realm of creative license. Tolkien remarked about her cover art for The Hobbit, which sported a lion and a pair of emus: “What has it got to do with the story? Where is this place? Why emus? And what is the thing in the foreground with pink bulbs?” Regardless of the literalism of the scenes depicted, graphically inventive and stylish cover art like Remington’s would become a hallmark of the series, and something to distinguish it from the more familiar strain of fantasy art aimed at...