This one is a rarity, the 1963 Edward Small version of BEAUTY AND THE BEAST. The effects were contracted to the Howard A. Anderson company, with whom Albert would often freelance and provide mattes for. A young Jim Danforth happened across Whitlock while he was at work on these and other paintings and described the meeting in his memoir 'Dinosaurs, Dragons and Drama': "On a visit to the Howard Anderson company, I encountered Al Whitlock, the Disney matte artist to whom Peter Ellenshaw had introduced me when I had visited the Disney matte department. We got talking and I found that I liked Al a lot. It was always a pleasure to talk to him for a few moments whenever we had the chance to meet at the Anderson company". Jim went on to describe how impressed he was by the "truly beautiful painting of the French chateau at sunset" (shown lower right). Actually a lot better than it sounds, the Burt Reynolds-Dolly Parton musical THE BEST LITTLE WHOREHOUSE IN TEXAS (1982) was a rollicking, fun diversion with some great songs, dance sequences and the bonus of the great Charles Durning dancing the side-step! A few mattes occur right at the start of the show depicting the controversial 'Chicken Ranch', which was an actual ranch but significantly altered by Albert. Bill Taylor took the time to elaborate: "The shots in the film are the wide shots of the house that begin the movie, and the night shots that came later. This set was built in the middle of a private ranch near Austin, Texas. Al painted in the surrounding countryside for the best pictorial effect. The opening shot (above) that comes out of the stereopticon pair was shot with an unusual lens setup that put a 2:1 horizontal squeeze on VistaVision. In the optical printer we could simulate a very wide pan as we made the 35mm negative from the VistaVision interpositive". The same technique would be used on the opening shot of HEARTBEEPS that same year. Bill Taylor explained to me a while back just how this effect was created: "The explosion shot for THE BLUES BROTHERS may be more amazing than you realize. There is no actual miniature at work here; it's all a giant [hand retouched] photo blow up [made from the head end of the actual 35mm production take, just a few frames prior to Carrie's car entering the frame], with this blow up divided into two planes. The back plane photo was pasted onto a large thin sheet of fabricated plasterboard made with a very brittle formula. The photo/painting was heavily scored with a Stanley knife so that it would break apart at appropriate places. There were holes cut clear through for window openings and so forth. The back of the plasterboard was 'wired' with a large serpentine pattern of the smallest, 'gentlest' detonation cord available. Because det-cord is virtually instantaneous, the timing was critical to allow the naptha bag explosion to develop before the plaster was blown. A small scale test determined that timing. There was only one full size take needed". Al is seen standing with his hands in his pockets and Master Grip, Larry Shuler is over there in the blue shirt. Not sure about the others. The show stopping dust storm from BOUND FOR GLORY is still a remarkable trick shot. I asked Syd Dutton what his favourite Whitlock shots were: "Here are just a few of my favorites: All the museum paintings in TORN CURTAIN. The dust storm from BOUND FOR GLORY. The elevated train from THE STING. A multitude of HINDENBURG shots....and the most brilliant one isn’t even a painting. FRENZY: The prison and The market. If you were to as me tomorrow I would probably have a different list. But a favourite, I’m afraid not, old friend. Quite honestly, Pete, I loved watching Al paint, and of course, I learned everything from him. I used the BOUND FOR GLORY dust storm gag in a film that Bill supervised, LAWLESS, except it was all done in the computer, but using the same method." The climax of THE CAR involves the Satanic presence within said vehicle, and I've always loved the sequence. Bill Taylor was kind enough to explain the work to me, though he was a little embarrassed at my fondness for the the movie: "I'm glad you like the shot. As time has passed and technology has improved, it makes me wince. The demonic face was much more subtler in earlier versions, but previews revealed that most of the audience did not get the gag, so we re-did it much more blatantly. I thought that a horn on the soundtrack, accompanied by a flashing title that read 'Big Demon Face' was the next logical step. Well, we started with big naptha fires and slow motion flame thrower film elements just as you thought. We shot elements of white Mole smoke against black in our studio, which we cherry picked to find interesting shapes, then reversed into 'black' smoke to serve as a background for the 'face'. The 'face' features were constructed from black cloth on an articulated wire armature so that the mouth could move. The cloth was dampened with napthalene (like lighter fluid, with a nice yellow flame) and set alight, blown with a fan and photographed in colour at a high frame rate, probably about 120 frames per second. I recall that it dripped little drops of flaming naptha. Even though the 'face' was a pretty good size, the flames were too big in scale, and 'miniature-y' looking, so we hit on the idea of shooting them through a moving distortion glass to break them up. The final result was not exactly finished, as much as it was abandoned, since we just ran out of time. Leonard Rosenman helped a lot with his music!" I've blown up the frames here as best I can. Top frame shows physical effects man Lee Vasque's exploding gore filled dummy and a real plane in what must have been a tricky stunt gag to rig. Below are two frames from the Whitlock front projection/roto trick, with the stunt man tottering around as a disembodied pair of legs and pelvis and then toppling backward into the sea. When I first saw the film this and a few other scenes had been censored so all I saw was the approaching plane and a jump cut to Alan Arkin's shocked face. Great movie that I heard the were going to remake..... Just leave the damned thing alone will 'ya.... and just go away and make another stupid Marvel film instead! NZPete sometimes has to count to 10 and take a deep breath. My crude 'cut and paste' which more or less demonstrates the entirety of the shot. Bill Taylor: "At Universal our whole panning matte shot technique was devised to take advantage of CRI [Colour Reversal Intermediate]. The CRI process came along in the 1970's and it seemed like a big step forward. THE CRI film was a reversal negative, which meant that you could make a negative directly from a negative. The improvement in quality was tremendous; so much so that it seemed that the costly A and B printing process could be abandoned. In the simplest case, a shot would be completed on VistaVision original negative, and a 4-perf CRI dupe made on a wet-gate optical printer we had specially made. By extracting a 35mm image from within a Vista image, we could pan, tilt or zoom inside the Vista frame, producing the illusion of a panning shot with very little loss in image quality. We worked many variations on this scheme, sometimes combining several Vista images into a seemingly continuous pan, or, starting a pan 'live' on set and continuing it in the optical printer. Even though Al's paintings had to be duped in this technique, he could see dupe tests quickly (overnight) and make adjustments to the paintings where the dupe emphasized human errors in matching tone and colour. When CRI was discontinued, fortunately the quality of the IP-IN process had improved vastly, to the point where there was no net loss on screen." Frame #2 Bill Taylor related to me the methodology of creating moving sunlight or shadow. "Whenever Al needed to isolate or create a highlight on a painting, he would tape a big cel over the dry painting and then paint the highlights that he wanted to control separately onto the cel. For example, if he wanted to show cloud shadows moving over hills, he would paint the hills in shadow on the main painting and then paint the highlights on the cel. Then he would transfer the cel, in register, taped to a new, unpainted glass the same size as the original. We would shoot a hand test of the overlay and the original painting on film and develop it quickly in the darkroom, then project that negative onto the new glass to position the cel. Then the cel would be double-exposed onto the painting through a moving foreground glass with, say, cloud shadows painted onto it. The illusion of moving shadows wrapped around the hills in three dimensions, which of course, they did not." Frame #2 In a 1974 interview, Al was asked by author Tom Greene which matte was his most complex. "The hardest one we ever did without question was on a thing called COLOSSUS: THE FORBIN PROJECT. It was the interior of a big computer. That by far was the hardest because it was all on original negative. I kept it on that because the figure was small and the area of live action was also very small. When you dupe a small area you get a grain build up and the figure gets broken up badly, so we purposely kept it on original negative. It also required a tremendous amount of stop motion, and it took us a very long time to shoot the scene." Even many years later post retirement Al would tell close friend Rolf Giesen that this shot was still the most difficult one he'd ever made. Frame #21 With such a fragile shot passing through the matte camera so many times, I asked Bill about the procedures Al and his then cameraman Ross Hoffman and his assistant, Mike Moramarco would have taken to ensure a clean shot: "I'd guess that there were at least twenty passes through the matte camera, Of course there would have been several rehearsals on raw stock or even test footage. The procedures Al had worked out eliminated many potential sources of error, so it was not as nerve -wracking an experience as you might think. We'd always shoot one last test through the lab, see it the next morning, and then put the shot together first thing, while we were fresh. We'd always shoot one last 'hand test' to check for hairs or dirt in the gate etc." One of the all time greats in the hall of fame of traditional trick photography was Disney's DARBY O'GILL AND THE LITTLE PEOPLE (1959), a film sorely overlooked when it came to recognising it's astounding technical feats. Peter Ellenshaw was special effects supervisor on the show and painted many of the mattes, assisted by Jim Fetherolf and Albert. This shot was one of the few that Albert recalled painting, though, as he told historian Craig Barron "I might have worked on some of the others, but Peter was always coming through the matte room and improving things with his brush. This film was a real tour-de-force for Peter." The sheer variety of trick shots in this film still amazes me. Tons of ingenious in-camera perspective gags, Schufftan shots, extensive matte art, opticals, solarization effects and more. Rolf Giesen told me that after Al had left Disney he was contacted by Walt asking for him to please come back. Although I'd always had a fascination with 'trick photography' and model shots it was undoubtedly EARTHQUAKE (1974) that introduced me to the work of Whitlock. I loved the film back in the day, and in fact saw it on it's opening day in 70mm 6 track mag (foxhole sprockets) stereo and Sensurround back in Auckland's 'event' movie house, The Cinerama on Queen street. It totally blew my mind and I went back and saw it several times. I bought the paperback adaptation which was half dedicated to the making of the film (with a thick photo section in the middle). It was here that the name Albert Whitlock became clear to me as well as detail about just what he did on the film. And yes, I did have that one sheet poster on my bedroom wall. The after effects from the big shake show a wrecked city. Entirely a Whitlock painting, and certainly his most famous and well recognised. A superb piece of artwork in itself that I was lucky enough to see on the studio tour decades ago in 1979. The peculiar colour hue is an artifact that is becoming increasingly common with 're-mastered BluRay' editions of films for some unknown reason. They employ so-called 'colourists' to fiddle with the original timing on the film elements, sometimes to great detriment. Much of THE HINDENBURG has an unwelcome magenta glow through it on BluRay, but looked fine (colourwise at least on previous DVD editions). Often the so-called 'colourists' time shots down so damned dark for BluRay that the thing becomes barely visible! Anyway, check out the standard DVD frame below for comparison and in addition to a completely different colour hue (that matches Whitlock's obvious intent) you will also see a major technical screw up that isn't visible in the BluRay shot. The image at left needs clarification. For decades various authors and suchlike have commended Al for this view of a destroyed LA, when in fact he had absolutely nothing to do with it at all! This was a huge scenic backing, mostly a large photographic blow up, extensively painted upon and altered by Filipino born scenic painter Ben Resella at Hollywood's JC Backings. Apparently Albert used to get quite annoyed at being constantly attributed this piece of art, and even esteemed journals like American Cinematographer promoted it wrongly as Al's. The book The ASC Treasury of Visual Effects even include it around 3 times! Great evocative artwork but it never worked in my opinion as the perspective of the thing was so far off track that it absolutely never matched up with the foreground action happening with Charlton Heston on the skyscraper set. As to the frame on the right, it's the Whitlock shot as taken from the older DVD and demonstrates far more realistic colour than the strangely adulterated BluRay release. Of great interest too for an odd artifact that not even Bill Taylor was able to explain. The overall matte shot is somewhat wider on DVD, with a slab of additional information visible at the extreme right of frame. It's attention grabbing as we can clearly see where the fire and smoke elements (shot separately on a darkened fx stage and doubled in) abruptly end with what appears to be the edge of the black velvet cloth that was hung behind the fx fires. I sent Bill the frame some time back and here is his response: "I have no clue about that odd bit in the EQ shot; certainly a mistake. I've never noticed it before. Each of those film elements made on colour prints, had glass mattes to mask off unwanted portions of the film, so perhaps one was left out or mis-positioned. Since the shot is all painting and fire elements it could have been re-shot without any loss of quality. Al would certainly not have let it go had he noticed it." Personally, I think the DVD master was a curious case of 'overscan', where the original film elements may not have been from a release print and may have been from 'raw' footage not yet corrected for 2.35:1 lab printing, possibly minus the optical soundtrack which takes up about 4mm of your basic release print. I've seen sample reels and clips before that exhibit unwanted 'junk' in the outer periphery of the frame that aren't meant to be projected for audiences. A wonderfully revealing close up of the same matte shows just how broadly painted it actually was (you can even see the still visible pencil drawing of the main building as a lay in, prior to Al 'wrecking' the structure). In a 1974 article Albert remarked: "As for the style of the paintings, it comes very close to French Impressionism, as strange as that may seem. It's much more like that than like Academic painting. If you look carefully at one of these paintings very closely, you will note that it's not very carefully painted. With frequently only five hours to do a complete painting I don't have the time to do a highly finished job, but I've found out through experience that this isn't necessary to get a result. When I first started in this work my style was so tight that I was tied up in knots all the time. But then I made a discovery. I would do a very rough sketch just to make my first test and then, when I saw it, I'd say 'My God, that little bit of stuff over there looks finished and I haven't done a thing to make it look that way - It's just an impression, but it has life to it and it moves.' The same thing happened many times and, through the years, I learned where to put the work, and to what degree. I'm more concerned with phenomena than with objects - the fading and infusion of light, and the feeling of backlight." The spectacular closing shot. Small patch of live action in the lower middle with all else being entirely fabricated by Whitlock, Hoffman and Winebrenner in Al's department. Numerous fires were initiated by special effects men in a darkened stage against black velvet, with cameraman Ross Hoffman shooting each fire individually with it's own isolating matte, thus creating 'layers' of fire rather than them all patently being on the same 'plane', so that some of the fires are behind ruined buildings and some are in front. Whitlock's ingenuity even made possible the reflective flicker of an unseen fire, visible as that flicker upon the facade of a nearby building. Bill Taylor: "That reflective flicker used one of Al's favourite techniques, the cel overlay. In the case of EQ, the foreground device that modulated the painted cel was a rotating wheel with a pattern painted on it. Any kind of rotating wheel would be photographed in several passes at different speeds, so that the patterns would change as they moved, and there would be no repeats." At right is a Whitlock matte shot, while at left is a frame from part of the amazing locust in flight sequence. Bill Taylor did the very tricky composite work and explained some of it to me: "On THE HERETIC I did many composite takes of [Oxford Scientific Films] Peter Parks' amazing blue screen macro locusts. The story of the advances in making these shots possible may be worth telling because it has never been told. This was one of those little wrinkles in the blue screen system that I kept to myself. It also gives some idea as to the tremendous difficulties of doing photo-chemical compositing. Just as you said Peter, these shots were very difficult because of the blurred, transparent wings. I used Petro Vlahos' original Colour Difference matte principles, with advice from Art Widmer of Universal Studio's optical department, who had himself made valuable improvements to the system. I finally solved the problem by creating a useful refinement to the Vlahos technique that eliminated the last vestige of blue screen colour from transparent and blurred areas." The Chevy Chase movie FUNNY FARM (1988) wasn't bad, as far as Chevy movies go. It did have a few very clever matte shots in it that Albert worked on with Syd Dutton. This seemingly unassuming sequence where a truck approaches a bridge was in fact a rather complicated visual effect, and as such, I just had to find out more from Taylor: "Our panning shot was a VistaVision shot. We set up our matte on location as usual, but it only covered perhaps the right 1/3rd of the frame. I panned the camera to follow the truck but stopped the pan when we reached the point where the matte was set. On the optical printer we saw only the left 2/3rd of the frame until the location move stopped, then continued the pan optically to bring the painted area into the 4-perf 1.85:1 frame. The 8-perf frame looked very strange before the location camera locked off with the painting double exposed into the right 1/3rd of the frame, but no one ever sees that! Of course all our test footage was made in the lock-off position. We used this scheme often." Another completed yet unused GHOST STORY matte painting, with this beautiful full painting being the work of Al's assistant, Syd Dutton. I was aware that glass mattes were, on occasion, prone to mishaps, so I made enquiries with Bill: "Breakage was vanishingly rare because we learned how to handle them and because of the way the frames were made: thick, soft pine pinned and glued at the corners. You could drop a frame on a corner and the glass would not break. Another cog in the Whitlock system to ensure results. Elsewhere the glasses were in metal frames like you would find in a shower door; no shock absorption whatever."

"At Film Effects of Hollywood all the paintings were on unframed Masonite, so no breakage but you could not backlight them; all the dupes were made with separate printer boards. The boards all had metal grommets and were held in place in the matte sands with custom made conical thumb nuts. All worked fine but it was very hard to get the high brightness needed for printing from a painted surface."

Effects cameraman on the film, Jim Aupperle, told me how pretty much everyone in the fx shop stopped work when Albert came in: "The matte shot I was lucky enough to watch Albert working on was for THE GATE. Most of the painting had been done by Mark Whitlock, Albert's son, but he was having trouble finishing the sky so Albert came in to lend a helping brush. I wasn't the only one there that afternoon who stopped what he was doing to watch the master at work. Albert seemed to enjoy the attention as several of us gathered around him. He made it appear so incredibly easy as the sky and clouds revealed themselves wherever his brush moved. Someone came by - I think it was fx supervisor Randy Cook - and told us all to get back to work, otherwise I might have been tempted to keep watching, though at the rate he was going, I think Albert must have finished it quickly." Although Albert came onto his drifting cloud technique while at Disney, it was barely ever used there as the Ellenshaw department stressed pure painting, while Albert was wanting to bring his mattes to life with various gags. The moving cloud gag really came together once Al had started at Universal where he had the freedom and the cameraman to finesse it. Basically, the method involves photographing the static painted clouds of a given matte painting, though instead of shooting the entire thing in one shot, the cameraman would break the painting down into 'bands' and insert soft mattes into the camera which would mask off everything other than the particular 'band' of cloud that was to move. The upper-most 'band' would be photographed with a soft split, and as this was being filmed the actual painting would be hand cranked frame by frame across the matte stand at a given speed. Then, in a separate pass upon the same 35mm film, the soft split would be repositioned in the camera's matte box to expose a second 'middle' band of cloud only - with all else blacked out. This middle-band of painted cloud would again be cranked one frame at a time across the matte stand while being photographed, though in this case the movement would be somewhat slower than the previous pass of the upper most cloud. Finally, the soft split matte would be repositioned to expose only the most distant, horizon level cloud and in fact the remainder of the overall painting which of course would not be moved at all. The resulting composite, all on original negative, would see an incredibly realistic sky where the cloud movement was completely motionless in the distant horizon, and progressively 'faster' in relative terms, the nearer the cloud was to the audience's POV, at the top of the painting, just as it would be in real life. Sky detail from the same matte art. Taylor would tell author Tom Higginson: "Al never had the slightest hesitation explaining to a director how he did his moving clouds technique. He never worried that some other studio would copy the process, because, at first, you have to be able to paint the clouds. There were only a handful of people who could paint clouds to Al's level. Not only did Syd Dutton learn this technique from Al, but he also learned how to paint clouds gracefully so they fit into those 'splits'. As well, our optical cameraman, Dennis Glouner, also came up with a seamless way of doing splits by leaving a 1/16th gap between them. In between passes, we also would go in and make minor variations to the painting in the areas between the splits. As soon as we started doing 'motion control', we realized that we could do cloud movements in depth. That was amazing. The Whitlock technique paid off again and again." HEARTBEEPS is a joy to behold as far as the matte shots go. There are a number of exquisite Whitlock and Dutton shots throughout the film. This extreme pan across the exterior of the robot factory is a definite winner. Al's cameraman Bill Taylor outlined the making of this great shot for me: "That shot is one of the few we made with our 'Super Lens', originally created for the movie DUNE but never used on it. The Super Lens let us put a 2:1 squeeze on the long dimension of the VistaVision frame (3 to 1 aspect ratio) to give us more real estate for optical pans. The optical quality of the lens was OK at small apertures; it was a prototype and could have used another iteration in the design. The spinning whirligig thing at right was the only miniature element. The 'heatwaves' were built into the O/Neg shot, though too broadly I think. The foreground chap who passes right over the painting was Mark Whitlock, shot against a blue screen." I should note that the film, while a very, very long way from being even halfway good, does benefit from excellent make up for the lead robot characters designed by the late Stan Winstone. Also, being directed by Allan Arkush - one of Roger Corman's proteges - who, along with Joe Dante had a fun and most enlightening early career creating those insanely over the top drive in trailers for Roger's New World exploitation 'B' flicks like CAGED HEAT and BLACK MAMA, WHITE MAMA and many more. If you are an old trailer buff like me, you'll recognise the unmistakable deeper than deep baritone vocal tones of none other than Ron Gans as one of the robots. Ron voiced many of those garish T&A New World trailers for years, and did those hilarious fake trailers for John Landis' KENTUCKY FRIED MOVIE. A long lost artform in itself! Yeah, I know...nothing to do with mattes or Whitlock, and of no real interest to anyone but me, but whatcha' gonna' do??? HEARTBEEPS - The robots head back home. A mostly painted view with excellent blend. As somebody who is fascinated with the actual 'blending' of matte shots I was keen to ask Bill about this aspect, especially given how god Al's were: "I must say that the cameraman had very little to do with blending or indeed with any aspect of the painting. One of the reasons Al was able to achieve what he did is that he ran the show, while most other departments were run by cameramen. O/Neg shots required great care and attention on the part of the cameraman, both on-set and in the studio, but the creative force was Albert. I brought some technical expertise into the department because I understood blue screen compositing and I think Al thought I had a good eye. Mostly, I was keen. Of course my eye got a lot better, quickly, by hanging around Al and later on, Syd. As far as soft blends go, when we set the mattes we made them just slightly soft, or out of focus, to extend buildings for example, and made them quite soft if they went through something that might move, like trees. Occasionally, we needed a hard matte at a wide f-stop and then the matte frame got pretty big, with it being almost 7 feet wide for the B-1 bomber shot in the film REAL GENIUS (1985). Al made his soft blends in the painting. He blended in to the original photography with fine cross-hatching, whereas his former Disney colleague, Peter Ellenshaw used 'stipple'. Al kept track of where he was in the blend with a widely spaced line of dots of chalk or white paint. He could judge the blend quite well from a hand developed negative trim, so he could make a lot of progress in a day. Then he'd touch 'out' the dots when the painting was ready to go." The mighty airship is ready for it's fatal voyage. I asked Bill about the set-up of the Universal matte department: "We did most of our matte paintings on original negative, and had four camera rooms, each with a different camera set up depending on the film format. Typically we had 4-perf anamorphic, Techniscope, 4-perf flat 1.85:1, and VistaVision going simultaneously. We had various satellite operations around the lot when a particular film needed more space. We had a very old lathe-bed optical printer made at Universal, and an unusual Acme 2-head printer which was later supplemented with a VistaVision aerial image printer built for us by George Randle. The studio had a very large optical department but we were independent of it. By the time I got there, there were no old paintings left over from days previous to Al. The department was extensively remodelled to Al's specifications to accommodate the four fixed camera stands, plus a large, open area for temporary set-ups, as well as a large, bright painting studio - with Al getting the only windows in the building - plus a small office." THE HINDENBURG in flight and making good time. It wasn't all 'peaches and cream' at the effects camera side of things as I found out from Bill Taylor on the subject: "I was determined to shoot the miniature airship in sunlight; no phoney stage lighting for me! I experimented with an odd scheme for matting the miniature that I thought would work in daylight that in retrospect sounds 'Fulton-esque'. (In those days a day-lit blue screen was not saturated enough to give a good result.) I shot the model airship against black velvet, with the sun as the key light. I filled in the with a row of arc lights with deep blue filters, balanced so that viewed through a blue filter the ship appeared to be flat lit. Black detail like the swastica was painted blue."

"My intent was to print a silhouette matte from a blue positive separation, which I hoped would have uniform density throughout. Then the foreground detail would go on with the green separation used twice, through blue and green filters, and with the red separation. This of course was a sort of simplified Vlahos colour-difference dupe. The highlights and shadows and the red patch around the swastica reproduced normally on the green and red separations. Don't think anything like this had been tried in colour."

'Clever scheme, eh? In practice, a disaster! The grey airship just soaked up the blue light, and even with arc lamps cheek by jowl, it proved to be impossible to light the shadow side uniformly enough so there were not translucent areas in the matte. To try to get the sun intensity in balance with the arcs. I had the grips hang a net over the airship. If there was more than one layer of net, there were beautiful moire patterns cast on the ship. There was a little wind on the back lot on one day, which ripped the net, and down it came, where the arc lights burned holes in it. It was thanks to Al Whitlock's enormous clout at the studio that I got to try this in the first place, and did not get fired as a result!"

"I began to re-think shooting the miniature against blue screen on the sound stage, which we finally did. On Universal's biggest stage,stage 12, which was right outside our door, I could back the single key light 200 feet away to get really hard, parallel shadows. (I loved those old arc lights, which were close to being point sources of light.) A great big wrap-around diffuser produced shadowless fill and a ground cloth produced the appropriate bounce from land, water or lower clouds. We dollied the camera on rails which rested on a carefully screeded sand bed, so the camera move was dead smooth" . Al's new young assistant, Syd Dutton, has only just joined the matte department as HINDENBURG was getting rolling. Syd was initially hired purely as a general assistant and not much more, though that role changed as a result of this particular shot. Al had been experimenting with a problematic scene where the giant airship passes over the city of Amsterdam at night. Initially the idea was to paint the city lights onto a large glass and move it past the camera. Dutton however, came upon an idea which would prove to be the perfect solution. Syd purchased a quantity of confectioner's sugar based decorations which were then laid out onto a large black velvet covered table top and then carefully arranged in straight rows with the edge of a metal ruler. When this Rube-Goldberg configuration was properly lit from the appropriate angle the effect was stunning. Albert was very impressed, although he was never one to hand out compliments casually. The artfully designed night cityscape was photographed as it was slowly winched past the camera. An additional couple of passes were made of cloud elements floating by, and to complete the shot Dutton was also tasked with painting the actual interior of the airship's window frame. Years later Albert would state: "I could make jokes about having to whip him into shape, but Syd showed promise, right from the start." Great care was taken by the matte crew to not only have moving clouds, but to have some clouds clearly behind the airship and some in front. It wasn't as easy as it looked. The cloud elements were bi-packed through the matte camera, or in some cases, even tri-packed (ie: running 3 films at the exact same time through the camera gate). In an article in 1975, Albert discussed this work: "Producing white clouds against black velvet was simple enough, but if such a scene were used simply as a 'burn-in' it would produce only a 'ghost' like image of clouds - not really sufficiently opaque to the eye. In order to do this we would make a colour reversal wedge of the white clouds on the black background - in other words, dark clouds against a completely clear background. Running this footage in bi-pack through the matte camera while we were shooting our scenes, the 'black' cloud would obscure the ship in certain areas, and then by burning in after this, we got the realistic illusion of opaque white clouds." George C. Scott's 'Oh Shit' moment! Was it an accident, or was it deliberate? In the context of the Nelson Gidding screenplay, I'd go with the latter. A mindblowing (no pun intended) scene where all hell breaks loose. I've always admired this shot from THE HINDENBURG where G. C. Scott is blown to kingdom come - be it by accident or his own choice we never discover. I spoke to Bill Taylor about how he achieved this unforgettable shot: "George Scott did not want to be hung from wires against a blue screen, and I can't say I blamed him. So we put him on a bicycle seat, leaning against a tilting rig covered in black velvet. He could lean back in some comfort, move his arms and legs freely, and so on. We lit his highlight side with a white key light, the shadow side with blue light, gave him a blue necktie, blue socks and painted his black shoes blue. He found this all exceedingly mysterious. "I don't know what they're doing," he told a visitor, "but it's got something to do with the blue tie and the blue shoes." We zoomed him back with a 20-1 zoom lens. The background consisted of artwork, pyro elements and a fire extinguisher discharged at the camera. I knew there would be holes in the matte in the shadows of his jacket and so on, but the thought was to fill in the holes with roto. Everyone liked the quick pre-roto test where the holes in the matte gave more definition to the silhouette. So we declared victory and moved on to the next shot". Frame #1 I have included four frames from the explosion sequence which are useful to click on and toggle through to appreciate the clever animation Albert executed that collapses the hydrogen filled airship envelope. The Hindenburg's explosion, which according to Whitlock's own article published in American Cinematographer in 1975: "The explosion was shot in the high reaches of the Universal backlot against a night sky, which served the same purpose as a black velvet backing. The special effects man made up a bag of explosives which had everything in it, including gasoline. The problem lay in the fact that you were trying to reproduce an effect on an enormous scale from an explosion that was not more than ten feet across". Whitlock went on to say:.."The scene was shot at five times the normal speed, which is about as far as you can push a camera without risk of a camera jam that would ruin the whole thing [...] so it was necessary to put the scene into an optical printer afterwards and make a three times extension, in other words, each frame printed three times in order to extend the scene and slow down the action by a factor of three". Frame #2 I asked matte cameraman Bill Taylor about the shot which had perplexed me for decades, and here is what he said; "The miniature explosion was shot at 120 FPS, then the highest rate that could be had from a reliably pin-registered camera owned by Universal. Photosonics 4E cameras were available for outside rental that could have gone 360 FPS, but they were very expensive to rent and somewhat temperamental. The explosion that Glen Robinson and Frank Brendel created for us was gigantic, and we were convinced that 120 would be fast enough. It wasn't. The slow-down was created by a primitive form of frame blending, a staggered triple exposed series of dissolves from one frame to the next. There was no need for a roto matte; a luminance mask was easy to get off the explosion. Of course these days we could interpolate the extra frames digitally. We also shot a big black cloud explosion in daylight to back up the night explosion, but I don't think the shot ever got far enough for the black smoke to show. Frame #3 Bill continues: "The other elements are: live action foreground with the actors shot on marks in overcast and in backlight to give the illusion that they are lit by the explosion, painted sky and upper portion of the mooring mast, and a retouched still of the miniature mounted on an oversize foreground glass. The oversize glass was eccentrically pivoted so that the airship would seem to fall from a point within its own mass. The pivoting action was driven by a lead screw maybe 24" long, which had a pointer attached to the traveller and a scale on the body. The lead screw was driven in stop motion by a hand crank from a calculated move on a count sheet, a certain number of turns per frame. By counting turns accurately to reset the pointer, we could repeat the move perfectly."

For quite some time I had assumed this shot to be a piece of newsreel footage, but then Syd Dutton mentioned a particular HINDENBURG fx shot that always made a lasting impression: "One of my favorite Al shots in the film wasn’t a painting at all, and I was referring to the men on the guide line shot at magic hour and then in sunlight to simulate the explosion. Pure genius." Syd then asked Bill to write me his recollections of the particular shot, which now puts a whole new spin on the brief cut for me: "Syd is referring to the shot in which the men holding the mooring lines are suddenly lit by the explosion of the airship above them. Our camera was on one of the big corner pylons of the airship hanger in Santa Ana. The same men were shot twice in exactly the same positions, their feet carefully marked and each man taking note of his body position. In one shot they were in full sun from above, casting strong shadows. On cue, they dropped the lines and ran away. In the second shot, made later the same day when the sun was low enough to be off them (Magic Hour), we shot them in the same spots, looking upward at the airship. I had shot a Polaroid of the guys in the first shot and we used it to cue them into matching poses."

"The shot in the film starts with the Magic Hour shot. With a very soft-edge wipe we transitioned to the brightly-lit men color timed to appear as though they are lit by the exploding airship. Their shadows provide exclamation marks as each man runs for his life. Because the scope of the shot is so wide, it would have been impossible to achieve the effect with any lighting instrument and of course any real pyrotechnic effect would have been very dangerous. As Syd said, a brilliant idea. Al did not get hung up on whether the effect was physically 'authentic'; he knew that for the few seconds that were needed it would play perfectly."

Aspects of the making of that matte, with Al at work in the Universal matte department. Note his use of a large mirror as a means to constantly reference his progress from a fresh 'flopped' view where errors that may not be immediately evident with the painting directly in front of the artist may be picked up when glanced at in reverse. Al probably acquired this method from observing Peter Ellenshaw who also was a strong advocate of this. (*As an amateur painter myself, I've always relied heavily on the mirror constantly during my own painting process: Pete). Also shown above are a few of the dozen or so tests where hues and blends aren't yet properly matched. At bottom right is longtime Whitlock assistant cameraman Mike Moramarco loading the camera for a take in one of the four camera rooms. Mike's career with Albert went way back to the early sixties and included THE BIRDS, SHIP OF FOOLS and all of those Hitchcock pictures.