Whats wrong with Seagulls? They are a needed part of things, at least around these parts.

In the UK, they are a protected species and their numbers have increased greatly, to the point they can be quite a nuisance in some towns. They can be territorial and attack people invading 'their' space, when all those people are trying to do is hang out their washing, or deliver the mail. They are also very canny at staking out outdoor eating areas, and will swoop on any food left unattended for even a second. I've also seen them steal sandwiches from unwary people's hands.

Of course gulls are living creatures and part of the overall eco system. Unfortunately, man has been putting out an abundance of food, meaning gull numbers have reached unnaturally high levels.

just don't be too gull ible and you'll probably be ok

too late. i already am.

because as always, those who mock the species of which people typically speak poorly are just making jokes and anyone who objects is a poor sport... as if wild animals, both remote and close to people, aren't impacted by ill-informed attitudes and beliefs. human beings tend to make their entire lives resemble a waste pit and then blame the scavengers who show up. gulls aren't the nuisance.

too late. i already am.

because as always, those who mock the species of which people typically speak poorly are just making jokes and anyone who objects is a poor sport... as if wild animals, both remote and close to people, aren't impacted by ill-informed attitudes and beliefs. human beings tend to make their entire lives resemble a waste pit and then blame the scavengers who show up. gulls aren't the nuisance.

At the risk of being unduly obsessive about semantics, it's probably more accurate to say that gulls didn't cause the conditions which led to gulls being a nuisance. Man did. Saying that gulls aren't a nuisance risks falling into a logical trap whereby we also state that hippopotami aren't dangerous and snakes aren't poisonous. Obviously, they are. However, if we allow ourselves to be attacked by a hippopotamus, or bitten by a snake, we must blame ourselves for allowing the situation to arise.

In the case of gulls, they clearly can be a nuisance in urban environments, but we again only have ourselves to blame. The gulls are just doing what comes naturally.

At the risk of being unduly obsessive about semantics, it's probably more accurate to say that gulls didn't cause the conditions which led to gulls being a nuisance. Man did. Saying that gulls aren't a nuisance risks falling into a logical trap whereby we also state that hippopotami aren't dangerous and snakes aren't poisonous. Obviously, they are. However, if we allow ourselves to be attacked by a hippopotamus, or bitten by a snake, we must blame ourselves for allowing the situation to arise.

In the case of gulls, they clearly can be a nuisance in urban environments, but we again only have ourselves to blame. The gulls are just doing what comes naturally.

Have to agree with Simon on this, in my professional career I have on numerous occasions where I had to investigate the cause of why some employee's have had to get medical attention due to exposure to bird detritus, generally these were maintenance workers being unaware of the risks and coming into contact with bird droppings/feather dusts etc during there normal work activities on roofs, lofts and cellars etc.

I can say that one of these investigations resulted in a near death and an ongoing disablement, so in short there are clinical reasons why any over population of wild animals can be problematic to the health of humans if not controlled in a sensible manner.

In the UK, they are a protected species and their numbers have increased greatly...

As far as I know, they are protected here in the Sates as well.

Maybe if we didnt pollute their habitats and kill off their natural food supplies, they wouldnt come to visit our cities.

Oh, FYI, decaying bird feathers and droppings are toxic. Probably want to take appropriate precautions when working around such things.

But hey, what do I know?

It's not like I wish that they'd be all dead. But what's wrong with them?

They build their freaking nest over house roofs here. And when their chicks hatch the parents become super aggressive. As soon as you get close to the building they dive, actually Dive right at you furiously!!!

Sometimes the egg hatch and chick falls down to the ground, then you've got issue. Flocks of them start circling above nonstop to keep humans away from it.

They are aggressive as hell!!! And they're are loud!!

While I agree that could be a dangerous menace, see my sentence about man destroying their habitat.