Love Actually is the Christmas classic absolutely chockablock with stars and future stars.

After repeated views of the rom-com, you might think you know everything about the 2003 film.

However, you might not know that the Love Actually set actually played host to a family reunion.

READ MORE: Hugh Grant's Love Actually bachelor pad has been on the market for months but no one wants it

Thomas Brodie-Sangster, who plays the role of Sam in the film, was 13 at the time of filming and revealed to his fellow actor that they were in fact related.

The actor, now 31, has followed in the footsteps of his superstar relation, finding roles in Game of Thrones, The Queen’s Gambit and the Maze Runner franchise.

According to IMDB Thomas is in fact the second cousin once removed of rom-com star Hugh Grant.

The film website says: "Grant's maternal grandmother, Margaret Isabel Randolph, was the sister of Brodie-Sangster's maternal great-grandmother, Barbara May Randolph."

Thomas has revealed how he told Hugh that they were related while on the set of Love Actually.

He told the Times of India: "He didn't know. I said, 'Apparently, you are my uncle or my cousin or something.' Then he kind of remembered my mum and uncle. So for the rest of the shoot, he went round saying: 'Hello cousin.' That felt quite cool."

Since his revelation Thomas has taken fame in his stride.

He told This Morning: "It's a strange life to lead as a young person, it was a life I loved, a life of adventure, and I kept somewhat grounded and relied on my friends and family.

"I'm still riding the wave."

Hugh Grant played the new elected Prime Minister in Love Actually, a role famous for his dance scene around Number 10.

He was recently in Guy Richie’s The Gentleman and played a number of iconic roles over the years in Four Weddings and a Funeral, Bridget Jones’s Diary and Notting Hill.

Hugh is also the father of 5 children with two women and shares three of his kids with his now-wife Anna Eberstein.

Do you want stories sent straight to your inbox? Customise your notifications here.