Pictures made during a weekend trip (July 9 and 10, 2005) to Lviv, arriving saterday (very) early in the morning, leaving this magnificent town with such a rich architecture the next day in the early afternoon, so time was too short to explore more of the town. As the hotel was not so interested to sell only one night (yes, it was possible for about $60), we decided to try to find a private sleeping place and we managed (with help of the Polish church in Lviv): only two stops by tram from the centre, an older woman should have place for us. In our innocence we thought it was on walking distance (only two stops!), but that turned out to become a long walk as the second stop was more than one kilometer from the previous one. Anyhow, we got know the real life in Lviv: a not so clean room and a bath tube and pans on the stove full of water: only two times a day there is for some time running water. Tourists are not aware of this fact as the hotels and restaurants have their own storage of water ... A second visit I made in September 2007. Lviv (Ukrainian: Львів, German: Lemberg; Polish: Lwów; Russian: Львов, Hungarian: Lemberg or Ilyvó) is a western Ukranian city. The city was founded by King Danylo of the Ruthenian duchy of Halych-Volhynia, and it was named in honor of his son, Lev (Lion). It was an important city of Poland (and later Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth) and also the capital of the Ruthenian Voivodeship. After the First Partition of Poland (1772) Lemberg became the capital of the Austrian Kingdom of Galicia. After the collapse of the Habsburg Empire the city became Polish again; it was part of the Second Polish Republic and was the second Polish city between the world wars. After the WWII it was part of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic (within the Soviet Union). The political and commercial role of Lviv attracted different ethnic groups with different cultural and religious traditions. In 1608 Jesuits founded a Collegium, later transformed into an university. The city also had a huge Jewish population.

read more read less