Hayek’s appointment in 1931 was without doubt an important moment in the history of the LSE which as the economist John Hicks has observed, provided a theoretical boost to a major debate then underway about the nature of economics and economic policy in an era of depression between Hayek and his close colleague at the School Lionel Robbins, and Keynes and his various followers up In Cambridge. But whether, as claimed by Lachezar Grudev in his excellent blog on Hayek, the young Austrian became ‘the leading figure’ at an institution established by Fabians ( and with which Sidney and Beatrice Webb remained closely associated) is not so obvious. There were after all several other intellectual heavy-weights at the LSE at the time, from Harold Laski in the Government Department, Malinowski in Anthropology, Tawney in Economic History, not to mention its 4th Director William Beveridge. There is little doubt however that Hayek’s 1944 ‘Road to Serfdom’ was, as suggested, ‘one of the most influential books written in the twentieth century’. But it’s also worth recalling what Keynes (who had got to know Hayek in Cambridge during the war years) actually said about Hayek’s defence of ‘individualism’ against what he saw as the ‘totalitarian’ threat posed by ‘collectivism’ in its various guises. And interestingly, far from disagreeing with the book’s main thesis that central planning posed a threat to individual liberty, fulsomely praised Hayek’s slim, controversial, and then unfashionable volume, arguing that Hayek had written ‘a grand book’ with which he found himself ‘morally and philosophically in agreement’. Indeed, he was not only in ‘agreement with it, but in deeply moved agreement’. Hayek may not have thought much of Keynes as an economist; and Keynes ( or at least some of his more youthful supporters) often said some pretty scathing things about Hayek’s economics. But both in the end were sceptical liberals who admired Edmund Burke, thought socialism ‘unachievable’ (Hayek), Marx’s Das Kapital ‘dreary’ and ‘out of date’ ( Keynes) and ‘Red Russia’ as Keynes called it in the 1920s, as holding ‘too much which is detestable’ to make him change his mind about the ‘bourgeois’ and ‘intelligentsia’ who in his view carried ‘the seeds of all human advancement’. As was observed many years ago by Tim Worstall ( then a Fellow at the Adam Smith Institute in London) there may have been a ‘gap’ between the two, but there was much less of a ‘philosophic canyon’ than the many devotees of both men later liked to claim.