Beautifully picturesque Ivrea lies in north-west Italy, near Turin and although it is not typically a tourist trap, there are several interesting sights, most notably the cathedral and Roman ruins, which will keep you entranced. That, and the town’s annual carnival – the Battle of the Oranges

History of Ivrea, Italy

What we now know as Ivrea, was originally colonised by the Salassi, a group of people who lived in the present Canavese and Valle d’Aosta. Their main activities were the mining of iron, copper, gold and silver but sadly for them, they were on a strategic route for the Romans, who were marching towards Gaul. The Romans declared war on them and were ultimately victorious. In 100 BC, the Romans founded Eporedia in the region which then became a municipium. Due to the region’s hilly nature, the town of Eporedia was formed on an irregular pentagon, its main street is still the main street in today’s Ivrea.

After the Romans, Eporedia became the seat of a Longboard Duchy, then a county of a Frankish kingdom and in the 9th century it became the capital of its region. In the 13th century a massive castle was built, which still dominates the city to this day.

After the fall of Napoleon, the city returned to the Kingdom of Sardinia until 1859, where it remained the capital of the province. In the 19th century the city expanded and substantial transformations occurred. Gradually, over time, the city lost its medieval structure and in the early decades of the 20th century Ivrea became an important cog in the great wheel of the industrial revolution.

Visiting Ivrea

Piazza Castello and Ivrea castle – Work on the castle, with its four angular towers and large central courtyard, began in 1358 and was completed in 1395. In the 18th century the castle was transformed into a prison, a role that it held until 1970, when major renovations began.

Ivrea Cathedral – With its three naves, the cathedral has managed to hold onto several of its oldest features, which date back to the Cathedral of Warmondo. Despite the many renovations of the centuries, the cathedral has retained its history and charm. It does now have a semicircular apse and two bell towers of Romanesque style. The two towers are very similar to look at and have both been divided into several tiers, adorned with decorations and hanging arches, while the top of each side features open mullioned windows.

Beneath the church, the crypt was built in two stages. The oldest part is semi-circular and located under the apse, with cross vaults supported by columns. The most recent part of it dates back to the 12th century. In the crypt there is an ancient Roman marble sarcophagus that belonged to Quaestor Gaius Valerius Atecius (second half of the first century BC) which is very well preserved, and three tombs of the ancient Bishops of the city.

Ivrea Civic Museum – This is a museum dedicated to the scholar Peter Alexander Garda (1791-1880) and has a sizeable section of Eastern and Archaeological art, and a number of frescoes from the 15th and 17th century. The unexpected highlight has to be the Garda Collection of Oriental art: works collected by Peter Alexander Garda in the late 19th century and according to experts, it is one of the most important collections of Oriental art outside of Japan. It contains many archaeological finds, mainly dedicated to the colony of Eporedia and its origins. Also in the museum, are a wide selection of paintings from the 14th to 20th centuries, such as the Crucifixion by Giovanni del Biondo , Madonna with the Child, by Neri di Bicci and Christ removed from the cross, attributed to Ambrogio da Fossano.

Ivrea carnival – The Carnival in Ivrea includes the famous Battle of the Oranges. This lively event features 400 tonnes of oranges being thrown, over the three days preceding Ash Wednesday. It represents the overthrow of a tyrant in Ivrea in the 12th century. If you want to take part, you will have to pay a small fee; if you want to just watch, don a red cap and keep behind the net barriers!

Church of San Bernardino – This 15th century church has frescoes depicting events from the Life of Jesus. The oldest part of the church was build by the convent of the Franciscan order in the first half of the 15th century.