Ann Harada ends her run in Rodgers and Hammerstein’s Cinderella at the Broadway Theatre, opposite KeKe Palmer as Cinderella; NeNe Leakes as Madame, Cinderella’s stepmother; Joe Carroll as Prince Topher; Judy Kaye as Marie, The Fairy Godmother; and Stephanie Gibson as stepsister Gabrielle, on December 14, 2014.

Harada has been giving “a hoot of a performance” (NY 1 News) as the evil stepsister Charlotte in Rodgers and Hammerstein’s Cinderella since the production, directed by Mark Brokaw and featuring a new book by four-time Tony nominee Douglas Carter Beane, based on the original book by Oscar Hammerstein II, began preview performances in January 2013.

“Ann Harada and Stephanie Gibson rock as Ella’s stepsisters”

Elisabeth Vincentelli in the New York Post

“The show “is looking perfectly splendid” and as for me: “Ann Harada (hilarious as the bratty step-sister who miscalculates her romantic strategies)”

Michael Dale on Broadway World

“Harada remains a spunky delight”

Matthew Murray on Talkin’ Broadway

“Ann Harada is still fresh as the delusional stepsister Charlotte with her show-stealing ‘Stepsister’s Lament'”.

Hayley Levitt on Theatermania

The Broadway premiere starred Laura Osnes as Cinderella; Santino Fontana as the Prince Topher; Victoria Clark as Marie, the Fairy Godmother; Harriet Harris as Madame, Cinderella’s stepmother; and Marla Mindelle as stepsister Gabrielle.

Mr. Beane’s book for Rodgers and Hammerstein’s Cinderella offers a new romantic twist on the ultimate makeover story of a maid-turned-princess, mixing fresh comedy and wit with the beloved tale’s classic elements — the pumpkin, glass slipper, masked ball and more. In addition to musical numbers from the original score, including “In My Own Little Corner,” “Impossible/It’s Possible,” “Ten Minutes Ago” and “Do I Love You Because You’re Beautiful?,” this Cinderella includes four additional songs from the Rodgers + Hammerstein “trunk.”

The Broadway Theatre is located at 1681 Broadway (Between West 52nd and 53rd Streets) in New York. Tickets to Rodgers and Hammerstein’s Cinderella, which plays its final performance on January 3, 2015, are on sale through Tele-charge and can be purchased by calling 212-239-6200 or online at www.telecharge.com.

Ann Harada Plays Cinderella’s Stepsister Charlotte in Broadway Premiere of Rodgers and Hammerstein’s Cinderella at the Broadway Theatre

Fans may remember Harada as Christmas Eve, the heavily accented Japanese therapist in the hit show, Avenue Q, which she performed on Broadway and in London. Other Broadway credits include 9 TO 5, Madame Thenardier in Les Miserables (revival), Seussical and M. Butterfly. She has appeared in the films Admissions, Hope Springs, Feel, The Art of Getting By and Happiness; and recent television credits include “30 Rock,” “The Big C,” “Lipstick Jungle,” “Rescue Me,” “The Electric Company,” and a recurring role as Linda the stage manager on “Smash”.

In February, Broadway vet Harada was simply spectacular in the Allen Room at Frederick P. Rose Hall in New York, where she performed as part of Lincoln Center’s American Songbook Concert Series.

Helmed by frequent collaborator Alan Muraoka, with musical direction by Gary Adler, Harada was joined by long time pal Kevin Pariseau, with whom she sang a series of Judy Garland duets.

Photos: Harriet Harris, John Tartaglia, Christine Toy Johnson, Alan Muraoka, James Saito and More celebrate Ann Harada’s Debut at Lincoln Center in the American Songbook Series

On Monday, December 8th, Harada will emcee “Arriving In Asian America,” a song cycle collectively written by members of the project with original words and music by Adam Gwon, Timothy Huang, Christine Toy Johnson, Ming Aldrich-Gan, Hyeyoung Kim (with Michael Cooper), Leon Ko, Robert Lee, Yoonmi Lee (with Gaby Gold & Zhu Yi), Yan Li, Jason Ma, J. Oconer Navarro, Kamala Sankaram, Tidtaya Sinutoke (with Ty Defoe) and Jeff Tang.

Presented by The Asian American Composers and Lyricists Project and ReImagined World Entertainment, the one night only performance is at the Peter Norton Symphony Space’s Leonard Nimoy Thalia, 2537 Broadway (at 95 St.) in New York. Helmed by Dax Valdes, the singers will include Raymond J. Lee (Honeymoon in Vegas), Pearl Sun (If/Then), Marc delaCruz (If/Then), Thom Sesma (The Times They Are A-Changin’), Man of La Mancha, Nick and Nora), Arielle Jacobs, Hansel Tan, Manna Nichols, Eric Bondoc, Anne Fraser Thomas, Joanna Carpenter, Joanne Javien, EJ Zimmerman, Cindy Cheung, Daniel J. Edwards, Q GyuJin Lim, Kamala Sankaram, Mel Sagrado Maghuyop, and Christine Toy Johnson.

Dec. 8: Christine Toy Johnson, Thom Sesma, Cindy Cheung, Raymond J. Lee, Pearl Sun, Marc delaCruz, Arielle Jacobs, Daniel J. Edwards, Kamala Sankaram, Mel Sagrado Maghuyop & More Set for The Asian American Composers and Lyricists Projects’ “Arriving In Asian America”

Harada will next appear with Nick Cordero, Matt Doyle, Andrew Call, Gerard Canonico, Max Chernin, Nick Choksi, John-Michael Lyles, Grace McLean, Olivia Oguma, Tom Alan Robbins, Nicolette Robinson and Remy Zaken in the world premiere of Brooklynite at the Vineyard Theatre. The new musical, directed by Michael Mayer, will begin off-Broadway performances on January 29, 2015. The production is set to open on February 25 and run through March 22. Performances are Tuesday – Wednesday at 7pm, Thursday – Saturday at 8pm and Saturday – Sunday at 3pm. Click here to purchase tickets.

Synopsis: “Trey Swieskowski is an idealistic hardware store clerk who dreams of becoming a superhero. Astrolass, Brooklyn’s most celebrated superhero, is determined to throw in the cape and live like a normal Brooklynite. When they meet they hatch a plan that will change their lives forever. But can they save Brooklyn when it suddenly teeters on the brink of disaster? Brooklynite is inspired by the real Brooklyn Superhero Supply Company located in Park Slope, with characters created by Michael Chabon and Ayelet Waldman.”

Brooklynite features a book by Peter Lerman and Michael Mayer, music and lyrics by Peter Lerman and is directed by Michael Mayer. The creative team features musical direction by Kimberly Grigsby, choreography by Steven Hoggett, scenic design by Donyale Werle, costumes by Andrea Lauer, lighting by Kevin Adams, and sound design by Kai Harada.

Other articles about Ann Harada:

Photos: Harriet Harris, John Tartaglia, Christine Toy Johnson, Alan Muraoka, James Saito and More celebrate Ann Harada’s Debut at Lincoln Center in the American Songbook Series

Feb. 22: Lincoln Center Presents Cinderella’s Ann Harada in the American Songbook Series in the Allen Room at Frederick P. Rose Hall

Ann Harada Plays Cinderella’s Stepsister Charlotte in Broadway Premiere of Rodgers and Hammerstein’s Cinderella at the Broadway Theatre

Christine Toy Johnson, Thom Sesma, Ali Ewoldt, Jose Llana, Ann Harada, Telly Leung and More Set for The Asian American Composers and Lyricists Project at The Alice Griffin Jewel Box Theatre on May 19, 2013

Photos: Christine Toy Johnson, Baayork Lee, Jose Llana, Ann Harada, Dodie Pettit and More at Charles Randolph-Wright’s “Three Voices” concert series at Stage 72

Photos and Video: Daniel Dae Kim, Ann Harada, Greg Watanabe and More at Jeanne Sakata’s Hold These Truths starring Joel de la Fuente

Shinsai: Theaters for Japan Photos: (8pm) with Oskar Eustis, Patti LuPone, Lisa Emery, Ann Harada, Paolo Montalban, Thom Sesma, Sab Shimono, Henry Stram, Richard Thomas, John Weidman and more

Other articles by Lia Chang:

Q & A with Danny Ramm, Co-writer of Joe Mantegna Helmed ‘Criminal Minds’ Season 10 Episode to Honor the late Meshach Taylor; Airs January 21, 2015

Photos: André De Shields, Dee Dee Bridgewater, Ken Page, Charl Brown, Carly Hughes, Alton Fitzgerald White, Lillias White in 40th Anniversary of The WIZ Tribute at BC/EFA’s GYPSY OF THE YEAR; Competition Breaks Records With Over $5 Million as Hugh Jackman’s THE RIVER Brings in Top Donation

James Yaegashi, Celia Keenan-Bolger, Ernest Abuba, Tsering Dorjee, Takemi Kitamura, James Saito, Jon Norman Schneider in Sarah Ruhl’s The Oldest Boy in the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater at LCT

Emmy Winner Richard Thomas and Anna Chlumsky Set For Broadway’s YOU CAN’T TAKE IT WITH YOU, Beginning January 6, 2015

Lia Chang Picks: Island Breeze CD by Jeff Peterson, Riley Lee & Kenny Endo

New York Times Critics’ Pick OUR LADY OF KIBEHO by Katori Hall, extends through December 14

Lia Chang Picks: Arthur Dong’s Forbidden City: Chinese-American Nightclubs, 1930-1970

Stephen Adly Guirgis’ BETWEEN RIVERSIDE AND CRAZY at Second Stage Theatre’s Tony Kiser Theatre Beginning January 16, 2015

Yellow Sound Label to Release BD Wong’s Debut CD HERRINGBONE on December 2, 2014

Photos: BD Wong, Cindy Cheung, Brooke Ishibashi,Thom Sesma, Manna Nichols, Steven Eng, Ariel Estrada and Lori Tan Chinn at Leviathan Lab’s Ghost Stories

Apple Video Podcast: New York Post Writer Michael Riedel Interviews David Byrne, Jaygee Macapugay, Jose Llana and Conrad Ricamora of Here Lies Love

Cheryl L. Davis’ Maid’s Door Sweeps AUDELCOs with 7 Wins; Complete List of 2014 AUDELCO Recipients

Ken Watanabe, Kelli O’Hara, Ruthie Ann Miles, Conrad Ricamora, Jon Viktor Corpuz, Paul Nakauchi and More Set for Lincoln Center Theater’s The King and I

Photos: Ellen Burstyn, Baz Luhrmann, John Leguizamo, Elizabeth Rodriguez, Stephen McKinley Henderson, John Patrick Shanley, David Henry Hwang, Liza Colón-Zayas, Kenneth Lonergan and More Celebrate Stephen Adly Guirgis at The Mimi Awards

NYU Theatrical Production Presents the World Premiere of Rajiv Joseph’s Describe the Night in the Shubert Theatre at Tisch School of the Arts

Q & A with Playwright Camille Darby, 2014-15 Dramatists Guild Playwrighting Fellow

Costume Institute’s Spring 2015 Exhibition at Metropolitan Museum to Focus on Chinese Imagery in Art, Film, and Fashion, May 7–August 16, 2015

Photos: Art Salon with Artist Yang Chihung and Dr. Agnes Hsu-Tang at New-York Historical Society

Photos: Chinese American: Exclusion/Inclusion on View through April 19, 2015 at New York Historical Society

Coming to America through The Angel Island Immigration Station

Photos: Ali Ewoldt, Arielle Jacobs, Joel Perez, Adam Jacobs, Telly Leung and Alan Muraoka at Christine Toy Johnson and Jason Ma’s Barcelona at The Theatre at CAP21

Photos: Tommy Tune, Bob Avian, Lee Roy Reams, Christine Toy Johnson, Orville Mendoza, Lori Tan Chinn, Raul Aranas, Virginia Wing and More Celebrate 2014 Paul Robeson Citation Award Recipient Baayork Lee

Photos: Artist Arlan Huang, One Brush Stroke at a Time

Click here for the Lia Chang Articles Archive and here for the Lia Chang Photography Website.

Lia Chang is an actor, a performance and fine art botanical photographer, and an award-winning multi-platform journalist. Lia starred as Carole Barbara in Lorey Hayes’ Power Play at the 2013 National Black Theatre Festival in Winston-Salem, N.C., with Pauletta Pearson Washington, Roscoe Orman, and made her jazz vocalist debut in Rome Neal’s Banana Puddin’ Jazz “LADY” at the Nuyorican Poets Cafe in New York. She is profiled in Jade Magazine.