Emmylou Harris is one of the true greats of what we now call Americana, but over time her music has encompassed many things; Country-Rock, Country and Western, Gospel, Pop, Alt-Rock and Folk. She has released dozens of records, won a bucketload of Grammy Awards and performed with a huge number of bands and individuals. Where do we begin to talk about her Classic Sound?

Well, I think we have to go back to the beginning, when she first came to prominence as a singing partner of the late Gram Parsons on his two solo albums, both released in 1973, GP and the posthumous release Grievous Angel. Neither album was a huge commercial success but both have gained in reputation in the years since they were released.

Following the death of Parsons, Emmylou Harris embarked on a solo career, releasing a trio of broadly country-rock albums, Pieces Of The Sky, Elite Hotel and Luxury Liner in 1975 and 1976. Most of the material is work written by other people, Harris was not yet really a writer herself, but she showed the world that she was, and remains an excellent interpreter of the work of other songwriters. There are a few songs which Harris co-wrote with others, notably with Rodney Crowell, but also, in the case of “Boulder To Birmingham“, with Bill Danoff, probably best known for “Take Me Home, Country Roads” and “Afternoon Delight“.

These three albums were big hits on the Billboard Country chart and all featured many well-known C&W and country rock players, people like James Burton, Al Perkins, Bernie, Leadon, Byron Berline, Glen D. Hardin and, on Luxury Liner, Albert Lee of the band Heads, Hands and Feet. Linda Ronstadt and Dolly Parton also pop up on various tracks as backing singers. The sound is most definitely 1970s country-rock and country, not Grand Ole Opry, but not L.A. record business slick either. It has a lot of credibility and authenticity.

In many respects, this trio of records epitomise the core of everything Harris has ever done. They are, if you like, the classic sound, but they aren’t the whole story. Following Luxury Liner Harris released Quarter Moon in a Ten Cent Town which contained fewer country standards and more new songs from contemporary writers. It was as successful as her previous releases, but following this her music took a dive into the past, becoming more country and less country-rock, although she still found time to release a Christmas album, Light Of The Stable in 1979.

Throughout the 1980s Emmylou Harris continued to release albums, including live ones of varying quality and commercial success, generally sticking to a traditional country sound with a leavening of more modern tracks. 1985 saw her first album release where she wrote most of the material, but The Ballad of Sally Rose wasn’t a commercial success. It is a fictionalised account of her life working with Gram Parsons and, as previously featured Dolly Parton and Linda Ronstadt on vocals, prefiguring the massive commercial and critical success of the album Trio that the three of them released in 1987. In the same year, Harris also released a country gospel album, Angel Band featuring traditional songs played in an almost-live setting. I have to say that it is a lovely thing, understated and beautifully sung and performed, but not really the source of a Classic Song. However, I do recommend that people try and listen to it.

The end of the 1980s saw her commercial success wither away, following a couple of indifferent albums and it wasn’t until 1995 and the release of Wrecking Ball that things picked up. This was a new Emmylou Harris, with Daniel Lanois producing and playing and with an electric, alt-rock sound. It found her a new audience and brought her yet another Grammy. in her own work, she would continue to follow this harder electric path, notably on Red Dirt Girl, while at the same time recording Trio II with Ronstadt and Parton and an album of duets with Ronstadt.

So, a massive body of work, but what is Classic Emmylou? Well, as I said before, we have to go to the 1970s for her classic sound that had really remained at the core of what she does best.

Many people will cite “Pancho and Lefty” as her signature song, and it is a fine thing, a song that people always want to hear, but I think I want to go elsewhere. I could pick her wonderful atmospheric cover of Neil Young’s “Wrecking Ball“, but wonderful though it is, I always feel that her later work isn’t the classic sound, instead being a wonderful re-invention of her music.

So, where do I go. I’ve hinted already, to be fair. Click on the link below.