Creed may very well be the worst rock band of the last quarter-century – Nickelback not withstanding – but the Texas Rangers have embraced Scott Stapp and Co. with “Arms Wide Open.”

Andrew Heaney, who started Game 1 against the Baltimore Orioles of the American League Division Series, told Rangers broadcaster Jared Sandler that playing Creed has helped the club stay loose during the struggles over the second half of the season.

The Florida-born band hasn’t released a studio album since 2009, but their brand of post-grunge rock has made it into the Rangers clubhouse, on buses and has inspired secret handshakes.

Bruce Bochy is at a loss to their influence on the team, not that he’s complaining. He’s also no sure where the Creed love came from.

“I don’t know a lot of their songs, to be honest,” Bochy, 68, admitted Monday. “I do know we’re playing a lot of Creed. That’s not my lane, to be honest. But no, I don’t know who’s the DJ here, to be honest. So I don’t know where it’s coming from. It could be [backup catcher Austin] Hedges, though. I’ll find out for you.”

The Creed ties worked their way into the radio broadcast Sunday when Mitch Garver cranked a grand slam in the 11-8 win as broadcaster Matt Hicks channeled the group.

At the other end of the age spectrum is 21-year-old Evan Carter. The rookie outfielder wasn’t born when Human Clay – Creed’s highest-selling album – came out in 1999.

“So, gosh, I had heard of Creed,” Carter said. “But, you know, they do play it. It’s on the bus, whatever. I don’t know what – the one that’s ‘Six Feet From The Edge.’ That’s kind of the popular song in there so that’s kind of what I would consider my favorite, I guess, just because we hear it and there’s a lot of handshakes and stuff with it and this, that and the other. So it’s fun.”

The song Carter was referring is also known as ‘One Last Breath.’ The Orioles, down 2-0 in the best-of-five series, are down to theirs with Game 3 set for Tuesday night at Globe Life Field. Nathan Eovaldi starts as Texas has its first chance this week to advance to the AL Championship Series.

Another Rangers’ win would leave everyone feeling “Higher.”

You can follow Art Garcia on Twitter @ArtGarcia92.