Vermentino di GalluraÂ is Sardinia’s only DOCG appellation, and covers white Vermentino-based wines from a large area at the northern end of the island.

The designation of origin of Vermentino di Gallura DOCG is reserved for the following five types of wine:

Vermentino di Gallura Superiore

Sparkling Vermentino di Gallura

Vermentino di Gallura Sparkling wine

Vermentino di Gallura Passito

Vermentino di Gallura Late harvest

The production area is Gallura, a place located in the north-eastern part of Sardinia and extending almost entirely in the province of Olbia-Tempio, with a territorial appendage in the province of Sassari.

The area closest to the sea is characterized by smooth granite rocks shaped by the wind and water and dense and characteristic Mediterranean scrub. Instead, the innermost part is characterized by oak, cork and olive groves, almost as a form of protection of ancient architectures.

Vermentino di Gallura DOCG grows in the soils described above, which, in addition to good permeability and porosity, also have a high potassium content.

The province of Olbia-Tempio includes the territory of the municipalities of Aggius, Aglientu, Arzachena, Badesi, Berchidda, Bortigiadas, Budoni, Calangianus, Golfo Aranci, Loiri Porto San Paolo, Luogosanto, Luras, Monti , Olbia, Oschiri, Palau, S. Antonio di Gallura, S. Teodoro, S. Teresa di Gallura, Telti, Tempio Pausania and TrinitÃ d’Agultu; and in the province of Sassari and includes the territory of the municipality of Viddalba.

The Vermentino di Gallura DOCG wine selection is obtained from grapes of the Vermentino vine (at least 95%).

The presumed origin of Vermentino is Spanish and the time of introduction of the vines should be between the 15th and 18th centuries A.D.Â

The territory gives Vermentino di Gallura DOCG exceptional characteristics of perfume, alcohol content, minerality, and good natural acidity, thanks to the optimal climatic characteristics in terms of insolation and continuous ventilation of the production area.

The wine comes out as fresh and is known to animate the aperitif moment with the floral scent of the Mediterranean and embellishes fish dishes. The colour is straw yellow with greenish reflections, and the taste is rich, intense, savoury, delicate and persistent.