Advantages of magnetic tape storage

Magnetic tape storage is considered one of the most reliable, inexpensive and high capacity forms of storage on the market. The plastic components it’s built with, and the way that the data is recorded, help to make it durable and secure for a long period of time. Read on to find out the top five advantages of magnetic storage.

1. Long life and reliable

Magnetic tape storage has been proven to have a lifespan of over thirty years, making it ideal for long term backups. It also has a low likelihood of error and malfunction when stored in the correct environment, making it even more reliable.

This type of storage has been trusted as the standard go-to technology since the 1950s, and its advantages have continued to evolve with the times. No wonder businesses still use it as their main form of long term storage or archival.

2. High capacity storage

One of the biggest advantages of magnetic storage is that you can store massive amounts of data compared to conventional storage technologies. Magnetic tapes can hold anywhere between 1 to 15 terabytes of data per tape in a compact format, making them great for long term storage such as the archival of system backups that includes large files.

3. Inexpensive

When compared to other storage media such as hard drives, tape storage has the lowest unit price per volume. This is a massive advantage if you’re planning on investing in backing up your entire system, as magnetic tape storage is likely going to be the cheapest option.

Additionally, we refer to magnetic tape storage as a ‘non-volatile’ method of storage in the information management industry. This means that it doesn’t require electricity when in storage, and no data is lost if you remove the power to it, making it the best choice for permanent storage of data.

4. Data security

Magnetic tape stores data offline, lowering risks such as data loss or theft. The data can only be accessed through specialist equipment, making it less prone to malicious software or viruses. Many businesses opt for offline magnetic tape storage for this reason alone, helping to prevent criminal use of their current and historical data.

5. Reusable memory

Magnetic tapes can have their stored data erased and still provide functionality for more years of storage. This makes them incredibly convenient when thinking about storage over a long period of time.

2. Susceptible to damage

Although reliable when kept in a controlled environment, magnetic tapes can be at risk when it comes to fire and water damage. Due to the physical structure of the tape, it can be incredibly susceptible to stretching, tearing and damage that’s caused by exposure to heat or water. Similarly, external debris such as dust can scratch the tape and cause slow data retrieval.

3. Needs specialist equipment

Unfortunately magnetic tape storage does require specialist equipment to transfer data onto the tape, and for data to be recovered from it. The specialist equipment is called a tape drive, and an efficient one can be incredibly expensive for a company to invest in. This is why most companies looking to store data on magnetic tapes look towards a specialist service provider such as Shredall SDS Group.

Types of magnetic storage

There are three main types of magnetic storage to choose from: hard disk drives (HDD), floppy disks, and magnetic tape. Let’s learn a bit more about each one.

Hard disk drives (HDD)

Hard disk drives (HDDs) are a type of magnetic storage device that utilise spinning magnetic disks and read/write heads to store and access large amounts of digital information, offering a balance of high capacity and affordability for both individuals and businesses.

Floppy disks

Floppy disks are portable magnetic storage devices encased in a thin, flexible plastic shell. They were mainly used towards the end of the late 20th century, and aren’t commonly used in the modern day.

Magnetic tape

Magnetic tape uses a thin strip of plastic coated with a magnetic material to record and retrieve data; it’s widely used for archival storage, backups, and large-scale data storage due to its high capacity and durability.

What are the applications of magnetic storage?

Magnetic tape storage is a vital component in managing data and computing; no matter the industry, tape storage can be incredibly beneficial in situations where back-up and archival is necessary. Key applications include everyday computing devices, to portable storage. The applications include:

Consumer electronics: Used in personal computers and laptops for storing operating systems and personal data.

Enterprise storage solutions: Magnetic storage devices, such as tape drives, are used in servers and data centres to manage large scale quantities of data.

Data backup and recovery: Particularly magnetic tape storage plays a significant role in backup systems to ensure businesses can restore data in the case of loss or corruption.

Archival: Magnetic tapes are beneficial in archiving data due to their long shelf life and ability to store large amounts of data.

Portable storage: External magnetic hard drives offer portable options for transferring data.