Could there be a more relaxing and agreeable way of spending an hour than in the company of five middle-aged tearaways from Liverpool?

Poets Roger McGough, Brian Patten and Adrian Henri, who were accompanied by singer-guitarist Andy Roberts, are seasoned Fringe performers and they delivered their warm, witty and wise verses and devastating one-liners with accustomed aplomb - but it was playwright Willy Russell who stole the show.

With his Cavalier Spaniel hair style, the author of 'Educating Rita', 'Blood Brothers' and 'Shirley Valentine' was making his first Fringe appearance since 1972.

The Philistine's poem that ran "I hate theatre, I hate ballet, I hate art galleries - but I like arts council' They say No'!". Shirley Valentine's recollection of her son's uproarious apperance in the school nativity play and an extract from one of Russell's two forthcoming novels were delivered with a breezy confidence that matched any of the Fringe's excess of stand-up comics.

But the abiding memory of 'Words On The Run' is of these five grizzled geezers - "Our combined age may be 273, but we're still singing animals!" - shuffling off and returning after the interval still singing about Tupperware Girls with lovely hair who drink German wine and don't think much of Wittgestien but like to do the Hokey Cokey in their underwear.

They're a class act that must tour - and make a record.

The Inverness Courier

“Blood Brothers came about because of music…

I was still a hairdresser at the time, and I used to go and cut the hair of a Mrs Walker. She always had the telly on, and Top Of The Pops was on, and I saw Hendrix for the first time, doing Hey Joe. And if you think of the end of Blood Brothers, there’s a madman with a gun… that level of violence and anger was something that was sparked by seeing Hendrix on TOTP.

“I’d discounted myself as a composer, because when I first went into the theatre I’d sort of played down my songwriting. I wanted to be taken seriously in drama, and I stupidly, snobbishly thought if they find out I’m just a singer-songwriter, they won’t take me seriously. So I approached various people to write the music over the years. I’d worked with Paul McCartney trying to come up with a movie for Wings, and I wrote to him and asked if he fancied collaborating on it, because he’d once said ‘When John and I stop writing pop songs, we’ll go into composing musicals’. So it wasn’t such a crazy idea, but I never heard back from him, of course!

“My folk-singing days were over by then, but I was still good friends with the folk singer Nic Jones… I remember telling him about this Blood Brothers story, which by this time I’d realised was very like an English ballad. Ballad as in a story-song, not just as in a slow love song. And Nic was a great singer of ballads, so I talked to him about it, but he was in a terrible accident shortly after that, which more or less finished his career. So Nic was out of the scene, too.

“And then I’d written Educating Rita, and I was working on the movie script. Paul who ran the Merseyside Young People’s Theatre was always asking me to write something for them, and just to get him off my back I said, ‘Okay, I’ll write something once I’ve finished this movie script.’

“But when I came to fulfil this commission, I couldn’t think of anything. So then I remembered the Blood Brothers idea. It was for schools, it had to be 70 minutes, and I thought he said we was going to hire an actor who could double on piano. So I wrote it as a mini-musical, and presented it to Paul and he was like, ‘No, you must’ve dreamt that!. So I cut all the songs, apart from the Marilyn Monroe song, which they did acapella.

“It was five actors with minimal lighting, in front of 150 truculent schoolkids who’d been dragged there reluctantly, but they’d do the Marilyn Monroe song and – silence. And then laughter… laughing at actors being 14-year-olds, saying dirty stuff and doing all those embarrassing boy-girl things. And then at the end, even just with a mimed gun, these kids were blown away.

“So buoyed by the effectiveness of that version, I immediately set about writing the full musical. And I thought, I’m just going to have to write the music myself.”

In addition to Blood Brothers, Willy Russell created musical stage version of the original television film Our Day Out and has provided the scores for the feature films, Shirley Valentine, Dancin' Thru The Dark and Mr Love as well as for the TV series Connie and the television play Terraces.