PANO – During the visit to the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, on June 14th, President Tran Dai Quang and his delegation members visited former Party Chairman and State President of Laos Khamtai Siphandone in Champasak province. The delegation then laid flowery wreaths at the Monument of Vietnam-Laos Alliance in Combat, visited Laos-Vietnam Rubber Latex Factory 27-2, met with the staff of the Vietnamese Consulate General in Pakse (capital of Champasak) and the Vietnamese community in the locality.

President Tran Dai Quang spoke highly of Mr. Khamtai Siphandon’s tremendous contributions to the revolutionary cause of Laos and the special Vietnam-Laos relationship. The Vietnamese top official sent regards of General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong and other Vietnamese high-ranking leaders of Vietnam to the Lao former leader. President Quang also informed the Lao former leader of the outstanding socio-economic achievements of Vietnam over the past time and the fine results of the talks and meetings with Lao leaders within the visit. He affirmed that his state-level visit to Laos this time and the Vietnam visits by high-ranking Lao leaders over the past time showed the strong determination of the two Parties, States and Governments in preserving, strengthening and fostering the Vietnam-Laos special relationship. During this visit, the two sides worked out appropriate measures to boost the bilateral comprehensive cooperation, contributing to protecting the revolutionary achievements of each country.

President Tran Dai Quang visiting former Party Chairman and State President of Laos Khamtai Siphandone

Comrade Khamtai Siphandone expressed joy and said he felt touched by the regards and sentiment of the Party General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong and high-ranking leaders and former leaders of Vietnam. He highly appreciated the significance of the state-level visit to Laos of President Tran Dai Quang and the delegation. The Lao former leader congratulated Vietnam upon the success of the 12th National Party Congress, saying that along with the success of the 10th National Party Congress of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party, the two parties would devise sound development guidelines and foreign policies in the new periodto affirm the deep respect towards the special Vietnam-Laos solidarity and comprehensive cooperation. He believed that leaders of both countries would try their best to foster the relations between the two Parties, States and peoples. President Quang wished comrade Khamtai Siphandone good health and hoped the former Lao leader would continue contributing his valuable experience to boosting the Vietnam-Laos special relationship and the education of the Vietnam-Laos special traditional friendship to younger generations of the two countries.

Talking to the staff of the Vietnam Consulate General in Pakse and overseas Vietnamese in Champasak province, President Tran Dai Quang laid stress on highlights of the domestic situation and results reached with leaders of Laos during his state-level visit. Understanding the thoughts, aspirations and sentiments towards the homeland of the participants, President Tran Dai Quang appreciated the efforts of the overseas Vietnamese community in the province of Champasak in recent years and urged them to continue promoting the spirit of unity to build a strong overseas Vietnamese community and make more contributions to the socio-economic development of the locality and the homeland. By so doing, they would contribute to fostering the special solidarity and friendship between Vietnam and Laos. Emphasizing the fact that Vietnam is a leading investor in the province, the President called on the Consulate General of Vietnam in Pakse to pay more attention to the legitimate needs of the Vietnamese people working or living in the province and Southern Laos and provide timely support for Vietnamese businesses.

President Tran Dai Quang also visited overseas Vietnamese businesses in the province of Champasak who are victims in the fire at Dao Huong market on May 17th and encouraged them to overcome the difficulties and stabilize their lives . On behalf of the Party and State, President Quang presented USD 10,000 to the victims to help them partially fix the damage in the fire. He also donated USD 10,000 to overseas Vietnamese Association in Champasak province for organizing community activities.

Translated by Huu Duong

Related stories:

>> President concludes Lao visits, heads to Cambodia