Dear all,

This is intended to start a thread going song by song through the music of Brian Peter George St John le Baptiste de la Salle Eno.

I won't go into detail about who Brian Eno is, but refer anyone interested to His Wikipedia Page.

Brian Eno's career as a frequent collaborator and producer, and also a contributor to film soundtracks, makes it rather difficult to specify exactly what is a Brian Eno album and what isn't. My starting list of albums is just that - a starting list. It will inevitably grow, and there will be other releases, occasional singles, and rare tracks added to it.

Taking a leaf from other song by song threads, at first this thread will focus mainly on albums solely contributed to Brian Eno that had clear releases, and major collaborations. If the thread gains traction and lasts then it can continue to cover less clearly 'Brian Eno' releases.

The initial list of albums and songs intended to be covered are:

1. No Pussyfooting

2. Here Come the Warm Jets

3. June 1, 1974

4. Taking Tiger Mountain (By Strategy)

5. Another Green World

6. Discreet Music

7. Evening Star

8. 801 Live

9. Before and After Science

10. Cluster & Eno

11. Ambient 1: Music for Airports

12. Music for Films

13. In a Land of Clear Colours

14. After the Heat

15. Ambient 2: The Plateaux of Mirror

16. Fourth World, Vol. 1: Possible Musics

17. Remain in Light

18. Wrong Way Up

19. My Life in the Bush of Ghosts

20. Ambient 4 (On Land)

21. Apollo

22. Music for Films Volume 2

23. The Pearl

24. Hybrid

25. Thursday Afternoon

26. Music for Films III

27. Textures

28. My Squelchy Life

29. Nerve Net

30. The Shutov Assembly

31. Neroli

32. Headcandy

33. Wah Wah

34. Original Soundtracks I

35. Spinner

36. Extracts From Music for White Cube

37. The Drop

38. Tracks and Traces

39. A Year

40. I Dormienti

41. Lightness: Music for the Marble Palace – The State Russian Museum, St. Petersburg

42. Kite Stories

43. Smart

44. Music for Onmyo-Ji

45. Music for Civic Recovery Centre

46. Drawn from Life

47. All Saints

48. Compact Forest Proposal

49. Long Now

50. Curiosities Volume 1

51. January 07003: Bell Studies for the Clock of the Long Now

52. Curiosities Volume 2

53. The Equatorial Stars

54. Another Day on Earth

55. 77 Million

56. Everything That Happens Will Happen Today

57. Beyond Even (a.k.a. The Cotswold Gnomes)

58. Small Craft on a Milk Sea

59. Making Space

60. Drums Between the Bells

61. Panic of Looking

62. Lux

63. High Life

64. Someday World

65. The Ship

66. Reflection

67. Finding Shore

68. Music from Installations

69. Mixing Colours

70. Dokument #2

71. Luminous

72. Rams

Notably missing from the above are video releases and various 'other things'. These can be added if the thread achieves traction.

The style will be to cover the songs on the album one by one, and then have a day to discuss the album as a whole. There will then be a rest/catchup day, before progressing with the next album. The 'traditional' track listings for the albums will be used, and any additional/bonus tracks can be discussed on days allocated to discussing the album as a whole or rest/catchup-days. If this thread gathers steam and there are requests to allocate more time to bonus tracks etc., then this can be discussed. I will post regular updates on which songs are discussed on which days.

I most certainly don't claim to be any super-expert or completist collector of Brian Eno's music. I'll rely on the standard online sources for material and to be able to listen to albums I don't own myself.

I've searched for previous Brian Eno song by song threads, and I haven't found any. If there has been one that I missed, then please tell me.

The most important thing for a thread like this is that a group of people interested in participating forms. I'll post this today, and if we get at least a few people indicating interest in participating, then we'll start discussing No Pussyfooting on Friday the 5th of November. So, it's a number of days before we start. If people are interested in participating, then please post to this thread. This will let me know that people are interested, and also bump the thread so that other people can see it.

You are welcome to rate songs and albums out of 5, and if people do, I'll collect the votes and post statistics. Everybody is free to use their own rating system, but mine is:

1=appalling

2=bad

3=good

4=excellent

5=absolute classic

There's no need to use my scale - as long as people voting consistently use their own scale then we will be able to compare votes for songs and albums.

It's likely that the list of albums above will be edited and enhanced as time goes on.

OK, I've made my Brian Eno flag. Now I need to run it up the flagpole and see if anyone salutes. Here goes the warm jets^H^H^H^H^H^H^H^H^H^H^H^H^Hnothing.

Thanks @Paul Gase. Welcome aboard.

I didn't expect things to get going so quick. And, I now regret in hindsight a bit setting the official start date for the thread for Friday. I expected it might take longer to get a number of people interested.

In the meantime, I've looked into Eno's pre-Roxy history. One track that I think sounds very interesting that Eno appeared on is the track 'Paragraph 7' by the experimental electronic musician Cornelius Cardew, from 1971. Eno is said to be one of the voices on this track. I gave it a listen and I can't spot anything in the bits that I have heard (it's a 20 minute track) that is recognisably Brian. However, I think this is a very interesting track with it sounding like early non-electronic ambient music to me. I wouldn't be surprised if this is among the many influences that led to the development of ambient music. (I'm not saying this is bad or improper, there are enough differences in style that Eno's later work is not a copy.)

I don't like to post that I'll wait until Friday and then start the thread earlier than that. So, given that this track is outside the scheduled list of albums, perhaps it (and others like it - I have found another thing I wasn't previously familiar with and hadn't heard) will help fill in the time until the official start of the thread.