The Law of the Sea will open the South International Series Festival next Friday, October 6. The team, headed by Luis Tosar, will present the series at the Palacio de Congresos of the capital of Cádiz, kicking off the festival that will fill different enclaves of the city with series.

The series, produced by Studio60, RTVE and A punt, tells a story of values, love and a dose of thriller based on real events that delves into the adventure of the fishing boat ‘Francisco y Catalina’ from Santa Pola, which in 2006 became the first European boat to rescue immigrants adrift in international waters of the Mediterranean, putting Europe in check, telling about the relationship between the fishermen and the immigrants, what happened between European offices with the pressure of the Spanish ambassador in Malta, and the uncertainty and tension experienced in Santa Pola by the relatives and friends of the fishermen who activated public opinion by publicizing the case at a national level. A local story but with universal problems and values that give the project a clear international projection.

Starring Luis Tosar and Blanca Portillo, it is directed by Alberto Ruiz Rojo, with Tatiana Rodríguez in charge of the script team along with Víctor Pedreira and executive produced by Rafa Parbus and Flipy. The presentation of the series in Cadiz will be attended by several actors from the cast such as Tosar himself, Eva Marciel García, Lamine Thior, Alfonso Lara Alonso, Alfred Costa and Alex Monner.

Entrevías (Spain, produced by Mediaset España and Alea Media) will premiere its third season exclusively in Cádiz. After its appearance on South Series, where it will feature José Coronado, Nona Sobo, Laura Ramos, Natalia Dicenta, Óscar Higares and the creator, screenwriter and executive producer David Bermejo, it will return to Telecinco’s prime time with this new installment.

On Sunday will arrive Galgos ( Spain, Movistar + Original produced by Buendía Studios), a fiction directed by Félix Viscarret and Nelly Reguera, presented as a business and family drama of the Somarriba family and Grupo Galgo, a food giant that has seen three of its generations grow. The series has an ensemble cast headed by Adriana Ozores, Oscar Martínez, who will be in Cádiz, and Marcel Borràs, Patricia López Arnaiz and María Pedraza, among others.

Serrines, madera de actor (Spain, produced by Mediaset España and Producciones Mandarina), is a comedy starring Antonio Resines that tells the story of a veteran actor who decides to break away from the fiction that has made him popular in order to seek what he has not yet achieved throughout his career: the role that will consecrate him in the eyes of critics. The series will be hosted in Cádiz by Resines himself, along with his colleagues Jorge Sanz and Lucía de la Fuente, as well as director Jaime Botella.

Cádiz audiences will also be able to discover Beguinas ( Spain, produced by Atresmedia TV in collaboration with Buendía Studios), a new series inspired by the Beguinatos, communities of women who, since the 13th century, defended an alternative way of life independent of marriage and the Church. Jon González and Amaia Aberasturi will be in Cadiz to present this project, scripted by Irene Rodríguez, Esther Morales, Silvia Arribas and Virginia Llera and directed by Rómulo Aguillaume and Claudia Pinto.

International fiction series

In addition to the national program, there is a large selection of international series in the Official Fiction Section. Nolly (UK, produced by Quay Street Productions, PBS Masterpiece in association with ITV Studios), created by Russel T. Davies. Cádiz will be attended by the actors Antonia Bernhath and Augustus Prew, who will share with audiences the ins and outs of the series, which explores the rise and fall of Noele Gordon, an actress and presenter who became one of the UK’s most famous women, played by Helena Bonham-Carter. It is directed by Peter Hoar, Emmy nominated for his direction of The last of us and in Spain it will soon be available at COSMO.

Another of the expected landings of this first edition of the South Series is Carthago (Israel, produced by 24 Draft Studios), an Israeli historical drama and war thriller set in 1942 that narrates the rebellion of the Jews in Palestine against the British. Written by Reshef Levi, Tome Shani and Yannets Levi, the series stars Uri Gov, Philip Glenister and Carolina Jurczak, among others. His acting work was recognized at the Cannes Series with a special acting award.

Likewise, Of Money and Blood ( France, produced by Curiosa Films for Canal + France) arrives in Cádiz after its screening at the Venice Biennale. It is based on the book of the same name ‘D’argent et de sang’ by Fabrice Arfi about one of the biggest scandals in recent French history: the millionaire carbon tax fraud. Its protagonist Olga Kurylenko and its director Xavier Gianolli will arrive in Cadiz to share with the public the first episode of the series.

The European presence will be evident once again with Power Play (Norway, produced by Motlys, Novemberfilm – a Fremantle Label), awarded at Cannes Series for Best Series and Best Musical Composition, which will premiere its first episode in Spain. It is a comedy set in the 1970s that plays with the conventions of period television, docudrama and political satire.

On the other hand, Anima Gemella (Italy, produced by Endemol Shine Italy and RTI) brings to Cadiz a passionate story of love, loss and mystery starring Daniele Liotti and Chiara Mastalli and directed by Francesco Miccichè.

The finale will be Monstrous (South Korea, produced by Studio Dragon, Climax Studio and TV ING), a story inspired by a traditional Korean legend with original screenplay by Yeon Sang-ho (Train to Busan, Peninsula) and Yong-Jae Ryoo and direction by Jang Kun-jae. It will be presented for the first time in Spain due to the growing interest of the public in the consumption of Korean fiction.

Tickets on sale now

Tickets for series screened in the Official Fiction, Non-Fiction and Panorama sections are priced at 4 euros. Access to the Joyas and En el sur sections is free of charge until full capacity is reached, with prior reservation on the festival’s website. Unemployed persons, retired persons and students will have free admission, which can be requested at the festival’s ticket offices. In order to purchase tickets, they must present documentation proving their personal situation and they will only be allowed to request one ticket per session. All tickets can be booked through the festival website at https://southfestival.janto.es/.

From October 3, the physical box office will be located in the Palacio de Congresos of the capital of Cadiz, which will be open from 10:30 to 14:30 and from 16:30 to 20:30 hours.

Only unemployed persons, retired persons and students (university, higher education and professional schools) may apply for tickets at this physical ticket office, provided they can duly prove their status.