If you're mainly using Twitter to keep tabs on the Kardashians, you're missing out on lots of opportunity. Especially when it comes to professional networking.

Twitter is an incredibly powerful networking tool. It allows you to access important players in your industry who are perhaps otherwise pretty impossible to reach.

When my client Kaela told me about how badly she wanted to write for one a particular publication, I asked her what steps she had taken in order to pitch her articles.

Kaela had submitted her piece through the site's submission form, and had followed up several times without hearing anything back. When I asked if she followed the editor of the section that she was looking to write for on Twitter, it had never dawned on her that she might be able to use social media for something like that.

It's absolutely possible to make valuable networking connections by leveraging Twitter's platform. Here's a timeline of how to make contact with key players in your industry – without coming on too strong.

Day 1

Choose the person you want to get in touch with. When you're looking to make a connection with someone on Twitter, make sure you're choosing someone with a realistic following. For example, Kaela likely wouldn't have been able to foster a Twitter connection with the publication's Editor-in-Chief, who has 1.5 million followers. But the editor on the section she was looking to write for had only 15,000 – which is still a large following, but more reasonable that this person would notice tweets from one of 15,000 followers than one out of 1.5 million.

Make your Twitter page look pristine. Take a scroll down your Twitter page and make sure there's nothing vulgar or unprofessional on your timeline. Ideally, your Twitter page should be full of tweets and retweets that speak to recent and valuable trends and developments in your industry.

Follow this person on Twitter. But don't come in too hard, too fast. Follow the person you're interested in networking with, and start to retweet a few of this person's tweets. Don't just retweet everything they've tweeted in the past 24 hours. Select tweets that resonate with you and the industry you're serving. This is particularly effective if you’re retweeting something that positions them in a positive light. For example, if this person won an award or nomination, or earned a big media mention, those are ideal tweets to retweet.

Days 2-4

Take a break.

Day 5

Tweet at the person. Don't overthink it. Your tweet could be something positive like: “I love the work you do – let me know how to help spread the word!” Or it could be something like “Take a look at @AshleyStahl’s article: Networking is Giving.” Just make sure to be authentic, and don't overdo it with the flattery.

If you haven't received a reply within a day or two, continue to retweet a few of this person's tweets.

At some point or another, you’re very likely to get a reply from this person.

In Kaela's case, once the editor she wanted to get in touch with replied to her tweets and followed her back on Twitter, I had her craft a message complementing the compelling work that was being done on the editor's section of the site, and asking to chat more.

The more you support someone on Twitter, the more likely they’ll want to be networking with you.

In today's job market, it's important to think outside of the box. And sometimes that means using that box of 140 characters on your Twitter account to make the valuable connections you need to take your career to the next level.

Just ask Kaela, whose most recent article on that site she so badly wanted to write for was one of the top performing articles of the month.

Even the Editor-in-Chief retweeted it.