Overview

With Zabbix you can check several availability aspects of web sites.

To activate web monitoring you need to define web scenarios. A web scenario consists of one or several HTTP requests or "steps". The steps are periodically executed by Zabbix server in a pre-defined order. If a host is monitored by proxy, the steps are executed by the proxy.

Web scenarios are attached to hosts/templates in the same way as items, triggers, etc. That means that web scenarios can also be created on a template level and then applied to multiple hosts in one move.

The following information is collected in any web scenario:

average download speed per second for all steps of whole scenario

number of the step that failed

last error message

The following information is collected in any web scenario step:

download speed per second

response time

response code

For more details, see web monitoring items.

Data collected from executing web scenarios is kept in the database. The data is automatically used for graphs, triggers and notifications.

Zabbix can also check if a retrieved HTML page contains a pre-defined string. It can execute a simulated login and follow a path of simulated mouse clicks on the page.

Zabbix web monitoring supports both HTTP and HTTPS. When running a web scenario, Zabbix will optionally follow redirects (see option Follow redirects below). Maximum number of redirects is hard-coded to 10 (using cURL option CURLOPT_MAXREDIRS). All cookies are preserved during the execution of a single scenario.

Configuring a web scenario

To configure a web scenario:

Go to: Data collection → Hosts (or Templates)

Click on Web in the row of the host/template

Click on Create web scenario to the right (or on the scenario name to edit an existing scenario)

Enter parameters of the scenario in the form

The Scenario tab allows you to configure the general parameters of a web scenario.

All mandatory input fields are marked with a red asterisk.

Scenario parameters:

Note that when editing an existing scenario, two extra buttons are available in the form:

The Steps tab allows you to configure the web scenario steps. To add a web scenario step, click on Add in the Steps block.

Configuring steps

Step parameters:

Any changes in web scenario steps will only be saved when the whole scenario is saved.

See also a real-life example of how web monitoring steps can be configured.

The Tags tab allows to define scenario-level tags.

Tagging allows to filter web scenarios and web monitoring items.

Configuring authentication

The Authentication tab allows you to configure scenario authentication options. A green dot next to the tab name indicates that some type of HTTP authentication is enabled.

Authentication parameters:

Zabbix server picks up changes in certificates without a restart.

Display

To view web scenarios configured for a host, go to Monitoring → Hosts, locate the host in the list and click on the Web hyperlink in the last column. Click on the scenario name to get detailed information.

An overview of web scenarios can also be displayed in Dashboards by the Web monitoring widget.

Recent results of the web scenario execution are available in the Monitoring → Latest data section.

Extended monitoring

Sometimes it is necessary to log received HTML page content. This is especially useful if some web scenario step fails. Debug level 5 (trace) serves that purpose. This level can be set in server and proxy configuration files or using a runtime control option (-R log_level_increase="http poller,N", where N is the process number). The following examples demonstrate how extended monitoring can be started provided debug level 4 is already set: