Songbird Katherine Jenkins admits she’s having her “best year ever” as she prepares to release her new album and embark on a new UK tour.

We caught up with mezzo-soprano Katherine on her visit to Manchester on Tuesday, and she revealed she’ll be back later this month to meet fans when she launches her album at HMV in the Arndale Centre.

The Welsh singer is radiating happiness after marrying artist Andrew Levitas in September following a whirlwind romance.

She beamed: “It’s been an amazing year, I can’t really remember a year when my work life and personal life have been as equally in such a great place. It’s a really exciting time for me.”

She admits she’s loving married life, and has already planned for American Andrew to join her on her UK tour next year, which will call at Manchester’s Bridgewater Hall on March 3.

She says: “We’re both lucky that we have creative jobs, so we try to work our schedules so that we spend as much time together as possible. At the moment he has an art exhibition in the UK so we knew in advance he would be move out here.

“Because we’re not tied to an office job we can be more flexible, and he’ll be coming on tour with me next year which will be great as he’s not been into Manchester before.”

Katherine is preparing to release her latest studio album celebrating her 10 years in the music industry later this month, called Home Sweet Home.

She laughs: “I don’t know where the time has gone! To have made ten albums, it’s incredible really. For this one, it was a time to look back at my career, and make a classical album again so I feel very much like I’ve gone full circle.”

The new album will also include uplifting sporting anthems like We Are The Champions, World in Union and Barcelona, and she will do a fan album signing event at HMV in the Arndale on November 21 at 5.30pm.

She’s also looking to returning to perform at the Bridgewater next year for the tour.

She says: “I’m really excited, it’s my favourite part of the job, being on stage. having the banter between the songs, March 3 the Bridgewater Hall - absolutely one of my favourite venues, it’s where Ive been singing at the most for the past ten years, I always try to include it, it’s a beautiful hall and just a really nice place to perform.”