AUSTIN - Two of Texas' most wanted sex offenders are now in custody thanks to law enforcement and tips from Crime Stoppers.

Jackie Dale Brown, 60, of Temple, was arrested by Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) Special Agents at a convenience store in Killeen on November 29.

Brown had been on the wanted list since 2020 for failure to comply with sex offenders registration requirements and assault causing injury. He was convicted of indecency with a child by sexual contact for an incident with a 5-year-old girl and served three years in prison.

William Daniel Clifford, 50, of Spurger, was arrested by the U.S. Marshals Eastern Arkansas Fugitive Task Force at a home in Vilonia, Arkansas on November 30.

Clifford had been wanted since October 2019 on a parole violation. Then in January of 2021, the Tyler County Sheriff’s Office also issued a warrant for failure to register as a sex offender.

Back in 2004, Clifford was convicted of aggravated sexual assault of a child for an incident involving a 13-year-old girl and was sentenced to nine years in a TDCJ prison. Then in 2017, Clifford was convicted of failure to comply with a sex offender’s duty to register and was sentenced to three years in a TDCJ prison. He was released on parole in May 2019.

Texas Crime Stoppers offers cash rewards to any person who provides information that leads to the arrest of one of Texas’ 10 Most Wanted Fugitives or Sex Offenders. So far this year, DPS and other agencies have arrested 33 criminals, including 12 gang members and 16 sex offenders. In addition, $68,500 in rewards has been paid for tips that yielded arrests.

To be eligible for cash rewards, tipsters MUST provide information to authorities using one of the following three methods:

Call the Crime Stoppers hotline at 1-800-252-TIPS (8477).

Submit a web tip through the DPS website by selecting the fugitive you have information about then clicking on the link under their picture.

Submit a Facebook tip by clicking the “SUBMIT A TIP” link (under the “About” section).

All tips are anonymous — regardless of how they are submitted — and tipsters will be provided a tip number instead of using a name.

DPS investigators work with local law enforcement agencies to select fugitives for the Texas 10 Most Wanted Fugitives and Sex Offenders Lists. You can find the current lists — with photos — on the DPS website.

Do not attempt to apprehend these fugitives; they are considered armed and dangerous.