Middle School News

Middle School Awards

On Thursday 21st July, Ringwood Secondary College proudly presented middle school students their academic awards for high distinction at the annual Middle School Awards afternoon.

It was great to see so many students get recognised for their hard work. The occasion was attended by a packed hall of proud families who were delighted by their students success and also by the music of the Intermediate Stage Band.

The ensuing afternoon tea was full of great vibes as the room celebrated the achievement of the outstanding middle school students.

Congratulations to all.

Michael Kent

Acting Head of Middle School

Early Entry VCE studies for Year 10 students in 2017

Year 10 students wishing to undertake an early entry VCE subject in 2017 were required to complete an Expression of Interest form by Friday 22nd July.

Subject Selection Parent Information Evenings

Parent information sessions are being held at the College for those who wish to find out more about the process of choosing subjects for 2017. These will be held as follows:

Year 9 in 2017

Monday 1st August, RTF, 7pm for parents of students in 8A-8E

Tuesday 2nd August, RTF, 7pm for parents of students in 8F-8J

Year 10 in 2017 Subject Selections

Year 9 students will meet with the Middle School coordinators next Wednesday 27th of July to receive final course counselling and make their subject selections for 2017 as follows:

9A – 8.50am 9F – 11.50am

9B – 9.20am 9G – 12.20pm

9C – 9.50am 9H – 2.00pm

9D – 10.20am 9I – 2.20pm

9E – 10.50am 9J – 2.50pm

Please know that students should already have consulted the Middle School handbook and discussed their choices with their parent/s prior to this appointment. The handbook can be downloaded from the RSC website: http://www.ringwoodsc.vic.edu.au (click on the ‘Our College’ tab, ‘Middle School’ and the 2017 MIDDLE SCHOOL HANDOOK link).

Year 10 Work Experience

Year 10 students undertook their Work Experience placements during the last week of Term Two. We received numerous positive reports from employers and RSC staff who visited them at their work places. Sarah Foulds had this to say about her experience:

I worked at IDP education in the city, a company that run IELTS testing across the globe. I learnt a lot to do with reception work like preparing tax invoices and ordering couriers. I got to work with the manager of operations, and the marketing team. i adored it and met some very humble and amazing people.

Sarah Foulds, 10D

Keith Hollingsworth Scholarship

We are delighted to congratulate Lachlan Griffiths and Lily Hualango in Year 10 who were selected as this year’s Keith Hollingsworth Scholarship recipients. Representatives from the Freemason Maroondah Daylight Lodge came to the college last week to award Lachlan and Lily with their prize. This annual scholarship recognises the hard work and perseverance of Ringwood Secondary College students, rewarding them with a $500 scholarship to assist with their educational costs. It is named in honour of Keith Hollingsworth, who had an extensive involvement in education in the Ringwood area. His granddaughter Roxanne Funston was a very successful student at Ringwood Secondary College and we are very grateful for the continued support of our students.

InterGREAT News

Term Three – Self in the Global Community

Term Three in InterGREAT shifts its focus from the local community to the global community. Last Tuesday Year 9 students enjoyed a presentation from motivational speaker Martin Heppell about gratitude. Students will now embark on a group project investigating a global issue of their choosing with the goal of developing an awareness campaign.

City Experience

In week 9 of this term all Year 9 students will spend five days exploring the city of Melbourne as part of their City Experience program. Sights will include the Shrine of Remembrance, Eureka Tower, Etihad Stadium, Melbourne Star, Scienceworks, Melbourne Museum and the Big Issue.

A parent information evening will be held on Wednesday 24th August at 7pm. Details will follow in the next newsletter and further information will appear on Compass next month.

Kim Watkins

Middle School Coordinator

Magic Moments Student Summit

On Friday 1st July, we attended a 5 day Leadership and Business Summit run by the Magic Moments Foundation in Sydney.

Amongst a large number of other youth sponsored generously by Bendigo Bank,

we heard from a range of inspirational and experienced speakers from around the world that shared life skills and their own experience on how to achieve success, and find the greatness within yourself.

We built leadership and team working skills, that we can continue on using, as well as the opportunity to start a business, Bizsocial, with our team to help small businesses to connect through social media.

We participated in personal development activities, that allowed us to grow, and learn more about ourselves and to use that in real world situations to help change the world. We also got to make heaps of new friends, that we can call a family and where we can support and care for each other.

This was one of the few life changing experiences that we will get to experience, and we learnt so much, did so much and grew so much. It was so incredible that we got the opportunity through Bendigo Bank in Ringwood to attend such an amazing experience.

Bec Hall, Priya Manders and