NEW YORK (CNNfn) - Continuing its aggressive acquisition spree, Cisco Systems Inc. agreed Tuesday to buy privately-held rival Clarity Wireless for stock valued at about $157 million.

The world's largest computer network equipment maker said it will take a 6- to 9- cent charge against second-quarter earnings in 1999 to cover costs of the acquisition, which is expected to close in November.

Clarity Wireless, based in Belmont, Calif., develops wireless communication technology for computer networking and Internet service markets.

The acquisition broadens Cisco's broadband access portfolio of DSL and cable to include fixed wireless access.

Under terms of the deal, Cisco common stock will be exchanged for all outstanding shares and options of Clarity not already owned by Cisco.

Cisco has been a minority investor in earlier private placement funding of Clarity.

Since 1995, Cisco has bought up more than a dozen rivals as it looks to boost market share of its popular Internetworking Operating System, or Cisco IOS.

In June, the company agreed to acquire publicly-held Summa Four Inc. in a stock swap valued at $116 million.

Cisco also said Tuesday it plans to boost its Asian workforce by 20 percent in the next year to 15 months, despite the region's economic crisis.

Cisco has raised its Asian head count by over 150 percent in the last 18 months, President and Chief Executive John Chambers said. The San Jose, Calif.-based company had 425 staff members in Asia in July, up from 175 at the end of 1997.

In June, Cisco reportedly scratched plans to partner with rivals Lucent Technologies Inc. and Canada-based Northern Telecom Ltd., or Nortel.

The week before, Lucent sued Cisco for allegedly infringing on eight of its patents. Nortel also had agreed to buy Internet gear maker Bay Networks, Cisco's primary rival in Internet switching equipment, for $9.1 billion.

Shares of Cisco (CSCO), which have climbed steadily from about 45 a year ago, were trading up 11/16 at 94-3/8 Tuesday morning on the Nasdaq.

--from staff and wire reports