Michael C. Hall is a producer and actor best known for his role as Dexter Morgan in "Dexter." In real life, the on-screen serial killer is an open book with no hidden skeletons.

Advertisement

Hollywood icon Michael C. Hall, who rose to prominence as the serial killer Dexter Morgan in "Dexter," has an exciting life. Outside the movie sets, the icon is a husband, a two-time divorcee, and a self-professed sexually fluid man.

Although all his marriages and relationships have been with female partners, the actor doesn't shy away from admitting his sexual orientation is not so conventional.

Michael C. Hall at the Showtime Celebrates 8 Seasons Of "Dexter" at Milk Studios in Hollywood, California on June 15, 2013 | Source: Getty Images

Michael C. Hall's Sexual Orientation

Hall has been open about his sexual orientation. During a 2018 interview, the producer revealed he was heterosexual on the grading scale but considered himself not "all the way heterosexual." He said this while discussing some of his movie roles, where he starred as gay characters.

Advertisement

Despite his self-acclaimed sexual fluidity, Michael C. Hall's romantic history in the real world comprises just females. Admittedly, the 51-year-old actor has never been attracted to a man nor shared sexual intimacies with any.

However, he admitted to having emotional connections with certain men that may be considered gay. Hall explained that his cravings for emotional intimacy with men stemmed from losing his father at only 11. Notwithstanding, he maintained that, as a rule, he is heterosexual.

Michael C. Hall on The Early Show on Monday, September 27, 2010 | Source: Getty Images

Marrying His Co-star Amy Spanger

Michael C. Hall's first marriage was to actress Amy Spanger. They married on May 1, 2002, and seemed very happy together whenever they made public appearances on the red carpet or in their daily lives.

Advertisement

While they were married, they also appeared in several productions together. They portrayed Roxie Hart and Billy Flynn in a stage production of "Chicago." Spanger also appeared in one episode of her former husband's popular TV show, "Six Feet Under."

On her own, she has mostly had minor acting roles in movies such as "Synecdoche, New York" and in TV series such as "Royal Pains," "Bored to Death" and "The Blacklist." Hall and Spanger went their separate ways in 2005. Their divorce was finalized in 2006.

Advertisement

The Second Marriage with Another Co-star Jennifer Carpenter

It was a case of "another TV series, another love connection, another marriage" for Michael C. Hall. The actor met his second wife while portraying Dexter Morgan in the mystery drama, "Dexter." Jennifer Carpenter played Dexter's sister, Debra Morgan.

However, their sibling love on set turned into romantic love in real life. Some believed that because of the nature of their on-screen relationship, the couple kept their relationship a secret for some time. They began dating in 2007 before eloping on the last day of 2008 and married secretly.

Hall and Carpenter announced their marriage the following month, in January 2009. Their union lasted for two years. Due to irreconcilable differences, the divorce was filed in December 2010 and finalized in 2011. However, they have remained friends and continued to star alongside each other in "Dexter."

Advertisement

His Now-Wife Isn't an Actor: Morgan MacGregor

His first two marriages failed and had a combined lifetime of about five years. For his third marriage, the actor decided to try a different route. In September 2012, Hall began dating Morgan MacGregor.

MacGregor is a novelist and book reviewer who worked as an associate editor at the Los Angeles Review of Books when they began their relationship. Although she is a native of Canada, she resides in the United States. The reserved duo made their red carpet debut at the Prime Time Emmy awards in 2012.

Three and a half years after they began dating, they exchanged vows on February 29, 2016, in a low-key ceremony held at New York's City Hall. Not much is known about MacGregor as she usually keeps out of the public eye, but her union with Hall has survived longer than his past two marriages combined.

Michael C. Hall and Morgan MacGregor arrive at the 64th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards at Nokia Theatre L.A. Live in Los Angeles, California on September 23, 2012 | Source: Getty Images

Advertisement

Hall's Plans to Expand His Family

Michael C. Hall has never been a dad despite his three marriages. But that doesn't mean he has no plans for some mini-me's sometime in the future.

When asked about his plans to add to his family in 2019, the star admitted it was something he and MacGregor discussed. However, the fear of bringing a child into the front row of "this crazy world" always gave them a rethink. Once they come to terms with that, though, they would set their plans in motion.

Michael C. Hall and Morgan Macgregor at the Los Angeles premiere of 'Game Night' at TCL Chinese Theatre in Hollywood, California on February 21, 2018 | Source: Getty Images

To recap, Michael C. Hall admitted that he is not wholly heterosexual in the purest sense of the word and is sexually fluid to a certain degree. However, the actor has never been in any romantic relationship or intimate activity with a man but has felt emotional connections with men who can be considered gay.

The actor has been married three times to women. His first two marriages to Amy Spanger and Jennifer Carpenter did not last long. Both women are actresses and co-starred with Hall in some productions. Since 2016, the actor has been married to novelist Morgan MacGregor. Their relationship seems to be going strong.