Ali Al-Hazmi was elected to the board of directors of the Saudi Journalists Association on Jan. 28.

The Saudi Journalists Association, established in 2003, is a licensed civil society body and serves as an umbrella entity for the nation’s media professionals.

Al-Hazmi has extensive experience in electronic journalism, media tracks, Saudi journalism, media technologies, and news media.

He founded Sabq electronic newspaper in 2007 and has served as its editor-in-chief since 2013.

Under his leadership Sabq has won several prestigious regional awards, including two in the “smart journalism” category of the Arab Journalism Award.

In addition to his responsibilities as editor-in-chief, Al-Hazmi’s duties include enhancing work mechanisms, and approving news and initiatives.

Additionally, he establishes and directs work teams within the newspaper, such as the international file team, to conduct investigations, produce specialized reports, and ensure real-time follow-up.

In 2016, Al-Hazmi chaired media work teams in entities such as the National Committee for Endowments at the Council of Saudi Chambers.

Al-Hazmi began his career by immersing himself in media work and benefiting from his administrative skills in various positions, including his technical supervision at Al-Wefaq electronic newspaper in 2003.

He served as the website supervisor for the Ministry of Education in Riyadh from 2002 to 2009 and for the Human Rights Conference in Riyadh in 2004.

In 2001, he served as the website supervisor for the Education Department in Sabya governorate, Saudi Arabia.

Al-Hazmi holds a bachelor’s degree in public administration from King Saud University in Riyadh.

He is also a member of the Saudi Media Association, and served as a jury member at the 2017 and 2020 Arab Journalism Awards.

Al-Hazmi participated in various training sessions and workshops, including those on data journalism in 2020, the role of data journalism in media coverage of natural disasters in 2023, and the utilization and integration of artificial intelligence in media in 2023.

RIYADH: The Cabinet on Tuesday reaffirmed Saudi Arabia’s support for efforts aimed at reaching a ceasefire in Gaza.

It stressed the need to move forward to end Israel’s occupation of Palestinian land, achieve peace, and give the Palestinians their legitimate rights, Saudi Press Agency reported.

The Cabinet also praised the efforts and contributions of the Arab Parliament at international forums, and affirmed the Kingdom’s keenness on consolidating cooperation with Arab countries in a way that contributes to consolidating security and stability and provides conditions for development and sustainable growth.

The Cabinet also discussed the meeting between Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and the Speaker of the Arab Parliament Adel bin Abdulrahman Al-Asoumi in Jeddah last week during which Al-Asoumi presented Prince Mohammed with the Leader’s Medal.

The medal was awarded in appreciation of Prince Mohammed’s “pioneering positions in defending Arab issues and strengthening joint Arab action.”

The Cabinet also reviewed the Kingdom’s efforts to enhance its global efforts in the field of sustainability and environmental conservation.

These efforts include working to develop and expand royal reserves according to strategic targets that focus on protecting wildlife and supporting afforestation and ecotourism.

RIYADH: Saudi Arabia condemned on Tuesday repeated Israeli incursions at the Al-Aqsa mosque compound in annexed east Jerusalem, the foreign ministry said.

The condemnation came after Israeli far-right National Security Minister Itamar Ben Gvir led hundreds of Israelis into the compound on Tuesday and performed prayers marking a Jewish holiday.

In a statement, the ministry stressed the importance of respecting religious sanctities, and renewed the Kingdom’s warning against the continuation of these violations of international law and the historical status of Jerusalem.

It also warned against provoking millions of Muslims around the world, and renewed its call for the international community to assume its responsibility toward stopping ongoing Israeli violations of international law and relevant international legitimacy resolutions in Gaza.

Ben Gvir has often defied the Israeli government’s longstanding ban on Jewish prayer at the mosque compound.

The compound is Islam’s third holiest site and a symbol of Palestinian national identity but it is also Judaism’s holiest place, revered as the site of the ancient temple destroyed by the Romans in 70 AD.

While Jews and other non-Muslims are allowed to visit the mosque compound in Israeli-annexed east Jerusalem during specified hours, they are not permitted to pray or display religious symbols.

RIYADH: Saudi Arabia’s Architecture and Design Commission recognized multiple projects as part of the King Salman Charter for Architecture and Urbanism Award in a ceremony this week.

The award helps to promote the King Salman Urban Charter Initiative.

Projects that adopted the charter’s methodology and embodied its values were selected, the Saudi Press Agency reported on Tuesday.

The CEO of the commission, Dr. Sumayah Al-Solaiman, expressed her gratitude and appreciation to King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman for their unremitting support for the architecture and design sector, which integrates with the aspirations of the leadership to build a promising future.

She also recognized Prince Badr bin Abdullah, Saudi culture minister and chairman of the commission’s board of directors, for his ongoing support and relentless efforts to promote Saudi culture both locally and globally.

Al-Solaiman announced that the event would be held biennially going forward.

Dr. Adrian Lahoud, the dean of the school of architecture at the Royal College of Art in London, also spoke at the event.

An accompanying exhibition was inaugurated that showcased the crucial role played by King Salman during his tenure as governor of the Riyadh region.

The exhibition highlighted the King’s vision, which is deeply rooted in historical understanding and pride in the Kingdom’s identity and its geographical and social qualities. This has led to diverse solutions and architectural creativity inspired by Saudi culture, SPA’s report noted.

It also explained the six values of the charter, along with displays of shortlisted and winning projects. It concluded with an interactive virtual experience of the charter’s book.

The award’s final shortlist included diverse projects from various regions of the Kingdom.

The judging panel selected nine projects for recognition, distributed across the award’s three categories as follows:

In the “Built Projects” category, the five projects recognized were King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture, or Ithra, in Dhahran; Banyan Tree Resort in AlUla; Dar Al-Rahmaniah Building in Al-Ghat; KAFD Grand Mosque in Riyadh; and the Innovation Tower at King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology in Riyadh.

KAFD DMC CEO Gautam Sashittal said: “Saudi Arabia’s architectural landscape is evolving, and KAFD is proud to be at the forefront of this transformation. From the very beginning, our vision has been to create a benchmark for architectural excellence.”

Winners of the “Unbuilt Projects” category were the Sports Track project in Riyadh and the Mihrab project, which serves all regions of the Kingdom by establishing prayer areas along travel routes.

The CEO of the Sports Boulevard Foundation said that the award “reflects the magnitude of the project’s achievement through its design and application of local identity and Salmani architecture in all its elements.”

In the category for university student projects, the winners were Abdulaziz Al-Talib from King Saud University who proposed a design for the King Salman Global Academy for Arabic Language, and Sadeem Al-Jibreen from the University of Sheffield in the UK, who proposed a design for the Contemporary Neighborhood project.