President Vladimir Putin has ordered the transfer of the nationalized power-generating company TGK-2 to a subsidiary of Russian state-owned gas monopoly Gazprom.

TGK-2 is one of northwestern Russia’s largest thermal power companies with 12 plants, 30 boiler houses and four heat network enterprises spanning six regions.

A court in the city of Yaroslavl northeast of Moscow ruled last summer for the Russian government to seize 83.8% of TGK-2’s shares after prosecutors brought a lawsuit against exiled former Senator Leonid Lebedev, who was thought to be the utility’s beneficiary.

Lebedev fled Russia in 2016 after shareholders accused him of embezzling $220 million from TGK-2.

According to a decree signed by Putin on Monday, TGK-2’s shares will be transferred to Tsentr Energoholding, a subsidiary of Gazprom Energoholding.

TGK-2 had ordered an evaluation of the nationalized shares’ market value in May. The investigative news outlet Agentstvoestimates their value at 80 billion rubles ($918.5 million).

Gazprom subsidiaries now control almost 100 billion rubles ($1.1 billion) of confiscated assets after the government transferred the Russian subsidiaries of Ariston and Bosch to Gazprom Household Systems earlier this spring.

Russian authorities have moved to nationalize key assets in the country’s defense industry and civilian economy since the full-scale invasion of Ukraine, which sparked an exodus of foreign firms from the country.

A Message from The Moscow Times:

Dear readers,

We are facing unprecedented challenges. Russia's Prosecutor General's Office has designated The Moscow Times as an "undesirable" organization, criminalizing our work and putting our staff at risk of prosecution. This follows our earlier unjust labeling as a "foreign agent."

These actions are direct attempts to silence independent journalism in Russia. The authorities claim our work "discredits the decisions of the Russian leadership." We see things differently: we strive to provide accurate, unbiased reporting on Russia.

We, the journalists of The Moscow Times, refuse to be silenced. But to continue our work, we need your help.

Your support, no matter how small, makes a world of difference. If you can, please support us monthly starting from just $2. It's quick to set up, and every contribution makes a significant impact.

By supporting The Moscow Times, you're defending open, independent journalism in the face of repression. Thank you for standing with us.

Once

Monthly

Annual

Continue

Not ready to support today?

Remind me later.

×

Remind me next month

Remind me

Thank you! Your reminder is set.

We will send you one reminder email a month from now. For details on the personal data we collect and how it is used, please see our Privacy Policy.