Among the most advanced engineering plastics available today is Techtron PPS, a strong alternative to PEEK at less demanding temperatures.

In this blog, we’ll take some time to focus on this material’s unique properties and popular applications, and why it’s finding widespread usage in the aerospace, oil & gas, and especially semiconductor industries.

At Reading Plastic, we have decades of experience machining the world’s most advanced plastics to close tolerances. We’re happy to share some of our expertise on this constantly innovating industry.

Techtron PPS Offers the Broadest Resistance to Chemicals of Any Advanced Plastic

It’s true: There’s no advanced engineering plastic that can offer broader chemical resistance than Techtron PPS. Indeed, PPS products have no known solvents below 392 degrees F (200 degrees C). That’s why Techtron PPS is ideal for structural applications in corrosive environments, including oil fields and “down-hole” applications.

In addition to its high chemical resistance, Techtron PPS offers inertness to steam, strong bases, fuels and acids. It’s also inherently flame retardant, with excellent electrical characteristics.

Other properties make Techtron PPS uniquely suitable for precise tolerance machined components. Unlike other PPS products, Techtron PPS is unfilled, so it’s easy to machine into the parts and components you need. What’s more, Techtron PPS is highly dimensionally stable, with minimal moisture absorption and a very low coefficient of linear thermal expansion.

This incredible material is also available in an FDA-approved grade and is USDA compliant.

So, what are some of the most popular applications of Techtron PPS?

Tubes are commonly used to manufacture PPS retainer rings in CMP machines.

CMP retainer rings themselves gain the stiffness, toughness and purity they require from Techtron PPS. (Techtron PPS shapes extend ring life significantly compared to generic PPS, polyester and acetal. Indeed, rings made from Techtron PPS stock shapes withstand 2,000 to 5,000 CMP cycles, far greater than the 1,000 to 2,000 cycles withstood by generic PPS rings.)

Wafer retaining rings for CMP polishing

Aerospace components

HVAC equipment

High-pressure liquid chromatography

Oil field parts

Pump & valve components

Lantern rings

Chip nests

It should be noted that standard Techtron PPS is off-white in color. Furthermore, Techtron PSGF (40% glass filled) is the most recognized filled grade of PPS, offering better dimensional stability and thermal performance than unfilled Techtron PPS.

We can help you determine which is more suitable for the project you have in mind—or if another of the many plastics we manufacture would be more advantageous.

Request a Free Quote Today!

You get something extra when you purchase custom plastic components from us—expertise.