Little Red Corvette is the song that made Prince a star - a breathless ode to casual sex that gave him his first US top 10 hit in 1983 and introduced him to the mainstream.

The story goes that Prince came up with the opening lines - "I guess I should have known, by the way you parked your car sideways, that it wouldn't last" - after falling asleep in the back of a car owned by his keyboard player Lisa Coleman.

And that's true... to an extent.

The BBC got the full story behind the song, and some of Prince's other hits, directly from Coleman and her musical partner in crime, Wendy Melvoin.

They were perhaps Prince's most important musical collaborators, working solidly with him throughout the early '80s as members of The Revolution, introducing elements of jazz and classical to his provocative blend of funk and rock.

Lisa: "Prince was always borrowing my car because it was awesome. It was a '64 Mercury Montclair, pink and white, and it was just the perfect cruise-mobile on a beautiful day in Minneapolis. He actually put a couple of dents in it, because it was so big. He'd come up to me and mumble, 'Hey Lisa, sorry about your car'. So I'd run out to inspect the damage and there'd be a little dent with some yellow paint from a pole he'd reversed into, and I'd go, 'Damn it. Watch where you're going!'"

Is it true he wrote Little Red Corvette while he was sleeping in the back of the car?

"Well... I guess. He was 'sleeping' with someone we knew called Denise Matthews [aka Vanity] and she was 'sleeping' in the back of the car, too. I even found some of her hair wrapped around the handle that winds the window down.

"So I imagine they were making out, or doing whatever, in the back seat and they probably had a wonderful moment of afterglow, which is when he got the seed of the idea... But it's not a red Corvette, it's a pink Mercury!"

The song became his mainstream breakthrough. Did you know it was special?

"Yeah, definitely. It was pure hit material and Prince coveted it for a little while.

"Before it was recorded, we'd play it in sound check and our manager Steve [Fargnoli] would freak out. Prince used to laugh at him: 'Oh, Steve has babies when we play this song!'"

Lisa: "I have a really clear memory of the first time I heard that song. I'd gone to rehearsal early, but Prince was already there playing the main keyboard riff. He motioned me to come over, and said, 'Play this', then he went down and picked up the guitar and started fooling around with it. Then, when everybody else started showing up, he showed them their parts and we all kind of fell in.

"I was in good favour that day, because I decided to hold down D and F in the chorus. He was like, 'Alright, that's great! Listen to Lisa, she's producing herself. Why don't the rest of you guys do that?' He was always nice and then he'd have to say something mean after. Like, 'I can support you but don't forget you're not all that.'"

You get to sing the first line of the song. How did that come about?

"Prince got the idea of splitting the vocals up from Sly & The Family Stone, and how everyone had a presence in that band. We actually added Jill Jones's voice because she's a better singer than I am. So it's the two of us singing together. I have the dreamy quality and she has the fire."

Lisa: "I still love playing that song. I love the funk and the Minneapolis sound of it, with the Oberheim [synthesizers] and everything. It has a party vibe going all the way through."

The groove on that song is so persistent. You must play the main riff a couple of hundred times.

"Right, exactly. It's almost meditative. That was one of the great things about being in the Revolution. We were like whirling dervishes, because we would take a groove and play it for hours on end. It was not only good for training our bodies - but imagine what that did to our brains. There were times in these jams and rehearsals where I'd really feel elated. It was so good. You just become part of the music, there's no other way to explain it."

The lyrics are all about personal liberation and celebrating your sexuality, which was quite unusual in 1982.

"It was definitely out of phase. I was always proud of him because it wasn't in fashion to talk about those things back then. He had a vision about people, about how we could be together, and he managed to create an oasis in Paisley Park for people who heard the message."

Prince is essentially conducting the band during that song, calling out changes on the fly, and even jumping on the drums at one point. How do you rehearse for something like that?

Wendy: "It's not an easy answer. We were good listeners, and we had worked on the groove for quite some time, so we knew what was expected of us. It was all basically just, 'Keep your eye on him', and he'd give us signals on where he wanted to go."

Lisa: "Sometimes he'd come up to my keyboards and jam a little bit and say, 'Play something like that'. But in this case, he just gave me the lead line, so I have the most boring part!"

Wendy: "Really? Is that line all you do?"

Lisa: "Well, I sing my ass off."

Wendy: "I'm busy up there. The guitar part's very intricate."

Lisa: "Sometimes, when I got really easy parts I'd get mad at Prince and play with a yo-yo on stage, going, 'I'm bored!'"

Wendy: "I wish Lisa and I could get our hands on All My Dreams and finish it up for him."

Lisa: "That was such an interesting, fun, crazy day in the studio. When you listen to it, it's like a little movie or something. It had a carnival atmosphere."

Wendy: "Do you remember around that time we took him to see Kid Creole and the Coconuts and he fell in love with August Darnell singing through the megaphone? He made [studio engineer] Susan Rogers buy him one for that song."

Lisa: "It's so full of imagination. He sings, 'Lisa, I'm going to give you the paintbrush and you're going to paint the side of the train'. What does that mean?! And then I do some crazy piano solo, just pounding around, and we were just like, "Y'arr! This is great! This is just fantastic!'"

Wendy: "I remember me and Lisa and my twin sister Susanna pulled out recorders we had from our school days, and Prince was like, 'Bring it on!' It was just a crazy time."

You're in a reverie remembering it.

Wendy: "Oh yeah, for sure. It was such a beautiful time of exploration."

Lisa: "Sometimes the work was just work. But this? It was like kindergarten for songwriters. As musicians, as songwriters, we were a little bit nuts."

Why did Prince withdraw from that psychedelic style?

Wendy: "Because we were gone. And once we were gone, he turned into a different person. That's the nature of who he was."

Lisa: "Prince always wanted to be great, so he needed to regroup and think, 'How do I reach the next level of my greatness? Is it a movie? Is it a different band?' He didn't know, but he had to find out - so it was like, 'Sorry, you guys. Too bad. See ya.'"

The deluxe edition of 1999 is released on Friday. Lisa Coleman's solo piano album, Collage, is out now.