On 13 April 2023, the Foreign Ministers of the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran, held the Second informal Meeting on Afghanistan in Samarkand, the Republic of Uzbekistan.

The Ministers Reiterated respect for the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Afghanistan, and support for the "Afghan-led, Afghan-owned"  principle to determine the country's political future and development path; and underscored that all members of the international community have interests in a stable and peaceful Afghanistan, a country that should be a venue for international cooperation rather than a stage for geopolitical rivalries.

The Ministers emphasized their deep concerns regarding the terrorism-related security situation in Afghanistan, pointed out that all terrorist groups, namely the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISIS-KP), Al-Qaeda, the Eastern Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), the Balochistan Liberation Army (BLA), Jaish al-Adl etc. based in Afghanistan continue to pose a serious threat to regional and global security.

The Ministers took note of the Afghan Interim Government's efforts to counter ISIS-KP, and urged it to take more visible and verifiable measures in upholding its stated commitments on counter-terrorism, dismantling and eliminating all sorts of terrorist groups, with a view to preventing the soil of Afghanistan from being used by any terrorist group.

The Ministers emphasized that, the Afghan authority should take effective measures to protect the safety, security and legitimate rights of foreign institutions and citizens. Any person responsible for any attack and threat to attack foreign institutions and citizens should be held responsible.

The Ministers pointed out that NATO countries should bear primary responsibility for the predicament in Afghanistan, should create opportunities for economic development and prosperity in Afghanistan, should instantly lift unilateral sanctions against Afghanistan and return its overseas assets, for the benefits of Afghan people.

The Ministers stressed that, dialogue and consultation is the only way out for the political settlement of the Afghan issue. Firmly opposed the reestablishment of military bases in and around Afghanistan by these countries responsible for the current situation, which is not conducive to regional peace and stability.

The Ministers called on the Afghan authority to promote inclusive governance with the practical participation of all ethnic groups and political entities, and to cancel all restrictive measures on women and ethnic minorities. Encouraged Afghanistan to maintain a friendly and cooperative foreign policy, abide by international laws, and coexist in harmony with neighboring countries and all countries in the world.

The Ministers emphasized that a peaceful, stable and secured border among Afghanistan and its neighbors is vital and in the interests of all sides. Illegal cross-border activities should be monitored and prevented.  Cross-border issues including water issue with neighbors should be handled properly through dialogue and consultation.                                      

The Ministers supported all diplomatic efforts conducive to facilitating the political settlement in Afghan issues, and support the international community, in particular the United Nations, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the Foreign Ministers' Meeting among Neighboring Countries of Afghanistan, Moscow Format Consultations, in playing a positive role in this regard.

The Ministers expressed all readiness to continue to support peace and reconstruction in Afghanistan, and support Afghanistan to conduct economic and trade exchanges as well as investment cooperation with countries in the region and the international community. Called on the international community to continue providing humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan, and help the country strengthen capacity for self-driven and sustainable development.

The Ministers expressed appreciation for the hospitalities to millions of Afghans from Pakistan and Iran, called on the international community to provide those countries with necessary support and assistance.                                                                        

The Ministers decided to strengthen coordination on Afghanistan at different levels.