Wellington Phoenix coach Ricki Herbert admits the signing of Australian defender Jade North remains 'touch and go'.

The 28-year-old, with 28 caps for the Socceroos, is under contract till the end of August with Norwegian club Tromso but is keen to leave Norway to be closer to his Australia-based family and has been offered a deal by the Phoenix.

The Wellington club is in the market for a defender following the departure of Jon McKain to Saudi Arabian club Al-Nassr last month.

Wellington captain Andrew Durante and North were the heart of the Newcastle defence when the Jets won the 2007/08 A-League and Durante would be keen to link up again with his former team-mate.

"It's touch and go with Jade," said Herbert. "I think Jade has got to make some decisions himself. We've got some other options if we need to.

"We just keep moving forward. Sometimes you get them, sometimes you don't. I'm not too worried at this stage."

The Phoenix has three spots on its roster it must fill by the end of the month and will give Argentine play-maker Roberto Carlos Cornejo and English midfielder Chris Shuker, who played with Chris Greenacre at League One side Tranmere Rovers, game-time against Boca Juniors on Friday night.

The pair arrive in Wellington on Thursday, while strikers Magno Vieira, Mirjan Pavlovic and Sean Lovemore also remain on trial with Pavlovic and Lovemore vying for the club's final under-21 contract.

Vieira has impressed Paul Ifill during the past couple of weeks he has spent in the New Zealand capital.

"He's a decent player. He's done pretty well since he's been with us," said last year's star import.

"He's another really good lad and has fitted in really quickly. He's involved on Friday so I hope he gets a chance. I don't know what the club are going to do. If he doesn't I'm sure he's got offers back [in England]."

Herbert has ruled out making a play for New Zealand World Cup squad player Aaron Clapham, whose hopes of trialling for the Jets were dashed when they signed Italian midfielder Marcello Fiorentini to complete their 20-man squad.

"There are a couple of problems with Aaron. One, he is too old for the under-21 bracket and secondly, he plays in midfield. We are kind of covered there," Herbert said.

"That's a tough position to be in because he's got great potential."