More than 11,350 species group taxa have at one time or another been assigned to the Conoidean gastropod group commonly referred to as turrids. A catalog including Recent and fossil species belonging to the Drilliidae, Pseudomelatomidae, Strictispiridae, Turridae, and six of the seven subfamilies of the Conidae is presented. Species described in the Terebridae and the Coninae ( sensu stricto) are excluded. The catalog is descriptive and no new generic assignments are made nor are new synonymies proposed. However, much of the secondary literature is also reviewed for each taxon, allowing previously proposed synonymies and generic assignments to be quickly found and evaluated. Preliminary analysis of the taxa included found temporal and geographical variation in the make up of Conoidean faunas. In general, Conidae ( sensu stricto) have increased in importance, whereas Turridae have declined in importance from Cretaceous to Recent. In all extant faunas, Conidae ( sensu stricto) dominate and range from 44.8% to 91.5% of the faunas from broadly defined geographic regions. Species diversity is high with more than 3000 Recent taxa potentially valid species. With a 38 species/ year rate of species description, the number of valid Recent species could increase by one- third in the next 50 years. Because slightly more than one- half of the taxa are fossil species and description of new species is rapid among the fossils, known diversity is also increasing among fossil taxa. Unfortunately a large number of species- level taxa were found that are little known and need study to determine their place in turrid systematics. Regardless, the catalog provides a foundation for future studies of these important marine carnivorous gastropods.

Levels and trends in the naming of new mollusk species over the last 30 years are reviewed through analysis of a sample of 12,561 names extracted from nine volumes of Zoological Record. On average, 1395 new species-group mollusks are being named each year, of which 69% are fossils (average yearly increment: 366 Recent gastropods, 292 fossil gastropods, 42 Recent bivalves, 316 fossil bivalves, 320 fossil cephalopods, and 59 other Recent and fossil mollusks). Using a smaller sample of 1996 names, the synonymy ratio of Recent taxa is calculated to be 1.6, i.e., about 265 new valid species are named each year. Over the past 25 years, the number of new marine species described each year has increased by 68%, whereas the number of new non-marine species has decreased by 15%. The most significant decrease concerns tropical continental faunas. Possibly as many as half of the new descriptions of Recent species are by people not funded for this purpose, with amateurs authors of 28% of the descriptions. The United States has the most active scientific professional and non-professional community, being responsible for over 20% of new Recent species. Nearly half of the new species worldwide are described in malacological journals. With a collecting effort of marine mollusks increased by several orders of magnitude in the last few decades, there is no sign of leveling off in the inventory of molluscan diversity. For the foreseeable future, micromollusks, the deep-sea, and the marine and non-marine tropics will remain effectively inexhaustible reservoirs of undescribed species. From a conservation perspective, the loss of knowledge of and attention to tropical land and freshwater faunas is dramatic, considering loss of habitat and extinction.

View