Die russische Flussreederei Vodohod, die über eine Flotte von 25 Flussschiffe verfügt, und die Tam Wing Kun Holdings Ltd., eine vor 43 Jahren gegründete Unternehmensgruppe, haben eine sich über eine Zusammenarbeit für die Repräsentanz des russischen Unternehmens in Asien verständigt.

Pressemitteilung in Englisch:

Vodohod brings Russia closer to Asia with dedicated partnership

Vodohod Russian River Cruises today signed a strategic partnership agreement with Tam Wing Kun Holdings Limited to provide a direct presence in Asia.

Tam Holdings offers the highest standards of service and efficiency, with over 40 years’ experience across the travel sector, representing many of the world’s leading airlines and logistics companies in Asia through offices or partners in China (Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou, Chongqing, Hong Kong, Taiwan), Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines, Vietnam and Indonesia.

The partnership is a strategic agreement in line with Vodohod’s long-term approach of establishing a direct presence in every market worldwide to offer the close personal service to which it is committed.

Rishat Bagautdinov, CEO of Vodohod Russian River Cruises, commented: “We are proud and honoured to announce our strategic partner for the Asian market: Tam Holdings. The region represents a great opportunity for Vodohod, but in order to tap into its market potential we needed a company with experience, local expertise and a network on the ground. Tam Holdings was the perfect choice. We look forward to a long and prosperous partnership as together we open Asia to the magnificence of the Russian waterways.”

Dr. Wing-Kun Tam remarked: “We are honoured to represent Vodohod across Asia, offering our customers the unique experiences of Russia’s cities, landscapes, heart and soul only available from Russia’s premier river cruise operator.”

About Vodohod Russian River Cruises

For over 15 years, Vodohod is Russia’s premier full-service river cruise operator, with a devoted team of over 2,000 taking travellers from around the world to explore Russia’s varied landscapes and cultures.

Across a fleet of 26 ships ranging from 3 to 5 star, including 12 dedicated exclusively to international guests, Vodohod prides itself on offering an authentic Russian experience both onboard and on shore.

Every aspect of a Vodohod cruise is conceived to enhance the positive power of travel, from reigniting old passions to inspiring new interests and sparking friendships that last a lifetime.

About Tam Wing Kun Holdings Limited

Founded in 1977 in Hong Kong by Dr. Wing-Kun Tam, Tam Wing Kun Holdings Ltd and its group of companies is a leading provider of customised sales services, coordinated logistics solutions and dedicated marketing communications, representing online and offline carriers, destinations and services globally.

Dedicated to developing strong and enduring business partnerships for 40 years, the Tam Group prides itself on integrity and reliability, offering an advanced network with excellent relationships across business and government, especially in Mainland China.

Tam’s experienced and talented staff ensure consistently high levels of service through 36 branch offices around the world, offering local insights on global markets to deliver outstanding results.