Embed from Getty Images

Happy Birthday to Tuanku Zara Salim, the Raja Permaisuri (Queen) of Perak, who turns 47 today! Born Zara Salim Davidson to William Stanley Walker Davidson (Salim Davidson), a prominent lawyer in Perak and Kuala Lumpur, and Sharifah Azaliah Syed Omar Shahabudin, a member of Kedah Royal Family, she grew up in Ipoh and studied at SMK Convent Ipoh, competing in squash and tennis from 1988 to 1990 and also representing Perak in swimming between 1981 and 1987. After completing her A-Levels at Prime College in 1992, she studied chemical engineering at the University of Nottingham and graduated with first class honours in July 1995, winning the top student award for her final-year project. A trained chemical engineer, Zara Salim Davidson joined the Business Evaluation Department in the Corporate Planning Unit of Petronas in 1995 before becoming a project analyst in the Petronas Petrochemical Business Unit and a product manager at Petlin (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd, before leaving Petronas in 2001 to become an account manager at Formis Network Services Sdn Bhd and then assuming the post of vice-president of partnerships and alliances at Formis (Malaysia) Berhad, a technology-based company listed on Bursa Malaysia, between 2003 and 2005. Between 2005 and 2007, Zara Salim Davidson was the managing director of Forthwave Consulting Sdn Bhd, a hydrocarbon technical engineering and software development company in Kuala Lumpur. In 2007, she married Raja Muda (Crown Prince) Nazrin Shah of Perak, becoming the Raja Puan Besar of Perak, a title reserved for the royal wife of the Raja Muda. The couple have two children: Raja Azlan Muzzaffar Shah and Raja Nazira Safya, and succeeded to the Throne of Perak, one of the oldest Malay Sultanates, in 2014, when Tuanku Zara Salim was made the the Raja Permaisuri (Queen) of Perak. Tuanku Zara Salim is the Chancellor of the Sultan Idris Education University and has been awarded an Honorary Fellowship by the Institution of Chemical Engineers, in recognition of her interest in the continued improvement of Malaysia’s education and academic performance. She is also the first Royal Patron of the IChemE in Malaysia and a patron of the Family Health Society of Perak, Convent Girls Alumni and Perak Girl Guides, in addition to serving as the Deputy Raja Permaisuri Agong of Malaysia. We wish HRH a very Happy Birthday and Many Happy Returns!