Please check out Verity Credit Union, our great partner in the 100 Bands in 100 Days local music showcase.

Music fans of the Pacific Northwest, get ready for our fifth annual year-end daily local music showcase, 100 Bands in 100 Days, where every day until December 31st, we’re showcasing a new band or artist you have to know about, once again presented by Verity Credit Union.

Make sure you are checking the #100Bands100Days hashtag on Twitter on a daily basis to stay on top of all the bands featured and be sure to follow Verity and NW_Music_Scene there. Some days the featured act could be an established and locally-adored northwest-based musician and other times they could be a band with a small following that just hasn’t had their deserved time in the spotlight yet. Either way, we’re fairly confident you can come away from this daily segment with plenty of new favorites. Today’s featured artist is The Royal Oui.

Bio:

The Royal Oui are not afraid to get their hands dirty. The husband and wife duo of Ari Shine and Adrienne Pierce have cultivated grassroots fan bases through word of mouth and extensive touring across several continents, as well as exposure through film and television. The fruits of their labour are abundant. Ari was the co-winner of the John Lennon Song of the Year award (with Gaby Moreno – 2006), a Grammy shortlister for Americana album of the year (2012), and handpicked tour mate of Chris Shifflet (Foo Fighters). Adrienne came into renown as the West Coast songstress who toured with the likes of Jane Siberry and Damien Rice, while having her songs exposed to millions through TV (Grey’s Anatomy), soundtrack albums (Veronica Mars), and commercial (FIAT) placements.

While these accomplishments stem from their solo work, they have really been an undercover duo since 2008. They constantly contributed to each other’s projects live and in the studio and although it took a while they started realizing that certain songs weren’t for Ari or for Adrienne but for another ‘thing’. These new ideas started to germinate and would bloom into The Royal Oui.

As The Royal Oui, the Vancouver duo (who now list Seattle as home) fully embraced their DIY ethos. They wrote, performed, recorded, and mixed their debut, the Forecast EP on File Under:Music, whose single “When You Lose Your Mind” planted them on the label’s roster. Even with label support they continued to self record their full length, developed a surrealist video projection to accompany their live performance, booked a twenty date tour through Canada and the US, and hit the road together.

One of the cool things about doing this feature every year is turning people on to music they haven’t heard yet and as much we love to do that, we ourselves also get turned on to music acts that have somehow flown below our radar. Today’s featured band is one of those and we’re delighted to add them to our list of bands to keep a look out for in the next few years. The Royal Oui has clearly worked hard at honing their craft and has successfully developed a sound that should take them as far as they want to go. The husband and wife duo contribute equally and have a unique musical chemistry that results in beautiful songs, most evident on their latest release, This is Someday, released in August 2018. Check the latest out on Bandcamp and we’re fairly convinced you’ll end up a fan after the first listen.

Enjoy a free holiday sampler from the band:

Listen:

This is Someday by The Royal Oui

Find the band at:

Website

Facebook

Twitter

Bandcamp

To view all of the wonderful northwest artists we have featured this year, click HERE.