Manchester City's aspirations of retaining the Champions League could be dealt a concerning blow, according to a report. Research indicates that more Champions League victors have emerged from Group F than any other, posing a challenge for City after their run to the last-eight thus far.

Pep Guardiola's side were embroiled in an enthralling battle with record-holders Real Madrid as they lock horns in the second leg at the Etihad Stadium this week. With a potential all-English semi-final against Arsenal with Mikel Arteta's team is aiming to make history by winning the competition for the first time, should they overcome Bayern Munich.

However, research from Genting Casinos suggests City could face a roadblock in their efforts to win a second European crown. The study revealed that 23 per cent of all winners since the tournament's rebranding in 1992 have come from Group F, with Group D slightly behind.

ALSO READ: 'Hope became fear' - national media react as Liverpool and Arsenal defeats hand Man City title boost

ALSO READ: 'Dead or alive' Man City meetings that have convinced Pep Guardiola

Inter Milan, Bayern Munich, Barcelona, and Real Madrid are among the teams that have progressed from Group F to hoist the coveted trophy since the 2009/10 season.

City cruised into the knockout stages of the competition after eclipsing their Group G opposition taking maximum points against RB Leipzig, Young Boys and Crvena Zvezda.

Manchester United were the last English club to win the competition from Group F, while Liverpool progressed beyond Group A and C in their respective successes. Chelsea won the tournament after qualifying from Group E in their 2011/12 and 2020/21 triumphs.

Atletico Madrid, Borussia Dortmund, Paris Saint-Germain and Barcelona are among those remaining in the competition. Dortmund and the Ligue 1 giants both qualified from Group F and are the only group to feature multiple clubs in the last eight.

"In Champions League history, Group F has emerged as the most prolific source of winners, boasting 23% of all champions since the tournament's rebranding in 1992," a spokesperson for Genting Casinos said.

"While Group G and Group H have produced fewer winners, it's important to note that this can be attributed to the tournament's expansion in recent years. The latest quarter-finalists, including Borussia Dortmund and PSG from Group F, underscore the competitive strength of this group."