WICKENBURG, Ariz. — A Utah woman was killed and her husband was injured in a crash on U.S. Highway 93 in Wickenburg, Arizona, on Wednesday.

According to Raul Garcia with the Arizona Department of Public Safety, the crash occurred at 8:18 p.m. on southbound U.S. 93, approximately 60 miles northwest of Phoenix.

Garcia said a white Toyota Tundra pickup truck was passing vehicles southbound in a legal passing zone, but “failed to complete the pass and collided head-on with a white Volvo commercial truck tractor pulling a trailer loaded with home goods.”

The female passenger of the Toyota pickup truck died on impact. The male driver was transported to a hospital with critical injuries and burns. The driver of the Volvo was transported to the hospital as a precaution.

Garcia said the roadway was closed for over six hours as a result of the crash.

People close to the couple, identified as Chloe and Parker Stott, said they were on their way to reveal the news of their pregnancy to their family for the holidays.

Their business manager and friend, Scout Whiteley, said Chloe Stott was only about 10 weeks pregnant.

Family said Parker Stott had burns so severe he had to have his right leg amputated, and he broke almost every other bone in his body. They said that, amazingly, he has no injuries to his face, head, or neck.

Friends and clients say the couple’s business, the Clover Skin Bar in Lindon, will be Chloe Stott’s legacy. The couple leased an empty space about a year and a half ago, and as a general contractor, Parker Stott built everything you see inside it.

Client Aleia Nilsson dropped off flowers Friday to honor Chloe Stott. She says every week, the Stotts would have fresh flowers.

“She would always have the most amazing, like, seasonal crazy creation flowers,” Nilsson said. “I just can’t even believe that she’s gone. This was her dream and she would have been the most amazing mom. Like, without a doubt.”

Both Nilsson and the building’s owner, Bill Fairbanks, are hoping the couple’s legacy — this business — can go on even without her.

“They’re just a young family and I enjoy watching young families and accomplish things,” Fairbanks said. “Just tell people you love that you love them.”

Parker Stott has a long road to recovery, but family said he is expected to survive. A GoFundMe has been set up so people can provide support for his recovery.

“On Wednesday December 20th, Parker and Chloe Stott were heading home to Arizona from Utah to spend Christmas with their families. They had just found out they were pregnant with a baby and were so excited to be parents and share the news with their loved ones over Christmas. At 8:30 p.m. Wednesday evening they were involved in a tragic car accident that took the life of Chloe and their precious baby boy. Parker was life flighted to the Arizona Burn Center where he is under intense care to save his life. The purpose of the GoFundMe is to provide the necessary financial support for a young family whose lives changed in the blink of an eye. Medical bills, financial support and funeral services among many other reasons. Any support and prayers for this family will make a difference,” the GoFundMe states.*