PHARR – Four athletes from PSJA North Early College High School (PSJA North ECHS) signed letters of commitment on Feb. 7, 2024, to extend their football careers with The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley's (UTRGV) inaugural football team.

Football players Joe Dereck Vecchio, Alejandro Aparicio, and twin brothers Dante and Danny Garcia achieved a historic milestone as the first group of PSJA ISD students to sign a National Letter of Intent, marking their entry into UTRGV's inaugural football program and becoming part of its first signing class in the program's history.

All four athletes, who were starters for the football team, played crucial roles in securing numerous district championships and playoff victories for the PSJA Raiders.

Expressing his gratitude, Vecchio thanked his parents for their sacrifices and coaches for their constant motivation. He also expressed appreciation for the family he found at PSJA North and looks forward to the next chapter in his football journey.

Vecchio's achievements include 2nd Team All-District, 1st Team All-District Center, 1st Team All-Area Center, 15 5A Offensive Lineman MVP, and The Monitor's All-Area Lineman of the Year. Additionally, he will graduate high school with 60 college credit hours.

Twin brothers Dante and Danny Garcia expressed their gratitude to their families, coaches, educators, and parents for their unwavering support. The brothers have earned numerous awards and accolades, including 4x Bi-District Champions, 3x Area Champions, 3x Regional Semi-Finalists, and State Quarter Finalists.

Alejandro Aparicio, PSJA North Quarterback, acknowledged the support he received from his family, campus administration, coaching staff, and student trainers, expressing his appreciation for the best four years of football. Aparicio's accolades include being named the 2021 Newcomer of the Year, 2023 District 15-5A MVP, 2023 All-Valley Player of the Year, and 2024 District 15-5A Co-MVP. A part of the PSJA Early College Program, he will graduate with an Associate Degree in Interdisciplinary Studies from STC and plans to pursue a Bachelor’s Degree in Exercise Science at UTRGV.

Congratulations to all the athletes on their achievements!