By Peter Schwartz

» More Columns

Throughout his storied career, Raul Gonzalez Blanco has scored many memorable goals. More commonly known to soccer fans as just Raul, the gifted forward recorded 323 goals, including 71 in Champions League play, during a storied 16-year career with Real Madrid.

After spending three seasons with F.C. Schalke 04 in Germany and three more with Al Sadd in Qatar, Raul is in his first season playing for the New York Cosmos of the North American Soccer League and is second on the team with four goals.

But all of it pales in comparison to what he recently accomplished with his left foot at the Cosmos' practice facility on Long Island.

Raul accepted a challenge from Chelsea FC player Cesar Azpilicueta and participated in "Shoot for Love," a campaign created by former Dutch soccer player and coach Guus Hiddink.

The objective is to raise awareness and raise money to help children with cancer with the hope that one day they'll play soccer again.

"It is very important and I'm happy that I could be a part of it," Raul said. "I have five children of my own, so as a father I understand how important it is to help children in any way you can."

Raul shot a soccer ball at a giant archery target 10 times from 10 meters away. The Spanish legend scored 83 points and currently sits in second place in the competition behind Swansea FC's Jonjo Shelvey. For every point, the foundation makes a $10 donation.

Here's a video that chronicles Raul's "Shoot for Love" participation:

After he helped raise $830 for the campaign, Raul promptly nominated current Real Madrid captain Sergio Ramos Garcia and former Liverpool, Real Madrid and Manchester City player Steve McManaman.

He also nominated Cosmos teammate and fellow Spaniard Marcos Senna for the challenge. Senna has been with the Cosmos since their reboot season in 2013, when he helped lead the team to the Soccer Bowl Championship.

Is Raul worried that the crafty midfielder might outscore him in the challenge and gain bragging rights?

"I hope so," he said. "It means more money for the kids!"

Kids are a big reason that Raul decided to sign a multi-year contract with the Cosmos this past offseason. In addition to continuing his playing career with the world-famous franchise, Raul also assumed the role as technical advisor with the Cosmos' Youth Academy. He will oversee the academy on a full-time basis after he retires.

Raul and the Cosmos punched their ticket to the 2015 NASL playoffs by winning the Spring Season championship and they are currently in first place in the overall standings, which would give them the No. 1 seed and home-field advantage throughout the postseason.

So far, playing in the shadows of the Big Apple has been a big thrill for the legendary striker.

"My time in New York has been amazing," Raul said. "To play for the Cosmos has been a great experience so far. We have a good team and we are pushing to do well this fall season too so that we have the best possible chance to win the championship in November."

Raul has scored some big goals for the Cosmos this season but his participation in the "Shoot for Love" campaign has been even bigger. Along with many other soccer stars around the world, Raul is doing his part to help kids who have been diagnosed with cancer.

For more information on "Shoot for Love," go to their Facebook page.