Choose a Staff Member:

Raul Garcia III

Title

Assistant Women's Soccer Coach - Goalkeepers

Education

B.S. Texas Lutheran '96, M.A. Luther Seminary '13, MDiv Luther Seminary '22

Raul Garcia III is in his first year as an assistant for the Gustavus women's soccer team in the 2024-25 academic year. Garcia III primarily coaches the Gustie goalkeepers.

Garcia III is no stranger to the collegiate soccer world, having previously served as the assistant and goalkeepers coach at Bethany Lutheran College for the previous two seasons. While at Bethany Lutheran, Garcia III helped coach the women's team to two of its best seasons, including seven All-Conference selections and three All-Region awards in 2023.

Prior to his time at Bethany Lutheran, Garcia III served as an assistant and goalkeepers coach at MSU-Mankato. In 2019, Garcia III helped coach the Mavericks to a 19-win season, tied for the second most in program history. The 2019 team finished 19-4-1 with a 12-3-0 conference record, good for second in the league. The Mavericks went on to win their fourth consecutive NSIC Tournament Championship, and advanced to the "Elite Eight" of the NCAA Tournament for the second time in school history.

Garcia III also spent time scouting and recruiting for the Mavericks in 2021 while completing his pastoral internship. The 2021 MSU team advanced to the NCAA "Sweet Sixteen" with an overall record of 18-3-2. While at MSU-Mankato, Garcia III had a hand in coaching numerous All-Conference players and four All-Americans.

Garcia III spent time at fellow MIAC institution Hamline before joining the Mavericks, helping the Pipers to their first ever postseason tournament appearance in 2016.

Garcia III has spent over three decades coaching all levels of soccer, winning state, district, regional, and USA Cup championships at the youth, high school and collegiate levels.

A native Texan, Raul was an active athlete at John F. Kennedy High School in San Antonio, Texas, participating in football, basketball, baseball, cross country, and track & field. He spent much of his summer playing baseball and soccer before attending Texas Lutheran University where he received his degree in kinesiology and exercise science.

Garcia III headed north in 1996, where he attended Luther Seminary in St. Paul, earning his Master's degree in children, youth, and family in 2013. He finished his Master's of Divinity in 2022, and currently serves as a pastor in the Twin Cities.

Raul and his wife Rhea, a kindergarten teacher, have two daughters, Grace and Trinity. They enjoy cooking, gardening, playing music, and spending time with their dog, Marty.