A diverse microvertebrate assemblage has been extracted from a limnic lowermost Cretaceous (Berriasian) stratum on the island of Bornholm, Denmark. The assemblage includes numerous remains of a wide variety of vertebrate groups including fishes, amphibians, reptiles and mammals. Herein, we describe the amphibian and reptilian (excluding Archosauria and Chelonia) part of the assemblage including indeterminate salamanders, frogs and lizards. The former findings are of particular interest as they represent the first occurrence of Mesozoic amphibians in Denmark.

The crocodyliform faunas of the lowermost Cretaceous Rabekke and Jydegård Formations on the Baltic island of Bornholm, Denmark, and the Annero Formation of Skåne, southernmost Sweden, are represented by isolated teeth, osteoderms, and vertebrae. The rich Berriasian assemblage of the Rabekke Formation includes at least three distinctive taxa: Bernissartia sp., Theriosuchus sp., and Goniopholis sp., an association that is also known from several other contemporaneous European vertebrate localities. In contrast to this fauna, the Jydegård and Annero Formations have yielded only rare mesoeucrocodylian remains, which are assigned to Theriosuchus sp. and an undetermined mesoeucrocodylian taxon, possibly Pholidosaurus. Geographically, the Scandinavian localities represent the easternmost and northernmost distribution of typical continental Jurassic-Cretaceous crocodyliform communities in Europe.

The dinosaur fauna of the palynologically dated lower Berriasian Skyttegård Member of the Rabekke Formation on the Baltic island of Bornholm, Denmark, is represented by isolated tooth crowns. The assemblage is restricted to small maniraptoran theropods, assigned to the Dromaeosauridae incertae sedis and Maniraptora incertae sedis. The dromaeosaurid teeth are characterized by their labiolingually compressed and distally curved crowns that are each equipped with a lingually flexed mesial carina and a distinctly denticulated distal cutting edge. A morphologically aberrant tooth crown (referred to as Maniraptora incertae sedis) has triangular denticles of uneven width, a feature occasionally found in Upper Cretaceous hesperornithiform toothed diving birds, but also in premaxillary teeth of the velociraptorine Nuthetes from the Lower Cretaceous of England.

Only the Baltic island of Bornholm is likely ever to produce Danish dinosaurs, not the western mainland Denmark. The Mesozoic of Bornholm spans Late Triassic to Late Cretaceous, with some potentially dinosaur producing deposits from Early Jurassic to Early Cretaceous being continental, lagoon, littoral or marginal marine. So far the only dinosaurs have been found in 2000 and 2002 in the basal Jydegaard Fm., carrying a ‘Purbeck-Wealden fauna’ of the Earliest Cretaceous (Late Berriasian or Ryazanian) at Robbedale. Both are single tooth crowns; the first find, a 21-mm crown, is a dromaeosaurine, Dromaeosauroides bornholmensis Christiansen & Bonde 2003, possibly the only true dromaeosaur from the Lower Cretaceous of Europe. Estimated length of the animal is over 3 m. The second find is a somewhat unusual sauropod, most likely titanosaurian, the crown being only ca 15 mm high, with an unusual wear facet. Both teeth were derived from the lowermost 2-3 metres of the formation. Future expectations from this deposit are small ornithopods - and possibly mammals. To cite this article: N. Bonde, P. Christiansen, C. R. Palevol 2 (2003) 13–26.

A single dentary of a terrestrial lizard was recently discovered in the lowermost part of the Early Cretaceous Jydegård Formation on the island of Bornholm, Denmark. The general outline of the dentary, including a large, partly open Meckelian groove, a coronoid process and a fairly large subdental shelf, in combination with the lack of an intramandibular septum, strongly indicate scincomorph affinity. Further identification is at present not possible as there are a limited number of characters preserved on the dentary. This is the first terrestrial Mesozoic lizard recorded from Scandinavia.