Indonesia's most violent radical Islamist group, which is blamed for the deaths of thousands of Christians in eastern islands during four years of communal conflict, dissolved itself on Saturday, hours before bombs exploded in Bali killing hundreds of people, it emerged yesterday.

Laskar Jihad, which was formed in 2000 and had 15,000 members, was wound up because of an internal dispute over the approach to waging jihad used by the group's leader Jafar Umar Thalib, according to its legal adviser Achmad Michdan.

"It has nothing to do with the bombs. There was no pressure on us from military," he said. "The clerics in Indonesia and in the Middle East have disagreed with Jafar Umar Thalib's teachings and have asked him to disband the group."

Such a simple explanation appears to have been accepted. But nothing in Indonesia is as simple as it seems, particularly when politics and Islam are concerned.

The missing link in yesterday's shock development is the role played by the nation's extremely powerful military - its meddling hand has been visible at virtually every stage of radical Islam's resurgence since the fall of the dictator General Suharto in 1998.

This has prompted speculation, as yet unsubstantiated, that if Islamic elements are behind the Bali bombings then the Indonesian military must, at least indirectly, have been involved as well.

The fact that C-4 plastic explosive is thought to have been used in the bomb will further fuel conspiracy theories as the army's special forces are the only people in Indonesia with access to such explosives.

Laskar Jihad, or Holy War Force, was formed in early 2000 and caused ructions in the military after Lieutenant General Agus Wirahadikusuma, a rare reformist and ally of the then president Abdurrahman Wahid, accused unnamed hardline officers of creating the group to destabilise the nation.

While his claims were denied, they have since been proven correct. The military allowed thousands of heavily armed Laskar Jihad forces to enter the Moluccas in 2000, a move which massively escalated the intensity of the fighting. It quickly developed into a sectarian conflict and lasted until the end of last year.

Once it was clear that the fighting in the spice islands had become entrenched, the military coordinated the removal of thousands of fighters west to central Sulawesi, where they nursed simmering tensions between Christian and Muslim groups into an open conflict.

Hundreds of Laskar Jihad members also travelled east from the Moluccas and set up bases in Papua which, like the spice islands, is one of the few regions of Indonesia where Muslims do not enjoy a large majority.

Most recently Laskar Jihad offices have been established in Aceh, on the northern tip of Sumatra, where Muslim separatists have been fighting for independence since 1976, though they have yet to make an impact because the locals treat them with suspicion.

But the security forces' involvement with radical Islam does not end with Laskar Jihad. Other groups such as Front Pembela Islam (FPI - the Islamic Defenders Front) and the Gerakan Pemuda Islam (GPI - the Islamic Youth Movement), which are used for little more than organised thuggery and political demonstrations, are among others that are known to have close links with both the police and elements of the military.

The same can also be said for the Indonesian Mojahedin Council which was established in 2000 by Abu Bakar Ba'aysir and which many people believe is responsible for the Bali bombings.

"If you scratch below the surface of any radical Islamic group in Indonesia you will find the hand of the military at work," said Sidney Jones, the head of the Jakarta office of the International Crisis Group. "And with many of them you don't really have to go beneath the surface."

Most analysts and diplomats agree that the military's agenda is to reassert itself behind the scenes to compensate for the steady erosion of its formal political power. The latest example of the latter came in August the military and police did not overtly oppose a move from the nation's legislators to strip them of their seats in parliament.

"It looks like the military is genuinely trying to become a more professional force and in some respects it is," one western diplomat said. "But there is also a large element of giving with one hand and taking with the other."

Its connivance with radical Islamists appears to be encouraging increased public resentment about the civilian politicians' inability to maintain law and order and stimulate economic recovery.

This reached a new level by yesterday as the likely political and economic impact of the Bali bombs began to sink in.

"If things continue like this the people will welcome a military government," said Made, a newspaper seller in Jimbaran on Bali. "Things might have been bad under Suharto but at least we were safe."

Such voices are not just being heard on the streets. When the disgraced former armed forces chief General Wiranto launched a book he had written on East Timor a few months ago, one member of the audience set the tone with a rallying cry that could have come straight from a 1920s Munich beer hall.

"Indonesia will only become great again when it has strong leadership which will drag it out from under the oppressive shadow of its neighbours," he declared. "It is only then that Indonesia will stop being a victim."