A radiant Parminder Nagra showed off her growing baby bump as she joined her former ER castmates for a reunion last night.

The British actress is expecting her first child this summer with her husband, photographer James Stenson.

As she walked the red carpet in Hollywood, she hid her bump under a stylish asymmetrical black dress.

Baby bulge: Parminder Nagra showed off her growing bump as she joined her former ER castmates for a reunion last night

Parminder found fame in the film Bend It Like Beckham, which also launched the career of Keira Knightley.

After appearing in several other films, including Twelfth Night and Ella Enchanted, she won the role of Dr Neela Rasgotra in the medical drama ER, which has ended after 15 seasons.

Last night at the finale party for the hit TV show, she admitted having some strange cravings during her pregnancy.

'I think early on I had a few cravings like frosted flakes and things like filet-of-fish, which I don't even really eat.

'And I craved Indian food most of all, which is probably going to drive my baby crazy - all that spiciness - but what can I say?'

Moving on: ER actresses Linda Edna Cardellini and Maura Tierney

Parminder was joined by Noah Wyle and other ER cast members at the celebration.

Wyle has revealed he took some mementoes from the set to remember his time on the show.

The actor, who starred as Dr John Carter, said his souvenirs included 'a door, a floorplan and a CPR practice dummy'.

His co-star Sharif Atkins, who played Dr Michael Gallant, joked: 'Yeah I framed a few souvenirs. I took some and framed them and am now selling them on eBay for about half a million dollars, so please, come and take a look at Sharif Atkins' eBay... I'm sure there's somebody out there even in these recessive times!'

One noticeable absence from the reunion was George Clooney, who played Dr Doug Ross on the show.

He did, however, made a cameo appearance towards the end of the last series - which was enough to give ER its highest ratings in two years.

The last season of ER is showing on More4 at 9pm on Thursdays. The final episode will air in June, 15 seasons and 22 Primetime Emmy Awards since it began.