Keith Scott has been Australia’s leading impressionist and cartoon voice actor since starting in the Sydney office of animation giant Hanna-Barbera. Keith gained a reputation for versatile voice work in TV & radio ads, where he put his amazing repertoire of imitations to work.

As a voice impersonator Keith has the widest range in his field, with hundreds of distinct take-offs: old movie stars, singers, politicians, cartoon icons. When you add his original characters and accents, he is truly a “Man of a Thousand Voices.”

Keith did many TV sets as a comedy impressionist, including Hey, Hey, It’s Saturday and The Midday Show. His topical stand up shows at corporate functions are highly popular with a range of companies.

In 1984 he was hired by Yoram Gross Cartoons doing the male character voices for countless animated TV shows: Blinky Bill, Tabaluga, Flipper & Lopaka, Skippy in Bushtown, Staines Down Drains, Old Tom. More recently, he did multiple voices in cartoon series like Sally Bollywood, Nate is Late, Ghosts of Time and more.

Across Australia he was heard on radio stations galore, skewering the reputations of media and political bigwigs, in the satirical How Green Was My Cactus, which ran a record thirty three years.

It was his expert “matching” of Hollywood cartoon characters for which Keith became internationally recognized. In 1990 he was appointed a licensed voice of Warner Bros.’ “Looney Tunes” characters for Australasia, and since then has done voices for Daffy Duck, Tweety, Sylvester and others in countless commercials, stage shows and promos for Warner Movie World, Westfield, KFC, etc. He was also approved by Hanna-Barbera to do the voices of Fred Flintstone, Yogi Bear and others.

From 1992, Keith was hired by Universal Studios in Hollywood as the authorized voice of Bullwinkle Moose and others from the cult-favorite Rocky and Bullwinkle cartoons. The Disney Company hired Keith as Narrator of their hit movie George of the Jungle starring Brendan Fraser. And Universal’s Theme Parks division twice flew Keith to Hollywood to do Popeye for their Orlando, Florida park ride.

In 1999, Keith was the voices of Bullwinkle and the Narrator for the big-budget Universal movie The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle. During the shoot Keith worked for five months alongside major names like Robert DeNiro, John Goodman and Billy Crystal.