"My life in Hollywood contained plenty of uproar. I'm sorry for a lot of it but not awfully sorry. I never did anything to hurt anyone else. I made a place for myself on the screen and you can't do that by being Mrs. Alcott's idea of a Little Woman." (Clara Bow)

Without question, Clara Bow gave the greatest performance of her acting career in Call Her Savage, a wild drama from director John Francis Dillon that throws around every pre-Code theme imaginable. It had to hit close to home for Bow as she played Nasa "Dynamite" Springer, a Texas heiress whose penchant for loud partying and vicious brawls lands her in newspaper headlines across the nation. (As noted in…

So... much... plot. Clara Bow's comeback, after her nervous breakdown in 1931, kicked off a two-picture deal with Fox. Depending on who you believe, her intention was to restore her battered reputation following a series of scandals and dud pictures, or to make as much money as possible before retiring for good. It may have been both.

After years of being shoved around by Paramount, who increasingly put her in inferior vehicles with nothing co-stars, her new contract at her new home gave her the final say on material, cast and director. What she chose first was this absurd Pre-Code melodrama - as Pre-Code as Pre-Code gets - which introduces her braless and furious, bullwhipping the hell out of "half-breed"…

It’s hard to know where to begin with this film, but no discussion is going to be complete without talking about its racism. It’s pretty insidious stuff too, because aside from the depiction of Native Americans as savages bent on massacring white folks in the first five minutes, something pretty common out of Hollywood in this period and for decades afterwards, the film equates having “Indian blood” in descendants with impulse and anger issues. It essentially says that such blood will taint the pure white blood it’s mixed with, and the person carrying it will have a diluted form of all that savage behavior we saw early on in the ol’ west. To top it off, the film brings the…

Indian Head Change

There’s an intriguing shot in “Call Her Savage” not only for old film collectors but for numismatists. It’s a point-of-view look at coins in the hand of star Clara Bow’s character Nasa, who’s discouraged that she hasn’t enough change to buy medicine. As anyone with cursory familiarity with old U.S. currency will know, Indian Head designs have adorned different specie over the years. Here, Bow holds at least one each of an Indian Head penny and a nickel turned heads up. The “Buffalo nickel,” as it’s otherwise known from the tail side (although even then “nickels” were mostly made of copper, and American “buffalo” are bison, as well as, besides, American “Indians” aren’t from India), may still…

1st John Francis Dillon

Another watch for the upcoming panel, this was an opportunity to revisit a Hollywood star I'm particularly fond of, that being Clara Bow. I've only seen one of her films, The Wild Party, but it's hard not to have a crush on her. She has such character and spirit that it's impossible not to fall hopelessly in love with her. I also happen to like her speaking voice, which is enjoyably husky and cheeky. Her star persona is one of a girl who'd give you a great time, even though in reality her life was deeply complicated and extremely tragic.

Call Her Savage is one of her last films, made at Fox as a kind of…

Only Clara Bow's measured performance in the ending and the absolutely nuts opening twenty minutes save Call Her Savage from total mediocrity. But there just was not going to be any saving the absurd and scattershot plot and poor supporting cast. The few supporting actors who aren't terrible have smaller roles, and the middle of the film is the worst when they mostly disappear and we have to spend so much time with blander than bland Monroe Owsley. If this film had been silent the stodginess of her co-stars wouldn't have mattered as much since Clara is so good, but it's a serious issue in a talking film.

The film is about a pre-code as pre-code can get though: violence,…