The next annual Youth Protection webinar will be on August 10, 2024, 9-10am on Zoom.

Youth Protection Officer contact email: ypo@rotaryd5000.org

Background Checks are being done by IntelliCorp to keep your information safe. Many Rotary districts use this company because they are linked with the Rotary youth exchange website to report YE participant information.

Instructions:

1) Email Natasha at : natashaclarin777@gmail.com the following: Name, email address, home zip code, city, county.

2) Wait for an email invitation from ypo@rotaryd5000.org ("ypo"=Youth Protection Officer") and use the link to go to IntelliCorp's website.

3) Follow the instructions for submitting your information and paying online. Fee is $13.60 to $21.00

By nurturing youth, Rotarians can provide the skills young people need to succeed as future community leaders. Youth Programs provide Rotarians the opportunity to develop their own leadership and communication skills and also provides for many incredible moments!

"What guides us is children's response, their joy in learning to dance, to sing, to live together. It should be a guide to the whole world." ~ Yehudi Menuhin (1916-1999), American violinist and conductor

Get involved and become a part of the Youth Services Team today!

"One hundred years from now, it will not matter what my bank account was, how big my house was, or what kind of car I drove. But the world may be a little better, because I was important in the life of a child." ~ Forest E. Witcraft, American Scholar, Teacher and Scout Leader, 1894-1967

Do you want to be part of a global community of young adults taking action for positive change? Are you looking for the chance to share your ideas and look at the world’s challenges in a new way? Join a Rotaract club and find all this and more, including:

Hands-on service projects

Fun networking and social activities

Professional development opportunities

An international network of young leaders

WHAT IS ROTARACT?

Rotaract is a club for adults ages 18-30 that meets twice a month to exchange ideas, plan activities and projects, and socialize. While Rotary clubs serve as sponsors, Rotaract clubs decide how to organize and run their club and what projects and activities to carry out.

Interact is a club for young people ages 12-18 who want to join together to tackle the issues in their community that they care most about. Through Interact, you can:

Carry out hands-on service projects

Make international connections

Develop leadership skills

Have fun!

HOW DOES AN INTERACT CLUB CREATE POSITIVE CHANGE?

Every Interact club carries out two service projects a year: one that helps your school or community and one that promotes international understanding. Service projects are an effective way for you to take action at home and abroad, connect with other young leaders, and get members excited about your club.

Rotary Youth Leadership Awards (RYLA) is a leadership development program run by Rotary. While participants can be any age, most events focus on secondary school students, university students, or young professionals. RYLA events are typically 3–10 days long and include presentations, activities, and workshops that cover a variety of topics, including:

Leadership fundamentals and ethics

Communication skills

Problem-solving and conflict management

Community and global citizenship

Hawai'i Rotary offers two RYLA Programs: