OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS

Apply Now

If you’re looking to experience Christian higher education for more faithful service to Christ, then we’re ready to provide you a Christ-centered, Scripture-driven, and student-focused undergraduate experience.

At Texas Baptist College, we are committed to providing students with biblical foundations for any calling and intellectual foundations for any profession. No matter where God calls you, our faculty and staff will be here to walk alongside you as you develop the knowledge, character, wisdom, and experience you need to thrive in your life, career, and spiritual growth.

How to Apply

Apply for admission

Start your application here.

Request church recommendation from pastor or church leader

As part of the application, please include your pastor as a church endorsement recommender. Once you submit your application, a recommendation form will be emailed to your recommender for them to submit.

Submit official high school transcripts

Official transcripts must be mailed or emailed by the academic institution to our Admissions Office. The quickest way for us to receive official transcripts is electronically through email. Our address is:

Southwestern Seminary

Attn: Admissions

2001 W Seminary Drive Fort Worth, TX 76122

admissions@swbts.edu

Click here for help building a homeschool high school transcript.

Complete background check and submit vaccination record

Once you have submitted the application, you will receive an email from a 3rd party company, administrator@intellicorp.net with instructions on how to initiate your background check.

Per Texas state law, all TBC students under the age of 22 must provide proof of a meningitis vaccine that is no more than 5 years old from the time the semester will start.

Review Process

Once all application requirements have been submitted, your application will enter the review process. We cannot supply an exact time frame for review, but we can assure you that our office works diligently to provide a decision as soon as possible.

Enroll in classes

Admissions will assist you in registering for classes, which can be done completely online.

Apply for financial aid

Following acceptance, you can apply for financial aid here, and for on-campus housing here.

International Students

*Additional steps for international students can be found here.

Find the degree that fits your calling.

Explore Financial Aid

Thanks to the generosity of Southern Baptists, we offer numerous scholarships and other financial aid opportunities.

Meet the Faculty

Here are the men and women who’ll be guiding your education and supporting your spiritual growth during your time here.

Got Questions? We’re here to answer them.

Reach out to our Admissions Team and we’ll be in touch by phone, text, or email.