Pamela Anderson has been involved in a few high-profile relationships throughout her life. In 2007, she married American poker player Rick Solomon in a small ceremony in Las Vegas. The pair separated in 2008. However, in 2013, Anderson revealed to Ellen DeGeneres that she and Salomon were "friends with benefits." They remarried in 2014, but the love didn't last long. By 2015, they divorced for a second time.

Eminem married his high-school sweetheart, Kim Scott, in 1999 and divorced in 2001. Although he admitted he'd rather have a "baby through my p*nis than get married again" in 2002, the high-profile rapper remarried Scott in January 2006 before ending the relationship in April of the same year.

Miss Dionne Warwick was married to actor William Elliott in 1966, but they divorced in 1967. Despite that, their love for each other was so strong that they remarried in Milan, Italy, in 1967 and divorced again in 1975. "I was the major earning power in the family, and that is very difficult for the male ego," she said about her marriage. "It just got too much to bear for my husband, and we decided that it would be best for us to part ways."

NeNe Leakes divorced her husband Gregg Leakes on The Real Housewives of Atlanta after years of marital struggles and difficulties. Their feuds and explosive blowups played out on camera in the earlier seasons, but they found their way back to each other years later. They were married until Gregg's unfortunate death in 2021.

American rapper Snoop Dogg married his high school girlfriend in 1997. Unfortunately, he filed for divorce in '04, stating that their relationship was broken beyond repair. But like a few others on this list, love won, and they reconciled in 2008. They've been together ever since.

Estée Lauder married her husband Joseph in 1930. After moving to New York City and creating the massive beauty brand of the same name, they divorced in 1939. The pair spent a few years apart but fell in love, remarrying in 1942. They were together until Joe died in 1983.

Travis Barker , who is now married to Kourtney Kardashian, was first married to Shanna Moakler, an American actress and model. After their wedding in '04, Barker filed for divorce in 2006, saying his only "concern" was the "welfare and best interests of my children." Shanna updated her MySpace account at the time, saying she was "devastated" and "heartbroken" by the split. They reconnected in September of the same year and were officially back together in March 2007. In June, they split again. "She moved out," a source revealed at the time. "As far as she's concerned, it's over. She loves him, but it's one of those relationships where they keep trying to make it work, but it doesn't."

Would you be surprised to hear there was a scandal in Andrew Jackson's marriage? The former United States president married Rachel (who believed she was divorced) in 1791. After learning that her divorce from her husband wasn't finalized, her relationship with Jackson was dissolved. Once legally free, she remarried the politician until she died in 1828.

Elizabeth Taylor had a salacious affair with Richard Burton in the early '60s while filming Cleopatra. Although they were in other relationships, they pursued each other and married in 1964. Their union was overshadowed by rumors of additional affairs, overspending, and an open relationship. They split in 1974, reconciled shortly after, and remarried in 1975. However, the second time wasn't much different, causing them to divorce again in July 1976.

Melanie Griffith and Don Johnson's relationship timeline was a little strange, considering Melanie was 14 when she noticed the 22-year-old actor on the set of The Harrad Experiment. They were engaged several years later and eloped in Las Vegas. However, their first marriage only lasted six months before they divorced. In between that, the pair linked up with other people (had children) and then reconnected in 1989. That marriage also ended with a divorce.

Marie Osmond divorced her husband, Steve Craig, in 1985 before remarrying the lad in 2011. "I never wanted to be married again," Osmond told People. "[Our son] Stephen was getting married, and we [realized] we can’t go to our son’s wedding and not be married. So we got married a few months before he did. He joked that he never thought it would happen, but it did!”

Jean-Claude, the Belgian martial artist and actor, married his wife, Gladys Portugues, in the '80s. They divorced in 1992 but found their way back to each other in '99. Since then, things have been smooth sailing (for the most part), and they're off living their best lives together.