Travis Barker 's ex-wife Shanna Moakler posted a cryptic comment about 'hate' ahead of his wedding to Kourtney Kardashian.

The Blink-182 rocker got engaged to reality star Kourtney in October 2021.

Since then, the loved-up duo had a fake drunken wedding in Las Vegas before obtaining their marriage licence in Santa Barbara.

The couple's friends and family have been eagerly waiting for the grand ceremony which is set to take place in Italy this weekend.

Ahead of their nuptials, Travis' first wife Shanna, who shares two kids with the tattooed musician, shared a gorgeous selfie on her Instagram.

She appeared to be fresh out of the shower as she pouted for the camera.

" I have no energy for hate. I either love you, wish you well or hope you heal," Shanna captioned the post along with a heart emoji and an anchor emoji.

Shanna, who was married to Travis between 2004 to 2008, added 'Godspeed' and 'namaste' as tags.

Her fans were buzzing after reading the caption and took to the comment section to support her.

"Ignore the hate comments. No one is in your relationship and knows what really happens but you two. Just be happy. That’s all that matters. Life is too short!" one user said.

Another posted: "Good for you. don't ever feel like you have to explain yourself to anyone."

"I hope you’re ok," one concerned user said while another added: "All the LOVE for you over here Shanna! Lol."

Meanwhile, the Kardashians have taken over the village of Portofino in Italy ahead of the highly-anticipated wedding.

The service is taking place a week after 43-year-old Kourtney and Travis officially tied the knot in a low-key courthouse ceremony last weekend – which most of her family didn't attend.

Get all the biggest showbiz news straight to your inbox. Sign up for the free Mirror Showbiz newsletter.

The spotlight seems to be on the couple's big wedding in Italy as Kim, Kendall, Khloe, Kylie and even Kris Jenner are there.

Most of the KarJenner children, including North West and Penelope Disick, were with the family ahead of the big day.

People magazine has reported that Kourtney and Travis are to wed at Castello Brown.

The castle is reported to cost €3,500-€5,500 (£2,958–£4,648) per day to hire and is described as "a private event space that can be rented for weddings and other gatherings, art shows and culinary events."

Kourtney and her entire family managed to keep the entire wedding under wraps over the last few months and it looks like it's finally happening.

Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@mirror.co.uk or call us direct at 0207 29 33033.