We Help You Hire and Book Craig Ferguson

Celebrity Direct Inc. will help you select, book and hire Craig Ferguson to perform at your corporate event, non-profit event or private performance.

We are always uniquely positioned as your advocate throughout the hiring process and we won’t let you overpay.

Contact us for availability, price and other production details at:

212-521-4115 Tell Us About Your Event

___________

Craig Ferguson Bio

Born in Glasgow, Scotland, Ferguson got his start in the entertainment industry as a drummer for some of the worst punk bands in the UK. Looking for a change Ferguson transitioned to stand up comedy which later developed into acting. He played Drew Carey’s boss, Nigel Wick, in The Drew Carey Show from 1996-2003.

Ferguson has become a huge success on the North American comedy circuit. He performs all over the US and Canada and has sold out Carnegie Hall and Radio City Music Hall. In 2008 Craig had the honor of being the guest speaker at the White House Correspondents’ Dinner. Additionally, Ferguson has three widely acclaimed standup comedy specials: A Wee Bit o’ Revolution which premiered on Comedy Central and was released on Home Video in 2009, Does This Need To Be Said, which premiered on Epix in February 2011 and was released on Home Video in Fall 2011 and I’m Here To Help, which premiered on Netflix in March of 2013 and was nominated for a Grammy for Best Comedy Album.

Ferguson has written the feature films The Big Tease and Saving Grace. In 2003 he made his directorial debut with I’ll Be There, which he also wrote and starred in. I’ll Be There went on to receive the Audience Award for Best Film at the Aspen, Dallas and Valencia Film Festivals. Craig was also named “Best New Director” at the Napa Valley Film Festival. Ferguson’s other film credits include Niagara Motel, Prendimi ‘lanima, Life Without Dick, Chain of Fools, Born Romantic and The Big Tease. Craig was in DreamWorks’ animated feature, How To Train Your Dragon, as the Viking, “Gobber”, a role he reprised in the 2014 sequel. In 2011 Craig portrayed “Owl” in the Disney classic, Winnie The Pooh, and also played “Lord Macintosh” in Pixar’s Oscar winning animated feature, Brave.

In April 2006, Ferguson debuted his first novel, Between the Bridge and the River, which was on the New York Times bestseller list. In 2009, Harper Collins published Ferguson’s memoir, American On Purpose, which debuted at Number Four on the New York Times bestseller list and received a Grammy nomination for Best Spoken Word Album.

Presently he hosts The Late Late Show With Craig Ferguson on CBS. He won his first Emmy nomination in 2006, as well as receiving the 2009 Peabody Award for Excellence in Broadcasting for his interview with Archbishop Desmond Tutu.

__________

Contact Craig Ferguson Manager or Agent | You May Ask?

How can I hire Craig Ferguson for a corporate event, non-profit or charity event or private performance? How much does Craig Ferguson cost for a performance, a song an appearance at an event, party or convention ending gala? What kind of budget would I need for a Craig Ferguson performance at our event? How can I find out if Craig Ferguson is available for our event date? How do I contact Craig Ferguson’s manager? How do I contact Craig Ferguson’s agent?

We can answer all your questions.

Contact our National Booking Office at 212 521-4115 or send us your questions via email to hire Craig Ferguson.

__________

Why Celebrity Direct Inc.

Direct Source for Celebrity Performers We are the industry leader in celebrity talent buying and production for corporate events. We work on your behalf to hire the best possible celebrity for your budget and we are uniquely positioned as your advocate in the booking process so you never overpay.

Corporate & Non-Profit Events and Private Performances We are dedicated to private performances, not publicly ticketed events, and we are the experts in this highly specialized entertainment market.