The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are smartphones designed and marketed by Apple Inc. The devices are part of the iPhone series and were announced on September 9, 2014, and released on September 19, 2014.

The iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus jointly serve as successors to the iPhone 5S and were themselves replaced as flagship devices of the iPhone series by the iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus on September 9, 2015.

A smartphone is a mobile phone (also known as cell phones or mobiles) with an advanced mobile operating system that combines features of a personal computer operating system with other features useful for mobile or handheld use.

Smartphones, which are pocket-sized, typically combine the features of a mobile phone, such as the abilities to place and receive voice calls and create and receive text messages, with those of other popular digital mobile devices like personal digital assistants (PDAs), such as an event calendar, media player, video games, GPS navigation, digital camera and digital video camera.

Smartphones can access the Internet and can run a variety of third-party software components ("apps" from places like Google Play Store or Apple App Store).

They typically have a color display with a graphical user interface that covers more than 76% of the front surface.

The display is almost always a touchscreen and sometimes additionally a touch-enabled keyboard like the Priv/Passport BlackBerrys, which enables the user to use a virtual keyboard to type words and numbers and press onscreen icons to activate "app" features.

Samsung Galaxy S6, Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge, and Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge+ are Android smartphones manufactured and marketed by Samsung Electronics.

The S6 line serves as a successor to the Galaxy S5.

The S6 and S6 Edge smartphones were officially unveiled in the first "Samsung Unpacked 2015" event at Mobile World Congress on 1 March 2015, while the bigger S6 Edge+ was officially unveiled together with the Samsung Galaxy Note 5 in the second "Samsung Unpacked 2015" event at New York on 13 August 2015.

Alongside the S6, Samsung also unveiled the S6 Edge (and later on the bigger S6 Edge+), a variant whose screen is wrapped along the sides of the device; the curvature is usable for several additional features.

The Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge were released on 10 April 2015 in 20 countries while the S6 Edge+ was released on 21 August 2015 in 20 countries.

A tablet computer, commonly shortened to tablet, is a thin, flat mobile computer with a touch screen display, which is usually in color, processing circuitry, and a rechargeable battery in a single device.

Tablets often come equipped with sensors, including digital cameras, a microphone, and an accelerometer so images on screens are always displayed upright.

The touchscreen display uses the recognition of finger or stylus gestures to replace the mouse, trackpad and keyboard used in laptops.

A computer is a device that can be instructed to carry out an arbitrary set of arithmetic or logical operations automatically.

The ability of computers to follow a sequence of operations, called a program, make computers very applicable to a wide range of tasks.

Such computers are used as control systems for a very wide variety of industrial and consumer devices.

This includes simple special purpose devices like microwave ovens and remote controls, factory devices such as industrial robots and computer assisted design, but also in general purpose devices like personal computers and mobile devices such as smartphones.

The Internet is run on computers and it connects millions of other computers.