He was considered for a number of guest roles in Doctor Who (1963) in the 1980s, perhaps most notably Sharaz Jek in Peter Davison's final story The Caves of Androzani: Part One (1984). David Bowie was also considered for the same role. Daltrey later acted with Davison in The Last Detective (2003).

He plays the flute, harmonica, tambourine, and guitar. Although originally the lead-guitar player of the band, Daltrey did not play guitar with The Who in the seventies. He began playing again after the death of Keith Moon in 1978 changed The Who lineup. After this, he occasionally played electric guitar with The Who, but usually played an acoustic.

He was elected to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame (as a member of The Who) in 1990.

In December 2004, he was awarded the honor of "Commander of the Order of the British Empire" (CBE) by Queen Elizabeth II.

In November 2011, in Los Angeles, CA, USA: As patron of the Teenage Cancer Trust, Daltrey established a concert series at London's Royal Albert Hall in 2000. The Trust has since built a number of cancer treatment centers at UK hospitals. In November of 2011, Roger Daltrey, Pete Townshend, Robert Plant and 'Dave Grohl' opened the first US unit at the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles.

He married Jackie in 1964. They had a son, Simon, and divorced in 1968. In 1970 he married Heather Taylor (an American) and has had three children: Rosie, Willow and Jamie.

In March 2003, The Who's 1969 album "Tommy" came third in Classic Rock Magazine's list of the 30 greatest concept albums of all time.

He was awarded the C.B.E. (Commander of the order of the British Empire) in the 2005 Queen's New Year's List for his services to music and charity.

While The Who were making the 1975 album "The Who by Numbers", Pete Townshend wrote "However Much I Booze", a song he wrote on the day he quit drinking; Roger read the lyrics and deemed them too personal that he refused to sing it. Pete took back the song and sang it himself.

He is the singer with The Who along with Pete Townshend and the late John Entwistle and Keith Moon.

The Who were inducted into the UK Music Hall of Fame for their outstanding contribution to British music and integral part of British music culture. (16 November 2005).

Both he and former The Who band mate Pete Townshend, now wear hearing aids. He attributes the hearing loss to years of exposure to the ear-splitting volume of the band's amplification systems.

In December 2012, he sang for the The Concert For Sandy Relief. It was broadcast internationally, live from Madison Square Garden, beginning at 7:30 p.m. ET. The lineup also included Eric Clapton, 'Dave Grohl', Billy Joel, Alicia Keys, Chris Martin, Roger Waters, Eddie Vedder, Ye and The Who. Celebrity presenters included Jon Stewart, Leonardo DiCaprio, Sean 'Diddy' Combs and 'Chris Rock'.

In February 2010, he performed at the SuperBowl XLIV halftime show in Miami, with Pete Townshend, as The Who.