The San Diego Union-Tribune will mark its 150th anniversary in 2018 by presenting a significant front page from the archives each day throughout the year.

Saturday, September 7, 1901

In 1901, President William McKinley was shot and mortally wounded by anarchist Leon Czolgosz at the Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo, N.Y.

McKinley died Sept. 14. Czolgosz was executed on Oct. 29.

Here are the first few paragraphs of the story:

PRESIDENT M’KINLEY SHOT BY AN ANARCHIST AT BUFFALO.

Two Bullets Take Effect—One of the Wounds Very Serious—Would-be Assassin Did the Deed While Shaking Hands—He Is Arrested—Crowd Tried to Lynch Him—Confesses That He Is a Disciple of Emma Goldman.

By the Associated Press.

Buffalo, N.Y., Sept. 6.—Just a brief twenty-four hours ago the newspaper of the city blazoned forth in all the pomp of headline type “The Proudest Day in Buffalo’s History.” Tonight, in sackcloth and ashes, in sombre type, surrounded by gruesome borders of black, the same newspapers are telling in funeral tones to a horrified populace the deplorable details of “The Blackest Day in the History of Buffalo.”

President McKinley, the idol of the American people, the nations chief executive and the city’s honored guest, lies prostrate, suffering the pangs inflicted by the bullet of a cowardly assassin, while his life hangs in the balance.

Out on Delaware avenue, at the home of John G. Milburn, president of the exposition, with tears on face and heart torn by conflicting hopes and fears, sits the faithful wife, whose devotion is known to all the nation.

FROM JOY TO HORROR.

It was a few moments after 4 p.m. while President McKinley was holding a reception in the Temple of Music on the Pan-American grounds that the cowardly attack was made, with what success time alone can tell. Standing in the midst of thousands, surrounded by every evidence of good will, pressed by a motley throng, showered with expressions of love and loyalty from enthusiastic multitudes, all eager to clasp his hands—amid these surroundings, and with the ever recurring plaudits of an army of sightseers, ringing in his ears, the blow of the assassin came, and in an instant pleasure gave way to pain, admiration to anger, folly turned to fury and pandemonium followed.

Tonight a surging, swaying, eager multitude throngs the city’s main thoroughfares, choking the streets in front of the principal newspapers, scanning the bulletins with anxious eyes, and groaning or cheering in turn at each succeeding announcement, as the nature of the message sinks or buoys their hopes.