Towards a

hospitable world

Addressing environmental, social and cultural challenges through multidisciplinary research and community-driven projects.

Hospitality

3.0

Symposium

Monday, April 29 — 1pm to 6pm

NYU Kimmel Center, New York City

in collaboration with the

NYU School of Professional Studies

[LATEST NEWS]

HOSPITALITY 3.0 FRAMEWORK

Hospitality 3.0 Framework Download Form

Name *

Email *

Company *

Position *

Industry *

The Hospitality 3.0 framework emphasizes the balance between technological advancement and nurturing environments that foster community, belonging, and growth, to address contemporary challenges such as ecological, societal, and cultural crises stemming from the rapid adoption of new technologies. This exploration is anchored in four foundational pillars: universality, sustainability, fluidity, and kineticism.

Hospitality 3.0 advocates for decentralization and radical diversity, aiming to rectify the negative impacts of human technologies and colonization by promoting digital tools and decentralized platforms that include previously excluded populations, facilitating a cultural decolonization and emphasizing a guest-host continuum that underscores our obligations to the planet and its diverse ecosystems.

Hospitality 3.0 transcends traditional environmental conservation by fostering a hospitality that nurtures life, regenerates societies, and celebrates cultural diversity, drawing inspiration from both cutting-edge scientific advancements and ancient indigenous wisdom to achieve a harmonious integration with nature and promote sustainable practices.

Hospitality 3.0 emphasizes the importance of fluidity in adapting to diverse sectors and communities, promoting a responsive approach to problem-solving and strategic thinking that integrates hospitality concepts with technological advancements to foster meaningful connections and redirect resources towards regenerative forces. Hospitality has always been about building empathy and caring for the individual. More than ever, our use of technology must be softer, kinder, more respectful of diversity and uniqueness. More fluid.

Hospitality 3.0 embraces the necessity of being present for being transported, acknowledging the integration of virtual and physical realms and highlighting the interconnectedness of our emotions and minds with our bodies. Hospitality is a fire which moves, illuminates, transforms, brings warmth, gathers, holds space for exchange. It is kinetic, always in motion.

[PROJECT DEVELOPMENT]

THE PRAYER FLAG PROJECT

The META Foundation, in collaboration with VAST Bhutan and the Rubin Museum of Art in New York City, produced 1080 unique virtual artifacts designed from original assets by Asha Kama, a leading Bhutanese artist. Sales were used to support local educational programs, and the cleaning of the mountains in Bhutan.

"As a country that has always had a sustainable approach to tourism, Bhutan offers a unique case study for pioneering a purpose-driven prototype for virtual travel. This project explores how virtual experiences can connect visitors to real communities to support and fuel local economies, while fulfilling and inspiring travel dreams from afar."

— Savinien Caracostea, META Foundation

Newsletter

Sign up with your email address to receive news and updates

First Name

Last Name

Email Address

Thank you for joining the META Foundation newsletter!

[PARTNERS /AWARDS]