Script written by Max Lett.

#10: “Ninotchka” (1939)

Greta Garbo was a big name back in the ‘30s - just ask your grandparents! But rarely did she ever stray into the waters of comedy. “Ninotchka” pokes light fun at madcap Russians under the rule of Joseph Stalin without ever outright mocking the Soviet Union. Satire and charm are heavy and Garbo will put a smile on your face with her razor sharp quips and 1930s charm. Bela Lugosi even makes an appearance!

#9: “Trouble in Paradise” (1932)

A gentleman thief played Herbert Marshall and a beautiful pickpocket portrayed by Miriam Hopkins team up in this match made in romantic comedy heaven. As with most rom-coms, a love triangle is soon established. But don’t be put off by the film’s romantic exterior as it offers a lot in the way of comedy as well, especially when the two attempt to get the better of one another. “Trouble in Paradise” has aged like fine wine and can still make you laugh with the best of them.

#8: “Modern Times” (1936)

Charlie Chaplin was the master of silent comedy and in his final non-talkie film; he doesn’t fail to bring the laughter. Working in a dehumanizing factory and on an increasingly complex assembly line, The Little Tramp finds himself beaten and buffeted by the factory’s insane machine while his boss looks on menacingly. His struggles continue when he’s forced to find another job. And while “Modern Times” is evidently a commentary on the looming threat of modern technology, Chaplin manages to inject the film with his own brand of hilarious slapstick and unforgettable charm.

#7: “Midnight” (1939)

Sophisticated humor abounds in this comedy about a poor showgirl who schemes with a rich man so he can win his wife back from the arms of another man. In her role as Eve Peabody, Claudette Colbert delivers the laughs with expert timing and seemingly off the cuff lines. Just check out the scene at the hat shop, which is a series of thinly veiled insults. Meanwhile, John Barrymore, a staple in 1930s comedy, is hilarious as the eccentric millionaire. It’s early screwball at its finest.

#6: “Duck Soup” (1933)

Now widely regarded as one of the Marx Brothers’ seminal films, this political satire about a bankrupt country and ineffective dictator is instantly recognizable for many of its slapstick gags. The famous scene in which Groucho Marx’s every move is mimicked by an impersonator in a mirror frame has been parodied countless times over. As with most of the Marx Brothers’ productions, the site gags and slapstick provide timeless laughs and it’s considered a classic in the comedy canon.

#5: “The Thin Man” (1934)

As tipsy sleuths Nick and Nora Charles, William Powell and Myrna Loy join forces in this comedy-mystery about the disappearance of the eponymous thin man and the murder of a woman named Julia Wolf. Though seemingly a detective drama on the surface, the movie delivers laughs and smiles in all the right places. The pair’s onscreen chemistry goes a long way and their back-and-forth banter is always good for a giggle. No surprise it was nominated for Best Picture.

#4: “The Awful Truth” (1937)

This screwball comedy finds divorce in the cards for a married couple after they begin suspecting one another of being unfaithful. However, while their the separation plans are being made, husband and wife go to insane lengths to keep each other from getting remarried. Cary Grant is charmingly hilarious opposite Irene Dunne, who gives a deep and bitingly satirical performance as his soon to be ex-wife. Just one viewing and you’re sure to find that over three quarters of a century have done nothing to strip “The Awful Truth” of its charm and wit.

#3: “Bringing Up Baby” (1938)

Howard Hawks, Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn are all names that needed no help bringing audiences into movie theaters separately. Put them all together and what you have is a madcap comedy with romantic elements that also happens to feature a leopard. And while it wasn’t considered successful initially, it has since grown in popularity. “Bringing Up Baby” didn’t only demonstrate Hepburn’s talent for low comedy but helped cheer up the masses during the Great Depression. The screwball comedy also effectively fleshed out a pretty convincing love story while remaining timeless and refreshing.

#2: “My Man Godfrey” (1936)

A scavenger hunt between two wealthy socialites leads to the hiring of the eponymous Godfrey: a hobo who is more than meets the eye. A biting social commentary that pokes fun at the rich and gives center stage to the poor, “My Man Godfrey” is chalk full of the zaniness that defines screwball comedy. The comic timing of actors William Powell, Carole Lombard and Eugene Pallette makes this movie an enduring and hilarious classic.

Before we unveil our pick for Comedy of the 1930s, here are a few honorable mentions:

- “The Good Fairy” (1935)

- “Nothing Sacred” (1937)

- “The Lady Vanishes” (1938)

- “A Night at the Opera” (1935)

#1: “It Happened One Night” (1934)

Frank Capra proves that matters of the heart always trump dire circumstances. Produced during the Great Depression, this film about two completely different people falling for each other against all odds manages to pull at the heartstrings as well as tickle the funny bone. Clark Gable’s scheming out-of-work reporter blackmails Claudette Colbert’s rich heiress in order to secure a juicy story. Timelessly funny and charming, “It Happened One Night” is a must watch for fans of comedies, romances and cinema in general.

Do you agree with our list? What’s your favorite 1930s comedy? For more hilarious Top 10s published daily, be sure to subscribe to WatchMojo.com.