Reef announces the release of

Press release:

(Carlsbad, CA)– June 11, 2015- Reef, the global surf lifestyle leader, is proud to announce the global online release of “EXIT” on June 30, a film capturing the energy and experiences of Reef Ambassadors’ unscripted lives on the road, inspired by Reef’s ‘Just Passing Through’ philosophy.

“EXIT” marks a departure from Reef’s previous projects—a true to life perspective of personalities, a moving showcase of stylistic action and spontaneous moments in analog tones. It takes a look at life on the road in Japan, the Caribbean, Mexico, Indonesia and Europe.

The film seamlessly blends different personalities, from the legendary power of Shane Dorian, Taylor Knox, and Mick Fanning to the young talent of Luke Davis, Mitch Crews, Evan Geiselman, Tia Blanco, and Paige Maddison. Eclectic and lo-fi, it rounds out with the timeless style of Rob Machado, matched by the brilliantly unconventional lines of Nick Rozsa.

Highlighting the surreal talents of Reef’s iconic ambassadors, “EXIT” shows how that style and experience echoes in the power and creativity of its next generation of riders—Dorian pushing limits on the big island, T-Knox’s power turns, Luke Davis taming Indonesian barrels, Crews’ joining the full rotation fraternity with Evan Geiselman, combined with Tia Blanco’s fearlessness in Tahiti and all the butter of Machado slipping through Barbados walls. And of course, Nick Rosza’s unbounded creativity has become a hallmark of Reef films in the past several years.

“Reef is a restless brand, all about the journey of discovery,” says Mike Matey, VP Marketing. ‘“EXIT” is the doorway to our soul.”

“EXIT” was filmed and directed by Reef’s very own Brian Hanson, who brings a fresh style from his skate film background, resulting in an unexpected juxtaposition of sound and images for a very lo-fi, textured, craft feel.

The “EXIT” World Premiere is June 15 in San Diego, California. The film will be released digitally on June 30. View the trailer and premiere tour dates here: www.reef.com/exit

ABOUT REEF

Reef is the surf lifestyle leader that encourages your journey of discovery. Rooted in California surf culture since 1984, our purpose is to provide premium, comfortable, and innovative products in a sustainable manner.