The Centre for the History of the Emotions at Queen Mary University of London (QMUL) is pleased to announce the first in a series of film screenings exploring the representation of emotions on screen. On 20th February, we will be showing Steve McQueen’s Shame (2011), introduced by Dr Katherine Angel. Full details can be found below.

Shame (Steve McQueen, 2011)

Introduced by Dr Katherine Angel

Shame is written and directed by Steve McQueen, Turner Prize-winning video artist and director of Hunger and 12 Years A Slave. Widely glossed (including by McQueen himself) as a film about sex addiction, Shame is a fine-grained portrait of sexual compulsion and suffering. Michael Fassbender plays Brandon, an office worker in New York in his mid-thirties whose routine is peppered with somewhat joyless pornography use, masturbation, the chasing of casual encounters, and visits from sex workers. Brandon’s sister (Carey Mulligan) comes to visit, which creates tensions in which Brandon’s suffering peaks. Shame is a film that reveals contemporary anxieties about pornography and addiction, while reflecting deftly on questions of humiliation, aggression, gender, and power.

Dr Katherine Angel is Leverhulme Early Career Fellow at the Centre for the History of Emotions at Queen Mary. She is the author of Unmastered: A Book On Desire, Most Difficult To Tell, a work of literary non-fiction published in the UK, the US, Germany and the Netherlands. She is currently writing a book on Female Sexual Dysfunction and conducting research on psychiatric classification in the US and Europe.

Screenings take place in the Hitchcock cinema, on the ground floor of Arts One (building 37 on this map: http://www.qmul.ac.uk/docs/about/26065.pdf), beginning at 6.00pm.

Attendance is free but space is limited. Please reserve your place via our eventbrite page at https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/its-been-emotional-shame-2011-tickets-10393327723.

You can view details of future events on the Centre events page: http://www.qmul.ac.uk/emotions/events/index.html

Dr Jennifer Wallis

Research and Events Officer, Centre for the History of the Emotions

Queen Mary University of London,

Arts Two 2.33, Mile End Road, London, E1 4NS.

020 7882 5892

http://qmul.academia.edu/JenniferWallis