During on-farm visits and one-on-one meetings with growers, crop

consultants, and Extension agents in southern Florida, early

blight, caused by the fungal pathogen Cercospora apii,

emerged as the most important foliar disease affecting celery

production (Xavier 2022, personal communication). Florida plays a

crucial role as a major producer of vegetables for the fresh

market, including celery, supplying the nationwide demand during

the winter season. However, the detrimental effects of this

disease, characterized by stunted plant growth and damaged

leaves, pose a significant threat to the marketability of the

final product. To mitigate these yield losses, celery growers

rely on weekly fungicide applications as a preventive measure,

primarily due to the absence of alternative curative or

preventive measures. Therefore, there exists a critical need to

identify and establish sustainable management strategies for

C. apii. Failure to address the need for sustainable

management of early blight on celery production will result in

significant yield losses, reduced marketability, increased

chemical fungicide use, environmental and health risks, economic

strain on growers, and potential dissatisfaction among consumers,

posing threats to both the celery industry and the environment.

Our long-term goal is to develop sustainable and future-proof

solutions for controlling early blight in both conventional and

organic celery production systems. Our overarching goal is to

create both an early detection system and biocontrol products

against early blight on celery. Our central hypothesis is that it

is feasible to develop and implement more efficient,

environmentally sustainable, and socially beneficial management

strategies for early blight in celery production, resulting in

economic advantages for growers. We are well-positioned to lead

this project based on our 56-year partnership with celery

stakeholders in Florida, our access to cutting-edge technologies,

and our interdisciplinary team of experts. Moreover, our

dedication to community engagement ensures we understand local

concerns and needs, building trust vital for project success. We

plan to attain the overall objective by pursuing the following

two specific aims: 1) Develop a UAV-assisted disease monitoring

system to visualize and track disease onset and progression in

celery. Our working hypothesis is that current

machine/deep-learning algorithms have the capability to

accurately identify celery plants infected with C. apii.

Combining these algorithms with previously established C.

apii forecasting models will yield an effective

decision-making system for growers. 2) Identify, select, and

evaluate effective biological control agents against C.

apii for the management of early blight in celery. Our

working hypothesis is that the Everglades Agricultural Area

harbors a reservoir of powerful microorganisms with the capacity

to effectively control C. apii. Economic analysis will

guide the timing and optimization of the deployment of

controlling measures, ensuring a cost-effective approach for

growers. Upon the successful completion of this project, it is

our expectation that we will have established novel, economically

advantageous, and safe strategies for early detection of early

blight, advancing sustainable agriculture. This project offers

achievable and practical solutions for celery growers that, if

adopted, can enhance disease management practices, leading to

improved production outcomes and the overall ecosystem health.

Our central hypothesis revolves around the notion that more

effective and sustainable management of Cercospora early blight

in celery is not only attainable but also economically

advantageous. Below, we delineate four specific objectives, along

with their corresponding working hypotheses, research design, and

anticipated outcomes.

Objective 1: Develop a UAV-assisted disease

monitoring system to visualize and track disease onset and

progression in celery. (Drs. Xavier, Ferreira, and Wang’s

supervision).

Working hypothesis: Celery plants undergoing pre-symptomatic

stages of early blight have a distinctive spectral profile.

Current machine/deep-learning algorithms have the capability to

accurately identify celery plants infected with C. apii.

Combining these algorithms with previously established C.

apii forecasting models will yield an effective

decision-making system for growers.

Research design: Our experiment will focus on the early detection

of Cercospora early blight of celery, specifically at

pre-symptomatic stages. To achieve this, we will employ an

innovative disease monitoring system using AI-powered Unmanned

Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) equipped with multispectral cameras

Expected outcome: Substantial reductions in fungicide usage in

both organic and conventional cultivation systems, coupled with

enhanced control over Cercospora early blight.

Objective 2: Identify, select, and evaluate

effective biological control agents against C. apii for

the management of early blight in celery. (Dr. Ferreira and

Xavier’s supervision).

Working hypothesis: The EAA harbors a reservoir of powerful

microorganisms with the capacity to effectively control C.

apii.

Research design: We will employ a comprehensive research approach

that spans laboratory, greenhouse, and on-farm field trials. This

multifaceted strategy will enable us to identify, assess, and

validate potential biological control agents effective against

C. apii.

Expected outcome: A biopesticide product effective at commercial

celery production, and consequently reduction of contamination by

reducing chemical fungicide use.

Objective 3: Develop an economic analysis for

organic and conventional growers to manage Cercospora early

blight based on standard and new management practices. (Dr.

Guan’s supervision)

Working hypothesis: The proposed solutions proposed are

cost-effective, yielding a positive economic impact for growers

who adopt these technologies.

Research design: Economic analysis will be performed for the five

field trials to be conducted at this proposed project, comparing

standard management practices used by growers and the new ones

developed in this proposal. The goal is to provide growers with a

cost-benefit analysis to evaluate the profitability of the

proposed management practices.

Expected outcome: Empowerment of our approach, facilitating its

adoption among growers, and attracting new growers who recognize

the economic benefits of implementing these practices.

Objective 4: Disseminate research findings and

educate growers about the benefits of biocontrol and UAV

technology via events and written publications. (MS Meszaros and

Dr. Xavier’s supervision).

Working hypothesis: Individuals and institutions already engaged

in the celery business will be interested in improving their

disease management practices, particularly when they discern the

potential economic gains.

Expected outcome: Increased awareness of improved C.

apii management practices as well as adoption of the

proposed solutions among celery growers, enabling them, workers,

and society at large to seize of potential benefits provided by

each solution.