PANEL, Saturday 9:00 – 10:00 am

GOOD BUSINESS (Salon 1+2)

Creative Collaborations: Building a Dream Team and Balancing Your Strengths, Shannon Carroll (@mrlady), Teresa Hammond (@4moms), Emily Meyer (@teacollection), Sheila Dowd (@CleverGirlsColl)

Whether you are thinking about product sales or site traffic, partnerships can help increase your numbers. These days, creative collaborations are essential – internally & externally. Panelists will cover topics with examples ranging from building a dream time … how to build an internal team with complementary skills and an external team of like-minded parters, brands and customers. Attendees will walk away thinking about how strategic and diverse partnerships can help elevate their brand and audience reach.

BETTER PRODUCTS (Salon 3)

The Creative Process: Steps to create and cultivate a creative life, Lindsey Garrett (@Modchik), Tracey Clark (@traceyclark)

What does it mean to have a creative life? This gathering covers just that, including specific suggestions like how to set up your work space, working through creative blocks and what ways you can find inspiration while getting exposure for your work. Discover how to make the creative process and ongoing on wiht materials, websites, books and exercises to further your own success in the creative process.

BEST PRACTICES (Salon 4)

A Creative Approach: Brilliant Ways to Break Free of the Typical Sponsored Post, Helen Jane Hearn (@helenjane), Sarah James (@whoorl), Kristen Howerton (@kristenhowerton), Heather Spohr (@mamaspohr)

The biggest trick in the digital publishing book is how to create sponsored content that’s authentic, valuable and transparent — oh yes, and also entertaining. Listen to these 4 internet veterans share their tips to creating wildly successful content campaigns that don’t alienate or annoy their audiences.

AND ACTION! (Salon 5)

A Creative Shift: Taking your Brand from Online to Onair, Sara Fisher (@selfmademom), Meredith Sinclair (@Hoo_dee_Hoo), Alicia Ybarbo (@aliciaybarbo)

Whether you’re a vlogger on the verge of greatness or just starting out your video content strategy, there are tips and tricks you should know before taking your blog, product or yourself to the bright lights of the small screen. You may be a rockstar behind the computer screen but if you’re hoping to branch out beyond the keyboard, you’ll want to know how to maximize the great content you publish online to live television. We’ll cover how to make good video (and some examples of really bad video content out there), how to build a video portfolio to take to TV, how to connect with your local TV affiliates, cafting the perfect on-air pitch, what producers look for when booking guests for TV, best practices / case studies.

DIGGING DEEPER (Pavilion 5)

Creative Funding: A Few Ways to Start, Sarah Gilbert (@sarahgilbert), Dr. Letitia Wright ( @drwright1)

Learn about the four types of crowd funding and how you might access this large pool of money to expand your businesses or causes. There is a lot of wrong information out there, so let’s talk about what works. Learn the difference between Crowd Funcing and Crowd Equity, when you should use each one and how to use it for business. We’ll also cover some surprising things about using crowd-sourced funding to launch projects that go against conventional wisdom. Like: big names don’t matter. Twitter doesn’t matter. The length of your project doesn’t, really, matter. Trajectories are almost all the same. There are a lot of options out there…let’s look into some of them.

WORKSHOP I, Saturday, 10:30 – 12:00 pm

GOOD BUSINESS (Salon 1+2)

1000 Opportunities, 1000 Hats – The Power, Pitfalls and Perks of being Multipassionate, Stacey Ferguson (@justicefergie), Ciaran Blumenfeld (@momfluential), Wendi Aarons (@wendiaarons), Julie Washington (@JambaJuice)

Every conference seems to have a talk about finding and honing your one true niche, but not everyone is able to do that. Some of the most successful people (think Oprah and YOU) are multipassionate. Where’s the roadmap? What are the tools that multipassionate types can use to sort and organize their passions and make sense of their time. What to keep, what to lose. One biz card or ten? One elevator pitch or more? Sure you can’t have it all, but do you really have to give up everything to focus on one thing? We’d love to discuss how juggling multiple roles strengthens you as an individual, provides a diverse network and gives you unique insight & problem solving abilities.

BETTER PRODUCTS (Salon 3)

The Power of Saying No: The Ulltimate Guide to Getter Paid What You’re Worth, Liz Gumbinner (@mom101), Charlie Capen (@HowToBeADad), Laurie Smithwick (@upsideup), Jessica Shyba

There’s so much talk about how to get paid “to blog,” but very few ever talk about how to make it past the $25 review posts into the big time. It’s possible! This is an honest, no-holds-barred, tough love discussion about how to build a strong brand that will earn you more than shoe money…if you’re willing to make the tough decisions. And be willing to say no. Graciously, of course.

BEST PRACTICES (Salon 4)

The Power of Saying Yes: From Blogger to Online Influencer to Small Business, Sarah Bryden Brown (@SBBinNYC), Jim Lin (@BusyDadBlog), Isabel Kallman (@alphamom)

If you are ready to move from blogger to online influencer, this panel will share new opportunities for growing your influence, partnering with brands authentically while increasing your earnings and seeing you working less. Jim Lin, blogger and digital strategist with leading PR agency, Ketchum, Isabel Kallman from Alpha Mom and Sarah Bryden-Brown from Blogstar and Go Mighty will share insights, strategies and case studies that detail what to focus on to grow your blog into a small business.

AND ACTION! (Salon 5)

The Power of Video, Kimberley Blaine (@TheGoToMom), Tracy ODell (@tracyodell), Stacy Morrison (@bklynstacy), Betsy Cadel (@thinkingcapny)

Online video has been THE media story of 2012, with double- and triple-digit increases in the amount of ad dollars being spent… in fact, Cisco Systems is predicting that 90% of all web traffic will be video viewing within three years! But the truth is, online video is still pretty much a man’s world, even though advertisers really want to reach women. This is a huge opportunity for women, and it’s well past time to get on the video bandwagon. Morrison will host a panel of female video innovators at different stages of growth and with very different styles and subject matter.

Key takeaways include:

How do you get started in video…what’s the minimum viable set-up you need to start creating video?

How do you build a business with video…where is the money?

How do you stay on top of the technical and production trends in this rapidly evolving space?

DIGGING DEEPER (Pavilion 5)

Random Acts of Impact: The Power of Giving Back, Elena Sonnino (@ElenaSonnino), Victoria Fiore, Tina Musoke (@tinamusoke), Morra Aarons-Mele (@morraam), Chrysula Winegar (@chrysula)

Social media moms can change the world – but what’s the smartest strategy to use your online voice for good? Whether your focus is on your local charities, national causes or global campaigns, join us for a hands-on conversation about the best possible ways you can use your social media influence to help your favorite causes. We’ll discuss best practices and the specific ways that some of the most highly effective social good campaigns like Shot@Life’s Blogust, 10×10’s Girl Rising, Half the Sky and Giving Tuesday have created huge impact. A panel discussion bringing together brands, causes and bloggers will segue to a roll-up-your sleeves working session to share each other’s wisdom and experiences: writing about the things we care about most and a next-level conversation on using social media to make a big difference in your communities and the world. We’ll all come away with new ideas and a whole new understanding of what’s possible in 2013.

Dove Suite: ‘Teasing & Bullying’ and ‘Self-Care & Respect’ (The Plaza)

Jess Weiner (@JessWeiner)

HLN Suite (Pavilion 3)

Get Noticed with HLN! (@hlntv)

From your pitch to your on-air appearance to your digital and social promotion, hear from the experts at HLN about how to get noticed! Tap into a wide range of media expertise with Raising America’s Kyra Phillips, Executive Producer Rena Popp, Senior Vice President of Programming Katherine Green, HLNtv.com Editor-in-Chief Katie Caperton, and Social Media Maven Anna Gonzalez.

WORKSHOP II, Saturday, 1:30 – 3:00 pm

GOOD BUSINESS (Salon 1+2)

Opportunity Next: Life Changes, Professional Pivots and Gluing It All Together, Catherine Connors (@herbadmother), Rebecca Woolf (@GirlsGoneChild), Samantha Ettus (@samanthaettus), Jessica Ashley (@SassafrassJess), Gabrielle Blair (@designmom)

As life leads us down different and often unexpected paths, we find ourselves in positions to make choices. This universal truth becomes especially obvious (and intentional) when we blog (and Instagram, and Tweet, and Vine) through it. Our panel will discuss how these personal and professional transitions offer opportunities for readjustments, reinventions and integrations…as well as the challenges of making those changes online. Because when your business is personal, life changes often become professional evolutions…and vice versa. Hear from five bloggers how things have changed over the past five years. And how challenges, opportunities and unexpected twists lead them to what’s next. (And get their predictions about what the next five years might look like. That should be good.)

BETTER PRODUCTS (Salon 3)

Opportunity Knocks: How to better package your program and expand your offering to find new revenue, Danielle Wiley (@foodmomiac), David Tochterman, Paul Kontonis, Kyla Brennan, Jacinda Boneau (@PrudentBaby)

With limited inventory for sponsored posts (not every post can be sponsored!) and dropping CPMs on display ads, what are some up and coming opportunities for monetization? Danielle will lead a discussion that includes visionaries on the forefront of these new revenue models. We will discuss both active (branded entertainment) and passive (embedded video players) revenue models and hear from some of the mom bloggers who have made them work. We will also talk about revenue opportunities outside of blogs, including Pinterest and Instagram.

BEST PRACTICES (Salon 4)

New Parternship Opportunities: Influence Beyond your Blog and the Shifting Proirity on Expressions Over Impressions, Cindy Meltzer (@cindymeltz), Caitlin Melnick (@cmelnick), Adam Keats (@akeats), Monica Teague (@MonicaTeague)

New Parternship Opportunities: Influence Beyond your Blog and the Shifting Proirity on Expressions Over Impressions People use their blogs as a microphone for their thoughts, knowledge, and tips, but many bloggers don’t realize the full potential of what they have in their arsenal – what they have to provide beyond the written word. Gone are the days when a “blog post” is what satisfies a brand. With more brands placing a higher priority on expressions than impressions, the session will talk about how to think beyond the blog in terms of a full digital footprint when it comes to content creation. We’ll aslo help bloggers understand the full sphere of their influence. What can bloggers do to connect with their audience and brands beyond their website? What are PR agencies and brands looking for in blogger partnerships? And how can they take their relationships with brands and agencies even further? We have a lot to discuss.

AND ACTION! (Salon 5)

Media Opportunities For Bloggers: From Pitch To Interview- How Do You Get More Media Exposure For You and Your Brand., Mary Ann Zoellner (@TodaysMoms), Angela Chee (@thezenmom), Leslie “Dottie” Van Every (@missdottie)

DIGGING DEEPER (Pavilion 5)

“Minimalize” Your Workflow: Practical Steps for Enjoying Your Blogging More By Doing Less, Christine Koh (@bostonmamas), Asha Dornfest (@parenthacks)

As online businesspeople, there’s always more to do and learn. New social media platforms! New content strategies! New business opportunities! The constant flood of “more” is both exciting and overwhelming, especially because we must handle it in a public and visible way while juggling our other roles as parents, partners and workers.

Christine Koh and Asha Dornfest, co-authors of the new book MINIMALIST PARENTING, offer a fresh approach to navigating all of this “noise.” In this practical, results-oriented workshop inspired by MinCamp, Christine and Asha lay out a plan for identifying your unique strengths, values and needs as a blogger. Armed with clarity, you can then clear the “clutter” from your workday with the goal of doing less, but enjoying (and hopefully profiting) more.

Dove Suite: Family Relationships & Role Models’ and ‘Body Talk (The Plaza) Jess Weiner (@JessWeiner)

WORKSHOP III, Saturday, 3:30 – 5:00 pm

GOOD BUSINESS (Salon 1+2)

Raising Performance Levels: The control enthusiasts guide to delegating… How to clone yourself and other good advice, AJ Wolfe (@DisneyFoodBlog), Meagan Francis (@meaganfrancis), Beth Blecherman (@techmama), Susan Petersen (@freshlypicked)

What parts of your blog or online business can and should you outsource? And how do you do it successfully? Let’s talk about that. This presentation will: 1. Help attendees determine whether they can benefit from outsourcing parts of their blog or business. 2. Provide clear and succinct steps to outsourcing major parts of your website/blog/business while still maintaining brand integrity and control — from graphic design, community and social media management, research, and content production to HR, PR, sales, and bookkeeping…and more. 3. Give an insider’s look at where to find dependable temporary and long-term resources, and how to determine compensation. 4. Provide Management 101: Some top tips about working with a new contractor/employee so everyone benefits and grows. And how to manage when the crap hits the fan and someone’s NOT working out.

BETTER PRODUCTS (Salon 3)

Raising the Stakes: How to keep blogging after it’s all been blogged, Georgia Getz (@Bossy), Eden Riley (@edenland), Ali Martell (@alimartell), Cecily Kellogg (@CecilyK)

After writing on the internet for over five years, things can seem a little jaded. Memes and passion and controversy … all ebbs and flows. So many people decide to leave the online world entirely. We’re going to talk about how to keep going, and more importantly, why.

AND ACTION! (Salon 4)

Raising America: What’s Next?, Kyra Phillips