With over thirty films and almost as many TV shows appearances, Sarah Jessica Parker has done it all. At 14 year old, she started her acting career on Broadway in the role of Annie. Since then, from Footloose to Sex and the City, the actress has become a superstar. Here is a list of her best films.

Footloose (1984)

When Ren McCormack arrives in Bomont, a tiny city in Utah, he finds himself confronted by a strange law: music and dancing are both forbidden. At the head of this decree, the reverend Shaw Moore, is steely determined in his stance, after a car accident that killed his son. However, determined to prove that music is not a sin, the rebellious Ren decides to ignore the law, with the help of his friends William and Ariel, the reverend's daughter. In this 1980s classic, Sarah Jessica Parker is Rusty, Ariel's best friend, played by Lori Singer. With her 1980s look and wild hair, she joins Kevin Bacon on the dance floor when the Kenny Loggins' soaring melodies start playing.

Hocus Pocus (1993)

A cult film from the 1990s, Hocus Pocus tells the tale of three witches from Salem who come back to life three hundred years after being hanged. Revived by Max, Dani and Alisson on the night of Halloween, their goal is to kill as many children as possible to stay young and beautiful forever. The teenagers make it their mission to send the witches back to where they came from. Accompanied by Bette Midler and Kathy Najimy, Sarah Jessica Parker is Sarah Sanderson, a mischievous and seductive blonde-haired witch determined to get revenge after all these years underground.

Ed Wood (1994)

In 1994, Sarah Jessica Parker joined Johnny Depp, Martin Landau and Patricia Arquette on the set of Ed Wood by Tim Burton. The director delved into the life of the non-conformist filmmaker, offering his own fantasy version in a black and white film that became legendary. Sarah Jessica Parker plays Dolores Fuller, a 1950s actress who has collaborated several times with Ed Wood and with whom she had an affair. She was also seen in Glen or Glenda ? the controversial director's film about trans-identity.

Mars Attacks! (1996)

Two years after Ed Wood, Sarah Jessica Parker rejoins Tim Burton for the crazy Mars Attacks! This parody of 1950s sci-fi films is one of the gems in the director's filmography. Terrifying-looking Martians ambush humans and decide to kill them with a deadly weapon. They are finally defeated by using the yodel, a joyful Swiss singing technique. Tim Burton's absurdist film boasts a stellar cast: Jack Nicholson, Glenn Close, Annette Bening, Pierce Brosnan, Michael J. Fox, Natalie Portman. Sarah Jessica Parker plays Nathalie Lake, a journalist with a legendary blonde bob.

Also on Vogue.fr :

Sarah Jessica Parker’s best hairstyles in Sex and the City

7 surprising secrets you didn't know about "Sex and the City"