Power Rangers Djinn Guard is the 7th entry in R4veg0yl3's Power Rangers OC series. Its main themes are djinns and fairy tales.

Plot[]

In the Realm of Wishes, powerful beings called Djinns, led by their wise and powerful king Dragorex> ut when his cruel brother Kronarus commits a coup, the kingdom is thrown into disarray, and the Royal Guard have been separated and cast out to the human realm and forced to take residence in the town of Oak Ridge. With the royal family missing, and all hope seeming lost, the royal guard find a renewed sense of duty when they meet a group of talented young people, who through their power become the Power Rangers Djinn Guard.

Characters[]

Rangers[]

Red Djinn Ranger

TBA's motif is a Minotaur and represents the element of magma. With the power of the Djinn King Dragorex he can turn into the Dragon Djinn Ranger.

Blue Djinn Ranger

TBA's motif is a Leviathan and represents the element of ocean.

Yellow Djinn Ranger

TBA's motif is a Gryphon and represents the element of thunder.

Orange Djinn Ranger

TBA's motif is a Golem and represents the element of ground.

Pink Djinn Ranger

TBA's motif is a Harpy and represents the element of wind.

Gold Djinn Ranger

TBA's motif is a Phoenix and represents the element of sun.

Crescent Djinn Ranger (Crescent/Chris)

Crescent's motif is a Gargoyle and represents the element of shadow. With the power of the Djinn Ouraborial he can turn into the Ouroboros Djinn Ranger.

Allies[]

TBA

Djinns:

Dragorex (Dragon Djinn/King of the Djinns)

Minotarv (Minotaur Djinn)

Levioth (Leviathan Djinn)

Gryphos (Gryphon Djinn)

Golium (Golem Djinn)

Harpira (Harpy Djinn)

Phoeneos (Phoenix Djinn/Prince of the Djinns)

Enterus (Ent Djinn)

Yetiryll (Yeti Djinn)

Sphiniex (Sphinx Djinn)

Unichar (Unicorn Djinn)

Gargalyr (Gargoyle Djinn)

Werewolz (Werewolf Djinn)

Mantiror (Manticore Djinn)

Golblearis (Goblin Djinn)

Ouraborial (Ouroboros Djinn)

Villains[]

Djinn Empire

The villains are each modelled after an object related to one of the stories from the One Hundred and One Nights while the generals each have a mammal motif. Their motifs are also inspired by one of the deadly sins.

Leader

Kronarus

Motifs: Titan, Genie Lamp

Deadly Sin: Pride

Arabian Night story: Aladdin

Etymology: Kronarus' name is a combination of "Cronus" and "Tartarus".

Generals

Warclaw

Motifs: Tiger, Warship

Deadly Sin: Wrath

Arabian Night story: Sinbad the Sailor

Etymology: Warclaw's name is a combination of "Warship", “War” and "claw".

Desiregal

Motifs: Red Fox, Apple Core

Deadly Sin: Lust

Arabian Night story: The Three Apples

Etymology: Desiregal's name is a combination of "desire" and "regal".

Hoarguld

Motifs: Monkey, Treasure Chest

Deadly Sin: Greed

Arabian Night story: Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves

Etymology: Hoarfuld’s name is a combination of “hoard” and a corruption of “gold”.

Frenzarate

Motifs: Hyena, Book

Deadly Sin: Envy

Arabian Night story: The Vizier and the Sage Duban

Etymology: Frenzarate's name is a combination of "frenzy" and "narrate".

Hungraul

Motifs: Bear, Cloth

Deadly Sin: Gluttony

Arabian Night story: The Porter and the Three Ladies

Etymology: Hungraul's name is a combination of "hunger" and "maul".

Slackhook

Motifs: Sloth, Fishing hook

Deadly Sin: Sloth

Arabian Night story: The Fisherman and the Jinni

Etymology: Slackhook's name is a combination of "slack" (a spell of inactivity or laziness) and "hook".

Dreadgoyle (Djinn Mode)

Motifs: Gargoyle, Jackal, Scythe

Deadly Sin: Despair

Arabian Night story: The Angel of Death With the Proud and the Devout Man

Etymology: Dreadgoyle's name is a combination of "dread" (a feeling of great fear or apprehension) and "Gargoyle".

Fierce Fables[]

The Fierce Fables are the Monsters of the Week. They are based on Nursery Rhymes.

Haystraw

Motifs: Farmer, Haystack, Barnhouse

Nursery Rhyme: Old Macdonald Had A Farm

Etymology: Haystraw's name is a combination of "hay" and "straw".

Spyderain

Motifs: Spider, Rain

Nursery Rhyme: Itsy Bitsy Spider

Etymology: Spyderain's name is a combination of "spider", "drain" and "rain".

Duplodent

Motifs: Mouse, Glasses

Nursery Rhyme: Three Blind Mice

Etymology: Triprodent's name is a combination of "duplicate" and "rodent".

Splatayolk

Motifs: Egg, Bricks

Nursery Rhyme: Humpty Dumpty

Etymology: Splatayolk's name is a combination of "splat" and "yolk".

Bustopa

Motifs: Bus, Stop Sign, Road

Nursery Rhyme: The Wheels on the Bus

Etymology: Bustopa's name is a pun on "bus stop".

Baaphard

Motifs: White Sheep, Shephard, Chalk Stick

Nursery Rhyme: Mary Had a Little Lamb

Etymology: Baaphard's name is a pun on "baaa" and "shephard".

Shearam

Motifs: Black Sheep, Sheep Clippers

Nursery Rhyme: Baa Baa Black Sheep

Etymology: Shearam's name is a pun on "shears" and "Ram".

Tauroclipse

Motifs: Cow, Moon, Violin

Nursery Rhyme: Hey Diddle Diddle

Etymology: Tauroclipse's name is a pun on "tauros" and "eclipse".

Wickindle

Motifs: Wax Candle, Wildfire

Nursery Rhyme: Jack Be Nimble

Etymology: Tauroclipse's name is a combination of "wick" and "kindle".

Buffalope

Motifs: Buffalo, Antelope, Cowboy

Nursery Rhyme: Home on the Range

Etymology: Buffador's name is a combination of "Buffalo" and "Antelope".

Grunts[]

Shambex

Motifs: Ancient Arabian Soldiers, Ibex

Etymology: Shambex are named after a combination of "shamshir" (a type of sword with a radical curve used in Ancient Arabia) and "Ibex".

Arsenal[]

Transformation Devices

Djinn Morpher ◆◆◆◆◆

Eternal Djinn Morpher ◆

Crescent Djinn Morpher ◆

Multi-Use Devices

Djinn Medallions ◆◆◆◆◆◆◆

Zords[]

Djinn System[]

Minotaur Djinn Zord ◆

A red-coloured Minotaur like Djinn Zord piloted by the Red Djinn Ranger.

Leviathan Djinn Zord ◆

A blue-coloured Leviathan like Djinn Zord piloted by the Blue Djinn Ranger.

Gryphon Djinn Zord ◆

A yellow-coloured Gryphon like Djinn Zord piloted by the Yellow Djinn Ranger.

Golem Djinn Zord ◆

An orange-coloured Golem like Djinn Zord piloted by the Orange Djinn Ranger.

Harpy Djinn Zord ◆

A pink-coloured Harpy like Djinn Zord piloted by the Pink Djinn Ranger.

Phoenix Djinn Zord ◆

A gold-coloured Phoenix like Djinn Zord piloted by the Gold Djinn Ranger.

Dragon Djinn Zord ❖

A crimson-coloured Dragon like Djinn Zord piloted by the Dragon Djinn Ranger.

Gargoyle Djinn Zord ◆

A black and silver-coloured Gargoyle like Djinn Zord piloted by the Crescent Djinn Ranger.

Ouroboros Djinn Zord ❖

An indigo-coloured Ouroboros like Djinn Zord which possesses cosmic abilities used by the Ouroboros Djinn Ranger.

Auxiliary Zords[]

Ent Djinn Zord ❖

A green-coloured Ent like Djinn Zord which possesses nature abilities.

Yeti Djinn Zord ❖

A white-coloured Yeti like Djinn Zord which possesses ice abilities.

Sphinx Djinn Zord ❖

A tan-coloured Sphinx like Djinn Zord which possesses sand abilities.

Unicorn Djinn Zord ❖

A lavender-coloured Unicorn like Djinn Zord which possesses magic abilities.

Werewolf Djinn Zord ❖

A silver-coloured Werewolf like Djinn Zord which possesses metal abilities used by the Crescent Djinn Ranger.

Manticore Djinn Zord ❖

A purple-coloured Manticore like Djinn Zord which possesses toxic abilities used by the Crescent Djinn Ranger.

Goblin Djinn Zord ❖

A brown-coloured Goblin like Djinn Zord which possesses rock abilities used by the Crescent Djinn Ranger.