KUALA LUMPUR, June 22 — Perikatan Nasional (PN) chairman Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin today confirmed that the coalition has completed its seat negotiations for state polls involving component parties – Parti Pribumi Bersatu (Bersatu), PAS, and Parti Gerakan Rakyat Malaysia (Gerakan).

Speaking to reporters after chairing a meeting of the seat negotiation committee, he said PN will contest in all 245 seats in the upcoming elections in the six states of Negeri Sembilan, Selangor, Kedah, Pulau Pinang, Kelantan, and Terengganu.

“Bersatu, PAS and Gerakan will contest 83 seats, 126 seats and 36 seats respectively.

“We are ready to defend the three states (Kelantan, Terengganu and Kedah) and ready to capture the remaining three,” he said.

The number of seats in each state are as follows: Kedah (36), Kelantan (45), Terengganu (32), Penang (40), Selangor (56), and Negeri Sembilan (36).

Muhyiddin said the coalition’s election machinery was at its highest level of readiness.

He also said that PN will offer a specific manifesto for each state.

“PN is committed to the constitution, defending the welfare of the people and the economy, through the provision of clean and stable government.

“We’re in the final stages of completing the manifesto that is now almost ready to be made for the six states. It will be announced at the state level,” he said.

Muhyiddin said the seat negotiations between component parties was smooth.

“There were no disagreements that could cause problems, but normally, our negotiations are orderly and civilised, and can be finalised ahead of the Election Commission’s elections date announcement,” he said.

Kedah, Kelantan, Negeri Sembilan, Penang, Selangor, and Terengganu must all hold state elections this year as they did not dissolve their state assemblies along with Parliament last year for the general election.

Penang and Kelantan already announced that their state assemblies will dissolve on June 28 and June 22, respectively, while Selangor's is due to dissolve tomorrow as announced by the Sultan of Selangor’s private secretary Datuk Mohamad Munir Bani.

Negeri Sembilan is expected to do so on June 30.