This article explains how to change the language on Disney Plus. The instructions apply to watching Disney Plus in a web browser or the official mobile app.

How to Change the User Interface Language on Disney Plus

Disney+ defaults to whatever language the device you're using implements. So, if your computer is in English and your smartphone is in Spanish, Disney Plus will adapt accordingly. If you want to change the language manually, here's how to do it.

Log into your account on the Disney Plus site.

Follow the same steps to change the interface language for the Disney Plus app on smart TVs.

Hover over your profile image.

Click Edit Profiles.

Click your profile.

Click App Language.

Change it to your desired language.

Current options include German, English (UK), English (US), Spanish, Spanish (Latin America), French, French (Canadian), Italian, and Dutch.

Click Save.

How to Change the Audio or Subtitles Language on Disney+

Want to watch Spanish Disney movies? Or at least Disney movies in Spanish? It's a great way to learn a new language or to feel more comfortable watching something in a different language. Here's how to change the audio or subtitles language while you watch a show or movie.

Go to the Disney Plus site.

Pick a movie or TV show to watch.

Click Play.

Click on the icon in the top right hand corner of the screen.

Click the audio/subtitles language you want to use.

These options vary according to what you're watching. The majority of content includes audio options for English and Spanish, with other shows like The Simpsons expanding the options to include German, French, and Italian. Subtitle options for some shows include up to 16 different languages.

Click the arrow to the left of the screen to save your changes and return to the movie or show.

How to Change Language User Interface Settings on the Disney+ App

The Disney+ app works a lot like the website but it requires some slightly different steps to change the language. Here's what to do.

Open the Disney+ app.

Tap your profile icon.

Tap Edit Profiles.

Tap your profile.

Tap App Language.

Choose the language you want to use.

Click Save.

How to Change the Audio or Subtitle Language on the Disney+ App

The app also allows you to change the audio or subtitle language, much like the website. Here's how to change your language choice so you can watch a show in a different language than the default.