The popular sitcom Modern Family’s cast reunited for dinner on Wednesday night. Sofia Vergara who played the iconic role of Gloria Delgado-Pritchett dropped some heartfelt photos with the cast on her Instagram account. Scroll down to take a look.

New Delhi: The popular sitcom Modern Family might have concluded with the 11th season in 2020. However, the characters are still fresh in our heads. Speaking of which, the cast of Modern Family enjoyed a heartfelt dinner on Wednesday night. Sophia Vergara who played the iconic role of Gloria Delgado-Pritchett dropped a few snippets from their dinner party and fans are all hearts for it.

Also Read: Jennifer Aniston and David Schwimmer pen emotional notes for their Friend, Matthew Perry

Modern Family reunion

Ty Burrell who portrayed the character of Phil Dunphy was missing from the dinner. However, his Modern Family cast made sure to include him in the photos in the cutest way. Sharing the photos, Sophia wrote, “First Modern Family reunion!!!! (Red heart emojis)” Take a look!

Jesse Tyler aka Mitchel Pritchett also took to the gram and shared some more lovely photos from the Modern Family reunion night. Surprisingly, in one of the photos shared by the actor, the iconic picture from the show of Claire looking at Gloria with envy can be seen in the background on the top shelf of the wardrobe.

Take a look!

Fans react to Sophia Vergara’s photos

As soon as Sophia shared the photos fans were delighted to see their favourite stars’ reunion and took to the comment section to express their love for the stars. One of them wrote, “Typical Phil, making us think the worse. He should have been the robot ipad thing if he couldn’t make it.” Another fan added, “we miss u”.

Also Read: The Big Bang Theory’s spin-off Young Sheldon to end with season 7? Here’s what we know

Eric Stonestreet, Sarah Hyland, Aubrey Anderson-Emmons, Ariel Winter, Noah Gould and Rico Rodriguez were also present at the dinner. With the fans reacting to this profound reunion, it is evident that the characters played by these actors are still etched in our hearts.

About Modern Family

For the unreversed, Modern Family is a popular American sitcom that aired from 2009 to 2020. The last episode of the show aired on April 8, 2020. The show narrates the story of Jay Pritchett (Ed O’Neill) and his family including his second wife, Gloria Delgado-Pritchett (Sophia Vergara), his step-son Manny Delgado (Rico Rodriguez), his two children Claire (Julie Bowen) and Mitchel (Jesse Tyler Ferguson) and their respective families.