Strategic hires support expansion of UISOL utility integration and consulting

Alstom is pleased to announce the addition of six professionals to UISOL: Ray Falcon, Steve Herbst, Meredith Kula, Carl Ozkaynak, Ross Shaich, and Kathleen Williams. UISOL, an activity within Alstom Grids Network Management Solutions business, provides consulting and systems integration expertise and services to the Energy sector. In addition to the six new hires, Kalidindi S. Raju has been promoted to lead the UISOL Integration Services Group.

Augmenting our existing capabilities with these new professionals further strengthens our ability to provide high value services for the Utility industry, said UISOL Managing Director Mehrdod Mohseni. Our expert level resources help utilities improve their operations through smart grid architecture and end-to-end integration of systems and core business processes.

Ray Falcon, Director and Senior Consultant EMS and SCADA systems

Ray joined UISOLs Control Center Consulting and Systems Engineering team in February. He has 40 years of utility industry experience gained at Florida Power & Light and focused on EMS and SCADA design and operations. His extensive background while at Florida Power & Light included managing the operation and development of FPLs EMS, SCADA and DMS systems, as well as managing the construction of a new control center and site upgrade. At UISOL, Ray advises utilities on their EMS upgrade projects and serves as Project Manager in support of EMS upgrades.

Steve Herbst, PMP, Project Manager/Solutions Consultant OMS

Steve joined UISOL in February. He leads the UISOL OMS Group and manages client OMS projects. Steve has been working in the utility industry with Distribution Operations clients for 15 years. He has a track record of successful delivery of complex and standard projects and a wide range of experience in project implementations, project management, business process documentation, and operational support for OMS and GIS systems. Steves background includes positions with IBM, GE/Harris Energy Control, Configured Energy Systems/SPL/Oracle, Siemens and Control Data.

Meredith Kula, OMS/Integration Consultant

Meredith Kula joined UISOL in early July and is part of the Integration Services Group. She has been working in the utility industry with Distribution Operations clients since 2007 with Efacec ACS, and before that she worked with Accenture Technology Solutions in the telecom industry. Meredith has a wide range of experience in project implementations, business process documentation, and operational support for OMS and GIS systems. Her extensive technical, analytical and functional experience includes designing, developing, implementing and supporting software applications for a diverse set of industries including supply chain, telecommunications and utilities.

Carl Ozkaynak, Senior Integration Architect

Carl re-joined UISOL in July. He previously worked for UISOL from 2009 to 2011 as a Senior Director. He specializes in Service Oriented Architecture with 20 years of experience managing, designing, and implementing IT projects. Carls background includes positions with Mariner Partners, Inc., Utilicast, Fusion Alliance, Momentum SI, Wipro Consulting Services/NerveWire and New Brunswick Power. Carl has extensive experience in Energy & Utilities, as well as Financial Services, Telecom, Health Insurance, Government and Pharmaceutical. He specializes in systems planning, evaluation, building secure networks/architectures, and implementing data and integration solutions. He is a certified TIBCO SOA Architect and has extensive IBM/ESB training.

Ross Shaich, OMS Consultant

Ross joined UISOLs OMS group in May. He has worked with Outage Management Systems since 1997 and has extensive experience in OMS implementation and support of large-scale enterprise projects. To date, Ross has worked with approximately 18 different OMS implementations for clients across North America. His background includes positions with Infosys Technologies, Ltd, Infosys, and CES/SPL Worldgroup/Oracle. Ross has worked as functional lead, test lead, project manager, and test designer. His experience includes OMS business processes both contained within the OMS and processes where OMS communicates with external systems.

Kathleen Williams, EMS Project Engineer and Consultant

Kathleen joined UISOLs Control Centers Consulting and Systems Engineering team in early February. She has 12 years of experience in the electric utility industry and brings significant experience working for utilities, ISOs and consulting companies. Her background includes EMS systems engineering and IT Analysts positions with Exelon, serving as an EMS Application Engineer at Midwest ISO and working as a Senior Consultant for the Entergy Alstom GMS project.

Kalidindi S. Raju, Integration Services Lead

Kalidindi Raju has been promoted from Director and Senior Integration Architect to lead the Integration Services Group. He has been with UISOL for seven years, and has over 20 years of experience in the areas of enterprise architecture, enterprise application integration, design and development. He specializes in TIBCO products, covering all aspects of ESB architecture and configuration, ESB interface design and development, testing and support. His background includes 10 years in architecture and software development with Sun Microsystems.

About Utility Integration Solutions, Inc. (UISOL), an Alstom Company

Alstom Grids Network Management Solutions business acquired Utility Integration Solutions, Inc. (UISOL) in 2011 to complement its smart grid and integrated energy management solutions. UISOL is a leading provider of consulting, engineering, system integration and support for the energy industry. The UISOL experts help utilities improve their operations by end-to-end consulting, integration of computer systems, and optimizing business processes including those related to demand response. UISOL provides full life-cycle services including strategy definition, architecture design, project planning and management, systems implementation, integration, testing, and training. www.uisol.com &nbsp;