Oracle’s intentions to acquire Sun Microsystems on April 20th 2009 followed a period of difficult financial results and a search for a partner by Sun’s leaders. However close IBM got earlier – and we can say in retrospect that the consequent high market share in RISC Unix might have been a stumbling block for European regulators – in the event Oracle appears to have pulled off yet another master stroke in a massive acquisition strategy that has seen it spend well over $36.5B on adding existing companies to its portfolio since the beginning of 2005. A comparative picture of Oracle and Sun financial results is shown in Figure 1 and 2 below.

Oracle’s quarterly revenues overtook Sun’s at the end of 2004 and never looked back. It is interesting to note that both companies have quarterly peaks in calendar Q2 – partially an indication of their dependence on direct sales forces pushing at the end of their financial years (May for Oracle, June for Sun).

Oracle’s profits continued to grow throughout the period, while Sun’s have hovered around break-even, showing a recovery in 2007. It never got back to the halcyon quarters of the late 1990s and suffered badly in 2008.

For those of us that have followed Sun since the stone age (I came across them first in 1984) we may get starry-eyed remembering the good old days of workstations, E10Ks and the like. But – for me – this is not going to be as bad as when HP announced it was acquiring Compaq (or Compaq, Digital) for a number of reasons. In particular:

Oracle is light years ahead of Sun in being able to make money out of software. A quick glance at its software billings (slide 6 in its latest quarterly financial presentation) shows the failure of Sun’s strategy of giving software away in the hope of getting happy users to spend on support. The colossal worldwide success of Solaris and Java in terms of usage hasn’t transferred into big revenues. Radiohead famously offered record buyers the chance of paying whatever they wanted for their In Rainbows album, but the average price wasn’t high, even if the band claims the stunt was an overall success. There is as yet no clear way of making money from millions in the free-subscription Internet world, although it looks as if those companies (like Google) which can attract advertisers are doing OK. Oracle’s databases (like IBM’s mainframe software and HP’s printer cartridges) are products companies need and have to pay for; it just hasn’t been true of Sun’s software

Oracle has been able to ‘cross the chasm’ into multiple new industry sectors, while Sun has struggled. When ICT spending turned down in 2001 Sun realised that its suffering was more intense because 2/3rds of its revenues were coming from just 2 vertical markets – Finance and Telecoms. It worked hard to diversify, targeting Public Administration first – but hasn’t achieved anything like the same success as Oracle, whose acquisitions have often been tuned by its Vertical Market strategy. For instance it now has significant revenue from the Retail sector, which should help it during the current recession.

Sun has been nowhere near as successful in acquisitions. True – it used its cash to buy StorageTek and multiple smaller companies – typically in infrastructure software areas… but for Oracle buying other organisations has been a huge (and successful) part of its overall strategy. It is known to have paid $36.5B to acquire companies since 2005. It must have paid at considerably more, since the price went unreported for 39 of its acquirees. Multi-billion purchases have included PeopleSoft ($10.3B), BEA ($8.5B), Siebel ($5.85B), Sun ($5,600) and Hyperion ($3.3B). Figure 3 shows a conservative estimate of Oracle’s annual acquisition spending.

The other companies acquired by Oracle since the beginning of 2005 were 360Commerce, AdminServer, Advanced Visual Technology (AVT), Agile, AppForge, BEA, Bharosa, Bridgestream, Captovation, ClearApp, Context Media, Demantra, e-Test (acquired from Empirix), Global Knowledge Software (GKS), G-Log, Haley, HotSip, Hyperion, i-flex, Innobase, Interlace Systems, Lodestar, LogicalApps, MetaSolv Software, Moniforce, mValent, Net4Call, Netsure Telecom Limited, Oblix, OctetString, PeopleSoft, Portal Software, Primavera, ProfitLogic, Retek, Siebel, Sigma Dynamics, Skywire Software, Sleepycat, SPL WorldGroup, Stellent, Sunopsis, Tacit Software, Tangosol, Telephony@Work, TempoSoft, Thor Technologies, TimesTen and TripleHop. Like Sun the acquisition of Relsys is not yet completed.

Of course there’s a long way to go before the acquisition is confirmed (‘in the summer’ according to the press release) and it wouldn’t be the first time if it failed. I see a number of issues the two companies will need to address going forward. In particular:

Solaris is widely used by many x86 server users and endorsed by most x86 server vendors. They will rightly get suspicious of Oracle’s ownership. Some may go (back in some cases) to Linux. Java has been used across so many platforms – from computers, to mobile phones, to embedded devices – its change of ownership will undoubtedly concern software writers. Users and vendors may not like it, but I’m sure they’ll have to bite the bullet and start paying for the things they find valuable.

Sun has a joint development agreement with Fujitsu for the Sparc chip. Although it may seem like an expensive luxury to those unconnected with the RISC server market, the future of this microprocessor will need to be secured – especially if Oracle thinks it too expensive to maintain. Perhaps Fujitsu will be happy to take in over.

Oracle and Sun have been partners for many years – in fact even the instruction set of Sparc chips has been modified to run Oracle software faster. Clearly the company will be able to develop even closer interaction once everything’s under one roof.

Oracle will have to decide on whether or not Sun should maintain its current branding. Its business is based on its hardware and it might alienate loyal customers if Oracle were to suppress its values too much.

I believe the ICT industry is going to go through a particularly bumpy time in the next few months and even Oracle’s revenue growth and profitability may suffer. I hope the restructuring of Sun will be influenced more by the development of an integrated strategy with its new owner than by short-termism brought on by the economy.

Overall I believe that Oracle’s acquisition of Sun will be a good thing for customers of both companies – albeit that some will have to pay for things that were free in the past. While the survival of Sparc (and Sun’s RISC Unix) is a concern, there are some obvious advantages. Expanding Sun beyond its restricted vertical markets is one. Eventually making money out of Solaris and Java will be the test of success for Oracle.

Related