Meerut is a city in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It is an ancient city, with settlements dating back to the Indus Valley civilisation having been found in and around the area. The city lies 70 km northeast of the national capital New Delhi, and 430 km northwest of the state capital Lucknow. Meerut ranks 4th in terms of population in Uttar Pradesh. It is an ancient city located 56 km (35 mi) north-east of New Delhi. Meerut also has one of the biggest army garrisons/cantonments in this part of the country. It is famous for its scissors, sports goods and Gazak.

Historical, Cultural facts & Religion

The town, situated in Western Uttar Pradesh has got a long history behind it. The city was the part of the Hastinapur Empire of Kauravas that ruled Vedic India and was the protagonists of the Hindu Epic of Mahabharata. Meerut is the fastest developing city of Uttar Pradesh after Noida and Ghaziabad. In the present day, Meerut local population is represented by the Jats community, Rajputs, Tyagis, Gujjars, etc., each of whom has retained their cultural identity and thereby contributing profusely to its rich cultural heritage and practices. Hinduism is the majority religion in Meerut city with 61.15 % followers. Islam is the second most popular religion in the city of Meerut with approximately 36.05 % following it. In Meerut city, Christianity is followed by 0.41 %, Jainism by 0.92 %, Sikhism by 0.60 % and Buddhism by 0.60 %.

Brief City History

Meerut, city, northwestern Uttar Pradesh state, northern India. It lies in the Upper Ganges-Yamuna Doab, about 30 miles (48 km) northeast of Delhi. The Meerut area has been inhabited since ancient times. It was the original location of one of the pillars erected by the Mauryan emperor Ashoka in the 3rd century BCE before it was moved to Delhi in the mid-14th century by Firuz Shah Tughluq. The British built a large cantonment (military installation) there in the early 19th century. It was there, in May 1857, that the initial uprising of the Indian Mutiny (1857–58) occurred when sepoys (Indian troops employed by the British) attacked and killed their British officers and then marched on Delhi.

Meerut is located at the junction of several roads and rail lines. It is a trade centre for agricultural products and has a considerable amount of industry, including manufacturing, smelting, handicrafts, and the milling of sugar, cotton, flour, and oilseeds. Meerut University (1965) is located in the city; Meerut College (1892) and several other colleges are affiliated with the university. Meerut also has a 12th-century mausoleum and a number of old temples and mosques. There is still an important military presence in the city. Pop. (2001) 1,068,772; (2011) 1,305,429.

Language (s) Written & Spoken

Top Indian language training Institutes in Meerut. As announced by the Government of India and practiced by millions of Indians, Hindi is the official language of the country. Hindi is one of the most spoken languages in the world.

Important Types of Commerce in Meerut

As of August 2006, Meerut has about 23,471 industrial units, including 15,510 small-scale units and 7,922 cottage industries. Existing industries in the city include tires, textile, transformer, sugar, distillery, chemical, engineering, paper, publishing, and sports goods manufacture.

Language Services US and others will provide working with Meerut

Meerut has been in a trade relationship with several countries. Because of such close relations, the necessity to learn and understand the Hindi language has increased in importance over the years. This developed the need for Hindi translators and interpreters. Moreover, for businesses planning to tap into Meerut, in order to maximize the voice of your brand and help them to reach a new Hindi -speaking audience with enormous marketing opportunities in the global market, the next step is to partner with a professional translation and interpretation company.