Bhilwara is located in the beautiful state of Rajasthan. It is widely regarded as the City of Calmness, Culture and Cloth and is situated in Mewar. The city is located on a ridge which is 1381 ft above sea level. Bhilwara is surrounded by Bundi and Tonk in the east and north-east, Ajmer towards the north, Rajsamand in the west and Chittorgarh in the south-east. One can find good quality clothes in the city. Bhilwara, also known as the Textile City of Rajasthan, is renowned for fad paintings. These pieces of arts are made on cloth and the use of natural colours is paramount. The famous tourists hotspots in the region include the Mejha Dam, Harni Mahadev and Kyara ke Balaji. For those with a sweet tooth, one can choose to have Gazak and Makahn Beda. The city is top-notch as far as textiles are concerned. If estimates are anything to go by, there are close to 4000 textile manufacturing units in Bhilwara. The city is renowned in the manufacturing of PV blended yarn and suiting. The city has been progressing at a rapid pace. In fact, it is among the costliest cities in Rajasthan at the moment. For those looking to experience the real Rajasthan, a visit to Gangapur village is definitely a must. The village is located 45 km from Bhilwara and is a dynamic area where the annual cattle fair is organized. The cattle fair is frequented by tourists around the year. The cattle fair includes a good number of different domestic animals. The Mandalgarh Fort is another famous tourist attraction in the city. It is located about 52 km from the centre of the city. The fort has a rich historical legacy as it served as the site for quite a few fierce battles between the 15th and 19th centuries. The fort is 1 km long and 1850 ft high. Tourists can expect a panoramic view of the area surrounding the city. The best time to visit Bhilwara is during winter. The temperature is comfortable and perfect for sightseeing and visiting places of interest in Bhilwara. For those planning a trip the city, the months from October to March are the most suitable. Finding accommodation in Bhilwara will not be difficult. There are a few, but well-furnished, OYO Rooms in the city. One of the hotels is located close to the Railway Station. The other is situated on Chittor Road.

Read MoreRead Less