2000+ Turbans tied on people to educate about the significance of the Turban

NEW YORK CITY (TIP): Ritu Saluja told The Indian Panorama that “Turban is a Sikh’s crown and stands for Equality, Justice, and Humanity. We celebrated Turban Day this year on May 06 at Times Square, as an expression of Sikh faith and commitment to serve humanity. The purpose of organizing this event every year is to bring awareness among all citizens about Turban and its value in Sikh faith.” Tanu Singh added : “Considering the unfortunate discrimination and hate crimes faced by Sikhs who wear or tie turbans, we believe that it is more important than ever to break down barriers between different communities. This event represents a unique opportunity to tackle these issues and unite people in the spirit of respect and education.”

The turban is an integral part of Sikh identity and has been worn by Sikhs for centuries. It not only represents the core values of our faith, but also signifies the responsibility to protect the rights of all individuals, regardless of their background, race, or religion. By participating in Turban Day, people who might not know can learn more about the importance of the Sikh turban.

To support this event and Sikh community in America, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York took to the stage and shared his views on how Sikh community has always been an integral part of the American society “We love the Sikh community, and it is a beautiful community. We welcome you as New Yorker’s and as Americans. You work hard, you believe in family, you have a great faith, and you help build and create our great community” He mentioned about passing the Asian Anti Hate crime bill to prosecute any action of hate, bigotry, and violence. He showed his solidarity to the Sikh community by wearing the Turban and shook a leg to famous Punjabi music.

Besides tying more than 2000 colorful turbans on any fellow human coming from any background, skin color, religion and status, there were multiple artists from the Sikh community showcasing their culture and heritage.

Young musicians from the Sikh Symphony California performed 31 ragas in 13 different taals (beats) using multiple Indian classical string instruments such as sitar, rabab, taus and tabla.

Musician Biba Singh performed some popular numbers and multiple artists performed Bhangra and folk dance Gidda bringing attendees together to dance and enjoy music. Famous Bollywood artist Manmeet Singh (actor/writer/director) had a message for everyone “For a Sikh the Turban represents love, hard work and humility. When seen from away, for anyone in distress it indicates that they can come to a Sikh and seek help and support and no matter what the situation is they will be assisted”