Dr. Gurnam Singh Ji’s message for Gaavani:

“Gaavani has flourished under the divine blessings of Guru Baba Nanak and Bebe Nanaki, embarking on a journey to spread the celestial joy of Gur Shabad Kirtan via Sikh female Kirtankars. A few years ago, the Bebe Nanaki Institute of Sikh Studies USA advocated for this idea. We take great pleasure in working together as a team and naming the inaugural program in Fremont, California as GAAVANI, humbly inspired by the Bani of Guru Arjan Dev Ji:”

ਪ੍ਰਿਅ ਕੀ ਸੋਭ ਸੁਹਾਵਨੀ ਨੀਕੀ ॥

ਹਾਹਾ ਹੂਹੂ ਗੰਧ੍ਰਬ ਅਪਸਰਾ ਅਨਦ ਮੰਗਲ ਰਸ ਗਾਵਨੀ ਨੀਕੀ ॥੧॥ ਰਹਾਉ ॥

Singing the glory of the Beloved, singers are filled with inner joy and fulfilment.

“In Sikhi, Sikh women play a pivotal and multifaceted role, yet they are not fully recognized and appreciated in today's society. We have a long journey ahead to actualize Guru Nanak's ideals and visions within the current practice of our faith.

GAAVANI is a humble endeavor to establish a sacred haven for Kirtan amongst Sikh women. We earnestly appeal to the Sikh sangat to support this initiative, fostering the practice of Shabad Kirtan among our daughters and affording them opportunities for growth as performers, educators, scholars, students, and organizers. We extend our sincere appreciation to the dedicated GAAVANI team, tirelessly working to fulfill this dream. May Akal Purakh bestow upon this committed team increased vigor and zeal to advance this crucial Sewa.”

Biba Guneet Kaur entered the Gurmat Sangeet tradition at the age of 7. She attained her initial training through her mother Gurpreet Kaur and massi Gursharan Kaur. During her masters degree, her training continued with Ajit Kaur (New Delhi) for 6 years. She received her Masters in Indian Classical music from Allahabad University and furthered her study of Indian classical music with Professor Rajinder Singh (All India Radio artist) and Mr. Ajay Jha from New Delhi. She received further 7 years guidance from Ustad Baljeet Singh Ji Naamdhari. She currently performs kirtan regularly throughout North America and also trains students throughout the world in Gurmat Sangeet, all while she herself continues her own education under the guidance of Dr. Gurnam Singh Ji. Within the GAAVANI initiative, she serves as a wellspring of inspiration and motivation.

Bhai Tajvinder Singh was introduced to tabla and kirtan at age 8 by Professor Jaswinder Singh Ji (his Mamaji) and his mother, Surinder Kaur, who taught him his first shabads. From this early foundation, the young Tajvinder Singh grew so fond of Shabad Kirtan that he became self-taught from listening to Kirtan recordings of various Kirtaniya’s, including Bhai Rajinder Singh of Singapore and Bhai Gurmit Singh Shaant of Jalandhar. At the tender age of 10, he dreamed of performing Kirtan at Sri Darbar Sahib in Amritsar - a dream that would one day be realized as the result of incredible devotion and focus during his adolescent years. By the time he was 21, Tajvinder Singh earned various trophies and awards from classical Kirtan and tabla competitions across California and traveled to Amritsar with his father to actualize his dream. He was appointed as "Hazoori Ragi Sri Darbar Sahib" - the youngest Darbar Sahib Ragi in history, as well as the first American-born Sikh, to achieve this prestigious honor. Currently, he teaches kirtan to many students across Northern California. Bhai Tajvinder Singh has played a crucial role in the formation of GAAVANI. His contributions as both an educator and a Kirtaniya have left a profound impact on his students and their families.

Biba Priti Kaur has been an influential force in providing support to GAAVANI. Biba Priti Kaur is a dynamic and versatile vocalist based in the United Kingdom. While her musical range encompasses diverse genres, she has a love for instructing and performing Gurbani Sangeet. Priti graduated from the prestigious Khairagarh University achieving a degree with distinction in Hindustani classical vocal music alongside her Masters Degree in Environmental Science. Her journey in singing started at the Mumbai Doordarshan as a child artist, recording several songs and winning numerous singing competitions during her academic years. A winner of several awards including “Sa Re Ga Ma Punjabi”, Priti Kaur is also a winner of the Lata Mangeshkar competition. Alongside performing throughout Europe, Priti Kaur currently teaches Gurbani Sangeet as well as other classical and light music genres.

Hailing from a family immersed in Gurmat Sangeet, Dr. Manpreet Singh is a 3rd generation Kirtaniya, pursuing the tradition started by his Paternal grandfather, Late Shiromani Ragi Bhai Uttam Singh Patang, and continuing under the guidance of his Chachaji/Paternal Uncle, Dr. Gurnam Singh Ji, whom he has been training under for the past 25 years. Dr. Manpreet Singh was awarded a Gold Medal during his Music studies at Punjabi University Patiala, where he completed his Doctorate degree in Gurmat Sangeet Studies. He has performed at various events throughout the world including Frankfurt University in Germany, Hofstra University in New York, and the White House in Washington, DC. Currently, he lives in New Jersey, USA, and has been teaching Gurmat Sangeet to students all over the world for the past 14 years. In order to celebrate, elevate, and hone his student's skills, he augments their studies by organizing youth performance festivals. Gurmat Sangeet being an integral part of his life and discipline, Dr. Manpreet Singh aspires to share this rich treasure of Sikh Musicology with all. Dr. Manpreet Singh has served as a driving force of motivation and support within the GAAVANI initiative.