Vastgota Nina Ricci ("Nina")

Born: May 14, 2007

Female

Grey Sable, Natural Bob Tail

CERF 2008 (SW-188)

Full dentition.

Nina at one year, May 2008.

Nina News:

On August 24 2008 at the Stormont, Dundas & Glengarry Dog Association at Long Sault, ON, Nina earned another point toward her Canadian championship, winning breed under judge Ricardo Saldana. She also helped the Pembroke Corgi win a group 4, by being in heat and making him show off ("how YOU doin'?"). She now has 7 points!

On Saturday, May 24 2008 at the Ottawa Kennel Club show in Richmond, ON, Nina won Best of Breed (over a professionally-handled adult female, no less) and then went on to take group 4th in a group of 12 breeds. She earned 3 more championship points AND her first TOP DOG points (37). Thank you to judge John Rowton (who said Nina was “gorgeous”, even when she gave him a lovely sit at the end of our down and back hey, we’re both learning!). She'd had enough by the time we got around to having our picture taken, so this is far from the most flattering picture of either of us, but what can you do?

Nina at 5 months, October 18, 2007

Sire: CH Vastgota Birk Dam: Hurstfield Sweet Burberi (GBR)

The newest addition to our home is Vastgota Nina Ricci, AKA Nina. She was born May 14, 2007, and earned her first three Canadian Kennel Club points at the Ottawa Kennel Club show in November 2007.

Nina is from Ulla Gamberg's Vastgota kennel in Ontario, Canada and we are very grateful to Ulla for entrusting us with this wonderful pup.

Nina and I are currently in agility and tracking classes at Canine Sports Complex and Positive Pet Training. In February 2008 Nina and I attended our first agility fun match (basically a trial but no points are awarded and you can train, reward, etc.), Nina did extremely well considering it was the first time she'd actually run a complete course, and I learned something I should have already known: look at the course from the DOG'S point of view. I guess all those years of jumping horses didn't help with dog agility (although that experience sure helps with memorizing courses).

Nina is smart as a whip and loves to learn, she's just a joy to work with.

Nina's pedigree: