Bonnie Marie Abraham, 97, of Amarillo died July 29, 2021.

Bonnie is available for viewing at Schooler Funeral Home, 4100 S. Georgia St. Memorial service will be at 2:00 p.m., Tuesday, August 3, 2021 at First Presbyterian Church, 1100 S. Harrison. Interment will be private in Llano Cemetery. Arrangements are by Schooler Funeral Home.

Bonnie was born Bonnie Marie Slate April 27, 1924 in Hackett, Arkansas and was the daughter of Walter Lee and Elizabeth Slate. She grew up in Dallas, Texas, where her parents moved when she was a baby. Bonnie always enjoyed working, and graduated Salutatorian from Crozier Tech High School, where she worked grading tests for her teacher. Bonnie graduated from Commercial Business College of Dallas, while working for an attorney to pay her tuition. She worked for a loan company a short while, then went to work at Lockheed to do her part in the war effort after Pearl Harbor and World War II began, helping manage the office. She was always proud of her contributions there.

Afterward Bonnie worked for a dress manufacturing company called Malouf Company, doing bookkeeping and also modeling company merchandise. Nay Abraham owned his own dress manufacturing company, and came into the Malouf Company factory quite often, and started taking Bonnie for coffee.

Nay and Bonnie were married in January of 1948 in Dallas by Presbyterian minister, Reverend Charles Dickey, and soon afterward moved to Nay’s home town of Canadian. They later relocated to Amarillo, where Nay had purchased an office supply store. The bank loan was obtained with only a handshake as collateral, and Nay and Bonnie worked together to make the business a success. They joined First Presbyterian Church, where Nay served as an Elder. Bonnie was past president of Sorosis Study Club, and served as Moderator for two church circles. She was very active in a Birthday Club, NUFFS, and Presbyterian Women’s Group. She also taught 6th Grade Sunday School.

Bonnie had become a member of the National Honor Society in high school and it was a special day in her life when two grandsons became members. She wore her NHS-member pin, as well as the Linz Dallas scholastic award pin she had earned. Bonnie loved to entertain friends, and work with her roses in her backyard. Her favorite singer was Tony Bennett, whom she had seen several times. She and Nay knew Ray Price, and enjoyed his music also.

Bonnie was preceded in death by husband Nay after 52 years of marriage, and by grandson Phillip Pratt, and a great-granddaughter Elizabeth Bailey.

Bonnie is survived by four children: Carol Nay Abraham of Amarillo, TX, Charles Naceeb Abraham of Amarillo, TX, Martha Bonnie Casad of Dallas, TX, plus Michael Nahim Abraham and his wife Becky of Pagosa Spring, Co, by seven grandchildren, and seventeen great grandchildren.

Visitation will be from 6-7:00 p.m., Monday, August 2, 2021 at Schooler Funeral Home, 4100 S. Georgia St.

Family will be at 7911 Pebblebrook Dr., Amarillo, Texas 79119