The Ohio Sports Network from Learfield is the home of Bobcat football, men's basketball, and baseball. The coverage area really does extend from Court Street to Columbus, and from WV to Kentucky and Cincy and beyond.

WXTQ serves as the flagship station in Athens. In Columbus, Fox Sports Radio 920 WMNI gives the network a solid sports radio presence in the capital city. The WJAW family of stations serve as affiliates in Marietta and Parkersburg. To the west, fans can listen on WYPC in Jackson and Wellston. WAOL in Cincinnati/Ripley airs football broadcasts.

The continued partnership with WOUB Public Media adds to the network's coverage map with stations in Ashland/Ironton, Cambridge, Chillicothe, Zanesville.

Fans outside of the over-the-air coverage area can listen via "The Varsity Network" app on mobile devices and online on OhioBobcats.com. Online on-demand listening is also available.

Russ Eisenstein is in his 16th season as "The Voice of the Bobcats." Ohio alum Rob Cornelius is the network color analyst. Together, the duo has put words to some of the greatest moments in Ohio Athletics history. Veteran Ohio sports broadcaster Marty Bannister is a part of the network too. With the help of Learfield in Winston-Salem, NC, each broadcast has a polished "infotainment" sound.

Gameweek coverage includes a coach's show. Each football broadcast begins with a one-hour pregame show. Basketball's pregame is 30 minutes. The network has a track record of airing special shows in conjunction with big moments in Bobcat Athletics. Ohio baseball is the only MAC broadcast on "The Varsity Network" app.

Network Stations/Programming

Ashland/Ironton-WOUL, 89.1 FM: Games

Athens-WXTQ, 105.5 FM: Game and Shows

Cambridge-WOUC, 89.1 FM: Games

Chillicothe-WOUH, 91.9 FM: Games

Cincinnati/Ripley-WAOL, 99.5 FM: Games

Columbus-WMNI, 920 AM (Fox Sports Radio): Games and Shows

Jackson-WYPC, 105.3 FM: Games and Shows

Marietta-WJAW, 630 AM: Shows

McConnelsville-WJAW, 100.9 FM: Games

Parkersburg-WJAW, 92.9 FM: Shows

Wellston-WYPC, 1330 AM: Games and Shows

Zanesville-WOUZ, 90.1 FM: Games

Thanks for visiting !

The use of software that blocks ads hinders our ability to serve you the content you came here to enjoy.

We ask that you consider turning off your ad blocker so we can deliver you the best experience possible while you are here.

Thank you for your support!