STAY, PLAY & RELAX with Navy Getaways!

Nourish your mind, body and spirit with a relaxing stay at our MWR Barbers Point Beach Cottages, located on the west coast of Oahu. Two and three bedroom cottages offer many amenities, including fully furnished kitchens, cable television, linens, ceiling fans and a private bath.

MWR manages 24 cottages located at White Plains and Nimitz Beach at Barbers Point in Hawaii, on the island of Oahu. All come with a washer & dryer.

For rates go to: DODLODGING.NET and select NAVY

Select our property: Barbers Point Beach Cottages

Pest Control

We are on an aggressive pest control and every attempt has been made to eliminate bugs, insects and occasional rodents, however you may be exposed to such during your stay. As a reminder the warmer climates of the year pests can be more noticeable and not uncommon for our location. We hope that you will understand these circumstances, which, unfortunately, cannot be avoided. NO refunds or compensations will be permitted for these circumstances.

The reservation categories for eligible patrons are as follows:

CATEGORY 1

Includes Active Duty/Reserves and their family members with a valid CAC/Military ID. Reservations may be made up to one (1) year in advance.

CATEGORY 2

Includes Retirees and DoD Civilians with a valid CAC/Military ID. Reservations may be made up to six (6) months in advance.

There are three ways to make a reservation:

• Call the Barbers Point Beach Cottage Office at (808) 682-3085 or Email: BP.COTTAGE.ITT@us.navy.mil

• Call Navy Getaways Central Reservations at 1-877-NAVY-BED

• Go online at www.dodlodging.net and click on Navy, then pick Navy Getaways.

• A valid Visa or Mastercard credit card is required. PAYMENT IN FULL IS DUE UPON CHECK-IN AT THE ITT OFFICE. Credit card must be presented at check-in. No Checks or Cash will be accepted.

• A military ID holder is limited to one (1) reservation per ID. No more than one (1) reservation under one (1) name per military ID is allowed. Any reservations over the limit per military ID will be canceled without notice. Civilian guests must be escorted onto the installation and accompanied at all times by the military ID cardholder. Any reservations made in violation of these policies will be canceled without notice. Failure to abide by these regulations will be cause for eviction.

Cancellations

Cancellations made more than 14 days prior to the reserved date will be without penalty. Cancellations made within the 14 days of reserved date is subject to payment of one (1) night stay.

Check In/Out

Check-in is 3 – 6 p.m. daily and checkout is no later than 11 a.m. at the BPT Beach Cottage Reservations & ITT Office. A charge of $20 per half hour will be assessed for late checkout.

How Long Can I Stay?

The minimum stay is two 2 days and maximum stay is two weeks, but may be extended based on availability upon check-in.

MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY:

(2) Bedroom cottages sleeps max (6) people

(3) Bedroom cottages sleeps max (8) people

Failure to abide by occupancy standards may result in eviction by MWR Management or a designated representative. A refund will not be provided if this occurs.

Can I Bring Pets?

Sorry, pets are prohibited inside, outside and within the vicinity of the beach cottages. A $200 fine will be assessed for unauthorized pets. Service pets require proper ID.

Rules for Cottage Use

All of our cottages are funded on a self-sufficiency basis and every effort must be made to keep expenses at acceptable levels. Your cooperation is greatly appreciated in keeping the facilities in a clean and safe condition to ensure a pleasant stay for you and your family, as well as for others that will follow.

PLEASE ADHERE TO THE FOLLOWING:

• The MWR cottages are intended for family use and are not authorized for use as a party facility.

• Due to limited parking, we allow no more than two (2) vehicles per cottage at all times. All other guests must use the guest parking.

• Cottage use is intended for sponsors and their family guests only. “Subletting” to other persons is not authorized.

• Persons not listed on your guest list are required to vacate the cottage by 10 p.m. Monday – Thursday and by midnight Friday – Sunday and Holidays. Out of respect to neighbors, we ask that loud noise and boisterous activity be discontinued by 10 p.m. nightly.

What is Prohibited?

The following are strictly prohibited:

Open fires / Pets / Pitching of tents or tarps / Parking on grass / Hammocks / Swings

Party Bouncers / Water Slides / Party events / Smoking

Electric or motorized bikes, scooters and mopeds

Tampering with the emergency preparedness kit

Removing furniture, bedspreads, sheets and pillows from cottage

Fees/Penalties

The following fees will be charged when applicable:

$10 for cottage key replacement

$100 for gate key replacement

$25 per half hour for cottages left in unsatisfactory condition or late check-out.

$200 for unauthorized pets.

$50 service fee for after-hour assistance to unlock a cottage.

Cleaning fee for each excessively soiled item. Missing items will be charged accordingly

Replacement cost for any items damaged due to abuse or lost.

Pest Control

We are on an aggressive pest control and every attempt has been made to eliminate bugs, insects and occasional rodents, however you may be exposed to such during your stay. As a reminder the warmer climates of the year pests can be more noticeable and not uncommon for our location. We hope that you will understand these circumstances, which, unfortunately, cannot be avoided. NO refunds or compensations will be permitted for these circumstances.

Internet Usage

Due to our remote location we cannot guarantee adequate

WiFi service. If our guests require internet during their stay we

encourage them to bring their own personal device that

they can depend on.

Power Outages

Compensation is NOT approved in the event of a power

outage, unless your cottage is uninhabitable.