Sleeps 8

2.5 bedroom, 2 bath (Loft or Den) · Pool · Hot tub

I have a quick question about Cottage Court ...

First Name: Email:

Cancel

Your email is required so we can respond to you, but will remain private.

We may post your question & answer to our community forum so future travellers know the answer too (only your first name will be used if we do). Thanks for your help!

Bedding: Master Queen, Bedroom 2: Queen, Loft Queen Futon, Queen Sofa Sleeper bed (4 Beds)

Cottage Court Pricing*:

Please call or request a quote for pricing.

Located in the Spring Mountain Cottages

Description:

Cottage Court is located in the Spring Mountain Ranch area as one of the cottages near the golf course. It has access to the clubhouse amenities that include an outdoor seasonal pool, tennis courts, hot tub, and fitness center.

You will enter this cottage by walking up the gravel path to the front door. The main level of this two-story condo features a spacious living area, where everyone can gather and watch a movie on the flatscreen TV with a DVD player or stream with your personal Netflix account.

The living room is open to the dining area with a round table and four chairs for dining. There are also four bar stools at the counter for additional seating with a fully equipped kitchen with a dishwasher. A sliding glass door next to the dining space leads out to the deck area. It's the perfect spot to breathe in the fresh forest air or soak in the sun in the summertime. This cottage also comes with a private washer/dryer so laundry isn't an issue, and there's a furnace to keep you warm in the winter.

With two bedrooms plus a loft area, this cottage will accommodate up to 6 guests in beds but will allow up to 8 people. The second floor has the master bedroom, with a queen bed and full en-suite bathroom, while the loft area has a comfy futon bed. On the lower main level, the second bedroom offers a queen bed and plenty of storage. There's also another full bathroom on this floor.

Parking Notes: The garage will fit 1 car and a second car may park outside in any spare parking spots. Please note that the garage door is a manual door and must be opened by hand. No trailer parking. This home is professionally managed for quality, not "by owner".

Cancellation Policy: To reserve a property everyone must be at least 21 years old or accompanied by a parent or legal guardian. In some areas, the age requirement may be higher. Reservations must be paid in full at the time of booking. Receive a refund of any payments you've already made (less a $50 booking fee plus the property manager's booking fees plus tax) when you cancel your reservation at least 30 days prior to the check-in day. No refunds of any kind if you cancel within 30 days of check-in. No refunds of any kind will be granted for no-shows, late arrivals, or early departures. Trip insurance is recommended. On Average there is a 12% - 15% booking fee + tax for any cancellations. (May vary with packages) Minimum Stay: 2-5 Nights Depending on Season Check In/Out: 4:00 pm/10:00 am Check in Location: Will be sent in confirmation

We do not have any current pre-built packages for Cottage Court .

Â· Call us at 800-844-3246 for the lowest guaranteed rates

Â· We can customize a package for you! Let us know what you would like and we'll create it for you.

Location information:

Map is loading...

Cottage Court is categorized in the following McCall area locations: In Spring Mountain Ranch, Spring Mountain Ranch Cottages, Around Town General Location: Spring Mountain Ranch Cottages

Directions: To be provided with a reservation

You'll never pay more using our FREE service for the state of Idaho! Plus enjoy great customer service, rates and packages. Thanks for shopping locally!

Amenities:

Kitchen (Full)

Pet (Not allowed)

DVD Player

BBQ (Gas)

Deck/Balcony (Private)

Access to Spring Mountain Ranch Amenities (Seasonal Pool, Hot Tub, Fitness Area, etc.)

Garage (Single Car)

Internet (Wireless)

Netflix Streaming (With Own Account)

Cable TV (None)

Trailer Parking (Not Allowed)

Laundry (In Unit)

Smoking (Not Permitted)

A/C (None)

Supplies provided by management company: (Subject to change without notice)

Note on air conditioning: Most vacation rentals in Idaho do not have air conditioning because the nights tend to be cool in Idaho. If the rental has air conditioning it will be listed above.

Amenities are always subject to change without notice and are not guaranteed.

Please note that amenities such as hot tubs and pools are especially susceptible to closure for maintenance. While we understand that our customers often choose a property based on amenities, we can not offer any discounts or refunds based on an amenity not being available during your stay.