Chinese pharmaceutical giant to leverage One Network for healthcare fulfillment backbone with centralized procurement and distribution

Dallas, TX, February, 4, 2014–One Network Enterprises, a leading provider of multi-enterprise Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and consumer-driven supply chain solutions in the cloud, today announced that Sinopharm, China’s largest manufacturer, retailer, and distributor of pharmaceutical and healthcare products, has selected One Network to provide centralized procurement and distribution across Sinopharm’s extensive nationwide network of suppliers and customers. One Network’s solution is designed to help Sinopharm improve customer service levels while reducing lead times and inventory levels.

“After intensive research and evaluation, Sinopharm Logistics came to the conclusion that One Network is one of the very few solutions which provides on-line, real time supply chain optimization,” said Madam Cheng, General Manager of Sinopharm Logistics. “We value One Network as an ideal partner, it not only has state-of-the-art technology, but demonstrates flexibility to the market circumstances in China.”

“We are pleased to be working with Sinopharm, a key addition to One Network’s rapidly growing community of trading partners,” said Bruce Jacquemard, One Network’s EVP of Sales and Marketing. “Our solution provides Sinopharm with an end-to-end fulfillment backbone that extends from their suppliers to customers, and is able to connect to One Network’s global fulfillment backbone of manufacturers, logistics providers, and retailers when required”.

[contentblock id=quote-sinopharm]

With over 50 distribution centers and 100,000 direct customers, Sinopharm operates China’s largest pharmaceutical and healthcare distribution network. It provides pharmaceutical supply chain management services for the distribution of domestic and imported prescription drugs and over-the-counter medicines from manufacturers and suppliers to hospitals, other wholesalers, retail drug stores, and other customers.

One Network’s cloud platform, the Real Time Value Network™, maximizes a company’s ability to see and respond to supply chain problems anywhere, anytime, no matter where they are located. One Network’s unique automatic decision-making technology combines planning and execution capabilities to enable thousands of companies to manage demand, supply, and logistics processes as a community of trading partners focused on satisfying the end-customer. All One Network services are delivered via a single system accessible anywhere in the world via an internet browser.

Cheng added, “Sinopharm Logistics looks forward to working with One Network for a successful project and a long term strategic relationship with One Network to make a difference to the healthcare supply chain in China.”

About Sinopharm

Sinopharm is China’s largest pharmaceutical and health industrial group under State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council. It has China’s largest bio-pharmaceutical manufacturing company and China’s largest (the world’s third largest) pharmaceutical distribution company. For more information, visit www.sinopharm.com.

About One Network

One Network’s Real Time Value Network™ is the world’s only many-to-many supply chain platform in the cloud, and the world’s first and only real time, automated decision-making solutions suite. It enables an unlimited number of trading partners to plan, execute, monitor, synchronize, and optimize in real time all of the business processes and events that take place throughout their extended supply chains, from customers to raw material suppliers. Enterprises from a variety of industries are connected to the Real Time Value Network, including leading companies in high tech, retail, consumer products, the public sector, automotive, energy, and logistics. Headquartered in Dallas, One Network also has offices in Europe, India, and China. Learn more about One Network’s www.onenetwork.com.