Article published in February 2001 “Oh La” number 127 about Jean-Pierre Aumont funeral that was celebrated the 6th February 2001 in French church of Saint-Roch.

Among the guests there were Tina Aumont, her half brothers Jean-Claude and Patrick Aumont, her step-mum Marisa Pavan, her uncle François Villiers, her cousin Aruna Villiers, French actor Alain Delon (pictured with Tina and behind her a close friend of hers, Patrick Gunter), singer, actress and AIDS activist Line Renaud (pictured with Tina Aumont), actress and dancer Leslie Caron, film and stage actor and director Pierre Mondy, actress Nicole Courcel and actor Daniel Ceccaldi with his wife Laurence are some of the people pictured in this magazine.

Very special thanks to @74paris for sending me this article.

They celebrate dad

Photos 1 & 2:Paris. Jean Pierre Aumont and Marisa Pavan in the garden of their villa, together with their three-year-old son Jean Claude (in their mother’s arms), six-month-old Patrick, and Marie Christine. The latter, 14, was born from Aumont’s previous marriage to Maria Montez, the actress who died of a heart attack while taking a bath. Marie Christine looks a lot like her mother, of whom she possesses the same soft and sweet beauty. The family is celebrating the return of Jean Pierre Aumont from Argentina.

Photos 3 & 4:Another scene of the family intimacy of Aumont and his wife: here the two are with their son Patrick and Marie Christine. Jean Pîerre Aumont is currently planning two films, one in London and one in Rome; moreover, he is serving a comedy which he should star in next winter in Paris. Of the three children, Marie Christine is engaged in exams, at the end of which she said she wanted to take up the profession of photographer. Patrick was just born when Aumont left for Argentina.

Photos and caption from Italian magazine Oggi, 25th August 1960.

HUGE ANIMATION FOR THE PRESS VERBENA

The animation around “La Verbena de la Prensa” goes “in crescendo.” As the warm weather that we are experiencing in Burgos these days increases, so does the expectation around this celebration organized by the press association and which is, without a doubt, the party that brings together “all of Burgos.”

Yesterday there were many invitations taken and there is no doubt that between today and tomorrow the “full house” will be assured. Apart from the undoubted attraction that the Verbena exerts in itself, the artistic collaborations that have been achieved this year contribute powerfully to this atmosphere of expectation. Along with the “Garrocha” orchestra, the magnificent Madrid orchestral ensemble “Rosa María, César y L'es Caro” will perform, as well as the attractions of singular value that are María Montez, Maite Tojar and the young revelation of the current season, the singer “Rachel.”

Diário de Burgos, 28th June 1968.