ACTRESS Una Stubbs, known for her roles in TV shows such as Eastenders, Sherlock and Worzel Gummidge, has died at the age of 84.

Una, who had been ill for several months, died at home in Edinburgh surrounded by her family.

Who was Una Stubbs?

Una Stubbs was an English actress, television personality, and former dancer who has appeared on British television and in the theatre, and less frequently in films.

She was born on May 1 1937 in Hertfordshire and grew up in Leicestershire.

Una first found fame in the 1960s when she appeared in Sir Cliff Richard's film, Summer Holiday.

She later played Rita Rawlins in the BBC sitcoms Till Death Us Do Part and In Sickness and in Health.

Other well-known television shows Una featured in include Worzel Gummidge, The Worst Witch, Midsomer Murders, Casualty.

She more recently appeared in The Catherine Tate Show, Agatha Christie's Marple, Eastenders, Benidorm and Sherlock.

Before hitting the big screen, Una was the 'cover girl' of Dairy Box chocolates, produced by Rowntree's.

She referred to herself as the 'Rowntrees Chocolate Girl'.

What was Una Stubbs' cause of death?

Her agent confirmed Una died following an illness, and was surrounded by her family at home in Edinburgh.

Rebecca Blond told BBC News Una had been ill for a few months.

In a statement her sons Joe and Christian Henson and Jason Gilmore said: "Mum passed away quietly today with her family around her, in Edinburgh. We ask for privacy and understanding at this most difficult and sad of times."

Rebecca Blond, who represented Stubbs for more than 20 years, said she would "miss her enormously and remember her always".

How many children did Una Stubbs have?

Una Stubbs was married to actor Peter Gilmore from 1958 to 1969, with who she adopted son Jason.

She then married Nicky Henson in 1969, before they split in 1975.

The couple had two sons, Joe and Christian.

Joe and Christian are now composers.

Christian tweeted: "Some of you may have known her as Rita, as Sally as Bat or Hudson but to my two brothers and I she was known as Mum. Thanks for everything Mum. RIP."

Nicky had three children, Christian and Joe Henson.

In 2017, Una Stubbs said her sons were one of the things she couldn't live without.

She said she was a strict mother but "in a sweet way."

The actress said she raised her three kids on her own.