Located in the trendy Seminole Heights area, Xtreme Tacos provokes the palate by bringing authentic Mexican-American fusion to the uncharted Southeast.

Xtreme Tacos opened it's doors for a grand opening on February 28th, 2017 in Tampa, Florida. Chef Uzi provides a culinary space to not only enjoy classic Tijuana style dishes, but also venture into new daring Mexican-American twists. With his madre and tia in the kitchen making corn tortillas and flavorful salsas from scratch every morning, you will taste the freshness in every aspect of the food.

There is always something unique to choose from on our menu. Sit down and enjoy a drink from our extensive selection of Mexican Beers and Locally Crafted Beers while waiting for your food to be cooked fresh to order. Call ahead and place an order to pick-up and enjoy in the comfort of your own home.

Although we are currently only located in Seminole Heights, you can visit us at our restaurant for dine-in or take an order to go, or you can visit our Food Truck at one of the local bars or breweries. Follow us on facebook to stay up-to-date on everything.

ORDER ONLINE FROM OUR RESTAURANT FOR PICK-UP

*CALL US FOR DELIVERY. We only deliver within a 2 mile radius of the restaurant. Delivery subject to driver availability. We require a $20 minimum for delivery, tax and delivery fee not included.

We have catered weddings, birthday parties, corporate events, baby showers, and more! See below for a list of a few of the places we have catered for:

Cirque Du Soleil

Stadium Toyota

Mercedes Benz of Tampa

Infiniti of Tampa

Winters & Yonker

College Hunks Hauling Junk & Moving

Hillsborough High School

Ultimate Medical Academy

Christ Fellowship Church

Skycrest Christian Academy

Lowe’s Home Improvement

Universal Spine & Joint Specialists

Tampa Glazer Children’s Museum

Walmart

Please call or email us with the details of your event so we can provide a quote and schedule a catering for you. We might even be able to bring one of our food trucks!*

*Please note that in order to book one of our food trucks we require a minimum guarantee of $200/hour. A $100 booking fee might also apply depending on the distance.