Amanda Seyfried has posted snaps with the actress who plays her character Karen Smith in the 2024 musical adaptation of the 2004 chick-flick classic Mean Girls.

Mean Girls became a huge success after its release 20 years ago with many memorable lines (“That’s so fetch!” being one of them). It starred the 90s and early 2000s it-girl Lindsay Lohan, Rachel McAdams, Lacey Chabert, and Amanda Seyfried. The movie centers around a homeschooled girl named Cady Heron (Lohan) who moves to America from South Africa. She infiltrates a clique known as The Plastics and quickly learns how messy high school can be. Now, Amanda has celebrated the new release by sharing pictures with the cast member who plays her character.

Amanda Seyfried shares Mean Girls snaps

In the film, the Hollywood actress plays Karen Smith, a blonde-haired ditzy girl who claims she can predict when it’s about to rain by grasping her bust. Taking to Instagram, the 38-year-old shared two snaps with fans of her posing with Avantika Vandanapu.

One photo shows the pair glancing away from one another, while the other sees them staring at each other in mock shock. In both photos, Amanda has her hands on her chest in homage to her character.

She captioned the post: “Karen meet Karen” and added a clapper board and pink bow emoji.

MORE: Jodie Foster told to ‘retire’ after calling most of Gen Z ‘annoying’

Fans call the pictures ‘iconic’

In the comments, fans were overwhelmed with nostalgia at Amanda Seyfried posting about the Mean Girls musical.

One fan wrote: “Omg this is so fetch!!! [sparkling pink heart and pink bow emoji].”

Another commented: “I’m obsessed.”

A third said: “Okay that’s iconic.”

A fourth penned: “[Heart eyes. emoji] ahhhh!!! Love this.”

Amanda said she was open to making a cameo

Last year, the celebrity said she was “100%” up for making an appearance in the new film. Amanda Seyfried suggested she and the other three women could play moms of characters in the Mean Girls musical. However, she said then she had not yet been involved.

She told Entertainment Tonight: “I’m still hoping for a miracle. It’s not really up to us, is it? All four of us are 100 percent into it,” she added.

“Maybe the mothers of our characters? That’s what I was thinking, but listen, I have not even seen the script.”

Unfortunately, Amanda doesn’t have a role in the musical adaptation of Mean Girls alongside Avantika Vandanapu’s version of Karen, but she did recently reprise the role in a Walmart commercial for Black Friday. The commercial reveals where The Plastic ended up – though Rachel didn’t make an appearance as Regina George – and it turns out Karen reports the weather, so her “fifth sense” must’ve come in handy!

MORE: Robin Williams’ film Jumanji thankfully dodged ‘crazy’ sequel idea