The Awesome Foundation is a global community advancing the interest of awesome in the universe, $1000 at a time.

Each fully autonomous chapter supports awesome projects through micro-grants, usually given out monthly. These micro-grants, $1000 or the local equivalent, come out of pockets of the chapter’s “trustees” and are given on a no-strings-attached basis to people and groups working on awesome projects.

WHAT DO YOU MEAN BY “AWESOME?”

Every chapter interprets “awesome” for itself. As such, awesome projects include initiatives in a wide range of areas including arts, technology, community development, and more. Many awesome projects are novel or experimental, and evoke surprise and delight. Awesome sometimes challenges and often inspires. Browse some grants on the chapter pages of this site to see what we mean! We’re still waiting for something with dinosaurs (hint, hint).

DOES ANYONE ELSE KNOW ABOUT THIS?

We’ve had lots of great media coverage since our humble beginnings in 2009. Some of our favourite pieces have been from The New York Times, BBC, CBC, WGBH, Chronicle of Philanthropy, and The Boston Globe.

HOW DOES IT ALL WORK? WHICH CHAPTER SHOULD I APPLY TO? WHEN WILL I HEAR BACK?

For answers to these and other frequently asked questions, please visit our FAQ.

CONTACT

Got an awesome idea? Apply for a grant!

To reach a specific chapter, please use the e-mail link at the top of the chapter’s page, under the Chapters section of this site. Or, for general global inquiries, you can drop us a line at contact@awesomefoundation.org (we are unable to provide updates or feedback with regard to applications at this address).

You can also connect with us on Twitter and Facebook.

If you’re interested in starting your own chapter, which involves assembling a group of at least ten “trustees” willing to each contribute $100 (or the local equivalent) every month toward the grant, please get in touch at join@awesomefoundation.org.

FAQs

IS THIS FOR REAL?

Yes.

WHERE DOES THE MONEY COME FROM?

Each chapter provides its own grants. Typically, ten “trustees” each contribute $100 (or the local equivalent) toward a monthly grant, though some chapters have more trustees sharing the load.

IS THIS AN INVESTMENT OR LOAN?

No. All chapters provide grants with no strings attached and claim no ownership over the projects they support. We do not wish for the funds to be repaid.

HOW ARE YOU ORGANIZED?

Very loosely, with each chapter operating entirely independently, and almost none formally registered as organizations. Most chapters are geographic, but a few are organized along thematic lines. A small community of volunteers takes care of the global shared infrastructure.

WHO CAN APPLY?

Anyone is eligible for a grant — individuals, groups, and organizations alike. If you can fill out the application form, you can apply.

WILL YOU SUPPORT MY PROJECT?

The only way to find out for sure if a chapter will support your project is to apply — it doesn’t take long! Still, while every chapter is different, some types of projects are generally not supported — typically ones that are personal and limited in their community impact, and existing efforts that would not see significant incremental benefit from a small grant.

WHICH CHAPTER SHOULD I APPLY TO?

Most chapters show a strong preference for projects that contribute to their own communities, though some occasionally consider applications from further afield. Try to apply to a chapter near you, in a location where you have roots, or that you think would have a particular interest your idea. If this isn’t possible, you can select “Any” on the application form, or apply to one of a handful of thematic chapters.

CAN I APPLY TO MORE THAN ONE CHAPTER?

Yes, if you think more than one chapter might be interested in your idea. However, we’d encourage you to mention in your applications which other chapter or chapters you’ve applied to.

WHEN WILL I HEAR BACK?

Most chapters meet monthly to review applications and decide on a recipient — though some chapters make decisions at live “pitch” events open to the public. If you haven’t heard anything within a few months of applying, it’s likely your project was not selected. Most chapters continue to consider applications from previous months, however, so there’s no need to apply again unless your idea has changed.

HOW CAN I GET INVOLVED?

We’d love for you to help out! First and foremost, if you know someone with awesome ideas that need support, you should send them our way. But if you want to go the next mile and become a trustee, please reach out to your local chapter. If there isn’t a local chapter, and you’d like to start one, drop us a line at join@awesomefoundation.org.