Action Adventure Genre – What’s the best definition for the action adventure genre? Books in the action adventure genre not only have the action sequences seen in the action genre, but the plots continue into an adventure that takes the characters on a personal journey or to different geographical locations. A good example would be the James Bond series. action and/or adventure often mesh with other genres such as crime, romance, suspense, or science fiction (Sci Fi).

Scroll below now to see 25 action adventure fiction genre examples,

or click here to see all fiction genres.

* * *

Action Adventure Genre – Examples

Review this list of popular examples to help you get a better understanding of the action adventure fiction genre.

1. The Hunger Games by Suzanne Collins

2. Catching Fire by Suzanne Collins

3. Mockingjay by Suzanne Collins

4. The Da Vinci Code by Dan Brown

5. The Lightning Thief by Rick Riordan

6. Angels & Demons by Dan Brown

7. Divergent by Veronica Roth

8. Stormbreaker by Anthony Horowitz

9. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows by J.K. Rowling

10. Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone by J.K. Rowling

11. Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban by J.K. Rowling

12. Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire by J.K. Rowling

13. Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix by J.K. Rowling

14. Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince by J.K. Rowling

15. The Battle of the Labyrinth by Rick Riordan

16. The Sea of Monsters by Rick Riordan

17. Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets by J.K. Rowling

18. The Titan’s Curse by Rick Riordan

19. The Last Olympian by Rick Riordan

20. The Hobbit by J.R.R. Tolkien

21. Jurassic Park by Michael Crichton

22. The Lost Symbol by Dan Brown

23. The Lost Hero by Rick Riordan

24. Eragon by Christopher Paolini

25. The Maze Runner by James Dashner

* * *

Action Adventure Genre – Related Book Genres

* Action Genre Definition

* Adventure Genre Definition

* Crime Fiction Genre

* Espionage Fiction Genre

* Mystery Genre Definition

* Spy Fiction Genre