XA.YING THE r OUNDA.TION-STONE OF THE

ROMAN CATHOLIC CATHEDRAL OF SC

MARY.

The benediction and laying of the foundation-atone of St. Mary's

Bomui Catholic Cathedral, or at least of that portion of the in

tended edifice which is at present in the coarse of erection, took

piece on Tuesday, on, and immediately adjacent to, toe actual site

of the old building. The principal part in the accustomed cere

mony was, according to the Roman Pontifical, performed by tbe

Archbishop, the Most Rev. John Bede Folding, who was assisted

by hie suffragan prelates, the Roman Catholic Bishops of Mait

land, Bathuret, Goulburn, and Eaos, by a large body of the

clergy, and many thousands of the laity.

It is intended, for the present, to go on with the choir, tran

septs, and nave of this spacious and magnificent structure

to the length of about 2.0 feet in the clear — so as ta

fully complete tboee parts of the sew cathedral before

commencing the remaining portion towards Woolloomooloo

street; and it ie not too much to state that the

progress of the work already made was yesterday found by the

public tc De sucli as luuy to jusuty the conclusion tnat it will

not be many years before such a completion must come to pass,

and the church be ready for use. In regard to the exact position

of the building, It may be proper to observe that what is com

monly called ' orientation ' has been altogether disregarded.

From the necessities of tbe situation, arising chiefly out of the

great size of the intended structure, the new cathedral of St.

Mary will f ange from north to south ; the choir being towards tbe

north, and the western side of the church in the College-street

line of frontage, lu entire length, when completed, will be 350

feet, its leait breadth being about '4 feet. Thus finished St.

Mary's will, it i« believed, be larger than either tbe cathedrals of

Chester, Rochester, Carlisle, Bristol, or Oxford, and not much In

ferior, in its dimensions, to the cathedrals of Hereford, and

or Wells The portion it is proposed to immediately complete

will be of about tbe length of Carlisle Cathedral, and be very con

siderably larger than either of the cathedrals of Bristol and

Oxford.

The design (from the accomplished and experienced pencil of

Mr. W. W. Wardell, of Victoria), is cruciform in its general

plan, and comprises a nave and aisles, two transepts and aisles,

and a choir with (astern and western uielei One of the distin

guishing features of the general design of the church will be its

vn usual breadOi, in which it will bear a somewhat close analogy

to the Cathedral of Lincoln. The entire length is to be about 350

feet, and the width, within the transepts, 118 feet ; the width

acioeg the nave and aisles being about 74 feet between

the walls. It will, when fully complete, nearly occupy tbe

entire length of the ground from fit Mary's Road to WooUoo

mooloo-etreet. Viewed from the Domain gate, the northern front

(in which there ie to be a very large altar window) will have a

very striking effect. Indeed, from the commanding situation

which the Cathedral is to occupy, and the grandeur of the whole

design. 6t. Mary's cannot fail to prove a most remarkable and

Beautiful ornament to the city. The space within the choir

?dotted for the high altar and sanctuary will be about forty-five

feet in length, and will be surrounded by the aieles and lateral

chapels. Ine organ chamber is to be on the east side of the choir,

and opining iron the choir uiel.s by pillars and arches, The

nave, choir, and transepts will be about ninety feet in height from

tliefloorof thecburoh and will be divided from the aiBles re

rpFCiivcly by pillars end arches about Udrty-five feet in height.

Over the aisles, and opening Into tbe nave, choir, and transepts

throughout, will be a triforium, and above the triforlum a spacious

clerestory. There will, moreover, be a central tower or lantern at

the intersection of the nave and tmnecpts with a clear Interior

height from tbe floor of the churohof 120 feet; and at the

contbern end of tbe church, next Woolloomooloo-rtreet, there

will he two towen with spires, about 260 feet hi height. Oiring

to the paramount moesslty for economising the expenditure as

jnuch as powlble-s nocestltv made still more urgent from the

cost entailed by the extraordinary depths to which it m essential ?

to fso 'fur fovBdutions — tbe erchitect bas. it is understood, been

compelled to abandon the Introduction of Btone vaulted oeillnirs,

and to have recourse to the ordinary wooden roof. Tbe founds,

lions, however, are Bo eoliily constructed that these vaulted

ceilings may yet be built, If it should be deemed desirable. Mr,

John Young is the contractor for the works, which are being

carried out under the supervision o[ Mr. TbomlB Eves, the

tteeident Clerk of tbe Works. The Architect, as we have already

Intimated, is Mr. Wardell. Hr. Young's present contract will

carry ibe walls to the height of forty feet— about one-hull' of their

intended height. It is impossible to speak too highly 67 the work,

or of the material upon which it has been exhibited. The stones

used have all been hewn out of the Fyrmonl Quarries ; of enor

mous size without a single fault to be found in them— the very

best that could be got.

In addition to the cathedral proper, the design includes two

lurpe sacristies, each tl feet by 20 feet, with strong room for

church plate, and other necessary offices, a spacious chapter

house, and a residence for tbe Archbishop. This will comprise

tbe usual offices tor the Vicar-General anu Private Secretary, be

sides accommodation fur the resident clergy, and the apartments

for the Arcbbisbop, libraries, domestic chapel, reception

rooms, &c Tbe a- eign of tbe whole pile is of tbe early deco

rate or geometrical period of painted architecture, and, though of

tbe eimpleei character, bid; fair to realise a thoroughly cccle

piutlfcal and commodious edifice, well suited to its purposes and

not unworthy of the Metropolitan city in these Australian cola

nit s.

Tbe people began to assemble In tbe nortn-eastein portion

of the tucloture of Et. Mary's shortly after 10 o'clock—

in obedience to the summons of a iojful peal from

the belli of the Cathedral, wbicb are now hung in

the si.uih-wcstcrn tower, the only portion or the old

mince that has not been utterly destroyed. From that hour to

tot commencement of the service perions continued to anive in

sreut numbers, until between two and three thousand persons

must have beeii present. To the northward of the exact site or

the luture bigh mur of tbe Church— marked by a cross standing

about twelve feet bigb— wub a large tent for the accommodation

of tbe m~yor and aim-risen of the city, and numerous other gen

tlemen, who bad bet n specially invited to attend. Amongdl tbe

vast concourse who witnessed tbe ceremony were Mousieur L F.

Kii.tis (the French consul), Bcnor Don E. San Juat (tbe Spanish

consul), tbe Captain of the Marjeau, Captain Purcell, Mr.

Cropper, Hr. Justice Fauceit. the Hon. T. A. Marr.y,

Mr. W. B. JJullev, Mr. W. Butler, Mr. Edward Bennett.

Mr. W. A. Duncan. Mr. Cbarles Moore (the Mayor

of Sydnry). Mr Alderman Butler, Mr. Alderman Caraher,

Mr. Aldeiman Chapman, Mr. Alderman Hordern, Mr,

Aldtrn an Hurley, Mr. Alderman Murphv, Mr Alderman

Kteel, Mr.J. Hart, M.L.A, Mr. Uuriey, M.L.A., Mr. John E.

Manning, the Very Eev. Dr. Forrest, the Rector of St.

John's ; Dr. Guboolcv, Fellow of Hi John's ; Mr.

U.urles Le-tt, Mr. Cutbbe-rt, Mr Montagu Scott, Mr. James

Mulline, Mr. Robert Covtny, Mr. Frie-1, Mr. Barlow. Mr. Jere

niiuh Donovan! Mr. JumiB Curtis, Mr. William Curtis. Mr. Kubie,

Mr. Jeremiah Moore, Mr. John Uourigan, Mr, M'Cirlhy, and

ruuny other gei'tienien and citizens taking an interest in Ibe cere

mony. Tbe Most Rev. tbe Areubitbop, on bis arrival at the

mod southernmost lent, was accompanied by Dr. Murray, the

BubopolMnitland; Dr. M, Quiuu, tbe Bishop ol Bathurst ; Dr.

LuDigiin, the Bisbop of Goulbuin; and Monsclgneur d'Enos, the

Vicar Apostolic of Uceanica. The Vicar-General (Dr. Sheeny) and

about bixty other priests of the archdiuce-se were also

pretext, and took part in tbe proceedings. The Archbishop

and Blesops wtre vested with rochet, amice, alb, girdle, and

stole, and wore white copes and mitres. Each prelate was accom

panied by his chaplain. Tbe ruiiro and robes of the Archtmoop

«tre magnificent in the extreme. Four or five of the principal

clergy likewise wore copts, but mo&t of tbe priests appeared in

tbeir catsocks and surplices. The cantors were the Vicar-General,

and the Kcv. Messrs unyer, O'ConncU. and Quirk. These gen

tlemen were assisted by Mr. Cordner, the organist of the

Cathedral.

HiB Grace fully robed, and holding the crosier in his left hand,

firtt blested the salt and water in the appointed form, after which

tbe cboir chanted the an'iptaon Signum calutls pone, and tbe

Psalm Quam dilecta. This being ended, tbe Archbishop, stand

ing towards tbe place wbereon he had already spriBkled the

water which had been blessed, recited the prayer, ' O Lord

God, who, although the heaves and earth cannot con

tain thce, tc.' In this prayer the name of tbe Virgin Mary

was expreesly mentioned as being that of tbe saint after whom

the church was to be called, and a blessing was invoked upon

tbe place, and upon the work.

The Rev, Pabee Babsaxti preached an eloquent sermon in

English, taking for his text the 16th verse of the 28th chapter or

Isaiah :— ' Therefore-, thus saith tbe Lord God : Behold I will

lay a stone in the foundations of Ziou ; a tried stone, a corner

stone, a precious stone, founded in the foundation He that

believeth let bim not hasten.' The reverend preacher, although

called upon to address a vast audience in a language wherein his

difficulties were obviously those of pronunciation alone, was

listened to throughout bis discourse with a breathless interest.

Be began by informing bis hearers from what portion of the

Sacred Scriptures it was that he had selected his text, which

they would find in a chapter of the Prophecy of

Isaiah ; a chapter sublime and deeply interesting to

them, and to all members of tbe Catboiic Church.

That chapter, he said, was sublime, interesting, and suggestive

of elevated thoughts; and sublime, also interesting, and sigbiy

suggestive was that ceremony which they had begun, and were

about to complete upon that ever memorable day consecrated by

the Church to the Immaculate Conception of the ever Blessed

Mother of God. In the presence of tbeir beloved and venerable

Archbishop, and of bis respected suffragan prelates, he was there

to address a few words to them upon that occasion, and fervently

he prayed that God night cause the truth to sink deep into all

their hearts. The laying of a foundation eurae to such an edifice

as that wa6 no common task, but a work with sncha bigh object

tbat the eye of faith might see much more in it than the mere

outward act ; for by tbe thoughts which tbat outward act sug

gested, they might find themselves readily furnished with argu

ments on behalf of their most holy religion, Tbe action of laying

the foundation stone of a church was something truly great

and elevated; and their assembling for such an object

was naturally calculated to move their beans, to quicken their

memories, and to awaken their liveliest regrets. Who of them

all, at such a time, could help turning himself back in thought to

tbe old St. Mary's — the church where they had so often come to

prey to Almighty God, and there to enjoy communion with Him

on earth, as He hod been pleased to provide. It was Impossible

for them to stand there and tot be carri d back to the high

masses at which it had be-n their privilege to be present, to tbe

vespers, and to all the other ordinances of their Church, in which

they had in that edifice so long served their God. In the midst

of the concourse of the faithful who were there wont to assemble

from all pans of the country (like God's peopleof old), how

pleasant it was to spend one day of prayer and of praise. No;

they could not forget their old cathedral with its happy days, and

its hallowed associations. But God's ways in his dealings

with man were inscrutable, they were not as our wayB ; a fire

burst out and consumed tbat edifice, destroying what they loved

so much in a few brief moments. It had been hard for them to

see the band of God in that, and yet it bad, most unquestionably,

bees there. They, in the first anguish of their feelings under

tbat blow, bad, indeed, deemed it a disastrous and most calamit

ous conflagration, but from henceforth let them rather esteem it

a happy fire, for from the flames of that fire blessings, through

the loving mercy of their God, bad arisen to fall upon the Catho

lic Church throughout all the land. God, as tbe great St.

Augustine hud well said, knew how to bring good out of evil,

and it had been His will to do so in this present instance. The

burning of St, Mary's Cathedral, although it had so grieved

them all to tbe very heart, bad been the means of furnishing

proof of the kind feelings entenained for them by tnousands who

were cot with them in tbe unity of the faith, and by persons in

high station and influence who were known to be of other re

ligions. And then, tbe calamity which hid occurred had, in God's

providence, proved to be a means for the strengthening of their

faith and trust in bim. It had stirred them up to lend a ready

snd a liberal hand to the work that was set before them ; it had

shewn them the greatness of the sacrifice demanded of them, and

tbe true extent of tbeir Christian duty ; it bad exacted from the

faithful the willing admission that they were clearly called upon

to erect another, more spacious and more beautiful structure than

that which the fire had consumed— a church more suitable to its

intend d use, more worthy of the worship of Almighty God.

They were called upon to do ibis, too, in an infidel age ;

as age in which the faith of some had waxed dim,

wben tbe speculations of error were boldly put

forth to be substituted for the unwavering reception

of fundamental truth. The material constructions of the Church

were all correct and significant representatives of the Spiritual

Church of Christ. ' Behold I will lay a stone is the foundations

of Sios, a tried Btone, a cornerstone, a precious Btone, founded ia

the foundation.' It was of that stone, of which St Peter and St.

Paul had also spoken, that he desired to speak to them that day.

Christ, our Lord, had been pleased to declare Himself in the

Holy Scriptures to be a stone because there were some particular

attributes of His Divine nature, ef which we could not otherwise

have been made fully aware, or have beep at all benefited by such

knowledge, had He not so revealed Himself. St. Cvpriansaid

tbat Christ was the Stone seen by tbe prophet Zacharias, upon

wbich were seven eyes, which were the seven sacraments

of ChriBt; a stone of wbich it was written:— 'I will

grave tbe graying thereof, saith the Lord of Hosts, and I will

take away the iniquity of tbat land in one day.' Christ was the

stone prefigured by that upon which the wearied Patriarch Jacob

reposed his bead, when he saw, as in a prophetic dream, a ladder

reaching down to it from heaven, eo that the angels could descend

and reascend thereby. Be, too, was the Stone upon which Moses

wrote the tables ot tbe law, and presented them to the people of

Israel . It was by Him that we came to know the law, and it was

in Him that we saw the law fulfilled unto a perfect obedience.

He, also, was the Bt/rae struck by Moses, from the striking of

which came forth the waters of life, flowing freely for the refresh

ment of His people. Christ— said the) preacher— is that Stone

wbich David, by faith, took out of a running stream, and with wbicb

he mortally wounded Goliath the great enemy of the people of

God ; for Christ is the glorious warrior, who, on our behalf, has

struck down the devil. He is the. stone that Josias set up as i

testimony unto the people of Israel for ever. He is the tried

etone, tbe cornerstone, the precious Btone — the foundation stone

upon which rests all the superstructure of our Sion.

Tbe prcocker further proceeded to say that the text appeared

to him to be as a frame, in wbich, like a picture, or like a mirror,

was presented to our view all the great truth b of the Catholic

religion. As a houEC could not stand without a solid and sure

foundation, so, of course, it was with the Church of Christ. The

Apostles were not primary, but secondary, stones in the Church ;

the primary stone was Christ, upon whom the whole fabric was

icared. On Him, the great foundation stone, the first and the

most excellent, was the weight of the whole building imposed.

If this was so, bow blind must nottbose men be of tbo so-called

ll- formed Religion, who bad departed from tbe old faith— who

had abandoned tbe original and true foundation, — who bad at

tempted to found their new structures without the clear sanction

of a sew revelation. But tbat Church which was built upon

Christ be its foundation must stand fast for ever, and those who

built upon any otber were only too like the foolish man who

built his bouse upon the sumi. Christ was not divided, and his

Church was one ; as He, Himself, had said: 'He that is not

with me is against me.' Our Lord had selected Peter

from amongst bis disciples to represent him ; it was

to St. Teter that he bad given tbe keys or heaven ;

it was to. bim that He bad promised that His Church should

continue to stand to tbe end of time. It was St. Peter also who

bad been appointed to feed Christ's sheep and lambs. Our Lord

had appointed Peter to be tbe representative of Him, the

primary stone. When Cbriet bad said u to Peter, ' Tbou art

Peter, and upon this rock will I build tny Church,' He spoke

not merely to that first of the apostles, but to all the Roman

Pontiffs who should come after that apostle, succeeding him in

n gulur und uninterrupted succession in the chair of St. Peter.

Each one of these, in bis turn, bad been primary stones re

presenting. Christ, the great primary stone upon which

they all rested ; neither wind nor wave could ever sweep

what bad been to fitly builded away. It was

established on a rock, raised upon a foundation that could not be

other tban secure. But tbe enemies of Christ denied the truth of

this y and sot only did His open enemies do so, but even amongrt

tbe faithful there were those who were thus being led astray.

They must do as they listed, but for all this they would, most

assuredly, be brought unto judgment.

In hi- text, Chrirt was spoken of is three different terms— as

the 'tried' stone, as the 'corner' stone, and as the 'pre-

cious' stone. He would touch upon tbe first two of these some

what briefly, that he might have tbe more lime to insist upon the

third. The preacher here proceeded to print out that in tbe days

of the old low there was tbe Jew and tbe Gentile— tbe one the

elect of God; the other, tbe reprobate and cast

away. Christ had changed all that— for he came into

tbe world to save the Jew and tbe Gentile alike.

Chiist in his body bad united the Jew and tbe Gentile together,

and bad given to both an equal right to the blessings which He

came to dispense. Christ became tbe Father of all that believed

in Him, whether Jew or Gentile. But the Jews had rejected

Our Bleeeed Lord, and then He bud turned to tbe Gentiles.

Truly He was tbe tried stone, the sacred and tbe mystical stone

—the stone tbat bad been beth rejected and eboten— tbe great

corner stone upon which rested the whole weight of tbe Church

of God But Christ was, moreover, called a '? precious' stone

because hi Him were united the two natures— tho nature of God

and the nature of man, In Els body (suca a« He wag

pleased to take upon him) there was to be seen tbe

wonderful union of two natures, and therefore He wu,

by a figure, called tnePrrdous Stone. Christ wu also the Living

Btone, or the Btone of Life, having light and life in himself, and

bring the author of light and life for others. By a similar

figure St. P.ul also spoke of Christians as 'living stones.'

Cbriet was indei d tbe tried stone, a etone rejected by the builders.

Vi bat had not the Wicked One done since He was made manifest

in ibis world to ussbuU the strength of our mystical 8ion ! Toe

Jtws at Jerusalem had tried the myetical stone ; they had rejected

it. and with bitter revilings had crucified the Lord of Glory.

Then csme tie cruel persecutions of the Pagans tgsinst the

early Church ; then the simibarbariNn and immorality of several

succreduig ages ; then the so-called Reformations of England and

of Germany in the 16th ccstury, and lastly the wide-spread in

fidelity of the present cay. All these things had, in succession,

eortlv tiled the Head Corner Stone, but still it stood in its place

unchangeable and unchanged.

Tbe rev. preacher next proceeded to refer at some considerable

krgth. to the mystery of the dream of tbe King of Babylon,

epi dally reveal* d to ibe prophet Daniel, as recorded in the second

chapter of Daniel He described to his hearers, in animated

tiims, the terrible statue of gold, silver, brass, iron, and da;,

and expatiated upon the destruction of that sym

bolical colossus by 'a stone cut without hands.' Daniel

said tbat the stone had struck the statue on

the fret that were made of iron and day, and broke then all to

, iices— tbe destruction so caused continuing until the whole

statue was broken up and swept away, the stsne which bod

struck that emblem becoming a mountain, filling the whole earth,

Tbe learned divine argued tbat this stone wa* also Christ, who

should put all things beneath Dim and reign over tbe whole

earth, utterly destroying thd unsightly and incongruously cotn

poundid Colossus of Error, Wicked and fo-illub were those

sectarians and ucbelie.era who attempted to establish the

reign of their delusions on the vainly expected fall of the

kingdom of Christ. Whosoever should full upon that

sioi/e it would hurt bim ; but upon whomsoever that st me

should fall it would grind bim to powder. There was neither

xniebt, nor power, nor strength against tbe Lion of Juelah.

Tbe preacher farther explained that the 'Stone cut without

bands,' was clearly meant for Christ,— who of his own free will,

and moved only by his love to man, took upon him our nature,

and assumed the task of our redemption. Tbe rev. father here

made a pointed allusion to tue dogma of tbe Roman Catholic

Church, to which tbat day was specially consecrated, and spoke

in tloquent terms ef tbe happiness enjoyed by the Archbishop

on that day. Surrounded by his suffragan bishops, the

beloved representative of tbe representative of Christ, tbe Arch

birhop might, after that day, almost exclaim with Simeon,

' Lord, now let thy servant depart it pence, according to thy

word, tor mine eyes bava seen thy salvation.' ^2?ne Benson

concluded with a very striking appeal to all the members of the

Koman Catholic Church then present, iuviting them to come

forward with liberal contributions. To them who rightly

believed in Cnritt, tbat Stone of wbich he had spoken was given

for life and for salvation ; but to them who believed not, that

none was no means of strength, but a stumbling block, and a

rock of perdition.

Tbe h in on being ended, Mr, Robert Coveny and Mr. James

Mullins approached the Archbishop, and on behalf of the com

n litre (as the honorary treasurers of tbe same) presented his

Grace with a splendid gold trowel, manufactured for the occa

sion4 by Mr. Delarue, of George-street. This very beautiful work

of an excited universal admiration. The metallic part, or blade

of thetlowelis of solid gold, weighing about twelve ounces.

Tbe handle is of ivory, handsomely finished, but of a somewhat

giuin and simple pattern. At the junction of the blade with the

andle is a shield bearing the Archbishop's arms, blazoned with

the arms of the Arcbiepifcopal See. Near this skield (and con

necting it with the handle) isai-olid figure of an angel with

expanded wings. On tbe broadest portion of the trowel-blade

are representation* ot the. late, and of the intended. Cathedral of

St. Mary. Tbe whole workmanship demands the highest praise.

Below the bas-reliefs is tbe following inscription :—

' Arpo Sidneienei et Hetrop. Australia}

Solio pontificali assistenti,

Primarium Lapirlem

Eccl Calhtedrai. 8. Maria; instanrandae

benedicturo et posiluro,

Fcsto Immac Concep. B, V. M.,

A. 8. U6B,

Viri Electi,

Quibus demandatus e-6t ccdificationis

in vieilandee et promovende

GraliStimnii labor '

The Bishop then, standing without his mitre, blessed the first

stone, eBying the vcraclet, and offering up the following

prayers : —

?? O Lord Jesus Christ, Son of the living God, who art true God

Almighty, the splendour and image of the Eternal Father, who

art the cornersiunecut out from the mountain without hands ;

and the unchangeable foundation; establish this stone to be

placed in thy name ; and thou who art the beginning and the end,

in wbicb beginning God tbe Father created all things from the

firEt ; be tbou, we beseech tbee, the beginning and the increase,

and the finishing of tbe work itself, which is to be begun to the

praise and glory of thy name. Who, with the Father and the

Holy Spirit, livest and reignest, God, world without end. Amen.'

*' Holy Lord, Father Almighty, everlasting God, vouchsafe to

blese this stone for the foundation of a church in

honour of Saint N. Through our Lord Jews Cbriet, thy

Son: a tried stone, a corner stone, a precious etone,

fonnded in tbe foundation, concerning which tbe

Apostle saith, But the Rock was Christ. Who, with Thee and the

Holy Ghost liveth and reigneth, God, world without end.

Amen.'

His Grace then blessed the stone, using the words ' Benedic

Domine creaturam istam lapidie, &c.' Next was said er rather

chanted, the Litany of the 6oints, the priest chanting the

tuflrageE. After that the Archbi-hop began tbe antiphon,

'Mane snrgess Jacob, &c.,' tbe cboir following him

and chanting the Psalm 'Nisi Dominns.' This having

bees done, tbe Prelate, standing in bis mitre touched

tbe Etone, and placed it in the foundation, saying

theEe words :—' In fide Jesu Christi collocamus lapidem istum

primarium in hoc fundamento : In nomine Fatris, et Filii, et

Kpiritue Sascti. ut vigeat vera fides hie, et timor Dei, frateraaque

dilectio, et sic hie locus destiuatus oration}, et ad invocandum,

et laudasdumnomenejusdemDomisi nostri JesuChristi, qui cum

Patre, et 6piritu Sanaa vivit et regnat Den.', per omnia scecula

t&culorom B Amen '

Tbe stone was then properly set by the mason, and the

Psalms 'Miserere mci Deus,' ' Fundaments ejus,' and

' Laitatus sum,' with the appropriate antipbons, were

sung by the choir. Tbe Archbiehjp, with tbe bishops and clergy

following, then went round tbe foundations. After some further

prayers the 'Veni Creator SpirituB' was sung, at the end of

which the service was concluded by two appropriate prayers,

offered up by the Archbishop.

The inicriptien on the brasB plate affixed to the foundation

stone of St. Mary's is as follows :—

In nomioe Jesu Christi,

Primarium bunc lapidem

Ecclcsitc Cathedralis Stoe Marisc,

prope 6itum prioris acdificii,

conflagratione die xxix Junii. 1.1. uocccLxv,

penitue diruti,

amplificandee tamen et 6umptuosius in6taurandasf solemni ritu

benedixit et posuit.

Illmus et Rmus Johannes Beda Polding, O.S B.,

Arpus Eidneieneii necnon Metrop. Australia?,

medius inter Illmus et Rmus Epos suo' saffraganeos,

Meibowncnstm, Brisbanenrem, Bathurstensem, Maitlandensem,

et Goulburnsem,

Quibus aetabat Rmns et Illmus Ep .Xnensis, 8 .M.

LstiBsimo Immac. Concep B. V M. Festo,

Anno Salutis, hdccclxvhi ,

Aseistente maxima corona presbyterorum, ingentique laicorum,

comitante frequentia fidelium,

Preces dona gratiarum actiones,

Deo Uno, et Trino Omnium bonorum Larctitori, gratissimo cordis

affectu effundientium,

Pio Xono, Eummo Fontifice feliciter regnante,

Victoria Britanniarum Regina,

Fjusdem, vices in hac colonia prafecto gereute Honoratmo

Comite de Belmore,

Rev. Adm. S. J. Sbeehy, O.S B., VioGenl. : Revdis Dmnis M. J.

Dwyer, P. F. O'Farrell, M. P. Fitzpatrick,! J. Gurvey,

P. J. Healcy,

Pnsbytttis Missionariis Cathedralis, MinUteris addictfs.

Gul. W. Wardell, Architecto.

Joannes Toung, Operum Redemptore.

SOLI DEO OLOEIl.

The amount collected at the close of the ceremony has not yet

been exactly ascertained, but it is believed to be over £1700.

The ceremony having been concluded, his Grace proceeded to

the platform, and resumed his seat surrounded by the bishops

and dergy who had aeFisted. A committee which had been ap

pointed at a public meeting to prepare an address of congratula

tion to bis Grace then approached, headed by the Hon. J. H.

Plunkctt, who presented to him the following address, stating

tbat the pleasure he felt in doing so was enhanced by the recol

lection that thirty-three years ago r e had on nearly tbe same

ground presented an address to his Grace on his arrival in tbe

colony.

?? To the Most Reverend John Bede Polding, Archbishop of

Sydney and Metropolitan.

' May it please your Grace,—

?? On this most solemn and eventful occasion, we, the Catholics

of the dioceEe of Sydney, beg to offer to your Grace the expression

orourheerty congratulations on the auspicious undertaking of

to-dsy.

' Tbe sorrow arising from the calamity by which in a few

hours we were deprived of tbe sacred edifice which for upwards

of thirty years had been tbe mother chuich of Australia,

was to us the more difficult to bear, because we knew

bow bitter end bow deep would be the suffering of

your Grace for tbat great Iocs. With the edifice then

destroyed all tbe dearest and holiest associations of your

Eccles astical Government of thiB portion of Christendom were

intertwined. It was itself a great historic fact testifying the

vitality and self-sscrificing spirit of our faith, by manifesting

how, under the darkest and most discouraging circumstances, a

worthy temple to the Moet High bad been raised and adorned by

the piety and munificence of a former generation.

' It was, however, our great consolation that your Grace was

npbeld in the midst of your affliction by the generous asd noble

sympathies of the people of this country. Not to us alone

who were bound by the bondB of faith and obedience

belonged tbe exclusive privilege of manifesting how largely your

Grace bad won the confidence and esteem of the people of this

country. Ton had then the unspeakable happiness of discovering

that your tolerance, your charity, your thirty years of blameless

and exemplary life among our fellow colonist*, who do not recog

nise your spiritual authority, had borne fruit in the universal

expression of sympathy with your Grace's sorrow and with ours.

' And now tbe moment has arrived when, assisted by the

generosity of many of tboee separated from us in religious

opinions, we have commenced the erection of a building, the pro

portions and magnificence of wbich will be tbe noblest monument

of yoor Grace's rule, and the most enduring testimony of our

faith and love.

' We owe- much to these who have so aided us ia our effort!

toward b the erection and completion of a structure which, while

it will be to ub tbe House of God, Bill only be to them a great

architectural adornment of this city- We acknowledge thU great

obligation, and the consciousness of it has assisted us to bear for

lhiir sekes much thatin recent times we have been called upon

in tbe good Providence of God to endure. In your Grace's

character and public services, as the head of our Cburcb in Aus

tralia, we have found ample refutation of the calumnies of those

unhappy people wbo would represent our faith as a conspiracy

against loyalty and human liberty, and who are ever prepared to

hear, to receive, snd to circulate, any rumours, however ground

less, that d av prejudice us in the eyes of our fellow colonists.

' In conclusion wo beg your Grace te convey to tbe venerable

bishops wbo have eurrounded you in the solemn ceremonial which

has just taken place our bumble acknowledgments of their ser

vices, and our assurances of profound sympathy wltb them in the

great labours in wbich they are engaged. The short period of

tbeir episcopal ministration amongst ua bas already afforded sum

drst opportunity to appreciate and admire the true apoBtolic

spirit by wbich they are animated, and we cberUh the devout

bopc tbat tbeir labours may be crowned with success.

' With our prajers that Almighty God mBy preserve you in

the enjoyment of health and of all blessings, till the great object

ef your Grace's life shall bo attained.

' We bove the honour to subscribe ourselves your Grace's

faithful servants.

'John H. Tlvkkett, President of Committee.'

[For the Catholics of the diocese. 1

To thiB his Grace was pleased to return the following reply .—

' Dear Friends,— Your congratulations are a comfort and

happiness to me. I am thankful, firBt of all to our good God,

who bus wrapped me round with such kind sympathy in my

eorroys and joy ; and next, to you who, with such true Instinct

of filial friendship, bave ever chosen the most opportune moment

to cbd r and strengthen my heart, by showing me what was in

jour own. May God blcs- ;ou with every form of temporal and

spiritual recampencc! This is, indeed, as you soy,

a solemn and eventful occasion ; and It is to me

peculiarly an occasion of coneolatitn and happiness, It proves to