favorite

Framed Photos From Historic England

Carlisle Cathedral JLP01_08_075742

CARLISLE CATHEDRAL, CARLISLE, CUMBRIA. A stonemason working at Carlisle Cathedral applying SBD Certite during restoration on the tracery of a window.

This photograph is part of a batch taken by Laing to show restoration work being carried out using SBD Certite. In 1961, N M Phillips, the architect for Carlisle Cathedral started experimenting with the bonding material SBD Certite in the restoration of the cathedral. It was used on all but one of the decorated Gothic windows of the South Clerestory and by the time this photograph was taken, it was being used in the restoration of the north face of the cathedral. By using SBD Certite, Laing stonemasons were able to remove just the weathered surface of the stonework. New stone only two inches deep could be bonded to the old stone saving more of the original fabric of the building and cutting costs by a third

Media ID 23851524

© Historic England Archive. John Laing Photographic Collection

Cathedral Conservation Medieval People Renovation Stonemason Work

Black Wood Frame 50 x 70cm

Our Black Wood Framed 50x70cm Print features a sleek black wooden frame with your picture printed on durable, high-quality original FUJIFILM Crystal Archive photo paper with an acrylic glass plate included for added protection.

Ready to Hang Contemporary Framed and Mounted Prints. To ensure the paper is held securely the visible picture may be marginally smaller than quoted.

Estimated Product Size is 50.6cm x 70.6cm (19.9" x 27.8")

These are individually made so all sizes are approximate

Artwork printed orientated as per the preview above, with portrait (vertical) orientation to match the source image.

MADE IN NETHERLANDS

Safe Shipping with 30 Day Money Back Guarantee

FREE PERSONALISATION*

We are proud to offer a range of customisation features including Personalised Captions, Color Filters and Picture Zoom Tools

FREE COLORIZATION SERVICE

You can choose advanced AI Colorization for this picture at no extra charge!

SECURE PAYMENTS

We happily accept a wide range of payment options so you can pay for the things you need in the way that is most convenient for you

* Options may vary by product and licensing agreement. Zoomed Pictures can be adjusted in the Basket.

Related Images