Map of distance from UCY to Liberty Hall, TN

Click here to show map

More trip calculations

Driving Time

Cost Of Driving

Reverse Distance

Halfway

Stopping Points

Hotels near Liberty Hall, TN

Flight Time

airports near Liberty Hall, TN

airlines flying to Liberty Hall, TN

Nonstop Flights

Time Difference

Distance from UCY to Liberty Hall, TN

The total driving distance from UCY to Liberty Hall, TN is 71 miles or 114 kilometers.

The total straight line flight distance from UCY to Liberty Hall, TN is 42 miles.

This is equivalent to 68 kilometers or 37 nautical miles.

Your trip begins at Everett-Stewart Regional Airport in Union City, Tennessee. It ends in Liberty Hall, Tennessee.

Your flight direction from UCY to Liberty Hall, TN is South (-176 degrees from North).

The distance calculator helps you figure out how far it is to get from UCY to Liberty Hall, TN. It does this by computing the straight line flying distance ("as the crow flies") and the driving distance if the route is drivable. It uses all this data to compute the total travel mileage.

Everett-Stewart Regional Airport

IATA: UCY

ICAO: KUCY

FAA: UCY

City: Union City

State: Tennessee

Zip code: 38261

Country: United States

Category: airports

Liberty Hall, Tennessee

City: Liberty Hall

State: Tennessee

Country: United States

Category: cities

Distance calculator

Travelmath helps you find distances based on actual road trip directions, or the straight line flight distance. You can get the distance between cities, airports, states, countries, or zip codes to figure out the best route to travel to your destination. Compare the results to the straight line distance to determine whether it's better to drive or fly. The database uses the latitude and longitude of each location to calculate distance using the great circle distance formula. The calculation is done using the Vincenty algorithm and the WGS84 ellipsoid model of the Earth, which is the same one used by most GPS receivers. This gives you the flying distance "as the crow flies." Find your flight distances quickly to estimate the number of frequent flyer miles you'll accumulate. Or ask how far is it between cities to solve your homework problems. You can lookup U.S. cities, or expand your search to get the world distance for international trips. You can also print out pages with a travel map.