March Around the World 2022 - Netherlands 🇳🇱 - 1/30

“The worst part of the Dutch climate is the weather.”

Not to be confused with yours truly, The Human Hutch, this 1963 documentary is about the 12 million or so people making up the then population of the human breed known collectively as the Dutch.

A narrator seems to take the piss as he forensically dissects the national character. The editing is brisk and the images crisp - there’s genuine artistry, idiosyncrasy and borderline lunacy to this portrait that adds up to a thoroughly delightful watch.

Windmills, canals, and a brilliant though underachieving football team, check. They are all here, in passing. But there’s much more than lazy caricatures of…

Over the course of two years, Bert Haanstra tirelessly shot, cut and edited more than 40,000 metres of film. The result was Alleman: a wholly unique masterpiece of observational cinema; endearing, impressive, magnificently shot and composed, and over all a work of art of the highest order.

Amsterdam residents commenting on a bust of Hitler on the Jewish quarter market, an ice-skating toddler intercut with a slipping swan, football players smashing into the grass face-first accompanied by a faltering version of a classic Louis Davids tune... the number of highlights is endless.

The original commentary by newspaper columnist (and national icon) Simon Carmiggelt is fitting and at times rather brilliant, steeped in his unique kind of endearing irony, much of which is…

THX 04 | SvdW film reviews

Date Watched: Monday, June. 6, 2022 | How I Watched: YouTube on tv

Finally decided to sit down for this one. I have less time do to exams and some tests, and my social life [if I even had one to begin with] has gone.

This was great. I found the 4K remastered version on YouTube and it looks amazing.

Alleman is directed by Bert Haanstra. His directing is fine. It is quite visible he really put a lot of work in capturing everything. The screenplay [is it a screenplay if it a documentary though? Okay, I mean the script] by Simon Carmiggelt, Bert Haanstra and Anton Koolhaas [the latter two got uncredited] is…