Among the many things that the British left behind in India is a marvelous piece of architecture in the City of Joy - The Victoria Memorial built in honour of Queen Victoria by Sir William Emerson in Kolkata. Property in Kolkata never looked so good!

Victoria Memorial 1 | Photo: lobodrl/Flickr

This splendid monument, constructed using white Makrana marble, is a fine example of British and Mughal architecture and Indo-Saracenic Revival architecture. The foundation stone of the Memorial was laid in 1906, few years after the death of Queen Victoria, after Lord Curzon, the then Viceroy of India proposed the construction of a majestic memorial to the Queen. The construction of the Memorial was completed in 1921 and it was inaugurated in the same year.

The Victoria Memorial, officially called the Victoria Memorial Hall, is about 56 meters high and is surrounded by 64 acres of beautiful, lush gardens. It houses a museum with a large collection of memorabilia associated with British rule in India and Queen Victoria. The Royal Gallery at the Memorial has on display several brilliant portraits and paintings depicting the lives of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert. Post India's independence, the National Leader's Gallery was instated at the Victoria Memorial with portraits and remnants related to the independence struggle. The Memorial also houses a massive collection of manuscripts, paintings and sculptures from the British era.

Victoria Memorial 2 | Photo: Nabarun Sadhya/Flickr

Victoria Memorial is adorned with several magnificent statues and structures. These include the glorious statue of a Lion outside the Memorial and the statue of the Lieutenant Governor of Bengal from 1903 to 1908, Sir Andrew Henderson Leith Fraser located in the facade. There is also a statue of Queen Victoria inside the Memorial and the King Edward VII Arch located in the gardens.

The Victoria Memorial is now a major tourist attraction of Kolkata and is visited by thousands of tourists visiting the city. Located at a royal sounding address, 1 Queen's Way, Kolkata; one can feel the stateliness of the Memorial just upon reaching its main entrance.

The Victoria Memorial is open to public everyday except Mondays from 10 am to 5 pm.