New Airline launches from London/Stansted

27th January 2017

This week, a new airline has launched operations in the European Skies. Royair,a new London/Stansted based airline aims to be a major Pan-European airline, bringing communities together and boosting economies. The airline plans to operate a variety of both Business and Leisure flights throughout the continent.

Royair operates a fleet of 3 168 seat B737-800s and 2 138 seat B737-700s. 4 are based at the airlines London/Stansted hub whilst 1 is based in the Irish capital Dublin. The airlines operates flights to 13 destinations throughout Europe. The schedule will deliver:

4 Based aircraft

182 weekly flights to/from London/Stansted

13 routes in total

Around 1.4m passengers per annum

100s of jobs created

Royair's Chief Executive Officer Adam has said:

"We are really excited to finnaly start our operations from Stansted Airport. It provides excellent links to central London and beyond. We are already looking at further network increases either through network expansion or frequency increases - and we haven't even started yet!!!"

London Stansted's CEO has said:

"We are delighted to be able to welcome Royair to the airport, they are a young airline with big ambitions, which will only be good for Stansted and the south east as a whole"

Effective 30th January 2017 is the following schedule

Brussels/Charleroi Daily

Dublin 3xDaily

Edinburgh Daily

Eindhoven 4xWeekly

Gdansk 8xWeekly

Barcelona/Girona 4xWeekly

Glasgow 18xWeekly

Ibiza 2xWeekly

Las Palmas/Gran Canaria 2xWeekly

Madrid 5xWeekly

Malaga 2xWeekly

Palma 2xWeekly

Oslo/Torp 5xWeekly

Wroclaw 4xWeekly

Dublin is base no#2

Also, Royair has a single B737-800 based at Dublin Airport. From Dublin Royair operates 7 Daily flights to the UK. The airline will mainly focus on the huge UK demand to/from Ireland where thousands of people commute every day for Business, VFR and Leisure trips. The Dublin base will deliver

1 Based Aircraft

4 Routes to: Edinburgh(Daily), Glasgow(Daily), Liverpool(Daily) and London/Stansted(3xDaily)

690,000 passengers per annum

100s of jobs locally

Royair - Europe's low fare airline

London Stansted sees increased schedule

03rd February 2017

Today, London/Stansted based low fare airline Royair has announced an increased schedule from it's London Stansted home base. This is as a result of a 5th based aircraft. The airline is adding to brand new routes to Shannon (its 2nd Irish route) as well as its first German flights to Frankfurt/Hahn. In addition frequency additions have been added onto 3 other routes.

The new increased schedule will deliver:

2 new routes to Shannon (10xWeekly) & Frankfurt/Hahn (4xWeekly)

Increased flights to: Dublin (From 21 to 25pw), Eindhoven (From 4pw to Daily) & Wroclaw (From 3 to 6pw)

332 weekly return flights

1.5 million passengers P/A

Royair's CEO said:

"We are very please to announced our expanded schedule from Stansted. Our initial schedule has been a huge success and it was only a matter of time before we expanded further"

Royair - Europe's low fare airline

2 New Dublin Routes to Madrid & London/Luton

06 Feb 2017

Today, London/Stansted based Royair has announced TWO NEW ROUTES from it's second base at the Irish capital Dublin. Starting 8th February 2017, 2 new daily services will begin operating from Dublin to London/Luton and Madrid. Not only that, the airline has also added a 2nd Daily flight on it's Dublin-Glasgow route.

On this the CEO said

"We are delighted to be able to continue our expansion plans in Dublin. The Irish capital is a major business and tourist destination. And with increased flights the local economy will continue to be boosted. 2 new services to the UK represent the huge demand between the UK and Ireland. We are already in talks with at least another 7 UK airports who are vying for services into our Dublin base"

Royair - Europe's low fare airline

Royair launches Glasgow base!!!

7th February 2017

Today (6th Feb) fast growing London/Stansted based low fares airline Royair has announced the opening of it's THIRD aircraft base at Glasgow International Airport. The airline is basing a single 138 seat B737 at the airport, where it will begin 6 new routes and boost service to Dublin and London Stansted.

The new Glasgow schedule will deliver:

1 Based Aircraft

6 new routes to Eindhoven (3xWeekly), Frankfurt/Hahn (3xWeekly), Gdansk (3xWeekly), Las Palmas (1xWeekly), Liverpool (3xWeekly) & Shannon (Daily)

Increased seats to existing routes to Dublin (2nd Daily added) and London/Stansted (Capacity upgrade)

104 weekly return flights

800,000 customers p.a.

100s of jobs created at the airport

On this the CEO said

"We are delighted to announce the commencement of our 3rd aircraft base at Glasgow from 9th February with 1 based aircraft and 6 new routes, which will deliver 800,000 customers p.a. and support 100s of local jobs.

Scotland has an eager local population who are willing to explore the world. All 6 of our new routes are also completely new destinations on the airport's network."

Royair - Europe's low fare airline