MAIN IMAGE:

The first thing you notice about this visually appealing and allusive film poster, is that the main image takes up the entirety of the poster. The image is it that of pale face of a woman with bright red piecing eyes with a moth covering her lips. Her pale white face connotes that possibly this character is innocent or is perceived to be innocent however the use of giving her the red eyes shows that maybe she is dangerous and not who we originally believe her to be. Moreover the main signifying/unusual aspect of this poster is the moth covering her mouth. This moth could possibly be portraying that this character is fragile, easily swept aside, or people do not listen to what she has to say meaning she is often not aloud to speak? These are the type of enigma codes raised simply by this lead image; additionally it corresponds to multiple references made in the film. For example the serial killer, Hannibal Lecter, only ever murders women due to his profound obsession with them and also collects moths, which are found at all the crime scenes telling us who it is. The interesting design on the moth first appears to be a skull, connoting death, however if you zoom in and analyse it properly you can actually see that it is in fact group of naked humans– also a reference to the film. The colours of the moth all consist of oranges, reds and blacks, evidently signifying death and danger, conforming to the thriller genre.

Finally the plain black background connotes darkness and evil, as well as completely juxtaposing to the pale white face of the main image, possibly showing the audience that the “unknown” is a domineering factor of the film.

TITLE:

The title itself has a particular uncertainty about it, and as an audience we are unsure on how to receive it. The idea of silencing something automatically hints at killing, the “lamb” part could indicate the Hannibal Lecter doesn’t see them as humans, meaning that he can simply use them to kill, in which we know he does. In addition to killing them, he does also eat them, this once again can relate to “lamb” as he could possible feel that there is no reason not to eat them as it is simply meat? Next the font choice doesn’t particularly add any additional layers of enigma codes or decoding of the narrative. However the choice of the whole title being in lower case is unusual, this could possibly show that all parts of the narrative are equal and that each thing is the result of another creating each chain in the sequence to be equal to the one before and after. Finally the choice of colour directly ties into the colours of the moth, which as previously said connotes danger and conforms to what you would expect from the thriller genre.

TAGLINE:

As you can see the poster holds a small tagline printed in a black box, printed in all lower case white font. These colours are still in keeping with the rest of the film poster, and therefore connoting the same feelings. Moreover the use of the lower case font is parallel to how the title font is displayed. The tagline of “from the terrifying best seller” doesn’t release any additional information about the narrative of story line other than it is going to be a scary psychological thriller. The primary purpose for this particular tagline is to draw in the audience of who might already be a collective fan base of the writer of the original novel by Thomas Harris in which this film is based on.

OFFICIAL DOCUMENTATION: