Throughout the brutal reign of terror in Chile during the 1970s, the name of Cardinal Archbishop Raul Silva Henriquez, who has died aged 91, spelt a message of hope for victims of human rights violations.

'Raul, amigo, el pueblo esta contigo' 'Friend Raul, the people are with you' was chanted by thousands at his funeral, echoing the call of the countless demonstrations against the abuses by the Chilean dictatorship.

When the Moneda Palace was bombed on September 11, 1973, putting an end to Chilean democracy and the life of President Salvador Allende, Raul Silva had already been a cardinal for 11 years.

He had built his reputation as a social reformer and a staunch supporter of the Second Vatican Council's programme of renewal of the Catholic Church. In 1955 he had founded the Chilean office of Caritas, and became the first president of the international Catholic charity, a task which brought him face to face with the grinding poverty of millions of his fellow countrymen and women.

One of his first, controversial acts on being named Archbishop of Santiago by Pope John XXIII was to implement an agrarian reform programme in the agricultural estates owned by the Church, handing out ownership deeds to the peasants who worked the farms: 'These lands have served God for a long time, but I believe that the needs of the workers on these lands are greater,' he declared.

He became an enthusiastic supporter of the Christian Democrat Party, which, during the 1960s, had promised a 'revolution in freedom'. He was bitterly disappointed when the progressive Christian Democrat candidate, Radomiro Tomic, lost the 1970 presidential elections to the Popular Unity candidate Allende, but he felt that the party had lost because they had been 'unable to win the sympathy and understanding of the people'. It appeared 'paternalistic with top-down solutions' and it 'didn't dare take on big business'.

Unlike many Catholics whose sympathies lay with the Christian Democrats, however, Raul Silva was not blind to the brutality of the military junta. He had no time for the momios the 'mummified' relics of the privileged elite who saw the coup as the salvation of civilisation.

Whilst some leading Catholics declared their confidence that democracy would soon be restored, Cardinal Silva set about finding out just what was happening in the aftermath of the coup. Within days he joined forces with the Lutheran and Methodist churches, and the Jewish community, to set up the Committee for Co-operation for Peace, through which tens of thousands of Chileans found sanctuary, protection, legal advice and help to survive the wave of persecution.

President Pinochet was outraged by the work of the committee and ordered its closure. On December 31, 1975, Cardinal Silva closed it down, but the following day he established the Vicaria de la Solidaridad, a human rights office directly under his control and with the same staff as the Committee for Peace.

Because it was under the control of the Catholic Church and because of the special legal status and privileges of the Church in Chile Pinochet could not touch it, and he thenceforth referred to Silva as ese huaso 'that cowboy'.

In 1975 the cardinal persuaded the British government to go one step further in the measures it had taken to isolate the Chilean junta. The then Labour government had already granted asylum to many refugees, had cut off external credit guarantees and downgraded diplomatic representation from ambassador to charge d'affaires in protest at the torture of Sheila Cassidy.

Silva convinced the Overseas Development Minister, Judith Hart, to set up an unprecedented programme to channel British government funds to the victims of human rights abuses. This scheme provided funding for more than a hundred human rights and development projects throughout Chile.

Cardinal Silva loved to entertain. On one occasion in 1979, the guest of honour at a lunch at his home was the British charge d'affaires. Among the other guests were Don Raul's closest confidants, including the leaders of his human rights office.

As the cardinal's favourite wine flowed, the conversation turned to his frustration at the continued refusal of the Pinochet regime to explain the fate of hundreds of 'disappeared' prisoners. The British diplomat who shall remain nameless clearly missed the point. 'Oh, what a bore,' he ventured. 'People are always asking me to help them find their 'disappeared' relatives. I just tell them, they're not 'disappeared', they're dead.'

The stunned silence that followed was broken only by the clatter of Cardinal Silva's fork as he dropped it on his plate. The rest of the meal was a rather rushed affair and the charge made his excuses as soon as decency would allow.

Hardly had the door closed behind him when the Cardinal exclaimed: 'Well, what a momio your Ambassador is' to a roar of laughter and relief from the assembled party.

On reaching the age of 75 Don Raul was deeply hurt, if not very surprised, when his resignation was immediately accepted by Rome. His outspoken and steadfast defence of human rights during the dark decade of dictatorship had not met with universal acclaim, and the Vatican's new diplomatic envoy in Santiago, Archbishop Angelo Sodano, had an altogether different relationship with President Pinochet.

Silva felt the time weigh heavy on his hands in retirement, when he had little to occupy him but his memoirs and the faithful group of close friends who had embarked wholeheartedly with him on his human rights mission. He delayed publication of the final volume of his memoirs as he knew that his words would not find favour within certain quarters of the Church.

His deepest regret was that the group of talented and committed clerics to whom he had entrusted the task of building the Church as the 'voice of the voiceless' were never promoted to the leading roles which he felt they deserved.