ANKARA

The Turkish national football team -- with a hope to bounce back in front of its fans -- is set for the Norway clash in a Friday 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifying match in Istanbul.

Three players in Turkey, central defenders Caglar Soyuncu and Ozan Kabak, and central midfielder Orkun Kokcu were suspended for the match against Norway.

Meanwhile, Norwegian star Erling Haaland, 21, is still having muscular problems as he did not play for his club Borussia Dortmund for a short while.

Norway's main goal threat Haaland is likely to miss the Turkey match at Fenerbahce's Ulker Stadium.

The match in Istanbul's Kadikoy will start at 1845GMT.

Things went reasonably well for Turkey in Group G until the previous match against the Netherlands in September.

Turkey had a devastating 6-1 loss against the Netherlands in Amsterdam, which shocked the visitors and gave the Group G lead to the victors.

Now in the third position in the group, Turkey racked up 11 points in six matches.

The Netherlands are on top of Group G with 13 points and leading it on goal difference.

Like the leaders, the Nordic team has 13 points in Group G, currently at the second spot.

Only the group winners will automatically qualify for the 2022 World Cup. The runners-up in each group will face the playoff stage to fight for limited tickets for Qatar 2022.

On Friday, Netherlands will visit Latvia in Riga.

Montenegro -- having eight points in the group -- will look for Turkey's mistake.

Latvia have five points to come fifth.

Underdogs Gibraltar bottomed Group G, losing all their six matches.

1st match of Kuntz as Turkey head coach

Turkey in September hired Stefan Kuntz as the new head coach of its national team after Senol Gunes, whose contract was ended by mutual consent in the wake of poor results.

Kuntz, 58, is set for his first match as a Turkey manager.

He is a former football player and played for Turkish powerhouse Besiktas in the mid-90s.

Kuntz previously coached Germany's Under-21 team.