Even in death, Elvis Presley’s legacy as the King of Rock 'n' Roll has endured in the decades since he left this world in 1977.

The musical icon behind classics like "Hound Dog" and "Jailhouse Rock" topped the charts with 18 No. 1 hits and has sold more than one billion records. He is still one of the most beloved artists of all time, more than half a century since releasing his first LP in 1956.

In addition to his musical legacy, Elvis was the father of Lisa Marie Presley, whom he welcomed with Priscilla Presley in 1968. Lisa Marie — who was just 9 when her father died — was a singer herself and lived a life in the spotlight, in addition to being a mom to four children.

Upon his death, Lisa Marie became the joint heir to his estate alongside her grandfather Vernon Presley and great-grandmother Minnie Mae Hood Presley. When they died in 1979 and 1980, respectively, she became the sole heir, inheriting her dad's Graceland residence as well.

On Jan. 12, 2023, Priscilla confirmed to PEOPLE that her daughter had died after being rushed to the hospital for a possible cardiac arrest earlier that day. Lisa Marie was 54.

"It is with a heavy heart that I must share the devastating news that my beautiful daughter, Lisa Marie, has left us," Priscilla said in a statement at the time. "She was the most passionate strong and loving woman I have ever known. We ask for privacy as we try to deal with this profound loss. Thank you for the love and prayers."

Here's everything to know about Elvis' death in 1977 at age 42.

How did Elvis Presley die?

Elvis died of a heart attack on Aug. 16, 1977. The New York Times reported that "preliminary autopsy findings" indicated his cause of death was "cardiac arrhythmia," or “an irregular and ineffective [heartbeat],” according to Dr. Jerry Francisco, the Shelby County coroner who conducted a two-hour examination of the body.

Initially, the coroner was unable to uncover the cause of the arrhythmia, prompting speculation that the singer might have died as a result of a drug overdose based on published reports that 10 prescription drugs were found in his body.

That October, however, The New York Times confirmed that drugs were ruled out as a cause of Elvis' passing — "although prescription drugs were present in his body at the time of his death," the outlet noted — with a statement issued from Dr. Francisco. "The cause of death has been ascribed to hypertensive heart disease, with coronary artery heart disease as a contributing factor," his report read.

Dr. George Nichopoulos, Elvis' friend and physician, told The New York Times that he didn't think the singer had a drug problem, despite having "abused drugs accidentally."

Prior to his death, Elvis dealt with several health problems and was hospitalized four times in five years to receive treatment for hypertension and an impacted or enlarged colon. He also lived with mild diabetes and a liver problem.

Despite the coroner's ruling, rumors continued to swirl about the involvement of drugs in his demise. Several of his family members have spoken on the extent of his usage, including Elvis' stepbrother (and road bodyguard), David E. Stanley, in his 2016 memoir, My Brother Elvis: The Final Years. Stanley wrote that his job requirements were more like "babysitting," adding, "I felt more like a nursing home aide."

In 1989, Stanley told PEOPLE, "I wasn't able to fully grasp what was happening, and was no match for Elvis in the throes of addiction," and added, "I had this naïve belief that Elvis could do anything, even overcome a prescription drug addiction."

Where did Elvis Presley die?

The King of Rock 'n' Roll was found unconscious by then-finacée Ginger Alden at his Graceland home in Memphis, Tenn. Specifically, he was discovered lying on the floor in the bathroom of his master suite — his most private refuge, where only his closest confidantes were allowed to enter.

Graceland, an 18-room, $1 million mansion with a jukebox at the poolside, was where Elvis went to escape the pressures of fame. Although Graceland has been open to the public since 1982, the second floor was sealed shut out of respect for the family.

Graceland has become known for many things, including its iconic "jungle room"-turned-recording studio and the kitchen, where Elvis cooked up his famed peanut butter-and-banana sandwiches. It also includes the meaningful Meditation Garden, where Elvis is buried alongside his relatives.

How old was Elvis Presley when he died?

Elvis was born in Tupelo, Miss., on Jan. 8, 1935. He was 42 years old when he died of a heart attack.

His cause of death was unexpectedly similar to that of his only child, Lisa Marie, who died at the age of 54 on Jan. 12, 2023.

According to an autopsy report released in July 2023, Lisa Marie had been coping with several health problems, including long-lasting fevers, nausea, abdominal pain and vomiting. Her official cause of death was from a “sequelae of a small bowel obstruction,” which had developed following the bariatric surgery she’d undergone several years prior.

Like his daughter, Elvis, too, had experienced difficulties with constipation. Per a 2018 PBS report, pathologists Dr. Eric Muirhead and Dr. Noel Florredo discovered evidence of severe and chronic constipation during a post-mortem examination of the King’s body. The outlet also suggested that Elvis, who was on the toilet when he died, could have been “straining very hard to have a bowel movement — a maneuver that put a great amount of pressure on his heart and aorta.”

What legacy did Elvis Presley leave behind?

Elvis rose to fame in the mid-1950s, quickly evolving into one of the biggest names in rock 'n' roll history. Having largely contributed to the genre's development, there's a reason he's regarded as "The King."

His fans, supporters and family members have kept his legacy alive since his death in 1977. Between movies recounting his supernova career and countless song covers of his catalog, the King of Rock 'n' Roll has left a lasting impact on generations and future ones to come.

On the 25th anniversary of Elvis' death, his daughter Lisa Marie paid tribute to her dad with a recording in which she said, "I wanted you to know that I haven't forgotten. You made me. I love you. You're still lovely. You were lovely then," according to a 2002 PEOPLE article.

Speaking to Today during an August 2022 interview, Priscilla honored Elvis on the 45th anniversary of his death, speaking about what the day meant to her. "Anything he wanted to do or wished to do as far as in life, I want to try to get that to happen," she said. "It's a big responsibility."

Every Aug. 15, Graceland livestreams a candlelight vigil held at the property, where tens of thousands of fans and beloved supporters gather in his memory. "To see the amount of people that still come to see Elvis is unbelievable," Priscilla told Today.

In June 2022, Elvis’ life and music were explored in the Baz Luhrmann-directed Elvis. The King of Rock 'n' Roll was played by Austin Butler, who said he felt immense pressure to honor the legacy of the late musical icon. The film garnered eight Oscar nominations, including Best Picture and Best Actor for Butler, and was named one of the top 10 movies of 2022 by the American Film Institute.

More importantly, Butler’s portrayal received genuine praise from Elvis’ family directly — Priscilla, Lisa Marie and his granddaughter, Riley Keough, specifically. "I can't even put into words how much it means to me because I felt so much responsibility to them the entire time," Butler told PEOPLE at the time.

How did the public react to Elvis Presley's death?

The world was in shock upon learning the news of Elvis' death. Approximately 25,000 people — family, friends and fans of the singer — swarmed to Graceland in 1977 to catch one last glimpse of the musician they deemed "King" ahead of his burial.

During a 2018 Today interview, Priscilla opened up about the day she said goodbye.