Robert Rabbat is a Lebanese cleric who is the current eparch of the Melkite Greek Catholic Eparchy of Saint Michael Archangel in Sydney.

Robert Rabbat was born on February 14, 1960, in Beirut, Beyrouth, Lebanon. His birth geographical coordinates are 33° 53’ 36” North latitude and 35° 30’ 6” East longitude. Robert Rabbat is currently 64 years old.

Astrologically, Robert Rabbat falls under the Sun sign of Aquarius, with Gemini as his Ascendant, Virgo as his Moon sign, and Gemini as his Black Moon Lilith sign.

Planets

Planets represent different aspects of personality, life themes, and energies within a birth chart, influencing individual characteristics, motivations, and experiences.

Planets in Signs

Planets in a zodiac sign denote how the energies and qualities associated with those planets express themselves within the context of the themes and attributes of that particular zodiac sign.

Sun Aquarius Moon Virgo Ascendant Gemini Midheaven Aquarius Mercury Pisces Venus Capricorn Mars Capricorn Jupiter Sagittarius Saturn Capricorn Uranus Leo Neptune Scorpio Pluto Virgo Ceres Capricorn Chiron Aquarius Eros Aquarius Hygiea Leo Juno Sagittarius Pallas Capricorn Vesta Sagittarius Black Moon Lilith Gemini North Node Virgo South Node Pisces Part of Fortune Capricorn Vertex Scorpio

Sunin Aquarius24° 43’ 47”

The Aquarius Sun Sign in the Natal Chart makes you intellectual and clever. You are more intense than most people and can be fierce and […] Read more »

Moonin Virgo14° 44’ 37”

The Moon in Virgo in the Natal Chart makes you realistic and helps you keep your feelings in check. You are honest, can ignore your […] Read more »

Ascendantin Gemini16° 28’ 23”

Gemini Ascendant in the Natal Chart makes you passionate about your ideas. You are talkative and open up quickly about your ideas. You can be […] Read more »

Midheavenin Aquarius26° 43’ 1”

Aquarius Midheaven in the Natal Chart makes you erratic and explosive. You have a unique and unconventional approach to your career path. You can be […] Read more »

Mercuryin Pisces8° 48’ 9”

Mercury in Pisces in the Natal Chart makes you spiritually focused. You think about your higher mission and can be idealistic. You are subtle and […] Read more »

Venusin Capricorn22° 17’ 36”

Capricorn Venus in the Natal Chart makes you calm and stoic in relationships. You value stability and crave security in romance. You are helpful and […] Read more »

Marsin Capricorn23° 21’ 34”

Capricorn Mars in the Natal Chart makes you eager to thrive. You are intense and can be persistent. You are patient and willing to face […] Read more »

Jupiterin Sagittarius27° 31’ 45”

Sagittarius Jupiter in the Natal Chart indicates you are part of a generation that values spiritual growth and expansion. You are a truth-seeker and are […] Read more »

Saturnin Capricorn14° 25’ 47”

Capricorn Saturn in the Natal Chart indicates you are part of a generation responsible for fulfilling your mission to society. You are consistent and find […] Read more »

Uranusin Leo18° 46’ 37”

Leo Uranus in the Natal Chart makes you a part of an excitable and enthusiastic generation. You are born among people with a Karmic mission […] Read more »

Neptunein Scorpio9° 7’ 57”

Scorpio Neptune in the Natal Chart is an ideal placement for emotional healing and transformation. Your generation brings out the best in others and can […] Read more »

Plutoin Virgo5° 9’ 12”

Pluto in Virgo in the Natal Chart indicates a generation dedicated to exposing secrets related to misuse of power in agriculture, healthcare, and service industries. […] Read more »

Ceresin Capricorn26° 55’ 21”

Ceres in Capricorn in the Natal Chart indicates a generation committed to making others comfortable. You are sensitive to others’ needs and can be compassionate […] Read more »

Chironin Aquarius27° 16’ 47”

Aquarius Chiron in the Natal Chart is an ideal placement for healing and self-expression. You are true to your authentic desires and channel intense creative […] Read more »

Erosin Aquarius12° 12’ 16”

Eros in Aquarius in the Natal Chart makes you eager to explore your kinky side. You are excited by dramatic and creative sexual experiences. You […] Read more »

Hygieain Leo23° 26’ 8”

You are a pioneer who explores new health products and routines. You can be expressive and eager to lead others to improve their health. When […] Read more »

Junoin Sagittarius18° 47’ 52”

Juno in Sagittarius in the Natal Chart indicates an ideal placement for affection and desire. You bring abundance and love to your relationships and can […] Read more »

Pallasin Capricorn9° 1’ 23”

Pallas in Capricorn in the Natal Chart gives you a broad perspective and gift for organizing plans to improve your business and career. You can […] Read more »

Vestain Sagittarius20° 11’ 48”

Vesta in Sagittarius in the Natal Chart brings passion and energy. You are excited about adventure and freedom. You can be loving and devoted to […] Read more »

Black Moon Lilithin Gemini20° 36’ 56”

Gemini Black Moon Lilith makes you dramatic and eager to push boundaries. You can fall for extreme ideas and are attracted to taboo and unconventional […] Read more »

North Nodein Virgo26° 22’ 26”

Virgo North Node in the Natal Chart is an ideal placement for research and analysis. You are methodical and use your gifts to set a […] Read more »

South Nodein Pisces26° 22’ 26”

Pisces South Node in the Natal Chart makes you mystical and intuitive. You can be generous and use your instincts to heal others. You are […] Read more »

Part of Fortunein Capricorn6° 29’ 12”

Capricorn Part of Fortune in the Natal Chart makes you thrive with repetition. You seek commitment and stability. Your lucky breaks occur when you remain […] Read more »

Vertexin Scorpio8° 47’ 53”

Scorpio Vertex in the Natal Chart indicates an ideal placement for being a change agent. You are daring and use your gifts to help others […] Read more »

Planets in Elements

Planets in elements denote how the fundamental energies and qualities associated with those planets interact with the elemental nature of the signs they inhabit, shaping an individual’s overall temperament and approach to life.

Earth Element

The earth element in astrology is associated with practicality and grounding. This element is associated with career and wealth. Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn are signs […] Read more »

Air Element

The air element in astrology corresponds to three signs; Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius. This element is associated with new insights and perspectives. The air element […] Read more »

Fire Element

The fire element in astrology is associated with passion and motivation. This element brings creativity and intensifies planets and natal houses. Your competitive nature comes […] Read more »

Water Element

Astrologers and other occultists study the water element to understand emotional healing. This element relates to love and compassion. Numerous planets in water signs in […] Read more »

Planets in Qualities

Planets in qualities signify how the inherent attributes and tendencies of those planets align with the modalities of the signs they occupy, influencing an individual’s style of action, decision-making, and engagement with the world.

Mutable Quality

The third Quality astrological signs are grouped into is mutable. Mutable Signs come at the end of a season. Mutable Signs are associated with flexibility […] Read more »

Fixed Quality

The second Quality in astrology is the Fixed modality. Fixed Signs follow the Cardinal Signs, bringing strength and endurance. These signs build upon the foundation […] Read more »

Cardinal Quality

The Cardinal quality in astrology is associated with new seasons and initiative. Cardinal signs mark the equinoxes and solstices. The Cardinal modality represents the extremes […] Read more »

Planets in Houses

Planets in a zodiac house signify where in life’s areas and experiences the energies and influences of those planets are predominantly focused and expressed.

Sun Ninth House Moon Fourth House Mercury Tenth House Venus Eighth House Mars Eighth House Jupiter Seventh House Saturn Eighth House Uranus Third House Neptune Sixth House Pluto Fourth House Ceres Eighth House Chiron Tenth House Eros Ninth House Hygiea Third House Juno Seventh House Pallas Seventh House Vesta Seventh House Black Moon Lilith First House North Node Fourth House South Node Tenth House Part of Fortune Seventh House Vertex Sixth House

Aspects

Aspects reveal the dynamic relationships and interactions between planets within a birth chart, influencing the way their energies combine and manifest in an individual’s life experiences and personality traits.

Within this birth chart, there are 23 major aspects, alongside 15 minor aspects, as well as 7 extra aspects.

Major Aspects

Major aspects highlight significant connections between planets, providing insights into key dynamics, challenges, and potentials shaping an individual’s life journey and psychological makeup.

Moon Trine Saturn Mercury Trine Neptune Jupiter Sextile Midheaven Venus Conjunct Mars Sun Conjunct Midheaven Moon Square Ascendant Saturn Quincunx Ascendant Uranus Sextile Ascendant Sun Sextile Jupiter Mercury Opposite Pluto Venus Quincunx Uranus Saturn Quincunx Uranus Neptune Sextile Pluto Mars Quincunx Uranus Saturn Sextile Neptune Sun Opposite Uranus Moon Opposite Mercury Moon Sextile Neptune Mercury Sextile Saturn Moon Trine Venus Uranus Opposite Midheaven Venus Conjunct Saturn Jupiter Trine Pluto

Explore detailed articles on the major aspects in this birth chart, gaining deeper insights into this cosmic identity. Dive into each aspect and uncover how it shapes Robert Rabbat’s life journey.

Moon Trine Saturnorb: 0°

The Moon trine Saturn in a chart typically indicates that a person is self-reliant, emotionally mature, and calm. They express their emotions instead of hiding […] Read more »

Venus Conjunct Marsorb: 1°

Venus conjunct Mars in the Natal Chart makes you passionate and sensitive. You are bold and loving, showing a combination of toughness and vulnerability. You […] Read more »

Sun Conjunct Midheavenorb: 2°

The Sun conjunct Midheaven makes you outspoken and authentic. You openly share your talents and align your unique abilities with your public status. You are […] Read more »

Sun Sextile Jupiterorb: 3°

The Sun sextile Jupiter in the Natal Chart makes you idealistic and expansive. You are outgoing and love meeting new people and can be thoughtful […] Read more »

Mercury Opposite Plutoorb: 4°

Mercury opposite Pluto in a chart can create many struggles, but getting through those struggles will bring intelligence, better intuition, and self-awareness. Anyone with this […] Read more »

Venus Quincunx Uranusorb: 4°

Venus quincunx Uranus in a chart typically indicates that someone might have commitment issues, even though they often want to have a relationship and eventually […] Read more »

Saturn Quincunx Uranusorb: 4°

Saturn quincunx Uranus in a chart typically indicates there is a strong push and pull between security and change. It can be challenging to balance […] Read more »

Mars Quincunx Uranusorb: 5°

Mars quincunx Uranus in a chart typically creates a unique personality and a desire to be seen as different in some way. People with this […] Read more »

Sun Opposite Uranusorb: 6°

The Sun opposite Uranus makes you unpredictable and creative. You are gifted and innovative, yet you don’t always follow through on your higher ambitions. You […] Read more »

Moon Opposite Mercuryorb: 6°

Someone with the Moon opposite Mercury in their Natal Chart might feel like they are in a constant tug-of-war between their heart and mind. A […] Read more »

Moon Sextile Neptuneorb: 6°

You are likely sensitive and intuitive if you’ve got the Moon sextile Neptune in your Natal Chart. Even if you aren’t the most loud or […] Read more »

Mercury Sextile Saturnorb: 6°

What does Mercury sextile Saturn mean? When Mercury and Saturn are connected in this way, a person will likely have a more serious, organized, and […] Read more »

Moon Trine Venusorb: 8°

When the Moon trines Venus in a Natal Chart, this can create an open, honest, and nurturing personality. Someone with this aspect in their chart […] Read more »

Venus Conjunct Saturnorb: 8°

Venus conjunct Saturn in a Natal Chart makes you sincere and authentic. You fall in love slowly and can be cautious in relationships. You have […] Read more »

Minor Aspects

Minor aspects represent subtler connections between planets, offering additional nuances and layers of interpretation to understand more detailed influences on an individual’s personality and experiences.

Midheaven Quincunx North Node Mercury Sextile Pallas Mercury Trine Vertex Mars Quincunx Hygiea Jupiter Sextile Chiron Uranus Trine Juno Neptune Sextile Pallas Neptune Conjunct Vertex Sun Opposite Hygiea Chiron Conjunct Midheaven Venus Quincunx Hygiea Jupiter Square North Node Jupiter Square South Node Uranus Trine Vesta Pluto Trine Part of Fortune

Discover additional layers of meaning with this collection of articles on the minor aspects found in Robert Rabbat’s birth chart. Delve deeper into these cosmic nuances to gain a richer understanding of this astrological profile.

Midheaven Quincunx North Nodeorb: 0°

The Midheaven quincunx the North Node in the Natal Chart pressures you to overcome inhibitions related to your destiny. You lack confidence and need support […] Read more »

Mars Quincunx Hygieaorb: 0°

Mars quincunx Hygiea in a chart typically indicates a person may struggle because they focus on diet and exercise in an unhealthy way. They might […] Read more »

Venus Quincunx Hygieaorb: 1°

Venus quincunx Hygiea in a chart typically indicates that a person will experience issues related to the darker side of Venus: over-indulgence, dissatisfaction, weakness, and […] Read more »

Extra Aspects

Extra aspects, though less emphasized than major or minor aspects, contribute subtle nuances and intricacies to the overall astrological interpretation, offering additional insights into an individual’s personality traits and life experiences.

Pallas Sextile Vertex Vesta Opposite Black Moon Lilith Ceres Trine North Node Ceres Sextile South Node Chiron Quincunx North Node Juno Conjunct Vesta Juno Opposite Black Moon Lilith

Explore how these extra aspects contribute to the intricate tapestry of Robert Rabbat’s life path through subtler influences. Dive into each extra aspect and uncover the hidden gems that shape a unique cosmic identity.

Juno Conjunct Vestaorb: 1°

Juno conjunct Vesta in a chart can create a positive, harmonious energy within the relationships someone has. They can develop a solid connection to their […] Read more »

Houses

A house starting in a zodiac sign indicates the area of life where the qualities and themes of that sign are particularly emphasized and influential within an individual’s birth chart.