Baltimore's best known and tallest monument has to be the Washington Monument in Mount Vernon. Located at the intersection of North Charles Street and Monument Street, the monument can be seen for miles around. But Baltimore has plenty other "lesser known" monuments around town, which we would like to present to you as well...

................................................................................ ............................................

.

.When Baltimore's Washington Monument was first constructed, it was built on land offered on the crest of a tree covered hill, owned by Col. John Eager Howard. The corner stone was laid in July 1815, and in that corner stone were placed, among other things, a copper plate with inscriptions, and a sealed bottle with the likeness of George Washington, his valedictory address and several old papers. The monument wasn't actually completed until 1829.

.

When the monument was first put up, people were afraid to built homes in the area, fearing that the monument was unstable and would come crashing down on their homes, due to it's height. Up to the mid-1880's, there had been a few actual suicides from the top of the monument, as people jumped from the top to their deaths. I believe the very first water drinking fountain was actually located in Mount Vernon Park.

Before the JFX expressway came along in the 1960's, it was The Fallsway that was covering up the stream known as the Jones Falls, on the bottom end where the expressway today curves around ( just south of Chase Street ). Baltimore had a massive road & sewer project back in the 1920's known as the Fallsway, which included a curvy roadway, with part of the roadway still existing today along side of the Expressway. When it was built, a monument was erected on the northern part of the road. While Fallsway is little more than a smaller downtown street today, the monument still stands today.The image on the ( right below ) is located southeast of the monument, next to Central Bookings, at Monument Street. Directly below, the way the Fallsway was envisioned in 1911.

.

...For years, not far from" On The Trail " Monument, the Reese Monument sat in front of Lake Clifton High School. The monument had been located in front of Eastern High School (the 33rd Street school) for years before it was moved to it's new location at Lake Clifton. The monument was moved back to the old Eastern High School on 33rd Street in September 2009, as seen in the bottom image. The two black and white images below are from the Eastern High School Yearbook Echo, showing the Reese Monument in the years 1957 and 1959. Armistead Monument ( Circa 1828-1882 )

Federal Hill Park

South Baltimore City

Located in Federal Hill, The Armistead Monument can be seen at the right in this turn of the century postcard. The tower seen behind the Monument has long since been torn down, which had been used to signal that ships were coming into port.

............

........................

Columbus Monument

Harford Road and Walther Blvd

Northeast Baltimore City

The Columbus Monument can be seen in the postcard below on the campus of the Samuel Ready School, on the Northeast corner of Harford Road and North Avenue. That campus was razed years ago for a Sears Store and public government buildings, and the monument was moved to the Hamilton Section of Baltimore. From what I can gather, the old Ready School and Columbus Monument actually faced North Avenue and was torn down for the Social Services parking lot built years ago. The Columbus Monument was just off of the 1400 block of East North Avenue, near Bond Street.

................................................................. .......................

,,,.......

War Monuments

All around Baltimore, there are War Monuments for the wars over the years. Many of the older neighborhoods have memorials for those who served and were lost in World War I and World War II, as well as the Spanish American War and the Korean War. Below, see how many of these monuments we have found so far, and please, if you see one missing, let just know....

Below, Baltimore's War Memorial Building, located at Gay and Lexington Streets, right across from Baltimore's City Hall. The land was donated in 1920 by the City to honor those who served in War World I. The building was completed in 1925, and remains to this day as one of the more interesting buildings in downtown Baltimore.

World War I : There are several World War I Monuments still located in Baltimore that I have found. The image directly below is a monument located in Carroll Park in Southwest Baltimore. The markers below that are located in Druid Hill Park, just north of the entrance to the Baltimore Zoo.

.

One of the interesting things about locating these monuments is that you can find them almost anywhere, and there is little guide as to where to find them. A good example is the tablet you see above, found on the north side of the bank building on the Northeast corner of Harford Road and Hamilton Avenue, this tablet can be found honoring the war dead for World War One from the Parkville and Carney Area. I actually noticed it while sitting at a red light on Hamilton Avenue, and had never noticed it or heard of it before that.

World War II :

In the late 1940's, Baltimore City had over 50 monuments to World War II service men. The first was dedicated on April, 25 1943 at the intersection of Payson Street and Ramsey Street in Southwest Baltimore. The granite Monument has a flagpole on one side of the plot, and was in honor of men in that area who had served or been lost in the War . That monument still stands and can be seen below.

..

.

..........

...... .............................................

Nearby at the intersection of Wilkens and Gilmor, a 10' tall monument was erected and dedicated on June 17, 1945. This monument was made out of Indiana Limestone. ( Below )

.

At the intersection of Frederick Road and Brunswick Street, there had been a plot of land which was to serve as a monument, but that was torn down in the late 1940's. It was replaced by a monument , a 8' tall granite shaft, honoring Southwest Baltimore Citizens who served or died in WWII. That monument was dedicated on April 28, 1948, in Gywnn Falls Park, at the Dukeland Street entrance of the park, which can be seen a photo below.

.

The West Baltimore Post 476 VFW at 2550 McHenry Street converted the old Leydecker Mansion into a " living memorial " to the War's Dead. A recent check of that address finds a " modern apartment building " now on that site.

Above , the Govans Monument to W.W. II , located at the intersection of York Road and Bellona Avenue ( on the triangle, northwest corner ) . Erected in 1947, to those in the Govans neighborhood who died fighting War World II. York Road and Bellona Avenue in Northern Baltimore City, 5 bronze plaques were put up and dedicated in July 1947, with the names of soldiers from the Govans Area.

Keswick and 33rd Streets.

On the southeast corner of Keswick Road at 33rd Street , you can find the monument for WWII soldiers who were killed in WWII. The monument is located on Keswick Road and follows out to a City Park as you walk East.

Esskay Park

Believed to have been in a small park near the Esskay Meat Company building in East Baltimore City, and the building was torn down a few years back. Sorry for the fuzzy picture, but at this point, it's all I can find. I am looking for more details, and a better picture. The monument was put up by Esskay in honor of those employees who fought in World War II and lost their lives.