20 यहाँ थे. People er

Gina Torres (born April 25, ) [1] is an American actress. She is known for her starring roles as Zoe Washburne in the science fiction series Firefly (–) and its feature film sequel Serenity (), and as Jessica Pearson in the USA Network legal drama series Suits (–) and its spin-off series Pearson (). [2].

Hjemmeside · Aandahl Futura. Aandahl

By Rick Stevenson / Oct. 29, pm EST. Gina Torres was already a Hollywood icon by the time she was cast as Jessica Pearson in "Suits." A stint in the ABC soap opera "One Life to Live" and.

Gina Wingsternes Lund. Aurora

Instagram Gina Torres might be a famous TV and movie actress today, but when she was a little girl, all she wanted to do was musical theater. This isn't surprising given that she attended the Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts in New York.

Torres, Fana, 24, ,

Gina Torres is an American actress best known for her appearances in Firefly and Serenity and Suits. She is now a cast member of Lone Star. Advertisements How old is Gina Torres? – Age She is 54 years old as of 25 April She was born in in New York, New York, United States. Gina Torres Family – Education.

Fellini Åsane Storsenter. Bygg

Gina Torres on Turning ‘I’m in Great Shape—I Work Hard, and I’m Aware of It’. Torres also opens up about Suits, her new series Pearson, and why she doesn’t keep in touch with.

Javier Torres Araya. Husnes. 6. Pauline

Gina Torres, an Afro Latina actor and producer, says she's no longer sacrificing one part of her identity over the other when telling stories for TV or film. Damon Casarez for CNN ‘This is.

Gina (TYRISTRAND) , 11 Westereng

Gina Torres’ Suits spinoff, Pearson, has its series premiere Wednesday, July 17 at 10 p.m. ET on USA. The spinoff is one of this year’s summer premieres. Suits returns for its ninth and final.

Åsane 2 vann heime

Gina Torres. Actress: Serenity. Gina was born in New York City and is youngest of three children in a close-knit Cuban American family. Attended New York City's High School of Music and Art She is a gifted mezzo soprano and was trained in opera and jazz and also sang in a gospel choir.