<<< Opportunity rocks

Home

The Daily Scan >>>

catching up

Saturday, 03/20/04 10:57 AM

If you haven't posted for a while - for a long while - you tend to want to do two things: first, you want to make your first post back "big", like it can justify the time you spent not posting, and second, you want to catch up.

I don't know about "big"; I was just really busy and fell out of my daily habit of blogging. It wasn't like I was creating this amazing post for you the whole time :) But as far as catching up, I have over 300 posts saved in my RSS reader which I've flagged for posting. I won't subject you to all of them, but it has been an eventful eight weeks...

In order of importance:

The Mars Rovers

Boy was that something, watching "NASA TV" when Opportunity landed. If you haven't watched this movie which shows how the Mars landers make it to Mars, please do so; it is nothing short of amazing. Really helps you appreciate that these robots are an amazing technical achievement.

Despite losing Beagle 2, the European Space Agency's Mars Express is sending back great pictures, too.

Caltech has apparently patented the Mars Rovers' designs; look for Rover toys landing in your toy stores soon.

Mark Cantor posted a terrific picture, "left the nest".

Bad moments as NASA loses contact with Spirit.

Mars Express finds ice.

Citizen smash on Opportunity's landing: Second Front Opened on Mars. Cool.

First pictures of Meridiani Planum, Opportunity's landing site.

Then we have Opportunity's Interplanetary hole-in-one.

Cruft in space; BBC reports "NASA scientists say hundreds of computer files that have accumulated on the Mars rover Spirit may be the cause of problems that have crippled it."

Opportunity rolls off its lander. Yippee! And then takes its first spin.

One theory about why Spirit stopped communicating :) [ via Joi Ito ]

EETimes: The trouble with the rover is revealed. And how engineers not only diagnosed the problems, but programmed around them. Amazing.

This isn't Mars related, but it is space related, so I'm putting it here; The Hubble [Space Telescope] sees 'most distant object'. "It is so distant its light must have set out when the Universe was just 750M years old to reach the Earth now." That's amazing, 750M years is practically time zero.

In more non-Mars space news, New Scientist reports Life could be tough on acid Europa. "Far from being a haven of ice and water and an ideal spot for the search for alien life, Jupiter's moon Europa may be a corrosive hotbed of acid and peroxide."

This famous bet between Stephen Hawking, Kip Thorne, and John Preskill may be settled; Samir Mathur and his colleagues have proposed a solution to the 'information paradox' using string theory. "The finding suggests that black holes are not smooth, featureless entities as scientists have long thought. Instead, they are stringy 'fuzzballs'." I love it.

Opportunity finds evidence that Mars was once "soaking wet". Big news.

Wired reports ESA's Rosetta Mission Under Way. "Europe's Rosetta space mission, aimed at landing on a comet in search of secrets of the history of the solar system, began its 10-year voyage after the spacecraft separated from an Ariane rocket early Tuesday." Mark your calendars!

If Mars Rover Opportunity was a teenager and had a blog, this is what it would be like. "I got to drive today! It's so cool! I didn't think I'd ever be allowed to go out on my own. NASA is so protective sometimes; it's like they wanted to keep me swaddled in airbags forever." Okay, that's cute.

Spirit, on the other side of Mars, finds more evidence of water. Big news. Nature summarizes the evidence.

Hey, we have a new planet! Please join me in welcoming Sedna to the Solar System. Well, okay, so she's a bit small (3/4 the size of Pluto) and a bit far away (currently 8.5M miles, but at times, 80M miles, in fact "standing on the surface of Sedna, you could block the entire sun with the head of a pin held at arm's length").

The War on Terror

Eight weeks. Wow, a lot has happened, in Iraq, in Afghanistan, in the Middle East, and in Europe. I'd put the Madrid bombing and the subsequent defeat of Spain's President Aznar at the top of the list. In my opinion this looks worse than it was, I think Aznar was already unpopular and the Socialists might well have defeated him without the bombing. I have a hard time believing the Spanish people voted for Zapatero thinking it would reduce terrorist activity in Spain. Stephen Den Beste doesn't, though.

Stephen Den Beste suggests the Palestinians are Up Against the Wall. And subsequent events have proved him right.

At least 56 dead in Iraq suicide blasts. And then, Hajj stampede: 244 pilgrims dead. Interesting how CNN reports the former as a huge tragedy (presumably one which could have been avoided by alternate U.S. decisions), while the latter is merely a Muslim ritual. No mention of how many people would have died if Hussein were still in power, either.

Citizen Smash considers the al Qaeda memo captured by U.S. forces in Iraq: Please Send Help. "America… has no intention of leaving no matter how many wounded nor how bloody it becomes." You bet.

Adam Curry visits Iraq, and blogs about it.

Command Post: Mass Graves Report. "So far, 270 mass graves have been found which contained the remains of 400,000 Iraqis." Amazingly, this is under-reported in the mass media, as is the fact that zero people have been killed by Hussein's government since the U.S. occupation. Sigh.

Glenn Reynolds notes: Bush seems to be falling victim to his own success. We have been so successful in the war on terror that the country doesn't see it as a war anymore. Consider the following, if you were told on 9/12/2001 that by this date:

The Taliban have fallen

Iraq has fallen and has become a bastion of free press in the Islamic world

Libya had given up its WMD's

North Korea is in multi-lateral talks about WMD's

A majority of the leadership of Al Qaeda are dead or in custody

Pro-democracy rumblings are going on in Iran

Arafat is isolated

Many convictions of domestic sleepers or Al Qaeda members (Portland, NY etc...) and finally

NO SUCCESSFUL TERROR ATTACKS ON U.S. SOIL

And all of this has cost less than 1000 dead American soldiers. You'd be thinking "not bad".

Tony Blair gave a great speech about the Iraq war, Command Post blogs it. Read it. The tradition of great oratory in British politics is wonderful, I wish our politicians were so eloquent.

New interim constitution for Iraq. And here's Stephen Den Beste's analysis...

Zapatero is pulling Spanish troops out of Iraq. So be it.

President Bush gives a great speech: No Neutral Ground. "There can be no separate peace with the terrorist enemy." I disagree with him on so many things - gay marriage, for example - but on this, the biggest thing, I agree with him completely.

The Presidential Campaign

Amazingly, eight weeks ago Howard Dean was the leading Democratic candidate for president. Now he's an also ran, and John Kerry is the man. Jim Ladd likes him, but I still don't know... Charles at LGF notes Kerry's record, little doubt what he thinks. Meanwhile John Edwards came and went. (Although he might resurface as Kerry's VP.)

Command Post simublogs Bush's State of the Union Speech. NYT has the full text.

And simublogs Daschle's and Pelosi's response.

BigWig gives the recipe for a third party candidacy. At the time I agreed with him, but the steam seems to have seeped out of the Dean balloon. If he became a third party candidate at this point, I believe it would barely elicit a yawn. Except from Democrats, who would treat him as they're treating Ralph Nader.

President Match chooses your candidate for you. [ via TangoMan ] It said I should vote for Lieberman, who knew?

Scoble thinks Dean's bloggers blew it.

Jay Rosen: Why Are You Such a Loser, Dennis Kucinich? "That's what CNN's Wolf Blitzer asked the candidate after the votes from New Hampshire were in. How would you answer it?"

Jeff Jarvis: Change and Fear. "The reason Howard Dean (with Al Gore) lost is that they ran a negative campaign. But the problem wasn't that they were negative about other candidates. It was that they were negative about America." I totally agree. Glenn Reynolds has more.

Command Post covers Dean's withdrawal from the race.

Nader to run for president. Again. Pissing off democrats everywhere. I think Dave Winer is exactly right: "Nader's run separates the people who 'get' American democracy, and those who don't." If Nader keeps Kerry from defeating Bush, then Kerry didn't deserve to win in the first place.

Arnold thinks foreign-born citizens should be allowed to run for President. He's biased, but I agree; let the best man/woman win. What's so important about where you were born?

Democratic candidates blast Greenspan comments. "Greenspan warned a House committee that growing federal budget deficits and the retirement of Baby Boomers will require future cuts in Social Security and Medicare to avoid tax increases that would damage the economy." The Dems are shooting the messenger; it is what it is, now what are we going to do about it?

Tim Blair says It's All Relative. As Glenn Reynolds summarizes: "5.6% unemployment: 'low' under Clinton, 'high' under Bush! Go figure." Indeed.

The big news in the California primary elections wasn't that Bush and Kerry won - that was a forgone conclusion - but that Arnold won: California voters OK Schwarzenegger's budget rescue. Suboptimal, but when you're draining a swamp, things are going to stink for a while.

Steven Den Beste nails Kerry as "the tofu candidate", and considers Partial Cures.

More Kerry bashing: check out Kerry vs. Kerry. I'm sure you could do the same with Bush, or with anyone, but it does make you wonder.

Same-Sex Marriage

Yep, in the last eight weeks same-sex marriage has gone from a subject of discussion to a legal relationship in Massachusetts. Amazing. And very polarizing. This feels like one of those things which is just plain inevitable, the people who are opposed are rolling boulders uphill. I do think you limit marriage to a union of exactly two people, though.

San Francisco weds gay couple. And then about 5,000 more!

Until Arnold says same-sex marriages are illegal.

The Top Twelve Reasons Against Gay Marriage. [ via Adam Curry ] I like #8, "Gay marriage will encourage people to be gay, in the same way that hanging around tall people will make you tall."

Don't know if this belongs here, but Barbie and Ken have split! "Couple 'will remain friends,' says Mattel."

Okay, and there's a bunch of other interesting stuff which happened. I'm probably setting a personal record for links in a post, if not a world record, but here you go:

Bill Gurley interviews Michael Dell. This is before Dell resigned as CEO (in a planned succession, he remains Chairman). Oh, and here's more.

Adam Curry notes a Goud(a) idea: "A new Dutch invention can make cars, buses and other vehicles no less than 50 percent more efficient and thus more environmentally friendly".

Wired: Camera Phones Help Buyers Beware. "During the past six months, no fewer than four software firms have released applications to help consumers turn their camera-equipped mobile phones into personal bar-code scanners."

Yahoo News: Report Finds "staggering" WiFi Growth. [ via Scoble ]

Wired News announced their annual Vaporware Awards. I don't know why, but game companies seem particularly prone to pre-announce stuff. Software in general is hard, and the temptation to pre-announce is strong.

A digression, here's some programmer equivalences:

If something is physically impossible, then it is really hard.

If something is possible but you don't know how to do it, then it is hard. Even if, once you knew how to do it, it wouldn't take much time or work.

If you know how to do something, it is easy. Even if it takes a long time and requires lots of work.

If you know how to do something and it won't take long, then it is done.

Keep these in mind when you read software company press releases.

VC superstars John Doerr, Tim Draper, Jim Breyer, technopundit Esther Dyson, and AlwaysOn editor Tony Perkins prognosticate about the future. My favorite prediction is "Peer-to-peer technology comes back as the web's most fashionable application". I agree, particularly the combination of RSS with Bittorrent, a subject for a future post...

"Abilities required for success in school don't differ greatly from those required in the real world" - from an American Psychological Association article. I'm shocked. Or as godless notes, maybe the Bell Curve was right. Do you think?

So there was this 17-year old kid name Mike Rowe. He decided to start a software company, and named it Mike Rowe Soft. Microsoft was not amused.

China has approved human trials of an experimental SARS vaccine. Wow. Sometimes you can make progress faster if you don't care so much about the subjects, eh?

Porn search engine Booble debuts. And naturally Google is not amused.

Geek humor, courtesy of Tim Bray: " There's a pirate’s parrot who got a bad case of sunstroke and was heard crowing Pieces of seven, pieces of seven. Which was clearly a parroty error."

AOL is offering movie downloads for 99 cents. Cool. And clearly the wave of the future.

David Hornik sees Microsoft at CES, and is impressed. Have they leapfrogged Apple? Don't know. I am curiously uninterested in Media Center PCs... Why is that?

Scoble meets Garland Wong, CTO of Kinzan, and gets excited.

Ottmar Liebert emailed a link to this California Assembly Resolution. "This measure would urge the California Building Standards Commission to adopt building standards that promote Feng Shui principles and publish these standards in the California Building Standards Code." His comment: "No wonder CA has a deficit :)". Uh, yeah. Does Arnold know about this?

The world's worst working conditions? "As I write this, there is a window open behind me with a small jet engine outside. This is supplying vast amounts of compressed air to the aircraft undergoing heavy maintenance in the hangar right outside my door. There is a 6-inch diameter air hose going through the office and out the door. All this requires that I sit at my desk wearing a body warmer to keep out the cold, and both ear defenders AND ear plugs to keep out the noise." So tell us something important, like how big is your monitor?

CNET ponders patents. Yeah, they are offensive. And yeah, they're not going away any time soon...

Speaking of offensive, the RIAA filed 532 more lawsuits against suspected file sharers. Their PR campaign to win the hearts and minds of music lovers seems a bit misdirected, eh?

Command Post linked a fascinating study of Kurdistan.

Ever consider Google AdSense ads on your blog? I haven't, yet. But here's a handy tool to show you which ads would be displayed on your pages... [ via Mark Frauenfelder ]

Cory Doctorow notes Disney is auctioning cool stuff on eBay, like a Space Mountain ride capsule. Hey, I want one! Why? I don't know...

Lies, Myths, and Downright Stupidity. In other words, news :) [ via Citizen Smash ]

I always liked Carl Sagan, until I read this story.

Musicplasma finds music you like, by finding music that sounds like music you like. [ via Scoble ]

Tivo buys Strangeberry. Okay, now what? (But I do like Arthur van Hoff, because 1) he's Dutch, and 2) he's smart.

Barbara Walters retires after 25 years at 20/20. So be it.

This just sounds too weird: IBM patents method for paying open source volunteers.

Rock veterans Peter Gabriel and Brian Eno are launching a provocative new musicians' alliance that cuts against the industry grain by letting artists sell their music online instead of only through record labels. I'm sure Ottmar is smiling...

Torrentz, a directory of Bittorrent files. [ via Scoble ]

Ben's economics. Or explaining the national debt using Oreos. Too bad it isn't that simple :)

iPods and the wireless - or how to project your iPods music selections onto a wall. Pretty cool, actually. [ via Tom Coates ]

Ars Technica thinks the iPod mini is a smart move for Apple. Let the markets decide!

Cory Doctorow vs. Robert Scoble on whether "open music" is good for consumers. So I think I agree with Cory, but I own an iPod.

Tom Coates weighs in, too. He sounds ambivalent, like I am.

Scoble linked a bunch of reactions.

Ottmar likes his iPod. As an enemy of lock-in, he doesn't seem perturbed by Apple.

Business 2.0: 101 Dumbest moments in business. The website is great, but the magazine is better; get a copy if you can. Very funny and well written.

Big news: Gavyn Davies resigns from the BCC, following reaction to the Hutton report.

As usual Joel Spolsky is dead on: Please sir may I have a linker. I, too, have spent countless hours dealing with incompatibilities among modules. Link them all together, and you know it will work. Sigh.

Eric Sink has a great series of articles: Getting Started with your Own Software Company. Check out his blog, too.

This sounds like a joke, but it isn't: Microsoft suggests typing in links by hand instead of clicking them. Or maybe they should just fix their bugs, eh?

If you did type in links by hand, you wouldn't like this; HugeURL converts short URLs into very large ones. "TinyURL-like services rips all the semantics out of the URLs you send around, gives a third-party a way of spying on which URLs you're loading, and invites man-in-the-middle attacks." Uh, right.

Chris Sells: When in doubt, ignore Longhorn. Sorry, Scoble.

QTVR of Chinese New Year in New York. Very cool.

Tim Bray discusses bouncing termsheets. On the jargon and the way the VC process works...

Proving that great scientists are not necessarily good at marketing, a joint Russian / American team synthesizes atomic elements 113 and 115, and names them ununtrium and ununpentium. Huh?

S-Train notes R.I.P. Oldsmobile. "A classic GMC brand is about to be put out to pasture. The Oldsmobile 2004 line will be last one." So be it.

All the Super Bowl ads on one page. Cool. Oh yeah, there was a football game, too. And a good one! Not to mention a halftime show...

Stephen Den Beste writes about What Didn't Happen. Great point.

Matt Haughey notes Tivo's great moment.

And Dan Gillmor wonders about a farting horse? I'm totally with Dan on this one, who cares about one little breast in a sea of crassness.

Gapminder - a great source of world statistics. Win bar bets and analyze human development. [ via Joi Ito ]

Daring Fireball reviews the OmniWeb browser. It seems very cool, and has some great UI ideas that I might incorporate in Aperio's virtual slide products :)

This is very cool. Zipcar. On demand cars parked throughout a city that you can use as needed. [ via John Robb ]

Medscape notes: Computer-Aided Detection No Better Than Unaided Radiologists for Mammography Interpretation. Surprising and unfortunate. Those of us in medical imaging have our work cut out for us...

A happy MythTV user shows the way. Tivo's open source competition. [ via PVRBlog ]

Oracle makes "final" bid for PeopleSoft. Yawn. Don't they have better ways to build value than to buy and destroy a competitor?

Sony announces Blu-Ray DVD recorders. These discs can hold 23GB. Cool!

David Burbridge ponders A New Cognitive Elite? David is smart and he is trying so hard to be objective, but the evidence is gently sweeping him into a corner. IQ does matter, and it does correlate to social standing in today's Western societies.

Philip Greenspun considers the World's Last Tropical Rainforest. "Panama is one of the few places in the world where you don't need a hippie environmentalist to talk up the value of the rainforest."

Cory Doctorow notes Apple is selling DRMed tracks of silence for 99 cents. Shhhh!

The USB vacuum cleaner. You knew it had to happen, and it did.

Stephen Wolfram's Opus A New Kind of Science is now posted on the web, in its entirety. I read it, unlike many others who have an opinion, and found the style rather pompous and the science quite suspect. Check it out if you want!

The C# Design Process: A Conversation with Anders Hejlsberg. For the computer programming nerds among you.

The Holy Bible is available as an RSS feed. Wow. [ via Dave Winer ]

Halley extols the virtues of Venice Beach. "The lush California landscape is so exquisite, I can't keep my eyes off it. The boats, the ocean, the shiny cars, the hills, the fruit trees, the Mexican paint colors of naranjas and lavendar -- this state is like a big candy-stuffed pinata I'm wacking open to see more and more sweets and treats inside."

Ottmar relays a great annecdote. How cosmic became bosnia. As in, "I say, Tarquin, this quiche is rather bosnia." Well I guess you just have to read it, don't you!

The Economist: Things Fall Apart. "What if the dark energy and dark matter essential to modern explanations of the universe don't really exist?"

John Patrick: What's in the News? Or the virtues of Google News....

Michael Feldman on Why We Need Video Aggregators. He thinks they'll make the average American coach potato more politically savvy. Good luck.

John Robb picks up the thread, Personal Broadcast Networks. Yeah, they'll be great, but people will use them for watching "reality" shows with good looking people pretending to have sex, not to educate themselves. Sorry.

And Andrew Grumet builds it! RSSTV, the combination of RSS with Bittorrent. You'll be hearing a lot more about this.

Adam Curry: tulip field. Beautiful!

Alpine makes a car stereo that integrates with an iPod. Of course, how logical. Millions like me use a bogus cassette adapter, introducing analog noise into a digital connection. Excellent!

Comcast bids for Disney. Bye, Bye, Michael...

Wired: The Russian Nesting Doll of Games. "The object of The Sims, a popular video game, is to keep the characters happy in their daily lives. Now comes a fan-made plug-in that lets the in-game characters amuse themselves by -- what else? -- playing the SimCity video game." Next up - your Sims can have a blog!

Rafe Needleman asks Do You Want Internet TV? Yes.

Oh, look, Akimbo is coming soon...

Doc Searles has a great collection of links and discussion from the Demo conference. I like John Patrick: "The reason I know blogging is real is that there are so many skeptics". Blogging? Real? I'm skeptical :)

The Toronto Star analyzes Steve Jobs' dual CEO roles, Apple and Pixar, and finds them complementary.

CNET: Behind Steve Jobs' plans for Pixar.

The Onion interviews Arthur C. Clarke. No, it is not a spoof!

Yahoo ditches Google, and Phil Ringnalda compares their new search engine to their old one...

Looks like Napster isn't going to make it. "The original big dog in digital music has turned into a pussycat. Roxio's reincarnation of Napster as a subscription music service has produced millions of dollars in losses, shakeups in the executive suites, and now job layoffs." Despite their best efforts to pretend they're cool, they're not cool. iTunes is cool. And that matters.

SiliconValley.com suggests a failed almost-deal with HP might have made the difference.

Forbes: Five robots that will change your life. My daughter Megan had successful open heart surgery two years ago, the surgeon used a robotic arm. That sure changed her life, and mine!

Want more disk space? Maybe the terabyte "Bigger Disk" is your answer...

Here's something you don't see every day. How many horns can you play at the same time? [ via BigWig ]

Salon says Dance Pop Grows Up with Kylie Minogue...

Elmore Leonard's Ten Rules for Writing. #10 is "Try to leave out the part that readers tend to skip." This blog post would be a violation :)

One of the worst investments you can make is your kids. "Data show family wealth is entirely lost by the third generation." Well that certainly fights against conventional wisdom, doesn't it!

Forbes: The coming RSS revolution. Can you say "mainstream"?

Wired: Googlemania! "They named their new search engine Google, for the biggest number they could imagine. Today Google's a library, an almanac, a settler of bets. It's a verb. At more than 200 million requests a day, it is, by far, the world's biggest search engine."

David Hornik considers the Treo 600 in Evolution and Product Development. "Only through trial and error can a company build great products and services that truly meet the needs of their customers."

So the next Microsoft XBox will contain G5 chips, and the SDK runs on Macs. That's certainly interesting news for Intel. But Stephen Den Beste says for Apple it's a Devil's Deal.

Halley quotes Housekeeping Monthly, 1955: How to be a good wife. Wow.

Joel Spolsky passes on his Top Twelve Tips for Running a Beta Test.

Michael Gartenberg, writing about RSS vs. Atom: "The vendors should heed the words of the head of Black & Decker, who once said that customers don't buy the tool maker's products because they need 1-inch drills; they buy them because they need 1-inch holes."

Peter Rojas left Gizmodo and started Engadget. The good news, now we have two competing gadget blogs!

Philips develops fluid lenses. "Philips Research is demonstrating a unique variable-focus lens system that has no mechanical moving parts. The FluidFocus system mimics the action of the human eye using a fluid lens that alters its focal length by changing its shape." Very cool.

QTVR - animated rocky coast scene. Really cool.

Warren Buffet's annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders is out, and as usual well worth reading. My biggest takeaway - the trade deficit has him spooked.

Wired: Plastic on Steroids. "Artificial muscles pump up everything from military gear to drug delivery."

OSNews: The command line is your friend. Interesting contrast with supposedly "user friendly" graphical user interfaces.

Dave Winer proposes a truce: RSS is Raging. "So here's the chance to do something good for the Internet, something not evil. Let's go Google, let's go SixApart, it's time to bury the hatchet and move on." I hope it works, but I'm not optimistic.

Oh goodie, now you can Record Movies with your Treo 600. What a great toy.

Remember L? The company with the cool high-end PCs and laptops? (And monitors?) Well they have a new highest-end laptop out, the "gold". Looks awesome!

Scoble wonders Why is RSS adoption so low? But then Steve Gillmor counters, essentially, why is RSS adoption so high? Read 'em both!

Wired: Speed meets feed in new download tool. RSS+Bittorrent. See, I told you that you'd be hearing more about it.

Oh, and here is more - a Slashdot thread...

Hey! Toyota is working on a radar-controlled cruise control. Excellent. Remember my Caravans idea? Looks like it might happen. At least the technology is going to be there.

Oh, and Ottmar loves his new Prius. "This car definitely exceeds my expectations."

YourTech reviews EyeTV, a Mac-based PVR solution. Doesn't sound like a threat to stand-alone devices like Tivo - at least not yet.

Wow, J.J.Jackson passed away. I remember him in the old KLOS days...

The iPod mini sells out. Engadget notes: "Say what you want about the iPod mini — that it’s not quite mini enough, that it costs too much, that the colors it comes in are tacky — but Apple has an undeniable hit on their hands."

Finally, as Tom Coates noted: "The secret of successful weblogging is - it seems - never to pause for a moment." Scoble took a blog vacation. A mere week! What a wimp. Try taking eight weeks off, and then catching up in one post ;)