We got this information from the source of INO.net (imnotokay.net)

Don't beleive us? Here's the link...

http://www.imnotokay.net/my-chemical-romance/frank-iero/

Frank Anthony Iero was born on October 31st, 1981 (making him a Scorpio), in Belleville, New Jersey (which he prefers to big cities such as New York or L.A.). Not many people know how to say his last name, which is correctly pronounced "eye-year-oh". Frank is 5'4'' and has hazel eyes with a dark drown natural hair color (now dyed black). He grew up with his mom, Linda, who divorced his dad (a great influence to him over the years). Just like fellow band mate Gerard Way, he has been playing in bands since he was eleven. Frank went to a catholic school growing up, where he learned to tie a tie. He was bullied in high school. He went to Rutgers University on a scholarship, but dropped out to join My Chemical Romance.

My Chemical Romance

He currently is the rhythm guitarist for My Chemical Romance, and is the youngest member of the band. He was recruited after the band decided they needed another guitarist (in addition to Ray Toro) to fill out the sound. He also dropped out of college (and another band, Pencey Prep, scroll down for more) to pursue the band full time. At the time when he joined My Chemical Romance, he had dreadlocks. Frank plays an Epiphone Elitist Les Paul Custom guitar with an Alpine White finish, among others. One of his guitars reads "Pansy” across it in honor of the owner’s nickname. Sadly, Pansy was broken in recent months by an MTV guitar tech.

Body Art

He has the word "HALLOWEEN" tattooed on his fingers and his other tattoos include a Jack O Lantern on his back, "Keep the Faith" on his upper back, the letters "N.J." inside his lip standing for New Jersey, "I wish I were a ghost" around his right wrist, a dove on his left lower chest, an anchor on the lower part of his right bicep with an "N" and "J" on either side, and he has a scorpion on the right side of his neck. Frank got the scorpion tattoo as high up on his body as he could once he decided that he didn’t want a real job.

Prone to Injuries

He unfortunately has suffered from Bronchitis and ear infections, as well as two broken toes, four chipped teeth, lacerations to hands, knees, and his head, numerous contusions and bruises, and endured a nasty case of mono. Alas, he still smokes.

Interests

Some of his favorite bands are Black Flag, American Nightmare, The Bouncing Souls, and The Beastie Boys. Frank loves reading books, especially the Harry Potter series. Frank Iero admires Billie Joe Armstrong (front man of the punk band Green Day) so much he learned to play guitar by imitating him. He also plans on buying a guitar that looks like Billie Joe's. Frank’s favorite movies are Tim Burton’s Nightmare Before Christmas, Rushmore, and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. Iero once expressed a want to meet Tim Burton. He loves dogs and prefers sunsets to sunrise. Frank used to go for strolls in cemeteries claiming, "It’s very peaceful.”

Side Projects

Frank has his own clothing line, record label, and publishing company called Skeleton Crew. It is not a T-shirt company. Before he started playing with My Chemical Romance, Iero fronted a band called Pencey Prep. Along with Pencey Prep, he also has played with the bands Hybrid, Sector 12, and Give Up the Ghost.

Quotes

"This is a band that will save your life."

"I would date Gerard."

"I can't imagine any other bands having better kids than ours, and if they do at least I know our kids can beat up their kids."

"I'm totally f-in' bummed about the 'Ghost of You' leak. If you see a site with a link to the video, please don't watch it. Don't send it out. Don't look at screencaps. It's NOT FINISHED YET!"

"If I revealed my secret identity, the world would go to shit."

Camera Man: "Can't handle with that." Frank: "Hmmm, you need to a open mind my friend."

"Oh, one time we got held hostage!”

"We've mutilated, killed and disemboweled rock 'n' roll clichés!”

"My biggest addictions have been chocolate cake, mashed potatoes, and butter sandwiches.”

"I burn everything and call it Cajun.”

"Really I don't know anything other than Jersey. I like the dirtiness of it. Now I'm getting to see the world, and it's great, but it's not better than Jersey"

Camera man: "Did you read the new Ellen Degeneres book?"

Frank: "Yeah."

Camera man: "What did you think?"

Frank: "It made me a fucking lesbian!"