My Chemical Romance guitarist Frank Iero is opening up shop on Reverb.

On June 28, the prolific musician, who has been a member of L.S. Dunes, Pencey Prep, Reggie and the Full Effect, Leathermouth, and Death Spells—and who has multiple solo projects—will be selling dozens of guitars, amps, and memorabilia.

Update: The Official Frank Iero of My Chemical Romance Reverb Shop is now live.

Iero is stocking his shop with plenty of stage and studio gear that’s been essential to his sound and that of the bands he has played with, including an early ‘2000s Fender Telecaster 72 Deluxe Reissue that’s traveled across the globe.

"I loved using this guitar on MCR’s The Black Parade touring cycle, but the time has come to pass it on to another deserving player," said Iero. "It even appeared on our performance of 'Famous Last Words' when we played The Tonight Show with Jay Leno."

Other highlights from included in the shop include:

An Ampeg 8x10 Bass Cabinet—”If road-worn cabinets are your thing, this is the holy grail,” said Iero. “Originally owned by Mikey Way, then gifted to me. This cabinet was originally stage used in MCR, then Leathermouth, by me in Reggie and the Full Effect, and in The Love Cats, then painted pink and black for [my solo projects].”

A Nash T-72 DLX—”This originally belonged to James Bowman, guitar player of Against Me! He played it when they toured with Green Day on the Revolution Radio Tour. I then purchased it from him and used it to record “The Unfortunate” on Barriers, an album I did with the Future Violents that we recorded with Steve Albini in Chicago at Electrical Audio."

An Epiphone Black Les Paul—”This is the first Les Paul I ever owned, probably paving the way for my future affinity for Epiphone Les Pauls later on in life,” said Iero. “This particular LP was smashed during a Pencey Prep show.”

An Orange 4x12 Guitar Cabinet—”This cabinet has seen quite a few shows,” said Iero. “Originally painted for Danger Days: The True Lives of the Fabulous Killjoys, this cab was stage used in MCR for the full run of that record cycle until the band's last show in 2012. Later, the cabinet was painted over black and pink and used in all three [of my] solo incarnations.”

Iero’s first bass, a Series 10 four-string bass. Originally painted black, he repainted the bass white for the “Joyriding” music video.

A 1970’s Ludwig Blue Vistalite Drum Set that My Chemical Romance used while writing Danger Days: The True Lives of the Fabulous Killjoys.

The Official Frank Iero of My Chemical Romance Reverb Shop is now live.

comments powered by Disqus