To celebrate Debemur Morti’s 200th release, the label are proud to announce that Ukrainian band White Ward have composed two new songs which will be released on June 25th – appropriately titled Debemur Morti.

This new work of Art cycles from smoky neo-jazz saxophone ambience, through hypnotic contemporary black metal aggression and on opener ‘Debemur Morti’, into emotive piano-led songcraft showcasing a flawless guest vocal performance from the legendary Lars Nedland (Borknagar, Solefald). The new EP will be available on 10″ vinyl, digipack CD, and digitally.

Label owner Phil comments on this special occasion: “This year we commemorate 18 years of hard work and dedicated passion for the Dark Arts – a rewarding achievement – which we highlight with a meaningful 200th DMP release from the singular Ukrainian black metal experimentalists White Ward. This daring, dark and demanding band embodies everything we love about Art. For me, as a label owner and Art-devotee, this is a profound gift from a band who has been growing with the label. For you, our loyal supporters, we present a new offering blending traditionalism and innovation, encapsulating everything this label represents now and going forward.”

ZT would like to take this opportunity to tip their hats to the label on reaching such a significant milestone, and to say that it’s been a great honour to have worked with Phil and the gang on so many releases over so years – congratulations and long may it continue!

The label spoke to the band’s mastermind Yurii about the EP for the following Q&A.

DMP: Dear Yurii, thank you very much for answering these three questions about the coming first new song ‘Debemur Morti’. Would you be so kind as to tell us a few words about the composing process for this new track? Did everything start with a riff? And did you have a clear vision of how the structure of the song should be and how it should sound in the end?

Yurii: Yes! It started with one riff, but then I seriously broke my arm and was not able to play guitar, of course. But sometimes your desire and power is stronger than physical issues, so I finally decided to try composing all the music only with computer software, and it worked! So, all you hear in this song, besides the first riff, was composed by me without guitar and with one hand. It was a real challenge for me as a composer and now I am very happy that I coped with it and that I did not disappoint the other guys from the band and, of course, Phil from DMP.

I almost never have a clear vision concerning the structure when I start the composing process. It all grows spontaneously. I just knew I would need a part fitting for clean vocals, so I started trying some different ideas.

DMP: One of the outstanding features of this song is the use of clear vocals by Lars Nedland (Borknagar, Solefald). Was the part in the song specifically composed for his voice and vocals? Or did you know you wanted some clean singing in the beginning and then searched for a fitting voice? And how did you get into contact with Lars?

Yurii: We contacted Lars almost at the same time the idea for the EP as the 200th release was born. Phil talked to Lars when he bought our records, and Lars told him that he does not mind recording some vocals for us. And, of course, we agreed! We were shocked a little bit and it is an honour for us.

I tried to compose parts fitting for epic clean vocals. And I think it was totally successful. We are really happy with the result and proud of it. This collaboration means very much to us. And we hope one day we will perform this song live together with Lars.