Best time to go to Yorkton Average weather of Yorkton, Canada

When is the best time to go to Yorkton?

When is the best time to go to Yorkton? Here's some information to help you in your decision:

The best months for good weather in Yorkton are June, July and August

On average, the warmest months are July and August

The coldest months are January and February

June is the rainiest month

Annual weather in Yorkton

For full information about the climate and weather in Yorkton a specific month, click on the corresponding line below:

Month Our opinion January -16°C/-10°C 32mm very bad weather Yorkton in january February -17°C/-10°C 18mm very bad weather Yorkton in february March -9°C/-2°C 47mm very bad weather Yorkton in march April -1°C/7°C 65mm very bad weather Yorkton in april May 7°C/17°C 89mm tolerable weather Yorkton in may June 12°C/21°C 172mm good weather Yorkton in june July 14°C/25°C 112mm good weather Yorkton in july August 13°C/25°C 93mm good weather Yorkton in august September 9°C/19°C 59mm tolerable weather Yorkton in september October 2°C/9°C 51mm very bad weather Yorkton in october November -7°C/-1°C 37mm very bad weather Yorkton in november December -14°C/-9°C 23mm very bad weather Yorkton in december

Weather and climate in Yorkton

Yorkton enjoys a warm-summer humid continental climate (without dry season) in accordance with the Köppen-Geiger classification. The yearly average maximum temperature in Yorkton is 8°C (ranging from -10°C in february to 25°C in august). Annual rainfall is 791mm, with a minimum of 18mm in february and a maximum of 172mm in june.

From january to april the climate is very bad. It is for example 7°C as maximum temperature in april and you can expect to have 65mm of rainfall/month during this period.

In the month of may the climate is just OK. The record temperature this month is 32°C and it rains about 89mm each month.

Between june and september the climate is good. It is for example 19°C as maximum temperature in september and, in september, 3 days of rain are expected.

Between october and december the climate is very bad. At lunchtime, it's -11°C in average and it rains in december about 23mm.

Charts: temperature and rainfall in Yorkton

In the charts below, you can see the following seasonal norms for the city of Yorkton: the minimum and maximum outdoor temperature, the risk and amount of monthly rainfall, daily average sunshine, and relative humidity for each month of the year.

Outside temperature

Precipitation (rainfall)

Daily sunshine hours

Humidity

Peak visitor numbers and tourist seasons in Yorkton

Find out when Yorkton has its high tourist season (the period when the influx of tourists is highest) and off-peak tourist season using our data and figures.

Tourist seasons in Yorkton

Very low season in Yorkton

The months with the lowest number of tourists are: January, February and November.

Low season in Yorkton

The months with low numbers of tourists are: March, April, May, October and December.

High season in Yorkton

The number of visitors to Yorkton is high in: June and September.

Peak season in Yorkton

The largest number of tourists visiting Yorkton is during: July and August.

Figure: Visitor index for Yorkton month by month

Other cities and places near Yorkton

Best time to go to Canada

Chargement en cours