Duane “Dog the Bounty Hunter” Chapman has amassed a big brood over the years, welcoming 13 children.

The reality star has been married six times, first tying the knot with La Fonda Sue Darnell in 1972 followed by Ann Tegnell seven years later.

Chapman shares kids with both, having more after he and Lyssa Rae Brittain walked down the aisle in 1982.

He and his fourth wife, Tawny Marie Chapman, don’t share any children.

Duane and fifth wife Beth Chapman have three kids, with the former bail bondsman also sharing a child with ex-girlfriend Debbie White. In 2023, he revealed he had secretly fathered a 13th.

Keep scrolling to learn more the “Dog the Bounty Hunter” star, who is currently married to Francine Frane, and his growing family.

Christopher Michael Hecht

Duane was serving an 18-month prison sentence for a third-degree murder charge when White gave birth to his eldest child, son Christopher, in 1972.

The little one was adopted by Keith Hecht and Gloria Hecht when White died by suicide six years later. Duane reached out to the family when Christopher was 19.

Christopher was reportedly arrested in 2008 on suspicions of a third-degree assault. In February 2021, he was sentenced to three years in prison following a menacing arrest, a sentence he served in Colorado (via the US Sun).

Duane Lee Chapman II

The bounty hunter welcomed his second son while married to Darnell.

Duane Jr. worked alongside his dad at Da’Kine Bail Bonds in Hawaii, also appearing on “Dog the Bounty Hunter.”

Although the show aired from 2004 to 2012, Duane Jr. and his younger brother, Leland, quit one season ahead of the finale amid a dispute with Beth.

Leland Blane Chapman

Duane Jr. became a big brother in 1974 when Leland was born.

When Darnell placed Leland in foster care, he ran away as a teen and was given the choice to live with Duane — which he took.

After quitting his family’s reality show, Leland seemingly reconciled with his dad, as Duane posted a birthday tribute via Instagram in December 2020.

Leland has been married twice, first to a woman named Maui from 1995 to 2005, with whom he shares sons Dakota and Cobie. He welcomed daughter Leiah with Lynette Yi before marrying model Jamie Pilar Chapman in 2016.

Zebadiah Chapman

Duane married Tegnell in August 1979 in a Colorado ceremony, shortly after the former A&E personality was paroled.

While their son Zebadiah was born in January of the following year, the infant died suddenly at 1 month old.

Wesley Chapman

Wesley was born in 1980, with his parents divorcing shortly after. He was raised by his maternal grandmother but reconnected with Duane at age 38.

“Man it’s been a journey to get here, to be in a place to have … a father and his son building a legacy,” the Alabama School of Fine Arts graduate wrote via Instagram in September 2019. “A legacy that will be passed down for generations to come.”

Not only did Wesley found The Human Project to help at-risk youth, but he and his wife, Jodie, run the Chapman Springs Ranch. He is the father of daughters Chloe and Peyton from a previous relationship.

James Robert Chapman

Duane and Tegnell reunited briefly after their divorce, welcoming son James in their time together.

J.R. has stayed out of the spotlight, with very little known about his life.

Barbara Katie Chapman

In 1982, Duane wed Brittain in a ceremony reportedly performed by a Native American chief in Colorado, days after meeting at a bar.

Barbara, who was born in June of that same year, died in a 2006 car crash when she was 23 years old. She was survived by son Travis.

Duane honored Barbara on the 15th anniversary of her death with an Instagram post reading, “15 years ago today My Barbara Katie went to be w/ JESUS.”

Tucker Dee Chapman

Duane and Brittain’s second child together, son Tucker, joined the family in September 1983.

Despite Duane telling Larry King in 2007 that he “love[s] him very much,” Tucker has a strained relationship with his dad.

When tapes were leaked of Duane saying the N-word to describe Tucker’s girlfriend that same year, A&E put “Dog the Bounty Hunter” on hiatus for the “foreseeable future.” The show resumed production four months later.

Duane claimed in a 2021 “Entertainment Tonight” interview that he had a “pass” to use the slur from his time in prison.

“I thought I had a pass in the black tribe to use it, kind of like Eminem,” he told the outlet at the time. “So that was a word that we used back and forth, as maybe a compliment.

“I have never been a racist,” Duane continued. “I’m 33.5 percent Apache. But because of over 15 years ago, I have an Achilles’ heel because I used the wrong word.”

Lyssa Rae Chapman

Four years before Duane and Brittain’s divorce in 1991, their daughter, Lyssa, was born.

Lyssa gave birth to daughters Abbie Mae and Madalynn with husband Braham Galanti before getting divorced.

She and Leiana Evensen tied the knot in June 2022 after six years of dating.

“Last week Lei and I boarded a boat at 7 in the morning with 7 of our closest family members and we dedicated our love and lives to one another,” the bride gushed via Instagram at the time.

The ceremony took place in the Pacific Ocean in Hawaii, with Lyssa’s uncle David officiating.

At the time, Lyssa told People about Duane’s reaction to her coming out, explaining, “I don’t want to put words in his mouth because I don’t know what his exact feelings about it are, but he’s never shown me anything other than support.”

Bonnie Joanne Chapman

After an on-again, off-again relationship, Duane married Beth in Hawaii in 2006. They were already the parents of daughter Bonnie, who was born in December 1998.

Bonnie, who often shows her makeup skills via Instagram, made headlines in 2021 when she accused her father and Frane of not inviting her to their wedding because of her “choice to participate in social justice and [Black Lives Matter] protests.”

She also alleged that Duane cheated on her mom, writing, “I hated him every time he did it, but I forgave him for that because I wanted a relationship with my dad” — which led to Duane’s “Entertainment Tonight” denial.

Garry Chapman

Garry, born in February 2001, was hospitalized in the summer of 2020 after a four-wheeler wreck.

Three years prior, his mom was diagnosed with throat cancer. Beth died of the disease two years later at age 51.

“It’s 5:32 in Hawaii, this is the time she would wake up to go hike Koko Head mountain,” Duane told his Instagram followers at the time. “Only today, she hiked the stairway to heaven.”

Cecily Barmore-Chapman

Beth welcomed Cecily in 1993 with her ex-husband, and Duane adopted the little one when they got married.

Cecily was arrested for domestic violence in July 2021, telling Page Six about the alleged act of “self-defense” in a statement the following month.

“I was attacked. I defended myself,” she claimed. “I’d do it again. End of story.”

Jon

In June 2023, Duane told his Instagram followers he had secretly fathered a son named Jon but did not provide further details about his maternity.

“For the last four years, this day was a terrible reminder of one of the greatest losses of my life,” he wrote, referencing Beth’s death.

“But God redeemed this day when I discovered my son Jon, who I just met recently, was born on this day. So now instead of sorrow, this day has a new meaning. This is my son Jon and his wife, Jodi.”