Amy Grant is the proud mom of four children.

She has three children from her first marriage to musician Gary Chapman: Matthew Garrison Chapman, Gloria Mills "Millie" Long and Sarah Cannon Besenius. Grant and Gary were married in 1982, separated in 1998 and finalized their divorce in 1999.

The "Breath of Heaven" singer welcomed her fourth child, daughter Corrina Grant Gill, in 2001 with her current husband, country singer Vince Gill. The couple got engaged and married in 2000, seven years after they first met. Vince also has a daughter, Jennifer Jerene Gill, with his ex-wife Janis Oliver.

When Grant announced their relationship to The Tennessean in 1998, she admitted that her daughter Millie caught on to the romance before it was public. When Millie asked her mother if Vince was her boyfriend, Grant said, “I kind of took a breath and said, ‘He is, honey. Yeah.’ ”

However, the blending of their families was not easy at the beginning. Grant said that she and her husband were "the only excited ones" at their wedding in a 2013 appearance on Katie Couric's show, Katie. "I laugh about our wedding day, because all of our photographs, I refer to my grim-faced children," Grant said. "It just takes time, and it's okay to let it."

Corrina's birth in 2001 changed the family dynamic. "[She's] the glue of this whole family," Vince told AARP The Magazine in 2011. "She bonded all of us in a blood way that really did connect us."

From their careers to their personal lives, here's everything to know about Amy Grant's kids, Matthew, Millie, Sarah and Corrina.

Matthew Garrison Chapman, 36

Grant welcomed Matthew, her first child with Gary, in 1987 in Nashville, Tennessee.

In 2016, Matthew founded a cannabis company called LabCanna in Nashville. According to his LinkedIn, he is the president and chief technology officer of the company.

In 2019, Matthew told The Tennessean that he was destined to have a non-traditional job because of his mom's career. “I learned to walk on a tour bus,” he told the outlet. “I’ve sort of only been surrounded by creative individuals or entrepreneurs my whole life, and so, yeah, the idea of a normal job sort [of] seems like prison.”

The Christian rock star and her ex-husband even helped their son start his business. Grant loaned Matthew greenhouse space on her Tennessee farm for LabCanna's first crop, and as of 2019, the business still farmed on her property. Matthew's dad is the company's community outreach director.

A 2021 post on the company's Instagram detailed how Matthew got involved in the cannabis industry and what he does in his free time.

"Matt doesn't spend much time away from work, but he occasionally enjoys camping as a way to get some fresh air and recharge," read the post. "Aside from that, you can generally find him repairing, designing, fabricating or automating some goofy project at his home. It's what he likes to do."

Gloria Mills "Millie" Long, 34

Gary and Grant welcomed their second child, Millie, in 1989. In April 2016, Grant re-released her hit song "Baby Baby" with Tori Kelly and revealed that Millie inspired the original lyrics.

"I had played with a few lyric ideas but nothing was working," Grant told PEOPLE. "And then one day I looked down at my new daughter and thought 'Oh baby, baby,' and the lyric just poured out of me in about 10 minutes."

In February 2017, Millie donated a kidney to her best friend Kathryn Dudley, who has a rare kidney disease. "They've [known] each other their entire lives and when Kathryn was in need, turns out Millie was a perfect match," Gary announced in a Facebook post. "I'm so proud of her, words fail me."

Grant told The Tennessean that she originally couldn't believe her daughter's choice to donate. “Millie is not an overly affectionate person. She’ll say I love you once every few years,” Grant said. “But just when she did that, I went, ‘Oh my gosh, we live in a culture that puts a lot of weight on words and not a lot of weight on experience and action.' ”

Over two years later, in 2019, Grant and Millie shared the details of Millie's wedding to Ben Long, whom she met on a dating app while they were both living in New York.

"We were both looking for a special connection we didn't think we could find in a bar," Millie told PEOPLE. "Pretty early on in the relationship we each knew that we had found the person we wanted to be with."

Her mom, however, was having a hard time accepting her baby was all grown up and getting married.

"It is hard to believe that same 6-week-old girl who inspired the lyrics to 'Baby Baby' is now a beautiful married woman," Grant told PEOPLE. "Her life has given us a lot of reasons to dance and celebrate through the years!"

Millie and Ben welcomed their first child, daughter Penelope Willow, in January 2022. "What a way to kick off 2022!" Grant told PEOPLE. "We are over the moon at her safe delivery. Mom and baby are doing great!"

Millie has a public Instagram account and often posts photos of her daughter Penelope, her dogs and time spent hanging out with her mom. In October 2023, Millie announced she was expecting another baby, a boy.

Sarah Cannon Besenius, 31

Grant and Gary had their youngest child together, Sarah, in 1992. She has a private Instagram account, but some of her siblings shared that she married Derek Besenius in November 2019.

Millie posted an Instagram tribute to her sister Sarah on her wedding day. "Filled with joy beyond measure. My beautiful sister couldn't have picked a better partner," she captioned the photos. Her stepsister, Jennifer, also shared photos from Sarah's big day on Instagram.

"My little sister got married yesterday. She was absolutely stunning. I loved seeing her so happy. Congrats sweet Sarah," she wrote in the caption.

Sarah and Derek are also involved in her brother Matthew's LabCanna business, per the company's Instagram. Sarah is the chief operating officer and owner at LabCanna, according to her LinkedIn, and has shared that she is proud to be a woman in the cannabis industry. Derek is the chief executive officer of the business.

Sarah started working at LabCanna shortly after she attended The New School in New York City, where she graduated with a degree in urban studies/affairs in 2015.

Corrina Grant Gill, 22

Just two days after Grant and Vince's first wedding anniversary, on March 12, 2001, Grant and Vince welcomed their daughter, Corrina.

Like her mom, Corrina is also a musician and often shares videos of herself singing on social media. When Grant re-released her song "Baby Baby" with Tori Kelly in 2016, she told PEOPLE that Corrina was supportive of the decision. “Although I had not met Tori at that point, my 15-year-old daughter, Corrina, is a big fan of Tori’s and so I was very aware of her incredible talent,” Grant said.

In July 2021, Corinna shared a photo of herself hugging Grant on Instagram, with a sweet caption honoring the release date anniversary of one of her mom’s famous albums. “ ‘Heart in Motion’ is 30 today!!!!! MAN, i love my mom. #PROUDKID💐🤍,” she captioned the photo.

Corrina later paid tribute to her mom alongside her dad during a show in Nashville in August 2022 while Grant was recovering from a severe bike accident that occurred over a week before.

Grant's team shared a video of the performance on Facebook. Corrina sang Vince's song, "When My Amy Prays," and she changed the lyrics to "when my mama prays" during the performance.