I'm not sure what a "traditional" Mulligan Beef Stew would include ... but I thought this recipe had some interesting ingredients. It sure looks appealing.

For myself, if I was making this, I would tweak the recipe a bit, excluding some of the ingredients (like fish sauce) and I would add potatoes for sure. I would keep in the poblano chilies, as that's what makes this stew different from what I've made before.

Mulligan Beef Stew - From Woman's Day

INGREDIENTS

4 tbsp. olive oil, plus more for the pan

3 lb. beef stew meat (such as chuck), trimmed and cut into 2" pieces

kosher salt

2 onions, chopped

4 medium carrots (about 12 oz.), sliced 1/4" thick

2 poblano chiles, chopped

2 large cloves garlic, chopped

1 1" piece ginger, peeled and finely chopped

1 bay leaf (optional)

1/2 tsp. ground cumin

1/2 tsp. ground coriander

2 c. dry red wine

1 1/2 tsp. adobo sauce (from a can of chipotles in adobo)

1 28-oz. can crushed tomatoes

2 c. low-sodium chicken broth

1/2 c. coffee

1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce

1 tsp. fish sauce

1 tbsp. low-sodium soy sauce

1 tsp. honey

Chopped parsley and rolls or bread, for serving

DIRECTIONS

STEP 1: Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a skillet over medium-high heat. Pat the beef dry with paper towels, season with 1/2 teaspoon salt, then cook in batches until browned all over, adding more oil to the pan if necessary.

STEP 2: Wipe out the pan and heat remaining 2 tablespoon oil over medium heat. Add the onions and 1/4 teaspoon salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onions begin to brown, about 8 minutes. Add the carrots, poblanos, garlic, ginger, bay leaf, cumin, and coriander and cook, stirring once or twice, until very fragrant, about 2 minutes.

STEP 3: Transfer the vegetable mixture to a 6-quart slow cooker. Add 1 cup wine to the empty pan and scrape all the browned bits off the bottom; transfer to the slow cooker.

STEP 4: Add the adobo sauce and remaining wine to the slow cooker. Stir in the tomatoes, chicken broth, coffee, Worcestershire sauce, and fish sauce. Nestle the beef in the sauce and cook on high until the liquids are steaming and the dish is fragrant, about 45 minutes.

STEP 5: Stir in the soy sauce and honey and cook on low until the beef is tender, 5 to 6 hours. Discard the bay leaf and season with additional salt if necessary. Spoon into bowls, sprinkle with parsley, and serve with rolls, if desired.

"What we practice daily is what we build a life on. Practice peace, love & kindness."

@On It wrote:

@kate2357 This recipe is interesting. I would definitely leave out the fish sauce and a couple of other ingredients that would trigger my acid reflux. I plan on attempting this as soon as my renovation is complete.

According to the Hallmark movie "A Crown for Christmas," Mulligan Stew is everything in the kitchen plus peas. I will combine both ideas. Thank you for posting.

@On It

Are you doing a kitchen renovation? Those can be so painful to go through as they seem to take forever to be completed. But when completed, so much fun to cook in the new kitchen.

I like peas too. But I always just add frozen peas to the bowl I'm eating in, then pour/ladle the soup or stew over the peas. I do not like mushy peas and cannot eat split pea soup.

"What we practice daily is what we build a life on. Practice peace, love & kindness."

@drizzellla wrote:

Is Mulligan Stew, the stew that Charlie Ruggles wife cooked in the movie "It Happened on Fifth Avenue"?

I found a tremendous bread at the local farmers market. And wanted to make a stew to go along with it.

Looks like alot of meat and spices. But am willing to give it a try.

@drizzellla

I don't know the movie you're referring to. I do agree this had a lot of spices and some of them I don't have on hand. As for the meat, yes, I thought 3 lbs seemed like a lot of meat, but this recipe seems to be mainly about the meat ... whereas the stew I'm used to making has a bunch of veggies included.

For stews and soup, I tend to tweak the recipes. In this case, for just my hubby and I, the amount of meat I would use would be between 1-2 lbs the first time I made it.

"What we practice daily is what we build a life on. Practice peace, love & kindness."

I make my grandma's recipe for this dish. I have been known to throw in a ham bone if I have one saved in the freezer:

4 lb chuck roast, cut into 1" chunks

3 tbsp vegetable oil

4 carrots. cut into 1"chunks

1 onion, chopped

1/2 tsp allspice

15-oz can diced tomatoes

5 1/2 cups water

1/2 cup barley

1/2 tsp dried thyme

1 1/2 lb yellow potatoes, cut into 1" chunks

1/2 lb green beans, cut into 1" lengths

1 1/2 cups cabbage, cut into 1" chunks

Sprinkle beef with salt and pepper. Brown in 2 tbsp oil in big pot (I use my Dutch oven). Set aside in bowl.

Cook carrots, onion, and allspice in 1 tbsp oil until onion is soft. Stir in tomatoes and cook until almost all juice has cooked off. Stir in water, ham bone, barley, thyme, browned beef, and 1 tsp salt. Bring to simmer and cover. Cook in 300 degree oven for 1 hour and 45 minutes

.

Take out of oven, stir in potatoes and green beans. Cover and return to oven for 45 more minutes. Take out of oven and throw away ham bone.

Stir in cabbage, cover, and return to oven until vegetables are softened, about 15 minutes.