Love is in the air this time, and what better way to make your heart beat faster than in the company of threeclassic romantic comedies.

First up, Carole Landis and John Hubbard are switching places, literally, in 1940 body-swap comedy Turnabout. James Cagney is romancing Gloria Stuart on the high seas in 1934's Here Comes The Navy. And Charles Boyer and Margaret Sullavan have the most unorthodox marriage you can imagine in 1941's Appointment For Love.

We've got music from Cagney himself, as well as dreamy tunes from Doris Day and Jo Stafford. We're playing another round of Who The Hell Is That Hollywood Legend?

And radio entertainment this week comes courtesy of Charles Boyer and Myrna Loy!

To sign up as a co-producer/patron of the shows CLICK HERE or go to www.patreon.com/attaboysecret

Credits

This week, hear all about the wonderful thing that "SCIENCE" discovered lately...

There's some classic MUSIC from Johnny Mercer, Bing Crosby and Bea Wain...

'Who The Hell Is That Hollywood Legend?' RETURNS with a new mystery to solve...

Find out who's won the VAL LEWTON competition...

Plus reviews of two movie favourites, the James Cagney & Pat O'Brien comic drama 'Ceiling Zero', and the scintillating 'The Farmer's Daughter' starring Loretta Young and Joseph Cotten.

To become a patron of the shows, click here

To find out more about 'The Dark Pages' click here

Credits

In this week's episode...

LEARN how to make food taste better, with the judicious application of wine...

GRIMACE as we discover if it's possible to improve some classic movie lines with the use of sound effects...

CELEBRATE the birthdays of Adam and his all-time favourite movie star, this week's guest of honour: the one and only Mr James Cagney.

This week's reviews are of three of Mr Cagney's classics, including 1933's 'Lady Killer', 1936's 'Great Guy', and 1941's 'The Strawberry Blonde'.

Radio entertainment comes this week in the form of a very suspenseful outing for Cagney, as he pays a visit to radio's outstanding theatre of thrills, plus we'll take a trip back to 1981, when Cagney and his best friend, Pat O'Brien, journeyed to England, and recounted the story of how they met.

ALSO: Some thank yous! A mailing list! An amicable split! AND find out what the next special will be, once Hitchcock Part 3 has been finished...

To become a patron of the shows click here

To subscribe to 'The Secret History Of Hollywood' click here

To leave an iTunes review for this show, click here

Credits

Welcome back, everyone!

Forget your contemporary pop stars, why didn’t the ‘Spry’ song ever permeate the national consciousness?

Not only that, but it’s ‘Summer Money Time’, a time to be consistently interrupted.

Adam deals out lashings of High-Octane-80’s-High-Fives to all the good folk who’ve been making his days lately, and the Sexist Advertisement Klaxon once again rears its politically incorrect head.

What’s the most inappropriate radio show that a grammatically worrying “Just Right Sweet” sugar coated treat could possibly be linked to?

Join ‘The Attaboy Clarence Film Club’ and sound off, damn you.

PLUS, reviews of the nail-biting noir-thriller ‘The Woman In The Window’, the Cagney comedy ‘The Irish In Us’ ("O’HARA"), a horribly disappointing version of Edgar Allan Poe’s ‘The Black Cat’ starring Basil Rathbone, and James Stewart’s first movie, ‘The Murder Man’.

The radio play this week is an intriguing slice of mystery and drama, entitled ‘Libel’, from the Lux Radio Theatre, so turn the volume up, and settle back in for the just right sweet return of The Attaboy Clarence Podcast!

To donate to the upkeep of the show, click here

Credits

If you'd like to watch The Woman In The Window you can find it here

If you'd like to watch The Black Cat you can find it here (you will need to create an account)

If you'd like to watch The Murder Man you can find it here (you will need to create a login)

If you'd like to watch The Irish In Us you can find it here (you will need to create a login)