Although Fort Shantok State Park is literally in the backyard of my hometown of Norwich, Connecticut, I have only been here three times or so. Fort Shantock’s location in Montville is just over the town line with Norwich. This was the site of the principal Mohegan settlement between the years of 1636 and 1682 and considered sacred ground of the Grand Sachem of the Mohegan tribe, Uncas (although Uncas is buried in Norwich).

The History of Fort Shantok

As is with the unfortunate history and treatment of the nation’s Indigenous people, this land, which was once part of the Mohegan reservation, was taken by the state of Connecticut in the 20th century to be turned into a state park. In 1994, the Mohegan tribe then paid three million dollars to return the land into their possession.

A fort was built by the Mohegan during the time of intertribal warfare between the Mohegan and Narragansett. The Mohegan tribe was an offshoot of the Pequot and became rivals. The three tribes of this region spanning Southeastern Connecticut and into Rhode Island were the Pequot, Narragansett, and Mohegan. The Mohegan were allied with the English. Lt. Thomas Leffingwell led an English force that helped defend this fort. The Leffingwell Memorial is in the shape of a wigwam and located here within the sacred burial ground of Fort Shantok.

Today’s state park

This state park remains a popular spot for recreational activities. There are picnic areas and a lake for swimming. As a kid, I remember the lake is where I cast my whole fishing pole into the water and my friend’s dad had to wade in after it.

The landscaping at Fort Shantok State Park is beautiful. It is a welcoming spot. Signs make it clear that it is a possession of the Mohegan tribe. A .7 mile loop traverses the pond. This walk is mostly flat and great for kids. During my visit, there were plenty of ducks and many turtles sunning themselves on branches and rocks. A boardwalk spur took us closer to the turtles. Also seen here is the top of a man-made waterfall which can be seen in full from the parking lot.

Sacred Burial Ground

The sacred Mohegan Burial Ground is accessible via a short walk from the parking area near the pond. It includes over 100 identified graves. The public is welcome although visitors need to be respectful. This is where the Leffingwell Memorial wigwam stands. This is also the gravesite of Gladys Tantaquidgeon who was a Mohegan Medicine Woman. She passed away at the age of 106. A statue of her likeness is located inside the Mohegan Sun casino which is nearby. Uncas’s grave is in the Royal Mohegan Burial Ground on Sachem Street in Norwich. His plot was ironically dedicated by President Andrew Jackson who is best known for removing Native Americans from their homeland.

Near the burial ground is a walking area among a grove of mostly evergreen trees. Also at the park is a ball field, expansive playground, and plenty of grass to run on.

If you go

Fort Shantok State Park is located at 340 Massapeag Side Road in the Uncasville section of Montville. The park is free, open to the public, and is also the site of the annual Mohegan Wigwam festival. This takes place in August where the Mohegan welcome the community to participate in Mohegan culture.