TORONTO, Ontario – Former North Dakota wide receiver and return specialist Weston Dressler will be one of seven Canadian football icons joining the halls of the Canadian Football Hall of Fame (CFHOF) and Museum in 2024, the Canadian Football League (CFL) announced Friday.

Dressler will be inducted with fellow CFL all-time receivers S.J. Green and Chad Owens, cornerback Marvin Coleman and defensive end Vince Goldsmith. Coaching legend Ray Jauch and one of Canada's greatest proponents of touch football, Ed Laverty, will also be inducted into the hall.

"The Class of 2024 has shaped our game beyond record books and accolades," said CFHOF Executive Director Eric Noivo. "They are heroes to young football players and athletes; they are tremendous leaders who have shared their invaluable time and vast knowledge; they are steadfast champions who helped expand our game to reach more people and communities."

Over 11 seasons (2008-18), Dressler played in 161 games for the Saskatchewan Roughriders and Winnipeg Blue Bombers. The four-time West Division All-Star and two-time CFL All-Star also appeared in two Grey Cup Championships, capturing Canadian football's ultimate prize in 2013 in front of his Roughriders' home crowd.

Dressler played at North Dakota from 2004-07 and earned 14 different All-America honors and was a four-time selection to the All-North Central Conference first team. As a senior in 2007, he became the first player in league history to earn All-NCC first team honors at three different positions (receiver, return specialist and utility) in the same season. He graduated as UND's all-time leader in virtually every receiving category, including receptions (243), receiving yards (3,382) and touchdown catches (38).

Upon graduation, Dressler made an immediate impact in the CFL, taking home Most Outstanding Rookie honors in 2008 with 56 receptions for 1,128 yards and 1,014 punt return yards. He had 715 catches in his career to rank No. 13 all-time in the CFL and his 10,026 total yards sits No. 17 in league history. The former Fighting Sioux football player tallied 65 touchdowns in his career, including five via kick returns. After his historic career with the Roughriders, Dressler was inducted into the SaskTel Plaza of Honour in 2022.

The Class of 2024 will be officially inducted in an evening ceremony on Friday, Sept. 13. Ticketing information will be announced at a later date. The Hall of Fame Game will be played on Saturday, Sept. 14, with the Hamilton Tiger-Cats hosting the Ottawa REDBLACKS.

The media wing of the CFHOF will also welcome two new members this year: the CFL League Office's Associate Vice-President of Football Analytics, Steve Daniel, whose extensive knowledge and historical data serve as the backbone of media members' coverage of the league since 2005, and one of the Canada's most prominent sports reporters and a fan-favorite fixture from the CFL ON TSN, Farhan Lalji.

The Canadian Football Hall of Fame and Museum, located on the fourth floor of Tim Hortons Field in Hamilton, operates as a non-profit registered charity. Since 1963, it has been home to more than 80,000 Canadian football artifacts, ranging from equipment and trophies to photos and videos, spanning the rich history of the game.