Much like the 1975 Tony and Pulitzer Prize-winning musical that it examines, "Every Little Step" follows the casting process of the 2006 Broadway revival, offering highlights of Jason Tam's audition for the role of Paul, as well as those of Jessica Lee Goldyn, Tony nominee Charlotte d'Amboise and Deirdre Goodwin.

James D. Stern and Adam Del Deo directed and produced the 96-minute film, which also boasts testimonials from A Chorus Line's initial workshop tapes featuring the voices of the original 1975 cast members. The film is executive produced by A Chorus Line producer and executor of the Bennett estate, John Breglio.

The film offers rare insights into the creation of A Chorus Line and the life of Bennett, who conceived and staged the original production. Tony Award-winning original A Chorus Line cast member Donna McKechnie and Baayork Lee, who staged the 2006 revival, also offer their personal experiences with the work.

In addition to highlights, including McKechnie's "Music and the Mirror" as well as "I Can Do That" and "At the Ballet," "Every Little Step" features A Chorus Line's Tony-winning composer Marvin Hamlisch, who discusses the history of the musical and how "Dance: Ten; Looks: Three" almost didn't make the cut in 1975.

A Chorus Line has a book by James Kirkwood and Nicholas Dante, music by Marvin Hamlisch and lyrics by the late Edward Kleban, who later became the subject of the Broadway show A Class Act. The original production of A Chorus Line opened at the Public Theater's Newman Theater on May 21, 1975, and transferred to Broadway's Shubert Theatre on July 25. The musical won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama, along with nine Tony Awards, including Best Musical, Best Score and Best Book. It ran for nearly 15 years, closing on April 28, 1990, after 6,137 performances.

Following a six-week run at San Francisco's Curran Theatre, the revival of A Chorus Line returned to Broadway for the first time since its original record-breaking run, officially opening on Oct. 6, 2006. Restaged by Bob Avian and Baayork Lee, A Chorus Line played 18 previews and 759 regular performances at the Schoenfeld. A national tour continues.