Similarly, on the Adjustment Date, the Royalty Pool is adjusted to include the forecasted system sales from new Pizza 73 restaurants opened on or before September 1 of the prior year, less any Pizza 73 restaurants permanently closed during the calendar year.

PPL, a privately owned corporation headquartered in Toronto, Ontario, operates in the food service industry primarily throughout Ontario and Alberta, and primarily franchises and operates quick-service restaurant businesses under the Pizza Pizza and Pizza 73 brands.

In July 2007, the Company, through its interest in the Partnership, acquired the Pizza 73 Rights and Marks from Pizza 73.

Sale of any assets other than those sold in the normal course of business including the sale of corporate stores or interests therein to Franchisees or Owner/Operators of the Pizza 73 Unit Companies.

Concurrent with the acquisition of the Pizza 73 Rights and Marks, the Partnership granted PPL an exclusive and unlimited licence to use the Pizza 73 Rights and Marks in exchange for PPL paying a 9% royalty on the system sales of all Pizza 73 restaurants included in the Royalty Pool.

The District has entered into a repayment agreement to guarantee its 5.45% portion of the NoaNet bond debt, which totaled $8,185,000 and $10,835,000 as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

Concurrent with the acquisition of the Pizza 73 Rights and Marks, the Partnership granted PPL an exclusive and unlimited licence to use the Pizza 73 Rights and Marks for an initial term of 99 years for which PPL pays a royalty equal to 9% of system sales from all Pizza 73 restaurants in the Royalty Pool, as defined in the Pizza 73 Licence and Royalty Agreement.

Concurrent with the acquisition of the Pizza 73 Rights and Marks, the Partnership granted PPL an exclusive and unlimited license to use the Pizza 73 Rights and Marks for an initial term of 99 years for which PPL pays a royalty equal to 9% of system sales from all Pizza 73 restaurants in the Royalty Pool, as defined in the Pizza 73 Licence and Royalty Agreement.

Concurrent with the acquisition of the Pizza 73 Rights and Marks, the Partnership granted PPL an exclusive and unlimited licence to use the Pizza 73 Rights and Marks for an initial term of 99 years, for which PPL pays a royalty equal to 9% of system sales of all Pizza 73 restaurants included in the Royalty Pool, as defined in the Pizza 73 Licence and Royalty Agreement.

The significant judgments that were used to apply IFRS 10 included assessing which party had the power or current ability to direct decisions over the value creation and maintenance of the Pizza Pizza Rights and Marks and Pizza 73 Rights and Marks in the context of the purpose and design of the Partnership.