This January, there’s a whole host of great entertainment at the Belgrade Theatre, including unmissable music acts and moving drama. Start 2022 the right way and ring in the new year in style at the Belgrade.

The Ciricus of Horrors returns to the Main Stage on Thurs 20 Jan, celebrating their 25th anniversary. The cast, who stormed the finals of Britain’s Got Talent, are now a stage sensation, with a selection of breath-taking acts, accompanied by a soundtrack of Rock ‘n’ Roll anthems.

Then on Fri 21 Jan, a celebration of classic pop arrives in Coventry with Roy Orbison and the Travelling Wilburys Experience. The evening pays tribute to Jeff Lynne, George Harrison, Tom Petty, Roy Orbison and Bob Dylan, and showcases iconic songs like Mr Blue Sky, Pretty Woman and Here Comes The Sun.

The Magic of Motown also makes a dazzling return to the Belgrade on Sat 22 Jan. Get ready to immerse yourself in the sound of a generation, with firm favourites from Marvin Gaye, Diana Ross, Stevie Wonder and more, including Mr Postman, Stop In The Name of Love and Ain’t No Mountain High Enough.

Combining drama with poetry, music and movement, Utopia Theatre present Here’s What She Said To Me in B2 from Thurs 27 – Sat 29 Jan. The moving story of daughters and mothers in the world of migrations and shifting identities is conceived and directed by Mojisola Elufowoju and written by Oladipo Agboluaje.

The ultimate tribute to Moulin Rouge arrives on the Belgrade’s Main Stage with Come What May on Thurs 27 Jan. Starring Strictly Come Dancing’s Robin Windsor, the spectacular show features timeless classics including Your Song, Diamonds Are A Girls Best Friend, and Lady Marmalade, plus hit songs from The Greatest Showman and other iconic movie musicals.

On Fri 28 Jan, experience a stunning celebration of the music of Whitney Houston with Whitney – Queen of the Night. The award-winning production features a sensational line up of musicians and artists, coming together to present a powerhouse performance showcasing three decades of music.

Celebrate the music of the Bee Gees with You Win Again on Sat 29 Jan. Direct from London’s West End, this concert features favourites from the brothers including Night Fever and Stayin’ Alive, as well as hits they wrote for other artists like Celine Dion, Diana Ross and Dolly Parton.

February at the Belgrade begins with Islands in the Stream on Fri 4 Feb, a tribute to two of country music’s biggest legends. Bringing together the beloved glamour of Dolly Parton with the charisma of Kenny Rogers, enjoy a thigh-slapping evening with hits like 9 to 5, The Gambler, and the iconic Islands in the Stream.

Music acts at the Belgrade this winter culminate on Sat 5 Feb with Masters of the House, Europe’s leading musical theatre concert show. Enjoy irresistible showtunes including Suddenly Seymour, Oh What A Circus, Defying Gravity and some magical musical medleys.