Megan Fox doesn’t understand the fan obsession over her “short” thumbs.

The “Jennifer’s Body” actress never thought her clubbed thumbs were “weird” – despite rampant online discussion about her extremities.

“I don’t know why people are so fascinated by my thumbs,” the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit covergirl, 37, told the outlet.

“They’re just kind of short. Is it really that crazy?”

Fox assured fans she’s not “embarrassed” about suffering from brachydactyly, a genetic condition caused by a gene mutation that affects bone growth, per the Cleveland Clinic.

In fact, shorter-than-normal fingers actually have an interesting significance in the practice of palm reading, the astrology lover explained.

“It’s known in palmistry as a ‘murderer’s thumb.’ Because they say the shorter this area from the knuckle to the tip of the finger is – especially the thumb – correlates to how short your temper is,” Fox, who has also been vocal about wacky practices like drinking fiancé Machine Gun Kelly’s blood, said.

However, that’s not quite the case for the actress, who said “it takes a lot” for her to “lose [her] temper.”

For more Page Six you love…

Listen to our weekly “We Hear” podcast

Shop our exclusive merch

“I have crazy patience, but when you do push me over the edge, you’re on demon time, and you better run for your life. It’s scary as f–k,” she admitted.

The raven-haired beauty went on to insist she she has “more interesting” imperfections fans could hone in on.

“I think I have tons of other flaws that are way more interesting than my thumbs. I don’t know why people focus on that,” she said. “I don’t know.”

Fox first addressed her “toe thumbs” on “The Tonight Show With Jay Leno” in 2012, after online trolls suggested the defection made her less attractive.

“They’re weird and they’re really fat,” she said at the time.

Elsewhere in the interview, the “Transformers” alum said she found it difficult to “love” her body.

“I have body dysmorphia. I don’t ever see myself the way other people see me,” she admitted. “There is never a point in my life where I loved my body, ever ever.”

Fox, who shares three sons with ex-husband Brian Austin Green, also explained that she had an “awareness” and “obsession” with her image, even when she was a child.

After splitting from Green, 49, in 2020, she got engaged to MGK, 33, two years later.