Gustave is the main antagonist of the 2007 action horror film Primeval, which is inspired by the true story of the real-life animal of the same name. He is a giant, legendary, man-eating 25-foot Nile crocodile in Burundi who is a near-mythical creature to the local people of the region and is rumored to have killed and eaten up to 300 people in Africa.

Gustave is the main antagonist of the 2007 American horror film Primeval.

A group of American tourists travels to the African country Burundi to capture and document a legendary man-eating crocodile named Gustave, but Gustave turns the tables on them by stalking the group.

Appearance[]

Gustave is an abnormally large, muscular dark grey Nile crocodile who is stated that he could be "easily more than 20 feet (6.1 m)" long and weighs more than 2,000 pounds (910 kg). One of his notable characteristics are three bullet scars on his body while his right shoulder blade is also found to be deeply wounded. Gustave is a large dark grey Nile crocodile stretching a little over 20 feet in length and weighing over a ton.

Personality[]

Gustave Is Depicted As A Selfish, Ruthless, Sadistic, Cruel, Anger, Rage, Manipulative, Intelligent, Cunning, Strategic, Monstrous, Cold-Headed, Arrogant, Bloodthirsty, Savage, Violent, Vicious, Dangerous, Destructive, Powerful, And Homicidal Predator who enjoys stalking and killing anything that came across his territory or got in his way, including both humans and animals, though he sometimes often leaves his victims' corpses uneaten. However, he would kill anything in his path, showing that he preferred to kill anything as long as they are in his way. Since crocodiles can go several months without eating, Gustave can afford to select his prey carefully.

Biography[]

Gustave grew up in the rivers of Africa. It is unknown how old he is, but he is said to be more than a century old. He is depicted as a crocodile of god-like or prehistoric proportions. Nevertheless, Gustave grew to reach around 25 feet long, weigh close to a ton, and become the most dangerous and powerful predator in all of Africa and arguable one of the largest, if not the largest, crocodiles the world had ever seen, killing hippos, large buffalo, and on occasion humans. Throughout his existence, Gustave grew into a legend, many claiming to have seen him and even fewer living to tell the tale.

Powers And Abilities[]

Giant Animal Physiology: Gustave (Primeval).

Superior Animal Physiology: Gustave (Primeval).

Monster Physiology: Gustave (Primeval).

Giant Monster Physiology: Gustave (Primeval).

Predator Physiology: Gustave (Primeval).

Apex Predator Physiology: Gustave (Primeval),

Hybrid Physiology: Gustave (Primeval).

Mutant Physiology: Gustave (Primeval).

Berserker Physiology: Gustave (Primeval).

Lizard Physiology: Gustave (Primeval).

Reptilian Physiology: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Body: Gustave (Primeval).

Nile Crocodile Physiology: Gustave Has Possessed Serval Incredibly Physical Attributes, And Feats Of Strength, Durability, Endurance, Speed, Stamina, Agility, Reflexes, Senses and Intelligence, That Surpassed Than That Of Other Normal Crocodiles In Real-Life, Even For A Legendary Prehistoric Crocodile As He Is Possibly More Stronger And Powerful Than Any Others Seen In This Movie.

Enhanced Strength: Due To His Abnormally Largest Gigantic/Gargantuan Size, Gustave Possesses Varied Levels Of Extremely, Amounts Of Immense, Massive Incalculable God-Like Advanced Physical Natural Strength, While He Also Has Extremely Strong And Powerful Jaws, Making Him One Of The Most Incredibly Exceptionally Monstrously Dangerously Strongest And Powerful Biggest Predators On Land. Making Him Nigh-Unstoppable.

Enhanced Durability: Gustave Is Incredibly Powerfully Incalculable Durable, Gustave's Extraordinarily Armored Scaly Thick Hide Nearly Nigh-Indestructible Reptilian Skin and Extremely Advanced Highly Durable Bodily Tissues Are Substantially Harder Than Other Normal Crocodiles, Provide Him Much Greater Resistance to Physical injury. Making Him One Of The Most Incredibly Exceptionally Monstrously Dangerously Toughest Biggest Predators On land Also. He is Nearly Invincible, The Great Testament Of His Durability Is Surviving Impact, He is also Naturally Resist And Immune to Conventional Weaponry such as Weapons, Heavy Gunfire, Missiles, Tank Shells, and various others, Making Him Nearly Impossible To Damage, Defeat, Destroy, And Killed. and is tough enough to Survive Constant Beatings from Humans, And Animals.

Enhanced Speed: Gustave Is Impressively Fastest Runner And Swimmer In Land Or Water, Gustave Has Displaying Incredibly Feats Of Exhibits Greater Advanced Terrifying Maximum Speed When Charging At His Opponents, Allowing Him To Very Easily Dodging Attacks, As He Was Able To Keep Up With His Prey, And Travel Extremely Faster In Water Or Land Without Stopping.

Superhuman Stamina: Gustave's Advanced Musculature Is Considerably More Efficient Than Other Normal Crocodiles, As A Result, His Muscles Produce Practically No Fatigue Toxins During Extreme Physical Activity, His Virtually Inexhaustible Stamina Enables him to Physically Exert Himself at Peak Capacity for an Long Undefined Periods Of Time Without Tiring Or Slowing Down At All, Gustave Does Not Even Seem To Have Any Obvious Signs Of Fatigue Or Visible Exhaustion.

Enhanced Agility: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Reflexes: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Flexibility: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Balance: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Senses: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Smell: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Hearing: Gustave (Primeval).

Advanced Vision: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Tracking: Gustave (Primeval).

Superhuman Endurance: Gustave's Incalculable Physical Advanced Incredibly Far More Greatly Developing Heightened Keen Endurance As He Is Able To Survive And Keep On Fighting The Mankind, And Animals, Is Showing To Be Extremely High As He Is Capable Of Enduring Strong And Powerful Attacks From Crocodiles, Humans, Animals, Able To Fighting With All His Might While Ignoring The Pain From Injuries Sustained From Combating Either Opponents And Still Fight Back For Himself Without Showing Any Obvious Signs Of Fatigue, Exhaustion, Pain, Agony, Or Flinching From Daily Physical Activities.

High-Level Intelligence: His Intelligence Seemed To Be Somewhat Limited But Not Entirely Primitive, Gustave Is Shown To Be Remarkably Animalistically Quite Intelligent. he was Intelligent enough to know how to Survive in the wild.

High-Level Intellect: Gustave Is Shown To Be Very Impressively Amazingly Most Intelligent And Cunning Than All Of The Normal Crocodiles In Real Life.

Enhanced Roaring: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Jumping: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Leaping: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Hyper Climbing: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Stealth: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Dexterity: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Strike: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Attack: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Mauling: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Clawmanship: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Catching: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Throwing: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Instincts: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Wits: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Breath: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Lung Capacity: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Condition: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Acrobatics: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Athleticism: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Lifting: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Mobility: Gustave (Primeval).

Enhanced Immune System: Gustave (Primeval).

Superhuman Contaminant Immunity: Gustave is immune to all types of Diseases, Illnesses, Sickness, Drugs, Poisons, Venoms, Acid, Drugs, Toxins, Radiation, Disorders, Disabilities, etc, thanks to his accelerated healing factor. Gustave has an immune system that enables him to survive what most can't, but only if his Normal Healing Factor is active.

Advanced Expert Animalistic Combatant: Gustave (Primeval).

Regeneration Healing Factor: Gustave (Primeval).

Accelerated Healing Factor: Gustave (Primeval).

Regrowth: Gustave (Primeval).

Tooth Regrowth: Gustave (Primeval).

Limb Regrowth: Gustave (Primeval).

Head Regrowth: Gustave (Primeval).

Longevity/Decelerated Aging/Immortality: Gustave (Primeval).

Telepathy: Gustave (Primeval).

Manipulation: Gustave (Primeval).

Shockwave Generation: Gustave (Primeval).

Cold Resistance: Gustave (Primeval).

Cold Immunity: Gustave (Primeval).

Electrical Immunity: Gustave (Primeval).

Poison Resistance: Gustave (Primeval).

Poison Immunity: Gustave (Primeval).

Venom Resistance: Gustave (Primeval).

Thermal Resistance: Gustave (Primeval).

Radiation Resistance: Gustave (Primeval).

Extreme Temperature Resistance: Gustave (Primeval).

Advanced Bite: Gustave Has Particularly Strong And Powerful, Either Because Of His Sharp Teeth, Jaw-Muscles, Unusual Jaw-Structure Or Some Other Reason. Exactly What He Can Bite Depends On The Jaw-Strength, Resilience Of His Teeth/Bite-Surface And His Shape.

Sharp Teeth And Claws: Gustave Has Razor-Sharpened Pointy Teeth Which Grant Him An Incredibly Lethal Bite Capable Of Biting, He Was Able To Bite Into The Bodies Of Humans, And Animals On Land Or Water, And His Razor-Sharp Claws To Rend Through Most Materials Including Bodys Of Them Capable Of Slicing, Cutting, And Slashing.

Retractable Fangs: Gustave (Primeval).

Retractable Claws: Gustave (Primeval).

Natural Weaponry: Gustave (Primeval).

Regenerative Durability: Gustave (Primeval).

Nigh-Invulnerability: Gustave (Primeval).

Bulletproof Skin Durability: Gustave (Primeval).

Injury Immunity: Gustave (Primeval).

Unfettered Body: Gustave (Primeval).

Dermal Armor: Gustave (Primeval).

Unnatural Size: Gustave (Primeval).

Hollow Skeleton: Gustave (Primeval).

Cat Falling: Gustave (Primeval).

Vertical Pupils: Gustave (Primeval).

Prehensile Tail: Gustave Possesses A Long Prehensile Flexible Whip Slide Tail That He Can Use To Help Balance Himself, Use As A Formidable Weapon, Use It To Hold Opponents In Its Grasp And Even Uses It To Smacking His Adversaries.

Quadrupedalism: Gustave (Primeval).

Master Hunter: Gustave is a master of hunting, using his senses of smell to find and hunt down his prey. As a hunter, he is skilled in tracking and determining what sort of prey he is following and how best to take it down easily.

Climbing Skills: Gustave is an excellent master of climbing as he is able to scale sheer cliffs and mountain faces with relative ease.

Wallcrawling: Gustave can climb fasten onto or into and climb vertical and horizontal surfaces Without Falling At All. he is a master of parkour and can easily scale walls.

Fear Inducement: Gustave (Primeval).

Scale Manifestation: Gustave (Primeval).

Night Vision: Gustave (Primeval).

Thermal Vision: Gustave (Primeval).

Color Vision: Gustave (Primeval).

Blood-Flow Vision: Gustave (Primeval).

Echolocation: Gustave (Primeval).

Expert Tracker: Gustave is capable of tracking things, determining what sort of prey he is following.

Feral Mind: Gustave (Primeval).

Predatory/Predator Instincts: Gustave possesses extraordinary predatory instincts for hunting all things such as Humans, And Animals. he can track anything under any conditions, sense the weaknesses of his prey and exploit them before finally succeeding in killing them.

Killing Instinct: Gustave (Primeval).

Camouflage: Gustave is capable of camouflaging himself to be able to blend into his surroundings.

Aquatic Adaptation: Gustave (Primeval).

Cardiology Manipulation: Gustave (Primeval).

Aquatic Mode: Gustave (Primeval).

Atavism: Gustave (Primeval).

Flexible Liver: Gustave (Primeval).

Lung Relocation: Gustave (Primeval).

Buoyancy Manipulation: Gustave (Primeval).

Water Sense: Gustave (Primeval).

Opportunity Sense: Gustave (Primeval).

Oxygen Independence: Gustave (Primeval).

Vibration Emission: Gustave (Primeval).

Wetland Adaptation: Gustave (Primeval).

Self-Sustenance: Gustave (Primeval).

Expert Water Swimming Abilities Skills: Gustave (Primeval).

Speed Swimming: Gustave (Primeval).

Underwater Breathing: Gustave (Primeval).

Transparent Eyelids: Gustave (Primeval).

Death Roll Technique: Gustave (Primeval).

Aquatic Stealth Boost: Gustave (Primeval).

Mud Adaptation: Gustave (Primeval).

Bipedalism: Gustave (Primeval).

Destruction: Gustave (Primeval).

City Destruction: Gustave (Primeval).

Victims[]

To be added

Differences[]

To be added

Fate[]

Gustave is seemingly defeated after he is stabbed in the mouth with a machete, but the credits reveal that he is still alive.

Gallery[]

Trivia[]