After Christina Aguilera debuts on tonight's episode of "Nashville," fans might wonder why the singer is not a series regular! Good news: the superstar signed on for a multi-episode arc as Jade St. John, so she'll be back next week too. If that news wasn't enough to make you squeal, it appears that Deacon will finally receive the call he's been waiting for in Episode 19 - and it comes with life-changing news. What else can we expect on "The Storm Has Just Begun" (S03E19)? Keep reading for plenty of "Nashville" Season 3 spoilers, including a full Episode 19 synopsis!

What should we expect on next week's all-new episode of ABC's "Nashville"? Warning: spoilers ahead!

Following tonight's "Nobody Knows But Me," Episode 18 of Season 3, fans will undoubtedly be left wondering what's next - and we've got the answers.

ABC has just released a press release that previews just what to expect, including the news that "Grammy Award-winning music sensation Christina Aguilera guest stars as Jade St. John" once again.

In Episode 19, "It's the evening of Teddy's 'Note By Note' gala with Rayna, Deacon, and the girls ready to perform, but before they can, Deacon receives the call he's been waiting for," teases ABC.

Who could this call be from? Care for some more detailed spoilers? We've got you covered!

According to the official ABC press release, in "The Storm Has Just Begun" (S03E19), "The brightest stars of Nashville have gathered in support of Teddy's music education initiative, 'Note By Note,' where Juliette plans her return to the spotlight - and Layla finds herself thrust into it - alongside Jade St. John."

"At the gala, Rayna, Deacon, Maddie and Daphne get ready to take the stage and perform, but before they can, Deacon receives the call he's been waiting for containing some life-changing news, on 'Nashville,' airing WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22 (10:00-11:00 p.m., ET) on the ABC Television Network," concludes the synopsis for the upcoming episode.

Episode 19 of "Nashville" Season 3 is written Dana Greenblatt and Geoffrey Nauffts, and directed by Nelson McCormick.

In addition to the series regulars and Christina Aguilera, "The Storm Has Just Begun" (S03E19) guest stars "Aubrey Peeples as Layla; Ed Amatrudo as Glenn Goodman; David Alford as Bucky Dawes; Kevin Bicks as Kyle Dean Massey and Nick Jandl as Dr. Caleb Rand," according to the ABC press release.

Are you excited to see Christina Aguilera reprise her role as Jade St. John on "Nashville"? Any idea what Deacon's "life-changing" call could entail? What else do you think will happen in Season 2, Episode 19? Sound off with your thoughts and predictions in the comments section below.

"The Storm Has Just Begun," Episode 19 of "Nashville" Season 3, airs on Wednesday, April 22 at 10:00 p.m. EST on ABC.