Jeanette A. (Geiger) Hoffmann, age 89, formerly of New Holstein, died on April 3, 2022. She was born May 15, 1932, in Reedsville, to the late Edward and Veronica Krause. On June 26, 1948, she married Richard Geiger and together they had seven children. Richard passed away on November 1, 1963. Jeanette then went on to work at Chilton Metal Products where she met Donald Hoffmann. They were married on August 3, 1968, and together they had one son.

Jeanette followed her dream of healthcare and was certified as a nursing aide and worked at Calumet Homestead and Calumet Medical Center for many years. She loved working in the OB Department.

Don got her hooked on fishing! In the summer they would take the boat out on Lake Winnebago in the evening, and when the ice took over the lake she would head out to ice fish. Don's buddies would drill holes for her and she would be out there all day.

Jeanette took up bowling and bowled on leagues in Hilbert and Chilton. She loved going to play Bingo. She was always up for a game of Yahtzee, loved doing word searches, as well as canning and baking. The winter time also got her outdoors for some cross-country skiing. When sitting in her chair she had the crochet hook in hand, working on afghans or doilies. She made sure each grandchild and great-grandchild had a Christmas stocking with their name. We will always treasure her beautiful handiwork. She also enjoyed watching Packer games, attending Brewer games, and following the grandchildren’s activities. She loved polka music and dancing. Jeanette's faith was extremely important to her, and one way she fulfilled that was by praying the rosary daily.

Jeanette is survived by her loving husband of 53 years, Donald; children: Sharon (Joe) Heimann, Judy (Wayne) Schimmer, Nancy (Pat) McCulley, Sandy Geiger (fiancé, Roger Quirk), Cindy Mangan (Jeff Verhagen), Douglas (Kate) Geiger, and Robert (Nicole) Hoffmann; 14 grandchildren; 20 great-grandchildren; 2 great-great-grandchildren; in-laws: Peter (Micki) Hoffmann, Mike (Jan) Hoffmann, and Helen (Jim) Reinkober; and many nieces and nephews. Also, Richard’s siblings: John Geiger, Vernon (Pam) Geiger, Raphael (Maxine) Geiger, Mary Huybers, and Emily (Ron) Reis.

Jeanette was preceded in death by her first husband, Richard; an infant daughter; her parents: Edward and Veronica; her siblings: VanDella (Leland) Goeke, Audrey (Ralph) Kratz and infant brothers Alvin and Edward Krause; Richard’s parents: Peter and Mayme Geiger; Richard’s siblings: Peter (Peggy) Geiger, Geraldine Gabres, and Leona Geiger; Donald's parents: Joseph and Hilda Hoffmann; and Donald's sibling Marian Lefeber.

Our family would like to extend a special thanks to the staffs at Brillion West Haven, Heartland Hospice, and Dr. Williams for the care and compassion you provided Jeanette over the last 2.5 years. We are forever grateful for your help in preparing us as her condition declined. And lastly, to Dr. Orlando Taleon, Jeanette’s prior doctor at Theda Care in Appleton. Your ability to interact with Mom upon her diagnosis many years ago, make her laugh, and respect her as a person was amazing. You are all true professionals.

The family has planned private services, but friends and family can watch the service online at 12:30 pm on Friday, April 8, see a recording of it in the future, or watch a memorial video in her honor, by clicking HERE. Cards and memorials can be sent to Wieting Family Funeral Home c/o Jeanette Hoffmann 411 W. Main St. Chilton, WI 53014