Laurie DeYoung is of counsel in the Los Angeles, California, office of Jackson Lewis P.C. Her practice focuses on representing employers in workplace law matters, including preventive advice and counseling.

Laurie is a passionate litigator who represents employers in state and federal courts, arbitrations, and before administrative agencies such as the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Civil Rights Department, and the Division of Industrial Relations, among others. She also has an advice and counsel practice in which she advises employers on various topics, including employment contracts, restrictive covenants, performance management and employee discipline and terminations, as well as offering risk management services, including preventive training to help employers reduce risk and avoid litigation, and diversity counseling.

Before Jackson Lewis, Laurie gained experience at full-service national law firms. She specialized in high-stakes litigation in substantive areas, including labor and employment, professional malpractice, and financial services. Laurie has represented prominent national and international companies in adversary proceedings in bankruptcy court. Laurie’s career accomplishments include numerous arguments before the courts of appeal and two published decisions, including Henkel v. Hartford Accident & Insurance Company (2003) 29 Cal. 4th 934 and Stevenson v. Superior Court (1997) 16 Cal. 4th 881, prevailing on several anti-SLAPP motions in state courts including significant attorneys’ fees awards, and remaining connected with many of the clients she has met during her career.

She served as a volunteer mediator in the Los Angeles Superior Court and has judged moot court competitions for most law schools in Los Angeles. While in law school, Laurie was a member of the Moot Court Board during her second and third years and was one of the main case writers for the competitions run. Retired Supreme Court Justice Byron White gave her the First Place Advocate and First Place Brief awards during her second year.