Have you seen the film "Living" starring Bill Nighy?

The film has been nominated for both a Bafta and an Oscar, and it is simply incredible. It is delicate, thought-provoking, and beautifully crafted.

"Living" is a poignant and touching film that explores themes of grief, mortality, loneliness, and legacy and follows the life of a British bureaucrat named Arthur (played by Bill Nighy), who struggles with his sense of purpose and identity after his wife dies.

One of the most inspiring aspects of "Living" is how it shows that it's never too late to change one's life and find purpose. Arthur's transformation is a powerful reminder that no matter how old we are or how stuck we feel, we can always take steps to positively impact our lives and those around us.

The film profoundly impacted me by highlighting how facing mortality and the impermanence of life can provide a valuable perspective on our existence.

“If there is a meaning in life at all, then there must be a meaning in suffering. Suffering is an ineradicable part of life, even as fate and death. Without suffering and death, human life cannot be complete.” Viktor E. Frankl

I was confronted with this truth years ago while working on two cancer documentaries.

One thing that struck me the most while working on those two film projects was how alive and purpose-driven the patients I met and interviewed were. Those wonderful people seemed more "alive" than I did. It was a life lesson I'll never forget, and it changed my life in unexpected ways.

After receiving the devastating news of his terminal cancer diagnosis, Arthur undergoes a significant transformation by breaking out of his monotonous routine and changing how he communicates and connects with others.

As one of the film's characters refers to him, he ceases to be a Zombie.

He discovers a renewed sense of purpose and begins living his life with greater intention and meaning by actively seeking to positively impact his community through supporting a local project.

“Those who have a 'why' to live, can bear with almost any 'how'.” Viktor E. Frankl, Man's Search for Meaning.

The film "Living" inspired me to reflect on how often we can become disengaged and lose sight of our true purpose in life, leading to a "zombie-like" existence.

With the current climate crisis, it's become clear that our actions have contributed to our planet's degradation, and this realisation can lead to feelings of despair and hopelessness.

However, as demonstrated by Viktor E. Frankl, Arthur, and those affected by cancer, we can transform negative situations into positive ones by taking purposeful action.

Each of us is the hero of our own story, able to overcome any obstacle in pursuing our "why."

By recognising the finite nature of life and our impact on the world, we can live more intentionally and strive to make a positive difference in the world.

We are all heroes and protagonists of our own stories, and inside each of us, there's an Arthur with a "why" who "can bear almost any how".

Films and stories like "Living" can guide us through the night by illuminating a path through difficult and uncertain times.

"Living" is more than just a movie; it reminds us that our lives are limited and valuable, and we should make the most of our time. It is a call to action, inspiring us to find our purpose and make a difference in our community and around the world.