Movie Review: Sometimes Always Never (2018)

Movie Reviews

There are sometimes actors that embody a word so perfectly, they might as well be the textbook example of it. But when it comes to Bill Nighy, he straddles two particular words — elegant and odd. Even in his bolder roles (e.g., the aging rocker Billy Mack in “Love Actually”) Nighy never loses his poise,…

Movie Review: Hope Gap (2019)

Movie Reviews

Hope Gap is one of those typical independent movies, where mood, atmosphere and setting dominates more than the narrative. There are no complaints here, because the film’s frequent dallying at these seaside locations and our watching the characters walk along the shoreline or climb up various rocky features is quite beautiful to look at. I…

Movie Review: Pokémon Detective Pikachu (2019)

Movie Reviews

Pokémon Detective Pikachu is a film not unlike the Pokémon that populate it. On the surface it appears simple — a collection of seen-it-before neo-noir aesthetics, cute creatures, and a generic story, all tied together with a few charming leads. However, this is merely a façade. Before long it reveals itself to be a beast…

Movie Review: The Limehouse Golem (2016)

Movie Reviews

No responses

Victorian London has been an effective setting since virtually the beginning of cinema, perhaps unsurprisingly since it was during this period that moving pictures first appeared. From the first adaptation of “The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde” to Basil Rathbone’s incarnation of “Sherlock Holmes,” from Alfred Hitchcock’s “The Lodger” to Johnny Depp’s…

Movie Review: The Second Best Exotic Marigold Hotel (2015)

Movie Reviews

4 responses

Despite the fact that all the characters’ stories were nicely tied up in bow by the end of “The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel,” “Shakespeare in Love” director John Madden has decided to return to the helm to treat viewers to the continuing adventures of the residents in The Second Best Exotic Marigold Hotel. In this…

Movie Review: I, Frankenstein (2014)

Movie Reviews

11 responses

If Mary Shelley were alive today she would cry at the sight of I, Frankenstein, the latest movie that wrongly tries to make an action hero of a classic universal monster. Thankfully, though, she is dead, so turning over in her grave is the most we can expect to see from her. Adapted from a…

Movie Trailer: I, Frankenstein (2014)

Movie Trailers

9 responses

If you thought Frankenstein’s monster was just some slow, plodding brute, then you need to watch the trailer for Lionsgate’s I, Frankenstein. Traveling the Earth through the centuries he’s bore witness to many events but never involved himself. That is until two clans — one of great gargoyle beasts and the other of demonlike creatures…