Nov. 8, 2006

No. 18 Georgia Tech travels to Chapel Hill, N.C. for a key Atlantic Coast Conference game against North Carolina that kicks off at 12 noon at Kenan Stadium.

The game will be regionally televised on the Lincoln Financial-ACC network, including WUPA in Atlanta. A complete list of television stations in the ACC region carrying the Tech-North Carolina game is below. In addition, the game will be available in other markets via ESPN Gameplan (consult your cable provider for details). Announcers are Bill Rosinski, David Archer and Scott Pryzwansky.

Radio coverage for the Yellow Jackets and Tar Heels is available on the Georgia Tech-ISP Radio network, including Atlanta flagship station WQXI-AM 790 the Zone. In the Atlanta area, FM coverage is available on WTSH-FM 107.1. A complete list of radio affiliates carrying the game is below.

Wes Durham is in his 12th season as the Voice of the Yellow Jackets. He is joined in the booth by former Atlanta Falcons standout Jeff Van Note. Former Tech and NFL quarterback Rick Strom reports from the sideline.

Pregame coverage begins at 10 a.m. with Yellow Jacket Countdown

The Tech radio broadcast is also available on satellite radio on XM Channel 192.

Tech fans can preview Saturday’s game beginning Thursday with the Chan Gailey Radio Show from 7-8 p.m. ET on WQXI-AM 790 the Zone, as well as selected affiliates around the state.

“Georgia Tech Sports Today with Chan Gailey,” the weekly half-hour television program featuring the Tech head coach, can be seen at the following times:

Thursday, 4 p.m., Sun Sports

Friday, 5 p.m., Comcast/Charter Sports Southeast (CSS)

Saturday, 8:30 a.m., WATL-TV (Channel 36)

Saturday, 9:30 a.m., SportSouth (formerly Turner South)

A replay of the game, featuring color commentary from former Tech all-America Joe Hamilton, will be shown on CSS-TV at the following times:

Tuesday, Nov. 13, 3 p.m.

Tuesday, Nov. 13, 9 p.m.

TV Stations for Tech-North CarolinaAlbany, GA - WSWGAtlanta, GA - WUPAAugusta, GA - WRDW-DTChattanooga, TN - WDNNGreensboro/Winston-Salem, NC - WMYVGreenville/Spartanburg/Asheville - WLOSJacksonville, FL - WJXXMacon, GA - WPGARaleigh/Durham, NC - WRAZSavannah, GA - WGSAWilmington, NC - WILM