COLUMBIA — Gov. Henry McMaster has picked a decorated Army combat officer to be the next director of the South Carolina agency tasked with connecting veterans to services and job opportunities.

The Republican governor announced Feb. 7 he is nominating retired Maj. Gen. Todd McCaffrey, a 34-year Army veteran, to lead the state Department of Veterans Affairs. He would replace its inaugural secretary, retired Maj. Gen. William Grimsley, who plans to retire completely at month's end after three years at the helm of the new agency.

After rattling off Grimsley's long list of military posts and medals, McMaster said "McCaffrey is likewise enormously qualified and talented."

McCaffrey's military career included multiple stints as division commander in combat, as well as chief of staff posts in Hawaii and lastly for U.S. Africa Command based in Stuttgart, Germany.

His awards include multiple Distinguished Service Medals and Bronze Stars. After retiring from the Army in 2020, McCaffrey worked at the University of South Carolina for a year as the college's director of military programs before starting his own consulting firm.

"This gives us great confidence in what the future holds for our state," McMaster said, noting that South Carolina is home to roughly 400,000 veterans.

"Our veterans are trained, they're experienced, they're educated, and they provide enormous help and guidance in our workforce," he said. "They're most valuable among our very valuable citizens."

McCaffrey's nomination must be approved by the state Senate.

"I both welcome and appreciate the opportunity to serve fellow South Carolina veterans in this important role," said McCaffrey, who lives in Columbia. "They represent America's best."

Senate Family and Veterans' Services Chairwoman Katrina Shealy said confirmation hearings will be held in the coming weeks.

"I have every confidence his background and record will make this a very easy job," said the Lexington Republican.

The Department of Veterans Affairs was created as a standalone agency in the governor's Cabinet through a law McMaster signed in April 2019.

Grimsley was confirmed as the first secretary in March 2020. His annual salary is $139,085.

"This has been and will remain challenging, demanding and very, very purposeful work," said Grimsley, adding it's time to hand over the "incredibly important" job to concentrate on his family at their Beaufort home.

"I've spent most of my adult life in service and, like many of you, have done so by prioritizing time toward work. But now it's time to place my family first, probably for the first time in my life and to ensure I don't miss all those ballgames, birthdays, school events and other things with my grandsons that I missed with my sons," he said, referring to his 10- and 8-year-old grandsons.

Thanking his wife, he said, "It's way past time for me to be a better partner in this."