Dragonholder: The Life and Dreams (So Far) of Anne McCaffrey is the biography of Anne McCaffrey by Todd McCaffrey. It was first published by Del Rey / Ballantine in November 1999. This book is not part of the Dragonriders of Pern series.

It was reprinted as an e-book in 2014. Also in 2018, it was supplemented with new information and published under the name Dragonholder: The Life and Times of Anne McCaffrey.

Summary[]

An enthralling biography of one of the most luminous shining stars of fantasy and science fiction, world builder and dragon master Anne McCaffrey, written by her son, collaborator, and most devoted fan

“ While you’ve been to Pern… you haven’t heard the stories behind the stories.

I propose to fix that. ”

–Todd McCaffrey

When Anne McCaffrey’s Hugo Award-winning novella «Weyr Search» appeared in the late 1960s as part of the novel Dragonflight, the science fiction universe was gloriously transformed as readers first experienced the exhilarating thrill of soaring with dragons. With the many Pern novels that followed, McCaffrey steadily won the hearts and unwavering devotion of millions of fans, eventually earning a permanent position on the New York Times bestseller list. Dragonholder celebrates the birth and growth of McCaffrey’s breathtaking literary vision, as well as the momentous events of a life that was in many ways as extraordinary as the worlds and characters that McCaffrey created.

No one understands or appreciates McCaffrey’s life and work better than her son, Todd, does. In Dragonholder, her frequent coauthor and avid fan intimately examines his mother’s childhood and early adulthood, the amazing gift of second sight she inherited from her own mother and grandmother, the trials she faced juggling a career and a family during the turbulent sixties, and her rise to literary stardom—and he reveals the events and influences that ultimately gave rise to the myriad wonders of Pern and the other miraculous worlds borne of Anne McCaffrey’s unparalleled imagination.[1]

Cover gallery[]

References[]