American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS)

The American Association for the Advancement of Science, "Triple A-S" (AAAS), is the world's largest general scientific society, publisher of Science.

AAAS seeks to "advance science and innovation throughout the world for the benefit of all people." To fulfill this mission, the AAAS Board has set the following broad goals:

Foster communication among scientists, engineers and the public;

Enhance international cooperation in science and its applications;

Promote the responsible conduct and use of science and technology;

Foster education in science and technology for everyone;

Enhance the science and technology workforce and infrastructure;

Increase public understanding and appreciation of science and technology; and

Strengthen support for the science and technology enterprise.

American Chemical Society (ACS)

The American Chemical Society is a self-governed individual membership organization that consists of more than 163,000 members at all degree levels and in all fields of chemistry. The organization provides a broad range of opportunities for peer interaction and career development, regardless of professional or scientific interests. The programs and activities conducted by ACS today are the products of a tradition of excellence in meeting member needs that dates from the Society's founding in 1876.

American Chemical Society with approximately 2500 members throughout the world. The research interests of the Division members are inherently interdisciplinary and diverse, e.g., our members investigate the interaction of surfaces with fluids having molecular densities spanning the range from liquids to ultra-high vacuum. Among disciplines represented in the Division are physical chemistry, chemical physics, materials science, biochemistry, electrochemistry, and chemical engineering.

American Physical Society (APS)

…represents actively its more than 40,000 members in the arena of national, international, and governmental affairs …publishes the world's most prestigious and widely-read physics research journals

…conducts over 20 national, divisional and regional meetings every year

…develops and implements effective programs in physics education and outreach

…fosters the health of the profession through its career and development initiatives and its committees on women and minorities

…informs its members of the latest developments through APS News, Physical Review Focus, What's New, and articles in Physics Today

…communicates with the public and policymakers via the national media and a public web site, www.physicscentral.com

…monitors the human rights of scientists around the globe

…recognizes professional accomplishment with a spectrum of prizes, awards and the election of APS Fellows

American Vacuum Society (AVS)

The AVS Science and Technology Society is a nonprofit organization which promotes communication, dissemination of knowledge, recommended practices, research, and education in the use of vacuum and other controlled environments to develop new materials, process technology, devices, and related understanding of material properties for the betterment of humanity. The AVS is comprised of 10 technical divisions, 2 technical groups, 18 local-area chapters and about 6000 members worldwide. The Society provides stimulating symposia, short courses, and educational outreach both at the national and local levels.

Catalysis Section of the Royal Dutch Chemical Society

The Catalysis Section of the Royal Dutch Chemical Society is an organization with about 700 members, both in academia and in industry. The Section is co-organizer of theNational Catalysis & Chemistry Conference. This national catalysis conference will combine and replace a range of smaller meetings. The section is the parent organization of the Dutch Zeolite Association.

Catalysis Society of Japan

College Success for Women in STEM: Scholarships, Programs and Organizations Helping Women Bridge the STEM Gender Gap

DECHEMA Catalysis Activities (Gesellschaft für Chemische Technik und Biotechnologie )

Die DECHEMA ist eine gemeinnützige wissenschaftlich-technische Gesellschaft mit Sitz in Frankfurt am Main. Sie wurde im Jahr 1926 gegründet. Mehr als 5.000 Naturwissenschaftler, Ingenieure, Firmen, Organisationen und Institute gehören ihr heute als Mitglieder an. Die Aufgabe der DECHEMA ist es, die Entwicklung von chemischen Technologien und Verfahren aktiv zu begleiten und neue Erkenntnisse aus Forschung und Entwicklung für die Praxis aufzuarbeiten.

Deutsche Physikalische Gesellschaft (DPG)

Die Deutsche Physikalische Gesellschaft e.V. (DPG) ist weltweit die älteste und mit mehr als 45.000 Mitgliedern die größte physikalische Fachgesellschaft. Die Namen der Mitglieder - sowohl jetzt als auch in der Vergangenheit - gleichen einem "Who is Who" der Physik. Unter ihren ehemaligen Präsidenten finden sich zahlreiche weltberühmte Forscher, darunter auch Max Planck und Albert Einstein.

Electrochemical Society

Founded in 1902, The Electrochemical Society has become the leading society for solid-state and electrochemical science and technology. ECS has 8,000 scientists and engineers in over 75 countries worldwide who hold individual membership, as well as roughly 100 corporations and laboratories who hold contributing membership.

European Federation of Catalysis Societies (EFCATS)

EFCATS is a federation of catalysis societies from 24 European countries.

The main effort of EFCATS is the organisation of EUROPACAT, a biennial European congress on catalysis.

The objectives of EFCATS can be found in the Constitution.

European Materials Research Society

The European Materials Research Society (E-MRS), a non profit scientific association founded in 1983, is focusing on creating the synergy between interdisciplinary, innovative technologies, diffusing and exchanging information and promoting technology transfer from public institutions towards industry. The main objective of E-MRS is to promote and enhance the efficiency of research in European countries in the field of Advanced Materials; in addition, to give quick informations on the development of science and technology in their area in the rest of the world, through our links with other MRS societies belonging to the International Unions (IUMRS).

Federation of European Materials Research Societies

Networking for European materials scientists and engineers.

Institution of Chemical Engineers (IChemE)

Welcome to the Institution of Chemical Engineers' main website. IChemE is a leading international body, providing services for and representing the interests of those involved in chemical, biochemical and process engineering world-wide.

Institute of Clean Air Companies (ICAC) The nonprofit national association of companies that supply air pollution monitoring and control systems, equipment, and services for stationary sources.

Institute of Physics (IOP)

The Institute of Physics is a leading international professional body and learned society, established to promote the advancement and dissemination of physics. International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC)

The International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) serves to advance the worldwide aspects of the chemical sciences and to contribute to the application of chemistry in the service of Mankind. As a scientific, international, non-governmental and objective body, IUPAC can address many global issues involving the chemical sciences.

International Union of Pure and Applied Physics (IUPAP)

To stimulate and facilitate international cooperation in physics and the worldwide development of science.

Interdivisional Group of Catalysis of the Italian Chemical Society

Interdivisional group of Catalysis (GIC) of the Italian Chemical Society (SCI) aims to "merge" all the components interacting in this field to promote Catalysis in itself.

Materials Research Society (MRS)

The Materials Research Society is a non-profit organization which brings together scientists, engineers and research managers from industry, government, academia and research laboratories to share findings in the research and development of new materials of technological importance.

Founded in 1973, and currently in its 29th year of existence, MRS now consists of more than 12,000 members from the United States and over 50 other countries. The Society is different from that of single discipline professional societies because it encourages communication and technical information exchange across the various fields of science affecting materials. MRS sponsors two major annual meetings offering approximately 75 topical symposia. The Society recognizes professional and technical excellence, conducts Symposium Tutorials, and encourages technical interaction among college students through University Chapters, and among materials professionals through regional sections. MRS also promotes communication exchange through publication of symposium proceedings, MRS Bulletin, Journal of Materials Research>, and other publications, databases and videotapes related to current research activities.

Nanoscale Physics & Technology Group of the IOP

Scope: Research, technology and public awareness, related to the physics of nanoscale structures.

Special features: The Group will organise the CMMP syposium and similar meetings on Nanoscale Physics and Technology, and highlight the role of physics in nanoscale science and technology. Generally, it will serve and support those membe rs of the Institute with an interest in the physics of 1-100 nm structures and the development of such structures for new technologies.

National Academies (USA)

The National Academies consist of four organizations: the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, the Institute of Medicine, and the National Research Council. The National Academy of Sciences was created in 1863 by a congressional charter approved by President Abraham Lincoln.

National Nanotechnology Initiative (USA)

North American Catalysis Society (NACS)

The North American Catalysis Society was founded in 1956 to promote and encourage the growth and development of the science of catalysis and those scientific disciplines ancillary thereto; to provide educational services to members and other interested individuals; to organize and participate in professional meetings of scientists; to report, discuss and exchange information and viewpoints in the field of catalysis; to serve as a central exchange for the several catalysis clubs concerning information on their activities; and to provide liaison with foreign catalysis societies, with the International Congress on Catalysis, and with other scientific organizations and individuals, no pecuniary gain or profit to members, incidental or otherwise, being contemplated.

PathwaysToScience.org

PathwaysTo Science has 167 different postdoc and early career opportunities posted on the site, including postdoctoral fellowships, grants, travel awards, mentoring opportunities, and more.

Physical Society of Japan

The Physical Society of Japan (JPS) is an organization of some 20,000 physicists, researchers as well as educators, and engineers. The primary purposes of the JPS are to publish research reports of its members and to provide its members with facilities relating to physics. The JPS was founded in 1877 as the first society in natural science in Japan.

Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC)

Welcome to the Royal Society of Chemistry, the leading organisation in Europe for advancing the chemical sciences. Supported by a network of 45,000 members worldwide and an internationally acclaimed publishing business, our activities span education and training, conferences and science policy, and the promotion of the chemical sciences to the public.

Royal Society of Chemistry, Applied Catalysis Group

The mission of the Applied Catalysis Group is to promote the interests, both within the RSC and externally, of all members of the Industrial Affairs Division working in or having a professional interest in applied catalysis.

The responsibilities of the Applied Catalysis Group initially will be to:

promote a multi-disciplinary approach to applied catalysis, especially in technical meetings organized by the RSC and others

provide a forum for highlighting research and development needs for industrial applications

enhance the usefulness of existing interest groups and organizations in catalysis, both within and external to the RSC, to the benefit of ACSG members

explore novel approaches to collaborative relationships between industry and academia

provide a voice for industry in the development of national research programmes

forge links with trade associations and others with an interest in applied catalysis

Royal Society of Chemistry, SURCAT group

The Surface Reactivity and Catalysis Group (SURCAT) specialist interest group represents those with interests, experimental or theoretical, directed towards reaction processes involving solid surfaces, and especially chemisorption and heterogeneous catalysis. It encourages discussion within this area by organising, or participating in the organisation of, regular national and international meetings. The membership of ca.380 is from both UK and international laboratories and has extensive representation from industry. The Group holds annual meetings and discussion workshops.

Surfaces in Biomaterials Foundation

The Surfaces in Biomaterials Foundation is dedicated to exploring creative solutions to technical challenges at the BioInterface by fostering education and multidisciplinary cooperation among industrial, academic, clinical, and regulatory communities.

The Surfaces in Biomaterials Foundation exists to: