The official website for the upcoming television anime of Kafka Asagiri and Sango Harukawa's Bungo Stray Dogs manga announced on Friday that Kishô Taniyama will play Chūya Nakahara. The website also posted a character image:

Nakahara is a top-level Port Mafia member who detests Osamu Dasai. Like the previously-announced characters, he is loosely based on a real Japanese literary writer.

Previously revealed characters include:

Yu Shimamura (Attack on Titan's Annie Leonhardt) as Akiko Yosano, a modern woman with a bob cut who's a member of the Armed Detective Agency. Although she's an excellent doctor who is indispensable to the Agency, all members of the the Agency are scared to be placed into her care. It's recommended that you don't use outdated misogynistic expressions in front of her.

Chiaki Omigawa (Soul Eater's Maka Albarn) as Naomi Tanizaki, a beautiful young girl in a sailor suit who lets her long black hair hang down. (Naomi is the name of the title character in a famous novel by the real Junichirō Tanizaki.)

Rikiya Koyama (Fate/Zero's Kiritsugu Emiya) as Yukichi Fukuzawa, the president of the Armed Detective Agency, who manages the hooligans. Although he doesn't often come out, at a critical moment, he triumphantly takes command. Because Yukichi is a man of dignity and status, it seems even the frivolous Ranpo will actually work if he orders it.

The anime will premiere in April.

The "battle action" story centers around a league of literary figures with supernatural powers. For example, in real life, Ryūnosuke Akutagawa wrote acclaimed stories that inspired Akira Kurosawa's Rashōmon film and the Aoi Bungaku Series anime's Jigoku Hen (Hell Screen) arc. In Bungo Stray Dogs, he has the power to transform and manipulate his cloak into a monster-like entity. Together, these writers solve mysteries as part of the "Armed Detective Agency."

The series mainly features Japanese authors such as Rampo Edogawa, Kenji Miyazawa, Osamu Dazai, Atsushi Nakajima, Doppo Kunikida, and Akiko Yoshino. It has also featured contemporary Japanese authors such as Yukito Ayatsuji (Another novel/manga/anime/live-action film, Tsukidate no Satsujin) and Natsuhiko Kyōgoku (Requiem from the Darkness, Mōryō no Hako, Tōfu Kozō, Loups-Garous), as well as overseas authors such as Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Agatha Christie, and Dan Brown.

Takuya Igarashi and Yoji Enokido, the director and screenwriter team behind Ouran High School Host Club and Star Driver, is helming the anime at Studio BONES. Nobuhiro Arai (Chaika the Coffin Princess) is handling character design and serve as chief animation director alongside Hiroki Kanno (Blast of Tempest). Ryō Hirata is handling prop design and sub character design, while Fumihiro Katagai (Chaika the Coffin Princess) is in charge of gun design. Taku Iwasaki (Gatchaman Crowds, Black Butler) is composing the music and Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Ghost in the Shell, Blue Exorcist) is serving as sound director at Glovision.