ELLWOOD CITY ― In 1998, Rita Hazen organized the Ellwood City Education Foundation to aid students in the Ellwood City Area School District. After her 2006 death it was renamed the Dr. Rita Hazen Education Foundation and her legacy continues to play an important role in the overall education of children in the area.

Hazen, a former math and English teacher and administrator, had a vision to provide students in the district with as many educational opportunities as possible by funding innovative teaching and learning experiences.

The foundation has had an immeasurable impact on students and the community, supporters say.

Hazen’s husband, Thomas, said that any time they were in public, former students would thank her for the experiences and opportunities she gave them.

“She was a wonderful woman. She made a difference in my life and in the lives of many students and teachers,” Thomas said.

Beth Wyszomierski, a member of the board of trustees for the foundation, said the district gives a certain amount each year for classroom supplies but for many teachers, it is not enough.

Teachers can request funds from the foundation with these rules, the activity should benefit as many students as possible, enhance the curriculum, be of educational value, and not generally be funded by the school district.

Wyszomierski said they have funded many activities including bringing in visiting poets, musicians, artists and storytellers. They have also helped fund cultural events such as plays at the Chamber Theater, New Castle Playhouse, and the Scottish Rite Cathedral. In addition, they have provided trips to the Holocaust Museum, the Carnegie Museum of Natural History, the Andy Warhol Museum and the Heinz History Center. For many years the advanced government students have traveled to Harrisburg and Philadelphia and met with Chief Justice of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court Debra McCloskey Todd.

The foundation has purchased software and technology for the classroom, Chromebooks for students and carts on which to store them, headphones and website licenses for teachers.

Other items for classrooms include books, flexible seating, rugs for storytelling for kindergarten pupils, tennis balls for the legs of desks to diminish noise and to provide greater stability and an incubator so students can observe the hatching of eggs.

In 2012, the foundation bought iPads for students to use during a walking tour of Ellwood City. These remain available for use for other projects.

Originally the foundation received grants from the Hoyt Foundation and local corporate contributors such as ESB Bank. The Ellwood Area Education Association and the teachers union have also donated.

Currently, teacher payroll deductions are a large part of their funding. They also receive individual and memorial contributions mostly in honor of former teachers.

Contributions may be made to the Dr. Rita Hazen Education Foundation and sent to Andrea Houk at 7 Grant Road, Ellwood City.

The board of trustees include Greg Fox, Kevin McElwain, retired high school teacher Rick DeLoia and retired elementary teachers Andrea Houk and Lisa Ovial.