The Hartford Foundation For Public Giving:

Together for Good®

As Greater Hartford’s community foundation, we are a public, grantmaking organization bringing together dedicated individuals, businesses and nonprofits to understand local challenges, share information and put resources behind solutions that can improve the quality of life for those both in our region and across the state of Connecticut.

We are fortunate to share a vision of Greater Hartford with many who are working to build a more equitable and resilient place to live, work and play. The barriers to success are longstanding, systemic and persistent. We are naming them and have an approach to address them by combining our financial resources, the talents of our team, and our wide-ranging community partnerships. Together, we will grow and share opportunity in a way that benefits everyone in the Hartford region.

LEARN ABOUT OUR APPROACH TO ADDRESSING DISPARITIES IN GREATER HARTFORD.

We serve all 29 towns in the Greater Hartford region.

Our Mission

Putting philanthropy into action to create lasting solutions that result in vibrant communities within the Greater Hartford region.

Our Core Values

Leadership

We listen to the voices of our communities and convene, connect and catalyze positive and enduring social change.

Innovation and Responsiveness

We promote and explore new ideas and innovative ways of working as we respond to the most pressing needs in the communities we serve.

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion

We seek and embrace the participation and perspectives of people and communities that reflect who we are as a region and we are committed to ensuring that all residents in the region have the opportunity to thrive.

Collaboration

We cannot do this work alone. We are committed to seek partnerships with communities and nonprofit, private and public entities.

Learning-Focused

We embrace and promote individual and organizational learning and improvement.

Outcome-Driven

We pursue positive community outcomes and use measures of success to set expectations and guide action.

Stewardship

We uphold the community’s trust by striving to preserve, protect and grow our resources.

Our History

Nearly 100 years ago, two bankers, Maynard T. Hazen and Clark T. Durant, had a vision: establish a community-wide charitable endowment that would accept “gifts, devises, and bequests” to serve as a trustworthy, steadfast and responsive charitable resource to the community, forever.

Since then, that single bequest of $1,000 has grown into charitable assets totaling more than $1.1 billion (as of December 2023).

What sort of Foundation would Hazen and Durant see now?

A grant maker that awarded more than $998 million in grants (as of December 2023). A community leader that serves nearly 800,000 residents and hundreds of nonprofits in 29 towns. Most importantly, an institution that remains committed to our original cause of improving the well-being and quality of life for residents throughout the region.

The Hartford Foundation for Public Giving is dedicated to the Greater Hartford region, and we'll continue to work to improve the quality of life in Greater Hartford, for the next 100 years and beyond.