Research

A long term goal of my laboratory is to understand the ways in which our immune system contributes to diseases like heart disease and asthma. I have several major areas of focus. One centers on the role of myeloperoxidase, a protein found in white blood cells that plays an important role in fighting infections, but which we have discovered also participates in development of heart diseases. A second area focuses on the role of microbes in our intestines (called gut flora) in heart disease. Another area focuses on the HDL particle (carrier of good cholesterol in the blood).

Biography

Stanley Hazen, MD, PhD, received clinical training in Internal Medicine and subspecialty training in Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism from Barnes/Jewish Hospital, St. Louis, MO, and a PhD in Biophysical Chemistry and Molecular Biology from Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO. He holds multiple leadership positions at the Cleveland Clinic including chair, Department of Cardiovascular & Metabolic Sciences, Lerner Research Institute, co-Section head, Preventive Cardiology & Rehabilitation, Heart, Vascular & Thoracic Institute, and Director, Center for Microbiome & Human Health. Dr. Hazen sees patients within the Preventive Cardiology Clinic, specializing in preventive cardiovascular medicine care of patients including treatment of hyperlipidemia, hypertension, obesity and diabetes. He also sees patients within the Cardiovascular Rehabilitation program. His research interests include studies of mechanisms for the development of cardiovascular disease, with emphasis on understanding the role of the gut microbiome, inflammation and oxidant stress in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and other inflammatory diseases.

A renowned physician scientist, Dr. Hazen has made pioneering discoveries in new understandings of mechanisms contributing to cardiovascular and inflammatory disease research. He is credited with numerous seminal discoveries linking gut microbial pathways to cardiovascular disease pathogenesis, as well as enumerating the role of myeloperoxidase and other inflammatory and oxidative pathways in cardiovascular disease. Dr. Hazen is among the top 0.1% cited researchers in the world with over 140,000 citations. He has published over 475 peer-reviewed articles in top tier basic and clinical journals alike in the fields of atherosclerosis, lipoprotein metabolism, gut microbiome, inflammation, vascular biology, and other topics related to preventive cardiovascular medicine. His research in multiple areas has impacted clinical practice, and lays the foundation for FDA- and EU-cleared diagnostic tests for cardiovascular disease risk assessment in use worldwide. He is listed as inventor on over 100 patents, and his research has helped to spawn pharmaceutical development of cardiovascular disease drugs in clinical trials.

Dr. Hazen has received numerous awards including being the Inaugural recipient of the Top 10 Clinical Discovery of the Year (2011) Award, Clinical Research Forum; the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association “top 10 advance in heart disease and stroke science” award (2013); and the American Heart Association Distinguished Scientist Award (2017). Dr Hazen has been honored with election of membership into honorary societies in both science and clinical arenas alike, including the American Society for Clinical Investigation (ASCI) and the American Association of Physicians (AAP). Dr. Hazen is an elected fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). Dr. Hazen also is an elected member of the National Academy of Medicine, USA.

Education & Professional Highlights

Education & Fellowships

Fellowship - Barnes-Jewish Hospital

Endocrinology

St. Louis, MO USA

1996

Residency - Barnes-Jewish Hospital

Internal Medicine

St. Louis, MO USA

1994

Medical Education - Washington University School of Medicine

St. Louis, MO USA

1992

Medical Education - Washington University

St. Louis, MO USA

1992

Undergraduate - Washington University

St. Louis, MO USA

1985

Professional Highlights

Chair, Gordon Research Conference on Oxygen Radicals

Jeffrey M Hoeg Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis and Vascular Biology Award for Basic Science and Clinical Research

Election, Association of American Physicians (AAP)

Election, Fellow of American Heart Association Scientific Council for Arteriosclerosis

Election, American Society for Clinical Investigation

Awards & Honors

Howard Hughes Medical Institute Research Fellowship for Physicians Award, 1995-1997

AAP, ASCI, and AFMR Certificate of Achievement Award, 1997

Marilyn Hansen American Thoracic Society Award, 1997

Junior Faculty Award, American Federation of Medical Research, 1999

Gill Heart Institute Physician Scientist Award, University of Kentucky, Lexington Ky., 2001

Election, American Society for Clinical Investigation, 2003

John J. Ferchill Award for Innovation, Cleveland Clinic, 2004

Nomination, Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator Award, 2004

Vice-Chair, Gordon Research Conference on Oxygen Radicals, 2006

Jeffrey M Hoeg Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis and Vascular, 2007

Innovations & Patents

Patent Title: Diagnostic Methods for Asthma; U.S. Serial Number 09/253,380

Patent Title: Myeloperoxidase, a Risk Indicator for Cardiovascular Disease; U.S., Serial Number 10/039,753

Patent Title: Treating Inflammation and Associated Complications; Patent Reference Number 09531-030P01 (Pending)

Patent Title: Methods of Identifying Subjects at Increased Risk for Cardiovascular Disease; U.S. Serial Number 60/259,340 (Pending)

Patent Title: Monitoring Anti-inflammatory and Anti-oxidant Actions of Therapies; U.S. Serial Number (Pending)

Patent Title: Diagnostic Method for Identifying Subjects at Risk for Atherosclerosis and its Complications; U.S. Serial Number (Pending)

Memberships