Sheriff Woody Pride is the protagonist of the Disney•Pixar Toy Story franchise. He is a vintage pull-string cowboy doll that originally belonged to a boy named Andy Davis. As Andy's favorite toy since kindergarten, Woody served as the de facto leader of the household playthings.

When Andy enters adulthood and leaves for college, Woody is donated to a little girl named Bonnie Anderson, whom he remains with for some time before choosing to become an owner-less antique devoted to helping lost toys find owners, alongside his girlfriend, Bo Peep.

Background[]

Within the universe of the Toy Story films, Woody is a toy based on a character of the same name from a 1950s children's TV series titled Woody's Roundup, as revealed in Toy Story 2.

Official Description[]

"Woody is a cowboy sheriff with a pull-string that, when pulled, proclaims Woody's signature catchphrases from the 1950s TV show Woody's Roundup. He's always been Andy's favorite toy. Even though his owner is now grown, the loyal sheriff Woody maintains a steadfast belief that Andy still cares about his toys. As the toys venture into their unknown future, Woody remains the voice of reason. As their dependable leader, he ensures that no toy gets left behind."

Development[]

In the original story pitch of Toy Story, Woody had a markedly more distasteful personality; having the character of one who had let his role as "leader" go to his head and had little compassion towards his peers. One notable example of this from the original script is that Woody actually throws Buzz out the window on purpose, and doesn't care one bit about what had happened or what the other toys thought of the incident, even saying in a casual tone that it was a "toy-eat-toy world" when accused of doing so. He also proceeded to heavily insult the toys, especially Slinky, during this time, which resulted in all of them turning on him and attempting to throw him out. This choice in characterization for Woody had been forced upon Pixar by then-Disney Chairman Jeffrey Katzenberg due to the latter wanting more of an adult, cynical, edginess to the story, resulting in Woody becoming jealous, sarcastic, narcissistic, belligerent, cynical, and mean toward Buzz and the other toys. Owing to this, he was also prone to name-calling insults during this time, as evidenced by his derisively referring to Mr. Potato Head and Slinky as "Spuds-for-brains" and "Spring Weiner", respectively, and to a lesser extent "My springy friend" with the latter. This nearly led to Toy Story being canceled after a Black Friday viewing. However, Pixar was given another chance, and over the next two weeks, they reworked the movie plot, giving Woody a more likable and sympathetic character. According to John Lasseter, they wanted the audience to be like, "No, Woody, don't make those choices," instead of just, "Wow, what a jerk." In addition, the change was also brought about because Apple and Pixar co-founder Steve Jobs and the rest of the production team did not like how Woody ended up and decided to change his personality by making him the wise and loyal leader of the toys, and his jealousy over Buzz was more sympathetic.

Personality[]

Woody is a loyal toy who has been Andy's favorite toy since kindergarten. Woody is a smart, determined, and passionate man, and would do anything for his nearest and dearest friends. He considers his friends as family and he tries his best to keep them together at all times. Yet, he is also a flawed character. He has a lot of doubt, anger, frustration, uncertainty, and sadness, almost like a human. But despite his jumbled emotions, he tries his very best not to show them to his friends, so he can seem brave and courageous, but he's not afraid to confront or comfort his friends with utmost care.

Interestingly, Woody is arguably the most tactical and developed character in the series, since the plots and ploys that the main characters pull to achieve their own endeavors are more or less formulated by him. This indicates that he is smarter than he, himself acknowledges.

His character has developed very much since the first movie. In Toy Story, when he first meets Buzz, he's very intimidated by the space ranger's more modern appearance compared to his rag-doll appearance. Soon his jealousy begins to manifest him, he plans to hide Buzz from Andy so that he can be remembered. Yet when things go awry and Buzz is thrown out the window and into a bush, Woody learns to think twice about his little schemes.

His adventurous spirit is not intact in the first film as well, as he's a more wimpy compared to future installments. When he runs into Sid's mismatched and deformed toys, Woody is instantly frightened by them and comes to this false accusation that they want to eat him and Buzz. Throughout the film, Woody begins to develop a more courageous personality.

In Toy Story 2, his personality begins to upgrade, even more, learning to understand other people's rejections. When he meets Jessie, they instantly become close but get into a heated argument when Woody is determined to get home to Andy. Jessie accuses Woody of abandoning them and he instantly protests. Yet soon, he has a change of heart when he learns about the hardships Jessie had been through after her owner Emily grew up and realizes that Andy is growing up too and becomes afraid of what will happen.

When Buzz and the gang arrive to save Woody, Woody stubbornly refuses to leave with them, saying that Andy will be done with him when he grows up. Buzz accepts Woody's fate but confronts him saying being admired from afar by millions of kids doesn't compare to being loved by just one kid. Realizing his error, Woody comes back to his senses and makes a promise to himself that he'll be there for Andy until the very end.

It isn't a whole long time until Andy is about to depart for college in Toy Story 3, and Woody is also uncertain about his fate when his dear owner leaves since he is so attached to Andy. After a misunderstanding that they've been thrown away and left on the curb, he and his friends end up in Sunnyside Daycare where they meet Lotso, Ken, and other bright faces. Still staying true to his promise to Andy, Woody decides to leave his friends, who have stubbornly decided to stay at the daycare, to their happy future.

When Woody is then taken home by Bonnie and told of Sunnyside's real nature by her toys, he decides to help his friends. Yet, out of rage for mentioning Daisy, Lotso leaves the toys at the dump and abandons them in the incinerator to die, even when Woody (in an act of honor and selflessness) helped him avoid being killed by blades. Choosing to perish with his friends over getting back to Andy (since there is literally no way out), he holds Buzz and Slinky's hands and closes his eyes as they all accept their fate in flames. Luckily, the Pizza Planet aliens save them from a fiery death. As Andy departs for college, Woody sees how his owner's family are able to accept his departure, despite their feelings, and realizes he must do the same. He hastily suggests that they are passed on to Bonnie for a better life. As Andy drives down the road, Woody sadly whispers, "So long, partner.", accepting it's time to move on. But he is glad he's still with his friends and is ready for a new life with Bonnie and her toys too.

In Toy Story 4, he hides his disappointment due to Bonnie not playing with him as often. He is shown to get stressed due to Forky.

Physical appearance[]

Woody is a slender man and fair-skinned in plastic. He has brown eyes, hair hand-painted in brown that is attached to his head in plastic, rosy cheeks, thin brown eyebrows, a yellow shirt with red square outlines, a couple of white buttons vertically on his chest and each matching cufflink on both his cuffs, cowboy boots made from brown plastic with both each couple outlined cacti on both sides and a black handwriting reading "ANDY" on his right boot sole, spurs made from gold plastic on both sides of his boots, a holster made from brown plastic with a gold brooch with a red center on it, a white vest with black cow spots all over, a red bandanna, blue jeans, a belt made from brown plastic with a buckle that has a bull design on it made from gold plastic, a cowboy hat made from brown hand-stitched, polyvinyl plastic with a triangle-shaped brim, star-shaped badge made from gold plastic with small spheres on each tip and a word "SHERIFF" on the center, and a pull string on his back with a white hoop attached to it. Woody is 15.18 inches tall without his hat, and 15.93 inches tall with his hat on.

Appearances[]

Toy Story[]

In the first Toy Story, Woody is Andy's favorite toy and leader of Andy's toys. His best pal is Slinky Dog who he often played checkers with and he has a romantic relationship with Bo Peep, a porcelain lamp accessory who belongs to Andy's infant sister Molly. Woody has been the favorite since Andy went to kindergarten, sleeping with Andy in his bed and having his owner's name on his right boot.

A week before Andy's family plans to move, Woody, after being played with by Andy, learns that Andy's birthday party has been moved to the present day. Before the party, Woody holds a staff meeting, reminding the toys to prepare for the upcoming move and informing them that, due to the move, Andy's birthday party is being held that day. This alarms the other toys, who fear Andy will receive newer, fancier toys that will replace them. Despite Woody's reassurance that they will not be replaced, the toys are sent into a panic when Andy's birthday guests arrive and Woody coordinates a reconnaissance mission, sending the Green Army Men downstairs to report the gift results to the others via a baby monitor.

At first, the gifts are mostly accessories and games. However, to Woody's dismay, Andy receives a surprise present: Buzz Lightyear, a Space Ranger action figure complete with impressive electronic gadgets including high-pressure space wings, a laser, an electronic voice box, karate chop action, wrist-communicator, open-able space helmet, and can even glow in the dark. He is instantly extremely popular with the other toys, making Woody feel jealous. To make matters worse, Buzz is under the delusion that he is a real Space Ranger and needs to travel back to his own planet, further annoying Woody.

As the days go by, Buzz seems to be getting most of the attention and Woody feels his world crumbling all around him especially when the posters on the walls, the pictures, and even the bedclothes with his theme all change to Buzz and he ends up in the toy box instead of on the bed. Buzz even gets his owner's name on the bottom of his right boot with permanent ink (just like Woody), which infuriates Woody even further.

When Woody hears Andy is going to Pizza Planet for dinner and he has to bring only one toy, he fearfully knows that Andy will choose Buzz; confirmed when he shakes a Magic 8 Ball for answers. As a result, he sees an opportunity to get Buzz out of the way and keep Andy to himself. First, he hatches a plan to knock Buzz behind Andy's desk using RC Car, but it backfires and Buzz gets knocked out of the window instead. The other toys, especially Mr. Potato Head and Hamm (excluding Rex, Slinky, and Bo Peep), rebel against Woody, believing he attempted to kill Buzz out of jealousy. They immediately tackle him to exact revenge, but the struggle is cut short when Woody is taken by Andy to Pizza Planet. While Andy's mother refuels the car at a gas station, Woody ponders how he can return to Andy's room alone, knowing that without Buzz, the toys will tear him apart as they still don't believe him. Suddenly, he is confronted by Buzz, and the two end up fighting and accidentally land outside the car, which drives off and leaves the two stranded.

A bitter argument between them ensues, ending with Woody, upset, frustrated, and furious, telling Buzz once and for all that he had turned Andy against him, and that he is a toy, not a real Space Ranger, so they go their separate ways. Suddenly, Woody spots a truck bound for Pizza Planet and plans to rendezvous with Andy there. Remembering he has to face the wrath of the other toys if he returns without Buzz, Woody convinces Buzz that the truck will take them to a spaceship. At Pizza Planet, Buzz stuffs himself into a rocket-shaped claw game machine, forcing Woody to clamber into the machine to try and rescue him. Woody and Buzz are then captured by Andy's next-door neighbor, the toy-destroying Sid Phillips. As Woody desperately attempts to escape from Sid's house before Andy's family's moving day, Buzz finally realizes (the hard way) that he is a toy and becomes a depressed burden to Woody. In the film's turning point, Woody admits that Buzz is a "cool toy" and despairs that he himself stands no chance of being Andy's favorite; so he was afraid to come back, afraid Andy and his toys wouldn't love him anymore.

When Buzz is taken away by Sid to be destroyed with a firework rocket, Woody teams up with Sid's mutant toys and stages a rescue of Buzz, terrifying Sid into running away in fear of his own toys. Woody and Buzz climb into the moving van, attracting the attention of Sid's dog Scud. When Buzz sacrifices himself to save Woody by tackling the dog, Woody attempts to rescue Buzz with Andy's RC. However, he is then chucked out of the van by the other toys, who mistakenly believed that Woody is trying to get rid of RC like he did to Buzz. Woody hitches a ride on RC with Buzz, then the other toys witness this and realize they made a mistake, then they try to help him get back on the van. When RC's batteries run out, Woody realizes that he can ignite Buzz's rocket and manages to toss RC into the moving truck just as he and Buzz go soaring into the air. They glide in the air until they land safely inside Andy's car. At the end of the film, which takes place at Christmas, Woody and Buzz stage another reconnaissance mission to prepare for the new toy arrivals. As Woody wonders what gift may be worse than Buzz, Andy receives a puppy, to which Buzz and Woody share a worried smile.

Toy Story 2[]

In Toy Story 2, about a year after the first film, Woody, ready for an annual trip with Andy to a place called Cowboy Camp, struggles to find his trademark cowboy hat. He sends everyone in search of it, and while everyone is searching, Bo Peep snags him with her cane (again). She encourages him that everything will be all right, nearly kissing him before being interrupted by Rex struggling with her sheep, and moments later Slinky finds the hat. After preparing for departure, Andy accidentally tears Woody's arm while playing with him and Buzz Lightyear before leaving for camp. To Woody's dismay, Andy leaves Woody on the shelf, despite Mrs. Davis offering to fix him on the way. Woody, being unable to move his arm, begins to have a nightmare of what might happen when Andy returns from camp, with Andy saying that he does not want to play with anymore after he saw he still had that torn arm and drops him into the pile of cards left on the floor by Rex, Mr. Potato Head, and Rocky, which opens into a blue area of cards floating. He falls into a giant card which leads him into a trash can filled with severed hands, and they grab him by the neck as tried to climb out while he begs Andy not to do it, but he sadly says goodbye to Woody and closes the trash can lid, ignoring Woody's pleads. Woody wakes from his nightmare and finds Wheezy, a penguin toy whose squeaker is still broken. Woody then learns Mrs. Davis is about to have a yard sale and warns the toys about it in time. However Wheezy get taken by Andy's mother to be sold at the yard sale. Woody rescues Wheezy with the help of Andy's dog Buster, but he is accidentally left behind at the yard sale and subsequently founded by a little girl who wanted her mom to buy him for her, but she refuses due to his torn arm and threw him on a table catching the attention of Al McWhiggin, the owner of the toy store, Al's Toy Barn. He tries to offer, bribe, and bargain with Mrs. Davis, but she refuses to sell the sheriff and stores him in the cash box. Irritated at her noncompliance, Al resorts to thievery, stealing Woody by causing a distraction with a skateboard, so with Mrs. Davis focused on the mess, Al is able to snatch Woody from right under her nose. He quickly hurries to his car, storing the bag holding Woody in the trunk, as Buzz tries to save his friend, but fails.

Woody is brought to Al's apartment, where he discovers that he is a toy based on Woody's Roundup, a TV show from the 1950s. By acquiring him, Al now has a complete collection of the show's merchandise, which he plans to sell to a toy museum in Tokyo, Japan. Woody meets the toy versions of the show's co-stars: his sidekick Jessie, his horse Bullseye, and an old prospector named Stinky Pete also known as 'The Prospector' (who is still apparently in mint condition in his original box). The three are excited to be going to Japan, but knowing that he is still Andy's toy, Woody has doubts and intends to return home. When Al rips off his torn arm by accident, Woody tries to recover his arm and then escape the apartment, but without success as the TV turned on and woke up Al in the process. Seeing the remote next to her, Woody confronts Jessie. She is furious when Woody answers to her question that he's labeling her with "if the boot fits!" and confirms it, leading to a scuffle that is broken by intervention from the Prospector.

The next day, Woody's arm is repaired and he is given a fresh paint job by Geri, which he appreciates. He slowly warms up to the idea of going to Japan, particularly after learning that Jessie was once the favorite toy of a little girl named Emily, who gave her away after growing up and he is convinced by Stinky Pete that, if he returns to Andy, he will eventually be thrown away or left in storage when he grows up like with what happened to Jessie, whereas if he goes to Japan, he will be remembered and treasured forever. He is later confronted by Buzz and the other toys, who try to take him home, but Woody initially turns his back on them, both literally and figuratively. However, before Buzz leaves, he asks Woody if he really wants to "watch kids from behind glass and never be loved again". From this, and watching an episode of Woody's Roundup where his character sang You've Got a Friend in Me, he realizes he would be happier to see Andy growing up and comes to his senses. He then invites the other toys from Woody's Roundup to come along, but is denied freedom by the disgruntled Prospector, who is determined to go to Japan (in the process, it's revealed he turned on the TV and framed Jessie). Woody and the rest of the collection are packed up for shipping overseas and taken to the Tri-County Airport.

Woody gets into a spat with the Prospector in the baggage handling area, during which the old rip in his arm is reopened on purpose by Stinky Pete to force Woody into getting back in the suitcase (but this time, his arm still can move, because it's just a little rip). Woody is eventually able to defeat the Prospector with help from the other toys by tossing him into a girl's backpack (sentencing him to an unfortunate fate of being doodled on by its owner, much to his grief). While Bullseye is rescued, Jessie is loaded into the plane's cargo hold, forcing Woody to slip on board and extract her from the cargo hold just before the plane takes off. Woody and the others happily return home, using one of the airport baggage trucks to do so, where his arm is once again repaired (Andy's fix is somewhat lopsided, but Woody takes this as a badge of pride), and Jessie and Bullseye are made members of Andy's toys. Woody and Buzz now accept the fact that Andy will eventually grow up, but even after he does, they will still be there for each other.

Toy Story 3[]

In Toy Story 3, Andy is now 17 years old and preparing to leave home for college. By this time, Woody is one of the very few toys remaining in Andy's possession, as a majority have either been sold or lost over the years. Fearing abandonment is on the horizon, Woody holds a meeting with the other remaining toys to discuss their future. According to Woody, they will more than likely be stored in the attic, where, despite no longer being used, will still be in Andy's possession, which is most important. As expected, Andy places his toys in a garbage bag to be stored in the attic, but Mrs. Davis mistakes it for trash and leaves them on the street just as a garbage truck arrives. Woody saves the toys, but Mr. Potato Head and Jessie are furious at the event, believing Andy no longer wants them.

Against Woody's wishes, the toys donate themselves to Sunnyside Daycare, where the leader of the facility— Lotso—promises that they'll be loved and played with for the rest of eternity. When the toys got into a heated debate, Woody refuses to abandon Andy and tries to return home, only to be taken by a little girl named Bonnie. At Bonnie's house, Woody gets acquainted with her toys - Mr. Pricklepants, Dolly, Buttercup, Trixie, Peas-in-a-Pod, and Chuckles the Clown - and learns that Lotso is actually a tyrant that abuses the toys of Sunnyside after being abandoned by his owner, Daisy. Woody returns to Sunnyside to save his friends, but Lotso and his cronies corner them. Woody calls Lotso out on his tyranny and manages to turn his henchmen against him, who dispose of Lotso in a garbage bin.

While trying to escape, one of the aliens gets stuck on the dumpster lid, which prompts Woody to hurry back and free the alien by slightly opening the lid. Before Woody returns to his friends, Lotso pulls him into the dumpster, prompting the other toys to hurry to his rescue. They are all taken to the city dump, where Lotso nearly meets his demise. Woody and Buzz save the teddy bear but are soon faced with a fiery incinerator. Lotso notices an emergency stop button that can save them but refuses to do so, leaving Woody and the others toys to die in the incinerator. Woody and the toys connect hands and accept their fates, only to be saved by the Little Green Men. Woody and the others return to Andy's house just before he can leave for college. As Andy plans to take Woody to college with him, the cowboy bids farewell to the others, who ready themselves to be stored in the attic.

Not wanting his friends to waste away, however, Woody sneakily gets Andy to donate the toys to Bonnie, where they'll be loved and played with again. Andy comes to accept that he has outgrown his toys, and happily gives them away. When it comes time for Woody, however, he shows especial reluctance. Despite this, he eventually finds peace in the separation, and parts ways with his favorite toy. Andy thanks his toys for all they've done for him, and drives off into the distance as Woody and the others watch on.

Toy Story 4[]

In Toy Story 4, Woody struggles to adapt to his new life with Bonnie, as she has not played with him in a while and leaves him in her bedroom closet. However, when Bonnie cries over having to go to her kindergarten orientation, Woody worries over her and hides in her backpack to help her. When Bonnie creates a new toy named Forky, Woody makes it his goal to make sure Forky makes Bonnie happy. When Woody and Forky get lost on the Anderson family's road trip, he bonds with the spork after lamenting how he much he misses Andy, and is thus able to convince him of his purpose as Bonnie's toy. They run into an antique store, where they reunite with Woody's old flame, Bo Peep, who has embraced the life of a lost toy. When Forky is kidnapped by a doll named Gabby Gabby, Woody and Bo team up with Buzz Lightyear, Ducky, Bunny, Giggle McDimples, and Duke Caboom to rescue Forky.

At the antique store, they run into Gabby Gabby and the Bensons and they accidentally let Forky left behind again. Woody begs everyone to get back into the store, but they give up and leave back to the carnival. Having a loss of hope, Woody gives his voice box to Gabby Gabby and Bonnie arrives at the store and she finds Forky. Bo, Duke, Ducky, and Bunny return and help Woody and Gabby Gabby get to Bonnie. However, Gabby Gabby winds up with a kid of her own. Being chased by the police, Bonnie and her family arrive back at the carnival and the police tell them to get out. Ducky, Bunny, and Duke Caboom say goodbye to Woody as Buzz and the entire gang arrive and meet Bo Peep for the last time.

Woody is hesitant to return to Bonnie, but after Buzz ensures that Bonnie will be okay without him, he decides to spend a new life with Bo Peep and the rest of her gang. He gives his sheriff badge to Jessie, naming her his successor and new guardian of the other toys. Everyone gives Woody a goodbye hug, including Forky. At the RV, Rex asks if Woody will be a lost toy, and Buzz replies that he's not, as he's found a new path to follow in his life. Bonnie's toys all wave goodbye to him at the same time that the RV starts moving, and Woody and Bo Peep look at the carnival view together.

In a mid-credits scene, Woody can be seen spending his days at the carnival with Bo Peep, the sheep, Giggle McDimples, and Duke Caboom, who help Ducky and Bunny find their kid.

Toy Story Toons[]

Woody has appeared in all of the Toy Story Toons shorts, playing a supporting role to the other toy characters. In "Hawaiian Vacation", Woody, Jessie, and Buzz get the idea to turn Bonnie's room into a Hawaiian paradise after Ken and Barbie fail to sneak into Bonnie's luggage.

In "Small Fry", Buzz gets left behind at the Poultry Palace, with his place being taken by a smaller, Happy Meal version of Buzz Lightyear. Woody and the toys try to form a plan as to how to rescue Buzz, but the latter soon returns on his own accord.

In "Partysaurus Rex", Rex is chastised by Mr. Potato Head and the other toys for his clumsiness. Towards the end, Woody drags Potato to give an apology, though this is interrupted by a house flood caused by Rex and the bath toys.

Toy Story of Terror![]

In Toy Story of Terror!, Bonnie and her mother spend the night at the Sleep Well motel, where Mr. Potato head goes missing. As the toys investigate, Trixie, Rex, and Mr. Pricklepants are taken by a mysterious creature, which is revealed to be an iguana named Mr. Jones. Woody, Buzz, and Jessie run for their lives and find one of Potato Head's arms. The arm leads them to a bathroom where Woody and Buzz get taken by Mr. Jones. After Jessie is taken by Jones, Woody, Buzz, and the others are seen in a cabinet and reunite with Jessie. They are all being held by the motel manager Ron Tompkins who is using Mr. Jones to steal the toys of his guests so he can sell them online in bidding wars. After Woody is purchased, Ron puts him in a box and gets ready to stand him off. Luckily Jessie escapes and frees Woody. They manage to rescue their friends by exposing Ron's scheme to Bonnie and her mom.

Toy Story That Time Forgot[]

In Toy Story That Time Forgot, Woody, Buzz, Rex, Trixie, and Angel Kitty are taken to Mason's house with Bonnie. There, they meet Reptillus Maximus, The Cleric, and the Battlesaurus, who kidnap Woody and Buzz to be killed off in the Arena of Woe. They survive thanks to Trixie and discover that The Cleric is a power-hungry dictator. The Cleric demands that Woody, Buzz, and Angel Kitty be tossed down a shredder. However, right when they're about to be shredded, Trixie and Reptillus arrive with Bonnie and Mason, whose desire for playtime saves Woody and Buzz.

Other appearances[]

In A Bug's Life, Woody makes a cameo appearance as the second assistant camera during the blooper reel. It also marks the first time where Woody makes an appearance outside of the Toy Story franchise.

Woody, along with Buzz Lightyear and Hamm, appears in Cars as car versions during the end credits. Woody is a woody wagon.

Woody, along with Jessie and Bullseye, briefly appear in a poster in Meet the Robinsons, during Goob's baseball game.

Woody, along with Buzz Lightyear, appears as a piñata in Coco.

In the 101 Dalmatians: The Series episode "Mall Pups", Woody can be seen the toy store at the Stiffle Mall.

In an episode of House of Mouse, Donald Duck dresses up as Woody.

In a teaser Super Bowl trailer for WALL-E he and Buzz watch a game on TV while having popcorn and they talk about WALL-E.

An off-brand version of Woody makes a cameo under a car's wheel in the Amphibia episode "Escape to Amphibia", as the Plantars and the Boonchuys try to escape from the FBI.

In Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers, Woody's right leg was used as part of Sweet Pete's bootleg transformation.

Video games[]

Kinect: Disneyland Adventures[]

Woody appears in the game as a meet-and-greet character near Rancho del Zocalo Restaurante in Frontierland. He also asks the player to help track down some rustlers that are supposedly in the area.

Disney Infinity[]

Woody appears as one of the playable characters in the first Disney Infinity and subsequent games.

Kingdom Hearts series[]

Woody appears in Kingdom Hearts III alongside Buzz, Hamm, Rex, and Sarge and his soldiers, aiding Sora, Donald, and Goofy into saving their friends from the Heartless at Galaxy Toys. He, alongside Buzz are also party members in the game, with their signature move involving Sora riding on a rocket with them and then ram it straight into enemies, Afterwards, they jump off the rocket and send it crashing into the target enemy.

Woody also appears in Kingdom Hearts Union χ as a Super Rare attack medal for the game's avatars as part of the Toy Story Land event.

Disney Heroes: Battle Mode[]

Woody appears in the mobile game as one of the playable and unlockable heroes, he is unlocked from thirty tokens, his lasso ability is the same as in the movie, in addition to his victory pose when his insignia shines while raising his hat.

Disney Parks[]

Toy Story Midway Mania![]

Woody prominently appears this shooting-game ride found in Disney's California Adventure and Disney's Hollywood Studios. The story of this ride being that the toys are throwing a carnival from a play-set owned by Andy.

Big Thunder Trail[]

A veiled allusion to Woody was added to Big Thunder Trail in Disneyland, coinciding with the opening of Star Wars Galaxy's Edge. A post on a shack found along the trail has a warning for it being rattlesnake season and warning residents to check their boots. The illustration of the post shows a cowboy boot resembling Woody's with a rattlesnake crawling from it, alluding to his, "There's a snake in my boot" line.

Jungle Cruise[]

At Trader Sam's gift-shop in Disneyland is a brown cowboy boot with a snake crawling out of it, referencing Woody's "There's a snake in my boot" line.

It's a Small World[]

In It's a Small World, Woody, Bullseye, and Jessie appeared on Radiator Springs (in Hong Kong Disneyland) and Native America scene (in Disneyland).

Live-Appearances[]

Woody is a very common walkaround character for meet 'n' greet opportunities, often appearing with Buzz, Jessie, or Forky. There used to be a rule in-which when a guest yelled, "Andy's coming" that the toys had to go limp. This has become much more lenient due to working conditions for cast-members.

Relationships[]

Gallery[]

Trivia[]

It was revealed in August 2009 by Lee Unkrich, director of Toy Story 3, on his Twitter account that Woody's full name is "Woody Pride", and has been since the earliest days of developing the original Toy Story.[1] However, his last name, which was based on actor Woody Strode, was never used in the films. In the documentary Beyond Infinity: Buzz and the Journey to Lightyear, an early test script had him named Slim.

Woody's forehead isn't burned anymore in the second film, like his fixed arm isn't muscular anymore in the third movie.

Lotso actually served as a dark counterpart to Woody, because Woody would have ended up like Lotso if he didn't move on with his life (or in the first film, if he allowed his jealousy to completely consume him).

Woody was originally going to be a ventriloquist dummy, as seen in early Toy Story sketches. He was later changed to be a stuffed cowboy doll because he looked sneaky, disturbing, and mean as a dummy.

What attracted Tom Hanks to voice Woody was that during his childhood he would always wonder if his toys were alive and moved around when nobody was in his room.

Woody's design bears a striking resemblance to the French comic character Lucky Luke, in particular Lucky Luke's earliest design, with his yellow shirt with red checkered pattern, dark blue jeans, brown boots and red scarf, and while his hat isn't the same color, it does have a very similar design. The only thing Woody doesn't share with Luke's design is his cow print vest and sheriff badge.

Woody's appearance in A Bug's Life is the first time a Toy Story character created by Pixar has appeared outside the Toy Story franchise.

Woody is the first Pixar movie franchise protagonist to be the protagonist of all the movies in his series. Joy, from Inside Out, would become the second protagonist of the Pixar film franchise with the release of its sequel.

While Woody is voiced by Tom Hanks in all the films and few of the toys, his brother, Jim Hanks, voices most of the Woody toys and him in the video games and Toy Story shorts (excluding Toy Story Toons).

When Jessie first meets Woody in Toy Story 2, she exclaims, "Sweet mother of Abraham Lincoln!" Abraham Lincoln's mother was Nancy Hanks, a blood relative of Woody's voice actor Tom Hanks, who is a direct descendant of an uncle of Nancy Hanks.

Woody is based on John Lasseter's Casper doll, as well as the Howdy Doody puppets from the 1950s.

Woody's pull-string voice box has many phrases and presumably can say nine like Jessie and Stinky Pete or maybe even more. Seven of them have been heard, sometimes more than once in the films: "Reach for the sky!", "You're my favorite Deputy!", "Somebody's poisoned the waterhole!", "Yee-Haw! Giddyap Partner. We've got to get this wagon train a-movin'!", "There's a snake in my boot!", "This town ain't big enough for the two of us!", and "I'd like to join your posse, boys, but first I'm gonna sing a little song." The others could possibly be "Yee-Haw!" as heard in a cutscene of the Toy Story 2 video game, "Ride like the wind, Bullseye!" from the Woody's Roundup television show and his signature saying that is shown on his merchandise "Hey! Howdy! Hey!".

Woody is the first and only one of Andy's toys to "come alive" while in the presence of a human.

Woody has 229 animation points of movement on his face.

Woody, along with Buzz, was originally going to be in Kingdom Hearts II: Final Mix as new summons but were later scrapped.

In Toy Story 2, when Woody uses his pull-string to swing from the airplane onto Bullseye, none of his phrases are heard when the string retracts. However, in the Toy Story 2 video game cutscene, the phrase "Yee-Haw!" is heard. This is also a reference to the first Toy Story video game where Woody could use his pull string to swing across hazards using nearby hooks.

Woody's facial features are slightly based on a talking Casper the Friendly Ghost doll that Lasseter had as a kid.

Woody losing Bo Peep between Toy Story 2 and Toy Story 3 makes him the third Pixar protagonist to lose his love interest after Marlin and Carl. He is also the first Pixar protagonist to not to have married his love interest before losing it, and the first one to lose the love interest without her dying (as Bo Peep was sold, and her reunion with Woody is the main plot of Toy Story 4).

Paul Newman was the original first choice for voicing Woody in early production, but he turned down the role later on. He would later work with Pixar as the voice of Doc Hudson. In addition to Newman, Robin Williams and Clint Eastwood were also considered to voice Woody.[2]

Steve Guttenberg was also considered to voice Woody, but turned it down.

In the Toy Story 2 blooper reel, he played several pranks on Buzz like they were actors on a set.

The scene where Woody is looking at the Woody's Round-Up merchandise, Tom Hanks genuinely had several of the items he looked at during recording.

[]

Woody (Toy Story) on Wikipedia

Media Films: Toy Story (video/soundtrack/The Legacy Collection) • Toy Story 2 (video/soundtrack) • Toy Story 3 (video/soundtrack) • Toy Story 4 (video/soundtrack) • Toy Story 5 • Toy Story of Terror! (soundtrack) • Toy Story That Time Forgot • Lamp Life

Shows: Toy Story Treats • Toy Story Toons (Hawaiian Vacation/Small Fry/Partysaurus Rex) •Forky Asks a Question Video Games: Toy Story: The Video Game • Toy Story 2: The Video Game • Toy Story 3: The Video Game • Toy Story: Animated StoryBook • Toy Story: Activity Center • Toy Story 2: Activity Center • Toy Story Racer • Buzz Lightyear Astro Blasters Online • Toy Story Mania! • Toy Story: Smash It! • Toy Story Drop! • Kinect Rush: A Disney/Pixar Adventure • Disney Infinity • Disney Crossy Road • LEGO The Incredibles • Kingdom Hearts III • Disney Emoji Blitz • Disney Heroes: Battle Mode • Disney Getaway Blast • Disney Speedstorm

Books: The Art of Toy Story 3/4 • The Toy Story Films: An Animated Journey

Disney Parks Toy Story Land (Paris, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Florida) • Toy Story Hotel • Disney's All-Star Movies Resort • Andy’s Backyard Games • Alien Swirling Saucers • Buzz Lightyear's Space Ranger Spin • Carnival Corral • Country Bear Musical Jamboree • The Magic of Disney Animation • Garden of the Twelve Friends • Games of Pixar Pier • It's a Small World • Jessie's Critter Carousel • PLAY! • Pixar Pal-A-Round • RC Racer • Slinky Dog Dash • Slinky Dog Zigzag Spin • Toy Soldier Parachute Drop • Toy Story Midway Mania! • Woody's Round-Up • Woody's Roundup Village

Entertainment: "A Whole New World" A Magical Disney Songbook 2 • Disney's Showtime Spectacular • Fantasmic! • Horseshoe Roundup • Mickey and the Wondrous Book • Mickey presents: “Happy Anniversary Disneyland Paris” • Mickey's Magical Music World • Once Upon a Mouse • Pixar Playtime Pals • Pixar Pals Playtime Party • The Golden Mickeys • Toy Story: The Musical • TOGETHER: a Pixar Musical Adventure

Restaurants: Alien Pizza Planet • Toy Box Cafe • Toy Story Pizza Planet Arcade • Woody’s Lunch Box • Poultry Palace • Roundup Rodeo BBQ Restaurant

Shops: Al's Toy Barn • Andy's Engine • Andy's Toy Box • Buzz's Star Command • Little Green Men Store Command • Slinky Dog's Gift Trolley • Toy Story Playland Boutique

Parades: Block Party Bash • Disney's Dreams On Parade: Moving On • Disney's Party Express • Disney Adventure Friends Cavalcade • Disney Cinema Parade • Disney Magic on Parade • Disney on Parade • Disney Stars on Parade • Dreams.... And Shine Brighter! • Flights of Fantasy Parade • Happiness is Here Parade • Jubilation! • Mickey's New Year's Eve Parade • Move It! Shake It! Dance and Play It! Street Party • Mickey's Rainy Day Express • Mickey's Storybook Express • Paint The Night Parade • Pixar Play Parade • Tokyo Disneyland Electrical Parade: DreamLights

Fireworks: Celebrate the Magic • Celebrate! Tokyo Disneyland • Disney Enchantment • Happily Ever After • Illuminate! A Nighttime Celebration • The Magic, the Memories and You • Momentous • Together Forever: A Pixar Nighttime Spectacular • World of Color

Spring: Disney's Easter Wonderland • Disney's Spring Promenade

Summer: Mickey's WaterWorks • Pixar Water Play Street Party! • Stitch and Friends Summer Surprise

Halloween: The Nightmare Experiment

Christmas: A Christmas Fantasy Parade • A Totally Tomorrowland Christmas • Disney Christmas Stories • Disney Dreams! of Christmas • Disney Gifts of Christmas • Disney's White Holiday Parade • La Parade de Noël Disney • Mickey's Most Merriest Celebration

Characters Toys: Woody • Buzz Lightyear • Bo Peep • Billy, Goat, and Gruff • Sarge • Green Army Men • Barrel of Monkeys • Hamm • Lenny • Little Green Men • Mr. Potato Head • RC • Rex • Mr. Mike • See 'n Say • Slinky Dog • Babyface • Mutant Toys • Zurg Bots • Mrs. Potato Head • Wheezy • Etch A Sketch • Bullseye • Jessie • Stinky Pete • Tour Guide Barbie • Barbie • Utility Belt Buzz • Emperor Zurg • Rock 'Em Sock 'Em Robots • Chatter Telephone • Chunk • Big Baby • Monkey • Jack-in-the-Box • Lotso • Twitch • Ken • Bookworm • Sparks • Stretch • Mr. Pricklepants • Buttercup • Peas-in-a-Pod • Totoro • Trixie • Chuckles • Dolly • Fun Meal Buzz Lightyear • Fun Meal Emperor Zurg • Discarded Fun Meal Toys • Captain Suds • Chuck E. Duck • Drips the Whale • Combat Carl • Pocketeer • PEZ Cat • LEGO Bunny • Old Timer • Transitron • Angel Kitty • The Cleric • Reptillus Maximus • Ray-Gon • Goliathon • Dino-Hounds • Battlesaurs • Forky • Ducky and Bunny • Gabby Gabby • The Bensons • Duke Caboom • Giggle McDimples • Melephant Brooks • Chairol Burnett • Bitey White • Carl Reineroceros • Tinny • Karen Beverly • Rib Tickles

Humans: Andy Davis • Molly Davis • Mrs. Davis • Sid Phillips • Hannah Phillips • Al McWhiggin • Geri • Emily • Bonnie Anderson • Mr. Anderson • Mrs. Anderson • Daisy • Ronald Tompkins • Mason • Harmony • Margaret the Store Owner • Carol • Miss Wendy • Axel the Carnie • Rosie • Rejean • Billy

Animals: Scud • Buster • Mr. Jones • Dragon the Cat

Deleted characters: Shakes • Señorita Cactus • Bizz Leapyear, Buzztron, and Blip Laserfist

Locations Andy's House • Sid's House • Dinoco • Pizza Planet • Al's Toy Barn • Al's Penthouse • Tri-County International Airport • Wild West • Sunnyside Daycare • Ken's Dream House • Bonnie's House • Daisy's House • Tri-County Sanitation • Tri-County Landfill • Incinerator • Poultry Palace • Sleep Well • Second Chance Antiques • The Carnival

Objects Pixar Ball • Pizza Planet Truck • Eggman Movers • The Claw • The Davis's Family Van • Far East Airlines Jet

Songs Films: You've Got a Friend in Me • Strange Things • I Will Go Sailing No More • Woody's Roundup • When She Loved Me • We Belong Together • Dream Weaver • Le Freak • Battlesaurs Theme • The Ballad of the Lonesome Cowboy • I Can't Let You Throw Yourself Away • Livin' Thing • Gravity • The Fool • Plastic Spaceman

Miscellaneous: Midway Mania • Hot Potato • My Unexpected Friend

See Also A113 • Black Friday reel • Toy Story (Original Treatment) • Toy Story 3 (Circle 7 Screenplay) • The Science Behind Pixar • Pixar in a Box • Astro Blasters Robots • Star Command

Games Disney Infinity • Disney Infinity: 2.0 Edition • Disney Infinity: 3.0 Edition

Playable Characters Disney Infinity: Jack Sparrow • Mr. Incredible • Sulley • Sorcerer Mickey • Lightning McQueen • Woody • Mater • Buzz Lightyear • Mike Wazowski • Randall Boggs • Hector Barbossa • Davy Jones • Elastigirl • Dash Parr • Violet Parr • Syndrome • John Reid • Tonto • Jack Skellington • Phineas Flynn • Perry the Platypus • Jessie • Wreck-It Ralph • Vanellope von Schweetz • Rapunzel • Elsa • Anna • Holley Shiftwell • Francesco Bernoulli

Disney Infinity: 2.0 Edition: Iron Man • Captain America • Hulk • Black Widow • Thor Odinson • Hawkeye • Nick Fury • Loki Laufeyson • Maleficent • Merida • Spider-Man • Venom • Iron Fist • Nova • Green Goblin • Rocket Raccoon • Groot • Star-Lord • Gamora • Drax the Destroyer • Stitch • Tinker Bell • Aladdin • Jasmine • Donald Duck • Baymax • Hiro Hamada • Falcon • Yondu • Sam Flynn • Quorra

Disney Infinity: 3.0 Edition: Yoda • Ultron • Luke Skywalker • Fa Mulan • Anakin Skywalker/Darth Vader • Leia Organa • Han Solo • Ahsoka Tano • Darth Maul • Obi-Wan Kenobi • Finn • Rey • Poe Dameron • Kylo Ren • Joy • Sadness • Anger • Fear • Disgust • Minnie Mouse • Olaf • Chewbacca • Hulkbuster Iron Man • Ezra Bridger • Kanan Jarrus • Garazeb Orrelios • Sabine Wren • Boba Fett • Spot • Judy Hopps • Nick Wilde • Peter Pan • Baloo • Captain America - The First Avenger • Black Panther • Vision • Ant-Man • Alice • Mad Hatter • Time • Dory • Nemo

Non-Playable Characters Disney Infinity: Hamm • Rex • Slinky Dog • Emperor Zurg • Joshamee Gibbs • Pintel and Ragetti • Maccus • Edna Mode • Rick Dicker • Mirage • Luigi • Ramone • Flo • Chick Hicks • The King • Guido • Finn McMissile • Carla Veloso • Tractors • Art • Scott "Squishy" Squibbles • Terri and Terry Perry • Don Carlton • Easter Bunny

Disney Infinity: 2.0 Edition: Wasp • Captain Marvel • Ant-Man (Hank Pym) • Sif • MODOK • Frost Giants • Iron Patriot • Winter Soldier • Mysterio • Doctor Octopus • Black Cat • White Tiger • Luke Cage • J. Jonah Jameson • Cosmo the Spacedog • The Collector • The Witch • Pleakley • Golden Harp

Disney Infinity: 3.0 Edition: R2-D2 • C-3PO • Jabba the Hutt • Jar Jar Binks • Mace Windu • Padmé Amidala • King Candy • Marshmallow • Yokai • Battle Droids • Marlin • Bruce • Anglerfish • Seagulls • Hank • Destiny • Bailey • Jellyfish

Objects Sparks • Cruella's car • Ratcatcher • Pumpkin Coach • Lightsaber • Darkwing Duck's gas gun • Black Pearl • Identity Disc • Plasma Blaster Mark I • Candy Kart • King Candy's Royal Racer • Pizza Planet Truck • Recognizer • Bathtub • Light Runner • Pixar Ball • The Jolly Roger (Disney Parks version) • The Electric Mayhem Bus • Baseball Launcher

Media Toys and Merchandise • Mobile Application (Disney and Star Wars) • Mobile Application (Marvel) • Television Shorts • Kingdom Hearts Union χ • Disney Tsum Tsum Festival • Twisted Wonderland

Disney Mickey and Friends: Mickey • Minnie • Donald • Daisy • Goofy • Pluto • Chip and Dale • Oswald • Ortensia • Duffy • ShellieMay • Gelatoni • StellaLou • CookieAnn • 'Olu Mel • Huey, Dewey, and Louie • José Carioca • Panchito Pistoles • Clarabelle Cow • Horace Horsecollar • Max Goof • Clarice • Pete • Scrooge McDuck • Ludwig Von Drake • Dr. Frankenollie • Julius

Pooh and Pals: Pooh • Tigger • Piglet • Eeyore • Rabbit • Owl • Roo • Kanga • Gopher • Christopher Robin • Lumpy

Lilo & Stitch: Stitch • Lilo • Scrump • Pleakley • Jumba • Angel • Leroy • Dr. Hämsterviel • Ugly Duckling • Sparky • 627 • Gigi • Babyfier • Yang • Slushy • Shortstuff • 625 • Amnesio • Dupe • Sample • Clip • Tank • Yin • Hunkahunka • Plasmoid

Silly Symphonies: Donald Duck • Big Bad Wolf • Practical Pig • Fiddler Pig • Fifer Pig • Ugly Duckling

Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs: Snow White • Evil Queen • Doc • Grumpy • Happy • Bashful • Sneezy • Sleepy • Dopey

Pinocchio: Pinocchio • Jiminy Cricket • Figaro • Cleo • Geppetto • Blue Fairy • Honest John and Gideon • Lampwick • Monstro

Fantasia: Mickey • Yen Sid • Chernabog • Hyacinth Hippo • Ben Ali Gator

Dumbo: Dumbo

Bambi: Bambi • Thumper • Miss Bunny • Friend Owl • The Great Prince of the Forest

The Three Caballeros: Gauchito • Burrito

The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad: Mr. Toad

Cinderella: Cinderella • Jaq and Gus • Prince Charming • Fairy Godmother • Lady Tremaine • Lucifer • Suzy • Perla • Bruno

Alice in Wonderland: Alice • Mad Hatter • March Hare • Dormouse • White Rabbit • Cheshire Cat • Tweedle Dum and Tweedle Dee • Queen of Hearts • King of Hearts • Caterpillar • Dinah • Oysters

Peter Pan: Peter Pan • Tinker Bell • Wendy Darling • John Darling • Michael Darling • Captain Hook • Mr Smee • Nana • Tick Tock • Tiger Lily

Lady and the Tramp: Lady • Tramp • Si and Am • Jock • Trusty • Peg

Sleeping Beauty: Aurora • Phillip • Maleficent • Flora • Fauna • Merryweather • Diablo • Samson • King Stefan • Goon • Owl • Rabbit

Mary Poppins: Mary Poppins • Bert • Penguin Waiter • Carousel Horse

One Hundred and One Dalmatians: Cruella De Vil • Lucky • Patch • Rolly

The Jungle Book: Mowgli • Baloo • Bagheera • Shere Khan • Kaa • King Louie • Hathi, Jr. • Raksha

Pete's Dragon: Elliott

The Fox and the Hound: Tod • Copper

The Aristocats: Marie • Berlioz • Toulouse • Duchess • Thomas O'Malley

The Rescuers: Bernard • Bianca

Oliver & Company: Oliver • Dodger • Tito • Rita • Francis • Einstein

The Little Mermaid: Ariel • Flounder • Sebastian • Eric • Ursula • Triton • Max • Scuttle

Beauty and the Beast: Belle • Beast • Lumiere • Cogsworth • Mrs. Potts • Chip • Maurice • Philippe • Gaston • LeFou

Aladdin: Aladdin • Abu • Genie • Jasmine • Jafar • Sultan • Iago • Rajah

The Nightmare Before Christmas: Jack Skellington • Sally • Zero • Lock, Shock, and Barrel • Oogie Boogie • Dr. Finkelstein • Mayor of Halloween Town • Santa Claus

The Lion King: Simba • Nala • Timon • Pumbaa • Zazu • Rafiki • Scar • Ed

Pocahontas: Pocahontas • John Smith • Meeko • Flit • Percy

Hercules: Hercules • Megara • Hades

Mulan: Mulan • Li Shang • Mushu • Fa Zhou • Khan

The Emperor's New Groove: Kuzco • Yzma • Kronk

Mickey, Donald, Goofy: The Three Musketeers: Mickey Mouse • Minnie Mouse • Donald Duck • Goofy

Chicken Little: Chicken Little

The Princess and the Frog: Tiana • Dr. Facilier

Tangled: Rapunzel • Flynn Rider • Pascal • Maximus • Mother Gothel • Queen Arianna • King Frederic • Cassandra • Fidella • Pub Thug

Wreck-It Ralph: Wreck-It Ralph • Fix-It Felix Jr.

Frozen: Anna • Elsa • Olaf • Kristoff • Sven • Hans • Snowgies • Bruni

Big Hero 6: Hiro • Baymax • Fred • Wasabi • Honey Lemon • Go Go Tomago • Tadashi Hamada • Yokai • Mochi

Zootopia: Judy Hopps • Nick Wilde • Mayor Lionheart • Flash • Yax • Gazelle • Chief Bogo • Clawhauser • Finnick • Mr. Big • Bellwether • Jerry Jumbeaux Jr.

Moana: Moana • Maui • Pua • Heihei • Tamatoa • Kakamora

Chip 'n Dale Rescue Rangers: Chip • Dale • Gadget • Monterey Jack

Phineas and Ferb: Perry

The Lion Guard: Kion • Ono • Bunga • Beshte • Fuli

DuckTales (2017): Scrooge McDuck • Huey, Dewey, and Louie • Webby Vanderquack

Kingdom Hearts: Sora • Riku • Kairi • Aqua • Xemnas • Ansem, Seeker of Darkness • Ventus • Terra • Chirithy • Lea • Young Xehanort • Roxas • Dark Riku • Naminé

UniBEARsity:

Sofia the First: Sofia • Minimus • Skye

Elena of Avalor: Elena

Enchanted: Giselle

Disney Fairies: Periwinkle • Rosetta • Silvermist

The Sword in the Stone: Wart • Merlin

Oliver & Company: Oliver

Raya and the Last Dragon: Raya • Sisu

Twisted Wonderland: Grim

Encanto: Mirabel • Isabela

Pixar Toy Story: Woody • Buzz Lightyear • Bo Peep • Hamm • Alien • Jessie • Rex • Bullseye • Stinky Pete • Lotso • Forky • Ducky and Bunny

A Bug's Life: Flik • Dot • Heimlich

Monsters, Inc.: Sulley • Mike • Boo • Randall • Celia • Roz • Fungus • George Sanderson

Cars: Lightning McQueen • Mater • Sally • Doc Hudson • Jackson Storm • Cruz Ramirez • Mack • Miss Fritter

Finding Nemo: Nemo • Dory • Marlin • Crush • Bruce • Destiny • Bailey • Hank • Squirt • Nigel • Gill • Sheldon • Pearl • Darla • Charlie • Jenny

WALL-E: WALL-E • EVE

Ratatouille: Remy • Linguini

Up: Carl Fredricksen • Dug • Kevin • Russell

Brave: Merida

Inside Out: Joy • Sadness • Anger • Disgust • Fear • Bing Bong

The Good Dinosaur: Arlo

Coco (film): Miguel • Héctor • Imelda

Onward: Ian Lightfoot • Barley Lightfoot

Soul: Joe • 22

Luca: Luca

Turning Red: Mei

Lightyear: Sox

Luxo, Jr.: Luxo, Jr.

Disney Parks Monorail • Walter E. Disney • Dumbo • Mad Tea Party • Splash Mountain • Astro Orbiter • Matterhorn Bobsleds • The Haunted Mansion • Albert • Enchanted Tiki Room • Orange Bird • Pirates of the Caribbean • Jungle Cruise • Big Al • Bonnie Bear • Tower of Terror

Marvel The Avengers: Iron Man • Captain America • Thor • The Hulk • Black Widow • Hawkeye • Falcon • War Machine • Winter Soldier • Ant-Man • Black Panther • Vision • Sharon Carter

Ultimate Spider-Man: Spider-Man • Venom • Green Goblin • Miles Morales • Lizard • Rhino • Doctor Octopus • Iron Spider • Spider-Gwen • Kraven the Hunter • Hobgoblin

Guardians of the Galaxy: Star-Lord • Gamora • Rocket Raccoon • Groot • Drax

Marvel's Women of Power: Wasp • Elektra • Captain Marvel • She-Hulk • Spider-Woman

Marvel Icons: Daredevil • Doctor Strange • Ghost Rider • Ms. Marvel • Thanos

Star Wars Luke Skywalker • Han Solo • Princess Leia • C-3PO • R2-D2 • Moff Tarkin • Yoda • Chewbacca • Stormtrooper • Sandtrooper • AT-AT Driver • Red Guard • Tusken Raider • Jawa • Wicket • Jabba the Hutt • Greedo • Obi-Wan Kenobi • Qui-Gon Jinn • Queen Amidala • Clone Trooper • Jar Jar Binks • Darth Maul • Jango Fett • General Grievous • Aayla Secura • Anakin Skywalker/Darth Vader • Mace Windu • Count Dooku • Plo Koon • Rey • Finn • BB-8 • Kylo Ren • Poe Dameron • Captain Phasma • First Order Stormtrooper • Maz Kanata • The Mandalorian • The Child

The Muppets Kermit • Miss Piggy • Fozzie Bear • Rowlf • Gonzo • Animal • The Swedish Chef

Media Disney Crossy Road • Soundtrack

Disney Mickey Mouse & Friends: Mickey • Minnie • Donald • Daisy • Goofy • Pluto • Fifi • Pete • Clarabelle Cow • Horace Horsecollar • Willie the Giant • Chip and Dale • Mortimer Mouse • Chief O'Hara • Detective Casey • Butch the Bulldog • Golden Harp • Father Time • Peter Pig

The Lion King: Simba • Nala • Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed • Ostrich • Gazelle • Rhino • Hippo • Zebra • Blue Beetle • Grub • Zazu • Rafiki • Timon • Pumbaa • Mufasa • Scar

Tangled: Rapunzel • Flynn Rider • Stabbington Brothers • Pub Thugs • Attila • Vlad • Big Nose • Hook Hand • Ulf • Shorty • Pascal • Maximus • Mother Gothel • The King • The Queen • Captain of the Guards • Warthog • The Lantern

Wreck-It Ralph: Ralph • Vanellope • Felix • Sgt. Calhoun • King Candy • Taffyta Muttonfudge • Candlehead • Surge Protector • Gene • Nicelanders • Rancis Fluggerbutter • Other Sugar Rush Racers • Sour Bill • Blue Racer • General Hologram

Big Hero 6: Hiro Hamada • Baymax • Robert Callaghan • Go Go Tomago • Honey Lemon • Wasabi • Fred • Fred's Dad • Tadashi Hamada • Cass • Yama • Alistair Krei • Heathcliff • Abbigail Callaghan • Megabot • Sergeant Gerson • Cass

Zootopia: Judy Hopps • Nick Wilde • Flash • Clawhauser • Gazelle • Yax • Bogo • Mayor Lionheart • Bellwether • Doug • Finnick • Mr. Big • Mr. Otterton • Manchas • Gideon • Jerry Jumbeaux Jr. • Nangi • Priscilla • Mr. Hopps • Mrs. Hopps • Business Lemming • Duke Weaselton • Fru Fru • Kozlov • Officer McHorn • Wrangled • Wreck-It Rhino • Pig Hero 6

The Jungle Book: Mowgli • Kaa • Baloo • Akela • Raksha • Gray • Shere Khan • Colonel Hathi • King Louie • Bandar-Log Monkey • Flying Squirrel • Crocodile • Peacock • Vulture • Elephant • Bee Hive

Alice Through the Looking Glass: Alice Kingsleigh • Dormouse • Tweedledee and Tweedledum • Cheshire Cat • Bandersnatch • Bayard • White Queen • March Hare • White Rabbit • Mad Hatter • Absolem • Time • Wilkins • Humpty Dumpty • Red Queen • Borogrove • Frog Delivery Man • Gentleman Fish • Vegetable Soldier • Vegetable Servant • Vegetable Executioner • Armored Chess Piece

Pirates of the Caribbean: Jack Sparrow • Will Turner • Elizabeth Swann • Joshamee Gibbs • Tia Dalma • James Norrington • Marty • Cotton • Bootstrap Bill Turner • Pintel • Ragetti • Angelica • Blackbeard • Prison Dog • Maccus • Davy Jones • Helmsman • Philip Swift • Syrena • Captain Salazar • Ghost Lesaro • Shansa • Henry Turner • Carina Smyth • The Redhead • Murtogg • Mullroy • Treasure Chest • Stray Cat • Tiny • Pirate With Pigs • Ghost Shark • Ghost Seagull • Auctioneer

Aladdin: Aladdin • Jasmine • The Sultan • Prince Achmed • Gazeem • Razoul • Rajah • Iago • Abu • Genie • Jafar • Magic Carpet • Pink Flamingo • Beggar Jafar • Golden Scarab Beetle • Magic Lamp • Snake Charmer • Golden Camel

The Nightmare Before Christmas: Jack Skellington • Sally • Lock, Shock, and Barrel • Oogie Boogie • Santa Claus • Behemoth • Wolfman • Corpse Family • Vampires • Mummy Boy • Mayor of Halloween Town • Dr. Finkelstein • Jewel • Harlequin Demon • Zero • Creature Under the Stairs • Hanging Tree • Helgamine and Zeldaborn • Melting Man • Skeletal Reindeer • Easter Bunny • Mr. Hyde • Igor • Winged Demon • Devil • Cyclops • Mummy Boy • Accordion Player, Bass Player, and Saxophone Player • Zombie Toy Duck • Vampire Teddy

Mulan: Mulan • Yao, Ling, and Chien Po • Fa Li • Fa Zhou • Hayabusa • Khan • Cri-Kee • Little Brother • Mushu • Shan Yu • Captain Li Shang • The Emperor of China • The Matchmaker • General Li • Grandmother Fa • First Ancestor Fa • Chi-Fu • Great Stone Dragon

Moana: Moana • Sina • Frigatebird • Chief Tui • Gramma Tala • Pua • Frigatebird • Kakamora Chief • Maui • HeiHei • Ghost Matai • Eel • Tamatoa • Frog Monster • Sloth Monster • Eight Eyed Bat • Chicken Feed • Maui's Hook • The Ocean

Beauty and the Beast: Belle • Maurice • Chip Potts • Mrs. Potts • Gaston • LeFou • FrouFrou • Chapeau • Plumette • Beast • Cogsworth • Lumiere • The Enchantress

Lilo & Stitch: Lilo Pelekai • Nani Pelekai • David Kawena • Mrs. Hasagawa • Mertle Edmonds • Stitch

DuckTales: Scrooge McDuck • Donald Duck (Classic) • Huey, Dewey, and Louie • Webbigail Vanderquack • Mrs. Beakley • Beagle Boys (Big Time, Burger, and Bouncer) • Gyro • Darkwing Duck • Falcon Graves • Pixiu Chinese Dragon • Peghook's Ghost • Launchpad McQuack • Hack and Slash Smashnikov • Gizmoduck • Shadow Magica • Ma Beagle • Flintheart Glomgold • Pharaoh Toth-Ra • Headless Man-Horse

Pixar Toy Story: Woody • Jessie • Buzz Lightyear • Hamm • Emperor Zurg • Rex • Slinky Dog • Mrs. Nesbit • Bo Peep • Wheezy • Babyhead • Bullseye • Lenny • The Prospector • Mint in the Box Prospector • Trixie • Big Baby • Green Army Men • Babyface • Janey Doll • Stretch • Bookworm • Rocky Gibraltar • Mr. Pricklepants • Chuckles • Buttercup

Inside Out: Joy • Sadness • Anger • Disgust • Fear • Bing Bong • Frank and Dave • Forgetters • Jangles • Rainbow Unicorn

Finding Dory: Dory • Deb • Gurgle • Pearl • Sheldon • Tad • Gill • Bloat • Squirt • Nemo • Marlin • Jacques • Bubbles • Destiny • Bailey • Gerald • Fluke • Rudder • Hank • Crush • Mr. Ray • Becky • Jellyfish • AnglerFish • Otter • Charlie • Jenny • Philip Sherman

Monsters, Inc.: Boo • Needleman • Waxford • C.D.A. Agent • Mike Wazowski • Celia Mae • Flint • Mr. Waternoose • James P. Sullivan • Randall Boggs • Roz • Phlegm • Charlie • Simulation Kid • Garbage Cube • Harley • Spike

The Incredibles: Bob Parr • Helen Parr • Dash • Violet • Jack-Jack • Lucius Best • Syndrome • Edna Mode • Rick Dicker • Gilbert Huph • Kari McKeen • Bomb Voyage • Rusty McAllister • The Underminer • Omnidroid

Disney Parks The Haunted Mansion: Professor Phineas Plump • Maid • Gargoyle • Caretaker and Dog • Butler • Sally Slater • Headless Knight • Executioner • Spider • Madame Leota • Raven • Constance the Bride • The Orator • The Cat Lady • The Medusa • The Muse • Armor • Doom Buggy

Media Disney Emoji Blitz (mission tags) • Event list • Item collections list • As Told by Emoji • Disney Heroes: Battle Mode (chat section & Heroes Emoji Collection)

Disney feature films Mickey Mouse & Friends: Mickey • Minnie • Donald Duck • Daisy • Pluto • Goofy • Steamboat Willie Mickey • Retro Minnie • Oswald the Lucky Rabbit • Holiday Mickey • 8-Bit Mickey • Holiday Minnie • Holiday Pluto • Rose Gold Minnie • Rainbow Mickey • Vampire Mickey • Witch Minnie • Mermaid Minnie • Deep Sea Mickey • Crab Donald • Fairy Minnie • Seashell Daisy • Pirate Peg-Leg Pete • Birthday Baby Pluto • Peppermint Minnie • Gardener Mickey • Flower Minnie • Watermelon Minnie • Ice Cream Mickey • Soft Serve Donald • Sea Creature Goofy • Pumpkin Mickey • Gingerbread Mickey • Christmas Clarabelle Cow • Garnet Minnie • Rainy Day Donald • Astronaut Mickey • Alien Pluto • Pine Cone Pluto • Pancake Goofy • Blueberry Muffin Donald • Pumpkin Minnie • Santa Goofy • Platinum Mickey • Fashion Minnie • Spring Flute Mickey • Winter Pete • Platinum Donald • Pearl Daisy • Platinum Minnie • Astronaut Donald • Topiary Daisy • Dapper Minnie • Dapper Mickey

The Lion King: Simba • Timon • Pumbaa • Rafiki • Scar • Spirit Mufasa • Nala • Shenzi • Baby Simba • Zazu • Adult Simba • Platinum Simba • Mufasa • Carnelian Scar • Patchwork Simba

The Little Mermaid: Ariel • Flounder • Sebastian • Ursula • King Triton • Prince Eric • Wedding Ariel • Vanessa • Flotsam • Amethyst Ursula • Ruby Ariel • Scuttle • Kiss the Girl Ariel

Bambi: Bambi • Thumper • Pretty Flower • April Shower Bambi • Floral Ms. Bunny

The Aristocats: Marie • Pearl Marie

Winnie the Pooh: Winnie the Pooh • Tigger • Piglet • Eeyore • Rabbit • Honey Bee Pooh • Flower Piglet • Bunny Tigger • Baby Chick Eeyore • Honey Cake Pooh • Santa Pooh • Roo • Lumpy Heffalump

Pinocchio: Jiminy Cricket • Pinocchio • Blue Fairy • Figaro • Platinum Jiminy Cricket • Sketch Blue Fairy

Dumbo: Dumbo • Timothy Mouse • Mrs. Jumbo

Peter Pan: Tinker Bell • Peter Pan • Captain Hook • Wendy • Nana • Smee • John Darling • Slightly • Holiday Tinker Bell • Topaz Tinker Bell • Captain Pan • Prismatic Tinker Bell

Aladdin: The Genie • Aladdin • Jasmine • Jafar • Abu • Rajah • Iago • Magic Carpet • Disguised Jasmine • Snake Jafar • Vacation Genie • Prince Ali • Aquamarine Jasmine • Elephant Abu • Sultan • Baby Rajah • Red Carpet Genie • Genie Jafar • Cave of Wonders • Celebration Jasmine • Platinum Genie • Tanzanite Cave of Wonders

Alice in Wonderland: Alice • White Rabbit • Cheshire Cat • Mad Hatter • Caterpillar • The Queen of Hearts • Doorknob • King of Hearts • Little Oysters • House Alice • Rose • March Hare • Mr. Walrus • Tweedle Dee

Cinderella: Cinderella • Fairy Godmother • Gus • Prince Charming • Jaq • Lucifer • Anastasia • Drizella • Lady Tremaine • Wedding Cinderella • Pink Dress Cinderella • Holiday Cinderella • Iolite Fairy Godmother

Frozen: Elsa • Anna • Olaf • Sven • Kristoff • Marshmallow • Grand Pabbie • The Fire Spirit • Elsa the Snow Queen • Queen Anna • Diamond Elsa • Young Anna • Citrine Anna • Opal Olaf • Prince Hans • Sketch Elsa

Lilo & Stitch: Stitch • Lilo • Jumba • Scrump • Angel • Shaved Ice Stitch • Rainbow Stitch • Nani Pelekai • Platinum Stitch • Cobra Bubbles • Sapphire Stitch • Pleakley • Captain Gantu

Zootopia: Judy Hopps • Nick Wilde • Clawhauser • Finnick • Flash • Gazelle

Beauty and the Beast: Belle • The Beast • Lumiere • Cogsworth • Mrs. Potts • Chip • Gaston • Enchantress • Winter Belle • Fancy Beast • Bookworm Belle • Magical Enchantress • Zircon Belle • LeFou

Moana: Moana • Maui • Pua • Hei Hei • Gramma Tala • Tamatoa • Baby Moana • Te Fiti • Kakamora Chief • Te Kā • Voyager Moana

Mulan: Mulan • Mushu • Cri-Kee • Ping • Shan Yu • Li Shang • The Emperor • Reflection Mulan • Ruby Mushu • Melanite Mulan

Tangled: Rapunzel • Pascal • Flynn Rider • Maximus • Tiara Rapunzel • Mother Gothel • Wedding Maximus • Baby Rapunzel • Golden Beryl Rapunzel

Sleeping Beauty: Aurora • Prince Phillip • Maleficent • Flora • Fauna • Merryweather • Winter Aurora • Dragon Maleficent • Briar Rose • Peridot Maleficent • The Raven

The Jungle Book: Baloo • Kaa • King Louie • Mowgli • Shere Khan • Bagheera

Fantasia: Sorcerer's Apprentice Mickey • Yen Sid • Chernabog • Platinum Sorcerer's Apprentice Mickey • Spring Sprite

One Hundred and One Dalmatians: Cruella De Vil • Perdita • Patch • Winter Cruella

The Nightmare Before Christmas: Jack Skellington • Sally • Zero • Oogie Boogie • Santa Jack • Dr. Finkelstein • The Mayor • Christmas Sally • Man-Eating Wreath • Lock • Shock • Barrel

Pocahontas: Pocahontas • Flit • Meeko • Percy • Grandmother Willow • Governor Ratcliffe • Colors of the Wind Pocahontas

Big Hero 6: Hiro Hamada • Baymax • Platinum Baymax • Honey Lemon

Wreck-It Ralph: Vanellope • Ralph • Yesss • Fix-It Felix Jr. • Calhoun • King Candy • Pixel Ralph • Princess Vanellope

The Princess and the Frog: Tiana • Louis • Ray • Dr. Facilier • Almost There Tiana • Prince Naveen • Platinum Tiana • Charlotte La Bouff • Aventurine Tiana • Mama Odie

Lady and the Tramp: Lady • Tramp

Hercules: Hercules • Meg • Pegasus • Hades • Phil • Zeus • Baby Pegasus • Baby Hercules

The Emperor's New Groove: Kuzco • Kronk • Pacha • Yzma • Yzma Kitty

Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs: Snow White • Dopey • Magic Mirror • The Evil Queen • Grumpy • The Prince • Sleepy • Doc • Winter Snow White • The Witch • Obsidian Snow White • Platinum Snow White • Bashful • Sneezy • Purple Diamond Dopey

The Rescuers: Bernard • Bianca • Madame Medusa

Robin Hood: Robin Hood • Maid Marian • Lady Kluck • Little John • Sir Hiss • Prince John

The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad: Mr. Toad

The Hunchback of Notre Dame: Esmeralda • Quasimodo • Hugo • Frollo

The Sword in the Stone: Arthur • Archimedes • Merlin • Madam Mim • Sugar Bowl • Young Mim

Mickey's Christmas Carol: Bob Cratchit Mickey • Ghost of Jacob Marley • Ebenezer Scrooge McDuck • Tiny Tim • Emily Cratchit Minnie • Ghost of Christmas Future Pete

A Goofy Movie: Max • Vacation Goofy • Powerline • Roxanne • PJ

Raya and the Last Dragon: Raya • Sisu • Tuk Tuk • Namaari • Human Sisu

The Three Caballeros: José • Panchito • Caballero Donald

Encanto: Mirabel • Antonio • Luisa • Bruno • Isabela • Platinum Mirabel • Alma Madrigal • Camilo • Dolores • Embroidered Mirabel

Bolt: Bolt

The Fox and the Hound: Tod • Copper

The Great Mouse Detective: Professor Ratigan

Pixie Hollow: Silvermist • Iridessa • Rosetta • Fawn

Treasure Planet: John Silver

The Black Cauldron: The Horned King

Oliver & Company: Oliver • Dodger

Wish: Asha • Valentino • Star

Disney animated shows DuckTales: Scrooge McDuck • Launchpad McQuack • Webby Vanderquack • Gizmoduck • Magica De Spell • Huey • Dewey • Louie

Darkwing Duck: Darkwing Duck

Rescue Rangers: Chip • Dale • Gadget • Monterey Jack • Devil Dale • Angel Chip

Gargoyles: Goliath • Bronx • Demona

The Proud Family: Penny Proud • Suga Mama

Kim Possible: Kim Possible

Adventures of the Gummi Bears: Zummi Gummi

TaleSpin: Talespin Baloo

Phineas and Ferb: Perry the Platypus

Pixar Monsters, Inc.: Mike • Sulley • Randall • Celia • Roz • Boo

Toy Story: Woody • Buzz Lightyear • Alien • Jessie • Bullseye • Bo Peep • Forky • Rex • Duke Caboom • Hamm • Mrs. Nesbit • Zurg • Lotso • Platinum Woody • Bunny • Stinky Pete • Fluorite Buzz

WALL-E: WALL-E • EVE • Holiday WALL-E

Finding Nemo/Finding Dory: Nemo • Dory • Hank • Crush • Bruce • Baby Dory • Destiny • Bailey • Pearl • Platinum Nemo • Darla

Cars: Lightning McQueen • Cruz Ramirez • Jackson Storm • Mater

Inside Out: Joy • Sadness • Anger • Disgust • Fear • Bing Bong • Rainbow Unicorn • Sapphire Joy • Anxiety • Embarrassment

Coco: Miguel Rivera • Héctor • Dante • Imelda • Pepita • Alebrije Dante • Ernesto • Mama Coco • Disguised Miguel • Platinum Miguel

Ratatouille: Remy • Anton Ego • Alfredo Linguini • Auguste Gusteau

The Incredibles: Mr. Incredible • Mrs. Incredible • Jack-Jack • Violet • Dash • Frozone • Edna Mode • Syndrome

A Bug's Life: Flik • Princess Atta • Heimlich

Brave: Merida • Young Merida • Queen Elinor

Up: Dug • Russel • Carl • Kevin • Alpha • Headphones Dug

Onward: Ian • Barley • The Manticore

Soul: Joe • 22

Luca: Luca • Alberto

Turning Red: Meilin Lee • Red Panda Mei • Abby Park • Red Panda Ming Lee

Lightyear: Captain Lightyear • Sox

Pixar Shorts: Bao

Elemental: Ember • Wade

Alien Remix: Monsters Inc. Alien • Incredibles Alien

Disney video games Kingdom Hearts: Sora • Aqua • Captain Goofy • Royal Magician Donald

Disney live-action films Pirates of the Caribbean: Captain Jack Sparrow • Barbossa • Davy Jones • Elizabeth Swann • Prison Dog • Tia Dalma

Descendants: Mal

Hocus Pocus: Winifred Sanderson • Mary Sanderson • Sarah Sanderson • Binx • Billy Butcherson • Young Winifred • The Book

Mary Poppins: Mary Poppins • Bert • Jolly Holiday Mary Poppins

Enchanted: Giselle • Wedding Giselle

Jungle Cruise: Frank • Lily Houghton

The Little Mermaid: King Triton • Ariel

Cruella: Masquerade Cruella

The Santa Clause: Scott Calvin • Bernard the Elf

Maleficent: Maleficent

Disney live-action shows The Golden Girls: Rose Nylund • Blanche Devereaux • Sophia Petrillo • Dorothy Zbornak

Disney Parks The Haunted Mansion: Hatbox Ghost • Madame Leota • The Bride • Hitchhicker Ghost Phineas • Constance

Matterhorn Bobsleds: Abominable Snowman

Journey Into Imagination: Figment • Sketch Figment • Rainbow Figment

Main Street Electrical Parade: Electrical Parade Elliott • Electrical Parade Minnie • Electrical Parade Tinker Bell • Electrical Parade Cheshire Cat • Electrical Parade Blue Fairy • Electrical Parade Genie • Electrical Parade Nemo

World of Color: World of Color Mickey

It's a Small World: It's a Small World

Space Mountain: Space Mountain

Disney Munchlings: Munchlings Cherry Tart Minnie

Disney Theatrical Productions The Lion King: Broadway Mufasa

The Muppets The Muppets: Kermit the Frog • Fozzie Bear • Swedish Chef • Miss Piggy • Gonzo • Animal

The Muppet Christmas Carol: Bob Cratchit Kermit • Miss Piggy Emily Cratchit

Muppets Haunted Mansion: Madame Pigota • Gauzey the Hatbox Bear

Lucasfilm Star Wars: Rey • Finn • BB-8 • Kylo Ren • Luke Skywalker • Princess Leia • The Mandalorian • Grogu • Chewbacca • Hondo • First Order Stormtrooper • Han Solo • R2-D2 • Cara Dune • Moff Gideon • Death Trooper • Poe Dameron • C-3PO • Boba Fett • Jabba the Hutt • Anakin Skywalker/Darth Vader • Queen Amidala • Darth Maul • Fennec Shand • Ahsoka Tano • Jedi Anakin • General Grievous • Yoda • Lando Calrissian • Emperor Palpatine • Grand Moff Tarkin • K-2SO • Jyn Erso • Cassian Andor • Obi-Wan Kenobi • Grand Inquisitor • Wicket • Jedi Master Luke • Imperial Stormtrooper • Bo-Katan • Cad Bane • Platinum Grogu • Salacious Crumb • Boushh Disguise Leia • Rancor • Sabine Wren • C1-10P • Mace Windu • Jar Jar Binks • Admiral Ackbar • Hera Syndulla • Admiral Ackbar • Emerald Yoda • Meadow Padmé • Endor Rebel Leia • Qui-Gon Jinn

Indiana Jones: Indiana Jones • Marion Ravenwood • Helena • 1969 Indiana Jones

Willow: Willow • Kit

20th Century Studios Ron's Gone Wrong: Ron • Barney

Ice Age: Scrat • Sid • Manny • Diego

Anastasia: Anastasia Romanov • Rasputin

Titanic: Rose • Jack

Games Kingdom Hearts (HD I.5 ReMIX/Soundtrack/Soundtrack Complete/HD I.5 ReMIX Soundtrack) • Chain of Memories • Kingdom Hearts II (HD II.5 ReMIX/HD II.8 Final Chapter Prologue/Soundtrack/HD II.5 ReMIX Soundtrack ) • 358/2 Days • Birth by Sleep (Soundtrack) • coded • Dream Drop Distance (Soundtrack) • χ [chi] • Unchained χ/Union χ [cross] • Kingdom Hearts III • Dark Road • Melody of Memory • Missing-Link • Kingdom Hearts IV

Other media Mickey's Not-So-Scary Halloween Party • Agrabah (Kingdom Hearts pilot)

Incorporated Films and Shorts Aladdin/The Return of Jafar • Alice in Wonderland • Beauty and the Beast • Big Hero 6 • Cinderella • Fantasia • Frozen • Hercules • The Hunchback of Notre Dame • Lilo & Stitch • The Lion King • The Little Mermaid • Mickey, Donald, Goofy: The Three Musketeers • Monsters, Inc. • Mulan • The Nightmare Before Christmas • Peter Pan • Pinocchio • Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl/Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End • Sleeping Beauty • Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs • Steamboat Willie • Tangled • Tarzan • Toy Story • Tron/Tron: Legacy • Winnie the Pooh • Wreck-It Ralph

Characters Main Characters: Sora • Riku • Kairi • King Mickey • Donald Duck • Goofy • Roxas • Axel/Lea • Naminé • Xion • Aqua • Terra • Ventus

Villains: Xehanort • Ansem • Xemnas • Maleficent • Pete • Vanitas • Xigbar/Braig • Xaldin • Vexen • Lexaeus • Zexion • Saïx/Isa • Demyx • Luxord • Marluxia • Larxene • Terra-Xehanort • Young Xehanort • Xehanort's Guardian

Other Characters: Jiminy Cricket • Ansem the Wise/DiZ • Yen Sid • Master Eraqus • Dilan • Even • Aeleus • Ienzo • Lingering Will • Hayner • Pence • Olette • Kairi's Grandma • Riku Replica • Jiminy's Journal • Foretellers • Master of Masters • Luxu • Ephemer • Skuld • Chirithy • Strelitzia • Lauriam • Yozora • Vor • Hermod

Original Monsters: Heartless • Nobodies • Unversed • Dream Eater

Disney Characters introduced in Kingdom Hearts: Queen Minnie • Daisy Duck • Pluto • Chip and Dale • Huey, Dewey, and Louie • Magic Brooms • Alice • White Rabbit • Doorknob • Cheshire Cat • Queen of Hearts • Card Soldiers • Tarzan • Jane Porter • Clayton • Terk • Kerchak • Kala • Sabor • Hercules • Philoctetes • Hades • Cerberus • Rock Titan • Ice Titan • Aladdin • Abu • Jasmine • Genie • Carpet • Jafar • Iago • Peddler • Cave of Wonders • Pinocchio • Geppetto • Monstro • Cleo • Ariel • Flounder • Sebastian • Ursula • King Triton• Flotsam and Jetsam • Glut • Jack Skellington • Zero • Sally • Oogie Boogie • Lock, Shock, and Barrel • Dr. Finkelstein • Mayor of Halloween Town • Peter Pan • Tinker Bell • Captain Hook • Mr. Smee • Wendy • Crocodile • Merlin • Winnie the Pooh • Tigger • Piglet • Eeyore • Rabbit • Owl • Roo • Bees • Beast • Belle • Snow White • Cinderella • Fairy Godmother • Aurora • Pongo • Perdita • Dalmatian Puppies • Simba • Mushu • Dumbo • Bambi • Chernabog

Disney Characters introduced in Kingdom Hearts II: Flora, Fauna, and Merryweather • Maleficent's Raven • Scrooge McDuck • Mulan • Li Shang • Shan Yu • Hayabusa • Yao, Ling, and Chien Po • The Emperor • Lumiere • Cogsworth • Mrs Potts • Chip • Wardrobe • Pegasus • Megara • Pain and Panic • Hydra • Horace Horsecollar • Clarabelle Cow • Clara Cluck • Jack Sparrow • Elizabeth Swann • Will Turner • Captain Barbossa • Bo'sun • Jacoby • Twigg • Cursed Crew • Prince Eric • Attina • Andrina • Santa Claus • Skeletal Reindeer • Timon • Pumbaa • Nala • Rafiki • Scar • Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed • Mufasa • Kiara • Pridelanders • Hyenas • Tron • Master Control Program • Commander Sark • Kanga • Gopher • Stitch • Chicken Little

Disney Characters introduced in Birth by Sleep: Prince Phillip • Maleficent's Goons • Doc • Grumpy • Happy • Sleepy • Bashful • Sneezy • Dopey • The Prince • Evil Queen • Magic Mirror • Prince Charming • Jaq • Lady Tremaine • Anastasia • Drizella • Lucifer • Grand Duke • Grand Councilwoman • Captain Gantu • Jumba • Experiment 221 • Lost Boys

Disney Characters introduced in Dream Drop Distance: Quasimodo • Esmeralda • Phoebus • Judge Claude Frollo • Victor, Hugo, and Laverne • Kevin Flynn • Sam Flynn • Quorra • CLU • Black Guards • Blue Fairy • Beagle Boys • Chernabog's Minions • Julius

Disney Characters introduced in Kingdom Hearts χ: Mad Hatter • March Hare • Razoul • Royal Guards • Maurice • Gaston

Disney Characters introduced in Kingdom Hearts Union χ: Sultan • Samson • Vanellope von Schweetz • Fix-It Felix Jr. • Sergeant Calhoun • King Candy • Sour Bill • Cy-Bugs • Hero's Duty Troops

Disney Characters introduced in Kingdom Hearts III: Zeus • Apollo • Athena • Hermes • Lava Titan • Tornado Titan • Little Chef • Woody • Buzz Lightyear • Rex • Hamm • Sarge • Green Army Men • Little Green Men • Rapunzel • Flynn Rider • Pascal • Maximus • Mother Gothel • Sulley • Mike Wazowski • Boo • Randall Boggs • Child Detection Agency • Trailer Folk • Elsa • Anna • Kristoff • Olaf • Sven • Marshmallow • Hans • Mr. Gibbs • Tia Dalma • Davy Jones • Kraken • Cutler Beckett • Davy Jones' Locker Crabs • Baymax • Hiro Hamada • Go Go Tomago • Honey Lemon • Fred • Wasabi • Lumpy • Wreck-It Ralph

Disney Characters introduced in Kingdom Hearts Dark Road: Tweedledee and Tweedledum

Disney Characters introduced in the manga: Caterpillar • Chi-Fu

Square Enix Characters: Leon • Cloud • Moogle • Others

Elements Plot Elements: Kingdom Hearts • Heart • Keyblade War • Dark Seeker Saga • More

Game Elements: Gameplay in Kingdom Hearts • Magic

Objects Sea-salt ice cream • Wayfinder • Door to Darkness • Keyblade • X-blade • More • Pixar Ball • A113 • Pizza Planet Truck

Locations Original Worlds: Destiny Islands • Traverse Town • Radiant Garden/Hollow Bastion • Disney Castle/Disney Town/Timeless River • Dive to the Heart • End of the World • Realm of Darkness • Twilight Town/Mysterious Tower • The World That Never Was • Castle That Never Was • Land of Departure/Castle Oblivion • Keyblade Graveyard • Daybreak Town/Scala ad Caelum

Disney Worlds: Wonderland • Deep Jungle • Olympus Coliseum/Underworld/Olympus • Agrabah • Atlantica • Halloween Town/Christmas Town • Neverland • Hundred Acre Wood • The Land of Dragons • Beast's Castle • Port Royal/The Caribbean • Pride Lands • Space Paranoids • Dwarf Woodlands • Castle of Dreams • Deep Space • La Cité des Cloches • The Grid • Prankster's Paradise • Country of the Musketeers • Toy Box • Kingdom of Corona • Monstropolis • Arendelle • San Fransokyo • Game Central Station/Niceland/Cy-Bug Sector/Candy Kingdom

Organizations/Groups Organization XIII • Princesses of Heart • Disney Villains Council

Songs "Dearly Beloved" • "Simple and Clean" • "Sanctuary" • Face My Fears • Don't Think Twice • Mickey Mouse Club March • Swim This Way • Part of Your World • Under the Sea • Ursula's Revenge • A New Day is Dawning • Destati • This is Halloween • He's a Pirate • Beauty and the Beast • Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo • It's a Small World • Night on Bald Mountain • Winnie the Pooh • The Sorcerer's Apprentice • The Pastoral Symphony • Nutcracker Suite • You've Got a Friend in Me • Healing Incantation • Put That Thing Back Where It Came From or So Help Me • Let It Go • Do You Want to Build a Snowman • Yo Ho (A Pirate's Life for Me) • A Whole New World • Circle of Life

Disney feature films A Goofy Movie: Powerline • Max Goof

Aladdin: Aladdin • Genie • Jafar • Jasmine • Rajah • Abu

Alice in Wonderland: Alice • Mad Hatter • Queen of Hearts • Cheshire Cat

Atlantis: The Lost Empire: Kida Nedakh • Vincenzo Santorini • Helga Sinclair • Milo Thatch • Audrey Ramirez

Beauty and the Beast: Gaston • Beast • Belle • Lumiere • Cogsworth

Big Hero 6: Hiro Hamada • Baymax • Honey Lemon • Wasabi • Go Go Tomago • Fred

Bolt: Bolt

Cinderella: Fairy Godmother • Cinderella

Encanto: Mirabel Madrigal

Frozen: Elsa • Olaf • Kristoff • Sven • Anna

Hercules: Hades • Hercules • Megara • Zeus • Philoctetes • Pegasus

Lilo & Stitch: Stitch • Pleakley • Jumba • Angel • Lilo Pelekai

Meet the Robinsons Bowler Hat Guy • DOR-15

Mickey Mouse & Friends Mickey Mouse • Goofy • Minnie Mouse • Pluto • Pete • Daisy Duck

Moana: Moana • Maui Mulan: Fa Mulan • Li Shang • Shan Yu • Mushu

One Hundred and One Dalmatians: Cruella De Vil • Jasper and Horace

Peter Pan: Peter Pan • Captain Hook • Tinker Bell Pocahontas: Pocahontas • Meeko • Flit

Raya and the Last Dragon: Raya • Sisu • Namaari Robin Hood: Robin Hood • Sheriff of Nottingham • Little John

Sleeping Beauty: Maleficent • Aurora • Prince Phillip • Flora, Fauna, and Merryweather

Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs: The Evil Queen • Snow White

Tangled: Rapunzel • Flynn Rider • Maximus • Mother Gothel • Stabbington Brothers

The Black Cauldron: The Horned King

The Emperor's New Groove: Yzma • Kronk • Pacha • Kuzco

The Great Mouse Detective: Basil of Baker Street

The Hunchback of Notre Dame: Esmeralda • Quasimodo • Phoebus

The Jungle Book: King Louie • Baloo • Bagheera • Kaa • Shere Khan

The Lion King: Scar • Rafiki • Timon • Pumbaa • Simba • Nala

The Little Mermaid: Ariel • Ursula • King Triton

The Nightmare Before Christmas: Jack Skellington • Sally • Oogie Boogie • Lock, Shock, and Barrel • Mayor of Halloween Town

The Princess and the Frog: Dr. Facilier • Tiana • Louis • Ray

The Rescuers Down Under: Percival C. McLeach • Joanna

The Sword in the Stone: Merlin • Madam Mim Treasure Planet: Captain Amelia • Jim Hawkins • John Silver • Morph

Wreck-It Ralph: Wreck-It Ralph • Vanellope von Schweetz • Fix-It Felix Jr. • Sergeant Calhoun • Shank

Winnie the Pooh: Winnie the Pooh • Tigger • Eeyore

Zootopia: Judy Hopps • Nick Wilde • Yax • Finnick • Chief Bogo • Clawhauser • Koslov • Mr. Big • Bellwether • Flash

Disney animated shows Amercian Dragon: Jake Long: Jake Long • Rose

Chip 'n Dale Rescue Rangers: Chip and Dale • Gadget Hackwrench • Zipper

Darkwing Duck: Darkwing Duck • Megavolt • Quackerjack • Negaduck

DuckTales: Scrooge McDuck • Donald Duck • Huey, Dewey, and Louie • Fenton Crackshell • Launchpad McQuack • Magica De Spell

Gargoyles: Goliath • Demona

Kim Possible: Kim Possible • Dr. Drakken • Shego • Ron Stoppable • Rufus • Duff Killigan • Monkey Fist

Phineas and Ferb: Agent P • Heinz Doofenshmirtz

The Owl House: Eda Clawthorne • Luz Noceda

Pixar A Bug's Life: Flik • Hopper

Brave: Merida

Coco: Miguel Rivera • Dante

Finding Nemo: Gerald • Marlin • Nemo • Hank • Dory

Inside Out: Anger • Joy • Sadness • Disgust • Fear • Anxiety

Luca: Luca Paguro • Alberto Scorfano

Monsters, Inc.: James P. Sullivan • Boo • Mike Wazowski • Randall Boggs

Onward: Ian Lightfoot • Corey the Manticore • Barley Lightfoot

Ratatouille: Alfredo Linguini • Remy • Colette Tatou • Chef Skinner

Soul: 22

The Incredibles: Mr. Incredible • Elastigirl • Dash Parr • Violet Parr • Jack-Jack Parr • Frozone • Syndrome • The Underminer • Voyd

Toy Story: Woody • Buzz Lightyear • Jessie • Rex • Emperor Zurg • Bo Peep • Billy, Goat, and Gruff • Duke Caboom • Ducky and Bunny • Slinky Dog • Hamm

Turning Red: Mei Lee

Up: Carl Fredricksen • Dug • Russell • Kevin

WALL-E: WALL-E • EVE

Disney live-action films Hocus Pocus: Winifred Sanderson • Sarah Sanderson • Mary Sanderson • Thackery Binx • Billy Butcherson

Pirates of the Caribbean: Jack Sparrow • Hector Barbossa • Tia Dalma • Davy Jones

The Rocketeer: Cliff Secord

Tron: Kevin Flynn • Quorra • Tron

The Muppets Animal • Miss Piggy • Gonzo • Dr. Bunsen Honeydew • Beaker • Kermit the Frog • The Swedish Chef • Fozzie Bear • Statler and Waldorf • Sweetums

Media Disney Dreamlight Valley (soundtrack)

Characters Aladdin: Jafar

Beauty and the Beast: Beast • Belle • Gaston

Cinderella: Fairy Godmother

Encanto: Mirabel Madrigal

Frozen: Anna • Elsa • Kristoff • Olaf

Lilo & Stitch: Stitch

Mickey Mouse & Friends:Mickey Mouse • Minnie Mouse • Donald Duck • Daisy Duck • Goofy • Scrooge McDuck • Figaro

Moana: Moana • Maui • Pua • Heihei

Monsters, Inc.: James P. Sullivan • Mike Wazowski

Mulan: Fa Mulan

• Mushu

Oswald the Lucky Rabbit: Oswald the Lucky Rabbit

Ratatouille: Remy

Tangled: Rapunzel • Mother Gothel

The Lion King: Simba • Nala • Scar

The Little Mermaid: Ariel • Prince Eric • Ursula

The Nightmare Before Christmas: Jack Skellington

The Sword in the Stone: Merlin

Toy Story: Woody • Buzz Lightyear

WALL-E: WALL-E • EVE

Wreck-It Ralph: Vanellope von Schweetz