The Island of perfumes and spices

Moheli is truly an undiscovered eco-tourism destination. Exploring this little paradise is a real privilege.

Located at the North end of the Mozambique Channel, between Madagascar and the East African coast, at 211 km² Moheli is the smallest island in the Comoros archipelago, with few inhabitants and even fewer tourists.

Laka Lodge offers a unique opportunity to discover its welcoming culture and its endemic species on-land and the biodiversity of its incredible marine and submarine life which are considered among the best preserved in the world.

The sea water temperature ranges from 25-29 degrees Celcius year round and you can swim and snorkel your way around in the most exceptional natural aquarium nature has to offer.

Moheli Laka Lodge ***

Laka Lodge is located in the middle of the magnificent National Park of Moheli in the village of Nioumachoua facing six uninhabited isles that are surrounded with exceptional sea life and endless coral reefs.

As the only ecolodge on Mohéli, we provide full board accommodation amid a lush garden, on a large private beach.

From here you can explore and discover Moheli with a variety of marine and terrestrial activities.

Laka Lodge is now powered by solar energy! The only footprints you leave here will be on the pristine beaches you discover.

Mohéli Laka Lodge is located on a peninsula with a large private beach with pearly white sand and equipped with coconut leaf covered umbrellas.

An exceptional holiday

We go an extra mile and do our best to make your holiday an unforgettable experience. During your stay you can choose from many eco-tourism activities: whale watching with one of our boats, snorkeling on the sublime coral reefs, play beach volley on our very own court, ping-pong, badminton, make a tour of the lagoon with one of our canoes or kayaks or a traditional “laka”, go fishing or hiking in the coastal and primary rain forest, make a trip by bike or foot to the traditional villages around, or, by car, to the Giant Sea Turtle Reserve in Itsamia or the Livingstone Bats Reserve or simply enjoying your time on one of our private beaches and swim in the ever pleasantly warm Indian Ocean.

At the end of the day you can have a relaxing walk around the area, visit the mangrove, climb the hill and sit and enjoy sunset that offers you every day again a different spectacle of colours and views.

At night, observing the Milky Way will bring you closer to the immense Universe.