« Back to Glossary Index

Definition

The .us domain is the official top-level domain (TLD) of the United States of America. It is also known as the "USA domain" and is one of the most popular Domain extensionen worldwide.

Usage

The .us domain can be used by companies, organizations, and individuals located in the United States. There are also some other restrictions imposed by the US Department of Commerce, the National Science Foundation, and the US Department of State.

Advantages and disadvantages

The .us domain offers many advantages. For example, it is a very memorable Domain extension, which is easy to remember and understand. In addition, it is also a symbol of authority and respectability, as it is an official symbol of the US government. However, one drawback is that it has a restriction, that is, it can only be used by companies, organizations and individuals that are based in the USA.

Costs

The cost of registration of a .us domain vary by provider, but generally cost between $10 and $15 per year.

Seriousness

Since the .us domain is an official symbol of the US state, it is a symbol of authority and respectability. This means that those who use a .us domain register, get a sense of security and trust in their brand.

Registration

The registration of a .us domain is very simple. All you have to do is contact a domain registrar and specify the domain extension. It is important to make sure that the chosen domain name is still available before registering it.

Registration Office

The .us domain is administered by the U.S. Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). This organization is responsible for ensuring that all domains registered in the USA are operated in accordance with ICANN's rules and policies.

Examples

An example of a .us domain is www.microsoft.us.

Conclusion

The .us domain is a very popular domain extension that can be used by companies, organizations and individuals located in the USA. It is a symbol of authority and respectability and offers a sense of security and trust. It is also easy and inexpensive to register and is managed by ICANN.

« Back to Glossary Index