Events • News + Entertainment

10 Offices

13,750 Employees

Recognized three years in a row by Great Place to Work® and named one of People Magazine’s Top 50 Companies that Care, Live Nation Entertainment is the global leader in live events and ticketing. With business operations and corporate functions across 5 major divisions, Ticketmaster, House of Blues, Concerts, Media & Sponsorship, and Artist Nation, we offer exciting opportunities across every discipline.

Music • News + Entertainment • Sports

11 Offices

6,008 Employees

SiriusXM and Pandora have joined together to create the world’s largest audio entertainment company. Together, we are uniquely positioned to lead a new era of audio entertainment by delivering the most compelling subscription and ad-supported audio experiences to millions of listeners – in the car, at home and on the go. Our talent, content, technology and innovation continue to be at the forefront, and we want you to be a part of it! Check out our current openings below and at www.Pandora.com/careers.

Gaming • News + Entertainment

Brentwood, TN, US

11 Employees

WWG is a division of ComicBook.com focused on traditional and competitive gaming. At WWG, games are in our DNA. To us gaming is more than a hobby or entertainment. Gaming is our way of life. WWG uses engaging video, relevant news and explosive in-depth writing, to push the limits of the gaming industry with no topic being off-limits. WWG is the site that you come to for all breaking gaming and esports news, interactive interviews and streams with your favorite personalities. We also feature gaming reviews and professional tools to improve your own play whether amateur or pro.

News + Entertainment • Robotics

Nashville, TN, US

107 Employees

Animax is the creative robotic entertainment powerhouse behind some of the largest themed experiences and global intellectual properties around the world. Driven by a strong belief in partnership-based relationships, Animax has enjoyed a legacy of collaboration with some of the largest entertainment experiences throughout the years. As storytelling engineers, we bring to bear our unparalleled expertise and experience to design and build characters and other forms of entertainment robotics. Animax entertainment robots have delighted millions of visitors since the conception of the company. Founded in 1989, the company has evolved to be an innovation leader in the space of entertainment robotics bringing experiences to life across multiple forms of character and show action technologies.

News + Entertainment

Nashville, TN, US

56 Employees

7 is an integrated marketing agency specializing in: Experiential | Entertainment Strategy | Talent Booking | Production | Creative | Digital WE PUT BRANDS CENTER STAGE. When people come together around the things they love, magic happens. We harness these mind-blowing, heart-racing, crowd-roaring experiences and put brands center stage. Online, in real life, and everywhere in between. Event Marketer Top 100 IT List Agency - 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 _____________________ G7 Entertainment Marketing is part of Project Worldwide, the Home Of Independents With An Edge. Agencies include Argonaut, Darkhorse, George P. Johnson, Juxt, Motive, Nomobo, OS Studios, Partners + Napier, Praytell, Raumtechnik, Shoptology, Spinifex Group, and Wondersauce.

News + Entertainment

Nashville, TN, US

27 Employees

We are comedy lovers that believe there is a better way for creators to record, market, distribute and protect their recordings. That is why we started this record label, to give you a team of people that know how to navigate the new marketplace and get your work heard.

AdTech • Digital Media • Information Technology • Marketing Tech • News + Entertainment • Social Media • Software

Nashville, TN, US

450 Employees

TechnologyAdvice’s purpose is to create opportunity. For our audiences to make the best business and technology decisions. For our customers to engage with their ideal prospects. For our team members to grow, learn and serve others. For our communities to grow and thrive. At TechnologyAdvice, we pride ourselves on helping B2B tech buyers manage the complexity and risk of the buying process. We are a trusted source of information for tech buyers, delivering advice and facilitating connections between our buyers and the world’s leading sellers of business technology. Headquartered in Nashville, Tennessee, we are a remote-first company with more than 20 digital publications and over 500 global team members in the US, UK, Singapore, Australia, and the Philippines. We’re proud to have been repeatedly recognized as one of America’s fastest growing private companies by Inc., as well as a Tennessee top workplace. We work hard each day and have fun, too, with monthly virtual events, recreational slack channels, and the occasional costumed dance from our CEO.

News + Entertainment

Nashville, TN, US

36 Employees

Minno is a Nashville-based media and technology company focused on serving Christian kids and families. Our offerings include our subscription-video-on-demand platform, our digital shopping platform and children's book publisher Minno Kids. We seek to entertain, inform and inspire through great content for kids and resources for parents. We want to encourage kids and parents in their own creativity in making the world a better place. We're working hard to make Minno a place for families to gather, to laugh and to learn together. At Minno, we strive to help you make an impact and have fun in the process. We hire talented people with diverse interests, who are passionate and thrive in a fast-paced environment.