Christening an infant in the bell of a Navy destroyer may seem unusual to some, but for 7-month-old Amelia Sterett-Bernson, the historical significance of her baptism’s location seems fitting for the infant, her family and Baltimore City.

Amelia will be the first of her family to be christened on the deck of the USS Sterett, named after her ancestor and notable 18th-century Baltimore City naval officer Andrew Sterett.

“Amelia’s christening helps our family come full circle to connect us to our heritage,” said Amelia’s mother, Michelle Sterett-Bernson, of Seattle, who is also the ship’s sponsor.

The Sterett, a 500-foot destroyer and the fourth ship to bear the name since 1910, will be commissioned Saturday in the harbor.

For a family who has fought in Scotland, Baltimore, the foreign seas and every major American conflict since the republic’s birth, history and lineage mean everything to a Sterett family member.

“You can’t be a Sterett — and there aren’t a lot of us — without being interested in the family history,” said Debbie Sterett, 54, of Illinois.

A fighting history

Having been forced from Scotland after leading rebellions against the English, the Sterett clan settled in Lancaster, Pa., in the 18th century and became farmers and merchants.

The growth of their businesses led the family to branch out to Baltimore City, where Andrew Sterett’s father starting a shipping business, family members said.

Andrew left the family business and joined the Navy at the age of 20.

He served as a lieutenant aboard the frigate Constellation — the first version of the Civil War-era ship now moored at the Inner Harbor — which was built by his family.

While on the Constellation, Sterett helped the Navy claim its first victory over a French ship during the Quasi-War with France in 1799, according to Navy historical records.

He became the first commander of the schooner Enterprise — the first American ship to bear that iconic name — and led many successful battles.

Sterett was honored by President Thomas Jefferson, but later retired from the Navy in 1805 after another Marylander — Stephen Decatur — was promoted over him, family members said.

Two years later, Sterett died as a merchant sailor in Peru at the age of 29, never having produced any children of his own, according to Navy records.

Sterett descendants gathered Thursday on the ground of Fort McHenry for a picnic with the sailors of the ships bearing the family name.

Relatives said meeting at Fort McHenry was fitting because the last gathering of the Sterett family was in Baltimore City nearly 200 years ago.

In September 1814, Baltimore had just staved off a British attack thanks to militia defenses — led in part by the Steretts in four separate units — and the stronghold of Fort McHenry.

One of the militia captains was Samuel Sterett, a former state senator. He is buried in the family crypt at Westminster Church on Fayette Street.

“It’s rewarding to know that we are here having a barbecue at Fort McHenry, and Samuel Sterett did the same thing,” said Kent Sterett, 61, of York, Pa.

More than a name

Thursday’s gathering also served as a reunion for those sailors who served on the ships with the Sterett name.

“There’s just something about the Sterett. Its aura is a magnet to those who have any linkage to the ship,” said Evan Mickel, of Lutherville, who served on the third Sterett in the 1980s and is one of the organizers of the commissioning day ceremonies.

The first Sterett was commissioned in 1910 and protected convoys in the Atlantic during World War I. Ireland honored the ship for damaging and chasing away a German submarine, according to Navy records.

The second Sterett was commissioned in 1939 and served in the South Pacific during World War II, playing a critical role in famous naval battles at Guadalcanal and the Vella Gulf by sinking and stopping Japanese battleships and destroyers, according to former Sterett sailors.

“We took a lot of damage, but we held our own,” said Jim Botkin, 86, of California, who served on the second Sterett during both Pacific battles and attended Thursday’s picnic.

The third Sterett, commissioned in 1962, saved more than 250 Vietnamese refugees from the South Asian seas between 1982 and 1983. For its efforts, the ship received three humanitarian awards and nine battle stars, according to Navy records.

One of those refugees, Le Phung, is one of the two matrons for the newest Sterett.

Continuing history

The picnic not only served as a reunion for Sterett descendants and former shipmates, but also as a valuable history lesson for the sailors and officers of the Sterett sitting at the Locus Point terminal, Mickel said.

The commissioning committee delivered free books on the ship’s history and were encouraged to talk to family members.

Connections were made over plates of barbecue ribs and hamburgers among sailors of three generations and Sterett family members.

“I’m pretty excited, and so is the crew,” said Chief Petty Officer Jutte Danns, 39, of Texas. “The crew really cares about this ship and keeping its history and past alive.”