The R-114 was a preliminary project of high-speed (VERY high-speed) rocket interceptor, designed at Bartini special OKB placed in Omsk. It was a swept-wing aircraft (33 deg. measured by leading edge) with boundary layer control system (!). It was powered by four rocket engines designed by V. Glushko, each producing 3 kN thrust (12 kN total). After Bartini's calculations, maximum speed of the aircraft would be about M=2 (!!!). Also Bartini planned to equip it with special infrared locator, which was designed by K.Polischuk. Other Bartini's teammates participated in R-114 design were Ye. Shekunov (responcible for manufacturing techniques) and Viktor Belyaev (renowned designer of DB-LK and some other unusual aircrafts), who made strength calculation of the aircraft. But the project (and mostly its claimed performance) looked too fantastic, and therefore it wasn't realized. In 1943 autumn the Bartini team was disbanded.

Unfortunately I don't know any pictures or 3-views of the R-114.

Besides the R-114, at the same time Bartini designed another project, this time transonic, called only "R". It was triangular flying wing (probably even double-delta), with two vertical fins placed on the wingtips, with retractable skid used for landing. The outer wing sections in "R" project were used as original flat ramjet engines (!); also the aircraft would have a rocket engine. The wingspan was 6.8 m, and maximum speed about 1000 km/h. Also no pictures available...

The russian designers of that era probably had to face the same problems, as the

germans did. They could design an aircraft with a propulsion system powerful enough,

but the much needed knowledge about aerodynamics for such speeds was still missing.

Even the americans had those problems, just look at the Convair XF-92. So I would agree

Most people in this forum would agree that aerodynamics were most advanced in Germany and the USSR back in the late 30`s. I can remember some back swept and delta wings from that period, stemming from those countries. The UK and US lagged behind most clearly throughout the war. Remember the post-war Boeing designs for the future B-47, changed by Schairer after contacting with german documents? I believe some appreciations made here are pretty biassed, not substantiated on actual history. Please be more careful with your statements, and do not let your prejudice surface so obviously. Why is this just seen in german subjects? One must take for granted that everything else is true or superior? Think about it before posting.

"..and US lagged behind most clearly throughout the war"

Not generally, I suggest : AFAIK the P-51 was the first series aircraft to use a laminar

flow wing and the "Meredith effect". Nevertheless, the XF-92, based on a design by Alexander

Lippisch failed to live up to expectations, because of aerodynamic shortcomings. That means,

at least to me, the original Lippisch design, if realised during the war, would have failed, too.

Basic aerodynamical research still had to be done at the end of 1945, good ideas already were

existent, but they had to be stated more precisely. Until then, failures were inevitable in ALL

countries, just in some more, than in others, I think.

And yes, I admit, that I'm biased in a certain way, although I really think, we all are. Perhaps it's

my personal answer to the sometimes indiscriminate way, some designs are regarded today. Here,

with the "114R", we had a honorably example in this thread, how contemporary data sheets should

be read: With at least some scepticism.

That's, what I tried to express and I would be glad, to see this on other subjects, too.

Hi Toura, Dobri Utro Borovik (don't we know each other from a french forum www.39-45.org ???)

Few details about these 2 different projects :

1) According to M.D. Evstavyev, project "R" was to be a mixed propulsion : Rocket-engine + ramjet

Please see http://epizodsspace.airbase.ru/bibl/evstafiev/evstafiev_0.htm

Chapter 4. Experimental work on ramjets and airplanes with ramjets(1930-1948),

2) According to V.B. Shavrov, you can read at http://base13.glasnet.ru/text/shavrov2/3-17.htm#r

- Project "R" was to use a dynamic ramjet effect, by burning extra gas in the exhaust of rocket engines ...

- The angle at the forward edge of R-114 is 33 gradius (former soviets were using gradius for angles); 33 gradius = 30 degrees,

3) N.V. Yakubovich gives details in his book about these projects :

- Project "R" : length 6,80 (meters) - width 5,50 (m) - Wing surface 16,2 (m²) - Taking off Weight 2,400 kg - Gas Weight 1,000 kg - Maximum speed 1,000 km/h - Climbing rate 70 m/s at sea level, 122 m/s at 10,000/12,000 meters - Flying time : 30 minutes

- Project "114-R" : length 6,80 m - width 6,35 m without "going down" wingtips - Wing surface 9,6 m² - Maximum speed : More than 2,000 km/h - Maximum Ceiling : 24,000 m from ground, 40,000 m from a mother-plane.

4) From Magazine "Техника - молодежи" 06/2000 - Odissey of the "Red's Baron", by Yu.Kaminsky :

In those days our Yaks, Lavochins, English "Spitfires", German Me and He did under the formula «a wing — a fuselage — tail rudders», piston motors provided with it of speed about 750 km/h and on the basic tactico-technical characteristics they were identical. Bartini considered, it is necessary what to work only on an advancing scheme. This idea has been put by it in the project of supersonic fighter "R" in which the power-plant should become a bearing element of a design still. It was supposed to supply the plane with a triangular wing of small lengthening and variable sweeping on the leading edge. So Bartini intended to put into practice a plan with gazo-dynamic merges of bearing and pulling properties. In parallel he has developed the project of antiaircraft interceptor Р-114 with swepts wings (30 °), four rocket engines and the speed equal of Mach 2. Unfortunately, in 1942 to construct them it was not believed possible, but Robert Liudvigovich remained one of pioneers of jet aircraft.

Yours sincerely ... Marc