The Boss Hotel is new and modern 4 stars Sarajevo hotel in the quiet eastern part of historical Sarajevo, on the left bank of Miljacka River, in the Alifakovac neighborhood from where one gets in several minutes by easy walk to tourist attractions of Bascarsija and to numerous varied services and activities awaiting visitors of Sarajevo. Alifakovac was named after the lawyer and scientist Ali-Fakih who was mentioned as witness in the founding charter of Sarajevo issued in 1462 by Isa Bey. Alifakovac is one of the earliest parts of Sarajevo recognizable by original style of architecture of houses arranged in rows along the steep cobbled streets of Sarajevo so that every house has wide panorama and not disturb the other, providing open view of the neighbors. Alifakovac has nicely appointed graveyard – mezarje with minarets where prominent personalities of Sarajevo were buried during five centuries. This graveyard is known as the Musafir graveyard after musafirs – foreign travelers who died in Sarajevo on their journeys and were buried here. In the center of the Alifakovac graveyard there are two turbets – mausoleums where were buried Muhamed Jahja-efendić and Jusuf-paša Ćuprilić. During time this settlement of Sarajevo was called Carina for the fact that its eastern end was used for customs of the goods that arrived from the East. Even today some streets of this part of Sarajevo are called Podcarina.

The Boss Hotel in Sarajevo provides comfortable accommodation in 16 air conditioned smoke-free rooms with view to the historic core of wonderful town of Sarajevo. Rooms of the Boss Hotel in Sarajevo are spacious double rooms with king size beds or twin rooms with separate beds, or connected double rooms that are suitable for families. Rooms of the Boss Hotel in Sarajevo are equipped with modern amenities for pleasant tourist or business visit to Sarajevo – wall to wall carpets, air conditioning, arm chairs, work desk, LCD TV with cable channels, mini bar, safe, free Wifi, black our curtains, coffee-tea machine. Bathrooms of the Boss Hotel come with walk-in shower, hair dryer, slippers and toiletries.

Guests who stay at the Boss Hotel in Sarajevo are served with rich and varied buffet breakfast that match every taste and needs.

Additional services and amenities of the Boss Hotel in Sarajevo – 24 hours reception, parking with video surveillance, room service, children cot – on request, designated smoking space, free wireless internet in all public spaces, information and booking of local excursions and events, ….