Khalid Boukichou leads Gravelines-Dunkerque to decisive win over Cholet in Jeep Elite (100-96). Recently, Gravelines-Dunkerques confirmed that they extended Khalid Boukichou’s contract until the end of the season. For the game against Cholet, Khalid Boukichou was in the starting five of Serge Crevecoeur. But Gravelines started the game badly (13-29 after 10). The players of…

Another big performance from Andy Van Vliet, in Lithuania. After his nice performance against this weekend against Neptnuas Klaipeda, Andy Van Vliet was once again decisive for Siauliai. Against CBet, in 26 minutes he recorded 24 points (his career-high in pro), 4 assists and 2 rebounds and 1 steal. Van Vliet was the top scorer…

Tito Casero played his first game in Spain, with CB Morón. After his signing with CB Morón, Tito Casero played his first game with his new team against Zamora. For his first game in Spain, he recorded 14 points (7/11 2 PTS), 2 rebounds, 2 assists and 1 steal in 32 minutes. Despite a nice…

Nice performance from Andy Van Vliet in Lithuania, with Siauliai. In November, Andy Van Vliet played his first minutes with the Belgian Lions thanks to his performances with Siauliai. Against Neptunas Klaipeda, he recorded 23 points (his career high in pro), 3 rebounds and 3 assists. And most importantly, a very important win for Siauliai,…

As announced last month, Maxime De Zeeuw extends his contract with Hapoel Holon. Maxime De Zeeuw signed a short-term with Holon in November to replace Richard Howell. But the Belgian Lion was really happy in Israel. His performances on the court are also very good. In Winner League, he averages 11 points, 6 rebounds and…

Big performance from Francis Torreborre in Austria, for his first game with the Dornbirn Lions. After signing a contract with the Dornbirn Lions, Francis Torreborre played his first games this Saturday with the Austrain team. And the least we can say is that Torreborre was ready to play. In 33 minutes, he recorded 27 points…

Khalid Boukichou extends his contract with Gravelines-Dunkerque, he will stay with Serge Crevecoeur‘s team until the end of the season. Boukichou signed with Gravelines-Dunkerque to replace the injured Itay Segev. But thanks to his performances and his attitude, Gravelines decided to sign him until the end of the season. With Gravelines, Boukichou averages 13 points,…

AEK Athens and Matt Lojeski beat Kolossos and Kevin Tumba in the Greek Basketball Championship (89-72). For AEK Athens, Matt Lojeski recorded 7 points, 1 rebound, 1 assist in 22 minutes. For Kolossos, Kevin Tumba recorded 6 points (2/2 shooting), 3 rebounds, 2 blocks, 1 assist and 1 steal in 23 minutes. AEK Athens started…

Nice win for Valencia Saturday against Gran Canaria, double-double for Sam Van Rossom (101-85). After a close loss in Euroleague against Baskonia (71-70), Valencia played at home this Saturday against Gran Canaria. And Valencia’s streak in Liga ACB is still alive. They easily dominated Gran Canaria (101-85). This is the 5th win in a row…

Big win for Nymburk and Retin Obasohan against Brno (92-101). Retin Obasohan is playing in Czech Republic with Nymburk. In the last EuroBasket window, he has shown, to those who are now following him, that he is currently one of the best Belgian player. After some great performances in Basketball Champions League, he had his…