Diagram of Stomach with labels gives us an understanding of the stomach’s anatomy as well as its physiology. The stomach is a hollow organ that is part of the gastrointestinal system, present in the upper left part of the abdomen. The diagram of stomach in human body shows its functions as the formation of chyme, synthesis of proteins necessary for vitamin absorption (e.g. pepsin), microbial defences, and propagation of the peristaltic reflex. The diagram of stomach class 10 is an important diagram for the board examinations, hence studying it properly becomes crucial.

The labelled diagram of stomach organ with layers is given below:

What is Stomach?

The stomach diagram shows a muscular, J-shaped hollow organ in the upper abdomen on the left side of the body. It is a part of the gastrointestinal system. The stomach produces acid and enzymes that help in the digestion of food. An adult’s stomach is usually about 12 inches long and 6 inches across when empty. There are four parts of the stomach, namely, Cardia, Body, Antrum, and Fundus.

The diagram of stomach layers shows the inner layer called the mucosa which is lined with glands that secrete digestive juices. The middle layer is called the muscularis, and it is made up of muscle fibers that churn and mix the food. The outer layer is called the serosa, and it is a thin layer of tissue that protects the stomach. The stomach is an essential organ for digestion, and it plays an important role in overall health.

Parts of Stomach

The stomach diagram shows the various parts of the stomach. These are:

Cardia is the top and first part of the stomach, which is connected to the esophagus and it contains the cardiac sphincter, which prevents food from traveling back up your esophagus. .

Fundus is a rounded section next to the cardia (on the left side), below to the diaphragm.

Body (corpus) is the largest and main section of the stomach. Here, the stomach contracts, and thus mixing of food occurs.

Antrum lies below the body. It holds the food, until the food becomes ready to send to the small intestine.

Pylorus is the bottom part of the stomach. It has the pyloric sphincter.

The opening of the stomach is guarded by Cardiac Sphincter while the Pyloric Sphincter marks the end of the Stomach. Both Sphincters are circular muscles that open and close passages in the body to regulate the flow of food.

Also Read: Difference Between Small Intestine And Large Intestine

Functions of Stomach in Digestive System

Following are the functions of stomach:

The major function of the stomach is to store and digest the food and liquids we intake.

It produces hydrochloric acid which helps in digesting food and killing foreign substances like bacteria.

The stomach helps in absorption of minerals like phosphate, calcium, and iron.

The stomach muscles contract at regular intervals to churn the food ingested and makes the digestion process for other parts easier.

Stomach releases enzymes like pepsin (secreted by chief cells as an inactive zymogen called pepsinogen, which is converted into pepsin by the action of HCl), gastric amylase, and gastric lipase, which helps in the absorption of proteins, simple sugars, and lipids (lipid digestions starts from here).

Conclusion – Diagram of Stomach

In short, the diagram of stomach and parts shows the position of the different parts of the stomach, namely, Cardiac, Fundus, Body, and Pylorus, which helps in understanding the stomach in much detail. Also, it helps us in understanding the shape of the stomach, which is J shaped, and how it is connected with the other major organs of the digestive tract. This helps the study of anatomy and physiology of stomach in much detail.

Also Read:

Stomach

Diagram of Digestive System

Overview of Digestive System

What is the Role of Acid in our Stomach?

Human Digestive System

FAQs on Diagram of Stomach

What is Stomach?

A stomach is a part of digestive systems which secretes acids and enzymes and helps in the digestion of the food materials. It is a bag-like muscular organ found on the upper abdomen on the left side of the body.

What is the Shape of Stomach?

The Stomach is J-shaped muscular hollow organ.

Where can I Find Diagram of Stomach?

You can find the diagram of Stomach in the top of this article.

What does the Diagram of Stomach Class 10 Depicts?

The diagram of stomach depicts the different parts of the stomach and helps in studying the stomach more concisely.

Which Acid is Secreted by Stomach and What’s it Function?

Stomach secrete Hydrochloric acid (HCl) from gastric parietal cells. The HCl functions are – Digestion of food, Mineral Absorption(mainly phosphate, calcium, and iron), Activates several enzymes, and Kills Bacteria.

What is the Function of Pylorus?

Pylorus send the food into the duodenum and it is guarded by the pyloric sphincter which prevents the backflow of the food.

What are the 4 Main Functions of the Stomach?

The four main functions of the stomach include storing food, mixing it with digestive juices, breaking down proteins, and regulating the release of chyme into the small intestine.

What are the Parts of Stomach?

The stomach consists of four main parts: the cardia, fundus, body, and pylorus.