I’m forwarding a small sampling of the media praise for The Small Square’s second collection, Ours & Others, which is arriving on Farm to Label Records as a CD, digital download and via streaming services. The duo of multi-instrumentalist and vocalist Paul Chastain and drummer, percussionist, and vocalist John Louis Richardson recorded Ours & Others at Richardson’s Drum Farm Studio, returning to the same studio space in a modified 18th century granary located on 80 acres in which they created their first offering. The Small Square re-released their 2015 debut album digitally on Farm To Label Summer 2023. I hope you’ll consider covering this duo with an interview, feature, news story or album review. ———————————

The Small Square is an indie rock group of expatriates living in Osaka, Japan. Paul Chastain (Velvet Crush, Matthew Sweet) and John L. Richardson (Tommy Keene, Gin Blossoms, Joey Molland/Badfinger) had a fine debut this past summer that we reviewed. But now the duo has raised the bar exponentially for Ours & Others. Great guitarist John Moremen (Matthew Sweet, Orange Peels) joins Chastain and Richardson as they dominate each song here.

“Twenty Third” feels like Mike Viola meets Sloan, with its hypnotic chorus of “faded out, faded out, fade down.” While the influences from the last album remain, the songwriting stands out a lot more. “The Hourglass” is a fantastic combination of different lead and rhythm guitars; it’s a real joy to listen to. “Open Up” features a cameo from Shoes’ Jeff and John Murphy, and it’s another big highlight. “Insta” shimmers with each strum as it sticks fast in your head. Several of the songs draw on Chastain’s own experiences; for example, the humble rocker “N. Main Blues” is based on his early days in Velvet Crush when they “were losers,” and “Baby Face” is a tribute to the late power pop legend Tommy Keene. Each song hits the mark. It’s not just highly recommended, but it’s worthy of a spot in my 2023 top ten list.

Aaron Kupferberg/Powerpopaholic.com 12/6

Anybody else suffering from an unfulfilled power pop craving – as if the passing of Dwight Twilley wasn’t debilitating enough? A powerful elixir is at-hand. Blending together the prodigious talents and collective firepower of long-time friends and bandmates, Paul Chastain and John Richardson, Ours & Others is just what the doctor ordered. Aptly named, this release greatly benefits from true collaboration with like-minded players, painstakingly created over the past 8 years – since their debut – and formulated across two continents.

The masterful Paul Chastain (Velvet Crush, Matthew Sweet, Tommy Keene) brings guitar, piano, bass, synth and patented vocals to the party while the equally accomplished John Richardson (Tommy Keene, Jay Bennett, Gin Blossoms, Shoes) provides drums, piano and all manner of percussion.

Consider the beefy guest list across these eleven tracks, which includes: R. Walt Vincent (Pete Yorn, Liz Phair), Jeff & John Murphy (Shoes) J, Caleb Means (New Ruins), Cory Wong (Vulpeck, Power Station, Jon Batiste), Adam Ollendorff (Will Hoge, Keb’ Mo’), Ryan Liestman (Demi Lovato), Kevin Gastonguay (Ariel Posen), John Moremen (Matthew Sweet, Orange Peels), Gary Klebe (Shoes), Jeffrey Underhill (Tommy Keene, Velvet Crush), Adam Beard (Will Hoge, Ruthie Collins) and Adam Fabrini.

As expected, what results from this musical Think Tank of talent is a sumptuous blend of influences with its starting point in the undeniable pop craft of the Beatles, Byrds and Beach Boys – extrapolating well beyond, informed by a more current amalgam of their respective musical pathways. Ours & Others positively explodes with the wide-reaching benefits of like-minded players guided by the skilful hands of these two power pop pioneers.

The tape effects/lazy piano intro to “Twenty-Third” which sets up a mournful vocal is quickly transformed by Richardson’s fat drum sound and a wall of vocal harmonies which take hold as Moremen’s guitar generates a key focal point, Richardson’s piano picking up the pace. Quirky sound effects – used throughout – and Chastain’s expressively-doleful vocal inject a melancholic spark as this too-short song closes with a final, resounding piano chord.

The comparably high-spirited “The Hourglass” kicks things up a notch, propelled by Richardson’s well-pummeled percussion as Chastain adds crunchy guitar to acoustic strumming, piano and bass, together with a stand-out vocal. Again, ending on a final, heavily-reverbed piano chord.

“Found Object” features Chastain’s haunted vocal, riding atop a firm, piano-driven shape. Upbeat percussion joins with Liestman’s prominent synth effects, which work together as Cory Wong and Chastain’s guitars merge to lift this 4-minute gem aloft. Gastonguay’s prominent piano work cements itself into your brain almost immediately as the harmonized outro beguiles.

“Open Up (Closer)” ramps the power-pop energy up a large notch as Gary Klebe’s tough guitar and vocal assist join that of his fellow Shoes who – in union with Chastain and Richardson – present one of the album’s true highlights.

“Tilt” distinguishes itself immediately with its Rickenbacker jangle as guest Adam Ollendorff’s 12-string helps set up Chastain’s McGuinn-like vocal to take this song over the top and into a wonderful space. Chastain’s falsetto contribution, alone, could bring a loving smile to Brian Wilson’s face. Best song on the record.

Dedicated to the late, great, far-too-unsung Tommy Keene, “Can’t Let Go (Oh, Tommy)” similarly scores with its ringing guitars and lush harmonies while slightly other-worldly keyboard effects and the fat, warm bass of the song’s author, R. Walt Vincent, help unearth the obvious emotion packed into the song’s heartfelt chorus.

Underhill’s quirky, distorted guitar intro to “Insta” ignites another power pop powerhouse tour de force with its upbeat 12-string guitar and buoyant, simpatico harmonies which refuse to quit as Richardson’s perma-beat and Chastain’s synth effects join Jeffrey Underhill’s deep-cutting guitar to create a newfound classic.

“Days In” is – comparably – a soft, soothing composition mirroring 12-string guitar to synth effects as Chastain offers a breathy vocal coupled with effects-laden lead guitar. This magical little song moves past its sleepy, conga-like accompaniment to eventually explode with a full-fledged band fade-out in its last 30 seconds.

Pounding drums and the disarming effects of a Wurlitzer keyboard and synth meet a pulsing bass on “N. Main Blues” – a Chastain/Richardson arrangement which could stand more of the colour hinted at by Chastain’s guitar.

Closing with the equally gentle “Baby Face” – a redistilling of the Tommy Keene original (‘84) – gets off to a somewhat awkward, slow start until Chastain rejuvenates it with one of his strongest vocals on the record – a true demonstration of his eye-opening vocal range. Odd instrumentation aside, the hook is reinforced, remaining undeniable.

Subtle power, disarming hooks, compulsory guitar jangle, warm reverb, confident vocals and honeyed harmonies – all delivered with conviction and the passionate intensity which is the calling card of good, muscular power pop, The Small Square’s second release helps elevate the bar of this much-beloved genre. Ours & Others is a treasure. Art from the heart, indeed.

Eric Thom/AmericanaHighways.com 12/4

In practice, supergroups tend either to showcase something greater than the sum of their parts, or (more often) they’re uninspired, failing to capture the qualities that brought fame to each of its members. While they rarely live up to the promise and/or hype that surrounds them, every now and then there’s an exception. The Salt Collective is one such example. Another is The Small Square. I don’t know that this outfit is in fact billing itself as a supergroup (or of its publicists are doing so), but I knw one when I see and hear it.

Paul Chastain is best known as a member of Velvet Crush. John Louis Richardson may be less of a household name, but the drummer’s pedigree is impressive, including work with Gin Blossoms, Tommy Keene, Shoes and many others. For this collection of ten songs – nine originals and a reading of one by the late Keene – The Small Square displays its musical brilliance. Ours & Others may remind some of a cross between early Tom Petty and late (Third-era) Big Star. Hints of Jonathan Wilson pop up here and there as well. The melancholy that informed Pete Ham’s songs for Badfinger is present here, too, and the lovely midtempo melodies wrapped around those lyrics shows the entire package to great effect.

A number of super-talented friends stop by to kelp, and it’s form there that the super part comes. John Moremen (The Paul & John), Jeff and John Murphy (Shoes) and others add subtle touches to the songs. Lovely stuff, and recommended.

Bill Kopp/Musoscribe.com 12/21

Chastain is the songwriter and co-founder of Rock group Velvet Crush and has worked both live and in the studio with Matthew Sweet, Mitch Easter, Roger McGuinn, Susanna Hoffs, Tommy Keene, and more. Velvet Crush’s Teenage Symphonies album was re-issued Spring 2023, it’s first release on 12” LP vinyl in the U.S., marking its 30th anniversary. Richardson has recorded and performed with the likes of Joey Molland (Badfinger), Gin Blossoms, Jay Bennett (Wilco), Tommy Keene, and many others.

Chastain and Richardson have a long association and their collaboration pre-dates The Small Square Small, where recording at Richardson’s Drum Farm Studio sees Chastain traveling from his home in Japan to work with contributing musicians for a week or more at a time, and then continuing to hone and expand tracks from his home studio.

Musical differences between Chastain and Richardson are also a source of productivity as each might suggest new directions for material that either has generated. Chastain and Richardson share producing duties, with production playing a major role in the songwriting process and in finalizing songs.

Key collaborators on the album include Adam Ollendorff (lap steel, 12 string guitar) and R. Walt Vincent (bass, keyboard, engineering), while many more, like the band Shoes, also added their personal touch to the individual songs on Ours & Others.

Chastain often works on possible lyrics for quite some time, and is comfortable with this ongoing process which leaves some unfinished. The key element for him continues to be a particular phrase that captures a feeling, and he often assigns a phrase to a song fragment to act as a kind of signpost for future development.

The song “Insta” from the new album was an example of close collaboration where Chastain’s original version was inspired by a Small Faces vibe, but Richardson suggested a new direction in-person and they developed a new version in an immediate way whereas “Days Inn” had a very intricate genesis as Richardson explored an idea based on a cigar-box guitar sound using open tuning and was joined by Cory Wong to nail down the sound. Chastain then received the material and set to work.

While Chastain prefers to leave his lyrics open to interpretation, “N. Main Blues” and its lyrics were inspired by his time in Providence, Rhode Island during the foundational period for Velvet Crush, including small lyrical details in an “otherwise straightforward Rock song” that suggest truth can be stranger than fiction.

A major through-line for the album Ours & Others was shaped by life-events due to the passing of longtime mutual friend and bandmate Tommy Keene. As an inspirational figure who opened for The Matthew Sweet band, toured with Velvet Crush, and played in Richardson’s band, the impact of his loss was significant. This led to the inclusion of Keene’s song “Baby Face” on the album, as well as aiding in the completion of the track “Can’t Let Go (Oh Tommy)”.

https://www.instagram.com/smallish.square/

https://www.facebook.com/TheSmallSquare

https://www.youtube.com/@TheSmallSquareGroup

https://www.smallsquaremusic.com/