This is someone who only had one hit in the UK, which I wasn’t hugely excited by, but then I discovered one of her other songs, that I really did like but wasn’t a hit, so I’ve decided to go on about that one as well. Jane Child was born to two classical musician/composers in Toronto and from the age of four was classically trained on the piano and violin, winning several scholarships and competitions (I have quoted that verbatim from a The ITV Chart Show fact box, but who will ever know? Oh no…).

Jane Child is indeed a Canadian singer/songwriter. She was also notable for her distinctive look. She had knee-length (perhaps even ankle-length) blonde braids, with a spiky bit on top, plus a nose chain and several rings. She reminded me of the mighty Sooz from As If a little. She was also keen to keep a very strong hold on her music, and came across as a rather intimidating character who didn’t take any bulltwaddle from anybody.

She wrote her songs, and was often busy at her big bank of keyboards featuring one of those computers with green text on it, composing her next piece. She simply wouldn’t be pigeonholed, partly because she wasn’t a pigeon. After over a dozen record labels took part in a big scramble to sign her, in May 1990 “Don’t Wanna Fall In Love” was released, which reached no. 22 in the UK, her only hit in this country.

This also did well around the world, making the chart in New Zealand, Canada, Ireland, and Australia, and reaching no. 2 in America for three weeks. Around this time, it was reported when given the chance to boost her profile she refused to perform “Don’t Wanna Fall In Love” on Top Of The Pops because that would be classed as selling out. Yeah! Fight the power! Smash the system!

Her only other song to have success was bubbling under… on the Australian chart that is, where in March 1990 “Welcome To The Real World” reached no. 123. Now I really did like this one, partly because this sounds like it had dropped through a timewarp, being more 1986 than 1990, and there was also a weird robot voice. One critic said “a splashy debut with this yummy slice of dance-oriented rock that conjures up images of a more mainstream Sinead O’Connor”. Another said “don’t try to categorize this amazing all-around talent. Utilizing all the tools at her command, Jane is bound to hold everyone’s attention, brilliantly fusing Rock ‘n’ Soul.”

And this is almost certainly the only pop song to contain the lyrics “it’s raining/it’s pouring/the old man is snoring“. There were also two videos made for this, after the first one was rejected by MTV. “Welcome To The Real World” also reached no. 49 in America (at the second attempt I think), but didn’t get near the Top 100 in the UK. This was awesome though, why couldn’t this have been a hit too?

Her debut album “Jane Child” didn’t chart either. After this, Jane released two further albums, “Here Not There” in 1993 and “Surge” in 2001, but these weren’t successful, and very little is known about her work in more recent years. Apparently in 2006 she dropped off the face of the earth, which must’ve been painful. I wonder where her keyboards are now.