“I, too, was outside Paradise”: The story of Michael Caine’s stage name

Before Michael Caine became Michael Caine, before he became a national treasure, before he starred in classics like The Italian Job and a number of Christopher Nolan pictures, before he became a constant presence on our screens with his Cockney tones and familiar face, he was more commonly known as Maurice Micklewhite.

The decision to take on a stage name when pursuing a career in the arts is not an uncommon one. From Vin Diesel to Bruno Mars, countless actors and musicians have changed their names to protect their privacy or simply to inject a little more star quality into their persona. While Maurice Micklewhite contains its own alliterative charm, Michael Caine would be the name that became attached to his success. But where did it come from?

When Caine pivoted from a stint in the army to a career in acting, he started seeking the perfect stage name. Inspiration struck while he was in central London in the mid-1950s, perched on a bench in the famed Leicester Square. The area is well-known as a hub for premieres and cinemas, so it was a fitting setting for inspiration to strike as Caine embarked upon his journey to stardom.

“I looked around at all the cinemas,” Caine recalled in his autobiography, The Elephant to Hollywood, “at all the stars up there with their names in lights, and tried to imagine myself alongside them.” He had already landed on Michael, but he was seeking out the perfect surname. Then he just so happened to stumble upon it amidst the film listings.

As his eyes scoured the cinemas around him, scanning the names in lights that he hoped to join, they lingered on Edward Dmytryk’s The Caine Mutiny. The film starred the budding actor’s “hero” Humphrey Bogart, so the choice seemed like a no-brainer.

Between the influence of Bogart, the short and simple nature of the name and the “mutinous” feeling Caine had at the time, it became his stage name. “Like Cain in the Old Testament, I, too, was outside Paradise,” the actor dramatised, “Michael Caine it would be.”

Though the name he came up with is a relatively simple one, not particularly rooted in stardom or celebrity, it has rolled off the tongues of cinemagoers and critics for over half a century now. It’s claimed Academy Awards and BAFTAs, it’s attached to a mammoth filmography of beloved pictures taking in millions, and it’s even garnered a knighthood.

Caine certainly achieved his goal of seeing that name in lights, of penetrating paradise, of walking the red carpet at those Leicester Square premieres rather than daydreaming from afar. Though he almost certainly would have achieved the same success as Maurice Micklewhite, continually proving his acting capability across genres and decades, the name Michael Caine is certainly a little more punchy.

Now, the moniker instantly wins audiences over when it’s featured in trailers or on the side of a bus, affording a film with credibility and a familiar face. It’s one of the most well-known and well-respected names in the business, while many wouldn’t even recognise the name Maurice Micklewhite.

Watch a clip from The Caine Mutiny, the film that inspired Michael Caine’s stage name, below.