Alexander Nuno Alvaro (born 26 May 1975) is a German politician and was a Member of the European Parliament (MEP) with the Free Democratic Party of Germany, which is part of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe. During his first mandate he worked in the European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs; he was a substitute for the Committee on Legal Affairs, a member of the delegation for relations with the Palestinian Legislative Council and a substitute for the delegation for relations with Australia and New Zealand. During his second mandate, he became Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, member of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, of the Special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable European Union after 2013, and of the Delegation for relations with Iran and Spokesman of the ALDE group for Home Affairs. Alvaro was also involved in many European dossiers and campaigns, initiating the Oneseat campaign (Oneseat.eu) with Swedish Minister for European affairs and ex-MEP Cecilia Malmstrom, dealing with the American Government on the Swift International EU-US Treaty, and defending civil liberties on legislative projects such as ACTA. On 22 February 2013, Alvaro was involved in a car crash in which the vehicle Alvaro was driving struck another car. Alvaro was badly injured and the driver in the other vehicle was killed though it is not known if he had already died before due to an accident which happened before. Two more passengers in the other car were badly injured. Alvaro spent time in a coma, was hospitalised for several months and returned to Parliament in September. He was founder and board member of EU40 www.eu40.eu, the associations of MEPs and EU officials under the age of 40, aiming at enhancing trans-partisan generation-based EU policies.

Arthur Seyss-Inquart (German: Seyß-Inquart ; 22 July 1892 – 16 October 1946) was an Austrian Nazi politician who served as Chancellor of Austria in 1938, before the annexation of Austria by Nazi Germany (the Anschluss). During World War I, Seyss-Inquart fought for the Austro-Hungarian Army with distinction. After the war he became a successful lawyer, and went on to join the governments of Chancellors Engelbert Dollfuss and Kurt Schuschnigg. In 1938, Schuschnigg resigned in the face of a German invasion, and Seyss-Inquart was appointed his successor. The newly installed Nazis proceeded to transfer power to Germany, and Austria subsequently became the German province of Ostmark, with Seyss-Inquart as its governor (Reichsstatthalter). Following the fall of the Low Countries in World War II, Seyss-Inquart was appointed Reichskommissar of the occupied Netherlands. He instituted a reign of terror, with Dutch civilians subjected to forced labour and the vast majority of Dutch Jews deported and murdered. At the Nuremberg trials, Seyss-Inquart was found guilty of war crimes and crimes against humanity, sentenced to death, and executed.