The Bavarian Minister-President appoints the members of the State Government subject to the approval of the Landtag (Bavarian State Parliament), heads the State Government and represents Bavaria externally. He also performs numerous representative duties.

Dr. Markus Söder, MdL, was first sworn in as Bavarian Minister-President on 16 March 2018 and again on 6 November 2018. On 31 October 2023, Dr. Markus Söder, MdL, was re-elected and sworn in as Bavarian Minister President.

As head of government, the Minister-President presides over the Bavarian State Government. He shall determine the policy guidelines and shall be accountable for them to the Landtag (Bavarian State Parliament). His guidelines shall be binding on all members of the State Government. He shall moreover strive to ensure a consistent administration of proceedings in all departments and resolve conflicts of competence between ministers of state in line with the allocation of responsibilities established by the Bavarian State Government. In addition, he shall be responsible for reviewing the laws adopted by the Landtag for conformity with the constitution, and for their drafting and publication. He may conclude state treaties, subject to the prior consent of the Landtag.

As Head of State and first representative of the State of Bavaria he represents Bavaria externally, especially to the Federal Government, the other federal states and international partners.

The Minister-President’s official seat of office is the Bavarian State Chancellery next to Munich’s Hofgarten. This is where cabinet meetings are held on a regular basis.

The Minister-President is elected by the Bavarian Landtag for a five-year term. Any citizen who is entitled to vote in the Bavarian parliamentary elections and has attained the age of 40 is eligible for election.

In Bavaria, the office of Minister-President was established by the Constitution of 14 August 1919 and renewed by the Constitution of 2 December 1946. The introduction of the office of premier had already been considered as early as the time of Elector Max Emanuel (1662-1726).

Since the end of the Nazi regime and the reintroduction of democracy in Bavaria in 1945, eleven men have held the office of Minister-President and governed the Free State of Bavaria:

Fritz Schäffer,

Dr. Wilhelm Hoegner,

Dr. Hanns Seidel,

Dr. Hans Ehard,

Dr. h. c. Alfons Goppel,

Dr. h. c. Franz Josef Strauß,

Dr. h. c. Max Streibl,

Dr. Edmund Stoiber,

Dr. Günther Beckstein,

Horst Seehofer.

The current Minister-President is Dr. Markus Söder, MdL.