Ironman brand owner World Triathlon Corporation (WTC) has announced that a US age group triathlete has been found to have committed a doping violation and has received a one-year period of ineligibility. WTC confirmed that an independent three member American Arbitration Association (AAA) panel issued its decision that American age grouper Kevin Moats committed a doping violation.

Moats has received a one-year period of ineligibility for the offence, effective 30 January 2012, and has been provisionally suspended from WTC competition since notice of the adverse finding.

Moats, of Atlanta, Georgia, was tested out-of-competition, as part of the WTC Anti-Doping Program, on 30 January 2012. The Adverse Analytical Finding ‘resulted from the administration of testosterone consistent the World Anti Doping Agency’s Prohibited List and by the World Triathlon Corporation Anti-Doping Rules (WTC Rules).’

Keep it clean

The timing of WTC’s release is pertinent, as the Lance Armstrong affair continues to send shock waves through cycling and professional sport in general. The doping violation by an amateur, age group triathlete is equally shocking, but may not be a surprise to many tri fans.

The kudos attached to age group racing has built up in tandem with the interest in triathlon at a pro level. The challenge is to keep triathlon clean at all levels. By taking a name and shame policy, WTC has put down a strong marker. This move will be applauded by all: race directors, sponsors, other stakeholders and the wider triathlete community. It will hopefully discourage others who may seek to win at all costs.

“This ruling makes it clear that all Age Group Athletes are accountable to the WTC Rules and the TUE [Therapeutic Use Exemption] requirements of their National Triathlon Federations (NF) and National Anti-Doping Organizations (NADO),” said Kate Mittelstadt, Director of Anti-Doping for WTC.

“WTC has and will continue to work with all Anti-Doping Organizations to urge athletes to take seriously their responsibilities and obligations in anti-doping. We implore all athletes to check with their NF’s and NADO’s to determine if a TUE is necessary.

“WTC has been a signatory to the World Anti-Doping Code (the Code) since 2005 and has had World Anti-Doping Agency recognized Code compliant rules since 2009,” continued Mittelstadt.

“We take note of the panel’s recommendations regarding clarity and consistency of our rules and will work with all our stakeholders and WADA to make any necessary changes to further ensure the effectiveness of the WTC Anti-Doping Program in protecting the principles of clean sport for our athletes and events.”

www.ironman.com