Highlights

The program provides completely free medical and mental health services for life.

Eligibility is open to responders, firefighters, police, recovery workers, volunteers, and survivors who lived, worked, went to school, attended day care, or were present in the dust cloud in the 9/11 exposure zone.

Those eligible for healthcare through the WTCHP can receive care nationwide.

Barasch & McGarry guides clients through the WTCHP process and helps clients provide proof of presence in the 9/11 exposure zone.

Medical Monitoring and Treatment for 9/11 Victims

On January 2, 2011, President Obama signed the James L. Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2011. Title I of the Act created the World Trade Center Health Program (WTCHP), operated by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). The Program provides free medical monitoring and treatment to eligible responders to the September 11th terrorist attacks at the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and the crash site in Shanksville, PA, as well as people who were present in the New York City disaster area or in the aftermath of the September 11th attacks. Title II reopened the Victim Compensation Fund (VCF) to pay cash benefits to persons afflicted with illnesses related to the 9/11 attacks.

Determining Eligibility for the WTC Health Program

The WTC Health Program serves responders to the three attack sites and survivors of the New York attack. Eligible parties include:

NYC survivors who lived, worked, went to school, or attended day care in the NYC disaster area.

Survivors who were present in the dust or dust cloud in the NYC disaster area on September 11, 2001.

Active or retired firefighters and police officers.

Emergency health workers.

Recovery workers.

Cleanup contractors.

Volunteers who assisted in rescue, recovery, or clean-up efforts.

The Zadroga Act established that anyone who shows they were present at the crash sites during the specified period, or who suffered physical harm due to the crashes or debris removal, additionally has eligibility to make a claim for compensation through the VCF. In October of 2012, the WTC Health Program began providing medical monitoring and treatment benefits to survivors living outside the NYC metropolitan area.

Treatment Under the WTC Health Program

The World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program provides medical monitoring, testing, treatment, and prescription drugs for a range of certified conditions including:

69 different types of cancer

Respiratory diseases like asthma and chronic cough

Digestive disorders, such as acid reflux

Mental health conditions like post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)

Eligible responders, workers, volunteers, and survivors can apply for the program and be seen at clinics and hospitals nationwide that have a high level of skill in treating 9/11 problems and diseases. The Program is free of charge for those enrolled, as long as approved healthcare providers and pharmacies are used. The Program also pays for inpatient care, as long as the hospitalization is for treatment of a WTC-related condition.

Compensation for WTC-Linked Cancers & Illnesses

If you have been diagnosed with any of the 69 cancers or multitude of other illnesses that doctors at the WTC Health Program have linked to the WTC toxic dust, you may be eligible for tax-free cash compensation through the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund (VCF). Many people have tried to complete the VCF application on their own, only to learn that it requires answers to hundreds of questions and many documents to provide. Barasch & McGarry is the leading law firm dedicated to helping 9/11 victims navigate the VCF claim process in order to get them maximum compensation.

Actual Client VCF Awards

View More Results

$3,700,651for a disabled NYC police officer due to leukemia

$3,254,242for wrongful death of a firefighter due to 9/11-related asthma/RADS

$2,811,150for a disabled stock broker due to multiple myeloma

$1,934,316for a disabled teacher due to esophageal cancer

$1,422,694for wrongful death of a downtown office worker due to pulmonary fibrosis

$1,251,411for wrongful death of a paralegal working in a downtown law firm due to breast cancer

$1,345,427for a NYC Police Officer with breast cancer

$1,188,741for a disabled EMT with colon cancer

$1,011,957for the wrongful death of a sound engineer due to bladder cancer

Deadline Extended to Register a Victim Compensation Fund Claim

The deadline to apply to the Victim Compensation Fund (VCF) is 2 years from the date that a cancer or illness has been certified by the WTC Health Program—or any other governmental agency. The 2 year period to register doesn’t start on the day of a cancer or illness diagnosis. Rather, it starts only when a victim is made aware their cancer or illness was linked to exposure to the WTC toxins.

VCF deadlines are approaching. This window of time to apply for VCF compensation applies to sick and injured victims, as well as families who have lost loved ones to WTC-linked cancers and illnesses. It’s important to act fast to make sure you receive fair and full compensation for your illness or injuries.

Register Now

We can help you get registered for free health care through the WTCHP and determine your eligibility for compensation from the 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund. Call us at 212-385-8000 or contact us online today.