Distech Controls

An Innovative Leader in Energy Management Solutions, Distech Controls provides unique building management technologies and services that optimize energy efficiency and comfort in buildings, all the while reducing operating costs. We deliver innovative solutions for greener buildings through our passion for innovation, quality, customer satisfaction, and sustainability.

Siemens TALON

For effective facility management, the TALON® Workstation provides powerful building management functions, such as scheduling, alarming, trending, historical data collection and advanced energy management applications. You can remotely monitor your facilities, maintain consistent occupant comfort, take action to help manage energy consumption and costs, or do whatever is necessary for smooth and efficient building operations - from anywhere around the world.

Honeywell

Honeywell invents and manufactures technologies to address some of the world’s toughest challenges initiated by revolutionary macrotrends in science, technology and society. A Fortune 100 company, we create solutions to improve the quality of life of people around the globe: generating clean, healthy energy – and using it more efficiently. Increasing our safety and security. Enabling people around the world to connect, communicate, and collaborate. And equipping our customers to be even more productive. With more than 127,000 employees worldwide, including more than 22,000 engineers and scientists, we have an unrelenting commitment to quality and delivering results in everything we make and do.

Trend Controls

The Trend Integrated Open Supervisor (TIOS) is the new building energy management system front-end supervisor available from Trend. The TIOS is a flexible network server used in applications where multiple NiagaraAX®-based controllers are networked together, including the Trend Open Network Node (TONN) and the Trend TL1.

Novar

Novar, a Honeywell company, is the global leader in multi-site energy management. More than 30 years ago, Novar invented the technology to control and manage HVAC and lighting systems for businesses with multiple locations, and has been the innovation leader ever since.

WattStopper

WattStopper provides energy-efficient, convenient, and accessible controls for the built environment, including a whole suite of occupancy sensors and additional solutions using other control technologies, such as the industry-first Isole plug load control power strip and personal sensor, the first dual loop photosensor, and a Digital Lighting Management line of products.