LONDON (NYTIMES) - Stephen Hawking, the Cambridge University physicist and best-selling author who roamed the cosmos from a wheelchair, pondering the nature of gravity and the origin of the universe and becoming an emblem of human determination and curiosity, has died early Wednesday (March 14) at his home in Cambridge, England. He was 76.

His death was confirmed by a spokesman for Cambridge University.

"Not since Albert Einstein has a scientist so captured the public imagination and endeared himself to tens of millions of people around the world," Michio Kaku, a professor of theoretical physics at the City University of New York, said in an interview.

Dr Hawking did that largely through his book A Brief History Of Time: From The Big Bang To Black Holes, published in 1988.

It has sold more than 10 million copies and inspired a documentary film by Errol Morris. The 2014 film about his life, The Theory Of Everything, was nominated for several Academy Awards and Eddie Redmayne, who played Dr Hawking, won the best-actor Oscar.

Scientifically, Dr Hawking will be best remembered for a discovery so strange that it might be expressed in the form of a Zen koan: When is a black hole not black? When it explodes.

What is equally amazing is that he had a career at all. As a graduate student in 1963, he learned he had amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a neuromuscular wasting disease also known as Lou Gehrig's disease. He was given only a few years to live.

Nobody, including Dr Hawking, believed it at first - that particles could be coming out of a black hole. "I wasn't looking for them at all," he recalled in an interview in 1978. "I merely tripped over them. I was rather annoyed."

That calculation, in a thesis published in 1974 in the journal Nature under the title Black Hole Explosions?, is hailed by scientists today as the first great landmark in the struggle to find a single theory of nature - to connect gravity and quantum mechanics, those warring descriptions of the large and the small, to explain a universe that seems stranger than anybody had thought.

Dennis W. Sciama, a cosmologist and Dr. Hawking's thesis adviser at Cambridge, called Hawking's Nature paper "the most beautiful paper in the history of physics."

Edward Witten, a theorist at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, said: "Trying to understand Hawking's discovery better has been a source of much fresh thinking for almost 40 years now, and we are probably still far from fully coming to grips with it. It still feels new."

In 2002, Dr Hawking said that he wanted the formula for Hawking radiation to be engraved on his tombstone.

He was a man who pushed the limits - in his intellectual life, to be sure, but also in his professional and personal lives.