Dom Mintoff dominated the politics of the small, but strategically important, Mediterranean island of Malta for more than two decades from the 1960s, twice being prime minister.

Born Dominic Mintoff in 1916, he was the son of a Maltese chief cook in the Royal Navy. He studied engineering and architecture at the University of Malta before going on a Rhodes scholarship to Oxford University.

He remained in England during part of World War II as a civilian garrison engineer employed by the War Office. On his return to Malta, he joined the Labour Party, became its leader in 1949 and led it to victory in 1955, when at 38 he became the youngest prime minister in the Commonwealth.

He advocated a programme of integration with the United Kingdom and his proposals were supported by a round-table conference of British and Maltese representatives and by a referendum. But the negotiations foundered and Mintoff resigned in 1958.

For most of the 1960s, he was leader of the opposition and it was during this period that Malta was granted a new constitution and then its independence from Britain.

Within a few days of taking office, he had dismissed the governor-general, and expelled from Malta the commander-in-chief of the Nato naval forces in Southern Europe.

He went on to demand a drastic revision of Malta's defence agreement with Britain, which provided for Malta to receive £5m a year in loans and grants, in return for the stationing of British forces on the island, and use of the dockyards.

Mintoff declared that Britain would have to pay a much larger rent for military facilities. The British government reacted coolly and after fruitless negotiations - in which Nato as well as British representatives had taken part - Mr Mintoff called for the withdrawal of all British forces from the island.

Orders were given for a phased withdrawal, and the movement was almost complete when, towards the end of March 1972, Mintoff finally reached an accord.

The new seven-year defence agreement was greatly to his advantage; under it, Malta got £14m a year from Nato, of which £5m was provided by Britain, with additional money for development and economic projects.

Malta became a republic within the Commonwealth at the end of 1974. A general election in September 1976 confirmed Mr Mintoff in office for another five years, with an unchanged parliamentary majority of three seats.

The election brought a considerable increase in political violence. During and after the campaign, many clubs run by the main opposition party, Borg Olivier's Nationalists, were attacked and wrecked by faceless men who seemed to be above the law.