NBA superstar for the Oklahoma City Thunder, Steven Adams, is coming to Hawke’s Bay to run a training camp.

Adams, will be hosted by the Paora Winitana & Paul Henare Basketball Academy and will run camps for 8-12 years olds and another for 13-17 year olds at the Pettigrew.Green Arena on Tuesday August 20.

Paora Winitana, a New Zealand Tall Black Olympian, played against Adams when he was a teenage sensation playing for the Wellington Saints.

Winitana said the opportunity to host Steven is a huge boost for all of Hawke’s Bay, and it wouldn’t have happened without the support of our local long term sponsors the Jarrod Cunningham Youth Sport Trust and support by the Hastings District Council.

“We’ve always wanted to bring him here, and have been discussing how and when with his whanau and team over the years. He’s proved that no matter how hard life gets, you can overcome anything and make it to the very top, so Steven’s MANA is a true inspiration both in New Zealand and globally.”

”I only played against Steve once when I was playing for the Hawks and he was about 16 or 17. He blocked one of my shots at the hoop, I challenged the refs that it was a goal but they didn’t agree with me. I think they were in awe of how high he jumped but Steve knew it and he apologised and it was then that I knew not only was he a gifted athlete, but a talented and also humble young man,” Winitana said.

Jarrod Cunningham Youth Sport Trust chair Damon Harvey said the chance for local 8-17 years olds to get up close to a star basketball player that they have only ever seen on TV, will be incredibly inspirational.

“Jarrod’s Trust has been a supporter of the basketball academy it started in 2011. We jumped on board because of the values that the academy lives by and how it creates community leaders.

“Steve Adams has proved that hard work and strong values can take you to the top of your chosen profession and these youngsters will also be inspired to achieve by his visit.

Adams has been heavily involved with running training camps during his basketball career and hosted the televised high school invitational games during the National Basketball League playoffs.

This year camps, which are sponsored by Meadowfresh, have also been held in Invercargill and Whangarei.

A limited number of tickets are available and an announcement will be made on Monday August 12 on how to get a chance to attend the camps.