Hi there, welcome to the forum!

​

Overview

The Delhi Metro covers the city of Delhi, along with the outskirts of the city like Faridabad, Gurgaon, Noida and of course, Ghaziabad. It is one of the most extensive local train networks around the world. It has an estimated 20 million passengers on a daily basis, making it one of the most utilised metro systems in the world too. Another good feature of the Delhi Metro is that some stations are directly just adjacent to some of the stations of the Indian Railways. Some of these are the Anand Vihar Metro Station, Chandni Chowk Metro Station, Nangloi Metro Station and of course, the New Delhi Metro Station.

The New Delhi Railway Station - Nearest Metro Stations

Metro StationDistance from New Delhi Railway StationLineNew Delhi Metro Station800 metresYellowRamakrishna Ashram Marg Metro Station2.3 kilometresBlueKirti Nagar Metro Station10.6 kilometresBlueAIIMS Metro Station11.7 kilometresYellowGTB Nagar Metro Station12.6 kilometresYellowJanak Puri East Metro Station15.6 kilometresBlueRithala Metro Station20.9 kilometresRed

These are the nearest metro stations to the New Delhi Railway Station, also included are their distances from the railway station and their line. The New Delhi Metro Station is the nearest, at just 800 metres away, located on the Yellow Line of the Delhi Metro. The Ramakrishna Ashram Marg Metro Station is also just 2.3 kilometres away from the New Delhi Railway Station, located on the Blue Line of the Delhi Metro. The remaining stations are all over 10 kilometres away from the New Delhi Railway Station, namely the Kirti Nagar Metro Station, AIIMS Metro Station, GTB Nagar Metro Station, Janak Puri East Metro Station and Rithala Metro Station.

The New Delhi Metro Station

In the year 2005, the New Delhi Metro Station was opened to the public. It is located on the Yellow Line of the Delhi Metro. This is the station that you need to be dropped off to in order to reach the New Delhi Railway Station easily. The New Delhi Metro Station is located just 10 to 15 minutes of walking away from the New Delhi Railway Station. They are directly connected through the Ajmeri Gate of the New Delhi Railway Station, located close to the Platform 16 of the railway station.

In Ghaziabad, there are two metro stations, namely, the Vaishali Railway Station and the Dilshad Garden Railway Station. The Vaishali Metro Station is located on the Blue Line of the Delhi Metro. It is about 14 kilometres away from the New Delhi Metro Station. Its first train departs at 6:00 and its last train departs 22:30. Fare is at Rs. 18 per passenger and journey duration is under 40 minutes. Once you reach Rajiv Chowk Metro Station, you need to alight and board a train going to the New Delhi Metro Station.

The Dilshad Garden Metro Station is located on the Red Line of the Delhi Metro. It is about 12 kilometres away from the New Delhi Metro Station. Its first train departs at 5:30 and its last train departs 22:45. Fare is at Rs. 18 per passenger and journey duration is under 30 minutes. Once you reach Kashmere Gate Metro Station, you need to alight and board a train going to the New Delhi Metro Station.

Conclusion

As you can see, there's a New Delhi Metro Station, standing just adjacent to the New Delhi Railway Station. It is an underground line of the metro system and it is directly connected to Ghaziabad too. From the New Delhi Metro Station, walk over until you reach the Ajmeri Gate of the New Delhi Railway Station. From there, you can board another train to any other point in the city or outside of the city that you need to get to.

I hope this helps you!