English / Spanish

Electronic music is experiencing a fascinating, genre blending moment. Matias Aguayo is the definition of that modern, borderless artistry. He's a visionary child of globalization: born in Santiago de Chile, raised in Germany and living in Buenos Aires and Paris, Aguayo's identity is as scattered and fascinating as his latest record.

Aguayo's new EP I Don't Smoke is his first proper release since his acclaimed 2009 album Ay Ay Ay. It also follows his recent collaboration with American rock group Battles' on "Ice Cream," one of the indie hits of the summer.

Up until a few years ago, Aguayo's melodies were isolated and terse, like so much of techno tends to be. His breakthrough single "Minimal" was the first time he delved into pop music.

I Don't Smoke is a 5-track EP released under microhouse German label Kompakt. It bridges Aguayo's earlier musical styles with his more accessible sound of today.

The seven-minute title track is pure techno ecstasy: A circle of assaulting beats and vocals. It's expansive, yet expertly compressed. Aguayo's globalized sound is also revealed in songs like "Comeme Riddim" and the political "Niños". I Don't Smoke proves Matias Aguayo is still on top of his game and completely in control of his medium.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

English /Spanish

Lo Nuevo De Matias Aguayo

La música electrónica está atravesando un momento fascinante, en el cual se fusionan géneros y culturas. Matias Aguayo es la definición de un artista moderno y sin fronteras. Es un hijo visionario de la globalización: nacido en Santiago de Chile, criado en Alemania, Aguayo vive entre Buenos Aires y Paris; su identidad es tan dispersa y fascinante como su último disco.

El nuevo EP de Aguayo I Don't Smoke es su primer estreno desde Ay Ay Ay, su celebrado álbum de 2009. También le sigue a su colaboración reciente con la banda estadounidense Battles, en la canción "Ice Cream", una de las más destacadas de este verano.

Hasta hace poco, las melodías que hacía Aguayo eran aisladas y tersas. Su single, "Minimal", el cual lo lanzó a la fama, marca la primera vez que Aguayo empezó a explorar el pop.