Capgemini has established a dedicated lab and a team of quantum technology professionals from across the world to create skills and organize research facilities focused on quantum technology progress and exploration. The effort comprises a cooperation with IBM to help customers create and maximize their engagements in the areas of Quantum Computing, in addition to Capgemini’s work on Quantum Communications and Quantum Sensing.

To leverage the promise of quantum technologies, Capgemini’s Quantum Lab (Q-Lab) consists of quantum technology specialists and highly specialized facilities in the United Kingdom, Portugal, and India. The Q-Lab at Capgemini will coordinate research initiatives to generate business-driven client proposals for the industries most likely to profit from quantum technologies in the medium term, such as life sciences, finance, automotive, and aerospace. It would also help speed the development of in-house skills and capabilities at Capgemini by driving early experimentation with clients on their quantum journeys.

This effort draws on the expertise of Capgemini’s specialized technical teams, who have already developed quantum scientific and technological capabilities via early experimentation and incubation with customers.

“Quantum technology will disrupt the way we compute, sense, and communicate, and will create new industries and business models along the way,” said Pascal Brier, Chief Innovation Officer at Capgemini and member of the Group Executive Committee. “The launch of our Q-lab tangibly demonstrates our ambition to bring to our clients the most innovative, breakthrough solutions, and to invest in capabilities early on so we can become the leading quantum systems integrator. Our collaboration with IBM will enable us to explore the vast potential of quantum computing, bringing to our clients the top capabilities and skills available in the market today and tomorrow.”

IBM Quantum Hub

Capgemini has also signed an agreement with to become an IBM Quantum Hub, giving its clients access to IBM’s quantum computing systems, including the recently announced 127 qubit processor dubbed ‘Eagle,’ as well as IBM’s quantum expertise and Qiskit, IBM’s open-source quantum information software development kit.

Capgemini joins more than 170 IBM Quantum Network members, which include Fortune 500 corporations, start-ups, academic institutions, and research laboratories, all collaborating to enhance quantum computing and explore practical applications, by partnering with IBM.

The IBM Quantum team and clients are working together to investigate and explore how quantum computing might benefit a range of sectors and disciplines, including finance, energy, chemistry, materials science, optimization, and machine learning, among others. Capgemini will make it easier for clients to access IBM’s licensed technology and provide professional services for end-to-end deployment as part of this partnership. Its goal is to show the potential benefit of utilizing quantum technology to solve previously intractable business challenges for customers via prototypes and proofs of ideas, leading to the deployment of quantum computing use cases.

“Establishing a quantum industry will require a deep focus on expanding the quantum computing ecosystem across public and private sectors - something IBM cannot do alone,” said Jay Gambetta, IBM Fellow and VP, Quantum Computing at IBM. “By working with Capgemini, clients have even more options for hands-on expertise to develop proofs of concepts to explore the potential of quantum computing across a variety of industries and disciplines.”

- story continues below the photo -

Capgemini’s Q-lab will focus on three areas of value creation for customers:

Quantum computing is the application of quantum characteristics to computation. Problems requiring complicated optimization, simulation, or machine learning are the most common application areas. Companies that rely on high-performance computing, such as molecular design in life sciences, fluid dynamics in aerospace, and stochastic financial models, would be the first to gain.

Quantum communications entails transferring and manipulating data using quantum mechanics principles. Quantum-secure communications have the potential to make a huge influence on research, industry, and data security. It also aims to give clients access to the new world of possibilities opened up by quantum technology, particularly in terms of secure computing, data storage, and sharing.

The measurement of quantum states, which are particularly sensitive to perturbation, is referred to as quantum sensing. Quantum sensing is at the heart of advancements in medical diagnostics, autonomous transportation, and intelligent enterprises. It can aid in the exact measurement of electric and magnetic fields, the comparison of physical quantities to atomic characteristics, and the use of quantum entanglement to increase sensitivity and precision.

Capgemini has been helping its customers become quantum ready through consultancy, strategic, engineering, and algorithmic development solutions, utilizing its Applied Innovation Exchange network, engineering teams, ecosystem alliance partners, and peer network. The German Federal Office for Information Security recently tasked the Group, in collaboration with Fraunhofer IAIS, to lead a study in Quantum Machine Learning for IT security.