Capgemini has set up a dedicated lab and team of quantum technology specialists from across the globe to make capabilities and organize research facilities focused on the advancement and study of quantum technologies. In addition to Capgemini’s work on Quantum Communications and Quantum Sensing, the effort involves a partnership with IBM to assist clients to create and maximize their Quantum Computing engagements.

Capgemini’s Quantum Lab (Q-Lab) consists of quantum technology professionals and highly specialized facilities in the United Kingdom, Portugal, and India, with the goal of maximizing the potential of quantum technologies. Capgemini’s Q-Lab will coordinate research initiatives to create business-driven client proposals for the industries most likely to profit from quantum technology in the medium term — life sciences, finance, automotive, and aerospace. It will also drive early experimentation with clients as they embark on their quantum journeys, as well as speed the development of in-house skills and capabilities.

This effort draws on the expertise of Capgemini’s specialist technical teams, who have already developed scientific and technological competencies in quantum through early experimentation and incubation with clients.

Furthermore, Capgemini has agreed to become an IBM Quantum Hub, giving its clients access to IBM’s quantum computing platforms, including the recently announced 127 qubit processor, ‘Eagle,’ as well as IBM’s quantum expertise and Qiskit, IBM’s open-source quantum information software development kit. Capgemini joins more than 170 IBM Quantum Network members, which include Fortune 500 companies, start-ups, academic institutions, and research laboratories, all of which are working to enhance quantum computing and explore practical applications. The IBM Quantum team and clients are working together to investigate and explore how quantum computing will assist a wide range of sectors and disciplines, including finance, energy, chemistry, materials science, optimization, and machine learning, among many others. Capgemini will make it easier for clients to access IBM’s licensed technology and will provide professional services for end-to-end deployment as part of this collaboration. Its ultimate purpose is to demonstrate the potential benefit of leveraging quantum techniques to address previously intractable business challenges for clients through prototypes and proofs of concept, ultimately leading to the deployment of quantum computing use cases.

Pascal Brier, Chief Innovation Officer, Capgemini, Group Executive Committee member, said, “Quantum technology will disrupt the way we compute, sense, and communicate, and will create new industries and business models along the way. The launch of our Q-lab tangibly demonstrates our ambition to bring to our clients the most innovative, breakthrough solutions, and to invest in capabilities early on so we can become the leading quantum systems integrator. Our collaboration with IBM will enable us to explore the vast potential of quantum computing, bringing to our clients the top capabilities and skills available in the market today and tomorrow.”

Jay Gambetta, VP, Quantum Computing, IBM, said, “Establishing a quantum industry will require a deep focus on expanding the quantum computing ecosystem across public and private sectors – something IBM cannot do alone. By working with Capgemini, clients have even more options for hands-on expertise to develop proofs of concepts to explore the potential of quantum computing across a variety of industries and disciplines.”

The Q-lab will emphasize three areas of client value creation:

The use of quantum properties to do computations is referred to as quantum computing. Problems requiring complex optimization, simulation, or machine learning are the most prevalent application areas. Companies that rely on high-performance computing, such as molecular design in life science, fluid dynamics in aerospace, or stochastic financial models, will be among the first to gain.

Quantum communications entail utilizing quantum mechanics to transmit and control information. Quantum-secure communications have the potential to make an immense impact on areas crucial to research, industry, and data security. Furthermore, it is designed to provide clients with access to the new realm of possibilities brought about by quantum technologies, particularly in the areas of confidential computing, data storage, and sharing.

The measurement of quantum states, which are acutely sensitive to disturbances, is referred to as quantum sensing. Quantum sensing is at the core of breakthroughs in medical diagnosis, autonomous transportation, and intelligent industries. It can assist in the accurate measurement of electric and magnetic fields, the comparison of physical quantities to atomic characteristics, and the use of quantum entanglement to improve sensitivity or precision.

Capgemini has been advancing its clients’ quantum readiness through consulting, strategic, engineering, and algorithmic development solutions, utilizing its Applied Innovation Exchange network, engineering teams, ecosystem alliance partners, and peer network. The Group was also recently commissioned by the German Federal Office for Information Security to lead the study in Quantum Machine Learning for IT security, in collaboration with Fraunhofer IAIS.