==============================

Father O Connor

DEATH on Jan 4th 2023, of Fr. Donal O’Connor Chaplain at MTU Tralee and formerly Curate at Castletownbere, Listowel and P.P. in Beaufort. Predeceased by his parents David and Teresa and brother Tomás. Sadly missed by his, brothers Sean, Denis, David and Aidan, sisters in law, nieces and nephews, relations, neighbours, his many friends and the Bishop and priests of the Kerry diocese.

—————————————-

Sincere sympathy to the O’Connor family on the sad passing of Donal. I have fond memories of knowing Donal during his time working in Dublin ,a true gentleman never to be forgotten

Phillip McGovern -Raheny-Dublin

Sincere condolences to the O’Connor family on the sad passing of Fr Donal. I have good memories of our years in the Sem . May he rest in peace.

Joe Doyle, Dunmanway & Kenmare

Deepest sympathy to David, Collette and boys on the passing of Fr. Donald. May he rest in peace

Bernard and Mary Leahy Brosna

It is impossible to add to the tributes paid to the character, life and ministry of this extraordinary man and priest except to muse, in light of Rathmore’s victory today, that Fr. Donal may be continuing to do good on earth, like Saint Therese of Lisieux! With fond memories of Maynooth days with Donal.

T Brennan

My sincere condolences to Fr. Donal’s family at his sudden passing. Fr Dónal and Tomás were in St. Brendan’s with me in the 1970’s. We had some good times together.

Seán Barry, Cloughduv, Co Cork

So sad to hear of the untimely passing of our dearest Fr Donal. Fr. Donal, you were such a wonderful person, you will forever have a special place in our hearts. You made many the occasion so special, memorable with your warmth, wit and kindness. We will never forget your wonderful stories, the laughs and your kindness. Thinking of your many friends and family at this sad time. May you rest in Heavenly

Elaine & Seán Clifford Firies

My deepest condolences to Aidan , Oisín, David , Sean and Denis on the passing of your beloved Fr Donal.May he now rest in eternal peace .Beannacht Dé leis.

Eileen Coffey McCarthy, Fossa

To the o Connor family our sincere condolences to you all . What a lovely man . He brought joy to all who knew him . He married both of my daughters and we look back with fond memories of our time we shared with him on these occasions he was special .

Brian and Bridie Fitzgerald

So sorry to hear about Fr Donal sudden passing. What a beautiful priest and a kind and gentle man. He was so good with the youth in Listowel. We missed him terribly when he was moved. Sincere condolences to all he’s family. Hope you will get the best bed in heaven. Fr.Donal RIP.

Margaret in Listowel

Sincere Sympathies to Donal’s family on his sad passing. I have many happy memories of my time working with him many many years ago. He had such a way of turning a bad day into a day of laughter and joy. So glad to have known him. Rest well Fr. Donal

Frances

Our sincere condolences to the O’Connor family on the sad loss of Fr Donal. He was kind, authentic, and had such a wonderful capacity to put people at ease. We feel truly blessed to have been married by him in 2018 and are so sorry to hear of his passing. May he rest in peace.

Jonathan Clifford & Mary Edwards, Cahersiveen

My deepest sympathy for your loss David, my he rest in peace. thinking of you and your family at this tough time

Rachel Cafferkey

So shocked and saddened to hear of Fr Donal sudden death. My deepest sympathy offered to his brothers and all the O’ Connor family and friends. May he rest in peace.

Nicola Mellotte

Very sad to learn of Fr Donal’s untimely passing. He had a wonderful ability to connect with all ages, be in in happy, sad or difficult occasions. He is a loss to all who knew him. Sincere sympathies to his family, to the MTU community, to his fellow priests, and the Kerry Diocese which he served so well. May Fr Donal’s kind and gentle soul Rest in Peace.

Siobhan O’Callaghan

Sincere condolences to Fr Donal’s family on his passing. He will be greatly missed in MTU. Always willing to help both staff and student. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Colette Commane MTU Kerry

Sincere condolences to the O’Connor Family on the passing of Fr. Donal. He was a true gentleman with a great sense of humour. May he rest in peace.

Ciara Shanahan, MTU

Comhbhrón ó chroí le Muintir Uí Chonchúir ar bhás an Athar Dónall. Go raibh méadú at a ghlóir sna flaithis.

Máire Mhic Giolla Rua-Brian Caball

We were deeply saddened to hear of Fr. Dónal’s passing. Our sincere condolences to the O’Connor family and Fr. Dónal’s many friends. A kind and gentle man. Ar dheis Dé go raibh a anam.

Vera O’Reilly & Lionel MacCárthaigh

My sincere sympathy to Fr. Donal’s family and friends. May he rest in peace.

Mary Anne Leane

Sincere condolences to all the O’ Conor family. Ar dheis Dé go raibh a anam.

Billy Keohane & Alice O Mahony

Deepest sympathy to all Fr. Donal’s family on your sad loss.

Mary Burke

Our deepest condolences to all of Fr. Donal’s family. May he rest in eternal peace.

Shane & Aoife Breen

Sincere condolences to all the O’Connor family at this very sad time. May Fr. Donall rest in peace.

Donie and Joanie McCarthy Scartaglen

Sincere condolences on the passing of Fr Donal. We were very sad to hear it. We were very fortunate to have been married by Fr. Donal in 2015. It was also wonderful to have known him through his visits to Cullina N.S. What a lovely, genuine and warm man he was. May he rest in peace.

Una&Dan Harmon Tulligmore, Killorglin

Sincere sympathy to the O’Connor Families. Rest in peace.

George McNamara & family Ahanagran Ballylongford

Sincere sympathies to all of Fr. Donal’s family, religious community and friends on his untimely passing. We were blessed to have Fr. Donal as our school chaplain and many years later as the priest for our marriage. Meeting Donal was always a pleasure. His humour and kindness were unforgettable. He will be missed by all and we are thinking of you, his family and friends at this sad time. May he rest in peace. Heaven has gained another angel.

Brendan and Louise Lotty, Castletownbere

Sincere condolences to Dave, Colette and boys at this sad time.

Jakes & Veronica Kelly

The Kerries

Jakes & Veronica Kelly

Sincere sympathy to Aidan and the extended O’Connor family on the sad passing of Fr. Donal may he rest in peace.

Michael and Norah Maher Tralee,

Sincere sympathy to the O’Connor family on the passing of Fr. Donal. I was saddened to hear about his untimely passing. I will miss meeting him on campus, wherever he was there was laughter, rest in peace Donal.

Paul Collins

To Aidan and all the O Connor family. I was so saddened to hear of Fr. Donal’s passing. Such a gentleman. May he Rip

Breffini O Brien

We were very sadden to hear of Fr Donal’s passing. Fond memories from Fr Donal time in Listowel. Sincere sympathy to all his family, friends and everyone he helped through his work may he rest in peace 🙏

David and Mary Toomey Dirha Listowel

Sincere sympathies and deepest condolences to the O’Connor Family on the the passing of Fr Donal. May he rest in peace

Tomas Fox

Sincere sympathies to Fr. Donal’s family at the loss of your dear brother and uncle. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Breda O Dwyer MTU

Sincere condolences on Fr. Donal’ s death. He will be sorely missed in MTU for his kindest, genuineness, intellect and wit. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Joan Murphy

Sincere sympathy to the O’Connor family and all who mourn the passing of Fr. Donal. He will always be remembered for his empathy, compassion and kindness. May he now rest in peace.

Mary McGrath ex Killocrim NS Listowel

Such sad and shocking news. Fr Donal was such a kind gentleman. Condolences to his family and friends at this sad time

Anon

Our deepest heartfelt sympathy to you all on Donal’s passing. He was one of a kind and loved by all. May Donal Rest In Peace

Catherine & Seán Heaphy

My deepest sympathies to Aidan and all the O’Connor family. Very saddened to hear the news of Fr Donal’s passing.

Dónal Nolan, Tralee

Sincere sympathy to the O Connor family. May Fr. Dónal rest in peace.

Mary and Dónal Nolan, Ards, Beaufort

My sincere sympathies to Fr. Donal’s family at the loss of your dear brother and uncle. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Mary Stritch, MTU

Deepest Sympathies to Aidan and all the O Connor family on your great loss at this very sad and difficult time.

May Fr. Donal Rest in Peace.

The Cahill family, Rossbeigh.

Michael Cahill

Deepest sympathy to David Colette and all the O’Connor family on the sad passing of Fr. Donal. May he rest in peace.

Josie o Leary

Sincere sympathy to the O’Connor family on the sudden passing of Fr Donal

May his gentle soul rest in peace

Gerry and Helen Duggan Ballybunion Road Listowel

Condolences to Sean, Denis, David and Aidan on the sudden loss of Donal, may he rest in peace.

Donal Hassett and family

Sincere sympathy to the O Connor family on the passing of Fr. Donal. Our thoughts and prayers are with you at this sad time.

Liam and Sheila Fell and family, Gurteenroe, Firies

Sincere condolences to the O Connor family on the sudden, sad passing of your beloved brother Fr Donal. We have many fond, unforgettable memories of his years in Beaufort as he contributed so much to many of our family occasions. He could relate to all, whether it be with the active retired or the Altar servers, he treated everyone with kindness, a true testament to his character. He has left a lasting legacy in the parish. Ar dheis lámh Dé go raibh a anam dílis.

Mary,Jer,Conor,Padraig,Oisin,Ciara Cronin, Kilgobnet

Fr. Donal was loved and valued in MTU and will be missed but remembered with fondness. Our loss is Heaven’s gain. Sincere sympathies to Donal’s family at the loss of your dear brother and uncle. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Ursula Barrett, MTU

I am saddened to hear the sudden and untimely death of Fr. Donal. Sincere sympathy to all his family. May Fr Donal rest in heavenly peace. Amen

Bridie Cronin Rathmore

My deepest sympathy to the O’Connor Family, Bishop Ray Browne & the priests of the Kerry Diocese at the sudden death of Fr. Donal. May his gentle soul rest in peace. Geraldine Neville, Clieveragh, Listowel.

Geraldine Neville

Sincere sympathy to Aidan and all the O’Connor family on the loss of Fr. Donal. Ar dheis Dé go raibh a anam dílis.

Sari Houlihan, Firies

My deepest sympathy to all the o Connor family at this so sad time I have great memories of Fr. Donal from our time in Rathmore May he rest in peace

Sr Mary Mc Mahon Presentation Convent Tralee

Sincere Sympathy to the O’Connor Family and extended families on the sudden passing of Fr.Donal. He was a true Gentleman. May his gentle Soul Rest in peace. Thinking of you all at this sad and difficult time.

Geraldine and John Lucey, Bounard, Gneeveguilla, Rathmore

Sincere Sympathy to all the O ‘Connor families on the death of Fr Donal.

Rest in peace.

Mick & Bernadette Foley Ballagh, Beaufort

My Sincere Sympathy to the O’Connor Family and extended families on the sudden passing of Fr.Donal. May his gentle soul Rest in peace.

Margaret Lucey Church view Rathmore

My sympathy to the o Connor family may Fr Donal’s soul rest in peace Amen

Norah Mary Ryan and family Goulane and Newmarket

Sincere sympathies to the O’Connor family on the sudden loss of Fr. Donal.

A true gentleman that will be sadly missed by all.

Rose and Paddy Howell

Sincere condolences to Fr Donal’s family on his passing. He will be greatly missed in MTU a friend to all with his quick wit and helpful ways. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Joanne O Sullivan MTU

Sincere condolences to Sean, Denis, David & Aidan and the extended O’ Connor, Horgan & Hassett families on the untimely passing of Fr Donal.

Mickey & Aileen Kelly, Ard Mhuire & Dublin

Sincere sympathy to the O Connor family on the sudden passing of Fr. Donal. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Geraldine & Jeremiah O Sullivan Beaufort0

Sincere condolences to Aidan and all the O’Connor family on the sad passing of Father Donal

John Fitzgerald

Our deepest sympathies to Aidan and the O’ Connor family on the very sad passing of Fr Donal.

May he rest in peace.

Séamus and Áine ó Ceallacháin

Our deepest heartfelt sympathy to you all on Donal’s passing. Beyond sad to hear this news. We all have a great love for Donal & enjoyed many classic times with him over the years. He was one of a kind.

Donal, may you rest in peace & be embraced forever in the sunshine of God’s love.

Mary Kerin & the extended Quinlivan family x

Mary Kerin & family

So sorry to hear of the death of our friend Fr Donal. He will be a great loss to everyone. Much loved in every parish he was in. May he rest in peace.

Stephen and Olwen Keane stack and family

Sincere sympathy to Fr Donald’s family.. on his sudden passing Fr Donal will forever remain in our thoughts and prayers .

Teresa & John Kerins & family

My sincere sympathy to all the O’Connor family. Lovely memories of Fr Donal from my time in Listowel Arms May his gentle soul rest in peace

Bridget O’Donnell Caherlevoy Mountcollins

Deepest sympathy to Fr Donal’s brothers and their families on his untimely passing. I met Donal when we both worked at Cragg Cave the first summer the cave opened. Donal was full of fun and laughter and was a pleasure to work with. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Mary Horan Scartaglen

Sincere sympathy to the O Connor family on Fr Donal’s death. He was a true man of God and of his flock. His joy and sense of humour lifted many people. May he now enjoy his rewards.

Mary and Paddy Casey Glenflesk

Sincere Condolence to all the O’Connor Family on the death of FR.DONAL, May he Rest in Peace

Rupert and Noreen Costelloe Beaufort

Our Sincere Sympathy to the O’Connor and extended Horgan families on the sad passing of Fr. Donal. May he Rest in Peace.

Colette & John Mahoney, Freemount Gates, Rathmore

We offer our deepest sympathy to Aidan, Oisín and to all of the O’Connor Family at this sad time on the death of Fr Donal. May he rest in peace.

The Ross Golf Club – Gents Club

Deepest Sympathy to all the Family at this very sad time on the passing of Fr Donal

May He Rest in Peace

Jim and Joan Casey Killarney

Sincere condolences to the O’Connor family on the death of Fr Donal. He officiated at our Wedding in 2004. His spirituality, kindness and great sense of humour will never be forgotten. May he rest in eternal peace.

Jackie and the late John Halpin and family, Listowel

We were so sorry to hear of Fr Donal’s sudden death.

He was immensely popular when he was in Beaufort and was so kind, caring , humorous and engaged in so many parish activities.

May he rest in peace

Margaret Moriarty and Family, Gap of Dunlie

Deepest sympathy to all of the the O’Connor family on the sad passing of Fr. Donal. A great friend to all the O’Sullivan family in Listowel. May Donal rest in peace.

Brendan and Dorothy O’Sullivan

Deepest sympathy to Aidan and O Connor Families on the sad passing of Fr Donal. May he rest in peace.

Peggy o Donoghue

Deepest sympathy to the O Connor family at this sad and difficult time, may Fr Donal rest in peace.

Tony Helena Donnelly and family Waterville

Deepest sympathy to Fr Donal’s family & many friends on his sudden passing. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Martin & Breda O’Shea & Family Beaufort

Deepest Sympathy to the O’Connor Family on the sad passing of Fr. Donal.

May he rest in Peace

Paddy and Noreen Mulvihill Listowel

My deepest condolences to Sean, Denis, David and Aidan and the extended O’ Connor family on the very sad and untimely passing of Fr. Donal. May he Rest In Peace.

Kathleen Reen, Convent View, Rathmore

Heartfelt sympathy to David and the O’Connor family on the sad passing of your brother Donal.

Noreen Kelly

Sincere sympathy to Sean, Denis, David and Aidan on the sad passing of Fr Donal. May he rest in peace.

Murphy family, Station Road Rathmore

Deepest sympathy to The O Connor Family on the death of Fr Donal..

Thank you Donal .. many years ago when you were a student… you were at my side when we got Crag Cave up and running…

Your friendship, hard work,

Laughter Music, poetry, and never ending wit and fun was a delight , never to be forgotten.. . .. It was a privilege to work with you

Thank You

Thank You…

May your gentle soul rest in peace

Margaret Geaney Castleisland

My sincere sympathy to the O’ Connor family on the death of Father Dónal. We remember him from his ministry in Listowel as a curate with great affection. I also have very happy memories of meeting him on a pilgrimage to Medjugorje and of being present at his mass there in St. James’ Parish Church. Suaimhneas Síoraí dá anam i measc na Naomh is na n-Aingeal.

Matt and Mary Mooney

Sincere sympathy to Fr Donald family and friends such sad news and a huge loss may he Rest in Peace

Patsy Thornton

Sincere sympathy to the O’Connor family. May Donal Rest in Peace.

Mary Tangney Castleisland

Sincere condolences to the O’Connor family at this very sad time. We have fond memories of our wedding day in 2010 when Fr. Donal made our day so special.

He helped us stay relaxed and comfortable through the entire ceremony with his good humour and warm smile.

May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Lisa & Ronan McMahon, Listowel & Ennistymon

Our sincere sympathy to the O Connor family and to Fr Donal’s cousin Donal and Catherine on his death. We didn’t know Fr Donal but clearly from the condolences he was a very special person and a huge loss to all those who knew and loved him. May he rest in peace .

Dominic and Regina Creedon

Condolences to all the family of Fr. Donal, he was a wonderful individual, will be truly missed by all.

RIP Fr. Donal

John O Donoghue Perth & Beaufort

Condolences to the O Connor family. You will be sadly missed by all in MTU. I will miss our meetings and discussions on which one of us is the impostor and the real Donal O Connor.

Rest in peace my friend you will not be forgotten.

Donal O Connor

Sincere sympathy to the O’Connor family on the passing of Fr Donal. May he rest in peace.

Francie Herlihy Tureenamult

Deepest condolences to Fr. Donal’s family and many friends, he will be sadly missed by us all.

Lisa McElligott MTU

Sincere condolences to to Fr Donal’s family and friends. He will be sadly missed at the MTU

Rest in peace Fr Donal

Padraig Dineen MTU

My sincere and deepest sympathy to Sean, Denis, David, Aidan and all the O’Connor family on the very sad passing of Donal. He was one of life’s wonderful people, a gentleman and a kind person to all. He will be fondly remembered and sorely missed. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Celine O Keeffe, Rathmore

I am very saddened to hear of the sudden passing of Fr. Donal. Sincere sympathies to the O’Connor family, his colleagues and many friends. I always appreciated his thoughtful insights which he regularly communicated to the MTU community and brightened many an ordinary day. He showed me and my family great kindness and compassion on a recent family bereavement and will be kindly remembered for all that he shared. A wonderful person who will be greatly missed.

May he rest in peace.

Joanna Tierney, MTU Kerry

My deepest sympathy to Dave, Colette, Tomas, Liam, Dara & the extended O’Connor family on the sudden and sad passing of Fr. Donal. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Aoife Stack, Naas

Sincere condolences to the O’Connor family at this very sad time. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Gráinne Stack, MTU

So sad that Fr. Donal has left us, a fabulous person, great fun, a lovely “quick” mass on a Wednesday morning, an honour to have known him.

Margaret Cronin, MTU

Sincere sympathy to Fr Donal’s family and friends. He will be sorely missed. Rest in peace Fr Donal.

Mary Reid MTU

Deepest sympathies to Fr. Donal’s family and friends on your enormous loss. His ability to relate to both young and old will be fondly remembered. Sympathies to all the communities he helped, he will be greatly missed.

Breda Doyle

We are very sorry to hear of Fr. Donal’s death. We were proud to call him a friend. Our sympathy to Seán, Denis, David and Aidan and all your families.Leaba imeasc na naomh gan aon dabht tuillte ag Donal.

Jim and Catherine Gleeson, Loreto Road, Killarney

My sincere condolences to the O Connor family. Fr. Donal will be greatly missed, such a joy to work with, had so many laughs with Fr. Donal, he was a great character, very witty, I will miss you. May you rest in Peace Fr. Donal.

Rosie Dempsey MTU

Sincere sympathy to Fr Donal’s brothers Séan, Denis, David, Aidan, the extended family, Bishop Ray and the priests of the Diocese, on Fr Donal’s recent death. May he rest in peace.

I was so sorry to hear that Fr Donal had passed away. His contribution to Beara Community School was immense. His presence, care, connection, support, good humour and awareness of others was so appreciated and valued. He lived the real meaning of the Chaplain to the full.

Thinking and praying for all his family and friends at this time.

Mary O Sullivan retired principal Beara Community School

Mary and Oli O Sullivan Castletownbere

Sincere sympathy to Aidan, David and all of Donal’s loved ones at this sad time. May he rest in peace.

Nellie Mulcahy & Family, Ard Mhuire

Sincere Sympathy to Sean, Gillian and all the O’Connor Family on the sad death of Fr. Donal.

Paula Hennessy, PRA

Deepest sympathy to the O’Connor family on the sad loss of Fr Donal. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Catherine O’Neill, MTU

Sincerest condolences to Seán and all the O’Connor family on your sad loss.

Colm Burke

Our sincere sympathies to all of the O’ Connor family on the very sad passing of Fr. Donal. Fr. Donal married us in 2014 in Beaufort and it was lovely to get to know him. He was a very special, humble person who exuded kindness and generosity. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Gráinne & Bernard Hickey

Very sorry to hear the passing of Donal. A gentleman to the core, great fun and compassionate. He will be sorely missed in MTU. Sincere sympathies to the O’Connor family. Fionn

Fionn Fitzgerald

Deepest sympathy on the death of Fr Donal, he will be missed all in MTU.

Sarah Flaherty, MTU

Deepest Sympathy to all The o Connor Family on the death of FR Donal , May he Rest In Peace

Frank & Tina o Shea Coolmagort Beaufort

Such sad news and a huge loss. Thank you for your time, kindness and support during my first semester at IT Tralee. Rest in Peace.

Sinead

Sincere & Deepest Sympathy to All The O Connor Family, & Extended Family’s on the Very Sad Passing of Fr. Donal, A True & Caring Gentleman. May his Gentle Soul Rest in Peace. Thinking of You All at This Very Sad Time.

Liam & Anne Chute Killarney

Sincere Sympathy to the O Connor Family and to The Diocese of Kerry Family of Fr. Donal, he enriched so many lives, may he Rest In Peace.

Maria Griffin, Kilflynn

Sincere sympathy to the O’Connor family, Bishop Ray Browne and the priests of the Kerry diocese at this very sad time.

May Fr. Dónal rest in peace.

Norma Foley

Dear Sean, Denis, David, Aidan, your Families, and the extended O’ Connor Family.

It is with sadness I have learned of the passing of your beloved brother Fr. Donal.

May He Rest In Peace.

Please accept my deepest and heartfelt sympathies at this sad and difficult time, and be assured of remembering you all in my thoughts and prayers..

Thinking of you all.

Mary Frances Sheehan Maynooth , Co Kildare

Sincere sympathy to all the O’Connor family on the very sad death of Fr. Donal.

May he rest in peace Amen.

From Jerry and Geraldine Lundy. Tubbercurry. Co. Sligo

Jerry and Geraldine Lundy Tubbercurry Co Sligo

Deepest sympathy to all the O’Connor family, at this very sad time. May Fr Donal rest in peace. Amen.

Norella Moriarty & family Listowel

Heartfelt sympathy to all Fr Donal’s immediate family, extended family neighbours and such a wide circle of friends on his untimely passing. May his beautiful soul rest in peace.

Mary McGill Parish Secretary Cahersiveen

Very sorry to hear the passing of my friend Donal. We had so many fun times. Maynooth, Dublin, Tralee, New York. RIP dear friend. Eamon Herlihy Ballymacellligot/New York

Eamon Herlihy

Sincere sympathy to all the O Connor family on the sad passing of Fr Donal .May he rest in peace

Siobhan moriarty & Derry Tangney Gap of Dunloe

Sincere Sympathy to all the family at this time.. Fond memories of Fr Donal.

James and Eimear Joy

Our sincere condolences to Father Donal’s family and friends at this sad time. We were so saddened to hear of his death. He married us in 2016, and made us feel warmly welcomed to Beaufort Parish. He had a joke and a glint in his eye to ease any nerves and was so kind throughout our preparation.

Ar dheis Dé go raibh a anam.

Maeve Fitzpatrick & Anthony Kavanagh

Deepest Sympathy to Sean, Denis, David and Aidan on the sad passing of Fr Donal.Fr Donal was a kind, caring unassuming and gentle person who always had a kind,encouraging and helpful word for everybody he met. One always felt better for meeting Fr Donal. May his kind and gentle soul Rest in Peace.Ni imithe uainn ata se ach imithe romhainn….Solas an Tiarna daoibh ata croi-bhriste ina dhiaidh.

Mairtin and Peggie Mullooly Church Place Rathmore

So sorry to learn of Fr. Donal’s untimely passing. Fr. Donal, you will forever have a special place in our hearts and prayers, we will never forget your kindness. It was our pleasure to have known you and to have enjoyed your warmth, good humour, and prayerfulness. May you rest in Heavenly Peace.

Ger & Julie Healy and boys Gap of Dunloe

Deepest sympathies to all Fr. Donal’s family on his passing. You are in our thoughts and prayers.

Kenneth & Maria Carmela Wiseman, Piove di Sacco, Italy (formerly Castletownbere and Ballyvolane, Cork)

KENNETH & Mariacarmela Wiseman

Deepest sympathy to The O Connor Family on the sad and untimely death of Fr.Donal. May He Rest in Peace

Willie and Gracie O Connor Tureenamult Gneeveguilla

Sincere sympathy to all the O’Connor family on the passing of Fr Donal. May he rest in eternal peace.

Bridget McGuire &family

Sincere sympathy to Aidan and the O’Connor family on the death of Fr. Donal. May he rest in peace.

Liam and Máire Horan

Sincere condolences to Fr Donal’s brothers and all their families on his sudden passing. Also, thinking of Nora and the girls and families in Currow at this very sad time. May Donal rest in peace

Sinead & Pat Evans, Adare

May Fr. Donal rest in peace. His kindnesses and empathy will long be remembered.

Francisse Walshe, Tralee

I was shocked and saddened to hear of Fr Donal’s death. When he gave a homily you would remember it. He had a special way with words. My main memories of him are times spent on pilgrimage to Medugorje.

My sincere sympathy to Fr Donal’s brothers. May he rest in peace.

Eileen and Mike McEllistrim

Sincere sympathy to all the O’ Connor family on the sad passing of Fr. Donal. May his gentle soul Rest In Peace.

John & Eileen Coakley Rathmore

Our deepest sympathies to the families of Fr. Donal. May he’s gentle soul rest in peace.

Willie, Catherine O’Connor & family, Bawnaglanna, Currow

Sincere condolences to the O Connor Family on the passing of Fr Donal. We have great memories of his time in Beaufort. May he Rest in Peace

Nora Kissane & Family Beaufort

Deepest sympathy to David, Colette, and all Fr. Dónal’s family. I’m very sorry for your loss.

May he rest in peace knowing he helped so many people in his life.

Nicola Coffey

Deepest sympathies to the O Connor family on the untimely passing of Fr. Donal. I have fond memories of Fr. Donal from his visits to Rathas ward in UHK & of his time as a curate in Listowel. He was such an enjoyable , witty , kind and warm person. Fr Donal was a true gentleman with a very big heart. He will be sorely missed . Ar dheis Dé go raibh a anam dílis.

Lisa Kearney Moyvane Listowel

Deepest Sympathy to All the O’Connor Family on the very sad passing of Fr Donal May He Rest In Peace

Mary and Brian O Shea and Family Killorglin

My deepest sympathies to all of Fr Donal’s family , to Nora and all the extended family on the sudden passing of Fr Donal.

May he Rest In Peace.

Maura Walsh

Deepest condolences to the O’ Connor family and the extended family on the death of Fr Donal. He was a great friend of my late wife Angela.

May Donal rest in peace.

Joe, Alan, Brian, Lisa and Michelle Kearney

Joe Kearney and family, Moyvane and Listowel

Very happy memories of teaching with Donal in Beara Community school.. . May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Austin and Patricia Manning Eyeries

Our deepest sympathies to David and the O’Connor family on the sudden loss of Fr Donal. May he Rest in Peace.

Mary & Ger O Brien, Ballyvelly

Saddened to hear of Fr Donal’s passing. My sincere condolences to his family and friends at this time.

Ar dheis Dé go raibh a anam uasal.

Tomás Murphy, Ventry

Condolences to the O’Connor family on the death of Fr Donal. Such a unique person as Fr Donal was, his sence of humour and wit endeared him to many and opened the doors of friendship. He joined our group in Medjugorje on a number of occasions and made the week extra special. May your good deeds go with you. Rest in Peace

Bridie McCarthy

Kells Cahirciveen

Bridie McCarthy

Shocked & saddened to hear of Fr. Donal’s untimely passing. Fond memories of good ol’ times when stationed in the homestead back in the day! Sending my condolences to the O’Connor family at this time. Rest peacefully seanchara.

Jerry Hannon, Listowel & Dublin

Our deepest sympathies to the family and friends of Fr. Donal. He was a lovely person who was always kind with a great sense of humour. He will be deeply missed and fondly remembered by all who knew him. May Fr. Donal rest in eternal peace.

Maura and Pa O Connor

Deepest sympathies to Seán, Denis, David, Aidan and the O’Connor families on Donal’s death.

Many Sem & Killarney memories.

Ar Dheis Dé go raibh a anam dílis.

Ella & Gary Stack

Heartfelt sympathy to Sean ,Denis ,David ,and Aiden and your families. I was saddened to hear of the sudden passing of Fr Donal May he rest in peace .

Mairead o Donovan nee O Leary Crosshaven Co Cork

My condolences to the O’Connor family. May Fr Donal rest in peace.

Edward Keane

We met when I was 19 and I followed him wherever he went. He was a best friend; he married us, he did our pre-marriage course at a piano bar while he played songs and recited poetry. We talked often and wrote; of our beliefs, world issues, poetry, family squabbles, of Tess and Tom and of all the family who he adored. He visited us in the Charlotte NC. My sons, Michael & Rory and husband Declan adored him and are broken hearted at the news of his passing. He gave so much of himself to us that I find it astonishing he had the time for everyone else here. That was his biggest strength. He always made you feel like you were the only one in the room. Deepest sympathies to his family, nephews and nieces all of whom he loved dearly.

From Chicago, to dancing at his ordination, climbing Dhà Cíoch Dana, to visits at Beara, the caravan on Banna, Craig Cave, Beaufort, Rathmore, and trips to Tralee with my mum and dad who he often visited at Sliabh Na Mban. In his rooms in Maynooth where he studied I would sit with him and encourage him on his path to the board of directors of the Catholic Church. Dònal a chroí, you now sit where you are most loved with HIM, Tess, Dad and bother Tom. I miss you Cuilléog,….until we meet again.

Oonagh Ni Mhuiri Nealon & Declan Nealon, Charlotte NC

Aidan, sincere sympathy to you and all your family on the sudden and sad passing of Fr. Donal. May he rest in peace.

Ladies of Ross Golf Club

Our sincere sympathy to Fr Donal’s Family at this very sad time. May Fr Donal rest in peace.

Timmy & Breda O’Leary Kilquane Headford

Our deepest sympathy to Fr. Donals family and friends. He was a very caring man and a very good friend to all. He will be sadly missed.

Josephine and Corry O Flaherty

So saddened to hear of the untimely passing of Fr Donal. What a wonderful priest, we were blessed that he married us in 2012, he made the ceremony so special and memorable.

Sincere condolences to his family and friends.

Rest in heavenly peace Fr Donal.

Katrine O’Donoghue & Andrew Looby

Comhbhrón ó chroí. Leaba i measc na Naomh i gCathair na Glóire go raibh ag a anam uasal.

Marcas Mac Domhnaill , Dún Chaoin

Our deepest sympathy to the O’Connor family on the sad passing of Fr. Dónal. You are all in our thoughts and prayers. May Fr. Dónal rest in peace.

The Prendiville family, Moyvane & Listowel

Our deepest sympathy to the 0′ Connor family on the sudden death of Fr. Donal, we have many memories of you coming to our home in Ardrahan for many years. As a dear friend, you were always there for us in our saddest times and at our happiest celebrations with many memories of you singing “The Parting Glass” for us. We will never forget the kindness and support you have given us over the years, we will never forget you.

Tom Joe, Margaret and family (Lyne) Ardrahan, Ardfert.

Tom Joe & Margaret Lyne

May Fr. Donal rest in peace.

Donal and Michelle Murphy Shinnagh

Sincere sympathy to Aidan and all the O Connor family on the sudden passing of Fr. Donal. May he rest in peace.

Danny and Annette Cooper Killarney

Deepest sympathy to Aidan, Oisín & all of the O Connor family on the sad passing of Fr Donal.

May he rest in peace.

Dan, Fiona O’ Sullivan & Family, Shrone

Our deepest sympathy to Fr. Donal s family and his friends at this very sad time. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Diarmuid and Maureen O Leary

Sincere sympathy to all the family on the death of Fr. Donal. Ní imithe uainn, ach imithe romhainn.

Kay Kennelly, Listowel

Our Sincere Sympathy to Aidan and the rest of the O’ Connor Family on the sad and sudden passing of Fr. Donal, Our thoughts and prayers are with you all at this difficult time. May Fr. Donal gentle soul Rest in Peace.

Brian and Siobhan O’Connor Cullina Upper Beaufort

Sincere sympathy to all Fr. Donal’s family on his passing.

May he rest in peace.

Donal & Peggy O’Neill Castletownbere

Sincere Condolences to Fr Donals family and many friends. So sad to hear the news of his sudden passing. We have very fond memories of Fr Donal at our wedding in Castletownbere 2001. He was a great support to us at that time

Gavin & Caroline Kennedy, Newbridge, Co Kildare

Deepest sympathies to Dave, Colette, Tomàs, Liam, Dara and the extended O’Connor family on the passing of a wonderful and caring man. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Sinead Stack, Tom Weekes Kilmallock

Deepest sympathy to Aidan and all the O Connor family on the sudden and sad passing of Fr. Donal. May he rest in peace.

Jim Fleming and Family, Muckross

Sincere sympathy to Sean, Denis, David, Aidan, their Families, the extended O’Connor and Horgan Families on the very sad and untimely passing of Fr Donal.

May his gentle soul Rest In Peace.

John O Neill & Family

Such a Lovely, Lovely Man. Sincere Condolences to All his Family, Friends and Colleagues.

May Father Donal Rest in Peace..

Margaret, Jerome Crowley & Family Beaufort

We are deeply saddened at the sudden and untimely death of Fr. Donal. He will be greatly missed. Sincere sympathy to all the family. May Fr. Donal rest in peace

Denis and Marie Mc Sweeney Shinnagh, Rathmore

My sincere sympathy to Sean, Denis, David, Aidan, Oisín and all the extended O’Connor family, on the sad and untimely loss of your beloved Fr. Dónal. May he now enjoy his Eternal Reward reunited with his Parents and brother Tomás.

Sheila O’Keeffe Rathmore

Sincere sympathy to Sean, David, Aidan and Denis on the sad passing of your brother Fr Donal. May he rest in eternal peace.

Margaret Kelly

Condolences to thee O Connor family on the passing of Fr Donal. May he RIP

Katie Murphy, Shinnagh

Condolences to all the O Connor family on the sad and untimely passing of Fr Donal. We will treasure fond memories of Fr Donal forever. May his gentle soul Rest in Peace.

Elaine O Grady and family, Glencar

Our sincere condolences to David, Colette and all the O’ Connor family on the sudden passing of Fr Donal. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Elaine & Anthony Wharton

Deepest condolences to all the O’Connor family on this sad occasion. May he Rest in Peace.

Philomena and Karl Fleming

Sincere sympathy to Oisin, Aidan and all the O’Connor family on the passing of Fr. Donal. May he rest in peace.

Kerry Stars Special Olympics Club

Sympathy to David, Colette and the O Connor family. May your dear beloved brother Rest in Peace

Marian Jones

Deepest condolences to the family and many friends of Fr. Donal. He was a very special and unique person. He made our wedding and our boys baptisms full of fun and humour yet thoughtful, meaningful and very memorable for us. He was a lovely man, he was so kind. May his gentle soul rest in peace. Our thoughts and prayers are with you all at this sad time.

Niamh O Reilly & Eoghan Walsh, Glenbeigh

We were shocked and saddened to hear of the untimely passing of Fr. Donal. During his time as parish priest in Beaufort he was a regular visitor to the school. We always enjoyed these visits especially the stories and jokes he shared with us and the children. Fr. Donal was a member of the Board of Management and contributed and helped in our school. We wish to offer our deepest sympathies to all of his family and friends. May Fr. Donal rest in eternal peace.

Staff and Board of Management of Kilgobnet National School

My deepest sympathy to Sean, Denis, David & Aidan on the sad passing of your brother Fr.Donal. May his gentle soul Rest In Peace.

Sheila 0 Connor Banard Gneeveguilla

Sincere sympathy to the O’Connor family, Bishop Ray and the priests of the diocese on the death of Fr. Dónal. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

John and Nuala McCormack

Deepest sympathy to David, Colette and all of Father Donal’s family at this sad time. Rest in Peace

Charmaine Ambrose

My deepest sympathy to Fr. Donal’s family at this very sad time. Myself and my late husband had the privilege of Donal been celebrant at our ruby anniversary, fond memories of a true gentleman. Rest in Peace

Carmel Murphy Ennismore, Listowel

Deepest sympathy to the O Connor family on the sad loss of your beloved brother Fr Donal. He was such a lovely, warm, and genuine person, with a wonderful sense of humour. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Derville Spring, MTU Kerry

Very sad to hear the passing of Fr. Donal. We had the honour of him marrying us before Christmas. He was such a lovely and easy going man. Thoughts and prayers are with all his family at this sad time.

Rest in Peace

Aisling O Connor & John Prendergast Beaufort/Killarney

Aisling O Connor & John Prendergast

Sincere sympathy to all the O Connor family on the sudden passing of Fr. Donal. I know Donal from the Three Lakes Hotel. Donal had a great sense of humour & good fun. Rest in heavenly peace Donal.

Hannah Kerins Carmody

Condolences to all the O Connor family on the sad passing of Fr Donal. A gentleman who I got to know through a friendship with his late brother Tom, a colleague from UCC days. May he RIP.

Pat O Connor Boherbue and Arklow

Deepest sympathy on death of Donal. Eoin.

Rev Eoin Mangan

Sincere condolences to the family and friends of Father Donal. We are all saddened at his untimely passing and remember with fondness his time as chaplain in school. His empathy and kindness to all will be always remembered.

School community of Scoil Phobail Bhéara

Sincere condolences to all the O’Connor family on the sudden passing of Donal.

A kind and gentle soul with a wonderful sense of humour and a deep faith and wisdom.

May He Rest In Peace at the Right Hand Side of The Lord.

Roger and Bríd Harty

Sincere Sympathy to the O Connor family on the sad passing of Fr. Donal. May he Rest in Peace.

Denis & Catherine Ryan, Shinnagh, Rathmore

Deepest condolences to Fr. Donal’s family on this sad occasion. A lovely man and a great character, he will be sorely missed.

Eddie Scully

Deepest sympathy to Fr. Donal’s family on his sad and untimely passing. May Donal Rest In Peace with Tess, Dave and Tomás.

Kevin and June Lucey Millstreet

Deepest sympathy to the O’Connor Family may Fr Donal rest in peace

Ann & Willie Nagle & family Shinnagh Rathmore

Deepest sympathy to the O Connor family on the sad loss of you your beloved brother Fr. Donal.

May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Teddy Foley MTU Kerry

Teddy Foley

Sincere condolences to Fr. Donal’s family, colleagues and friends,

Donal officiated on our wedding day and went on to christen our children, he was warm and friendly always, and we will remember him with a smile always,

Rest in peace Donal.

Patrick & Mary lynch Listowel

My deepest sympathies to Fr. Donal’s family on his very sad passing. I have very fond memories of him when he was in Castleisland. He was truly one in a million. Rest in Peace Donal

Colleen McMahon

Sincere sympathy to the O’Connor family. May Fr. Donal rest in peace.

Josie Cassidy

I first met you in 1986 in Chicago Donal. We were great buddies and worked together laughed together and made memories together with my Sister Marie. I will never forget you RIP

Cathy McDonagh

Sincere condolences to all the O’Conner family of the passing of father Donal rest in peace

Joan and Alfie chute Listowel

Dave, Colette and all the O’Connor family,

My deepest sympathies on the untimely passing of your brother. Thinking of you all at this time, keeping you in my thoughts and prayers.

Siobhan O Shea

Our sincere sympathy to Fr Donal’s brothers Sean, Denis, David and Aidan, to his sisters-in-law and to all the extended O’Connor Family on the death of Fr Donal. Our sincere sympathy also to Bishop Ray and to all the priests of the Kerry Diocese on the death of Fr Donal. May he rest in peace.

Jerh, Eileen and Helen O’Donoghue Rathmore, Co Kerry

May Fr. Donal rest in peace.

Robert O Shea

Sincere sympathy to Aidan and all the O Connor family on the sad passing of Fr Donal. R.I.P Out thoughts and prayers are with you all at this sad time.

Seamus and Mary McCarthy

Our sincere sympathy to all of Fr Donal family, one true gentleman, may he rest in peace.

Liam and Ann Hanley Castletownbere

Our Heartfelt Sympathy To All The O Connor Family & To Nora & Family On The Sad Passing Of Fr Donal May He Rest In Eternal Peace

Michael & Nora Brosnan O Shea Dromulton Currow

We were so saddened to hear of Fr Donal’s untimely passing. He had so many qualities to offer so caring and of course that sense of humour endeared him to all. Sincere sympathy to all his family and friends. May he rest in perfect peace.

Junior and Margaret Heffernan and family Castletownbere

Sincere sympathy to the O Connor family on the death of Fr Donal

Ni bheidh a leithead aris ann

Solas na bhFlaitheas air

Carina and Jimmy Prendiville Abbeyfeale

Sincere sympathy to the O Connor family on the sad occasion of the untimely death of Fr. Donal.

May Fr.Donal now enjoy his eternal reward in the loving arms of the Lord.

Tom and Peggy Fox Rathmore

Sincere sympathy to Fr Donal’s family.

He was a gentleman and always so pleasant and kind to everyone. RIP .

Mary & joe coffey and family Stonecrest Beaufort Killarney

Sincere condolences to all Fr Donal’s family, a great Priest, who helped me through a difficult time. Rest in peace Fr Donal.

Maura , Kerry

Thinking of all of Fr. Donal’s family at this very sad time. A man with a huge heart who was willing to help all that he could. You will be missed greatly, your sunny aura and energy will shine upon us always. It was an honour to know you. Rest in Peace

Siobhan & Aiden O’Connor, Listowel

Fr Donal was a lovely priest and a Gentleman, may he rest in peace . Sincere sympathy to all his family and friends at this sad time .

Derry & Maria Coffey , Gap of Dunloe

Our sincere sympathies to the O’Connor families on the very sad passing of Fr. Donal. Our thoughts & prayers are with you all. May his kind & lovely soul rest in peace.

Paul & Eileen Cremin

My deepest condolences to all family and extended family members members and especially friends and people who have been touched by the wonderful work that Fr Donal did nobody could ever imagine what he did without ever speaking of his ever day help to those who needed someone to turn too like me in in my hours of need and so beautifully said don’t worry I’ll be there whenever you need me god bless you Fr Donal may you rest in peace

A Kerry mother

Our Deepest sympathy to the O Connor family on the sad & untimely passing of Fr Donal.

May his gentle soul Rest in Peace.

Denis & Catherine Mc Mahon Killarney

Fr Donal will be greatly missed – any time you’d go to his mass, you’d leave with a thought for the week and smile on your face. He was a treasure. Sincere sympathy to his family & friends. May he rest in peace

Nora Carey, Greenville, Listowel

Sincere sympathy to all Fr Donal’s family and friends. Fond memories of a kind, caring and humorous gentleman.

Margaret Hegarty Listowel

We are very sorry to hear of the death of Fr Donal.

He was a wonderful Priest.

Deepest sympathy to all the O Connor family.

May he rest in peace.

Sheila & Hugh O Donoghue Coill Beaufort

Sincere sympathy to all the O Connor family on the untimely passing of Fr. Donal it was a pleasure to have known him and as our parish priest in Beaufort. So kind, caring, humour and wit are only some of the gifts he gave to all. Rest in peace Fr. Donal

Vincent and Trina O Connor and family

So saddened to hear of Fr Donal’s passing. A true gentleman and an absolute pleasure to be around. Great craic always and feel so blessed that my husband and I had the honour of being married by him. Rest in peace Fr Donal, you will always be fondly remembered

Ciara Kelly

Sincere sympathy to Aidan, Sean, Denis, David and the extended O’Connor family on the sad passing of Fr Donal. May he rest in peace.

Marie and Eileen Carolan

Sincere sympathy to the O’ Connor family on the sudden passing of Fr Donal, he was a wonderful man and priest. Very fond memories of the lovely birthday masses he said for my grandmother in her home. May Fr. Donal rest in peace.

Caroline and Geoffrey Mahony Beaufort Killorglin

Sincere sympathy & condolences to Dónal’s family on his recent death; may he rest in peace

Mike O’Mahony, Ardfert

Sincere sympathy to the O Connor family on the sad and sudden passing of Fr Donal. May his gentle soul rest in everlasting peace.

Tony and Anne Mc Guire

Sincere Sympathy fond memories of Fr Donal Rest in Peace.

Eddie and Claire Hilliard

Sincere condolences to father Donal’s family on his sudden passing he was very good to my late mother Julia (her favourite priest) and also when I lost my precious brother Tony in 2006 he was there for me he was a real people’s person may his gentle soul rest in peace

Mary Burns née Lyons Listowel

My sincere condolences to the O Connor family, colleagues and friends of Fr Donal. His warm kind encouraging reflections will be missed. May Fr Donal’s Gentle Soul Rest in Peace.

Niamh Foley MTU

My sincere sympathy to Sean, Denis, David and Aidan, to the extended O’Connor family, to the Bishop and priests of the Kerry diocese, and to the relatives and friends of the late Fr. Donal O’Connor. May he rest in peace.

Fr. Donal, in death, as in life, may you forever be “like a river flows, carried by the surprise of its own unfolding.”

Kathleen Griffin, Coolagown, Listowel

My sympathies to the O Connor family on the death of Donal. I knew him in Maynooth and he was the friendliest, most easy going, reassuring mentor you could have as an older fellow student. I pray he has rest Eternal with the Lord.

Fr Jason Murphy Cavan

Deepest Condolences To The O Connor Family’s on The Sad Passing Of Fr Dónal. A Gentle Kind Man. Sleep In Peace.

Dónal Grady Killarney

Near a shady wall a rose once grew,

Budded and blossomed in God’s free light,

Watered and fed by the morning dew,

Shedding its sweetness day and night.

As it grew and blossomed fair and tall,

Slowly rising to loftier height,

It came to a crevice in the wall

Through which there shone a beam of light.

Onward it crept with added strength

With never a thought of fear or pride,

It followed the light through the crevice’s length

And unfolded itself on the other side.

The light, the dew, the broadening view

Were found the same as they were before,

And it lost itself in beauties new,

Breathing it’s fragrance more and more.

Shall claim of death cause us to grieve

And make our courage faint and fall?

No, Let us faith and hope receive–

The rose still grows beyond the wall,

Scattering fragrance far and wide

Just as it did in days of yore,

Just as it did on the other side,

Just as it will forever-more.

O Connor Family, Presbytery View, Rathmore

My Thoughts and Prayers are with you all, at this sad time. Fr. Donal was a lovely Priest and a Gentleman. May His Gentle Soul Rest In Peace

Maria Kelliher, Listowel

Deepest sympathy to Fr Donal’s family and friends. His untimely death is a huge loss to all who knew him. Rest in peace Fr Donal.

Vince & Mary Lowney Castletownbere

Our Deepest Condolences to the O’Connor Family on the very sad untimely passing of Fr. Donal…May his gentle soul Rest In Eternal Peace. .

John & Bernie O Sullivan Bunaghara Listowel

To David, Aidan, Seán, Denis and the extended O Connor family,

I am deeply sorry and shocked to hear of your dear brother Dónal’s sudden passing. Thinking of you all at this very sad time in your lives.

Ar dheis Dé go raibh a anam dílis.

Ni imithe uainn ach romhainn atá Fr.

Dónal.Comhbhrón ó chroí,Lisa.

Lisa Ní Iarlaithe Knocknagree Cill Airne

Deepest Sympathy. A man that lived out the scriptures.

Brian Bunyan Listowel

Our sincere sympathy to Dave, Colette, Liam, Tomas & Dara and the extended O Connor on the sad and untimely passing of Fr Donal. Thinking of ye all at this sad time.

Maura and Liam Fitzpatrick

Deepest sympathy to the O’Connor Family on Fr. Donal’s passing. I will always treasure the Rosary Beads and Thoughtful Prayer he brought me from Medjugorje on my retirement from Listowel Community College. May Fr Donal Rest in peace.

Michael Gaine, Cahirdown ,Listowel

Sincere sympathy to all of Fr.Donal’s relatives and friends. May he rest in peace.

Mary Anne Healy Kilsarcon

Our sincere sympathy to all Fr. Donal Family & many friends on his sudden passing. We will greatly remember him for the kindness he expressed to us when we ourselves experience the untimely loss of dear family member as Fr. Donal Was our priest in our parish. May you rest in peace in heaven.

Ann and Peggy O’Connor

Sincere sympathy to the O Connor family and to Fr Donal’s priesthood brothers. A pleasure working with you, rest peacefully Donal.

Cyril and Jackie Gavaghan, MTU

Our deepest condolences to Dave, Colette, Liam, Thomas and Dara and to the extended O’ Connor family on the sad loss of your beloved brother and uncle Fr. Donal. May his soul rest in peace.

Deirdre and Martin Stack Jennings Castlebar Co Mayo

My deepest sympathies to the family of Father Donal. A wonderful man will be sadly missed. RIP.

Michael O Callaghan

Deepest sympathy to the O’Connor family on the death of Fr Donal . May his gentle soul rest in peace.

David & Mary Costello Castleisland

Deepest Condolences to Fr Donal’s Family. Very Saddened to learn of his

untimely Passing. He was always kind and helpful to us all in the,

Beaufort Community Council. Rest in Peace Fr DONAL.

Tim & Nora Moriarty, Gap of Dunloe, Beaufort, Killarney

Deepest Sympathy to all O’ Connor family on the sad passing of Fr Donal you will be dearly missed.

May Fr Donal gently soul rest in peace

Brendan & Mary Murphy Droum Castletownbere

Our deepest sympathy to the O Connor family on the sad passing of Fr. Donal , a sincere , kind and caring man.

May you rest in peace Fr. Donal.

Martin & Eileen Mc Carthy, Greenville, Listowel

Our sincere sympathy to the O’Connor family, Bishop Ray, the Priests of the diocese, Staff and students of MTU and all those who mourn Fr. Donal’s loss. May he rest in peace. Supporting you with our prayers at this sad time.

Sisters of Mercy, Kerry

So Sorry to hear about Fr Dónal passing he was very popular in Castletownbere in his time there may he Rest in Eternal Peace

Finbarr O Dwyer Eyeries CTB

So very sorry for yere loss at this very sad time, may he rest in peace, good memories of Donal calling to my parents house in Headford years ago, a pure gentleman

Joe & Anne Healy Quinn & family, Blackwater

Our sincere sympathies to the family and friends of Fr. Donal. May he Rest in Peace.

Frank and Mary Ashe, Cappaganeen, Beaufort

Sincere sympathy to Fr Donal’s family on his untimely passing. Was so well liked by all at Beare Community School such a caring person was so compassionate on times of bereavement which we will never forget Fr Donal you were one in a million. Our loss is Heavens gain May he rest in peace.

Frances Murphy Eyeries Village

Deepest sympathy to all the o Connor Family at this sad time.

May Fr Donal rest in peace in his eternal home.

Leo and Eileen Collins Listowel

Deepest sympathy To The O Connor Family on the sad passing of Fr Donal . What a lovely sincere person and so understanding of all life’s difficulties. Rest in Peace Fr Donal. You are all in our prayers at this sad time

Mary Sweeney & family Tomies Beaufort

With deepest sympathy to Aidan Sean Denis David nieces n nephews relatives friends n priests on the very sudden passing of Fr Donal rip from Angela Paddy Kelvin n Faith Hannah O Connor Woodlawn Rd

Angela o Connor

Deepest sympathy to the O’Connor family on the loss of lovely Fr Donal rip. We met Donal thru Cathy Mc in Chicago & in Galway & once in Listowel. May you be comforted at this sad time.

Mary & Greg Cotter

sincere sympathy to Aidan and family on Fr Donal’s passing may he Rest in Peace ,

Dan Moynihan Barraduff and Killarney

Deepest sympathy to the O Connor family, the clergy and Bishop Ray on the passing of Fr. Dónal. He was so pleasant, so caring and so understanding with everyone he met. May he rest in peace.

Larry, Michelle & Laura Buckley, Tanavalla, Listowel

Sincere sympathy to the family and friends of Fr Donal. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Simon Quinn MTU

My deepest condolences to Aidan, Sean , David, Denis families relations neighbours and friends on the sudden and untimely passing of Father Donal O Connor may his gentle soul rest in peace Amen Eileen Keane Convent Street Listowel.

Eileen Keane

My deepest condolences to Adian, Sean David Denis families, relations neighbours and friends on the sudden and untimely passing of Father Donal O Connor may his gentle soul rest in peace Amen Eileen Keane Convent Street Listowel.

Eileen Keane

Sincere Sympathies to all The O Connor family at this time .May Donal rest in peace

Sean Horan

Sincere condolence to all the O’Connor family on Fr. Donal’s passing. May Fr. Donal Rest In Peace.

Martin Clancy MTU

Sincere condolences to Aidan & all the O’Connor family, colleagues & friends of Fr. Donal. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Kathleen O’Regan Sheppard

Sincere sympathy to Sean, Denis, David, Aidan and to the extended family on the passing of Fr. Donal May he rest in peace. From Jim and Joan Mc Auliffe.

Jim and Mc Auliffe, Rathmore village

Sincere sympathy to Aiden and to all the O Connor family on the passing of the beloved Fr Donal.May he Rest in Eternal Peace.

Eileen and Edso Crowley Killorglin

So sorry to learn of the death of Fr Donal , he was such great company and we had the privilege to have been many times, he was caring ,religious, and our boys loved him when he was Chaplain in Scol phobail Bheara. May he rest in peace.

Kitty and Peader Mcnally

Our sincere sympathy to the O’Connor Family on the passing of Fr. Donal. May he rest in eternal peace.

Hugh and Maria Ryan, Rathmore

Condolences to Donal’s family and friends.

Donal helped me through a very difficult time. Thank you for the chats and the laughs. RIP

John Tralee

Sincere sympathy to the O’Connor Families on the sad passing of Donal .May his gentle soul Rest in peace

Denny & Breda Horan O’ Keeffe Gneeveguilla

Our deepest condolences to you on the very sad passing of Fr. Donal. May his gentle soul rest in Peace in the Heavenly Kingdom and God comfort you at this very difficult time. A gentle and gifted servant gone too soon..

🙏😇🙏

Chris and Declan Bulman, née Crean Lynch

My sincerest sympathy to all the O’Connor family on the untimely passing of Fr Donal whose presence in the world brought support, reassurance and joy to so many. May he rest in eternal peace.

Bridget McAuliffe, Duagh, Co Kerry

Deepest sympathy to Donal’s family, friends Diocesan colleagues. A man of wit humour storytelling and the joy of the Gospel, May he now share at the eternal banquet in heaven.

Fr Donal Morris

Thank you Fr Donal for your presence among us. You were so good to all. May you rest with the Blessed. You will be sorely missed.

Elizabeth Gilmartin

Sincere condolences to Aidan and all the O’Connor family on the sad and untimely passing of Fr. Donal. May he rest in peace.

Bill Keane, Killarney

Deepest condolences to Fr. Donal’s family and community. At a time when we are so

short of priest it’s so sad to lose one who was so much needed

Rest In Peace Fr. Donal.

Sheila Ni Cathail

Our sincere sympathy to the O’Connor family on the sudden passing of Fr Donal He will be sadly missed by everyone who were lucky enough to have him in their lives The light of heaven to this very holy Man Rest in peace Fr Donal

Donal and Ann Clifford Beaufort

Sincere condolences to the family and friends of Fr. Donal. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Mary Brosnan, MTU

Sincere sympathy to the O Connor family on the untimely passing of Fr. Donal. He showed great empathy to all. May his gentle soul rest in peace

JJ Mc Laughlin Castletownbere

Sincere sympathy to Fr. Donal’s family and all who miss him.

May he rest in heavenly peace.

Lisa Whelan

The news of Donal’s passing has caused widespread shock to all who knew him. He was kind, caring and a support to all who needed him. He was a true follower of Jesus Christ and will be a huge loss to the many he ministered to.

My sincere sympathy to all his family, his many friends and to Bishop Ray Brown and the priests of the diocese.

Rest in peace Donal, you have earned your place in the company of the Lord.

Mairéad Fernane

Heartfelt condolences to Sean, Denis, David, Aidan, and families on the sad passing of Fr. Donal.

He was a wonderful neighbour, always so supportive, kind and caring.

I have treasured memories of our many chats, of fun filled stories.

Thoughts are with you all, at this very difficult time.

May Fr. Donal now reap his eternal rewards in his heavenly home, in the company of his dear Mom Tess, Dad Dave and brother Tomás.

Sleep in peace Fr. Donal till we meet again.

Angela Sheehan

Deeply Saddened to hear of Fr Donal’s sudden passing, Such a lovely Priest always so kind to everyone and so good humoured and a pleasure to meet. May God grant his soul Eternal Rest 🙏🏻

Mary o Shea & Family Cooleanig, Beaufort

Sincere sympathy to the family on the death of Fr. Donal.

His contribution to life in Listowel Community College was valued and appreciated by staff and students in both second level and further education sectors. He promoted respect and inclusiveness both in one to one meetings and in organized religious ceremonies in the school.

Suaimhneas siorai do.

Sean and Noreen Mac Carthy, Woodford, Listowel

Deepest sympathy to Father Donal’s family on his sad passing. He married us in September 2019.He was a gentleman and you could have a laugh with him, he will be truly missed by all who knew him. Rest in peace Fr Donal

Lawrence & Jennifer O’Connor Reen, Killorglin

We are very sorry to hear of Fr Donal’s passing. He was a wonderful priest when he was in Castletownbere. Condolences to his family.

Rest in peace Fr Donal.

Gillian & Chris Barry, Castletownbere

Sincere Sympathy To the O Connor Family Immediate & Extended On His Sudden & Untimely Passing (RIP).

FR Donal Was A Lovely Man & Great for Saying Mass & Always Came True So Clear On Webcam.

May His Gentle Soul Rest In Peace in God’s Heavenly Home.

Breda & Liam Dennehy Bawnaglanna Currow.

Liam Dennehy

Fr Donal will be remembered with a big smile. He brought such a lovely energy and presence into a room. He reached out to anyone who needed help.

He made the sacraments of Communion and Confirmation so special for the children in our school.

Fr Donal you will be missed by so many. Condolences to all the O Connor family.

Codladh Samh Fr Donal

A Kerry Mom

Lovely memories from all your friends in Rathmore Faith and Light / Parents and Friends.

Rathmore Faith and Light

To all of Father Donal’s family, we offer our sincere sympathy on his sudden passing from this life.

Brings back happy memories of his time in the Three Lakes Hotel when he was best friend with my late brother Denis .

Always a very gentle man who was full of wit and had a fantastic sense of humour.

Rest in peace. Donal.

Kieran & Eileen O’Shea, Cahirciveen

Condolences to his family and to the communities his work in may his rip

Michael Cantillon Dromkeen causeway Co Kerry

Our Condolence to all the o Connor Family on the sad and sudden passing of Fr Donal such a lovely priest. May his gentle soul Rest in Peace.

Ed & kay Hayes Listowel

Sincere sympathy to the O Connor family on sudden passing of Donal . God grant him eternal rest and our prayers and thoughts are with his family at this sad time . Sympathy to all his colleagues too on his s sudden passing . God grant him eternal rest and peace. .

Hugh Maria Ryan Rathmore

Condolences to Donal’s family, he was a ray of sunshine who lit up many,many lives and will be sorely missed RIP Donal

Mary Twomey, Tralee

Sincere sympathy to all the O’Connor family & extended family on the very sad passing of Fr. Donal such a lovely man. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Paudie Eileen & Patrick O’Connor Glencuttane Cross

Condolences to all, R.I.P.

Marie Fitzgerald Lynn

Sincere sympathy to the O’Connor family on the passing of Fr. Donal. I have very fond memories of our time in Beara Community School and Castletownbere. He was a great man and I spent many happy hours in his company and he was great fun to be around. Thoughts and prayers are with you all at this sad time. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

Margaret Fitzgerald, Ballynoe, Co Cork

My sincere sympathy to Donal’s brothers and all the O’ Connor family. Cherished memories of all the laughs and fun times while working together in Chicago.

Solas na bhflaitheas ar a anam uasal.

James Brett, Strandhill

Sincere & heartfelt condolences to the O Connor family on your great loss.

We consider ourselves blessed to have befriended Fr. Donal during his time in Listowel. He would visit our home, always with gifts. Our children adored him. He was great company, bright engaging & full of fun. He was the epitome of genuine spirituality. Fr. Donal will remain forever young which we suspect is how he would have wanted it to be. May his beautiful soul rest peacefully.

Carol & Johnny McElligott & Family, Lixnaw

Sincere sympathy to the O ‘Connor and Horgan family on the passing of Fr Donal . RIP

Martha and Sean Foley, Naas

Sincere sympathy to the O Connor family on the passing of Father Donal. Thinking of you all at this sad time. May Father Donal Rest In Peace.

Mary O Sullivan & Margaret Harrington Lackavane Adrigole

Deepest Sympathies to all the O’Connor family on the sad passing of Fr. Donal. May Fr. Donal Rest In Peace.

Mary & Martin O’Donoghue Cullina Upper Beaufort

So shocked and saddened to hear of Father Donal’s death. He was a wonderful priest, a great comfort to my late father several years ago. He loved my Mothers apple pies, in his time in Listowel, and always returned the plate in the hope of getting another one! He has left a legacy of love , kindness, and understanding to all who had the pleasure of knowing him. I hope all his family and friends take comfort from knowing how much he was loved.

Anne Sparks Killocrim

Our Sincere Sympathy to Aidan and the O’ Connor Family on the sad passing of Fr. Donal, May he Rest in Peace.

Billy & Kelly Ann Carver, Fossa,

Deepest sympathy to David and the extended O Connor family on the sudden passing of your brother, Fr. Donal .

Dan and Berenice Counihan

Our deepest sympathy to the extended O’Connor families on the sad passing

Of Fr. Donal .He will be sadly missed in all the parishes & colleges in which he

ministered ..May he rest in peace.

Florrie & Sarah O Mahony Shinnagh

My sincere condolences on the sad loss of Fr Donal.

May he rest in peace.

Nora O’Carroll, Crohane, Fossa

Sincere Condolences to the O’Connor Family on the Sad Passing of Fr. Donal. May He Rest in Peace.

Carmel Foran, Saint Johns

We extend our sympathies to the O’Connor family on the untimely passing of Fr Donal.

May his gentle soul rest in peace.

John and Susan English, Beaufort, Co Kerry

Deepest sympathy to the O Connor family on the sudden death of Fr. Dónal. Such a kind caring person. My late mam loved his visits and company during his time as PP in Beaufort. May his kind gentle soul rest in peace.

Vera Sheehan

Sincere sympathy to the O Connor family and all who mourn Fr Donal’s untimely passing. During his stay in Beaufort he made everybody his friend . His kindness and thoughtfulness for older people and those with problems and his wit and good humour endeared him to all young people . During his time in Beaufort he involved himself with all activities in the parish. He had a great way of involving young people and making them feel valued in society .He never forgot to visit people with problems especially those with long term illness .His humility, kindness and good humour endeared him to all who knew him . Ar dheis De go raibh a anam dilis .

Noel&Eileen Spillane

I was so upset to hear of Fr Donal’s passing. He was a great Chaplin in Beara Community school when he was there and a great curate in our parish. He visited our home when my late husband was very ill and he magically made us all forget our troubles for just a little while. He contacted me on the first anniversary of my husbands death, such a kind gesture. He was what the church needs most – empathic, sincere, down to earth and with a wicked sense of humour! Rest in peace Donal, you will be sorely missed.

Eileen McGrath Sullivan Castletownbere

Sincere sympathy to all the O’Connor on the sad passing of Fr Donal. our children really loved him he made school so enjoyable for them. Rest In Peace & sleep well Donal.

Hanleys The Square Castletownbere Co Cork,

Heartfelt condolences to the O Connor family on the so sad and untimely passing of Fr Donal.. He was a people’s priest, so kind and with great sense of humour. He enriched the lives of many in so many ways, and didn’t want any recognition ..He will be sorely missed in the diocese..May his gentle soul rest in eternal peace..

Anthony & Mary O Regan Castletownbere

With my sympathy to Fr Donal’s family and to his fellow clergy in the Diocese of Kerry at this very sad time.

Rev Jim Stephens

Our sincere condolences to the O Connor Family at this difficult time

Thomas, Denis and John Lyne ,Cleeny, Killarney

Sincere sympathy to Sean, Denis, David, and Aidan on the sad passing of Fr Donal. May his soul rest in peace

Joe and Kathleen O Riordan Rathduane Rathmore

Deepest Sympathy to the O Connor Family and Donals family in the church. May his precious and gentle soul rest in peace. He will be remembered for his caring nature, good humour and broad outlook into the pastoral needs of both staff and students at MTU. We are in the better of knowing you Donal. Holding Donal and you all in our thoughts and prayers.

TJ O Connor MTU

Sincere condolences to all the O’Connor family on your sad loss. Fr Donal was a gentleman with a great sense of humour. Rest in peace Fr Donal.

Claire Horgan MTU

Sincere and heartfelt condolences to the O’Connor family on the very sad passing of the great Fr. Donal.

It was always a joy to have him visit my classroom and he had an amazing rapport with the children. He never left without regaling us with an incredibly funny and witty story or even a magic trick. He made many a Communion and Confirmation Day very memorable for all the children and it was an honour to work with him in preparing them for the Sacraments.

He was as genuine a character you could ever hope to meet and words can not describe nor do him justice. He deserves all the riches of Everlasting Life.

Solas Mhic Dé ar a n-anam.

Ellen Doyle, Beaufort

Sincere sympathies to all the O’Connor family. I’m very grateful to have known Fr. Donal. A man of great empathy, compassion & kindness. Such enjoyable company & always ready for a good conversation.. May he Rest in Peace.

Catherine Moylan

Deepest sympathy to the O Connor family his parishioners and friends. From Aengus Nee, Connemara and Maynooth.

Aengus Nee

Our deepest sympathy to Donald’s family and friends. May he Rest in Peace.

Noel and Majella Keenan

Sincere sympathy to Fr Donal family and friends on his very sad passing, may he be rewarded in his heavenly home for all his kindness.

Mary Joan Mike Frank Kissane Shanara Beaufort

Deepest sympathy to Father Donal’s family on his sad passing. What a wonderful priest and human being full of love, kindness, compassion Such a thoughtful person he will be truly missed by all who knew him. Rest in peace Fr Donal..

Brian & Ellen Mulvihill Listowel

I am truly saddened to hear of the sad passing of Fr Donal Sympathy sympathy to his family bishop Ray and fellow priests May he rest in heavenly peace

Michael O Donoghue Beaufort

Our sincere condolences to the o Connor family on the passing of fr Donald.

Bob, Eileen Ferris ,Beaufort

Sincere condolences to all the O’Connor family.

Jerry and Clare Foley, Killoughane

So sorry to hear of Fr Donal’s passing. He was a lovely sincere man who had a great sense of humour. He was so loved & respected by all the residents and staff in St Mary of the Angels

Bernie Cronin ó Shea, Shinnagh & St Mary of the Angels

Our sincere sympathy to the O Connor family on the sad passing of fr Donal. He had such an amazing sense of humour God bless you will be sadly missing

Teresa Moran and family Cahirciveen

We treasure memories of Fr. Donal’s time with us in Castletownbere and offer heartfelt sympathy to his family. Ní bheidh a leithéid arís ann.

Brendan and Marese O’Driscoll, Castletownbere

Sincere condolences on the passing of the wonderful Fr. Donal . We had the pleasure of having Donal be celebrant at our wedding. Donal had great time for his parishioners , my late mom always enjoyed his company and sense of humour. May you rest in peace Donal.

Olivia & Ruairi O Rahilly

Sincere sympathy to Aidan and the O’Connor families on the sad passing of Fr. Donal .May he rest in peace .

Pat & Katherine O’ Brien Murphy Shinnagh, Rathmore,

Our sincere sympathy to the O Connor families on their great loss may Fr Donal gentle soul rest in peace

Anne & James Heffernan

Sincere condolences to the O’Connor family on the sad passing of Fr. Donal. May he rest in peace.

Bernie & Margaret Casey

Sincere condolences to the O’Connor family on the sad passing of Fr. Donal. May he rest in peace.

Jimmy & Maria Coffey, Beaufort

Sympathy to all Fr. Donal’s family and friends. He will be dearly missed by everyone that knew him . We have wonderful memories of his sermons and his caring nature. He did a lot of work in the background to help people when they needed it the most and we will always be very grateful for this. Rest in peace Donal.

Maurice Listowel

Dear Sean & Family. We are very sorry for your loss and you are in our thoughts and prayers.

Daragh Coleman & Family, Kinsale, Co Cork

Heartbroken to hear of the untimely passing of my wonderful friend Donal he was a pleasure to meet and I will so miss the chats and laughs we shared .. .. Our deepest heartfelt condolences to you all on such a sad time Our loss is heavens gain .. Fly high my wonderful funny friend till we meet again Rest in peace Donal

Shirley John G & Family

Sincere sympathy to Donal’s family and all who miss him. A caring, good and humorous colleague over the years. May he rest in peace.

Donal O’Neill

Sincere condolences to Aidan and all the O’Connor family on the passing of Fr. Donal. Our thoughts and prayers are with you at this difficult time. May he rest in peace.

Edmond Harty, Ballyheigue, Co Kerry

Sincere sympathy to Sean Denis, David, Aidan and all the O’Connor family on the sad passing of Fr Donal may he rest in peace

Denis &Judy Desmond

Sincere sympathy to Fr Donal’s family on his sudden passing. He celebrated mass with us recently at Dùchas in Tralee for deceased members of Comhaltas. He was a great character and was really well thought of in the Listowel area when he was working there. May he rest in peace.

Miriam & Martin Costello Liselton

Sincere sympathy to all the O’Connor Family on the Passing of Fr. Donal, such a lovely person, May he Rest In Peace.

Bernie & Mike Horgan, Killorglin

My deepest sympathies to the family of Fr. Donal, a much loved curate during his time here in the Listowel parish.

Rest in Peace

John Lynch, Clieveragh, Listowel

We are shocked and saddened to hear of Donal’s untimely death. We always enjoyed the banter with him and have remained friends since his student days working in the the Three Lakes Hotel in the 70’s.

Sincere sympathy to all the O’Connor family

Frank & Mary Nolan

Windway House New Rd. KILLARNEY

FRANK & MARY NOLAN

My deepest sympathy to the O’Connor family on your loss.

Danny Healy Rae

My sincere condolences to the O Connor family on the sad passing of Fr. Donal. He had such an amazing sense of humour and will be missed.

Deirdre Ahern

Sincere sympathy to the O Connor family on the sad passing of Fr Donal. May Donal rest in peace.

John & Mary Coffey Beaufort

Deepest sympathy to Aidan and all the O Connor family, Rest In Peace.

Brigid O Connor, Gleann na nGealt, Camp

Sincere condolences to all the O’Connor family on the sad passing of Fr. Donal. He was a lovely, kind man with a great sense of humour. He will be greatly missed by all the staff and students in MTU. May he rest in peace.

Pat Doherty, MTU

We are deeply saddened to hear of the untimely death of Fr. Donal.

Our sincere sympathies to all the O’ Connor family.

Such a caring man who always had time for anyone in need of support.

Students and staff of MTU will miss him greatly.

May you rest in Peace dear Fr. Donal.

Michael & Véronique Davern – MTU

I am very sad to hear of the passing of Fr Donal. I enjoyed meeting him at some MTU meetings in recent years. He lived out the Christian message through his work for and with students and colleagues. Thinking of his family and friends at this most difficult time.

Ar dheis Dé go raibh Donal – suaimhneas síoraí dá anam uasal.

Áine Ní Shé, MTU

Sincere sympathy and prayers to Seán, Denis, David and Aidan….and to the extended O’Connor Family members as well as the Bishop and Priests of the Diocese of Kerry on the sad departure of Fr. Donal to his Eternal Heavenly Reward. R.I.P.. God rest Fr. Donal’s gentle Soul. Ar dheis Dé go raibh a anam dílis.

Seán Radley, Millstreet

Sincere Sympathies to Sean David Denis Aidan and all the family at this time.May Fr Donal rest in Peace …

Geraldine Murphy Rathmore

Shocked and saddened to learn of Fr,. Donal’s passing..

Sincere sympathy to the O’Connor family. Bishop Ray , the priests of the Diocese, Staff and Students at M.T.U. Tralee and to his many friends on Fr. Donal’s sudden death. A lovely priest who always had time for an interesting conversation.

Leaba i measc na Naomh go raibh aige.

Bridie Cronin, Killarney

Condolences to the O’Connor and extended families and to the Diocese of Kerry. May Fr. Donal Rest In Peace.

Moira Lynch, MTU

My sincerest sympathies to the O’Connor family on the sudden passing of Fr. Donal. I will miss his friendly chats and witty humour. May he rest in peace.

Deirdre Ruane, MTU

Sincere Sympathy to Sean Dennis David & Aiden on the sudden passing of Fr Donal I have great memories of the many stories told during several visits to his house . May he rest in peace.

Michael & Imelda Cronin

Sincere condolences to the O’Connor family on Fr. Donal’s untimely passing. May he rest in peace.

Declan Quirke MTU

Our sympathy on the death of Fr Donal to Seán, Denis, David and Aidan, also to his sisters in law, nephews, nieces, extended family and his many friends. Guímid Solas an bhFlaitheas ar a anam fíor-uasal.

Michael and Kathleen Gleeson Clasheen, Killarney

A man I didn’t know for long but who left a profound impact on me.

RIP Fr. Donal.

Michael, MTU Student

Donal has stolen all the attention from Pope Benedict….he would enjoy that!

May his generous spirit RIP.

Tony Griffin

Sincere sympathy to Aidan and all the O Connor family on the passing of Fr Donal May he rest in peace

Ger O Shea Killarney

Sincere sympathy to Fr. Donal’s brothers and the extended family on his untimely death. He will be missed by the staff & students of MTU.

May his soul rest in eternal peace.

Brian Hayden

Deepest condolences to Aidan and all of the O’ Connor family on the passing of Fr. Donal. May he rest in peace

Dave Scannell, Listowel

My heartfelt condolences to Fr. Donal’s family on his untimely death. He will be sadly missed by all who knew and loved him during his time in Castletownbere.

May his soul rest in eternal peace.

Brenda Elphick and family Bere Island

Heartfelt condolences to Aidan and all the O’Connor family and many, many friends on the sad passing of Donal. As a cleric and individual he enriched the lives of so many people in so many wonderful ways. He epitomised his love for his fellow man in his daily life and was always conscious of other peoples’ pain and suffering. He helped so many people all over Kerry in a very quiet way through his loving and kind traits, his generosity of spirit, his deep compassion and good humour and that wonderful beaming smile that endeared him to so many.

May he be rewarded for his kindness to others and may he sleep in loving peace.

Con Dennehy, Currow

Sincere condolences to the O’Connor family on the passing of Fr. Donal, such a lovely man. Thinking of you all at this difficult time.

Mairéad Murphy Garnish Beara

Sincerest condolences to all Donal’s family and friends. Fr. Donal always had an encouraging word for those who needed it the most. He will be greatly missed across campuses and counties.

Lisa Langan MTU

We are so saddened to hear about Fr. Donal. He married us a few years ago and his presence helped to make our day so special. He was such a special man. May he get the best bed in heaven,

Gill & Declan Thornton

Sincere sympathy to all of the family. May Fr Donal rest in peace.

Eileen Sayers, MTU

Eileen Sayers

Sincere condolences to the O’Connor family at this time. May Fr Donal rest in peace.

Clare & Julie Brosnan, Knockanimirish, Headford

My sincere condolences to the O’Connor family & all who mourn Fr. Donal’s untimely passing. His kindness, understanding & sense of fun will be greatly missed by all who knew him. May his gentle soul Rest In Peace.

Alice Moylan Listowel

I was so saddened to hear of the untimely death of Fr. Donal. It was always a pleasure to meet him around the college; he had time and a smile for everyone. His softly spoken, gentle and kind words helped so many people. He will be sorely missed.

My sincere sympathies to the O’ Connor family.

May Fr. Donal rest in peace in his heavenly home.

Leaba i measc na naomh go raibh aige.

Nora Maria Ní Mhurchú, MTU

Sincerest condolences on Fr. Donal’s passing. He will be dearly missed at the MTU Kerry and by all who knew him. RIP.

Patricia O’Halloran

Dave, Colette, Thomas, Liam, Darra and the extended O’Connor family sincere sympathy on the passing of your beloved brother Fr. Donal. May he rest in peace.

Louise & Paul O’Connor & family, The Spa

Deepest sympathy to Aidan and the O Connor family, may Fr Donal Rest In Peace.

Bernard O Keeffe

Deepest sympathy to the O Conner Family on the sad passing of Fr. Donal .May he Rest In Peace .

Kathleen & Donal Clifford Ardmoniel Killorglin

So very sorry to hear about Donal. He was a beacon of light. So thoughtful, faithful, intelligent, and a mass of fun. So many memories of our time in Maynooth.

The world is a poorer place without him. Heaven will be full of laughter now. May his gentle soul rest easy in the arms of Jesus.

My sincerest condolences to all his family and friends.

Mairead Larmer

Our Deepest Sympathy to the O’Connor family on the passing of Fr. Donal. He was a kind and compassionate priest. May his gentle soul rest in peace.

PJ and Carmel Galvin, Beaufort

We’re deeply saddened to hear of Fr Donal passing many the chat we had with him such a kind and friendly man with a great since of fun our sincere sympathy to Fr Donal family may he rest in peace

Richie Jacinta Boylan Derrylea Tralee

We were lucky to have Fr Donal as a personal friend. What a lovely man. Nobody could have done more for us on our two bereavement as he did. Our sympathy to all his family. We are totally in shock. May he rest in peace with God and the angels

Frank and Eileen Greaney Listowel Co Kerry

Sincere Sympathy to the O’Connor family on the passing of Fr Donal may he rest in peace

Donie and Sheila Reen Station Road

My sincerest condolences to the family and friends of Fr. Donal.

I was lucky enough to work with Donal during my time In IT Tralee Students’ Union and he was warm, friendly, and a pleasure to be around.

We had many laughs and always enjoyed every chat and opportunity to work together.

He will be sorely missed and will be in my thoughts.

He was a very special person who made everyone feel welcome, will miss him.

Níamh Murtagh

Sincere Sympathy to Aidan and the O’ Connor Family on the sad passing of your beloved Fr. Donal. May his gentle soul Rest in Peace.

Larry and Betty Daly

So sad to hear the passing of father Dolan. Happy years working with him in Listowel church. Sympathy’s to all the family.

Bill and Mary Moloney

We were so shocked and saddened to hear that Fr Donal had departed this life unexpectedly. We had the privilege of knowing him during his time in Listowel and he enriched our lives in so many ways He was a wonderful priest and human being who was always conscious of other peoples’ pain and suffering and did many thoughtful and caring things for people in a very quiet way without wanting recognition. Fr Donal was a huge asset to the Catholic Church and he will be sorely missed. He had a very open minded approach and a great ear. I had many interesting conversations with him about religion. He had wonderful insight and could relate so well on a human level He will be sadly missed but never forgotten. He is now in his Heavenly Home and in the arms of the Lord he loved so much. Our loss is Heaven’s gain. Ní bheidh a leithíd ann arîs

Our condolences to the O Connor family, Bishop Browne and the clergy.

Kevin & Martha Woulfe Listowel

To Fr Donal’s immediate and extended family, we extend our heart-felt sympathy. He was undoubtedly a unique person and priest and is an unprecedented loss to his family and to all who were so fortunate to meet and know him. During his tenure in Listowel Fr Donal co-celebrated Deirdre and Thomas’ wedding with his friend Fr Pat Donnellan, as well as our 40th in 2009 . Gan dabht ar bith ní bheidh a leithéid ann arís. John and Noreen O ‘ Connell

John & Noreen O’Connell, Coolaclarig, Listowel

Sincere sympathies to Fr. Donal’s

Family. A very kind, caring & sincere person with a brilliant personality. May Fr. Donal rest in peace.

Catherine Doyle & Family Cooleanig Beaufort

Deepest sympathy to all of Fr. Donal’s family and friends on his sad passing.

Anne McDonnell, Retiree ITT

So sorry to hear of the passing of Fr Donal RIP such a lovely man and a great friend to my sisters Cathy and Marie xx Our condolences and prayers for all his family May he Rest In Peace

Teresa McDonagh Mullett

Deepest sympathy to the family.

Dominic and Peggy Hilliard

30 Dec 2022

DEATH of Jim O’Connor, Rathoran, Kilmorna, on December 25th, 2022. Predeceased by his parents Davy and Ita, brother David and nephew David O’Brien. Jim will be remembered by his children Louise, Jonathan, Bríd and their mother Ann, his wife Anneke and her children Connor and Móirín, brothers John and Morgan, sisters Carina, Geraldine, Mary and Cora, aunt Bridie Harnett (Ennis), daughter-in-law Krissy, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, nephews, nieces. Requiem Mass at Abbeyfeale Church on Thursday for Jim, followed by burial afterwards in Reilig Íde Naofa Cemetery, Abbeyfeale.

DEATH of Sr. Emmanuel O’Sullivan, St. Leo’s Convent of Mercy, Carlow and formerly of Listowel, on December 29th 2022 at the Catherine McAuley Nursing Home Beaumont. Predeceased by her parents Thomas and Mary and by her siblings Noirin, Maureen, Brigid, Thomas and Elsie. Survived by her sister Pat, her community, cousins, relatives and friends.

ANNIVERSARIES: Sean Kissane, Pat Mullane, Peg Joy, Bill O’Connell, Fr. Denis Quirke, Dolly Hennessy, Catherine Ann Fitzpatrick, Neilie Moran, Peg Werkman, Sr. Theresa Murphy, Donie Mulvihill, Brown Joe O’Connor, Pat Brosnan, Hannah Mai O’Connor, Tom McMahon, Patsy O’Sullivan, Nora Gould, Brenda Dineen, Eilish Hilliard.

MASS INTENTIONS: Sat.31st Dec.’22- Moyvane Private Intention at 7.30pm; Sun.1st Jan.’23- Knockanure for Michael & Teresa Bambury (Aniv.) at Knockanure -9.30am, and Mass Moyvane at 11.00am; Tues.3rd Jan.’23 Moyvane a Private Intention at 10.00am; Weds.4th Jan.’23- Knockanure a Private Intention at 10.00am; Thurs.5th Jan.’23- Moyvane a Private Intention at 10.00am, Moyvane Vigil Mass at 7.30pm; Fri.6th Jan.’23 Knockanure, The Epiphany of The Lord at 9.30am, and Mass Moyvane at 11.00am; Sat.7th Jan.’23- Moyvane for John Stack (1st Aniv.) Gale Bridge at 7.30pm;

Sun.8th Jan.’23 Knockanure for Michelle Foley & grandfather Michael Keane, & uncle Tim Keane (Aniv.’s) at 9.30am, and Mass Moyvane for Denis Flaherty (2nd Aniv.) & Parents Bridie & Con, Tubbertoreen at 11.00am.

23 Dec 2022

DEATH of Patsy (Josephine) Meehan (née Moloney) Rathoran, Kilmorna, and formerly of Woodford, Listowel, on Monday, December 19th 2022. Patsy is survived by her husband Tom, daughter Danielle, grandchildren T.J. and Jayden, Danielle’s partner Sam, brothers, sisters, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, nephews, and nieces. Requiem Mass for Patsy Meehan was celebrated at Duagh Church on Thursday, Funeral afterwards to Reilig Íde Naofa, Abbeyfeale.

DEATH on Tuesday 20th December 2022 of William (Billy) Enright Jnr of Ballymackessy, Ballylongford and originally of the Corner House, Ballylongford. Billy is predeceased by his parents William Snr. and Sheila (Keane) and his son baby William RIP. Billy is survived by his wife Mary, his daughters Marie, Sheila and Sandra, Sandra’s partner Dylan, sons-in-law Gavin and Mike, grandchildren Alannah, Jenson, Jack and David, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, aunts, uncles, nieces, and nephews.

Requiem Mass for Billy was celebrated on Friday followed by interment afterwards in Lislaughtin Abbey.

ANNIVERSARIES: Sr. Rita Donegan, Tom Wright, John Michael O’Sullivan, Noreen Hanley, Bea Galvin, Michael Moore, Julia McCarthy, Sr. Colette Stafford, Der O’Connor, Cathy Scannell, Jackie McNamara, Breda Enright, John Joe Hanrahan, Sr. Magdalene Harnett, Paddy Curtin, Tom Enright, Maureen Egan, Jimmy Browne, Irene O’Keeffe, Fr. Brendan Dalton, Elizabeth Kissane, Peg O’Shea, Sr. Felicitous Joy, Sr. Noella Crowley, John Hanrahan, Fr. James Hannon, Oife Beary,

MASS INTENTIONS: Sat.31st Dec.’22- Moyvane Private Intention at 7.30pm; Sun.1st Jan.’23- Knockanure for Michael & Teresa Bambury (Aniv.) at Knockanure -9.30am, and Mass Moyvane at 11.00am; Tues.3rd Jan.’23 Moyvane a Private Intention at 10.00am; Weds.4th Jan.’23- Knockanure a Private Intention at 10.00am; Thurs.5th Jan.’23- Moyvane a Private Intention at 10.00am, Moyvane Vigil Mass at 7.30pm; Fri.6th Jan.’23 Knockanure, The Epiphany of The Lord at 9.30am, and Mass Moyvane at 11.00am; Sat.7th Jan.’23- Moyvane for John Stack (1st Aniv.) Gale Bridge at 7.30pm;

Sun.8th Jan.’23 Knockanure for Michelle Foley & grandfather Michael Keane, & uncle Tim Keane (Aniv.’s) at 9.30am, and Mass Moyvane for Denis Flaherty (2nd Aniv.) & Parents Bridie & Con, Tubbertoreen at 11.00am.

16 Dec 2022

DEATH of Tony Dunne, Ballygologue Park, Listowel and late of Dromurhur, Moyvane, on December 13th, 2022. Tony is survived by his wife Anne, son Terry, daughter Tracy, grandchildren Cathal, Christopher, Amy and Lilly, sister Mary, brothers Packie and Tom, daughter-in-law Mary, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, nephews, and nieces. Requiem Mass for Tony celebrated in Moyvane Church on Friday 16th December, followed by burial afterwards in St. John Paul II Cemetery, Ballybunion Road, Listowel.

DEATH of Joan (Joanie) Kennelly (née Walsh), Rathea, Listowel, on December 8th, 2022. Predeceased by her husband Ned. Joanie is survived by her daughters Kathleen and Mairéad, sons Liam, Pat and Denis, grandchildren Darragh, Emmet, Dervla, Gavin, Eoin and Conor, brother Jackie, sisters Kitty (O’Keeffe) and Mai (Maher), daughters-in-law Helen, Theresa and Paula, sister-in-law Josephine, nephews, and nieces.

ANNIVERSARIES: John Mulvihill, Lila Carroll, Sr. Loretto Relihan, Michael O’Connor, Peg Meade, Neelie Buckley, Michael Carr, Sheila Kerins, Nora Crane, Mary McKenna, Michael Foley, Kieran Hayes, Fr. Kevin McNamara, Liam Foley, Desmond Groarke, Pat Moloney, Mossie Brosnan, Sr. Marguerite Shine, Sr. Maura Carmody, Mary White, Hazel Culhane, Eileen Mansfield, Mary Ryan, Michael Dalton, Margaret Lynch, John Behan, Dan Shine, Willie O’Connor, Mary Stack, John Joe Kennelly, Nancy Brosnan, Jerry Fitzmaurice, Nora Costelloe,

MASS INTENTIONS: Sat.17th Dec.’22 Moyvane for Dick, Peggy & Tom Sheehan (Aniv.) & Deceased of Sheehan Family at 7.30pm; Sun.18th Dec.’22 Knockanure a Private Intention, Birthday wishes. At 9.30am, and Mass Moyvane for Ned & Maureen Sheehy (Aniv.) Leitrim Middle & Deceased of Mulvihill & Sheehy families at 11.00am; Tues.20th Dec.’22 Moyvane a Private Intention at 10.00am;

Weds.21st Dec.’22 Knockanure for Fr. Kevin McNamara (Aniv.) at 10.00am; Thurs.22nd Dec.’22 Moyvane a Private Intention at 10.00am; Fri.23rd Dec.’22 Knockanure a Private Intention at 10.00am; Sat.24th Dec.’22 Moyvane- Christmas Eve for People of the Parish at 6.00pm, mass Knockanure at 8.00pm, and Moyvane at 10.00pm; Sun.25th Dec.’22 Knockanure for Christmas Day for People of the Parish at 9.30am, and Mass Moyvane at 11.00am; Tues.27th Dec.’22 Moyvane for Patrick Curtin (7th Aniv.) at 10.00am; Weds.28th Dec.’22 Knockanure a Private Intention at 10.00am; Thurs.29th Dec.’22 Moyvane for Jerry Fitzmaurice (2nd Aniv.) at 10.00am; Fri.30th Dec.’22 Knockanure a Private Intention at 10.00am; Sat.31st Dec.’22 Moyvane a Private Intention at 7.30pm; Sun.1st Jan.’23 at Knockanure for Michael & Teresa Bambury (Aniv.) Knockanure at 9.30am, and Mass Moyvane a Private Intention at 11.00am.

================================

9 Dec 2022

DEATH of Bridie Shine (née Shine), Glin Road, Moyvane, on December 3rd, 2022. Predeceased by her husband Jack and brother Connie. Mother of Don, Norma (Stack), Mairéad (New York) and Elaine (Broderick, Clonmel). Bridie is survived by her sons-in-law Johnny and Joe, daughter-in-law Karen, grandchildren Ellen, Shane, Laura, Amy, David, Ruth, Emma and Jack. Requiem Mass for Bridie was celebrated in The Church of the Assumption, Moyvane, on Tuesday, followed by burial afterwards in Ahavoher Cemetery.

DEATH of Sr. Anna Marie Horgan of Holy Cross Convent, Killarney, Formerly of Lisroe, Duagh on 6th December 2022. Sister of Seán and the late Teddy and Michael and sister-in-law of Catherine and Bridie Mai and the late Mary. Lovingly remembered by the Mercy Sisters, her brother Seán, sisters-in-law, nieces and nephews, relatives and friends.

ANNIVERSARIES: Margaret Moloney, Jack Conroy, Breda Leahy, Paudie Mulvihill, Pat Flaherty, Timothy O’Sullivan, Tom Mulvihill, Tom Flaherty, Fr. Brian Dalton, Fr. Bob Barry, Sr Scholastica Scanlon, Kathleen Mankin, Jim Walsh, Seamus Flaherty, Anne Cunningham, Breda Meehan, Hannah Dillon, John Dalton, Eileen Dalton, Mary Walsh, Crissie Nolan, Mathew Thompson, Paudie O’Connor, Tommy Kelly, Eddie Carmody, Tom Moran, Sr. Dympna Mulvihill, Sheila Harnett, John Dillon, Bridie Cox, MASS INTENTIONS:

Sat.10th Dec.’22- Moyvane for Denny & Kitty McEnery (Aniv.) Tubbertoureen at 7.30pm;

Sun.11th Dec.’22 Knockanure for John & Peggy McElligott (Aniv.) Lissaniskea, & daughter Betty Neumann, USA (Aniv.) at 9.30am, and Mass Moyvane for Thomas Culhane (Aniv.) Celebrant Fr. Willie King at 11.00am; Mon.12th Dec.’22- No Mass in Church; Tues.13th Dec.’22 at Moyvane for Mick Carr (Aniv.) at 10.00am; Weds.14th Dec.’22; Moyvane Private Intention at 10.00am; Thurs.15th Dec.’22

Knockanure at Private Intention at 10.00am; Fri.16th Dec.’22- Knockanure a Private Intention at 10.00am; Sat.17th Dec.’22 Moyvane for Dick, Peggy & Tom Sheehan (Aniv.) & Deceased of Sheehan Family at 7.30pm; Sun.18th Dec.’22 Knockanure a Private Intention at 9.30am, and Mass Moyvane for Ned & Maureen Sheehy (Aniv.) Leitrim Middle & Deceased of Mulvihill & Sheehy families at 11.00am.

=======================

2 Dec 2022

DEATH took place recently of Paddy McElligott, Chicago & Coolaclarig.

ANNIVERSARIES: Kitty McEnery, Sheila Nash, John Broderick, Tom Culhane, Peg Hayes, Sr. Mary Galvin, Nora Kennelly, Mary Ellen Daly, Con Healy, Fr Hugh O’Donoghue,

MASS INTENTIONS: Sat.3rd Dec.’22- Moyvane for Maurice & Joe O’Connell (Aniv.), their sister Margaret RIP & Deceased members of O’Connell family at 7.30pm; Sun.4th Dec.’22 Knockanure for Sheila Nash (5th Aniv.) Gortdromagouna & deceased of Nash Family at 9.30am, and Mass Moyvane for Sean & John O’Connor (Aniv.’s) Inchamore & Deceased members of O’Connor family at 11.00am;

Mon.5th Dec.’22- No Mass in Church

Tues.6th Dec.’22 Moyvane a Private Intention at 10.00am; Weds.7th Dec.’22 Knockanure a Private Intention at 10.00am, and Mass Moyvane for Immaculate Conception of The Blessed Virgin Mary, Vigil Mass at 7.30pm; Thurs.8th Dec.’22- Knockanure for Immaculate Conception at 9.30am, and Mass Moyvane for Patrick Scanlon (Aniv.), Moher at 11.00am; Fri.9th Dec.’22- Knockanure a Private Intention at 10.00am; Sat.10th Dec.’22- Moyvane for Denny & Kitty McEnery (Aniv.) Tubbertoreen at 7.30pm; Sun.11th Dec.’22 Knockanure for John & Peggy McElligott (Aniv.) Lissaniskea, & daughter Betty Neumann, USA (Aniv.) at 9.30am, and Mass Moyvane for Thomas Culhane (Aniv.) at 11.00am.

=====================

25 Nov 2022

FATHER Doyle’s cause officially opened at Solemn Vespers for Christ the King on Sunday, 20 November 2022 in the Cathedral of Christ the King, Mullingar.

DEATH of Angela O’Rourke (Templeogue, Dublin and late of Moyvane, Shanagolden, Ferrybank, Waterford, Sussex England, Choma, Zambia) on November 21st 2022. Daughter of deceased Elizabeth (Lizzy) and Denis (Denny) relict of Paddy McCormilla, mother of Oona, grandmother of Anna, cherished sibling of John Joe (deceased) Helena (Whyte) Michael FSC, Patricia (deceased) Timothy (Gene) Vera (Carmody) Denis Patrick, Rose (Fitzsimons) Martin and Noel.

Fágann sí croí bhriste a mac cleamhnais Andrew Norton, a clan féin idir neachtanna agus nianna, a gclainn siúd, a bpáistí, is a ngar-pháistí; a deartháireacha is deirfiúracha cleamhnais féin; a comhleachtaí scoile i St Anne I Fettercairn, Tallaght. Méala mór a bás ag a h-iar daltaí scoile, comharsain, col ceathrair, col seisir agus a muintearas uilig.

DEATH of Father Patrick J. Larkin, a priest of the Diocese of Wichita for 63 years, died Thursday, Nov. 17, 2022 at the Catholic Care Center in Wichita. He was 89. Services were held on Saturday, Nov. 26, in the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception in Wichita. A rosary at 8:30 a.m. and funeral Mass at 9 a.m. Fr. Larkin was born on March 16, 1933, in Carrueragh, Knockanure. He received his seminary education at St. Kieran’s College in Kilkenny, and was ordained on June 2, 1957. He was appointed an assistant at St. Patrick Parish in Parsons, Kansas on Oct. 21, 1957. He later served at Holy Saviour Parish, as a teacher at Mount Carmel, as an assistant at Blessed Sacrament Parish, and then returned to Mount Carmel as the director of Religious Education.

Fr. Larkin was named pastor of St. Patrick Church in Harper on July 1, 1967. Before being moved to St. Patrick Parish in Kingman in 1973, he served as the diocesan director of a Thanksgiving Clothing Drive, and of the Bishop’s Relief Collection. While at Kingman he also served on the diocesan Liturgical Commission and the Priests’ Council.

In 1984, after serving for about nine years in Kingman, Fr. Larkin was named pastor of St. Ignatius Parish in Neodesha. He was moved to St. Louis Parish in Waterloo and St. Rose Parish in Mt. Vernon in 1986. The next year he was named pastor of Mother of God Parish in Oswego and Sacred Heart Parish in Chetopa. Father served the two Southeast Kansas parishes for about eight years before being named pastor of St. Martin Parish in Caldwell in 1995. He retired three years later. Fr. Larkin was one of 63 priests from Ireland who served the diocese. Father Larkin is sadly missed by his nephews and nieces and extended members of the Larkin Family at home and abroad.

DEATH of Noreen O’Callaghan (née Buckley), Upper Aughrim, Moyvane, on November 21st, 2022. Wife of the late Dan and sister of the late John and Timmy. Noreen will be sadly missed by her son Jimmy, sisters Mary Teresa and Peggy, brother Mike, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, nephews, and nieces. Requiem Mass for Noreen was celebrated in Moyvane church, followed by burial afterwards in Ahavoher Cemetery on Thursday 24th of November 2022.

DEATHS: 11 farm fatalities in 2022 so far, says Minister of State, Martin Heydon.

ANNIVERSARIES: Eileen O’Brien, Mary Ahern, Marie Walsh, Ray Keane, Catherine White, Bridie Shine, Tom Barry, Nora Leahy, Joan Ahern, Nora McAuliffe, John O’Connor, Timmy Keane, Monsignor Liam Boyle, Bridie McCarthy, Gerald Stack, Angela Carmody,and Noreen Foley.

MASS INTENTIONS:

Sat.26th Nov.’22 Moyvane- Margaret & Johnny Meade (Aniv.) Aughrim at 7.30pm

Sun.27th Nov.’22- Knockanure for Paddy Flavin, wife Bridie, brother Jack, (Aniv.) Kilmeaney, Kilmorna at 9.30am, and mass Moyvane for Jack Stackpoole (1st Aniv.) at 11.00am; Mon.28th Nov.’22 No Mass in Church; Tues.29th Nov.’22- Moyvane for Bridie Shine (1st Aniv.) Knockanure Rd., Deceased of Shine and Conway Family at 10.00am; Weds.30th Nov.’22- Knockanure a Private Intention at 10.00am; Thurs.1st Dec.’22- Moyvane a Private Intention at 10.00am; Fri.2nd Dec.’22- Knockanure a Private Intention at 10.00am; Sat.3rd Dec.’22- Moyvane for Maurice & Joe O’Connell (Aniv.), their sister Margaret RIP & Deceased of O’Connell family at 7.30pm; Sun.4th Dec.’22 Knockanure for Sheila Nash (5th Aniv.) Gortdromagouna & Deceased of Nash Family at 9.30am, and Mass Moyvane for Sean & John O’Connor (Aniv.’s) Inchamore at 11.00am.

==========================

Nov 2022

DEATH of Michael 