THE BLOOD OF HUSSAIN

UK/Pakistan, 1981, 112 minutes, Colour.

Saalman Perzeda, Kika Markham, Durriya Kazi.

Directed by Jamil Dehlavi.

The Blood of Hussain is a Pakistani film, completed in England. The filming was completed during 1977, just before the military coup. The director escaped from Pakistan and completed his film in Great Britain. This gives the film political and historical interest.

The plot echoes Pakistani situations and is an interesting reflection on Pakistan in the 70s. The film focuses on Hussain, a hero figure, who has within him the spirit of a great 17th century martyr who was grandson of Mohamed. The film highlights the place of Islamic beliefs and zeal in Pakistan. The contrast is with Hussain's brother, married to a westerner who is unfaithful to him and who has, a business mission to Washington. The film contrasts the two brothers, the one dealing in compromise, the other a leader of his people, rallying the people together, dying heroically in battle against the army.

The film works well on a realistic level but is given a symbolic framework with a sequence at beginning and end as a white stallion seems to rise out of the ground.

1. An interesting and entertaining film? The Pakistani story? The reflection on issues in Pakistan? Its history? Politics?

2. Colour photography, location photography? Domestic sequences? Action sequences? The symbolic stallion? The musical score?

3. The title and the focus on Hussain as hero? His childhood experience? His being filled with the? spirit of Imam; Hussain? The spirit of Mohamed?, an Islamic hero? A hero of the people? His wife's death? His leading the charge against the troops and his heroic death? A saviour martyr figure?

4. The portrait of Hussain: the childhood experience, the wealthy family, the encounter in the desert, the words of the fakir, his being filled with Mohamed's spirit? The later military takeover? The contrast of the way of life of his older brother, Selim? Selim and the overseas connections? Hussain and his staying in Pakistan? Hussain's marrying, the happy marriage, the birth of the child? Hussain leading opposition against the authorities? The destruction of his home? The death of his wife? Hussain as a rebel, leading the campaign, the battles? In the desert, trapped by the government troops? The plea for water for his young child? Zahid shooting the child? Audiences sharing Hussain's outrage? The dramatic impact of his leading the charge against the troops and his Loyal girls death? A Pakistani hero?

5. The contrast with Selim? The same background? His becoming a successful businessman? The mission to Washington? His being a servant of the military government? The influence of the General? The warnings to stop Hussain and his rebellion? Selim's English wife? Her having an affair? Selim following her? His being trapped by his position? His having to accept the situation? His opposition to Hussain's marriage? Selim as a victim of compromise?

6. The military authorities, the takeover of the country? The General and his callousness? Shooting

Warnings to Selim about himself? About his brother? The presentation of the military?

8. Zahid and his role as the General's security aide? His affair with Katherine? The fathering of the child? Zahid and his ruthlessness? In the battles? The callous shooting of Hussain's child?

8. Matherine, the outside, the Englishwoman married to Selim? Her dissatisfaction with the marriage? The affair with Zahid? Her pregnancy? The symbolic nature of the ruthless and unfaithful outsider?

9. The presentation of the people: the workers, oppression, insurrection, battles? The place of women in Pakistani society? The fidelity of Hussain's wife contrasting with the infidelity of Selim, his wife? Children and the callous treatment?

10. An emotional film? For Pakistani audiences? International audiences. An opportunity to understand the ethos of Pakistan? Islam?