The chairman of a school charity has described how being made redundant led to him snagging his dream job.

Anthony Diprose, 50, spent 30 years at Lloyds Bank before hanging up his tie and becoming a groundsman at Five Acre Wood School in Maidstone , which looks after around 520 students with severe and complex learning difficulties, aged from three to 19.

The father-of-three is also chairman of Friends of Five Acre Wood School, a charity which raises funds on the school's behalf and is the Kent Messenger's charity of the year.

We are continuing to shine a spotlight on the charity's important work and the inspiring staff striving to give the pupils the best possible start in life.

Anthony, from Chatham, worked in various banking departments before progressing to anti-money laundering, digging through bank accounts to check for illegal behaviour.

In the back of his mind however, he always knew he wanted to craft objects with his hands for a living.

In 2017, as part of a company volunteering scheme, he visited the school's Boughton Lane site for a day, helping to turn bare grass into the specially designed garden that exists today, which appeals to a range of senses.

The next year, he worked on an area where students and parents can reflect on pupils who may have have passed away.

In his spare time, he constructed ornaments that could be sold at the school's craft fairs, and decorative wooden pieces to brighten the grounds.

He was made redundant when his site shut down in June last year, but the grandfather says it came at the right time.

He began volunteering at the school two days a week, under the guidance of Paul Atkinson, the head of horticulture.

"The children were playing around us and you could see in their faces they genuinely loved what we were doing.

"You could see we were making a real difference to these children's lives, it's more satisfying than responding to an email," he said.

Eight months after Anthony was made redundant, a permanent position to work in the site team came up, and he went for it, starting his new role in February.

Although government funding covers the basics, the school, which has satellite classrooms in Allington and Snodland, relies on the generosity of the community to raise cash for other much needed facilities, and staff are incredibly resourceful when it comes to populating the gardens.

"We are recycling bits into other things.There were a lot of bins being changed because of coronavirus and we are now using them as planters," Anthony said.

He has no regrets about leaving his life in banking behind.

"Back in January we working on a babbling brook and now it's great to see the kids playing in it and their happy faces. I don't miss wearing a suit and tie."

The Kent Messenger is supporting the school’s Buy a Brick Campaign, which aims to raise £50,000 for a house where older pupils, can practice life skills. So far the total stands at over £12,0000. To donate, click here.

The KM Group is committed to helping the community through the KM Charity team. For more information and to find out what other good causes you can get involved in click here.