Walt Wayne was born in Warren, Ohio in 1939. After graduating from Warren G. Harding High School in 1956, he enlisted in the United States Marine Corps for a two year stint and received an Honorable Discharge. After moving to Los Angeles, he enrolled in a two year Electronics course at Los Angeles Trade Technical College and received an Associate of Arts degree in 1964. He worked for Sears as an television technician for 2½ years in Glendale, California before returning to Warren to enroll in a Liberal Arts program at the Warren branch of Kent State University in 1967. In 1968, he transferred to the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, MN, earning a Bachelor’s Degree in Education in 1970 and a Master‘s Degree in 1980. As an undergraulate, he coached boxing for Sister Giovanni's Latino community in St. Paul, MN. He taught Technology Education for 25 years, coached middle school football for four years and directed theater for two years in the Edina Public School system in Edina, Minnesota. He retired in 1995. In retirement, Walt learned how to type and became interested in writing. He wrote numerous essays about the adventures of "Ace Diamond" and completed his first novel, “Apostle Paul’s Eighth Dead Sea Scroll” in 2021. In his youth, he played drums and sang. Walt studied acting in Los Angeles, California in the early 60s. From 2002 to 2008, he became a singer/entertainer in Minnesota and Las Vegas. Sandi, his wife, was his sound tech. They divided their time between Minnetonka, Minnesota and Henderson, Nevada. They enjoyed cardio-vascular activity, traveling, education, comedy, family, and friends. Walt finds pleasure being handy in the fields of electricity/electronics, carpentry, plumbing and auto mechanics. I dedicate this novel to my beloved wife, best friend and partner, Sandi, who died suddenly in Las Vegas from a viral infection on February 1, 2012, seven months before our 50th wedding anniversary. I achieved most to my goals in my liftetime, but what I wanted most was to love and be loved. I found that love with Sandi.

Read full bio