William Castle | Subjects | Structure and Story Telling | Visual Style | Rankings

Films: When Strangers Marry | Mark of the Whistler | The Voice of the Whistler | The Fat Man | Cave of Outlaws | Conquest of Cochise | Masterson of Kansas | House on Haunted Hill

Classic Film and Television Home Page

William Castle

William Castle was a Hollywood film director. He made films from 1943 to 1974.

William Castle: Subjects

Themes in the films of William Castle:

Skepticism about norms of masculinity (When Strangers Marry, Ship's Log, Homicidal)

Skepticism about the value of strength (The Voice of the Whistler, Homicidal) related ("successful" mobster hurts everyone: The Houston Story)

Support for Civil Rights and minority groups (pioneer dignified depiction of Harlem: When Strangers Marry, Black customers: The Voice of the Whistler, Native American rights: Masterson of Kansas, Native Americans: The Gun That Won the West)

Subjects:

People who live where they work (Mark of the Whistler, store owner has home-like back room: Mysterious Intruder, heroine at newspaper: Cave of Outlaws, hero on his boat while fixing it up: New Orleans Uncensored, beauty parlor: Homicidal, house with laboratory. apartment in back of beauty parlor: The Night Walker)

Weddings of characters who barely know each other (When Strangers Marry, The Voice of the Whistler, The Fat Man, Homicidal, surreal wedding sequence: The Night Walker)

People travel to cities (Paris: The Crime Doctor's Gamble, Brooklyn: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, Vancouver, Tucson dude ranch: Johnny Stool Pigeon, Los Angeles: The Fat Man, frontier Tucson: Conquest of Cochise)

Women who do traditional male tasks better then men, having learned them at home (car repair: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, fencing, sailing: Miss Fire)

Mute characters (messenger: The Whistler, Tony Curtis: Johnny Stool Pigeon, Homicidal)

Scandinavia connection (Swedish ship: The Whistler, Swedish heirlooms: Mysterious Intruder, Danish characters: Homicidal)

Comedy looks at petty crooks who constantly steal things (Mandy the pickpocket: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, Shifty: The Fat Man)

Rope (Naval Academy class in making knots: The Bronte Brothers, lassos: The Challenge)

Shelves (filled with food in kitchen where bad guy escapes: The Whistler, filled with medicine and chemicals in hospital: Change of Face, bookcases in husband's study: The Night Walker)

Creative Figures:

Writers (Crime Doctor hero gives lectures and has them published: The Crime Doctor's Gamble, hero wants to write plays: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, Writers Guild meeting listed on board at hotel: The Fat Man, older fisherman keeps log of his life: Ship's Log)

Artists (artist is suspect: The Crime Doctor's Warning, man hoped to be architect: Crime Doctor's Man Hunt, painter characters and paintings: The Crime Doctor's Gamble, hero draws, has sketches in campus magazine: Change of Face)

Non-Standard Relationships:

Young adults who creatively adopt a troubled older woman as their mother (heroine: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, midshipman hero: Course of Action)

Young adult heroes who build relationship with kind older man (hero and bartender: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, midshipman hero and fisherman-cop: Ship's Log)

Food and Drink:

Events delayed for meal (meeting with theatrical agent held up for lunch: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, hero's gourmet lunch being prepared by him and chefs: The Fat Man) related (beginning midshipmen go through their demands before they can eat breakfast in dining hall: Counter Flood)

Elaborate drinks prepared on-screen (bartender Mike makes Golden Horse with patter about ingredients resembling weather: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, hero's assistant makes drinks in complex equipment: The Fat Man)

Tea, as part of genteel hospitality (Cordova family asks officer hero to tea: Conquest of Cochise, widow serves young midshipman tea: Course of Action) related (lawyer makes big deal of tea being served to him at 4PM: Just Before Dawn)

Milk (manager of health-promoting gym drinks milk: Just Before Dawn, assistant Bill has stomach problems and drinks milk: The Fat Man)

Science and Technology:

Nurses (The Voice of the Whistler, Just Before Dawn, The Fat Man, Homicidal)

Simulations (small architectural models in real estate agent's office: Just Before Dawn, simulation of ship and riding animals at riding academy: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, model ships used for naval training classes: Counter Flood, training device the Dunker simulates crash landing: Ship's Log, wax figures in chapel, automatic organ, fake explosion device at end: The Night Walker)

Technology (police use bugging at finale: Just Before Dawn, early recording on cylinders: Mysterious Intruder, lithographs: The Crime Doctor's Gamble, heroine fixes hero's car: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, dental X-rays: The Fat Man, newspaper office with equipment: Cave of Outlaws, radio tracking: New Orleans Uncensored, oil pipelines, telescopes in observatory: The Houston Story, instructor talks about high tech Navy weapons and equipment: Miss Fire, hero helps friend pass thermodynamics exam, electronic navigation and Earth's magnetism mentioned: Change of Face, test pilot hero: House on Haunted Hill, inventor and laboratory: The Night Walker)

Surgery changes appearance (crooks use plastic surgery: Just Before Dawn, routine nose operation changes appearance: Change of Face)

Sports, often Training Classes:

Judo classes (at exercise gym: Just Before Dawn, at Naval Academy: Miss Fire)

Gymnastics classes (with hanging rings at exercise gym: Just Before Dawn, at Naval Academy: The Bronte Brothers)

Shooting galleries (arcade: Crime Doctor's Man Hunt, Naval Academy training range: Miss Fire, Naval Academy training range: The Challenge)

Boxers (champion arrives at Black jazz club: When Strangers Marry, hero boxes: New Orleans Uncensored, training match: The Challenge)

Communication:

Newspaper offices (opening with Audie Murphy as copy boy at Dallas News: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, Western newspaper run by heroine: Cave of Outlaws)

Mail (letter chutes in hotel, man has false name on his mail box: When Strangers Marry, alleged confession sent through mail to police: The Crime Doctor's Gamble, letters sent to young women about staying in house: Course of Action, brother holds back letter from their father: The Bronte Brothers, hero corresponds with woman through the mail: Mail Call)

Messages slipped under doors (payment to hit man: The Whistler, circular: When Strangers Marry)

Settings:

Hotels, fancy, and often with bellboys - sites of suspense and danger (When Strangers Marry, Mark of the Whistler, where the Crime Doctor hero stays in Paris: The Crime Doctor's Gamble, Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, The Fat Man, Cave of Outlaws, Homicidal)

Public dwellings (flophouse: The Whistler, apartment house with desk clerk: Mysterious Intruder, rented house: House on Haunted Hill, Bochner takes heroine to apartment building recalling "Last Year in Marienbad": The Night Walker)

Small but atmospheric nightclubs, with patrons dancing - upbeat but surreal interludes (When Strangers Marry, The Fat Man, heroine sings: The Houston Story)

Places of personal, body care (tenement clinic: The Voice of the Whistler, health-oriented exercise gym: Just Before Dawn, sanitarium: Mysterious Intruder, psychiatrist office: Crime Doctor's Man Hunt, dentist: The Fat Man, doctor who asks hero for money: Cave of Outlaws, hospital that changes hero's nose: Change of Face, beauty salon: Homicidal)

Turkish baths (in hotel with water bucket: When Strangers Marry, mentioned in dialogue that Mike takes hero there: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven)

Killers throw murder victims out the window (patient: Just Before Dawn, dentist: The Fat Man)

Suspense scene: about to enter house of mystery, danger (hero's house: The Whistler, outside villains' house: Mysterious Intruder, nurse and hotel room: The Fat Man, Bat Masterson walks into trap at saloon: Masterson of Kansas, house entered as credits end: House on Haunted Hill, climax: Homicidal)

William Castle: Structure and Story Telling

Plot structure and elements:

Plots that head toward unknown goals (When Strangers Marry, The Voice of the Whistler, classroom problems: Counter Flood, Homicidal, The Night Walker)

Complex personal histories for characters, gradually explored in film (Mark of the Whistler, The Fat Man, Homicidal)

Opening suspense prologue, followed by meeting larger cast of characters at work and home (The Whistler, mortuary: Just Before Dawn, in hotel: The Fat Man, employment riot: New Orleans Uncensored, Homicidal)

Surrealism:

Strange surrealist plot twists, that introduce the unexpected

Strange institutions (Share the Ride, hotel roof top garden, all-night pant pressing service: When Strangers Marry, registering art models at dealers for work: The Crime Doctor's Warning, house where people hide out: Mysterious Intruder, making copies in Paris of paintings used for American lithographs: The Crime Doctor's Gamble, riding academy, Santa Claus brotherhood: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, the "shape-up" lines for getting jobs, union boxing team, coffee and donuts to end date as signal man and woman go home separately: New Orleans Uncensored, drag houses to shelter visiting girlfriends: Course of Action, Pony Day at island: The Challenge, statue and passing grades: Change of Face)

William Castle: Visual Style

Architecture:

Buildings with staircases, sometimes strange (stairs leading down to jazz club in cellar: When Strangers Marry, outdoor staircase to second floor entrance at El Toro apartments: The Crime Doctor's Warning, outdoor stair to second floor entrance to bail company: The Whistler, spiral staircase in lighthouse: The Voice of the Whistler, outdoor staircase to apartments, inner staircases to connecting buildings: Mysterious Intruder, stairs in boarded-up house, stairs in mansion: Crime Doctor's Man Hunt, stairs in rough nightclub, stairs in lawyer's house: The Crime Doctor's Gamble, outdoor staircase to oil well: The Houston Story, steps outside Naval buildings: Counter Flood, giant stair where heroine looks down on hero below: Miss Fire, double staircase outside, steps to chapel, ladders to the Dunker: Ship's Log, Government House outdoor steps and inside staircase: The Challenge, outdoor staircases on grounds, indoor stairs at girlfriend's house: Change of Face, up and down staircase landings to lab and bedrooms: The Night Walker)

Panoramic views through windows (Solarium: The Voice of the Whistler, private eye's office: Mysterious Intruder, corner window in psychiatrist hero's office: Crime Doctor's Man Hunt, airport seen from lounge: The Fat Man, hero's office, observatory: The Houston Story) related (spectacular view from balcony: New Orleans Uncensored)

Underground chambers (jazz club in cellar: When Strangers Marry, basement with robbery: The Whistler, cellar of art gallery: The Crime Doctor's Warning, store basement: Mysterious Intruder, cellar of boarded-up house: Crime Doctor's Man Hunt, cellar of lawyer's house: The Crime Doctor's Gamble, cavern: Cave of Outlaws, origin of Bat Masterson's nickname and cave of bats: Masterson of Kansas, cellar: House on Haunted Hill)

Moat-like doors that can be raised and lowered (racetrack: The Fat Man, pit in cellar: House on Haunted Hill)

Visual style:

Characters seen as walking shadows (narrator: Whistler films, man arrives at mortuary at start: Just Before Dawn, hit-man: The Fat Man)

Rotary motion (chandelier of candles revolves, revolving statue of woman on giant silver dollar, elevator indicator: The Night Walker)

Camera Movement:

Lateral camera movement (couple moves down sidewalk to jazz club, later leaves jazz club on sidewalk: When Strangers Marry, down arcade, entering mansion library: Crime Doctor's Man Hunt, man walks through mortuary at start, various small entrances of characters: Just Before Dawn, man walks down sidewalk at start, woman walks left on sidewalk, hero and woman walk by fence: Mysterious Intruder, Chabonet enters his shop after murder, Crime Doctor slowly crosses young couple's room: The Crime Doctor's Gamble, women march from mansion porch towards stable: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, down row of seated clowns making up: The Fat Man, along staircase landings, Bochner moves down sidewalk to phone booth: The Night Walker) related (lateral movement showing gymnast working with row of rings followed by movement in many directions showing other exercisers: Just Before Dawn)

Diagonal camera movement (Audie Murphy as copy boy crosses news room in complex move including two diagonals: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, killer enters hotel at start: The Fat Man)

Mirrors:

Mirrors (many mirrors: When Strangers Marry, changed hero looks at himself in mirror: Change of Face, row of vertical mirrors in beauty parlor: The Night Walker)

Light:

Blinking light (blinking dance hall lights shine into heroine's room: When Strangers Marry, bad guy's apartment and light from window: Just Before Dawn, hero's office: Mysterious Intruder, explosion simulated at end: The Night Walker)

Turning lights on (hit-man turns on lights after having shades drawn: Just Before Dawn, hero turns on special light to examine patient: Crime Doctor's Man Hunt, circus ring at finale: The Fat Man, Bochner lights candles in apartment, current switch turns lab lights off and on: The Night Walker)

Color:

Blue and orange/red with occasional green: color scheme (Masterson of Kansas, Native American costumes and camp: The Gun That Won the West)

Multi-colored Native American blankets (on buggy seat: Cave of Outlaws, on saloon wall: Conquest of Cochise)

Gray clothes for hero (Cave of Outlaws, Masterson of Kansas)

Costumes:

Athletes in special gear or uniforms (sweatshirts at exercise gym: Just Before Dawn, knife-thrower in black stain costume for act: The Crime Doctor's Gamble, hero as boxer: New Orleans Uncensored, hero as swimmer on team: Counter Flood, fencers: Miss Fire, heroes as gymnasts: The Bronte Brothers, boxers: The Challenge, football: Change of Face, racing crew: Mail Call)

Bell Captain's uniform (Mark of the Whistler, Homicidal) related (hotel doorman uniform, chauffeur uniform: The Fat Man)

US Cavalry uniforms (Robert Stack: Conquest of Cochise, hero and others: Battle of Rogue River, troops: The Gun That Won the West)

Men dressing up in uniforms to which they are not really entitled (pretend Captain on ship simulation: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, crooks dress as guards on armored car: The Fat Man) related (hero sends picture of handsome other man claiming it's himself to woman he is corresponding with: Mail Call)

Masks (lion's head: When Strangers Marry, knife-throwers: The Crime Doctor's Gamble, fencers: Miss Fire, villain in disguise: The Night Walker) related (hero's disguised face: Just Before Dawn, facial bandages, football helmets described as "face masks": Change of Face)

Women in simple riding habit with tight vest (heroine at riding academy job: Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven, rancher's wife: The Fat Man)

Rankings

Here are ratings for various films directed by William Castle. Everything at least **1/2 is recommended.

Films:

The Whistler *1/2

When Strangers Marry / Betrayed **1/2

Mark of the Whistler **1/2

The Crime Doctor's Warning **1/2

Voice of the Whistler **1/2

Just Before Dawn *1/2

Mysterious Intruder **

Crime Doctor's Man Hunt **1/2

The Crime Doctor's Gamble **

Texas, Brooklyn & Heaven **1/2

Johnny Stool Pigeon **

The Fat Man **

Cave of Outlaws **

Conquest of Cochise **1/2

Battle of Rogue River **1/2

Masterson of Kansas ***

New Orleans Uncensored ***

The Houston Story **

House on Haunted Hill **1/2

13 Ghosts *

Homicidal ***

Straight-Jacket **1/2

The Night Walker **1/2

Men of Annapolis (TV series):

Counter Flood ***

Blinding Light / Honor Bright

Course of Action **1/2

Miss Fire **

Ship's Log ***

The Bronte Brothers **

The Challenge **1/2

Change of Face / Look Alike **1/2

Mail Call / The Irwin Brown Story *1/2

When Strangers Marry

When Strangers Marry (1944) is a little mystery thriller. It was reissued under the title Betrayed, and is often shown on TV by that name. The film became well known in its day as a sleeper, being praised by James Agee and Orson Welles. Welles would later work with Castle on The Lady From Shanghai (1948).

Strange Institutions

The film shows Castle's interest in strange institutions. We see the "Share the Ride" service, a unique feature of its era. There is also the roof garden of a hotel, and letter chutes. Some of these institutions share the public and private spheres of life - the "Share the Ride" gets people to share cars together, and the heroine winds up sitting next to a woman and baby, a public sharing of some else's family life. This recalls all the people who live in the place where they also work, in Castle's films. The hotel setting will also recur in Castle's work.

Noir Imagery

There are numerous mirrors and staircases in the film, hallmarks of film noir. The men also wear the sharp double-breasted suits and extreme pinstripes of the noir era. The story has an urban atmosphere, typical of noir.

Masculinity

The film contrasts two different types of masculinity in actors Dean Jagger and Robert Mitchum. Such concerns over the norms of masculine behavior are a recurring Castle theme. Mitchum is far more macho than Jagger; Jagger is more intellectual than Mitchum. All too many Hollywood films have suggested that macho is good and intellectual bad. When Strangers Marry is far more ambiguous on this subject, preferring to explore in all directions as part of its mystery plot. Castle has often shown skepticism about macho gender norms in his films.

Civil Rights

The film is startling for its non-stereotyped, sympathetic depiction of a Harlem night club. We also see dignified Black policemen. All of this is truly admirable.

The year before, Civil Rights organizations had exerted major pressure on Hollywood to upgrade its coverage of Black Americans, who were currently working hard to support the war effort. This led to such sympathetic film portraits of African-Americans as Vincente Minnelli's Cabin in the Sky (1943), Andrew Stone's Stormy Weather (1943) and Archie Mayo's Crash Dive (1943). Whether Castle's film had anything to do with this trend is not clear.

Mark of the Whistler

Castle's Mark of the Whistler (1944) shares elements with his later film Homicidal (1961). Both films have a handsome young but untrustworthy hotel bellboy. This is virtually the same character in both films, and is even played by an actor of similar type. Both bellboys are low brow, easily manipulated by bad guys. Both are all slicked up in a Bell Captain's uniform, but give the impression they are lower class and pretty two bit people. Both men are handsome, but both look cheap. Neither gives any sign of strength of character, neither seems especially macho or independent minded. Another shared character in both films: an elderly relative confined to a wheel chair, unable to speak.

Both films include cases of confused identity. In both, this involves characters who are provided with long, complex biographies, stretching back to childhood. The ins and outs of these biographies are much discussed throughout the film, and lead to new twists and developments to the plot.

In both films, various criminal events are much publicized in the media, leading to new events in the plot. This media presence forms an ominous, suspenseful background in both films. It always seems like bad news, something that is threatening to the characters.

Both films have a well to do character who hands out a large amount of cash to people. In both films, this adds to the suspense. One keeps waiting for something bad to happen as a consequence.

Both films have characters who live in apartments attached to their place of business. In both films this seems sad. It signifies a pinched life, one in which one's work is just a few steps away from where one lives, and without much variety or lived experience. Other characters in both films live in hotels, and in a big mansion. No one seems to be in a middle class apartment or house. All of these living quarters seem to have an ominous tone. The hotel suggests social alienation and isolation from a home. The mansion is soaked with imagery of a tragic family past in both films. Living there recalls demons and horrors stretching back to childhood.

Both films are full of characters the leads meet along the way. They are often operating at cross purposes to the protagonists' plans. Their presence suggests how alienated the protagonists are. Sometimes they are friendly, sometimes hostile, but they always suggest how far the protagonist is from being fully integrated into society.

There are intimations of European countries in both films: Denmark in Homicidal, Russia in Mark of the Whistler. In both films, these are related to a heavy cold atmosphere.

Although the two films have many elements in common, their order and combinations are all scrambled between the two films. The movies are not telling the same story; rather their quite different plots are built up out of many of the same elements.

The Voice of the Whistler

Castle both directed and worked on the script of The Voice of the Whistler (1945).

Castle's mystery films proceed along at least three axes: the thriller plot, the romantic plot, and a concern for the emotional well-being of the characters. All of these dimensions are interwoven in the story development: one scene might advance the mystery, the next might reveal more about the characters' romances. There is usually plenty of progress in at least one of these plots - the films are not static. Of course, new development in the character's romances might lead to new possibilities for the mystery, and vice versa.

Many of Castle's characters are emotionally troubled. They need healing, but what they get is horror. Many plot developments are measured in how such things might affect them.

Both The Voice of the Whistler and Homicidal might be called "directionless" films. These films are not working towards a clearly defined destination announced to the audience at the start of the movie. This is somewhat unusual in fiction movies. Many romantic comedies are working towards the marriage of the hero and heroine; many crime films are about a detective trying to capture some crook. By contrast, in some of Castle's films, the audience has no idea where the film is going. In fact, this sense of moving into uncharted territory creates considerable suspense. The audience is often wondering what strange thing will eventually happen. Castle underscores this by the extreme strangeness of many of the plot developments along the way: they are often things we have never seen before.

A common theme of both The Voice of the Whistler and Homicidal is normal life being undercut by concerns over money. People give up their chances for marriage and family for money. Castle suggests that this leads to horrible emotional problems. There is often a great sense of sadness built up over this waste. Similarly, in the Castle-produced Rosemary's Baby (1968), a husband and wife's normal child bearing is sacrificed for financial rewards, here literally from the devil.

A related theme: characters who have a contempt for weakness and who worship strength. These include the unseen but much talked about father in Homicidal, and the heroine in The Voice of the Whistler. Both of these characters cause all of the tragedies we see on screen. Their obsession with strength is a precipitating factor in these tragedies in both films. Homicidal even ends with a close up of the father's whip, which he used to beat in strength to his child. In both films, this strength is considered part of a normative male personality, something to which real people cannot live up. This attempt to coerce living humans into arbitrary concepts of masculinity is a root cause of the trouble. Especially in Homicidal, we see that this is part of a whole cultural complex in society, not just a personal aberration of the father.

Both films also express great anxiety over marriage. Marriage is a strongly socially sanctioned institution. But it has many disturbing aspects. Watching a woman run amok in Homicidal, and attack first a real marriage, then bridal figures in a florist shop, suggests some of the deep anxieties people have about this institution.

The Fat Man

The Fat Man (1951) is a detective story, based on the radio series (1946-1951) created by Dashiell Hammett.

A later unsold TV pilot of The Fat Man would be directed by Joseph H. Lewis around 1958. The Lewis TV-film has little connection to the Castle movie, other than both having the gourmet private eye from the radio show as their central character. Both versions do give the detective an assistant, and both show him giving a cooking demonstration to chefs in a restaurant.

Castle Subjects

The Fat Man has the complex personal life and back story of a character (Rock Hudson), as its central structural plot element. This is a principal Castle approach. As often the case, the character's identity is mysterious.

As in some of Castle's best thrillers, this leads to a string of surreal and surprising new plot developments.

There are also standard Castle characters and settings:

A nurse.

A wedding between two people who are nearly strangers.

Suspense sequences in a fancy hotel.

A nightclub which furnishes both an upbeat change-of-pace, and its own strange atmosphere.

An office specializing in personal, body care: here a dentist's.

The hit-man seen as a moving shadow, recalls the narrator of the Whistler films.

Mutable Men

Hudson's character also seems highly mutable - he often changes in appearance with each new sighting in the story. The same is true of both John Russell's mobster, and the chauffeur. Costume changes are common in Hollywood films - but the drastic changes of clothes, appearance and style of these men goes beyond this. They often seem to change in social class from scene to scene.

Surrealism

There are Castle surrealist touches:

The strange, one-person car.

The over-kill in the opening murder, with three different tools of death.

The teeth X-Rays.

The charm bracelet.

A proposal in a zoo.

The clowns.

The minstrel singer (something odd in a director as pro-Civil Rights as Castle - and NOT endorsed by the film).

The strange doorway in the racetrack, opening downwards like a moat bridge.

Cave of Outlaws

Cave of Outlaws (1951) is a Western with elements of crime and suspense. It has a creepy atmosphere, of a kind that is common in horror films, but much rarer in Westerns. In some ways, it feels more like one of Castle's suspense films, such as his Whistler entries, rather than any sort of typical Western. The cave scenes are full-tilt eerie, and there are also suspense passages of the hero being stalked at night.

The heroine is one of many Castle characters who live where they work: she has a suite of rooms in back of her newspaper office.

Surrealism

A surreal touch: two little kids play at being the main characters in the movie.

When the outlaw hero visits a doctor, the noble doctor asks him to fund a hospital. Everyone else in town wants the hero's money - but having a doctor make a touch is a surreal extreme. Places of bodily care like the doctor's office run through Castle.

Color

When the grown-up hero first rides into town, the exteriors are in red-and-green.

Soon, the hero is at a poker game, which also is in red-and-green. A green card table matches a huge green window shade behind it. Some red poker chips make a contrast.

The inside of the hotel is green, with yellow lettering as an accent on the door. The heroine (Alexis Smith) is introduced there wearing the same colors: a green dress, with yellow flowers as an accent in her hat. The wood on the hotel desk is reddish, but it is much less prominent that the green and yellow.

The caverns are full of rocks with yellowish gleams, especially by lantern light.

The hero is often in gray suits.

Conquest of Cochise

Conquest of Cochise (1953) is a Western.

Color

Most of Castle's work was in black and white. This is especially true of the crime thrillers on which he spent most of his career. Castle's 1950's Westerns give us a chance to see him working in color. Not unexpectedly, his color sense is truly flamboyant. Conquest of Cochise is in rich color. If the characters enter a saloon, there will be a brilliantly colored rainbow hued Native American blanket on the wall behind them. Both men and women will be in brightly colored outfits. Not for Castle the 1940's musical convention that men are in dark hues and women in bright pastels. Here everybody is in a bright colored outfit. These tend to be in one color from head to toe.

Masterson of Kansas

Masterson of Kansas (1954) involves such familiar characters as Bat Masterson, Wyatt Earp and Doc Holliday. It is part of a post-1945 trend to make Western films sympathetic to Native Americans, and which rail against the injustices done them.

The hero's story of how he got the nickname "Bat", involves a cave full of bats during his childhood. The cave imagery recalls Cave of Outlaws.

A Crime Movie

Masterson of Kansas mixes crime film elements with the Western genre. Its main story goal, is an attempt to prevent an innocent man who has been convicted of murder from being executed. Bat Masterson tries to find a witness who will clear the prisoner. This is a familiar plot in mystery fiction, often used by Cornell Woolrich.

Bad guys attempt to hire gunslinger Doc Holliday to kill someone. This is just like the "hit-men for hire" in modern day crime tales. The Whistler features such a hit-man.

The macabre comedy about the fake "dead" body, complete with hearse, anticipates in tone some of the comedy thrillers Castle would later do.

Color

The film is notable for its creative color design. It employs a mixture of red and blue, sometimes with cool greens as well. This is the same color scheme used by George Cukor in A Star is Born (1954), Vincente Minnelli in Some Came Running (1959), and such contemporary film makers as Pedro Almodóvar and Gus Van Sant. It is startling to see it in an old Hollywood film like this. Sometimes Castle employs the orange-reds favored by these two film makers. Other times, he uses more of a pure red, or even a pink. Still, he employs the same color scheme as these two modern stylists, and with the same visual enthusiasm.

When the US Cavalry rides up in this picture, most are on bright red-haired horses. The red horses contrast vividly with their blue Cavalry uniforms. The whole red-blue effect is quite eye-filling. When the characters play poker, they use a mixture of red, white and blue chips. These are the colors of the US flag, and are especially visually forceful on screen. The sets, the outdoor Western town buildings, the props like the poker chips and the costumes all follow the same red and blue scheme. Clearly, everybody involved worked together in advance on this. One bad guy's shirt is especially unusual. This Western shirt has broad alternating bands of blue and pink: not your typical Western shirt colors. These are visually superimposed over thin white grid lines. Every time this guy shows up, his shirt adds immeasurably to the overall red-blue color scheme of the shot.

Greens are often introduced by the vegetation outside. The green card tables on which the characters pay poker are also a cool, intense green. The green has a refreshing aspect here, just as it does in Almodóvar and Van Sant. Neither film maker emphasizes green; it just comes in on occasional shots. It offers a systematic alternative to the red and blue of the other shots.

The hero, played by George Montgomery, is not in any of these colors. Instead, he wears a gray outfit with white shirt. This makes him look visually distinctive among all these colors. Gray is elegant looking, with an upper crust feel. The hero's shirt is particularly fancy, having a series of V shaped pleats. He also wears striped trousers that have an "official", Sheriff-like feel.

House on Haunted Hill

House on Haunted Hill (1959) is a thriller.

Architecture

House on Haunted Hill offers very light weight, toned down versions of Castle architectural motifs:

Castle likes buildings with unusual staircases; House on Haunted Hill often features events on the stairs to the upper floor, and to the cellar - but they are conventional stairs without unusual features.

Castle likes suspense scenes of people about to enter threatening houses; House on Haunted Hill opens with the characters exploring the outside of the house, then has them enter as the credits end, over Castle's name. It is dramatic and atmospheric, and even a little scary - but it is hardly full scale "suspense".

The rented house, with bedrooms for all the guests, is a bit like the hotels in other Castle.

The cover to the pit can be pulled up, like the stranger moat-like door at the racetrack in The Fat Man.

The cellar recalls another underground chamber of mystery: the cavern in Cave of Outlaws.

Test Pilot

Richard Long, who has the handsome hero slot, plays a test pilot. Test pilots were big in this era:

Toward the Unknown (Mervyn LeRoy, 1956) showed test pilots

President Eisenhower insisted that the first astronauts, the Mercury Seven, be chosen from among test pilots. This was in 1959, while House on Haunted Hill was shot in 1958.

Comic book super-hero Green Lantern was a test pilot in his secret identity. He debuted in Showcase #22 (September-October 1959).

Long often played skilled, intelligent characters. He was a lawyer on The Big Valley and a mathematician on Nanny and the Professor.

Genre and the Supernatural

SPOILERS. Although it takes place in a house that is supposedly haunted, and people constantly talk eerily about ghosts, the film is actually mercifully free of any supernatural explanations for the events.

In general, Old Dark House mystery thrillers lack genuine supernatural events. So House on Haunted Hill is in keeping with genre traditions. Also, the 1950's were a rationalistic age, one that admirably resisted any belief in the supernatural.