Today, we celebrate the birthday of one of Africa’s greatest literary figures, Wole Soyinka, as he turns 90 years old. Born on July 13, 1934, Wole Soyinka is a Nigerian playwright, poet, and political activist who has made significant contributions to literature and politics. In 1986, he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature – becoming the first Black African to receive this award.

Wole Soyinka’s works often draw inspiration from Yoruba culture, tales, and traditions. Also, they offer the world a portrayal of life in Nigeria. Below are five must-read books by Wole Soyinka that showcase his storytelling of the Nigerian society.

1. The Man Died: Prison Notes

“The Man Died” is a memoir by Wole Soyinka during his imprisonment. In 1967, after appealing for a ceasefire in an article during the Nigerian Civil War, Soyinka was accused of treason for allegedly supporting the Biafra movement. He was imprisoned for twenty-six months, during which he wrote this non-fiction book. He narrates his experience with being imprisoned without a trial and the effects of solitary confinement on his mental state in the book.

2. The Lion and the Jewel

“The Lion and the Jewel” is a comedic play that explores the contrast between tradition and modernity in a Yoruba village. The story revolves around Sidi, known as “The Jewel,” who Lakunle, a modernist schoolteacher, and Baroka (The Lion), the traditional village chief, are both courting. Through humour and satire, Soyinka explores themes of pride, vanity, and gender roles, as the Lion hunts the Jewel.

3. The Trials of Brother Jero

“The Trials of Brother Jero” is a satirical and comedic play that exposes the pretense and hypocrisy of religious leaders. The protagonist, Brother Jero, is a self-proclaimed prophet who manipulates his followers for personal gain. He knows the desires of his congregation – wealth, money, and power, and he uses that to keep them in a submissive position. With wit and irony, Soyinka exposes moral corruption and deception in a religious environment.

READ ALSO: Wole Soyinka: From Ake To Ijegba Forest, A Life In Full

4. Death and the King’s Horseman

Based on a real-life incident, “Death and the King’s Horseman” is one of Soyinka’s most acclaimed plays. It tells the story of Elesin, the king’s horseman. Following the death of the king, Elesin is required by tradition to commit suicide to accompany the king to the next world. However, he is unable to do so due to the intervention of the British authorities, and also because he has moments of hesitation. Additionally, the play shows a clash between British colonial authorities and Yoruba traditions. A popular quote the book ends with is “Now forget the dead, forget even the living. Turn your mind only to the unborn.”

5. The Beautification of Area Boy: A Lagosian Landscape

“The Beautification of Area Boy” is a play set in Lagos, Nigeria, and provides a portrayal of urban life and survival. The story follows Sanda, an area boy and security officer, who navigates life in a hustle and bustle city. A wedding between two influential families ensues, to which Sanda is invited. Miseyi, the bride carries a gourd of palm wine in search of her husband as tradition requires. After being unable to find her soon-to-be husband, Miseyi drops the palm wine in front of Sanda. Thereafter, chaos breaks out. The book explores themes of abuse of power and status imbalance in society.