･ ･ﾟ*｡★･

･ *ﾟ｡ * ･ ﾟ*｡･ﾟ★｡

☆ﾟ. ﾟ* ﾟ｡·*･｡ ﾟ* *

☆ ｡.｡ * *

｡ ･ ﾟ ｡

Parth Samthaan (born 11 March 1991) is an Indian television actor. He is known for playing the role of Manik Malhotra in MTV India's Kaisi Yeh Yaariaan. Currently, he is portraying the role of Anurag in Star Plus's Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2.

Parth started his career as first runner-up in Pantaloon Fresh Face 2012. In his modelling career, he appeared in ads for brands such as Close-up and Coca-Cola. He worked in episodic series like Life OK's Savdhaan India, MTV India's Webbed, Bindass's Yeh Hai Aashiqui, and Zing's Pyaar Tune Kya Kiya. His first lead role was Prithvi Sanyal in Channel V's Best Friends Forever. Later, he appeared as Manik Malhotra in MTV India's Kaisi Yeh Yaariaan.His character was reinstated for further seasons. Apart from acting, he did playback singing as well.In 2015, he was placed 11th in Eastern Eye's Top 50 Sexiest Asian Men list.Parth had signed his first Bollywood debut, Googly Ho Gayi, as well as two more movies (details to be confirmed).He has done playback singing for his second song Jind Meri. Currently, he is portraying Anurag Basu in Kasautii Zindagii Kay 2.

Instagram: the_parthsamthaan

Twitter: @LaghateParth

Facebook: TheParthSamthaan

India-Forums Profile: parth-samthaan

･ ･ﾟ*｡★･

･ *ﾟ｡ * ･ ﾟ*｡･ﾟ★｡

☆ﾟ. ﾟ* ﾟ｡·*･｡ ﾟ* *

☆ ｡.｡ * *

｡ ･ ﾟ ｡

Erica Jennifer Fernandes (born 7 May 1993)better known by her stage name Erica Fernandes is an Indian film actress and model who has appeared in Kannada, Hindi, Tamil and Telugu language films. Prior to her film career, she took part in Femina Miss India 2012 beauty pageant, finishing in the top 10. Since 2010, she has taken part in pageants and notably won Pantaloons Femina Miss Maharashtra 2011 amongst other titles.

Erica auditioned to play the lead role in S. J. Surya's Isai. She subsequently was selected to play the lead role in the bilingual Virattu/Dega. Director Sasi had seen pictures of Erica at Meera Kathiravan's office, with whom she was shooting another film when he was casting for Ainthu Ainthu Ainthu. Sasi offered her the role of a software engineer in the film. Due to the delay of her other films, Ainthu Ainthu Ainthu became her first release. In 2014, she made her debut in Kannada with the film Ninnindale, which was followed by her debut Hindi film Babloo Happy Hai, directed by Nila Madhab Panda. In February 2014, Virattu eventually released. Its Telugu version, however, was pushed to late 2014 and Galipatam became her first Telugu release. The film received decent reviews from critics, who also noted that Erica "does a good job" and "shows maturity in her acting".Her delayed film with Kathiravan, Vizhithiru released on 6 October 2017 and sees her feature amongst an ensemble cast. In 2016, Fernandes was seen as Dr Sonakshi in Kuch Rang Pyar Ke Aise Bhi. Currently, she is portraying the role of Prerna Sharma in Star Plus's Kasautii Zindagii Kay.

Instagram: iam_ejf

Twitter: IamEJF

Facebook: IamEricaFernandes

India-Forums Profile:Erica Fernandes

(Credits to Sakeena)

Offscreen they are good friends. Parth calls Erica 'Prerna' and Erica calls him 'Partho.' Parth commented about their friendship: "I remember meeting Erica for the first time on the set. We hit it off right away. Erica and I are around the same age so, it was really easy to get along with her. "She is an amazing person and we have a lot of fun in between shots.

(Credits to Me)

She is an experienced actress and is multi-talented so I get to learn a lot from her. It's great that our off-screen friendship is translating really well on-screen and viewers are enjoying our on-screen chemistry."

Erica says "We are good friends and have a great working relationship."They won best Jodi at Indian Telly Awards 2019.

(Credits to priya)

DO NOT COPY THIS POST AS THIS IS EXCLUSIVE TO INDIA FORUMS

･ ･ﾟ*｡★･

･ *ﾟ｡ * ･ ﾟ*｡･ﾟ★｡

☆ﾟ. ﾟ* ﾟ｡·*･｡ ﾟ* *

☆ ｡.｡ * *

｡ ･ ﾟ ｡

Appreciation Thread: Appreciation threads are to be used to praise and appreciate particular favorite actor/actress/celebrity. All discussions related to actor's/actress performance, looks, style and personality can be confined to ATs. Please don't use the AT's as a forum to bash/mock/discuss other celebrities/members/characters, discuss what is happening on the forum or elsewhere on IF or other social networking sites, basically keep it related to what the AT is about.

The word "Appreciate" itself means to have a highly favorable opinion of someone or something. You are supposed to appraise the value of the work of the actors and express them in a positive light.

A thread where all the fans of the Actor/Character/Couple gather to discuss what they liked. In essence, Constructive criticism/Positive Outlook towards Actors/Characters/Jodi must prevail in these threads.

Members must understand discussions are restricted in ATs.ATs are safe zones for the Actor/Jodi fans to exchange information without being subject to negativity. You have the main forum to present opinions negatively and debate.So Discussion of actors/ characters/ performances and story tracks that do not directly relate to the show or whom the AT is dedicated to should be kept to a minimum, in particular when they imply stating negative opinions.

Do not discuss Niti Taylor/Hina/KSG separately or in any jodis - you can posts updates related to the show or episode only no lengthy discussion

No swearing at all

Do not discuss couples/fan groups unrelated to the show.

a. Chatting: We do allow minimum chatting in ATs, provided it is related to this AT alone. Additionally, Do not spam with just emotions/numbers to increase post count/pages. Do not quote long quotes. Quoted posts should be small.

ATs are open for everyone, however, do not invade the AT with the purpose to rile up the fans or instigate them. Everyone has their right to voice out their opinions and should NOT be judged/generalized based on their likes/dislikes.

If any of your fellow members/friends fails to follow the rules, kindly ask them to edit out or tell them its wrong rather than joining them and aggravate the issues further and equally responsible for carrying forward an unfavorable situation. Hence be responsible and take responsibility because that way you may prevent action taken against your AT thread.

ATs/discussions threads can NOT be used to target other members and NO pinpointing activity/mock or taking digs here toward other fan groups. Any derogatory references or name callings against actors /characters/AT admin/members/Dev team members are strictly PROHIBITED here.

b. Report: If you see anyone breaching the rules in any of the threads in the main forum, you will not come here and rant it out about it and snowball the issue further! Instead, make use of the "REPORT" button and report the thread by stating the reason clearly. As soon as the Dev Team comes online they would take the necessary action.

We can assure you guys that we only take action where it's a legit reason.

Bashing of other Jodi/Actors/Characters in ATs is NOT permitted at all. If members of an AT are caught discussing other actors/couples negatively, then AT will be held liable for it and may be subject to warnings & eventual closure/Ban

c.Mythological references: Strictly refrain from using mythological references/names to any of the characters in the show, Calling any character as "Ram/Sita/Ravan" to mock/discuss, other characters, directly or indirectly, in the ATs or elsewhere in the forum will NOT be tolerated . Please do not use mythology to defend any character .

Having said that members must strictly refrain from any sort of name calling characters in the forum, which are used to mock and provoke other fandoms. Please remember, if you name call a character, your favorite will also be name called , which you will not like, so to keep it simple, please confine to the names used in the show.

d.Name calling: of other fandoms/members will not be tolerated on any level and members involving in such will be dealt with severity

While criticizing something, there are times when members tend to go overboard and use certain derogatory and downright offensive words which shouldn't be used for any celebrity/member/DT member. Please remember that any derogatory references, comparing celebrity/member to animal or name calling any person [celebrity/member/DT member] is against forum rules, and strict action will be taken against those who indulge in it. Name calling is allowed only and only if it is used to describe a character or his/her behavior. Also, names used in the show can also be used given it is used in context of the show or particular scene it was used for and not otherwise to take dig/mock the character. Any abusive names are not allowed and will be edited or removed at the DT's discretion.

Please avoid name-calling of any Characters, Members, DTs, CVs or Actors. Here is the modified list of names which are used to mock generally in the forum. We will keep updating it. It doesn’t mean that you can use any mock names which aren’t in the thread, it’s just to clear things for members.

Mata for Ekta Kapoor

Haddipie or similar derogatory term for AnuPre's Kid

Gober

Doormat

Buzurg

Shawlmate/Chawlmate

Nanny for Prerna

TRP Aunties

Polyester Pajama

Flopre

Dumb

Weirdo

Note : 06-03-2020

We had restricted the use of dumb and weird for character earlier. Some members had PMed us and we realised we have not explained it completely and it restricted character criticism. It is okay to use dumb/weird to describe something characters did.

When you are calling a character dumb, kindly justify why do you think his/her actions are dumb/weird/idiotic. Don't just use it to mock characters or instigate fights.

For example : it was so dumb of xyz to do something.

this is also allowed xyz seems dumb because...

xyz is a dimwit because

xyz's actions seemed idiotic

What is not allowed :

Calling other characters dumb/weird/dimwit in ATs for other couple.

Calling any member/creative/actor/DT as dumb/weird

Please dont use these on kids.

Refer to rules at Rules and explanations. ||06/03|| and KZK Rules and Regulations as on 29.01.20. *IMPORTANT*

If the DT sees more than 3 people breaking the AT rules constantly for a week, the effects of violations will kick start, which go as follows:

First Violation - Warning Note

Second - Another Warning Note

Third - Another Warning Note

Fourth - Close the AT for 24 hrs (1 Day)

Fifth - Close AT for 72 hrs (3 Days)

Sixth - Close AT for 1 week (7 Days)

Seventh - Get rid of AT completely from the forum/Shift it to Celebrity Fan Club Forum.

The rules are applicable for multiple violation and not a single post as it will be dealt with individually!

DT will go through the reports and only if we find the report valid based on the above rules, then we will speak to the Admins of the AT and action will be taken accordingly as stated above.

･ ･ﾟ*｡★･

･ *ﾟ｡ * ･ ﾟ*｡･ﾟ★｡

☆ﾟ. ﾟ* ﾟ｡·*･｡ ﾟ* *

☆ ｡.｡ * *

｡ ･ ﾟ ｡

- It is okay to discuss either of the actors to a certain point. Please don’t go overboard with that

- Discussion regarding any actor’s past show/personal life is strictly prohibited.

- Criticism is welcomed in AT but that too has a limit. Constant criticism will not be tolerated since its an appreciation thread.

- Name-calling is strictly prohibited. Usage of Mythological names/animals/derogatory names will strictly face consequences.

- Do not report one post more than one time.

- DT decides what action to take and when to take until then don’t indulge yourself into fights inside or outside AT. AT matters should not be discussed or mentioned outside AT. If found, we will trash those post immediately and the AT will automatically get a warning.

- Discussing other fandom/fellow AT members/AT Admin/DT members (ex or current) is strictly prohibited. If found, WL will be increased without any prior notice.

- Mocking/Bashing/Insulting/Bullying/Moral Policing/Harassing fellow AT members/ATAdmin/DT members (ex or current) inside the forum or outside of the forum regarding this forum related issue will be dealt strictly and will have consequences.

- We can assure you guys that Mods only take action where it's a legit reason. However, here is a little catch for the stalkers who just want to report in order to get the AT closed down

- If you report any post/comments that have no legit reason, you will be reliable for action against you for stalking.

- DTs will be constantly monitoring all ATs of this forum for some time. They will also be alternating amongst themselves, which will be informed to AT Admins from time to time. Please note that your first point of contact will always be AT Admins and AT Admins will have direction from DTs. So if they inform you something there are chances that they are being directed by the DTs. However, if you have any issues regarding that PM the designated DT of the AT instead of indulging yourself in any fight with the Admin.

- You are not allowed to bring other post issues in the AT. If we close a particular post you are not allowed talking about it in the AT. And it goes the other way as well if DT note is posted in the AT it should not be discussed or talked in any other thread. If found we will increase the WL without warning.

- Limited chitchats are allowed in the AT. Further, if you wish to continue you can use Chat Club for that. Chatting just to increase AT pages will not be entertained and will be trashed or shifted to chat thread without notice. So don’t be surprised to find your posts elsewhere.

Refer here Appreciation Thread Rules as on 29.01.2020