99 Cents Only Stores is a price-point retailer chain based in Commerce, California. At one time the store offered products at 99¢ or less. It now offers products starting at 99¢ on up. Founded by David Gold in 1982, most of the stores are located in Southern California, with others in Nevada, Arizona and Texas. The company also operates Bargain Wholesale, which sells wholesale to retailers across the United States and exports to more than 15 countries from showrooms in Los Angeles and Houston. It also exhibits at tradeshows in Las Vegas and Chicago.

Acornsoft was the software arm of Acorn Computers, and a major publisher of software for the BBC Micro and Acorn Electron. As well as games, it also produced a large number of educational titles, extra computer languages and business and utility packages - these included word processor VIEW and the spreadsheet ViewSheet supplied on ROM and cartridge for the BBC Micro/Acorn Electron and included as standard in the BBC Master and Acorn Business Computer. Acornsoft was formed in late 1980 by Acorn Computers directors Hermann Hauser and Chris Curry, and David Johnson-Davies, author of the first game for a UK personal computer and of the official Acorn Atom manual "Atomic Theory and Practice". David Johnson-Davies was Managing Director and in early 1981 was joined by Tim Dobson, Programmer and Chris Jordan, Publications Editor. While some of their games were clones or remakes of popular arcade games, they also published a number of original ground-breaking titles such as Aviator, Elite and Revs which went on to spawn entire genres that live on to this day.

Advanced Gravis Computer Technology, Ltd. was a manufacturer of computer peripherals and hardware. The company was founded in 1982 in British Columbia, Canada. Their most famous products were the Gravis PC GamePad, at one time one of the most popular gaming controllers for the PC, the once-ubiquitous Gravis Joystick, and the Gravis Ultrasound add-on card, competitor to the Sound Blaster. At its peak, the company had almost 300 employees, and was at the time the world's largest manufacturer of computer joysticks and gamepads. The company was acquired by Kensington Computer Products Group in 1997 and has essentially disappeared.