Report Error

Information

One E 161st St

Yankee Stadium

Bronx, NY 10451

XXX-XXX-XXXX

yankees.com

The New York Yankees are a Major League Baseball (MLB) team playing in the American League (AL) and based in New York City's Bronx borough, playing at Yankee Stadium.

The club actually began play in 1901 in Baltimore as the Orioles (no relation to the modern Baltimore Orioles).

In 1903, Frank Farrell and Bill Devery purchased the franchise (which had ceased operations) and moved it to New York City, renaming the club the New . . .

To read the most recent two months of TMR Insider™ news and insights, simply register for FREE Rookie membership. Rookies can view select TMR Insider™ content as well as our most recently published Fan Cost Index® report.

Already a member? Sign In HERE.

If you need access beyond a Rookie's to enable you to...

Dive into our 5,000+ SportSponsor FactBook™ profiles that contain contact information for 15,000+ decision makers;

View 120+ Fan Cost Index reports from the past 30+ years; and/or

Access TMR Insider newsletter content from our archives back 1988...

You can easily upgrade anytime to an All-Star or MVP membership based on your needs.

Click here to join (or upgrade) now.

Want to establish a multi-user account because you are...

with a team, league, brand, agency, property, etc.?

a professor or teacher looking for access for a class or sports management program?

Contact our publisher, Chris Hartweg, at chartweg@teammarketing.com for pricing today.

Additional Offices / Facilities

Yankees Spring Training

1 Steinbrenner Dr.

George M. Steinbrenner Field

Tampa, FL 33614

FanCostIndex

Team FCI content is available to Pro and Premium Members!

Upgrade Now

Ownership / Management

CEO

Parent Companies

Yankees Global Enterprises, LLC

Board of Directors

Key Decision Makers

Personnel

Current Work Relationships

Teams

League | NGB | Assoc

Sponsorship Info

Sponsorship Info is available to Pro and Premium Members!

Upgrade Now