Arriving in plenty of time for Halloween but also for changing the clocks, Last Night in Soho is a time-travelling mystery that focuses on the supernatural connection between a young fashion student in the present day and a glamorous singer in the 1960s. If the intriguing premise isn’t enough, there’s an impressive pedigree behind it: Edgar Wright of Shaun of the Dead, Hot Fuzz and Baby Driver directs Anya Taylor-Joy of The Queen’s Gambit fame as the glamorous Sandie and rising star Thomasin McKenzie as her unworldly counterpart Eloise. Add to that some real Sixties stars in the shape of the late Diana Rigg (in her final role), Rita Tushingham and Terence Stamp and there’s plenty of reasons to get back in the cinema.

As the title suggests, this is also about a place – and that’s taken very seriously. Soho is Wright’s home turf – 'I’ve spent more time there than any sofa or any flat that I’ve ever lived in,' he claimed recently – and the story was inspired by his travels through this history- and culture-rich corner of London’s West End. Shooting there was part of the point of the film, revisiting a history of British pictures set and filmed there in the 1960s and 1970s. The decision made life hard – as he pointed out in a recent interview, one of Soho’s defining characteristics is that, 'It’s the only area of London that is essentially 24/7,' making filming inconvenient and rushed. The result was a shoot conducted in the smallest hours, with little room for mistakes.

The results are there to see on the screen – one of London’s greatest jewels immortalised and recreated once more. Here’s our guide to how – and where – he did it.

Soho, London

The film gives us a whirlwind tour of the Soho district, famed as a centre both for the sex trade and for fashion and film, most of it seen at night. Stops include Great Windmill Street, with legendary burlesque theatre The Windmill (now a theatre and restaurant), and neighbouring Old Compton Street, historic centre of gay London. We also see Carnaby Street, Greek Street and Berwick Street, as well as Soho Square (with its landmark hut at the centre) and the streets that lead off it.

Shooting in the area was even harder than imagined, Edgar Wright admitted to The Hollywood Reporter. 'It’s always busy,' he said. 'It’s only between 3am and 7.30am where it’s actually quiet, and I know that specifically now because I’ve done it.' In the end, he found that the only way to stop members of the public walking into shot was to fill the pavements with extras: 'It’s a war of attrition; you have to keep staking out your territory.'

The shoot was further complicated by the need to show Soho both in the present day and in the 60s, with dressing of shops having to be fitted around the life of residents. This did have its upsides for production designer Marcus Rowland, who was often approached by locals while recreating the area’s past. 'When we were building and blocking off Bateman Street,' he says, 'people would come up and talk about what shops were there before, and we tried to add elements of shops that were there in the Sixties.' Assisting in another location was Wright’s co-writer Krysty Wilson-Cairns, who had worked in The Toucan bar on Carlisle Street before making her name. Close to Soho Square, this was formerly a Greek restaurant and club venue that hosted Jimi Hendrix, and the historic venue became a key location in the film.

The production was lucky enough to complete major filming before the pandemic, only shooting a few scenes in the studio later on. Wright took advantage of lockdown, though, to capture some unusually quiet moments in the area which found their way into the end credits. 'In July, before everything reopened, we went out one night with a very small camera crew and shot lots of empty London,' he told The Hollywood Reporter. 'I thought, I don’t know whether this will ever be like this again. It was an extremely surreal experience to be standing in Piccadilly Circus without any cars on the road.'

Fitzrovia, London

Shooting also ventured a little out of Soho proper, to the north of Oxford Street and the area known as Fitzrovia. Filming took place around Charlotte Street, using the picturesque Percy Street, a narrow passageway that links to Rathbone Street. Here, Wright was particularly happy to take in a newsagent that also featured in the classic 1960 London film Peeping Tom, before continuing to another passageway linking Rathbone to Newman Street.

Also in Fitzrovia is The London College of Fashion, Eloise’s destination when she arrives in London. This consummately Sixties concrete building on John Prince’s Street plays itself in the film, taken over for the summer vacation by the cameras – though production designer Marcus Rowland noted that, 'It took quite a while for the location team to persuade them that we were not going to trash the place.' Also in the area, deep in the heart of Fitzrovia on Maple Street, is Eloise’s student accommodation block, the real-life Ramsay Hall residence – chosen, like the LCF, to contrast with the geography Eloise is used to in her native Cornwall.

Haymarket, London

Another key location was filmed outside the bounds of Soho, this time to the south. For the Café de Paris, which marks Eloise’s significant first brush with her alter ego Sandie, the production originally wanted to film at the landmark nightspot itself. Opened in 1924, this grand space on Coventry Street was famed for staying open during World War II and survived as a chic destination over the ensuing decades. Although it finally closed during lockdown, it was for logistical reasons that the production ended up having to find an alternative venue, reproducing the scene at the Empire Cinema on Haymarket.

For this, along with the venue’s name in pink neon, the production also put up a giant poster for the Bond film Thunderball – enough to attract several interested cinemagoers. While the interior was filmed in a studio, complete with a reproduction of the Café de Paris’s trademark curved staircase and plenty of light-distorting mirrors, there was also Eloise’s exit with the roguish Jack (Matt Smith) to manage. Wright remembers it as a particularly difficult moment: 'We were shooting in the centre of London in the summer with tons of period extras and also we have an actress in a Steadicam shot walking across the street with period cars, but you had to leave one lane open for modern buses and ambulances.'

Paddington Station, London

For Eloise’s arrival in London from Cornwall, the production filmed at Paddington Station, to the west of the city. As well as its essential inclusion in both Paddington films, this is already established as a stalwart of British cinema, having featured in A Hard Day’s Night, Performance, Quadrophenia, Layer Cake and About Time.

Brick Lane, London

Finally, for the fashion show scene, the production headed east to The Truman Brewery on Brick Lane. Formerly the Black Eagle Brewery, this site in the heart of the East End was redeveloped in the 1990s as a business and arts complex, helping to give the area the role that Soho had played in the Sixties. With a proposed conversion to a shopping mall ongoing, it may perhaps star in a future tale of another lost Swinging London.

‘Last Night in Soho’ is released in cinemas on Friday 29 October 2021