North West-based technology experts, inTec Business Solutions, is delighted to announce that they have secured iTek Computer Solutions based in Kendal, as part of their ambitious acquisition strategy.

inTec Business Solutions is a highly experienced and entrepreneurial team building a network of telecoms and I.T. partners allowing them to expand their product and service portfolios, instantly transforming them into full-service ICT solutions providers. They specialise in the design, implementation and support of a range of Cloud services and business applications including IT managed services, IT infrastructure support, hosted collaboration and communication solutions.

iTek Computer Solutions are the sixth company to join the inTec family and bring with them a team of forward-thinking engineers who provide full I.T. expertise with in-depth cross sector experience. They offer innovative and reliable computer support and consultancy services to a range of successful businesses in South Cumbria and north Lancashire. Becoming a partner of inTec will further strengthen their offering, allowing them to expand their portfolio to include larger scale business optimisation solutions as well as a complete telecommunications offering.

iTek Managing Director, Ben Mitchinson commented:

"Myself and the team at iTek are delighted and excited to become the latest addition to the inTec technology group. Over the last 10 and a half years iTek has built up a professional, diverse and loyal customer base that we are very proud of. This deal will allow us to expand our current product and service offering to our clients, enabling iTek to develop and move to the next level with the aim of becoming an all-encompassing ICT solutions provider. iTek have built an excellent reputation within our local IT sector and inTec have an excellent reputation in the industry so this deal represents an exciting new chapter for iTek along with our employee’s and client’s."

The company join telephony specialists’ Hale Communications, Vision Corporate Services and Cheshire Business Services plus Cloud and I.T. experts CFM Hub and Titan Networks as part of the inTec Business Solutions group.

inTec Chairman, Simon Howitt, is pleased to welcome Ben and his team to the group. He commented:

“We are delighted to acquire iTek and that Ben has decided to join the group. We have been really impressed with Ben and his team and we look forward to working with them and growing the business."

With office locations in Altrincham, Birmingham, Stockport and Manchester, the group is on target to cover the whole of the UK in the next 24 months with specialist support functions across the country. In Q2, inTec will be moving their head office to a new state-of-the-art office based in the heart of Manchester city centre covering 4,000 square feet to allow for the aggressive growth strategy to continue.

inTec’s acquisition model stands out in the market. In all cases, they acquire a controlling interest but the partners identity and its management remain the same. inTec see this as a very important element in ensuring that customers immediately have trust and confidence in exploring technology solutions.

The group’s route to market differentiates it from other consultancies in the technology sector and makes it a compelling proposition for investors. They work with SMEs offering fully scalable digital technology solutions that can grow with their businesses.

Simon Howitt, explained inTec's objective is to bring together a network of telecoms providers who recognise the need to broaden their portfolios but do not have the resources to achieve their ambitions to become one-stop-shop communication and technology providers, and thereby add value to their businesses. He said:

“Our acquisition model stands out in the market. In all cases, we acquire a controlling interest, but the partners identity and its management remain the same. We see this as a very important element in ensuring that customers immediately have trust and confidence in exploring technology solutions. We give companies the ability to offer technology solutions and consulting services to their customers immediately, without having to invest their time and resources into building the necessary skill sets in house. The partnership is a 2-way benefit. Our partners get access to the technology skills, consulting resources and full back office support necessary to grow their businesses (including Finance, Customer Relationship Management, Marketing, Billing, Leasing, HR) and we gain a loyal customer base that has been developed and nurtured over several years. It’s a win-win situation for all parties.”

inTec can deliver technology that keeps up with the evolving digital landscape and help companies deploy solutions to compete more effectively. The future looks bright for the inTec network who continue to revolutionise specialist support services for SMEs.

Simon Howitt added:

“I am delighted that we continue to enhance our impressive partner portfolio and am looking forward to welcoming other new partners throughout 2020. It’s such an exciting and interesting time for all of our partners. Watch this space for more developments!”