Overview: Beat Girl is a 1960 British teen exploitation film directed by Edmond T. Gréville. The film was released in the United States under the title Wild for Kicks.

Release date: 9 September 1960

Genre: Drama

Paul, a divorced architect, marries Nichole, a woman from Paris. His teen daughter Jenny has fallen...

Overview: Princess Tam Tam is a 1935 French black-and-white film which stars Josephine Baker as a local Tunisian girl who is educated and then introduced to Parisian high society. Baker sings two songs, "Dream Ship" ...

Release date: 2 November 1935

Genre: Drama, Comedy

Producer: Arys Nissotti

Max de Mirecourt, celebrated French novelist, takes a vacation from his social-butterfly wife in Tunisia...

Overview: Three Days to Live (French: Trois jours à vivre) is a 1957 French crime film directed by Gilles Grangier and starring Daniel Gélin, Jeanne Moreau and Lino Ventura. It was shot at the Saint-Maurice Studios ...

Release date: 14 August 1957

Genre: Drama, Crime

Director: Gilles Grangier

Simon Belin is an actor touring the provinces with his company. Although talented he has never been given the opportunity to shine on stage...

Overview: The Romantic Age is a 1949 British drama film directed by Edmond T. Gréville. The screenplay by Peggy Barwell and Edward Dryhurst is based on the French novel Lycee des jeunes filles by Serge Véber. The ...

Release date: 29 November 1949

Genre: Comedy

Arlette is a malicious schoolgirl who uses her feminine charms to attract, and then destroy, every man gullible enough to respond to her flirtations ...

Overview: Under Secret Orders, also known as Mademoiselle Doctor, is a 1937 British spy film directed by Edmond T. Gréville and starring Erich von Stroheim, John Loder, Dita Parlo and Claire Luce. It is an Eng ...

Release date: 1 December 1937

Genre: War, Thriller, Drama

When a German spy realizes that he is being followed by British agents, he gives the secret information he is carrying to his girlfriend...

Overview: What a Man! is a 1938 British comedy film directed by Edmond T. Gréville and starring Sydney Howard, Vera Pearce and John Singer. It was made at Beaconsfield Studios in September.

Overview: But Not in Vain (Dutch name Niet Tevergeefs) is a 1948 Anglo-Dutch World War II drama, directed by Edmond T. Gréville and starring Raymond Lovell. The film is set in 1944 in the occupied Netherlands ...