Between 2010 and 2011, Brand was married to famous American singer and songwriter Katy Perry. Their highly publicized divorce was the result of a text message. In 2012, the couple filed for divorce. Here is the timeline of their relationship:

2009: Russell Brand and Katy Perry met while Get Him to the Greek was being filmed

In 2009, they first ran into one other while Brand was filming the comedy Get Him to the Greek. The comedian played Aldous Snow in this film, reprising his role as the erratic rock star from Forgetting Sarah Marshall. He appeared on screen alongside Jonah Hill, who played an employee of a record label entrusted with accompanying Aldous Snow to Los Angeles.

Other actors and musicians make a number of appearances in the film, including Katy Perry, who taped a sequence with Brand but it wasn't included in the final cut. Perry and Brand's character kissed passionately in this particular episode.

2010: After only four months of dating, Russell Brand and Katy Perry became engaged, got married in October 2010

Early in January 2010 came news of Brand and Perry's engagement, with multiple reports stating that the British comedian had proposed to the singer while they were on vacation in India. Brand later told the media that this information was true.

They decided to postpone the marriage until they went to India in October 2010 for a small ceremony that was only attended by close relatives and friends. On October 23, 2010, the pair exchanged vows in Rajasthan, within the seclusion of the tiger sanctuary of

Ranthambore National Park.

Russell Brand ended marriage with Katy Perry via text message

Just 14 months after their wedding, Katy Perry confirmed that Russell Brand and she broke up through text in December 2011. On December 30, 2011, Brand decided to end their marriage and filed for divorce, citing ‘irreconcilable differences’. Later, Perry said that Brand had sent a text message to start the separation. In the end, their divorce was finalized in July 2012.