This award was established by a generous endowment from the firms: Metron, Inc., Daniel H. Wagner, Associates, Inc., and Applied Mathematics, Inc. in memory of the late Daniel H. Wagner.

The competition is held each year in the fall at the INFORMS Annual Meeting.

This prize emphasizes the quality and coherence of the analysis used in practice. Dr. Wagner strove for strong mathematics applied to practical problems, supported by clear and intelligible writing. This prize recognizes those principles by emphasizing good writing, strong analytical content, and verifiable practice successes.

The award will consist of a cash amount from endowments, to be determined each year by the board of The Practice Section, and citation plaque giving the authors’ names and a summary or title of the work. The prize amount is $5,000. Upon satisfactory submission of a paper acceptable to the editor(s) designated by The Practice Section, the winning team will receive the cash award, divided as requested, plus certificates and winners' plaques; all other finalists will receive certificates.

View Presentations of the Wagner Prize Contestants

Use these outstanding presentations from the competition of verifiable practice success in the classroom or to apply lessons learned to your own organization.

Comparison Between the Wagner Prize and the Edelman Award

Both the Daniel H. Wagner Prize and the Franz Edelman Award reward the use of operations research, analytics and mathematics in practice. However, the Wagner prize emphasizes clear, well-written papers and innovative mathematics over quantitative benefits. There are several differences between the Wagner and the Edelman competitions.

Most importantly, the Edelman competition is designed to honor the use of operations research and analytics by organizations, and the prize is awarded to an organization. The Daniel H. Wagner Prize is awarded to the authors.

Secondly, the Edelman Award judges consider the impact of the work very strongly. Conversely, the Daniel H. Wagner Prize does not explicitly consider impact, but instead looks at success. From that standpoint a small but very successful application could easily win the Wagner Prize, but would be very unlikely even to become a finalist in the Edelman competition.

Next, the in-person presentation for the Edelman is very important. INFORMS records the sessions to create media for teaching and publicity and so most contestant organizations devote considerable resources to create complicated, multi-media presentations. The Wagner competition only requires an articulate presentation, and the judges evaluate the presentation only as part of the entry and on the basis of clarity and completeness.

Finally, the Prize is smaller. The current award amount for the Daniel H. Wagner Prize is $5,000. INFORMS has invested the endowment fund, and the fund is growing. We expect the prize amount to grow concomitantly.

Full Wagner Prize Papers are in INFORMS Journal on Applied Analytics (formerly Interfaces)

The September/October issue of INFORMS Journal on Applied Analytics (formerly Interfaces) each year is the Wagner Prize Special Issue. Read these inspiring accounts of verifiable practice success.