Singer and actress Brandy Norwood is starring in the A24's upcoming psychological horror film "The Front Room." The film is based on a short story of the same name written by Susan Hill. The Front Room is part of the many stories in the book called "The Travelling Bag and Other Ghostly Stories". Max and Sam Eggers are directing the feature. The Eggers brothers will be making their feature film debut with this project. "The Front Room" tells the story of a young couple expecting their first child, who are faced with the challenge of caring for a sick stepmother who has been estranged from the family for years. Kathryn Hunter, Andrew Burnap, and Neal Huff are also cast members in the film.

Here is goodreads synopsis of The Travelling Bag and Other Ghostly Stories by Susan Hill:

From the foggy streets of Victorian London to the eerie perfection of 1950s suburbia, the everyday is invaded by the evil otherworldly in this unforgettable collection of new ghost stories from the author of The Woman in Black.

In the title story, on a murky evening in a warmly lit club off St James, a bishop listens closely as a paranormal detective recounts his most memorable case, one whose horrifying denouement took place in that very building.

In 'The Front Room', a devoutly Christian mother tries to protect her children from the evil influence of their grandmother, both when she is alive and when she is dead.

A lonely boy finds a friend in 'Boy Number 21', but years later he is forced to question the nature of that friendship, and to ask whether ghosts can perish in fires.

This is Susan Hill at her best, telling characteristically flesh-creeping and startling tales of thwarted ambition, terrifying revenge and supernatural stirrings that will leave readers wide-awake long into the night.

Source: Variety

Below is Brandy's Instagram post sharing the news with her followers:

Brandy wrote "God You're Awesome!!!! I trust you with my entire life. Thank you for this amazing opportunity to work with this unbelievable cast, crew, and the studio everyone wants to work with and of course my Eggers fam."