Directed by Richard Lester Written by Alun Owen Starring Paul McCartney, John Lennon, George Harrison and Ringo Starr and Wilfrid Brambell Classification: PG Rating: ***½

There's something sad about A Hard Day's Night, the zippy 1964 rock movie that helped turned The Beatles from teen pop music sensations to cultural icons. The melancholy isn't just for The Beatles, who enjoyed their time in the sun, but more for the passing of a time, that early sixties' moment, when Art and Fun met head on in the explosion of pop culture

Pre-psychedlic in its humour and style, A Hard Day's Night is shot in crystalline black and white with lots of sharp geometry and epigrammatic crack to the dialogue. It stands the test of time well. With their pretty looks, fashion-clone style, flippant humour and offhand musical brilliance, the Liverpool band are young, cocky and carefree. Unlike all the sullen poseurs before and since, they also look as though they are having a ball being rock stars. No wonder they inspired so many people to grab guitars and try to do the same.

The various sources from which A Hard Day's Night is compiled are varied and smartly chosen. There's some Marx Brothers, and some Goon Show absurdism, new-wave cinema's abrupt transitions and bricolage of techniques. There's jumpy handheld camera, uses of montage and sped-up action reminiscent of silent movie comedy.

Essentially a feature-length rock video, a bit of plot between staged performances of a string of songs, each one now as familiar as a Christmas carol: A Hard Day's Night, I Should Have Known Better, I'm Happy Just To Dance With You, And I Love Her, Tell Me Why, Can't Buy Me Love, Things We Said Today and, naturally, She Loves You in front of the usual screaming horde.

The story follows 36 hours in the life of the world's most famous rock band. After escaping from their screaming adolescent fans, Jean, Paul, George and Ringo are on a train, on their way to a television appearance. Accompanying them is their manager, Norm (Norman Rossington), his assistant Shake (John Junkin) and Paul's trouble-causing grandfather (Wilfrid Brambell), a "clean old man" who, Paul warns, "is a right mixer." He warns that the old man is always getting into trouble and stirring up fights, which soon proves to be the case.

In London, the boys sneak out dancing (to their own songs, naturally) rather than stay at home answering fan mail. Meanwhile, the grandfather goes to a casino, runs up a big bill and ogles chorus girls in skimpy costumes. (Interestingly, the screaming walls of fans look like children; the women the Beatles are shown lusting after look more like Vegas showgirls.)

In previous, younger viewings, Brambell's role seemed to be something of an intrusion; a music-hall character appended to the movie to appeal to the grownups. On this viewing, he seemed the funniest thing about the film. The boys, by contrast, spend a good deal of time raising their eyebrows at various bitchy set-dressers, fashion consultants and TV directors.

Brambell looks like James Joyce (flat cap, glasses, lantern jaw) and occasionally sounds the same. Chiding the other Beatles for mocking Ringo's nose, he declares: "He can't help having a hideous great hooter, with his poor little head tremblin' under the weight of it."

Screenwriter Alun Owen tailored his script to The Beatles' limitations, concentrating on short pithy lines (consistent with their behaviour at press conferences) that make them sound like ever-ready quipsters. ("What do you call your hairstyle then?" "Arthur").

Just once, you can also feel something latently nasty -- and a bit prophetic -- in this intergenerational exchange:

"Don't take that tone with me young man. I fought the war for your sort."

Ringo: "I bet you're sorry you won."