The East Timorese prime minister, Mari Alkatiri, announced his resignation today and said he shouldered the blame for the violent unrest that has swept the tiny country in recent months.

Protesters danced on the waterfront in the battle-scarred capital Dili, joined by others who poured into the streets to celebrate as news spread.

His departure ended days of heightened political tensions after East Timor's popular president, Xanana Gusmao, vowed to quit unless Mr Alkatiri stepped down, a strategy that appeared to have succeeded.

On Sunday, the foreign minister, Jose Ramos-Horta, who won the Nobel peace prize for his non-violent opposition to Indonesian occupation, resigned in protest at Mr Alkatiri's refusal.

In a statement, Mr Alkatiri said he was resigning for the sake of the nation and to comply with President Gusmao's request, and added that he assumed his "own share of responsibility for the crisis affecting our country". He did not name his successor.

The prime minister has been accused of arming secret militia for political purposes, and his former security chief was arrested and charged last week with importing illegal weapons. Both men have denied the charges.

Mr Alkatiri is known as a dogged politician and wily negotiator who spent two decades living in exile in Mozambique, plotting Timorese independence. That dream finally came true in May 2002 following three years of UN administration after Indonesia's chaotic withdrawal from the former Portuguese colony.

The UN was supposed to lay the building blocks for peace and prosperity before handing over sovereignty to elected Timorese leaders. Some UN officials have since conceded that the project was declared a success too hastily, ignoring the weakness of new institutions and the political divisions within the ruling elite.

Much of the chaos that erupted in Dili and prompted the intervention of 2,200 Australia-led peacekeepers in May has been traced back to an army mutiny this year. After troops protested at alleged discrimination within the ranks, Mr Alkatiri fired around 600 disgruntled soldiers. This was the trigger for street battles and criminal violence that has forced almost 150,000 people, or more than 15% of the population, to flee their homes.

Some rebel soldiers have since handed over looted weapons to international peacekeepers, though many more guns are thought to be hidden.

Though the fighting in Dili has abated with the peacekeepers on the ground, most East Timorese have refused to return home, fearing further instability. Mr Alkatiri's departure, and the prospect of a political pact to form a transitional government, may help to calm jangled nerves and allow an orderly return.