Prohibition

A lot of people and government believed that poverty, crime, disease, and abuse was all the result of alcohol consumption. Believing that if alcohol was removed, all of the bad things happening will disappear. The prohibition in Canada was very short lived. It was too short to make any kind of impact on the country.

Spanish Flu

The Spanish Flu was first brought into Canada from returning soldiers, they then spread the contracted disease throughout the country and even reaching remote areas. During the Spanish Influenza, 50,000 Canadians were killed. The flu mostly affected young people.When you have contracted the flu your weakened body could also contract pneumonia and was actually the major cause of death than the flu itself. Another affect of the flu was Parkinson Syndrome which causes your body to tremor. 1918-1919

WWI Armistice

The term "armistice" means a cessation of hostilities as a prelude to peace negotiations.

The armistice was an agreement signed by the Germans and the Allies to end the war.

This allowed Canada to go back to their prosperous times and not have to worry about attacks.

William Lyon Mackenzie King

William Lyon Mackenzie King was Canada's Prime Minister for almost 22 years. (1921-26),(1926-30),(1935-48).

There was a 'scandal' between King and Byng where King asked for Governor General Byng to dissolve parliament and call for another election. Byng instead called (conservative leader)Arthur Meighen to form a government. However the attempt did not work. King's government was in power during the beginning of the Great Depression but he felt it was just a quick cycle and was out of touch.

Chanak Crisis

The Chanak Crisis, also known as the Chanak Affair, was a war scare between Britain and Turkey. The crisis was caused by the Turks by pushing out Greek forces and returning Turkish rule territories shared by allies. The Turks went in on the British and French positions and almost caused a war between Britain and Turkey. Canada refused to help and so did Other European countries. This saved Canada from another resource intensive battle.

Stock Market Crash

Also known as Black Tuesday, was a point in Canada's history where the great market crash and took Canada into ten years of poverty. As a lot of investments were being made,a bubble was growing and it was getting ready to burst.Now,when it did collapse, anyone who had invested in anything was affected by the catastrophe. Many effects of the crash resulted in Unemployment up 25%, and economic growth fell to 50%. This crash led to a severe economic depression or also known as The Great Depression

Richard Bedford Bennett

Richard Bedford Bennett served as the 11th Prime Minister of Canada. He had defeated William Lyon Mackenzie King on the 1930 election and sadly had taken office during the Great Depression. Bennett effected Canada by effectively becoming the butt end of jokes. He never really helped Canada during its time of need and leadership. Bennett was not a well received Prime Minister and even to go as far as to abandon Canada in 1938 left a bitter taste in the citizens mouth.

Bennett's 'New Deal'

Bennett got this idea for a 'New Deal' from President Roosevelt.

This included Progressive income taxation, a minimum wage, a maximum number of working hours per week, unemployment insurance, and health insurance. However, Bennett was late on the draw and faced a lot of criticism from the people that he had gone too far or maybe not enough. Nowadays one of his ideas is still taking place such as the Bank of Canada.