Born and raised in Dunkirk, New York, Lieutenant Colonel Tye is a first-generation United States Marine. Upon high school graduation, he served in the Army National Guard as an M1A1 Tanker from 1997-2003. His academic pursuits then led him to earn a Bachelor of Arts degree in Physical Education and Exercise Science from the University of North Carolina at Wilmington in 2004, followed by a Master of Science degree in Criminal Justice and Applied Human Sciences from the University of Cincinnati in 2006.

Second Lieutenant Tye was commissioned in the United States Marine Corps in 2007, and in 2008, reported to Marine Aircraft Group 24 in Kaneohe Bay, Hawaii to serve as the S-6 Communications Department Head. In 2010, he deployed with Heavy Marine Helicopter Squadron 463 in support of Operation Enduring Freedom.

From 2012-2014, he was assigned as the Marine Aviation Weapons and Tactics Squadron One Communications Division Head Instructor for the Weapons and Tactics Instructor Course. While in that post, he established the Cyberspace, Information Operations, and Spectrum Warfare Department which incorporated emerging asymmetric warfare tactics into the weapons school training curriculum.

In 2015, after graduating from Expeditionary Warfare School, Captain Tye was selected by Marine Corps Forces Cyberspace Command to stand up the first Cyber Protection Team for the United States Special Operations Command. In 2017, he was appointed as the Operations Officer for the Marine Corps Cyberspace Warfare Group responsible for building the Marine Corps’ first cyberspace teams. In 2018, Major Tye was re-designated as the newest Marine Corps MOS - 1702 Cyberspace Warfare Officer.

In 2019, Major Tye was selected to be the Marine Corps Forces Cyberspace Command’s Operational Planning Team Lead for Support to Combat Operations under the Joint Force Headquarters Cyber, which provided direct support to Operations INHERANT RESOLVE, ENDURING FREEDOM, and FREEDOM SENTINEL. Following this tour, he was assigned as the Operations Officer for a Cyberspace Combat Mission Team and a Cyberspace Warfare Task Group under Fleet Cyberspace Command. In 2021, Major Tye served as a Mission Commander for Operational Deployment INDO-PACIFIC.

Major Tye graduated from the Marine Corps Command and Staff College in 2022 with a Master of Military Studies from Marine Corps University with follow-on orders to Marine Forces Korea. During his first year, he served as the MARFORK Current Operations Officer and Deputy Assistant Chief of Staff Operations Officer. In 2023, LtCol Tye transitioned to the United States Forces Korea as the Deputy J3X Special Activities Division Chief, Special Technical Operations, and Joint Effects Coordinator for all special activities in the theater.