MUMBAI, India--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Komli Media, Asia Pacific's leading digital media network, announced today that it has raised USD 15 million in funding led by Norwest Venture Partners (NVP). Existing investors, Nexus Venture Partners and Helion Venture Partners, also participated in this round. The additional capital will be used to fuel aggressive expansion throughout India and across its key markets in Asia Pacific. The Company will further invest in its two core businesses – the Digital Media Network and the Audience Measurement unit - which are experiencing significant growth.

In 2010, Komli Media’s business grew over 600% while its employee base grew to 115, from 51 at the start of the year. Last year, Komli Media began its expansion across Asia Pacific by acquiring PostClick, Australia’s leading site representation firm. In October the Company further expanded to international ethnic markets with its acquisition of Indoor Media. With capabilities across brand solutions and performance marketing, Komli Media is Asia Pacific’s leading digital media network.

Amar Goel, Founder & Chief Executive Officer, Komli Media, said, “We were drawn to NVP because it is a global, top tier investment firm with deep domain knowledge in the online advertising sector. Furthermore, NVP’s powerful network of relationships in India and abroad will be of great value to Komli Media as we expand our offerings and services to other markets. We look forward to closely partnering with NVP to take our company to the next level.”

Komli Media's digital media network represents more than 2,000 websites today, including sites such as Facebook, Babycenter and Bloomberg, reaching more than 45 million unique users across a number of categories and regions. The company also owns and operates ViziSense, India’s first and leading online audience and ad measurement platform. ViziSense is now being launched in Australia to tap the growing needs for cutting edge audience measurement from digital marketers and publishers.

Niren Shah, Managing Director, NVP India, joins Komli Media’s board of directors as part of today’s announcement. He commented, “NVP is excited about the potential of early and late stage Internet investments in India, and Komli is the perfect addition to our robust global Internet portfolio. Komli Media’s highly experienced management team, significant level of technical expertise, and strong operational and financial performance made our decision to invest in the company an easy one. We look forward to working with Komli Media and supporting the team as it innovates in unique ways that will cement its position as a market leader in the rapidly evolving Indian and Asia Pacific digital market.”

Prashant Mehta, Chief Operating Officer of Komli Media added, “As Komli Media expands its core operations in the fast growing Asia Pacific markets with a digital market size of more than USD 3 billion, we plan to leverage this funding to double our investment in our key products and platforms as well as scale our organization across sales and marketing.” He further added, “As we make these investments, we look forward to thought leadership and strategic guidance from the NVP team.”

About Komli Media

Komli Media is Asia Pacific's leading digital media network. Its digital advertising technologies enable marketers to reach, acquire and foster audiences and publishers to maximize their revenues. Komli Media provides marketers with innovative solutions across brand marketing, performance marketing, social media, and video advertising. ViziSense, India's leading online audience and ad measurement platform is powered by Komli Media technology. PostClick, Australia's leading site representation firm, and Indoor Media, the UK’s leading ethnic ad network, are both subsidiaries of Komli Media. Headquartered in Mumbai, Komli Media also has offices in London, Melbourne, New Delhi, New York, Palo Alto, Singapore, Sydney and Toronto. Find out more at http://www.komli.com.

About Norwest Venture Partners (NVP)

Norwest Venture Partners (NVP) is a leading global investment firm that manages more than $3.7 billion in capital. Headquartered in Palo Alto, California, NVP has subsidiaries in Mumbai and Bengaluru, India and Herzelia, Israel. NVP makes early to late stage venture and growth equity investments in U.S. and global companies across a wide range of sectors including: information technology, business services, financial services, infrastructure, technology enabled services and consumer. NVP has actively partnered with entrepreneurs to build great businesses for more than 49 years and has funded nearly 500 companies since inception.

Notable investments include Actel Corporation, Airespace (acquired by Cisco Systems), AdChina, Brand.net, Brocade, Cast Iron Systems (acquired by IBM), Cerent (acquired by Cisco Systems), Corio (acquired by IBM), Cray Research, Documentum (acquired by EMC), Extreme Networks, Forte Software (acquired by Sun Microsystems), Jigsaw (acquired by Salesforce.com), Kace (acquired by Dell), Lashou, LifeSize Communications (acquired by Logitech), NSE (National Stock Exchange of India), Omneon (acquired by Harmonic), Open-Silicon (acquired by Unicorn Investment Bank), PeopleSoft (acquired by Oracle), Persistent Systems (NSE: PERSISTEN.NS), Playdom (acquired by The Walt Disney Company), Polycom, Quikr, Qumranet (acquired by Red Hat), Rackspace (NYSE:RAX), Sadbhav Infrastructure Project Ltd (SIPL), Siara Systems (acquired by Redback Networks), SideStep (acquired by Kayak), Spinnaker Networks (acquired by Network Appliance), SPSS (acquired by IBM), Sulekha, Tivoli Systems (acquired by IBM), Transaction Systems Architects (Nasdaq: ACIW), TURN, Verio (acquired by NTT), WhaleShark Media (parent company of RetailMeNot), Winphoria Networks (acquired by Motorola), Yatra.com and Yipes (acquired by Reliance/Flag Telecom). For more information, please visit www.nvp.com.

All brands, names, or trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners.