Pierce Brosnan might be known as James Bond, and for his iconic role as a washed up romantic in Mamma Mia! but it turns out there’s nothing washed up at all about his long-lasting romance with wife Keely Shaye Smith.

Brosnan was first married back in 1980 to Australian actress Cassandra Harris. They welcomed a son together, Sean, in 1983. He also adopted Harris’ two other children from a previous marriage, Charlotte and Chris, after their dad Dermot Harris passed in 1986.

However, their romance was short lived, with Cassandra diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 1987. She died in 1991.

According to Yahoo!, Brosnan said in a 2008 interview, “Cassie was very positive about life,” he said. “I mean, she had the most amazing energy and outlook on life. She could read people extremely well. She had, above all, the greatest sense of humor. She had this wonderful laugh, which her children have inherited.”

Three years later, Brosnan found love once more while on holiday in Mexico, with Keely Shaye Smith. A year later, he would finally reach his dream of becoming James Bond.

The pair went from strength to strength in their relationship, eventually getting married in 2001, 10 years after Cassie’s passing. Together they share two children, Paris and Dylan.

Brosnan told Closer in 2018 that he was so lucky to find love again after losing his wife.

“We were meant to find each other. I thank God for her every day,” he said. “When Keely looks at me, I go weak. I love her vitality, her passion. She has this strength that I wouldn’t be able to live without.”

Here, we relive all the key moments in their romance, which has endured over 20 years.

Pierce Brosnan and Keely Shaye Smith’s Relationship Timeline

1994

While in Mexico, specifically Cabo San Lucas, a young Brosnan, who did not know he was on the precipice of a career-defining role as James bond, meets Keely Shaye Smith.

Born in America, Smith is a journalist and author (as well as a producer, TV host, actress and director). She’s worked on all matter of projects, having acted on General Hospital, worked as an environmental correspondent and even worked on Unsolved Mysteries.

1997

The pair ended up having children before deciding to tie the knot. Smith gave birth to her first child, Dylan Thomas Brosnan, in January 1997.

2001

When Dylan was four, Brosnan and Smith decided to finally tie the knot. While they may have met on a beach in Mexico, it was Ireland that hosted their wedding. The event was held at Ballintubber Abbey in County Mayo (in West Ireland, north of Galway). A wedding breakfast was then held at Ashford Castle nearby.

The decision to marry in Ireland felt meaningful, given that Brosnan was born in Drogheda, north of Dublin.

The wedding was actually postponed three times according to HELLO! Magazine, first when Keely and Dylan were trapped in California due to flooding, then when Brosnan’s son Sean had a car accident, and finally when Keely discovered she was pregnant again.

In 2001, Smith gave birth to the couple’s second child, another son, Paris Beckett Brosnan.

2004

While Brosnan and Smith have always maintained a very low-key lifestyle, they have attended a series of events together, including the 2004 Oscars.

Smith attended by his side, wearing a stunning corseted black maxi dress and her hair blown out. Brosnan wore a suit with velvet lapels.

2007

The couple settled in Malibu after their marriage, and in 2007 they made a local appearance in their home area.

2018

In an interview with Closer, Brosnan opened up about his long-term love affair with Keely.

“I’ve been a married man most of my life — that’s the way I like it. I’m one of those guys who believes you need a strong woman in your life,” he said.

“You have to trust and follow your heart,” he shared at the time. “And try to meet the best people in life.”

2022

Looking back 28 years to when he first set eyes on his wife, Brosnan reminisced on Instagram on how far the couple had gone.

“Twenty eight years ago this day, the 4th of the 8th we met in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico…and married in Ireland at Ashford Castle three years later on the 8th of the 4th…4884 …my love always, you have made my life one of joy and happiness, light of my life, love,”

Later the same year, Brosnan posted an anniversary tribute to his wife.

“Happy Anniversary my love Keely, we danced that night and still dance the dance today. I could it all again,” he said.

2023

This year Keely turned 60, so Brosnan posted a message for his beloved.

“Sixty roses for my brown eyed girl on her 60th birthday,” Brosnan shared. “Forever happy and blessed was I to be sitting there when you walked around the corner early one morning in Cabo San Lucas.”

To mark Brosnan’s 70th birthday, Smith shared, “Happy Birthday my darling @piercebrosnanofficial. Wishing you a blessed, bountiful and adventurous new trip around the sun. It’s not how old you are … it’s how bold you are in life. I love you with all my heart.”

Awww!