Clinton Boy's Basketball Coach Resigns

Clinton High School has announced the resignation of varsity boy's basketball coach Dan Luketich.

Athletic Director Matt Koeppel confirmed to Regional Radio Friday the second-year coach resigned. He declined to comment further on the situation.

Luketich led the Maroons to its most successful season since 2018-19 with an 11-21 mark. In the COVID-shortened 2020-21 season, Clinton was 2-14 under Luketich.

Since 2000, the Clinton boy's basketball program has had one Regional title and just three winning seasons.

The Maroons will seek its seventh coach in that same time frame.

Cardinals Score 29 Against Nationals in Pujols' Spring Training Debut

It was only spring training, but the first game of Albert Pujols' second stint with the St. Louis Cardinals could not have gone better. Pujols went 1 for 3 in his Grapefruit League debut Wednesday and his Cardinals teammates went on to beat the Nationals 29-8.

Veteran Anibal Sanchez, signed to give the Nationals innings this summer, was tagged for 12 hits and 10 runs in four innings, and that's not even the worst pitching performance of the day. Righty Cade Cavalli, Washington's No. 2 prospect, gave up 11 runs (10 earned) in only 2 1/3 innings. St. Louis put 15 runs on the board in the eighth inning.

Eight players had multiple hits for the Cardinals and eight players drove in multiple runs. Big leaguers Paul DeJong, Paul Goldschmidt, and Yadier Molina hit the only home runs for St. Louis. They went 15 for 25 with runners in scoring position to plate those 29 runs.

While spring training record-keeping is spotty, especially going back more than a few years, it's unknown whether the 29 runs are any sort of spring record. Only four times in the regular season and postseason has a team scored at least 29 runs in a game:

As for Pujols, he signed with the Cardinals earlier this week, and Wednesday was his first game action.

Pujols has said this will be his final season. At age 42, he will be a part-time player and platoon bat who faces mostly lefties.

Illinois' Underwood Receives Contract Extension

University of Illinois Director of Athletics Josh Whitman announced Wednesday an extension for men's basketball head coach Brad Underwood, pending approval by the UI Board of Trustees at its May 19 meeting.

The new agreement will keep Underwood on a six-year contract through the 2027-28 season.

Whitman said in a statement Underwood has led a remarkable resurgence of the men's basketball program including Big Ten championships, one of the best three-year runs in the history of Fighting Illini men's basketball and the Big Ten Conference, and reestablished ourselves on the national stage.

Underwood led Illinois to the 2022 Big Ten championship, navigating a challenging schedule with a frequently depleted roster to post a 15-5 league record and earn the school's first regular season conference title in 17 years. Illinois went 23-10 overall, with Underwood recording his third-straight 20-plus win season. The Illini ended the year at No. 19 in the AP poll to register a third-straight Top 25 finish, the program's longest streak since 2000-06.

Illinois was a No. 4 seed in the 2022 NCAA Tournament, becoming one of just six programs to receive top-4 seeds in back-to-back tournaments after earning a No. 1 seed in 2021. Illinois stands as one of just 12 schools to advance to the Round of 32 in each the last two NCAA Tournaments, which also marks Illinois' first time advancing in consecutive NCAA Tournaments in 16 years.

No team has fared better in the Big Ten since 2020 than the Fighting Illini, who are 44-16 (.733) in Big Ten play the last three years of the Underwood era. Illinois owns the most wins and best winning percentage in the league over the last three Big Ten campaigns.

The 44 Big Ten victories mark the winningest three-year run in school history, and the sixth-winningest three-year stretch by any Big Ten school in conference play. Illinois has won at least 13 Big Ten games in three straight years for the first time in program history, with Underwood claiming Illinois' two all-time winningest Big Ten seasons (16 in 2021, 15 in 2022), and three of the top seven (13 in 2020).

Underwood said in a statement Wednesday said he is thankful for the way he and his family have been welcomed into the Champaign-Urbana and U of I communities. Adding there is no better place to live, no better school to represent, and no better program to lead.

Underwood's proposed contract calls for an annual $300,000 increase in base compensation and a $200,000 increase in the annual retention bonus. It is fully guaranteed through the next four seasons, with Underwood's buyout – what he would owe the University to accept employment elsewhere – increasing as well. The contract will continue to include bonus opportunities for advancement in the NCAA Tournament and other agreed-upon metrics.

Blues Down Canucks

Ryan O'Reilly had a goal and an assist as the St. Louis Blues beat Vancouver 4-3 on Wednesday night, further dimming the Canucks' faint playoff hopes.

Nick Leddy, Robert Thomas and Nathan Walker also scored for the Blues (37-20-9). David Perron added two assists.

Elias Pettersson scored twice for the Canucks (32-28-9), who were playing their fifth game in eight nights. Alex Chiasson also had a goal.

A 22-save performance earned St. Louis goalie Ville Husso his 18th win of the season. Thatcher Demko stopped 20 shots for Vancouver.

The Blues also beat the Canucks on Monday, and swept the three-game season series.

Vancouver is five points behind the Vegas Golden Knights, who hold the final playoff spot in the Western Conference. The Canucks will face Vegas in their next two games.

Pettersson got the Canucks back within a goal with less than five minutes left, snapping a shot past Husso from in tight for his second of the night.

Vancouver pressed for the equalizer, but couldn't get another shot past Husso.

The goalie made one of his biggest stops with 70 seconds remaining, robbing Tanner Pearson with a glove save.

A blocked shot turned into a goal for the Blues midway through the third period.

Canucks defenseman Travis Dermott went down to stop a shot from Mackenzie MacEachern but the puck bounced off him to Walker, who sent it soaring into the Vancouver net to make it 4-2.

St. Louis took a lead into the final period thanks to O'Reilly's power-play goal.

Vancouver rookie Vasily Podkolzin was called for holding after he hauled down Brandon Saad on the rush, and the Blues made the Canucks pay.

Perron sent the puck to Brayden Schenn below the goal line and Schenn instantly dished it to O'Reilly at the hash marks. O'Reilly one-timed a shot past Demko for his 15th goal 17:16 into the second.

The Blues' short-handed goal tied it 2-all earlier in the period. Pettersson coughed up the puck in his own zone and Thomas streaked down the ice. He beat Canucks defenseman Quinn Hughes for a breakaway, then put a shot past Demko glove side.

Pettersson gave Vancouver a 2-1 lead midway through the second with a beautiful goal from the top of the slot. The Swedish center intercepted a pass near the blue line, took a couple of strides and then released a rocket for his 21st of the season.

Nic Petan got an assist on the play, his first point for the Canucks.

The Blues got on the board 7:26 into the second when Leddy sent a long drive under Demko's glove for his second of the season, tying it at 1.

Vancouver took the lead 31 seconds into the second. Brad Richardson sent Chiasson a blind, backhand pass and the winger swiped in a shot from the top of the crease for his seventh goal of the season.

Richardson got an assist on the play, marking his first point since being claimed off waivers from the Calgary Flames on March 21.

Some stellar saves by Demko kept the game scoreless through the first.

His best of the period came at the 10:20 mark when the All-Star goalie made a diving glove save to deny Vladimir Tarasenko from the side of the net.

The Blues play at Edmonton on Friday night.

Clinton Tops Tuscola in CIC Opener

Dominick Thayer pitched into the seventh inning and drove in two runs at the plate as Clinton got by Tuscola 5-4 in the Central Illinois Conference opener Tuesday afternoon in Tuscola.

Thayer struck out nine, allowing four runs on six hits and issued four walks.

Mason Walker recorded the final two outs for the Maroons to pick up the save.

Thayer finished 1-for-3 with two RBIs. Walker reached base three times on three walks and scored twice.

Tuscola's Peyton Armstrong hit a home run in the top of the first inning to put the Warriors up 1-0. The Maroons answered with a three run frame in the fourth inning.

Caeden Baer's two-run home run in the fourth inning tied the game at 3 and Tuscola took the lead in the bottom of the sixth, pushing a run across on another RBI hit by Baer but the Maroons scored two in the top of the seventh inning to take the lead.

Baer finished 2-for-3 for the Warriors with three runs batted in.

Monday's action was the first game of the season for Clinton as they go to 1-0 overall and 1-0 in the CIC. The Maroons did not schedule games the first week of the season and had all their scheduled matchups last week canceled due to weather.

The Maronos are scheduled to host Central A&M on Thursday.

Girl's Softball: Tuscola Rolls Clinton

Ella and Ava Boyer hit home runs for the Tuscola Lady Warriors as they beat Clinton 15-4 in Central Illinois Conference high school girl's softball action from Tuscola Tuesday afternoon.

The Lady Warriors used a six-run second inning and seven-run fourth inning to fuel them past the struggling Lady Maroons.

Both Boyer's drove in three and scored twice. Marissa Boyer and Isabelle Wilcox drove in two runs for Tusola.

Heidi Humble paced the Lady Maroons' offense going 2-for-3 with a single, double and an RBI. Brooke Reeves, Morgan Fortune, and Kate Goebel drove in runs for Clinton.

The Lady Maroons are 0-4 and drop to 0-1 in the CIC. They are scheduled to host Central A&M Thursday.

Mt. Pulaski Blasts Illini Central

The Mt. Pulaski Hilltoppers boy's baseball team had an offensive explosion as they blasted Illini Central 24-0 in Tomahawk Conference high school boy's baseball action Tuesday in Mason City.

Landon Smith was a home run short of the cycle going 3-for-3 with two runs batted in and two runs scored.

Liam Smith finished 2-for-2 with three runs batted in and two runs scored. Jackson Fricke was 4-for-4 with three runs batted in and three runs scored. Kolin Gibbs finished 2-for-4 with a pair of doubles and four runs batted in.

Clay Aylesworth, Colt Selinger, and Luke Farris drove in a pair of runs as well for the Hilltoppers.

Farris threw three shut out innings in the starting role for Mt. Pulaski allowing a hit, issued three walks and struck out four. Selinger closed the game out with a clean, scoreless inning in relief.

The Hilltoppers are 3-0 overall and 1-0 in conference action. They'll take on Decatur LSA Thursday afternoon.

Bulls Get By Wizards

DeMar DeRozan scored 14 of his 32 points in the fourth quarter, and the Chicago Bulls pulled away for a 107-94 victory over the Washington Wizards on Tuesday night.

Nikola Vucevic scored 27 points for Chicago, which is trying to stay in the top six in the Eastern Conference and avoid the play-in round of the postseason. The Bulls (44-32) took a half-game lead over Toronto (43-32) for fifth place in the East, and they lead seventh-place Cleveland (42-33) by 1 1/2 games.

Chicago has played 12 of its last 15 on the road, but the Bulls now have only six games remaining in the regular season - and the next five are at home.

Rui Hachimura scored 21 points for the Wizards, who had their modest two-game winning streak snapped.

Kentavious Caldwell-Pope added 20 points for the Wizards.

The Bulls rebounded from a loss to the New York Knicks the previous night, and they overcame a scoreless first half from Zach LaVine, who finished with 14 points. DeRozan was just 2 of 12 from the field at the half, but he went 10 of 15 in the second.

Chicago led 75-73 after three quarters, but the Bulls made their decisive run early in the fourth. DeRozan's breakaway dunk made it 90-80 - the first double-digit lead for either team - and Chicago comfortably closed the game out from there.

Vucevic scored 20 points in the first half, and the Bulls led 51-46 after two quarters.

Bulls guard Javonte Green scored nine points on 4-of-4 shooting. That included a one-handed dunk in the second quarter and an alley-oop moments later.

The Bulls host the Los Angeles Clippers on Thursday night.

Mizzou Gets By Illinois

The Fighting Illini baseball team fell to Missouri in the 2022 Braggin' Rights game in Sauget, Illinois on Tuesday night, 11-7.

Illinois recorded seven runs on 10 hits en route to their first Braggin' Rights loss since 2014. Both Ryan Hampe and Justin Janas homered in the game for the Illini.

Illinois (10-12) opened up the scoring in the second inning as sophomore infielder Brody Harding drove in outfielder Taylor Jackson on a two-out RBI single, his seventh RBI of the season. Missouri (14-7) responded with two runs in the second inning on a two-run home run, followed by another two runs in the third to take a 4-1 lead through the first three frames.

Missouri tacked on another two runs before the Illini responded in the top of the sixth as Ryan Hampe connected on a two-run opposite-field homer, his second of the season to cut the deficit to 6-3. The two teams continued to trade runs while the Tigers held on to a lead throughout the latter innings of the ballgame. Illinois was able to bring the tying run to the on-deck circle in the top of the ninth inning, but the comeback effort ultimately fell short.

Up next, the Illini will host Purdue for the first home Big Ten series of the season. The first game of the series will begin at 6 p.m. CT on Friday evening.

Bears Sign QB Siemian

The Chicago Bears signed veteran quarterback Trevor Siemian to a two-year contract on Tuesday to back up Justin Fields.

Siemian has appeared in 33 games and started 29 while throwing for 6,843 yards, 41 touchdowns and 27 interceptions for the Denver Broncos (2015-17), New York Jets (2019) and New Orleans Saints (2020-21). He starred at Northwestern before getting drafted by Denver in the seventh round in 2015.

Fields is coming off a shaky rookie season after Chicago traded up to draft him with the No. 11 overall pick. The Bears also have Super Bowl 52 MVP Nick Foles on their roster.

The Bears decided to make big changes after going 6-11 and missing the playoffs for the ninth time in 11 years. They hired general manager Ryan Poles to replace Ryan Pace and Matt Eberflus to take over for Matt Nagy. Chicago also traded star pass rusher Khalil Mack to the Los Angeles Chargers.

White Sox Acquire Former Phillies First Round Pick

The Chicago White Sox added to their outfield depth on Tuesday, acquiring Adam Haseley in a trade with the Philadelphia Phillies.

Chicago sent minor league pitcher McKinley Moore to Philadelphia for Haseley, a .264 hitter over parts of three big league seasons. Outfielder Blake Rutherford was designed for assignment by the reigning AL Central champions to make room on their 40-man roster.

The White Sox lost Andrew Vaughn on Sunday when he got hurt making a diving catch in the outfield. The 23-year-old Vaughn, the No. 3 pick in the 2019 amateur draft, was diagnosed with a hip pointer, but he could start playing in games again in one to two weeks.

Haseley was selected by Philadelphia with the No. 8 overall pick in the 2017 amateur draft. He has appeared in 72 games in center field, 35 in left and 19 in right.

He made his big league debut in 2019, batting .266 with five homers and 26 RBIs in 67 games.

Haseley was the Phillies’ opening-day center fielder last year, but he appeared in just nine games with the big league club. He hit .233 in 56 games in the minors.

Moore, 23, was selected by Chicago in the 14th round of the 2019 draft. The 6-foot-6 right-hander went 2-2 with a 4.20 ERA in 37 games in the minors last year.

HS Softball: GCMS Rolls Clinton

Gibson City-Melvin-Sibley scored two runs in the top of the sixth inning to go up by ten runs and kept Clinton off the scoreboard in the bottom half of the frame to come away with a 12-2 ten-run rule victory in non-conference high school girl's softball action from Clinton Monday afternoon.

Cally Kroon was a home run short of the cycle for the Lady Falcons. Kroon went 3-for-4 with four runs batted in and three runs scored.

From the leadoff spot, Ashley Hyatt finished 3-for-5. Sadie Christensen and Kyra Kietzman each recorded a multi-hit afternoon for the Lady Falcons.

Heidi Humble doubled in Ella Steward and Brooke Reeves in the fifth inning to cut the Clinton deficit to 10-2 at the time. Reeves went 1-for-2 for the Lady Maroons.

Reeves took the loss in circle for the Lady Maroons. She allwed 12 runs, but five were earned as the Lady Maroons committed seven errors. She allowed eleve hits, issued four walks nd struck out two.

The Lady Maroons fall to 0-3 on the season while GCMS moves to 1-2.

Clinton travels to Tuscola this afternoon to open Central Illinois Conference play.

Knicks Get By Bulls

RJ Barrett scored 28 points, Alec Burks had 27 and the New York Knicks beat the Chicago Bulls 109-104 on Monday night for their fourth straight victory.

Obi Toppin had 17 points for the Knicks, who remained 4 1/2 games behind Atlanta for 10th place in the Eastern Conference and the final play-in spot with only six games remaining. But they'd rather keep trying for that, as unlikely as it is, than lose a few more games to potentially better their draft position.

DeMar DeRozan scored 37 points, including 15 in the fourth quarter. But he missed a jumper and then was called for an offensive foul in the final 45 seconds, cutting short Chicago's comeback attempt.

Zach LaVine added 27 points but Chicago fell into a tie with Toronto for the fifth-best record in the East.

Toppin played most of the fourth quarter in place of struggling Julius Randle and had eight points in the period. His dunk while being fouled led to a three-point play and an 89-79 advantage early in the period but DeRozan, who has 573 points in the fourth quarter this season, kept Chicago from ever falling too far behind.

His three-point play cut it to 104-103 with 1:17 left, but after his missed jumper Burks knocked down a 3-pointer from the corner to make it 107-103 with 22 seconds to go. Randle then hit two free throws after DeRozan's offensive foul to put it away.

Mitchell Robinson finished with 16 points and 12 rebounds for the Knicks. Randle was 1 of 9 for five points, though he did grab 13 rebounds.

Nikola Vucevic had 16 points and 13 rebounds.

Former Bulls Coach, now Knicks Coach Tom Thibodeau still isn't sure if Derrick Rose will return this season. He said the point guard has increased his workload to include basketball activity but still not contact as he recovers from a procedure for a skin infection on his surgically repaired right ankle.

Rookie guard Quentin Grimes missed his second straight game with soreness in his right knee after recently returning from an injury to the knee. Thibodeau said Grimes was day to day.

The Bulls visit Washington on Tuesday.

Blues Down Cnaucks

Vladimir Tarasenko had two goals and an assist, leading the St. Louis Blues to a 4-1 victory over the Vancouver Canucks on Monday night.

Tarasenko has 23 goals this season, and the three-point game gave him 500 points in his NHL career.

David Perron and Marco Scandella also scored for the Blues, who had lost of three of four. Robert Thomas had two assists.

Ville Husso rebounded after allowing five goals Saturday and recorded 35 saves. He is 8-3-3 in his last 14 starts.

Brad Hunt scored for Vancouver. Former Blues goal Jaroslav Halak had 25 saves.

It was the first of a home-and-home set against the Canucks. The teams play in Vancouver on Wednesday.

St. Louis, outscored 12-4 in its last two games, jumped out to a 2-0 lead in the first period.

The Blues struck first when Scandella scored his second goal of the season at 6:37 of the opening period. Tarasenko's shot went over Halak. Standing in front of the net, Scandella alertly pushed the puck in for the goal.

It was the first time in six games that the Blues scored first in a game.

The Blues converted on a 2-on-1 break to go up 2-0 at 14:02. Ivan Barbashev picked the puck from Conor Garland and passed to Perron. From the right circle, Perron's wrist shot went high and beat Halak, who faced his former teammates for just the fourth time in his 16-year career. He is 0-3-1 against St. Louis.

Perron has 14 goals in his last 13 games. Perron had an eight-game point streak (10 goals, four assists) snapped Saturday against the Hurricanes. He has posted 22 points over his last 16 games (14 goals, 8 assists).

Tarasenko's goal came just 49 seconds into the third period. Tarasenko was robbed by Halak on his first shot. The puck came back to him and he knocked in his rebound.

The Canucks cut the lead to 3-1 on a goal by Hunt at 2:13. It was Hunt's third goal this season.

Halak was pulled with 3:17 to play. Tarasenko scored an empty-net goal at 17:47.

St. Louis acquired D Brady Lyle from the Boston Bruins in exchange for future considerations on Monday. Lyle will report to the Blues' AHL affiliate, the Springfield Thunderbirds. The 6-foot-1, 211-pound Lyle, 22, has dressed in 48 games for the AHL's Providence Bruins this season, recording nine points (two goals, seven assists) and 10 penalty minutes.

The Blues have signed D Matt Kessel to a two-year, entry-level contract that will begin with the 2022-23 season. Kessel, who was drafted by the Blues in the fifth round (150th overall) of the 2020 NHL Entry Draft, will report to the Blues' AHL affiliate, the Springfield Thunderbirds, on a tryout and will be a member of the Thunderbirds for the remainder of the season. The 6-foot-3, 201-pound Kessel, 21, has spent the past three seasons at UMass-Amherst.

St. Louis is at Vancouver on Wednesday night.

Bills Match Offer Sheet for OL Bates

The Buffalo Bills will retain Ryan Bates by matching the four-year qualifying offer the offensive lineman signed with the Chicago Bears, general manager Brandon Beane said on Monday.

Beane made the announcement while attending the NFL’s owners meetings in Florida, four days after Bates signed the Bears’ offer sheet. The Bills had five days to match the offer or lose Bates without compensation.

The third-year player was a restricted free agent, whose rights the Bills retained by tendering him a one-year, $2.433 million contract two weeks ago.

He’s a third-year player who went undrafted out of Penn State and was acquired by Buffalo in a trade that sent defensive end Eli Harold to the Philadelphia Eagles in August 2019. Noted for his versatility for being able to play each position on the line, Bates appeared in 41 games, including four starts last season with the Bills.

In a separate move, the Bills re-signed offensive lineman Ike Boettger to a one-year contract. Boettger, who had 10 starts at guard in Buffalo last season, spent the past four seasons with the Bills and was an unrestricted free agent after completing the final year of his contract.

Sabres Rally Past Blackhawks

Tage Thompson scored the tiebreaking goal on a fortunate bounce with 10.6 seconds left and the Buffalo Sabres rallied from four down to beat the Chicago Blackhawks 6-5 on Monday night.

Victor Olofsson had two goals and an assist to help the Sabres win for the first time in three games. Kyle Okposo, Vinnie Hinostroza and Alex Tuch also scored for Buffalo.

Thompson, the team leader with 28 goals, broke his stick on a shot from left-wing. The puck caromed off the boards behind the net and hit Chicago goaltender Kevin Lankinen's left skate before going in.

Tuch forged Buffalo's second tie of the night with a slot deflection of Olofsson's pass with 2:14 to play. Olofsson took Casey Middlestadt's feed and relayed it to Tuch.

Alex DeBrincat gave Chicago a 5-4 advantage midway through the third period with his 38th goal of the season and fourth in four games, but the Blackhawks blew yet another lead.

Calvin de Haan, Sam Lafferty, Jonathan Toews and Seth Jones also scored for Chicago, which led 4-0 in the second.

Buffalo's comeback began when Olofsson scored twice in just under six minutes, beating Lankinen on a one-timer from the right circle with the Sabres on a power play, then sending a wrist shot over Lankinen's glove from the left circle 10:24 into the second.

Buffalo cut the deficit to 4-3 on Okposo's deflection of Dylan Cozens' shot at 14:32, a drive that caromed off the right skate of Blackhawks defenseman Erik Gustafsson just before it beat Lankinen.

The Sabres tied it on former Blackhawk and Chicago native Hinostroza's 11th goal, a tip rebound off a slot scramble 2:39 into the third.

Lankinen made 29 saves. Dustin Tokarski had 15 for Buffalo.

The Blackhawks dominated the first 22 minutes, scoring four times on nine shots. Then the Sabres countered with a 15-shot second period and pulled within a goal after 40 minutes.

De Haan opened the scoring at 7:53 of the first, converting Taylor Raddysh's feed. Lafferty made it 2-0 at 13:44 with a deflection of Jake McCabe's point shot.

The Blackhawks led 3-0 on Toews' 10th goal of the season in his 999th NHL game. His power-play backhand was set up by Philipp Kurashev on a give-and-go with 3:05 left in the first.

At 1:21 of the second, Jones' three-quarter speed wrist shot beat Tokarski to make it 4-0.

De Haan's goal gave him two in a season for the first time since 2016-17. The defenseman had scored once in each of the last four seasons.

Chicago forward Tyler Johnson came off injured reserve and out of concussion protocol before the game, going back in the lineup on the third line. Kirby Dach didn't dress because of a non-COVID-19 illness.

The Blackhawks begin a two-game road swing at Florida on Thursday.

Big Sixth Inning Sends Monticello Past Lincoln

In a game heard on 95.9 FM WEZC and online at dewittdailynews.com, a five-run sixth inning propelled the Monticello Sages past the Lincoln Railsplitter 8-2 in non-conference high school boy's baseball action Monday afternoon in Monticello.

Setting up the big sixth inning was a bizarre sequence in the bottom of the fifth inning and the Railers up 2-1. Lincoln's Wyatt Mammen struck out Dawlton Chupp and Joey Sprinkle to start the inning, the two and three hitters in the Monticello lineup. Then with one-ball and two-strike counts on Jacob Trusner, Thomas Swartz, and Spencer Mitze, Mamnen hit each consecutively setting up Eli Craft with the bases loaded and two outs.

During Craft's at-bat allowed, a passed ball first allowed Trusner to score and tie the game at 2-apiece. Then a passed ball three pitches later allowed Swartz to score and give the Sages the lead, 3-2.

Monticello's big sixth inning started with ninth-place hitter Logan Chupp drawing a lead-off walk to lead the inning off. Biniam Lienhart drew a walk to follow Chupp.

The Sages called Tylor Bundy off the bench to pinch-hit for Dawlton Chupp's place in the lineup and the speedy Bundy laid down a perfect bunt up the right side of the infield and there was no play at any base, loading the bases for Joey Sprinkle.

The senior popped a mile-high fly ball to left and was misplayed allowing each runner to move up a base and scored Dylan Brown from third base, running for the catcher Chupp, to make the score 4-2.

With the Railers infield drawn in, Trusner from the cleanup spot hit a flare to right-center field that nearly cleared the bases but Sprinkle was thrown out at the plate by three steps trying to score from first. Lienhart and Bundy scored easily to stretch the Sages advantage to 6-2.

Following Trusner's two-run single, Swartz singled to left, moving Trusner to third base. With Mitze batting, Swartz took off for second base. The throw skipped in to shortstop Andrew Graue and that allowed Trusner to score from third base and make the score 7-2.

The Sages would tack on the final run they'd score when Mitze singled home Swartz to make the score 8-2.

Equally as impressive as the Sages late scoring bursts were sophomore pitchers Luke Teschke and Jacob Long.

Teschke, who earlier last week committed to playing baseball at Illinois State University, pitched into the fifth inning in the third week of the season. The sophomore right-hander struck out nine Railers over 4 1/3 innings, walking three and allowed two unearned runs.

Teschke started the game with a fielding error when Daulton Miller grounded one up the first base line. Teschke's throw was over the head of first basemen Trusner and Miller end up coming around to score when Teschke walked Alex Hoeffert with the bases loaded.

Jaden Leadley started the fifth inning with a strikeout for Lincoln but reached on a passed ball error. He would later come around to score when Sean Raffa singled.

After Leadley reached base, Long relieved Teshke after he recorded his ninth strikeout of Miller. The sophomre southpaw allowed Sean Raffa to single home a run. After the run-scoring single, Trent Koehler's single in the hole at shortstop set up first and second with one out.

On a ground ball to Craft at third base, the freshman made a heads up play to step on the bag and throw across to Trusner at first base to close out the inning with a double play.

Long finished the win out for Monticello going 2 2/3 innings of scoreless relief with no walks and four strikeouts. He allowed four hits.

Koehler, who started on the mound for Lincoln, finished 1-for-4. He went four innings, allowing a run on two hits, three walks and struck out ten. Raffa paced the Lincoln offense going 2-for-2 with an RBI and a pair of walks.

Trusner finished 1-for-3 with two runs batted in and two runs scored. Swartz finished 2-for-2 with a pair of runs scored, a stolen base, a walk and was hit by a pitch.

Mitze finished 1-for-3 with an RBI for Monticello and Lienhart went 1-for-2 with a walk, two runs scored and a stolen base.

Lincoln drops to 1-2 on the young season while Monticello moves to 6-2.

The Sages travel to Champaign St. Thomas More on Wednesay to open Illini Prairie Conference action.

The next Sages baseball broadcast on 95.9 FM WEZC will be next Thursday when Monticello hosts Olympia.

Hear girl's softball action on WEZC and at dewittdailynews.com this Thursday afternoon when the Lady Sages host Tri-Valley.

Boy's Baseball Monticello hosts Lincoln on WEZC

The Monticello Sages boy's baseball team will host Lincon in non-conference high school boy's baseball action this afternoon in Monticello.

The Sages have started the season 5-2 with its most recent win a 7-4 home victory Friday over Westville.

The Railsplitters have struggled to get games in so far and sit at 1-1. They beat Warrensburg-Latham in the season opener and most recently fell to Springfield Sacred Heart Griffin last Monday.

Game time this afternon is 4:30 pm and can be heard on 95.9 FM WEZC and online at dewittdailynews.com.

Young Lady Maroons Softball Squad Looking to Overcome Early Adversity

An already very young Clinton Lady Maroons varsity softball squad is deal with some early season challenges.

Head Coach Andrea Rhoades indicates they have been bit by the injury bug in the early season so they are asking some players to take on unfamiliar roles and young players to step up.

Coach Rhoades explains some of the injuries they are dealing with are from players they had hoped would be key contributors this year but gives credit to the girls they've asked to try out new positions and step up in bigger roles.

Coach Rhoades praises the way the team enjoys being around each other and the way her seniors are mentoring the young players they have.

The Lady Maroons roster breaks down to four seniors, two juniors, six sophomores and five freshman. Clinton has started the season 0-2 and will be in action this afternooon taking on GCMS.

SLU Gets By ISU Sunday

The Illinois State baseball team scored in the 1st inning on Sunday but dropped the series finale, 8-2, to split the series with Saint Louis at Duffy Bass Field.

Sophomore Sean Sinisko threw four scoreless innings, allowing just one hit and striking out two.

Illinois State drops back to .500 at 9-9 while Saint Louis jumps to 12-9.

An RBI in the 1st inning from junior Connor Olson opened the game's scoring.

Saint Louis scored three times in both the 5th and 7th innings to lead 6-1.

ISU loaded the bases in the 7th inning but came away with just one run, trailing 6-2.

SLU responded with a pair of runs in the 8th inning.

Junior Jake McCaw's nine-game hitting streak was snapped Sunday.

The Redbirds had its Saturday matchup with the Billikens canceled. Illinois State is scheduled to host Iowa on Tuesday before Eastern Illinois on Wednesday. Both games are at 5:00 p.m. CT.

Michigan State Gets Best of Illinois in Series Finale

Illinois dropped the final game of the Big Ten opening weekend series against Michigan State at Illinois Field Sunday afternoon.

Illinois took two wins in a Friday double header in East Lansing, Michigan but weather forced the series finale to Champaign.

Outfielder Taylor Jackson went 2-for-4 with two RBI to lead the Illini at the plate. Cam McDonald picked up his team-high 24th RBI with a double down the left field line in the fourth inning which also extended his hitting streak to 19 games.

McDonald has reached base in every game this season.

Michigan State (11-9, 1-2) scored three runs in the second inning and another two in the third, but Illinois (10-11, 2-1) responded with three runs in the top of the fourth to pull within two of the Spartans.

Sophomore Alex Vera entered in relief of Jack Crowder and threw 3.2 scoreless innings, giving up just three hits. The Illini bullpen held Michigan State to zero runs in the final seven frames of the ballgame, but the offense was unable to bring a run across to spark a comeback.

Illinois travels to Sauget, Illinois on Tuesday to take on Missouri in a neutral site game against the Tigers. The game will be played at GCS Credit Union Ballpark and will begin at 6 p.m. CT.

Cardinals Reportedly Bringing Back 1B Pujols

Albert Pujols is returning to St. Louis after agreeing to a one-year deal with the Cardinals, according to published reports.

The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, which first reported the agreement late Sunday night, said the contract with the 42-year-old slugger — who is 21 home runs shy of 700 for his career — was pending a physical.

The deal brings Pujols back to where he began his major league career, becoming one of the game’s most powerful and dangerous all-around hitters. The NL Rookie of the Year in 2001 spent his first 11 years in St. Louis, helping the Cardinals win the World Series in 2009 and 2011. He hit at least .300 with at least 30 homers and 100 RBIs in each of his first 10 seasons in St. Louis.

A wildly popular player in St. Louis, his last game for the Cardinals was the team’s Game 7 win over Texas in the 2011 World Series.

Pujols was selected the NL MVP three times and made nine All-Star teams with the Cardinals before signing a 10-year, $240 million deal with the Los Angeles Angels in 2012. He was waived by the Angels last May and signed with the Dodgers, for whom he hit 12 homers and drove in 38 runs in 85 games.

Back with the Cardinals, Pujols could help serve as the team’s designated hitter with the National League now adopting the rule that had long been in place in the American League.

Bears Ink Bills OL

The Buffalo Bills stand to lose Ryan Bates after the offensive lineman agreed to sign an offer sheet to play for the Chicago Bears.

The Chicago Tribune first reported the move late Thursday.

Once the offer sheet is filed with the NFL, the Bills will have five days to match the Bears’ offer or lose Bates without compensation. A restricted free agent, Bates’ rights were retained by the Bills last week when the team tendered him a one-year, $2.433 million contract.

The value of the offer sheet was not revealed.

Buffalo has very limited space under its salary cap, which already counts Bates’ contract, and the team would have to free up additional space to match the Bears’ offer.

He’s a third-year player who went undrafted out of Penn State and was acquired by Buffalo in a trade that sent defensive end Eli Harold to the Philadelphia Eagles in August 2019. Noted for his versatility for being able to play each position, Bates appeared in 41 games, including four starts last season with the Bills.

Cubs Trade OF Ramirez to Rays

The Tampa Bay Rays acquired outfielder Harold Ramírez in a trade with the Chicago Cubs on Friday.

Ramirez batted .268 with seven homers and 41 RBIs in 99 games with Cleveland last season. He was acquired by the Cubs for cash in November.

Chicago got minor league infielder Esteban Quiroz in the deal with Tampa Bay. The 30-year-old Quiroz hit .268 with 12 homers and 48 RBIs in 68 games with Triple-A Durham last year.

A native of Cartagena, Colombia, Ramirez, 27, is a .271 hitter over parts of three seasons with Miami and Cleveland. He ranked sixth among NL rookies with 116 hits for the Marlins in 2019.

Ross Chastain Bangs Way to First NASCAR Win

Ross Chastain and Trackhouse Racing became first-time Cup winners Sunday when Chastain bashed and banged his way around the final lap of overtime at the Circuit of the Americas road course.

He tangled with friend and former teammate AJ Allmendinger to secure his first victory in 121 Cup starts. Chastain won in his sixth race with Trackhouse, which is co-owned by Pitbull.

The win is complex for Chastain, who justified his aggressive last-lap moves against Allmendinger as what’s required to win in the Cup Series. Chastain gave initial pause at what damage he may have done in the relationship with his one-time mentor. The two were Xfinity Series teammates at Kaulig Racing.

Overtime produced the most aggressive action of a long Sunday of racing on the permanent road course used primarily for Formula One. The race had nine cautions and ran 3 hours, 20 minutes.

Tyler Reddick had pushed his way to the led on the single lap run between the eighth and ninth caution, while Chastain and Allmendinger restarted overtime from second and third. Sitting in fourth was Alex Bowman, the driver often chided for “backing into victories.

For a moment, it looked as if another win would indeed fall in Bowman’s lap. Overtime featured four lead changes, two by Chastain, one by Allmendinger and Bowman even got to the front, but Chastain decided the race by divebombing inside of Allmendinger.

Bowman finished second for Hendrick Motorsports and a Chevrolet sweep. Christopher Bell was third for Toyota and followed by Chase Elliott of Hendrick, the defending race winner. Reddick was fifth and pole-sitter Ryan Blaney was the highest-finishing Ford driver in sixth.

The Cup Series races Sunday at Richmond Raceway in Virginia. Alex Bowman is the defending race winner and Martin Truex Jr. won the playoff race at Richmond last September.

Packers Sign CB Nixon, Lose CB Sullivan

The Green Bay Packers have signed former Las Vegas Raiders cornerback Keisean Nixon.

Nixon appeared in 40 games and made two starts during his three seasons with the Raiders. He made 20 tackles on defense and 18 on special teams. He had a team-high nine tackles on special teams as a rookie in 2019.

This move reunites Nixon with new Packers special teams coach Rich Bisaccia, who went 7-6 as the Raiders’ interim head coach last season after the resignation of Jon Gruden. Bisaccia had been the Raiders’ special teams coordinator before taking over for Gruden.

The 24-year-old Nixon joined the Raiders as an undrafted free agent in 2019. He played two years at South Carolina after transferring from Arizona Western College.

Meanwhile, former Packers cornerback Chandon Sullivan signed with the Minnesota Vikings on Friday, the latest player to switch from one NFC North rival to another.

The 25-year-old Sullivan played more than 76% of the snaps on defense last season for Green Bay, mostly in the slot position in the nickel package. He didn’t miss a game in three years with the Packers and had five interceptions and 16 passes defensed from 2019-21.

Undrafted out of Georgia State, where he became the program’s career interception leader, Sullivan broke into the NFL in 2018 with Philadelphia.

The Vikings have made a habit of signing ex-Packers over the years, including their most recent addition earlier this week: outside linebacker Za’Darius Smith.

HS Softball: Lady Maroons Fall To Maroa-Forsyth

In a game heard Friday evening on WHOW, the Clinton Lady Maroons fell to Maroa-Forsyth 12-2 in five innings. The non-conference matchup was relocated to Millikin University's turf softball complex due to wet field conditions.

The Trojans jumped out to 4-0 lead in the top of the first, and never looked back. They were led by Mariana Rohman, who threw two shutout innings of one hit ball with four strikeouts for the Trojan win. At the plate, Maroa-Forsyth was led by Reese Tirpak, who went 2 for 2 with a two-run homerun and a triple. Val Foulke also went 2 for 3 with two runs batted in on a homerun and triple. The Trojans are now 4-0 on the season.

The young Clinton team is facing a slew of injuries already this season, especially in the pitching department. Usual starting center fielder Brooke Reeves got the start. She took the loss on five innings of work; allowing 12 runs on 13 hits with four strikeouts, five walks, and on hit batter.

The Lady Maroons were led at the plate by the Serv-Pro of Piatt/Dewitt County Player of the Game Alaina Soberalski. The junior catcher went 2 for 3 at the plate. Heidi Humble and Brooke Reeves also went 1 for 3 for Clinton.

Clinton falls to 0-2 on the year. They next play Monday at home against GCMS.

Next week's "Maroons Game of the Week" broadcast on WHOW is scheduled for Thursday at 4:30 as Clinton hosts Central A&M in a CIC conference matchup.

HS Softball: Monticello Rolls Decatur Eisenhower

In a game heard on 95.9 FM WEZC and online at dewittdailynews.com, Lizzie Stiverson hit a two-run home run and scored three runs helping Monticello shut out Decatur Eisenhower 15-0 in four innings Friday afternoon from Monticello High School in non-conference high school girl's softball action.

Stiverson's two-run blast through a stiff wind Friday capped a four-run second inning to lead 6-0 and the Lady Sages tacked on eight more runs in the third to open up a 14-0. A run in the fourth ended the game on the 15-run rule.

Stiverson was the Piatt/DeWitt County Player of the Game and finished 2-for-2 with a run-scoring double in the first inning and scored three runs. Addison Wallace was 2-for-2 with three runs scored, a double and drove in two.

Hannah Uebinger was 1-for-3 with an RBI, a run scored and a stolen base.

Reese Patton tossed four shutout innings, striking out eight on zero walks and only one hit.

The Lady Sages even their record at 2-2.

The next Monticello sports broadcast on WEZC and at dewittdailynews.com is Monday when the Sages baseball team hosts Lincoln.

Pelicans Drop Struggling Bulls

Devonte' Graham hit five 3-pointers on his way to a season-high 30 points, CJ McCollum scored 25 and the New Orleans Pelicans defeated the Chicago Bulls 126-109 on Thursday night.

Jonas Valanciunas added 16 points and 19 rebounds for the Pelicans, who won for the fourth time in six games as they try to solidify their hold on a Western Conference play-in spot.

Zach LaVine scored 39 points and Coby White added 23 for Chicago, which played without leading scorer DeMar DeRozan (left groin) and lost for the fifth time in six games. The slumping Bulls are in danger of sliding out of a top-six seed in the East (the seventh and eighth seeds have to host the play-in round).

Pelicans undrafted rookie Jose Alvarado scored 13 of his 15 points in the fourth quarter, hitting a driving layup, floater and 3 in succession to help fuel a pivotal surge in which New Orleans built a 15-point cushion. Graham's deep 3 and Valanciunas' 10-foot turnaround capped the spurt and made it 107-92 with 6:26 to go.

Javonte Green and Alex Caruso each hit a 3 to help Chicago pull to 109-102 before Graham hit a momentum-halting driving layup as he was fouled. Graham added two more free throws to give him five straight points.

McCollum's bank shot made it 116-102 with 2:01 left and Chicago removed its starters soon after.

LaVine scored 16 points in the first quarter, when he hit five of his first six shots, including all three 3s he attempted, and helped Chicago build a lead as large as nine.

But the Pelicans erased the deficit in the second. Graham's 29-foot 3, followed by his driving floater while being fouled, put New Orleans up 52-50.

The Pelicans were ahead by four late in the period on Herb Jones' putback, but White drained his fourth of five 3s on the night to pull Chicago to 63-62 at halftime.

The Bulls visit Cleveland on Saturday night in the third of five straight road games.

Blackhawks Top Kings in Shootout

Thursday night, Collin Delia picked up the biggest win of his fledgling NHL career and outdueled Jonathon Quick.

Delia made 43 saves and stopped all three of Los Angeles' attempts in the shootout to give the Chicago Blackhawks a 4-3 victory.

Delia grew up in Southern California going to Los Angeles Kings games and watching Quick in goal.

Alex DeBrincat had a goal and an assist in regulation and then had the only score in the shootout for the Blackhawks, who have won two straight for the first time since getting four consecutive victories in the middle of January.

Delia made only his third NHL appearance this season. The 27-year old goalie began the season with Rockford of the AHL before being called up two months into the season. With Chicago playing on back-to-back nights, Delia found out before Wednesday's game in Anaheim that he was going to get the start.

Delia will be seeing more action over the final month of the season. He is the Blackhawks' backup goaltender after Marc Andre-Fleury was traded to Minnesota and Kevin Lankinen assumed No. 1 duties.

Patrick Kane also had a goal and an assist for the Blackhawks. Sam Lafferty also scored.

Phillip Danault scored twice for the Kings for his fourth multigoal game of the season. Quick made 28 saves.

Trevor Moore added a short-handed score for Los Angeles. He's the first Kings player since Mike Richards in 2011 to have a short-handed goal in two straight games.

Kane, who has four straight games with a point, has 23 in March (five goals, 18 assists). That's second to Nashville's Roman Josi, who has 26 points this month. Kane was in position after DeBrincat's shot took a big bounce off the endboards and put it past Quick at 16:44 of the first period.

Shortly after Los Angeles' Troy Stecher was sent to the penalty box for hooking, the Kings evened it on Moore's breakaway short-hander 2:13 into the second. Moore has 13 goals this season, but four are short-handed - which ties him with Columbus' Gustav Nyquist, Florida's Aleksander Barkov, Ottawa's Alex Formenton and Anaheim's Isac Lundestrom for the league lead.

DeBrincat scored his team-leading 36th of the season nine minutes later on a one-timer after a feed from behind the net by Dylan Strome.

Both of Danault's goals were rebounds in front of the net. His first score at 16:50 of the second period gave him his third goal in the last four games and tied it at 2.

After Lafferty's backhander in front of the crease put the Blackhawks back on top with 1:51 remaining in the second, Danault would tie it again at 9:07 of the third when he was able to fight through traffic and knock it in.

With the Kings still missing seven key players due to injuries, coach Todd McLellan thought this was the first time there were major breakdowns in communication. Despite being short-handed, Los Angeles is in second place in the Pacific Division by two points over Edmonton.

The Blackhawks conclude their three-game road trip against the Vegas Golden Knights on Saturday.

Flyers Blast Blues

Travis Konecny scored twice, Hayden Hodgson had a goal and an assist in his NHL debut and the Philadelphia Flyers beat the St. Louis Blues 5-2 on Thursday night.

The Flyers snapped a 13-game winless streak on the road, winning away from home for the first time since Dec. 29 at expansion Seattle.

Patrick Brown also scored, Joel Farabee added an empty-netter, and Martin Jones made 26 saves for Philadelphia. Cam York and Kevin Hayes each two assists.

Vladimir Tarasenko and Alexei Toropchenko scored for St. Louis, and Jordan Binnington made 22 saves. The Blues have lost three of four.

The Flyers had the jump from the start, outshooting the Blues 9-4 and taking a 2-0 lead in the opening period.

Konecny gave the Flyers the lead at the 6:27 mark with a quick wrister from the left dot. Kevin Connauton had the primary assist, giving him his first point in 29 games this season.

Brown extended the lead with 5:09 left in the first. It was his fourth of the season, snapping a nine-game goal drought.

Tarasenko's power-play goal at 1:47 of the second period cut it to 2-1.

Seconds after Pavel Buchnevich's turnover, Konecny's slap shot trickled through Binnington's pads to give the Flyers a 3-1 lead with 7:31 left.

Toropchenko scored for the Blues with 4:00 left in the second, immediately after Martin mishandled the puck behind the Flyers' net.

Hodgson gave the Flyers some insurance, banging home a rebound off Hayes' shot with 8:26 left in the third.

Blues LW David Perron's career-high seven-game goals streak was snapped, but he got an assist on Tarasenko's goal to give him an eight-game points streak. Perron has points in 11 of his last 12 games and has 19 points (13 goals, 6 assists) during that span.

Blues D Torey Krug (upper body) is out week-to-week after suffering the injury at Washington on Tuesday.

Blues F Tyler Bozak (lower body) was placed on the injured reserve and D Calle Rosen was recalled from Springfield, the team's AHL affiliate.

The Blues host Carolina on Saturday night.

Keselowski Hit With Huge Punishment for Modifications

NASCAR issued steep penalties against Brad Keselowski and his new race team on Thursday for illegally modifying a supplied part on the Next Gen car.

Keselowski was docked 100 driver points and the No. 6 Ford team docked 100 owner points. Matt McCall, his crew chief, was fined $100,000 and suspended from the next four Cup races.

The penalty plunged the 2012 NASCAR champion from 16th in the current standings to 35th — behind every other full-time driver in the field. Keselowski is in his first season as driver and part-owner of RFK Racing.

Additionally, should Keselowski qualify for NASCAR’s playoffs, he will be docked 10 points at the reset ahead of the first round.

The infraction was discovered in a teardown technical inspection of the No. 6 Ford at NASCAR’s research and development center in Concord this week. The RFK Racing entry was brought to NASCAR headquarters after Sunday’s race at Atlanta, where Keselowski was sent to the back of the field at the start for unapproved adjustments.

Keselowski finished 12th at Atlanta.

NASCAR announced a more stringent penalty structure for 2022 and its new Next Gen car, which is a spec car consisting of primarily single-source parts from distributors. Modifications are not permitted, and the Fords from RFK and Team Penske were already found to have made changes to their wheels ahead of the Daytona 500. Both organizations escaped penalty for the first offense.

NASCAR’s new penalty system is three-tiered and designed to deter teams from altering its new race car. Keselowski received an L2-level penalty, which allows for points deductions up to 120 points and fines of up to $250,000.

NASCAR Series Heads to Texas for First Road Course of Season

The first road course of the 2022 NASCAR season is up this weekend when the circuit heads to Austin, Texas to take on the Circuit of the Americas road course.

Last year, road course master Chase Elliott won. William Byron pulled off the race-record 46th lead change on lap 315 of 325 and outran Christopher Bell and Ross Chastain to win in Atlanta last Sunday afternoon.

Byron was among a race-record 20 race leaders. He gave Hendrick Motorsports three different winners through five races. Bell was penalized for an illegal pass on the final lap and relegated to 23rd place, the last spot on the lead lap. The race weekend was the first on the track since a major repaving and reconfiguration since the series raced at the 1.54-mile track last July. Chastain’s finish came despite a crash that put him two laps down. Kyle Busch also rallied after a crash to finish third.

The 68 lap, 231.88 mile race takes place Sunday at 2:30 pm. Practice is Saturday morning at 9 am with qualifying 10 am.

The XFinity Series Pit Boss 250 runs Saturday in Austin at 3:30 pm. Pole-sitter Kyle Busch won last year.

Ty Gibbs passed Ryan Sieg on the final lap of a second overtime and beat Austin Hill by 0.178 seconds to win at Atlanta last weekend.

Gibbs led just the final lap and earned his second victory in five starts this season and his sixth in 23 career starts. The race included a race-record 10 caution flags that slowed the pace for 56 laps. A.J. Allmendinger ran third, followed by Riley Herbst and Landon Cassill. Noah Gragson’s streak of four consecutive top-three finishes and Justin Allgaier’s streak of 16 consecutive top-10 finishes ended.

Practice for the XFinity racers is tonight at 4 pm with qualifying at 4:30 pm.

Todd Gilliland won after starting fifth last year at COTA in the Camping World Truck Series.

Corey Heim passed Kyle Busch Motorsports teammate Chandler Smith on the last lap and won at Atlanta, his first career victory in just his fifth career start last week.

Ben Rhodes rallied to finish second, followed by Ty Majeski and Smith at Atlanta. Smith is the points leader by 13 over Tanner Gray. Gray and third-place Majeski are the only drivers with three top-10 finishes in as many races.

The 42 lap, 143.22 mile race runs at noon Saturday with practice this afternoon at 2 pm and qualifying 2:30 pm.

Illinois Routs Wheaton In Impromptu Non-Conference Matchup

Illinois baseball took down Wheaton on Wednesday evening at Illinois Field, 13-5.

The Illini pitching staff held Wheaton to just five hits while the Illini offense registered 12 hits in the win. Cam McDonald kept his 16-game hitting streak alive with a single in the first inning, while Branden Comia, Jacob Campbell, and Brody Harding each recorded multi-hit games. Campbell and Harding both homered in the game. It was Harding's first homerun of the season.

Wheaton (3-10) scored first in the top of the second inning, but Illinois (8-10) responded in the fourth as Jacob Campbell destroyed a three-run homerun to left field to put the Illini on top. The Illini tallied another three runs in the fifth inning and two in the sixth to take an 8-1 lead heading into the final three frames.

Illinois tacked on another five runs in the bottom of the eighth inning to extend their lead before Wheaton scored four more in the top of the ninth. Crayton Burnett earned his first collegiate win on the mound, pitching 2.0 innings in relief while tallying two strikeouts and giving up no hits.

The Illini improve to 8-10 on the season before opening up Big Ten conference play this weekend at Michigan State.

Blackhawks Double Up Ducks

Patrick Kane had a goal and two assists as the Blackhawks defeated the skidding Ducks 4-2 on Wednesday to snap a three-game losing streak.

Kane has been hot not only against the Ducks, but the rest of the NHL as well. He has 16 points in Chicago's last seven games overall, but only two goals. On March 8 in Chicago, Kane posted a career-high six points in an 8-3 win over Anaheim.

Kane gave the Blackhawks a 2-1 advantage at 11:37 of the second period with a slap shot from the right circle on a power play. He had a chance to score on a breakaway five minutes into the third, but was stopped by John Gibson.

Dylan Strome scored the go-ahead goal with 3:50 remaining when he redirected Riley Stillman's shot from near the blueline past goalie Gibson to give the Blackhawks a 3-2 lead. Alex DeBrincat put it out of reach on an empty-net goal with 1:03 left.

Kevin Lankinen stopped 27 shots in his first game as Chicago's No. 1 goalie. Lankinen rose into that role after the Blackhawks traded Marc-Andre Fleury to the Minnesota Wild on Monday.

Strome and DeBrincat each had a goal and an assist. Taylor Raddysh also scored for Chicago.

Sam Carrick - playing in his 100th NHL game - scored twice for Anaheim, marking the first multigoal game of his six-year career and snapping a 19-game goal drought.

Gibson made 24 saves.

Illinois State Rolls Illinois-Chicago

The Illinois State baseball team never trailed in Wednesday's 9-5 win over UIC at rain-soaked Duffy Bass Field.

Sophomore Ryan Cermak homered in his first two at-bats before senior Nick Gile delivered a two-run shot in the 5th inning.

Senior Colin Wyman retired the nine batters he faced to record the win for Illinois State (8-8, 2-0 at home).

Future Missouri Valley Conference member UIC (5-11) scored its five runs in innings five-to-seven.

Illinois State is scheduled to play Saint Louis on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday at Duffy Bass Field.

Mt. Pulaski Baseball Looks To Build on State Finals Appearance This Season

The Mt. Pulaski Hilltoppers boy's baseball team finished fourth in the state last year in Class 1A and with a good number of players from that team returning, early practices are already showing the determination to return to Peoria in the spring of 2022.

Coach Joel Washko says obviously the bulwark of last year's team was Drew Martin who is now at Heartland Community College playing baseball but he's really excited about the young players that were contributors last year that return for 2022.

Coach Washko says replacing all the things Martin could do on the mound, in the field and with the bat is going to have to be a team effort but he he is confident in this group of players to do that.

According to Coach Washko, the little things are what makes his program stand out. He believes the emphasis on things like base running and fielding and pitchers throwing strikes are what make high school programs successful.

The Hilltoppers won its season opener Monday with a 5-2 win over Central A&M and had its Tuesday game with Pawnee rained out. They return to action Thursday at Pawnee and a Friday game with Blue Ridge.

Bucks Get By Bulls

Giannis Antetokounmpo had 25 points and 17 rebounds in his return to action and the Milwaukee Bucks extended their recent mastery of the Chicago Bulls with a 126-98 blowout on Tuesday night.

Antetokounmpo missed the Bucks' 138-119 loss at Minnesota on Saturday due to a sore right knee. Milwaukee played without All-Star forward Khris Middleton, who was dealing with a sore left wrist.

Jrue Holiday had a game-high 27 points to go along with seven assists and no turnovers as the Bucks won for the 15th time in their last 16 meetings with the Bulls, including all three matchups this season. Chicago's lone win during that stretch came in the 2019-20 regular-season finale, when the Bucks rested their starters because they were locked into the East's No. 3 playoff seed.

Brook Lopez had 10 points and six rebounds in 24 minutes for Milwaukee after making his first start since the season opener. The 7-footer had come off the bench for the Bucks' last three games after missing 67 due to a back injury that required surgery.

The Bucks shot 61% from the floor and had seven players score in double figures. The Bulls shot just 42.4%.

Nikola Vucevic had 22 points for the Bulls, who opened a five-game trip one night after a 113-99 victory over the Toronto Raptors. DeMar DeRozan and LaVine added 21 points each as the Bulls lost for the ninth time in 12 games.

Milwaukee took command with a 23-4 spurt that began late in the first quarter and continued in the second.

After trailing by 23 late in the second period, the Bulls cut the lead to 64-54 early in the third. But the Bucks regrouped and pulled away again, eventually leading by as many as 35.

Milwaukee's Serge Ibaka and Chicago's Tristan Thompson each received technical fouls late in the fourth quarter after they got into a brief tussle on an inbounds pass attempt.

The Bulls are at New Orleans on Thursday. The Bulls beat the Pelicans 128-112 in Chicago on Oct. 22.

Blues Roll Caps

An injury ravaged St. Louis Blues squad put together a strong 60-minute effort to beat the Washington Capitals 5-2 Tuesday night and snap a three-game skid, but lost defenseman Torey Krug to an apparent left hand or wrist injury.

Krug left the game in the second period after getting slashed by Nick Jensen and did not return. Krug, after getting slashed, skated the rest of the shift holding his stick only in his right hand before going to the bench.

Coach Craig Berube refused to say anything more than Krug left with an upper-body injury. His team was already missing winger Rob Thomas to injury and Vladimir Tarasenko for a second consecutive game because of an illness.

Krug going down looks like just another obstacle for St. Louis to overcome.

Ideally the Blues keep putting in performances like that to keep pace in a tight Central Division playoff race. They left Washington with an important victory thanks to a goal and an assist from Brandon Saad and Brayden Schenn, the game-winner from Nathan Walker hours after he was called up and 19 saves from Ville Husso.

David Perron added an empty-netter to extend his goal-scoring streak to seven games. Every goal but Perron's was scored in tight around the net, which was a point of emphasis going in.

Thanks to a series of turnovers and defensive zone miscues, the Capitals lost a second consecutive game in regulation to fall to 7-2-1 in March. Tom Wilson had a goal and an assist, Evgeny Kuznetsov scored and Vitek Vanecek allowed four goals on 37 shots.

Walker, who won the Cup with the Capitals four years ago after they drafted him in 2014, was only in the Blues lineup because of a combination of injury, illness, the salary cap and a move made before the trade deadline Monday. The only Australian player in league history, Walker scored in the NHL for the first time since Dec. 12 - his fifth goal of the season after a hat trick Dec. 9.

The Blues host the Philadelphia Flyers on Thursday night.

DT Reed Reportedly Signs With Packers, LB Za'Darius Smith Headed to Minnesota

Free agent defensive tackle Jarran Reed says he’s heading to the Green Bay Packers.

Reed indicated his choice Tuesday by tweeting, “Let’s gooooo #GoPackGo so thankful for the opportunity to continue my career in Green Bay.” The Packers haven’t announced his addition yet.

The 29-year-old Reed should fortify a defensive line that features playmaking tackle Kenny Clark but lacks depth.

Reed played for the Kansas City Chiefs last season and had 2½ sacks plus a fumble recovery. He spent his first five seasons with the Seattle Seahawks, who selected him in the second round of the 2016 draft out of Alabama.

He has 24½ career sacks, including 10½ in 2018 and 6½ in 2020.

The Packers had spent much of the free agency period focusing on keeping their own players. Over the last week, they reached deals to keep All-Pro linebacker De’Vondre Campbell, cornerback Rasul Douglas and tight end Robert Tonyan in Green Bay. They also signed former Chicago Bears punter Pat O’Donnell.

The Packers’ major loss on defense has been outside linebacker Za’Darius Smith, who was released in a cap-saving move.

Smith recorded a combined 26 sacks in 2019-20 before a back injury limited him to one regular-season game and one playoff game last year. Smith agreed to a three-year, $42 million deal with the Minnesota Vikings on Tuesday.

The 29-year-old Smith was a Pro Bowl pick in 2019 and 2020 with a combined 26 sacks in 32 games for Green Bay, but he had a major back injury last season and appeared in only one game for the NFC North champions.

Bulls Down Raptors

DeMar DeRozan and Zach LaVine each scored 26 points and Nikola Vucevic had 19 points and 13 rebounds as the Chicago Bulls beat the Toronto Raptors 113-99 on Monday night.

DeRozan shot 11 for 14 as the Bulls snapped a three-game losing streak and remained in fifth place in the Eastern Conference.

Toronto hung around until LaVine scored six-straight points to break the game open in the third quarter as the Bulls pieced together a 21-8 run. LaVine scored 14 of his 26 points in the third, going 6 of 8 from the floor in that span.

Pascal Siakam led Toronto with 22 points on 8-of-14 shooting and had five rebounds. Fred VanVleet scored 19 points on 7-for-22 shooting from the field and 3-for-12 sniping from 3-point range. Chris Boucher had 19 points, and a team-high 10 rebounds.

VanVleet said it was fair to say the Raptors ran out of gas during the third quarter. Chicago took advantage, building its lead as Toronto endured a six-minute scoring drought.

The Raptors, who had won six of seven heading into Monday's game, remain in seventh place in the Eastern Conference.

Toronto forward Thaddeus Young got the deficit under 10 points with a layup with 35.1 seconds left in the third quarter, but LaVine buried a 3-pointer from the left corner to put the Bulls back up by double digits, 84-73, to start the fourth quarter.

The Bulls assisted on 28 baskets and turned the ball over just six times, despite Toronto building a 62-48 scoring edge in the paint.

Chicago forward Patrick Williams returned to the court for the first time since Oct. 28 after undergoing surgery to repair torn ligaments in his left wrist.

After undergoing left knee surgery to repair a torn meniscus in January, G Lonzo Ball will miss more time, according to Coach Billy Donovan. Ball and the medical staff met and decided to stop running and cutting for 10 days in the hope of eliminating pain as Ball also recovers from a bone bruise.

The Bulls are at the Milwaukee Bucks on Tuesday.

Cardinals C Molina Reports to Camp, Claim LHP Naughton From Angels

Yadier Molina is back, and both he and the St. Louis Cardinals couldn’t be happier.

After missing the first week of camp for personal reasons, the 39-year-old Molina arrived at the Cardinals’ complex on Monday for what will likely be his final spring training.

When St. Louis manager Oliver Marmol welcomed Molina back during a closed team meeting, the cheers and applause from his teammates could be heard outside the concrete building.

Prior to that, a grinning Molina couldn’t take more than a handful of steps without a different teammate walking over to embrace him.

With 20 starts together this season, Wainwright and Molina will have 325 as a battery, breaking the major league record held by former Detroit Tigers players Mickey Lolich and Bill Freehan.

When Marmol, a rookie manger, writes Molina’s name on the lineup card for the first time, he’ll be inserting a 10-time gold glover and nine-time all-star behind the plate. He’ll also have an unquestioned team leader on the field.

Molina knew he would be late to camp for some time, but couldn’t inform the Cardinals because of the lockout rules banning communication between teams and players.

The Cardinals claimed left-hander Packy Naughton off waivers from the Los Angeles Angels on Monday.

The 25-year-old Naughton, who fills out the Cardinals’ 40-man roster, was chosen by the Reds in the ninth round of the 2017 first-year player draft. The former Virginia Tech star made his major league debut for the Angels last season, going 0-4 with a 7.15 ERA in five starts and seven total appearances.

Naughton spent most of his season in the minors, going 2-2 with a 4.90 ERA in 10 starts and 14 appearances at Double-A Rocket City and Triple-A Salt Lake City. He did not pitch the previous season because COVID-19 shut down the minors.

Olympia Routs Clinton in High School Softball Opener

The Olympia Lady Spartans started fast and didn't look back as they rolled the Clinton Lady Maroons 16-1 in the season opener for Clinton Monday night in Stanford.

Olympia jumped out to a quick 5-0 lead after the first and expanded the lead to 10-0 after two.

The Lady Maroons scratched a run across in the top of the fourth inning on a Heidi Humble base hit but Olympia scored 6 in the bottom half of the frame to close out the 15-run win.

Brooke Reeves and Humble each finished 1-for-2 for Clinton. Reeves scored the only run for the Lady Maroons.

Clinton committed four errors and ten of the 16 runs Reeves allowed were earned. Reeves struggled with her control for ten walks, ten hits and struck out one.

The Lady Spartans move to 3-0 on the young season while the Lady Maroons drop to 0-1.

The schedule doesn't let up for Clinton who hosts St. Joseph-Ogden Thursday, Maroa-Forsyth Friday and after a Monday matchup with GCMS, takes on Tuscola next Tuesday.

Hear Friday's home matchup with Maroa-Forsyth on The Big 1520 AM/92.3 FM/106.5 FM WHOW and at all the WHOW digital platforms.

Clinton High School Baseball Opens Spring Campaign This Week

The high school baseball and softball seasons have been underway for a week now and the Clinton Maroons boy's baseball team opens its spring 2022 campaign this week.

Coach John Hickman says there are several variables to opting to begin the season a week later than most teams. He points to the weather not allowing most team time outside for the first few weeks of practice but they also want a chance to get pitchers' arms in shape.

For Coach Hickman, the early season practices are aimed to get kids back into baseball shape and a baseball routine. With several multisport athletes and kids doing other things, he recognizes some may not have been able to focus on baseball when practices start back up.

This year's Maroons squad is going to be very senior-heavy. Coach Hickman indicates they have nine returning seniors and a new senior coming out for ten seniors on the roster. With so much returning talent from last year's team, Coach Hickman is already seeing the benefits of that experience.

Coach Hickman is optimistic heading into the season. He says pitching and defense will be keys for them and is hoping for some improvement offensively for his team.

The Maroons are scheduled to host Mahomet-Seymour tomorrow (Tuesday) afternoon before road games at Olympia Thursday, at Ridgeview for a Saturday doubleheader, and then opening conference action at Tuscola next Tuesday.

Illinois Knocked Out By Houston in NCAA Tournament

Taze Moore scored 21 points and Jamal Shead added 18 as the Houston Cougars, a Final Four team last season, advanced in the South Region of the NCAA Tournament with a 68-53 win Sunday over Illinois, ousted in the opening weekend for the second straight year.

The fifth-seeded Cougars (31-5) are making another serious run at a national title despite losing their two best players to season-ending injuries. Now, with a trio of transfers and a defense with some serious teeth, they’re headed home to Texas for the next round — in San Antonio, against either Arizona or TCU.

Kyler Edwards added 15 points for Houston, a team often overlooked but making major noise again this March.

With Houston’s fans chanting “Sweet 16, Sweet 16” in the closing seconds, Edwards dropped one last 3-pointer from the corner and seconds later lifted Moore, another of Houston’s transfers, off the floor.

The Cougars faced major adversity in December when guards Marcus Sasser and Tramon Mark, two of the holdovers from last year’s talented squad, were lost to injuries. But instead of folding, Houston’s players formed an even tighter bond.

For Illinois, it’s another year of deep disappointment. The fourth-seeded Fighting Illini (23-10) were determined to go farther after being bumped by Loyola Chicago last year, but couldn’t get past the second round again.

All-American center Kofi Cockburn did his part, scoring 19 in 38 minutes to lead Illinois. The big man spurned the NBA last year for a shot at some tournament redemption, only to come up short in what was likely his last college game.

Illinois coach Brad Underwood credited Houston’s defense, but didn’t have an answer for his team’s poor shooting (6 of 25 on 3s) or turnovers (17). He got a nice lift from freshmen Luke Goode and RJ Melendez, but not enough from his other regulars.

Down by 12 in the first half, Illinois battled back and was within 56-49 after Alfonso Plummer’s four-point play.

But after Shead hit a floater, Houston’s Fabian White Jr. made the play of the game by racing into the backcourt and swatting the ball before it went out of bounds with his left hand to Moore for a layup.

Illinois Falls to Southern Illinois in Series Finale

The Illinois baseball team dropped the Sunday rubber match at Southern Illinois, 7-5 from Carbondale, finishing the weekend losing the final two games after winning a slugfest 11-10 Friday night.

Five Illini hitters registered multi-hit games, including junior OF Cam McDonald who notched three hits and two RBI to lead the Illini at the plate. McDonald has now reached base safely in every game this season (18 consecutive games) and is currently riding a 16-game hit streak.

Illinois (7-10) scored two runs in the top of the first inning as sophomore first baseman Justin Janas logged his first of two doubles on the afternoon. The Illini added another run in the fifth, but Southern Illinois (15-5) would respond with a three-run inning to knot the score heading into the sixth.

Both teams scored two more runs apiece to tie the score at five. With the game-winning run on third base and two outs in the bottom of the ninth, Cam McDonald made an incredible full extension diving catch down the left field line to send the game to extra innings. Southern Illinois ended up winning on a walk-off two-run homerun in the bottom of the tenth inning, also taking the three-game weekend series.

The Illini return home to host Bradley Tuesday afternoon at 4 pm.

No. 19 Purdue Too Much for ISU

The Illinois State baseball team dropped a doubleheader at 19th-ranked Purdue at Alexander Field on Sunday. The 'Birds fell, 9-2, in game one before falling, 7-6, in 10 innings in game two.

Illinois State, which led 6-5 after eight innings in game two, drops to 7-8 while Purdue jumps to 17-1. The 'Birds had a chance to take the series after defeating the Boilermakers, 4-3, on Thursday in Normal.

Senior Aidan Huggins. recorded five hits on the day, including four in the nightcap.

Purdue started hot with three runs in the 1st inning of the opener but Illinois State got one back in the 3rd inning on a single from Huggins. The Boilermakers scored the game's next six runs as junior Justin Schubert provided two innings of scoreless relief. A double from second-year freshman Jonathan Sabotnik added a run for the Redbirds in the 9th inning.

Illinois State stranded five runners in the first three innings of the second game, scratching across a run on an RBI from sophomore Luke Cheng. Purdue added four runs (three unearned) in the 3rd inning to lead, 4-1.

A 5th-inning wild pitch scored first-year freshman JT Sokolove before senior Nick Gile knocked in Huggins cut the deficit to 4-3. Purdue answered with a solo home run in the bottom of the inning but an RBI triple from sophomore Greg Nichols brought the 'Birds back within one. Sokolove laced an RBI single to tie the game in the 8th before a Huggins sac fly gave the 'Birds a 6-5 lead but the 'Birds stranded the bases loaded in the 8th after scoring the two runs.

Purdue tied the game in the 9th before the 'Birds left the bases loaded in the 10th. A walk-off single in the 10th lifted the Boilermakers to a 7-6 win.

Illinois State is scheduled to play Wednesday against UIC at Duffy Bass Field.

Blackhawks Fall to Jets

Jansen Harkins scored twice, Kyle Connor got his 39th goal of the season and the Winnipeg Jets beat the Chicago Blackhawks 6-4 Sunday night.

Nikolaj Ehlers, Josh Morrissey and Blake Wheeler also scored, and Connor added two assists for the Jets. Andrew Copp added three assists, and Winnipeg won for the third time in four games to get within five points of the Western Conference's final wild-card spot.

Jonathan Toews, Dylan Strome, Taylor Raddysh and Philipp Kurashev each scored for Chicago. Patrick Kane set up the goals for Strome and Raddysh.

Chicago led 2-1 when Harkins tipped Dylan DeMelo's drive from the right point and beat goaltender Marc-Andre Fleury, the subject of trade rumors less than 24 hours before the deadline. It was the first of four Winnipeg goals on eight shots in the last 17 minutes of the second period.

Harkins added his second goal from the doorstep on a perfect pass from Copp at 11:13, while Connor and Morrissey, the latter on a power play, scored from the slot two minutes apart late in the second period.

Fleury, who lost his glove just before Connor's goal, slammed his stick against the boards going to the bench at the end of the period.

Ehlers opened the scoring with a wraparound goal that deflected off Fleury's skate 9:14 into the game.

Toews tied it on a deflection of Raddysh's pass from the right corner 1:13 into the second period. The Blackhawks took the lead on Strome's goal into an open net after Kane corralled the puck and waited for goaltender Connor Hellebuyck to commit before passing to Strome.

Hellebuyck stopped 32 shots, and Fleury made 26 saves.

The struggling Blackhawks are 6-12-2 in the last 20 games.

Chicago starts a three-game trip Wednesday in Anaheim, followed by games at Los Angeles and Vegas.

Bears Make Signings, Signing With DE Oginjobi Off

The Chicago Bears signed Indianapolis Colts defensive end Al-Quadin Muhammad to a two-year contract and Kansas City Chiefs receiver and kick returner Byron Pringle to a one-year deal on Sunday.

They also re-signed safety DeAndre Houston-Carson to a one-year contract.

Muhammad spent the past four seasons in Indianapolis and is reuniting with new Bears coach Matt Eberflus and defensive coordinator Alan Williams. Eberflus was the Colts’ defensive coordinator, and Williams was their safeties coach.

Muhammad has 11 sacks, 30 quarterback hits and three forced fumbles over five seasons with New Orleans and Indianapolis. He had a career-high six sacks last year.

Pringle played on a Super Bowl-winning team and had 898 yards on 67 receptions after joining the Chiefs as an undrafted free agent out of Kansas State in 2018. He caught 42 passes for 568 yards last season and returned 25 kickoffs for 621 yards, an average of 24.8 yards that ranked fifth in the NFL.

Pringle goes from a team that went 12-5 and lost to Cincinnati in the AFC championship game after back-to-back Super Bowl appearances to one that is rebuilding. He also goes from catching passes from one of the game’s best quarterbacks in Patrick Mahomes to one coming off an uneven rookie season in Justin Fields.

Houston-Carson has two interceptions, seven passes defensed and four fumble recoveries with one returned for a touchdown in six seasons with Chicago.

Defensive tackle Larry Ogunjobi failed a physical Thursday, undoing Bears general manager Ryan Poles’ first big free-agent deal.

Poles announced the situation in a statement Friday when the former Cincinnati Bengals player was set to appear for an introductory news conference at Halas Hall.

Ogunjobi injured his right foot during the Bengals’ wild-card victory over the Las Vegas Raiders and was lost for the remainder of the playoffs.

Ogunjobi was the most established player the Bears signed in free agency so far, as they tried to rebuild their defensive line in a 4-3 approach. According to an NFL Network report, the Bears agreed initially to pay him $40.5 million over three years.

Fifth-year defensive tackle Justin Jones from the Los Angeles Chargers signed a two-year deal with the Bears, while the team finalized a contract with Green Bay Packers wide receiver Equanimeous St. Brown. Earlier in the week, they had announced the signings of Packers center/guard Lucas Patrick and Raiders linebacker Nicholas Morrow.

The Bears decided to make big changes after going 6-11 and missing the playoffs for the ninth time in 11 years. They hired general manager Ryan Poles to replace Ryan Pace and Eberflus to take over for Matt Nagy.

Packers Sign Former Bears Punter, Resign CB Douglas, TE Tonyan

The Green Bay Packers signed punter Pat O’Donnell on Friday.

O’Donnell, who has spent the past eight seasons with the Chicago Bears, is an apparent replacement for Corey Bojorquez who is an unrestricted free agent.

The 31-year-old O’Donnell has a career gross punting average of 45.1 yards and a net average of 39.3. His net average ranks first in Bears history.

O’Donnell played all 17 games for the Bears last season and posted a gross average of 46.2 yards and a net average of 38.5. Nineteen of his 62 punts were downed inside the 20-yard line.

The Bears selected O’Donnell in the sixth round of the 2014 draft. He played for Cincinnati from 2009-12 before finishing his college career at Miami.

Bojorquez finished the 2021 season with a gross punting average of 46.5 yards, the highest single-season average in Packers history for anyone with at least 35 attempts. His net average was 40.0. He also was the holder for field-goal attempts.

The Packers sent a 2023 sixth-round pick to the Los Angeles Rams in a Sept. 4 trade that brought them Bojorquez and a 2023 seventh-round selection.

Free-agent cornerback Rasul Douglas and tight end Robert Tonyan are staying with the Green Bay Packers.

A person familiar with the situation says Douglas and the Packers have agreed to terms on a three-year, $21 million deal that could get up to $25.5 million. Another person familiar with the situation said Tonyan also has agreed to terms with the Packers.

NFL Network first reported that Douglas had agreed to stay with the Packers. ESPN reported the terms. The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel first reported Tonyan’s deal.

Douglas was the biggest surprise of the Packers’ 2021 season, while Tonyan had a breakthrough performance a year earlier.

The Packers signed Douglas off the Arizona Cardinals’ practice squad in early October and watched him develop into a big-play performer.

Douglas, 27, made a game-clinching interception in the end zone in the final minute of a 24-21 victory at Arizona. He scored touchdowns on interception returns in back-to-back wins over the Los Angeles Rams and Chicago Bears.

He finished the season with five interceptions and 52 tackles in 12 games.

Tonyan, who turns 28 on April 30, had 18 receptions for 204 yards and two touchdowns in five games last year before suffering a season-ending knee injury.

But he had a much bigger impact in 2020. Tonyan caught 52 passes for 586 yards and 11 touchdowns that year to tie the franchise record for touchdown catches by a tight end in a single season. Paul Coffman also had 11 TD catches as a Packers tight end in 1984.

The news of Douglas and Tonyan returning comes one day after the Packers formally announced their trade of All-Pro receiver Davante Adams, a move that cleared about $20 million in cap space. The Packers sent Adams to the Las Vegas Raiders for a first-round pick and a second-rounder.

Before joining the Packers, Douglas played for the Philadelphia Eagles (2017-19) and Carolina Panthers (2020).

William Byron Wins at Remodeled Atlanta

While William Byron cruised to the checkered flag for the third victory of his NASCAR Cup career, one last crash unfolded behind him Sunday in an appropriate finish to a chaotic, thrilling race at remodeled Atlanta Motor Speedway.

Byron had a freight train in his rearview mirror. A sitting duck, it seemed. Fortunately for him, all those challengers started jostling against each other rather than working together to take down the leader.

The track makeover — with new pavement and steeper banking — lived up to predictions of frenzied pack racing at blistering speeds approaching those seen at Talladega and Daytona.

It was like a short-track race at a superspeedway.

There were 46 lead changes among an Atlanta-record 20 drivers, a traffic jam of tightly bunched cars that never got too far away from each other in a more than four-hour race, nine wrecks that took out several top contenders, and a bunch of smashed-up race cars to lug home.

Bryon was leading off the final restart with 13 laps to go. Bubba Wallace briefly grabbed the top spot, only to have the No. 24 Rick Hendrick Motorsports Chevrolet pass him right back.

Going for his second career victory, Wallace still seemed to be in the most enviable position, especially if he could get a helpful push for a slingshot on the final lap. But everyone behind Byron started dueling for position, all of them wanting to put themselves in position to make the winning move.

That worked out perfectly for Byron, who pulled away to win by 0.145 seconds over Ross Chastain while the final wreck of the day sent four cars — including Wallace — spinning across the line.

Wallace finished 13th. The remainder of the top five was Kurt Busch, Daniel Suárez, and Corey LaJoie in his best career showing.

In one last twist, Christopher Bell actually crossed the line second, but NASCAR penalized him for dipping below the double white line on the backstretch of the last lap to get past Chastain. Bell was dropped to 23rd.

The Cup series heads to Circuit of the Americas in Austin, Texas, for the first of six road races this season. Chase Elliott won the inaugural COTA race a year ago.

Plummer's late free throws lift Illini by Chattanooga 54-53

The Illini dug in behind Kofi Cockburn and guard Alfonso Plummer, whose go-ahead free throws with 12 seconds to go helped them pull out a 54-53 NCAA Tournament win over Chattanooga that maybe they didn’t deserve but will certainly take.

Plummer scored 13 of his 15 points in the second half, including three 3-pointers that kept Illinois (23-9) within striking distance. The 7-foot Cockburn, fending off bodies left and right, finished with 17 points and 13 rebounds while absorbing 11 fouls. His putback with 45 seconds left gave the Illini the first of just two leads they held all night.

Chattanooga still had two chances to pick up its first NCAA Tournament win since 1997 in the closing seconds but sophomore star Malachi Smith missed twice. His runner with 4 seconds left was blocked by Coleman Hawkins. Smith chased down the rebound and pulled up from about 12 feet, but the ball clanged off the rim and into Hawkins’ hands, capping a 4 for 20 performance for the Southern Conference Player of the Year.

Illinois didn’t exactly light it up either. Senior Trent Frazer missed all six of his shots but did make two free throws with 3:37 to go. Andre Curbelo was 1 for 7. The Illini made just 3 of 17 3-pointers, turned it over 14 times — including a couple of baffling passes to nowhere that sailed out of bounds — and survived anyway.

Paris promised to throw multiple bodies at Cockburn in an effort to keep the 7-footer in check. It worked early, as the Mocs harassed him nearly every time down the floor.

It led to a lot of pushing, a lot of shoving and — for a while — a lot of fouls. Josh Ayeni and Silvio De Sousa each drew three whistles in the first half alone. Cockburn struggled to take advantage, missing 5 of 8 free throws early before he and the Illini started to get into a rhythm after the Mocs were forced to go small.

Illinois Looks for Better Showing in 'Big Dance' From 2021

Everyone knows that Kofi Cockburn is the engine of Big Ten Conference regular season co-champion Illinois.

He was named a first team All-American on Tuesday after averaging 21.1 points and 10.6 rebounds.

But if the fourth-seeded Fighting Illini (22-9) are to make a significant run in the NCAA Tournament, starting with Friday night's first-round game in the South Region against 13th-seeded Chattanooga in Pittsburgh, Cockburn will need help.

That's where guys like Alfonso Plummer enter the picture. The Utah transfer lived up to his billing as a 3-point sniper and then some in his only season with Illinois, averaging 14.8 points and burying 41.3 percent of his 3-point attempts.

With defenses frequently devoting double and triple-team attention to Cockburn in the lane, Plummer and teammates get a lot of open looks from behind the arc. Should one of those opportunities come to win or lose a game, Plummer vows to be ready.

Plummer averages three 3-pointers per game. His 93 3-pointers were the most by any Big Ten player. He's capable of shooting opponents right out of the building, as proven by consecutive games in February when he strafed Ohio State and Michigan for 14 of 19 from behind the arc.

That's not even his best performance. In a 2020 Pac-12 first-round game against Oregon State, Plummer drilled 11 3-pointers in a Utah loss. It's largely forgotten because of the outcome and because COVID-19 brought the sports world to a halt the next day.

Ironically, the pandemic is why Plummer is in this position. Because all athletes got an extra "COVID-19" year via an NCAA ruling, Plummer is a "super-senior," playing his fifth year.

Chattanooga (27-7) is more than capable of turning that special feeling into a rotten one. The Mocs boast the size to play Cockburn straight-up, the shooting to hurt any opponent from deep and a go-to guy in Malachi Smith (20.1 ppg, 50.5 percent shooting).

And Chattanooga also has March Madness' most dramatic ending so far. It trailed Furman by two points with just over four seconds left in overtime of the Southern Conference title game on March 7. That was just enough time for David Jean-Baptiste to dribble into the frontcourt, rise over two defenders and swish a 30-footer to win the game 64-63.

Jean-Baptiste scores 14.6 ppg, and Kansas transfer Silvio De Sousa (11.1 ppg, 7.0 rebounds, 29 blocked shots) provides inside muscle. De Sousa also offers some NCAA tourney experience, as he was a reserve for the 2018 Kansas team that reached the Final Four before falling to eventual champion Villanova.

Packers Trade WR Adams to Raiders

The Las Vegas Raiders are making a blockbuster move to keep up in the AFC West, acquiring All-Pro receiver Davante Adams from the Green Bay Packers.

The Raiders are sending the No. 22 overall pick in the April draft and additional compensation to the Packers to reunite Adams with his college quarterback, Derek Carr.

NFL Network reported that Adams has agreed to a new five-year deal with the Raiders that will pay him $141.25 million in the richest deal ever for a wide receiver.

This was an aggressive move by the Raiders new regime led by coach Josh McDaniels and general manager Dave Ziegler and the latest in an AFC West arms race as teams try to catch Patrick Mahomes and the Chiefs. Denver traded for quarterback Russell Wilson and the Chargers acquired edge rusher Khalil Mack.

Carr has a strong history with Adams, playing two seasons together in college at Fresno State. In their final year together in 2013, Adams had 131 catches for 1,719 yards and 24 TDs.

Adams reportedly bought a house in Las Vegas recently and Carr tweeted after reports of the deal became public, “Welcome home.”

Adams has been one of the most productive receivers in the NFL in recent years. His 432 catches, 5,310 yards receiving and 47 TD receptions lead the NFL over the past four seasons.

He had 123 catches for 1,553 yards and 11 TDs last season when he made his second straight All-Pro team.

This trade comes less than two weeks after the Packers placed the franchise tag on Adams and two days after the Packers announced that two-time reigning MVP quarterback Aaron Rodgers had signed a contract extension.

The franchise tag meant Adams would have been due to receive just over $20 million for the 2022 season if he and the Packers didn’t work out an extension before July 15. Adams, who has said he wants to be the game’s highest-paid receiver, was asked late in the season about the prospect of getting the franchise tag.

His departure leaves a major hole in Green Bay’s offense. The Packers have their MVP quarterback but must figure out who’s going to catch Rodgers’ passes.

The Packers return veteran Randall Cobb but aren’t certain to bring back any of their other proven wideouts.

Allen Lazard is an unrestricted free agent who received a second-round tender this week. Marquez Valdes-Scantling, the team’s top deep threat, is an unrestricted free agent. Tight end Robert Tonyan also is an unrestricted free agent.

WR Robinson Headed to Rams

The Los Angeles Rams agreed to terms Thursday on a three-year contract for receiver Allen Robinson, one of the NFL’s most dependable veteran pass-catchers during his eight seasons in the league.

Robinson has three 1,000-yard seasons during a productive career split between Jacksonville and Chicago. He caught 38 passes for 410 yards while limited to just 12 games by injuries for the Bears, but he racked up 2,397 yards and 13 TDs in his previous two seasons combined in Chicago.

Robinson is the latest big-name receiver to join the Rams, who have had one of the NFL’s deepest groups at the position for much of coach Sean McVay’s half-decade in charge. Robinson also is the first outside free agent signed this month by the Rams, who have lost several key players to free agency and retirement over the past week.

Robinson has never played with a quarterback of Matthew Stafford’s caliber, but he will be a key component of Los Angeles’ offense for its title defense.

Cooper Kupp led the NFL in all three major receiving categories last season before winning the Super Bowl MVP award, while Odell Beckham Jr. revitalized his career as a midseason addition.

Cardinals P Flaherty Seeks Second Opinion on Ailing Shoulder

St. Louis Cardinals right-hander Jack Flaherty will seek a second medical opinion on his ailing pitching shoulder.

Flaherty underwent imaging tests on his right shoulder Tuesday. He has not thrown off a mound since spring training opened.

Flaherty, 26, was 11-8 with a 2.75 ERA in 2019, went 4-3 with a 4.91 during the pandemic-shortened 2020 season and 9-2 with a 3.22 in 17 starts last year, when he was slowed by an oblique injury.

Potential rotation replacements include right-handers Johan Oviedo, Jake Woodford and Drew VerHagen.

Reliever Giovanny Gallegos was expected to start workouts Friday after a late arrival.

Penguins Get By Blues

Bryan Rust scored the deciding goal in a shootout and goalie Tristan Jarry picked up his 30th victory in the Pittsburgh Penguins' 3-2 win over the St. Louis Blues on Thursday night.

The fourth shooter for the Penguins, Rust snapped a wrist shot from the slot past goalie Ville Husso.

Rust is 3 for 3 this seasons in shootout and 5 for 5 in his career.

Jarry improved to 30-12-6, thwarting all four St. Louis shooters in the tiebreaker. He made 23 saves in regulation and overtime.

Mike Matheson and Chad Ruhwedel scored in regulation for Pittsburgh.

Ivan Barbashev and David Perron scored for St. Louis, and Husso made 43 saves.

Perron's goal in the second period got the Blues back in the game that Pittsburgh was dominating.

The Blues tied it at 2 in the third period when Barbashev scored his 19th goal at 1:49. Barbasev poked in the rebound of Brandon Saad wraparound attempt.

Blues coach Craig Berube was pleased his team rebounded from being down 2-0.

The Blues are at Columbus on Saturday.

Cubs Add SS Villar in Host of Moves

The Chicago Cubs stayed busy on Thursday, agreeing to contracts with infielder Jonathan Villar and pitchers Mychal Givens, Daniel Norris and Robert Gsellman.

The Cubs also finalized right-hander Chris Martin’s one-year deal and placed left-hander Brad Wieck on the 60-day injured list with a left elbow strain.

Villar’s $6 million, one-year deal is pending a physical. He is slated to make $4.5 million in salary in 2022, and there is a $10 million mutual option with a $1.5 million buyout. He earns a $500,000 performance bonus for reaching 500 plate appearances.

The 30-year-old Villar spent last year with the New York Mets, batting .249 with 18 homers and 42 RBIs in 142 games. He can play second, third and shortstop.

Givens’ one-year contract is worth $5 million. Givens also can earn $1.25 million in bonuses.

The 31-year-old Givens finished last season with Cincinnati, going 1-1 with a 4.22 ERA and eight saves. He could get the opportunity to pitch at the back end of Chicago’s bullpen.

Norris’ one-year contract is worth $1.75 million and the left-hander can earn up to $2 million in incentives.

Gsellman is in Cubs camp on a non-roster contract.

Martin pitched for the World Series champion Braves last year, going 2-4 with a 3.95 ERA in 46 appearances. The 35-year-old right-hander also took the mound in five postseason games, allowing one run and four hits in 4 1/3 innings.

Wieck’s elbow issue popped up during a bullpen session this week. The 6-foot-8 Wieck pitched 17 scoreless innings over 15 appearances with the Cubs in 2021, but he missed much of the season because of a heart issue.

Norris played for Detroit and Milwaukee last year, going 2-3 with a 6.16 ERA in 56 games. Norris, who turns 29 on April 25, was selected by Toronto in the second round of the 2011 amateur draft and made his big league debut with the Blue Jays in 2014.

Norris is 20-34 with a 4.65 ERA in 167 major league games, including 83 starts.

Gsellman spent his first six seasons with the New York Mets, going 20-16 with a 4.59 ERA in 176 games. He went 0-1 with a 3.77 ERA in 17 appearances last year.

Thursday’s additions are the latest in a flurry of moves for the Cubs since they opened spring training — especially on the pitching side. There is concern across the majors about pitching depth with baseball’s adjusted schedule after the lockout.

NASCAR Headed to Atlanta

The NASCAR Cup Series departs the west coast to head east beginning with Atlanta Motorspeedway this weekend.

Chase Briscoe held on at Phoenix through two late-race restarts to claim his first victory in NASCAR’s premier series becoming the 200th different race winner in series history.

Briscoe led for 101 laps, second to Blaney’s 144 out front. Joey Logano moved into the points lead by four over Kyle Busch and five over Chase Elliott. Busch and Aric Almirola share the series lead with three top-10 runs through four races.

Ryan Blaney won the spring race last year.

Practice time for the Cup Series is this afternoon at 4 pm with qualifying tomorrow morning at 11:30 am and race time is 2 pm on Sunday.

Meanwhile in the XFinity Series, Riverton-native Justin Allgaier will look to defend his win at Atlanta last spring.

Allgaier and A.J. Allmendinger both have four top-10 finishes and Berry has three top-fives. Noah Gragson led 114 of 200 laps at Phoenix to claim his first victory of the season.

Gragson has finished in the top three in all four races and leads the points standings by 39 over Ty Gibbs. Gibbs rallied for a sixth-place finish after a bump from Josh Berry sent him spinning on lap 56. The final 100 laps at Phoenix were all green-flag racing.

Practice is this afternoon at 3 pm with qualifying at 10:30 am Saturday morning and the green flag drops at 4 pm on Saturday afternoon.

The Camping World Truck Series returns to action this weekend in 