Each day we'll bring you the very latest tabloid rumors as the biggest clubs around look to splash the cash to bolster their rosters. True or not, they're always entertaining...

Real Madrid forward Gareth Bale insists he has no intention of making a £90m move to Manchester United.

Liverpool are set to swoop for Fiorentina goalkeeper Neto, 25, in January to replace the out-of-form Simon Mignolet.

Louis van Gaal believes neighbors City will never be as big as Manchester United - citing their popularity abroad and on social media as evidence.

Tottenham are planning a summer swoop for Porto playmaker Yacine Brahimi but face competition for his signature from Napoli and PSG.

Brendan Rodgers believe Moussa Sissoko should have been sent off for a 'horrendous' challenge on Joe Allen, before he set up Newcastle's winner at St James' Park.

Barcelona defender Gerard Pique could favor a move to London over Manchester due to the friendship Cesc Fabregas has with his girlfriend Shakira.

Napoli manager Rafael Benitez is lining up a £12million move for Newcastle United midfielder Cheick Tiote.

Jose Mourinho has launched a scathing attack on Chelsea fans at yesterday's game with QPR, claiming playing at Stamford Bridge was 'like playing in an empty stadium'.

Manual Pellegrini admits he is a fan of Liverpool skipper Steven Gerrard, whose contract expires at the end of this season, and wants him to be part of his project at the Etihad should he wish to move from Anfield.

Brendan Rodgers has told his misfiring team they are simply not good enough in front of goal.

Louis van Gaal claims champions Manchester City are years behind United.

Victor Valdes took a big step towards completing a shock move to Manchester United after the free agent completed a medical at the club.

Argentine-duo Sergio Aguero and Marcos Rojo have come to blows ahead of Sunday's Manchester derby in a dispute concerning Aguero's girlfriend Karina Tejeda.

Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers has ordered the club's American owners to hand Steven Gerrard a new contract.

James Milner believes he is ready to sign a new contract at the club after taking up a more important playing role.

West Ham are preparing to offer Winston Reid a bumper four-year contract in a desperate bid to fend off unwanted bids for the defender.

Louis van Gaal has declared war on Manchester United's over-pampered stars

Skipper Steven Gerrard must get new Liverpool contract, insists boss Brendan Rodgers. Meanwhile, Rodgers reckons former Reds striker Luis Suarez should have been nominated for this year's FIFA Ballon d'Or award.

Newcastle are trying to beat Celtic to the signing of 29-year-old midfielder Lassana Diarra, who is a free agent after leaving Lokomotiv Moscow.

Leicester have already started to consider extending Esteban Cambiasso's contract

West Ham want to sign Germany's Under-21 keeper Loris Karius

Jack Cork's situation at Southampton is being monitored by four Premier League clubs, namely West Ham, Swansea, Sunderland and Crystal Palace

Barnsley's 16-year-old right-back James Bree is attracting interest from Manchester City, Tottenham and Everton

Aston Villa are facing a fight to hold onto Fabian Delph, Ron Vlaar and Leandro Bacuna

Rio Ferdinand will be targeted by Major League Soccer bosses before making a decision over retirement

Mike Ashley has told Ally McCoist that his job as Rangers manager is safe

Arsenal face competition from Manchester United in their attempts to sign midfielder Julian Draxler from German side Schalke.

A defiant Alan Pardew said he was ready to party last night after guiding Newcastle to four consecutive victories in all competitions.

Thibaut Courtois believes Chelsea are capable of winning a league and European Cup double in his first season at the club.

Federico Fazio says he is indebted to Spurs boss Mauricio Pochettino for helping him make it back to the highest level of football.

Formula 1 giants Red Bull are in talks to buy Leeds United from controversial Italian owner Massimo Cellino.

Brendan Rodgers has advised Raheem Sterling to observe Cristiano Ronaldo, citing the Portuguese star as the perfect role model for the young Englishman.

Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain is relishing playing with summer signing Alexis Sanchez and has learnt a lot from the Chile international.

Diego Costa says he is desperate to win the Champions League with Chelsea after last season's heartbreak at Atletico Madrid.

David Moyes believes Marouane Fellaini is finally starting to blossom at Old Trafford, and draws on the belgian's recent form as evidence to why he signed him on two occasions.

Manuel Pellegrini has said he would love to sign Steven Gerrard, should he ever want to leave Liverpool.

Mark Hughes has blasted referee Chris Foy for failing to award his side a free kick in the build up to West Ham's first goal at the Britannia.

Figures released by the PFA claim only four per cent of those holding key backroom roles in football come from black and ethnic minorities.