The Sixers are going to the playoffs. Whether that's a good thing or not remains to be seen. Eddie Jordan has officially turned them into a different version of the 2004 Washington Wizards. They're going to give up a lot of points but they're also going to score a lot of points. I must admit, I enjoy watching high-scoring games with no defense rather than low-scoring games with no offense, but the depressing thing is, the Sixers have a roster that is capable of both. Sigh. I guess you can't have your cake and eat it too.

Fact: Eddie Jordan has sketchy substitution patterns. Fact: Eddie Jordan took over a team with an above average defense. Fact: that same team now has possibly the worst defense in the NBA. We're to the point in the season where we know what Eddie Jordan is all about. If he hasn't changed yet, he's not the change now and he's not going to change ever. We're just going to have to live with the fact that the Sixers hired a terrible coach. Were also going to have to live with another mediocre season, another playoff berth, another one and done, and another midteens draft pick.

All things considered this team should be pretty fun to watch for the rest of the season, especially if you like offense. Think 2004 Washington Wizards and a poor man's Phoenix Suns combined.

Since I'm on a roll with predictions (I predicted the Sixers would win by eight tonight and they won by 10.) I'm predicting 40 wins for this Sixers team barring any major injuries.

One more thing I want to point out is the one player I want traded before the deadline. Bill Green? No. Samuel Dalembert? No. Elton Brand? No. Andre Iguodala? No. Thaddeus Young? Yes! Ahh everyone's golden child. Thaddeus does one thing kind of well, and that's scoring. Everything else he kind of sucks at. I don't think he's ever going to be an elite scorer and since he's not good at anything else I don't see the need to invest the team's future in him. He seems to be finding himself on the bench more often than not, so why not shop him along with a bad contract such as Elton Brand or Samuel Dalembert for some combination of draft picks, young players that feel a need, or expiring contracts? I'm honestly all for trading anyone on the roster except for Jrue Holiday and Marreese Speights. I love Andre Iguodala which is why I wouldn't mind seeing him traded. His prime years are going to be wasted away on this mediocre team.

So, this recap really had nothing to do with tonight's game besides the fact that the win sparked my weekly "We're always going to be mediocre!" rant.

Double sigh. First-round exit here we come. Hey, at least we are on TNT tomorrow.

76ers vs Kings coverage