Plus Value Dharmachakra (Wheel Of the Law) Karma Chakra

Where to Place Dharmachakra:-

Meditation room

Living Room

Study desk

Working Desk

Library room

Who should use Dharmachakra

For mindfulness

For Concentration

For meditation

For ethics & wisdom

For protection from suffering

To eliminate ignorance

In Buddhist teachings, the “Dharmachakra,” or “Wheel of Law,” is the representation of Gautama Buddha and his teachings. It represents one of the most auspicious of the “Eight Offerings” mini-series

It is one of the most important and sacred symbols in the Buddhist faith as it represents Buddha’s teachings.

The Dharmachakra comes from the Dharma, which is the path to attaining enlightenment and reaching Nirvana (the highest state of being a person can achieve). It also means the Wheel of Law.

In most representations, the Wheel has eight spokes, representing the Eightfold Path.

What the Dharmachakra Wheel Represents

A dharma wheel has three basic parts: the hub, the rim, and the spokes. Over the centuries, various teachers and traditions have proposed diverse meanings for these parts. Here are some common understandings of the wheel’s symbolism:

The circle, the round shape of the wheel, represents the perfection of the dharma of the Buddha’s teaching.

The rim of the wheel represents meditative concentration and mindfulness, which hold practice together. This is practiced worldwide.

The hub represents moral discipline.

When one practices Dharma, he/she is protecting oneself from suffering and eliminating ignorance, thereby improving one’s quality of life. These teachings were described as a wheel because they move and travel throughout the land and then people can practice control over their minds.

Altogether, the three aspects of the Dharma Wheel symbolize concentration, ethics, and wisdom – which are all essential in the teachings of Buddha.

Exclusive superb gift item and a home décor collectible from Brand Plus Value

Click here for an exclusive Vastu craft

Highly recommended by Vastu & Feng Shui Experts

Get Paid Vastu Consultation, Send Your Floor Plan with Directions Marked for Professional Advice.

Product Specification

Material Polyresin Uses Showpiece, Vastu & Feng Shui Weight 306gm Approx Dimension (L x W) 6.5 x 4.5 Inch/16.5×11.5 cm Color Golden Brand Plus Value Country of Origin India

Want to order Dharmachakra on Cash on Delivery from the Brand “Plus Value”?