Interested in exploring the great American South for your honeymoon? From the sandy beaches of the Florida Keys to the vast Great Smoky Mountains and bustling New Orleans, the South offers a honeymoon for every kind of couple.

With iconic capital cities, outdoor adventures, a fair share of leisure spots, and famed southern hospitality all throughout, these are the 10 best honeymoon destinations in the U.S. South.

The Forsyth Park fountain is one of Savannah's most visited locations.

Savannah, Georgia

Honeymoon in one of America's friendliest cities where art, architecture, and nature thrive.

The coastal city of Savannah offers world-class hospitality and grace around every corner. With a lively riverside district, plenty of romantic restaurants, and gorgeous public parks, Savannah is a beauty to behold. Cycle your way through Georgia's oldest city and then journey to Tybee Island - 20 minutes from the city - for some oceanside relaxation.

Book your Savannah honeymoon stay at The Bohemian Hotel. The hotel's riverfront location in the heart of Savannah's historic district is a perfect jump-off point for city explorations and a pleasure to return home to after long days of sightseeing. Splurge on a River View King room with a balcony to enjoy the scene all night long.

Courtesy of @missmeowstudios

New Orleans will put an extra pep to your honeymoon step.

New Orleans, Louisiana

The Big Easy promises to bring the party to your honeymoon.

New Orleans thrives as a fabulous honeymoon destination just as much as it works as a pre-wedding party city. The birthplace of jazz is filled with romantic restaurants, historic bars, and laid back bistros, which make self-guided tours of the city all the more fun.

Book your New Orleans honeymoon stay at the Hotel Monteleone. This majestic accommodation is nearly as iconic as the French Quarter neighborhood which it occupies. Don't miss its Carousel Bar & Lounge - New Orleans' only revolving bar.

A glimpse at the bright lights of Music Row in Nashville.

Nashville, Tennessee

Move to the beat with a honeymoon in Music City.

Nashville is not reserved for bachelorettes only. Tennessee's capital city is also an ideal honeymoon destination for music lovers. Between wild honky-tonks on Broadway, live shows at the Grand Ole Opry, and blasts from the past at sites like the Country Music Hall of Fame and Johnny Cash museum, couples are sure to get their fixing for good music throughout the city. Upscale cocktail lounges and BBQ-focused food tours round out Nashville as one of the best honeymoon destinations in the U.S. South.

Book your Nashville honeymoon stay at The Hermitage Hotel. The grand dame of Nashville hotels, the Hermitage has been in continuous operation for over a century and has hosted celebrities and politicians from Johnny Cash to John F. Kennedy.

Courtesy of Bungalows Key Largo

This floating Tiki Bar will surely make the shortlist of magical honeymoon moments.

Florida Keys, Florida

The Florida Keys offer a Caribbean-esque honeymoon escape; no passport required.

Florida's tropical Keys islands are a paradise for beachgoers. For easygoing fun in the sun, look no further than honeymooning on this 120-mile stretch of islands. Luxury resorts make plopping on the sands easy, while a self-guided road trip from Miami through the island chain will entice more adventurous couples.

Book your Florida Keys honeymoon stay at Bungalows Key Largo. This adults-only, all-inclusive resort brings the best pleasures of a beach paradise right to Florida's shores. A vintage Florida Keys vibe sets the stage for a romantic honeymoon escape. No wonder it joined our rankings as one of the best all-inclusive honeymoon resorts in the US.

Courtesy of @haley_elizabeth1994

A honeymoon in gentle Charleston will have you swooning over Southern living.

Charleston, South Carolina

A Charleston honeymoon infuses old-fashioned Southern charm with modern style.

Charleston is the ideal destination for a honeymoon filled with Southern gentility. This coastal city is perfect for strolling through hidden alleyways and trendy boutiques before long afternoons of sipping sweet tea on a shaded hotel porch. After visiting plantations and splurging on honeymoon mementos at the Charleston City Market, head to sea on a historic sailboat to watch a fabulous sunset.

Book your Charleston honeymoon stay at Planters Inn. Renowned for its Southern style, classic sophistication, and central location, this Relais & Châteaux property has been heralded as the nation's best boutique hotel.

Courtesy of @salamanderresort

A relaxing infinity pool is always a welcome honeymoon amenity.

Middleburg, Virginia

America's "Horse and Hunt Capital" makes for a relaxing honeymoon destination with an equestrian theme.

The one-stoplight village of Middleburg, Virginia is steeped in small town pleasures. With fine dining, cute shops, and historic landmarks aplenty, Middleburg is a peaceful honeymoon getaway at the foothills of Virginia's Blue Ridge Mountains. With its vast countryside, romantic horse-drawn carriages, and lovely trail of wineries, Middleburg is a rewarding destination just one hour from America's capital city. Visit our Virginia honeymoon destination guide for more inspiration on Middleburg and beyond.

Book your Middleburg honeymoon stay at Salamander Resort. The D.C. area's only five-star destination resort sits on 340 picturesque acres just outside of the village. Salamander combines an invigorating collection of equestrian, spa, culinary, and natural focus into an ideal honeymoon accommodation.

Courtesy of Disney Weddings & Honeymoons

Walt Disney World lives up to its hype as a fairytale honeymoon destination.

Walt Disney World, Florida

Honeymoon at the most magical place on Earth.

Walt Disney World is in the (very successful) business of bringing fairy tale fantasies to life. Is there any more appropriate time to create your own "happily ever after" moment than your honeymoon? Lavish accommodations, spectacular dining experiences, and thrilling attractions will highlight your Disney World honeymoon. We've crafted a comprehensive guide with some of the best tips on how to make the most of a Disney World honeymoon.

Book your Walt Disney World honeymoon stay at The Villas at Disney's Grand Floridian Resort and Spa. Evoking the golden era of Palm Beach, this perfectly positioned Victorian resort brings the magic of Disney World to life.

Retreat to a picture-perfect horse farm after exploring vibrant Lexington.

Lexington, Kentucky

Fill your Kentucky honeymoon with bourbon, bluegrass, and thoroughbred action.

From grand horse farms and bourbon tours to hiking trails and vibrant city life, Lexington serves up Kentucky pleasures in a welcoming fashion. Satisfy your appetite in the city center with a visit to some of Lexington's best restaurants, where culinary creations extend well beyond chicken and grits (though the Southern staples are definitely not absent from local menus). A visit to the horse capital of the world isn't complete without a trip to the Kentucky Horse Park.

Book your Lexington honeymoon stay at 21c Museum Hotel. Along with an ideal downtown location and strikingly sexy guest rooms in its hotel, 21c pulls double duty as a contemporary art museum and cultural center. The entire package makes for a buzzy stay in historic Lexington.

Courtesy of @visitasheville

An Asheville honeymoon combines urban convenience with thrilling nature.

Asheville, North Carolina

Explore the Blue Ridge Mountains with the comforts of this city as a home base.

Asheville brings the best of small-town feels and big-city culture into a vibrant honeymoon destination. Set in the shadows of the Blue Ridge Mountains, Asheville is the perfect jump-off point for an adventurous honeymoon any time of year. With an emphasis on matching the great outdoors with plentiful arts, attractions, and food and drink offerings, Asheville earned its place as one of our best honeymoon glamping spots in America.

Book your Asheville honeymoon stay at The Inn on Biltmore Estate. A former Vanderbilt family home at the base of the Blue Ridge Mountains, the Inn transports guests to an authentically preserved Gilded Age America where elegance and charm glide alongside natural beauty and restorative hospitality.

Courtesy of Lake Austin Spa Resort

Serene Lake Austin promises a rejuvenating honeymoon stay.

Austin, Texas

Keep Austin weird with a honeymoon like no other.

Known as the Live Music Capital of the World, Austin is indeed an arts mecca. Soulful music and energetic festivals, fine culinary creations, historical museums, and a defiantly quirky local culture combine to make Texas' capital city a worthy honeymoon destination. Extending just beyond the city limits, Texas Hill Country offers 14,000 square miles of laid-back towns, luxury resorts, and expansive vineyards.

Book your Austin honeymoon stay at Lake Austin Spa Resort. This all-inclusive resort beside Lake Austin in Texas' Hill Country combines wellness activities with water-based pleasures and welcoming comforts. You'll be hard-pressed to venture off-property, but the heart of Austin's downtown attractions are only 20 minutes away.

In case you missed it:

The 10 Best Northeast Honeymoon Destinations in the US

The Best Honeymoon Glamping Spots in the US