The stressful wedding preparation season is over. Now, it is time for your partner and you to let go and unwind in a calm and laid-back atmosphere. It is time to celebrate your newlywed status and even get to know each other better, and this calls for a romantic honeymoon destination.

Whatever your idea of a great honeymoon is, the United States has a destination for you. You do not have to travel far when the United States has picture-perfect and romantic destinations for you to explore.

Looking for great honeymoon decisions in the US? Whether you want to relax on stunning beaches, have one adventure after another, or experience the best nature has to offer, this list has you covered. Read on.

Maui, Hawaii

There is a reason Maui is the most sought-after honeymoon destination in the United States. As the second largest island in Hawaii, it has so much to offer, but its most outstanding features are its breathtaking scenery and laid-back atmosphere.

Maui offers stunning beaches, lush forests, picturesque hiking trails, friendly locals, and a rich culinary scene – your partner and you will have something new to explore every day, even if you spend weeks on the island.

🏨 Explore all your hotel options here

Whether you are sunbathing on the stunning Kaanapali Beach, watching the migration of humpback whales, catching sunsets at Haleakala, taking the scenic Road to Hana road trip, or just lounging on one of its many palatial resorts, Maui is a land of many offerings for honeymooners.

Read also: Best Honeymoon Destination Ideas

Napa Valley, California

Good wine and perfect scenery – now that is a romantic honeymoon for wine connoisseur couples. While the valley is known worldwide for its rich wine culture, there is much more to see and experience.

You can take rides and enjoy the scenic rolling hills covered in vineyards. The vineyards are also an excellent backdrop for a couple of photoshoots.

Consider taking the Napa Wine Train ride, which takes passengers through vineyards and wineries, offering different perspectives of the wine-producing region. If you love the train ride’s views, you will also love the hot air balloon trips for panoramic views of the vineyard-covered hills.

🏨 Explore all your hotel options here

You can also go biking along the Russian River, explore the region’s numerous Vietnamese and Thai restaurants, golf in the Chardonnay Golf Club, or horseback riding in the valley.

There are so many activities for couples to enjoy within the perfect scenery of Napa Valley, whether you prefer to take it slow or get active in your adventures.

Read also: Romantic Honeymoon Spots in the World

Savannah, Georgia

With so many things to explore, each day of your honeymoon in Savannah can be unique and an experience to look forward to. Art, history, beaches, a wide variety of restaurants – there is so much for couples to explore together.

Walk through Savannah Historic District; spend the day on Tybee Island, which has a three-mile beach and a stunning lighthouse; sample locally caught seafood, and have a meal or drink on the many rooftop bars and restaurants in the city.

🏨 Explore all your hotel options here

If you want to unwind during the evenings, you can stroll along the Savannah River along River Street. The serenity of the waterfront allows you to catch up with your partner in perfect tranquility. It is also a great place to catch sunsets, which is a great thing to enjoy as a couple.

Forsyth Park is an unmissable landmark when visiting Savannah. In summer, you can have a picnic in the park or walk through its fragrance gardens in springtime.

Also, if you’re into the paranormal, Savannah is supposedly the best place in the United States to meet ghosts. You and your partner can tap into your paranormal curiosities by joining the many ghost tours available in Savannah.

Read also: Best European Cities for Couples

Aspen, Colorado

Aspen is a great honeymoon destination for couples who appreciate a unique outdoor adventure and relaxation blend. Besides, if you have been dreaming of exploring the luxurious ski resort towns of Zermatt in Switzerland or Chamonix in France, your top honeymoon choice in the US should be Aspen.

Located in the Rocky Mountain ranges, this ski resort town offers a wealth of activities, from sightseeing to hiking and skiing.

🏨 Explore all your hotel options here

Your partner and you would love the experience at Aspen Mountain Ski Resort and Aspen Highlands Ski Resort, which offer fantastic skiing experiences for both beginners and experienced skiers.

If you are a learner, you have nothing to worry about. Start by building your skiing skills on Buttermilk Mountain before heading onto more challenging runs. Learning a skill together with your partner is always a romantic activity that only strengthens the bond.

Beyond skiing, you can hop on the Silver Queen Gondola for stunning panoramic views of the surrounding regions, hit the Maroon Lake Scenic Trail, bike on Castle Creek Road, go whitewater rafting, or catch a show at the iconic Wheeler Opera House.

With so many activities, Aspen still retains a laid-back atmosphere, perfect for relaxing yet adventurous honeymoons.

Read also: Best US Destinations for Couples

Key West, Florida

Key West is one of the US destinations that is always in vacation mode, and this is why you should consider it for your honeymoon. While beaches should be at the top of your itinerary when visiting this tropical paradise, know that Key West is more than just a beach town. You can explore the rich history, culture, and nature, as well as incredible diving and fishing opportunities.

When in Key West, take a ferry ride to Dry Tortugas, an underwater national park with a Civil War site that is a perfect snorkeling spot. You may also want to take the Conch Train Tour, which takes tourists to historic spots in the city.

🏨 Explore all your hotel options here

You can spend your evening watching the sunset at Mallory Square or head to Duval Street, which has a variety of bars.

If you want to spend the day by the beach, consider Fort Zachary Taylor Historic State Park, Smathers Beach, South Beach, Higgs Beach, and Simonton Street Beach.

Read also: Unique Honeymoon Ideas for Nature Lovers

Santa Barbara, California

Stunning Pacific Ocean views, a magnificent backdrop of the Santa Ynez Mountains, fine wine, all-year-round good weather, cinematic festivals, and picturesque architectural gems—it is easy to see why Santa Barbara is affectionately called “The American Riviera.”

Known to be one of the most topographically diverse coastlines in the United States, your partner and you will be spoilt for activities to engage in while honeymooning in Santa Barbara.

🏨 Explore all your hotel options here

To spark your romance, go wine tasting along the Urban Wine Trail, which has over 20 local wineries and tasting rooms, watch a show at Granada Theater, watch a sunset at the west-facing Butterfly Beach, picnic at the Santa Barbara Botanic Garden, or explore the Knapp’s Castle.

Besides its picture-perfect scenery and romantic ambiance, Santa Barbara is known to have cozy inns and enchanting resorts that will make your romantic getaway unforgettable.

Read also: Romantic Greek Islands

Nantucket, Massachusetts

Nantucket is a destination that lets you unwind and honeymoon in a laid-back coastal environment infused with top-tier New England charm.

Despite its small size, there is no shortage of romantic opportunities on this island; there is a good reason it is one of the most – sought-after honeymoon destinations in the US.

🏨 Explore all your hotel options here

Whether strolling hand in hand on the cobblestone streets, unwinding on the white sand beaches, or touring lighthouses like Great Point Lighthouse or Brant Lighthouse, your partner and you will love the amazing reconnection opportunities that Nantucket offers.

When visiting in summer, make sure to get a slice of Nantucket’s irresistible beaches like Cathcart, Cisco, Dionis, and Eel Point.

Read also: Secret Romantic Getaways

Lake Tahoe, California/ Nevada

The fantastic scenery and scenic views that Lake Tahoe offers are excellent opportunities to ignite your romance during your honeymoon. Luckily, it is one of those destinations you can visit all year round. You can hike the Emerald Bay State Park or swim at Pope Beach in summer. In winter, you can go skiing at Heavenly Ski Resort.

🏨 Explore all your hotel options here

When visiting in the fall, you will have the best opportunity to enjoy the fiery-colored autumnal leaves. Lastly, spring offers the best chance to go paddleboarding on the lake or to go spring skiing.

Other activities you may want to do include taking the Heavenly Gondola Ride, which is more scenic in winter, watching the sunset from the Zephyr Cove, or enjoying a couple’s massage at Sierra Hot Springs.

Read also: Best US Islands for a Quick Getaway

Honeymoon Island State Park, Florida

Other than the perfect scenery of Honeymoon Island, you will love its great sense of calm and peace. Honeymoon Island is a barrier island you can drive to from the mainland in Dunedin via the Dunedin Causeway.

When you get there, you can spend time on the island’s serene and clean beaches, such as Honeymoon Island Beach, Honeymoon Island State Park, Dunedin Beach, and Oasis Beach. These crowd-free beaches offer perfect opportunities to relax in each other’s company as you enjoy stunning views of the Gulf of Mexico.

🏨 Explore all your hotel options here

Beyond beaches, you can hit the 2.5-mile Osprey Trail and go kayaking or paddle boarding in the waters. Spend the evenings watching the sunsets as the Gulf’s breezes gently rushes over your skin. It is a destination that lives up to its name.

Read also: Underrated US Destinations for Your Bucket List

Borealis Basecamp, Alaska

If your idea of a romantic getaway entails reconnecting amidst pristine nature, discovering new natural wonders, and maybe cuddling up around a fireplace, then the Borealis Basecamp is a honeymoon destination you should consider.

Located in the breathtaking Alaskan wilderness, Borealis Basecamp offers fantastic opportunities to cozy up in a glass-roofed igloo and enjoy amazing views of the Aurora Borealis dance across the sky.

🏨 Explore all your hotel options here

Beyond watching the northern lights, couples can pursue adventurous activities like dog sledding and snowshoeing or simply enjoy a romantic stroll under the starlit sky.

The combination of natural beauty, seclusion, adventure, and the scenic Arctic Sky makes for an unforgettable romantic getaway.

Read also: Most Beautiful US Cities

Kaua’i, Hawaii

Kaua’i offers a perfect blend of romance, scenery, and undestroyed nature, making it one of the best honeymoon destinations in the United States. This island has some of the most stunning beaches, offering the perfect backdrop for romantic strolls, sunset picnics, and water activities like snorkeling, kayaking, or simply lounging together under the sun.

Na Pali Coast in Kauai offers a wealth of romantic activities like boat rides to hidden coves, helicopter rides for panoramic views of the magnificent coastline or hitting the Kalalau Trail, which features dramatic cliffs, lush valleys, and cascading waterfalls.

🏨 Explore all your hotel options here

If you are into hiking, another great option to consider is the Waimea Canyon, also known as the “Grand Canyon of the Pacific.” This canyon offers numerous hiking trails perfect for couples to explore together.

Lastly, Kauai is home to numerous luxury hotels with romantic activities such as couple spa treatments and private beach dinners tailored to elevate honeymooners’ experience on the island.

Read also: Breathtaking American Wilderness Spots

Glacier National Park, Montana

Glacier National Park offers some of the most picturesque drives in the United States, such as the Going-to-the-Sun Road. Road trips have always been an excellent way for couples to bond. The Glacier National Park only makes it better by offering perfect scenery for you to do one of the best couple-friendly activities. If you choose Glacier National Park as a honeymoon destination, your partner and you will be treated to stunning views of mountain vistas, glaciers, and pristine lakes.

🏨 Explore all your hotel options here

With over 700 miles of hiking trails, Glacier National Park is an excellent destination for hiking couples. An even better thing about hiking in Glacier National Park is the opportunity to discover hidden gems, such as secluded alpine lakes, which make for perfect picnicking or unwinding spots. You can also take romantic boat tours on one of Glacier’s iconic lakes, such as Lake McDonald or St. Mary Lake.

Lastly, on clear nights, Glacier National Park offers some of the darkest skies in the country, providing the perfect opportunity for couples to cozy up together and gaze at the countless stars above.

Read also: Amazing Coastal Gems in the US

Pin It Now, Read It Later

Couples Travel

USA

Follow Us

Travel Planning Resources