So you want to book a South America honeymoon, but are overwhelmed by the options. We've got you covered! Read on for all of our top picks for romantic South American getaways to celebrate your special occasion in style.

South America’s stunning landscapes, temperate climate, and passionate people naturally lend themselves to romance and excitement while on your honeymoon.

The coast of Colombia has secluded beaches to explore, Ecuador’s Rainforest and Galapagos Islands are natural wonders of the world, Peru’s Machu Picchu of course needs no introduction, and Argentina’s Iguazú National Park literally takes the breath away when visiting.

Even better why not combine the best of various countries into one truly unforgettable south america honeymoon trip, with memories sure to last a lifetime. Happy Gringo specialize in custom-made honeymoon itineraries, and are here to help design your own unique honeymoon experience.

Founded in 1533, by Spanish Commander Pedro de Heredia, Cartagena was an important port for Spanish ships heading home laden with riches. Pirates plundered the seaside city, but the Spanish prevailed by building up defenses along the coast. Today, Cartagena’s charm lies in its walled historic center. Stroll the quaint cobblestone streets and picture perfect plazas, or take a popular horse-drawn carriage ride at night. Fine dining and cafe culture is a big Cartagena thing. To top it all off, Cartagena also has an 11km stretch of beaches for perfect honeymoon relaxation. Venture further along the coast for more seclusion at famed Tayrona National Park or the Rosario Islands.

2. Tatacoa Desert

For outdoor lovers, the Tatacoa Desert in the central region of Colombia is a stand out destination. Striking rock formations with vivid colors, and hills and valleys give way to fun-filled days of exploring. The desert is home to one of the country’s most important sky observatories, which opens its doors to travelers during the evening for star gazing. One of the other star attractions is Los Hoyos, a natural pool in the middle of the desert, perfect to help you unwind at the end of an active day for the bride and groom.

3. Colombia's Coffee Triangle

Arequipa is a city of colonial-era churches, plazas, and regal architecture. It is firmly on the map as one of Peru’s best cities for couples to visit. It is also part of the fabric of the ever-evolving culinary scene of the country. Combined with day trips to the Colca Canyon and the Capua Waterfall, spending time here is a great way to explore the culture and natural sites of the country.

2. Cusco

Cusco used to be the seat of Inca power and was where rulers extended the reach of their empire before being conquered by the Spanish. Today its allure draws people from all over the world to discover its historic streets. Couples love to explore the narrow cobbled streets, and take snaps together in the picturesque central plaza. You can also eat at some of the country’s best restaurants, and travel to nearby sites including Rainbow Mountain, the Sacred Valley and Machu Picchu Ruins.

3. Huaraz

The ancient citadel of the Incas needs to introduction, and is a must-see on any Peru honeymoon itinerary! For good reason Machu Picchu is one of the 7 wonders of the world, and high up on travel bucket lists. What better place for a magical photo of the newly married couple? For adventurous souls a great option is to trek the Inca Trail or one of the alternative trekking routes, sleeping under the stars at campsites along the way. A once in a lifetime experience!

Ecuador Honeymoon Ideas

The Galapagos Islands have enchanted honeymooners for many years now. Galapagos is one of those unique and special destinations that is truly like no other. Nature loving couples will be blown away by incredible up-close wildlife encounters. The landscapes, beaches and sunsets are dreamy too. Small yacht cruises offer an intimate way to explore the archipelago in luxury. Hotel retreats on land have plenty to offer too for those looking for a more flexible honeymoon trip in an incredible setting.

Also check out our more detailed blog for heaps more ideas for your Galapagos honeymoon.

2. The Ecuadorian Andes

The town of Copacabana is nestled on the Bolivian shores of famous Lake Titicaca. Trips here give way to days exploring the lake’s islands, Isla del Sol and Isla de la Luna. Follow hiking trails to indigenous villages where nearby Inca ruins are glimpses into another time. The town is a great base, as there is an interesting variety of restaurants and cafes to choose from, and a range of choices for lodging. Landscape photography opportunities are endless, for magical snaps of the happy couple.

3. Uyuni Salt Flats

Stretching over an area of 49,000-square-miles and filled with natural red rock formations and lunar landscapes, the Atacama Desert is a different world that needs to be experienced. San Pedro de Atacama makes a fine base, with resorts and elegant spas, fine dining, adventure tours and excursions to the see natural wonders of the desert. Atacama is also one of the very best sites in the world for romantic star gazing due to the lack of light pollution. Visit an observatory to notch it up a level, picking out constellations and planets.

2. Torres del Paine, Patagonia

Patagonia is an amazing playground for active and adventurous couples on honeymoon. Patagonia is a vast area to explore, so start off at Torres Del Paine National Park which gets our thumbs up for Patagonia's top scenery. At your disposal is one of the most pristine areas on the planet. There are so many options to take in, from high mountain lakes, to untouched glaciers, and amazing hiking trails through peak and valley. The park is dominated by the giant towers of stone that give the park its name. Luxury lodges easily arrange tours and have a long list of amenities including spas, fine food, and almost always incredible views.

3. Viña del Mar

Located on the coast close to capital city Santiago, Vina del Mar is full of activity, and wears many hats. Its beaches are great for enjoying the sun and surf. Parties and celebrations last well into the night, and there is a charm about the town that puts one at ease. The resort town boasts a group of international restaurants that make trying different places each night a must. Did we forget to mention that Viña del Mar also hosts one of Latin America’s most famous music festivals?

4. Easter Island Honeymoon (Rapa Nui)

Iguazu National Park is home to the magnificent Iguazu Falls, one of the seven natural wonders of the world and for good reason. Hundreds of waterfalls cascade down at once, creating a stunning cauldron of water that is nothing short of amazing. To put Iguazu into perspective, the falls here are twice as high as Niagara, and nearly 3 times as wide. Luxury lodges and hotels inside the park have daily and evening tours to the falls, as well as visits to nearby indigenous communities, and excursions like rafting and helicopter rides. Visitors can also cross the border into Brazil to see the falls from the other side.

4. Mendoza

For wine lovers and connoisseurs don’t miss Mendoza, famous for Malbec, Cabernet Sauvignon, Chardonnay and more. Mendoza is the heart of Argentina’s wine industry, accounting for almost two thirds of the country’s wine production. The region’s semi arid climate makes Mendoza a year round destination. What better way to spend a day than exploring the picturesque surrounding countryside stopping off at wineries along the way. The city of Mendoza is also a wonderfully laid back place to wind down for a few days together.

South America honeymoons are romantic adventures that divide your time between relaxing , enjoying the surroundings, and actively exploring the landscapes, cultures, and wildlife that make the continent unique. Happy Gringo specialize in custom-made travel itineraries – for more information about planning a South America honeymoon that leaves you spellbound, contact a member of our team.

In conclusion, the vast continent of South America has all of the ingredients for a spell-binding honeymoon. The perfect concoction of romance, passion and adventure for lovers and newly weds. A south america honeymoon combines nature, culture, history, picturesque landscapes, and much more. So take the plunge, and once the rings are safely on your fingers, jump on a plane to South America. Spectacular photos and unforgettable memories will last a lifetime!