Did Robert De Niro briefly believe he had won a Golden Globe?

Both De Niro, 80, and Robert Downey Jr., 58, were up for Best Supporting Actor in a Motion Picture - an award which ultimately went to Downey.

But when Downey's name was announced, it seemed to take a moment for De Niro to realize he wasn't the winner and appeared flustered.

After Downey's full name was read out loud, De Niro remained still for a moment before it appeared to dawn on him that the trophy had gone to his competitor.

The confusion is understandable - both are named Robert and their last names begin with 'D.'

Downey won the honor for his portrayal of Lewis Strauss in Oppenheimer, while De Niro had been nominated for Killers of the Flower Moon. Charles Melton, Mark Ruffalo, Ryan Gosling, and Willem Dafoe were also up for the award.

De Niro got some more screen time when he became the butt of host Jo Koy's joke.

The 52-year-old comedian poked fun of De Niro during his hit-and-miss opening monologue for the awards ceremony held at The Beverly Hilton Hotel.

'Robert De Niro is here!,' Koy said as quipped that he only got the hosting gig 10 days ago after some of his failed to land.

'Robert De Niro is here! Sorry, I'm a fan. I'm a fan. I'm fanning out. I love you, Robert. If it's awkward, I'm sorry. I had to do that in front of you. I know it sucks,' Koy said.

'I'm a bit awestruck. This guy's amazing, decade after decade, he just kills it every single time. I don't know how you do it, man. I swear to god,' Koy continued.

'Your last performance has got to be your greatest performance ever. How'd you get her pregnant at 80?,' Koy cracked as De Niro responded with a laugh.

'CGI? CGI?,' Koy asked referencing computer graphics.

Golden Globes 2024 WINNERS: AT A GLANCE

FILM

Best Motion Picture - Drama: Oppenheimer

Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy: Poor Things

Cinematic and Box Office Achievement: Barbie

Best Performance by a Female Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama: Lily Gladstone - Killers Of The Flower Moon

Best Performance by a Male Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama: Cillian Murphy - Oppenheimer

Best Performance by a Female Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy: Emma Stone - Poor Things

Best Performance by a Male Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy: Paul Giamatti - The Holdovers

Best Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role in any Motion Picture: Da'Vine Joy Randolph - The Holdovers

Best Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role in any Motion Picture: Robert Downey Jr. - Oppenheimer

Best Director - Motion Picture: Christopher Nolan - Oppenheimer

Best Original Song - Motion Picture: What Was I Made For? - Barbie - Billie Eilish, Finneas O'Connell

Emma Stone triumphed as she earned Best Performance by a Female Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy

TELEVISION

Best Television Series - Drama: Succession

Best Television Series - Musical or Comedy: The Bear

Best Television Limited Series, Anthology Series, or Motion Picture Made for Television: Beef

Best Performance by a Female Actor in a Television Series – Drama: Sarah Snook - Succession

Best Performance by a Male Actor in a Television Series – Drama: Kieran Culkin - Succession

Best Performance by a Female Actor in a Television Series – Musical or Comedy: Ayo Edebiri - The Bear

Best Performance by a Male Actor in a Television Series – Musical or Comedy: Jeremy Allen White - The Bear

Best Performance by a Female Actor in a Limited Series, Anthology Series, or a Motion Picture Made for Television: Ali Wong - Beef

Best Performance by a Male Actor in a Limited Series, Anthology Series, or a Motion Picture Made for Television: Steven Yeun - Beef

Best Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role on Television: Elizabeth Debicki - The Crown

Best Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role on Television: Matthew Macfadyen - Succession

Advertisement

De Niro's girlfriend Tiffany Chen, 45, covered her mouth while laughing as Koy asked, 'Is he looking? Is he looking?'

The legendary actor continued laughing as Koy borrowed his famous Taxi Driver line and said, 'You talking to me?'

De Niro became a father of seven when his girlfriend Tiffany welcomed their daughter Gia last year. The little girl is their first child together.