BINGHAMTON – A late second-set hiccup made things interesting, but ultimately Sergiy Stakhovsky proved every bit a worthy champion on Sunday at the Levine Gouldin & Thompson Tennis Challenger.

The 28-year-old Ukrainian completed an impressive week, surviving a strong late effort by Wayne Odesnik, for a 6-4, 7-6 (9) victory in the singles final at Recreation Park.

Stakhovsky, the tournament’s second seed who entered the week ranked No. 88 in the ATP World Tour rankings, did not drop a set in five matches en route to winning his third ATP Challenger Tour title. He finally outlasted Odesnik in the second-set tiebreaker when the eighth-seeded American hit a forehand long on the third match point of the contest.

“I’m pleased to win this tournament,” Stakhovsky said. “ I got a lot of confidence from here, heading into Atlanta and then Washington, D.C. (for my next tournaments), then a break heading into the U.S. Open. It was an important one this week.”

Stakhovsky later lost the doubles final, as he and partner Marius Copil lost to Daniel Cox and Daniel Smethurst, 6-7 (3), 6-2, 10-6. The loss denied Stakhovsky the distinction of being the first player in the 21-year history of the LG&T Challenger to win both the singles and doubles titles in the same year.

Still it was a most satisfying week for Stakhovsky, who cruised into the finals and appeared on his way to another dominating victory when he won the first set and was up a break on Odesnik late in the second set.

However, up 4-3 and on serve, Stakhovsky hit a volley at 30-all that he thought hit the basebine but which the linesman called out. That gave Odesnik a break point, and when Stakhovsky double-faulted on the next point, the set was knotted at 4.

“I didn’t think that was a good call at 30 on the volley, so I got broken by the referee,” Stakhovsky said with a wry smile. “But after that, (Odesnik) stepped up, played more frisky and on the edge.”

Very true, as both players easily held serve the remainder of the set, setting up the tiebreaker.

Neither player led by more than a point in the tiebreaker, a back-and-forth affair in which Stakhovsky had three match points and Odesnik a pair of set points. Odesnik’s last set-point chance came at 9-8, but Stakhovsky wiped that out with his 12th ace of the match.

Two points later, after a long rally, Odesnik’s title hopes ended with the long shot.

“I thought for the first set and a half, he was really outplaying me,” said Odesnik, who also lost in the 2011 final to Paul Capdeville, 7-6 (4), 6-3. “I got a little bit of a break at 4-3, that 30-all call and the double fault got me back in the match.

“I was really surprised at that moment to be back in the match. I thought I made the most of it, I started playing better, it was just unfortunate at the end since I was just a couple of points from tying the match and a potential third set. Who knows what could have happened there.”

Despite the loss, it was a rewarding week for Odesnik, who as the top-finishing American moves to the top of the USTA Pro Circuit U.S. Open Wild Card Challenge. The LG&T Challenger was the first of four tournaments in the series, with stops in Lexington, Ky., (week of July 22), Vancouver, Canada (July 29) and Aptos, Calif. (August 5) to follow.

The top-ranking American in the series gets a wild card into the U.S. Open. Odesnik last played in the U.S. Open in 2008.

“It’s nice bonus if I get a wild card,” said Odesnik, ranked 208th. “Right now I’m really just working getting my ranking back up. This was a good match, he was definitely a higher-caliber player than what I had played all week, in that regards it’s good to see where my game is at.”

In the doubles final, Cox and Smethurst bounced back after losing the first set to become the second and third players from Great Britain to win a LG&T doubles title, joining Dominic Inglot from 2010. The pair won the second set to force the decisive 10-point tiebreaker, where they jumped out to a 4-0 lead before withstanding a comeback bid by Stakhovsky and Copil.