AMERICAN Wayne Odesnik achieved fame for the wrong reasons today as the International Tennis Federation (ITF) handed him one of the longest bans in the history of the ATP Tour of 15 years for failing a second doping test in five years.

And the tennis world rejoiced.

Former world No. 1 Andy Roddick was scathing, describing Odesnik as a “douchebag”.

Asked his thoughts on the ban, Roddick tweeted: “My feelings are that he’s a douchebag and I hate that he has a US flag next to his name when he’s cheating. Good riddance.”

World No. 4 Andy Murray echoed the sentiment, writing: “Bye bye Wayne... Good riddance.

The ban ends the career of the 29-year-old Odesnik, who is ranked 267 in the world.

He tested positive for performance-enhancing drugs after he was given an out-of-competition test in December.

The ITF sent the urine samples to a lab where they tested positive for anabolic steroids.

“Those samples were sent to WADA-accredited laboratories in Salt Lake City, USA and Montreal, Canada for analysis, and were found to contain one or more of: metabolites of methenolone; metabolites of androst .... All are Prohibited Substances under the 2014 and 2015 WADA List of Prohibited Substances,” the ITF said in a joint news release with the United States Anti-Doping Agency.

BBC journalist David Law also tweeted out of footage today of Odesnik apparently tanking in a doubles match, which can be seen below.

The South African-born Odesnik also failed a drug test in March 2010 and was given a two-year suspension for using human growth hormone. That was later reduced to one year after he co-operated with the ITF’s anti-doping program.

Odesnik released a statement today announcing his retirement.

He said he “unknowingly ingested a contaminated over-the-counter supplement” and was “heartbroken” after learning of his positive test result.

Besides the suspension, Odesnik will have to forfeit any prize money from three tournaments, comprising the Australian Open and two lower level Challenger series events.

“Mr Odesnik’s commission of an Anti-Doping Rule Violation under Article 2.1 of the Program was confirmed, which was his second such violation, having been sanctioned in 2010 for the possession of human growth hormone,” the news release said.

“It was, therefore, determined that he is suspended from participation for a period of 15 years .... so ending at midnight on 29 January 2030.”

Odesnik was born in Johannesburg but moved to the United States when he was three. He began playing tennis aged seven and turned pro in 2004.

He won over $1 million in his career but never won an ATP Tour singles title.