Appointments by theNumbers

Trump has been in power for almost three full years, and thepace at which he has nominated judges to all levels of the federal judiciarycan easily be described as ‘breakneck’. According to the conservative HeritageFoundation’s Judicial Tracker, Trump has already appointed a record187 judges who have been confirmed by the Senate, all in just three years.Compare that to Obama’s 124 and George W. Bush’s 169, who each served 8 years, andyou begin to see the magnitude of Trump’s impact on the court system.

Thanks to Republicans’ massive push to remake the courts in their conservative vision, one-quarter of all US Circuit Court judges are now Trump appointees. All told, according to the non-profit Ballotpedia, he has appointed 133 U.S. District Court Judges, 50 Appeals Circuit Judges, and 2 Supreme Court Justices. It is the President’s job to appoint judges, and it’s to be expected that conservative leaders will nominate conservative ones.

It’s not, however, to be expected that he nominates whollyunqualified judges.

A Question ofQualification

The American Bar Association gives each nominee to a federal judgeship a rating—either Well Qualified, Qualified, or Not Qualified. It’s a rigorous process, and during Obama’s eight-year administration, not a single nominee submitted to the Senate was rated “Not Qualified” by the Association. Already, Trump has had seven “Not Qualified” nominees appointed to lifetime appointments, including two in December of 2019.

Lawrence VanDyke, confirmedon Dec. 11, was called “arrogant, lazy, an ideologue, and lacking inknowledge of the day-to-day practice including procedural rules,” in the ABA’sofficial qualification statement. Yikes.

The other, Sarah Pitlyk, received a unanimous“Not Qualified” rating, because “she has not argued any motion in astate or federal trial court. She has never picked a jury. She has neverparticipated at any stage of a criminal matter.” She was confirmedDec. 4. This isn’t even the first time a Trump appointee who hadnever tried a case was confirmed by the Senate. JustinWalker, who now sits on the U.S. District Court Western District ofKentucky, has “nevertried a case as lead or co-counsel, whether civil or criminal.”

Lifetime Appointments

Not only have Trump and the Senate confirmed a record numberof judges, the average age is almost10 years younger than the average age of judges appointed by Obama. Thismeans we’re in for decades of conservative, sometimes unqualified, judgesshaping national policy. Even if Democrats win big in 2020, much of theirprogressive agenda could be sabotaged by someone who has never even tried acase.

That, to us, doesn’t seem like the way things should work.