Luke Howard Boyd, Jr.

Luke Howard Boyd, Jr., 82, of Winchester, Virginia, passed away on Thursday, December 24, 2015, at Winchester Medical Center with his wife at his side.

Luke was born in 1933 in Washington, D.C., the son of the late Dr. Luke H. Boyd, and Helen E. Boyd. He grew up in Bemus Point, NY, where he met his future wife, Patricia, in grade school. He received his Bachelor’s Degree in Liberal Arts from the College of the Holy Cross, Worcester, MA. He continued his education and received his Master in Business Administration from the State University of New York at Buffalo. He worked for Marlin Rockwell in Jamestown, NY and Morse Chain in Ithaca, NY and Denver, CO. While in Denver, he attended law school at the University of Denver. He moved to Winchester in 1980 to assume the position of vice president at Abex. After leaving Abex, he began to practice law and served in the Winchester Public Defender Office until his retirement.

While living in Colorado, Luke spent many weekends mountain climbing or cross country skiing with his family. After moving to Winchester, he enjoyed golfing with his wife. He was always very interested in military history and spent his free time studying the American Civil War and visiting the local battlefields.

In addition to his wife, Patricia, he is survived by two daughters, Hilary Boyd of Richmond, VA and Alison Garritt and husband, Richard, of Jersey City, NJ; three sons, John Boyd of Winchester, VA, Luke Howard Boyd, III and wife, Banu, of Richmond, VA, and Mark Boyd and wife, Sally, of Middleburg, VA; four grandchildren, Alison Fechino, Jack Fechino, Luke Howard Boyd, IV and Kristie Richardson; one sister, Susan Klussman and husband, Bruce, of Naples, FL; and one brother, Matthew Boyd and wife, Helen, of Phoenix, AZ.

He is preceded in death by a son, Matthew Boyd, a grandson, John Patrick Boyd, a sister, Joan Bova, and two brothers, John William Boyd and Mark Patterson Boyd.

Services will be held at a later date.

Memorial contributions may be made in Luke’s memory to Blue Ridge Hospice, 333 W. Cork St., Suite 405, Winchester, VA 22601 or Greenwood Volunteer Fire and Rescue, 809 Greenwood Road, Winchester, VA 22602.