Dear brethren in Christ,

Welcome to Catholics Striving for Holiness!

“You shall be holy; for I the Lord your God am holy (Lev 19:2).”Be perfect, just as your heavenly Father is perfect (Mt 5:48).” “For this is the will of God, your sanctification (1Thes 4:3).”

The above passages of the Sacred Scriptures are eloquent enough to remind us of what the Triune God wills for each one of us in our earthly pilgrimage.

This page offers Catholic spiritual resources, posts and advice aimed at helping all Catholics who are striving to respond generously to God’s universal call to Holiness, as proclaimed by the Second Vatican Council in its Conciliar document, Lumen gentium, n. 39-42. In this document, we are reminded that:

“All the faithful of Christ of whatever rank or status, are called to the fullness of the Christian life and to the perfection of charity; by this holiness as such a more human manner of living is promoted in this earthly society. In order that the faithful may reach this perfection, they must use their strength accordingly as they have received it, as a gift from Christ. They must follow in His footsteps and conform themselves to His image seeking the will of the Father in all things. They must devote themselves with all their being to the glory of God and the service of their neighbor. In this way, the holiness of the People of God will grow into an abundant harvest of good, as is admirably shown by the life of so many saints in Church history (n. 40).“

Moreover, it states that “all Christ’s faithful, whatever be the conditions, duties, and circumstances of their lives—and indeed through all these, will daily increase in holiness, if they receive all things with faith from the hand of their heavenly Father and if they cooperate with the divine will. In this temporal service, they will manifest to all men the love with which God loved the world. (n. 41).“

And finally, “all the faithful of Christ are invited to strive for the holiness and perfection of their own proper state. Indeed they have an obligation to so strive. Let all then have care that they guide aright their own deepest sentiments of their soul (n. 42).”

We hope that our posts -and prayers- may help you in your daily struggle to strive for holiness, which is nothing but, as St. Josemaria, the founder of Opus Dei said, the “fullness of charity“, the plenitude of our identification, as children of God, with the Only-Begotten Son, Our Lord Jesus Christ, through the action of the Holy Spirit and our personal correspondence.

May God bless you and your family through the intercession of Our Mother Mary and St. Joseph!

Please do us the kind favor of following our Catholics striving for holiness Facebook page so we could reach and help more people. Thanks and God bless!

Fr. Rolando Arjonillo Boquiren, priest of Opus Dei.

I am cordially inviting you to visit and subscribe to the new website of CATHOLICS STRIVING FOR HOLINESS by entering your email address to the subscribe widget. By doing so, you will be updated by email everytime there is a new post published.

You could also take advantage of the SEARCH widget where you could find thousands of posts and hundreds of categories and tags, if you are looking for something particular with regards to any topic in Catholic spirituality.

We wish to help and accompany you in your spiritual growth not only with our posts but also with our prayers, as we all respond and strive to fulfill daily God’s call towards holiness.

Please pray as well for the spiritual fruits of this page. Thanks in advance, take care and God bless you and your loved ones! Fr. Rolly Arjonillo.

BRIEF INFORMATION ON THE AUTHOR, REV. FR. ROLANDO ARJONILLO BOQUIREN JR.

Doctor of Sacred Theology (Sobresaliente cum laude = Summa cum laude), Universidad de Navarra (Pamplona, Spain). Doctoral Thesis awarded Premio Extraordinario nº 1 (1996).

Licentiate/Masters in Sacred Theology (Sobresaliente cum laude = Summa cum laude), 1994, and Bachelor of Sacred Theology (Sobresaliente cum laude = Summa cum laude), 1992 Universidad de Navarra (Pamplona, Spain). The first two years of Bachelor’s degree were done in the Pontifical University of the Holy Cross (Rome, Italy)

University of the Philippines, College of Medicine, 1986-1990. Completed Medicine Proper (4yrs). Belongs to UPCM Batch 1991. Left during internship to pursue theological studies at the Pontifical University of the Holy Cross (Rome, Italy) and University of Navarre (Pamplona, Spain).

University of the Philippines, Diliman, BS Biology’86 (cum laude).

Taught Fundamental Moral Theology for 4 years (1997-2001) at the Pontifical University of the Holy Cross (Rome). Published some books and articles on Marriage and Moral Theology.

At present works as a Chaplain in Colegio Attendis Adharaz-Altasierra (Seville, Spain) and simultaneously attends to various pastoral activities of Opus Dei for married couples and youth, as well as the English-speaking community in Seville, Spain.

N.B. ALL THE ORIGINAL PHOTOS USED IN THIS PAGE AND IN THIS WEBSITE ARE ONLY FOR DIDACTIC/EDUCATIONAL AND NON-COMMERCIAL PURPOSES. COMMERCIAL USE IS STRICTLY PROHIBITED AND NOT PERMITTED. THE SAME APPLIES AS WELL TO ALL THE POSTS, VIDEOS BY THE AUTHOR.