American Express presents BST Hyde Park are excited to welcome international superstar Andrea Bocelli, headlining London’s best festival on Friday 5 July. Today we can announce more incredible special guests: Welsh Superstar, Mezzo Soprano Katherine Jenkins OBE, and international rising star Matteo Bocelli. They join previously announced compere Myleene Klass, opera star performers Nadine Sierra, Isabel Leonard and Luca Micheletti, and choir Crouch End Festival Chorus. The first classical artist to headline in BST Hyde Park’s history, and a 2024 UK exclusive, Bocelli will be joined by The Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Michele Spotti. Tickets on sale now, visit www.bst-hydepark.com.

Renowned for her captivating Mezzo Soprano vocals and charismatic stage presence, Katherine Jenkins OBE officially became the world’s most successful Classical singer after she was crowned ‘The Biggest Selling Classical Artist of the Century’ by Classic FM. She further cemented her title by gaining her 14th Classical Number 1 album, with 2020’s Cinema Paradiso – smashing the record books since signing the ‘biggest recording deal in UK classical music history’ at just 22 years old.

Within months of graduating from the Royal Academy of music, Katherine released her debut album Premiere, which became her first Classical Number 1 album. Six months later her second album, Second Nature, also reached Number 1, and went on to earn Katherine her first Classic BRIT Award for Best Album in 2005. The following year brought Katherine another Classic BRIT award, Album of the Year for Living A Dream.

With multiple sold-out tours, awards and accolades, as well as invitations to sing for Popes, Presidents and Princes, Katherine is also a firm favourite of the British Royal family, having performed at Jubilees, Coronation concerts, Royal birthday celebrations and more. She was also selected by the BBC to be the first artist to record ‘God Save The King’ for His Majesty, King Charles III.

Katherine Jenkins OBE will grace the Great Oak Stage for the very first time, promising an unforgettable performance – from classical masterpieces to contemporary hits, her diverse repertoire guaranteeing an experience for music lovers far and wide. Join us as we gather under the summer skies for a day of pure musical magic at BST Hyde Park!

Rising classical crossover star Matteo Bocelli is blazing a trail, selling out tours in Europe, North America and Australia. From his first appearance on the single ‘Fall On Me’ with his father, Andrea Bocelli, in 2018, to singing a reimagined version of ‘Time To Say Goodbye’ with new composition from Hans Zimmer at this year’s Oscars, Matteo Bocelli’s career has been going from strength to strength. His Night With Matteo tour has sold out world-renowned venues including the Sydney Opera House and the Country Music Hall of Fame. He has opened for musical legend Lionel Richie and sung for His Majesty Charles III and Queen Camilla at the Festival of Remembrance.

In 2023 he released his debut self-titled album, which includes ‘Chasing Stars’, a touching ballad penned by Ed and Matthew Sheeran. In 2022 Matteo released A Family Christmas, alongside father Andrea and his younger sister, Virginia Bocelli, featuring on a Christmas episode of The Simpsons. Matteo’s tour continues across 2024 with dates in Europe, North and Latin America. He is also the face of Guess Menswear.

Matteo is delighted to be performing with his father once again, this time at BST Hyde Park. Fans have previously seen the pair take to the stage together at London’s O2 Arena, Madison Square Garden and the Hollywood Bowl to name a few.

Recognised as the UK’s most in-demand orchestra, the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra will join Andrea Bocelli, conducted by Michele Spotti. Prominent classical musician and television personality, Myleene Klass will return to the BST Hyde Park stage to compere a programme of operatic indulgence.

This enriched day of classical music will feature performances from acclaimed American soprano Nadine Sierra, x3 Grammy-winning mezzo-soprano Isabel Leonard, and visionary theatrical mind Luca Micheletti. Also one of Britain’s leading symphonic choirs, Crouch End Festival Chorus.

“Hyde Park is the perfect place for coming together to celebrate my 30th anniversary and reimagine it as a springboard propelling us into the future, imbued with positivity and the power of good. Celebrating it here is sure to be unforgettable, in the vast green lung from which London has been drawing breath for hundreds of years, in this park that is the embodiment of a glorious chapter in the history of a nation, of a continent, of a civilization…and also of so much wonderful music that has rung out here, nourishing it in its wake.” – Andrea Bocelli

Andrea Bocelli is the most successful classical artist of all time – he’s performed for Popes, Presidents, Prime Ministers and royalty, sang in many of the greatest concert halls and opera houses, and sold 90 million records. There is no other classical star that comes close – he has a Golden Globe, 7 Classical BRITs and 7 World Music Awards under his belt, plus a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. He has performed across the world’s most famous venues and for globally significant events, including the Queen’s Platinum Jubilee at Buckingham Palace in 2022 and at the ceremonies of the Olympic Games.

This special UK exclusive show at BST Hyde Park comes at a milestone year for Bocelli, who celebrates 30 years of his career in 2024. Drawing millions in with his popular crossover appeal, Bocelli has collaborated with iconic opera singers such as Pavarotti as well as a host of A-list pop stars including Ed Sheeran, Ariana Grande, Céline Dion, Tony Bennett, Dua Lipa, and many more. As former BST Hyde Park headliner Céline Dion puts it, “If God had a singing voice, he would sound a lot like Andrea Bocelli.”

One of the world’s most beloved performers, coming to the very special stage at BST Hyde Park for one night only. This will be an extraordinary one-off show and we look forward to seeing you there!

Tickets purchased for the Amex VIP Summer Garden, VIP HydeAway and Gold Circle areas will include reserved seating. General Admission, Primary Entry and VIP Terrace will all be unreserved standing.

The lineup for American Express presents BST Hyde Park 2024 is set to be truly spectacular, with headliners SZA (29 June), Kings of Leon (30 June), Morgan Wallen (4 July), Andrea Bocelli (5 July), Robbie Williams (6 July), Shania Twain (7 July), Stevie Nicks (12 July), Kylie (13 July) and Stray Kids (14 July), with the full line up for each day to be announced, and All Things Orchestral on 28 June.

www.bst-hydepark.com | @bsthydepark

Download press images HERE

For media enquiries:

The Outside Organisation: 020 7436 3633

chris@outsideorganisation.com | suzie@outsideorganisation.com

Notes to Editors:

About Andrea Bocelli:

Having set countless sales records, Andrea Bocelli has sold over 90 million albums to date and generated more than 16 billion streams. The celebrated tenor has become a long-standing ambassador for Italian culture around the world and drew worldwide attention in 2020 with his record-breaking ‘Music for Hope’ event which became one of the biggest musical live stream performances of all-time. Across his illustrious career, Bocelli has received six Grammy Award nominations, six Latin Grammy Award nominations, a Golden Globe, seven Classical BRITs, seven World Music Awards, and a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.

One of the world’s most recognisable voices, Bocelli has performed for four Presidents of the United States of America, three Popes, the British Royal Family, and many Prime Ministers. He has sung at high-profile ceremonies including the Olympics, the World Cup, the UEFA Euro 2020 Opening Ceremony, the Premier League final, the Ballon d’Or, the Universal Expo in Shanghai in 2010 and in Milan in 2015. He has performed in all the greatest concert halls and opera houses around the world, as well as major international arenas. Bocelli recently sang at the 24th Annual Latin GRAMMY Awards and the 96th Oscars. He will also become the first classical artist in history to headline London’s BST Hyde Park 2024.

Across his meteoric rise, Bocelli’s works have become hallmarks of cultural significance. From his early career singing with Luciano Pavarotti, to major international success with “Con te partirò (Time To Say Goodbye)” with Sarah Brightman, “The Prayer” with Celine Dion, and “Vivo per lei”, among many others. Bocelli is renowned for his unique voice and his collaborations beyond the world of classical music – in particular, he has duetted with major names including Ed Sheeran, Jennifer Lopez, Christina Aguilera, Dua Lipa, Bono, Ariana Grande, Stevie Wonder, Alison Krauss, Tony Bennett, Josh Groban, and even The Muppets.

In 2017, autobiographical film The Music of Silence – inspired by Bocelli’s self-penned novel of the same name – was released to resounding critical and commercial success. 2024 sees the release of a new documentary entitled Andrea Bocelli: Because I Believe, with never-before-seen insights into the singer’s story, on- and off-stage.

Andrea Bocelli made history with his 2018 pop album “Sì,” taking first place in the UK and US charts, the first time ever to be achieved by an Italian artist. He broke records again on Easter Day 2020, uniting millions around the world with his emotionally charged “Music for Hope” performance from the historic Duomo cathedral in Milan, one of the biggest musical live stream performances of all-time. The broadcast saw 2.8 million peak concurrent viewers – the largest simultaneous audience for a classical live stream in YouTube history.

Musically gifted from birth, Andrea Bocelli is one of the most celebrated singers in modern history. He earned a Bachelor’s degree in Opera Singing from the “G. Puccini” Music Conservatory in La Spezia and a Bachelor’s degree in Law from the University of Pisa, Italy. He was honored by the Italian Republic with a Grande Ufficiale Italian Order of Merit (Grand Officer of the Italian Republic) and he was bestowed the title of Ambassador of the Italian Republic of San Marino. During the Opening Ceremony of the World Economic Forum 2015 in Davos (Switzerland), he was given the prestigious Crystal Award, in recognition of his work an artist and philanthropist. In 2016, the University of Macerata awarded him with an Honorary Degree in Modern Philology.

In 2011, he founded the Andrea Bocelli Foundation (ABF) to empower people and communities in vulnerable situations. It has since grown into an independent non-profit led by world-class professionals that oversee the strategic development of projects in Italy and abroad.

About American Express presents BST Hyde Park:

Set in London’s beautiful Royal Park, BST Hyde Park kicked off in 2013 with The Rolling Stones reliving their legendary 1969 gig, plus Bon Jovi, Lionel Richie and many more packing out the park for memorable summer nights.

The event has featured many now famous shows from Carole King, Celine Dion, Stevie Wonder, Barbra Streisand, Adele, The Rolling Stones, Taylor Swift, Robbie Williams, Black Sabbath, Take That, Kylie Minogue, The Who, Blur, Kendrick Lamar, The Strokes, Bruce Springsteen, Billy Joel, Lana Del Rey and so many more.

Every year, each headliner is joined by a full supporting line-up across multiple stages, from major superstars to handpicked developing acts performing for fans from across the UK and the world.

And the midweek programme allows free access to the site with outdoor cinema, street food markets, children’s theatre, fitness classes, summer sports screenings, evening events, live music and much more.

About American Express® Experiences:

Through Amex® Experiences, Cardmembers have access to presale tickets, as well as the best seats and exclusive offers at some of the UK’s most sought-after entertainment events via partnerships with a range of institutions, including AELTC, AEG, Somerset House, The British Film Institute and the National Theatre. Amex Experiences is just one example of the powerful backing that American Express provides its Cardmembers.

About American Express:

American Express is a global services company, providing customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. Learn more at americanexpress.com and connect with us on social media @AmericanExpress

About AEG Presents:

Combining the power of the live event with a focus on true artist development, AEG Presents is a world leader in the music and entertainment industries. Operating across five continents, the company has an unparalleled commitment to artistry, creativity, and community. Its tentpole festivals and multi-day music events — which include the iconic Coachella Valley Music & Arts Festival and the legendary New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival alongside British Summer Time at Hyde Park, Stagecoach, Hangout Festival, Electric Forest, and Firefly — continue to set the bar for the live music experience. AEG Presents promotes global tours for artists such as The Rolling Stones, Ed Sheeran, Elton John, Taylor Swift, Celine Dion, Justin Bieber, Kenny Chesney, Paul McCartney, and Katy Perry, in addition to — through its network of clubs, theatres, arenas, stadiums and renowned partner brands such as The Bowery Presents, Concerts West, Frontier Touring, Goldenvoice, Madison House Presents, Marshall Arts, Messina Touring Group, PromoWest Productions, and Zero Mile Presents — creating and developing an unmatched infrastructure for artist development and audience reach. More information can be found atwww.aegpresents.com.

AEG’s European headquarters are located in London.

About Hyde Park:

Every year millions of visitors from London, the UK and across the globe enjoy the iconic Hyde Park, one of the capital’s eight Royal Parks. Spanning 350 acres of green space in central London, Hyde Park has hosted world-renowned music artists since the 1960s. The summer concerts are an essential part of income generation for The Royal Parks, providing necessary funds to maintain and develop the parks for future generations to enjoy. They also help support the diverse culture of London and introduce new audiences to the parks.

About The Royal Parks:

The Royal Parks is the charity which manages, protects and improves the parks in an exemplary and sustainable manner so that everyone, now and in the future, has the opportunity to enjoy their natural and historic environments.

The charity looks after eight of London’s finest open spaces: Hyde Park, Kensington Gardens, St James’s Park, The Green Park, The Regent’s Park and Primrose Hill, Greenwich Park, Richmond Park and Bushy Park. It also manages other important open spaces in the capital, including Brompton Cemetery and Victoria Tower Gardens.

It costs around £60m a year to manage the parks. The charity raises around 80 percent of this money itself, with the remaining 20 percent coming from the Government.

For further information please visit: www.royalparks.org.uk and follow The Royal Parks on:

Twitter @theroyalparks

Facebook.com/TheRoyalParksLondon

Instagram.com/TheRoyalParks