Showing 1 - 30 of 83 stations

Show :

Sort :

92.7 Big FM Tamil is the Indias second largest private radio station. It started working in 2006 and already covers almost all of the countrys radio listeners. In most cities, the station plays on the 92.7 frequency around the clock. It plays mostly live Bollywood music and folk music. The goal set by the creators of this station is to make the world a better place, improving thinking. The programs Abbys, New York Festival,and others are very popular Fm Radio listen on indianradio.in

Hello FM 106.4 Chennai Tamil is a tamil radio broadcasting from Chennai Tamilnadu.Tune to Hello FM radio to listen to your favourite tamil songs and top kollywood songs.Hello FM contains a huge variety of programs telecasting wonderful tamil songs.Tune to Hello FM radio to listen now only Indianradio.in

Radio Mirchi Tamil is a nationwide network of private FM radio stations in India. It is owned by the Entertainment Network India Ltd (ENIL), which is one of the subsidiaries of The Times Group. mirchi is Hindi for Red Chilli. The tagline of Radio Mirchi Tamil is Radio Mirchi Sema Hot Machi (Radio Mirchi is too hot). It is the first privately owned radio station in India. Radio Mirchi maintains weekly music charts (or record charts) for Tamil Music. The most followed charts are Mirchi Top 20 (Tamil Songs) and Angrezi Top 20 (English Songs). Both of these charts are a ranking of recorded music according to popularity

Capital FM is committed in encouraging new thoughts and opinion within society. Capital FM will be second to none in terms of its creative content that cannot be compared with other players in the industry. Capital FM is Sri Lanka’s latest Tamil Radio Broadcasting at 94.0 & 103.1. #இது_நம்ம_Radio.Capital FM Tamil radio Live streaming online only On Indianradio.in

Shakthi FM radio is a tamil radio broadcasting from Srilanka.Tune to Shakthi FM radio to listen to your favourite tamil songs and top kollywood songs.Shakthi FM contains a huge variety of programs telecasting wonderful tamil songs.Tune to Shakthi FM radio to listen now only On Indianradio.in

Radio Gilli 106.5 FM is the number one tamil radio station broadcasting from UAE.Tune to Radio Gilli 106.5 FM tamil radio to listen to your favourite tamil songs and top Gilli shows.Radio Gilli 106.5 FM contains a huge variety of programs telecasting wonderful tamil songs.Tune to Radio Gilli 106.5 FM radio to listen super hit programs and shows Tune to radio illi radio station by visiting radiosindia website for live streaming . Radio gilli programs include MISS YOU by Hasinie SOORYODHAYAM by UTHRAA GILLI MORNING by Nivi SHARE AUTO by UTHRAA ONE TWO THREE by Anjana CINE TIME by Hasinie TN1065 Pradeep LOSE CONTROL by Arun LESA LESA Listen only on Indianradio.in

Radio Thamil HD 105.9 is a Tamil Radio station from “Toronto Canada” RadioThamil – “யாதும் ஊரே யாவரும் கேளிர்”Radio Thamil HD plays Tamil super hit songs and have phone in telephone programs.Listen to Tamil Hd radio from Canada live streaming online. Phone Number: +1 416-800-3636 Email:radiothamil@gmail.com

Arni City FM radio is a tamil radio broadcasting from India.Tune to Arni City FM tamil radio to listen to your favourite tamil songs and top kollywood songs.Arni City FM contains a huge variety of programs telecasting wonderful tamil songs.Tune to Arni City FM radio to listen super hit songs Listen only on Indianradio.in

Tamil Fm Radio 99.5 99.7 is SriLankas Youth Based Tamil FM radio station.Tamil FM is a majic in radio.Listen to Tamil FM Sri lanka to listen to popular Tamil super hit programmes.Tamil FM radio main audience are the youth of Tamilnadu and Sri Lanka.Listen to Tamil Fm Radio Sri Lanka online and listen to Cricket live score in Tamil and more listen only on Indianradio.in

Tamil sun FM is a Tamil Fm radio having broadcasting from Tamilnadu.Tune to tamil sun fm Tamil to listen to your favourite tamil songs and top kollywood songs.Tamil sun fm tamil contains a huge variety of programs telecasting wonderful tamil songs.Tune to tsmil sun Fm to listen now only Indianradio.in

Sooriyan FM radio is a tamil radio broadcasting from Srilanka.Tune to Sooriyan FM tamil radio to listen to your favourite tamil songs and top kollywood songs.Sooriyan FM contains a huge variety of programs telecasting wonderful tamil songs.Tune to Sooriyan FM radio to listen now Only Indianradio.in

Mirchi Tamil Hits is Latest Tamil Hit music on the go! Tamil Hits means the best, the topmost, without any equal! Tamil Hits – The hottest Kollywood station! Listen only on Indianradio.in

Ilaiyaraja Radio is a tamil radio from India.Tune to Ilayaraja Radio tamil radio to listen to your favourite tamil songs and top kollywood songs.Ilayaraja Radio contains a huge variety of programs telecasting wonderful tamil songs.Tune to Ilayaraja Radio radio to listen super hit songs Listen only on Indianradio.in

89.4 Tamil FM is a tamil radio broadcasting from Dubai UAE.Tune to Tamil 89.4 FM tamil radio to listen to your favourite tamil songs and top kollywood songs.Tamil 89.4 FM contains a huge variety of programs telecasting wonderful tamil songs.Tune to Tamil 89.4 FM radio to listen super hit songs Listen only on Indianradio.in

A9 radio is a unique media outlet dedicated to provide one-stop gateway to Eelam Tamil News, Music % more. Staffed by a team of dedicated professionals. Broadcasting from Canada A9NewsRadio will dish out hourly news updates as it happens, 14 by 7 around the world. Powered by internet & backend by a 128 bit digital FM quality. A9Radio promises to keep the worldwide listeners hooked, with a beeline of programs delivered to an impeccable high standard Listen only on Indianradio.in

Namathu FM is a 24X7 Tamil Online Radio Station Broadcast from France.A Dedicated online radio sttaion for Tamil speaking listeners from France. namthufm@gmail.com

80’s Tamil Hits Tamil Radio Listen to 80’s Tamil Hits by Air Tamil Radio.Tamil 80s hit songs radio online.Listen to 80s tamil songs radio only on Indianradio.in

Radio Paramankurichi is a 24 x 7 Tamil Radio Station for the world wide Tamil people. This is broadcasting from Paramankurichi, Tamilnadu, India. Stay tuned to listen to your favourite super hit Tamil songs of all time.

Radio Suno radio is a tamil radio broadcasting from Qatar.Tune to Radio Suno tamil radio to listen to your favourite tamil songs and top kollywood songs.Radio Suno contains a huge variety of programs telecasting wonderful tamil songs.Tune to Radio Suno radio to listen super hit songs on Indianradio.in

Sahara FM tamil radio is Tamil Radio Station online.Sahara FM is being broadcasted from Thambikottai Thanjavur.Sahara FM plays non stop Tamil super hits songs 24/7 live on Indianradio.in

Kalvi Radio is an Education Web-Radio. Listen to Kalvi Radio Tamil education web radio online for kids from 1st standard to 8th standard. Education Radio Education Radio.!! Listen students!! !!-Lets learn by wealth of hearing-!!Kalvi-Radio (Listening is good for learning).It is a voluntary joint venture of government school teachers as a service for the educational development of government school & all school students. Audio has been prepared. Students can listen to these anywhere, anytime. It can be used to reinforce and enrich knowledge whenever possible. Also support the book Listen only on Indianradio.in

Covai FM is the Number One Online Tamil Radio Station in the World!We are the Very Clearest Radio Channel in Tamil on Online…Stay Tuned with Us.Listen to Covai FM 95.5 live streaming online playing non stop Tamil super hit songs.Listen to Covai FM Coimbatore number one online radio staion. ..This is Namma Uru Namma FM.. Covai FM Phone NO 096887 29392 Email covaifm95.5@gmail.com Whats app+91 96887 29392

Thaalam FM radio is a tamil radio broadcasting from Canada.Tune to Thaalam FM tamil radio to listen to your favourite tamil songs and top kollywood songs.Thaalam FM contains a huge variety of programs telecasting wonderful tamil songs.Tune to Thaalam FM radio to listen now Only Indianradio.in

Radio Beat Thaalam is a Tamil internet radio station from the house of Radio Beat.Radio Beat Thaalam Tamil radio is a beat radio station which makes people to dance.Listen to Radio Beat Thaalam tamil radio sttaion live only on Indianradio.in

90’s Tamil Melodies is a Tamil music from 90s movies and albums predominantly streaming AR Rahman, Harris Jayaraj, D Iman songs Listen to 90’s HD Tamil Melodies.Air tamil radio plays 90s super hit melody songs as an online web radio.Tune to listen to 90s super hits melody songs radio only on Indianradio.in

Vaikundar radio is part of 24×7 Aiyya Vaikundar Songs Broadcasting Service In Tamilnadu Tirunelveli. Vaikundar radio plays 24 hour Vaikundar devotional songs. Vaikundar radio is played all over the world from Vaikundar Radio.Listen to Vaikundar radio online only on Indianradio.in

Vaigai FM is an online Radio Station From Rajapalayam, Tamilnadu playing super hit Tamil songs.Vaigai FM broadcasts live 24/7 Super hit Tamil music.Listen to Vaigai FM online on Indianradio.in

Amudham FM HQ is a Number 1 Tamil radio station broadcasting 24 hours from Thiruvarur.Listen to Amudham FM 3D live streaming online playig Tamil songs only on Liveradios.in Amudham FM HQ radio plays Tamil super hit songs non stop live 24/7 online Only on Indianradio.in அமுதம் வானொலியானது இணையவழி சேவையில் 24 மணிநேரம் இயங்கிக்கொண்டிருக்கின்றது. என்றும் எப்போதும் அழகிய தாய் தமிழ் மொழியில் இடைவிடாது இன்னிசை தந்து தமிழ் தாய் சொந்தங்களை மகிழ்விக்கிறது.

Dharisanam FM is a tamil devotional radio playing Bakthi tamil songs from movies and other artists.Dharisanam FM plays all Tamil devotional songs online 24/7 live online.Listen to Dharisanam FM live online only Indianradio.in

Tamil Amuthu Radio covers various kinds of hits and all set to engage you with this exciting and engaging radio station that is available to enjoy for everyone around the world and the radio is also online 24/7. So, if you like Tamil Amuthu hit the play button and enjoy the music of your choice with the radio.Listen to Tamil Amuthu Radio station online on Indianradio.in