Sun FM rated the number one English radio channel as per the latest Listenership survey.

Sun FM was rated the number one English radio channel yet again as per the latest independent listenership survey conducted recently covering the entire country. The survey represented all educational zones in Sri Lanka. Sun FM, the Number 01 English channel in Sri Lanka, a member of the Asia Broadcasting Corporation Private Limited which is a Rayynor Silva Holdings company. Mr. Rayynor Silva is the Chairman of Asia Broadcasting Corporation (Pvt) Ltd.

With nationwide transmission/coverage, Sun FM has secured the Number 01 slot in the English market and has been rated as the most preferred English Channel, with a massive and loyal listenership. Sun FM became the Radio trend of Sri Lanka, and is now being imitated both near & far, as it has succeeded in acquiring a variety of listeners with the approach of Infotainment. Sun FM mesmerizes its listeners with a tantalizing music mix, whilst spearheading news reporting with an island wide as well as international network of correspondents exceeding 300, who are bound to bring the latest news updates to the listener, first and fast. Sun FM is, as at now, a multi-award winning Radio Channel in Sri Lanka.

Asia Broadcasting Corporation Private Limited, a part of Rayynor Silva Holdings the owning company of Hiru FM/Gold FM/Sooriyan FM/Sun FM/Shaa FM, set up 24 years ago, revolutionized the Media industry setting up Sri Lanka’s First Ever Private Tamil Channel -Sooriyan FM, Sri Lanka’s First Ever English Oldies Channel -Gold FM, Sri Lanka’s First Sinhala Youth Channel Shaa FM along with Sri Lanka’s Number One Sinhala radio channel Hiru FM and Sri Lanka’s youth English trend setter Sun FM. The Head Office is situated at the World Trade Centre, and currently occupies the entire 35th Floor in the East Tower of the World Trade Centre, and currently holds the main operations, which includes 8 studios; consisting of 6 broadcasting studios, 1 production studio & 1 dubbing studio; along with the Master Control Room (MCR), the Transmission Rooms for Colombo, the Music Library, News Rooms, and all other offices.

While the main transmitting facility is situated at the World Trade Centre, we also transmit all channels from 9 other locations in the country, ensuring island wide coverage, which also consist of state of the art transmission facilities and equipment, at each location.

Mr. Rayynor Silva is the Chairman of Asia Broadcasting Corporation Private Limited and the single largest shareholder of Asia Broadcasting Corporation Private Limited 99.9% .

Asia Broadcasting Corporation owns Sri Lanka’s most watched national television channel Hiru TV. It also owns south Asia’s largest private radio networks of 5 national radio channels, which includes two local language channels - Hiru FM & Shaa FM, Two English Channels - Gold FM and Sun FM and One Tamil Channel- Sooriyan FM.

All these channels lead in the respective markets with Gold FM the number one English channel, Sun FM the number one Teen English channel, Hiru FM the number one mass market Sinhalese channel, Shaa FM the number youth channel and Sooriyan FM the most listened Tamil channel in the country.

With the highest listenership ratings as per the leading International Ratings agency in Sri Lanka.

With more than 1200 staff Asia Broadcasting Corporation is based at 35th & 37th Floors of the World Trade Centre Colombo. It has Sri Lanka’s only state of the art studio complex purposely built in Colombo city limits with more than 100,000 sq.ft which comprises of 4 television studios as big as 100 feet in length and 80 feet in width, along with office operational floor areas.

Hiru TV is Sri Lanka’s most watched national channel comprises of the latest technologies of the television which is in par with global standards.