Abstract: Green walls and green dams are increasingly being considered as part of many national and international desertification initiatives. This paper studies the spatiotemporal evolution of the green dam in the Moudjbara region (Djelfa Province, Algeria), from 1972 to 2019, by using Landsat imagery, Land Change Modeler, and OpenLand package. The future evolution of pine plantations, for the year 2029, was also forecasted, based on an anthropogenic scenario (i.e., anthropogenic pressure is the main driver of the green dam destruction). Our findings revealed that the green dam project was successful for a few years, but, after that, pine plantations deteriorated significantly, due to forest harvesting, livestock overgrazing, and the proliferation of the pine caterpillar processionary, which destroyed most of the reforestation. Land change modeler predicted a huge degradation of pine plantations for the year 2029, and if the deforestation continues at the same rate, the green dam in the Moudjbara region will disappear during the next few decades. Being aware of this threat, the Algerian authorities are now planning to reforest more than 1.2 million ha under the latest rural renewal policy, by introducing new principles related to sustainable development, fighting desertification, and climate change adaptation. We strongly recommend moving away from the singular tree planting focus, to diversifying desertification control methods. Keywords: Aleppo pine; desertification; green dam; green walls; land degradation

Moudjbara area considered a gateway to Algeria's Great Sahara, was the first perimeter to be afforested with Aleppo pine in 1972 as part of a green dam initiative to combat desertification and preserve soil from wind erosion. This study examines the evolution of the species Pinus Halepensis Mill commonly known as the Aleppo pine in the Moudjbara plantations by comparing it to that of the natural forest of the Djellal Mountains in the Chergui region. Several field surveys were conducted, and four sites were selected in the natural forest and four sites in the Moudjbara afforestation. In each site, we performed 50 dendrometric measurements with 200 tree stakes. The selection is based on information on regeneration and plant quality. Stations are classified into four categories namely station of good regeneration, station slightly well regenerated, station moderately regenerated, and station of weak regeneration, which allow us to have primary reference data and to make a reliable assessment of the behavior of Aleppo pine in the Green Dam. The attribute ranking obtained from the ANOVA approximation provides us with crucial information of comparison between the natural forest and the reforestation zone. The results obtained can be used to adjust the planting density, rigorously choose the species, and adapt the soil preparation and planting techniques.

Moudjbara area considered a gateway to Algeria's Great Sahara, was the first perimeter to be afforested with Aleppo pine in 1972 as part of a green dam initiative to combat desertification and preserve soil from wind erosion. This study examines the evolution of the species Pinus Halepensis Mill commonly known as the Aleppo pine in the Moudjbara plantations by comparing it to that of the natural forest of the Djellal Mountains in the Chergui region. Several field surveys were conducted, and four sites were selected in the natural forest and four sites in the Moudjbara afforestation. In each site, we performed 50 dendrometric measurements with 200 tree stakes. The selection is based on information on regeneration and plant quality. Stations are classified into four categories namely station of good regeneration, station slightly well regenerated, station moderately regenerated, and station of weak regeneration, which allow us to have primary reference data and to make a reliable assessment of the behavior of Aleppo pine in the Green Dam. The attribute ranking obtained from the ANOVA approximation provides us with crucial information of comparison between the natural forest and the reforestation zone. The results obtained can be used to adjust the planting density, rigorously choose the species, and adapt the soil preparation and planting techniques.

In this study, teledetection data is used to examine the state of the Green Belt Forest cover and its evolution in the Djelfa region from 1972 to 2021. Landsat Satellite images MMS 1972, TM 1987, 2003, 2007, and Landsat Oli 2021 were selected for the analysis. Forest zones and ecological balance were determined for 1972, 1987, 2003, 2007, and 2021 using supervised classification and ground investigations. According to the findings, the occupied area in 1972 was 67461.17 ha, accounting for 4.51 % of the total. Green Belt surface in the department of Djelfa was 8.6 2% in 1987, 4.7 % in 2003, and 5.5 % in 2007. Pine trees accounted for 5.74 % of the total Green Belt surface in the study zone in 2021. The degradation degree revealed variable changes in the semi-arid zone forests studied. In 1987, the ecological balance of forest cover was generally positive, with a 47.74 % rate, and in 2003, the regression was around 45.05 % compared to 1987. Between 2007 and 2021, there was a slight increase of 27.33 %. The increased forest cover visible in the satellite image reflected the spread of tree plantations completed in the 1980s, as part of the Green Belt project and the appropriate climate conditions during these years. As a result, re-launching the Green Belt mega tree planting project in 2007 and 2021 resulted in increased surface forest cover. The classified sequence satellite images were used to estimate surface loss between 1987 and 2021, resulting in the disappearance of 33.43 % of the forest. The degradation of the Green Belt between 1987 and 2021 is due to various factors, the two most significant of which are the national army's withdrawal from the Green Belt reforestation project and increased drought frequency. The methodology used in this study produced a base map that can be used as a management tool to better protect the ecosystem dynamic.

Desertification is a significant environmental and socioeconomic issue that requires monitoring and early detection. In this context, holistic studies are more useful than localized ones in addressing this issue. In this study, we used the desertification sensitivity index (DSI) to pinpoint regions of Algeria that are at risk of desertification and to examine significant shifts in the sensitivity of land to desertification between 2000 and 2020, as well as the primary drivers of these shifts. Unlike the standard Mediterranean Desertification and Land Use (MEDALUS) approach, which uses equal weighting of parameters and quality indicators to construct the environmental sensitivity areas, the DSI applies statistically generated weights. Our results showed that approximately 106,000 km 2 of the non-desert area was extremely susceptible to desertification in 2000, 83,200 km 2 in 2010, and 98,200 km 2 in 2020, with critical zones mainly located in the High Plains (steppe rangelands). Our analysis revealed that climate and vegetation quality indicators were the main drivers of the DSI, which showed a nonlinear trend during the study period. The analysis of changes in land sensitivity to desertification revealed that most of the changes were negative and occurred in the High Plains, as well as certain areas of the Tell Atlas Mountain ranges and the littoral fringe. However, some positive changes occurred due to the establishment of new forest plantations and croplands. The results provide a comprehensive overview of the risk of desertification in Algeria and its main drivers and can serve as a scientific basis for the development and implementation of necessary measures to interrupt and combat this destructive environmental phenomenon.