FRANK KENNON BORDEN SR.

Email

April 12, 1927-Jan. 4, 2016

Mr. Frank Kennon Borden Sr. died peacefully at his home in Hope Valley, Durham, Monday, Jan. 4, 2016.

Born April 12, 1927, in Wilson, N.C., he was the oldest son of the late Margaret Gold Borden and Frank Kennon Borden.

After graduating from Goldsboro High School in 1944, he served in the United States Navy at the end of World War II and in the United States Air Force during the Korean War.

K. attended William and Mary College, the University of North Carolina and North Carolina State University, where he graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in industrial engineering in 1950.

Sept. 26, 1959, he married Carolyn Wallace Hall, and settled in Durham, where they started their family.

K. began his career with the Borden Brick and Tile Co. in the sales department. In 1970, he became president of the company, and in 1987, he became chairman. He retired in 1989.

He served as a director of the Brick Institute of America and Wachovia Bank of Durham. He was also the former director and president of the Brick Association of North Carolina and a former board member of Borden Manufacturing Co., the American Ceramic Society and Southchem Inc.

During his lifetime, he was actively involved with several nonprofit organizations, and served on many boards, including the Wilson Daily Times and Durham Kiwanis Club. He also served as the president of the Durham YMCA.

K. was devoted to his family and friends, and will be remembered for his intellect and sense of humor. He loved traveling, hunting, fishing, tennis and working in his garden. He always lived life to the fullest, was loved by many and had a long and productive life.

K. is survived by his wife, Carolyn Hall Borden; four children, Frank Kennon Borden Jr. (Holly Mayo Borden), James Hall Borden (Lisa Cain Borden), Michael Wallace Borden (Julie Johnston Borden) and Margaret Borden Vermillion (Dale Drew Vermillion); and eight grandchildren, Catherine Borden, Margaret Banes Borden, Ashton Vermillion, Michael Borden Jr., Sydney Vermillion, Frank Borden III, Aerin Borden and Borden Vermillion.

He was predeceased by his brother, John Gold Borden Sr.

A memorial service celebrating K.'s life will be held at St. Stephen's Episcopal Church in Durham Friday, Jan. 8, 2016, at 2 p.m.

The family will receive friends at the church following the service.

In lieu of flowers, memorial gifts may be made to St. Stephen's Episcopal Church, 82 Kimberly Drive, Durham, N.C., 27707, or Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research, michaeljfox.org.

(Pd)

Published in Obituaries on January 7, 2016 1:49 PM