Serbia's ruling conservative coalition appears to have suffered a severe blow in local elections.

Two opposition groups pro-Western Democrats and hard-line allies of former President Slobodan Milosevic won most votes, according to early projections based on partial results from Sunday's election.

Candidates endorsed by Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica lagged behind both the pro-Western Democratic Party and the ultranationalist Serbian Radical Party in nearly all of Serbia's 148 municipalities and four major cities.

The ballot, whose importance has gone beyond municipal issues, could even trigger early general elections, some analysts said.

In the race for the influential post of Belgrade mayor, the leading contender was Nenad Bogdanovic, a Democrat, who garnered 32.9 per cent of the votes, ahead of ultranationalist Aleksandar Vucic, a Radical.

The two will face each other in a runoff in two weeks, according to the results released by Center for Independent Elections and Democracy.

Election officials said their projections were based on "representative samples" of polling stations and that there would be no significant changes once complete results are in. They were expected on Monday due to the complexity of the voting system.

Kostunica's ally nominated for the top post in the capital, businessman Zoran Drakulic, finished third with only 15.2 per cent of the ballots, followed by several other, minor candidates.

A candidate fielded by the pro-Western Democrats was also in the lead in Serbia's second-largest city, Nis.

The reform-minded Democrats had controlled Serbia's government from late 2000 when Milosevic was ousted in a popular revolt until earlier this year when Kostunica's conservative and moderately nationalist coalition came to power.

But the performance of Kostunica's Cabinet apparently disappointed large portions of Serbia's 6 million voters.

"These results mean a serious defeat for the ruling coalition," said political analyst Vladimir Goati. "The vote signals that the ruling parties might have to think about early parliamentary elections."

The Belgrade mayoral race has been a focus of the ballot recent legislative changes made the post the third most important in the Balkan republic, after Serbia's president and the prime minister.

Both Bogdanovic and Vucic expressed confidence of clinching the post that gives power over large funds in the city of nearly 2 million people.

"My victory in the second round is a certainty," Bogdanovic proclaimed, thanking "Belgraders for voting for me, for the vision of Belgrade as part of Europe." He said Belgrade would be isolated if his ultranationalist opponent won.

Vucic dismissed Bogdanovic's bravado, saying "I'll wipe out the opponent in the second round."