Welcome back to Fridays with Jim Korkis! Jim, the dean of Disney historians and author of Jim’s Gems in The easy Guide, writes about Walt Disney World history every Friday on yourfirstvisit.net.

THE LOVE BUG AT DISNEY WORLD

By Jim Korkis

The Love Bug (1969) was the second highest grossing film in Disney history after Mary Poppins (1964) when it was first released. The Love Bug was “Herbie,” a little 1963 white Volkswagen Beetle with racing stripes and the number “53,” who had a mind of its own and helped a variety of different owners. Producer/writer Bill Walsh was a fan of Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Don Drysdale who wore the uniform number “53”.

The huge success of the film inspired the theatrical sequels Herbie Rides Again (1974), Herbie Goes to Monte Carlo (1977), Herbie Goes Bananas (1980) and Herbie Fully Loaded (2005). There was also a short-lived television series in 1982 and a made-for-television movie with actor Bruce Campbell in 1997.

Herbie, named after the punch line in a comedy routine by comedian Buddy Hackett who co-starred in the original film, has made several significant appearances at Walt Disney World.

Two buildings (#6 and #7) devoted to the character opened in March 1999 at the All-Star Movies Resort. Herbie was displayed on a racetrack-themed courtyard. It was later relocated to the backlot tour because people kept climbing on it.

The gigantic front and rear Herbie sculptures (because Herbie can split in two) on the buildings are approximately five times the normal size of a VW Beetle. At night, they illuminate.

Both buildings are themed to a racing motif with oversized tools like a wrench, a screwdriver and wheel stating “Winner’s Circle”. The oversized movie clap board says the production is “Bananas” probably referencing Herbie Goes Bananas.

A Herbie was originally on the Disney MGM Studio backlot tour in a driveway on Residential Street (the Burns house from Ernest Saves Christmas) when in opened in May 1989. It was designed to rise up, smoke its back tires, open its doors and hood, squirt water from its washers and do a few other tricks. Unfortunately, it suffered a major electrical fire, was completely burned and Disney decided against replacing it.

A vehicle from Herbie Fully Loaded appeared in its place until the attraction shut down.

Another Herbie that was used in Herbie Goes Bananas (1980) hung from the top of the ceiling of Planet Hollywood at Downtown Disney where his lights blinked and the headlights could turn to look down.

When the (now closed) Lights, Motors, Action! Extreme Stunt Show premiered at Disney MGM Studios Herbie also appeared in a cameo and as part of the show and split in two. He also appeared in the original Paris version of the show. Herbie was later replaced by Lightning McQueen in July 2011. Just outside the stadium was Herbie’s Drive-In a counter serve snack stand that had hot dogs, chips, chili, drinks and more.

In 1976, Imagineers proposed a Herbie dark ride for Disneyland that would take guests in oversized Herbie vehicles through scenes from the first two Love Bug movies (e.g., driving up the Golden Gate Bridge, skipping across a lake, etc.) The proposal even included Herbie splitting in half at the end of the attraction.

While Disneyland hosted Love Bug Days in 1968 and again in 1974, to promote Herbie Rides Again Walt Disney World had its own “Beautify Your Bug” contest in connection with the film.

The contest sponsored by the Volkswagen Clubs of America and the Central Florida Volkswagen dealers was held June 15, 1974. Entries were limited to 200 contestants. Judging was done by winners of similar nationwide contests with the ultimate winner receiving a new Volkswagen. The top finalists had to be content with participating in a special parade down Main Street U.S.A. with the Disney costumed characters.

* * * * *

Thanks, Jim! For more on All-Star Movies, see this.

And come back next Friday for more from Jim Korkis!

In the meantime, check out his books, including his latest, Secret Stories of Disneyland, his Secret Stories of Walt Disney World: Things You Never You Never Knew , which reprints much material first written for this site, and his contributions to The easy Guide to Your Walt Disney World Visit, all published by Theme Park Press.