Surrounded by his loving family, Robert J. Sullivan, age 92, passed away Tuesday July, 3, 2018 in Oak Creek, WI. Robert was born in Toledo, OH in 1925, son of the late Clarence D. and Gertrude M. (Carr) of Toledo, OH.

Robert graduated from Central Catholic High School (Toledo, OH) in 1944 and was drafted into service with the US Army as a combat infantry soldier during WWII. Post-war, Robert graduated from Marquette University School of Journalism with a BA in 1948. On May 13, 1950 at St. Elizabeth (Milwaukee, WI) he was united in marriage to Caroline Walczak. Robert spent his professional career working in various roles of technical writing, advertising, and community public relations. Robert was employed by: P&H, Natural Gas Company, and Young Radiator. Robert was a longtime and active member of St. Rita Catholic Church where he served in the choir, Eucharistic ministry, and past president of the Secular Order of St. Augustine. In addition, Robert was 4th order Knight and elected Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus. Robert supported the Racine community as President of the Racine Advertising Club, adjunct professor at Gateway Technical Institute, Junior Achievement volunteer, and Racine County jail ministry. Robert spent his productive free time gardening, doing home repair, and greatly enjoyed spending his leisure time family camping, ballroom dancing, playing piano, and touring throughout the US as well as overseas. Robert was a wonderful, devoted husband, father, and grandfather who will be dearly missed.

He is survived by his loving wife of sixty eight-years, Caroline; his 3 children: Cynthia (Daniel) Kane, Timothy (Mary) and Mike (Micki Klappa-Sullivan) Sullivan; and his 7 grandchildren: Kevin (Sadie Tuescher) and Megan Kane; Jennifer (Blake) Chaney; Daniel (Emily), Michael, Katie, and Andi Sullivan. In addition to his parents he was preceded in death by an infant daughter, Kathleen and sister, Mary V. Serin.

A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated Friday, July 6, 2018, 11:00 A.M. at St. Rita Catholic Church, 4339 Douglas Avenue, with Rev. Jim Parades officiating. Relatives and friends may meet with the family Friday at the church from 9:30 A.M. until time of Mass at 11:00 A.M. Private entombment will be held. Memorials to St. Rita Catholic Church or to the Stars and Stripes Honor Flight have been suggested.

A special thank you to the staffs at Mitchell Manor, Meadowmere, and Heartland Hospice for their loving and compassionate care.