The school is seeking to appoint a highly qualified, dynamic and inspirational practitioner able to engage students with their passion for Science, with a specialism in Physics or Chemistry in this popular and outstanding Department with an established record of success at both GCSE and A level. We are looking for someone passionate about supporting young people develop a love of the subject. Ysgol John Bright is an inclusive, caring school, students have a positive attitude to learning and we pride ourselves on challenging, supporting and developing staff and students.

You will have high expectations, a love of the subject, ability to inspire, laugh and enjoy the challenges of the role. You will be a team player; you will go the extra mile to support our students and want to continually develop your team.

YOU WILL BE:

A passionate believer in the potential of every student, and have a commitment to ensuring that every student succeeds

A well-qualified, highly motivated teacher, able to deliver engaging lessons and secure strong outcomes

Able to lead colleagues to make an impact on student progress and develop a rich curriculum

A person with a track record of raising attainment

Creative with an imaginative approach to teaching and learning

Someone with high expectations, ability to challenge your students and think critically about your own practice

Committed to continuous professional development leading to excellent subject knowledge and teaching

WE OFFER:

Excellent career development opportunities and access to a comprehensive programme of professional learning and development

The opportunity to be bold and innovative in your leadership

An ethos of high expectations for students and staff

A professionally stimulating and supportive working environment

A strong commitment to professional development and progression for all staff

State-of-the-art facilities in an attractive modern building and grounds

Cutting edge ICT facilities throughout the school

A ‘window on the world’ ethos which enriches students’ learning experiences

Ysgol John Bright is committed to safeguarding and promoting the welfare of children and young people. It is essential that all members of staff share this commitment. An enhanced DBS disclosure is required for all posts. Please use application form attached to this advert.

Location

The school is situated in the heart of the North Wales resort town of Llandudno. It is the only English medium high school to serve the town and its hinterland. Road and rail links along the North Wales coast are excellent and in one hour or less you can be in Chester, Liverpool, Manchester airport, the Holyhead ferry port to Ireland or within the grandeur of the Snowdonia National Park and its mountains.

The school is named after the Victorian radical politician John Bright who came to the town for respite and whose young son was buried here. After almost one hundred years the school had outgrown its previous premises and in September 2004 the new school opened on a 25 acre site with excellent facilities.

Ysgol John Bright has a very varied catchment area. There are nine designated primaries which range in size and type. We serve two of the most deprived wards and two of the most prosperous wards in the town. Indeed inspectors described us as a “truly comprehensive school”. The roll is currently at 1247, with 224 in our vibrant and expanding Sixth Form.

School Buildings

The new school has been suited for each curriculum area. There are five blocks which are linked by a central mall. Each faculty has an office and there is a large staff workroom adjoining the generous staff-room. Our superb facilities include:-

Technology Block with workshops, cad/cam with 24 top spec computers, art with pottery wheel and kiln, textiles with display area and food technology rooms including commercial standard stainless steel kitchen.

12 Science laboratories on three floors with a prep room on each floor linked by a dumb waiter.

Library resource centre which has fingerprint borrowing system.

Welsh and MFL corridor with seminar rooms for use by language assistants.

Drama classroom with specialist lighting and sound systems.

All staff now share work through Google Education which is a cloud based learning environment.

Squash courts which are demountable to a dance/performance space.

Music and photography departments with full suite of Apple Macs.

PE facilities are extensive- gymnasium, very large sports hall, 2 all-weather pitches (one to international hockey standards) 2 fenced tarmac hard play areas and extensive grass pitches and play areas.

Sixth Form area with separate Year 12 and Year 13 workrooms with computer facilities.

Every teacher has a Chromebook and projector in their classroom to enable electronic registration and all have access to the curriculum network and the internet.

Staff Development

The Governors believe passionately in the continued professional development of all staff employed in the school. Training needs are identified either through Performance Management interviews or within Faculty School Improvement Plans. These are then incorporated into our School Improvement Plan. We have an established programme for the induction of new staff both newly qualified and experienced.