Status Quo Somerset show could be band's final gig

Status Quo's "last ever" gig could be in Vivary Park in Taunton this summer.

The famous British rock band is due to headline this year's Live in Somerset event on 23 August alongside other artists such as Busted, JLS and Ministry of Sounds Classical.

Francis Rossi, original lead singer and guitarist, said "he doesn't want to announce it per se" but he expects the Taunton performance will be their last.

When speaking to the Mirror, Rossi said: "I don’t think we will go again. As far as the rest of the band are concerned it’s the last tour too. I just can’t see us doing it one more time.”

He added: "I am 75, so if I go out in 2026 I will be 76, that means Andrew Bown will be 79 and Rhino (John Edwards) will be 72. Surely, that’s not possible?"

"Although I am very fit, an hour and forty five minutes, I can’t see how we can do that no matter how fit we are," Rossi said.

The band has had more than 60 UK chart hits - best known for songs such as Whatever You Want, In The Army Now, Down Down and Rockin’ All Over The World.

Originally formed in 1962 as The Paladins, the band trialled various names before they became Status Quo.

The "original" members of the rock band consisted of lead guitarist and singer, Francis Rossi, other guitarist, Rick Parfitt, drummer, John Coghlan, and bassist, Alan Lancaster.

Yvonne Hanvey, a longterm fan who runs the band's official fan club, said she has been going to see Status Quo every year since 1975.

Mrs Hanvey said: "I am trying to not think about it being the last one, it's very emotional. It will be very strange not having an annual Quo ticket arriving in the post or on my phone."

She added: "I think the fact that their last gig will be in Taunton shows that they've gone full circle as it's only a few miles from where the band first met Rick all those years ago in Butlins, Minehead."

Mrs Hanvey said: "So for me, I don't feel that it's the end as such, there are still positives to be taken from it. It might be the end of Quo touring, but each of the members are individually working on things. Bob and Francis are still writing together - who knows what will come out of that?"