John Waters to headline Homotopia in his one-man show, the director, screenwriter, author, actor, stand-up comedian and all-round cult legend will return to Liverpool this autumn.

In his only live UK performance of the year, John Waters: This Filthy World comes to Liverpool Philharmonic Hall on Saturday 10 November 2018 and tickets are on sale now.

This Filthy World is a 'vaudeville' act that celebrates the film career and tastes of the man William Burroughs once called, 'The Pope of Trash'. Focussing on Waters' early negative artistic influences and his fascination with true crime, exploitation films, fashion lunacy and the extremes of the contemporary art world, this joyously devious monologue elevates all that is trashy in life into a call-to-arms to 'filth followers' everywhere.

John Waters said "Liverpool is just like Baltimore, unapologetic, cool and filled with great rebels who have a sense of humour about themselves. Can't wait to come back."

John Waters has written and directed 16 movies including Pink Flamingos, Polyester, Hairspray, Cry Baby, and A Dirty Shame. He is a photographer whose work has been shown in galleries all over the world and the author of eight books.

Homotopia Festival Manager, Char Binns said "We are excited to welcome John back to Homotopia, to headline our 2018 festival. This will be his only UK date, he is a true legend and the ultimate crowd-pleaser. Festival goers are in for a treat."

Homotopia Festival will take place in Liverpool between 3 November - 1 December 2018.

Homotopia launched in 2004 and is a Liverpool based arts & social justice organisation making art, interventions and participation that inspires and unites communities. Every November it presents an annual festival of local, national and international LGBT+ arts & culture featuring an eclectic programme including theatrical world premieres, contemporary dance, visual art, debate, youth & community participation, heritage & film. Programming trailblazers, new commissions, exhibitions and award-winning social justice projects and education outreach work throughout the year. Homotopia was founded in response to Liverpool's bid for European Capital Of Culture 2008 and was a highlight of these celebrations. 2018 will mark our 15th birthday and the festival has become one of the key cultural festivals in the region. Homotopia curated a year-long 'Tom Of Finland Retrospective' in Turku, Finland as part of their European Capital Of Culture 2011. The same exhibition toured to the Kulturhuset in Stockholm attracting over 140,000 across the 2 shows. We have also developed projects in Poland and Turkey. We curated and presented a major exhibition on the life of Liverpool born trans pioneer Dr April Ashley MBE at the Museum of Liverpool which attracted 900,00 visitors and was extended twice due to popularity.

John Waters has written and directed sixteen movies including Pink Flamingos, Polyester, Hairspray, Cry Baby, Serial Mom and A Dirty Shame. He is a photographer whose work has been shown in galleries all over the world and the author of eight books: Shock Value, Crackpot, Pink Flamingos and Other Trash, Hairspray, Female Trouble and Multiple Maniacs, and Art: A Sex Book (co-written with Bruce Hainley), Role Models and Carsick. The gift book, Make Trouble, published by Algonquin Books in 2017, features the text, with illustrations, of Waters' commencement speech delivered at the 2015 Rhode Island School of Design graduation ceremony and was subsequently released as an audio album in 7" single format by Third Man Records. John Waters is a member of The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. Additionally, he is a past member of the boards of The Andy Warhol Foundation and Printed Matter, a former member of the Wexner Center International Arts Advisory Council and was selected as a juror for the 2011 Venice Biennale. In 2017, Waters' was honoured when his "Study Art" series was selected to be featured at the Biennale in Venice. Mr. Waters also serves on the Board of Directors for the Maryland Film Festival and has been a key participant in the Provincetown International Film Festival since it began in 1999, the same year Waters was honoured as the first recipient of PIFF's "Filmmaker on the Edge" award. In September 2014, Film Society of Lincoln Center honoured John Waters' fifty years in filmmaking with a 10-day celebration entitled "Fifty Years of John Waters: How Much Can You Take?" featuring a complete retrospective of his film work. In May 2015, Waters was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Fine Arts from the Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) and the same by the Maryland Institute College of Arts (MICA) in May 2016. In the Fall of 2015, the British Film Institute also honoured John's fifty-year contribution to cinema with their own program called "The Complete Films of John Waters...Every Goddam One of Them." The French Minister of Culture bestowed the rank of Officer in the Order of Arts and Letters to Mr. Waters in 2015. In February 2017, John Waters was honoured with the Writers Guild of America, East's Ian McLellan Hunter Award honouring his body of work as a writer in motion pictures. "Indecent Exposure", a retrospective of Waters' art will open at the Baltimore Museum of Art in Fall, 2018 and will travel to the Wexner Center for the Arts in Columbus OH in Spring, 2019.

Comments

To post a comment, you must register and login.