Kelly Reilly spends a good portion of "Mrs. Henderson Presents standing statue-still without a stitch of clothing. The Stephen Frears film about the legendary Windmill Theater depicts an inspirational slice of World War II-era British history. But because the Windmill was the first Picadilly Circus theater to feature nude models, taking the role meant that Reilly would not be spending much time with the wardrobe department.

"I knew it was the story about the Windmill, Reilly said in a recent interview. "Then I read the script and learned what was required of me. It wasn't an option it was a story that I loved, and it was written so beautifully by Martin Sherman. It was so beautifully written about the nudity nothing ever harsh about it. Then, when the war breaks out, there is what the nudity actually begins to represent, and what it does for these soldiers who are about to go off to war and might not come back.

Set in the 1930s and 1940s, "Mrs. Henderson Presents tells the true story of Laura Henderson, an aristocratic widow who purchased a shuttered theater and became the first Picadilly venue to feature 24-hour vaudeville performances. When every other theater in the district copied the Windmill's formula, Henderson upped the ante: the Windmill would feature nude models in "artistic tableaux. The models stood motionless, as though they were characters in three dimensional paintings.

Reilly plays Maureen, a country girl discovered by Henderson's producer, Vivian Van Damm (Bob Hoskins), and elevated as the Windmill's marquee example of perfect English beauty. And when World War II enveloped Great Britain and the Germans attacked London, the Windmill became a peculiar symbol of English resilience. Government officials tried to close it down as being inappropriate during wartime, but Henderson justified the Windmill, insisting that it left lasting impressions on soldiers marching toward the battlefields.

Raised in a working class neighborhood outside London, Reilly is a respected theater actress, having distinguished herself in high profile productions of August Strindberg's "After Miss Julie, Anton Chekhov's "Three Sisters and David Mamet's "Sexual Perversity in Chicago. She knew nothing about her "Henderson role, but she said the opportunity to work with the director of "Dangerous Liaisons, "The Grifters and "High Fidelity could not be passed up.

"My agent called me one day and said, Would you fancy meeting Stephen Frears?' I was like, Yes, please.' Reilly said, laughing. "I had no idea what it was for. I just went in and met him, and we were just talking about everything other than filmmaking. He's definitely up there among my favorite directors, my wish list.' To be offered the job ... I would have hounded him around London for the part.

She said she was one of the few members of the "Henderson cast who did not know the story of the Windmill. She knew of theater's current, seedier incarnation as a strip club, but not of its more elegant history. When she read the part, she knew she had to take it, even though she would be artfully nude through much of the film.

"I just thought, What a beautiful story,' Reilly said. "And it's a true story. You put aside all your own personal insecurities or vanities or whatever, which we all have.

The nudity was easy compared with Reilly's most daunting task: standing perfectly still as chorus performers belted out music-hall numbers for the cameras.

"It's more difficult than people would think, because we would shoot it for the (musical) numbers for a whole three or four minutes, she said. "If you try to stand still for three or four minutes ... you do start shaking or twitching. But I was quite amazed when I saw the film how still it looks, and how effective that stillness was.

Reilly gained her first major notices at 16, when she earned a role in Helen Mirren's crime drama, "Prime Suspect. Since then, she has split her time between the stage and roles in films such as "Henderson, "The Libertine, "Pride and Prejudice and "L'Auberge Espagnole. Keeping a foot in each world, Reilly said, helps keep her on her toes.

"They are completely different worlds, and usually after I've done one, I'm so excited to be going back to the other, she said. "Theater is such the actor's medium, and the film world is more the director's vision. On stage, I feel like I really earn my money.

Archive ID: 2958148