This article covers logos that contain a jump scare.

Editors should list the timestamps, under the videos where such content occurs.

Credits

Background

Dark Castle Entertainment is an American film production label and a division of Silver Pictures, a production house formerly affiliated with Warner Bros. It was formed in 1998 by Joel Silver, Robert Zemeckis, and Gilbert Adler. Susan Downey was the Vice President of Development until February 2009, a term running congruent to her tenure as a VP of Production at parent company Silver Pictures.

The company name pays homage to William Castle, a horror filmmaker from the 1950s and 1960s. When first formed, the goal was to remake Castle's horror films. After two remakes, it moved on to producing original material, along with remakes of non-Castle films. Starting with RocknRolla, which has since gained a cult following, the company began producing films in genres other than horror. While most of the company's films were initially poorly reviewed by critics, their films such as Splice and Orphan: First Kill eventually received better reviews.

Logo (October 29, 1999-)

Orphan: First Kill International release in-credit variant

Orphan: First Kill US release in-credit variant

Visuals: Over a black background, the logo starts with thunder panning around what appears to be a gargoyle head. As the camera zooms out, the statue opens its eyes and mouth and roars. The camera continues zooming out from what is revealed to be a castle in front of a yellow full moon with many clouds surrounding it as it turns cartoonish. A box goes around the picture and crops it as the text "DARK CASTLE" in a grungy font named Attic Antique appears along with the word "E N T E R T A I N M E N T" in the Copperplate font.

Variants:

On the direct-to-DVD films Return to House on Haunted Hill and The Hills Run Red, the text below the name says "H O M E E N T E R T A I N M E N T".

An alternate version exists, where the logo is more contrasted and the clouds are in purple.

On Suburbicon, the logo is shortened.

On The Expecting (the first TV series from the company), the print logo shares the screen with the Platinum Dunes and Propagate Content logos.

A print in-credit variant can be found on Orphan: First Kill. On the international release, the logo is smaller than usual and scrolls up with the credits.

Technique: CGI by Picturemill.

Audio: Thunder sounds and the gargoyle's roar. The opening theme of the film typically accompanies the sounds.

Audio Variants:

On Seance and Orphan: First Kill, the opening theme is heard without any of the sound effects.

On House on Haunted Hill (1999), an omnious fanfare is heard throughout, which segues into the film's opening theme.

On Suburbicon and The Expecting, the logo is silent.

Availability: