The Quinzaine kicks off on 14 May and runs until 24 May. Peace to Us in Our Dreams produced by Studija Kinema is the eighth feature from Bartas. The film follows a family weekend that goes badly wrong. Bartas is no stranger in Cannes with his 1996 the film Few of Us screening in Un Certain Regard and his drama The House screening in the same programme in 1997. In 2005 his film Seven Invisible Men also produced by Studija Kinema screened in Quinzaine des Realisateurs.

The Here After, which is a feature directorial debut for the Swedish writer and director von Horn, is a story of a man’s torment after serving time for the murder of his girlfriend starring Ulrik Munther. Von Horn was born in Göteborg, Sweden and finished the Polish National Film School in Lodz and has an MA in film directing. He lives in Warsaw and The Here After is his first feature film. The film is coproduced in Poland by Lava Films.

Quinzaine des Réalisateurs programme line-up

Opening Film

In the Shadow of Women (France)

Directed by Philippe Garrel

Allende, mi abuelo Allende (Chile, Mexico)

Directed by Marcia Tambutti

Arabian Nights (Portugal)

Directed by Miguel Gomes

The Brand New Testament ( Luxembourg, France, Belgium)

Directed by Jaco Van Dormael

The Cowboys (France)

Thomas Bidegain

Embrace of the Serpent (Colombia,Venezuela,Argentina)

Directed by Ciro Guerra

Fatima (France)

Directed by Philippe Faucon

My Golden Years (France)

Directed by Arnaud Desplechin

Green Room (USA.)

Directed by Jeremy Saulnier

The Here After (France, Poland, Sweden)

Directed by Magnus von Horn

Coproduced by Lavafilms

Supported by the Polish Film Institute

Much Loved (Morocco, France)

Directed by Nabil Ayouch

Mustang (France)

Directed by Deniz Gamze Erguven

Peace to Us in Our Dreams (Lithuania, France, Russia)

Directed by Sharunas Bartas

Produced by Studija Kinema (Lithuania)

Coproduced by KinoElektron (France) and Lookfilm (Russia)

Sales: NDM Ventas Internacionales

Supported by the Lithuanian Film Centre

A Perfect Day (Spain)

Directed by Fernanda Leon de Aranoa

Songs My Brothers Taught Me (USA)

Directed by Chloe Zhao

Special Screening

Yakuza Apocalypse: The Great War of the Underworld (Japan)

Directed by Takashi Miike

Closing Film

Dope (USA).

Directed by Rich Famuyiwa

Short Films

Blue Thunder

Directed by Jean-Marc E. Roy and Philippe David Gagné

Calme ta joie

Directed by Emmanuel Laskar

The Broken Past

Directed by Martín Morgenfeld and Sebastián Schjaer

Kung Fury

Directed by David Sandberg

Pitchoune

Directed by Reda Kateb

Trials, Exorcisms

Directed by Susana Nobre

Pueblo

Directed by Elena Lopez Riera

A Few Secondes

Directed by Nora El Hourch

Backyard

Directed by André Novais Oliveira

Rate Me

Directed by Fyzal Boulifa