Shanice Homeward

Mrs.Cariddi

January 6, 2016

Charlie Chaplin: A Roaring 20’s Hero

Charlie Chaplin was a comic actor, director, producer and writer in silent films. He was born on April 16, 1889 in London, England. He was most recognized for his iconic character “The Tramp” who and sported a bowler hat, a toothbrush mustache, a cane and oversized pants. He was a regarded as a hero in the 20’s and the most “influential and important people in the history of the film industry. At the time, Charlie was one of the most people in the world and still is today.

Charlie’s rise to fame was a true rags-to-riches story. Soon after his birth, his alcoholic father abandoned him and his half older brother, Sydney, leaving his mother, a music hall singer …show more content…

At the age of 14, Charlie’s mother was admitted to a Mental Asylum. Chaplin and his brother moved from orphanage to orphanage Charlie loved performing so using his mother’s contacts, he joined the “Eight Lancashire Lads” for a short while but since it wasn’t very profitable, Charlie had to do what he could to make ends meet. "I (was) newsvendor, printer, toymaker, doctor's boy, etc., but during these occupational digressions, I never lost sight of my ultimate aim to become an actor," Chaplin later recounted. "So, between jobs I would polish my shoes, brush my clothes, put on a clean collar and make periodic calls at a theatrical agency.” Chaplin was determined to become a actor and never lost sight of that even when life was rough.

Chaplin’s first acting debut in Sherlock Holmes as “Billy” the page boy. He would then go on to work with a vaudeville group “Casey’s Court Circus” and then with the Fred Karno Pantomine Troupe in 1908, where he toured in America for a while. While in America, he would capture the attention of Mark Sennett and join the Essanay Company. There, he would make 14 more films including his first classic,“The Tramp”.

Although “The Tramp” was a universal character and was well liked but the same cannot be said for Charlie himself. There was a lot of scandal involving Charlie’s marriages to young women due to unplanned premarital