More and more frequent insults and calls for deputies to "go outside" from the plenary hall in order to settle accounts show that instead of the strength of arguments, the argument of force is used - on the person, and that with a beating of personal insults.

This is what the professor of political sociology assessed for "Vijesti". Zoran Stojiljkovic, commenting on the message that the members of the Montenegrin Parliament send with frequent outbursts to the citizens who pay them to represent them in the Assembly.

"We are witnessing a state in which the political game is reduced to political labeling and warfare. Political behavior is otherwise based on the mutual connection of formed personality traits, understanding of one's own interests and the accepted - desirable, attitudes and values ​​conditioned by them. In Montenegro, for example, only by ritually referring to Marko Miljanov, with, unfortunately, often forgetting about humanity and reducing heroism to assault," said Stojiljković.

In the last two months, in the Montenegrin parliament, there have been two verbal conflicts between MPs, which ended with an invitation to the opposite side with the words "go outside". At the end of November in the Parliament of Montenegro, there was almost a physical conflict between deputies Dritan Abazović (URA) and Nikola Zirojević (SD).

"I'm talking to you, there's a doctor in this room, so if you don't believe me Jevto Erakovic i Nermin Abdić here it is (Albin) Ceman, please let's get organized so that the member of parliament who is yelling at us is provided with benzedin, and then strepsil is given to him", said Zirojević.

After Abazović said: "When I tell you, you will remember it for the rest of your life", Zirojević invited him to leave the assembly hall.

The other MPs prevented the incident from remaining a verbal discussion only.

The second incident occurred on December 20, when there was a verbal conflict between deputies of the Democratic People's Party (DNP). Milan Knežević and deputy of the Democratic Party of Socialists (DPS) Ivan Vuković.

Knežević invited Vuković "to go outside", after the check the vice-president of the Assembly Zdenka Popović gave a break. The verbal conflict between Knežević and Vuković was preceded by a polemic between a DNP deputy and a DPS deputy. Andrijo Nikolić.

"I suggest that you follow a little better what some MPs say. "The court decides whether someone gave false testimony," Nikolić said, among other things, addressing Popović.

Knežević continued his words:

"Yes, and the Constitutional Court decided, when you talk about it you need to know and I will not let you talk about it the way you learned, neither you, nor Vuković, nor anyone else. You took away my immunity, and now you are playing me a moral stone. So you will choose your words when he talks about me. And you and Vuković and the rest of the company," said Knežević, addressing Nikolic.

Vuković asked "which Vuković", to which Knežević replied - "You".

After a short discussion, Knežević invited Vuković to go outside, after which Popović took a break.

A message to citizens that in politics, and then in life - everything is allowed

Stojiljković said that, among other things, moral relativism or self-centeredness and overemphasized competitiveness influence the behavior of MPs.

"Since we understand politics, with the exception of political dreamers and visionaries, as primarily an activity of interest, it is noticeable that the instrumental political style dominates political practice," said Stojiljković.

He assessed that producing political scandals and affairs is an integral part of this political style.

Stojiljković points out that their disclosure and dismissal would be an indicator that democracy and its corrective mechanisms are somehow functioning, above all the judicial system, the media and public opinion.

"If, however, the affairs are produced in a series, without a judicial epilogue and with the accusations being forgotten as soon as the political circumstances change, it is only a matter of using the dangerous, emotion-soaked rhetoric of labeling 'thieves and traitors'. The message to the citizens is that everything is allowed in politics, and then in life," said Stojiljković.

Answering the question of what influences the fact that the culture of dialogue in the highest legislative chamber is at a very low level, Stoiljković said that it is a combination of political heritage and current interests and needs colored by the specific political styles and temperaments of individual deputies:

"More (Vladimir) Dvorniković in "The Character of Yugoslavs" he talks about the temperament of South Slavic peoples as politically passionate peoples. U Heraclitus it gives the spirit a melancholic, almost fatalistic feeling of life, but also a specific spite and spite, bad memory, voluptuous vindictiveness and irony, tendency to satire and sarcasm. Jovan Cvijić speaks of honor that easily turns into vain lust for honor".

Stojiljković assessed that many political actors also show enviable persistence in showing xenophobic, provincial, palanquin suspicion of the other and different, that is, the pursuit of the right to distinguish.

"For example, the 'courtly' style is focused on the personality of the politician, his personality, his charisma, which can be read in the aesthetics and pomp of his performance, but also in non-verbal communication, gestures, and personal image. "Building" a desirable image has become a lucrative activity for marketing professionals," said Stojiljković.

He pointed out that he is particularly interested in the style of egocrats, who are relentlessly obsessed with power and gaining power.

"An egocrat is a ubiquitous person who enjoys influencing, controlling and coercing others because in this he perceives his own strength and purpose. The specific political style of the egocrat first seduces and instrumentalizes his environment by reducing his associates and partners to the level of a conformist-condescending Trabant and defender of the image and unquestionable deeds of the leader. A bare example of this style in Serbia is Aleksandar Vucic. Let the readers judge who is closest to him in Montenegro," said Stojiljković.

Opposed to them, as Stojiljković said, is the republican (democratic) style, generated from the skill of oratory and rhetoric:

"He develops oratorical virtuosity in the public space, but in this case cultivating negotiation techniques, relying on civic virtues, a culture of civility and dialogue. Who represents him in the political and public life of Montenegro?".

Codes and penalties have limited impact

The Parliament of Montenegro has a Code of Ethics, which represents a set of rules and standards for the behavior of members of parliament. According to the rules of the Code, the MP is obliged to take care in every situation not to degrade the function, not to hurt the reputation of other MPs and the Assembly. Amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly specified three years ago that MPs who were given a warning, disqualification, or removal from the session due to inappropriate words - will not be fined.

The last time, in March 2021, a deputy of the previous convocation of the Assembly was punished Andrija Popović (LP) due to throwing away the parliamentary Rules of Procedure. He was immediately punished by removal from that and all sessions for the next 15 days.

In earlier convocations, there were fines, most often for MPs from the then opposition.

Stojiljković says that codes and penalties have a very limited impact.

"The key change is brought about by the changed social climate in which the representatives realize that arrogance, arrogance and discrimination of rivals do not pay off politically. To cause rejection and contempt of public opinion", said Stojiljković.

He assessed that on the social level, it is about the spirit of the public, responsibility for the public word, culture of dialogue and tolerance, willingness to compromise and establishing, at least minimal, social consensus.

"Political elites can be the main leaders or the main brakemen. The media and professional public should be independent and aware of their responsibility and the impact they have on society. "Finally, citizens, in addition to being ready to learn, would have to practice a built-up 'pretentious' attitude that they are the source and drain of the government and that its current holders are only temporarily employed in their service," said Stojiljković.