The last volume of the series presents 46 texts under the heading of “anti-modernism”. Formed in a dynamic relationship with modernism, from the 1880s to the 1940s, and especially during the interwar period, the anti-modernist ideological constructions of national identification had a considerable impact on the political culture of our region.

These texts rejected the linear vision of modernization as well as the liberal democratic institutional frameworks and searched instead for alternative models of politics. The Second World War and the communist takeover in most of these countries seemingly erased these ideological subcultures, who were often engaged in war-time pro-Nazi collaboration. However, their intellectual heritage proved more resilient and influenced the formation of “national communist” narratives in the 1960-70s, while after 1989 many of these references became actualized in the context of the post-communist search for ideological predecessors.

Discourses of Collective Identity in Central and Southeast Europe 1770–1945

Vol. I. Late Enlightenment

Vol. II. National Romanticism

Vol. III/1 Modernism

– The Creation of Nation States

Vol. III/2 Modernism

– Representations of National Culture

Vol. IV. Anti-modernism

Introduction

Balázs Trencsényi and Sorin Antohi: Approaching Anti-Modernism

Chapter I. Integral Nationalism

Nikola Pašić: The Agreement of Serbs and Croats

Georg Schönerer: The Pan-Germans’ program for the future

Roman Dmowski: Thoughts of a modern Pole

Nicolae Iorga: On national culture

Aurel C. Popovici: At the crossroads of two worlds

Vladimir Čerina: In the city of cynics

Babanzâde Ahmed Naim: The question of nationalism in Islam

Jozef Tiso: The ideology of the Slovak People’s Party

Dezső Szabó: Tomorrow’s nationalism

Chapter II. The Crisis of the European Conscience

Karl Kraus: The last days of mankind

Mircea Eliade: Spiritual itinerary

Ahmet Hamdi Tanpınar: On East and West

Leopold Andrian: Austria through the prism of the Idea

Mihály Babits: Mass and nation

Stanisław Ignacy Witkiewicz: Unkempt souls

Ivan Hadzhiyski: An optimistic theory of our people

Chapter III. In Search of a National Ontology

Ion Dragoumis: Hellenic civilization

Jaroslav Durych: The mission of the Czech state

France Veber: The ideal foundations of Slavic agrarianism

Anton Wildgans: Speech about Austria

Lucian Blaga: The Mioritic space

Vladimir Dvorniković: Epic man

Nikolaj Velimirović: Serbian nation as a servant of God

Nayden Sheytanov: The Bulgarian worldview

László Németh: In the minority

Chapter IV. Conservative Redefinitions of Tradition and Modernity

Hugo von Hofmannsthal: Writing as the spiritual space of the Nation

Gyula Szekfű: Three generations

Heinrich von Srbik: Austria in the Holy Roman Empire and in the German Confederation

Živojin Perić: Religion in the Serbian Civil Code

Milan Šufflay: The depths of national consciousness

Karel Kramář: In defense of Slavic politics

Petar Mutafchiev: Towards a philosophy of the Bulgarian history

Nichifor Crainic: The meaning of tradition

Ömer Lütfi Barkan: The legal status of the peasant class in the Ottoman Empire

Ladislav Hanus: Slovak statehood

Manifesto of the Slovenian National Defense Corps

Chapter V. The Anti-Modernist Revolution

Ideological declaration of the Camp of Great Poland

Janko Janev: The spirit of the nation

Hüseyin Nihal Atsız: Turkish unity

Ioannis Metaxas: Speech on the occasion of the inauguration of public works

Emil Cioran: The transfiguration of Romania

Lazër Radi: Fascism and the Albanian Spirit

Štefan Polakovič: Slovak National Socialism

Emanuel Vajtauer: Czech myth

Svetislav Stefanović: The building of New Serbia as a peasant state

Edvard Kocbek: Comradeship

Basic secondary literature on identity discourses in Central and Southeast Europe

Glossary