Italian regional election 2011 Molise regional election ← 2006 16–17 October 2011 2013 → All 30 seats to the Regional Council of Molise Majority party Minority party Leader Michele Iorio Paolo Di Laura Frattura Party People of Freedom Democratic Party Alliance Centre-right Centre-left Seats won 18 12 Seat change Popular vote 89,142 87,637 Percentage 47.0% 46.2% Swing 7.0% 0.2% President before election Michele Iorio People of Freedom Elected P…

For the federal constituency represented in the Dewan Rakyat, see Rantau Panjang (federal constituency). This article uses bare URLs, which are uninformative and vulnerable to link rot. Please consider converting them to full citations to ensure the article remains verifiable and maintains a consistent citation style. Several templates and tools are available to assist in formatting, such as reFill (documentation) and Citation bot (documentation). (September 2022) (Learn how and when to remove t…

American politician For the American musician, see James McKinney (musician). This article includes a list of references, related reading, or external links, but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (March 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) James B. McKinneyMember of the U.S. House of Representativesfrom Illinois's 14th districtIn officeNovember 7, 1905 –…

Heligmonellidae Hassalstrongylus dollfusi Scientific classification Domain: Eukaryota Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Nematoda Class: Chromadorea Order: Rhabditida Superfamily: Trichostrongyloidea Family: Heligmonellidae Heligmonellidae is a family of nematodes belonging to the order Rhabditida.[1] Genera This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (May 2021) A few genera:[1] Acanthostrongylus Travassos, 1937 Alippistrongylus Digiani & Kinsella, 2014 Brevistriata Tr…

Mentions of plants in the works of J. R. R. Tolkien Tolkien's drawing of ranalinque, the Quenya name for his invented moon-grass, in a style reminiscent of Art Nouveau. He professed himself fascinated by plant forms.[1] The plants in Middle-earth, the fictional world devised by J. R. R. Tolkien, are a mixture of real plant species with fictional ones. Middle-earth was intended to represent the real world in an imagined past, and in many respects its natural history is realistic. The bota…

Welcome! Hello, Pedrortm, and welcome to Wikipedia! Thank you for your contributions. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Unfortunately, one or more of the pages you created, like Instituto de Pensamiento Estratégico Ágora (IPEA), may not conform to some of Wikipedia's guidelines for page creation, and may soon be deleted (if it hasn't already). There's a page about creating articles you may want to read called Your first article. If you are stuck, and looking for help, please come t…