Berlin Pankow Heinersdorf: Tickets, Map, Live Departure, How-to, Routes

Berlin Pankow Heinersdorf Building

Address

S Pankow-Heinersdorf, Prenzlauer Promenade, Pankow, Berlin, 13189, Deutschland

Main stations in Berlin(Berlin)

Berlin Pankow Heinersdorf Live Departures

Departure Time

Train number

Status

Platform

From

To

Scan QR code, download Xmove App to see Berlin Pankow Heinersdorf's more live update, station guide, plan and photos

Train and bus from Berlin Pankow Heinersdorf

Popular train routes departing from Berlin Pankow Heinersdorf

Berlin Pankow Heinersdorf Live Arrivals

Arrival Time

Train number

Status

Platform

From

To

Scan QR code, download Xmove App to see Berlin Pankow Heinersdorf's more live update, station guide, plan and photos

Train and bus to Berlin Pankow Heinersdorf

Popular train routes arriving in Berlin Pankow Heinersdorf

Scan QR code, download Xmove App to see Berlin Pankow Heinersdorf's more live update, station guide, plan and photos

Main Railway Operators

Ultimate Guide to German Railway

Ultimate Guide to German Railways

For those who love to travel, the quality and service of German Railways (Deutsche Bahn AG or German Railway abbreviated as DB) are world-class, with free entry and exit without ticket gates, ICE high-speed trains with a speed of nearly 300 kilometers per hour, and dense With the railway network and precise and punctual schedules, if you want to enjoy the way of traveling through the state and provinces on the train, Germany can be said to be the best choice.

There are approximately 37,000 trains operating in Germany every day. Most of the trains are operated by 24 railway companies under Deutsche Bahn. Deutsche Bahn also has the world's third densest railwa...

Ultimate Guide to Flixbus

Ultimate Guide To FlixBus/FlixTrain

Friends who live in Europe know that buses are currently one of the cheapest ways to travel in Europe. Flixbus is currently the largest long-distance bus company in Europe.

At present, Flixbus not only does business in popular tourist cities, but most of the large residential towns in Europe have bus stations, including Germany, France, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Czech Republic, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, Spain , Portugal, Hungary, Austria, Croatia, Belarus and other countries. Among them, the German route is the cheapest. Flixbus began to expand to the United States in 2018, and currently has thousands of sites in the United States. ...

Ultimate Guide to French Railway

Ultimate Guide to French Railway

The French railway system is planned and constructed by the French National Railway Agency (Socicte Nationalc des Chemins de Fer Francais, abbreviated as SNCF). The route is centered on Paris and woven in all directions, including high-speed trains (Train a Grande Vitesse, abbreviated as TGV). Routes, and general train routes that go to cities and towns. Among these general train routes, the nationwide inter-regional route is called the "Grande Ligne" (GL for short), and the routes that only travel within a single area are collectively called "Regional Rapid Transport System" (Transports Express Regionaux, referred to as TER).

(https://sematicweb.detie.cn/railways/...

Ultimate Guide to Belgian National Railway

The Ultimate Guide to The Benelux (Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg) railway

In the European railway system, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg will be taken as a whole, so the Eurail train pass will provide a Eurail BeNe Rail Pass. The Benelux Railway is mainly composed of three railway companies.

Dutch Railway System

The Dutch railway is operated by Nederlandse Spoorwegen (NS), and some regional roads are operated by other companies, but no additional ticket purchase is required. The main car types are Intercity (IC), Stoptrein and Sneltrein. Intercity only stops in major cities, which is equivalent to Taiwan's Ziqiang; Stoptrein stops at every station, which is equivalent to a shuttle bus; and Sneltrein is between the two, which is almost the level of Fuxing.

![N...

Ultimate Guide to Austrian National Railway

Ultimate Guide to Austrian Railways

Traveling through Austria by train is now getting faster and easier. The best way to explore Austria is to travel through magnificent mountain views, lush alpine meadows, historic towns and picturesque villages. Austria is located in the central part of the European continent adjacent to Germany and Italy. It also borders the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Liechtenstein and Switzerland. Its train network is well connected to surrounding countries. With a punctuality rate of 96%, ÖBB was one of the most reliable railway operators in Europe in 2018.

Austria’s main train service operator is the state-owned company ÖBB, which serves almost the entire country. There are some private railway companies that are not part of ÖBB. In the corridor...

Hot Journeys