Susana Campos Ovalle was born on August 31, 1934 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. From a young age he showed a talent for acting. She had her first opportunity, by some accounts in Tres millones... y el amor directed by Luis Bayon Herrera in 1946. Other researchers state that her career began in 1947 when she was selected along with other girls, including Analia Gade , in a contest to accompany Maria Duval in “La serpiente de cascabel” Rattlesnake, directed by Carlos Schlieper and others place the young Actress in a previous film, “Mi novia es un fantasma” directed by Mugica Francisco.

She received other roles and travelled to Spain, where he shot several films. The actress used to appear in these films with dyed blonde, which director José Luis Borau did not like, who admired her clean and serene beauty as much as for her talent. He chose her to star in “Crimen de doble” (1964) and managed to convince her to change her hair to its natural color, something he was proud of. Other memorable performances were in “Del brazo y por la calle” (1966), “Los muchachos de antes no usaban gomina” (1969), “El día que me quieras” (1969), with Hugo del Carril, “Los chicos crecen” (1974) and “Los viernes de la eternidad” (1980). Susana appeared in only one Euro-western under the pseudonym Evelin Therens, “Django Does Not Forgive” (1966) in the role of Helen Patterson.

She also appeared on stage in such plays as “Death of a Salesman” by Arthur Miller and “Guilty by Narciso Ibáñez Menta. Her stage and film career ran simultaneously until her death.

Her last film was “Cómo pasan las horas” in 2004 directed by Inés de Oliveira Cézar.

She was stricken by a brain tumor in 1999 which she had removed but it returned and she died on October 16, 2004 in her hometown of Buenos Aires, Argentina at the age of 70.

Today we remember Susana Campos on what would have been her 80th birthday.

On seeing Akira Kurosawa's "Yojimbo," Sergio Leone thought it would make a great western. "Yojimbo" was inspired by Dashiell Hammett's novel "Red Harvest" and also by Hollywood westerns like "Shane." As Leone said, "It would be wonderful to take it back to where it originally came from." So in 1964 the western was reinvented in Italy as a low budget film originally called "Il Magnifico Straniero" (The Magnificent Stranger). The title was changed to "A Fistful of Dollars."

Though not the first Italian western, Leone's approach was truly unique. It became a huge success in Italy and made a movie star of Clint Eastwood. Thus the "spaghetti western" was born. The prototype for the cynical, ultra-cool action hero (or antihero) had now been established. Also integral to the film was maestro Ennio Morricone's score using the pseudonym Dan Savio while Leone billed himself as Bob Robertson in homage to his father’s alias Roberto Roberti. Gian Volonte was billed as John Wells, Marianna Kock was Marianne Kock, Benito Stefanelli was Benny Reeves. It was hoped the film would be accepted as an American film.

The first screening of the film was in Florence, Italy on August 27, 1964. It was a stifling hot day and releasing a film in August in Italy in those days was the kiss of death. The cinema was ancient with fixtures and fittings dating to 1908 and was located in an alleyway. The producers, discouraged by comments in the Italian film industry had not invested a single lira in publicity. The film was listed only in the local daily newspapers.

As expected the film did little box office on Friday and Saturday and Leone had returned home to Rome very discouraged. When he called the manager late Monday he was told the receipts had doubled Sundays. By Tuesday and Wednesday people were being turned away. By word of mouth the film became a hit and was later released throughout Italy and became not only the biggest film of the year it was highest grossing western ever released in Italy.

Today we look back and celebrate not only the launching of a new type of western but a new style of filmmaking and the creation of the antihero. 50 years later we are still feeling the effects this film created and the way films are made today.

Blair Underwood was born on August 25, 1964 in Tacoma, Washington. the son of Marilyn Ann Scales, an interior decorator, and Frank Eugene Underwood, Sr., a United States Army colonel. Because of his father's military career, Underwood lived on bases and Army Posts in the United States and Stuttgart, Germany, during his childhood. Blair attended Petersburg High School in Petersburg, Virginia. He went on to attend the Carnegie Mellon School of Drama in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and is an honorary member of the Phi Beta Sigma fraternity.

Trained in musical theater at Carnegie-Mellon, he moved to New York and got his first break on his second day there, by winning a part on the ‘The Cosby Show’ (1984). He made his film debut at age 21 in “Krush Groove” (1985) and appeared in a regular daytime role that same year on ‘One Life to Live’ (1968), before scoring two years later in the charismatic role of attorney Jonathan Rollins in the hit dramatic series, ‘L.A. Law’ (1986). He copped a Golden Globe nomination during its lengthy seven-year run. A TV commodity, he appeared ready to fill the bill as a rising small-screen Sidney Poitier. Blair went on to appear in a number of prestigious TV dramas, such as ‘Murder in Mississippi’ (1990), ‘Heat Wave’ (1990) and ‘Mama Flora's Family’ (1998), which was based on Alex Haley's final book. He received NAACP Image Awards for both performances. He also top-lined as baseball legend Jackie Robinson in HBO's ‘Soul of the Game (1996)’.

Blair has appeared in only one Euro-western, 1992’s “Posse” in the role of Carver.

Today we celebrate Blair Underwood’s 50th birthday.

John Smeallie Savage was born On August 25, 1949 in Old Bethpage, Long Island, New York. The son of Muriel, a housewife, and Floyd Youngs, an insurance salesman who served on Guadalcanal during World War II with the Marine Corps. His sisters are Boston-based radio and television personality Robin Young [1951- ] and actress Gail Youngs [1953- ]. His brother is actor Jim Youngs [1956- ].

John’s first major film role was as Steven in the 1978 film, “The Deer Hunter”. He also had a lead role in 1979's “The Onion Field”. One of his most famous roles was as Claude Bukowski in Milos Forman's 1979 film “Hair”. He had a brief role in Terrence Malick's war film, “The Thin Red Line”. In the late 1970s, he also appeared on Broadway in David Mamet's play, "American Buffalo" with Robert Duvall.

In more recent years he has been seen on the small as well as the big screen. He was the recurring character of Donald Lydecker in the first and second seasons of ‘Dark Angel’ and portrayed Captain Ransom in the two part episode Equinox from ‘Star Trek: Voyager’.

Savage appeared in his only Euro-western in 1991 as Wintrop in “Buck at the Edge of Heaven” along with his daughter Jennifer Youngs [1969- ].

Another recurring role found him as Henry Scudder in the HBO-produced television series ‘Carnivàle’. In 2005, he appeared on ‘Law & Order: Special Victims Unit’. He lent his voice to a monologue on the title track of the album, “This Town”, by Steve Smith of Dirty Vegas. In September 2009, he appeared in the second episode of Season 2 of the Fox network drama ‘Fringe’.

He most recently starred in the western thriller "The Sorrow" with Kirk Harris, newcomer Ryan Ballance and Michael Madsen for director Vernon Mortensen. Savage also recently played a supporting role in the dark romantic comedy “Hit List”.

Today we celebrate John Savage’s 65th birthday.

Johan Allan Edwall was born on August 25, 1924 in Rödön, Jämtlands län, Sweden. Born into a working class home, his father was a trade-union man and a communist. From 1949-52 he attended Stockholm's Royal Daramatic Theatre School. During his acting career he appeared in more than 400 stage, film, radio and television series. Allan was also a director, an author, a composer and a singer. On records he sang his own songs where he attacked the injustices in our society. From 1986, and for the remaining years he ran his own theater 'Brunnsgatan 4' in Stockholm, where he did everything himself, from acting to selling tickets.

Edwall appeared in only one Euro-western “The New Land” (1972) as Danjel.

Allan died in Stockholm Sweden on February 7, 1997.

Today we remember Allan Edwall on what would have been his 90th birthday.

Sergio Giovanni Romolo Bergonzelli was born on August 25, 1924 in Alba, Cuneo, Piedmont, Italy. He graduated in Philosophy from the university and debuted in 1952 as an actor, initially using the pseudonym Siro Carme. That year he would appear in four films.

1953 would see Bergonzelli intensify his acting career with his appearance in six films.

1954 opens with his participation in the dramatic movie “Il prigioniero del re” an Italian-French collaboration with Giorgio Rivalta and Richard Pottier, the same year he appeared in another film entitled “Addio, mia bella signora!” by Fernando Cerchio.

After two years of absence from the films we see him again in 1957 with his last two film appearances as an actor, “Il momento più bellothe” directed by Luciano Emmer where he plays the role of Mr. Mancini and “Giovanni dalle Bande Nere” a historical film by Sergio Grieco.

The year 1957 marks his definitive end of being an actor, but opens the door to Bergonzelli’s directing career, in fact in 1960 he made ​​his first film as both director and as a writer (a role he held in many other productions) with the film “Gli avventurieri dei tropici”.

In 1964 Bergonzelli directed another film, “The Last Gun” a Euro-western with Cameron Mitchell, described by critics as one of the first Spaghetti Westerns, even prior to the masterpiece of Sergio Leone's “A Fistful of Dollars”.

Again in 1965 as director and screenwriter (participation on the screenplay of Bitto Albertini ) with “A Stranger in Sacramento”, another Euro-western with Mickey Hargitay. In the same year, the actor-director makes another film, “MMM 83 - Missione morte molo”, completely changing genres.

In 1966 returns to the western genre with the creation of “El Cisco”, starring William Berger , also in this case Bergonzelli personally takes care of the script. In the period between 1965 and 1975 the film world will see a spread of the western genre, Bergonzelli is no exception to the trend and directs still another Euro-western: “A Colt in the Hand of the Devil”.

In 1968 he scores with “Silvia e l'amore” a debut in the erotic genre which he will participate in for most of the rest of his career. The same year he produced another erotic film directed as a pseudo-documentary called “The 10 Wonders of Love”.

In 1969 he directed the adventure film “I disperati di Cuba”, the following year instead he directs a mediocre-erotic thriller entitled “Nelle pieghe della carne”.

In 1971 the drama (with many erotic scenes) “Io cristiana studentessa degli scandali” is directed and written by Sergio. The following year he directs and writes his final Euro-western “Raise Your Hands, Dead Man, You’re Under Arrest”.

1973 still fins him making erotic B-movies this time interspersed with religious themes, unprejudiced by the combination of the issues but at the same moralistic, Cristiana monaca indemoniata”. After finishing this film Bergonzelli leaves the scene for about two years, he returned in 1975 with the erotic comedy “L cognatina”. In 1976 he directs the erotic film “Taxi Love, servizio per signora”. Thus he resumes his career, the same year directing “La sposina”, and “Il compromesso... erotico”. His last film “Malizia oggi” (1990) where porn star Valentine Demy appears.

Bergonzelli died in Rome, Italy on September 24, 2001.

Today we remember Sergio Bergonzelli on what would have been his 90th birthday.

German filmmaker Florian Flicker died in Vienna, Austria two days after his 49th birthday on August 22, 2014, from cancer. Born on August 21, 1965 in Salzburg, Germnay, Flicker best known for his film “The Raid” (2000) also was the director and wrote the script for the 2006 documentary “No Name City” on the Western theme park in Wöllersdorf, Austria. The film concerns itself with the Western theme park near Vienna and a handful of 'residents' (the people who work there) who are living on the small line between reality and fiction”. Yearning to live "outside of the fence," they chase their dreams and hoped to catch individualistic freedom, a life between fiction and reality. Together the inhabitants of No Name City try desperately to keep the five year old city and their dreams, alive, despite the constantly changing owners and lack of income from tourists and visitors.

Pierfrancesco Favino was born on August 24, 1969 in Rome, Lazio, Italy. He has appeared in more than forty European films and television series' since the early 1990s, including Gabriele Muccino's “The Last Kiss”, Gianni Amelio's “The Keys to the House”, Giuseppe Tornatore's “The Unknown Woman” and Ferzan Özpetek's “Saturn in Opposition”. In 1999 he starred in the HBO film ‘Excellent Cadavers’, adaptation of Alexander Stille's novel of the same name. He received the David di Donatello award - Italian equivalent of the Oscar - in 2006 for his role in the crime film “Romanzo Criminale”, directed by Michele Placido.

In 2006 he also portrayed Christopher Columbus in Twentieth Century Fox's “Night at the Museum”. In 2008 he played General Glozelle, the leader of Miraz's Telmarine troops in “The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian”. He has worked with American director Ron Howard twice: in the 2009 film “Angels & Demons”, adaptation of the novel of the same name by Dan Brown, in which he played the role of Inspector Ernesto Olivetti, and in the 2013 film “Rush”, in which he played the role of Formula One racing car driver Clay Regazzoni.

Other significant roles include the partisan leader Peppi Grotta in Spike Lee's “Miracle at St. Anna” in 2008, the sadistic riot control force policeman Cobra in Stefano Sollima's “ACAB – All Cops Are Bastards” in 2012, the anarchist Giuseppe Pinelli in Marco Tullio Giordana's “Piazza Fontana”, and the W.H.O. doctor in Marc Forster's apocalyptic-horror “World War Z” (2013).

Favino has appeared in only one Euro-western short “B.B.K. (Baby Bounty Killer)” (1996).

Today we celebrate Pierfrancesco Favino’s 45th birthday.

Edward Charles James ‘Jimmy’ Gardner was born on August 24, 1924 in Newmarket, Suffolk, England. During World War II, Gardner served in the Royal Air Force as an air gunner with #10 Squadron. He completed 30 missions as a Halifax rear gunner and was awarded the Distinguished Flying Medal.

His first film appearance was in “The Curse of the Mummy's Tomb” released during 1964. Thereafter he appeared in over 30 films and also made extensive TV and theatre appearances. Some of his best known Shakespearean roles such as “Adam in As You Like It”, and as the gravedigger in “Hamlet” were performed under the direction of Terry Hands.

He played Knight Bus driver Ernie Prang in “Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban”, the third film in the Harry Potter film series.

Gardener appeared in only one Euro-western: “Gunslinger’s Revenge” (1998) as Sam Comet.

Jimmy died on May 3, 2010 in London at the age of 86.

Today we remember Jimmy Gardener on what would have been his 90th birthday.