This is episode 200 of the Angry Video Game Nerd (AVGN), a review of every game published by LJN. This is part 3 of 3, the final part! Making a video game has been harder than the Nerd and even the developer thought. But, while that process rushes to the deadline, the Nerd will review […]

This is episode 200 of the Angry Video Game Nerd (AVGN), a review of every game published by LJN. This is part 2 of 3, with the final coming next week. The Nerd has been gifted the rights to LJN and will start fixing the company by remaking Back to the Future on NES with […]

This is episode 200 of the Angry Video Game Nerd (AVGN), a review of every game published by LJN. This is part 1 of 3, with the others coming very soon. LJN has been a thorn in the Nerd’s side for 15 years now. With the sudden rights falling into his hands, the Nerd has […]

This is episode 199 of the Angry Video Game Nerd (AVGN), a review of the Commodore 64 horror games. Freddy and Jason are back with a review of Nightmare on Elm Street and Friday the 13th on Commodore 64!! But before that, the Nerd is covering other horror games for the C64 from Psycho, to […]

This is episode 198 of the Angry Video Game Nerd (AVGN), a review of the Commodore 64 and a bunch of it’s licensed and weirder games. The Commodore 64, also known as the C64 or the CBM 64, is an 8-bit home computer introduced in January 1982 by Commodore International. The C64 took its name […]

Angry Video Game Nerd (AVGN) episode 197: Greendog: The Beached Surfer Dude! Greendog is a platform game developed by Sega Technical Institute and Interactive Designs for the Sega Genesis console, and was published by Sega in September 1992. Greendog is one unlucky surfer. He lost his board and got stuck with a cursed necklace. Greendog […]

The Rocketeer is a 1991 film from Walt Disney Pictures, based upon the comic book character of the same name Set in 1938 Los Angeles, California, The Rocketeer tells the story of stunt pilot Cliff Secord who stumbles upon a hidden rocket-powered jet pack that he thereafter uses to fly without the need of an […]

Angry Video Game Nerd (AVGN) episode 195: Pac-Man 2: The New Adventures. Also known in Japan as “Hello! Pac-Man.” Pac-Man 2 is a side-scrolling adventure game in the Pac-Man series. Instead of being a maze game like the majority of its predecessors, Pac-Man 2 incorporates light point-and-click adventure game elements. The Nerd is playing the […]

Carmageddon is a vehicular combat video game released for personal computers in 1997. It was later ported to other platforms, and spawned a series of follow up titles. Carmageddon 64 was a port of Carmageddon II (originally for PC), and released for the Nintendo 64 in the year 2000. It was going to be published […]

In the 1990’s Sega and Howard Johnson’s hotels teamed up for a weird promotion for the Game Gear. Kids could go “HoJo with Sega” during this summer promotion. Parents could rent a Game Gear the kids could play while on their vacation, or they could buy some of the Game Tips VHS tapes. These tapes […]

After failing to review the zombie game Corpse Killer on the Sega CD due to technical issues, the Nerd finally takes a crack at reviewing it on the 3DO Interactive Multiplayer.

The Nerd finally covers the 3DO Interactive Multiplayer, having previously mentioned it, and talks about its history and high price. The games he covers are Crash ‘n Burn, Road Rash, Gex, Captain Quazar, Soccer Kid, Battle Chess, The Horde, Super Street Fighter II Turbo, Way of the Warrior, Virtuoso, Alone in the Dark, Cyberia, PO’ed, […]

In a parody of Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, the Nerd, as Raoul Duke, and his attorney speed down the road with a collection of classic games to play once they get to Las Vegas. In flashback, the Nerd reviews the Vegas based games Vegas Dream and Vegas Stakes and while on the road […]

Depressed over still not being able to go out due to COVID-19, the Nerd decides to hunker down and review the video game Darkman on the NES based on the movie of the same name.

The Nerd tries to watch the movie Shrek on the Game Boy Advance Video through the Game Boy Player, but finds that it does not work. He decides to play the reviled Shrek: Fairy Tale Freakdown and ends up running afoul of a Shrek cult when he calls the film overrated in a parody of […]