About this Item

(Original, printed score). Quarto. 5 pages. Original Softcover. Good condition with some signs of external wear. Small tear to lower and upper spine. Several annotions by preowner on two pages. "Ralph Simon Sharon (September 17, 1923 March 31, 2015) was an Anglo-American jazz pianist and arranger.Born in London to an English mother and Latvian born father, he emigrated to the United States in early 1954, becoming a naturalized citizen five years later. By 1958, Ralph Sharon was recording with Tony Bennett, the start of a more than 50 year working relationship as Bennett's man behind the music on many Grammy winning studio recordings, and touring with Bennett for many years. He found 'I Left My Heart in San Francisco' for Bennett, a year after placing it in a bureau and forgetting about it. Sharon discovered the manuscript while packing for a tour that included San Francisco. While Bennett and Sharon liked the song, they were convinced it would only be a local hit. The song became Bennett's signature tune. A great jazz pianist in his own right, recording a series of his own albums, Sharon was best known as one of the greatest pianists who backed up singers, including Bennett, Robert Goulet, Chris Connor and many others. Retiring to Boulder, Colorado from on-the-road work with Bennett when he reached 80, Ralph Sharon continued to perform in the Denver metropolitan area until shortly before his death. He and the Ralph Sharon Trio performed at various jazz venues, including Dazzle Restaurant & Lounge in Denver, Colorado. He died March 31, 2015." (Wikipedia) Sprache: english. Seller Inventory # 44059AB

Contact seller

Report this item

Buying and Selling of rare and out-of-print Books & Manuscripts, Pamphlets & Ephemera. We are building special collections, small and extensive libraries for every budget. Professional Booksearch & Library Completion Service / Consultants for building Libraries & Meaningful Collections /

Visit Seller's Storefront

Seller's business information

Inanna Rare Books Ltd.

Hawthorn Commercial Park, Unit 1, Reenroe, Drimoleague, COR, P47 DY88, Ireland

Terms of Sale:

We accept payment with Paypal, Visa, MasterCard, American Express, wire

transfers in EURO. When ordering, please include full name and address as well as your phonenumber and email.

We guarantee that all Items are complete unless otherwise stated. All Items can be assumed to be in very good condition, unless stated otherwise. We only sell genuine antiquarian books, maps, prints and photographs. If any of our items are reproductions or facsimiles, it is clearly stated in our descriptions. All ite...

More Information

Shipping Terms:

All our books are shipped worldwide per UPS Express Courier and the shipping-costs are INCLUDED in our sales-price !

All our books are packed safely and securely with professional, stiff cardboard - packaging designed for the protection of rare books.

All our clients are informed about Tracking and due to our cooperation with UPS we can deliver extremely fast and reliable, fully insured to your doorstep.