Systema entomologiae: sistens insectorvm classes, ordines, genera, species, adiectis synonymis, locis, descriptionibvs, observationibvs: 564. TL: “Habitat in Hibisco populneo Indiae orientalis . Mus. Tottianum”.

The species Bombyx Hibisci Fabricius 1775 was described from an unspecified number of moths in the “Mus. Tottianum” ( Fig. 1 View FIGURES 1–2 ). Otto Thott was the Count in the Danish Government, and Fabricius used his entomological collection to describe several dozen new species with a remark “Mus. Tottianum” ( Zimsen, 1964). After Thott’s death in 1785 his collection was sold by auction, and a part was obtained by William Hunter (Glasgow) who bequeathed it to the University of Glasgow. Thus, in 1807 the Hunterian Museum (and Art Gallery) was first opened, and is now the oldest museum in Scotland. A part of Fabricius’ entomological collection with his original labels is presented here today. The collection is available now digitally under The Hunterian online catalogue (https://www.gla.ac.uk/hunterian/collections/searchourcollections/#d.en. 190654 and http://collections.gla.ac.uk/ #view=list&id=cb15&keywords= hibisci ).

Two specimens of Bombyx hibisci were thus discovered ( Figs 3, 4 View FIGURES 3–6 ), and they perfectly fit with the original description, which translates as ‘yellow with two dark fasciae on the forewing, the postmedia shortened; [there is] a single fascia on the hindwing’.

The better preserved male of the species is designated here as the lectotype of this taxon. It bears an inventory number “133658” and a bottom label with ink inscription by Fabricius’ hand: “Bom. Hibisci | Fabr. P. 177. №45” (with double black frame). It will be supplied with a standard red rectangular label with corresponding printed text.

The species is attributed to the genus Eupterote Hübner, 1820 , and the following combination (originally established by Aurivillius (1897) but for another species!—see below) is here confirmed, Eupterote hibisci ( Fabricius, 1775) .

It is likely that Horanpella placida Moore, 1883 , The Lepidoptera of Ceylon 2: 143, pl. 137, fig. 1, described after females from Ceylon, is conspecific; however, males are necessary to address this problem.