Vazha-Pshavela Reading Section opened in National Library of Georgia

By Keti Donadze

Tuesday, July 17

Vazha-Pshavela’s reading space opened in the National Library of Georgia.Its creation was funded by M2 Real Estate.

Vazha-Pshavela space will incorporate a reading corner,museum, and innovative space for students.

According to the National Library of Georgia the new initiative aims at helping youth broaden their knowledge.

Vazha-Pshavela’s reading space will host lectures in the evening as well as workshops and book presentations.

Rare editions of Vazha-Pshavela’s manuscripts will be presented there.

Memorandum was signed between the ‘M2 Real Estate’ and National Library of Georgian on April 7 last year. The new registration space for the National Library was created within the framework of the Memorandum, where visitors will be able to get spend time in comfortable and pleasant environment.

“We are happy to support the National Library, adding one more space, Vazha-Pshavela reading section, where visitors will read in a cozy and comfortable space, will have access to genius author’s rarest editions. It’s also important that the library will have a new registration space with the support of our company,” said General Director of M2 Irakli Burdiladze.

“VazhaPshavela Hall is a necessary place at National Library. It’s even more important and symbolic to have a space-museum for someone who is all for freedom. It’s nice to see renewed registration space too supported by private business,” said Giorgi Kekeidze, General Director of the National Library.

Vazh-Pshavela is the pen name of the Georgian poet and writer Luka Razikashvili (1861-1915) from Georgia’s mountainous Pshavi Region. Vazha stood out for his unusual writing style and philosophical poems that earned him recognition across the world.

Vazha-Pshavela embarked on his literary career in the mid-1880s. In his works, he portrayed the everyday life and psychology of his contemporary Pshavs. Vazha-Pshavela is the author of many world-class literary works – 36 epics, about 400 poems.

JSC m² Real Estate was established by JSC Bank of Georgia in 2006. Driven by a team of qualified professionals, JSC m² Real Estate is a significant player in the real estate market in Georgia. At present, JSC m² Real Estate is owned by subsidiary of the investing company "Georgia Capital".