CLEVELAND (AP) — A woman who once worked with Richard Eberling testified that he had confessed to killing Marilyn Sheppard and hitting her husband on the head with a bucket.

Eberling, the man Sam Reese Sheppard believes killed his mother in 1954, made the confession 29 years later during a late-night conversation, Kathie Collins Dyal testified Wednesday.

Sheppard is suing the state of Ohio claiming his late father, Dr. Sam Sheppard, was wrongfully imprisoned for the beating death of Mrs. Sheppard in the couple's home.

The highly publicized case partly inspired "The Fugitive" television series and movie.

Dyal said Eberling confessed when she was a home health care worker for an elderly widow, Ethel May Durkin. Eberling hired Dyal for the job and later fired her from it.

He later was convicted of killing Durkin, and died in prison while serving a life sentence for that slaying. Eberling never told authorities that he killed Mrs. Sheppard.

Dr. Sheppard, convicted of murder, spent a decade in prison before the U.S. Supreme Court overturned the verdict. He was acquitted at retrial in 1966 and died four years later.

The doctor had maintained that a bushy-haired intruder killed his wife and knocked him unconscious when he heard her cries and ran to help her.

Eberling worked as a window washer for the Sheppards in 1954 and got to know Durkin years later.

Dyal said Eberling hired her to monitor Durkin overnight and he was sometimes at the widow's home when she arrived.

Conversations with Eberling grew increasingly strange, Dyal said. One night while they were discussing a movie about the Vietnam War, Eberling asked Dyal if she had ever seen someone die.

He then told her he killed Mrs. Sheppard, Dyal said.

"He said that he had killed her and that he hit her husband on the head with a pail," Dyal testified. She also said Eberling told her that Mrs. Sheppard "bit the hell out of him" and that "somebody else paid the bill" for the slaying.

Under cross-examination, Dyal said Eberling never explained how he killed Mrs. Sheppard. Eberling fired Dyal shortly after he made the confession. Durkin died a few months later.

Also Wednesday, Judge Ronald Suster questioned jurors individually but didn't remove any following local news reports about a statement Prosecutor William Mason made regarding failed settlement talks in the case.

Mason told reporters that Sheppard recently asked for $3.2 million as part of a proposed settlement but prosecutors refused the offer. Suster chastised Mason for releasing the figure.