Most neogastropod families have a continuous record from the Cretaceous or Paleogene to the Recent. However, the fossil record also contains a number of obscure nominal families with unusual shell characters that are not adequately placed in the current classification. Some of these are traditionally regarded as valid, and some have been "lost" in synonymy. One such "lost" family is the Pyramimitridae, established by Cossmann in 1901 for the Eocene genus Pyramimitra, and currently included in the synonymy of Buccinidae. Examination of several species of inconspicuous, small turriform gastropods has revealed a radula type so far unknown in Neogastropoda, and their shell characters identify them as members of the "extinct" family Pyramimitridae. Neither the radular morphology nor the anatomy reveal the relationships of this enigmatic, "living fossil" family. Molecular data (12S, 16S, 28S, COI) confirm the recognition of Pyramimitridae as a distinct family, but no sister group was identified in the analysis. The family Pyramimitridae Cossmann, 1901, is thus restored as a valid family of Neogastropoda that includes the genera Pyramimitra Conrad, 1865, Endiatoma Cossmann, 1896, Vaughanites Woodring, 1928, Hortia Lozouet, 1999, and Teremitra new genus. Pyramimitrids occur in the Recent fauna at bathyal depths of the Indo-Pacific from Taiwan to Madagascar and New Zealand, with three genera and nine species (all but one new).

The superfamily Conoidea constitutes one of the most diverse and taxonomically challenging groups among marine molluscs. Classifications based on shell or radular characters are highly contradictory and disputed. Whereas the monophyly of the Conidae and Terebridae has not been challenged, the other constituents of the superfamily are placed in a 'trash' group, the turrids, the non-monophyly of which has been demonstrated by anatomical and molecular evidence. We present here a new molecular phylogeny based on a total of 102 conoidean genera (87 'turrids', 5 cones and 10 terebrids) and three mitochondrial genes [cytochrome oxidase I (COI), 12S rRNA and 16S rRNA]. The resulting tree recognizes 14 clades. When the Conidae (Conus s.l.) and Terebridae are ranked as families for consistency of usage, the 'turrids' must be split into 12 families of comparable rank. A new genus-level classification of the Conoidea is published in an accompanying paper.

The anatomy and evolution of the radular apparatus in predatory marine gastropods of the superfamily Conoidea is reconstructed on the basis of a molecular phylogeny, based on three mitochondrial genes (COI, 12S and 16S) for 102 species. A unique feeding mechanism involving use of individual marginal radular teeth at the proboscis tip for stabbing and poisoning of prey is here assumed to appear at the earliest stages of evolution of the group. The initial major evolutionary event in Conoidea was the divergence to two main branches. One is characterized by mostly hypodermic marginal teeth and absence of an odontophore, while the other possesses a radula with primarily duplex marginal teeth, a strong subradular membrane and retains a fully functional odontophore. The radular types that have previously been considered most ancestral, “prototypic” for the group (flat marginal teeth; multicuspid lateral teeth of Drilliidae; solid recurved teeth of Pseudomelatoma and Duplicaria), were found to be derived conditions. Solid recurved teeth appeared twice, independently, in Conoidea — in Pseudomelatomidae and Terebridae. The Terebridae, the sister group of Turridae, are characterized by very high radular variability, and the transformation of the marginal radular teeth within this single clade repeats the evolution of the radular apparatus across the entire Conoidea.

The superfamily Olivoidea is broadly distributed in the world’s oceans mostly in coastal waters at tropical and subtropical latitudes. It encompasses around 30 Recent genera and 460 species. Two families – Olividae and Olivellidae – are classically recognized within the superfamily. Their shell is very characteristic due to the presence of a modified callused anterior end and a fasciole. Prior to the present work, neither the monophyly of the superfamily nor the relationships among its genera had been tested with molecular phylogenetics. Four genetic markers [cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI), 16S and 12S rRNA mitochondrial genes, and Histone 3 (H3) nuclear gene] were sequenced for 42 species in 14 genera. Additionally, 18 species were sequenced for COI only. The molecular dataset was supplemented by anatomical and radula data. Our analysis recovered, albeit with weak support, a monophyletic Olivoidea, which in turn includes with 100% support, in addition to traditional olivoideans, representatives of a paraphyletic Pseudolividae. The relationships between the former families and subfamilies are drastically revised and a new classification of the superfamily is here proposed, now including five families: Bellolividae fam. nov., Benthobiidae fam. nov., Olividae, Pseudolividae and Ancillariidae. Within Olividae four subfamilies are recognized, reflecting the high morphological disparity within the family: Olivinae, Olivellinae, Agaroniinae and Calyptolivinae subfam. nov. All the recent genera are discussed and reclassified based on molecular phylogeny and/or morphology and anatomy. The homology of different features of the shells is established for the first time throughout the superfamily, and a refined terminology is proposed. Based on a correlation between anatomical characteristics and shell features and observations of live animals, we make hypotheses on which part of the mantle is responsible for depositing which callused feature of the shell. Our results demonstrate that morphological data alone should be used with caution for phylogenetic reconstructions. For instance, the radula – that is otherwise considered to be of fundamental importance in the taxonomy of Neogastropoda – is extremely variable within the single family Olividae, with a range of variation larger than within the rest of the entire superfamily. In the refined classification, Pseudolividae are nested within Olivoidea, which is partially returning to ‘the roots’, that is to the classification of Thiele (1929).

The new family Belomitridae is established for the deep-water buccinoid genus Belomitra P. Fischer, 1883, based on morphological (shell and radulae) and molecular evidence. The rachiglossate radula is uniquely characterized by a multicuspid rachidian and lateral teeth with very long narrow bases and two small cusps closer to tip. Molecular analysis of a reduced set of Buccinoidea did not resolve the group as a clade, but shows that Belomitridae forms a well supported clade within Buccinoidea. Species of Belomitra have adult sizes in the 7–53 mm range; they live in deep water, mostly in the 500–2,000 meters range, at low and mid latitudes. Eleven valid species described from the Indo-Pacific were originally named in the families Buccinidae, Columbellidae, Cancellariidae, Volutidae, and Turridae. Fourteen new species are described: Belomitra nesiotica n. sp. (Society Islands to Tonga and Fiji in 580–830 m), B. bouteti n. sp. (Society and Tuamotu Islands in 430–830 m), B. subula n. sp. (Solomon Islands to Vanuatu in 760–1110 m), B. caudata n. sp. (Sulu Sea in 2300 m), B. gymnobela n. sp. (South Pacific, eastern Indonesia and Philippines in 780–2040 m), B. hypsomitra n. sp. (Fiji in 392–407 m), B. brachymitra n. sp. (Fiji in 395–540 m), B. comitas n. sp.(Madagascar and Philippines in 1075–1110 m), B. minutula (Coral Sea in 490 m), B. granulata n. sp. (New Caledonia in 105–860 m), B. reticulata n. sp. (Tonga and Fiji to New Caledonia in 395–656 m), B. decapitata n. sp. (Indian Ocean and New Caledonia in 3680–4400 m), B. admete n. sp. (off Sri Lanka in 2540 m), and B. radula n. sp. (Madagascar in 367–488 m).