Ray Allen Grose was born Dec. 23, 1936, to Everett Samuel and Elva Marie (Miles) Grose on their farm at Elk Creek, Mo. Ray died at Texas County Memorial Hospital in Houston, Mo., on Saturday, Feb. 20, 2010, following a long illness.

Ray attended elementary school at Elk Creek for three years until their family in 1945 moved to Raymondville, Mo., where he finished his elementary education.

Ray was raised in a Christian home and Nov. 16, 1947, was baptized along with his two sisters at Cabool Christian Church, Cabool, Mo., by his Aunt Sadie Miles.

While attending high school, Ray raised Jersey milk cows. He graduated from Houston High School, Houston, Mo., in 1955, and went to work for Missouri Highway Construction.

On April 18, 1957, Ray was united in marriage to Lavone Pursifull in Houston, by Sadie Miles. Together, he and Lavone raised two children, Dennis Ray and Teresa Lavone, and enjoyed 53 years together raising Polled Hereford beef cattle on their farm.

Ray was an elected Raymondville school board member from 1973 through 1997, serving several terms as board president. He also served on the Village of Raymondville

Community Park Council for 35 years. During his tenure with these committees, he helped implement an addition to the school, a new water tower, new sewer system, senior housing, fiber-optic Internet access and many other innovative improvements for their community. Ray was an exceptional man, and always had his community’s best interest at heart.

Ray retired in September 1998 after 40 years with Missouri Highway Construction.

Ray was preceded in death by his parents, Everett and Elva Grose; a grandson, Bradley Scearce; a niece, Linda Beller; and nephew, David Foster.

Ray is survived by his wife, Lavone; a son, Dennis; a daughter, Teresa Cole and her husband, Bobby, all of Raymondville; four grandchildren, Tara (Cole) Caselman, Damita Grose, Dennis Ray Grose Jr. and Kaitlyn Grose; two great-grandchildren, MaKayla and Cole Ray Caselman; two sisters, Ila Marie Beller and her husband, John, of Cabool and Nadine Lay and her husband, Kenneth of Houston; and several nieces, nephews, cousins and many friends.

Services are 10 am Thursday, Feb. 24, 2010, at Houston Christian Church with Matthew Anderson officiating. Pallbearers are nephews Jim, Don, Everett and Robert Beller, Terry and Jerry Pursifull, Gene Foster and Kelly Lay. Burial will be in the Boone Creek Church Cemetery under the direction of Evans Funeral Home.