Schweiss door owners quite often call or email Schweiss Doors years after a purchase to share accolades on their bifold or hydraulic doors. Such was the case with Ron Sterba, a retired telephone company employee from Salem, Oregon who passed on a “Hats Off” in his recent email praising Schweiss for the many years of carefree operation he's had with his bifold liftstrap door.

Sterba stopped by the Schweiss Doors booth at the February Northwest Aviation Conference and Trade Show in Puyallup, Washington where he talked to company owner, Mike Schweiss. He was interested in and wanted some technical advice on how to add a couple of windows and a remote door opener to his Schweiss bifold hangar door.

“I took Mike's advice about contacting Dave Schweiss for my questions. He, I might add, was spot on at providing superior service. I sent him pictures of my door, windows, dimensions and he called me right back to determine the best location and needed frame support. Hats off to all of you folks at Schweiss Doors! For 12 years of operation of my Straps door; never did I need service of any kind. Thanks for an exceptionally well-built door. I promote your door as much as I can no matter where I am,” expressed Sterba.

Inside his hangar rests his Van's RV-9A, an American two-seat, single-engine, low-wing homebuilt airplane sold in kit form by Van's Aircraft of Aurora, Oregon. The RV-9 is the tail-wheel equipped version while his more popular RV-9A features a nose-wheel. For most pilots, the RV-9/9A will do everything they want to do, at less expense and at a much higher “fun quotient” than any competing design. The high-lift wing means it flies quite slow - enabling very short takeoff and landing distances with low fuel consumption. It's a great airplane for many pilots.

Sterba soloed in a Cessna 150 after joining a flying club 48 years ago. He was a longtime member of The Valley Flyers (Blue Sky Pilots, Inc.) flying club.

The five-inch thick cement hangar floor has in-floor heat tubing. It's well insulated with six inches of high-density insulation panels and all the walls are sheetrocked and painted. Remote control LED lighting cuts his monthly electric bill down. A stereo system with five speakers inside and a dedicated speaker for his aircraft radio add to the relaxed atmosphere in his mancave hangar.

Originally Sterba had his eyes on a Schweiss hydraulic hangar door but changed his mind when he realized, due to the close proximity of other hangars, that when it was open it could be in the way of passing aircraft.

“My hangar is ‘the unusual one.’ Anybody who comes by my hangar notices I'm the only one here out of 25 hangars who has a bifold door. The other ones are push-sliders and they all wish they had what I have. A friend of mine has a bifold door with steel cables, my goodness, it is a lot noisier than mine,” said Sterba.

With the help of a friend, Sterba, an all-around handyman, also known as “Mr. Gizmo” installed a 37' x 12.9' bifold liftstrap door with automatic latches on his 50' x 39' hangar that was built new by R&M Steel of Caldwell, Idaho at the Salem Municipal Airport (McNary Airfield).

“R&M Steel told me I didn't need to go anywhere else than Schweiss to get a quality door. The Schweiss door actually went up easy. We used a forklift and set the top half into the hinges and popped the pins in. Then both of us carried the bottom half of the door underneath the top half and popped the pins in there also. It was way too easy. When you build the building the right way the door goes in well. The nylon straps stretched slightly, just enough to make a slight adjustment,” explained Sterba.

“What I like best about the door is the automatic latching levers. They are very stout when you close the door. The construction of the Schweiss door is more durable than I expected. It appears the door was made to be of a high strength lifting ability. The door doesn't wobble, there's no movement on it, it comes up easy and it is firm. Even if it's windy out there's never any motion on the door; none whatsoever. If there is a light rain outside, when you lift open the bifold door you have a patio with a roof. We take the tables out there and enjoy watching planes on the field without getting wet,” said Sterba.

R&M Steel

Agriculture and aviation are the leading contributors to R&M Steel Co. revenues. Rob and Nancy Roberts started the business in greater Boise, Idaho 50 years ago in an area that would economically diversify as it grew.

R&M's pre-engineered metal buildings can also be found in commercial complexes, school and church sites around growing southwest Idaho. R&M Steel offers complete manufacturing service from custom design through delivery of pre-engineered metal buildings systems. All buildings meet applicable codes and incorporate state-of-the-art computer-aided design and fabrication technology.

R&M Steel systems are designed for quality, fast, economical installation, and low maintenance. Custom design options are available for aviation, agriculture, retail, industrial, manufacturing, warehousing, service centers, mini storage, office space and educational facilities. Competitive pricing has facilitated national and worldwide sales and distribution.

R&M Steel's team of trained professionals are available to assist designers, builders and first-time users of the company's pre-engineered metal building systems and components. The quality of the building system and the quality, integrity and expertise of the employees uphold the reputation of R&M Steel Co. to provide the highest quality metal building on the market and to service their clients through project completion.

R&M Steel's drawings have been refined over the years to be “user friendly” without sacrificing any of the professional details required. The construction drawings are highly detailed and yet easy to use. Building kits are pre-assembled in R&M Steel's shop to make sure all parts assemble quickly and easily.

Repeat customers and word-of-mouth recommendations have always been the strength of R&ampM Steel's reputation and sales. Satisfied customers drive the market for them. R&ampM Steel pre-engineered metal building systems may be seen all over the world. Prospective clients can see the quality of the R&M product and discuss with the owner his satisfaction in the working relationship with R&M.