People’s Artist of Ukraine

Artistic director of the Donetsk National Academic Opera and Ballet Theater. A.B. Solovyanenko

VADIMA PISAREVA

He was born on 01/02/1965 in Donetsk, Ukraine.

In 1983 Graduated from the Kyiv State Choreographic School under the program of the Choreographic Academy named after I. A. Vaganova, St. Petersburg. Teachers: G. Kirillov, V. Denisenko.

In 1984-85gg. passed an internship at the Bolshoi Theater (Moscow). Teachers: V. Nikonov, R. Struchkova, A. Messerer.

In 1991 trained at the Mariinsky Theater (Kirov-ballet) of St. Petersburg. Teachers: I. Kolpakova, V. Semenov. Since 1983 – soloist of Donetsk ballet troupe.

Since 1983 – soloist of the Donetsk Ballet Company.

International competitions. Awards.

1983 All-Ukrainian competition of ballet dancers (Kiev) – Gold medal. 1984g. January. V All-Union Contest of Ballet Dancers (Moscow) – Gold Medal.

June. International Competition of Ballet Dancers (Helsinki) – Silver Medal

November. International Competition of Ballet Dancers (Paris) – Bronze Medal

International Competition of Ballet Dancers (Moscow) – Gold Medal 1986. International Competition of Ballet Dancers (Jackson, USA) – Gold Medal.

In 1986 he was awarded the title of People’s Artist of Ukraine.

In the 1992-95 gg. worked under the contract as the leading soloist of the ballet troupe

German opera on the Rhine, Dusseldorf. Choreographer and choreographer –

Shpoerly.

He worked with choreographers: Y. Grigorovich, B. Eifman, X. Shpoerli,

Mannes and others.

Danced in classical and modern repertoire in ballet companies

USA, Canada, China, Russia, Germany, France, Japan.

A participant in annual international festivals and gala concerts in

Montreal, Tokyo, Moscow, Athens, Vienna, Genoa, Paris, Beijing,

Jerusalem, Oslo, New York.

Since 1989. annually toured the United States. He has toured in more than 70 countries around the world.

He was personally invited to perform a special program at the opening of the Olympic Games in Calgary and Seoul.

In 1995, he took part in the Gala des Etoiles in Montreal, where he acted as the director of the “Hopak” from the ballet “Taras Bulba”, which opened the festival.The leading stage masters danced in the room: Fernando Bukhones (USA), Tibor Kovacs (Hungary), Kenny Larson (Canada), Vadim Pisarev (Ukraine), it was the variation from the ballet “Taras Bulba” that brought Vadim Pisarev gold medals at many international competitions of ballet dancers.

In 1990 was awarded the prize of the Moscow public – “The best dancer of the USSR”,

Moscow.

In 1992 organized at the Donetsk Opera and Ballet Theater a children’s ballet

school – “School choreographic skill Vadim Pisarev.”

In 1993 received the title of “Honorary Citizen of Donetsk.”

Since 1994. – the founder and director of the International Festival “Stars of World Ballet” in Donetsk. For 17 years, more than 450 outstanding ballet dancers from 30 countries of the world have visited the festival in Donetsk. The performances of 70 choreographers of the past and modern times were shown.

In 1995 Awarded the UNESCO Prize “The Best Dancer of the World”.

Since 1995. – Honorary Professor of Donetsk State University.

In 1996 at the request of the Norwegian government, staged the ballet “Per Gynt” and performed the main part with the Donetsk troupe at the celebrations in honor of the 1000th anniversary of the first capital of Norway, Trondheim. For staging the ballet and playing the role of Per Gynt was awarded the prize of the Norwegian press “Golden Rose”.

In 1996 awarded the title of “Man of the Year in Ukraine”

In 1997 participated with a special program at the celebrations in honor of the 3000 anniversary of Jerusalem.

In 1997 Diploma “Golden Scythian”.

In 1998 Awarded the prize of the Union of theatrical figures of Ukraine – “Triumph”.

In 1999 was awarded the Order of Ukraine “For Merit”.

In 1999 Awarded with the prize “Prize of Traditions”, Kazakhstan.

In 1999 he was a laureate of the all-Ukrainian award “Recognition”.

In 2001 awarded the Commander Cross – the Order of St. Stanislaus III degree.

In 2001 he graduated from the Kiev National University of Culture and Arts.

In 2003 he was awarded with the Certificate of Honor of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine “For a significant personal contribution to the development of national culture and art, high professionalism”.

In 2004 he was awarded the Order of Ukraine “For Merit” of the II degree.

Repertoire:

Leading parties in ballets: “Don Quixote”, “Swan Lake”, “Vain

precaution “,” The Nutcracker “,” Giselle “,” Walpurgis Night “,” Paquita “,”

“Sleeping Beauty”, “Per Gynt”, “La Bayadere”, “Corsair”, “Spartacus”, “Romeo and

Juliet “,” Songs of Solomon “, etc.

In modern ballets: “Dead-end”, “Josef legend”, “Due”, “Adagio”,

“Fantasia”, “Four Kisses”, “Requiem”, “Pulcinella”, “Polovtsian Dances”.

In total, V. Pisarev’s repertoire includes more than 50 ballet parts, pas de deux and

choreographic compositions.

Yuri Grigorovich about Vadim Pisarev:

“… he shocked the spectators and us, many who saw the professionals, their technical perfection and bravura performance of classical parties.”

September, 1986 The magazine “Soviet Ballet”.

“You can say that” Songs of King Solomon “demonstration