Steven Dunham, Chief Risk Officer, CPA, CRMA, CIA, CISA

After obtaining his Bachelors and Masters degrees in Accounting from Auburn University, Steven joined Deloitte (a Big Four accounting firm) in their Charlotte, NC office. He served dozens of Deloitte clients from around the world during his four years as an enterprise risk consultant. In 2002, Steven moved to Delhaize Group, a global $26B Belgian based holding company of retail grocery stores. Steven spent the first eight years of his 13-year tenure at Delhaize Group in the Internal Audit Department serving as Manager of their Retail, IT and ultimately Financial Audit teams. Steven was responsible for developing and implementing the global Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program and supporting the Property and Casualty insurance programs for the final five years of his career at Delhaize.

In 2015, Steven transitioned to Sealed Air as their Executive Director of Enterprise Risk Management. Sealed Air is a $4B global manufacturing company of packaging solutions (most notably Bubble Wrap). Steven was hired to implement Sealed Air’s ERM program, and had global responsibilities for ERM, Property and Casualty Insurance programs, Crisis Management, Business Continuity and Physical Security. Ultimately, Steven was also given responsibility for the Capital Expenditure and R&D Finance functions during his four-year tenure with Sealed Air.

Steven joined the University of North Carolina at Charlotte in 2019 as their Chief Risk Officer where he maintains the University wide ERM program he designed and implemented to support Board and Cabinet decision making. To date, UNC Charlotte’s ERM program has focused on addressing risks related to campus safety and security, key IT application upgrades, and various other strategic objectives including diversity equity and inclusion, expense management and other COIVD heightened risk mitigation efforts. Steven provides regular updates on ERM to the Board of Trustees during each of the four Audit, Compliance, and ERM Committee meetings throughout the year.

Steven is a NC licensed Certified Public Accountant and holds additional certifications in Risk Management, Internal Audit and IT Auditing. During his tenure at Sealed Air, Steven sat on the Board of Saddle Brook Captive Insurance Company and currently serves as Council Member and Treasurer of his local church. Steven has resided in the Charlotte NC metropolitan area since 1998 and currently resides in China Grove NC with his three children, Anna, Brooke and Chase.

Steven Dunham, Chief Risk Officer

704-687-0756