“A movie that cannot be ignored…the documentary filmmaker Kirby Dick has become one of the indispensable muckrakers of American cinema, zeroing in on frequently painful stories about how power functions in the absence or failure of accountability.”

— A.O. Scott,

“With clinical detail and inescapable logic, filmmakers Kirby Dick and Amy Ziering lift the veil on what they contend is one of the U.S. military’s dirtiest secrets—an epidemic of rape and sexual violence that is ignored by top brass. That’s the takeaway from this riveting, heartbreaking and infuriating film.”

— Ann Hornaday,

“There are some works of writing or painting, speech, or film that do more than just stand as great works of art. They change things. They put before us something fundamentally wrong with the world — with the society we take for granted, with the institutions on which we depend and that in turn depend on us—and demand change. THE INVISIBLE WAR belongs in that pantheon, and is easily one of the most important films of the year.”

— Jonathan Hahn,

“Stunning, muckraking documentaries are a staple at Sundance, but even by the film festival's impressive standards, Kirby Dick’s THE INVISIBLE WAR is exceptional—both for its scandalous nature as well as its emotional impact.”

— Kenneth Turan,

“THE INVISIBLE WAR, Kirby Dick’s incendiary documentary about the epidemic of rape within the United States military, is a shocking and infuriating indictment of widespread sexual attacks on women. None of the films [in the Human Rights Watch Film Festival] matched the impact of THE INVISIBLE WAR.”

— Stephen Holden,

“THE INVISIBLE WAR is a gut-wrenching condemnation of the way the military has failed to protect its members from sexual assault—and then failed them again and again afterward. Dick’s film is a devastating, intimate portrait of the aftereffects of sexual abuse. Unforgettable as THE INVISIBLE WAR, is, though, it's great achievement is that it’s a beautiful, difficult movie.”

— Mary Elizabeth Williams,

“There are ‘important’ movies, and then there is THE INVISIBLE WAR. Kirby Dick and Amy Ziering’s investigative documentary about sexual abuse in the American military exposes a heretofore under-reported systematic horror show of unfathomable proportions. THE INVISIBLE WAR is truly vital viewing.”

— Michael Tully,

“It's reasonable that at least one of Sundance's docs will end up an Oscar nominee, if not two, three or four. How To Survive a Plague, The Invisible War, The House I Live In and Searching For Sugar Man seem like the strongest possibilities at this point.”

— Peter Knegt,

“Dick and Ziering have been crafting wonderful docs for the last three decades, but this is quite possibly their most imperatively urgent work yet…a doc of rich emotion and high stakes that has a real chance to make a difference in the lives of future US soldiers.”

— Jordan Smith,