Joplin Schools K-12

We’re passionate about empowering our next generation of leaders. As an emerging education center, Joplin has opportunities for students of all ages to grow and learn at private and public schools as well as institutions of higher education.

Joplin Schools serves more than 7,500 students from pre-kindergarten to high school across 15 schools and one early childhood center.

Their mission is to create a community of students who are supported, respected, and empowered to reach their fullest potential. They accomplish this through excellent teachers and by providing opportunities for academic enrichment, like the ability to graduate high school with an associate degree or to study courses like pre-engineering or robotics. Advanced Placement and dual-credit classes allow students to earn college credit while Franklin Technology Center offers courses that prepare students to enter the workplace directly after graduation.

College Heights Christian School

College Heights Christian School (CHCS) has served Joplin-area students as a faith-based, non-denominational school for over forty years. Their mission is to provide a Christ-centered education that fulfills the potential and talent of each of their students through the incorporation of Christian values in all academic areas.

They serve students from preschool to high school and offer a curriculum focused on college-prep with options for Advanced Placement and dual-credit classes.

Thomas Jefferson Independent Day School

Since 1993, Thomas Jefferson Independent Day School (TJ) has offered students a rigorous, liberal arts curriculum that emphasizes college prep. TJ’s faculty are driven by a desire to guide, refine, and inspire students as they make the most of their abilities.

Students focus on modern and ancient classic texts, foreign languages, studio and performing arts, math, and science throughout their elementary and secondary grade levels. Virtually all of their graduates go on to four-year universities, including some of the best colleges in the country.

Joplin Area Catholic Schools

Joplin Area Catholic Schools (JACS) is made up of three schools: St. Mary’s Elementary, St. Peter’s Middle School, and McAuley High School. All three are accredited through the Missouri Nonpublic School Accredited Association and offer small class sizes hat allow students to receive the help they need

JACS focuses on developing students’ hearts and minds, creating community leaders with strong moral compasses. Each year, JACS seniors earn close to $1 million in scholarships and almost all of their graduates go onto four-year universities.

Gloria Deo Academy

Gloria Deo Academy is a private, faith-based school that teaches students from pre-school through high school. Their staff takes a classical approach to learning and all lessons are taught through a biblical worldview.

Their rigorous curriculum is based on the classical cornerstones of grammar, logic, and rhetoric with options for dual-credit courses for upper-grades. Students and parents benefit from a flexible school week where classes are held in-person for two to three days a week. Students study from home or attend virtual classes the rest of the week.