HappyTrips Editors

Bratislava is the capital of Slovakia, very close to the borders of both Austria and Hungary on the banks of River Danube. Being the capital city, it is the seat of Slovakian Government and also home to many institutes like museums and universities. Historically it served as the Hungarian capital from mid 16th CE to late 18th CE making it an important European city for history enthusiasts. During 18th CE, it was ruled by Queen Maria Theresa and our guide told us that the city flourished under her though it was known by its earlier name Pressburg then. When you walk on the streets of Bratislava, you cannot miss the big and small modern art installations all over the place.

Right in front of the Slovak National theatre I saw these huge steel installations of the human body parts but in such big proportions that their meaning changes and you can have million interpretations to it. In another street a man dressed as a statue was standing in the manhole and one is bound to think of him as a sculpture but when he moves, you can hear many people scream. There are many trick artists and many sculptures that complement each other. Best way to move around Bratislava is to use the public transport; especially the lovely trams that criss-cross the city. Bratislava has a small India connection―Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi visited Bratislava in 1938 and a plaque commemorating that visit can still be seen in the town.

Was this helpful?

FEATURED IN THE FOLLOWING GUIDE (1)

14 experiences in Slovakia you can’t afford to miss

Slovakia calls itself a big small country. You might remember it as part of erstwhile Czechoslovakia. It was born in 1993 as an independent country, making it one of the youngest countries in the worl... more

ON THE MAP

Demänovská Cave of Freedom

Štrbské Pleso Lake and around

Liptov Village in Pribylina

Horse ride to Slovak life

Pieninski National Park

14 experiences in Slovakia you can’t afford to miss

Oxford Book Store

State Emporiums on Baba Kharak Singh Marg

Central Cottage Industries Emporium