Poynton Rotary kindly donated £500 towards this appeal to rebuild 3 classrooms, via sponsoring David Whaite to run the 100 mile Cheshire Ring Canal system, at the age of 70,

Poynton & District Rotary Club, President Peter Kay, attended the “Civic Service” at St George’s, Poynton’s Parish Church on Sunday 21st July 2019. Mayor of Poynton-with-Worth Town Council Sarah-Jane Gilmore

Following the great success of Poynton Rotary’s Party in the Park on Saturday 15th June 2019, we would like to thank all the Volunteers and Poynton Groups who gave so

Poynton Rotary wish to encourage our wonderful Party in the Park audience to bring reusable cups, plates and containers in their picnic, and to then take these home at the

Each year Poynton Rotary facilitates the annual community ‘Know Your Blood Pressure Day’ at Poynton Civic Hall. This event was supported by the Stroke Association and our wonderful team of

Hearing Loop Awareness Week was a UK-wide campaign to raise awareness and promote understanding of hearing loops in local communities throughout the UK. A team of volunteers went around Local

Nomvula’s Knitters is a local community project helped by Poynton Rotary. They are situated in the village of St Francis Bay in South Africa. It is known as an affluent

Last year, the 2018 charity musical extravaganza was held on 16th June 2018 and proved to be even bigger and better, with 6+ hours of sensational live music for all

Over recent years, Poynton Rotary have funded and organised coach trips to Llandudno in North Wales, and sometimes Southport for a change. We have been able to help groups of

Poynton Rotary regularly organises a four hour trip on the Mary Sunley canal boat. This benefits 10 residents from sheltered housing schemes, or other Poynton small groups,. Heading first

Poynton Rotary Club regularly exhibit at the Health & Wellbeing Fair held in the Civic Hall. Our stand was well received by many local residents and Poynton’s Mayor, Sarah-Jane Gilmore

Poynton Rotary held a Family Fun Day at the Community Centre in Poynton. Admission was by donation with all proceeds going to End Polio Now. Model train layouts and systems

Poynton Rotary has made a financial donation to help Poynton Community Centre with their major decoration and renovation project.

Poynton Rotary contributed towards the cost and were represented at the official opening of the Glastonbury Drive Play Area, on Sunday 10th December. The ribbon was cut by the Mayor

Cat Giller, from Poynton High School, was Poynton Rotary’s sponsored student for the 2017 RYLA Summer Camp at the Petty Pool Outdoor Centre. Cat attended our meeting on Thursday 23rd

44 Rotary Clubs across the district came together to pack 55 thousand meals in Rise Against Hunger Mealpacks, with 35,000 packed at Bolton on the 14th April 2018 and 20,000