Imam-ul-Haq, whose full name is Imam-ul-Haq Qadri, is a Pakistani cricketer who plays as an opening batsman for the Pakistan national cricket team. He was born on December 22, 1995, in Lahore, Pakistan. Imam-ul-Haq is the nephew of former Pakistani cricketer and captain, Inzamam-ul-Haq.

Imam-ul-Haq made his international debut for Pakistan in October 2017 in a One Day International (ODI) match against Sri Lanka. He has since become a regular member of the ODI and Test squads. Imam-ul-Haq is known for his solid batting technique and has been a consistent performer in domestic and international cricket. Read Imam Ul Haq biography

Imam Ul Haq Wife

Imam Ul Haq wife to be name is Doctor Anmol Mehmood, a Norway-based Pakistani. Though, Imam Ul Haq wedding is always on the card after Word Cup. Imam-ul-Haq is scheduled to tie the knot with a Norwegian woman, Anmol Mehmood on November 25. The marriage celebrations of Imam-ul-Haq have kicked off, starting with a mehndi ceremony held in Norway, Tuesday, November 21, 2023. Imam Ul Haq wedding and festives are set to commence in Lahore from November 23, 2023. An evening of Qawwali is planned for November 23, although the performing group's name remains undisclosed. The 27-year-old cricketer's Nikkah ceremony is slated for November 25, and the Valima reception is scheduled for November 26. Sources also revealed that Imam will be donning a Prince coat for his wedding.

Imam Ul Haq Father

Imam Ul Haq father name is Insaram ul Haq. There is no information about Imam Ul Haq father.

Imam Ul Haq Age

Imam Ul Haq was born on December 22, 1995 in Lahore, Pakistan. Imam Ul Haq age is 28 years. His zodiac sign is Capricorn.

What is the age of Imam ul Haq?

Imam ul Haq age is 29 Years, his date of birth Dec 22, 1995, horoscope Sagittarius, place of birth Lahore, Punjab, nationality as Pakistani and residence Lahore, Punjab.

What is the Profession of Imam ul Haq?

Imam ul Haq is an Pakistani Pakistani Cricketer by profession.

Who is Imam ul Haq's wife?

Imam ul Haq wife or spouse name is Anmol Mehmood.

Who is Imam ul Haq's Parents?

Imam ul Haq father name is Insaram ul Haq and mother name Farah Insaram.

Who is Imam ul Haq's siblings?

Imam ul Haq siblings name is Ahtamad ul Haq.

What is the net worth of Imam ul Haq?

Imam ul Haq net worth is $1 million to $5 million.

What is Imam ul Haq education?

Imam ul Haq education is Graduated.

What is the height of Imam ul Haq?

Imam ul Haq height is 5 feet 9 inches.

What is the weight of Imam ul Haq?

Imam ul Haq weight 71 Kg.