SFW Artists

News

Reviews

Tours Dates

Audio/Video Clips

Merchandise

Forums

Home Page

About SFW

Contact Info

Links/Sponsors

About Screaming Ferret Wreckords

Overview

Screaming Ferret Wreckords LLC, (SFW) is a registered and trademarked company based in New Hampshire, USA. SFW is a registered publisher with ASCAP as well as a member of the United Code Council, (UCC Company number- 801110), and all of our products are bar-coded accordingly.

Our client roster currently consists of a mixture of heritage acts and young up-and-coming acts that span the gamut of the hard rock/heavy metal scene. Screaming Ferret Wreckords is home to such heritage acts as ANVIL, MELIAH RAGE, NUCLEAR ASSAULT, as well as new artists such as THE ACCURSED, DISTRUST, RED RIGHT HAND, CANDY STIPER DEATH ORGY, SHATTERED SOUL, GORMAN PROPHECY, and TEARABYTE. Full length CDs and band merchandise are readily available online, through the Screaming Ferret Wreckords web catalog (click here to visit). Check out our SFW Artists section for the latest SFW releases in 2004, as well as our back catalog.

SFW Team

Nationally renowned publicist Chip Ruggieri, through his company Chipster Entertainment, Inc. (Phone: 610-323-0300 / website: www.chipsterpr.com) spearheads the label’s media promotion.

Escapi Music (www.escapi.com), which exclusively distributes through Navarre, handles distribution for the label.

Screaming Ferret Wreckords works with Munsey Ricci at Skateboard Marketing, Ltd. (Phone: 516-328-1103 / website: www.skateboardmarketing.com), a well-known and respected radio marketing and promotions company. SFW has achieved success with promotional campaigns for Nuclear Assault, Meliah Rage, Tearabyte, Red Right Hand, and Distrust, which included nine radio markets coast-to-coast in the U.S. as well as Alaska and Hawaii.

Legal representation for SFW is orchestrated by Paul Hodes from Shaheen & Gorden (Phone: 603-225-7262 / E-Mail: gtrpaul@aol.com).

SFW regularly advertises in magazines such as "Terrorizer" (England), "Unrestrained" (Canada), "Brave Words & Bloody Knuckles" (Canada), as well as numerous fanzines and webzines, in support of CD releases and tours. Reviews and interviews with SFW bands can also be found within these publications, and their songs frequently appear on compilation discs released through the magazines.

All the label’s activities can be tracked on-line at www.screamingferret.com (CDs and merchandise sales, release news, tour information, special events, links to our bands’ websites, etc.). We also offer a complete online store, where, in addition to the label’s own bands, hard music fans can find many other releases from bands and labels affiliated with SFW.

Abrasive Cuts/Metal Maniacs Sampler

Production/Promotion

SFW is also a full production company (Mayhem Productions). In addition to owning and running a 24-track recording studio in southern New Hampshire, the label is involved with organizing shows and annual festivals in the southern New Hampshire/northern Massachusetts area of the USA. Bands SFW has collaborated with in the past include: Overkill, King Diamond, Drown, Clay People, Insane Clown Posse, Nile, 25 Ta Life, Tree, Sam Black Church, Toxic Narcotic, Gargantua Soul, C-60, E-Town Concrete, Step Kings, Human Disorder, 6-Gig, and, in their infant stages, Godsmack and Staind. The label is also actively involved in merchandise trading and gig swapping with other independent labels in the USA, Canada, and abroad.