Take a look at trending topics for today, Nov. 29:

Spotify Wrapped 2023

Spotify has revealed its annual Wrapped campaign for 2023, announcing the top-streamed artists, albums, songs and podcasts in addition to rolling out personalized stats for users on the platform.

Listen now and subscribe: Apple Podcasts | Google Podcasts | Spotify | RSS Feed | Omny Studio | All Of Our Podcasts

Taylor Swift leads the pack as Spotify's most-streamed global artist, unseating Bad Bunny who held the crown for the past three years. Listeners helped Swift surpass 26.1 billion streams worldwide since the top of the year, and in the U.S., she also netted out as the most-streamed musician in 2023 with Drake, Morgan Wallen, the Weeknd and Bad Bunny lined up behind her. (It's also worth noting that her boyfriend Travis Kelce's podcast, "New Heights with Jason and Travis Kelce," was the top-streamed global sports podcast.)

To celebrate Swift's latest milestone, Spotify unveiled 21 puzzle pieces on billboards around the globe, including São Paulo and Jakarta, teasing her accomplishment in the 48-hour lead-up to Wrapped's launch.

Find out more here:

Champions League

Arsenal scored six to advance in the Champions League as a group winner on Wednesday and Manchester United stayed last in its group despite again scoring three times away from home.

Arsenal’s 6-0 rout of Lens ensured second-place PSV Eindhoven also advanced from Group B to the round of 16. PSV's second-half rally to win 3-2 at Sevilla was clinched by United States forward Ricardo Pepi in stoppage time.

There are now 12 confirmed teams in the round of 16 draw on Dec. 18 and Man United is in serious danger of missing out.

The three-time European champion led by two goals after 18 minutes at Galatasaray and 3-2 early in the second half but was pegged back again in a wild 3-3 draw.

Read the rest here:

Jimmy Carter

Her frail husband a silent witness, Rosalynn Carter was celebrated by her family and closest friends Wednesday in the same tiny town where she and Jimmy Carter were born, forever their home base as they climbed to the White House and traveled the world for humanitarian causes.

The former first lady, who died Nov. 19 at the age of 96, had her intimate funeral at Maranatha Baptist Church in Plains, where she and her husband spent decades welcoming guests and where a wooden cross Jimmy Carter fashioned in his woodshop is displayed. Earlier tributes were held in nearby Americus and in Atlanta.

The former president, now 99 and in hospice care, sat in a wheelchair next to Maranatha's front pew, wearing a dark suit and tie to say goodbye to his wife of 77 years.

Get more info here:

***

Get more trending topics from today here

Shannen Doherty

Frances Sternhagen

This morning's headlines: Military Osprey aircraft crash; US life expectancy; Israel-Hamas truce

Love

0

Funny

0

Wow

0

Sad

0

Angry

0

Be the first to know

Get local news delivered to your inbox!

* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.