How can learning English advance your life and career? Here are the top benefits of learning English to improve your career and overall well-being.

Learning any foreign language is always beneficial for personal and professional growth. Still, there are some specific advantages to particularly improving your English skills. This Germanic rooted language is the most spoken in the world -by the number of speakers- and has become the dominant lingua franca of our time in international diplomacy, business, science, popular culture, technology and education. In fact, most English speakers are not 'native' speakers.

In today's globalized world, you will use English at some point, whether for work, traveling or learning online. Improving your skills in this language is a huge advantage that will boost your future goals.

Here are the top benefits of how learning English can improve your career and overall well-being:

You will get more job opportunities 👔

Speaking more than one language will automatically open your doors to more job opportunities, but if one of those languages is English, you can look for jobs almost anywhere in the world. If you like living in another country, having a job offer to get you there is a big plus!

You can work for any international company 💼

English is the primary language used in companies with international presence or clients abroad. English will give you a competitive advantage over others to work with teams worldwide and apply to any internal promotion or external positions abroad.

It will rewire your brain 🧠

When we learn anything new, our brains must deal with complexity as it absorbs and interprets new patterns, developing crucial communication abilities. Learning English makes you bilingual at the minimum, helping you improve your memory and be a critical thinker.

You can communicate with (almost) anyone in the world 🌎

Learning English brings up a whole new universe of possibilities, the most important of which is the ability to explore foreign cultures. You will be able to experience new things from a different angle and connect with people from all around the world who are also learning English with you. You will gain new friendships and an understanding of other peoples' cultures and perspectives.

Improves your first language abilities 🗣️

When speaking our native language, we often don't think about vocabulary or grammar rules; we know the language so well that we ignore these structures in day-to-day conversations. But learning English will give you a good perspective and insight into how your speech is built and your mother tongue's differences (or similarities), especially when you have to translate from one language to another.

You can watch movies and shows in their original language 🎥

You'll get immediate access to foreign publications, movies, TV shows, and newspapers that will help you learn more about a country's history and culture. Most TV shows and movies are made in English, so you can understand and watch them in their original language and learn new vocabulary simultaneously.

Traveling abroad becomes easier ✈️

Since English is widely spoken worldwide, you can communicate almost everywhere you travel. English will not only help you get around, meet new people and understand other cultures, but it will also help you communicate in an emergency.

It boosts academic success in other areas 🧑‍🎓

Linguistic skills improve your ability to perform well in problem-solving situations in general. Students who learn foreign languages outperform their monolingual colleagues on standardized tests, notably in math, reading, and vocabulary. This is because it increases your capacity to concentrate and multitask compared to people who only speak one language.

It increases your ability to learn more languages ⬆️

Because our brain has gone through learning a new language, it now knows how it has to act and what tools to use when learning a language other than English. Languages ​​reinforce each other, giving you the foundation to understand multiple languages' syntactic, phonetic, and morphological rules.

Related Stories

Feeling stressed at college? Learn how getting organized, exercise, slow breathing, meaningful relationships, and setting boundaries can keep you grounded.

Cintana Alliance students attend Sustainability and Innovation Summer 2023 Experience at ASU to explore solutions to attain UN's Sustainable Development Goals.

Global Launch Group & Custom Programs teach English geared toward specific industries to help students improve their chances of landing their dream job.

Being immersed in a different culture can cause you to feel excited, overwhelmed, curious and empowered. See how to navigate the stages of culture shock.

Meet Gwen, Learning Specialist and Master’s candidate in TESOL at ASU. She’s here to share some study tips for our students!

Blog Categories