Obituary For George Duane Anderson

It is with profound sadness that the Carter Funeral Home family announces the transition of one of their longtime associates, Deacon George Duane Anderson.

Serving and sharing for 67 years, Duane peacefully transitioned into eternity on Sunday September 27, 2020 in Montgomery, Alabama.

Celebration of Life Services for Deacon Anderson will be held at 11:00 am Saturday, October 3, 2020 at the Elizabeth Missionary Baptist Cemetery.

The message of acceptance will be delivered by Pastor Hawthorne Reed of the Elizabeth Missionary Baptist Church.

Public visitation will be held Friday, October 2, 2020 from 2:00 pm until 5:00 pm at Carter Funeral Home.

All visitations and services will be conducted exercising prescribed social distancing protocols.

Per a mandate from the Governor of Alabama, facial coverings are required for all attendees.

A CELEBRATED LIFE The life of George Duane Anderson came into existence on January 5, 1953. He was the second son born to William James Anderson, Sr. and Annie Mae Anderson. The earthly journey was completed on September 27, 2020 in Montgomery, Alabama. In addition to his parents, he was preceded in death by his sisters, Ruby Burgan and Bettye Price and his youngest brother, Kenneth Scott. He confessed Christ at an early age and united with the Elizabeth Missionary Baptist Church under the leadership of Reverend L. D. Days. Always with a smile while serving unselfishly, Duane was ordained as a Deacon at Elizabeth Missionary Baptist Church in 1983. In 1985 he was elevated to Chairman of the Board of Deacons. He also served his Elizabeth Baptist Church Family as Church Treasurer. Educated in the public schools of Bullock County, Duane was a graduate of Bullock County High School and the Alabama State University.

A FAITHFUL SERVANT He completely immersed himself in a lifetime of service to his beloved Bullock County. A devoted volunteer Fire Fighter, Duane was currently Chief of the Union Springs Fire Department. While at the Department, he also served as a member of the Bullock County Rescue Squad and has served as Assistant Fire Chief prior to receiving his current promotion. The Healthcare Community was blessed with his talent and skills. Duane was an EMT with the Bullock County Ambulance Service and was a member of the Bullock County Healthcare Authority where he served as Authority Treasurer. He also assisted several area families as a Deputy Coroner for Bullock County for decades.. He will always be remembered as a valued team member and associate at Carter Funeral Home. Area Youth and their families received valuable life lessons and support from Duane during his tenure as Bullock County’s First and only Juvenile Probation Officer. Civic minded and serving his fellowman without reservation, Duane was a committed officer of the King Hiram Masonic Lodge of Union Springs.

FOREVER IN OUR HEARTS Left to mourn his passing are a devoted wife, Margaret Smith Anderson, two sons, Corey (Lakisha) Smith and Kelvin (Tamkia)Anderson; grandchildren, Corey Smith, Jr., Cordarius Smith, Camron Smith, Tamarkis Anderson, and TaMya Anderson, and a great grandson, Josiah Smith: six sisters, Mrs. Anne (Melvin) Gregory, Flint, Michigan, Ms. Billie Hazzard, Union Springs, Alabama, Mrs. Annie (Frank) Lee, Detroit, Michigan, Ms. Bonnie Newby, Flint, Michigan, Mrs. Florida (Henry) Major, Rochester, New York, and Mrs. Marilyn (George) King, Akron, Ohio: one brother, Mr. William Anderson, Jr., Union Springs, Alabama; numerous nieces, nephews cousins, other relatives and dear friends, including his longtime friend Gary Lewis and the Elizabeth Missionary Baptist Church Family

The Staff of Carter Funeral Home is honored to support the family of the late Deacon George Duane Anderson with End of Life Services.

Send flowers to the service of George Duane Anderson

Download funeral program

Services