Donn Landee's lengthy discography is a testament to his versatility and skill as an engineer. Landee worked for T.T.G. Studios and Sunwest Recording Studios in Hollywood before he became a staff engineer for Warner Bros. Records in 1971. Best known for his collaborations with Van Halen and The Doobie Brothers, Landee also logged studio time with artists like Eric Burdon and the Animals, Chet Baker, John Sebastian, The Doors, The Everly Brothers, Jackie DeShannon, Van Morrison, Little Feat, Arlo Guthrie, Montrose, Maria Muldaur, and Carly Simon. More often than not, Landee recorded, mixed, and mastered the albums he worked on in the studio. During his three-decade career, he engineered three Billboard #1 hits: The Doobie Brothers' "Black Water" (1975) and "What a Fool Believes" (1979), as well as Van Halen's "Jump" (1984). He also tracked three Billboard #1 albums: The Doobie Brothers' Minute by Minute (1979), and Van Halen's 5150 (1986) and OU812 (1988). Part two of this conversation centers on the latter half of Landee's career, with an emphasis on his work with The Doobie Brothers and Van Halen.

How did your work with The Doobie Brothers start?

Lenny [Waronker] called me while I was still working at Sunwest. He asked me to come up to San Francisco; there was a band he wanted me to hear. I told him I was still working for Sunwest and that I couldn't do a Warner Bros. album up there. He said, "Come up anyway." So, I flew up, went to a rehearsal, and listened to The Doobie Brothers. They were fantastic! Ted [Templeman] and Lenny recorded their first album up there [at Pacific Recorders], and when they came back with the completed album, I mastered it with them at Location Recording [Service]. About a year later, when I was working for Warner Bros., Ted asked me to record their second album.

For that album, Toulouse Street, The Doobies had tracked some material at Wally Heider Studios before Ted got involved.

Yes, they had some good tracks; we used "Toulouse Street, "White Sun," and "Snake Man." We did the other tracks, the vocals, overdubs, mixes, and mastering at Amigo [Studios, Warner Bros. North Hollywood Recording Studios].

The sonics on that record are incredible.

They were a great band, easy to record, and everything just worked out. It was also one of the last records we did at Amigo with the 16-track 3M M56 tape machine.

What do you remember about tracking "Listen to the Music"?

We started to record the track with Pat [Simmons] and Tom [Johnston] playing guitars through their amps in the studio, but Ted wanted something else. He suggested recording them direct and mic'ing their strings. I put them in our vocal booth, and they played live with Tiran [Porter, bass] and Michael [Hossack, drums] with headphones. Tom's lead vocal and the backgrounds were great, and Pat's banjo and steel drums are a great touch. The mix just came together. Ted tells me phasing the center breakdown was my idea; I thought it was his!

The other thing that stands out is how great the rhythm section was.

Yes. Tiran was fantastic, and he and Michael built a powerful foundation.

If I'm remembering right, there are no tracks with John Hartman and Michael Hossack both drumming on this album?

We always had both drum sets ready to record throughout Toulouse Street, but we rarely cut tracks that way. Ted would usually have them record with Michael.

Billy Payne of Little Feat played piano on "Rockin' Down the Highway" and "Don't Start Me to Talkin'," plus organ on "Cotton Mouth" and "Jesus is Just Alright." Whose idea was it to bring him in for the sessions?

It was Ted's idea. Whenever Billy came to a session, things got better.

His organ playing gave the songs a wonderful texture.

Billy played a Hammond B-3 and Leslie [speaker]; the best sounding Leslie I ever recorded. He could get seemingly any sound out of it that he wanted. He was terrific with that rig.

On "Jesus is Just Alright," Billy really shines.

The perfect touch. His notes and dynamics couldn't be better.

Did you and Ted have Pat and Tom sing along while you tracked?

I don't remember them singing along on anything when we cut the tracks. Later on, Michael McDonald would almost always sing and play live.

The cover of Sonny Boy Williamson's "Don't Start Me to Talkin'" is one of my favorite Doobies songs.

With that song, I didn't quite know how to mix it. But Lee Herschberg [Tape Op #154] came in and he had no problems. Thanks, Lee!

"Listen to the Music" sounds like it was recorded yesterday. What stands out to you when you listen to it in 2023?

Everything about it. Great song, performance, and vocals.

Wikipedia lists an uncredited flute player on "Toulouse Street." Can we solve that mystery?

It was Pat, and it was a recorder – not a flute!