Norman W. Neubauer, 86, banker specialized in art sales

August 8, 2024

Norman William Neubauer of Pawleys Island died July 29 at his home. He was 86.

He was born in Staten Island, N.Y., the son of Andrew R. Neubauer and Anna M. Donovan. Norm graduated from the Augustinian Academy in Staten Island and served four years with the Air Force military police.

He then began his career with J.P. Morgan Bank in Manhattan, which spanned 33 years. He retired as a vice president of special collections in their private bank.

Mr. Neubauer earned a bachelor’s degree in business from St. Peter’s University in Jersey City, N.J.

He took great pride in his work with the bank and enjoyed traveling the world.

Notable projects were the sale of the Virgil M. Brand coin collection in 1983, which was the largest private coin collection ever formed by a single individual.

Mr. Neubauer later formed a consulting firm, SomersArt, with his wife, Lee, that was instrumental in the sale of the George Costakis collection of avant-garde.

He lived in Branchburg, N.J., until he retired to Pawleys Island. Later in life he became an active member in the Knights of Columbus.

Mr. Neubauer enjoyed travel, golf, keeping his mind active in the stock market and, most of all being a connector, who always kept in touch with his family and friends.

He is surivived by his three daughters, Michele Neubauer (Jeff), Suzanne Freitag (Rich) and Jennifer Neubauer; two grandchildren, Lauren Freitag and Bradley Freitag; his partner of 13 years, Glenda Taylor; her daughter, Olivia Ozycz (Greg), and children Teddy and Ruby; and his nieces and nephews.

His wife of 45 years, Ottilie Neubauer, died before him, as did his brothers, George and Raymond Neubauer.

A mass and entombment will be held at Precious Blood of Christ Church at 11:30 a.m. Saturday.

Memorials may be made to Tunnel To Towers at t2t.org.

Jo Tharp, 91, Army wife became VP with bond firm

August 8, 2024

Marlyn Jo Vaughn Tharp of Pawleys Plantation died July 23. She was 91.

Known as Jo, she was born Aug. 26, 1932, in Tampa, Fla., the second of three daughters of James Alexander Vaughn and Annie Ruth Gregory Vaughn. Upon graduation from Tampa’s Hillsborough High School in 1950, she attended Wesleyan and Mercer universities in Macon, Ga. It was there that she met her future husband, Charles Bonner “Sonny” Tharp.

Mrs. Tharp settled into life as an Army officer’s wife, moving 17 times throughout the United States and abroad over 27 years while raising their three sons.

Her love of children, especially babies, led her to be a Sunday school teacher throughout her life as well as a Head Start kindergarten teacher, supporting children’s growth and early development.

Motivated to pursue her own career, Mrs. Tharp went to work as a bank teller without a college degree. She worked her way up to senior vice president at Nuveen, a municipal bond brokerage firm, guiding an all-female staff to become the top sales team in the country. Her fearlessness in a male-dominated industry inspired countless women in her life, including her nieces, granddaughters and colleagues.

After retiring to Pawleys Island to be near her sisters, Mrs. Tharp became a member of Duncan Memorial United Methodist Church, the Francis Asbury Sunday School class and the Loula Ford Circle. She volunteered with Miss Ruby’s Kids, the early-childhood education program.

Much like her mother, she found enjoyment and peace cultivating beautiful and colorful flowers, especially peonies, later taking classes at Brookgreen Gardens to become a master gardener.

In addition to her husband of 72 years, she is survived by sons, James Gregory Tharp (Laura) of Pawleys Island and Marc Bonner Tharp of Fort Pierce, Fla.; her grandchildren, Jeffrey Tharp (Laura), Bryan Tharp (Anna Marie), Kaelyn Tharp Warden (Daniel), Ashley Tharp, and Courtney Tharp; her great-grandchildren, Fisher Tharp, Audrey Tharp, Emily Tharp and Sonny Tharp; her younger sister, Jacquelyn Vaughn McCants of Tampa; and many nieces and nephews.

Another son, Tracy Tomlinson Tharp, died before her, as did her older sister, Patsy Vaughn Schooler.

A memorial service was held Aug. 3 at Duncan Memorial United Methodist Church by the Rev. Ross Chellis and the Rev. Dr. Dora Gafford.

Memorials may be made to the church, Miss Ruby’s Kids or the Alzheimer’s Association.

Rhoda Hinson, 67, longtime Pawleys parade judge

August 1, 2024

Rhoda Guess Hinson, who served as a judge in the Pawleys Island Fourth of July Parade for many years, died at her home in Columbia on July 10. She was 67.

She was born Sept. 6, 1956, in Kingstree, a daughter of James Advil Guess Sr. and Rhoda Mell Brown Guess. Rhoda had a memorable childhood growing up in Lane with family and friends and those memories extended to the family beach house, the Guess House, on Pawleys Island, where the close family has gathered since 1956.

Rhoda was a 1974 graduate of Kingstree High School and earned a bachelor’s degree from the University of South Carolina with a minor in French.

She was a retired state employee.

Mrs. Hinson loved her role as a parade judge at Pawleys Island, her family said, and was recognizable by her judicial gown.

She loved genealogy, especially Williamsburg County history, and was a member of the S.C. Historical Society. She was also an avid Gamecock fan.

Mrs. Hinson was a lifelong member of Union Presbyterian Church in Salters. Her love for the Lord was apparent to all who knew her.

She is survived by her daughter, Hannah Hayes Mims (Ryan); her grandchildren, Ryan Charles and Lydia Hayes; her sisters, Vicky Guess McDonald (Steve) and Rebecca Guess McGill (Robert) and sister-in-law, Cheryl Guess; five nieces; a nephew; and 13 great-nieces and great-nephews.

In addition to her parents, another sister, Catherine Guess Horton, and a brother, James Advil Guess Jr., died before her.

A celebration of her life was held July 16 at Union Presbyterian Church, where memorials may be made c/o Diane Boyd, 114 E. Brooks Street, Kingstree, SC 29556.

Condolences may be sent at williamsburgfuneralhome.com.

Mary Jo Karre, 73, cornerstone of family with a sense of style

July 18, 2024

Mary Jo Karre of Pawleys Island died Tuesday at her home surrounded by her family. She was 73.

She was born in Staten Island, N.Y., the daughter of George and Zion Joseph Amann. She earned a degree in education from Coastal Carolina University.

She was remembered for her commanding presence, decisive nature and confident approach to life. As the cornerstone of her family, she guided her loved ones with wisdom and affection.

Her passion for cooking was legendary. She expressed her love through fine cuisine, creating dishes that brought joy to family gatherings and friendly get-togethers.

Her home seamlessly blended carefully curated art and furniture with warm, creative spaces for her grandchildren. This balance reflected her keen eye for design and her devotion to family, creating an environment that was both sophisticated and welcoming for all, her family said.

Mrs. Karre was also a loyal friend who was always ready to lend a hand in times of crisis. She remained positive, optimistic and fearless in the face of uncertainty and health challenges. She battled cancer for three decades, turning her diagnosis into a testament to resilience.

Her strong Catholic faith was a source of strength and comfort in all aspects of her life. Through it all, she often reminded those around her, “it is what it is,” a phrase that encapsulated her pragmatic approach to life’s challenges.

She is survived by her husband, Paul Joseph Karre; her daughters, Erin Karre (Sue) of Pawleys Island, Julia Darling (Stewart) of Cornelius, N.C., and Kate Karre of Pawleys Island; her grandchildren, Mary Catherine, Henry and Victoria Darling; her siblings, Helen Amann (Pete), Sarah Chiha (Eddie), Anne Amann, Paul Amann and Anthony Amann (Sherri); and many nieces and nephews.

Two brothers, George and Joseph Amann, and a sister, Barbara Elizabeth Dumm, died before her.

A funeral Mass will be held on Saturday at noon at St. Mary’s Catholic Church in Georgetown. A celebration of her life will follow in the parish hall.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be to Friendship Place at friendshipplaceinc.org or to the charity of your choice.

John W. Long, 79, banker became financial adviser

July 18, 2024

John Wesley Long of Pawleys Island died July 9 at the Medical University of South Carolina surrounded by his family. He was 79.

He was born May 1, 1945, in Andrews, the son of Elsie Bryant and John Wesley Long Sr.

Sports were a large part of John’s life. He lettered in baseball and basketball while attending Andrews High School, where he graduated in 1963. He earned a bachelor’s degree from Newberry College in 1967.

While attending Newberry College, he pitched for an intramural baseball league. A lifelong tennis player, Mr. Long ranked third in his age group in 1998 USTA South Carolina singles.

He served in the Army at Fort Bliss, Texas, from August 1967 until June 1969. He then became a bank examiner for the state of South Carolina.

Mr. Long then worked as a manager at Andrews Bank and Trust in Andrews for more than two decades before joining Edward Jones as a financial advisor in Pawleys Island. He retired in August 2014.

Mr. Long was an avid bridge player who took up the game in the 1960s. In recent years, he played duplicate bridge several times a week as part of the Pawleys Island Bridge Club. He achieved Silver Life Master from the American Contract Bridge League. He was an active member of the Pawleys Island Lions Club and received the Melvin Jones Award.

He is survived by his wife of 24 years, Bess Clarkson Long; his children, Jennifer Wood (Chuck) and Spencer Long (Kristen) of Georgetown and Melissa Cahill of Murrells Inlet; his grandchildren, Jessica and Cameron Perkins, Jackson and Bevin Long, and Bradley and Ella Cahill; his great-granddaughter, Layla Perkins; and his nieces, Susan Black (Charlie) of Alabama and Teri Byjeck (John) of Tennessee.

His sister Judy Long Collins, died before him.

A celebration of his life will be held July 20 at 11 a.m. at St. Paul’s Waccamaw Church. Following the service the family will receive friends at Quigleys Next Door.

Memorials may be made to Pawleys Island Lions Club, P.O. Box 1530, Pawleys Island, SC 29585 or Newberry College Athletic Club, 2100 College Street Newberry, SC 29108.

There is a guest book at goldfinchfuneralhome.com.

Frank Mahady, 75, put antenna on top of World Trade Center

July 12, 2024

Francis Patrick Mahady of Murrells Inlet died July 1 at Embrace Hospice House in Myrtle Beach. He was 75.

Known as Frank, he was born Aug. 19, 1948, in New York, the son of Cyril and Mary Butler Mahady.

Mr. Mahady served in the Navy as a Seabee and was in active combat in Vietnam in 1968-69. He received the National Defense Service Medal, Vietnam Service Medal, Republic Vietnam Campaign Medal, Navy Unit Commendation, Meritorious Unit Commendation, Combat Action Ribbon, Expert Rifle, and the Republic of Vietnam Meritorious Unit Citation with Gallantry Cross.

He went on to a career as a crane operator in New York. His biggest accomplishment, and proudest moment, came early when he placed the antenna on the North Tower of the World Trade Center in May 1979. He was equally devastated when he watched in person as both towers fell in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack.

He was married to the late Catherine Ruvolo Mahady and previously lived in New York and Rhode Island. Mr. Mahady enjoyed talking about his grandchildren, his time in the Navy, his work at the World Trade Center and the bridges in New York, and washing and waxing his car.

He was a member of the VFW Post 10420, the Surfside Moose Lodge 2351, Elks Lodge 2797, the American Legion Post 178, and the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 14-14B.

He is survived by his children, Philip Mahady of Frisco, Texas, Kate Marasco (Shawn) of Summerville, Beth Mahady of North Kingstown, R.I., and Brian Mahady of Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; his brothers, Thomas Mahady (Mary) of Boynton Beach, Fla., and Michael Mahady of Boca Raton, Fla.; and his grandchildren, Justin Marasco, Megan Marasco, Zachary Marasco and Kylie Mahady.

Two other brothers, John and Stephen Mahady, died before him.

A funeral service was held Tuesday at St. Bernard Church in North Kingstown, RI.

Memorials may be made to the Tunnel to Towers Foundation at dogood.t2t.org.

Condolences may be sent at burroughsfh.com.

Betty Haring, 76, former analyst worked at Rice Museum

July 12, 2024

Florence Elizabeth Haring of Pawleys Island died June 30 surrounded by her family and friends. She was 76.

Known as Betty or Bettina, she was born Feb. 7, 1948, the daughter of James and Mary-Annie Sowell. She grew up in Montgomery, Ala., where she was a high school “favorite” and a cheerleader. She graduated from Auburn University with a degree in English and earned an MBA at Georgia Tech.

She moved to Washington, D.C., and worked for the American Petroleum Institute as a financial analyst. She married John Haring on June 23, 1984, at their home in Great Falls, Va. After the birth of her daughter, she worked as a docent at Dumbarton Oaks Museum and Gardens. After moving to South Carolina in 2008, she worked as assistant to the director of the Rice Museum.

Mrs. Haring also performed onstage at the Strand Theater and served on the selection committee for the Strand Cinema film society. Each of these places was deeply important to her, as were the people with whom she shared her time.

An avid gardener, Mrs. Haring cultivated beautiful outdoor spaces at her homes in Great Falls and Pawleys Island. She was also a talented seamstress who created ballet, theater and Halloween costumes. She enjoyed calligraphy, collected and pressed various plants and flowers, and loved taking photographs, particularly of the natural forms found in the forests and beaches.

In addition to her husband, she is survived by her daughter Haydn Haring of Charlottesville, Va.; and her sisters, Nancy Williams of Greenville and Dara Sowell of New York.

A celebration of her life will be held July 14 from noon to 4 p.m. at the Rice Museum.

Memorials may be made to the Rice Museum at ricemuseum.org or Brookgreen Gardens at brookgreen.org.

Bill Evans, postal inspector helped bust $1B medical scam

July 5, 2024

William Joseph Evans Jr. of Pawleys Island died June 29 surrounded by his family after a 10-week battle with a sudden heart condition.

He was born in Washington, D.C., the son of Dr. William J. Evans and Katherine Sullivan Evans.

Bill attended the University of Maryland where he played offensive guard for the Terrapins and met his wife, Barbara.

After college, he was commissioned into the Air Force where he obtained the rank of captain and spent 12 years flying KC-135 aerial refueling tankers and Galaxy C-5A cargo planes between Thailand and Vietnam.

Mr. Evans then followed in the footsteps of his brother, Rick, in the U.S. Postal Inspection Service where he investigated mail fraud, medical fraud, narcotics and violent crime cases in West Virginia, Pennsylvania, California and South Carolina for the next 24 years.

During much of the 1990s, he was detailed to a multi-agency task force that resulted in the federal conviction of multiple Southern California physicians who had perpetrated the then-largest medical insurance fraud scheme in U.S. history involving fraudulent claims of over $1 billion.

For his work on the task force, he was named Investigator of the Year for 1994 by the Federal Investigators Association.

While he was intense in his work, he was a source of great joy to his family, friends, co-workers, and neighbors and someone to be relied upon in troubled times, his family said. He was a mentor to his children and his team at work.

In addition to his wife of 55 years, he is survived by his children, William Joseph “Jay” Evans III (Teresa) of Oceanside, Calif., Kristin Diaz (Edwin) of Rancho Cucamonga, Calif., and Scott Christopher Evans of Georgetown; his grandchildren, Ethan and Dylan Diaz and Charlotte Evans; his siblings, Rick Evans (Patricia), Kevin Evans and Kay McAndrew (Vince); his nieces, Coleen, Bridgett, Jessie, Anna, Margaret and Gabrielle; and his nephews Brian and Daniel.

His sister Margaret Collins died before him.

A memorial service will be held Saturday at 11 a.m. at The Abbey at Pawleys Island.

Condolences may be sent at ridgewayfh.com.

Billy Barnes, 54, made career in golf course management

July 5, 2024

William Michael Barnes of Hagley Estates died June 19 of complications following surgery. He was 54.

Known as Billy, he was the son of Deborah Curtis and the late Michael Barnes, and the stepson of Linda Barnes.

He was remembered as a humble man woven together with love, integrity, respect, passion, determination and humor.

He had a love for his family, music, nature, water and people. And also for Peter Pan Honey Roasted Crunchy Peanut Butter, his family said.

A hippie at heart, Billy was a nature boy. He knew the scientific name for each plant or tree. Following that love of nature, he earned his degree in horticulture and lived out his passion through his professional career in the golf course management and landscaping industry. He took care of golf courses across South Carolina, spending the last 10 years as a senior manager at Debordieu Colony.

Mr. Barnes and his wife, the former Jennifer Setzer, dated in high school, reconnected and married in 2017. He is also survived by his daughters, Jordyn Mooney (Shane) and Janie Barnes, and his stepsons, Terry and Jacob Hancock. He was looking forward to the birth of his first grandchild in October.

He is also survived by his in-laws, Rick Setzer and David and Kristin Setzer, along with his uncles, aunts, cousins, nieces and nephews.

Mr. Barnes also had a deep connection with music of all kinds. He played guitar and for his 50th birthday started his journey with the drums. Songs had meaning to him, and he would remind people, “If you get confused … just listen to the music play.” (The Grateful Dead)

He was happiest near the water. His ideal day would consist of family, friends, and either a golf club or fishing pole in hand. Or just a cooler and a volleyball on the beach.

He will be remembered at a gathering July 13 at 5 p.m. at Quigley’s Next Door.

An account was set up at South State Bank to support his family. Donations may be made via Zelle to jennifer@carolinabarnes.com or Venmo at billyandjenbarnes.

Joseph T. Lazzara, 87, worked in public transit

June 27, 2024

Joseph T. Lazzara of Willbrook died June 16 at Arbor Landing following a long-fought battle with Alzheimers, diabetes, kidney disease and Parkinson’s. He was 87.

He was born in Chicago, the son of Joseph and Josephine Lazzara. He earned an associate’s degree in accounting at Wright Junior College and a bachelor’s degree in management and developing organizations at DePaul University. Mr. Lazzara served the Chicago Transit Authority for 33 years in a variety of positions including senior project controller, where he was responsible for development and management of all projects related to buses, rail cars, construction, contracting, procurement contracting and environmental assessment.

Mr. Lazzara continued his transit career at the Proviso Council on Aging in Bellwood, Ill, where he was the transportation coordinator and managed the transit operation for elderly handicapped people, including training of employees and construction projects oversight.

After moving to Pawleys Island in 1998, he served on the board of Coast RTA while dabbling in retirement, enjoying the beaches and exercising his favorite sport: golf. He loved traveling and was also an avid Chicago Cubs and Chicago Bears fan.

Mr. Lazzara, a devout Roman Catholic, served as an usher at Precious Blood of Christ Catholic Church and was a faithful member of the Knights of Columbus.

He is survived by his wife of 66 years, Marlene; his children, Lynne Halper (Mark) of Murrells Inlet, Joseph G. Lazzara (Gail) of Georgetown, Joyce Lazzara (Tom) of Pawleys Island and Lori Lazzara of Pawleys Island; his grandchildren, Andrew Halper (Dana), Keely Halper, Jenna Toothaker (Brandon), Nicolette Lazzara, and Gabriella Lazzara; his great-grandchildren, Ava Lynn Halper, Adam Halper and Asher Halper; his sister, Mary DeVito of Port St. Lucie, Fla.; his brother-in-law, Frank Grzesik of Coral Springs, Fla.; his sister-in-law. Carol Addante (Louis) of Wheaton, Ill.; and many nieces and nephews.

Another sister, Angela Grzesik, died before him.

Visitation will be held July 19 from 6 to 8 p.m. at Goldfinch Funeral Home, Litchfield-Pawleys Chapel. The prayer service will begin at 6:30 p.m.

A Mass of the Christian Burial will be celebrated July 20 at 10 a.m. at Precious Blood of Christ Catholic Church. The service will be live streamed at pbocchurch.com. Inurnment will follow in the church columbarium.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to the Alzheimer’s Association of South Carolina or Parkinsons Foundation, Carolinas Chapter

There is a guest book at goldfinchfuneralhome.com.

Sharon Judd, 81, beauty queen worked on Capitol Hill

June 27, 2024

Sharon Dennis Judd of Pawleys Plantation died June 19 at the Lakes at Litchfield after a lengthy battle with Alzheimer’s. She was 81.

She was born on March 7, 1943, in Romney, W.Va., the daughter of Russel Brian Dennis and Pauline Zirk Dennis of Cottage City, Md. Sharon graduated from Bladensburg High in Maryland and earned a degree from Salisbury State Teachers College. Following graduation, Sharon traveled around the world in 1961.

Mrs. Judd’s natural beauty took her to the pageant stage. She earned the title of Miss Maryland USA in 1965, Miss Dixie in 1964, Miss Jacksonville, Fl., and Miss Wicomico County, Md., in 1962. She also represented Maryland at the World’s Fair in New York.

When she wasn’t on the stage, Mrs. Judd could be found working for the Voice of America in Washington, D.C., then on Capitol Hill for both the Senate and the House of Representatives.

In 1963, she became the chief financial officer of Judd & Associates, where she made life-long friends. In her free time and especially later in life, she enjoyed the simpler things such as time at the beach, and playing tennis and bridge.

She is survived by her husband of over 55 years, William Judd; her sons, Charles B. Judd and Robert T. Judd; her grandchildren, Charlie, Tyler and Jack; her brothers Danny Dennis and Chris Dennis of Selbyville, Del.; and several nieces, nephews and cousins.

A celebration of her life will be held today at 10 a.m. at Belin Memorial United Methodist Church with inurnment following in the church cemetery.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to Tidelands Community Hospice at tidelandshospice.org.

There is a guest book at burroughsfh.com.

Roger M. Ward, 85, had second career at Pawleys Is. Lumber

June 20, 2024

Roger M. Ward of Pawleys Island died June 12 at his home with his wife and daughters by his side. He was 85.

He was born Sept. 25, 1938, in Limestone, Maine, the son of Phillip M. and Phyllis Kirkpatrick Ward. Roger enlisted in the Marine Corps and was stationed in Quantico, Va. He frequently escorted President Eisenhower to Camp David as the crew chief on HMX-1. Upon completion of his service in the Marines, he received the White House Service Award.

He married Sarah L. Dingle of Georgetown in 1958.

Mr. Ward retired from United Technologies, Pratt & Whitney division, after 30 years. He traveled throughout North and South America, Europe, Asia and Africa as a liaison. He was the resident manager for Pan American Airlines for 12 years. He lived in Japan, Thailand and China during his career with Pratt & Whitney.

After a brief retirement, Mr. Ward returned to work at Pawleys Island Lumber Co. for his friend Duff Dawson, who asked him if he would like to work for him. “I know nothing about the lumber business,” he replied.

He stayed with the lumber company for 15 years, loving every minute.

Mr. Ward served the town of Pawleys Island as the chairman of the Board of Zoning Appeals for 15 years.

In recognition of his civic leadership, patriotism and support to the development of aeronautics, he was elected and enrolled as a member of the Wings Club.

He was also a gun enthusiast who promoted responsible gun ownership and marksmanship as a NRA safety officer and a state constable.

He was a member of Duncan Memorial United Methodist Church and the Masons, Solar Lodge No. 131 of East Hampton, Conn.

In addition to his wife of 65 years, he his survived by his children, Debra Duffey of Calabash, N.C., and Sally Ward of Pawleys Island; his brother-in-law, Robert H. Featenby; and a number of nieces and nephews.

His siblings, Judith Featenby, and Jeffrey and Thomas Ward, died before him.

Services were Monday at Pennyroyal Memorial Gardens.

Memorials may be made to Duncan United Methodist Church or All4Paws Animal Rescue.

Andrew C. Jacobs, 59, electrician with a passion for cooking

June 20, 2024

Andrew Corbit Jacobs of Pawleys Island died May 26 at his home with his family by his side. He was 59.

He was born April 18, 1965, in Charleston, the son of Janie Ackerman Jacobs Dennis and the late Preston Corbit Jacobs. Growing up in Charleston, Andy volunteered at Charlestown Landing, spending many hours at the colonial village and the old ship, riding his bike to work. He became a lifelong history buff.

He also had a special passion for Foxfire books, the outdoors, camping and anything at all to do with the water, especially the creeks and marshes. He was a Cub Scout and a Boy Scout, and loved magic tricks and performing them. He collected stamps and coins, always looking for the history behind them.

Andy spent his summers in Pawleys Island, fishing, crabbing and helping his grandparents. With his grandfather, he worked on cars and handyman projects. With his grandmother, he helped plant, garden and cook.

Cooking became one of his greatest joys. He spent hours helping his grandmother prepare the fresh shrimp, crab and fish as well as the home grown produce. He was also close with his paternal grandmother in Charleston, spending many days and hours fishing and playing card games with her.

Moving to Moncks Corner in his teens, he graduated from Berkeley High School. He then joined the Army and was stationed in Germany and served as a combat engineer. This furthered his passion for engineering and construction.

After leaving the military, he worked as an electrician, creating his own company Jacobs Electric Unlimited. He worked in many states but ultimately returned to the Pawleys Island and Murrells Inlet area. He worked with businesses such as Hard Rock Park, Rowe Enterprises, the Reserve Golf Club and on several buildings throughout the area.

Working with his hands remained rewarding throughout his life. He even built his own ramp to his house when he could barely walk unassisted.

His passion for cooking led Mr. Jacobs to work at the Reserve Club in the kitchen alongside the chefs and assisting with special events.

His home was filled with hundreds of cookbooks and books about growing and preparing food. Cooking supplies, utensils and prep items were witness to this love.

Mr. Jacobs also had a passion for music and dancing. He taught himself to play acoustic guitar and had begun learning the violin. He played with local bands in the Murrells Inlet area and also taught country line dancing. His harmonica was often with him.

As his health failed, Mr. Jacobs was able to spend a great deal of time with his sister, Allene, at her farm in the Upstate. He found another passion in her cattle, and in sharing experiences with her and her family, especially his niece and nephew Cyprys and JingHui. When he could no longer work and was limited in many of his daily activities, he would spend time with the cattle or discussing them.

What never left him was his love of the creek at Pawleys. During some of his last days, he still made an effort to walk to see the creek near his house.

Mr. Jacobs had several round brimmed hats that he wore everywhere, and you could pick him out in a crowd. He always took time to talk with people and listen to their stories. He always wanted to know their name and “who people were.” He loved to tell stories and share experiences with people.

He put no value in material things, unless they were sentimental or useful in his work or his passions, his family said. Instead, he chose to value learning and experiencing life, especially simple things.

In addition to his mother, he is survived by his wife, Darlene Taylor Jacobs; his step-daughters, Sindy Williams and Stephanie Williams; his step son-in-law, who he considered a son, Timothy Beahn; his grandchildren, Dakota Beahn, Austin Beahn and Tristen Haleigh Royce; three great-grandchildren; his siblings, Margaret Jacobs Pipkin (Tim), Allene Jacobs Wiley (Chris), Ryan C. Dennis; several step siblings; and his aunts, Sara Elizabeth Ackerman and Linda Jacobs; and many extended family members.

In addition to his father, his grandparents, Preston Corbit Jacobs Sr. and Lucille Bunch Jacobs and Bernard L. Ackerman and Elizabeth Bourne Ackerman, died before him.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to the Foundation for Sarcoidosis Research, 320 W. Ohio St., Suite 300, Chicago, IL 60654 (stopsarcoidosis.org) or Meals on Wheels of Horry and Georgetown County, 2050 US-501, 1100 B, Conway, SC 29526.

A memorial service will be held Aug. 17 at 2:30 p.m. at the Goldfinch Funeral Home, Beach Chapel. Visitation begin at 1:30 p.m.

There is a guest book at goldfinchfuneralhome.com.

James M. Miller, 83, spent 30 years with IBM

June 20, 2024

James Michael Miller of Heritage Plantation died June 10. He was 83

He was born Aug. 21, 1940, in Sturgis, Mich., the son of Lamar and Mable Robbins Miller. After high school, he attended the University of Michigan and earned an engineering degree. In 1960 he married Pamela Gelvin, his high school sweetheart.

After college, Mr. Miller worked for General Dynamics in San Diego in a management development program and on the Atlas missile program. In 1964, he joined IBM and worked in systems engineering, sales, software development and management in Peoria, Ill., Chicago, South Bend, Ind., and Dallas. He retired from IBM after 30 years and moved to Pawleys Island.

Mr. Miller enjoyed playing tennis, golf, bridge, traveling and reading. He was a volunteer computer class instructor at Southern Methodist University in Dallas and a volunteer math tutor for elementary, middle and high school students in Dallas and Pawleys Island. He also enjoyed working with other horticulture volunteers at Brookgreen Gardens for more than 15 years.

He was a member of the Lutheran Church all his life and served as a youth group director, usher, greeter and on stewardship and fellowship committees. He was a member of St. Peter’s Lutheran Church for more than 20 years.

He is survived by his children, Todd Miller (Debra) of Las Vegas and Mark Miller (Tammy) of Flower Mound, Texas; his daughter-in-law, Jill Miller of Bel-Air, Md.; his grandchildren, Zachary, Aaron, Alyssa, David, Zhanna, Nadia and Samantha; his brother, Jerry Miller (Verda) of New Port Richey, Fla.; his brothers-in-law Bob Schlage of Holly Springs, N.C., and John Gelvin (Debbie) of Sturgis; and many nephews and nieces.

Mrs. Miller died in 2022. Another son, Jon, and his sister, Cheryl, also died before him.

A celebration of life service will be held June 28 at 10 a.m. at St. Peter’s Lutheran Church.

Memorials may be made to the American Cancer Society for research.

David C. Waters, 92, former Pawleys Island resident

June 6, 2024

David Clagett Waters of Chapel Hill, N.C., died June 3 surrounded by his family. He was 92. He was remembered for his deep faith in God, encyclopedic knowledge of sports, fascinating stories, and his kindness, generosity and service to others.

Born July 26, 1931, in Germantown, Md., he was the son of Eugene Hill Waters and Eloise Clagett Waters. The youngest of four children, David grew up on a family farm outside of Washington, D.C. There he cultivated a lifelong love of the outdoors – hunting, fishing and gardening and a passion for sports.

He chose his college, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, sight unseen, due to listening to Tar Heel football games on the radio. He remained an avid Tar Heel sports fan through life.

Mr. Waters graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1953. A political science major, he wrote for the Daily Tar Heel and was a member of Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity. Following graduation, he served as a special agent in the Army Counterintelligence Corps before beginning a career of more than 35 years with Procter and Gamble.

While with P&G in Cincinnati, he held volunteer leadership roles in both church and civic endeavors; and served his alma mater through membership on the board of the UNC General Alumni Association and the Educational Foundation. He continued his personal involvement in retirement.

When he retired from Procter and Gamble in 1991, Mr. Waters and his wife, Marion, established residence at Pawleys Island, their annual summer destination throughout marriage. They met on Pawleys Island and Mr. Waters said he fell in love with both the island and the girl on the same night.

He was a communicant of All Saints Church where he chaired the cemetery committee, preserving the beauty of the historic grounds.

Mr. Waters was a member of the Sons of the American Revolution, the Kentucky Colonels, the Winyah Indigo Society, the Pawleys Island Yacht Club and the Georgetown Cotillion.

The couple moved to Chapel Hill in 2004.

In addition to his wife of 63 years, Marion Cathcart Waters, he is survived by his son, David Clagett Waters Jr. (Leslie) of Umatilla, Fla.; his daughters, Elizabeth Cathcart Waters Sprinkle (Ralph) of Pawleys Island and Marion Eloise Waters Porter (Logan) of Greensboro, N.C.; his grandchildren, David Clagett “Clay” III (Lansdon) and Andrew Daniel Waters (Nicole), Elizabeth “Libba” Cathcart Sprinkle, and Marion McMaster, Sarah Frances, Henry Logan and Ruth Waters Porter; and his great-grandchildren, Ellis Clagett and Wyatt Spear Waters.

A funeral service will be held Saturday at 11 a.m. at All Saints Church.

Memorials may be made to the church, 3560 Kings River Rd., Pawleys Island, SC 29585 or the Salvation Army, PO Box 1330, Durham, NC 27702.

Condolences may be sent at ridgewayfh.com.

Carolyn White, 84, retired teacher

May 16, 2024

Carolyn Ann White of Chattanooga, Tenn., a former Pawleys Island resident, died April 27. She was 84.

She was born in El Paso, Texas, the daughter of Col. Claude Benjamin White and Margaret Ferratt White.

Carolyn can be described as a soul that loved with a wonderful sense of humor. She loved her parents, sons, daughter in-laws, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, sisters, nieces, friends, and students; as well as her four husbands, at least in the beginning.

She was passionate about teaching, cooking, gardening, antiquing, traveling, writing poetry and appreciating art.

She attended Granby High School in Norfolk, Va., where she was a class president, and graduated from Greenville High School in 1958. She attended Hollins College and earned a bachelor’s degree cum laude at Furman University in 1971. She earned a master’s degree in English and education at Converse College in 1973.

Ms. White taught English, French, journalism, math, debate and adult education during a career that spanned more than 30 years in South Carolina, Georgia and Tennesssee.

After teaching, she was a real estate agent and antique broker.

After getting her marriages annulled, she converted back to the Catholic faith.

She was a member of the Heritage Garden Club, Heritage Book Club, Cleveland Symphony Guild, Ocoee Garden Club and Cleveland Book Club, as well as a volunteer for Hobcaw Barony and Bellefield Plantation.

She is survived by her sons: James E. Lipscomb IV (Shan) of Greenville, Claude Benjamin Lipscomb (Pam) of Atlanta and Christopher M. Trainor (Molly) of Chattanooga; her grandchildren, Jackie Masters (Jeremiah), Owen M. Trainor, Caroline Trainor and May May Trainor; her great-grandchildren, Hughes Howard Masters and Hampton James Masters; and her sisters, Judy McDonald (Henry Leland) and Sally Herche.

Another grandson, James Wilkins Lipscomb, died before her. She also outlived three of her four husbands, James E Lipscomb III, Fred M Trainor and Paul E Bryant. Information about the fourth, Harold Tilley, was not available.

A graveside service was held May 10 at Forest Lawn Cemetery in Norfolk.

Memorials may be made to FAVOR Upstate, 355 Woodruff Rd., Suite 303, Greenville, SC 29607.

Carolyn Camlin, 89, business owner helped start art group

May 16, 2024

Carolyn Gaddy Camlin of Georgetown died May 6 at Georgetown Memorial Hospital after a brief illness. She was 89.

She was born Aug. 29, 1934, in Lake City, the daughter of Clifford Frederick Gaddy and May Belle Johnson Gaddy.

She graduated from Columbia College with a bachelor’s degree in English and carried her love for her major throughout her life. She taught school for a couple of years before leaving her teaching position to focus on raising her children.

She was married to the late Wade Overton Camlin III.

After her childrearing years, Mrs. Camlin owned and operated The Bath Etc. Shoppe, first in Pawleys Island and later on Front Street.

She was a longtime member of the Lydia Sunday School Class at First Baptist Church of Georgetown and the Winyah Indigo Society. She was a founding member of the Georgetown Watercolor Society.

Mrs. Camlin was a lady of many talents. Among them were watercolor painting, knitting, crafting, gardening, crocheting and needlepoint. She also designed the menu for her in-laws’ seafood restaurant. She had a great love for meeting and getting to know people wherever she went, and sharing about them with her family.

She was known for her big celebrations at her beach house on Pawleys Island where she loved cooking for family and friends. She also had a lifetime love of music and dancing. Her favorite dance was the shag, which she enjoyed for many years with her husband.

She is survived by her children, Sarah Daniel of Georgetown and Charles Camlin (Brett) of Texas; her daughter-in-law, Theresa Camlin of Moncks Corner; her grandchildren, Hannah, Alyssa, Kal, Dell, Halli, Paige and Charles Jr.; her great grandchildren, McKenna, Ellie, Wesley, Addi, Bennett, Charley, Luke and Myles; and many cousins.

She also had a furry companion, Livia.

Another son, Wade Overton Camlin IV, died before her, as did her brothers, Clifford and Andrew.

A funeral service was held May 11 at First Baptist Church by the Rev. Dr. Ted Sherrill. Burial was in Pennyroyal Memorial Gardens.

Memorials may be made to First Baptist Church, 219 Cleland St., Georgetown, SC 29440.

Nancy Sowell, nurse became music teacher

May 9, 2024

Nancy Warren Sowell of Pawleys Island died May 1.

She was born in Charlotte in 1939, the daughter of J.D. and Ruth Bennett Warren. She lived in Lancaster, Greenville and, finally, Pawleys Island to be closer to her family.

Mrs. Sowell was a dedicated registered nurse who trained at Mercy School of Nursing and Sacred Heart College in Belmont, N.C. Over her career she worked in just about every possible setting: intensive care, recovery, hospice and home health, as well as numerous practices including her last stint at her husband George’s OB-GYN office in Georgetown.

Mrs. Sowell’s lifelong passion was music. She was given piano and voice lessons as a child and spent a good part of her life returning that favor in various ways. Around the time of her retirement from nursing and her marriage to George, she returned to teaching piano and continued for 15 years.

Along the way she worked hard to become nationally certified as a teacher of music. She touched the lives of many students in the Pawleys area, not just as a teacher. She cared deeply for her students and encouraged them to succeed in small and large ways. She took them to recitals in nursing homes and led them to regional competitions as a coach and mentor.

She is survived by her husband, George A. Sowell; her sister, Emily Nelson of Pawleys Island; and her son, Rob Braswell of Portsmouth, N.H., and all their families.

She will be interred at St. Peter’s Lutheran Church, where she had previously been a long time member, music director, soloist and pianist and children’s choir director.

A memorial service and celebration of life will be scheduled in July.

Carl Reinhardt, 86, retired from international finance

April 25, 2024

Frederick Carl Reinhardt of Pawleys Island died April 7 in Myrtle Beach following a brief illness. He was 86.

Known as Carl, he was born June 10, 1937, in Pittsburgh, the son of Frederick and Grace Reinhardt. He attended Shady Side Academy, graduated from Harvard College and conducted post-graduate studies at the University of Michigan.

His career in international finance spanned over six decades, in three separate chapters. Mr. Reinhardt started as a corporate banker with Bank of America, working as a manager in Guatemala, Bolivia, Colombia and Panama before moving to London. He returned to New York City with his family, working in leadership positions with Banca Serfin and Allied Bank International.

Mr. Reinhardt then worked as a development banker with the Overseas Private Investment Corp. (now known as the U.S. International Development Finance Corp.) where he was director of Latin America Project Lending and director of Business Development.

The final chapter of his career was as an impact investor, serving as a founding partner of Dev Equity, a social impact fund active in Latin America.

He was remembered for his sharp mind, direct analysis and open heart. He was an original, shaped by his upbringing, global experiences, and deep convictions.

Mr. Reinhardt was an active parishioner of Holy Cross-Faith Memorial Episcopal Church and National Cathedral in Washington, D.C. His passions included listening to classical music, collecting unique art, travel and reading.

He is survived by his son, Peter Reinhardt of Summit, N.J.; his daughter, Elizabeth Bredahl (Thomas) of Darien, Conn.; nine grandchildren; and his life partner, Gail Whitehead of Conway.

Another daughter, Maria Reinhardt DeCesare, died before him.

A memorial service will be held June 10 at 4:30 p.m. at Holy Cross-Faith Memorial Episcopal Church.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to the Maria Fund at the University of Michigan, Shady Side Academy of Pittsburgh, or Holy Cross-Faith Memorial Episcopal Church.

There is a guestbook at burroughsfh.com.

Betty W. Joye, 78, led recreation programs

March 14, 2024

Betty Wescott Joye of Murrells Inlet died March 4 after a long battle with leukemia. She was 78.

She was born on July 3, 1945, in Honolulu, the daughter of Charles Wescott and Leatrice Tamanaha Wescott. After graduating from Admiral Radford High School, she attended the University of Hawaii in Honolulu and graduated with a bachelor’s degree in recreational leadership.

Following graduation she decided to go to stay with relatives in Tokyo. Her plane ticket routed her via Guam, so she decided to lay over there and visit family friends at the Naval Air Station. Having extended her stay another day, she met her future husband, Jerry. After dinner and a show that night, she gave him her mother’s address so he could write and left the next morning for Tokyo. Her mother forwarded his letters to her, and she began to correspond with him saying, “If you’re ever in Tokyo look me up.”

Two weeks later he did visit. Shortly thereafter, she returned to Guam, and they were married on Christmas Eve 1972. Their son Jerry Jr., known as JJ, was born nine months later.

Mr. Joye had two children from a previous marriage who were living with their mother in California. About a year after JJ’s birth Jerry was notified of their mother’s passing so he brought them to Guam. Betty welcomed them and helped to raise them as her own. When Mr. Joye retired from the Navy, they returned to his home state of South Carolina and settled in Pawleys Island.

Over the years Mrs. Joye used her recreational leadership skills in many ways. She was a certified personal trainer, led classes in aerobics, water aerobics, special water aerobics for arthritic patients, served as recreation director at a major hotel in Myrtle Beach and owners’ clubhouse director for a retirement community in Pawleys Island.

The couple attended All Saints Episcopal Church and were very active in various programs and in the Cursillo movement. Mrs. Joye served on 10 Cursillo weekend retreats, once as the lay rector leading the event. She accompanied Mr. Joye wherever his job took them until he retired in Santa Clarita, Calif. They spent two and a half years working and living in Yellowstone National Park and enjoyed exploring Wyoming, Montana and Idaho. Returning to South Carolina, they became founding members of The Abbey Anglican Church.

In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son Keith (Debbie) of Tabor City, N.C., her daughter Karen of Surfside Beach and her son JJ (Magda) of Sydney, Australia; her grandchildren, Angela Walls (Jim), Kara Bigham (Mike), Ashley Miller (Eric), Victoria Joye and Rheanna Adams, Cassie, Ian and Luke Joye; and her great-grandchildren, Steven and Madison Bigham, Brantley and Tucker Rorie, Ike, Cloe and Jacoby Blanton, William (Olivia), Ryan, Elizabeth and Amelia Walls.

Another grandchild, Christa Blanton, died before her.

At her request, no funeral service will be held. A celebration of her life will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to The Abbey, 46 Gathering Lane, Pawleys Island, SC 29585 (theabbeypawleysisland.com).

Shawn M. Bergeron, 49, social worker ran counseling service

March 7, 2024

Shawn Michael Bergeron of Murrells Inlet died March 2. He was 49.

He was born Jan. 20, 1975, in Portsmouth, N.H., the son of Richard and Cathy A. Bergeron. He grew up in Exeter, N.H., graduating from Exeter High School in 1993. He then graduated from Mount Saint Mary’s College in Emmitsburg, Md., in 1997 with a degree in psychology. He earned a master’s degree in social work from the University of New Hampshire, Durham, in 2003 and his independent social worker-clinical practice designation in 2010.

Mr. Bergeron loved being a social worker, first working with children and adolescents in a residential facility in Hampton, N.H. Once he earned his MSW, he worked with teens in a treatment program until 2004, when he relocated to Murrells Inlet.

Mr. Bergeron opened Bergeron Counseling Services in 2011. After he closed it he worked at the VA Hospital in the clinical department. He also served as the counselor of the Grand Strand Chapter of fairwaysforwarriors.org, an organization that helps combat veterans.

He enjoyed spending time with friends and family and was an avid volunteer. He loved helping to coach his daughters’ soccer and basketball teams.

After watching the girls’ karate classes, he worked hard and earned his black belt in 2021.

He is survived by his wife, Eryn; his daughters, Emma and Addyson; his brother, Christopher and his wife, Tia, of Pawleys Island; his niece, Kim, and nephew, Tyle; and several aunts, uncles and cousins.

A celebration of his life will be held at 6 p.m. today at Burroughs Funeral Home. A funeral Mass will take place at noon on Friday at Precious Blood of Christ Catholic Church.

Memorials can be made to his children’s education funds at Future Scholar 529, Peabody Wealth Advisors 150A Andover St., Suite 10A Danvers, MA 01923.

Andy Heck, 79, football career cut short by service in Marines

March 7, 2024

Andrew Wallace Heck of Litchfield Country Club, a football player who became a decorated Marine, died Feb. 29. He was 79. He was remembered for his charm, courage, resilience and compassion.

He was born Aug. 24, 1944, the son of Leroy Cameron Heck and Margaret Anderson Heck. He grew up in Cliffside Park, N.J. Andy excelled in athletics and built cherished lifelong friendships. His early success led to many accolades including an induction into the Cliffside Park High School Hall of Fame. He began his football career at McCook College in Nebraska, where he was named a junior college football All-American. He then played running back at Wake Forest University, exemplifying teamwork and dedication.

Upon graduation, he went on to play in the Canadian Football League. His time with the Hamilton Tiger-Cats was cut short by service in the Marine Corps during the Vietnam War. He earned two Purple Hearts and a Bronze Star.

After his discharge, Mr. Heck had a prosperous career with International Paper, which brought his family to Pawleys Island. He spent the last two years prior to his retirement as the president of Sylvania Lighting US.

He had a sweet tooth as big as his heart, and his generosity knew no bounds, his family said. Mr. Heck gave back to his community through mentorship, guiding and inspiring countless individuals with his wisdom and compassion. This also extended to his canine companion, Oscar, who was the recipient of morning coffee chats and shared ice cream bars.

He is survived by his wife of 53 years Marnie Stanley Heck; his sons, Cameron, Dylan and Ryan; his daughters-in-law, Paige and Erin; and his grandchildren, Cullen, Catherine, Andie and Rhodes.

His brother, Roy Carl Heck, died before him.

A memorial service will be held at 10 a.m. Saturday at Precious Blood of Christ Catholic Church.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to the Alzheimer’s Association.

Bill Echols, 81, lawyer was active in churches

February 22, 2024

William Richard Echols III of Pawleys Island died Feb. 16 at the Medical University of South Carolina. He was 81.

He was born Dec. 28, 1942, in Atlanta, the son of William R. Echols Jr. and Virginia Burdette Echols. Bill spent the majority of his youth in Charlotte, where he graduated from East Mecklenburg High School in 1960. He attended the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill as an undergrad and earned his law degree at UNC Law School. He was a lifelong Tarheel fan and rarely missed a game.

Mr. Echols began practicing law in 1966 and worked for law firms in Winston-Salem and Charlotte before starting his own private practice. Respected and known by his colleagues as a fun-loving practical joker, he could also hold a spontaneous Bible study anywhere.

Mr. Echols had a passion for coaching baseball, which he did for over 18 years. He coached a Babe Ruth Eastern Regional Tournament team that advanced to the World Series.

He was an active member of Calvary Church in Charlotte, where he used the teaching gift that God gave him to share the word of God for many years with over 100 people in his Sunday school class. He dedicated much of his time to mission work. For over 22 years, he traveled for mission outreach to South Africa, Kenya, Guatemala and Albania.

After a successful career in real estate law, Mr. Echols and his wife retired to Pawleys Island, where they became active members of Pawleys Island Community Church. He helped teach in Sunday school classes and small groups. He also worked on the mission board.

He is survived by his wife of over 58 years, Elizabeth Echols; his children, Nancy Williams of Burlington, N.C., Clinton Echols (Heather) of Moncks Corner, Elizabeth Hutchins (Brett) of Mount Pleasant and “adopted son” Reggie Clark; his grandchildren, Brooke Williams, Avery Echols (Sarah), Wesley Echols, Carson Ellis, Caroline Echols, Jordan Ellis, Houston Hutchins, Hayden Hutchins and Harris Hutchins; his great-grandchildren, Parker Williams and Eli William Echols, who is on the way; his sister, Vicki Lynn Bignon (Eddie) of Irmo; and his nephews and cousins.

A celebration of his life will be held Feb. 26 at 10:30 a.m. at Pawleys Island Community Church. Visitation will follow. A celebration will be held March 5 at 3 p.m. in the Calvary Church Chapel in Charlotte.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to the Building Fund (Make Room) at Pawleys Island Community Church, 10304 Ocean Highway, Pawleys Island, SC 29585 (pawleysisland.church), the Fellowship of Christian Athletes at my.fca.org or Calvary Church (missions), 5801 Pineville Matthews Rd. Charlotte, NC 28226 (calvarychurch.com).

There is a guest book at burroughsfh.com.

Jonathan L. Dieter, 100, Navy veteran started real estate firm

February 15, 2024

Jonathan Lucas Dieter, a World War II veteran who started a real estate and insurance company, died Feb. 10 at his home on Pawleys Island. He was 100.

Mr. Dieter was born into a world recovering from World War I, on July 8, 1923, in Columbia. He was a son of the late George Herman Dieter and the late Caroline Lucas Dieter.

After graduating from high school, Mr. Dieter studied at the University of South Carolina, joined the KA fraternity and the Naval ROTC. He was at USC when Pearl Harbor was attacked, prompting him to accelerate his studies and graduate early. He graduated in October 1943, was commissioned as an ensign and received orders from the Navy the same day.

Mr. Dieter was sent to the Pacific and joined the USS Montpelier, a light cruiser, as a gunnery officer. During his 28 months aboard, the ship took part in the Battle of the Philippine Sea and the invasions of Saipan, Tinian and Guam.

In November 1944, the Montpelier was part of a fleet that faced the first kamikaze attacks from the Japanese, involving 400 suicide pilots over three days. Mr. Dieter said in a 2019 interview that he made sure to go to church every Thanksgiving after that. “To give thanks to the good Lord for blessing us,” he said.

Following his discharge, Mr. Dieter embarked on a new chapter marrying the former Margaret Hardee Tucker in 1946 and founding his own insurance agency in Columbia. In 1974 they moved to Pawleys Island, where he partnered with Pawleys Island Realty and later started the Dieter Company Real Estate/Insurance.

Mr. Dieter’s unwavering faith remained the cornerstone of his life. He had a great love for his church, The Abbey at Pawleys Island, and his commitment to reading his Bible daily, served as a constant reminder of the goodness and love that abounded in the world.

Mr. Dieter’s greatest happiness came from the cherished moments spent with his beloved family. He will be remembered for his resilience in the face of adversity, his unwavering dedication to his family and country and his tireless efforts to serve his community, his family said.

He is survived by his two sons, Dr. Jonathan L. Dieter Jr. (Jan) of Conway and Tucker Dieter (Kimmie) of Pawleys Island; four grandchildren, Lucas Adams (Reid) of Charleston, Caroline Bush (Dan) of Atlanta, Will Dieter (Lauren) of Pawleys Island and Tuck Dieter (Taylor) of Lexington; seven great-grandchildren; his sister-in-law, Marian Dieter of Mount Pleasant; and numerous nieces and nephews.

Mrs. Dieter died in 2015. Mr. Dieter’s two brothers, Robert Dieter and George Dieter, and his sister, Caroline Simons, died before him.

His family thanked his caregivers: Sharon, Cathy, Deanna, Diane, Dana, Ginger and Rochelle.

A family graveside service was held Tuesday in the All Saints Church Cemetery.

Memorials may be made to The Abbey at Pawleys Island, 46 Gathering Lane, Pawleys Island, SC 29585 or the Epworth Children’s Home, 2900 Millwood Ave. Columbia, SC 29202

Condolences may be sent at ridgewayfh.com.

James Clem, 82, map maker became mayor of Va. town

February 8, 2024

James Elmore Clem of Murrells Inlet died Jan. 26. He was 82.

He was born Jan. 6, 1942, in Floyd, Va., the son of Willis Covet Clem and Virginia Perrien Cannaday Clem.

A long-time resident of Leesburg, Va., Mr. Clem retired in 1996 after 37 years as a cartographer program manager at the former Defense Mapping Agency in Washington, D.C., and then became the owner of Colonial Funeral Home of Leesburg until 2013. In 2010, he became vice president of business development at SCS Safety Health and Security Associates.

Mr. Clem was appointed to the Leesburg Town Council in 1987 and was subsequently elected to a four-year term in 1990. He was elected as mayor in 1992 and was re-elected to three more two-year terms. He then served as the Leesburg District representative on the Loudoun County Board of Supervisors from 2003 to 2007.

He was a life member and past president with the Leesburg Volunteer Fire Company, a life member of the Olive Branch Masonic Lodge 114 and a member of the Leesburg Hosts Lion Club.

After moving to Murrells Inlet in 2009, Mr. Clem became active in community and church activities. He served on the Links Brook community’s architectural review committee and for many years on the board of the property owners association.

He is survived by his wife of 58 years, Connie Leigh Clem; his daughter, Stacy Lynn Skinner (Douglas) of Leesburg; his granddaughter, Kiley Anne Kirkpatrick (Raymond) of Purcellville, Va.; his great-grandchildren, Savannah Rae Kirkpatrick and Raymond “Mack” Kirkpatrick; his sister, Barbara Ann Miller of Bolivia, N.C.; and his sister-in-law, Roberta Elgin (John) of Conway;

His brother, Richard Clem, and stepbrother, Herman Clem, died before him.

Every Sunday, Mr. Clem would greet people at the side door of the Surfside United Methodist Church. A celebration of his life will be held at the Church at 11 a.m. on Feb. 17. A reception will follow in the Fellowship Hall.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to the church, 800 13th Ave. N., Surfside Beach, SC 29757 or the Leesburg Volunteer Fire Co., P.O. Box 2577, Leesburg, VA 20177.

Lou Lachicotte, 57, retired CEO of family’s real estate business

January 25, 2024

Martha Louise Lachicotte of Pawleys Island died Jan. 22 at her home. She was 57.

Known at Lou, she was born Feb. 11, 1966, in Georgetown, the daughter of Martha Louise McDonald Lachicotte and the late Arthur Herbert “Doc” Lachicotte Jr.

She grew up at Pawleys Island, enjoying countless days spent with friends and family enjoying time looking for sea shells, as well as swimming and fishing in Pawleys Creek. She graduated from Winyah High School, where she was a member of the tennis and highstepper teams as well as the secretary of the National Honor Society. She earned a bachelor’s degree in communications from Randolph-Macon Woman’s College in Lynchburg, Va.

She returned to Pawleys Island and embarked on a career at Plantation Federal Bank. She later discovered her passion for real estate, and from 2008 to 2018 she worked alongside her father, serving as the president and CEO of The Lachicotte Co. Her relentless work ethic and passion for showing others the splendor of her native area led the company to new heights, and gave countless families the privilege of calling the Pawleys Island community their new home.

Ms. Lachicotte was deeply involved in the community and served on several boards including the Friends of Brookgreen Gardens, Teach My People and the Humanities Advancement Board at Clemson University. She was also a member of the vestry at All Saints Church, Waccamaw.

She was remembered as bright, beautiful and a devoted friend to many. Her cheerful personality was infectious. She loved life and people, and was always up for an adventure. She loved to travel, dine on delicious food and entertain friends in true Pawleys Island style. She loved openly and honestly, always finding the good in everyone she met. Her friends said that they never heard her say anything bad about anyone. She was grounded in her faith in Jesus Christ.

In addition to her mother, she is survived by her son, Adam R. Lachicotte; and her sisters, Cecile L. Spivey and Virginia L. Aimar.

A service celebrating her life was held Wednesday at All Saints Church.

Memorials may be made to Teach My People at teachmypeople.com or P.O. Box 2848, Pawleys Island, SC 29585 .

Condolences may be sent at ridgewayfh.com.

Warren Johnston, 77, newsman started Crawfish Festival

January 4, 2024

Warren Johnston, a veteran newsman who got his start in Georgetown and Pawleys Island before tours of duty in six cities over four decades, died Dec. 9 at the Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 77. The cause was complications of cardiac surgery.

In a long and prolific career, Mr. Johnston had stints as a bureau chief at The Tampa Tribune, as an editor at the Las Vegas Sun and as editor, reporter and columnist at the Valley News in New Hampshire. Low key and gentle, but with high standards, he was an unflappable journalist, described by his co-worker, Mark Davis as a “true Southern gentleman” who epitomized the very best traits of the expression – soft spoken and slow to anger. The long-time food writer and restaurant critic at The Tampa Tribune, Mary Scourtes, remembers him as an “authoritative editor who knew how to weigh a situation critically, while helping a reporter craft a story in the best possible light.”

He was born June 23, 1946, in Atlanta, the youngest of four sons of Richard B. and Jane Dillon Johnston. He attended North Fulton High School where he was twice elected class president, served on the student council and, like his brothers, played football and ran track. He earned a bachelor’s degree in history from the University of Georgia in 1969. After a start in commercial real estate in Atlanta, he went on to open a restaurant with Louis Osteen, a longtime friend who later became a James Beard recognized chef. Unfulfilled by these early work experiences, Mr. Johnston spent a year in the graduate journalism program at the University of Georgia. There he met Sandy Gaines, a beautiful art student who he married on July 29, 1978. Friends recall that from then on, the couple were regarded as one word, “warrenandsandy” – “you never thought of them separately.”

In the late 1970s, Mr. Johnston worked as a reporter at The Georgetown Times and then at the Pawleys Island Perspective, a monthly magazine. He and Mr. Osteen, who died in 2019, came up with the idea of starting the S.C. Crawfish Festival at Pawleys Island as a way to promote aquaculture in the former ricefields.

Mr. Johnston was perhaps best known as a mentor and leader who helped shape the careers of numerous young journalists, encouraging them to approach their stories from a personal perspective, and bring humanity to bear in the telling. He was a fearless boss, uncompromising in his commitment to his team and extremely generous to those people he loved. Famous for defending his reporters from imperious editors, he advised them not to be afraid, to stand their ground and cover the story. He made work fun, appreciated the good times, and his staff loved him in return. In doing so, he fostered teams so devoted to him that even 30 years later, remembrances evoked comments like that of Tampa’s Susan Snyder. “We trusted him. I would have walked in front of a bus if he asked me to.” Fellow reporter Geoff Mohan, who went on to a long career at the LA Times, recalled that, “He encouraged me to do new things, to approach a story differently.” Dan Turner, who later served as communications director for Mississippi Gov. Haley Barbour, said, “He made us better than we were, better than we could have been without him and dammit, we had a helluva time.”

In every place he lived, Mr. Johnston left behind a trail of good will and affection, of friends enriched by his compassion, his kindnesses and good cooking, of rescued pets and rehabilitated homes. In his legacy, are communities improved through his activism – the rice fields rejuvenated as a result of the Pawleys Island Crawfish festival that he founded with Osteen, producing sustenance and jobs for the community for more than a decade. In Raeford, N.C., and Natchez, Miss., the economic impact that resulted from his founding of the Turkey Festival and the Balloon Festival remains today. Following retirement from his last job at the Valley News and while living in Vermont’s Upper Valley, he was involved with the Upper Valley Trails and importantly worked with the Alliance for Vermont Communities, responsible for stopping the New Vistas project, a planned community that had it succeeded would have desecrated that pristine community.

Emmy Award winning journalist and Las Vegas colleague Mark Shaffer echoes the sentiments of many: “I learned more about life, journalism, food, wine, and patience from Warren in my short time in Vegas than in all the years prior. His loss is immense.”

In addition to his wife of 45 years, Sandy Gaines Johnston of South Royalton, Vt., his is survived by his brothers, Dr. Richard B. Johnston Jr. of Denver and Charles L. Johnston of Atlanta.

His other brother, W. Dillon Johnston, died before him.

Memorials may be made to The Vermont Food Bank at vtfoodbank.org.

Dian S. Hammett, 85, teacher became award-winning artist

January 4, 2024

Dian Shaylor Hammett of Spartanburg, an artist and former Georgetown resident, died Dec. 17. She was 85.

She was born Feb. 11, 1938, in Camden, the daughter of Edward and Sadie Shaylor. She graduated from Camden High School and, in 1960, Columbia College, where she was crowned Miss Columbia College in 1958. After earning her bachelor’s degree, she taught U.S. history and geography at Bamberg, Dorman and Georgetown high schools.

She was married to the late Lamar G. Hammett.

Mrs. Hammett began to study art as a hobby in the 1970s and began painting full time after 28 years of teaching. She once explained that “painting is what I do for fun. My hope is that you will find pleasure in my paintings as they remind you of something you have seen, a place you have been, or a feeling you have had.”

Over time, pastel and watercolor realistic paintings had evolved into abstract and non-objective work. She was a member of the Southeastern Pastel Society, S.C. Watercolor Society, Georgetown Watercolor Society, Waccamaw Arts and Crafts Guild, Spartanburg Artists’ Guild, Charleston Art Guild and the International Society of Experimental Artists. Her paintings have been included in dozens of shows and juried exhibitions. She was the recipient of numerous awards including Best in Show at the 1999 Harborwalk Show, the top award at the S.C. State Fair in 2000 and first place in the Charleston Artists’ Guild Show in 2021.

Mrs. Hammett’s paintings can be found in private and corporate collections throughout the United States, Germany, Switzerland, France and Singapore.

She is survived by her son, Eddie Hammett (Marcia Baker) and his children, Camille and Gunnar, of Concord, N.C.; her daughter, Leslie Westbrook (Terry) of Cross Hill and their children, Amanda and Thomas of Gilbert, Ariz; her brother, John Shaylor (Linda) of Camden; and many nieces and nephews.

Funeral services were Dec. 28 at First Presbyterian Church in Spartanburg.

Memorials may be made to the Amy Whitaker Endowed Scholarship of Columbia College, Attn: Office of Advancement, 1301 Columbia College Dr., Columbia, SC 29203 (columbiasc.edu) or to the charity of your choice.

Cheryl L. Eckard, 62, Maryland business woman

January 4, 2024

Cheryl Lynn Eckard of Pawleys Island died Nov. 27 at her home with her fiancé by her side. She was 62.

She was born Oct. 30, 1961, the daughter of Doris Ingle and the late Eugene Stout. She grew up on a farm in Taneytown, Md., then moved to Hagerstown, Md., where she would spend most of her remaining life. She met her fiancé, Bradley Myers, in 2002 at her friend LuBeth’s Bluesfest Party in Hagerstown. They retired to Pawleys Island in August 2020.

Ms. Eckard worked many years as a waitress at Nick’s Airport Inn, where she had a long list of regulars who asked for her by name. She was CEO and owner of The Farmer’s Daughter, owner of Cheryl Eckard Environmental Services and CEO and co-owner of Pop Pop’s Kettle Corn.

She and Mr. Myers could be seen there most weekends for nearly eight years at the Funkstown Fire Hall parking lot. She offered her warmth and exuberance to all her customers and he would always add a joke.

She loved the beach, looking for seashells, cooking and gardening. She was a self-described homebody and a life-long cat mom.

She was remembered as a perpetual optimist who saw the good in all people and all things. She was strong in her faith and a model of human kindness.

In addition to her fiancé and her mother, Doris Buccigrossi of Pawleys Island, she is survived by her nieces, Nadine Nelson (John) their children John III, Thomas and Noradine of Colorado Springs, Colo., and Katherina Elliott (Logan) of Hagerstown; and several aunts and cousins.

In addition to her father, her brother, Eugene Ronald Stout, and her grandmother, Evelyn A. Stout, died before her.

A celebration of her life will be held in Pawleys Island at a later date.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to Agape Hospice and Palliative Care at hpcfoundation.org or St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, 501 St. Jude Place, Memphis, TN 38105. Condolences may be sent at burroughsfh.com or osbornefuneralhome.net.

Robert M. ‘Beaver’ Balding, 88, former LCC golf director

December 21, 2023

Robert Mathews “Beaver” Balding, 88, of Litchfield passed away on Dec. 15, 2023.

Beaver was born Dec. 28, 1934 in New York. He was the son of Dorothy Davis and Barney Balding. He grew up in Old Brookville, Long Island, on a family estate where his grandfather, Joe Davis, had racing stables and then his father, Barney, managed them later as boarding and riding stables. His father Barney and two of his brothers were very well-renowned polo players in England and in the United States.

Beaver’s family began wintering Aiken in 1940 when he was a young boy and he attended Aiken Prep School, where he excelled in many sports. During his school years in Aiken, and later, at boarding school at St. Marks, in Southboro, Mass., Beaver participated in horseback riding, golf, baseball, basketball, track, archery, tennis and bicycle polo. He became most talented at golf though and was a Junior Champion in Long Island at the Creek Club and won a Pro-Am at age 16. He won many tournaments, several times taking the Mother-Son titles with his mother, Dot, who was also an excellent player. Beaver was a scratch golfer and had 6 holes in one. He spent much of his lifetime playing with friends and family.

Beaver served in the Army after attending the University of Houston. He was with American Express Company, managed the Georgetown Airport and was the Director of Golf at Litchfield Country Club.

In 1962, Beaver moved to the coast of South Carolina where he would spend the rest of his life. For many years, he volunteered with Pawley’s Island-Litchfield Rescue, where he drove the ambulance, winning the driver of the year award from 1998-2003. He was also the Assistant Chief in 2004. He served on the Georgetown Hospital Foundation board for several years and was the longest living member of the Litchfield Country Club. He was instrumental in running the Litchfield Labor Day Classic which was a great amateur tournament for many years.

Beaver always had a twinkle in his eye and such a great sense of humor. He loved learning new things and helping people in any way he could. He loved his family and loved spending time with Sharon, his longtime girlfriend.

Beaver is survived by his daughter, Dawn Balding Pate (Fen); his son, Robert Mathews “Matt” Balding Jr. (Eve); a stepson Phillip Vanderbilt Brady; grandchildren Allston Pate Shore (Royall), Emerson Fennell Pate, Margaret Pringle Balding, Sara Mathews Balding and one great-grandson, Robert Royall Shore. He was predeceased by a brother, Bruce Balding, and a stepson, Kenneth Parsons Brady. He is also survived by the love of his life, Sharon McCullough, with whom he shared many wonderful experiences and memories over the past 20 years.

Mayer-Etheridge Funeral Home is handling the arrangements and a memorial service will be announced at a later date. Donations may be made to St. Francis Animal Center or Midway Fire and Rescue.

Linda Sandoe, 85, married her junior high sweetheart

December 14, 2023

Linda Lou Knight Sandoe of Georgetown died Monday in Pawleys Island, surrounded by her family. She was 85.

She was born Jan. 3, 1938, in Washington, D.C., the daughter of Audrey Norbury and John E. Knight.

She worked as a legal secretary before marrying William E. Oberst in 1958 and relocating to Georgetown. Married for 30 years, they raised three children and started and ran a successful business together.

At age 70, Linda reconnected with her junior high school sweetheart, Paul W. Sandoe, whom she married in 2009 on her 71st birthday. They enjoyed nearly 15 happy years together in Georgetown.

Mrs. Sandoe was of strong Christian faith and she lived and demonstrated it every day.

Baptized an Episcopalian, she was a member of All Saints Church and Wayne Methodist Church and Victory Christian Fellowship in Georgetown.

She loved to sing in church, where her beautiful voice could be heard above those around her, and she always sang with a big smile on her face.

Mrs. Sandoe was known for her generosity and thoughtfulness, and she found no greater pleasure than doing for others.

In addition to her husband, she is survived by her children, Patricia Oberst Whitney of Union, William E. Oberst Jr. of Pawleys Island and Michael Alan Oberst of Georgetown and their spouses; her grandsons, Michael David Oberst of New York and William English Whitney III of Columbia and their spouses; her great-grandson, William English Whitney IV; her sister-in-law, Loretta Knight; her nieces and nephews, John Knight, George Knight and Janet Lee; and her step-daughters, Debbie Bruce and Janet Brown.

Her brother, John W. Knight, died before her.

Her family will receive visitors from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. Saturday at Mayer-Etheridge Funeral Home.

A funeral service will be held at 2 p.m. Sunday at the Pawleys Island Chapel, followed by a private family burial service at Pennyroyal Gardens in Georgetown.

A guest book is available at mayerfuneralhome.com.

Memorials may be made to Helping Hands of Georgetown (helpinghandsofgeorgetown.org).

Her family thanked her caregivers, Ella Graham and Edith Weaver, and the caregiving staffs of The Landings of Georgetown and Arbor Landing of Pawleys.

Boyd DuMont, 65, co-founder of construction firm

November 16, 2023

Boyd David DuMont of Hagley Estates, co-founder of DuMont Brothers Construction Co., died Nov. 11 surrounded by his family. He was 65.

He was born Jan. 4, 1958, in Malone, N.Y., the second of six children of David and K. Clare DuMont. He grew up in Potsdam, N.Y., and began working at a young age in his father’s construction company. He learned early in life the importance of hard work and the value of a large, loving family. Following graduation from Potsdam High School in 1976, Boyd attended Canton Agricultural and Technical College where he took courses related to the building industry. He soon started working full-time in his father’s business, where he learned the skills of all the different jobs needed to build and remodel homes.

Mr. DuMont married Suzanne Griffin in 1980. They moved to South Carolina in 1982. He co-founded DuMont Brothers Builders with his father and brother and worked tirelessly to ensure its success. That success was one of his greatest accomplishments. He was also proud of creating, with his wife, a loving and supportive family, all of whom are hard workers and family focused.

In his spare time, he enjoyed being with family and friends, camping in the Adirondacks, boating, playing with his grandkids and completing any and all chores around the house. In addition to his wife and his mother, he is survived by his children, Nathanael DuMont (Angie), Danielle Hodson (David), Griffin DuMont (Brittany), Adham DuMont (Megan), Brigette DuMont, Victoria DuMont, Noah DuMont and Katelynn DuMont; three grandchildren, Nolan Hodson, Harper DuMont and Luke DuMont; and his siblings, Michael DuMont, Stephen DuMont, Gregory DuMont and Jennifer Pankau.

In addition to his father, his brother Matthew DuMont died before him.

A visitation will be held Friday from 2 to 4 p.m. at Goldfinch Funeral Home’s Pawleys Island chapel. The family will hold a private service at a later date.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to Amedisys Hospice, 402 Singleton Ridge Rd. Conway, SC 29526.

There is a guest book at goldfinchfuneralhome.com.

Cathy Tullos, 66, nurse worked with older adults

November 9, 2023

Cathryn Marie Harrell Tullos of Pawleys Island died Aug. 22 at Waccamaw Community Hospital after a brief illness. She was 66.

Known as Cathy, she was born Dec. 1, 1956, in Selma, Ala., to James and Joyce Harrell.

She was of the Baptist faith.

A registered nurse, she was employed with Pruitt Health Services of Norcross, Ga., as a senior nursing consultant for nursing homes in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia. Most of her 42-year nursing career was spent tending to the needs and well-being of patients under generic care.

She held a deep conviction that her work was for the betterment and protection of residents in the nursing homes on her watch.

She was previously employed in the intensive care unit of Georgetown Memorial Hospital, before being named director of nursing at Prince George Healthcare in Georgetown and later at Conway Manor, prior to joining Pruitt Health.

Mrs. Tullos received her registered nursing degree in 1991 from the University of South Carolina-Coastal Carolina College, now Coastal Carolina University.

She also attended college at the University of Alabama-Birmingham, Montevallo University and Auburn University-Montgomery.

She received her licensed practical nursing degree from George C. Wallace Community College in 1980. She received numerous accolades in the field of nursing, and notably served on the front line during the COVID-19 pandemic.

She was a fan of athletic programs at Auburn and the University of Alabama before meeting her husband, Jesse Carlton Tullos Jr., a University of Georgia graduate. Her allegiances soon changed to cheering for the Red and Black. She was also a long-time Atlanta Braves fan.

Mrs. Tullos loved the outdoors, especially the beaches of Florida and Alabama in her younger years, and Pawleys Island beach after moving to South Carolina in 1988.

Her greatest joy in life was her family. She was proud of her two children, and was ecstatic to learn two weeks before her death that she would become a grandmother for the first time.

She loved her many friends, both old and new, as well as her fur babies, Ollie and Hampton.

In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son, Jesse Carlton Tullos III (Margaret) of Atlanta; her daughter, Adrienne Tullos Fontenot (Joshua) of Pawleys Island; two brothers, James Harrell of Enterprise, Ala., and the Rev. Michael Harrell of Perdido Beach, Ala.; her special aunt, Elna Scales, formerly of Selma; and a number of cousins, nieces and nephews.

Nick Papadea, 81, broker was a Brookgreen volunteer

October 26, 2023

A. Nicholas Papadea of Columbia died Oct. 15. He was 81.

Known as Nick, he was born in Columbia, a son of Nicholas Apostolos Papadea and Marina Capilos Papadea. He graduated from Dreher High School and the Georgia Institute of Technology with a bachelor’s degree in textiles. At Georgia Tech, he was a member of the NROTC, the National Society of Scabbard and Blade and the Sigma Chi fraternity.

After graduation, he was commissioned as an officer in the Navy and stationed in San Diego with his new wife, Mary. He served as a supply officer on the USS Sumner County during the Vietnam War.

After his service, he returned home and continued his education at the University of South Carolina, earning a MBA. His first job was with Robinson Humphrey in Columbia, and he continued to work as a stock broker until his death.

Mr. Papadea was a member of Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox Cathedral in Columbia and St. John the Baptist Greek Orthodox Church in Myrtle Beach.

He was a passionate volunteer who gave his time to numerous organizations including the Red Cross and Brookgreen Gardens. He loved animals, especially golden retrievers, and could often be found walking in the neighborhood or playing on the beach with one of his beloved dogs.

“Big Nick,” as he was affectionately known, was remembered as a character with a big personality. Everyone who met him undoubtedly has a funny story to tell. He was quick with a smile and a loud greeting, and he was always eager to give a high five.

He is survived by his wife of 59 years, Mary Lynn Papadea; his son, Dr. Nicholas A. Papadea (Meredith), and grandchildren, Ella Marina Nicholas Papadea and Apostolos Nicholas Papadea, of Murrells Inlet; his sister, Dr. Christine Papadea of Murrells Inlet; his brother, Jim Papadea of Columbia; his nephew, Dr. N. Jim Papadea (Maggie) of Columbia; his niece, Kate Papadea of Columbia; and his sister-in-law, Claudia Swygert (JB) of West Columbia.

A graveside service will be held at noon today at Fort Jackson National Cemetery.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to the Emergency Dental Clinic at Helping Hands of Georgetown, 1813 Highmarket St., Georgetown, SC 29440.

Condolences may be sent at dunbarfunerals.com.

Bud Knittel, 80, Cubs draft pick became high school coach

October 26, 2023

Henry Thomas Knittel Jr. of the Tradition Club, a former educator and coach, died Oct. 14 after a long battle with Parkinson’s disease. He was 80.

Known as Bud, he was born March 4, 1943, in Astoria, Queens, N.Y., the oldest child of Victoria and Henry Knittel, who was also known as Bud. He grew up in Franklin Square, Long Island.

Young Bud was an extraordinary athlete and a fierce competitor, and he earned a basketball scholarship to St. John’s Prep. He was named to the 1961 All-New-York-City Basketball Team and accepted a basketball scholarship at Holy Cross, where he also played baseball. While at Holy Cross, he pitched in the famed summer Cape Cod Baseball League, and was reputed to have pitched balls at 95 mph.

He earned a bachelor’s degree in English from Holy Cross and was drafted by the Chicago Cubs, where he pitched in the minor leagues for one year.

When his oldest child was born, he left the Cubs to start a long career that included his love for sports, coaching, teaching and counseling.

Mr. Knittel took a job as English teacher and basketball coach at LaSalle Military Academy on Long Island. He and his first wife, Janice, then moved to Fairfield, Conn., where they raised their four children.

Mr. Knittel worked as a guidance counselor and basketball coach at Bassick High School in Bridgeport, Conn., and led his team to win the MBIAC Basketball Championship in 1976. He then became a guidance counselor and basketball coach at Andrew Warde / Fairfield Warde High School in Fairfield, Conn., where he finished out his career.

Mr. Knittel was a thoughtful and empathetic counselor to generations of Warde students and was passionate about helping them find their best fit in college and in life.

Over the course of his career, he also earned master’s degrees in English, counseling and special education.

Mr. Knittel was a scratch golfer for much of his adult life and a two-time club champion at H. Smith Richardson Golf Course in Fairfield.

He and Kathy Kenny were married in 1996. They retired to Pawleys Island in 2004 and Mr. Knittel got his long-awaited golden retriever, Harvey. They had many long, happy walks together.

Some of his other joys included lingering over long meals with family and friends, lasagna (he made it every week), red wine, chocolate, a good cup of coffee, reading every newspaper he could find, watching golf on television, buying golf clubs on eBay and quoting passages from Shakespeare.

A life-long Catholic, he found meaning and comfort in his faith.

In addition to his wife, he is survived by his sister, Jackie (Chuck); his brother, Richard; his children Christie (Charles), Robin (Howard), Marcelle and Gary; his grandchildren, Jack (Ivy), Matthew, Kate, Max, Tucker and Isabella; and his nieces, Kim, Kristen, Casey and Katie.

A funeral mass will be held Nov. 11 at 11 a.m. at Precious Blood of Christ Catholic Church.

Memorials may be made to the Parkinson’s Foundation or to Precious Blood of Christ Catholic Church.

Sandy Graham, 82, former jewelry company executive

October 26, 2023

Campbell L. Graham of DeBordieu died Oct. 16 at Georgetown Memorial Hospital following a short illness. He was 82

Known as Sandy, he was born May 18, 1941, the son of John C. “Jack” Graham and Mary Luke “Polly” Graham. He was raised in Bedford, N.Y., and attended the Harvey School in Katonah, N.Y. He graduated from St Paul’s School in Concord, N.H., in 1958. After a year at the Hill School in Pottstown, Pa., he attended Williams College, where he earned a degree in Spanish in 1963.

He then joined the Army, serving in the military police. The highlight of his time in the Army was helping ensure the peace during Martin Luther King’s march from Selma to Montgomery in 1965, where Army MPs dressed as National Guardsman so as not to incite the crowds.

In 1968, he met Christie Krementz in Paget, Bermuda. They married in 1970.

Mr. Campbell found a passion for gemstones, and could recount the history, lore and origin of practically all types from around the world. He was vice president of both Krementz & Co. and Krementz Gemstones, in Newark, N.J., where he worked for 40 years. Krementz & Co., founded in 1866, was one of the oldest and largest manufacturers of men’s and women’s jewelry in the United States.

Respected as a gentleman, he loved playing bridge and was an avid golfer, playing at DeBordieu, Somerset Hills C.C., in Bernardsville, N.J., and the Bedford Golf and Tennis Club. At Somerset Hills, he won the President’s Cup tournament in 1974 and 1986, and with his wife won the Jane Goss Memorial Tournament in 1995.

Mr. Campbell also loved to travel. From England to Paris, Scotland, South Africa and Utah he had a gift for connecting and sharing stories, building friendships wherever he went.

In addition to his wife of 53 years, he is survived by his children, Paget of Georgetown, Ian (Priscilla) of Nantucket, Mass., and Eric (Kris) of Park City, Utah; his brother, John C. Graham Jr. (Sharon Kleckner) of St. Paul, Minn.; his grandchildren, Priscilla, Virginia, Charlotte, Luke and Nicholas Graham; and a step-grandchild, Dougherty.

His sister, Margot Graham Lord Moncure, died before him.

A memorial service will be held Nov. 4 at 10 a.m., at Georgetown Presbyterian Church. A reception will follow in the fellowship hall.

Memorials may be made to Special Olympics.

Susan Gibbons, 74, real estate agent

October 19, 2023

Susan Gibbons of Litchfield Country Club died Oct. 16 surrounded by loved ones. She was 74.

She was born Nov. 11, 1948, in Hackensack, N.J., the daughter of Fred and Rhoda Bohrman. She spent her early years in Wilkes Barre, Pa., before her family settled down in Cheltenham, where she completed high school. She studied at Penn State, hitchhiked through Europe and taught special education.

Mrs. Gibbons lived an adventurous life, sharing most of those adventures with her husband, James “Gibon” Gibbons, whom she met in San Francisco. They moved across the country and made their home in Pawleys Island. She became a highly successful real estate agent who prioritized her relationships with clients.

Simply being a good person and sharing kindness were her guiding life principles, her family said. When she faced her own health decline, she did so with bravery and grace.

She is survived by her nieces, Casey, Jenny, Amanda and Rebecca; her nephew, David; her brother and sisters-in-laws, Fred, Lynne and Evalyn; and Mr. Gibbon’s nieces and nephew, Dave Gibbons, Susan Bachtle and Paul Gibbons.

Mr. Gibbon died before her, as did her brother, Jeffrey.

A celebration of her life will be held at 11 a.m. Saturday at her home.

Holli H. Fowler, 66, award-winning radio personality

October 19, 2023

Holli Hatchell Fowler of Murrells Inlet died Oct. 3 at her home. She was 66.

She was born Aug. 16, 1957, in Spartanburg, the daughter of Ed and Ann Hatchell. She spent her early life in Gold Hill, N.C.

She was a photographer in the Army, an actress, artist, radio personality and lover of all things beautiful. She directed and acted in many productions at the Florence Little Theater, Main Street Theater in Conway, Murrells Inlet Community Theater, Midtown Theater in Charleston, Unto These Hills in Cherokee, N.C., and “Always Patsy Cline” at The Palace and Savoy theaters in Myrtle Beach.

In 1996 and 1997, she was named Radio Personality of the year (Holli Heart and the character “Liza Louise”) by the S.C. Music and Entertainment Association and the S.C. Broadcasters Association.

She was passionate about charity during her time on the air and took advantage of any opportunity to raise money for the American Heart Association, Make-A-Wish Foundation and local families in need. In 2010, she received an associate’s degree with honors in human services from Horry-Georgetown Technical College.

Whether she was playing the spoons to a favorite blues jam, treasure hunting at yard sales and antique stores, or stopping on the side of the road to dig up wildflowers or take a picture of the sunset, Mrs. Fowler always did her best to appreciate and experience the beauty of life, and freely offered love, wisdom and encouragement to those around her, her family said.

She is survived by her children, Joshua Fowler of Myrtle Beach and David Chastain of Seattle; her grandchildren, Ava Chastain, Henry-David Chastain, Ezekiel Fowler and Ezra Fowler; her siblings, Susan Averitt of Rock Hill, Trey Morgan of Sumter and Merry Morgan of Darlington.

In addition to her parents, her stepfather, Jack Morgan, died before her

A celebration of her life will be held in Gold Hill and Murrells Inlet at a later date.

There is a guest book at burroughsfh.com.

Betsy Brabson, 69, artist became leader in sea turtle protection

October 19, 2023

A walk on the beach in the summer of 1991 changed Betsy Brabson’s life. She and her family and just moved to DeBordieu from Charlotte. She saw a crowd and went to investigate.

Jeff McClary, co-founder of S.C. United Turtle Enthusiasts, was doing a nest inventory.

“He pulled three sea turtles out of the ground, and it just changed me,” she recalled in a 2005 interview. “It was so amazing. I didn’t know turtles even nested on beaches.”

Over the next 30 years, she became a leading sea turtle monitor and advocate for their protection, earning international recognition along the way.

Besty Brabson died Oct. 7 after a five-year battle with ovarian cancer. She was 69.

Elizabeth Newman Brabson was born May 6, 1954, in Charlotte, the oldest child of Helen and Wallace Newman. She attended Myers Park High School, St. Mary’s School and the University of North Carolina – Chapel Hill, where she graduated with an art degree. She was a member of Pi Phi sorority, and at each of these stops along the way, she forged lifetime friendships. She loved the beach and spent her summers working in Pawleys Island, so it was only natural that she would one day become a permanent resident.

After moving to DeBordieu, she quickly put her art talents to work with screen printed T-shirts that showcased her personalized Lowcountry scenes and wildlife, and it always brought a smile to her face when she saw people wearing them from Myrtle Beach to Mount Pleasant and beyond.

After encountering McClary, Mrs. Brabson and her husband, Bill, became SCUTE members. She volunteered to walk the undeveloped Hobcaw Beach five days a week. She became the SCUTE coodinator for DeBordieu in 1995, which turned out to be a record year for nests.

“I asked myself what have I gotten into,” she said in a 2014 interview.

She assembled and trained a family of volunteers who were just as passionate as she was.

In 2001, she raised the alarm about the impact an invasive landscape plant, beach vitex, whose dense roots were blocking the ability of nesting turtles to dig in the dunes.

She took her concerns to state and federal agencies, which formed a beach vitex task force to eradicate the plants. Mrs. Brabson was named the coordinator.

In 2010, she and McClary led a state-sponsored project to reduce the threat of feral hogs to sea turtle nests on North Island. She received an award for her volunteer efforts in 2013 from the International Sea Turtle Society for her contributions to their conservation.

When asked about her credentials, Mrs. Brabson would simply reply, “I’m just an art major from Chapel Hill, trying to make a difference.”

She was remembered as a beautiful soul, as pretty on the inside as she was on the outside, always a smile on her face and a twinkle in her eye.

In addition to her husband of 43 years; she is survived by her son, Wylie, of Mooresville, N.C.; her daughter, Tyler, of Santa Rosa Beach, Fla.; and her two brothers, Wallace (Jo) and Compie (Catherine) of Charlotte.

A funeral service will be held Oct. 28 at 1 p.m. at Prince George Winyah Church with a celebration of her life to follow on the waterfront at the Georgetown Maritime Museum. The preferred attire is a Betsy Brabson T-shirt.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to Sea Turtle Rescue at the S.C. Aquarium, 100 Aquarium Wharf, Charleston SC 29401 or Saint Mary’s School, Class of 1974 Endowed Scholarship Fund, 900 Hillsborough St., Raleigh NC 27603.

William A. Renault, 91, avid golfer took to the stage

October 19, 2023

William Alan Renault of the Tradition Club died Oct. 6 at Embrace Hospice House in Myrtle Beach. He was 91.

He was born June 4, 1932, in Manhattan, the son of William Ambrose Renault and Eileen Patricia Renault. He grew up in the Bronx and graduated from Mount St. Michael High School. He worked for a brokerage firm while taking college classes at night, but enlisted in the Army at the start of the Korean War.

He trained in tanks at Fort Knox, Ky., and was sent to officer candidate school at Fort Benning, Ga. After his discharge at the end of the war, he stayed in the South and married his wife, Jeanette, in Atlanta in 1955.

Mr. Renault worked in the women’s clothing industry as a product and sales manager for Vanity Fair Mills and national sales manager for Totes.

He moved around the country during his career and completed his education with a master’s degree in business administration from California State University.

Mr. Renault was an avid golfer, which led him to retire to the Tradition Club, where he was secretary of the men’s group for many years and a member of the Gold Tees group.

He was also engaged in the community as a board member of the Waccamaw Neck Civic Association and the Waccamaw Neck Council of POAs, following land use and traffic issues.

Mr. Renault also took up theater, performing with the Murrells Inlet Community Theater and the Swamp Fox Players.

“That was something that was a latent interest,” his wife said. “He loved the theater.”

He had lead roles in “On Golden Pond” and “The Sunshine Boys.”

“You don’t get too many opportunities to play really strong characters at my age,” he said of his role as Norman Thayer in “On Golden Pond” in a 2004 interview.

Mr. Renault was appointed to the Georgetown County Accommodations Tax Advisory Committee, representing arts and cultural interests.

He was also a Sir Knight in the Knights of Columbus and was active in raising funds for the community and for St. Mary’s Catholic Church in Georgetown.

In addition to his wife, he is survived by his son, PaulKelly Renault (Trina) of Pawleys Island; and his sister-in-law, Judy Good of Manhattan.

His brother, Robert Renault, died before him.

A celebration of his life will be held at a later date.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to Embrace Hospice House, 175 Village Center Blvd., Myrtle Beach, SC 29579.

Thomas M. Molnar, 81, pharmacist for four decades

September 21, 2023

Thomas Michael Molnar of Hopkinton, N.H., and Pawleys Plantation died Aug. 31. He was 81.

He was born Nov. 3, 1941, in Morristown, N.J., the son of Anne and Emil Molnar.

He graduated from Morristown High School and Fordham University. He then began a 40-year career as a pharmacist at Molnar Pharmacy, which his father started in the 1940s. Tom became the proprietor in the 1970s and retired in 2004.

He was married to the former Mary Sue Howe. In 1971. they moved to Morris Plains, where they raised their two sons and made many life-long friends with whom they played tennis, ping pong, cards or just enjoyed talking on quiet summer evenings.

They moved to Morris Township in 1986 where Mr. Molnar had a chance to garden and developed a passion for growing roses.

Mr. Molnar took up golf after retiring to Pawleys Island. He received support from friends in the community and at church during his eight-year struggle with pulmonary fibrosis and a lung transplant nearly six years ago.

He was happiest around people, his family said, and even when his health was failing his eyes would light up whenever he entered a room full of people.

He is survived by his children, Tim Molnar (Teri) of Mendham, N.J., and Dennis Molnar (Dr. Beth Mayland) of Hopkinton; seven grandchildren; his brothers, Joseph Molnar of Morristown and Richard Molnar of Santa Fe; and numerous nieces, nephews and cousins.

Mrs. Molnar died in 2021. His sister, Anne Marie Molnar, also died before him.

A funeral mass will be held at St. Mary’s Abbey on the campus of Delbarton School in Morristown at 12:30 p.m. on Sept. 30.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to the Slusser Center, 330 Main St., Hopkinton, NH 03229 or the Pulmonary Fibrosis Foundation (fundraise.givesmart.com/vf/PFFTribute/ThomasMolnar).

Cindy K. Jolliff, 69, funeral home worker was active in church

September 21, 2023

Cindy Kay Jolliff, 69, of Myrtle Beach died unexpectedly on Sept. 11. She was 69.

She was born Nov. 12, 1953, in Huntington, W.Va., the daughter of William J. Walker and Janice Marie Crouch Walker.

Mrs. Jolliff was remembered for her passion for giving back to the community that was shown daily in her work. Over the last nine years, she called the Burroughs Funeral Home family her own. In her free time, she worked at Low Country Community Church in many capacities. Her love for helping and sharing the word of God led her on a journey to Kenya, where God decided to call her home.

Cindy was a one-of a kind person and will be deeply missed by all who had the honor of knowing her. She will forever be remembered for her passion for sharing God’s love, her bright smile and infectious laugh.

She is survived by her husband of 51 years, David Jolliff of Myrtle Beach; her children, Kari Collins (Chris) of Murrells Inlet and Dave Jolliff (Jess) of Surfside Beach; her grandchildren, C.J. Collins, Stella Jolliff and Luke Jolliff and Mackenzie and Shayla Collins; her dog, Oreo; and a large extended family.

In addition to her parents, two brothers, William E. Walker and Fredrick A. Walker, died before her.

A celebration of he life will be held Oct. 7 at 3 p.m. at Low Country Community Church. The family will receive friends immediately following the service.

In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to Low Country Community Church/Kenya Kids, 4430 Murrells Inlet Rd., Murrells Inlet SC 29576.

Con