You may send an online sympathy message at www.chandlerfuneral.com, or you can visit our Chandler Funeral Home Facebook page.

James Allen Reynolds

James (Jim or Jimmy) Alan Reynolds On August 9, 2024, Jim passed away peacefully of natural causes, comforted by his daughter and the staff at Bear Creek Healthcare in DeQueen, Arkansas. Jim was 92.

Jim was born on June 4, 1932, in Philadelphia, PA, the fourth child of John Asa Reynolds and Twila Fay Reynolds (nee Harvey.)

At the age of thirteen, Jim moved with his family to a dairy farm in Vincentown, New Jersey. Jim eagerly rose before dawn to milk the cows before heading to school. Jimmy graduated from Vincentown High School in 1948 and went to Ursinus College in Collegeville, PA. Jim served in the U.S. Navy during the Korean War as a dental technician.

Jimmy married Joan Elizabeth Anderson on March 16, 1957. The couple had four children. The family attended the United Methodist Church in Vincentown. From 1969 to 1976, the family lived in California and in Arizona. Jim finally found his happy spot in rural Arkansas, moving to Polk County in 1977 to purchase a 40-acre farm.

Jim and Joan enjoyed square dancing during the 1980s. Jim sold Fuller Brush, Raleigh, and Watkins products for many years, but he loved working in his vegetable garden most of all. Over the years, Jim, a true dog-lover, also nurtured many beloved beagles and corgis.

Jimmy was preceded in death by his parents; older sister, Delores Jean Zweig; two older brothers, Jack Reynolds and Bill Reynolds; his wife, Joan Reynolds; and his youngest daughter, Leslie Joann Smith (nee Reynolds).

Jim is survived by daughter, Mary Beth Ditzel of Cove; son, Tom Reynolds of Siloam Springs; and son, Scott Reynolds of Cove; he is also survived by 8 grandchildren and 9 great-grandchildren.

Jimmy was a beloved father, grandfather, and great-grandfather. He loved the people of Arkansas, especially Polk County, where he was made to feel welcome from day one. Special thanks are due to the community at Bear Creek Healthcare: You loved him like family and gave him a caring quality of life. God bless you all.

The world was made brighter by Jim’s contagious smile, and he will be greatly missed.

Final arrangements have been made with Wilson-Robison Funeral Home, England, AR.

Wanda “Judy” Lott

Wanda “Judy” Lott, age 80, a resident of Lockesburg, Arkansas, died Sunday, August 11, 2024, at her home.

She was born October 21, 1943, in De Queen, Arkansas. Judy was a wonderful wife and mother. She was a member of Geneva Missionary Baptist Church, a Sunday school teacher for several years, and active in Vacation Bible School and Geneva Gem’s. She enjoyed cooking, sewing, going to church with her family, and catching crawdads in the creek with her grandchildren.

Judy was preceded in death by her parents, Rubert Carl “Shorty” and Ophelia Veleta Baker Tollett; and her brother, Roy Wendell.

She is survived by her husband of 63 years, Jay Lott of Lockesburg; one son and daughter-in-law, Randy and Deborah Lott of Lockesburg; two daughters and sons-in-law, Marcell and Gary McMillian of Lockesburg and Marsha and Allan Peterson of Horatio; one sister and brother-in-law, Darlene and Richard Gilbert of Lockesburg; Mawmaw Judy to her six grandchildren, Brent and Cindy Marshall of Lockesburg, Kenley and Kourtlyn Lott of Forney, Texas, Neshia and Joey Rogers of De Queen, AR, Anthony Peterson of Horatio, AR, Jaydon and Seth Driggers of Pearcy, AR, Brock and Gracie McMillian of Lockesburg; seven great-grandchildren and a number of step-grandchildren and step-great-grandchildren.

Funeral Services for Judy will be held at 2:00 p.m., Wednesday, August 14, 2024, at Geneva Missionary Baptist Church in De Queen with Travis Lane and Ben Renfrow officiating. Burial will follow at Old Piney Cemetery in Lockesburg under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

The family will receive friends from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Tuesday, August 13, 2024, at the funeral home in De Queen.

Special thanks to Sunni Tollett, Ashton Stuart and Kristen Wells with Elite Hospice in Mena for their special care and love. Also, Jennifer Ayers and Abbey Burcham for their love and care.

Memorials may be made to Geneva Missionary Baptist Church, 188 Geneva Church Rd., De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Emma Grace Gentry

Emma Grace Gentry, precious infant daughter of Emily and Levi Gentry, was welcomed into the arms of Jesus on August 5, 2024. Though her time with us was brief, the light she brought into our lives was profound and immeasurable.

From the moment we learned of her existence, Emma Grace touched our hearts deeply. Her presence, though fleeting, radiated hope and joy, uniting our family in a celebration of love and anticipation. Emma Grace’s spirit was felt strongly in the smiles and tears of those eagerly awaiting her arrival.

Though Emma Grace never took a breath among us, her influence and the love she stirred will always remain with us. She will be missed beyond measure and loved beyond words.

In the quiet moments, we will feel her gentle presence, a reminder of the beauty and purity she brought into our world. She was a blessing that, although brief, will forever shape the lives of those who loved her. Her tiny footprints have left a mark on our souls, and her memory will be cherished for all time.

Emma Grace is preceded in death by her beloved uncle, Michael House. She is survived by her loving parents, Emily and Levi Gentry; her adoring siblings, Brooklyn, Christopher, Heidi, Benjamin, and Payton; her paternal grandparents, Lyndell Gentry and Kathy House; and her maternal grandparents, Jason and Jessica Hibbs. She is also survived by many aunts and uncles, including Samantha Browning and family, Diana House, Mathew Gentry, Eldon Hibbs, and family, as well as special great-aunt Terrie Harold, Great Granny Gerrie Harold, and Mamie Janice Harold, along with many other aunts, uncles, and cousins who will hold her memory close.

Rest peacefully, sweet Emma Grace. You are forever in our hearts.

Graveside service will be held at 10:00 a.m., Saturday, August 10, 2024, at Galena Cemetery in Umpire, Arkansas with Billy Sullivan officiating, under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

The family will receive friends from 5:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., Friday, August 9, 2024, at the funeral home in De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Norma Sue Kirkpatrick Gillespie

Norma Sue Kirkpatrick Gillespie, age 81, a resident of Ashdown, Arkansas, died Tuesday, August 6, 2024, at Pleasant Manor Nursing and Rehab in Ashdown.

Norma was born on August 25, 1942, in Dyersburg, Tennessee, and was a homemaker.

She is preceded in death by her parents, William and Ruby Estelle Cunningham Kirkpatrick; her husband, George Richard (Dick) Gillespie; two sisters, Martha Weisen and Ann Bowie; two brothers, William (Bubba) Kirkpatrick and Sonny Kirkpatrick; one daughter, Camille Peoples, and one grandchild, Charles “Dude” Gillespie.

She is survived by four sons, Tony and Stacey Gillespie of Ashdown, Arkansas, Jerry Gillespie of Ashdown, Scooter Gillespie of Foreman, Chuck Gillespie of Sherman, Texas; eight grandchildren, thirteen great-grandchildren; and a number of nieces and nephews.

The family will receive friends from 12:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m., Saturday, August 10, 2024, at the home of Tony and Stacey Gillespie, 2331 Parker Lane, Ashdown, Arkansas 71822.

Cremation arrangements by Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Maria De Los Angeles Velasquez

Mrs. Maria De Los Angeles Velasquez, age 59, a resident of De Queen, died Wednesday, July 31, 2024, in the Arkansas Heart Hospital, Little Rock, Arkansas.

She was born August 2, 1964, in Durango, Mexico, the daughter of Ramon Valtierra Roman and Maria Hijinia Gutierrez Lozano. She married Pedro Velasquez Flores in Durango, Mexico, on March 6, 1979, and to this marriage, four daughters were born. She was a Jehovah’s Witness and a homemaker. She enjoyed cleaning, shopping, cooking, and delivering Jehovah’s Witness literature, but her best time was spent with her husband, daughters, and especially her grandchildren.

She was preceded in death by her parents, and her siblings, Dionicia Valtierra, Jose Angel Valtierra, and Trinadad Valtierra.

She leaves to cherish her memory, her husband, Pedro Velasquez Flores of De Queen, four daughters, Perla Judith Cisneros and her husband, Jorge of De Queen, Lucia Adriana Valtierra and her husband, Jose of De Queen, Antonia Velasquez and her husband, Gaudencio Romano of De Queen, and Beatriz Armenta and her husband, Luis Alberto of De Queen; nine grandchildren, Jasmin Cisneros, Eduardo Cisneros, Cristian Cisneros, Jonathan Cisneros, Jovannie Cisneros, Ivan Cisneros, Levi Josiah Romano, Jacqueline Cisneros, and Adelin Armenta, two brothers, Jose Luis Valtierra and Ramon Valtierra both of Mexico and a sister, Camila Valtierra of Kansas, as well as a number of nieces, nephews, other family members and a host of friends.

Funeral Services for Mrs. Maria Velasquez will be held on Saturday, August 3, 2024, at 4:00 P.M., in the Kingdom Hall of Jehovah’s Witnesses with Benito Camarillo officiating. Burial will follow in Redmen Cemetery. Visitation will be on Saturday, August 3, 2024, at Chandler Funeral Home Chapel from 12:00 P.M. until 2:00 P.M. Arrangements are under the direction of Chandler Funeral Home. You may send an online sympathy message at www.chandlerfuneral.com

Mrs. Maria Velasquez’s funeral service can be viewed online through Zoom.

Martin Rivera

Le precedieron en la muerte su padre, Eduardo Rivera; un hijo, Martín Rivera, Jr.

Le sobreviven su esposa, Virginia Rincón; su madre, M. Rosario Muñoz Hernández; niños, Claudia Rivera, Juan Fernando Rivera, Renee Rincón, Rolly Rincón, Ruby Rincón, Ryan Rincón, Verónica Lara, Mindy Lara, Eliazar Lara, Amus Lara; seis hermanos, Ana Rivera, Blanca Rivera, Alejandro Rivera, Marujenia Rivera, Eduardo Rivera, Jr. y Juanis Rivera; varios nietos, sobrinas, sobrinos, suegros y amigos.

La familia recibirá amigos a partir de las 4 p.m. a 8 p.m. Miércoles 31 de Julio de 2024, en el funeraria.

Los servicios funerarios del Sr. Rivera se llevarán a cabo a las 2:00 p.m. Viernes 2 de Agosto de 2024, en la capilla de la funeraria Wilkerson en De Queen con el padre Carlos Loaiza oficiando. El entierro se realizará en el cementerio de Chapel Hill bajo la dirección de Wilkerson Funeral Home en De Queen. La visualización general comenzará a las 9:00 a. m. del Viernes 2 de Agosto de 2024, hasta la hora de servicio.

Puede dejar un pésame en línea en www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Martin Rivera, age 59, a resident of De Queen Arkansas, died Sunday, July 28, 2024, in De Queen.

He was born on June 25, 1965, in San Gabriel, Durango, Mexico. He was of the Catholic faith. He enjoyed Roosters, playing softball, and being with family. He worked for Tyson Foods in Grannis.

He was preceded in death by his father, Eduardo Rivera; one son, Martin Rivera, Jr.

He is survived by his wife, Virginia Rincon; his mother, M Rosario Munoz Hernandez; children, Claudia Rivera, Juan Fernando Rivera, Renee Rincon, Rolly Rincon, Ruby Rincon, Ryan Rincon, Veronica Lara, Mindy Lara, Eliazar Lara, Amus Lara; six siblings, Ana Rivera, Blanca Rivera, Alejandro Rivera, Marujenia Rivera, Eduardo Rivera, Jr., and Juanis Rivera; a number of grandchildren, nieces, nephews, in-laws, and friends.

The family will receive friends from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. Wednesday, July 31, 2024, at the funeral home.

Funeral Services for Mr. Rivera will be held at 2:00 p.m. Friday, August 2, 2024, at Wilkerson Funeral Home Chapel in De Queen with Father Carlos Loaiza officiating. Burial will follow at Chapel Hill Cemetery under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen. General viewing will begin at 9:00 a.m., Friday, August 2, 2024, until service time.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Martha Bedella Munoz

Martha Bedella Munoz, age 71, resident of Horatio, Arkansas, passed away Saturday, July 27, 2024, at National Park Medical Center in Hot Springs, Arkansas.

She was born on June 25, 1953, in De Queen, Arkansas. She was a member of Living Waters Fellowship Church in Horatio. She retired as a manager from EZ-Mart in Horatio and loved gardening, fishing, quilting, and karaoke.

She was preceded in death by her parents, Jessie and Eula Smith Dinger; four sisters, Jeannine Nickerson, Evelyn Hill, Peggy Deer, and Helen McGalliard; three brothers, Bobby Dinger, Jack Dinger, and Frank Dinger.

Martha is survived by three sons and a daughter-in-law, Jerry “Bubba” Tabler and Michelle of Holly Creek Oklahoma, Michael “Dawg” Tabler of Horatio, Arkansas, and Russell Wester of Mineral Springs, Arkansas; one brother Billy Dinger; 5 grandchildren, Cameron Tudor, Josh Charron, Hayden Lewis, Shalyn Lyle, Jessie Lyle and one great-grandchild, Lincoln Allen.

The Family will receive friends on Thursday, August 1, 2024 from 5:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. with a memorial service to follow from 6:30 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. in the Wilkerson Funeral Home Chapel.

Cremation arrangements by Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Betty Ruth Dinger

Betty Ruth Goss Dinger, age 82, a resident of Dierks, Arkansas, passed away Sunday, July 28, 2024, at Dierks Health and Rehab.

She was born on April 7, 1942, in Dierks, Arkansas. She was a member of First Baptist Church in Dierks. Betty loved her grandchildren and great-grandchildren they always put a smile on her face. She loved to watch the birds and squirrels feed in her yard. She loved cooking and cooking for others.

She was preceded in death by her parents, Delbert and Savanah Kesterson Goss; her husband, James Frank Dinger, Sr.; one son, James Frank Dinger, Jr.; one brother, Barney Goss and one sister, Lynda Harberson.

Mrs. Dinger is survived by two daughters and sons-in-law, Tammy and Roddy Smith, Dena and Chad Burnett; two sons and a daughter-in-law, Gary and Carrie Dinger and Ken Dinger all of Dierks, Arkansas; one brother and sister-in-law, Gary and Phyllis Goss of Nashville, Arkansas; two special friends, Maria Vasquez and Shauna Turner; 42 grandchildren and great-grandchildren and a number of nieces, nephews and a host of friends.

Funeral Services for Mrs. Dinger will be held at 1:00 p.m. Wednesday, July 31, 2024, at the First Baptist Church in Dierks with Bro. Ellis Jones and Bro. Ben Derrick Officiating. Burial will follow at Harmony Cemetery under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in Dierks.

The family will receive friends from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Tuesday, July 30, 2024, at the funeral home in Dierks.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Jerry Lee Gaither, Jr.

Jerry Lee Gaither, Jr., age 65, a resident of Gillham Arkansas, died Thursday, July 25, 2024, at his home.

He was born on November 11, 1958. He enjoyed his family, especially his grandchildren, nieces and nephews.

He was preceded in death by his parents, Jerry Lee Gaither, Sr., and Josie Mae Singleton Gaither; one son, Ryan Tugman, and two brothers, Frank Gaither and Jack Gaither.

He is survived by his wife, Martha Renee Tugman Gaither; three sisters, Lynn Pickup, Linda Maurice of Arkansas, and Mary Rogers of Texas; one brother, Tim Gaither of Missouri; four grandchildren and a number of nieces and nephews.

No services are scheduled at this time.

Cremation arrangements by Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

Lorenza Sánchez de Wences

Lorenza Sánchez de Wences, de 86 años, residente de De Queen, Arkansas, murió el Jueves 25 de Julio de 2024 en el Centro Médico del Condado de Sevier en De Queen.

Nació el 5 de Septiembre de 1937 en Acapetlahuaya, Guerrero. Ella era de fe Católica. Le gustaba criar gallinas y ganado. Le encantaba cocinar y disfrutaba pasar tiempo con sus hijos y nietos.

Le precedieron en la muerte su marido, Cándido Wences; sus padres, José Sánchez y Seferina de León.

Le sobreviven sus hijos, Félix Wences y su esposo, Antonio Sotelo, Modesta Wences y su esposo, Roberto Linares, Noe Wences y su esposa, Liliana Arranda y Teodoro Wences y su esposa, Ciria Angélica Rosales, Irma Wences y su esposo, Luis Cardoso, José Wences. y esposa, María Hernández; 16 nietos, 16 bisnietos y 2 tataranietos.

La familia recibirá amigos a partir de las 5:00 p.m. a 7:00 p. m., el Domingo 28 de Julio de 2024, en la funeraria de De Queen.

Puede dejar un pésame en línea en www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Lorenza Sanchez de Wences, age 86, a resident of De Queen, Arkansas, died Thursday, July 25, 2024, at Sevier County Medical Center in De Queen.

She was born on September 5, 1937, in Acapetlahuaya, Guerrero. She was of the Catholic faith. She enjoyed raising chickens and cattle. She loved to cook and enjoyed spending time with her children and grandchildren.

She was preceded in death by her husband, Candido Wences; her parents, Jose Sanchez and Seferina de Leon.

She is survived by her children, Felix Wences and husband, Antonio Sotelo, Modesta Wences and husband, Roberto Linares, Noe Wences and wife, Liliana Arranda and Teodoro Wences and wife, Ciria Angelica Rosales, Irma Wences and husband, Luis Cardoso, Jose Wences and wife, Maria Hernandez; 16 grandchildren, 16 great-grandchildren, and 2 great-great-grandchildren.

The family will receive friends from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m., on Sunday, July 28, 2024, at the funeral home in De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Bonnie Tarpley Taylor

Mrs. Bonnie Tarpley Taylor, age 84, a resident of Mena, Arkansas, passed away from life on Wednesday, July 24, 2024, at her home surrounded by her family.

She was born to Lowell Hicks and Norma Minnie Ricketts Tarpley on March 8, 1940, in the Mineral Community of Sevier County, Arkansas. She was a 1957 graduate of Gillham High School, and married the love of her life, Jerry Taylor on August 14, 1960, in Gillham, Arkansas, and to this marriage three daughters were born. In addition to being a pastor’s wife, she was retired from the Bureau of Land Management, and Fish and Wildlife. She and Bro. Jerry served the Lord in several Baptist churches over the years. She enjoyed reading, cooking, and her flower garden, but her best spent time was with her family.

Bonnie was preceded in death by her parents.

She leaves to cherish her memory, her husband of over 63 years, Bro. Jerry Taylor of Mena, Arkansas, three daughters, and sons-in-law, Angela Gayle and Terry Adams of Alexander, Arkansas, Nanci Kaye and Rev. Darin Drury of Grant City, Missouri, and Melanie Ann and Todd Hunt of Oostburg, Wisconsin: eight grandchildren, Taylor Adams, Marley Adams, Reagan Drury, Riley Drury, A. J. Drury, Emily, and her husband, D. J. Schoening, Noapeh Hunt, and Huyanna Hunt; two great-grandchildren, Dain Schoening, and Frankie Bonnie Schoening; two sisters, Carol Honea of De Queen, Arkansas, and Joyce Hargis of Longview, Texas, and a number of nieces, nephews, other family members and a host of friends.

Funeral Services for Mrs. Bonnie Taylor will be held at 3:00 P.M., Saturday, July 27, 2024, in the Chandler Funeral Home Chapel with Bro. Darin Drury and Bro. Don Youngblood officiating. Burial will follow in the Mineral Cemetery, Gillham, Arkansas. General Visitation will be Friday, July 26, 2024, in the Chandler Funeral Home until 7:00 P.M. Arrangements are entrusted to Chandler Funeral Home, De Queen, Arkansas. You may send an online sympathy message at www.chandlerfuneral.com.

Johnny Ray Morris

Johnny Ray Morris, age 71, a resident of Dierks, Arkansas, died Monday, July 22, 2024, at Howard Memorial Hospital in Nashville, Arkansas.

He was born on September 11, 1952. He was an electrician for Weyerhaeuser.

He was preceded in death by his parents; two sisters, Brenda and Lisa, and one brother, Adam.

He is survived by one son and daughter-in-law, Chance and Megan Morris of Raleigh North Carolina; one stepson, Jeffrey Jackson; two grandchildren, Barrett Morris and Everley Morris and one sister, Patsy.

Memorial services for Mr. Morris will be held at 10:00 a.m. Saturday, July 27, 2024, in the Wilkerson Funeral Home Chapel in Dierks.

Cremation arrangements by Wilkerson Funeral Home in Dierks.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Johnnie Felton Vaught

Mr. Johnnie Felton Vaught, known as Felton Vaught by family and friends, age 87, a resident of Gillham, passed away from this life on Monday, July 22, 2024, at his home surrounded by family.

He was one of five children born to Felbert Ollie and Bertie Mae Miller Vaught in Bethel, Oklahoma, on July 14, 1937. He graduated from Gillham High School and attended college in Magnolia, Arkansas. He was an insulator with Local 22 National Asbestos Workers Union at various companies, Nuclear Plants, and The Alaskan Pipeline. He was an insulator by trade but also a carpenter starting at an early age with his dad. He loved the Lord with all his heart and knew the most important thing in his life was to have a personal relationship with our Savior, Jesus Christ. He was a member of the Wickes Church of Christ and enjoyed woodworking of any kind. Felton was known as “Papaw Felton” by his grandchildren and was loved dearly by them.

He was preceded in death by his parents, his first wife, Hope Vaught, his siblings, Ruby Emerson, Sue Guire, and J. D. Vaught, a son-in-law, Merl Vanek, a stepson, Donald Gene Price, two grandchildren, Casey Price and Jason Morris.

He leaves to cherish his memory, his wife of over 18 years, Carolyn Price Vaught of Gillham; four daughters and sons-in-law, Judy and Bruce Hall of League City, Texas, Linda Vanek of Magnolia, Texas, Susan and Rick Stephens of Weimar, Texas, and Robin and Bill Warne of Wimberley, Texas; his step-children; Ronnie and Chris Price of Gillham, Tammy and Brad Morris of De Queen, Patricia and Jimmy Pollard of Gillham, and Joshua Price of Gillham;

his grandchildren, Charles Cummings and his wife Kristie, Austin Stephens, Lindsey Dillon, and her husband David, Rachel Warne, Megan Warne McCreless, Caitlyn Warne, Justin Price, Brandon Price, Trenton Price, Megan Price, Jessica Alexander and her husband Jeremy, Abby Morris, Beau Morris, J.R. Pollard, Candice McDonnell and her husband Clayton, Kammi Pollard, Cooper Price, and Embree Price; 21 great-grandchildren, and 4 great-great-grandchildren; a sister, Shirley Wells of Grannis, and a host of nieces, nephews, other family members and a host of friends.

Funeral Services for Mr. Felton Vaught will be held at 10:00 A.M., Saturday, July 27, 2024, in the Chandler Funeral Home Chapel with Bobby Tatum, Minister officiating. Burial will follow in the Mineral Cemetery, Gillham, Arkansas. Visitation will be Friday, July 26, 2024, in the Chandler Funeral Home Chapel from 5:00 to 7:00 P.M. Arrangements are entrusted to Chandler Funeral Home, De Queen, Arkansas. You may send an online condolence at www.chandlerfuneral.com.

Daniel Eugene Hagood

Daniel Hagood, age 65, a resident of Foreman, Arkansas, died Monday, July 22, 2024, at Bailey Creek Health and Rehab in Texarkana, Arkansas.

He was born May 27, 1959, in Texarkana, Texas. He was retired from Goff Heating and Air. He enjoyed hunting, fishing, and the great outdoors.

He was preceded in death by his parents, Charles Thomas Hagood and Lillian LaVerne Kennington Green; stepfather, Hulon Green; one brother, Dennis Hagood and one sister, Lillian LeVerne Hagood.

He is survived by one daughter and son-in-law, Shastity and Chad Stone of Foreman; two sons and daughters-in-law, Daniel Jr. and Crystal Hagood of Foreman, Heath and Jasmine Hagood of Foreman; wife of 44 years and mother of his children, Cindy Hagood; two grandsons, Kyle Hagood and Landon Hagood; two granddaughters, Claire Hagood and Lainey Hagood; two brothers and sisters-in-law, Marty and Tracy Hagood of Ashdown; Carl and Diane Hagood of Texarkana.

Cremation arrangements by Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

Roger Daniel Renfrow

Roger Daniel Renfrow, 76, of Texarkana, Arkansas, passed away peacefully on June 25, 2024 at his home. Born in De Queen, Arkansas on December 27, 1947, he was the son of William and Lorene Renfrow, Sr.

Roger is survived by his sons, Morgan and Ryan Renfrow, and three grandchildren all of Texarkana. He is also survived by his sisters, Vivian Fears of De Queen and Judy Gates Ford of Garland, Texas, and eight nieces and five nephews.

He was preceded in death by his parents, William and Lorene Renfrow, Sr., siblings William Renfrow, Jr., Betty Cox, and Robert Renfrow, and two nieces, Arlene Renfrow Young and Rebecca Renfrow.

Roger began his career as an electrician and IBEW Local 301 member. He later went on to become a Network Supervisor for Alumax-Alcoa, developing software crucial to the operation of the plant where he was employed until retirement.

Roger was an avid hiker and photographer of landscapes and wildlife. His numerous photographic adventures included the Grand Canyon, Alaska, Arizona and New Mexico.

He was an active and devoted long-time member of the Texarkana Seventh-day Adventist Church, faithfully serving as Deacon, Treasurer, and Soundboard Administrator.

A celebration of Roger’s life will be held at 3 p.m. on Saturday, July 27th at the Seventh-day Adventist Church, 3100 Pleasant Grove Road, Texarkana, Texas. Interment will follow in Redmen Cemetery, De Queen, Arkansas.

Patsy Gail Sharp

Patsy Gail Sharp, age 78, a resident of Lockesburg, Arkansas, passed away peacefully Wednesday, July 17, 2024, of complications due to Alzheimer’s disease.

Patsy was born November 23, 1945, to Ernest and Dana Ayers in Horatio, Arkansas, where she also lived out her childhood. At age 19, she married Sammy Sharp of Lockesburg, Arkansas. They soon moved to East Texas and then on to the Dallas suburbs, where she and Sammy raised three children: Melissa, Tim, and Steven. In the early 1990s, Patsy and Sammy moved back to Southwest Arkansas, eventually building a home across from Sammy’s childhood home in Lockesburg. This is where Patsy lived out the rest of her life.

Patsy’s smile and contagious laugh were hard to miss. Also, an avid fan of country music, she had a great singing voice. Even in her last months, her mind still allowed her to belt out all the words to classic songs by the likes of Patsy Cline, Loretta Lynn, The Judds, and Kenny Rogers.

She was preceded in death by her father and mother, Ernest and Dana Ayers; her brother, Jerry Bob Ayers, and sister, Tina James.

She is survived by her husband, Sammy; her three children, Melissa, Tim, and Steven; and her brother Joe Ed Ayers of Horatio, Arkansas.

Funeral Services for Mrs. Sharp will be held at 2:00 p.m., Saturday, July 27, 2024, in the Wilkerson Funeral Home Chapel in De Queen with Steve Copley officiating. Burial will follow at Belleville Cemetery under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

The family will receive friends one hour prior to the service.

Flowers may be sent to the funeral home, or in lieu of flowers you may make a charitable donation to the Alzheimer’s Association.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Pamela Annette Osborn

Annette Osborn, age 65, a resident of Dierks, Arkansas, died Wednesday, July 17, 2024, at CHI St. Vincent in Hot Springs, Arkansas.

She was born December 24, 1958, in De Queen, Arkansas. She was a member of the Church of Christ in Dierks, Arkansas. She worked for ten years in lawn care services. She enjoyed the outdoors and camping. She always enjoyed spending time with her grandchildren.

Annette is preceded in death by her mother, Lorene Williams, and her father, James Don Carter; in-laws, Doris Ann Kirby and Rex Kirby; and father-in-law, Billy Osborn.

She is survived by her husband, Quinn Osborn; one son Joey Osborn, and wife, Amber Osborn; two grandchildren, Bentley and Braelyn Osborn; brothers and their spouses, Glen and Alisa Carter, Shane and Iaine Carter; sister-in-law, Lisa and husband Kevin Redden; brother-in-law, David Osborn; nephews and their spouses, Cody and Kimberly Stapp, Jon and Whitney Stapp, Joseph and Tiffany Carter; nieces and their spouses and Morgan and Clayton Alford, Buffy Gallion and Stacy Carter, Brittany Hatridge; number of great nieces and nephews and an aunt Freida Byrum.

Graveside services for Mrs. Osborn will be held at 10:00 a.m., Saturday, July 20, 2024, at Mt. Pleasant Cemetery with Terry Martin and Mike Moore officiating, under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

The family will receive friends from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m., Friday, July 19, 2024, at the funeral home in Dierks.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Mr. Larry Jones

Larry Houston Jones, 77, departed this life on Friday, June 21, 2024, at Alma Health and Rehabilitation, with family by his side. A resident of Alma and former resident of De Queen, Larry had been diagnosed with lung cancer a few short months ago.

He was born November 1, 1946, in Monticello (Drew County), Arkansas, to Ray Houston and Ouida Geraldine Loveless Jones. He graduated in 1964 from Drew Central High School, where his classmates voted him Friendliest, Wittiest, and Mr. Congeniality.

After graduating high school, Larry joined the U.S. Navy so he could see more of the world. He served for seven years (1964 to 1971) and was stationed in California, Florida and Connecticut as well as Spain, Malta and Italy. Not bad for a farm kid from Possum Valley, Arkansas!

While in training at Naval Station Great Lakes, Larry met a fellow seaman apprentice named Ralph Powers. They became instant friends in spite of Ralph’s being a Yankee from Massachusetts, and eventually became brothers-in-law, as Larry married Ralph’s sister Donna in Cambridge, Massachusetts, on May 3, 1968.

After being discharged from the Navy, Larry moved his young family to Arkansas, where he tried his hand at installing swimming pools and working in a TV repair shop. He decided to build on the electronics training he had received in the Navy and enrolled at Southwest Technical Institute in Camden. He received his Associate of Applied Science degree in Electromechanical Technology on August 10, 1973, maintaining a 4.0 GPA while helping to wrangle three children under the age of four years old.

The majority of Larry’s career was spent in the wood products industry. He started his career at Georgia Pacific in Crossett, Arkansas, and later worked short stints for Champion in Texas and South Carolina. He then spent 27 years working for Weyerhaeuser in Dierks, Arkansas, retiring as Process Control Superintendent in 2007.

Larry’s hobbies included gardening, dabbling in photography, and watching sports (especially the Razorbacks and the Boston Celtics). He loved traveling to visit his kids and grandkids, or to vacation with them, from theme parks to national parks and from distilleries to duomos. A trip of a lifetime in recent years was to Alaska to visit one of his high school classmates.

He could fix darn near anything, he built the occasional bunkbeds and bookshelves, and he never met a camera or a tech gadget he didn’t like.

Larry was preceded in death by his beloved grandparents, Benjamin Arthur “Trigger” and Virgie Hickman Loveless; his parents, Ray and Ouida Loveless Jones; his wife, Donna Powers Jones; brothers-in-law Robert, Ralph and Joseph Powers, and Norman Chadwick.

His children survive him, Melissa Belur (Satya) of San Jose, California, Derek Jones (Andrea) of Tampa, Florida, and Jennifer Jones of Alma; grandsons Logan Jones, Braden Key, Kiran and Aidan Belur, and Tiago Jones. He is also survived by sisters Susie Chadwick and Edna Carpenter; sister-in-law Ada Powers (Jim Muncher); brother-in-law James Powers (Virginia); bonus grandsons Shane and Zach Goettel; numerous cousins, nieces and nephews; and his special neighborhood buddies. He leaves behind many friends and classmates from Drew Central High School as well as numerous friends and colleagues from Weyerhaeuser.

A memorial service will be held on Sunday, July 21st at 2:00 pm at Chandler Funeral Home in De Queen.

Mary Annette Sanchez

Mary Annette Sanchez, age 59, a resident of De Queen, Arkansas, died Saturday, July 13, 2024, at her home.

She was born December 10, 1964, in De Queen, Arkansas. Mary was a Baptist and liked the Dallas Cowboys, Elvis, gardening, and dancing.

She was preceded in death by her mother, Lorene Shaw Mullinax; her father, Lewis Beckwith; two sisters, Sherry Shaw and Charlotte Shaw; and her grandparents, Osbern “Slats” and Inez Shaw.

She is survived by two daughters, Brittany Sanchez of Montebello, California, and Chelsea Angelica Sanchez of De Queen, Arkansas; two sons, Jose “JJ” Sanchez of De Queen, Arkansas, Joshua “JD” Sanchez and Josie of De Queen, Arkansas; one sister, Joyce Scroggins; grandchildren, Domencio, Gianna, Khloee, Arya, Odysseus, FJ, and Elvis; and nephews Eric and Derrick Medina.

Funeral Services will be held at 1:00 p.m. Saturday, July 20, 2024 at Wilkerson Funeral Home Chapel. Burial will follow at Avon Cemetery with Tarazo Kelly officiating under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

The family will receive friends from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. Friday, July 19th at the funeral home.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

James Cornelius Scott

Mr. James Cornelius Scott, age 67, a resident of Ashdown, Arkansas, died Saturday, July 13, 2024, in Hospice of Texarkana, surrounded by family.

He was born February 5, 1957, in Little River County, Arkansas. He was a graduate of Ashdown High School and enjoyed cooking, watching sports, and gardening. James retired from Little River Housing Authority, where he did maintenance.

He was preceded in death by his father, Jim Scott, his mother, Sally Mae Scott Harris, a brother, Kenneth Scroggins, his grandparents, Willie and Mollie Scroggins, and Jim and Rena Walker, and his life companion, Debra Howell.

He leaves to cherish his memory, three brothers, Terrell Scroggins and his wife, Asa of Texarkana, Texas, Ray Scott of Lockesburg, and Elbert Scott of Nashville, Arkansas, a sister, Marilyn Bell and her husband, Theo of Lockesburg,; two aunts, Mary Williams of Ashdown, Arkansas and Ola Mae Roch of Detroit, Michigan and well as a number of nieces, nephews, cousins, other family member and a host of friends.

Funeral Services for Mr. James Scott will be held at 1:00 P.M., Saturday, July 20, 2024, in the

Chandler Funeral Home Chapel, De Queen, Arkansas, with Rev. Tommy Halsal officiating. Burial will follow in the Hicky Grove Cemetery. Visitation will be Saturday, July 20, 2024, from 11:00 A.M. until service time. Arrangements are entrusted to Chandler Funeral Home, De Queen, Arkansas. You may send an online condolence to www.chandlerfuneral.com.

Frederick Allen Abney

Mr. Frederick Allen Abney, age 79, a De Queen, Arkansas resident, passed away on July 15, 2024, in De Queen, Arkansas.

He was born to Edward Anderson and Jessie Ruth Jones Abney in Santa Anna, California on February 23, 1945. Frederick lived in California and Arkansas most of his life. He graduated from Lockesburg High School in 1963, worked in lumber yards and the timber industry in both California and Arkansas. He retired from Weyerhauser. He served in the Army National Guard in California and Arkansas.

Frederick remained a bachelor but strongly loved family, friends, and animals. He enjoyed being able to play with his nieces and nephews as young children and enjoyed their visits as they grew older. He visited friends who had dogs he could pet but never committed to having one of his own.

He was preceded in death by his parents, his sisters, Virginia Abney and Edna R. Abney Cannon his brother-in-law, Riley Cannon, and a brother, Bill Thomas Abney.

He is survived by a sister, Donna J. Abney of San Antonio, Texas, and a number of nieces, nephews, other family members and a host of friends.

Private graveside funeral services will be held Friday, July 19, 2024. Arrangements are entrusted to Chandler Funeral Home, De Queen, Arkansas. You may send an online condolence to www.chandlerfuneral.com.

Valda Jo Ferguson

Valda Jo Ferguson, age 90, a resident of De Queen, Arkansas, died Wednesday, July 10, 2024, at Little River Nursing Home and Rehab in Ashdown, Arkansas.

Valda Jo, Momma, Granny, Ma’am, forever branded on our hearts. She loved family. She began her family only a few days after graduating from high school when she eloped with Bill Ferguson and were together for 47 years. She loved her four sons and enjoyed telling stories of raising them and talking about their accomplishments. With every breath, she was proud of her sons.

She loved family gatherings and being outdoors, especially boat rides on the lake. She loved homemade southern cooking, pies, and all things dessert.

Most of all her joy was watching her grandchildren grow, and her great and great-great grandchildren play. She enjoyed mowing her yard, gardening, and growing beautiful flowers. She was a wealth of information, having quite a green thumb.

She loved cats, horses, cattle, chickens, and all things farm and ranch, especially her dogs: Puddles and Rusty. We will cherish her memory always.

She was preceded in death by her loving husband of 47 years, Billy Dee Ferguson; her parents, Garvis and Edna Estes; one sister, Melba Gillihan, brother, Dewey Estes; son, Roy Ferguson and great-grandson, Shane Blankenship.

She is survived by three sons, Gary Ferguson and wife, Cynthia of Garvin, Oklahoma; Johnny Ferguson and wife Amy of Big Lake, Texas, Charles Ferguson and wife, Morgan of Torrington, Wyoming; her only surviving sibling Doris McDonald and husband, Lynn of Idalou, Texas; ten grandchildren, Lee Ann Thrasher, Stacie Evans, Will, Monty, and Amanda Ferguson, Jake Ferguson, Josh Ferguson, Justin, Rayleigh, and Nash Ferguson; thirteen great-grandchildren, Garrett Dixon Kalin Smith, Joe Bailey Watkins and Ryder Evans, Kinsey, Kyla, Kinnah and Kutter Ferguson, Luke and Greyson Ferguson, Jaxon, Hartley, and Jones Ferguson; three great great grandchildren, Kase and Kooper Smith and Noa Blankenship.

Funeral Services for Mrs. Ferguson will be held at 10:00 a.m., Friday, July 19, 2024, in the Wilkerson Funeral Home Chapel with Tim Johnson officiating. Burial will follow at Valley Cemetery under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

The family will receive friends on Thursday, July 18, 2024, from 6:00 – 8:00 p.m., at the funeral home.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Mr. Ben Sullivan

Mr. Ben Dean Sullivan, age 79, a resident of Crossroads, Arkansas, died Friday, July 12, 2024, at his home surrounded by his family.

He was the third of eight children born to William Marion and Bonnie Mae Whala Sullivan. Ben was born on May 20, 1945, and was a 1964 graduate of Hooks High School. He was an electrician by trade as well as an ordained minister of the gospel. He was retired fire chief of the Wallace Community Fire Department and EMT. He was a member of IBEF Union, and enjoyed singing, fishing, hunting, and his bantam chickens, and visiting with friends, but his best time spent was with his wife of over 51 years, Linda, his children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren.

He was preceded in death by his parents, his great-grandchild, Ellie Sullivan, his son-in-law, Tim King, and his siblings, Owen Neal Sullivan, Oscar Sullivan, Veva Bates, Veda Williams, Betty Barnes, Susie Smith, and Pam Sullivan.

He leaves to cherish his memory, Linda Gideon Sullivan of Crossroads, three sons and daughters-in-law, James Calvin and Rachelle Sullivan of Yarbrough Landing, Arkansas, Brian Douglas Sullivan of Foreman, Arkansas, and Bradford Delaney and Donna Sullivan of Ashdown, Arkansas, two daughters and a son-in-law, Bonnie Darlene King of De Queen, and Nora Lorene and Billy Jack Teer of Ashdown, Arkansas; twelve grandchildren, Micah Sullivan, Garrett Lee Sullivan, Jamie Rogers, Megan Gilbert, Lucas Sullivan, Alexus Hodge-Teer, Randi Gaither-Teer, Lexy Sullivan, Justin King, Kirstin King, and Kelsie Taylor, twenty-one great-grandchildren, and a number of nieces, nephews, other family members, and a host of friends.

A memorial service will be held at 11:00 A.M., Saturday, July 20, 2024, in the Spirit Life Fellowship Church, Ashdown, Arkansas with Brad Sullivan, Micah Sullivan, Brian Sullivan officiating. Cremation was entrusted to Chandler Funeral Home, De Queen, Arkansas. You may send an online sympathy message at www.chandlerfuneral.com.

Julie Renee Staggs

Julie Renee Staggs, age 42, a resident of De Queen, Arkansas, passed away Wednesday, July 10, 2024, at her home.

She was born December 18, 1981, in De Queen, Arkansas. She was a valuable asset to her community in her service to others— impacting many people’s lives. She was a Registered Nurse, office manager, and intake nurse for Southern Caregivers in De Queen. Julie loved spending time with her son and daughter in their various sporting and academic extracurricular activities, as well as going to the river with her family. She also enjoyed spending time in nature, propagating plants, geology, collecting rocks and was a great cook. Above all, she was always happy treating everyone she met with dignity and respect. Her smile and laugh were infectious to everyone around her. Julie was the most wonderful and beloved mother and wife, who was the foundation of her family.

She was preceded in death by her father, Doug McWilliams, her grandparents, Jackie and Clayburn McWilliams, Vernice and Billy Burgess, and father-in-law, Lonny Ray Staggs Sr.

She is survived by her husband, Ray Staggs; one son, Henry Staggs; one daughter, Keri Staggs; her mother Fran Burgess McWilliams all of De Queen; one brother and sister-in-law, Bill and Terra Mc Williams of Rogers, Arkansas.

Memorial Service for Julie will be held at 2:00 p.m., Tuesday, July 16, 2024, at the First Baptist Church of De Queen with Greg Revels officiating.

Cremation arrangements by Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Joe Henry Collins

Joe Henry Collins, age 79, a resident of Foreman, Arkansas, died Tuesday, July 9, 2024 at his home.

He was born November 7, 1944 in Foreman, Arkansas. Joe was a welder for Little River County. He loved working outside in his garden and welding, and was a U.S. Navy veteran.

Joe is preceded in death by his parents, William Henry and Eunice Irene Jones Collins; two sisters, Tina Maggie and Betty Collins; and two brothers, Lee Roy Collins and Donald Collins.

He is survived by his wife, Reba Collins; two daughters, Karen Kay Roden and Vicky Jo Boyd; grandchildren, Sarah, Machell, Amanda, Stacy, Joe “Bubba”, and Leea; great-grandchildren, Abby, K.J., Hannah, Aiden, Haylin, Carsin, Corey, Kylynn, Gwen, and Roland; one brother, Lonnie and Pat Collins.

Cremation arrangements by Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen, Arkansas,

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Nessie Ann Gore

Nessie Ann Gore went to her heavenly home at 3:33 PM on Saturday, July 6, 2024 in Columbus, MS.

Nessie was born on December 9, 1953 in Nowata, OK to Ernest Ray and Mary Francis Dinger. The family moved to Arkansas in 1961 to be closer to family.

Nessie was preceded in death by her loving husband, Thomas L. Gore, of Gillham, AR on December 24, 2018 in Hot Springs, AR. Two brothers; James Dinger and Lawrence Dinger,; two sisters, Betty Stout of Gillham, AR and Lynda Phillips of Gilmer, TX.

Nessie is survived by a daughter, Heather (Billy) Reed of Columbus, MS and a son Thomas (Shawnya) Gore of Lowell, AR; sister, Teri (Brad) Hart of De Queen, AR; granddaughter, Mikayla Reed of Chicago, IL, grandson, James Alexander (Laura) Reed of Knoxville, TN; Great granddaughter, Auburn Reed of Knoxville, TN along with other loving relatives a friends.

A memorial service will be held in De Queen, AR at a later date.

John Franklin Dixon

John Franklin Dixon, age 87, and resident of Lutz, Florida, passed peacefully on July 3, 2024.

He was born February 26, 1937, in Houston, TX. John was a master diesel mechanic working on semi-trucks for most of his adult life in Dallas, TX.

John took an early retirement to open his own business, Have Paint Brush Will Travel. He found painting houses and performing home repairs fulfilling for a number of years.

After the devastation of Hurricane Katrina, John spent several months rebuilding homes and apartment buildings in the New Orleans area.

John loved the freedom and feeling of the open road riding motorcycles, primarily Harley Davidsons. He was proudly a ‘Lifer’ with the Gypsy motorcycle club with the road name “2-Dogs”.

He enjoyed listening to country western music and had a passion for dancing the two-step with a big smile for every song.

John was preceded in death by his parents, Benjamin Alexander and Helen Mae Glynn Dixon; his prior wives, Neta Skelton Dixon and Angel Baker; and significant other, Yetta Proctor.

He is survived by son, Jon Carlton Dixon of San Marcos, California; daughter, Jacquelyn Teri Dixon and her husband, Charles Osborne of Port Richey, Florida; brother, Glenn Dixon and his wife, Suzanne Dixon of Powderly, Texas; nephew, Duane Dixon and his wife, Gina Dixon and their son, Benjamin Dixon of Houston, Texas; and significant other, Verna Atkins of Van Alstyne, Texas.

Private services

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

R.G. Susy Krantz Callaway

On July 3rd, 2024 at 9:55 pm R.G. Susy Krantz Callaway was called home wrapped in the arms of Jesus and surrounded by loved ones.

Susy, a resident of Dierks Arkansas, and a 1976 graduate of Dierks High School was born on August 29, 1958, in Nashville, AR to John D. and Ruby Etta Jester Krantz.

She was preceded in death by her parents, paternal and maternal grandparents, and her daughter’s father, Robert (Bobby) Callaway.

Susy was a very hardworking and dedicated employee of The Dierks Pharmacy, G.E. Consumer Finance, and Ford Motor Credit. Her hobbies included watching OU Sooner softball, fishing, riding ATVs, and piddling like her daddy. She will always be remembered for her love and dedication to her family, friends, Community, and her love of Dr. Pepper. Her most cherished role was Nana to her two grandsons and many others she considered her own.

Left to cherish the many memories; One daughter, Susan (Chris) Kennedy of Newhope, AR; two grandsons, Jeffrey Cardinale, III of Dierks, AR, and Jiren Kennedy of Newhope, AR; one step-granddaughter, Jordyn Kennedy of Olive Branch, MS; a niece that she considered as a daughter, Tammy (Chad) Lites of De Queen, AR; and their children, Caitlin Collins of De Queen, AR; and Cody Lites of Bentonville, AR; One sister, Wanda (David) Heifner of Dierks, AR; two brothers Jimmy and Robert Krantz of Dierks, AR; a best friend for over 50 years, Brenda Day and her sons, Daniel and Eric Gunter, special friends, Donna Edwards, Bryan and Tomye Adair, Alan McRae, Deb Foster, Dawn Mazzola, John and Tammie Maines, Stacy and Ashley Janes, Daniel Cogburn and family, Natalee Wilson, Remi Janes, Stina Lervig and Gina Lian who she considered as granddaughters and countless nieces, nephews, extended family members, and friends.

Graveside funeral services for Susy will be held at 2:00 p.m. Friday, July 5, 2024 at Dierks Cemetery with Bryan Adair officiating, under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Virginia Ruth Frachisuer Blanton Shaw

Virginia Ruth Frachiseur Blanton Shaw, age 89, a resident of De Queen, Arkansas, died Tuesday, July 2, 2024, at Bear Creek Healthcare in De Queen.

She was born January 5, 1935, in Grannis, Arkansas.

Virginia was preceded in death by her husband, Harold “Sonny” Blanton; her parents, Nathan and Birdie Frachiseur; her great-grandchild, Savannah Blanton; three brothers, James Thomas, Charley Wayne, and Carl Allen Frachiseur.

She is survived by her husband, Tom Shaw; three sons and daughters-in-law, Steve and Angie Blanton, Roger and Laura Blanton, Jeff and Laura Blanton; three grandchildren, Jonathan and Rhonda Blanton, Matthew and Meagan Blanton, and Catlin Blanton; four great-grandchildren, Peyton and Jace, Darian and Salem; four brothers and sisters-in-law, Zack and Pearl Frachiseur, Billy and Jane Frachiseur, Arlie and Robbie Frachiseur, and Dalton and Diane Frachiseur; three sisters and brothers-in-law, Lavon and Max Duggan of Gillham, Linda White of Wickes, Lequitta and Keith Holmes of Clifton, Texas and numerous nieces and nephews.

Funeral services for Virginia will be held at 10:00 a.m. Monday, July 8, 2024, in the Holly Grove Baptist Church with Homer Frachiseur officiating. Burial will follow in Holly Grove Cemetery, under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

Family will receive friends from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m., on Sunday, July 7, 2024, at the funeral home in De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Danny Wayne Henthorne

Mr. Danny Wayne Henthorne, age 65, a resident of Dierks, Arkansas, passed away Saturday, June 29, 2024, at The Springs of Minecreek in Nashville, Arkansas.

He was born on November 10, 1958, in De Queen, Arkansas. He was a top-notch artist and loved his family.

He was preceded in death by his father, Alex Henthorne, Jr.; and his grandparents, Roy Fagan and Ethel Kesterson Fagan.

Mr. Henthorne is survived by his mother, Mae Ferguson; three sisters, Karen Dickerson, Nora Henthorne, and Shanine Henthorne; four brothers, Tony Ferguson, Boyd Ferguson, Greg Henthorne, and Wayne Henthorne; and a number of nieces, nephews and a host of friends.

Cremation arrangements by Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Martez Jamell Williams

Martez Jamell Williams, age 46, a resident of De Queen, Arkansas, died Tuesday, July 2, 2024, at Christus St. Michael Hospital in Texarkana, Texas.

He was born May 22, 1978, in De Queen. He ran track in high school and after graduating he competed in local 5ks. He loved dominoes, music, reading his bible, and talking to others about Jesus.

Martez was preceded in death by his father, Curtis Bennett, and his mother, Brenda Joyce Williams.

He is survived by two daughters, Jasmine Williams and Veronica Williams both of Valliant, Oklahoma; three brothers, William Bennett of De Queen, Enrique and wife Lisa Williams also of De Queen, and Shaquille Williams of Little Canada, Minnesota; two sisters, Charnell Evans of De Queen and Renata Sanders of Little Rock, Arkansas; a number of aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews and cousins.

Funeral services for Martez will be held at 10:00 a.m. Saturday, July 6, 2024, in the Wilkerson Funeral Home Chapel with Bishop Patrick Grant officiating. Burial will follow in Sand Hill Cemetery, under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Darrell Vernon Shelton

Mr. Darrell Vernon Shelton, affectionately called, Buddy, age 66, a resident of De Queen, died Sunday, June 30, 2024, surrounded by his family.

Buddy was the only child born to Vernon Clarence and Virgie Maudie “Top” Davis Shelton in De Queen, Arkansas on July 16, 1957. Buddy received his Environmental Safety and Technologies associate degree from Cossatot Community College in De Queen. He was employed by Weyerhaeuser where he was an Inventory Forrester for over 42 years. Buddy married the love of his life, Carla Jane Cox in De Queen, Arkansas on July 20, 1985, and two sons were born to this marriage. He was an active member of the Friendship Baptist Church where he led singing for 30 years. He loved music and self-taught himself to play the guitar, and he had a beautiful voice, even though he wouldn’t admit it. Buddy was an avid bowler and was the first person at Pine Bowl in De Queen to bowl the perfect 300 score. Buddy was active in coaching peewee baseball and basketball and later umpired for 15-plus years. He was an avid reader and a University of Oklahoma fan. But his best time spent was with his family.

Buddy was preceded in death by his parents.

He leaves to cherish his memory, his wife of almost 39 years, Carla Jane Shelton of De Queen; two sons and daughters-in-law, Bryan Scott and Ashley Shelton of De Queen, and Randall Eric and Ashley Shelton of Ozark, Arkansas; two grandchildren, Jaxon Ty Shelton and Emery Jane Shelton both of De Queen, as well as a number of loving cousins, other family members and a host of friends.

Funeral Services for Mr. Darrell “Buddy” Shelton will be held at 10:00 A.M., Wednesday, July 3, 2024, in the Chandler Funeral Home Chapel with Bryan Scott Shelton and Bro. George Frachiseur officiating. Interment will follow in the West Otis Cemetery. Visitation will be Tuesday, July 2, 2024, in the Chandler Funeral Home Chapel from 6:00 – 8:00 P.M. Arrangements are entrusted to Chandler Funeral Home, De Queen, Arkansas. You may send an online condolence at www.chandlerfuneral.com.

Karen Kay Harper

Mrs. Karen Kay Tollett Harper age 82, a resident of Dierks, Arkansas, passed away Friday, June 28, 2024, at CHI St. Vincent Hospital in Hot Springs, Arkansas.

She was born on September 10, 1941, in De Queen. She was a member of First Baptist Church in Lockesburg. She enjoyed sewing, singing, and playing the piano.

She was preceded in death by her parents, Truman and Kathryn June Slayton Tollett.

Mrs. Harper is survived by one son and daughter-in-law, Joel and Leah Harper of Lockesburg; one daughter and son-in-law, Rebecca and Andrew Pope of Nashville, Arkansas; one brother and sister-in-law, Gary and Betty Tollett of Lockesburg, Arkansas; grandchildren, Britney (Marcus) Caudle, Shawn (Libby) McWhorter, Dustin (Morgan) Smith, Meagan Smith; bonus grandchildren, Andrea (Kris) Woodruff, Tyler (Samantha) Pope, Julia (Yale) Linhoff, Ashley (Jason) Eds, Austin (Jordan) O’Rand, Grayson Coleman; and a number of great-grandchildren, nieces, and nephews.

Graveside funeral service for Mrs. Harper will be held at 2:00 p.m., Sunday, June 30, 2024, at the Coulter Memorial Gardens in Lockesburg with Bro. John Henry Williams officiating under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

The family will receive friends on Saturday, June 29, 2024, from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at the funeral home in De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

James Eric Cannon

Mr. James Eric Cannon, age 57, a resident of Jonesboro, Arkansas, passed away Tuesday, June 25, 2024, at Flo and Phil Jones Hospice House, Jonesboro, Arkansas.

He was born on August 12, 1966, in Arkadelphia, Arkansas. He was a Baptist who loved the beach, enjoyed Razorback sports, and loved his dog, Lilly.

He was preceded in death by his parents, James Wesley, and Cepha Joan McCaskill Cannon; grandparents, Hubert and Gladys McCaskill and Herman “Shorty” and Nina Cannon.

Mr. Cannon is survived by one sister and brother-in-law, Krista and Jason Coats of Jonesboro; his aunt and uncle, Don and Linda McCaskill of Cassville, Missouri and a number of cousins.

Graveside funeral service for Mr. Cannon will be held at 10:00 a.m., Friday, June 28, 2024, at the McHorse Cemetery near Lockesburg, Arkansas with Bro. Larry Fry officiating under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Sharon “Delaine” Mullins Roneker

Sharon “Delaine” Mullins Roneker was welcomed into Heaven on Thursday, June 20, 2024 at the age of 62.

She was born to the late Charles Mullins and Lavonne Mullins on October 17, 1961 in De Queen, Arkansas.

Delaine had a heart of gold, a smile that would brighten everyone’s day, and positivity beyond measure. She loved deeply and truly. She never met a stranger and always made everyone feel welcome. She made the best of every situation even through her illness. But most of all, she loved her family with all her heart. We never, ever doubted that. There is no doubt a huge hole has been left in our hearts but we know she danced her way into Heaven as Heaven rejoiced and welcomed her. She is free, whole, and home.

While our hearts have crumbled since her passing, we have hope and know we will see her again. Until then, rest Momma.

Delaine is survived by her husband, Dale, of 22 years. Her mother, Lavonne Mullins of Florida, her brothers Robby (Linda) Mullins of Arkansas and Chad Mullins of Oklahoma, her daughters, Lauren (Clint) Young of Arkansas, Ashton (Keith) Gelzinis of North Carolina, and Caitlin (Buster) Hughes of Tennessee, daughter Lexi Roneker, the apples of her eyes – her grandbabies, Cooper Young, LaykenYoung, Jude Gelzinis, Finley Gelzinis, and Margo Hughes, her Father-in-law Fred Roneker Jr, and brother-in-law Fred Roneker III. A special bonus son, Michael Hernacki of Alaska along with a host of other family, friends, and students!

A celebration of life will be held at Wesley Church in Melbourne, Florida on Sunday, July 21, 2024, at 2:00pm. Interment will be held in De Queen, Arkansas at a later date.

Cremation arrangements are under the direction of Ammen Family Cremation and Funeral Care of Melbourne, Florida.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Mary Ann Woods

Mrs. Mary Ann Alexander Woods, affectionately called Ann by family and friends, age 80, a resident of De Queen, Arkansas, passed from this life on Tuesday, June 25, 2024, at her home surrounded by her family.

She was one of four daughters born to Lester Thurman and Estelle Lena Jones Alexander, in Stratford, Oklahoma, on March 12, 1944. She was a 1962 high school graduate of Wynnewood High School in Wynnewood, Oklahoma. She went on to East Central University in Ada, Oklahoma, with a Major in Home Economics. She married Leonard Joe Woods in Wynnewood, Oklahoma on August 16, 1963, and to this marriage a son and two daughters were born. She was an active member of the De Queen Church of Christ, where she was a Bible class teacher for over 42 years. She was a wonderful cook and baker as well. Ann was devoted to her family and would follow her children and grandchildren to any event they were involved in, whether it be sports or academics. Ann loved plants and gardening, but her best time was spent with her family.

Ann was preceded in death by her parents, her beloved husband of over 55 years, Leonard Joe Woods, a grandson, Layne Woods, a great-grandson, Ryder Smith, and her sisters, Betty Looney and Carole Richard Perry.

She leaves to cherish her memory, a son and daughter-in-law, Jeff and Allison Woods of De Queen, two daughters and sons-in-law, Staci and Bobby Young of De Queen, and Shelly and Rocky Halter of Siloam Springs, Arkansas; five grandchildren, Aundra Smith and her husband, Josh of Lockesburg, Arkansas, Alex Young and his wife, Michaela of Gravette, Arkansas, Gage Woods of De Queen, Eli Halter and Micah Halter both of Siloam Springs, Arkansas; four great-grandchildren, Aubrie Smith, Ava Cobb, Abilene Smith, and Vincent Young; a sister and brother-in-law, Barbara and Richard Robertson of Wynnewood, Oklahoma, as well as a host of nieces, nephews, other family members and a host of friends.

The family would like to extend a special “Thank you” to Elite Hospice in Mena, Arkansas for the continued care and love shown to Mrs. Ann.

Funeral Services for Mrs. Ann Woods will be held at 11:00 A.M., Friday, June 28, 2024, in the De Queen Church of Christ with Bobby Tatum and Toney Stowers, Ministers officiating. Visitation will be from 10:00 until 11:00 A.M., at the De Queen Church of Christ. The interment will be in Redmen Cemetery, De Queen, Arkansas. Arrangements are entrusted to Chandler Funeral Home, De Queen, Arkansas. You may send an online condolence at www.chandlerfuneral.com.

Larry Jones

Larry Houston Jones, 77, departed this life on Friday, June 21, 2024, at Alma Health and Rehabilitation, with family by his side. A resident of Alma and former resident of De Queen, Larry had been diagnosed with lung cancer a few short months ago.

He was born November 1, 1946, in Monticello (Drew County), Arkansas, to Ray Houston and Ouida Geraldine Loveless Jones. He graduated in 1964 from Drew Central High School, where his classmates voted him Friendliest, Wittiest, and Mr. Congeniality.

After graduating high school, Larry joined the U.S. Navy so he could see more of the world. He served for seven years (1964 to 1971) and was stationed in California, Florida and Connecticut as well as Spain, Malta and Italy. Not bad for a farm kid from Possum Valley, Arkansas!

While in training at Naval Station Great Lakes, Larry met a fellow seaman apprentice named Ralph Powers. They became instant friends in spite of Ralph’s being a Yankee from Massachusetts, and eventually became brothers-in-law, as Larry married Ralph’s sister Donna in Cambridge, Massachusetts, on May 3, 1968.

After being discharged from the Navy, Larry moved his young family to Arkansas, where he tried his hand at installing swimming pools and working in a TV repair shop. He decided to build on the electronics training he had received in the Navy and enrolled at Southwest Technical Institute in Camden. He received his Associate of Applied Science degree in Electromechanical Technology on August 10, 1973, maintaining a 4.0 GPA while helping to wrangle three children under the age of four years old.

The majority of Larry’s career was spent in the wood products industry. He started his career at Georgia Pacific in Crossett, Arkansas, and later worked short stints for Champion in Texas and South Carolina. He then spent 27 years working for Weyerhaeuser in Dierks, Arkansas, retiring as Process Control Superintendent in 2007.

Larry’s hobbies included gardening, dabbling in photography, and watching sports (especially the Razorbacks and the Boston Celtics). He loved traveling to visit his kids and grandkids, or to vacation with them, from theme parks to national parks and from distilleries to duomos. A trip of a lifetime in recent years was to Alaska to visit one of his high school classmates.

He could fix darn near anything, he built the occasional bunkbeds and bookshelves, and he never met a camera or a tech gadget he didn’t like.

Larry was preceded in death by his beloved grandparents, Benjamin Arthur “Trigger” and Virgie Hickman Loveless; his parents, Ray and Ouida Loveless Jones; his wife, Donna Powers Jones; brothers-in-law Robert, Ralph and Joseph Powers, and Norman Chadwick.

He is survived by his children, Melissa Belur (Satya) of San Jose, California, Derek Jones (Andrea) of Tampa, Florida, and Jennifer Jones of Alma; grandsons Logan Jones, Braden Key, Kiran and Aidan Belur, and Tiago Jones. He is also survived by sisters Susie Chadwick and Edna Carpenter; sister-in-law Ada Powers (Jim Muncher); brother-in-law James Powers (Virginia); bonus grandsons Shane and Zach Goettel; numerous cousins, nieces and nephews; and his special neighborhood buddy Loretta McElroy. He leaves behind many friends and classmates from Drew Central High School as well as numerous friends and colleagues from Weyerhaeuser.

Services will be announced at a later date.

Sharon Ray Parker

Sharon Ray Parker of The Colony, TX left her earthly body and went home to be with her Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ on the morning of Tuesday, June 18, 2024, after a six-year battle with Hereditary Amyloidosis. Daughter of Thurman Lester Ray and Bertha Corpier Ray, Sharon grew up in De Queen, AR.

She attended the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville, receiving a Master’s degree in Family Studies and Human Development. She began her career as a County Extension 4-H Agent in Washington County.

In 2015, she married for the first time to lifelong friend, Michael (Chip) Parker. Sharon enjoyed fishing, hunting, traveling, watching favorite sports team’s games, and decorating the home, especially at Christmas time.

Sharon is survived by her caring husband, Chip Parker, sister Lynn Ray Franz and husband Robert Franz, sister Gina Ray Woods, step-daughter Kelli Parker Gerald and husband Shane Gerald, step-daughter Michelle Parker Rangel and husband Reubin Rangel, as well as nephew Micah Ray Franz and wife Angela McCall, nephew Colin Phillips and wife Melanie Phillips, niece Allie Cease and husband Andrew Cease, nephew Luke Phillips, and niece Autumn Woods. She was blessed to have many children in her extended family: step-granddaughters Ivy and Parker, great-nieces and great-nephews Jude, Madelyn, Max, and Mason.

Sharon was preceded in death by her parents, Thurman and Bertha Ray, her brother Gary Ray, and her beloved dog Tanner.

A service will be held Thursday, June 27, at 1:00 pm at Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen, AR, followed by burial at Redmen Cemetery. Rev Wilton Wall will officiate. The family will receive friends beginning at 12:00 pm prior to the service at the funeral home.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Billy Frank Meador

Billy Frank Meador, affectionately called Bill by family and friends was a resident of Wickes, Arkansas, passed from this life on Thursday, June 19, 2024, at his home. Bill was born June 1, 1945. The youngest of Delta Myers Meador children.

Bill traveled and worked on the pipeline for many years and retired to Wickes, Arkansas.

He was a man of few words, loved a good joke and made wisecracks to make others laugh.

Preceded in death by siblings Bud Meador, G.W. Meador, Gerald Meador and Geraldene Meador Glover (twins), Joyce Meador Musick, Sybil Meador Jones, Pierre, Parker Meador and Patrica Meador House (triplets)

Bill is survived by one brother Harry Gene Meador of Frisco, Texas, as well as many nieces and nephews.

No services are scheduled currently. Cremation entrusted to Chandler Funeral Home, De Queen, Arkansas. You may send an online condolence to www.chandlerfuneral.com

Ann Catherine Holt

Ann Catherine England Holt died June 14, 2024 at home in Little Rock, Arkansas. She was born November 6, 1933 at Gilmer, Texas. Her parents were the late Gunter and Nell Rogers England. Her family moved from Atlanta, Texas to DeQueen, Arkansas where she attended 12 years graduating in 1951. She attended what was then Ouachita Baptist College for a year and graduated from Baylor University in 1955.

Ann married Charles Wayne Holt, also of DeQueen, June 10, 1956. During their years together they lived in several places –Newport, Rhode Island, Morocco, Norfolk, Virginia during the years Mr. Holt was in the Navy. They settled in Dallas, Texas where their two daughters were born and then moved to Jackson, Mississippi; Little Rock, Arkansas; Fayetteville, Arkansas and then to Pine Bluff, Arkansas in 1988. Mr. Holt died January 14, 2010.

She was a member of First Baptist Church, Pine Bluff, Mrs. Holt is survived by her daughters, Amy Taylor (Kent) of Little Rock and Hilary Reaves (Keith) of Rome, Georgia; her three grandchildren: Diana Taylor Sawyer (Dave) of Smyrna, Georgia; Graham Reaves (Reagan) of Smyrna, Georgia and Ellen Reaves Wood (Logan) of Smyrna, Georgia; and her four great grandsons: Henry and Charlie Sawyer; Owen and Elliott Wood all of Smyrna, Georgia; her brother, John England and wife Martha of Decatur, Georgia and three nieces and two nephews.

Memorials may be made to the Broadcast Ministry of First Baptist Church, Rome, Georgia, 100 E. 4th Avenue, Rome, Georgia 30161. Memorial services will be held at Belleville Cemetery in Lockesburg, Arkansas on Saturday, June 22, 2024 at 11:00 am, Keith Reaves officiating. Arrangements are being made by Smith Funeral Home Little Rock, Arkansas and Wilkerson Funeral Home DeQueen, Arkansas.

James Steven Roberts

Glena Dayle Marts

Mrs. Glena Dayle Marts, age 84, a resident of De Queen, Arkansas, passed away Saturday, June 15, 2024, at CHI St. Vincent Hospital in Hot Springs, Arkansas

She was born on September 11, 1939, in Longview Texas. She liked gardening and loved her flowers.

She was preceded in death by her parents, Homer Allen Crutcher and Hepsy Mayfield Oldfield; two sisters, Mae Geddie and Juanita Bessie Hunt; two brothers, Claude Edward Ash and Clyde Ash.

Mrs. Marts is survived by her husband of almost 49 years, Howard Marts of De Queen, Arkansas; two sons, Walter Barrow III of Leavenworth, Kansas, Glen Barrow of Hot Springs, Arkansas; one daughter, Diana Wimpee of De Queen, Arkansas; two special nieces, Cathy Perry and Linda Pelt; and a number of grandchildren, nieces, nephews, and many friends.

Graveside funeral service for Mrs. Marts will be held at 2:00 p.m., Thursday, June 20, 2024 at the Mt. Ida Cemetery pavilion near De Queen with Bro. John Lindsey officiating under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

The family will receive friends on Wednesday, June 19, 2024, from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at the funeral home.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

William Hoyt Adcock

Mr. William Hoyt Adcock, age 82, a resident of Magnolia, and a former resident of De Queen, passed away from this life on Friday, June 14, 2024, in The Green House Cottages of Wentworth Place, Magnolia, Arkansas, surrounded by his family.

He was born to William Loring (Bill) and Lena Bell Jones Adcock in Post, Texas, on October 13, 1941. He married the love of his life, Gayle Manasco Adcock in De Queen, Arkansas on July 3, 1964, and to this marriage two daughters were born. Hoyt served his country with the Army National Guard, and owned a boot, shoe, and saddle repair business. Hoyt and Gayle were active members of the Geneva Missionary Baptist Church. Hoyt enjoyed whittling and could make an unbroken wooden chain with ornaments in the middle, and he loved horses, but his best time spent was with Gayle, his daughters, and his grandchildren.

He was preceded in death by his parents.

He leaves to cherish his memory, his wife of almost 60 years, Gayle; their daughters and sons-in-law,

Karen and David Watson of Waldo, Arkansas, and Melissa and Patrick Fisk of Benton, Arkansas; his grandchildren and their spouses, Tyler and Jessie Watson, Alex and Morgan Watson all of Magnolia, Arkansas, and Kaylee Grace Fisk of Benton, Arkansas; his great-grandchildren, Jack Ryan Watson, Max Watson, and Rhett Watson; a brother and sister-in-law, Doyle and Lisa Adcock of De Queen, as well as other family members and a host of friends.

Funeral Services for Mr. Hoyt Adcock will be held at 2:00 P.M., Tuesday, June 18, 2024, in the Chandler Funeral Home Chapel with Patrick Fisk officiating. Visitation will be Tuesday, June 18, 2024, from 12:00 until 2:00 P.M. in the Chandler Funeral Home Chapel. Burial will follow the Service at Mt. Ida Cemetery. Services are entrusted to Chandler Funeral Home, De Queen. You may send an online condolence at www.chandlerfuneral.com.

Nicolas Sanchez-Hernandez

Mr. Nicolas Sanchez Hernandez, age 65, a resident of De Queen, passed away on Wednesday, June 12, 2024, in the Sevier County Medical Center.

He was born to Nicolas Sanchez Moya and Ana Maria Hernandez Arrellano in Santa Rosa Tlaxcala, Mexico on November 20, 1958. He was an employee of AMS Global and was an active member of St. Barbara’s Catholic Church. He enjoyed being outside taking care of his animals, as well as deer hunting. But his best time spent was with his wife, children, and grandchildren.

He was preceded in death by his parents, a daughter, Veronica Sanchez, a grandson, Miguel Angel Martinez, and one brother, Carlos Sanchez.

He leaves to cherish his memory, his beloved wife of 46 years, Juana Valenzuela of De Queen, a son and daughter-in-law, Nicolas Sanchez and Alicia Centeno of De Queen; two daughters and their husbands, Diana Sanchez and Jose Luis Delgado and Beatriz Sanchez and Manuel Martinez all of De Queen; eleven grandchildren, Jason Huesca, Henry Martinez, Alondra Sanchez, Nicolas Sanchez, Christian Martinez, Edgar Martinez, Jaylynn Delgado, Emily Martinez, Victoria Sanchez, Erick Sanchez, and Luis Delgado; one brother, Guadalupe Sanchez; four sisters, Clementina Sanchez of Mexico, Raquel Sanchez of Texarkana, Texas, Maria Sanchez of Mexico. Lourdes Sanchez of Memphis, Tennessee, and Fidencia Sanchez of Fort Smith, Arkansas, as well as nieces, nephews, other family members and a host of friends.

A funeral mass will be on Friday, June 14, 2024, at 3:00 P.M. in St. Barbara’s Catholic Church with Father Ramses Mendieta officiating. Burial will follow in Redmen Cemetery. A Rosary will be on Thursday, June 13, 2024, beginning at 7:30 P.M., and visitation to follow until 10:00 P.M. Arrangements are entrusted to Chandler Funeral Home, De Queen, Arkansas. You may send an online sympathy message at www.chandlerfuneral.com.

Steven Crawford, Jr.

Steven Gary Crawford Jr., lovingly known as ‘Stevie’ to his family and friends, was born November 20, 1967, in Riverside, California. He passed from this life on June 10, 2024, at his home in Winthrop, Arkansas, but now lives in glory with His Lord and Savior.

Stevie was the son of Steven Gary Crawford Sr., and Kathy Marie (Sanderson) Schiffman. He moved with his family from California to De Queen, Arkansas in 1977, where he grew up with his siblings and cousins. He loved his wife of 34 years, Terrie (Cook) Crawford, more than any earthly thing, and his children and grandchildren were his pride and joy. He was highly active in his children’s activities, almost never missing a sporting event, choir concert, or any other activity that his kids were involved with. With anything that his kids took interest in, he always made it a priority to support them and help them in any way he could.

Prior to a traumatic brain injury in 2005, Stevie held many colorful blue-collar jobs starting as an 11-year-old changing truck tire flats at the family’s local Fina station; and later as a 16-year-old hod carrier, moving up quickly to journeyman, traveling throughout the United States doing construction. He later drove a truck in Tuscon, Arizona, before making a stop back in De Queen to take a job on a hog farm for the summer, before going back to Arizona. His plans hit a hiccup when he met a little red headed young lady who he said, “detained him 12 years” from getting back to Arizona, which he loved. Riding in the desert in his four-wheel drive was his “blood pressure medicine,” as he called it. Taking many for the rides of their lives. He later took up photography which included many beautiful desert scenes.

He worked in industrial construction, quickly becoming a journeyman with Tri-Lakes in Gillham. He spent much of his time at the Valliant paper mill, and later as a welder/fitter for other companies. At the time of his TBI, Stevie was pastoring a church and working two jobs to support his family in Arizona. His strong work ethic is carried on through his children.

He surrendered to preach in February 1999 and was sent on the mission field to Wickenburg, Arizona in 2001 by Geneva Missionary Baptist Church. He later went on to pastor Maranatha Missionary Baptist Church in Phoenix, Arizona, as well as served as interim pastor to two other Missionary Baptist churches in Arizona. He loved all of his Arizona church families dearly. He was currently serving as pastor at Hopewell Missionary Baptist Church in Ashdown, AR, all of whom he loved dearly.

Stevie loved his Heavenly Father more than anything, and his dedication to the Lord was evident in all aspects of his life, especially his daily study of The Word.

He is preceded in death by his father, Steven Crawford, Sr.

He is survived by his wife, Terrie Lynn; his son, Caleb Andrew Crawford (Cora)of Branson, MO; his daughter, Kaytlynn Maye Franklin (Keith), Dierks, AR; his grandsons, Byron Andrew, Foster Steven, and Nolan Carl Crawford; his mother, Kathy Schiffman, Temple, TX; his brother, Ronald Crawford (Nicole), Shorewood, IL; his sister, Michelle Worley, Nashville, AR; his in-laws who loved him like a son: JL and Lorene Presley, De Queen, and Harley and Debbie Cook of Longview, TX; two brothers-in law: Larry Cook, Texarkana, AR and Waylan Cook, De Queen, AR, a host of special nieces, nephews, cousins, aunts, uncles, close friends and brethren in Christ.

Funeral Services for Mr. Stevie Crawford will be held at 10:00 A.M. Saturday, June 15, 2024, in the Geneva Missionary Baptist Church, De Queen, with Bro. Chet Brake officiating. Burial will follow in the Mt. Ida Cemetery. Visitation will be Friday, June 14, 2024, from 5:00 – 7:00 P.M., at Chandler Funeral Home Chapel. Arrangements are entrusted to Chandler Funeral Home, De Queen, Arkansas. You may send an online condolence to www.chandlerfuneral.com

Ramona Faith Lynch

Ramona Faith Lynch age 83 a former resident of Wickes, Arkansas passed away on June 7, 2024, at her residence in Fort Smith, Arkansas.

She was born September 16, 1940, in Lockesburg, Arkansas.

She attended Wickes schools graduating in 1958 then went on to attend Henderson State Teachers College from 1958 to 1962 earning a degree in BSE English.

She taught 7-12th grade in Crawfordsville, Arkansas 1962-1963.

She was a stewardess for Delta Airlines, from 1963-1964.

She wrote a column for the Mena Star newspaper “South County Line” in the 1980s.

She was on the board of trustees at Rich Mountain Community College in Mena Arkansas and served as president for a year.

She had Riley publications from 1995 to 2003 and published five books.

She was the Director of the Southwest Arkansas regional archives from 2002 to 2005.

She worked for the De Queen school system from 2006 to 2011 teaching high school English at the De Queen campus and Lockesburg campus.

She retired in 2011 to spend most of her time with family cherishing her eight grandchildren which she love so dearly.

She was preceded in death by her father and stepmother Lester and Jewel Doss her mother and stepfather Nina and Curt “Cowboy” Shuffield and her maternal grandparents, Jim and Maudie Pettigrew. Sister, Hope Hudgens and Brother Fred Christian. Her husband of 25 years Al Lynch. And the late Aunt Edna Strickland Pettigrew.

She is survived by her three sons, Reed Lynch, wife, Stephanie of Farmington, Arkansas, Costa Lynch, wife, Shelley of LeMarque, Texas, and Alex Lynch of Fort Smith, Arkansas. Uncle Carroll Pettigrew of Mena, Arkansas. Husband of 16 years Bryan Riley, and wife Stormy of Wickes. Good friend Fred Allen of Bridgeton, New Jersey. She has eight grandchildren and several other cousins and relatives.

A celebration of life will be held at Wickes United Methodist Church on Saturday, July 20th, 2024 @ 2 pm. Her cremated remains will be placed at Daniel Cemetery in Wickes, Arkansas.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Ismael Tena

Mr. Ismael Tena, age 53, a resident of Grannis, Arkansas, passed away from this life on Saturday, June 8, 2024, in Mercy Hospital, Fort Smith, Arkansas surrounded by his loving family.

He was born to Eduwiges Carbajal and Anselmo Tena in Gomez Farias Chihuahua Mexico, on October 14, 1970. He and his wife, Yurina owned and operated the Razorback Discount Supply in Wickes. Ismael was a member of the Praise Temple in Grannis, and he enjoyed hunting, collecting guns, horses and especially his fur babies, Hurricane, Dash, and Stormy, but his best spent time was with his wife, his children, and his grandchildren.

He leaves to cherish his memory, his wife, Yurina Moravia Tena, his children; Cynthia Tena of Cove, Arkansas, Ismael Tena, Jr., and his wife Barbara of Grannis, and Keyla Tena also of Grannis; his grandchildren, Kendrick Ismael Tena, Isabella Tena, and Lorelai Tena, his siblings, Jesus Agustin Tena of Indianapolis, Indiana, Anselmo Tena of Mexico, Maria DelaPaz Vega of Grannis, Arkansas, and Alia Cobos of Fort Smith, Arkansas, as well as nieces, nephews, other family members and a host of friends.

Memorial Services are pending and will be announced by Chandler Funeral Home, De Queen, Arkansas.Cremation arrangements are entrusted to Chandler Funeral Home. You may leave a condolence message at www.chandlerfuneral.com

Beulah Pearl (Johnston) McCoy

Mrs. Beulah Pearl (Johnston) McCoy, age 84, a resident of De Queen, Arkansas, passed away Saturday, June 8, 2024, at Little River Nursing and Rehab.

She was born on September 26, 1939, in Floydada, Texas. She was a member of De Queen Church of Christ and she enjoyed her children. She was a nurse’s aide for over 20 years.

She was preceded in death by her parents, Floyd and Alberta Roberts Johnston; two sisters, Betty Price and Shirley Munsell; and two brothers, Sammy Johnston and Billy Johnston.

Mrs. McCoy is survived by her husband of 64 years, Jerry McCoy; one son, Jimmy McCoy of De Queen; one daughter and son-in-law, Dana Free (John S.) of Texarkana, Texas; two sisters, Charlotte Young of Round Rock, Texas, Ginger DeSpain of Freer Texas; one brother, Mickey Johnston; two grandchildren, Carter Free and Colsen Free of Texarkana, Texas and a number of nieces and nephews.

Graveside funeral service for Mrs. McCoy will be held at 2:00 p.m., Wednesday, June 12, 2024, at West Otis Cemetery near Horatio, under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

The family will receive friends on Wednesday, June 12th, from 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. before the service at the funeral home in De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Helen Berneice (Nabors) Farley

Mrs. Helen Berneice (Nabors) Farley, age 87, a resident of Dierks, Arkansas, passed away Thursday, June 6, 2024, at her home.

She was born on April 26, 1937, in Pine Valley, Oklahoma. She was a member of Dierks First Assembly of God and a secretary for 45 years for Cothren Insurance in Dierks. She loved God, her family, and her dog Pepper “Bubby”. She enjoyed gardening, going to yard sales, and talking with people.

She was preceded in death by her parents, Francis Lewis and Stella Walker Nabors; her husband of 62 years, Bobby Joe Farley, Sr; and one sister, Juanita Bethel.

Mrs. Farley is survived by one son, Bobby “Joey” Farley, Jr., of Dierks, Arkansas; one sister, June Chambers of Delight; two nephews, Bob Chambers and Michelle of Prescott, Arkansas, Richard Chambers and Becky of Bentonville, Arkansas; several cousins, great nephews, and friends.

Funeral services for Mrs. Farley will be held at 10:00 a.m., Tuesday, June 11, 2024, at Dierks First Assembly of God Church with Bro. Kevin Herrington officiating. Burial will follow at Dierks Cemetery, under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in Dierks.

The family will receive friends on Monday, June 10, 2024, from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. at the funeral home Dierks.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Wynona June Higgins

Mrs. Wynona June Higgins, age 83, a resident of De Queen, Arkansas, passed away Wednesday, June 5, 2024, at Dierks Health and Rehab Center.

She was born November 12, 1940, in Hereford, Texas. She was a Baptist. She loved taking care of her family, especially her grandchildren.

She was preceded in death by her husband, Carl (Blue) Higgins; her father and mother, Boots and Cecile Rule; three brothers, Billy Ray Rule, Clyde Rule, and Jack Rule and one sister-in-law, Lynelle.

Wynona is survived by; one son, Carl D. Higgins (Beth) of De Queen, one daughter, Donna J. Hunter (Chris) of Lockesburg, Arkansas; one brother, Larrie (Pat) Rule of Pheonix, Arizona; sister-in-law, Yvonne Rule; six grandchildren, Jake Higgins (Chelsie), Michael Higgins, Shane Higgins, Gunner Higgins, Brandy Hasselbring, Carl Hunter; four great-grandchildren, Brent Ingram, Colton Ingram, Casen Hunter, Kaden Hunter, Grayson Hunter, Kobie Wright, Ellie Higgins an Aspen Higgins and a number of nieces, nephews and a host of friends.

A Memorial service for Wynona will be held at 1:00 p.m., Tuesday, June 11, 2024, at the Wilkerson Funeral Home Chapel with Bro. John Lindsey officiating.

Cremation arrangements by Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Christine Zoe Tripeny

Mrs. Christine Zoe (Jester) Tripeny, age 90, a resident of Katy, Texas, died Wednesday, June 5, 2024 in Memorial Herman Katy Hospital in Katy.

She was born November 26, 1933 in Dierks, Arkansas to Alvin and Rilla Marie (Martin) Jester. She was an LPN and a member of the Second Baptist Church in Katy, Texas.

Mrs. Tripeny was preceded in death by her parents; her husband, Donald Tripeny; one son, Loyd Edward Terrell; three brothers, Jerry Jester, Jimmy Jester and James Jester and two sisters, Lois Martinez and Billie Baker.

She is survived by her daughter and son-in-law, Anita and Steve Wilhelm of Katy, Texas; one sister, Shirley Mayo of Kirby, Arkansas; two brothers, Thomas Jester of Denham Springs, Louisiana and Eddie Jester of Dierks, Arkansas; five grandchildren, 11 great-grandchildren, three great-great-grandchildren and a number of nieces and nephews.

Graveside funeral services for Mrs. Tripeny will be held at 1:00 p.m., Sunday, June 9, 2024 at Harmony Cemetery near Dierks, Arkansas with Erby Burgess officiating, under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in Dierks.

The family will receive friends from 10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m., Sunday June 9th at Wilkerson Funeral Home, 110 East 4th Street, Dierks, AR 71833.

You may leave a condolence on-line at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Jeanette Marlene Rojas

Mrs. Jeanette Marlene Rojas, age 62, a resident of De Queen, passed from this life on Thursday, May 30, 2024, in De Queen, Arkansas.

She was born to Paul Harold Suggs and Lottie Lou Belcher on October 30, 1961, in Phoenix, Arizona. She married the love of her life, Eugenio Elizondo Rojas in De Queen, Arkansas, on May 17, 1999. She was employed as a USDA-Poultry Inspector for approximately 25 years along with being self-employed and a housewife. She enjoyed cooking for her family and friends, especially Sunday dinners, watching the Arkansas Razorbacks and the New York Yankees, and anything that had to do with her children and grandchildren.

Jeanette was preceded in death by her parents and a brother, Danny Joe Suggs.

She leaves to cherish her memory, Eugenio Elizondo Rojas; three daughters and sons-in-law, Telisha Eddy and her husband Ronnie of De Queen, Delfina Lopez and her husband Jorge of Matamoros, Mexico, and Tevita Lopez-Martinez and her husband Ricardo of De Queen; two sons and daughters-in-law, Isauro Lopez and his wife Maria of De Queen and Eugenio Rojas Jr. and his wife Randee of Conway, Arkansas; fifteen grandchildren, Jioi Sierra, Ithi Sierra, Isaias (Chito) Sierra, Imanni Lopez, Romario Nunez, Xymena Nunez, Jalissa Crow-Martinez (Orlando Balderas), Julian Martinez, Isauro Gaspar Lopez, Jael Lopez, Alicia Lopez, Eli Rojas, Sophia Rojas, Alexander Rojas, and Sutton Rojas; two brothers and a sister-in-law, Jimmy Suggs of Hope, Arkansas and Bobby Suggs and his wife Kristy of Texarkana, Arkansas; three sisters and a brother-in-law, Brenda Brown of Wickes, Arkansas, Glenda Suggs of Horatio, Arkansas, and Loretta Rivas and her husband Fernando of Horatio, Arkansas, as well as a number of nieces, nephews, other family members and a host of friends.

A Graveside Funeral Service for Mrs. Jeanette Marlene Rojas will be held at 11:00 A.M., Monday, June 3, 2024, at the Mt. Ida Cemetery with Bro. Jimmy Roden officiating. Visitation will be on Sunday, June 2, 2024, from 2:00 to 4:00 P.M. in the Chandler Funeral Home Chapel. Arrangements are entrusted to Chandler Funeral Home, De Queen. You may leave a condolence online at www.chandlerfuneral.com.

Mr. Jose Emilio Huerta

José Emilio Huerta, de 67 años, residente de De Queen, Arkansas, murió el sábado 1 de Junio de 2024 en CHI ST. Vicente en Hot Springs, Arkansas.

Nació el 24 de Junio de 1956 en Río Grande, Zacatecas, México. Estaba retirado de Pilgrim’s Pride y era miembro de la Iglesia Católica de Santa Bárbara.

El Sr. Huerta fue precedido en la muerte por sus padres, José Concepción Huerta y María Esther Gómez, y un hermano, Filiberto Huerta.

Le sobreviven su esposa, Sara C. Huerta; dos hijos, José Huerta y Larry Huerta; dos hijas, María Huerta y Silvia Huerta; tres nietos, Leslie Herrera, Yarelli Herrera y Eric Huerta.

El velorio se llevará a cabo a partir de las 6:00 p.m. a 8:00 p.m., lunes 3 de junio de 2024, iniciando el Santo Rosario a las 6:00 p.m. en la Capilla de la Funeraria Wilkerson en De Queen.

Se realizará el Santo Rosario el martes 4 de Junio de 2024, a las 6:00 p.m., con Misa de funeral a las 7:00 p.m., oficiando el Padre Ramsés Mendieta doblada por una Vigilia hasta las 10:00 p.m., en el Centro Pastoral Monseñor Scott Friend en la Iglesia Católica Santa Bárbara en De Queen.

El entierro será en México.

Puede dejar un pésame en línea en www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Jose Emilio Huerta, age 67, a resident of De Queen, Arkansas died Saturday, June 1, 2024, at CHI ST. Vincent in Hot Springs, Arkansas.

He was born June 24, 1956 in Rio Grande, Zacatecas, Mexico. He was retired from Pilgrim’s Pride and was a member of St. Barbara Catholic Church.

Mr. Huerta was preceded in death by his parents, Jose Concepcion Huerta and Maria Esther Gomez, and one brother, Filiberto Huerta.

He is survived by his wife, Sara C. Huerta; two sons, Jose Huerta and Larry Huerta; two daughters, Maria Huerta and Silvia Huerta; three grandchildren, Leslie Herrera, Yarelli Herrera and Eric Huerta.

Visitation will be held from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m., Monday, June 3, 2024, with the Holy Rosary beginning at 6:00 p.m. in the Wilkerson Funeral Home Chapel in De Queen.

There will be a Holy Rosary on Tuesday, June 4, 2024, at 6:00 p.m., with a Funeral Mass at 7:00 p.m., with Father Rameses Mendieta officiating followed by a Vigil until 10:00 p.m. at the Monsignor Scott Friend Pastoral Center at St. Barbara Catholic Church in De Queen.

The burial will be in Mexico.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Charles “Chunky” Foster Krudwig, Jr.

Charles “Chunky” Foster Krudwig, Jr., age 61, a resident of De Queen, Arkansas, passed away Saturday, June 1, 2024, at CHI St. Vincent Hospital in Hot Springs, Arkansas.

He was preceded in death by his mother, Alice Laverne McCrary Krudwig, and one brother, Charles Joseph “Chuckie” Krudwig.

Charles is survived by his father, Charles Foster Krudwig, Sr. of De Queen, Arkansas; one brother, Larry Krudwig of Fayetteville, Arkansas; two sons and daughters-in-law, Joey and Sarah Krudwig of Texarkana, Arkansas, Wayne and Priscila Baker of Gillham, Arkansas; six grandchildren, Nicholas Baker, Elijah Baker, Michael Payne, Madelyn Newton, Barrett Newton, Charles Tucker Krudwig and one great-grandson, Paxton Baker.

Funeral services for Charles will be held at 10:00 a.m., Wednesday, June 5, 2024, at Wilkerson Funeral Home Chapel with Tye Barnett and Greg Revels officiating, burial will follow at Crosstrails Cemetery, under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

The family will receive friends on Tuesday from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at the funeral home.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Valentin Garcia

Mr. Valentin Garcia, age 48, a resident of De Queen passed from this life on Wednesday, May 29, 2024, in Texarkana, Arkansas, surrounded by his family.

He was born to Pedro Roman Garcia and Eva Anastacia Camarillo on May 21, 1976, in Planta de Luz de Tamazulapan Oaxaca, Mexico. He was an employee of Tyson Foods, and a member of the Story Creek Baptist Church. Valentin enjoyed cleaning cars, but the best time spent was with his family, and his fur baby, Lila.

He was preceded in death by his father, a daughter, Gabriela, a nephew, Ruben Rodriquez, and a brother-in-law, Gilberto Parcero.

He leaves to cherish his memory, Carolyn Jones Garcia of De Queen; his children, Daniel and his wife April Diaz of Harrison, Arkansas, DeAndra and her husband, Robert King III of Texarkana, Arkansas, and Sylvia Garcia and her fiancé, Dusty Starr of Hugo, Oklahoma; his mother, Eva Garcia Camarillo of Mexico; three brothers and sisters-in-law, Ebsebio and Concepcion Garcia of Mexico, Vicente Garcia of De Queen, and Mauro and Elva Garcia of Mexico; four sisters and brothers-in-law, Berta and Marcello Garcia of Mexico, Isidra and Abraham Martinez of De Queen, Marta Garcia, Mari Elena Garcia both of Mexico, along with a host of nieces, nephews, and friends.

Funeral services for Mr. Valentin Garcia will be held at 10:00 A.M., Saturday, June 1, 2024, in the Chandler Funeral Home Chapel with Bro. Homer Frachiseur officiating. Burial will follow in the Mt. Ida Cemetery. Visitation will be on Friday, May 31, 2024, from 6:00 to 8:00 P.M. at Chandler Funeral Home, De Queen, Arkansas. Arrangements are entrusted to Chandler Funeral Home. You may send online condolence to www.chandlerfuneral.com

Debra “Debbie” Ann Autrey

Miss Debra “Debbie” Ann Autrey, age 68, a resident of De Queen, Arkansas, passed away Wednesday, May 29, 2024, at Bear Creek Healthcare in De Queen.

She was born November 27, 1955, in De Queen, Arkansas. She loved people, her family, her Bear Creek family, and enjoyed her coffee.

She was preceded in death by her parents, Mark T. and Dorothy Winkley Autrey.

Debbie is survived by one brother, Mark Dwayne Autrey and wife, Tammy of Springfield, Missouri; one sister, Dorothy Sullivan and the late Jesse Sullivan of Wickes; five nephews, Jason Sullivan, Eric Sullivan, Gary Autrey, Marcus Autrey, and Blake Williamson; four great-nephews, Jackson, Jake, Ryker, and Easton; one great niece, Sarah, and her Bear Creek Healthcare family.

Funeral services for Debbie will be held at 10:00 a.m., Saturday, June 1, 2024, at the Wilkerson Funeral Home Chapel in De Queen with Bro. Billy Sullivan and Rev. B.J. Jenkins officiating. Burial will follow in Gillham Cemetery under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Mr. Raymond Troy Bell

Mr. Raymond Troy Bell, age 58, a resident of Gillham, Arkansas passed away Saturday, May 25, 2024, at his daughter’s home in De Queen.

Mr. Bell was born May 2, 1966, in Phoenix, Arizona. He was a Jack of all trades and a Christian.

He was preceded in death by his parents, Richard and Evelyn Fern Head Bell; one brother, Richard Bell; one sister, Terry Bell; and two nephews, R.C. Bell and Richard Bell.

Mr. Bell is survived by his wife, Crystal Bagley Bell of Gillham; four sons, Raymond Troy Bell, II, of Gillham, Nelson Ray Bell of Gillham, Nathaniel Craig Bell (Marissa) of Wickes, Alex Martin of Gillham; three daughters, Tory Sue Bell of Quinlan, Texas, Rikki Lynn Bell of De Queen, Sierra Layne Smith (Hunter) of De Queen; one bro, Daryl Bell of Gillham; one sister, Ronda Boener of Gillham; 10 grandchildren, several nieces, nephews and a host of friends.

A graveside memorial service for Mr. Bell will be held at 11:00 a.m., Wednesday, May 29, 2024, at Valley Cemetery in Gillham.

Burial was under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral Home in De Queen.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

James Alon Gathright

Bro. James Alon Gathright was born November 5, 1936, to Guy Gathright and Ida Hinsley Gathright in the Milford Community outside of Lockesburg. God called him home after a short time with liver cancer on Thursday, May 23, 2024.

James was better known as Alon by his family and old friends.

He is known as “The Cookie Man”, preacher, and the man in blue.

He was a former member of the Arkansas National Guard and the Lockesburg Volunteer Fire Department. He was a member of Battist Baptist Church and attended Bethany Baptist church in Dierks, Arkansas. He surrendered to preach in 1971.

James pastored the following churches, Old Union Missionary Baptist Church in Lockesburg, Arkansas, New Mt. Zion Baptist Church in Mineral Springs, Arkansas, Holly Grove Baptist Church in Grannis, Arkansas, Maple Springs Church in Murfreesboro, Arkansas, and Battiest Baptist Church in Battiest, Oklahoma.

He married Nelda Faye Harrison at 18 years old and was married 49 and ½ years, then met and married Stella Brewer at 69 years old. He loved her very much and they shared 18 years together. He loved traveling with Stella, showing her a lot of different states, and sharing his three cross-card ministries with people along the way. He was proud they handed out approximately 45,000 cards and talked about Jesus to many people. He always wanted to help people as much as he could.

Daddy taught us God comes first, then family, etc… He loved his kids, grandkids, and great-granddaughters.

He was preceded in death by his first wife, Nelda Gathright, his parents, and one brother, Harold Gathright and one nephew, Toby Gathright.

He is survived by his wife, Stella Brewer Gathright, one son, Mike (Valerie) Gathright, one daughter and son-in-law, Cathy (Larry) Eason, three grandsons, James Michael Gathright, Mark (Dana) Eason, Brian Gathright (Matt King), two great-granddaughters, Paige Eason, and McKenzie Gathright, and one foster great-grandchild.

Funeral services for James will be held at 10:00 a.m., Saturday, May 25, 2024, at Old Union Missionary Baptist Church on Provo Road in Lockesburg, Arkansas with Bro. Archie Phillips and Bro. Jon Warren officiating. Burial will follow in the Old Union Cemetery in Lockesburg, under the direction of Wilkerson Funeral home in De Queen.

The family will receive friends from 5:00 to 7:00 p.m. Friday, May 24, 2024, at the funeral home.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Susan Lyn Redfear

Mrs. Susan Lyn Redfearn, age 70, a resident of Texarkana, Arkansas passed away Wednesday, May 22, 2024, at Bailey Creek Health and Rehab in Texarkana.

Susan was born September 16, 1953 in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. She was a member of Church On The Rock in Texarkana. Susan enjoyed traveling and loved her family, especially her grandchildren and great-grandchildren

She was preceded in death by her parents, Seldon and Ruby Mae Sullivan Sirmon, and two brothers, Leroy Sirmon and Larry Sirmon.

Susan is survived by her husband, Steve Redfearn of Texarkana; Two daughters and a son-in-law, Christy James of Broken Bow, Oklahoma, Jennifer and Michael Barringer of Centreville, Alabama; one son and daughter-in-law, John and Nancy Walls of Florida; 8 grandchildren, Cody and wife Amanda James, Shawn James, Kalee Wester, Maloree Wester, Dustin Ballew, CJ Ballew, Jacob Walls and Brandon Walls and 12 great-grandchildren; two sisters and a brother-in-law, Janet and Bubba Hoyt of Horatio, Arkansas, Laura Sirmon of Horatio, Arkansas; three brothers and a sister-in-law, Tim Sirmon of Grannis, Bobby and Teresa Sirmon of Horatio, Arkansas, Seldon Sirmon, Jr., of Fort Smith, Arkansas.

Funeral services for Mrs. Redfearn will be held at 2:00 p.m., Saturday, May 25, 2024, at the Wilkerson Funeral Home Chapel in De Queen with Bro. Mike Ulmer officiating. Burial will follow in the Redmen Cemetery in De Queen.

The family will receive friends from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. Friday, May 24, 2024, at the funeral home.

You may leave a condolence online at www.wilkersonfuneralhomes.com

Norman Simmons

The world bids farewell to Norman Simmons of Grannis, Arkansas, departing on May 16, 2024 at the age of 89. Norman leaves behind memories cherished by the community. Leave a sympathy message to the famil