Just as there are many human languages, computer programmers use different web development languages to communicate with machines. Aspiring web developers can choose from many options when selecting the best programming language to create websites and apps.

In the 1960s, there were fewer than 10 computer programming languages. Today, thousands of these languages exist. Historically, the most used coding languages have been Python, C, and Java, but SQL, Swift, and other contemporary languages are growing fast. This guide explores several popular programming languages and helps readers narrow down the right choices.

Programming Languages vs. Coding Languages

Professionals use computer programming languages to give computers instructions that they can understand. A programming language is a human-readable programming code. There are many different types of programming languages, the most popular being HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

Coding is a subset of programming. Coders write instructions for machines in programming languages. The two terms — programming languages and coding languages — are functionally interchangeable, however.

Programming languages appear as domain-specific languages (DSL) and general-purpose languages. DSLs work within given programming environments, while general-purpose programming languages can be compiled or interpreted without any knowledge of the system architecture or platform.

For example, while C++ will not run on Python or PHP, these languages work on Java (and most other systems) because they are all general-purpose programming languages.

How Programming Languages Are Used in Web Development

Developers use web development languages to help create dynamic web pages. The most common coding languages include JavaScript, Python, and C#. Developers choose the language to use based on whether they perform front-end or back-end development. In artificial intelligence creation, machine learning engineers also use programming languages to develop applications.

Programming Languages for Web Development

Coders can use high-level or low-level programming languages. High-level languages are easier to program but require an interpreter for the machine. Conversely, low-level languages speak directly to the machine but are more difficult for programmers.

The following section explores some of the most common coding languages.

Choosing a Web Development Programming Language

The right coding language depends on your career goals and interests, but the following are all good choices: C#, Java, JavaScript, Python, Ruby on Rails, and PHP. You might even consider learning two languages — one for front-end development and the other for back-end work.

Python and Ruby work well for back-end development, while JavaScript suits the front end. All three languages are relatively easy to learn.

While hobbyists can dive into books and online courses, aspiring professionals may need a more structured and disciplined approach to language learning. Coding bootcamps offer intensive courses in different programming languages that can help get you started with minimal cost and effort.

Become a Web Developer

Best Web Development Bootcamps

Best Web Development Certificates

Web Development Degree Programs

Web Developer Career Overview

FAQ About Web Development Programming Languages

What programming language works best for web development?

Your server choice should determine the best web development language. For example, if you want to host your website on an Apache server, then Python or PHP would be good choices as they work well with that type of server. Other considerations include other languages running on the same server or are likely to be in a mixed environment.

Is coding required for web development?

Yes. Coding is a key part of web development. Web developers can create aesthetically pleasing, functional, and responsive sites with HTML, CSS, or JavaScript code. However, the emergence of new programming languages has made web development easier.

Which programming language for web development should I learn first?

The programming language you should learn first depends on your goals. For front-end web development languages, you may want to start with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, or PHP. Regarding back-end programming languages for web development, consider Java, Python, or Ruby. The skills these languages offer overlap enough that developers can use them together.

Where can I learn web development programming languages?

Popular programming languages for web development include Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, PHP, and Java. You can take lessons in these languages on free online sites or through internet-based tutorials. Aspiring coding professionals can study web development languages through bootcamps or as part of computer science degrees.

Reviewed by: Darnell Kenebrew