Royalty, Nobility and Aristocracy Relationship Common Ancestors Elizabeth Verney* (Not Certain) 11th Great-Grandmother Through my 10th great grandmother, Catherine Palmer Sir Thomas Palmer II* (Not Certain) 12th Great-Grandfather Through my 10th great grandmother, Catherine Palmer Sir Edward Stradling IV* (Not Certain) 13th Great-Grandfather Through my 10th great grandmother, Catherine Palmer Sir Thomas Wheeler, Knighted by King Henry VII for bravey in the last battle of War of the Roses, Battle of Stoke Field. 14th Great-Grandfather Through my 9th great-grandparents, Thomas Lawton and Elizabeth Salisbury Adeliza of Louvain, Queen of England* (Not Certain), wife of William D'Aubigny and Henry I, King of England 25th Great-Grandmother Through my 8th great-grandmother, Mary Tattershall William D"Aubigny, 1st Earl of Arundel* (Not Certain), husband of Queen Adeliza of Louvain 25th Great-Grandfather Through my 8th great-grandmother, Mary Tattershall Godgifu (Godiva) of Mercia* (Not Certain) 31st Great-Grandmother Through my 12th great-grandmother, Catherine Stradling John Farquharson, 9th Laird of Invercauld, Chief of Clan Farquharson. He was the father of Lady Anne Farquharson 1st Cousin William McIntosh and Margaret Graham Richard III (York), King of England* (Not Certain) 2nd Cousin John (Plantagenet) of Gaunt and Katherine (Roet) de Swynford Henry VIII, King of England* (Not Certain) 4th Cousin John (Plantagenet) of Gaunt and Katherine (Roet) de Swynford Anne Boleyn, Queen of England* (Not Certain) 5th Cousin Sir Richard FitzAlan and Elizabeth de Bohun Bessie Wallis Warfield, Duchess of Windsor, wife of King Edward VIII 8th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Princess Julia Dent Cantacuzene Spiransky-Grant, wife of Prince Mikhail Mikhailovich Cantacuzene, and grand daughter of President Ulysses S. Grant 8th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Alfred Ernle Montacute Chatfield, 1st Baronet Chatfield 12th Cousin Thomas Chatfield Lady Diana Spencer, Princess of Wales* (Not Certain) 13th Cousin Thomas Stradling and Janet Mathew Magna Carta Surety Barons Relationship Common Ancestors Hugh le Bigod* (Not Certain) 24th great-grandfather Through my 13th great-grandfather, Sir Edward Stradling Saher de Quincy* (Not Certain) 24th great-grandfather Through my 13th great-grandfather, Sir Edward Stradling Robert de Vere* (Not Certain) 24th great-grandfather Through my 13th great-grandfather, Sir Edward Stradling Roger le Bigod* (Not Certain) 25th great-grandfather Through my 13th great-grandfather, Sir Edward Stradling Presidents of the United States Relationship Common Ancestors James Knox Polk, 11th President 2nd Cousin John Knox and Jeane Sinclair Gracey William Howard Taft, 27th President 7th Cousin Edward Riggs and Elizabeth Holmes Harry S. Truman, 33rd President * (Not Certain) 8th Cousin Adam Mott and Grace Thurgar Herbert Hoover, 31st President 8th Cousin Bartholomew Coppock and Marjeri Whilton Warren G. Harding, 29th President 9th Cousin Adam Mott and Elizabeth Creel Leslie Lynch King Jr. (Gerald R. Ford), 38th President 9th Cousin Adam Mott II and Mary Lott Dwight D. Eisenhower, 34th President 9th Cousin Nicklaus Stauffer and Cathrina Lehman Chester A. Arthur, 21st President 10th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham John Quincy Adams, 6th President* (Not Certain) 10th Cousin Thomas Stradling and Janet Mathew Calvin Coolidge, 30th President, *(Not Certain) 10th Cousin Thomas Grover and Elizabeth Wilks George H.W. Bush, 41st President 13th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham George W. Bush, 43rd President 14th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham Vice-Presidents of the United States Relationship Common Ancestors Leslie Lynch King Jr. (Gerald R. Ford), 40th Vice-President 9th Cousin Adam Mott II and Mary Lott Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller, 41st Vice-President 9th Cousin Thomas Lawton and Elizabeth Salisbury William Almon Wheeler, 19th Vice-President 10th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham Charles Warren Fairbanks, 26th Vice-President 10th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham Calvin Coolidge, 29th Vice-President, * (Not Certain) 10th Cousin Thomas Grover and Elizabeth Wilks Garret Augustus Hobart, 24th Vice-President 12th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham George H.W. Bush, 43rd Vice-President 13th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham First Ladies of the United States Relationship Common Ancestors Ellen Louise Axson, wife of President Woodrow Wilson 7th Cousin James Grover Sr. and Rebecca Chesseman Margaret Woodrow Wilson, daughter of President Woodrow Wilson, served as social hostess (First Lady) after the death of her mother, Ellen Louise Axson. 8th Cousin James Grover Sr. and Rebecca Chesseman Frances Folsom, wife of President Grover Cleveland 9th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Joan Fowle Abigail Quincy Smith* (Not Certain), wife of President John Adams 9th Cousin Thomas Stradling and Janet Mathew Mamie Doud, wife of President Dwight Eisenhower 9th Cousin Edward Riggs and Elizabeth Holmes Rosalynn Smith, wife of President Jimmy Carter 10th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Julia Gardiner, wife of President John Tyler 10th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham Second Ladies of the United States Relationship Common Ancestors Carrie Babcock, wife of Vice-President James Schoolcraft Sherman 9th Cousin George Lawton and Isabell Smith Patriots Relationship Common Ancestors Samuel Prescott, American Revolutionary War Patriot best known for his role in Paul Revere's "midnight ride" to warn the townspeople of Concord. 7th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham Capt. Isaac Davis, gunsmith and militia officer who commanded a company of Minutemen from Acton, Massachusetts during the first battle of the American Revolutionary War. 8th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham Politics Relationship Common Ancestors Philip Doddridge, U.S. Representative from Virginia, (1829-1832). 2nd Cousin George Brown and Mary Stevenson Mary Borden, wife of Gov. Thomas McKean. 2nd Cousin Benjamin Borden and Abigail Grover Ann Borden, wife of Francis Hopkinson. 2nd Cousin Benjamin Borden and Abigail Grover Joseph Hopkinson, son of Francis Hopkinson and Ann Borden, He was a member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Pennsylvania, and later a United States federal judge. 3rd Cousin Benjamin Borden and Abigail Grover William Ellery, Signer of the Declaration of Independence. 3rd Cousin Thomas Lawton and Elizabeth Salisbury Arthur Fenner, 4th Governor of Rhode Island. 3rd Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Abraham Clark, Signer of the Declaration of Independence. 4th Cousin Henry Chatfield and Jane Sheppard James Fenner, 7th, 11th and 17th Governor of Rhode Island. 4th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Charles Carnan Ridgely, 15th Governor of Maryland. 4th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Samuel Ward King, 15th Governor of Rhode Island. 4th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Samuel Stevens Jr., 18th Governor of Maryland. 4th Cousin Christopher Thomas and Juliana Stacy Jabez Bowen, a militia colonel during the American Revolutionary War, and served as Deputy Governor of Rhode Island and Chief Justice of the Rhode Island Supreme Court. 4th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Albert C. Greene, United States Senator and Attorney General of Rhode Island. 4th Cousin Adam Mott and Sarah Jennings Samuel Frost Haviland, Cónsul General to Chile. 4th Cousin Adam Mott II and Mary Lott Richard 'Dick' Durbin, Illinois Senator 4th Cousin John J. Durbin and Patience Logsdon Samuel Lewis Southard, Governor and Senator of New Jersey 4th Cousin Edward Riggs III and Mary Munn Winfield T. Durbin, Indiana Governor. 5th Cousin Thomas William Durbin and Mary Downs Salmon P. Chase, 25th US Secretary of the Treasury, 6th Chief Justice of the US Supreme Court. 5th Cousin Edward Riggs and Elizabeth Holmes William Lewis Dayton, U.S. Senator of New Jersey, Minister to France 5th Cousin Edward Riggs III and Mary Munn Sir Robert Laird Borden, 8th Prime Minister of Canada 6th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Jabez Comstock Knight, Mayor of Providence, Rhode Island. 6th Cousin Adam Mott and Elizabeth Creel Lemuel Hastings Arnold, 12th Governor of the State of Rhode Island. 6th Cousin Adam Mott and Elizabeth Creel Joseph D. Bedle, 23rd Governor of New Jersey. 6th Cousin James Grover Sr. and Rebecca Chesseman Phillips Lee Goldsborough, 47th Governor of Maryland 7th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Stephen Harper, 22nd Prime Minister of Canada 7th Cousin Daniel Lawton and Rebecca Mott Nelson W. Aldrich, U.S. Senator from Rhode Island 7th Cousin Thomas Lawton and Elizabeth Salisbury Amos Kendall, 8th United States Postmaster General. 8th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham Jeanette Jerome, mother of Sir Winston Churchill. 8th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Sir Winston Churchill, British Prime Minister 9th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle James Youngs Smith, 29th Governor of Rhode Island 9th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham Boris Johnson, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom 10th Cousin Edward Riggs and Elizabeth Holmes Military Relationship Common Ancestors Lady Anne Farquharson-Mackintosh, known as "Colonel Anne" was a heroine who led The Route of Moy during the Jacobite Rising of 1745 saving Prince Charles Edward Stuart. 2nd Cousin William McIntosh and Margaret Graham Commodore Joshua Barney, American Navy officer who served in the Continental Navy during the Revolutionary War and served in the War of 1812. 2nd Cousin Edward Stevenson and Mary King Nathanael Greene, Major General of the Continental Army. 3rd Cousin Adam Mott and Sarah Jennings Sir Leonard Greenwell, Major General in the British Army and Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath, and the Royal Guelphic Order. 5th Cousin William Greenwell and Alice Claxton Brig. General Thomas R. Williams, Brigadier General in the Union Army during the Civil War. He was killed as he commanded the Union troops at the Battle of Baton Rouge. 5th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Gen. Omar Nelson Bradley 5th Cousin Edward Logsdon I and Sarah Lt. Gen. James Longstreet Jr., Foremost Confederate general of the American Civil War. 6th Cousin James Grover Sr. and Rebecca Chesseman Maj. Gen. George Cadwalader, General in the United States Army during the Mexican–American War and American Civil War. 6th Cousin George Lawton and Isabell Smith Brig. General Isaac P. Rodman, Union Army Brigadier General in the American Civil War, mortally wounded at the Battle of Antietam. 7th Cousin Adam Mott and Elizabeth Creel Brig. General Allen Thomas, Confederate Army Brigadier General . Thomas was captured in the fall of Vicksburg on July 4, 1863. 7th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Major Gen Ulysses Simpson Grant III, United States Army Major General and grandson of President Ulysses S. Grant. 8th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne David Sinton Ingalls, US Navy Flying Ace during WW I. 9th Cousin Edward Riggs and Elizabeth Holmes Gen. George B. McClellan, Union Army 10th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham Native American Relationship Common Ancestors Jane Ozahshinquah "Yellow Leaf", Jane Slocum was the daughter of Chief She-Po-Can-Ah "Deaf Man" and Mac-On-A-Quah "Frances Slocum". She was a Miami Indian with the indian name of "O-zah-shin-quah" or "Yellow Leaf" so named because born in autumn, when the leaves are changing. 6th Cousin Adam Mott and Elizabeth Creel Chief William "Taskanugi Hatke" McIntosh, Chief of the Creek Nation. His father was Scottish, Capt. William McIntosh and his mother was Senoia,Henneha a full blooded Creek Nation. 7th Cousin Lachlan Mackintosh and Agnes Mackenzie Indian Captives Relationship Common Ancestors Frances "Maconaquah" Slocum, In 1778, when Frances Slocum was five years old, she was captured by three Delaware warriors at the Slocum family farm near Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. Slocum was raised among the Delaware in what is now Ohio and Indiana. With her marriage to Shepoconah (Deaf Man), who later became a Miami chief, Slocum joined the Miami and took the name Maconaquah. 5th Cousin Adam Mott and Elizabeth Creel Law Relationship Common Ancestors Joshua Babcock, Supreme Court Justice of Rhode Island. 3rd Cousin George Lawton and Isabell Smith Jacob Peck, Supreme Court Justice of Tennessee. 3rd Cousin Benjamin Borden and Abigail Grover William Howard Taft, 10th Chief Justice of the United States. 7th Cousin Edward Riggs and Elizabeth Holmes Francis Biddle, U.S. Attorney General. 8th Cousin George Lawton and Isabell Smith J. Edgar Hoover, first director of the FBI. 10th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne John Paul Stevens, associate justice of the United States Supreme Court from 1975 until his retirement in 2010. 10th Cousin Adam Mott and Elizabeth Creel Physician Relationship Common Ancestors Jonathan Arnold, served in the Continental Army as a surgeon, and directed the army hospital at Providence, Rhode Island. He was the father of Lemuel Hastings Arnold. 5th Cousin Adam Mott and Elizabeth Creel William A. Hammond, Brig. General in the Civil War. Surgeon General of the United States Army and the first American physician to devote himself entirely to the medical field of neurology. He was the father of Clara Lanza. 6th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Religion Relationship Common Ancestors Saint Swithin Wells* (Not Certain), English Catholic Martyr during Elizabethan era. 12th Great Uncle Thomas Wells and Mary Mompesson Rev. Elisha John Durbin, Patriarch and Pioneer Priest. 3rd Great Uncle John J. Durbin and Patience Logsdon Archbishop Martin John Spalding, Bishop of Louisville, Kentucky and Archbishop of Baltimore, Maryland. 3rd Cousin John Mattingly and Grace Brewer Mother Catherine Spalding, Co-Founder of Sister's of Charity of Nazareth. 3rd Cousin Thomas Spalding and Katherine Hall Bishop Philander Chase, Episcopal Church bishop, educator, and pioneer. 4th Cousin Edward Riggs and Elizabeth Holmes William Ellery Channing, Unitarian theologian of the early 19th century 5th Cousin Thomas Lawton and Elizabeth Salisbury Activists and Reformers Relationship Common Ancestors Dame Hohepine Te Wake Cooper, Māori leader in New Zealand, often referred to as 'Mother of the Nation', who worked for many years for the rights of her people, and particularly to improve the lot of Māori women, and protect the land for Maori people. In 1981 she was bestowed with the title of Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire for her many achievements for the Maori people.. 6th Cousin Daniel Lawton and Rebecca Mott Art Relationship Common Ancestors Rembrandt Peale, an American artist and prolific portrait painter. He was very well known for his portraits of presidents George Washington and Thomas Jefferson. Peale's style was influenced by French Neoclassicism. 5th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Norman Rockwell 7th Cousin Edward Riggs III and Mary Munn William Thorne, American portrait artist 7th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Ansel Adams** (Not Certain) 12th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham Socialite Relationship Common Ancestors Kate Chase, daughter of Salmon P. Chase, and wife of Gov. William Sprague IV. 6th Cousin Edward Riggs and Elizabeth Holmes Marjorie Merriweather Post, mother of Dina Merrill 7th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Allene Tew 8th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Paris Hilton 8th Cousin James Greenwell and Grace Taylor Roberta Brooke Russell, Philanthropist and socialite who marred Vincent Astor. She would be the daughter-in-law of John Jacob Astor IV. 8th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Abigail Greene Aldrich, Philanthropist and socialite who marred John D. Rockefeller Jr.. She is the daughter of Sen. Nelson W. Aldrich. 8th Cousin Thomas Lawton and Elizabeth Salisbury Acting Relationship Common Ancestors Lucy Maud Durbin, American actress, protégé of Helena Modjeska, wife of American stage actor, Otis Skinner 3rd Cousin Christopher Durbin and Margaret Brown Cornelia Otis Skinner, Actress, playwright, author. Daughter of Maud and Otis Skinner. 4th Cousin Christopher Durbin and Margaret Brown Florence Henderson 6th Cousin Vachel Hinton and Margaret Howard Dick Van Dyke 6th Cousin Johann Heinrich Strader and Anna Margaret Stauffer Steve McQueen 7th Cousin Dugal McQueen and Grace Brown McClain Debbie Reynolds 7th Cousin Johann Matthias Theiss and Susanna Barbara Lauer Carrie Fisher 7th Cousin Johann Matthias Theiss and Susanna Barbara Lauer Steven R. McQueen, Grandson of Steve McQueen 8th Cousin Dugal McQueen and Grace Brown McClain Lana Turner 8th Cousin Benjamin Borden and Abigail Grover Nedenia Marjorie Hutton (Dina Merrill) 8th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Kathryn Grayson 8th Cousin Hans Jost Theiss and Maria Muller Felicity Huffman 8th Cousin Thomas Spalding and Catherine Hall Oliver "Burgess" Meredith 8th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Lucille Ball 8th Cousin Henry Short and Miriam Ingram Brad Pitt 8th Cousin Edward Riggs III and Mary Munn Blake Brown Lively 8th Cousin James Warner and Ann Olive Borden, Silver screen actress 9th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Joan Fowle Norma Jean Baker (Marilyn Monroe) 9th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Jessica Biel 9th Cousin Thomas Spalding and Katherine Hall Edie Minturn Sedgwick 9th Cousin Thomas Lawton and Elizabeth Salisbury Gladys Georgianna "Jean Arthur" Greene, an American actress and a film star of the 1930s and 1940s. 9th Cousin Adam Mott and Elizabeth Creel Spangler Arlington "Robert Taylor" Brugh 9th Cousin Thomas Jost Thies and Margaret Bollenbacher Paget Brewster 10th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle James Todd Spader 10th Cousin George Lawton and Isabell Smith Barbara Babcock 10th Cousin George Lawton and Isabell Smith Lucille Fay LeSueur "Joan Crawford" 10th Cousin James Grover Sr. and Rebecca Chesseman Mary Lamar Rickey "Lara Parker" 10th Cousin James Grover Sr. and Rebecca Chesseman Dorothy Stickney, *(Not Certain) 10th Cousin Thomas Grover and Elizabeth Wilks Lillian Gish 12th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham Katherine Hepburn 12th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham Bill Bixby 13th Cousin Thomas Grover and Elizabeth Wilks Music Relationship Common Ancestors Patsy Cline 7th Cousin Hans Matthes Theiss and Maria Margretha Engel Stefani Germanotta (Lady Gaga) 7th Cousin Samuel S. Durbin and Ann Logsdon Jimmie Lloyd Logsdon, American country and rockabilly singer. 7th Cousin William Logsdon and Honora O'Flynn Jenny Twitchell Kempton, American contralto opera solo singer starting from 1850. 7th Cousin Edward Riggs and Elizabeth Holmes Buddy Holly, Iconic American Rock n Roll star from 1950s.. 7th Cousin Thomas Jenkins and Ann Spalding Woody Guthrie, American folk singer. 7th Cousin William Logsdon and Honora O'Flynn Christina Aguilera 8th Cousin Hans Matthes Theiss and Maria Margretha Engel Wilie Nelson 9th Cousin Benjamin Borden and Abigail Grover Mary Chapin Carpenter 9th Cousin Benjamin Borden and Abigail Grover Cole Porter 9th Cousin Henry Chatfield and Jane Sheppard Reba McEntire 10th Cousin James Grover Sr. and Rebecca Chesseman Kurt Cobain 10th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Don Glen Vliet "Captain Beefheart" 10th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Literature Relationship Common Ancestors Sarah Helen Power Whitman, Poet, transcendentalist, spiritualist and the love interests of Edgar Allan Poe whom she was engaged to marry. 5th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Louisa May Alcott, Novelist, poet, transcendentalist, and feminist. 6th Cousin Henry Chatfield and Jane Sheppard Thomas Lanier "Tennessee" Williams III, American playwright. 7th Cousin Robert Clarke Jr. and Sarah Combs F. Scott Fitzgerald, American fiction writer and one of the greatest American writers of the 20th century. 7th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Clara Hammond Lanza, an American novelist whose realist fiction often centered on troubled marriages. Her father was Dr. William A. Hammond, Surgeon General of the United States Army. 7th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Mary Borden, Early 20th-century, Anglo-American novelist. 8th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Vachel Lindsay, American poet 8th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Willa Sibert Cather, American novelist 8th Cousin Klaus Seibert and Else Jung Charlotte Porter, American poet, translator, and literary critic. She is the great great aunt of UK Prime Minister, Boris Johnson. 8th Cousin Edward Riggs and Elizabeth Holmes Thornton Wilder, American playwright and novelist. 9th Cousin Edward Riggs and Elizabeth Emily Dickinson, American poet 11th Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham Sports Relationship Common Ancestors Blaine Alphonsus "Kid" Durbin, Left-handed Major League Baseball outfielder and pitcher. Played for Chicago Cubs and Pittsburgh Pirates. 3rd Cousin Christopher Durbin and Margaret Brown Edward Grant Barrow, American manager and executive in Major League Baseball for Detroit Tigers, Boston Red Sox, and New York Yankees. 5th Cousin James Borden and Mary Ann Lawton Laurence Earl Mattingly, Pitcher in Major League Baseball for the Brooklyn Robins. 6th Cousin John Mattingly and Grace Brewer Don Mattingly 6th Cousin Richard Mattingly Sr. and Mary Catherine Spalding William Harrison "Jack" Dempsey 6th Cousin Philip Howard and Sarah Warner Bobby Riggs 6th Cousin Edward Riggs III and Mary Munn Joseph Emley Borden, A starting pitcher in professional baseball for two seasons and first pitcher to throw a no-hitter in a professional game in 1875. 6th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle A.W. Tillinghast, American golf course architect 7th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Infamous Relationship Common Ancestors William Anderson "Devil Anse" Hatfield 5th Cousin Philip Howard Sr. and Sarah Warner Dr. Samuel Alexander Mudd, an American physician who was imprisoned for conspiring with John Wilkes Booth in the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln. He performed surgery on John Wilkes Booth's fractured leg. 5th Cousin Thomas Spalding and Catherine Hall Lizzie Borden 7th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Jesse James 8th Cousin Matthew Howard Sr. and Anne Hawley Harvey Crippen 13tth Cousin Thomas Wheeler and Joan Buckingham Business Relationship Common Ancestors Gail Borden, Land surveyor, newspaper publisher, and inventor; he is most known as the developer of condensed milk. 5th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Joseph Wharton, Founded Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. 5th Cousin Richard Borden Sr. and Jane Fowle Henry Nicholas Greenwell, an English merchant who established Kona coffee as an internationally known brand. His family became major land-holders in the Kona District of the island of Hawaii. His grand daughter was Amy B.H. Greenwell, Hawaiian botanist. 6th Cousin William Greenwell and Alice Claxton Hugh Hefner 9th Cousin Klaus Seibert and Elizabeth Else Jung Inventor Relationship Common Ancestors Melvil Dewey, American librarian and educator, inventor of the Dewey Decimal system of library classification. 7th Cousin Thomas Lawton and Elizabeth Salisbury Willis Haviland Carrier, Inventor of modern air conditioning. 8th Cousin Adam Mott and Mary Lott Science Relationship Common Ancestors Amy B.H. Greenwell, a well-known Hawaiian Botanist who served as a nurse in World War II. She performed archaeology studies of early habitation sites of Hawaii including Ka Lae (South Point), and wrote other books on tropical plants. Later in her lifetime she transformed her property by planting native and Polynesian-introduced plants in the extant Hawaiian agricultural areas. She is the grand daughter of English Kona coffee merchant, Henry Nicholas Greenwell. 8th Cousin William Greenwell and Alice Claxton Space/Aviation Relationship Common Ancestors Amelia Earhart, Aviation pioneer and famous aviatrix of the 1930s. 5th Cousin George Brown and Mary Stevenson Sally Kristen Ride, Astronaut and Physicist. She was the first American woman in space. 7th Cousin Dugal McQueen and Grace Brown McClain Jeanette Ridlon Piccard, American high-altitude balloonist 8th Cousin Adam Mott and Elizabeth Creel Story Musgrave, NASA Astronaut 10th Cousin Henry Chatfield and Jane Sheppard Titanic Relationship Common Ancestors