Howdy!

Have you planned your next summer's music?

Just want to tell you the best rock festival in Finland, once

inspired by the Woodstock is called Ruisrock (Ryerock in English..)

NOW first time for a loooooong time, it is gonna be 3-DAYS long!!!

July 8-10th.

I was a youngster in 1971 when it was 3 day happening with then 100 000 guests. It was just a great ball of drinkin and smokin grass on those days. I tilted 1 p.m. in the first day.... Uhh.... Kinks, Canned Heat, Fairport Convention, Hardin & York etc. etc. It was then on another, bigger park on the other end of the same isle (carway, buses and bridge connects to town).

The camping site is still there on the other end of the isle but perhaps some area will be attached for camping near the Ruisrock, too. Nice hotels in the 20 kms are in Turku, Raisio and Naantali, which is a suberb, superb, superb summer town with old boat harbour surrounded with restaurants in old wooden, decorated houses.

But here comes the programme for this year:

(I can tell you most of those Finnish bands, too, are just great!)

ARTISTS

Friday:

Rammstein (GER)

Children of Bodom

Turmion Kätilöt

Other artists for Friday to be confirmed later.

Saturday:

HIM

The Hives (SWE)

The Soundtrack Of Our Lives (SWE)

Zen Cafe

CMX

YUP

Ismo Alanko Säätiö

The 69 Eyes

Sonata Arctica

Disco Ensemble

Damn Seagulls

Tuomari Nurmio ja Alamaailman vasarat

Mokoma

Teräsbetoni

Negative

22 Pistepirkko

Sir Elwoodin hiljaiset värit

Liekki

Sunday:

Velvet Revolver (USA)

Within Temptation (NED)

The Ark (SWE)

Hellacopters (SWE)

Flogging Molly (USA)

Hanoi Rocks

Maija Vilkkumaa

Apulanta

Egotrippi

Jonna Tervomaa

Kalle Ahola

TikTak

Poets of The Fall

Indica

Quintessence

(They reserve their rights for changes..)

The place is just unbelievable. It's a natural park just few kms out of the city Turku, the original capital before Helsinki. I am from there actually. Direct flights or via Helsinki by bus of train (100 miles). Or by nice ship from Stockholm thru the most beautiful archipelagos there is. Buses drive non-stop from Turku centre to the festival.

The venue, the park, is on a beach (=pretty chicks in their wet T-shirts!! Or bare tits!!!! Or just bare!!!!!!!!). Very near outside the beach, in the narrow straight, huge ships sail slowly passing the park. At least two stages for bands, perhaps three, dunno.

This is going to be very much Woodstock like happening (=even the rain and mud may come) but they are quite strict with alcohol and narcotics today. They will check very carefully and sniff by dogs. It's not Turkey but don't get caught! Own alcohols are not allowed to take in but they do sell drinks in the area.

And... aha, they have forbidden videocams, tape recorders and SLR cameras (!).. Many people will bring children with them but pets are not allowed.

Should be nice to be there and arrange a PFM meeting!

BUT - this is not 100% sure yet but it seems that I will be sailing with my family on that week in the archipelago and come back on Monday or Sunday night into a harbour about only 4 kms from the place where Ruisrock happens.

Ticket prices:

http://www.ruisrock.fi/in_english.html

Oz

Originally posted by space cadet

Musically this Turku event is more my thing. How big is this weird-folk thing in Finland? Does it receive a lot of press and attention or are most people unaware of it?

I did not know that. Perhaps it is not a genre too much for me and that is the reason I have not noticed it. Nice to hear about it!

The other IMHO interesting more rock (blues & jazz, too) oriented festival is DBTL in the middle of June. The whole name is Down by the laituri. Laituri is Finnish and means peer. This happens in the middle of the town, near the river Aura which cuts the town in centre. Never been there but many times have I desired to go. Mostly Finnish bands in clubs and yards.

Their 2004 site tells more about it but 2005 site seems to be late..

http://www.dbtl.fi/2004/english-index.html

http://www.dbtl.fi/

Aha, they have moved DBTL to 27-31 July this year.

Oz

Many other R&B festivals around Finland but few I want to mention:

Puistoblues in Järvenpää, near Helsinki. Järvenpää has also for instance Jean Sibelius' home house and museum Ainola. I have been helping in Puistoblues one year in 80's. I sold sausages..

Järvenpää is only 25 kms from Helsinki and only 15 kms from the Helsinki-Vantaa airport. Lots of hotels around the airport. Name Puistoblues means Parkblues. Easy to come to. A bit more mature people than in the rock festivals.

2005 - June 29-July 3

Still negotiating on the artists (!). One chat told with some certainty, that Santana would have been contracted (?).

http://www.app.puistoblues.fi/puistoblues_fs.htm

And Provinssirock..

This is in Seinäjoki, about 250 miles north from Helsinki in the middle of Finland. Three days, 17-19 June.

Seinäjoki locates in a special area of Finland. It is called Pohjanmaa. The people there... They are known to be.. Well. They may "tickle" people with their knives if they get too hot. Very patriotic people. In the WWII some of these people had to be binded to trees by ropes to prevent them attacking the Russians before officer gave his order for it... In a way they are the backbone of Finland. Cause they don't fear anything. All the best wrestlers of ours come from there.

The same town has every summer huge Tango Festivals where people dance tango in the streets whole night through. Tango King and Queen of the year are selected by jury from vocalists.

http://www.provinssirock.fi/90.html

Oz