Hedgehog vPatch protects database in real-time against known (and many zero-day) vulnerabilities including SQL injection, buffer overflow, and other techniques, until a patch is made available by the database vendor and can be applied to all servers. Virtual patching can be implemented without any downtime, and with limited testing, as it makes no changes to the database kernel.

Database Vulnerability Assessment

Hedgehog DBscanner is Sentrigo’s enterprise-class database vulnerability assessment solution, with more than 3,000 security verifications for scanning Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, IBM DB2 and MySQL databases. Providing automatic discovery of databases on your network, and identification of sensitive tables within them, DBscanner quickly builds a comprehensive view of data assets requiring protection. Fully integrated with Hedgehog Enterprise database activity monitoring through a single management interface and automatic rules creation to protect from discovered vulnerabilities.

Repscan provides auditors, pen testers, and security consultants with a complete vulnerability assessment toolset for database security testing and verification. Built on the same technology base as Hedghehog DBscanner, the Repscan solution adds support for an interactive database browser and brute force penetration testing techniques. With the fastest methods for detecting weak passwords, default passwords and shared passwords, weaknesses across 100s or 1000s of databases can be flagged for remediation.

Database Activity Monitoring (DAM)

Hedgehog Enterprise is a scalable database activity monitoring (DAM) and intrusion prevention system (IPS), providing full visibility into all database activity—including local privileged access and other insider threats. Unlike network-based monitoring solutions, Hedgehog monitors database access from the inside and detects even sophisticated attacks from within the database itself (for example, based on stored procedures or triggers), and can be easily deployed in virtualization and cloud computing environments.

Database End-User Accountability

Hedgehog IDentifier provides end-user accountability by tying database access through shared applications with the individuals who initiate them, enabling the enforcement of database security policy and satisfying regulatory compliance requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley, PCI DSS, and HIPAA, among others.