The IBM Informix .NET Core Provider is a .NET assembly that lets .NET applications access and manipulate data in Informix databases. It does this by implementing several interfaces in .NET Core SDK/Runtime v3.1 which is shipped for Windows x64 and Linux x86_64 platforms.

Names of all the Interfaces/Methods in IBM Informix .NET Core Provider are same as Informix .NET Framework v4.x Provider.

IBM Informix .NET Core adds few more functionality in addition to IBM Informix .NET Framework v4.x Provider.

For more information, see the Informix .NET Core Provider

The Data Server Driver Package includes drivers that are compatible with Distributed Relational Database Architecture™ (DRDA®) protocols. For a list of the contents of the Data Server Driver Package, see IBM data server client and driver types.

You can use the Data Server JDBC Driver to develop JDBC applications with Informix software.

You can use the Data Server .NET Provider to develop .NET applications with Informix software. The Data Server .NET Provider includes support for web application development in Database Add-Ins for Visual Studio.

Data Server Driver Package installation does not affect an existing installation of the Informix .NET Provider or the Informix JDBC Driver. You can use either or both of the .NET Providers or JDBC drivers.

For more information about the differences between the Data Server .NET Provider and the Informix .NET Provider, see NEED

The Connection Manager is a utility that can monitor the workload and status of database servers in high-availability clusters, Enterprise Replication domains, grids, and server sets.

Connection Managers can control failover for high-availability clusters, direct client connection requests to appropriate database servers, act as proxy servers to handle client/server communication, and prioritize connections between application servers and the primary server of a high-availability cluster.

For more information, see Connection management through the Connection Manager.