Algeciras is one of Spain's southernmost cities, located in beautiful Andalusia.

Located at the eastern end of the Strait of Gibraltar, Algeciras is the closest city to Morocco and has become an important maritime center due to its geographical location.

Take a ferry from Algeciras and discover North Africa and beautiful Morocco!

The development of the Port of Algeciras dates back to the end of the 19th century, and today it is one of the most significant ports in Spain for the transport of passengers, goods, and vehicles.

The Port of Algeciras is located in the bay of the same name, also known as the Bay of Gibraltar, in the province of Cadiz. It has two terminals, one for ferries to Ceuta and the other for ferries to Tangier Med.

The port has recently become one of the most essential in Spain and has also gained a good position on the Strait of Gibraltar for the transport of goods. Due to the proximity of the coasts, there are many connections with Morocco.

The shipping companies that operate crossings to and from Algeciras are:

· Balearia

· Naviera Armas

· AML (Africa Morocco Link)

Thanks to the ferries from Algeciras operated by the three companies, you can easily reach the port of Ceuta, a Spanish territory located in the extreme north of Morocco. You can also reach the port of Tangier Med thanks to the many connections offered by the companies.

From Ceuta, you can get to Spain both during the day and at night, thanks to the frequent ferries to Algeciras, which operate all year round.

The port of Algeciras is just a few meters from the city center, where you will find all kinds of services: bars and restaurants, car parks and petrol stations, hotels, banks and cash machines, pharmacies, supermarkets, and shops of all kinds.

Are you ready to take a ferry to Algeciras? Since ancient times, the city of Algeciras has been considered an important link between Africa and Europe due to its geographical location.

The Arab influence has been very strong over the centuries, as evidenced by the many Moorish-style buildings, traditional tea shops and multi-ethnic population.

Your visit to Algeciras can begin with a stroll through the San Isidro neighborhood, the oldest part of the city, where the small squares and narrow streets offer some very atmospheric views.

The city's main attractions include the church of Nuestra Señora de La Palma, the Capilla del Santo Cristo de la Alameda and the ruins of the Great Mosque. The 'Plaza Alta' is the heart of the city and is often the venue for influential cultural events and festivals.

For a relaxing break, visit the beautiful Maria Cristina Park in the city center. Not far away is the archaeological park of the ancient Murallas Meriníes.

The coast of Algeciras also has more than 20 kilometers of beaches. One of the most beautiful is El Rinconcillo beach, from where you can enjoy breathtaking views of the Gibiliterra rock. Playa de Getares is another of the most popular beaches in Algeciras, overlooking the Bay of Gibraltar.

How to reach the boarding:

Address: Maritime Station, Premises F4 and F23, 11207, Algeciras

GPS Coordinates: 36°07'49.4”N 5°26'20.8”W

The port of Algeciras is a 15-minute walk from the train station. There are cabs and buses connecting the port with the city center and other Andalusian cities such as Cadiz, Malaga, and Seville. The nearest airport is Gibraltar, which is only 20 kilometers away, while the international airports of Jerez and Malaga (Costa del Sol) are more than 100 kilometers away.

Buy your ferry ticket to Algeciras now! On MrFerry you'll find only the best offers, and you can make your booking in just a few clicks! Choose the departure that suits you best and once you've made your payment, you'll receive immediate confirmation by email! Would you like more information? Our customer service is always at your disposal!