Choose a Staff Member:

Eric Usbeck

Title

Head Coach

Email

eric.usbeck@millersville.edu

Phone

717-871-4163

Eric Usbeck has quickly taken the Millersville women's swimming team to unprecedented levels of success. He was named the program's head coach on April 25, 2019 and has since posted the best dual meet record of any coach in program history while also securing the team's best finish at a PSAC Championships in back-to-back seasons.

Usbeck guided the Marauders to an 8-0 dual record in 2021-22 and a 6-3 mark in 2022-23. At season's end in 2022, the Marauders set a program record for points scored at a PSAC Championships. The climb continued in 2023 as Millersville nearly doubled that point total and posted its best-ever finish. Millersville also set a program record for the most swimmers qualified for the PSAC Championships in 2023.

Usbeck's Marauders have also excelled in the classroom, earning CSCAA Team Academic honors each semester.

Usbeck came to Millersville after a two-year stint as an assistant coach with the Misericordia University swimming programs. As the recruiting coordinator and assistant coach, Usbeck helped the Misericordia women's program to a fourth-place finish at the MAC Championships in 2019, which was a one-place improvement from the previous season. Misericordia also went 2-0 against PSAC foes in dual meets. In addition to his experience at Misericordia, Usbeck served as camp counselor at the University at Buffalo and as a swim coach for the Greater Scranton YMCA for three years.

A 2017 graduate of Bloomsburg University, Usbeck was a five-time PSAC Champion and three-time NCAA Division II All-American as a collegiate swimmer. Following his successful career in competition, Usbeck entered the coaching ranks at Misericordia and simultaneously earned a master's degree in organizational management.

During his time as a swimmer at Bloomsburg, Usbeck was an All-PSAC performer 19 times and a five-time PSAC Champion. He was voted team MVP and was the winner of the Robert B. Redman Senior Male Athlete of the Year award in 2017. He was a three-time recipient of Bloomsburg's Dave Gibas Award. He earned All-America honors in the 200- and 400-yard freestyle relays and the 200-yard medley relay. He was an honorable mention All-American in the 100-yard breaststroke and in two relays as a senior. Usbeck set four Bloomsburg and PSAC records as part of relay teams.