Forbes Business Council Is an Invitation-Only Community for Successful Business Owners and Leaders

DALLAS, TX, July 16, 2020 – Antuit.ai, a Goldman Sachs company and leader in SaaS AI solutions, announced that Sivakumar Lakshmanan, EVP of Forecasting & Digital Supply Chain, has been accepted into the Forbes Business Council, the foremost growth and networking organization for successful business owners and leaders worldwide.

Sivakumar Lakshmanan was vetted and selected by a review committee based on the depth and diversity of his experience. Criteria for acceptance include a track record of successfully impacting business growth metrics, as well as personal and professional achievements and honors.

“We are honored to welcome Siva Lakshmanan into the community,” said Scott Gerber, founder of Forbes Councils, the collective that includes Forbes Business Council. “Our mission with Forbes Councils is to bring together proven leaders from every industry, creating a curated, social capital-driven network that helps every member grow professionally and make an even greater impact on the business world.”

As an accepted member of the Council, Siva has access to a variety of exclusive opportunities designed to help him reach peak professional influence. He will connect and collaborate with other respected local leaders in a private forum and at members-only events. Siva will also be invited to work with a professional editorial team to share his expert insights in original business articles on Forbes.com, and to contribute to published Q&A panels alongside other experts.

Finally, Sivakumar Lakshmanan will benefit from exclusive access to vetted business service partners, membership-branded marketing collateral, and the high-touch support of the Forbes Councils member concierge team.

“I am thrilled to join such an impressive group of entrepreneurs and business leaders, and am looking forward to working closely with all of the members, to learn and share ideas to continue driving innovation for antuit.ai and the community, as a whole,” said Sivakumar Lakshmanan, EVP, antuit.ai.

About Forbes Councils

Forbes Councils is a collective of invitation-only communities created in partnership with Forbes and the expert community builders who founded Young Entrepreneur Council (YEC). In Forbes Councils, exceptional business owners and leaders come together with the people and resources that can help them thrive.

To learn more about Forbes Councils, visit forbescouncils.com.

About Antuit.ai

Antuit.ai is the leader in AI-powered solutions for Forecasting and Merchandising. World-class consumer products and retail companies are transforming their supply chain by leveraging antuit.ai’s “Unified Demand Signal” and AI solutions that deliver outsized business results for demand planning, merchandising, and pricing needs. To learn more, visit http://www.antuit.ai.

Media Contact: