Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL), a joint venture of Government of India and Government of Karnataka is a Special Purpose Vehicle entrusted with the responsibility of implementation of Bangalore Metro Rail Project. Bangalore Metro, christened as "Namma Metro", not only adds to the beauty of Bengaluru skyline, but immensely adds to the comfort level of travel. Besides this,...

Get information about Metro Railway Kolkata. Users can access details about the history of the Kolkata metro, fare chart and ticket, frequency of train services, automatic fare collection, method of construction, expansion plan, etc. Find information about technical features, salient feature, ongoing projects, tenders, notice, etc. Route map of Metro Railway Kolkata is also available.

Hyderabad Metro Rail is being developed as one of the largest modern transport systems in the world based upon the PPP model. The main idea behind the concept of Metro Rail is to make sure commuters reach on time to work and not delayed on account of lack of rapid transport. Growing urbanisations has led to innumerable problems for commuters who are delayed on account of traffic jams. Metro...

Get information about Jaipur Metro Rail by Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. Details about the project, its mission and status are given. Users can access metro route map, tenders, photo gallery, etc.

Get information about Mumbai Metro One by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). Information about project update, metro alignment, facilities, tenders, contracts, etc. is given. Users can access photo gallery and job opportunities with Mumbai Metro.

Information about tourist places near Delhi Metro stations provided by Delhi Tourism department. Get details on accessible tourist places like Jama Masjid, Red Fort, Qutub Minar, etc. according to nearby metro stations such as Chandni Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, New Delhi, Chattarpur, Patel Chowk, etc.

Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) provides a safe, fast, reliable, accessible, convenient, comfortable, efficient and affordable public transport service in a sustainable manner. Find details about the project, its profile, alignment map, schematic map, line map, project status, etc. Users can also access press releases, press clippings, photo gallery, tenders, etc.

Find programmes related to Urban Transport by Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. Details are available for National Urban Transport Policy, metro rails and mass transit systems, traffic and transportation policies, funding of buses under JnNURM, capacity building in urban transport, awards for excellence, National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) etc. Acts related to urban transport such as...

Find programmes related to Urban Transport Directorate, Government of U.P. Details are available for Urban Transport Policy like metro rails, bus, midbus and e-rickshaw. You can also know about the tenders issued by the Directorate from time to time and other services.

Information about Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited is given. Details related to Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) project, project profile, highlights, etc. are given. Users can get information about metro stations, traffic catchment areas and metro route map. Access to manual of specifications and standards, tenders, news clipping, photo gallery, etc. is also available.

Kochi Metro Rail is envisaged to increase citizens’ mobility that will in turn boost the economic growth and increase quality of life for the citizens by providing them an alternate mode of transport. Information about the project, its updates, technical features and documents is given. Users can access details related to metro stations, rehabilitation, land acquisition, etc. Access to photo...

The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL), a joint venture of Government of India and Government of Karnataka is a special purpose vehicle entrusted with the responsibility of implementation of Bangalore Metro Rail Project. Information about metro route map, network, timings, fare, tickets, types of tickets, stations and facilities at the station. Users can buy metro travel card...

Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (DMRC) is responsible for implementation and operation of Metro rail facility in Delhi and NCR. Information on services such as commuters guide, feeder bus, metro parking, stations facilities, etc. is available. Users can check fare, route and stations by selecting given fields. Get information on training schools, recruitment, vigilance matters metro museum,...