Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL), a joint venture of Government of India and Government of Karnataka is a Special Purpose Vehicle entrusted with the responsibility of implementation of Bangalore Metro Rail Project. Bangalore Metro, christened as "Namma Metro", not only adds to the beauty of Bengaluru skyline, but immensely adds to the comfort level of travel. Besides this, Namma Metro is a major environment friendly addition to the Bengaluru City as it significantly contributes to the reduction of carbon emissions.

You can get an application form for temporary registration of vehicle in the State of Karnataka. Users need to download this form and fill up to apply for temporary registration of vehicle. Applicant must read the form and fill up according to the instructions.

You can get an application form for permanent registration of vehicle in the State of Karnataka. This form is provided by the State Government of Karnataka. Applicant must read the form carefully and fill up as per the given instructions.

Users can get an application form for transfer of ownership of motor vehicle in the State of Karnataka. This form is provided by the State Government of Karnataka. Applicant must read the form carefully and fill up as per the given instructions.

You can get this application form for renewal of motor vehicle registration certificate in the State of Karnataka. Users must download this form to apply for renewal of registration. Applicant needs to fill up all relevant details and apply as per the instructions.

Application form for declaration of physical fitness for driving licence in the State of Karnataka is provided. Users can download this form to declare physical fitness for obtaining licence in Karnataka.

Users can download this application form for issue of No-Objection Certificate (NOC) by the Karnataka RTO. Applicant must read the instructions carefully and fill up the form accordingly.

Directorate of Urban Land Transport is functioning under the Urban Development Department of Government of Karnataka. The Directorate is in general responsible for overseeing all the urban land transport initiatives in Urban/ Local Planning Areas of Karnataka.

Transport Department is mainly responsible for regulation of the use of Motor Vehicles in the State and collection of tax on Motor Vehicles, Road Safety, Control of Air and Noise pollution.

You can get an application form for issue of international driving permit in the State of Karnataka. Applicant needs to use this form for obtaining the international driving permit to drive a motor vehicle in other countries.