Donna Summer, a singular vocal stylist whose string of disco hits spawned five Grammy awards and a following that has long outlived the genre, has died at age 63 of cancer.

Summer, a native of Dorchester, Massachusetts, died Thursday in Florida, according to the showbiz website TMZ, which first reported the news. A family statement later confirmed the death.

Born LaDonna Adrian Gaines, Summer broke into the music business in her early 20s as a backing singer for Three Dog Night. Her first hit, Love to Love You Baby, reached the No 2 spot on the Billboard charts in 1976. The string of hit singles that followed – Could It Be Magic, Last Dance, Hot Stuff and, most notably, I Feel Love – revolutionised 1970s disco.

In an era of disco superstars that included Gloria Gaynor, the BeeGees, and the Village People, Summer stood out for a soulful delivery that expanded her appeal beyond the dance floor. She scored her greatest successes with anthems of self-reliance and personal strength, her voice equally capable of fragility and defiant power.

In the early 80s, experiments with synthesizers and electronic drums carried Summer to new success. Her 1983 hit She Works Hard for the Money demonstrated that the queen of disco didn't need a mirrored ball to work her magic.

Summer's acting career included an appearance in Thank God It's Friday (1978), for which she performed her hit Last Dance. That song won Summer her first Grammy.

In a message posted on Facebook, Nick Rhodes of Duran Duran, paid tribute to her legacy and in particular the influence of one track. "For me, there is no doubt that her song I Feel Love had a dramatic effect on modern music. it was certainly a key influence on my work with Duran Duran.

"Together with producer Giorgio Moroder, Donna pioneered the use of electronic sequencers in dance music. Today that sound that seems so familiar, but in 1977, it was a brave new frontier. It's extremely rare that you hear one song that completely changes the way you perceive music, I Feel Love, achieved that."

Elton John released a statement calling for broader recognition for the singer.

"Her records sound as good today as they ever did," he said. "That she has never been inducted into the Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame is a total disgrace especially when I see the second-rate talent that has been inducted. She is a great friend to me and to the Elton John Aids Foundation and I will miss her greatly."

The singer Dionne Warwick expressed her sadness at losing a great performer and "dear friend." Warwick said in a statement: "My heart goes out to her husband and her children. Prayers will be said to keep them strong."

Madonna tweeted "rest in peace," and linked to a video of herself performing a song inspired by Summer's I Feel Love.

Summer had been living in Englewood, Florida. She had three daughters and four grandchildren. Her family released a statement Thursday saying they were "at peace celebrating her extraordinary life and her continued legacy".

While Summer's songs became gay anthems, her relationship with the gay community was strained when she became a born-again Christian. There was controversy when she was accused of making anti-gay comments in relation to the Aids epidemic; Summer allegedly said that the disease was divine punishment for immoral behavior. Summer denied making the comments, but was the target of a boycott. She later called the incident a "terrible misunderstanding" and asked for forgiveness.

Even as disco went out of vogue, her tracks remained a fixture in dance clubs, sampled and remixed into contemporary hits.

The depth of Summer's stamp on the zeitgeist was illustrated in a US Republican presidential debate earlier this year, when candidate Herman Cain quoted her in his closing statement. "A poet once said, 'life can be a challenge, life can seem impossible, but it's never easy when there's so much on the line'."

The words are from The Power of One, which Summer recorded as the theme song for Pokémon: The Movie 2000.