Marc C. Ganzi is Chief Executive Officer at DigitalBridge and has been an investor and operator in the digital infrastructure sector for more than 25 years. Mr. Ganzi has led DigitalBridge’s transformation to become a premier platform for digital infrastructure and real estate investment.

Mr. Ganzi originally founded Digital Bridge Holdings in 2013 and, as its CEO, built the firm into a leading global manager of digital infrastructure assets with more than $20 billion in AUM, until its merger in July 2019 into the current public company, DigitalBridge Group, Inc.

Previously, Mr. Ganzi founded Global Tower Partners (“GTP”), which grew to become one of the largest privately-owned tower companies in the U.S. under his leadership before being acquired by American Tower Corporation in 2013 for $4.8 billion. At GTP, Mr. Ganzi executed a series of strategic acquisitions, build-to-suit agreements with wireless carriers and financings in the credit markets.

Prior to the formation of GTP, Mr. Ganzi worked as a consulting partner for DB Capital Partners from 2000 to 2002 where he oversaw the institution’s investments in the Latin American tower sector. Before joining DB Capital, Mr. Ganzi co-founded and served as President of Apex Site Management, one of the largest third-party managers of wireless and wireline communication sites in the United States. In 2000, Apex merged with SpectraSite Communications to create one of the largest telecommunications site portfolios in the United States at the time.

In 1990, Mr. Ganzi served as an assistant Commercial Attaché in Madrid for the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Foreign Commercial Service Department. He also served as a Presidential Intern in the White House for the George H.W. Bush administration with the Office of Special Activities and Initiatives for the Honorable Stephen M. Studdert in 1989.

Mr. Ganzi received a Bachelor of Science from the Wharton School of Business in 1993. He was a Board Member of the Wireless Infrastructure Association from 2008 to 2017 and served as Chairman from 2009 to 2011. He is a member of the Young Presidents’ Organization and the Broadband Deployment Advisory Committee of the Federal Communications Commission.

Liam Stewart is Chief Operating Officer at DigitalBridge. Prior to DigitalBridge, Mr. Stewart was the Chief Financial Officer of Macquarie Infrastructure Corporation. He has approximately 15 years of experience in acquiring, operating and financing infrastructure assets in the U.S., Australia, and Asia.

Prior to joining Macquarie Infrastructure and Real Assets in 2014, Mr. Stewart was a Senior Vice President and Management Partner at Global Tower Partners (GTP), where he had responsibility for all capital markets initiatives and led over a dozen domestic and international financings for GTP. He was also responsible for all treasury, capital markets and strategic planning, budgeting, forecasting, investor relations and reporting initiatives at GTP. Prior to joining GTP in 2009, Mr. Stewart was employed by the Macquarie Group where he had day to day responsibility for a listed Macquarie affiliate’s North American media and telecommunications investments.

Mr. Stewart has an MBA from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University and a Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Laws from the University of New South Wales. He is also admitted to practice as a solicitor in the state of New South Wales.

Thomas Mayrhofer is the Chief Financial Officer at DigitalBridge. Mr. Mayrhofer brings more than two decades of robust financial and operational experience across the asset management industry.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge, Mr. Mayrhofer served as CFO and, subsequently, Chief Operating Officer at alternative asset manager EJF Capital, where he was responsible for the firm’s financial, operational, technology, and legal functions.

Prior to EJF Capital, Mr. Mayrhofer spent nearly 18 years at The Carlyle Group in a variety of financial roles across all of the firm's products—including private equity, energy, real estate and credit. He concluded his tenure at Carlyle as a Partner and CFO of the firm’s Private Equity business, where he led a team of more than 90 finance professionals and had oversight of approximately $100 billion of assets under management.

Mr. Mayrhofer graduated from The College of William & Mary with a Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting.

Justin Chang is Senior Managing Director, Head of Asia at DigitalBridge Investment Management. Mr. Chang is responsible for the identification, evaluation, consummation and management of new investments in the Asia Pacific region.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge, Mr. Chang served as Global Head of Private Equity for Colony Capital, Inc. He also served as the Chief Executive Officer of Colony American Homes from its founding in 2012 to its merger with Starwood Waypoint Residential Trust in January 2016.

Prior to joining the DigitalBridge business in 2010, Mr. Chang was a Partner with TPG Capital, an international private equity investment firm that he joined in 1993. At TPG, Mr. Chang was involved in private equity investments across a broad range of industries including consumer products, financial services, healthcare, real estate, technology, media and telecommunications in multiple geographies in North America and Asia.

Mr. Chang received his Bachelor of Arts cum laude in Economics and Political Science from Yale University and an MBA from Harvard Business School. He currently serves on the Yale President’s Council on International Activities, the Yale Development Council and the Board of Advisors of the Yale Jackson Institute for Global Affairs.

Dean T. Criares is a Managing Director, Head of Credit at DigitalBridge Investment Management. Mr. Criares has over 30 years of experience investing in credit products with specialties in leveraged finance, structured products and capital markets.

Prior to DigitalBridge, Mr. Criares was a co-managing partner of Sound Harbor Partners, a private investment manager focused on non-investment grade corporate credit. In 2017, Sound Harbor was acquired by Allianz Global Investors where, until joining DigitalBridge, Mr. Criares continued to advise the funds previously managed by Sound Harbor Partners.

Prior to Sound Harbor, Mr. Criares was a Senior Managing Director and partner of The Blackstone Group where he was the founding member of the firm’s senior debt platform. Mr. Criares joined Blackstone in 2002 and built the firm’s senior debt business to scale with offices in New York and London.

Prior to joining Blackstone, Mr. Criares spent 17 years at CIBC World Markets with focus on sourcing, underwriting and monitoring non-investment grade credit investments. From 1997 to 2001, Mr. Criares served as original member of Trimaran Advisors, a CIBC affiliated asset manager, where he was responsible for growing and managing the unit’s $3.0 billion senior debt portfolio.

Mr. Criares received a Bachelor of Arts from Drew University and an MBA from Columbia Business School.

Matt Evans is a Managing Director, Head of Europe at DigitalBridge Investment Management. Mr. Evans is based in London and focuses on European Investments and opportunities. He is an accomplished and a highly experienced global infrastructure investor, bringing more than two decades of relevant industry and transaction expertise to DigitalBridge.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge, Mr. Evans served as Global Head of Digital Infrastructure, Co-Head of Origination and Co-Head of Europe at AMP Capital. During his tenure, he was responsible for a number the firm’s investments in the digital infrastructure and rail sectors. Before joining AMP Capital in 2013, Mr. Evans spent 14 years at Macquarie Capital Advisors in various roles of increasing responsibility, most recently as Managing Director of the Telecoms, Media, Entertainment and Technology Group in EMEA.

Mr. Evans has a Bachelor of Science degree and a Bachelor of Arts with Honours from the University of Waikato in New Zealand.

Jeff Ginsberg is Chief Administrative Officer, Chairperson of ESG Committee at DigitalBridge Investment Management. Mr. Ginsberg has more than 32 years of entrepreneurial and executive experience in the telecom infrastructure and services, real estate, and private equity sectors.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge, Mr. Ginsberg was a Managing Director and Operating Partner of Mistral Equity Partners, a consumer-focused private equity fund.

Before joining Mistral in 2008, Mr. Ginsberg was Executive Chairman of InfoHighway Communications, a telecommunications services provider, and CEO/co-founder of its predecessor entity Eureka Broadband.

Prior to co-founding Eureka, Mr. Ginsberg was co-founder and Executive Chairman of Apex Site Management, which grew from its inception in 1995 to become the largest third-party manager of wireless and wireline sites in the U.S. at the time of its sale to SpectraSite in January 2000. Mr. Ginsberg was also the co-founder of Horizon Cellular Group, which grew from a start-up in 1991 (in partnership with McCaw Cellular) to become one of the largest cellular system operators in the country prior to the sale of the business.

Mr. Ginsberg received a Bachelor of Science, cum laude, in Finance and Accounting from The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.

Leslie Wolff Golden is a Managing Director, Global Head of Capital Formation and Investor Relations at DigitalBridge. Ms. Golden is also responsible for marketing and communications across the DigitalBridge Investment Management platform and serves on the firm’s ESG committee.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge, Ms. Golden was a Managing Director in the Investor Solutions Group of Macquarie Infrastructure and Real Assets where she was primarily responsible for raising capital from and managing relationships with institutional investors and consultants.

Earlier in her career, Ms. Golden was a Managing Director at Ridgewood Energy where she was the Head of Investor Relations. Ms. Golden also was involved with principal investing and portfolio management. Ms. Golden started her career in investment banking with Lehman Brothers and subsequently worked at Bankers Trust and Bank of America (NationsBanc Montgomery).

Ms. Golden is a founding member of the Wharton Women in Private Equity/Venture Capital and sits on the Advisory Board of Wharton Private Equity/Venture Capital.

Ms. Golden received a Bachelor of Science and MBA from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.

Geoffrey Goldschein is Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary at DigitalBridge. Mr. Goldschein is responsible for the management of legal affairs and generally provides legal and other support to the operations of DigitalBridge. He has 20 years of experience advising on fund formations, U.S. securities laws, portfolio company acquisitions and divestitures, and other material portfolio company matters.

Prior to DigitalBridge, he spent ten years at Macquarie Infrastructure and Real Assets (MIRA), where he worked as legal counsel for many listed and unlisted infrastructure funds.

Prior to MIRA, Mr. Goldschein worked in the corporate finance, mergers and acquisitions and leveraged buyout groups of several large international law firms, primarily representing private equity funds and their portfolio companies in a wide variety of domestic and international transactions.

Mr. Goldschein received a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology, cum laude, from Tufts University. He earned a Juris Doctor from the Georgetown University Law Center, where he was a senior editor of the Georgetown Journal of International Law and served as an intern in the Satellite Division of the Federal Communications Commission.

Kevin Smithen is Chief Commercial and Strategy Officer at DigitalBridge, where he leads capital formation and co-investment across all products and strategies. Additionally, Mr. Smithen has sourced proprietary, off-market fiber and data center deals for DigitalBridge since 2018. Mr. Smithen has over 27 years of experience in the global communications industry.

Prior to DigitalBridge, Mr. Smithen worked in the equity research division of Macquarie Securities (USA) Inc., most recently as Managing Director, Telecom Services and Infrastructure and as Sector Head for Technology, Media and Telecommunications (TMT). He has been recognized by StarMine, Bloomberg, and Institutional Investor as a leading analyst and thought leader.

Previously, he worked as a senior analyst and Portfolio Manager for the Lazard Global Opportunities Fund and the Lazard TMT Advantage Fund. He was also the first investment analyst at Coatue Capital, a leading TMT sector hedge fund. Mr. Smithen began his career as an investment banker at Smith Barney, Inc. (Citigroup) in their Media and Telecommunications Group.

Mr. Smithen earned a Bachelor of Arts in History, Middle East, and European Policy, magna cum laude, with Distinction from Duke University.

Alan Bezoza is a Managing Director, Liquid Strategies at DigitalBridge Investment Management with a focus on public equity securities within the Technology, Media and Telecom sectors. Mr. Bezoza has spent over 20 years researching and investing in the TMT sector with a particular focus on the global Communications and Media Ecosystem, which includes media, cable, telecoms, mobile towers, data centers, communications technology, data networking and their respective supply chains.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge in 2020, Mr. Bezoza was a Partner and Sector Head at Dorsal Capital, a market-neutral hedge fund, where he focused on the Media, Telecom and Communications Technology sectors. Prior to Dorsal, he spent over seven years at Janus Capital, where he was a Senior Analyst and Co-Sector Lead of the Communications investment team that included the Telecom, Media and Internet sectors. Mr. Bezoza previously worked in equity research as a Senior Vice President at both Oppenheimer and Friedman Billings Ramsey. He has published numerous industry white papers, appearing in print and financial news outlets (CNBC, Bloomberg, WSJ, etc.), and has keynoted industry conferences. In 2005, he was recognized by The Wall Street Journal as a “Best on the Street” analyst for his stock picks in the Broadcasting and Entertainment sector. Mr. Bezoza started his career at Lazard Asset Management, where he worked on the Emerging Markets and International Small Cap portfolios.

Mr. Bezoza received a Bachelor of Science in Finance from Lehigh University.

Wilson Chung is a Managing Director at DigitalBridge Investment Management. Mr. Chung is based in Singapore and focuses on identifying and evaluating Asia Pacific investment opportunities. He has over 15 years of infrastructure, private equity, and corporate finance experience in Asia.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge, Mr. Chung was most recently a Senior Vice President in the infrastructure principal investments team at Macquarie Capital. He led Macquarie’s balance sheet investments in digital infrastructure in Asia, with a focus on building platforms and developing greenfield datacenters and other digital infrastructure assets. Prior to that role, Mr. Chung worked in Macquarie Capital’s private capital markets team where he focused on principal investments and advisory mandates across the consumer and technology sectors in Asia.

Prior to Macquarie Capital, Mr. Chung was a co-founder and CFO of Litegrid Holdings Ltd, a Hong Kong telecommunications infrastructure developer and prior to that, he covered consumer, industrial and telecom investments for Unitas Capital, an Asian regional private equity fund. Mr. Chung started his career as an investment banking analyst at Citigroup.

Mr. Chung received a Bachelor of Laws, with honors, and a Bachelor of Commerce from the University of Melbourne.

Jonathan Friesel is a Managing Director at DigitalBridge Investment Management. Mr. Friesel has over 28 years of experience investing in and advising companies in the communications, media, technology and tech enabled services industries. Mr. Friesel is a leader in the Firm’s communications and services areas and is responsible for the identification, evaluation, and management of new investments in these sectors and for non-infrastructure private equity investments.

Prior to DigitalBridge, Mr. Friesel was a Founder and Managing Partner of Twin Point Capital, where he had senior managerial responsibility for the firm’s investment activities and operations. Prior to Twin Point, Mr. Friesel was a Partner of Oak Hill Capital, where he was a member of the Investment Committee and held senior leadership responsibilities for the firm’s Media & Communications and Services investment groups. He also served on the firm’s operations, compliance and ESG committees. Mr. Friesel also worked at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., in its Telecommunications and Media group.

Mr. Friesel received his Bachelor of Sciences from Cornell University and is an Emeritus Member of the Advisory Council of the Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management at Cornell.

Sadiq Malik is a Managing Director at DigitalBridge Investment Management. Mr. Malik is a seasoned investment professional with over 20 years of in-depth investing experience in private, distressed and public companies across a variety of industries including the digital infrastructure verticals of towers, data centers, fiber and ground lease buyouts. At DigitalBridge, Mr. Malik is responsible for identifying, evaluating, consummating, and managing investments across all our verticals globally with a specific focus on the Americas and the MEA regions.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge, Mr. Malik was a co-founding partner of Oskie Capital, a public and private equity firm, which invested in companies undergoing positive business transformations and corporate change. Previously, he also worked on President Obama’s Auto Task Force at the U.S. Department of the Treasury during the financial crisis in 2009.

Earlier in his career Mr. Malik was an investment professional at Och-Ziff Capital, The Blackstone Group and Morgan Stanley.

Mr. Malik received a Bachelor of Arts, summa cum laude, in Economics from Dartmouth College and an MBA, with distinction, from Harvard Business School.

Warren Roll is a Managing Director at DigitalBridge Investment Management. Mr. Roll has more than 23 years of experience in global private equity, mergers and acquisitions, asset management and operations across a broad range of industry sectors. Mr. Roll helps lead the fiber and small cell strategy at DigitalBridge and is responsible for the identification, evaluation, consummation, and management of new investments with a specific focus on fiber, indoor and outdoor small cell networks, tower infrastructure and related assets and business.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge in 2014, Mr. Roll was a Senior Director at Public Sector Pension Investment Board (PSP Investments) where he led TMT and healthcare sector initiatives in the private equity group. Mr. Roll helped build the private equity direct investing program including being actively involved in the management of Telesat, one of the largest global satellite operators. Mr. Roll also played a leading role in PSP’s first, and one of the largest ever, public-to-private transactions. Prior to PSP Investments, Mr. Roll worked at BMO Financial Group and Desjardins Securities in mergers and acquisitions, as a member of the team advising companies in North America on transactions across various industries with a focus on telecommunications, media and technology.

Mr. Roll received a Bachelor of Arts with honors in 1998 and an MBA with honors in 2001 from the Richard Ivey School of Business at the University of Western Ontario.

Tejinder Singh is Principal at DigitalBridge Investment Management. Based in Singapore, Mr. Singh is part of the Asia-pacific investment team and involved in the identification, evaluation, and management of digital infrastructure investments and opportunities in that region. He has over 14 years of infrastructure experience.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge, Mr. Singh was a Senior Vice President with Macquarie Asset Management (MAM). During 10 years with MAM, Mr. Singh was involved in building MAM’s business in India and South-East Asia. In India, he led the acquisition of solar platform from Hindustan Power and the divestment of MAM’s investment in GMR Airports. Mr. Singh was responsible for MAM’s entry in Indonesia as he originated and executed their investments in Tower Bersama, one of the largest telecom tower companies in Indonesia. Mr. Singh started his career as an associate at SBI Capital Markets.

Mr. Singh received a Bachelor of Technology from Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and a Post Graduate Diploma in Management from Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode.

Nikki Smart is a Partner and part of the InfraBridge leadership team. Ms Smart joined InfraBridge (formerly managed by AMP Capital) in June 2018 in its Infrastructure Equity Asset Management team based in London. Ms. Smart is responsible for leading the human capital agenda across the platform, which includes C-suite recruitment and leadership assessments, senior executive compensation, talent management, executive coaching and board development, organisational design and business transformation.

Before joining InfraBridge Capital, Ms. Smart was an independent HR Consultant providing strategic HR interventions for a variety of Private Equity backed companies. Ms. Smart worked at National Grid for 14 years and was part of the Global HR Leadership team. Ms. Smart held several senior leadership roles, including Head of HR for National Grid’s UK Business, covering an employee base of 10,000 managers and staff. Her most recent role within National Grid was Global Head of Talent, Leadership and Change, where she was responsible for Board, CEO and Executive Committee leadership and talent development.

Ms. Smart started her career in the Oil and Gas industry as a Graduate Trainee at BG Group. She holds a first-class honours Sports Science and Business Studies degree and a Counselling and Psychotherapy Diploma.

Christian Velasco is a Principal in the InfraBridge investment management team based in our New York office and focused on evaluating, executing, and managing new and existing investments across the mobility, energy transition and digital infrastructure sectors.

Mr. Velasco was a member of the infrastructure equity value-add team of InfraBridge (formerly managed by AMP Capital) since early 2018, where he led the acquisition and financing of major transactions globally.

Prior to joining InfraBridge, Mr. Velasco held several roles as a finance executive and advisor in Latin America where he had a pivotal role in acquiring, financing, and developing large scale infrastructure assets in the region.

Mr. Velasco started his career as a Central Banker at the Peruvian Central Bank and received his Bachelor of Science in Economics and Finance from Universidad Peruana de Ciencias Aplicadas and a Masters in Infrastructure Investment & Finance from University College London.

Alexandre Villela is Managing Director and Head of Venture Capital at DigitalBridge Investment Management with a focus on privately held, high-growth companies in digital infrastructure technology sectors. Mr. Villela has spent over 25 years working and investing in the Technology, Media and Telecom sector, with a particular focus on communications, infrastructure software, and networking domains.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge in 2021, Mr. Villela was a Managing Director at Qualcomm Ventures where he was responsible for investments in 5G, networking and digital infrastructure. At Qualcomm, Mr. Villela oversaw the Qualcomm Ventures 5G Fund, a $200M global allocation to accelerate adoption worldwide. Prior to Qualcomm, he spent seven years at Intel Capital as a Senior Investment Director, focused on Latin America and digital infrastructure deals in the U.S. Mr. Villela has extensive experience in corporate governance and transaction management, having participated on more than 20 boards as a director or observer.

Before working in venture capital, Mr. Villela was a General Manager at Gradiente Eletronica in Brazil, leading procurement and product development, and an Operations Manager at Samsung Electronics in South Korea, Mexico and Brazil. Mr. Villela received a bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering at UNICAMP (Brazil) and attained his MBA at INSEAD (France).

Tom Yanagi is Managing Director, Global Head of Debt Capital Markets at DigitalBridge Investment Management. Mr. Yanagi is an experienced investment professional with over 20 years of principal investing and asset management experience. Mr. Yanagi leads the Capital Markets activities for DigitalBridge and has raised over $20 billion of financings supporting DigitalBridge’s acquisition activities and portfolio company capital needs.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge, Mr. Yanagi was the Head of the Communications Infrastructure Team in New York for Macquarie Infrastructure Partners (“MIP”). During his 13 years with MIP, Mr. Yanagi led a number of investments in sectors including telecommunications, energy and transportation. Most notably, he was responsible for MIP’s investment in Global Tower Partners (GTP) and was involved with the oversight and management of that investment through to the sale to American Tower in October of 2013. In addition to leading transactions, Mr. Yanagi maintained an asset management role and served on the Board of Directors for a number of MIP portfolio companies, including GTP. Prior to MIP, Mr. Yanagi worked in private equity at Nomura Securities and Madison Investment Partners.

Mr. Yanagi received a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from Rutgers College and an MBA from Columbia Business School.

Christian Belady is a Senior Advisor to DigitalBridge and serves on the Board of Directors of Vantage Data Centers and Scala Data Centers. Mr. Belady is a distinguished industry veteran with over four decades of experience in data center and infrastructure management and development on a global scale.

In his role, Mr. Belady will provide strategic counsel to DigitalBridge in support of the continuing development of the firm’s global data center portfolio, which is positioned to meet demand driven by investment in cloud and AI.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge, Mr. Belady served as Vice President of Data Center Research and Development for Microsoft’s Cloud Infrastructure Organization. In that role, from which he recently retired, Mr. Belady led a team developing new technologies to transform the sector and address the challenges of scaling the cloud and AI. In previous roles at Microsoft, Mr. Belady led global server and data center development, including research, engineering, construction, and operations for Microsoft’s data center portfolio. He also developed and led the energy team during this period.

Mr. Belady is considered the “Father of PUE” and has been a key founder or contributor to a number of industry organizations and standards, including ASHRAE (The American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers), The Green Grid, and iMasons Climate Accord (ICA), where he helped to develop new industry metrics and guidelines to foster sustainability and efficiency. His contributions have been recognized with two prestigious industry awards: election to the National Academy of Engineering and the Data Center Icon Award from the North Virginia Technology Council.

Mr. Belady received a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering from Cornell University; he holds a Master of Science in Fluid Dynamics and Heat Transfer from Rensselaer Polytechnic University and a Master of Arts in International Business from the University of Dallas.

Arthur P. (Tim) Brazy, Jr. is a Senior Advisor to DigitalBridge and the Chief Executive Officer of Landmark Dividend, which he co-founded in 2010. Mr. Brazy has more than 30 years of experience in the real estate, financial services and investment industries.

From 2005 to 2009, Mr. Brazy served as CEO of Church Mortgage Acceptance Co., LLC, a private company he co-founded focused on direct lending to churches. From 2001 to 2006, he served as CEO of Lakefront Ventures LLC, a private investment firm specializing in commercial and mortgage finance, private equity, real estate and structured finance advisory services.

During the 1990s, Mr. Brazy founded and led a series of private investment partnerships that raised and provided more than $5 billion of financing to small businesses and commercial real estate owners nationwide. Prior to that time, he was an officer with Eastdil Secured, a diversified real estate investment bank, where he was responsible for advisory assignments and major property debt and equity capital placements.

Mr. Brazy received a B.S. degree in Economics from the California Institute of Technology, pursued further graduate studies as a fellow at Oxford University, and received an M.B.A. from the Graduate School of Business at Stanford University.

Murray H. Case is an Operating Partner at DigitalBridge and Chairman of Scala Data Centers. Mr. Case has focused on Latin American digital infrastructure since 2017. Mr. Case was raised in Brazil and is a dual citizen of the U.S. and Mexico.

In addition to his responsibilities with DigitalBridge, he is currently the lead director of a Brazilian metro fiber operator and a Colombian financial software firm. He is also a director of a Mexican broadband provider. Prior, he was Chief Executive of Grupo redIT, an operator of communications networks, data centers and managed information services in Mexico and the Western U.S., until it was sold to Kio Networks in 2014. Under his leadership, Grupo redIT opened multiple new metro fiber markets, built one of the largest data center complexes in Mexico and was a leading provider of mission-critical IT services.

Prior to co-founding Grupo redIT in the late 1990’s, Mr. Case directed the banking representative office of Salomon Brothers in Mexico City, which he established in 1994. Mr. Case worked in the specialty chemical and cellular communications industries early in his career.

Mr. Case currently serves on the Board of Directors of Scala Data Centers.

Mr. Case received a Bachelor of Arts from Harvard University and an MBA from Harvard Business School.

Internet entrepreneur and computer scientist, Jeremy Chelot is a Senior Advisor to DigitalBridge and the CEO of Netomnia, a Fibre-to-the-Home (FTTH) infrastructure provider.

Born in 1983 in Paris, Mr. Chelot’s interest in computers and the internet developed at the age of seven when he became fascinated by how computers and the internet affected how we learn, play, and live. After graduating from two universities with an MSc in Computer Science and an MSc in Telecommunications, Mr. Chelot worked with the UK’s largest internet service providers (Vodafone, O2, BT, 3 and EE). In 2014, having gained more than 10 years of experience in computing and networking, Mr. Chelot left 3 to become the CEO of Community Fibre.

Mr. Chelot left Community Fibre in 2019 to start Netomnia and YouFibre, an internet service provider in the United Kingdom., of which he is still currently the CEO. In just two and a half years, Netomnia and YouFibre have each become one of the fastest-growing infrastructure and internet service provider companies, respectively, in the UK.

Alexander Gellman is a Senior Advisor to DigitalBridge and the Executive Chairman and Co-Founder of Vertical Bridge, the largest private owner and operator of wireless communications infrastructure in the U.S. Mr. Gellman is also one of the Co-founders of Digital Bridge.

Prior to co-founding Vertical Bridge, Mr. Gellman was President and COO of Global Tower Partners, the largest privately held tower company in the U.S. Mr. Gellman was instrumental in the sale of Global Tower Partners to American Tower Corporation in 2013 for over $4.8 billion. Previously, Mr. Gellman has been involved in many successful ventures, including Sonitrol Corporation, a leading provider of verified electronic security in North America where he served as President and COO until its sale to Stanley Works.

Mr. Gellman also co-founded Apex Site Management, the largest third-party manager of wireless and wireline communications sites in the U.S. Apex merged with SpectraSite Communications to create the largest telecommunications site portfolio in the U.S. Following the merger, Mr. Gellman served as President and CEO of SpectraSite-Transco Communications, Ltd., a joint venture between SpectraSite and British Gas to develop tower sites in the U.K.

Mr. Gellman previously served as Vice President - Development and a co-founder of Horizon Cellular Group, a start-up backed by McCaw Cellular to acquire, develop and operate rural cellular franchises in the eastern U.S.

In addition to his role as a Senior Advisor to DigitalBridge, Mr. Gellman serves on the Board of Directors of Highline.

Mr. Gellman received a Bachelor of Science in Biology from Tufts University and an MBA in Finance and Accounting from The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.

John B. Georges is an Operating Partner at DigitalBridge primarily focused on mobile private networks and new wireless technology platforms such as CBRS. Mr. Georges is considered an early pioneer in both outdoor small cells, and in-building Distributed Antenna Systems (DAS). He has authored or co-authored more than 20 original sector publications and holds 10 patents.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge, he was the CEO and co-founder of NextG Networks (founded in 2001), the first outdoor small cell company utilizing the Public-Rights-of-Way to deploy outdoor DAS and small cells. Before co-founding NextG, Mr. Georges co-founded LGC Wireless, the leading provider of in-building wireless distributed antenna systems at the time and the first company to establish worldwide channel relationships in over 20 countries. Mr. Georges also is part of the founding team of QMC Telecom for their LATAM indoor DAS and outdoor small cell businesses.

Mr. Georges received his Ph.D. in electrical engineering from the University of California at Berkeley in 1994.

Bruno Jacobfeuerborn has been CEO of DFMG Deutsche Funkturm GmbH since January 2017 including the international activities of GD Towers. In addition, he is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of 1NCE GmbH since January 2018 and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of CTDI Europe since January 2011.

Mr. Jacobfeuerborn joined Deutsche Telekom AG in 1989. Two years later he became head of department for radio network planning in Hanover and, at the same time, regional head of T-Mobile in Leipzig. In this role, Mr. Jacobfeuerborn also managed the planning and development of the mobile communications network in the German regional states of Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt and Thuringia. From 1995 to 1999, Mr. Jacobfeuerborn was responsible for the Technology division of the T-Mobile Northern District in Hanover and took on additional responsibility for Sales and Marketing as head of the T-Mobile Northern District in Hanover from 1999 to 2002.

From 2002 to 2007, Bruno Jacobfeuerborn was a member of the management team in his capacity as Managing Director of Technology, IT, Procurement and, until 2004, Customer Service at T-Mobile Netherlands in The Hague. At the same time, he headed the International Service Management unit at T-Mobile International. Subsequently, he was a member of the management team and Managing Director of Technology, IT and Procurement at Polska Telefonia Cyfrowa in Warsaw until June 30, 2009. Since July 1, 2009 Bruno Jacobfeuerborn has been responsible for Technology (both mobile and fixed network) in Germany and became Director of Technology at Telekom Deutschland GmbH in April 2010. In addition, Bruno Jacobfeuerborn was Chief Technology Officer (CTO) at Deutsche Telekom from February 2012 until December 2017. From 2014 to 2020, he was Member of the Supervisory Board of T-Mobile US and from January 2018 until December 2022 he was CEO of Comfort Charge GmbH.

Josh Joshi is an Operating Partner at DigitalBridge and Executive Director of AtlasEdge. Mr. Joshi has over 20 years of experience building value in the digital infrastructure sector and has held, senior positions at several multinational companies.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge, Mr. Joshi served for over a decade as CFO of Interxion, a leading provider of carrier- and cloud-neutral data center solutions across EMEA, which was acquired by Digital Realty in 2019. Mr. Joshi also previously served as CFO of TeleCity plc, a pan European carrier-neutral data center business, and co-founded and served as CFO of Storm Telecommunications Limited, a private-equity-backed U.S. and pan European voice, data and network service provider. Earlier in his career, Mr. Joshi spent 8 years in professional practice as an accountant, predominantly with Arthur Andersen.

Mr. Joshi holds a bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering from Imperial College, London and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.

Raul Martynek is a Senior Advisor to DigitalBridge and the Chief Executive Officer of DataBank. Mr. Martynek has over 20 years of experience in the telecom services and Digital Infrastructure sector.

Prior to joining DataBank, he served as an Operating Partner for Digital Bridge, assisting the firm in evaluating digital infrastructure investments, including the acquisition of DataBank and Vantage.

Previously Mr. Martynek was the CEO for Net Access, LLC, a New Jersey-based data center and managed services operator, which was acquired in November 2015 by Denver-based data center operator Cologix. Prior to Net Access, he was the CEO of Voxel dot Net, Inc., a global managed hosting, and cloud company, which was acquired by Internap Network Services Corp. in early 2012.

Mr. Martynek also served as the Chief Restructuring Officer of Smart Telecom, a Dublin, Ireland-based fiber carrier which was acquired by Digiweb in 2009, in connection with his role as a Senior Advisor to Plainfield Asset Management, a multi-billion-dollar hedge fund.

Prior to Plainfield, Mr. Martynek spent 13 years with telecom and Internet provider InfoHighway Communications Corp, first as a COO of Eureka Broadband and then as President and CEO of InfoHighway. InfoHighway was acquired by Broadview Networks in 2007.

Mr. Martynek earned a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science from Binghamton University in 1988 and received a Masters’ degree in International Affairs from Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs in 1992.

Graham Payne is a Senior Advisor to DigitalBridge and serves as the Executive Chairman of The FreshWave Group (“FreshWave”).

In 2014, Mr. Payne co-founded Opencell, the UK’s first carrier-approved indoor mobile signal service provider and the first to be able to deliver in-building coverage from all four mobile network operators using small cells. In November 2018, DigitalBridge acquired Opencell and merged it with Stratto, a specialist in-building DAS provider. Mr. Payne led the merged business, strattoOpencell, as Chief Executive Officer. He guided the acquisitions of tower company Spyder Facilities Ltd, as well as leading small cell outdoor and radio service provider iWireless Solutions, before transitioning to the role of FreshWave’s Executive Chairman in the beginning of 2020.

Mr. Payne has long been at the heart of the mobile industry, having been involved in the inception of GSM in the 1990’s. He worked as the Planning and Deployment Director for T-Mobile in the UK and Rollout Manager for the T-Mobile International.

In 2007, Mr. Payne took a leading role in negotiating the largest network consolidation agreement in the world at that time. Following this successful negotiation, he was asked to establish and become Managing Director of MBNL, the joint venture between EE and Three. The consolidation was successfully consummated in October 2010 and continues to deliver significant benefits to its shareholders today. After leaving MBNL in 2014, Mr. Payne provided executive consultancy on network sharing and radio network projects, including executive level support to Vodafone on the Beacon project with Telefonica and CTIL, which helped transform delivery and enable large scale 4G rollout for both.

Mr. Payne serves on the Board of Directors of FreshWave and is a valued adviser to numerous global mobile connectivity groups.

Marcos Peigo is a Senior Advisor to DigitalBridge, and the CEO of Scala Data Centers, a Latin American data center platform. Mr. Peigo has over 20 years of experience as a technology and communications infrastructure executive based in Brazil.

Mr. Peigo has significant executive management experience in Latin America, including, most recently, as Vice President of Value Creation at IBM Latin America, where he was responsible for Industry Solutions and Business Development, Architecture and Innovation teams across the region; CEO of Solvo S/A, an IT infrastructure services company focused on complex solutions; Chief Operating Officer of UOLDIVEO, including the management of their data center and managed services business based in Sao Paulo, Brazil; and a partner and Board member of Automatos International Ltd, a company providing automation and management for IT assets. Previously, Mr. Peigo was also the founder of Lemniscata Ventures, a Brazilian privately held advisory and investment firm focused on companies that have intensive use of technology as its core.

Mr. Peigo studied Electrical Engineering and Economics at the Pontifícia Universidade Católica de São Paulo and is Certified in ISO20000, ITIL (v1-2-3) and COBIT.

Dave Pistacchio is an Operating Partner at DigitalBridge and Chairman of Beanfield Metroconnect, working with the investment team to evaluate, manage and operate new digital infrastructure investments, with a specific focus on fiber assets. With over 35 years in leadership positions in the telecommunication and media industries focusing on technology and operations, Mr. Pistacchio has built a reputation as a experienced executive who can lead organizations to operational excellence.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge, Mr. Pistacchio served as President at Cablevision Lightpath Inc., a New York based $375 million telecom company, where he led the company through 12 years of significant growth; growing revenue, earnings, and free cash flow, while achieving industry recognition for innovation and operational excellence.

Prior to that, at Cablevision Systems Corporation, a $17 billion publicly traded media company, Mr. Pistacchio built and ran a large multi-faceted Information Technology organization that supported rapid growth in its Cable Television, Telecom, Media, Sports, Arena, Retail and Theater businesses. While there, he was responsible for delivering many industry “firsts” by effectively applying technology to business challenges.

In addition to his advisory role with DigitalBridge, Mr. Pistacchio serves on the Board of Directors of Zayo Group Holdings, Aptum Technologies, Beanfield Metroconnect (where he serves as Executive Chairman) and Storyleaders LLC.

Brokaw Price is an Operating Partner at DigitalBridge, primarily focused on evaluating new greenfield hyperscale developments and generating strategic leasing relationships with global hyperscale customers across DigitalBridge’s entire portfolio. Mr. Price has over 20 years of professional experience in developing and managing all aspects of global infrastructure strategy for market leading internet properties and content providers. He is an industry leader with success in cultivating, guiding, and closing complex network co-location, peering and network cost reduction focused negotiations.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge, Mr. Price served as Vice President at EdgeConneX. He leveraged his expertise in the hyperscaler and edge data center industry to help grow the EdgeConneX core business through identifying, developing, and executing on strategies and initiatives to support the ongoing expansion of the cloud.

Prior to EdgeConneX, Mr. Price was a Principal at Amazon, where he managed the New or Core Region International Business Development team and focused on identifying immediate and long-term strategic business expansion opportunities and initiatives for key cloud computing markets/regions for AWS. He managed and closed multiple complex co-location, metropolitan and transit network agreements in foreign and domestic markets as lead development negotiator, responsible for closing $1.6 billion contract value and approaching $3 billion total contract value under his management. Prior to Amazon, Mr. Price was responsible for contract execution and site selection for Yahoo!’s Global exchange points and Network co-location facilities. In addition, Mr. Price has held various roles in the telecommunications sector throughout his career.

Mr. Brokaw received a Bachelor of Arts in Communications Studies from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.

Ian Rae is a Senior Advisor to DigitalBridge and the CEO and President of Aptum. Prior to taking on global leadership at Aptum in 2023, Ian was the founder and CEO of CloudOps, a cloud consulting, managed services, and software company focused on cloud native platforms, open source and DevOps since 2005. He joined the Aptum executive team through the acquisition of CloudOps in January 2023.

Prior to CloudOps, Mr. Rae was the VP engineering at Coradiant, a startup in web application performance management acquired by BMC. He is also the founder of cloud.ca, the original Canadian cloud infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) focused on data residency, privacy and security requirements. Recently acquired, cloud.ca is now Hypertec Cloud. Earlier in his career, Mr. Rae was the CIO at Canderel Management.

Mr. Rae is a member of the board of directors for Genome Canada and Air Transat, and a member of the Digital Industries Table for the Government of Canada. He is also a member of the Canadian Council of Innovators.

Mr. Rae holds a B.Sc. Hon. in Biology from McGill University in evolutionary genetics.

Rob Roy is a Senior Advisor of Digital Bridge, Founder & CEO of Switch. In the year 2000, with a background in business leadership, engineering, commercial development and technology, Rob Roy converged his areas of expertise to create Switch, offering advanced technology ecosystems and the combined services and solutions inherent to those environments. In Rob Roy’s mission to redesign and redefine every aspect of the data center, he has developed more than 700 patent and patent-pending claims. These designs are manifested in industry-renowned Switch SUPERNAP data centers.

As a founder, design engineer and inventor in the technology industry, he has not only designed the largest and most advanced technology ecosystems in the world, but his stamp of innovation and attention to detail can be witnessed across many data center verticals including advanced resiliency, high-density and sustainable architecture and design. Rob Roy’s standard of excellence, leadership and vision is reflected and utilized throughout the modern data center industry.

Daniel E. Seiner is a Senior Advisor to DigitalBridge and the Chief Executive Officer of Andean Telecom Partners (“ATP”), and previously held the same role at Torres Unidas, which was acquired by ATP in December 2017. Mr. Seiner has extensive experience in the telecommunications and media sectors. He is fluent in English, Spanish, Portuguese and Hebrew.

Prior to Torres Unidas, Mr. Seiner served as Chief Executive Officer of Torrecom Partners LLC and served as Managing Director at Ladenburg Thalmann & Company. He also served as Managing Director at BroadSpan Capital.

Earlier in his career, Mr. Seiner led the Latin American Telecommunications investment banking practice group at J.P. Morgan Chase, where he was responsible for origination and execution of advisory and capital raising. While at J.P. Morgan, Mr. Seiner executed over 20 advisory transactions in excess value of US$25 billion and over US$3 billion in capital raising.

He received his MBA from New York University’s Stern School of Business, and a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.

Suresh Sidhu is a Senior Advisor to DigitalBridge and the Chief Executive Officer and Founder of EdgePoint Infrastructure, a wireless towers platform focused on the high growth markets of Southeast Asia. Mr. Sidhu has more than 25 years of experience spanning senior leadership, operations, and strategy across Asia in the telecommunications sector.

Prior to founding EdgePoint, Mr. Sidhu was Chief Executive Officer of edotco Group, an integrated telecommunications infrastructure services company providing end-to-end solutions in the tower services sector across Asia. During his 6-year tenor, Mr. Sidhu grew edotco’s tower count and key financial metrics four-fold and expanded its operations from 3 to 8 countries.

Prior to joining edotco, Mr. Sidhu held multiple senior positions across the Asian telecommunications sector including Chief Corporate & Operations Officer at Celcom, Group Chief Officer Enterprise & Global at Dialog Axiata and Senior Vice President, Business Development of Axiata. In these roles, he had been deeply involved in both enterprise transformation and change efforts, as well as end-to-end operational management of cellular networks, including Malaysia’s largest network. Mr Sidhu also has previous experience in telecoms M&A and spent several years with the Boston Consulting Group in Southeast Asia and Toronto.

Mr. Sidhu received an MBA from INSEAD, and a Bachelor of Arts in Natural Science from the University of Cambridge.

Steve Smith is a Senior Advisor to DigitalBridge and the Chief Executive Officer at Zayo, the leading independent provider of communications infrastructure. Steve has over 30 years of expertise as a global leader in the technology sector and a deep background in managing market leading technology businesses.

Most recently, Steve was a Managing Director at GI Partners, a leading private investment firm. From 2007 – 2018, he served as Chief Executive Officer and President of Equinix, the largest data center company globally. Under his leadership, Equinix grew from $2 billion to $34 billion in market value, while revenue increased from $400 million to $4.4 billion. Equinix also successfully integrated 21 acquisitions over 10 years representing over $25 billion in organic and inorganic investments during his tenure. Prior to Equinix, Steve served as Senior Vice President of HP Services, where he was responsible for management of the organization’s Consulting and Integration, Managed Services, and Technology Deployment and Support business groups. Previously, Steve served as Senior Vice President of Global Professional and Managed Services at Lucent Technologies. He has also held various management and sales positions during his 16 years with Electronic Data Systems Corporation, including Chief Sales Officer, President of EDS Asia-Pacific, and President of EDS Western Region.

Steve currently serves on the Board of Directors of Zayo and NextDC, a publicly traded data center company in Australia, and formerly served on the Boards of NetApp, F5 Networks, and Flexential.

Steve had a successful eight-year career in the U.S. Army where, among other roles, he was aide-de-camp to the office of the Commander in Chief of the U.S. Armed Forces in the Pacific. He graduated from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and holds a B.S. in Engineering.

Jose Sola is a Senior Advisor to DigitalBridge and the Chief Executive Officer of Mexico Telecom Partners.

Prior to Mexico Telecom Partners, Mr. Sola was Senior Vice President of Corporate Development – Latin American for Global Tower Partners (GTP) and successfully led GTP’s expansion into Mexico and Costa Rica, where he was involved in growing and consolidating the operations in those markets.

Mr. Sola began his career in telecommunications in 1994 when he joined Telefonica, the leading provider of telecommunication services in Europe and Latin America. While at Telefonica, Mr. Sola held various management and executive positions in M&A and Corporate Development in Madrid and Miami and he was involved in the international expansion of Telefonica across Latin America. Prior to joining Telefonica, he worked in the international division of ENDESA, one of the largest Spanish utility companies, performing financial due diligence of acquisitions in Portugal.

Mr. Sola holds a Bachelor of Business Science degree in Economics and Finance from the Universidad de Granada – Spain.

Jacky Wu is Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer at DigitalBridge.

Prior to joining DigitalBridge, Mr. Wu was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Driven Brands, Inc. (NASDAQ: DRVN), North America’s largest automotive aftermarket platform where he filed the S-1 and led the public company readiness campaign. Prior to Driven Brands, Mr. Wu was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Xura, Inc (formerly Comverse, Inc. (NASDAQ: MESG)). Prior to Xura, Mr. Wu spent five years at American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) where he was Vice President of Finance and Mergers and Acquisitions. Mr. Wu has over 15 years of experience in the telecommunications industry, beginning his career at Verizon Communications. There he served in numerous accounting, finance and business development roles of increasing scope and responsibility, most recently as Director and Chief Financial Officer of Verizon Digital Services Inc. Mr. Wu was also a recipient of the 2012 Top 100 Under 50 Diverse Executive Leader Award.

Mr. Wu graduated Summa Cum Laude, Phi Beta Kappa and with Departmental Honors with both a MBA as well as a Bachelor of Science in Economics from Tulane University.