NEW YORK and LONDON, Feb. 8, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Funds advised by BC Partners ("BC Partners"), a leading international investment firm, today announced the signing of a definitive agreement whereby BC Partners will acquire Zest Dental Solutions ("Zest") from Avista Capital Partners ("Avista"), a leading private equity firm in the healthcare sector. Financial terms of the transaction were not disclosed.

Founded in 1977 and headquartered in Carlsbad, California, Zest is a leading provider of dental solutions across a continuum of patient care. Zest is widely known as the global leader in reliable, innovative restorative solutions for the treatment of edentulous patients. In recent years, Zest has strengthened its offering by expanding the breadth of its product portfolio, with acquisitions of restorative consumables and small equipment products.

Michael Chang, Senior Partner at BC Partners, said, "Zest is a clear market leader in an attractive segment of the healthcare industry, and is well positioned to continue delivering valuable innovation to the dental community globally. We are excited to partner with Zest's entrepreneurial management team and continue building on the strong foundation they have established."

Steve Schiess, CEO of Zest, said, "Our partnership with Avista resulted in significant growth for Zest and allowed us to further innovate and expand our product offerings. Today, Zest is poised to continue its growth trajectory as a global leader and pioneer of full arch treatment solutions and cost-effective, less invasive treatment of natural teeth. We look forward to the next phase of our growth in partnership with BC Partners and remain dedicated to improving the dental health of patients served by our clinician customers."

Sriram Venkataraman, Partner at Avista, said, "We congratulate and thank the entire Zest management team on a fantastic partnership. We are proud of the growth the company has achieved since our investment in 2013. Zest has significantly enhanced its value proposition in an expanding marketplace, and we wish the company continued success going forward."

Moelis & Company LLC and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC are acting as financial advisors and Ropes & Gray LLP is acting as legal counsel to Zest. Latham & Watkins is acting as legal counsel to BC Partners.

About BC Partners

BC Partners is a leading international investment firm with over €17bn billion of assets under management in private equity and private credit. Established in 1986, BC Partners has played an active role in developing the European buy-out market for three decades. Today, BC Partners executives operate across markets as an integrated team through the firm's offices in North America and Europe.

Since inception, BC Partners has completed 99 private equity investments in companies with a total enterprise value of €121 billion and is currently investing its tenth private equity fund. For more information, please visit www.bcpartners.com.

About Zest Dental Solutions

Zest Dental Solutions is a global leader in the design, development, manufacturing and distribution of diversified dental solutions for a continuum of patient care from the preservation of natural teeth to the treatment of total edentulism. The company's product portfolios consist of Zest Anchors, Danville Materials, and Perioscopy with global distribution through Implant Companies, dealer/distributor networks, as well as a domestic retail sales operation for the Zest Anchors portfolio. Zest Dental Solutions is headquartered in Carlsbad, California with operations in Anaheim and Escondido, California. For more information, please visit www.zestdent.com

About Avista Capital Partners

Headquartered in New York, Avista Capital Partners is a leading private equity firm with approximately $5 billion under management. Founded in 2005, Avista makes middle market control buyout investments in the healthcare sector. Through its team of seasoned investment professionals and industry experts, Avista seeks to partner with exceptional management teams to invest in and add value to well-positioned businesses. For more information, please visit www.avistacap.com

For media enquiries:

For BC Partners:

Andrew Honnor, Charlotte Balbirnie and Alex Jones

Greenbrook Communications

+44 207 952 2000

[email protected]

For Zest:

Russ Bonafede

760-743-7744, x-198

[email protected]

For Avista:

Daniel Yunger and Kathleen Pierre

Kekst

212-521-4800

[email protected] / [email protected]

SOURCE Avista Capital Partners

Related Links