About this Item

Quarto. 75pp. Original lusterous silver paper string-bound wrappers, with red-orange lettering, printed in a striking modernist typefont and the image of the hammer and sickle. Printed by the acclaimed German printing house Dr. Selle-Eysler AG. This extremely scarce German publication presents a catalog promoting 36 Soviet films, intended to be distributed internationally, for the year 1931-1932. Films listed here include works from a number of influential and pioneering filmmakers of Soviet Cinema, including Sergei Einsenstein, Dziga Vertov, Alexander Dovzhenko, Mikhail Kalatozov, Yakov Protazanov, Olga Preobrazhenskaya, and Ilya Trauberg, as well as other historically important works from the late silent and early Soviet sound period, and films now considered lost. All films here were released domestically in the Soviet union between 1928 and 1932. The initial text page states that all the films listed here were productions of the film studios Sojuskino (or "Soyuzkino", which was renamed Lenfilm in 1934) or Meschrabpomfilm (Mezhrabpomfilm). However there are number of films throughout which are credited to various other regional studios of the USSR as well. The text is printed trillingually in German, English and French throughout, with the cover text in German. The text about each film includes director and cinematographer credits, with additional limited crew and/or cast credits and a short synopsis/appraisal. Each text page is accompanied by a photo-collage or photo-montage of numerous b/w photographic still images from the film (photographic reproductions) on the facing page. The final two pages contain a table of contents, and a list of other films mentioned at some point in the text but not shown. The films included here, in order are: - "Enthusiasm" (1930, Dir. Dziga Vertov, here as "Symphony of Coal", documentary) - "Road to Life" (1931, Dir. Nikolai Ekk, here as "Safe Guidance Into Life", considered the first Soviet sound film) - "Alone" (1931, Dirs. Grigori Kozintsev and Leonid Trauberg, music by Dmitri Shostakovich) - "Tommy" (1931, Dir. Yakov Protazanov) - "The Mechanical Traitor" (1931, Dir. Aleksey Dmitriev) - "The Blue Express" (1929, Dir. Ilya Trauberg) - "And Quiet Flows the Don" (1930, Dirs. Olga Preobrazhenskaya and Ivan Pravov, here as "The Peaceful River Don") - "The Earth Is Thirsty" (1930, Dir. Yuli Raizman, here as "The Thirsty Soll" [sic]) - "Post" (1929, Dir. Mikhail Tsekhanovsky, re-released in 1930 as the first Soviet animated color and sound film) - "The General Line" (1929, Dir. Sergei Eisenstein, here as "The Struggle for the Earth") - "Judas" (1930, Dir. Evgeniy Ivanov-Barkov) - "The Struggle for Life" (Dir. Vladimir Korolevich, documentary) - "Arsenal" (1929, Dir. Alexander Dovzhenko) - "Turksib" (1929, Dir. Victor A. Turin, documentary) - "Nomads" (1932, Dir. Aleksandr Litvinov, documentary, known in Russian as "Emigranty iz tsvetushchei strany") - "Cities and Years" (1930, Dir. Yevgeni Chervyakov) - "Fragment of an Empire" (1929, Dir. Fridrikh Ermler, here as "The Man Who Lost His Memory") - "Revolt in the Desert" (1931, Dir. Nikolai Tikhonov, here as "Aina") - "Holiday of St. Jorgen" aka "St. Jorgen's Day" (1930, Dir. Yakov Protazanov) - "Earth" (1930, Dir. Alexander Dovzhenko, here as "The Soil") - "Anush" (1931, Dir. Ivan Perestiani) - "The Ape and the Man" (Dir. Winnitzky, documentary) - "The Rubicon" (1931, Dir. Vladimir Vaynshtok) - "Salt for Svanetia" (1930, Dir. Mikhail Kalatozov, documentary, his first film, here as "Jim Schuante") - "The Gipsy Boy" (Dir. V. Sharonsky) - "Bad Nerves" aka "Sick Nerves" (1929, Dir. Noi Galkin, docudrama) - "Igdenbu" (1930, Dir. Hamo Beknazarian) - "Mirabo" aka "Mirabeau" (1930, Dir. Arnold Kordjum) - "Yeyo Put" (1929, Dirs. Aleksandr Shtrizhak and Dmitri Poznansky, here as "The Soldier's Wife") - "Karmelyuk" (1931, Dir. Faust Lopatinsky) - "Transport of Fire" (1930, Dir. Aleksandr Ivanov) - "Caucasian Love" (1928, Dir. Nikoloz Shengelaia, here as "El. Seller Inventory # 53393

Contact seller

Report this item

Since 1985 we offer individual books for sale from our inventory of 150,000 rare, out-of-print and antiquarian volumes on many topics, with an emphasis on Judaica, Hebraica, Bibles and rabbinics, the fine and decorative arts, architecture, photography, textile and wallpaper sample books, Bauhaus and the avant garde, expressionist dance, Olympic Games and sport, the ancient near-east and archeology, erotica, illustrated and foreign-language books, especially German, Yiddish, Polish and Hebrew, as well as books from the Weimar Republic and the Third Reich, plus Russian constructivist materials. We create book collections, both large and small, for individuals, decorators, archives and libraries¿currently available: a 10,000-volume research collection on Judaica in the German language. In addition, we maintain a beguiling selection of original works of art and photography. Eric Chaim Kline provides appraisal services for estate, insurance and tax purposes, often helping to match book donors with libraries and museums. We purchase books of merit and entire collections; we also take books on consignment with favorable terms. We are a rental source for movie and tv production, occasionally providing the prop on which the plot turns. Traveling throughout the U.S. and Europe, Eric Chaim Kline has been buying and selling old and rare books since the 1980¿s, when in graduate school at Brandeis University. Proprietor of bookshops in several Los Angeles locations since 1985, he hosts visitors by appointment in our lively bookstore and ships books to collectors, libraries and museums worldwide. Kline occasionally lectures on topics in book collecting and Jewish studies. He sponsors the annual Bibliography Award granted by the Association of Jewish Libraries and serves on the national board of the Antiquarian Booksellers¿ Association of America. We welcome your inquiries.

Visit Seller's Storefront

Association Member Members of these associations are committed to maintaining the highest standards. They vouch for the authenticity of all items offered for sale. They provide expert and detailed descriptions, disclose all significant defects and/or restorations, provide clear and accurate pricing, and operate with fairness and honesty during the purchase experience.

Seller's business information

ERIC CHAIM KLINE, BOOKSELLER (ABAA ILAB)

CA, U.S.A.

Terms of Sale:

Visa, Mastercard, American Express, checks, money orders and bank transfers. Prepayment is required, however we extend billing to libraries and members of the trade. Books may be returned within 10 days if not as described.

Shipping Terms:

Shipping fees are based on your location and desired time frame, and they vary according to the weight and size of your order. We calculate United States Postal Service fees online and then round the amount up to an even figure by one or two dollars to cover delivery confirmation and to help with the cost of packing materials. We also ship via Federal Express (Fed Ex) and USPS Express. We are happy to accommodate special shipping needs by request.

Within the United States:

USPS Media mail is typically $5 for a book of average weight. Priority mail varies, depending on whether USPS flat-rates are applicable and advantageous for the dimension, weight and distance.

International:

International First Class typically starts at $20. International Priority is typically $35 or less if under four pounds weight, and starts at $40 if over four pounds. International Express is a faster and more expensive option.

Federal Express:

All Fed Ex shipping options are available, using your account or ours.