News

entertainment

telugu

movies

"Subhash Ghai sir suggested that Mishti sounded better than Indrani when I informed him about my alternate name"! - 'Osaathiya' actress Mishti Chakraborty - Exclusive

This story is from June 12, 2023

"Subhash Ghai sir suggested that Mishti sounded better than Indrani when I informed him about my alternate name"! - 'Osaathiya' actress Mishti Chakraborty - Exclusive

Mishti Chakraborty is an Indian actress who primarily works in Telugu and Hindi films. She made her debut in Telugu cinema with "Chinnadana Nee Kosam" in 2014. After starring in a romantic comedy titled "Columbus," she appeared in several Telugu, Tamil, Kannada, and Malayalam films. Currently, she is gearing up for the release of her upcoming Telugu film "O Saathiya." In an interview, Mishti opened up about her career and upcoming projects, and how it is taking her lots of hard work to learn all by herself in the film industry.

Image courtesy: Instagram

Indrani Chakraborty, aka Mishti Chakraborty, is an Indian actress who predominantly works in Telugu and Hindi cinema. She made her Telugu cinema debut with ‘Chinnadana Nee Kosam’ in 2014 with Nithiin , in which she played the role of Nandini Reddy.

The following year, she appeared in a romantic comedy film titled ‘Columbus’ that starred Sumanth Ashwin in the lead role. She then appeared in a couple of other Telugu films besides making her Tamil, Kannada, and Malayalam film debuts, and currently, she is coming up with yet another Telugu film titled ‘O Saathiya’ that is slated to release soon. Etimes approached the brainy beauty for a candid chitchat where she opened up about her career, her upcoming projects, and much more. Below are the excerpts.

Could you please tell us about your upcoming film, ‘O Saathiya’?

This is a heartfelt love story of two youngsters; it has lots of comedy, drama, and emotions besides being a great family entertainer, and I’m happy about doing this film, which will be released soon for you all to witness.

Chinnadana Neekosam Title Video Song - Chinnadana Neekosam Video Songs - Nithin, Mishti Chakraborty

How was working with a female director and Producer?

There is nothing different from that of guys. Moreover, Divya Bhavna has been a good friend of mine for quite some time. I think she has done an excellent job as a director. We had lots of fun on sets. Moreover, she is more organised.

You started with an A-list Telugu film in 2014 with Nithiin titled ‘Chinna Daana Neekosam," and then you went into oblivion. What do you think is the reason for that?

It is a very long story. To put it short, I was managed by a talent agency in Mumbai, and I had no idea about the film industry then. I didn’t even know how to get information about auditions, any filmmaker, or a production company. All the offers came to me through the agency, and then they were reluctant with a few of my opportunities and did not manage them well. That way, I missed some opportunities. The talent management company was quoting something on my behalf of which I had no idea, so all these things put together, I lost a few good opportunities.

Then I have to start from scratch again. I was even reluctant to update my new pictures on social media, which I’m doing right now, and it is not easy to build a career in this industry, as I have to learn all by myself and it is taking me lots of hard work. But I’m confident that I'll make it.

How did Indrani Chakraborty become Mishti Chakraborty?

As many people believe, my name has not changed. The name Mishti Chakraborty was first given to me at home; Indrani was given to me much later after I had started school. My family refers to me as Mishti, while in school and college, everyone knows me as Indrani. My name was the first thing Subhash Ghai sir inquired about. He asked whether I had any other names than Indrani. He suggested that Mishti sounded better than Indrani when I informed him about my alternate name. Since then, I have been known as Mishti, both personally and professionally.

Image courtesy: Instagram

Why did you take a break from 2019?

For two years, there was COVID, and after that, I was jobless for two more years. I started very slowly post-pandemic, and it was like an extended holiday for me, but it was great. Now I feel like I have several stories to tell my grandchildren about the great pandemic and the things that happened during the period.

You worked in different languages and industries throughout the country; what is the difference you identified between each of them in terms of working style or any other aspect?

I have studied Hindi and all four southern languages, and the difference is their culture and languages, which have enriched me as a person and as an artist. I feel like I’m a true Indian now. The way they talk, converse and eat food changes from place to place, and it is good.

I feel Bollywood and Telugu are more similar in terms of their working styles, as their budgets are very high and the other industries are a little lower in terms of budgets and production values. Otherwise, everything is the same form of art.

Have you been to a film school or worked with any theatre group?

I didn’t learn any filmmaking or go to any acting school. All I was doing was modelling in college, and I was spotted by a talent agency and its key person, Arindam Da. They took my name to a production company that was planning a film with Subhash Ghai sir for his new project ‘Kaanchi’, and he too felt that I was apt for his role, and that’s how I entered the film industry.

How tough is it for a young girl like you to get a good project on hand these days due to the huge competition among you in the colourful film industry?

I was offered a huge Bollywood film, which I was not even expecting, and it happened to me. It was supposed to be a huge success, but it turned out to be the other way around. Since I'm an outsider to the industry, it was tough for me to know what was happening in Bollywood as I have no experienced person to guide me. It was also difficult for me as I couldn’t capitalise on the success of my debut films, and now I’m in search of opportunities and learning from my mistakes. As I said, I had a manager who couldn’t manage my profile well, and I had no access to the filmmakers. By the time I realised these things, I was wondering why I wasn't getting the projects I should be getting. I've come this far already! Therefore, now I’m wise, focused, and confident to do well from now on!

How tough is it for an actress to get a good project from a good production house if their earlier film flops at the box office?

I have been really lucky that way. I was consistent with my work. I know that if our film goes flop, our prices come down, and nobody comes to us, but I was lucky to get calls regularly as I was working in different languages and industries and was always working continuously. Even though my film didn’t do well in one language, that wasn’t an issue in the other, as some other films used it to connect with the audience.

O Saathiya Lyrical Video | O Saathiya | Javed Ali | Raghu Master | Aryan Gowra | Vinnu

According to Wikipedia, you are 35, so do you plan to get married?

(Laughs) All the information in my public profile is wrong; I’m not 35. If you are going by Wikipedia, it has all the wrong information about me. It also says my birthday is on the 20th of December, and the year is also wrong. I was born on December 21st. It says I was a school teacher; I have a sibling. Which I don’t. Moreover, I’m a person who doesn’t care about all this information! I’m a person who believes that even if I’m 45, it doesn’t matter to them if I get married at the age of 60 or stay single all my life. That is my thing. They’ll only approach me if I need them for their role or whatever. For show business, I believe how we maintain ourselves is important, and how we perform matters. I feel that it is their ignorance.

Any new films you have signed?

I’ll be working on a Tamil movie soon; I have also signed a Hindi movie, which will be announced in November. I’m also in talks with 2-3 other projects.

Also Read Ten Innovative movie posters of 'Adipursh'

End of Article

FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA

Visual Stories

Parineeti Chopra rekindles our love for black with these captivating outfits

Entertainment

Taking inspiration from Kriti Sanon's vacation wardrobe

Lifestyle

Pretty pics of Helly Shah

Entertainment

Baby boy names based on classic Indian TV characters

Lifestyle

Smart things to do when he didn't respond to your text messages

Lifestyle

Explained: 'Harry Potter and the Prisoner of the Azkaban' by JK Rowling in 10 sentences

Lifestyle

Delhi’s most famous markets for wedding shopping

travel

From bone to heart health: 8 reasons to eat Makhana daily

Food

Discover true wealth in life

Lifestyle