Simulators are an incredibly powerful tool for external pilots and operators. A drone simulator provides a realistic experience without exposing them and their payloads and subsystems to any risk inherent in learning to use the new tool or feature. Nothing compares to hands-on training in a simulated environment to be ready to perform new flight operations. UAV Navigation knows the importance of simulation in training DUOs (Designated UAV Operators), so it has developed a range of simulators to respond to this need.

VECTOR-HIL drone simulator

The VECTOR-HIL allows customers to train their operators with the UAV Navigation system. This advanced drone simulator runs real flight autopilot software and emulates the aircraft dynamics based on a complex dynamic and parameterized model allowing the customer to train their crew with the real inertias and reaction times of their aircraft in a safe environment.

Additionally, the VECTOR-HIL includes direct integration of the software FlightGear displaying a synthetic 3D video representation of the platform for a better understanding of the aircraft behaviour.

UAV Navigation hardware in the loop simulator reproduces a realistic environment that provides advanced training to UAV operators as it allows the flight trainer to control & monitor the student operator's activity remotely during the simulation and insert contingencies or risk situations to see how the future operator reacts.

The use of this realistic simulator helps the remote pilot in the accumulation of airtime.

Operation planning is another use case where UAV Navigation simulators aid the operators to excel in their missions. The software in the loop simulator VECTOR-SIL is an operation-oriented drone simulator that enables operators to plan missions easily in small, portable hardware.

As we have introduced at the beginning of this article, training is a critical stage of the different UAS operations and applications as it provides a virtual vehicle for DUOs to consolidate competence and confidence. The training aims to allow the trainee to regain practical experience and strengthen their skills before the potential situations they will face in a real flight. After the training sessions, the trainee will have demonstrated the ability to effectively perform normal duties.

UAV Navigation knows the importance of these necessities, so we provide our customers with advanced tools to help them get the highest level of experience through our family of simulators, allowing them to accomplish complex missions with complete peace of mind due to previous simulations of the operation.