How Will Russia Respond to the U.S.-China Cold War?

Dr. Jeffrey Mankoff examines the dynamics of the Russia-China entente and what this means for the competition between the United States and China.

Commander of Air Combat Command visits the 601st Air Operations Center

U.S. Air Force Gen. Mark Kelly, commander of Air Combat Command, visited the 1st Air Force and 601st Air Operations Center and learning about their vital air defense mission supporting the North American Aerospace Defense Command and U.S. Northern Command during a visit to Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida, Sept. 29, 2020.

AFNORTH, partners demonstrate enhanced counter UAS capability

Air Forces Northern, headquartered at Tyndall Air Force Base Fla., partnered with agencies from across the United States to conduct the first large-scale demonstration of a second generation counter Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) capability recently. The event took place at nearby Eglin Air Force base, Fla.

Watch Now: Top DOD Officials Hold Virtual Town Hall Meeting

Defense Secretary Dr. Mark T. Esper; Army Gen. Mark A. Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman Ramón "CZ" Colón-López host a virtual global town hall meeting at the Pentagon to provide service members, their families and DOD civilians an opportunity to ask questions on the department’s COVID-19 response and diversity and inclusion.

Operation Noble Defender

North American Aerospace Defense Command conducted a dynamic force employment operation in the Arctic Sept. 20-23, 2020. The broad operation spanned all three NORAD regions, including continental U.S., Alaska, and Canada.

Western Air Defense Sector helps shape ABMS

JOINT BASE LEWIS-MCCHORD, Wash. – A small Washington Air National Guard unit has become a key player for Air Force acquisitions in the evolution of the Advanced Battle Management System (ABMS).Members

Air Force Bombers Conduct Global BTF Mission

Multiple U.S. Air Force bombers from Europe and the United States conducted an extensive Bomber Task Force mission Sept. 21, while integrating with NATO Allies and partners’ fighter jets. The mission flew over multiple geographic regions near the eastern-most portion of Europe and the western-most portion of the Pacific Ocean.

EADS continues mission while avoiding COVID-19

EADS and the 224th ADG have taken several mission assurance steps in the wake of COVID-19

109th AW joins advanced battle management systems exercise

SCOTIA, N.Y. – Thirty members of the New York Air National Guard from the 109th Airlift Wing flew two LC-130H “Skibirds” to Nellis Air Force Base in Las Vegas to participate in a nationwide exercise

NORAD conducts three intercepts of Russian aircraft entering Air Defense Identification Zone

North American Aerospace Defense Command F-22 fighter aircraft, supported by KC-135 air refuelers, intercepted three groups of two Tu-142 Russian maritime patrol aircraft that entered the Alaskan Air Defense Identification Zone late last night.

Leaders Extol U.S., Canadian Cooperation in Defense of North America

Top U.S. and Canadian defense leaders applauded the combined efforts of the North American Aerospace Defense Command and U.S. Northern Command in defending the continent as leadership of the two commands changed hands.

Historical moment as Humphrey assumes command of WADS

For the first time in the Western Air Defense Sector’s history, a prior enlisted WADS Airman becomes the new Title 10 commander. Col. Scott C. Humphrey assumed command during a virtual assumption of command ceremony Aug. 6, 2020, in the WADS conference room located at Joint Base Lewis-McChord, Wash.

Le NORAD vole au-dessus de Toronto pour un exercice de l’opération NOBLE EAGLE

Jeudi 30 juillet 2020, des CF-18 Hornet de l’Aviation royale canadienne, des F-16 de l’USAF (force aérienne des États-Unis) et un avitailleur KC-135 ont participé à un entraînement aérien du Commandement de la défense aérospatiale de l'Amérique du Nord (NORAD) au-dessus de la région du Grand Toronto.

NORAD takes to the skies over Toronto in Operation NOBLE EAGLE exercise

On Thursday, July 30, 2020, Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF) CF-18 Hornets and United States Air Force (USAF) F-16s along with a KC-135 refuelling tanker participated in a North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) training operation in the skies over the Greater Toronto Area.

1 Canadian Air Division welcomes new commander

The change of command ceremony for 1 Canadian Air Division/Canadian North American Aerospace Defense Command Region -- held in Winnipeg, Manitoba, July 6 and streamed live on Royal Canadian Air Force social media -- saw Major-General Eric Kenny succeed Lieutenant-General Alain Pelletier as the new Commander of 1 CAD/CANR, Joint Force Air Component Commander, and Trenton Search and Rescue Region.