WELCOME TO RIBERA DEL DUERO

Ribera del Duero is one of Spain’s most successful and enduring wine-producing regions with its viticulture history dating back to Roman times.

Ribera del Duero is a Spanish Denominación de Origen (or DO; classification of Spain’s main wine regions) located on the extensive, elevated northern plateau of the Iberian Peninsula which follows the Duero river for some 100km with more than 270 wineries on its north and south-sides, including small family bodegas going back many generations, alongside state-of-the-art, corporate-owned wineries.

This is one of 11 quality wine regions, including Rueda and Toro, within the autonomous region Castilla y León, and is characterised by mostly flat and gently undulating rocky terrain, formed during the Miocene period, consisting of layers of silty or clayey sand alternating with layers of limestone, marl and chalk.

Central to Ribera del Duero is the town of Aranda de Duero, but the DO’s most famous vineyards lie more further down the river near Peñafiel and Roa de Duero.

There is evidence that viticulture in Ribera del Duero dates back to Roman times; in 1972 a 66-meter mosaic tile floor depicting Bacchus, the god of wine, was found during the grape harvest, confirming that wine has been grown in this region for over 2000 years.

With a continental and Mediterranean climate of extremes; long and dry summers and hard winters, combined with moderate rainfall, and great differences in day and night temperatures, the grapes have optimal conditions for ripening and ultimately providing wines of exemplary depth and balance.

Wine-growing in Ribera del Duero has thus been a long success-story. Many vines here are over 50 years and even 100 years old and the region’s wineries generally focus on a select harvest of high quality fruit, which gives a low yield of superior wines. To promote their wines and improve the vineyards and wine quality, local wine-growers created the Denominación de Origen of Ribera del Duero in 1982.

Since then, the implementation of rigorous regulations have made Ribera del Duero wine-making processes synonymous with quality. The DO Ribera del Duero includes the four municipalities: Burgos, Segovia, Soria, Vallodolid and all their wines are subjected controls and must pass a rating process by the Regulatory Council.

Wines produced in the Ribera del Duero DO are derived almost exclusively from red grapes; mainly the Tempranillo variety which is locally known at Tinto Fino or Tinto del País, most often complemented with Bordeaux varietals Cabernet Sauvignon, Malbec and Merlot or Garnacha.

The combination of the region’s climate, soil and winemakers’ dedication results in wines that are powerful and elegant, with many now ranked among the finest in the world.

GUIDE TO RIBERA DEL DUERO

Places to stay

Castilla Termal Monasterio de Valbuena*****

The Castilla Termal Monasterio de Valbuena spa is one of the best preserved Cistercian Monasteries in Europe, dating back to the 12th century, converted into an exclusive tourist complex, on the Golden Mile of the Ribera del Duero. It has 79 superior rooms a thermal spa with several thermal pools, a wide range of restaurants, an organic vegetable garden, a spice garden and its own vineyards.

castillatermalmonasteriodevalbuena.com

C. Murallas, S/N, 47359 San Bernardo, Valladolid, Spain Tel+34 983 68 30 40

Hotel Kinedomus Bienestar***

The Kinedomus Bienestar hotel and spa, an exceptional establishment, is located on the banks of the Duero River, near Aranda de Duero, in the south of the province. Located in a beautiful natural setting, the establishment is a center of rural tourism. The hotel has 8 rooms, fully equipped for your comfort.

You will savor the delicious gourmet cuisine offered by the restaurant. The bar serves a wide selection of drinks. The hotel has a wellness center with balneotherapy, balneotherapy pool with waterfalls, jacuzzi and sauna.

kinedomus.es

N-122, Km. 266, 09491 Aranda de Duero, Burgos, Spain Tel +34 947 61 38 78

Abadia Retuerta LeDomaine*****

Abadia Retuerta Le Domaine is an intimate hotel with just 30 rooms established in a former abbey of Romanesque Baroque influence that sits on 500 hectares of vineyards in the Duero Valley. This meticulously restored wine estate and former 12th century Romanesque abbey, very close to the village of Sardón de Duero, is a majestic and unique setting for a getaway. The aesthetic is medieval, with vaulted ceilings, thick stone walls, and a quiet cloister, but spaces are bright and airy, thanks to modern furnishings. It is a unique space dedicated to well-being, as are all the experiences organized around wine, gastronomy – with a Michelin star restaurant, nature and art on the estate.

www.abadia-retuerta.com

Abadía Retuerta N-122, km. 332,5, 47340 Sardón de Duero, Valladolid, Spain Tel +34 983 68 76 00

Hotel Boutique El Lagar de Isilla****

El Lagar de Isilla is a boutique hotel whose headquarters are an old inn that today offers guests refined and elegant spaces that still maintain aromas of the past, thanks to the rustic elements that have been maintained after the reform. This hotel has a restaurant that offers a Mediterranean breakfast and Castilian dishes –its specialty is suckling lamb baked in a wood-fired oven-, as well as two large lounges, one of which has a glass vault. The establishment also offers visits to a winery owned by the hotel, where tastings are organized; In addition, you can buy high-quality products from the area in the gourmet shop there.

www.lagarisilla.es

C. Cam. Real, 1, 09471 La Vid, Burgos, Spain Tel +34 947 53 04 34

Hotel Castillo de Curiel****

Curiel Castle is the oldest in the province of Valladolid, its construction began in Roman times given the discovery of a coin by Arcadio (4th century), its perimeter walls are probably from the 7th century. The exquisite personal treatment given to our clients guarantees an unforgettable stay, with a welcome fruit and wine basket, daily newspaper in the room, generous buffet breakfast, 24-hour rooms, bicycles, excursions in the Douro Valley, visits to outstanding wineries in the area, wine tasting, archery, astronomical observations, swimming pool and outdoor showers, solarium and parking at the door of the hotel if you wish.

www.castillodecuriel.com

Calle Trascastillo, S/N, 47316 Curiel de Duero, Valladolid, Spain Tel +34 983 88 04 01

Convento de las Claras Hotel & Spa****

This magnificent four-star hotel covers all the leisure and rest needs that any visitor to Peñafiel may require. The Hotel Convento Las Claras will offer you the chance to enjoy both a central location and ideal services and facilities to rest and have fun, such as its SPA, solarium and swimming pool. The hotel’s location makes it easy to move quickly on foot to the most touristic areas and the most interesting corners of the place. Among its monuments, you cannot miss the portentous castle, which majestically dominates this historic town.

hotelconventolasclaras.com

Plaza Comuneros 1, 47300, Peñafiel Spain Tel +34 983 87 81 68

Fuente Aceña Boutique Hotel****

This restored flour mill dating back 3 centuries offers elegant rooms with private balconies overlooking the Douro and a gourmet restaurant. This rural location is ideal for hiking and cycling. Fuente de la Aceña’s popular restaurant serves creative cuisine using fresh local produce. There is also a bar and a terrace, as well as a cozy lounge with a fireplace. The Posada’s rooms with minimalist decor are spacious. They are located in a new building connected to the old mill.

fuenteacena.es

C. Molino, S/N, 47350 Quintanilla de Onésimo, Valladolid, Spain Tel +34 983 68 09 10

Eating & Drinking

Cepa 21

In the heart of the Ribera del Duero, in the province of Valladolid, located in an incomparable setting, the Cepa 21 Restaurant is merged with the winery in a privileged environment of centuries-old vines, projecting a image of serenity, elegance and harmony that summarize the essence of the wine and gastronomy that are elaborated in it. Based on traditional gastronomy, Alberto Soto puts a point of imagination in each dish.

www.cepa21restaurante.com

N-122, Km. 297, 47318 Castrillo de Duero, Valladolid, Spain Tel +34 983 48 40 84

El Lagar de Isilla

The wood oven at El Lagar de Isilla is prepared every morning to roast the delicious suckling lamb that constitutes its main gastronomic attraction. The restaurant has an extensive menu for tables as well as an excellent assortment of tapas at the bar. Another attraction is its long and complete repertoire of wines from the Ribera del Duero and its own wines. Do not forget to visit its old 15th century underground cellar.

www.lagarisilla.es

C. Isilla, 18, 09400 Aranda de Duero, Burgos, Spain Tel +34 947 51 06 83

Asados Nazareno

With privileged views from the Roa spur, next to the Duero river, this cozy establishment does not have menus, only a wine list with a small selection of wines, especially D.O. Ribera del Duero. If you are going to eat at Asados Nazareno, you only have to worry about having an appetite, it is not necessary to waste time thinking about what you want to eat. The gastronomic offer is limited and its strength is the suckling lamb roasted in a wood oven, which is known nationally and enjoys a well-deserved fame.

www.asadosnazareno.es

C. Prta del Palacio, 1, 09300 Roa, Burgos, Spain Tel +34 947 54 02 14

Arzuaga, Restaurante Wine Bar

Recognized as one of the best in the Ribera del Duero, this restaurant is part of the Arzuaga de Bodega four star Hotel & Restaurant wine tourism complex. Trying to satisfy each one of our needs, it organises banquets, but also wonderful small intimate dinners. In the most luxurious rural setting, wood is the protagonist in the interior. Outwardly, the stone. Moderate architecture, spectator of many celebrations, both family and business. A visit to Arzuaga is a privilege you must not deny yourself.

www.arzuaganavarro.com

Bodegas Arzuaga Navarro, 47350 Quintanilla de Onésimo, Valladolid, Spain Tel +34 983 68 11 46

Asador Chuleta Balcon del Duero

Chuleta restaurant was opened in 1965 by Don Luis Alonso – alias ‘Chuleta’. Today it is run by his son, Don Joaquín Alonso, fundamentally proposing the Castilian tradition par excellence: Roasted suckling lamb in a wood oven, chops with sarmiento and grilled Meats. But that doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy wild asparagus, pepper mushrooms, or seafood and fish like sea bream. In their underground cellar, they carry out wine tastings. The terrace, on the other hand, offers incredible views of the Duero River (hence its name). Also there are three rooms with a maximum capacity of 400 people and a tapas bar.

asadorchuletabalcondelduero.com

C. la Parra, 11, 09300 Roa, Burgos, Spain Tel +34 947 54 03 12

Gastroteca La Pícara

In the center of the Ribera del Duero wine route, in Villa Arandina, at an incredible design venue where you can pair delicious tapas or dishes with our D.O. Ribera del Duero, you eat with wonderful views of the Church of Santa María La Real. Halfway between the classic cuisine of the area and an avant-garde nuance, in the Gastroteca La Pícara, they prioritize the quality of the product. In a 30 square meter air-conditioned warehouse, they store more than 100 wines and have a room for tasting. After an exquisite dinner, have a drink in its Seagram’s Gin Lounge Club where you can taste a varied selection of Premium liquors.

www.lapicaragastroteca.com

C. Sta. María, 2, 09400 Aranda de Duero, Burgos, Spain Tel +34 947 72 28 05

El Somatén

El Somatén is a bar/restaurant with the best and largest terrace in Aranda located on the Plaza Mayor that serves tapas and other typical Spanish dishes in a friendly and relaxed atmosphere. Try such classics as Iberian ham croquettes, patatas bravas, or a codfish tortilla with a local beer or wine and enjoy!

www.somatenaranda.com

Plaza Mayor 16, 09400 Aranda de Duero, Spain Tel +34 947 10 72 75

Art & Culture

Monastery of Santa María de la Vid

The monastery of Santa María de la Vid is today part of a magnificent monastic architectural site, and its library containing numerous treasures of sacred art and numismatics is now used as a museum.

monasteriodelavid.org

Ctra. N-122. Valladolid-Soria, km. 18 de Aranda de Duero, 09491 Vid y Barrios, La Burgos, Castile-Leon Tel +34 947530510

Church of San Miguel

This church is thought to have been the place where the idea of the Romanesque porticoed gallery was first conceived. This extraordinarily lovely architectural solution was to spread to the Romanesque constructions of Segovia and Soria.

www.sorianitelaimaginas.com

C/ San Miguel, s/n 42330 San Esteban de Gormaz, Soria, Castile-Leon Tel +34 975350292

Church of Nuestra Señora del Rivero

The imaginative elegance of its gallery-portico and the sculptures on the capitals are the two most outstanding features of the church of Nuestra Señora del Rivero, the second oldest church in San Esteban de Gormaz.

www.sorianitelaimaginas.com

Calle de Pascual Vivas, s/n 42330 San Esteban de Gormaz, Soria, Castile-Leon Tel +34975 350 292

Peñaranda Castle

Peñaranda is one of the best conserved castles along the fortified frontier line which existed between the Christian kingdoms and the territory of Al-Ándalus during the 10th century.

www.peñarandadeduero.es

Calle del Castillo, s/n. 09410 Peñaranda de Duero, Burgos, Castile-Leon +34 947552063

Condes de Miranda Palace