P4 is a standardized programming language for the network data plane. But P4 is not just for routing anymore. As programmable switches support stateful objects, P4 programs move beyond just stateless forwarders into new stateful applications: network telemetry (heavy hitters, DDoS detection, performance monitoring), middleboxes (firewalls, NAT, load balancers, intrusion detection), and distributed services (in-network caching, lock management, conflict detection). The complexity of stateful programs and their richer specifications are beyond what existing P4 program verifiers can handle. Verifiable P4 is a new interactive verification framework for P4 that (1) allows reasoning about multi-packet properties by specifying the per-packet relation between initial and final states; (2) performs modular verification, especially providing a modular description for stateful objects; (3) is foundational, i.e., with a machine-checked soundness proof with respect to a formal operational semantics of P416 (the current specification of P4) in Coq. In addition, our framework includes a proved-correct reference interpreter. We demonstrate the framework with the specification and verification of a stateful firewall that uses a sliding-window Bloom filter on a Tofino switch to block (most) unsolicited traffic.

TY - GEN

T1 - Foundational Verification of Stateful P4 Packet Processing

AU - Wang, Qinshi

AU - Pan, Mengying

AU - Wang, Shengyi

AU - Doenges, Ryan

AU - Beringer, Lennart

AU - Appel, Andrew W.

N1 - Publisher Copyright: © Qinshi Wang, Mengying Pan, Shengyi Wang, Ryan Doenges, Lennart Beringer, and Andrew W. Appel; licensed under Creative Commons License CC-BY 4.0 14th International Conference on Interactive Theorem Proving (ITP 2023)

PY - 2023/7

Y1 - 2023/7

N2 - P4 is a standardized programming language for the network data plane. But P4 is not just for routing anymore. As programmable switches support stateful objects, P4 programs move beyond just stateless forwarders into new stateful applications: network telemetry (heavy hitters, DDoS detection, performance monitoring), middleboxes (firewalls, NAT, load balancers, intrusion detection), and distributed services (in-network caching, lock management, conflict detection). The complexity of stateful programs and their richer specifications are beyond what existing P4 program verifiers can handle. Verifiable P4 is a new interactive verification framework for P4 that (1) allows reasoning about multi-packet properties by specifying the per-packet relation between initial and final states; (2) performs modular verification, especially providing a modular description for stateful objects; (3) is foundational, i.e., with a machine-checked soundness proof with respect to a formal operational semantics of P416 (the current specification of P4) in Coq. In addition, our framework includes a proved-correct reference interpreter. We demonstrate the framework with the specification and verification of a stateful firewall that uses a sliding-window Bloom filter on a Tofino switch to block (most) unsolicited traffic.

AB - P4 is a standardized programming language for the network data plane. But P4 is not just for routing anymore. As programmable switches support stateful objects, P4 programs move beyond just stateless forwarders into new stateful applications: network telemetry (heavy hitters, DDoS detection, performance monitoring), middleboxes (firewalls, NAT, load balancers, intrusion detection), and distributed services (in-network caching, lock management, conflict detection). The complexity of stateful programs and their richer specifications are beyond what existing P4 program verifiers can handle. Verifiable P4 is a new interactive verification framework for P4 that (1) allows reasoning about multi-packet properties by specifying the per-packet relation between initial and final states; (2) performs modular verification, especially providing a modular description for stateful objects; (3) is foundational, i.e., with a machine-checked soundness proof with respect to a formal operational semantics of P416 (the current specification of P4) in Coq. In addition, our framework includes a proved-correct reference interpreter. We demonstrate the framework with the specification and verification of a stateful firewall that uses a sliding-window Bloom filter on a Tofino switch to block (most) unsolicited traffic.

KW - Software Defined Networking

KW - Stateful data plane programming

KW - Verifiable P4

UR - http://www.scopus.com/inward/record.url?scp=85168757459&partnerID=8YFLogxK

UR - http://www.scopus.com/inward/citedby.url?scp=85168757459&partnerID=8YFLogxK

U2 - 10.4230/LIPIcs.ITP.2023.32

DO - 10.4230/LIPIcs.ITP.2023.32

M3 - Conference contribution

AN - SCOPUS:85168757459

T3 - Leibniz International Proceedings in Informatics, LIPIcs

BT - 14th International Conference on Interactive Theorem Proving, ITP 2023

A2 - Naumowicz, Adam

A2 - Thiemann, Rene

PB - Schloss Dagstuhl- Leibniz-Zentrum fur Informatik GmbH, Dagstuhl Publishing

T2 - 14th International Conference on Interactive Theorem Proving, ITP 2023

Y2 - 31 July 2023 through 4 August 2023

ER -