1972 Constance Fourré released a new book titled The Spiritual Resilience Handbook: A Faith-Based, Research-Informed, Practical Approach. The book represents one method to help reduce emotional distress while deepening connections with the foundations of Benedictine spirituality. 1986 Randi Fasnacht was named Teacher of the Year at Buddy Taylor Middle School in Palm Coast, Florida, Jan. ’21. Patricia “Trish” Harvey Miles joined the University of Dayton rowing staff as assistant coach, Feb. ’21. 1990 Terri Anderson wrote and published the book Make the Ordinary Extraordinary: A Year of Daily Devotions, March ’21. Terri works as superintendent/principal at a school on the White Earth Indian Reservation. 1993 Michelle Holschuh Simmons received tenure in Educational Studies from Monmouth College in spring 2020. She has been an elected member of the Faculty Senate for the past four years. Prior to coming to Monmouth, Michelle was recognized multiple times for teaching excellence while at San Jose State University. 1997 Amy Fredregill became the senior director of sustainability at WSB Engineering, March ’21. 2000 Jennifer Beech Lohse was named a Notable General Counsel in Twin Cities Business magazine, Feb. ’21. 2004 Shannon Verly Wiger and her family recently completed a historic restoration project at the corner of Minnesota Street and College Avenue in St. Joseph. Shannon has been working in historic renovations for the past decade, June ’21. 2005 Jenni O’Brien Johnson was promoted from accounting manager to controller at Nelson Wood Shims (Grand Rapids, Minnesota), Feb. ’21. 2006 Melissa Schmitz is producing Bramble Theatre’s show, The Ministry of Mundane Mysteries Chicago. The show is an immersive, improvised experience that takes a mundane mystery and turns it into a witty, week-long caper that happens completely through the phone, March ’21. Michelle DeCock Van Engen earned her master’s degree in nonprofit management from Hamline University, Dec. ’20. She is a digital content strategist at the Saint Paul & Minnesota Foundation. 2007 Megan Peterson Christofield was promoted to director of expanding family planning choices at Jhpiego, a branch of Johns Hopkins University, Feb. ’21. 2008 Gretchen Enninga started a new position as the director of sustainability at United Health Group (Minnesota), Feb. ’21. 2011 Rachel Peterson is now a principal and co-owner of Hess, Roise and Company, a historical consulting firm in Minneapolis. 2013 Kelsey Swenson Noah is attending in the Doctor of Nursing Practice program for family nurse practitioner at Augsburg University; graduation expected 2023. 2014 Alaina Cranston Kolpin was appointed to the Worthington (Minnesota) City Council, April ’21. Amanda Luby received her Ph.D. in statistics and data science from Carnegie Mellon University in August 2019. During her doctoral program, Amanda published two journal articles and also gave invited lectures (concerning her work on statistical forensics) at the Alan Turing Institute in London, U.K., and the Isaac Newton Institute at Cambridge University, U.K. Also in August 2019, Amanda began her job at Swarthmore College as an assistant professor (tenure-track) in the Department of Math and Statistics. In early 2020, Amanda won a five-year grant with the Center for Statistics and Applications in Forensic Evidence (CSAFE). 2015 Bridget Cummings was appointed as Senior Advisor to the Deputy Secretary in the Office of the Secretary in the US Department of Treasury, March ’21. 2020 Elise Miller received a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship, March ’21. The NSF GFRP recognizes and supports outstanding graduate students in NSF-supported STEM disciplines who are pursuing research-based master’s and doctoral degrees at accredited U.S. institutions.