Holders Real Madrid chased away some of its early-season blues when Gareth Bale scored the pick of the goals in a 5-1 rout of FC Basel in its UEFA Champions League Group B opener at home.

In other results, Borussia Dortmund comfortably beat Arsenal 2-0 at home to launch its Group D tilt with a dominant performance and Carlos Tevez ended his five-year Champions League goal drought with a a second-half brace to give Juventus a precious 2-0 win over Swedish champions Malmo in Turin.

Meanwhile, Liverpool scored a dramatic 2-1 win over debutants Ludogorets of Bulgaria, Monaco showed it could still be a force with a second-half Joao Moutinho goal securing a 1-0 win against Bayer Leverkusen and goals from Hulk and Axel Witsel helped Zenit St Petersburg get its campaign off to the perfect start as it beat 10-man Benfica 2-0 in Lisbon.

After a deflected Nacho effort put Real Madrid 1-0 ahead in the 14th minute, Bale raced on to a Luka Modric pass and dinked the ball brilliantly over onrushing Basel goalkeeper Tomas Vaclik before volleying into an empty net.

A minute later, Bale found space on the right of the penalty area and sent over a low cross for Cristiano Ronaldo, last season's Champions League top scorer with 17 goals, to tap in at the far post.

New Real Madrid signing James Rodriguez made it 4-0 in the 37th minute when he started and finished a sweeping counter attack before Derlis Gonzalez almost immediately pulled a goal back for the visitors when he sped clear and beat Iker Casillas with a low strike.

Karim Benzema completed the scoring in the 79th minute when he lashed a left-foot shot into the net off the underside of the crossbar as Real Madrid became the first club to score 1,000 goals in European competition.

In Dortmund, Italian forward Ciro Immobile gave the hosts a deserved lead on the stroke of half-time with a solo effort after they controlled possession and set the pace for much of the first term.

Winger Pierre Emerick Aubameyang, who terrorised the Arsenal defence with his speed and also hit the post, added another goal after the break as the Germans, missing several players through injury, avenged last season's home loss to the English side.

The win puts Dortmund in the driving seat in Group D on three points, with Galatasaray and Anderlecht drawing 1-1 in Turkey in the other fixture in the section.

Tevez on target for Juventus

Tevez had not scored in the Champions League since hitting the net for Manchester United in a 2-2 draw with FC Porto at Old Trafford on April 7, 2009.

But amid a dominant display by the Italian champions Juventus in Turin, Tevez rekindled the flame to secure a win that leaves his club level in Group A with Olympiakos after the Greeks' 3-2 win over Atletico Madrid.

The match, and the stadium, finally burst into life on the hour.

Tevez's chip found Asamoah to the right of goal and when the Ghanaian responded with a cool backheel into the Argentine's path he stepped in to drive the ball past the outstretched hands of Olsen.

Juventus had the ball in the net moments later when Llorente tapped Lichsteiner's low cross into the net but it was ruled offside.

Lichsteiner, again, got his head to a powerful delivery from Evra but saw his bouncing header go over.

Llorente and Pogba both failed to make contact with Evra's low delivery across the face of goal.

The Spanish international was then denied twice in succession by a superb Olsen, who pulled off a brilliant one-handed save.

Llorente made way for Alvaro Morata in the closing minutes and when the Spaniard won a free kick on the edge of the area Tevez stepped up to curl the ball inside the far post.

Liverpool take the points at home

All three goals in Liverpool's clash with Ludogorets came in the last 12 minutes of their Champions League Group B match at Anfield.

Mario Balotelli put Liverpool ahead after 82 minutes, Dani Abalo equalised for Ludogorets as the clock struck 90 minutes before Steven Gerrard won it for Liverpool with a penalty in the fourth minute of stoppage time.

Gerrard struck from the spot after Ludogorets goalkeeper Milan Borjan made a hash of a clearance, and brought down defender Manquillo with Gerrard making no mistake.

Ludogorets almost scored before the late flurry started when Roman Bezjak hit the post after 72 minutes and, although it deserved a point from an enterprising performance, Liverpool took all three when Gerrard slotted home with seconds to play.

In Monaco, Portugal international Moutinho fired home from Dimitar Berbatov's header in the 61st minute.

The principality side's poor domestic form was reflected in an indifferent opening with Karim Bellarabi making a hash of a great chance to fire the visitors ahead from Hakan Calhanoglu's defence-splitting pass.

Leverkusen was dominant in midfield but toothless up front with Heung-min Son sending a low shot wide when left unmarked in the box.

On the stroke of half-time, Gonzalo Castro also managed to fire a volley from close range over the bar as the visitors continued to waste chances.

Monaco was struggling to keep Leverkusen at bay and Layvin Kurzawa and Yannick Ferreira Carrasco were both booked before the break, which Monaco was grateful to reach at 0-0.

It was Leonardo Jardim's side, however, who went ahead shortly after the hour.

Bulgarian striker Berbatov headed a long ball into the path of midfielder Mountinho, whose shot was deflected by Emir Spahic's heel past Bernd Leno.

Hulk put Zenit St Petersburg 1-0 up after five minutes when Oleg Shatov fed the Brazilian with an excellent pass and the forward finished with aplomb.

Matters went from bad to worse for Benfica on 18 minutes when goalkeeper Artur was sent off for bringing down Danny outside the penalty area and Witsel doubled the lead with a header four minutes later.