Mary & George, a new period drama which will chronicle the affair between King James I and George Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, promises to be one of the most highly anticipated shows of 2024.

In fact, the romance between the two is referenced in Casey McQuiston's Red, White, & Royal Blue novel, wherein the fictional Prince Henry writes, "I feel that James I, who fell madly in love with a very fit and exceptionally dim knight at a tilting match and immediately made him a gentleman of the bedchamber (a real title), would take mercy upon my particular plight." In a fun turn of events, actor Nicholas Galitzine stars as both Henry in Red, White, and Royal Blue and as the "very fit knight," a.k.a. George, Duke of Buckingham.

Here's everything we know about Mary & George so far:

It's based on a true story.

Mary & George is adapted from The King's Assassin by Benjamin Woolley, a nonfiction book that details "the conspiracy to kill King James I by his handsome lover, the Duke of Buckingham."

Per Sky Atlantic, "Mary & George is inspired by the unbelievable true story of Mary Villiers, who moulded her beautiful and charismatic son, George, to seduce King James VI of Scotland and I of England and become his all-powerful lover. Through outrageous scheming, the pair rose from humble beginnings to become the richest, most titled and influential players the English court had ever seen, and the King’s most trusted advisors. And with England’s place on the world stage under threat from a Spanish invasion and rioters taking to the streets to denounce the King, the stakes could not have been higher."

Galitzine is also set to star in Red, White, and Royal Blue this year.

The plot continues: "Prepared to stop at nothing and armed with her ruthless political steel, Mary married her way up the ranks, bribed politicians, colluded with criminals and clawed her way into the heart of the Establishment, making it her own. Mary & George is a dangerously daring historical psychodrama about an outrageous mother and son who schemed, seduced, and killed to conquer the court of England and the bed of King James."

Julianne Moore and Nicholas Galitzine lead the cast.

Moore and Galitzine as the mother-son duo.

A portrait of the cast.

Julianne Moore stars as Mary Villiers, Countess of Buckingham

Nicholas Galitzine stars as George Villiers, 1st Duke of Buckingham

Tony Curran as King James I

Laurie Davidson as Robert Carr, 1st Earl of Somerset

Trine Dyrholm as Queen Anne

Tom Victor as John Villers, 1st Viscount Purbeck

Amelia Gething as Frances Coke, Viscountess Purbeck

Sean Gilder as Sir Thomas Compton

Jacob McCarthy as Christopher "Kit" Villers, 1st Earl of Anglese

Alice Grant as Susan Villers, a.k.a Susan Feilding, Countess of Denbigh

Niamh Algar as Sandie

Nicola Walker as Elizabeth Hatton

Samuel Blenkin as King Charles I

Mirren Mack as Katherine Villiers, Duchess of Buckingham

Rina Mahoney as Laura Ashcattle

Adrian Rawlins as Sir Edward Coke

Simon Russell Beale as Sir George Villiers

There will be seven episodes in the limited series.

Davidson as Earl Somerset, Curran as King James, and Dyrholm as Queen Anne.

The show will premiere on April 5, 2024 on Starz, and in February 2024, Starz dropped the official trailer (watch above).