J.P. Robert Nolette, III, is a founder and owner of Front Range Commercial. A graduate of Miami University School of Business Administration in Oxford, Ohio, he holds a Bachelor of Science in Marketing.

He entered commercial real estate in November 1986 as a sales and leasing agent with Springs Development, Inc. Mr. Nolette was a leasing agent for Rosenbaum/Dean, Colorado Springs’ largest retail developer from 1987 to1991, when he formed the Summit Commercial Group, Inc.

Mr. Nolette has overseen property management functions of a 2 million square foot portfolio and handled in excess of 600 Lease and Sale Transactions.

In the summer of 1999, Mr. Nolette co-founded Front Range Commercial, which he operates to this day. The company has consistently been in the top five companies in Colorado Springs based on transaction volume and management portfolio.

He is past Chairman of The Realtor’s Commercial Industrial Society (RCIS) and attained the distinction of being named RCIS Commercial Realtor of the Year for 2002. In 2005, Mr. Nolette received an award for completing the “Office Transaction of the Year” for his successful completion of the sale of Cook Ministries, a 72,000 s.f. surplus facility.

​

Mr. Nolette has been a member of VISTAGE, the world’s largest CEO member organization, since March of 2001.

Jay Carlson has been practicing Commercial Real Estate in Colorado Springs, specializing in Retail Leasing and Development since 1983. He is currently the Managing Broker and Principal of Front Range Commercial, formed in 1999. From 1994-1999 Carlson was a Principal in ownership of The Summit Commercial Group, Inc. From 1985-1990 he was the Director of Leasing for Patrick M. Nesbitt, Associates of Colorado Springs, then the largest retail developer, where he was responsible for all phases of leasing for more than 1 million square feet of retail property.

Carlson specializes in representing Shopping Center Owners and Retail Land Owners in the leasing and development

A native of Chicago, Ill., Carlson moved to Colorado Springs in 1972. He is a 1982 graduate of the University of Colorado-Boulder where he earned a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Economics. He is past Chairman and board member of the Realtors Commercial and Industrial Society in Colorado Springs, a member of the Pikes Peak Association of Realtors, the international Council of Shopping Centers and was Chairman of the Western United States Retail Group for Coldwell Banker Commercial 2000-2002.

​

He was chosen the 2001 Realtor of the Year by the Realtors Commercial and Industrial Society in Colorado Springs.