It used to be that fairy tales were thinly-veiled warnings against innocent country folk who go to the big city to make their fortune, for they would inevitably fall into corruption and vice and sin and- and- okay, maybe the warnings weren’t all that effective. The cities were strange, forbidding places, full of exotic peoples and weird customs and ways. It’s a tradition that would extend even into the Twentieth Century, with THE WIZARD OF OZ warning Dorothy not to go to Oz, that she’s better off entering puberty on an isolated with three grown farmhands constantly watching her every move.

Of course, now with the majority of mankind living in congested urban areas, it’s the people of the country who seem bizarre and alien. And when they’re not the butt of jokes, they’re the source of fear. A fear which has been tapped for years in horror and quasi-horror movies, most notably in works such as THE HILLS HAVE EYES, THE TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE, WRONG TURN, STRAW DOGS, DELIVERANCE, CHILDREN OF THE CORN, AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON, the movies of Herschell Gordon Lewis… the premise is usually some identifiable city folk find themselves stranded in an isolated farmhouse, ranch or small town, cut off from communication to the outside world, disoriented, at the mercy of people who probably outnumber you, their intentions unknown until they rev up their chainsaws…

And the amazing potency of this scenario is that it’s universal: you could remake THE HILLS HAVE EYES and set it in a Peruvian mountain village, a Siberian tundra, the African savannah, the Australian Outback, and it could all still work. Unless the movie was directed by Uwe Boll, perhaps the only director who started at rock bottom and still found levels below it.

Thankfully, director Alex Chandon is no Uwe Boll, as his latest work INBRED proves.

Once past the opening credits and some beautiful but haunting shots of rural England, we spy a terribly upper-crust couple in the 1930s, having a picnic of lemonade and cucumber sandwiches, before being interrupted by a gruff local lad chopping wood. The local lad has the effrontery to speak to his betters without being given permission, and for good measure, he chops up the couple. The effects are absolutely terrible, and I’m almost ready to turn off the movie if the rest of it is going to be bad.

Fortunately, I didn’t, and the camera pulls back to reveal that we’ve been watching a bad horror movie on the smartphone of one of a quartet of young offenders being taken into the country for the weekend by social workers Jeff (James Doherty, BACKBEAT) and Kate (Jo Hartley, THIS IS ENGLAND). There’s ignorant alpha male Dwight (Chris Waller), his smart-mouthed pal Zeb (Terry Haywood), bespectacled pyromaniac Tim (James Burrows) and withdrawn girl Sam (Nadine Rose Mulkerrin). They pass something strange happening in an adjacent field, something spotted by Tim and Sam, but only we get to see it grisly detail: some hooded guy tied up to a scarecrow post getting tortured by kids…

The social workers are taking the kids to a cottage to have them renovate it, as well as participate in team building exercises and other nonsense that would probably drive me deeper into a life of mayhem, and the ebullient Jeff collects and hides everyone’s phones so they can all properly enjoy the experience of being away from their squalid homes. Yes, that won’t come back to bite them on the asses…

They visit the local pub, The Dirty Hole, immediately incurring silent glares, though the innkeeper Jim (Seamus O’Neill, WAR HORSE) seems hospitable enough, even if his amity seems to change when he learns where the party is staying. There’s also tension between the social workers, which feels more improbable, especially when Kate openly argues and ridicules Jeff’s overly earnest style of leadership in front of the kids, which doesn’t ring as realistic. While out visiting an abandoned railroad yard on another team-building exercise (did I mention I hate those, BTW?), and engaging in a spot of mindless vandalism, Kate sees locals running around guffawing and being locals. Tim and Sam see a fire burning at a nearby farmhouse and investigate. They really shouldn’t have: it’s a farm animal, burned alive.

Racing back to the railroad yard, they’re attacked by the giggling locals, but rescued by Kate. Jeff stands up to them, getting accidentally stabbed in the leg for his troubles. Kate and the kids take him to Jim at the pub to call an ambulance – big mistake. Jim decapitates him on a table with a hatchet in a shower of blood and orders Kate and the kids moved to the cellar, while they prepare for a “show” that evening (complete with Jim in blackface as the MC), inviting nearly all of the locals. Later, Zeb is taken to an adjacent building, tied down to the ground, and after getting some minor humiliation, finally has a horse step on his head and crushes his skull. Will the others face similar fates, or can they band together and escape?

There’s a lot to like about INBRED. There’s some wicked gory shots, along with black humour which tries to be reminiscent of Peter Jackson’s pre-LORD OF THE RINGS work (one of the more notable murders involve liquid manure, while another incorporates landmines and ferrets). The movie recognises its sources and influences, and grabs onto them. The acting is serviceable, especially from those playing the delinquents, and the pace is mostly steady, with director Chandon demonstrating a dab hand at generating atmospheric tension without showing anything explicit.

Where it fails is in its inability to be as funny as it’s gory (we endure stretches of attempts at comedy in between the infrequent kills and maimings), and in letting the pacing in the latter half of the movie feels stretched, and for me at least it doesn’t offer as satisfying a conclusion as I would have liked.

Still, INBRED does deliver some crowd-pleasing gore, so I didn’t feel like I was wasting my time. Check out the trailer below. Y’all come back now, y’hear?

Deggsy’s Summary:

Director: Alex Chandon

Plot: 3 out of 5 stars

Gore: 9 out of 10 skulls

Zombie Mayhem: 0 out of 5 brains