A bold claim

Pink Floyd legend David Gilmour claims his new solo album ‘Luck and Strange’ is his best record since ‘The Dark Side of the Moon’ 52 years ago.

Featuring lead single ‘The Piper’s Call’, ‘Luck and Strange’ is David Gilmour’s first album in nine years and it lands on Friday 6th September via Sony Music.

Speaking to Prog magazine, Gilmour said: “It’s over 50 years now since ‘The Dark Side Of The Moon.’

“My feeling is that this album is the best album I’ve made in all those years since 1973 when ‘The Dark Side Of The Moon’ came out.”

Elsewhere during the chat, Gilmour revealed his planning to release another new album with producer Charlie Andrew, who has helped him tap into new creative realms.

“Our plan is just to get this one out and run it and then do another one straight away,” Gilmour explained. “I will be working with all these people again. I’ve had this problem in the past, of wanting to throw myself in the studio with a few people and just kick stuff around, but not knowing who those people should be.

“And that is now a pressure that’s evaporated, because I’ve got these phone numbers. It feels like a team and I love being in a team – I didn’t choose to be a solo artist.

“When you have achieved the higher levels of success, most of the people that come into your sphere are going to look to you. They’re not going to be like Charlie Andrew – Charlie is the kind of refreshing thing that you want to have happen to you.”

Other musicians who contributed to ‘Luck and Strange’ include co-songwriter Polly Samson, Guy Pratt & Tom Herbert on bass, Adam Betts, Steve Gadd and Steve DiStanislao on drums, Rob Gentry & Roger Eno on keyboards with string and choral arrangements by Will Gardner.

David Gilmour plays six sold-out shows at London’s Royal Albert Hall this October as part of an international residency tour that also visits Rome, Los Angeles and New York.

The 50 greatest album covers of all time:

Listen to Planet Rock on DAB nationwide, on our Rayo app, online or via your smart speaker (“Play Planet Rock”).