Roger Waters – The Dark Side of the Moon Redux

October 6, 2023

ALBUM REVIEW

OVERALL (OUT OF 10): 3

Gloomy old Roger. I suppose if you get yourself in the right headspace The Dark Side of the Moon Redux might seem like a profound listening experience. Personally, I think it sounds like Roger took a couple of Valium while on a bummer and decided to re-record The Dark Side of the Moon at half-speed.

Reciting those excellent lyrics to “Free Four” over “Speak to Me” got my attention initially, and it must be said the solemn musical trappings suit the words better than the sing-songy version on Obscured by Clouds. “The memories of a man in his old age/ Are the deeds of a man in his prime…”. Hearing an elderly Roger reciting those lines carries some weight, for sure. I was hopeful that the rest of the album might be like that. That opening had some heft, no doubt. But most of the rest of the album doesn’t make nearly as much impact, it’s mostly just Roger slowing down Pink Floyd songs and reciting boring stories over them when he isn’t reciting the lyrics to the songs as one-dimensionally as he possibly can. For example, he tells us about a weird dream he had about hordes of Dementors or something over “On the Run”, but no Patronus charm is required to scare these Dementors off, nope, just the “Voice of Reason” saying “Be gone!”. Yawn.

“Time” puts me to sleep. Literally. Then Roger tells a story about a friend who died of cancer during the “Great Gig in the Sky” with all these inside references most of us weren’t privy to while this kind of lame humming replaces Clare Torry’s stunning vocals from the original. Roger probably finds it moving, I’m sure, but I didn’t know the guy, so it doesn’t resonate that much with me.

“Money” kind of crawls along while Roger recites the lyrics in that gruff old man voice of his. There are some interesting strings in the middle while Roger prattles on about welcome to hell and welcome to rooftops and the devil smiling at little jokes about cloaks being shrouds and stuff like that. Does “Money” really need a poetry jam in the middle? Your call, it didn’t really do it for me. But I’ll tell you, that last verse was excruciating – come on Roger, move it along, this is taking forever and you’re boring me.

Same with “Us and Them” – for cripe’s sake Roger, the tempo just ambles along like it doesn’t have to be anywhere anytime soon, and your lackluster recitation of the lyrics doesn’t do this marvelous song justice. Every so often an interesting string part pops in, but musically this is pretty bland and lugubrious. And who the hell ever wanted to hear gospel organ in “Us and Them”? Not me. This version doesn’t have 1/10th the impact of the original.

“Any Colour You Like” gets more of the rambling Roger treatment, with more snatches of unfocused, scattershot poetry. Not much interesting going on here I’m afraid. But hey, at least after going on about flags of different colors he finally settled on a rainbow flag at the end, I liked that. I’m trying to find something nice to say here, I really am.

Roger clearly couldn’t think of anything interesting to do with “Brain Damage”, so it’s just more lethargic recitation and gospel organ in the background, with occasional cello bits thrown about in a halfhearted attempt to keep the listener awake. Damn that organ grates on my nerves, if I wanted to hear a church organ I’d go to church.

“Eclipse” is electrifying in its original version. This is the sleepiest version you could ever hope to hear. There’s no passion, there’s no energy, I can’t actually figure out what the hell Roger is trying to do with it. He couldn’t have made the song any more bland if he tried.

Bottom line – Roger’s vocals – if you can really call them that in that he doesn’t really do much singing – are unengaging and emotionally flat. He sounds like a tired old man reading to himself most of the time. The tempos of every single one of these songs are agonizingly slow, there is no spark or energy to be found anywhere. Most of the instrumentation is spare, sparse, and uninspired, with the exception of some interesting strings that pop in from time to time.

I get that this version of Dark Side is intended to be contemplative, an artist giving an older but wiser take at the end of his life on what he said when he was young, framing his lifetime’s masterpiece in a more solemn, thoughtful way. But a) why mess with a masterpiece that was pretty much perfect the first time around, b) if you are going to redo it, why slow it down and suck all the life out of it? and c) why is Roger trying to reheat soufflés in the first place anyway? If this is an attempt to reclaim The Dark Side of the Moon all for himself, he did a spectacularly unexciting and unengaging job of it.

I thought Is This the Life We Really Want? a few years back was brilliant. I would have loved to see another great album like that from Roger – instead he gave us a pointless retread, a mere shadow of what originally was as powerful, moving a piece of art as the 70s had to offer. Bet the critics fall all over themselves lavishing praise on this album, but believe me, it sucks. I know you aren’t going to listen to me if you love the original Dark Side, but I’m trying to save you some aggravation here, you probably won’t like Redux any more than I did.