Waxing is one of the most commonly known methods of hair removal. While not as painless as other methods, waxing with Veet offers much longer results in comparison, allows for up to 4 weeks of smoothness. The upside, the hair growing back is much softer and easier to remove in the future vs. shaving which results in stubble or thicker hair growth.

The downsides to waxing is of course, the obvious - pain. For sensitive areas, this method requires a much higher tolerance. Areas that have been waxed can result in being red or inflamed afterwards but will subside in a few hours. Waxing can also cause ingrown hairs which can be prevented through methods such as exfoliation.

When it comes to wax, there are two major choices - hot wax that is warmed up, and then cold wax that often comes in the form of wax strips. In this blog, we’ll explain the benefits of both.

Hot Wax

Hot wax is often seen at salons. It’s heated in a warmer to soften it for application and can be applied to skin as is or with a strip. As it cools down, hot wax contracts and seeps and grips into hair follicles. It’s then of course, pulled in one swift motion in the opposite direction of hair growth. According to experts, hot wax can be effective in removing hair at any length, including very short hair.

Advantages of hot wax:

The heat of the wax dilates your pores, which means less resistance when the hair is removed

The wax can be applied and customized to any size so you can shape it anyway you prefer

Hot wax is said to remove short hair, as short as 1 mm

Disadvantages of hot wax:

Hot wax is not as easy to use at home. For those not used to using hot wax at home, application may be messy

Temperature can cause sensitivity for some people, so it's important to practise to ensure you get the temperature just right

Salon treatments for hot wax can often be expensive

Cold Wax / Wax Strips

Cold Wax or Wax strips, similar to those that Veet provides such as Veet® Professional™ Wax Strips, For Legs & Body, Sensitive Skin, With Almond Oil, 40 ct* are much easier to use in comparison to hot wax. Application is as easy as applying the wax strip to your desired area, the strip then grips to your hair, no heat necessary. Then, removing is done in one swift motion. Veet wax strips especially can actively grip even the shortest hairs. With no need to warm and already pre-cut, you are able to use wax strips anytime, anywhere and easily at home!

Advantages of Cold Wax/ Wax Strips

Portability and the ability to take the strips anywhere when you are travelling

Easy to use and easy non-messy application , as all strips are prepped and pre-cut for you to use

No prep required and no warming necessary

Disadvantages of Cold Wax/ Wax strips

For larger areas, several strips might be required

May require reapplication for very short hairs, however you are able to use the same wax strip

Naturally there are clear advantages and disadvantages to both methods. Whichever you decide, simply choose the method of hair removal that works best for you and read the label before use!