Hank Williams III

Lovesick, Broke & Driftin’

Almeira Club

Most popular for having a sucky dad and a stellar grandfather, Hank III typically doesn’t let it be known that he’s primarily a punker. However, with a quick glance at any photo or his gear, Misfits and other seminal punk bands stickers and patches abound. And while that has absolutely nothing to do with this album, it’s a cool thing to think about when you actually hear the heartfelt twang and ache Hank III puts into each of these tributes to lost love and a million other bum situations. Most amusing, though, is that the album is so fucking good, it’s overshadowing his father’s latest release—Almeira Club, a standard-fare collection of tunes that wouldn’t get anywhere if they didn’t have that ominous name looming over them. More bluesy than expected, the songs on this disc are plagued with cheesy lyrics, overdone riffs and just plain lameness. I mean, a song called “The F Word” that blabs about how Kid Rock shows Williams that you can’t say fuck in country music? Get a life. Man, it must hurt to know that you’ll never be as cool as your father or your son.

Father: V

Son: VVVV

Keith Carman

Casualties

Die Hards

Side One Dummy

Those Casualties are dirty, dirty people. Keeping the old tradition alive, these cats have been belting out some of the raspiest, heaviest gutter punk since Wattie realized he should only keep his mohawk ’cause he’s going bald. Bordering on noise-punk with its brash extremity, one is instantly drawn to their balls-out, take-no-shit attitude. Take Vice Squad, The Exploited and Tension, lock ’em in a cage with rabid pit bulls, and you might be close. The perfect kick in the meat-whistle for all those pop/punkers with more attitude than gusto. Time to learn what the term “punk” is really about.

Rating:VVVV

Keith Carman

Pariahs

Down Again EP

Fading Ways

Probably one of Toronto’s most underrated bands, the Pariahs have been blasting out some upbeat punk-influenced guitar rock for the better part of a decade now. Fun songs that provide the perfect soundtrack to drinkin’ night, the three songs that make up this EP aren’t exactly mind-bendingly unique or complex. But that’s their biggest appeal. Their simplicity and straight-forwardness make the Pariahs feel like your favourite pair of jeans. You slip ’em on and go, “Oh yeah, this is the shit.”

Rating: VVVV

Keith Carman

Godflesh

Hymns

Music For Nations/Koch

I didn’t even know these dudes were still around! I figured they would have packed it in after their drummer left for the greener pastures of Primus, but apparently they’re still rockin’ away. Moving away from the drum machine (obviously, given my musings) a few years back, Godflesh’s industrial sound has taken on a unique twist these days. They still know how to drone and milk a riff for all it’s worth, but now there’s more of a human feel to the overall gist. Kinda like Psalm 69-era Ministry colliding with Arise-era Sepultura.