Understanding types of waxes

Before purchasing a professional wax, it's essential to familiarise yourself with the various wax types on the market. The two primary categories are hard wax and soft wax.

Hard wax

Hard wax, also known as hot wax, is applied and removed without the use of strips. It hardens as it cools, allowing you to remove it by gripping the edge and pulling it off in the opposite direction of hair growth.

Hard wax has a stronger adhering power to the hair rather than the skin, making it ideal for those with sensitive skin and for use on delicate areas or deep-rooted hairs. It's ideal for use on the lip, chin, eyebrows, underarm, bikini and inner thigh.

Hard wax gives you more flexibility, allowing you to apply both with and against the hair growth, making it a great option for stubborn and strong hairs.

Some clients prefer this method as it can be seen as less painful and has a lower application temperature, helping to keep them as comfortable as possible during treatment.

Soft wax

Also known as strip wax, soft wax is applied in a thin layer and removed using paper strips. They can come in crème or gel textures, the only difference being personal preference of what you like to work with.

With a low melting temperature, soft wax reaches a working consistency very quickly, making it a more economical option that is very popular with beauty professionals.

Treatments performed with soft wax can be a quicker procedure, so it’s commonly used on larger areas such as the legs. It’s also very easy to control, making it great for precision hair removal, especially eyebrow shaping.

Which type of wax should I use: hard wax or soft wax?

It is useful to offer both types of waxes to ensure you’re able to tailor each treatment to the client and work with a range of skin types, hairs growth problems, etc. There will be instances when hard wax is the most effective means of hair removal, and others where soft wax would be more suited.

Selecting the right wax type for every client

As with every part of your treatments, you should be tailoring the products you choose to your client’s needs, desired outcome, skin type and more. Here are our key things to consider to help you choose the right wax type and get the very best results every time.

Consider skin type and sensitivity

Every client's skin is unique, so it's important to take their skin type and sensitivity into account when selecting wax. For clients with sensitive skin, a hard wax is preferable as it will adhere to the hair, rather than the skin. Be sure to perform a wax test to ensure your client doesn't experience adverse reactions.

Evaluate hair texture and growth patterns

The type and texture of hair play a significant role in wax selection. Fine hair may be better suited for soft wax, while coarse or deep-rooted hair can be effectively removed with hard wax. Additionally, understanding the direction of hair growth helps you apply and remove the wax in the most efficient manner, reducing discomfort for the client.

Assess treatment areas

Different wax types are better suited for specific treatment areas. For instance, hard wax is often the preferred choice for facial and intimate areas due to its gentle application and removal process. Soft wax, on the other hand, is commonly used for larger body areas like arms, legs, and back.

Temperature and consistency

Pay attention to the melting temperature and consistency of the wax. Ensure that the wax melts to a comfortable temperature that won't cause burns or discomfort to the client. The wax should have a smooth, spreadable consistency that adheres well to the hair and skin.

Quality and ingredients

Invest in high-quality products with ingredients that are not only effective, but also as kind to the skin as possible. Here at HD Brows, we have an in-house product team that work hard to develop the very best formulas and carry out extensive testing and quality control before anything is brought to market.

What are the differences between the HD Brows waxes?

The HD Brows range includes three waxes, making it easy for you to tailor your treatments and achieve those bespoke brows.

HD Brows Hard Wax

The hard wax pellets melt to a smooth consistency that ensures controlled application. The ultra-gentle formula is suitable for even the most sensitive of skins, and is also fragrance free, rosin free and vegan friendly. It’s been designed for small, high precision areas, making it great for brow shaping. Advanced stylists can also use this to perform a speed waxing technique.

The shimmering opal white shade is perfect for helping to create viral-worthy social media content.

Shop HD Brows Hard Wax.

HD Brows Crème Wax

The original wax in the HD Brows range, Crème Wax has a soft, creamy texture that is gentle on the skin. The vegan friendly formula is enriched with natural pine resin for strong adhesion to the hairs. With a low melting temperate, it can be applied in thin layers that allow for precise hair removal.

Shop HD Brows Crème Wax.

HD Brows Gel Wax

This vegan friendly wax has a gel consistency that allows for smooth application. The gentle formula is infused with soybean oil, known for its moisture-retaining and anti-inflammatory benefits. The glistening cosmic black shade is perfect for creating eye-catching social media content (a great marketing tool), as well as acting as a great visual aid for design on all skin and hair tones.

Shop HD Brows Gel Wax.

Choosing the right wax for your beauty treatments requires careful consideration of various factors, from skin type and sensitivity to hair texture and treatment areas. By understanding the differences between wax types, assessing client needs, and experimenting with different formulas, you can elevate your waxing services and provide clients with exceptional results and a comfortable experience.

Want to stock up on professional eyebrow wax? Shop the full HD Brows wax range.