How to listen to Smooth Radio online

You can listen to Smooth Radio online via Global Player, the official Smooth Radio app.

You can also click on the purple ‘Listen’ button on the Smooth homepage, and at the top of every article on the Smooth website.

There’s also much more on Global Player – including podcasts and playlists from Smooth, as well as from our sister stations Smooth Country, Smooth Chill, Classic FM, Gold, LBC, Heart, Radio X, Capital and Capital Xtra.

You can also listen online via Radio Player here.

How to listen to Smooth Radio via Global Player mobile app

You can listen to Smooth Radio live, any time and anywhere in the world, via Global Player, the official Smooth Radio app.

Download the Global Player app, or the Smooth Radio app, from the App Store or Google Play, and enjoy Always the Best Music on the go.

You can also enjoy Global's fine selection of podcasts, as well as Smooth's curated playlists, including Smooth Soul and Sanctuary Selection, and programmes and music from our sister stations Smooth Country, Smooth Chill, LBC, Classic FM, Gold, Radio X, Heart, Capital and Capital Xtra.

Click here to download the Global Player app for iPhone and iPad >

Click here to download the Global Player app from Google Play (Android) >

Listen to Smooth Radio on smart speakers: Alexa

If you’ve got a smart speaker, say to it “Play Smooth” and enjoy our Relaxing Music Mix from your home.

If you have an Amazon Alexa, and you want to catch up on the last seven days of Smooth programmes for free, use the new Global Player Amazon skill. Just ask for a programme and a date, then sit back and relax.

Listen to Smooth Radio on smart speakers: Google Assistant

Just say 'Hey Google, Play Smooth'. You can also always ask for your nearest Smooth station (e.g. 'Hey Google, play Smooth North West.').

Listen to Smooth Radio on smart speakers: Home Pod & Siri

Just say “Hey Siri, Play Smooth Radio.”

You can also ask Siri on your iPhone or iPad to play Smooth via the Global Player app or Apple Music.

Listen to Smooth Radio on smart speakers: Sonos

You can also listen on your Sonos smart speaker by adding ‘Global Player’ as a music source in your Sonos app or, to listen live, search for Smooth Radio within the new Sonos Radio section in the Sonos app.

Listen to Smooth Radio through your TV

You can listen to Smooth via the TV on the following channels:

• Freeview: Smooth Radio is now available as a free-to-air channel with Freeview. You will find us on Channel 718.

• Sky: Smooth Radio is available as a free-to-air channel with any package on Sky digital satellite television Channel number 0128.

• Virgin Media: Smooth Radio is also now available as a free-to-air channel on cable digital Virgin Media on Channel 916.

• Freesat: Smooth Radio is available as a free-to-air channel with Freesat. You will find us on Channel 732.