Start Date: 3/12/2013 Start Time: 8:00 AMEnd Date: 3/12/2013 End Time: 8:00 AM

Rep. Ziemke welcomes local schools to the Statehouse

STATEHOUSE – State Representatives Cindy Ziemke (R-Batesville) and Tom Saunders (R-Lewisville) were pleased to host students from Oldenburg Academy of the Immaculate Conception and St. Mary’s Catholic School Monday during a visit to the Statehouse.

“It’s important for students to get a firsthand look at Indiana’s legislative system to understand how laws are made,” said Rep. Ziemke. “I always enjoy meeting with different groups from our community here in Indianapolis, and I was honored to have the opportunity to visit with them and answer questions about my work at the Statehouse.”

More than 50 students visited both the House and Senate Chambers, met their local elected officials, toured the Statehouse and got to see session in action.

“I always enjoy speaking with young Hoosiers about the legislative process,” said Rep. Saunders. “Understanding the democratic process is priceless knowledge, and getting the opportunity to help instill that is very important to me.”

Oldenburg Academy was founded by the Sisters of St. Francis in 1851. With average class sizes of 18 high school students and a 100 percent graduation rate in 2011, the Academy was awarded a 4 Star School Status, the highest rating by the Indiana Department of Education from 2009-2011. For more information about Oldenburg Academy, visit http://www.oldenburgacademy.org.

St. Mary’s in Rushville, Ind. was founded in 1868 by Ms. Kate Collins and Father McMullen. It serves 120 students in preschool through 6th grade. St. Mary’s is accredited by the Indiana Department of Education and is classified by the State of Indiana as an exemplary school. For more information about St. Mary’s, visit http://stmaryrush.org/school/about-us/history.html.

-30-

State Rep. Cindy Ziemke serves as Vice Chairman of the Family, Children and Human Affairs Committee. She also serves on the Commerce, Small Business and Economic Development Committee and the Select Committee on Government Reduction. Rep. Ziemke represents portions of Rush, Fayette, Franklin, Ripley and Decatur counties.

Rep. Saunders (R-Lewisville) represents portions of Henry, Rush and Wayne counties. He serves as Vice Chair of Statutory Committee on Interstate and International Cooperation and is a member of Local Government, Natural Resources and Roads and Transportation Committees.

Ziemke -School visit - Copy.docx