Liverpool’s National Oceanography Centre is getting ready to talk about its world leading scientific research and technology in relation to marine renewable energy at the International Festival of Business next week.

Scientists and engineers from the National Oceanography Centre (NOC), which has offices in Liverpool and Southampton, will be presenting to the thousands of business visitors from across the globe. NOC will also be showcasing its successful and now updated ‘anyTide’ UK Tide, mobile tidal prediction app which is now available on Android as well as iOS.

The event will also see the newly formed Centre for Offshore Renewable Energy Research (CORER) officially launched. CORER is a collaboration between the National Oceanography Centre, the University of Liverpool, The University of Southampton, the Natural Environment Council and the Ocean University of China. The group aims to encourage collaboration to produce novel and fundamental scientific research within the offshore renewable energy field and to disseminate research to industry in order to reduce inherent risks and uncertainties in the offshore renewable energy sector.

The IFB

As part of IFB’s seminar programme, on Wednesday afternoon NOC will talk to businesses about working with its scientists and researchers, and about how businesses can access new ideas and emerging technologies, a wealth of expert knowledge, and specialised equipment and facilities. NOC will also how, in many cases, public funds can be leveraged to support collaborative projects.

Dr Judith Wolf, Head of Site NOC Liverpool, commented:

“Having this festival on our doorstep is hugely exciting for us, and we’re looking forward to the opportunity of talking to those involved about how our science, technology and data can assist in the generation of marine renewable energy. We also welcome interest from port authorities, shipping lines and other maritime industries as to how the NOC can provide expertise and information on all aspects of global and coastal oceanography .”

anyTide

The NOC in Liverpool (with about 100 staff) specialises in global sea level research, coastal and shelf seas oceanography, sediment transport and marine modelling, as well as hosting the British Oceanographic Data Centre and works closely with researchers at the University of Liverpool.

The anyTide app provides tidal predictions at known ports around the coast of the British Isles and the NW European shelf, but also has the unique feature of providing tide predictions at any point along the UK coast to the nearest 1.8km. It does this by using a sophisticated 3D computer model, developed at NOC Liverpool, to fill in the gaps between conventional tide gauge observation points in ports and harbours, giving users access to tidal data exactly where they want it.

The recent update opened the app to Android users and improved the interface making it even easier to be used by mariners, scientists, walkers and those living by the coast. Users can download for free and get tide predictions for the next 24 hours anywhere in the British Isles – plus one unlimited location (Liverpool) to allow evaluation of the app’s full features.