The Ohio Northern University Student to Faculty Ratio & Faculty Composition

Does Ohio Northern University have a good student to faculty ratio?

Use the student to faculty ratio, as well as the faculty composition to get an idea of how much attention you'll receive as an individual student at Ohio Northern University .

Good Student to Faculty Ratio

Ohio Northern University , with 11 students for every instructional faculty member, has more professors per student than the national average, which is 15 students for every one instructor. This student to faculty ratio is one of the standard metrics used to gauge the number of teaching resources a school provides for its students, and therefore, the individualized attention or quality of instruction the student might receive.

Instructional Staff at the College

The following table shows all the employees the school considers instructional, and therefore, part of the above student-to-faculty ratio. These include both those employees designated as either "primarily instructional" or as "instructional combined with research/public service". It does not include employees that have been identified by Ohio Northern University as primarily performing research or public service.

TotalFull TimePart TimePercent Full TimeTotal of Instructional Employees2652155081.1%Total of Those With Faculty Status2652155081.1%Tenured Faculty131131-100.0%On Tenure Track5858-100.0%Not on Tenure Track76265034.2%Without Faculty Status----Graduate Assistants----

This School is Seriously Committed to Hiring Full-Time Teachers

Ohio Northern University's utilization of full-time teaching staff ranks among the highest in the nation, with 81.0% of instructors employed full time.

Low Percentage of Part-Time Teachers (Adjuncts)

At Ohio Northern University , only 19.0% of the teaching staff are part-time non-faculty or non-tenure track faculty. This use of adjuncts is far below the national average of 51.4%, which could be indicative of Ohio Northern University's commitment to building a strong, long-term instructional team.

Colleges often use part-time professors and adjuncts to teach courses, rather than full-time faculty. This hiring practice is primarily a way to save money amid increasingly tight budgets. However, it is a controversial practice with strong views on either side. We encourage you to understand this topic more deeply, and how the colleges you are interested in approach faculty hiring. It's your education and your money on the line. Make sure you know what you are getting for it.

Additional Information

What is an Adjunct?

On this page, we refer to an adjunct teacher or a part-time teacher interchangeably, although each school may have a slightly different definition. In short, an adjunct professor can either work full-time or part-time during a school semester, but they have no contract or a contract that lasts only a short amount of time. To come up with the numbers for this page, we use the total number of part-time non-faculty and non-tenure track faculty to represent the count of adjuncts for the college or university.

Reliance on Graduate Assistants Unknown

We were not able to determine Ohio Northern University's reliance on graduate students.