Ohio Northern University overview

Industry

Education

Revenue

Headquarters

Employees

500

Founded In

Organization Type

Education

Numerous liberal arts and professional degree programs, high-quality teaching, opportunities for research, hundreds of student clubs, a lively performing arts community and a high graduate success rate are just a few reasons to attend Ohio Northern University (ONU). Located in Ada, Ohio, ONU grants bachelor's and graduate degrees in the liberal and performing arts, science concentrations, and professional fields such as Business, Engineering, Law and Pharmacy. A small school, ONU provides maximum opportunity for teacher-student interaction. This is particularly appealing because Ohio Northern has been recognized for its quality faculty. Research is also a part of the academic experience at ONU, with students and faculty undertaking research throughout the sciences and arts. Student life at Ohio Northern is abundant. In addition to boasting more than 200 student organizations and clubs, Ohio Northern is home to an art gallery and a performing arts center, as well as student and professional dance, music and theatre performances. Though employment is not guaranteed, graduates of the school often thrive in their careers and graduate school pursuits, with statistics revealing a high level of employment and high graduate school attendance rate among ONU alumni. Undergraduate students seeking admission to Ohio Northern will need to submit transcripts, a personal statement, SAT or ACT scores and a recommendation letter. Financial aid is abundant, with state, private, institutional and federal sources of aid all available to eligible students.

The staff at Ohio Northern University come from unusually diverse demographic backgrounds. The organization is 46.7% female and 27.9% ethnic minorities. Despite its diversity in other areas, Ohio Northern University employees are noticeably lacking in political diversity. It has an unusually high proportion of employees who are members of the Democratic Party, at 66.0%. Employees seem to enjoy working in an otherwise diverse workplace that is dominated by members of the Democratic Party. Ohio Northern University has great employee retention with staff members usually staying with the organization for 4.3 years.The average employee at Ohio Northern University makes $40,065 per year. In comparison, some of its highest paying competitors, like Franklin College, Ohio Wesleyan University, and Mercy College, pay $52,254, $49,762, and $49,343, respectively.

Ohio Northern University is a medium education organization with 500 employees and an annual revenue of $87.0M that is headquartered in Ohio.

Ohio Northern University's Mission Statement

To "providing a community of learning, rich with opportunities for intellectual and personal development." the University has been affiliated with the united methodist church since 1899, instilling core values into its teaching while offering and assuring religious freedom on campus.