Founded in 1871, the Ohio Northern University is a non-profit private multidisciplinary higher education institution located in the suburban setting of the medium town of Ada (population range of 2,500-9,999 inhabitants), Ohio. Officially accredited by the Higher Learning Commission, Ohio Northern University (ONU) is a small-sized (uniRank enrollment range: 3,000-3,999 students) coeducational US higher education institution formally affiliated with the Christian-Methodist religion. Ohio Northern University (ONU) offers courses and programs leading to officially recognized higher education degrees such as pre-bachelor's degrees (i.e. certificates, diplomas, associate or foundation), bachelor's degrees, master's degrees and doctorate degrees in several areas of study. See the uniRank degree levels and areas of study table below for further details. This 153-year-old US higher-education institution has a selective admission policy based on entrance examinations and students' past academic records and grades. The acceptance rate range is 60-69% making this US higher education organization a moderately selective institution. International students are welcome to apply for enrollment. ONU also provides several academic and non-academic facilities and services to students including a library, housing, sports facilities, financial aids and/or scholarships, study abroad and exchange programs, online courses and distance learning opportunities, as well as administrative services.

Gender Admission

This institution admits Men and Women (coed).

Admission Selection

Has Ohio Northern University a selective admission policy? Yes, based on entrance examinations and students' past academic records and grades.

Admission Rate

Ohio Northern University's acceptance rate range is 60-69% making this institution a moderately selective higher education institution.

Student Enrollment

Ohio Northern University has an enrollment range of 3,000-3,999 students making it a small-sized institution.

Academic Staff

This institution has a range of 200-299 academic employees (Faculty).

Control Type

Ohio Northern University is a private higher education institution.

Entity Type

Ohio Northern University is a non-profit higher education institution.

Financial Aid

This institution offers one or more of the following financial aid for eligible students: scholarships, grants, loans, tuition waivers, emergency financial aid etc.

Study Abroad

This institution offers study abroad and exchange program opportunities for its students.

Distance Learning

This institution provides a distance learning mode for certain programs or courses.

In particular, this institution offers some courses via distance education at the undergraduate level and at the graduate level. Source: IPDES.