Ohio Northern University Ohio Northern University has once again received high marks for its commitment to offering students an outstanding educational experience.

This fall, several ranking services have recognized Ohio Northern as a top choice among colleges and universities in the Midwest and beyond.

The rankings evaluate a number of criteria and offer various perspectives. While the specific evaluations vary, the common theme is the value of the Ohio Northern experience and how earning a degree from the university opens up doors of opportunity for its graduates.

In the 2021 U.S. News & World Report Best College rankings, Ohio Northern was rated no. 3 in best regional colleges in the Midwest, moving up two spots from its no. 5 ranking in the same category last year.

This is the fifth straight year the university has been ranked in the top six institutions in this category. These colleges and universities focus on the undergraduate experience and offer a broad range of programs in the liberal arts and professional fields.

U.S. News & World Report also ranked Ohio Northern as no. 4 in the Midwest for best value. Additionally, ONU is included in the “A+ Schools for B Students” category, which focuses on universities where even students with average academic records thrive and excel.

In addition, U.S. News & World Report called out Ohio Northern’s T.J. Smull College of Engineering as no. 29 nationally among engineering programs that offer a bachelor’s or master’s degree as the highest degree.

The College of Engineering, which opened its brand-new James Lehr Kennedy Engineering Building nearly a year ago, saw a noticeable uptick in enrollment this year with a total of 570 students this fall – 77 more students than in fall 2019.

Beyond external rankings, the value of an Ohio Northern education is evidenced by the success of its recent graduates. In all, 96 percent of ONU’s 2019 graduates were employed or attending graduate school within six months of graduation, which is a testament to the relevancy of the university’s educational experience.

The university earned positive reviews from several other college ratings services.

The Princeton Review included Ohio Northern in its 2021 edition of “The Best 386 Colleges” annual college guide. This service ranks colleges and universities largely on the responses of students regarding their college experience.

As the publication notes, “students call ONU ‘a top-notch education with a family-like atmosphere that is very conducive for learning and excelling in many disciplines.’”

Also, ONU students describe faculty members as “outstanding and … influential in the field,” as well as “friendly and down to earth” and that “professors care about the student’s well-being and future endeavors.”

Washington Monthly ranked Ohio Northern no. 4 in the Bachelor’s Colleges category of its 2020 college rankings, and also named ONU no. 7 in the Best Bang for the Buck Rankings: Midwest category. This rankings service addresses the ability of non-wealthy students to attain marketable degrees at affordable prices.

In regard to the success and earning potential of ONU alumni, Payscale.com ranked Ohio Northern sixth in its “Best Colleges in Ohio by Salary Potential” list. According to Payscale’s stats, the average salary of an ONU alumnus is $69,667. The median salary for early-career alumni (0-5 years of experience) is $54,400, and for mid-career alumni (10-plus years of experience), the median salary is $103,900.