Irene R. Dickinson, 90, of Bellefontaine, passed away on Sunday, July 2, 2023, surrounded by her family. She was born in Champaign County, Ohio on August 8, 1932, to the late Leonard and Anna (West) Birt.

On April 2, 1950, she married Ralph Dickinson, and he preceded her in death on April 27, 2011. She is also preceded in death by her son: Ed (Cinda) Dickinson; brothers: Kenneth (June), Melvin (Joyce), Joe (Judy) and Richard (Katherine) Birt; her sister: Eileen (Howard) Mosbarger, and 3 grandsons.

She is survived by her sons: Robert (Kathy) Dickinson, Tom (Becky) Dickinson; daughters: Pat Montrose, Sandy (Ed) Huffman, Sherry (Ted) Kerr, Anna (John) Bell; sister, Nellie (Chuck) Crumley and numerous grandchildren, great grandchildren, great-great grandchildren and several nieces, nephews and special friends.

Over the years, Irene touched so many lives and brought joy to so many people. She worked 17 years for G.C. Murphy before they closed then spent many years driving bus for Logan County Board of Developmental Disabilities. From hanging out with her sisters at the Urbana Senior Center to the churches she attended, she was always such a blessing to be around. Some of her hobbies included cooking and baking as her grandkids always knew they could find cookies at grandma’s house. She enjoyed crocheting and was an amazing seamstress, as she made her daughter’s wedding dresses. She enjoyed traveling with her family and loved any minute spent with them. She took pride in her garden and loved taking care of her flowers. She will be deeply missed.

Pastor Ben Baum will officiate a memorial service at 12:00 p.m. on Thursday, July 13, 2023, at the Eichholtz Daring & Sanford Funeral Home & Cremation Center, 321 N. Main Street, Bellefontaine. Visitation will be one hour prior from 11:00 – 12:00 at the funeral home. Inurnment will follow at Highland Memorial Cemetery.

Memorial contributions may be made to Logan County Board of Developmental Disabilities, 1851 State Route 47 W., Bellefontaine, Ohio 43311.

EICHHOLTZ DARING & SANFORD FUNERAL HOME & CREMATION CENTER, BELLEFONTAINE is honored to serve the Dickinson family.

HJR