Martine McCutcheon lies on the sofa curled tight like an S-shaped cat. Her heels bend into her thighs, her head is tucked into her furred shoulders and her arms are wrapped around her tummy. There is something vulnerable about her, and also something rather showy.

It's not surprising that she looks vulnerable. Her past couple of years have been rather traumatic. When she first appeared as Eliza Doolittle in the National Theatre's 2001 production of My Fair Lady, the world cheered loud. Here was our Tiff, fresh out of EastEnders, still in her early 20s but already with years of abusive relationships behind her, making something of herself: the East End girl, just like Eliza, was going to be taught to talk proper and become a great social presence.

While so many Eliza Doolittles were posh ladies who had to be taught to talk common, Martine was the genuine article. She was Eliza. We knew it - because we knew Tiff on EastEnders was just like that, and we knew Martine was just like Tiff. Both Martine and Tiff were tough and tender with hearts of gold. As so often, the line between soap fiction and real life blurred.

A few worries were expressed when McCutcheon got the job. Did she have the voice to do Eliza justice? And even if she did, would she have the stamina? Musicals are regarded as the most strenuous form of theatre, and Eliza is one of the most exhausting roles. Then it happened: she got sick.

She just about managed to make the premiere by taking a risky mix of antibiotics and steroids, before conking out. Pundits delighted in pointing out that her understudy made two more appearances than she did during her run at the National. She became a source of ridicule, Miss Do Little. The Queen Vic's favourite barmaid was brought down to earth with a bump.

Now she's back with her first film, Love Actually, in which she plays another variant of Eliza (a tea lady at Number 10 opposite Hugh Grant's prime minister). Directed by Richard Curtis, it is basically a remake of Notting Hill, which was basically a remake of Four Weddings And A Funeral.

The major difference is that this time posh Hugh falls in love with a pleb. The film is likely to make an international star of McCutcheon. Her character exudes a chirpy sweetness - huge brown eyes, shiny face and a comically foul mouth (Curtis's traditional bugger, shit, fuck routine).

It is a measure of Curtis's confidence in McCutcheon that he has chosen her as Grant's love interest instead of the normal Hollywood name (Julia Roberts in Notting Hill, Andie MacDowell in Four Weddings).

And it is a measure of McCutcheon's confidence in herself that she has hired Catherine Zeta-Jones's agent to look after her stateside. Predictably, she has already provided a sexy soundbite to market the film - she has been telling anyone who will listen that she mastered the technique of method kissing Hugh Grant, insisting that they did it again and again till they got it perfect.

Already out this autumn is a photo-led diary of a year in her life - in effect her second autobiography, following Martine: Who Does She Think She Is? She's looking good, says she feels good, yet the scars are almost visible. Indeed, the diary is her riposte to the media version of recent events. This is how she really felt at the time, she says, rather than what we were told she felt.

McCutcheon points out that the photographs are grainy and gritty, to complement her raw narrative. But this is very much glossy grit; right down to her photographer's "captured moment" in the book, the bottom shot, she has retained control of her image. And when asked about the pictures, she comes up with the perfect soundbite, telling the world that good sex and lots of it has kept her so trim.

You know, she says, there was nothing she wanted to do more than make a success of Eliza; it meant everything to her. And in a way, of course, she achieved that - the reviews were formidable ("a thoroughly lovable stage presence", "bubbly, bright and endearing", "bloomin' luvverly", etc) and she won an Olivier award (even if the audience did groan when it was announced). But there were also suggestions that she couldn't be bothered turning up night after night, so she didn't.

She laughs, but there's no humour there. "Yeah, they kind of suggested that I was lazy and didn't want to do the job. You know, I'd never in my life cancelled anything. For me, the show must go on - it doesn't matter how ill you are, you get on and do it. Cancel just wasn't a word in my vocabulary. And anybody that had cancelled, it was like, phruuuugh " - she blows a dismissive raspberry - "they can't cut it, you know. So maybe that came back to haunt me because I was in a position where I just didn't have a choice."

She says the notion of performing to rave reviews then bunking off is as ludicrous as it is insulting. "Any actress will tell you, when you've been given a starring role in the initial run of a show, you want to be getting the standing ovations every night, not just on review night." Applause is a drug and she wanted her daily fix.

I ask what was actually wrong with her? Well, she says ... and she's not quite sure where to start. There was the streptococcal infection, then there was the steroids reacting badly with the antibiotics, then there was the thrombosis (she found a big lump behind her knee, and a brain scan revealed a lump on her skull), and eventually the depression.

She talks about the days she spent in her dressing gown, crying her eyes out, watching daytime telly hour after hour, knowing she was letting her audience down yet again. At one charity performance, she was represented by a cardboard cutout and co-star Jonathan Pryce strolled on to the stage with a fake fair lady in his arms, crooning Always On My Mind.

The show's producer, Cameron Mackintosh, recently said that McCutcheon "was not up to performing regularly" and that he wouldn't have cast her if he'd known she was going to be so unreliable.

"Yeah," she says with another snort of laughter, "and he also said I was the best Eliza Doolittle he'd ever known, so ..." But there is no so. "At the end of the day, I finished the run four months early. That wasn't great for me, that doesn't give me a great track record - why would I choose to do that? - and it's not great for him, either. To try to blame anyone would be foolish, because out of choice, for business reasons, for personal reasons, for health reasons, no one would have wanted that to have happened."

What Mackintosh doesn't mention, she says, is the number of days she would go in, desperate to sing, only to be sent home because she was unfit and her voice wasn't working. "They'd say, 'Can you do your warm-up?' and I'd do my warm-up, and the notes just wouldn't come out and it was the most humiliating thing in the world because you're used to sounding beautiful, and you just didn't sound beautiful any more - that is if anything happened at all. They would tell me to leave because I didn't have the voice. Most days towards the end, I would go in and I'd think - I know they're going to send me home."

But that's not how Mackintosh remembers it. "We never sent her home," he says. "If she could sing it, we would have had her on stage. She was ill at the start, but it became something else." What does he mean? "She would often get very upset during the show, saying it was awful, it was no good. You would have to go back and say, 'It was terrific. Listen to the audience.' An artist can't be expected to achieve 10 out of 10 every night. As long as they're giving the audience a great show ... In the end, an artist, especially a star artist, is performing for the audience that has paid to see you, not for yourself."

He says that working with McCutcheon was a "bitter-sweet experience". He stresses that she was quite brilliant at the beginning. "Nobody could have worked harder in rehearsal, and I think she's a great natural stage comedian and performer with a unique talent. The irony is that she is engaging and funny and fresh on stage, but she can't enjoy it."

He says that, ultimately, she didn't understand the pact she made with her colleagues and the audience. "In the end, it's a discipline. I think it's partly psychological, her make-up. She climbs Everest and then she wants to climb the Matterhorn. She hasn't been brought up to do the same things on a regular basis."

Look, she says, anyone worth their salt wants to do their best. She names her heroes - Sinatra, Streisand, Aretha - all of them perfectionists. "Everybody pays the same amount of money for their tickets, so why should you make magic one night and be phenomenal one night and not the next? It's part of my job for them to come out and say [and she whispers it ecstatically], 'Ah, I loved that', rather than, 'Oh, she was all right.' Do you know what I mean? I should give my best every night. And I don't know one actor or actress that I think is phenomenal that doesn't do that every night, because the minute you think you're perfect, you've got nothing to strive for and you're boring."

But, of course, Mackintosh is not arguing against her striving for perfection, simply that she must sometimes accept imperfection or drive herself mad and let down a lot of people in the process.

McCutcheon has been striving ever since she was tiny. She made her first TV appearance when she was six weeks old, on a party political broadcast, and by the time she was four she was belting out Streisand songs for her mother, Jenny, and her friends. "It felt good that people liked what I was doing, and people would laugh or give me a round of applause, and it gave me a really nice feeling and I think I just became hooked on that feeling."

She grew up with her mum in a loving environment frequently ruptured by the unwelcome re-appearance of Thomas Hemmings, her drug-addled father. Her mother would take him back in again, he'd hit her again, she'd throw him out again and so it went on for the first few years of her life. When Martine was nine, Jenny finally won sole custody and an injunction was made against Hemmings seeing McCutcheon until she was 18.

He sounds an awful man. "He was ..." She stops. "I mean, he was a very mixed-up man who caused a lot of damage within the family, in lots of ways, and the judge could obviously see that it was better off for everybody's safety that he wasn't around us." Was he violent? "Yes." To her or to her mother? "My mum ... mainly. But you can read all about that in my autobiography." Typical McCutcheon - never miss a marketing opportunity. "He wasn't allowed within a certain radius of us, and we'd move from different places, and we had panic buttons. But you know it made my mum and myself, our relationship, we were just amazingly close. I think I've got two parents in one anyway, really."

I later discover that when McCutcheon was three, Hemmings dangled her by the ankles from a high balcony and threatened to drop her if Jenny refused to have sex with him.

But, McCutcheon says, there is so much from her childhood on which she looks back fondly. She talks about the nights that her mum would have her mates round for the evening, and they'd all sit there gossiping, and they'd accept her as one of them. "I used to love it, I'd just feel like a little woman. They'd be sitting there, putting the world to rights, saying how rubbish men were sometimes, and I'd be going, 'Oh yeah yeah,' thinking I could hold my own with the adults."

They all thought blokes were rubbish? "Noooah, they used to have their typical women's chats - one would be all loved up and then it wouldn't last, and my mum had her own predicament, and it was just women talking about everything, from men, hair, make-up, work, career, everything." I ask if her mum brought boyfriends home. "She did date, but not often in front of me. She used to work so hard, there wasn't really much time. She had three jobs: a cleaning job in the morning, an employment agency during the day and then she was a barmaid in the evening." Now her mum has only one job: looking after McCutcheon's travel and security arrangements.

We are sitting in a Kensington hotel, not far from where she lives in Chelsea. She looks great - at least, what I can see of her in the dark winter room. At times, it feels as if I'm looking at her through the tinted windows of a stretch limo. A waiter brings in a cup of coffee for me. She glances at it. "Ooh! That looks lovely, Si!" she says in the most seductive cockney purr. It takes me aback - not simply the purr, but I didn't know she knew my name, let alone that we were on "Si" terms.

Well, would she like a coffee?

"Oh, no, thank you. Yep, I'm fine with my pineapple juice. Not a good mix," she says brusquely.

Oh go on - I'm hoping to hear the purr again - it's a lovely mix.

"No way! Ooh! Horrible! Imagine! I'd be sick!"

So we return to the tenth year of her life, when two other important things happened. First, her mother met and married window cleaner John McCutcheon, the father of Martine's 12-year-old brother. Second, she met a woman at a local dance school who had been to the Italia Conti stage school and suggested it would be a good environment for her. She trained with her after school and every Saturday to catch up with the more privileged kids competing with her for a place.

Even at that age, she says, she knew exactly what she wanted to do (get out of Hackney) and how to do it (hard work and talent). "I desperately didn't want to go to a local comprehensive, because it was really rough round where I lived. It was a very tough place to be brought up by Mum on her own." At times, she reels off her life like a shopping list. "And I managed to get a scholarship to Italia Conti, trained really hard every Saturday, learned tap, ballet, jazz, some Shakespeare, and, looking back now, I think I did really well at nine to do all that."

After winning the scholarship, there was still £1,000 a term to find - way beyond her mother's means. So Jenny wrote off more than 200 begging letters asking for financial support, and eventually a Church of England charity called the Reeves Foundation agreed to fund Martine. She did well at Italia Conti. At 12 she was paid £350 to appear in an American commercial for the drink Kool-Aid, which was followed by modelling assignments and bit parts in TV shows such as The Bill.

As a girl, McCutcheon spent Sundays watching movies on TV. Monroe, Hepburn, Streisand - they were proper stars and she was determined to be one, too. By the time she was 15, she had formed an all-girl band, Milan, with two fellow students and they had landed a record contract. Milan were successful (making the dance charts three times), but not successful enough for McCutcheon, who didn't like playing seedy clubs. This was not her idea of stardom.

She didn't want to settle for second best, so she went to sell underwear for the Knickerbox chain. Was she any good? Actually, she says, she was an exceptional knickers seller - again, hard work, strategy and ingenuity. "I should have worked on commission, because I sold more bras and knickers than anybody else in there."

Really? "Yeah. I think it was just because I was very good at pointing at myself and the other sales assistants - we had different sized cleavages - and I'd say, 'Would you say she was my size or would you say she was her size?' and they'd get so embarrassed, before you knew it, they'd bought four sets in every colour. The other girls would wait and say, 'If you need any help, let me know', and I'd just get chatting to them. They were obviously in there for a reason, and they obviously felt awkward."

I have met McCutcheon at very short notice and so have not gone through all her considerable press cuttings. "That's good," she says. "You can have a refreshing take on it. You can be a journalist who's not going to be lazy and not going to judge me on all the other press clippings. You can judge me for yourself."

I knew there had been a lot written about her, but it's only when I get home that I begin to understand just what she means. For a few years, the tabloids seemed to compete for the daily Martine McCutcheon exclusive.

There is the time she had to stump up £75,000 bail for her then boyfriend, Jonathan Barnham, when he and his father were charged with importing cannabis into the UK; the miscarriage; the time she went out to Ethiopia to do a charity project for WaterAid and allegedly spent her time in a five-star hotel well away from the suffering she was there to bear witness to; the time she puked into Mick Hucknall's ginger dreadlocks; the time Mal Young, BBC's controller of drama series, tried to ban her from the set of EastEnders; the re-emergence of her dad, who complained that his daughter had been hard on him - sure, he'd kicked and tried to strangle her mother, but he'd never actually hit Martine; her starring role as bridesmaid to Liza Minnelli; the time the police were called out to break up an argument with her current boyfriend; the weight gained; the weight lost; the boyfriends who did the dirty on her and slept with her friends. It's almost impossible to tell what is apocryphal, what is exaggerated and what is true.

Sharon Brand, media relations manager at WaterAid, says that the stories about McCutcheon locking herself in her hotel room are simply not true. "She was brilliant with the kids, so professional, and that wonderful smile. I think she was very shocked by the poverty she saw in Addis Ababa. It is true that she left after four days, three days early, which was inconvenient, but that was an agent thing. And she did upgrade herself to a five-star hotel, but she paid for that and that's her prerogative. Apart from that, she was absolutely fine to work with. We just wish she'd stayed a bit longer."

Mal Young laughs at the notion that he banned her from the set. "Classic! I'm hardly ever on set, so why would I ban her? But I do remember when we fell out. I was sitting on the beach in Key West and my mobile went. It was the Sunday Mirror, saying, 'We're running a piece about you insisting Tiff is killed off', and it was obvious that she'd gone straight to the newspapers with the private conversation we'd had."

McCutcheon claimed she was being treated unfairly - her role being brought to an end so irrevocably - but Young says this is what they would do with any big star who wanted to leave: get a great story out of it.

"I remember the conversation we had. She told me she was going off to be a singer and a movie star and whatnot, but she wanted a safety net to return to, and I said, well, you don't sound very confident if you want this safety net. I won't do that - we're not her charity. In her autobiography, she spent a chapter slagging me off about it, and she was also a bit snotty about me not coming down on her last day, even though I did. But she's an actor, isn't she? Actually, I never really felt I knew Martine properly. I felt I knew Martine McCutcheon Ltd."

Look, Young adds, she was fabulous on EastEnders, and she behaved nearly all the time, but towards the end she'd tell tales out of school. "Today, so many young actors don't just have agents, they have PR agents. Older actors tend to sigh and say why not just be an actor and concentrate on the craft. But that's the world today, isn't it? It's about being famous, rather than learning your craft. It's the Pop Idol thing. It worries the hell out of me."

Does he think she is very talented? "I don't know." And he comes to a surprising stop. "I'm not usually stuck for words. You know, she was absolutely iconic in EastEnders, like Dirty Den and Ange, but now she's got to stretch herself. I'm not quite sure what she's known for now."

McCutcheon says that, initially, she wasn't interested in auditioning for EastEnders. She didn't regard it as a logical step up the career ladder. "An agent called me and said there was a part on EastEnders and I said, very offhandedly, 'I don't really want to do soap, because I want to do movies, and nobody I know goes from soap to movies, and it's just not the sort of actress I want to be.' "

Blimey, you were a bit spoilt, I say. "Well, no, I had this dream and I thought, you know, I can make money doing any job, but if I want to act and that's the scary, unpredictable profession I've gone for, why all of a sudden would I take something for the money? Well, this agent said to me, just let me send you a synopsis of the character and see what you think, and I thought she was fantastic. And I watched EastEnders that night and I realised just how many people talked about it. So I told my agent, 'All right, I'm going to go for it, I'm not in a position to be fussy, I'm earning £1.50 an hour hanging up knickers, and I should go for the experience, if nothing else.'"

It's funny, the way she talks about being in EastEnders as distinct from acting. Well, she says, it's just not the way she had envisaged it. "They were celebrities rather than stars in the sense of the word that I aspired to be, or the people I really loved and admired were." She says it took her time working with the cast to realise that they were actually actors, or stars, in their own right. At first, as with My Fair Lady, she just loved it - Tiffany, she says, was the kind of allowable fantasy, fancied by men, admired by women, that enabled all viewers to love her. And she loved their love - the way they engaged with her, empathised with her, wrote her letters.

Tiff was partly based on her mother, and she would ask Jenny for advice on how to play her. "She'd say, right, you have to wear the dangly earrings with the short skirts and the low, V-neck tops, because that's what the barmaids wore. She was very open about it all. She'd say you need to lean over and say in a breathy but firm voice, 'Hello! What d'you fancy?' And, hopefully, they'll say, 'You', and you'll get free drinks all night." The way she purrs when she quotes her mum reminds me of the way she told me my coffee looked absolutely lovely.

After she left EastEnders, she sang on Children In Need to huge acclaim and followed up with the number one single, Perfect Moment.

It's five years since McCutcheon left EastEnders. Since then, there has been the huge pop career, which stalled when her contract with EMI Liberty was cancelled; the career leap into a musical, which ended prematurely; and now, aged 27, a big film.

I ask if she feels she's changed over the past few years. "Oh yeah, yeah, definitely. I've become a lot more realistic. I just used to live in this fairy-tale world, and it's really grounded me."

What happened in the fairy-tale world? "Everything was always all right. I demanded a lot of myself and I came up trumps, and through My Fair Lady and the album deal and relationships working/not working, I just grew up. I realised I'm not infallible."

She starts to talk faster and faster. "And I can't do everything and anything perfectly all of the time, and I have my own shortcomings, just like everyone else, and I can't control everything and make everything perfect for everyone all the time." Though she may never admit as much, she does seem to have taken on board Cameron Mackintosh's criticism.

Does she think her illness became more psychological than physical? "In the end, I think it was psychological as well, because my nerve, my confidence, had gone because I couldn't rely on my instrument to work. I didn't want to become unreliable and that's why, when I spoke to the doctors, they said, 'Listen, if you carry on with the show, you will do your voice long-term damage - as it is, it's a mess.' "

How depressed did she get? There were stories recently, supposedly based on her diaries, that she had considered killing herself. "No," she says sharply, that was wilful misinterpretation. "I would never, God, I would never ... especially what I do ... " She becomes incoherent with distress. "And millions of people take notice of what you say - one, I never considered that, and two, I wouldn't say something like that."

So that can be our exclusive: "Martine Never Wanted To Kill Herself." She starts laughing. And she laughs and laughs and laughs. "Yeah. Ahehehehehe! Yeah, hehehehe! Yeah."

So, to set the record straight, how low did she get? "Low enough to think I didn't want to be in the industry any more. Then I looked at my own diary, my own account of things, and I actually found it really inspirational and was quite proud of myself."

Now, she says, she's finally recovered her equilibrium and is looking forward to the career in the movies she planned for herself 23-odd years ago. And, somehow, the make-believe world of movies seems more in keeping with McCutcheon's dreams than anything else she has dabbled in. Despite everything she has just said about being newly grounded, I can't help thinking back to something she said earlier, about why she always preferred the movies to the soaps. "A movie's a little more inspirational, and it's a bit more fairy-tale. And I want to escape and I want my life to be like that."