The WWII Briefings will have two sessions per year. These sessions will take place close to VE Day and VJ Day in May & August. Each session will feature a panel of speakers who explore the war that made the modern world.

Our next session will be August 17 with a focus on Operation Dragoon.

Buy your tickets here!

Richard Robinson:

Richard Robinson was born in Brooklyn, New York and immigrated to York County many years ago. Throughout his professional career he served with non-profit organizations and agencies engaged in biomedical research, care for dependent and delinquent children, and care for individuals with intellectual disabilities. His first exposure to General Jacob L. Devers came while helping to clean a storage closet at the Children’s Home of York, finding a portrait of General Devers and having no idea who Devers was. Upon learning General Devers donated his papers to the York History Center, Robinson began what he thought was a simple indulgence in curiosity. Instead, in studying the Devers papers and other sources he has come to believe General Devers was a pivotal figure in the development of American armored formations in the Second World War. Robinson holds a B.A. in History from Pace University and an M.A. in History from New York University which may explain an interest in history bordering on the compulsive

Dr. Conrad C. Crane:

Dr. Conrad C. Crane recently retired from the Strategic Studies Institute of the Army War College, where he served as their Senior Historian. Before that, he was Chief of Analysis and Research for the Army Heritage and Education Center, also at Carlisle Barracks. For the ten years before assuming those responsibilities, he was Director of the US Army Military History Institute. Before accepting that position, Dr. Crane served with the Strategic Studies Institute at the US Army War College from September 2000 to January 2003, where he held the General Douglas MacArthur Chair of Research. He also has held the General Hoyt S. Vandenberg Chair of Aerospace Studies at the War College. He joined SSI after his retirement from active military service, a 26-year military career that concluded with 9 years as Professor of History at the U.S. Military Academy. He holds a B.S. from USMA and an M.A. and Ph.D from Stanford University. He is also a graduate of the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College and the U.S. Army War College. He has authored or edited books and monographs on the Civil War, World War I, World War II, Korea and Vietnam, and has written and lectured widely on airpower and landpower issues. Before leaving SSI in 2003 he coauthored a prewar study on Reconstructing Iraq that influenced Army planners and has attracted much attention from the media. He was the lead author for the ground breaking Army-USMC counterinsurgency manual which was released in December, 2006. For that effort he was named one of NEWSWEEK’s people to watch in 2007. He visited Iraq in November 2007 at General Petraeus’ request to evaluate the new doctrine in action. In November 2008, he was named the international Archivist of the Year by the Scone Foundation. He published two books in 2016, one for Naval Institute Press about the creation and application of American counterinsurgency doctrine, entitled Cassandra in Oz: Counterinsurgency and Future War, and another for University Press of Kansas on American strategic bombing in World War II. In that same year he was awarded the Society for Military History’s Samuel Eliot Morison Prize for lifetime contributions to the field of military history. In 2020 he was a Visiting Professor for the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University.

Light refreshments will be provided.

For questions, please email csmith@yorkhistorycenter.org