Rosemary (Bouska) Wilhelm, age 85, Marshfield, peacefully entered into her eternal home with the Lord on Tuesday, October 17th with her family at her side. Rosemary was born February 11th, 1938, in Marshfield, WI to Adolfph Bouska and Mildred (Mancl) Bouska. She married Vincent Wilhelm on August 1, 1956 at St. John’s Catholic Church in Marshfield. Vincent and Rosemary resided in Marshfield where they raised their ten children.

Rosemary was a devoted member of the Church of Christ in Marshfield for many years. She was a faithful, dedicated, Christian and had great love for the Lord. She was employed at McDonald’s for almost 40 years and enjoyed collecting the Happy Meal toys for her grandchildren to play with when they visited. She loved all things sewing, with a special passion and talent for quilting.

On sunny days she could be found walking through Wildwood Zoo, watching the squirrels play. She also loved playing dice and board games, doing puzzles, shooting pool, and watching baseball games.

Rosemary is survived by her sister, Marlene Thenhauss of Aurora, CO; children, Karen (Gary) Wendell of Cheyenne, WY; Gerald Wilhelm of Marshfield, Kristine Willms of Cheyenne, WY, Laura Mills of Mauston, Shelly (Robert) Brookhart of Granton, Lisa (Charles) Sutton of Wasilla, AK, Judith (Joseph) Peterson of Sparta, Charles Wilhelm of Phillips, Bruce Wilhelm of Cadillac, MI; along with several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.

She was preceded in death by her parents; husband; son, Jack Wilhelm; and brothers, Raymond Bouska, Richard Bouska, and Larry Bouska.

Rosemary was deeply driven by her faith. Her favorite hymn was “I’ll Fly Away”, reminding us that while she will be deeply missed here, she has entered her eternal resting place.

Family and friends are welcome for a visitation at the Lanham-Schanhofer Funeral Home and Cremation, 106 W Franklin St, Sparta, WI 54656 on Sunday, October 22nd, 2023, from 2:00 PM to 6:00 PM. Per Rosemary’s wishes, there will be no formal service following the visitation. The burial will take place at the Kennan Cemetery, in Kennan, WI at 1:00 PM. on Monday, October 23rd, 2023. Roger Dunnam of the Eau Claire Church of Christ will officiate the committal service.

Memorials may be directed to The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s Research, PO Box 5014, Hagerstown, MD 21741. Online condolences may be offered at www.schanhoferfh.com.

Lanham-Schanhofer Funeral Home and Cremation, Sparta, is assisting the family with funeral arrangements.