1. 1 STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT PRESENTED BY: 501 RUCHI ADHIKARI 502 MANSI AGRAWAL 504 DIVY PRAKASH SHRIVASTAV 505 BHAVYA DOSI 506 HARSH GUPTA

2. 2

3. 3 About the Company…  Apple Inc., formerly Apple Computer, Inc., is an American multinational corporation, with its headquarters in California.  The word "Computer" was removed from its name on January 9, 2007, reflecting its shifted focus towards consumer electronics after the introduction of the iPhone.  Apple is the world's second-largest information technology company by revenue after Samsung Electronics.  The world's third-largest mobile phone maker after Samsung and Nokia.

4. 4 MISSION Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple has reinvented the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices with iPad.

5. 5 VISION Apple is committed to bringing the best personal computing experience to students, educators, creative professionals and consumers around the world through its innovative hardware, software and Internet offerings.

6. 6 ROLE OF VISION STATEMENT  Apple‘s Vision statement clearly states their long-term goals for the future  Apple‘s vision is to become the ―best‖ at designing and manufacturing electronic devices in the world.  They set their quality standards high using the word ―best‖ and so far they have yet to fail.  Their vision is a promise to the consumers. They are ―committed‖ in producing high quality products and providing high quality service thus setting high industry standards for other competitors.

7. 7 STEPS FOR MOTIVATION  Projects were often pushed along by the company's co-founder Steve Jobs.  The general idea is this: You are part of something much bigger than you.  Corporate event management at Apple was something that employees rated highly.  Launch events were "probably the single greatest feeling working at Apple".

8. 8  Apple motivation system determines all variables in affecting the motivational levels of employees, and one of them is Job Satisfaction.  Job satisfaction is a measure of an employee‘s positive emotions and pleasurable feelings about his or her job.  Creating a culture of trust.  Leveraging the power of peer recognition

9. 9  Focusing on the enablers and tools that help salespeople reach their potential in an increasingly complex business environment.  Once, Apple rewarded its executives by giving them a recognition bonus of 3 to 5 percent of their base salary.  Employees who work at corporate Apple can receive a free iPhone or iPod Shuffle.

10. 10

11. 11 VISION “We aspire to be the global steel industry benchmark for Value Creation and Corporate Citizenship”

12. 12 Continue- We make the difference through:  Our People  Our Offer  Our Innovative Approach  Our Conduct

13. 13 MISSION  Tata Steel strives to strengthen India‟s industrial base through the effective utilization of staff and materials. The means envisaged to achieve this are high technology and productivity, consistent with modern management practices  Tata Steel recognizes that while honesty and integrity are the essential ingredients of a strong and stable enterprise, profitability provides the main spark for economic activity.  Overall, the Company seeks to scale the heights of excellence in all that it does in an atmosphere free from fear, and thereby reaffirms its faith in democratic values.

14. 14 STRATEGY AT TATA Strategy at TATA is formed by following three policy:-  Human policy  Quality policy  Social accountability policy

15. 15 Striving for excellence change Code of conduct customer cost

16. 16 TATA‘s Steel Aspire  Tata steels brand for its improvement by involvement of its employee on 1st nov,2006  Main objective emphasis on the role of improvement  Main focus on: 1. TOC 2. TQM 3. Technology

17. 17 Motivation at TATA  Tata Steel ranks sixth on the list of top ten employers in India  Tata Steel embarked on an AIDS awareness programme in late 1998.  To enhance employee motivation and satisfaction, a number of facilities are provided by the company like, subsidised accommodation, subsidised electricity, free water, free medical treatment, free schools for wards, recreational clubs, fair price shops  Tata Steel is a company that has a deeply rooted and ingrained value system and has a strong philosophy of total returns to the community (TRC)

18. 18 Continue  Tejaswini project of TATA to motivate female employee  Motivation plan like Rallis Akash centre  Tata Steel organised one-day workshops called 'Lakshya 2007— Ek Chunauti' where employees were encouraged to write down their main responsibilities.  Vision 2007 campaign

19. 19

20. 20 ABOUT MCDONALDS  McDonald‘s is the global fast food giant.  Founded in 15 may 1940 in CALIFORNIA  It serves around 68 million customers daily through 30,000 restaurants in 120 countries  A McDonald‘s restaurant is operated by either a franchisee, an affiliate , or the corporation itself.  They follow a standardized process to ensure same quality and it also reduces lead time

21. 21 PRODUCTS IN INDIA  VEGETERIAN MENU  NON VEGETERIAN MENU  Veg McCurry  Chicken Maharaja Mac  McAloo Tikki  McChicken  McVeggie  Filet-O-Fish  Pizza McPuff  Chicken Mexican Wrap  Crispy Chinese  Chicken McGrill  Paneer Salsa Wrap  Chicken McCurry Pan

22. 22 MISSION AND VALUES  McDonald's brand mission statement is: “ To be our customers' favorite place and way to eat."  ―Our worldwide operations are aligned around a global strategy called the Plan to Win, which center on an exceptional customer experience – People, Products, Place, Price and Promotion.‖  ―We are committed to continuously improving our operations and enhancing our customers' experience.‖

23. 23 MISSION AND VALUES „We place the customer experience at the core of all we do‟ „We are committed to our people.‟ „We believe in the McDonald‟s System.‟ „We operate our business ethically.‟ „We give back to our communities.‟ „We grow our business profitably.‟ „We strive continually to improve.‟

24. 24 MOTIVATING EMPLOYEES  McDonald‘s believe that employees are the face of their brand and differentiate them from the competition.  Their success requires that they develop and retain a diverse, engaged and talented workforce.  That‘s why it focus on people programs and policies on three priority areas: a) Respect & Inclusion - Create a diverse and inclusive culture where everyone feels valued and respected. b) Employee Value Proposition (EVP) - Enhancing commitment to drive high levels of employee commitment. c) Talent Management - Attract, develop and retain the most talented people at all levels.

25. 25 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT  McDonald‘s provide training and development at all levels to help employees refine their skills, grow in the current position or transition to a new role in the company.  This is done through: a) Training at Hamburger University b) Leadership Development c) Global Mobility d) Internships

26. 26 BENEFITS AND COMPENSATION  McDonald's benefits and compensation program is designed to attract, retain and engage talented people who will deliver strong performance and help McDonald's achieve its business goals and objectives. Benefits and compensation: 1. Medical 5. Sabbatical Program 2. Employee and dependent life insurance 6. Vacation 3. Incentive Pay 7. Profit Sharing 4. Recognition Programs 8. Dental

28. Walt, after the Studio had won 4 Academy Awards Walt Disney 1901-1966

37. Diversification Disney Resorts: 1. California 2. Florida 3. Tokyo 4. Hong Kong 5. Paris

38. Media Networks Park and Resorts

39. The Walt-Disney Studios Disney Consumer Products Disney Interactive Media Group

40. The Walt Disney Model       

42.                

43. Google: The World's Most Successful Corporate Culture

44. Company Information  Google's innovative search technologies connect millions of people around the world with information every day  Google have the fastest & most reliable search engine on the web  Founded in 1998 by Stanford Ph.D. students Larry Page and Sergey Brin  Google today is a top web property in all major global markets  advertising programs provide businesses of all sizes enhancing the overall web experience for users

45. Mission ―To organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful‖ Its mission is a bottom-up encapsulation of what excites Googlers, it creates an arena where data and people can be brought together in surprising ways

46. Achieving the Mission  Google strongly believes that translation of their mission into real and tangible would have a huge effect depending upon who decides to join Google, how much engagement and creativity they bring to this place, and even on how they feel and behave after  Google hires people that embody their company's values and feel the same intense desire for unlimited amounts of information  This desire allows the company's employees to work towards the same goals and Google tends to have a low turn over rate

47. ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE Google says ‗our people are our greatest asset‘ It believes that Nurturing people in organization doesn‘t require expensive perks or touchy-feely gimmicks. It‘s about motivating, engaging and listening – and it can work for anybody

48. Transparency  Google share everything they can  They have a weekly meeting called as TGIF where occurs in 2 phases: discussion & Question & Answer session  Executive Chairman, presents to all Googlers virtually the exact materials that were presented to our Board of Directors at their last meeting.  Intranet includes product roadmaps, launch plans, and employee snippets so that everyone can see what everyone else is working on

49. TEAM ORIENTATION The limited walls in the building help the employees to feel like a group rather than an outsider in another department  Meetings that would take hours elsewhere are frequently little more than a conversation in line for lunch and few walls separate those who write code from those who write check  Flat‖ structure- high middle management

50. Multiple Channels of Expression  channels include 1. direct emails to any of their leaders 2. Google Universal Ticketing Systems 3. FixIts 4. Googlegeist survey 5. Google+ conversations

51. low formalization and service- oriented  They are allowed the freedom to make decisions that benefit Google users  Google encourages its employees to work and play together so that a family bond is formed  Casual dress code  Free work schedule