Hartford Police officer killed in off-duty accident in Hebron had ties to Manchester.

The Manchester community mourned the loss of John Marvin Friday, a Hartford Police officer with numerous ties to the Manchester community who was killed in an off-duty automobile accident in Hebron early Friday mooring.

Marvin, 28, who lived in Manchester, was a two-year veteran of the Hartford Police Department who served in Iraq with the U.S. Navy and was an active sergeant in the Connecticut National Guard. Prior to joining the Hartford Police Department, Marvin worked as an Emergency Medical Technician for the Ambulance Service of Manchester from October 2008 to December 2009.

People in the community remembered Marvin Friday as a great person, friend and father who devoted his life to public service.

"He will be remembered by all of us as a hard working professional," David Skoczulek, director of business development and community relations for the Ambulance Service of Manchester said of Marvin in a statement Friday. "John took his commitment to public safety very seriously. He was most at home in uniform. He had a professional demeanor and appearance and a clear presence to his patients and other responders. Stories of his detail-oriented nature and his lighter side are being passed around ASM today by his friends and those who considered him family here. It was our fortune to have him as an employee and his passing is enormously sad. Our thoughts and prayers are with the Marvin family."

Marvin's father, John Marvin, is a retired officer from the Manchester Police Department, while his brother James currently serves as an officer for the Hartford Police Department.

Hartford Mayor Pedro E. Segarra ordered all flags in the city of Hartford lowered to half-staff Friday to commemorate Marvin.

“The City of Hartford mourns the loss of Officer John Marvin, and our heartfelt prayers are with his loved ones on this painful day,” Segarra said in a statement. “The fine men and women of the Hartford Police Department risk life and limb daily to protect our city, and every loss deeply impacts us all."

State police said that shortly after midnight Friday Marvin drove through a stop sign at the intersection of Route 94 in Hebron, lost control of his vehicle, and crashed into an embankment. Marvin was traveling at a high rate of speed at the time and was not wearing a seatbelt, according to state police. The cause of the accident remains under investigation.

Marvin's Hartford Police Department Academy Classmates have established a fund to support his 18-month old son. Donations may be made to the following:

Greater Hartford Police Credit Union

50 Jennings Road

Hartford, CT 06120

Checks should be made payable to:

The Patrol Officer John Marvin Memorial Fund

Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.