If you’re a big fan of David Fincher and are dying to see his The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo when it opens on Dec 21, you may already know that the film’s costume designer, Trish Summerville, has designed a small collection of hard core neutral separates for Swedish retail clothing giant H&M – leather jacket, wool coat, skinny jeans, T’s, hoodies, boots with subdermal implant designs. All are inspired by the film’s cyber-punk heroine Lisbeth Salander, played by Rooney Mara. The collection is available at all H&M outlets in the U.S on Dec 14.

This partnership certainly makes sense since the author of the award-winning Millenium Trilogy series, the late Steig Larsson. was an award-winning Swedish author and journalist. The original film — starring Noomi Rapace and Michael Nyqvist — is reputed to be the most viewed film in Sweden and Fincher’s remake also takes place — and was filmed on location in – Sweden.

NEWS ‘Girl With The Dragon Tattoo’ Producer Bans New Yorker Critic for Breaking Embargo

But unless you’ve read Larsson’s second book, you may be unaware of the authentic connection between Salander and H&M.

In an exclusive interview with The Hollywood Reporter, Summer explains: “In the second book, The Girl Who Plays With Fire, once she has money, she goes to H&M and has a shopping spree. So it (the collaboration) plays really nicely hand-in-hand. It’s extremely relevant because we do use pieces of clothing from H&M (in the first film). It’s very much real to what the Salander character. We didn’t go off the deep end and do gowns or anything.”

VIDEO: ‘Girl With The Dragon Tattoo’ H&M Collection in Stores a Aeek Before Film Opens

The studio and the international retail giant contacted Summerville when she was shooting in Sweden to discuss the idea. Originally proposed as a possible T-shirt line, the final decision was to design a definitive capsule collection that captures the essence of Salander. And the clothing will find a tremendous international consumer base since H&M has approximately 2,300 stores in 41 countries.

The H&M Tattoo prices are very reasonable but Summerville predicts the hottest piece will be the most expensive one, the edgy leather jacket. “You’re getting a deal at $199. It’s so well-made. The leather is beautiful and we did some washing on it and a bit of aging. It’s a great key piece to have.”

POST: Girl With The Dragon Tattoo Designer Trish Summerville Plans Mikael Blomkvist Menswear Line

The Girl Who Plays The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo Rooney Mara already owns and wears the whole collection, says Summerville. “She got to see the samples. To get her nod and David’s nod made me feel really good, made me feel like we are on the right track.”