Kim Kardashian's upcoming comedy The 5th Wheel has been sold to Netflix following a competitive bidding war that involved five studios.

Netflix made the top offer for the movie, which was developed by the Los Angeles native, 43, in a collaboration with Paula Pell and Janine Brito, according to Deadline.

The reality star is slated to play the lead role in the motion picture, in which she would be a figurative 'fifth wheel' alongside a female ensemble, according to the outlet.

Pell and Brito were eager for Kardashian to perform in the project and pitched her on it once the SAG-AFTRA strike concluded November 9. The three of them then collectively pitched the project to multiple studios.

The project was accelerated at a rapid place, Deadline reported, taking days in the timeframe some projects take months to complete. The film is the first major sale ahead of the end of the year.

Pell has extensive writing credits, including more than 300 episodes of Saturday Night Live from 1995–2020, as well as 30 Rock. She won a Primetime Emmy for Outstanding Writing for a Variety, Music or Comedy Program in 2002 for SNL.

She has also written for shows such as Mapleworth Murders, Camping and the 2014 Oscars.

Brito's experience includes writing for shows such as the One Day at a Time reboot, Bless the Harts and Totally Biased with W. Kamau Bell.

Insiders told Deadline they expected Kardashian to 'be very hands on' with marketing tie-ins with the movie, with an eye on branding.

According to Deadline, The 5th Wheel is being developed by the streaming service's mid-budget division ran by Niija Kuykendall, which typically garners budgets between $30 million and $80 million.

Kardashian recently appeared in season 12 of American Horror Story, portraying PR Siobhan Walsh, alongside Emma Roberts, Matt Czuchry and Cara Delevingne.

She's also voiced the poodle Delores in a pair of Paw Patrol films.

The news about a potential move into live-action movies comes after her mom Kris Jenner raised concerns about her daughter having too much on her plate in the latest season of The Kardashians.

The businesswoman completely forgot a whole part of her day where she met fans and told them all about her brand SKIMS' secret plans because she was suffering from the signs of burnout.

On last week's episode of The Kardashians, she had rehearsals for her role in American Horror Story, a Time magazine cover shoot, a Met Gala dress fitting, a SKIMS business meeting, a fashion gala, an appearance on the Today show, and watched her brother-in-law Travis Barker's Blink-182 show.

However, there is one part of her day she completely forgot, greeting fans at the Tiffany's store and sharing where she was on social media.

She said whilst showing the footage: 'I had no idea that I stopped at the Tiffany's store and was posting all about it.

'Did I really go? It felt like a dream. This whole morning has been a complete, foggy dream.'

Jenner, 68, was concerned about her daughter burning out and quizzed her over her schedule.

Kim admitted doing American Horror Story 'put me over the edge.'

The mother-of-four - who has North, 10, Chicago, five, Saint, seven, and four-year-old Psalm with ex-husband Kanye West, 46 - went on to explain that she finds it hard to say 'no' to business offers because the one time she did turn something down the person never spoke to her again.

Kris then shared her concerns that her daughter would 'burn out' if she carried on like this.