Wheel of Fortune has been given exposure to the media in popular culture from movies, tv shows, cartoons and comics.

Chart[]

Picture Show Episode Notes The Super Mario Bros. Super Show

A few episodes featured Wheel. "On Her Majesty's Sewer Service"

In the October 10, 1989 episode, a spoof called "Wheel of Misfortune" appears.

The episode is a referenced to the classic 1969 James Bond film "On Her Majesty's Secret Service". "Cyrano de Mario" In the November 27, 1989 episode, it featured an appearance by Vanna White as Roxanne. The Simpsons

The series had a few episode that references Wheel. Homer Defined In the 1991 episode, the residents of Springfield Castle are watching TV when they turn the channel from a news bulletin (about a potentially life-threatening crisis at Springfield Nuclear Power Plant) to a channel which was not pre-empted regular programming … and the show is Wheel, there, a contestant missolves the puzzle "THREE COINS IN A FOUNTAINS" (by saying "LOINS" instead of coins) Brother From the Same Planet In the 1993 episode, Homer is seen watching Wheel with the puzzle "I'M ON MY WAY" (Phrase), Marge reminds him to pick up Bart from his soccer game while she leaves the house, but mistakes his solving the puzzle as a response to her.

The puzzle board uses the 1981 border with three lines of 11 trillions each, albeit with four of them in the corners (clearly blocked by the frame); the remaining 29 trillions have a shape and layout that were used much later by ICE for its Wheel games. The category chyron appears to be based on the third Helvetica style. Introduced in February or March 1985. Pranksta Rap In the 2005 episode, Santa Little Helper's changes channel by barking (he had accidentally swallowed the remote) where the Spanish-language version of Wheel called Rueda de Fortuna (at least its logo) briefly appears.

The title of the episode is a reference of the term "Gangsta Rap". Family Guy

Wheel has been spoofed a few times on this show. A Hero Sits Next Door In this episode (Aired May 2, 1999) where both Chris and Peter watch Wheel together as a profanity-like themed puzzle (under the category of "PHRASE") reads "GO _UCK YOURSELF" but luckily, a female contestant solves it as "GO TUCK YOURSELF IN". I Take Thee Quagmire In this episode (Aired: March 12, 2006), Peter Griffin was a contestant on Wheel. Sajak was not voiced by himself but was instead voiced by Stephan Cox. Peter's bonus round puzzle, in the category "Actor and Show" (a variant of "Star and Role") was "ALEX KARRAS IN WEBSTER"; he used the letter Z, the number 4, three Qs and the Batman symbol for his help letters as of which they didn't "help" at all (five consonants and a vowel, as per the original rules), and managed to solve the puzzle by means of taking "a shot in the dark". He then is allowed to select prizes to buy in the Showcase, a reference to the Shopping era on Wheel. After he is nearly done choosing his prizes, Peter says, "Hey, how much for the fat guy in the circle?" And Pat says, "Oh, that's you."

This episode also has a brief reference to its sister show Jeopardy! as well. Family Guy Viewer Mail #2 In the episode called (Aired: May 20, 2012) as a segment called "Chap of the Manor" it briefly had a Wheel parody called "Wheel of Politeness", this was the episode where The Griffins turned British. Brian the Closer In the episode (Aired: November 9, 2014), when Brian selects Quagmire to be his "sucker" in order to buy a bad condo, a small model arrives and touches his teeth in the style of the current puzzleboard from Wheel of Fortune. Robot Chicken

This series had a share of a few Wheel references. Easter Basket In this episode from 2006, a short WOF skit has Pat Sajak (voiced by Seth Green) telling a Pirate contestant: "Sorry, but there are no R's." The Godfather of the Bride Part 2 In this episode from 2011, while the Nerd is falling asleep in his dream, K.I.T.T. from Knight Rider briefly crashes onto the set of Wheel of Fortune. Saturday Night Live/(SNL)

The series did a few spoofs of "America's Game". Ed Grimley A hyperactive manchild (played by Martin Short) is a big fan of Pat Sajak in particular. Wheel of Fortune (2006) starting in 2006 with Tom Hanks playing as Pat Sajak. In the sketch, the contestants can't figure out the phrase "By The Skin of Your Teeth". The sketch ends with Sajak (played by Hanks) hugging the three little "dum-dums" and quitting the show. Million Dollar Wheel Another Wheel parody debuting in 2013 just simply titled as Million Dollar Wheel featuring guest host Melissa McCarthy playing as a replacement hostess who had less than no idea of her purpose.

Interestingly, the Wheel layout for this parody uses $650, $850 and $950 spaces. Sesame Street

The long-running popular children's program has parodied "America's Game" four times. Squeal of Fortune In a Sesame Street segment, there was a game show called "Squeal of Fortune" (parody of Wheel's name) and hosted by Pat Playjacks (portrayal of Pat Sajak) and Velma Blank (portrayal of Vanna White). The contestants were Prairie Dawn and Count von Count, rather than three contestants as normal. In the game, the contestant would have to guess how many times the pig (located in the wheel) would squeal while spinning. The contestant would spin afterwards and count the squeals from the pig. Count won the game because he guessed the right number of squeals. At the end of the game, the prizes are shown and the contestant would have to pick any prize in the studio (portrayal of the Shopping Round) but instead, Count chooses the pig. Sightwords In Episode 2428, aired February 24, 1988, Maria plays a parody of Wheel called Sightwords, hosted by Matt Flayback, (a parody of Pat Sajak) and co-hosted by Velma Bland, (a parody of Vanna White). While the gameplay is similar to Wheel, the only significant difference is that there is no wheel, only the puzzleboard. Dreidel of Fortune In Shalom Sesame, a Jewish version of Sesame Street, there was a game show called "Dreidel of Fortune" hosted by Jeremy Miller [known as Ben Seaver from Growing Pains] (taking over Pat Sajak) and Lavana White (portrayed by Alison Bartlett, a parody of Vanna White). Miller would spin the wheel and the contestant must guess what symbol of the dreidel it is. If he/she is right, then Ms. White turns the correct symbol and shows it (in reference to the puzzleboard). Elmo's World In the episode "Shoes", after Elmo watches a video about shoes, the shoe channel after it mentions "The Story of Shoes", it mentions a coming up parody as "Heel of Fortune". Cracked

Wheel was parodied twice in the now-defunct magazine. Squeeeal of Fortune (issue #222) in September 1986. Titled Squeeeal of Fortune written by Joe Catalano and illustrated by John Reiner, this parody features "Jack Saypat" (a parody of Pat Sajak) and "Voida Witt" (a parody of Vanna White) presiding over a celebrity edition of the show played by "Dr. Wuth Weisenhimer" (a parody of Dr. Ruth Westhimer), Dip Snydely (a parody of lead singer Dee Snider from the 80s rock band Twisted Sister) and Nerv Griffun (a parody of the late creator of Wheel Merv Griffin). Vainna White Interview (issue #231) in October 1987. written by M.L. McMahon and illustrated by J.P. Severin, it mainly featured an interview with Spiel's co-host Vainna White (parody of Vanna White) being interviewed by Nanny Dickering on the set of Spiel of Fortune (a parody of the show's title). The Real Ghostbusters has referenced or parodied "America's Game" twice. Aired November 19, 1987; the Ghostbusters were trapped in an underworld game show called Race the Devil hosted by a demon-like character named Dyb Devlin (voiced by Greg Burson), the first round was a Wheel-like round called Spikes, which was played under normal Hangman rules. Winston Zeddmore (voiced by Arsenio Hall) was asked to guess a 20-letter word in three tiers. Each incorrect guess caused a stick under Ray Stantz to vanish. Missing all three would cause Stantz to fall into a pit of spikes. The first two tries, Zeddmore guess wrong letters (both were vowels "I" & "O"). The third try was when Zeddmore was caught in a swirl which caused him to guess the right answer and win the first round; although they somehow knew it beforehand.

NOTE: This episode also features similarities to Let's Make a Deal and Double Dare as well. Aired October 6, 1990; Peter Venkman (voiced by Dave Coulier) plays the game show Wheel of Pizza in a dream sequence.

MAD (Magazine)[]

The formerly popular, now-defunct satire magazine has parodied "America's Game" twice.

We'll Make a Fortune[]

Seen in Issue #266 (October 1986) written by Dick DeBartolo and illustrated Harvey Kurtzman Will Elder, this parody is hosted by Pat Somerjak (Pat Sajak) and Vanilla Wipe (Vanna White) and was announced by Jerk Clark (Jack Clark).

Monroe &... the Great American Road Trip[]

Seen in Issue #411 (November 2001) written by Anthony Barbieri and Illustrated by Bill Wray.

On the October 15, 1986 episode of St. Elsewhere called "Brand New Bag", Dr. Mark Craig (played by William Daniels) can be briefly seen watching an episode of Wheel on TV in bed while holding a small pink stress ball in his hand.

NOTE: The episode title is a reference to a classic 1965 song by the godfather of soul James Brown called "Papa's Got a Brand New Bag".

On the November 8, 1986 episode of the original Pound Puppies called "Secret Agent Pup", Cooler posed as Pat Cool-jak (alias of Pat Sajak) while Nose Marie pretended to be Vanna Woof (alias of Vanna White) in order to rescue a puppy named Pupnik who hailed from Mongrowlia (a play on the country Mongolia) from two spy dogs.

NOTE: Nose Marie is play on the Hollywood Squares celebrity panelist Rose Marie.

A very brief parody of "America's Game" was one of the many "pre-emption" cards used at the top of the Canadian/Nickelodeon sketch-comedy series for kids called You Can't Do That on Television. In this case, episode #103 "Luck" (aired January 1, 1987)[1]used[2][3]"The Wheel of Fortune Runs Over People & Flattens Them" card.

Wheel was referenced on the March 15, 1987 issue of Bloom County featuring Opus the Penguin watching an episode of the show and turning into an eggplant.

Wheel was parodied in the Archie spinoff comic called Betty & Me in issue #160 from August 1987 spoofed as Wheel of Loot scripted by George Gladir, Penciled by Stan G. and inked by Rudy Lapick featuring only five pages. Hosted by Archie & Betty portraying as Pat & Vanna respectively. A contestant named Ronnie (Veronica) amassed $10,000 in cash & prizes. In a nod to the shopping era, Archie tells her that she can buy anything with her money but according to her she thinks "It All Looks So Horribly Tacky!". But Archie reminds her once again that she has to buy something according to the rules so she decided to spend the $10K on Archie himself. But Betty reminded that "Our Game Show Host is Not for Sale!" but Ronnie selfishly reminds her "Says You Girly!" showing the $10,000 price tag on the back of his dark greenish suit as she drove off with him in the car. According to Betty, without Archie the ratings for the show began to plummet as a result it later gets cancelled. Later, Betty had to go back to her pizza delivering job called Wheel of Dough Pizza. As she was leaving the Lodge residence, Betty noticed that Archie was in a trash can as Ronnie was "Discarding all her old Toys!" but brough him back to the studio as quickly as possible but in order to get his job back he had to remember the two most important catch phrases in television such as "We'll Be Right Back After These Messages!" and "Please, No Prompting from the audience!". Both Archie and Betty did the dance of joy in order to do the show once more. But before that, Betty had to remove the price tag from the back of Archie's suit of in the end.

Nissan[]

A local Nissan commercial from 1987 had a parody of Wheel.

[]

In the music video of The Ramones song, "I Wanna Be Sedated", which was filmed in 1988, ten years after the song was released, a hostess holding a Wheel of Fortune like wheel is seen in a crowd of people in the hallway of a medical center while the band performs at a table.

FoxTrot[]

"America's Game" was parodied twice in the comic strip.

May 17, 1988[]

Jason is watching the daytime version while his mother tries to get him to help his father with the computer. Amusingly, the dialogue and puzzleboard shot from the TV date the Wheel episode to between August 1980 and December 1981: the host uses Chuck Woolery's "One, two, three of them!" style, the puzzle board has three lines and the late Jack Clark is mentioned by name. The puzzle, "OBESEQUIOUS OPAQUE SQUID", is solved with just the three Q's.

October 5, 2008[]

Jason is hacking into the show's puzzle's database and the puzzle ends up being "PAIGE FOX IS UGLY", prompting Paige to call the show. Jason tells her, "I'll let you do the next one".

A July 4, 1988 issue of Broadcasting Magazine features an ad for the formerly popular American "info-tainment" news magazine show A Current Affair [1986-96 version] (with the vowels "U" and "I" respectively missing in action) where it briefly spoofs Wheel (mainly the puzzle board) as it tops the show in key demos for its main purpose to "Reinventing the Wheel".

Additionally, a July 11, 1988 issue of Electronic Media also had a trade ad for A Current Affair.

An October 1988 issue of Smithsonian Magazine[1]features an ad for Samsung Electronics (created by David Deutch Associates) where a gold female robot is wearing a blonde wig, fuchsia gown and expensive jewelry turning the letter "T" crookedly on a old puzzleboard as its implies that Wheel of Fortune will become the most "Longest-Running game show" in "2012 A.D." as the company insisted that this would be "The VCR you'll tape it on" in "2012 A.D." as one of "The Future of Electronics". This inspired Vanna White on suing the company for her image although it depicted a robot, the company was trying to capitalize on her identity for promotional purposes without compensating her. White argued that there was a common law right to control how her likeness is used, even though Samsung doesn't explicitly use her name or image. This "right to persona" argument was thrown out in a lower court, but in White v. Samsung Electronics America Inc.[2]it was ruled that White indeed had the right to control her persona under the Lathan Trademark Act and California common law.

On the October 8, 1988 episode of A Pup Named Scooby-Doo called "For Letter or Worse" (which is also the name of the show in general). It was temporarily interrupted by the ghost of Al Capone. Later on in the episode, the gang used this show to trap the ghost and brought it back on the air. Shaggy & Scooby went on to win the game and won a year supply of comic books & Scooby Snacks.

NOTE: The title of the episode is a spoof of the term "For Better or For Worse".

In the 1988 film Scrooged (originally released on November 17, 1988) during a homeless shelter scene, a brief clip of Wheel can be seen on TV.

In the 1988 film Rain Man (originally released on December 12, 1988) a brief clip of Wheel can be seen on TV in a hotel room.

ADDITIONAL NOTE: Other game shows that were seen as clips on TV were: Sale of the Century, its' sister show Jeopardy! & Pyramid.

In the 1988 TV special called Siskel & Ebert Holiday Video Gift Guide, Wheel was briefly mentioned and shown on TV in order to talk about its TV Play Along handheld unit by Mattel.

On a January 19, 1989 episode of Sale of the Century (#Episode 1543 Jackie/Ray/Philly) where the first Instant Bargain had a less-than-subtle version of of Vanna White with the prize backdrop that looks just like the Wheel turntable.

The 1989 "Weird Al" Yankovic-driven comedy film (originally released on July 21, 1989) UHF features some of the game shows that are parodied on the U62 TV schedule such as, The Lice is Right, a parody of The Price is Right, Beat the Loanshark a parody of Beat the Clock, Name that Stain, a parody of Name That Tune, You Bet Your Pink Slip, a parody of You Bet Your Life, and Wheel of Fish, a parody of Wheel of Fortune.

On the September 23, 1989 episode of Pee-Wee's Playhouse called "Fire in the Playhouse", Wheel was parodied as "Wheel of Pizza" in the "Food in Refrigerator" segment. The gameplay includes puzzle board full of ice cubes and a asparagus with female features did Vanna's job. There was a brief misspell with the letters "B" and "N" as it spelled "Peabut Nutter" but it later corrected itself as "Peanut Butter".

In the L.A. Law episode called "Vowel Play" (a spoof of the term "Foul Play") from 1990, Douglas Brackman Jr. (played by Alan Rachins) appears on Wheel and ends up getting a date with Vanna White.

NOTE: This was based on the short-lived NBC daytime version hosted by Bob Goen not the long-running syndicated nighttime version hosted by Pat Sajak.

A 1990 episode of Tiny Toon Adventures called "The Wheel o' Comedy" began with an episode theme that was abruptly canceled out. So it was replaced by the wheel which featured the characters faces instead of dollar amounts. For each act, they spin a special wheel to determine the characters that star in each segment. It was used again in another episode called The Buster Bunny Bunch (a parody of The Mickey Mouse Club).

A Wheel reference was made in the original 1990s Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film (originally released on March 30, 1990) where it involves Donatello spinning around Michelangelo on his shell as he yells: "Hey Donny, Wheel of Fortune dude!" while knocking down several Foot Soldiers on the floor as Donatello responded: "Hmm, I guess they're not game show fans!" Then Michelangelo responded back to him by saying: "And I thought everybody loved Vanna!"

In the 1990 film Captain America during a hospital scene, a brief clip of Wheel can be seen on TV.

ADDTIONAL NOTE: This film was originally released in the United Kingdom (U.K.) on December 14, 1990 before it was released in America on July 22, 1992.

In a April 8, 1991 episode of the comedy-drama Northern Exposure called "Goodbye to All That", Shelly Marie Tambo (played by Cynthia Geary) in an evening gown and heels (possibly referencing Vanna White) can be seen watching an episode of Wheel at Cicely's bar and restaurant called The Brick owned by Holling Vincouer (played by John Cullum).

In a November 16, 1991 episode of Super Mario World called "Rock TV" where King Koopa's (or Bowser's) flashback of a trip to Earth includes either Wheel or a parody of it, as part of his remembering how television can put people in a near-vegetative state.

NOTE: This episode as a whole was essentially a commentary on television addiction, as the FCC (Federal Communications Commission) had enacted the Children's Television Act in the previous year.

It was also given homage on an April 19, 1992 episode of the formerly popular Nicktoon Doug called "Doug vs. The Klotzoid Zombies"; the show was instead called Wheel of Snacks, but it had nothing to do with the actual format or play elements of the game. Instead, the host (Roger Klotz ass Dr. Roger Klotzenstein) was using the show as a means of making use if his hypnotic snacks (Zombie Chips, Greasy Puffs, etc.) that turn people into zombielike slaves when they eat them. Quailman (Doug in a faux superhero costume) stops Klotzenstein's plan and breaks the spell over the contestants and audience using beets, cancelling the show and bringing Klotzenstein to justice.

Animaniacs parodied Wheel several times since the second episode on September 14, 1993. The recurring skit is called The Wheel of Morality near the end of episodes when the show is short of time. This segment was created to satirize the FCC's requirement of adding moral and educational value to children's programming. The segment would usually open with the siblings dashing through a park and then coming to a halt with Yakko saying "It's that time again!" after Dot and Wakko would try to guess what it was time for, Yakko would say it was time to learn the lesson of the day and then bring out the titular wheel. He would then spin the wheel while saying the rhyme "Wheel of Morality, turn, turn, turn! Tell us the lesson that we should learn!" After the wheel stopped on a certain number, it would print out the corresponding moral, which was a goofy and nonsensical one as Yakko would read it aloud. The Warners would often give some comments on the "moral". The segments always ended with Ralph the Guard blowing his whistle from offscreen and chasing the Warners. One episode ended with Yakko about to make his announcement, only to have Dot and Wakko protest they are sick of this segment as the "lessons" are nonsense. When asked whose foolish idea it was in the first place. Yakko responds with "The executives at the Fox Kids Network" causing Wakko and Dot to suddenly stop complaining and feigning their support for the Wheel of Morality implying the show will be canceled should this segment be discontinued.

In the episode "Win Big" (originally September 14, 1993) one of the channels spoofed Wheel as Wheel of Misfortune in one of Pinky & The Brains' TV.

ADDITIONAL NOTE: Other game shows that were spoofed in this episode were: The $10,000 Pile of Mud (Pyramid) and Gyp-Parody a parody of Wheel's sister show (Jeopardy!)

In the episode "Bumbi's Mom" (originally September 22, 1993), Skippy and Aunt Slappy are seeing Bumbi (parody of Bambi). When Skippy sees that Bumbi's mom is dead, he cries and then wakes Aunt Slappy making her say, "Pat, I'd like to buy a vowel."

In the May 2, 1993 episode of Dinosaurs called "We Are Not Alone", Earl Sinclair (voiced by Stuart Pankin) changes the channel on the TV at the end of the episode and one of the channels has a man saying "Okay, Pat, I'd like to buy a vowel!"

In the November 2, 1993 episode of Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog called "Sonic Breakout". A small tribute was made to Wheel where Sonic (voiced by Jaleel White) imitates Charlie O'Donnell, saying that it's "Time to play Wheel of Hedgehogs!" as he runs over an open pit in Robotnik's escape-proof prison.

In the 1993 video game platformer called Oscar released for the Amiga CD32 and MS-DOS, it had a level called "GameShow Level" with "Game Show" displayed as one word. The level is filled with elements based off of popular game show, more specifically Wheel of Fortune. In addition, the level's background music on the Amiga CD32 version appears to be loosely based off of the show' classic theme song "Changing Keys".

In the January 9, 1994 episode of Rugrats titled "Chuckie is Rich", Pat Sajak is the spokesperson for a Publishers Clearing House (PCH)-like multi-million dollar sweepstakes that Chass wins, and Chas' reaction is exactly what would happen if he was a contestant on Wheel. Vanna White doesn't appear. However, his son Pat Sajak Jr. makes an appearance as one of the children at the daycare center for wealthy children.

In the February 26, 1994 episode of Beakman's World called "Ants, Beakmania & Collisions" Wheel was parodied as Wheel of Collisions.

In the September 12, 1994 of Mighty Max's second season titled "The Missing Linked"; Virgil, one of Max's sidekicks (Norman being the other), sends Max a message that appears on Max's TV as he watches a Wheel-like game show where a contestant is seen solving the puzzle. The puzzle (and message, for that matter) was "MIGHTY MAX GO TO 4TH & ELM".

In the 1995 episode of Bill Nye: The Science Guy called "Energy" the show was parodied as Wheel of Energy.

In the 1996 episode of Rocko's Modern Life called "Hef in a Handbasket", Heffer becomes a contestant on the game show called Triple 6 hosted by a hooded-wearing devil named Peaches. Wheel was the fourth and final round, where Heffer spins the big wheel and guesses the puzzle "BIG FAT COW" while the wheel is still spinning.

NOTES: The show's title is a parody of the term "Hell in a Handbasket"

The episode also parodies rounds of Wheel's companion show Jeopardy!, Family Feud and Pyramid.

The set of Wheel (more specifically the 1997 era) was used and could be seen in the VH1 special Game Show a-Go-Go hosted by Wink Martindale.

In the November 3, 1997 episode of the long-running animated PBS children series Arthur called "Arthur's TV-Free Week", Arthur used his telescope to look out at night, he sees a television that says onscreen Eel of Fortune, referencing to the title of the show Wheel of Fortune.

The Weird Al Show episode "Talent Show" (original airdate November 7, 1997) was given a homage when Cousin Corky and Weird Al watched a parody of the show on their TV called, "Spin the Wheel" where the contestant spins the wheel in hopes for cash and prizes. The wedges on the wheel included a Sports Car, $1,000,000, $100,000, a Yacht, a Dream House, a Hawaiian Vacation, $50,000, an Island, $5,000, and a spin again wedge. Unfortunately, the contestant playing in that episode constantly landed on the "Spin Again" wedge and had to spin the wheel until she was tired and gave up. (Note: Surprisingly, the title of this parody game show later became the short lived 2019 FOX game show hosted by Dax Shepard, but it plays similar to The Big Spin as this is a spinoff of it.)

ADDITIONAL NOTE: The show aired on CBS Saturday mornings in 1997, during the time Wheel 2000 (a.k.a. Wheel of Fortune 2000) aired on the block.

In issue #104 (originally released November 26, 1997) of the Marvel Comics comic book series What If...? titled "Starring Silver Surfer: Finders Keepers"[1](not to be confused with the 1944, 1954, 1985 & 1987 game shows of the same names respectively), a shape-shifting green alien character named Impossible Man briefly becomes Silver Surfer's three girlfriends named Shalla-Bal, Mantis and Nova. Then a hooded female incarnation of Death and does his own Vanna White impression. The category was a "PLACE" as the puzzleboard spelled "Z_NN-LA" as his encouragement to Surfer was "C'mon Surfy -- buy a vowel! You can do it!" The solution in general was the planet "ZENN-LA".

NOTE: This was Impossible Man's first appearance in Marvel Comics.

On the December 5, 1997 episode of Extreme Ghostbusters called "The Spinhx" when Eduardo puts back up the TV, a brief clip from an episode of Wheel can be seen.

ADDITIONAL NOTE: a clip from its brother show Jeopardy! can be seen in the episode as well as all three shows are owned by Sony.

In the March 18, 1998 episode of Dexter's Laboratory called "Dad is Disturbed", When dad heads back into the living room to find Dexter, Dee Dee and Mom all occupying the armchair at once by watching a Wheel of Fortune-like game show on television, Dad gets upset at his family for changing the channel in order to watch his golf game while he was out as he turns away and cries.

On the short-lived 1999-01 Claymation series The PJs, the main character Thurgood Stubbs' favorite show to watch is Wheel of Fortune.

The Fairly Oddparents[]

The show has been spoofed three times.

Cosmo Con (1/10/2003)[]

The fairies play Wheel of Torture as a spoof to this.

Chip Off the Old Chip (11/21/2003)[]

Wheel of Coincidence watched on TV as a parody of this.

9 Lives (2008)[]

The show Wheel of Cheese spoofs this hosted by Catman (voiced by Adam West).

In the 2005 episode of the adult-oriented CGI series Tripping the Rift called "Chode's Near Death-Experience" Chode (voiced by Stephen Root) briefly ended up becoming a contestant called Well of Misfortune (parody of the show title) hosted by the Devil with his blonde assistant as the "Vanna White" role. Chode kept guessing letters incorrectly also solves the puzzle incorrectly when the assistant in frustration (and rightfully so) finally revealed the "E" in the puzzle "Hell".

In the 2007 episode of South Park titled "With Apologies to Jesse Jacksson", Randy Marsh (Stan's father) appears on an episode of Wheel as he goes to the bonus round with the category "PEOPLE WHO ANNOY YOU". His three letters were "BNG" and the vowel "O" as it resulted in the word "N_GGERS". However, he accidentally said the N-word when the actual solution to the bonus round puzzle was in fact "NAGGERS". Rightfully so, it stirred controversy from the African-American crowd as Randy's son becomes a social outcast.

In the February 15, 2013 episode of Disney Channel's Gravity Falls called "Boss Mabel", Wheel is parodied as Cash Wheel in which Grunkle Stan (a.k.a. Stan Pines) frequently watches the show and much later appears as a contestant on the show as well.

In the series finale of The Cleveland Show (aired May 19, 2013) called "Wheel of Family" which was a reference to Wheel of Fortune, but this was in part of creating a wheel with the kids and their activities.

In the 2014 episode of the short-lived Comedy Central animated series Brickleberry[1]called "That Brother's My Father" (Similar to Ed Grimley) Connie Cunaman (voiced by Roger Black) develops an unhealthy obsession with Wheel host Pat Sajak as he gets kidnapped by her and becomes a hostage to the wheel of fortune.

An obscure flash internet cartoon from the late 90s called Pookie Poo has also parodied Wheel hosted by Saint Patjack (a parody of Pat Sajak) and Vanity White (a parody of Vanna White) with the eponymous character bringing his attitude to the show. in the episode the puzzle, "FASTER THAN THE SPEED OF LIGHT" (under the category of "Famous Sayings") is accidentally solved by the main character while he threatens to hurt Patjack.

ADDITIONAL NOTE: The Wheel layout seems to be somewhat based on an earlier nighttime episode, albeit with two $1,000 wedges plus $650 and $950; in addition, the color on the "Lose A Turn" wedge is red instead of yellow or white.

Vanna White guest-starred on an episode of Full House called "The Test" from 1994, where she first played herself in a dream sequence, DJ Tanner (Candice Cameron-Bure) had about taking her SAT and failed and would be going to CLOWN U while her friend Kimmy (Andrea Barber) passed and would be going to Stanford and also getting DJ's boyfriend Steve (Scott Weinger (voice of Disney's Aladdin)). White later played a teacher named Mrs. Moffatt, after DJ woke up and took the test for real. Beverly Archer of Mama's Family & Major Dad also guest starred playing as an unsympathetic SAT monitor named Mrs. Twitchel.

In a 2002 episode of the short-lived sketch comedy series The Rerun Show during their parody of One Day at a Time Schneider can be seem holding a red signaling device that was also used on Wheel during the Toss-Up round.

In July 2003, a #7 cover issue of the short-lived Marvel Comics series called Marville, featuring a scantily clad cover girl standing in front of a 1997 era puzzleboard doing a Vanna White-esque like hand gesture in a white skimpy bikini as it says the word "EPIC". The art was by Greg Horn.

NOTE: At the time, the series itself was panned by critics as one of the worst Marvel comic book series of all-time. This was a satire of superhero books during a Marvel marketing promotion and involved a convoluted plot concerning time travel. Additionally, it also employed incredibly sexualized images of women on many of its covers. Due to the sexually-charged images failing to draw in readers, the series was cancelled after only seven issues. In general, this was the last issue of that series.

In a 1986 episode of 227 called The Wheel of Misfortune, Mary Jenkins (played by Marla Gibbs) and Sandra Clark (played by Jackee Harry) played the game in a dream sequence, which lost Rusty Lewis (played by Jim Doughan). Rusty solved the first puzzle with one letter.

Wheel was given a mentioned in a 1985 episode of Knight Rider called "Circus Knight" but only the title was mentioned and not the format. It was the name of one of the carnival games at "Circus Major" where Michael Knight (played by David Hasselhoff) did his investigations.

On The A-Team in which its episode in 1986 was appropriately titled "Wheel of Fortune", "Howling Mad" Murdock (played by Dwight Schultz) uses his partner Templeton "Face" Peck's (played by Dirk Benedict) system to win. In between shows he was kidnapped by a group of criminals who wants to use that system for their own personal gains. When HM was free, he returned to the show, and by solving the bonus puzzle, he won a trip to Hawaii supposedly for him & Face, but instead he won it for him and a girl named Jody Joy (Lydia Cornell [of Too Close for Comfort fame]) whom HM ran into during the chase.

A 1995 short bumper for Cartoon Network features Smurfette from The Smurfs skipping along as she touches the letter R on the logo.

In the 1996 crime thriller film Ransom, a brief clip of Wheel can be seen on tv in front of multiple televisions in somebody's house.

The Where on Earth is Carmen Sandiego? episode “Hot Ice” has C.H.I.E.F asking Pat for a vowel & consonant while trying to get Carmen to leave while she is hacking.

The Chimp Channel involved—you guessed it—Monkeys. Notably, one player tries to solve without spinning (which is normally allowed) although "Pat" Tells her that she has to spin.

On The Television did a Wheel sketch done sometime during the 1989-90 period called Wheel of Misfortune, created by a slightly alternate Merv Griffin. While the “roulette meets hangman” concept is mostly the same, some parts are taken very literally.

In 2011, The Disney Channel sketch comedy show So Random! (a spin-off of Sonny With A Chance) did two terrible WOF parodies. One of them is called All-Star Wheel of Fortune; in it the three teen celebrities Fred Figgelhorn (played by Sterling Knight), Taylor Swift (played by Tiffany Thornton), and Willow Smith (played by Brandon Mychal Smith) play the game but their personalities get in the way, with Fred being obnoxious, Taylor singing about everything and Willow whipping her hair around to the point that the game barely progresses. The sketch ends with Vanna tearing off a part of the puzzle board, hitting Fred Figglehorn unconscious. Another Wheel sketch was called All Magic Students Wheel of Fortune featuring Harry Potter (played by Shayne Topp), Rebeus Hagrid (played by Doug Brochu), Gollum/Smeagol (played by Damien Haa) and the Twilight Trio: Edward Cullen (played by Matthew Scott Montgomery), Bella Swan (played by Tawni Hart), and Jacob Black (played by Chad Dylan Cooper) competed. In addition to playing as Harry Potter in the 2nd skit, Shayne Zimbo played Pat Sajak on both skits.

In Living Color contributed to the Wheel franchise, too. Here, it was called Wheel of Dozens hosted by Stu Dufny (played by Nick Bakay) in which the wheel was fully calibrated with "Yo Mama" jokes; it was where three contestants gave a punchline to complete the "Yo Mama" term landed on.

Mad TV also did a few Wheel spoofs, with a Celebrity Couples Week with Freddie Prinze Jr. & Sarah Michelle Gellar, Will & Jada Pinkett Smith, & Kenny Rogers & Dolly Parton. Another one is a special Government Workers episode where the contestants make incorrect guesses on purpose. The last one features Pamela Anderson as a hot contestant along with Jordan Peele and Nicole Parker as contestants.

MAD (Cartoon)[]

Cartoon Network's MAD series did a few references to Wheel.

Cartoon Network's Mad series did a Wheel spoof called Monkey Wheel of Fortune in the episode "Demise of the Planet of the Apes/The Celebrity Ape-rentice" in 2011.

From a 2012 episode in the skit called "Dark Knight at the Museum" you can see a photo of Pat Sajak & Vanna White along with its current puzzleboard appears in the photo which basically represents the show as a whole in a gallery called "Game Shows".

NOTES:

This was a cross between Batman and the sequel fantasy/comedy film Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian or just simply called Night at the Museum 2.

A photo of two models holding cases #13 & #6 respectively on purple stairs with black & white balloons in the background basically represents Deal or No Deal.

MAD TV[]

The Fox sketch comedy series, parodied "America's Game" three times.

In a 2002 episode, Wheel of Fortune is parodied with a special "Celebrity Couples" week. The couples were Freddy Prinze Jr. and Sarah Michelle Geller, Will Smith and Jada Pinkett, and Kenny Rogers and "Ginger." Kenny goes on an angry spree after Vanna near the end of the skit as he thinks Vanna's lighting of the puzzle board letters as a form of witchcraft.

In a 2003 episode, a special Government Workers episode with three government workers trying to solve a puzzle with only one letter remaining. The puzzle said Thomas Paine's quote GIVE ME LIBERT_ OR GIVE ME DEATH. The workers were guessing every possible word for the word with the missing letter. After several futile attempts of the players trying to guess the word, Pat asks Vanna to reveal the last letter, only instead of a Y it is a ☺. After a few more argument the skit ends with a technical difficulty message with the Y's missing.

Finally in a 2005 episode, Pamela Anderson plays as one of the contestants with Pat infatuated with her. He was even making her win by doing things such as turning the wheel when she hits "Bankrupt" to lowering the wheel so she has to stoop down to spin it, to even calling out letters for her. She incorrectly guesses "Madonna" as the puzzle even thought the correct answer was ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

In 2003, a commercial for Sony Ericsson[1] mobile phones featured a guy competing on an episode of Wheel in a dream sequence. It actually turns out he was playing it on his phone and gets interrupted by a phone conversation.

One thing to note in this ad is when he calls a correct letter and it lights up, the sound used during taking an envelope in the bonus round is used instead of the correct sound used when a letter lights up.

In 2008, a series of commercials by Lexus for one of the car company's new line of hybrid models showed various places the letter H vacated in favor of the car models' tags. One of these was Wheel, using the then-current set and a puzzle that reads "_APPY BIRT_DAY". Pat and Vanna were not present, their positions blocked from view by a staffer and another contestant, respectively. The concept, however, falls flat due to the contestant (Andrea) trying to solve the puzzle immediately after spinning the wheel, a move which is against the rules and would hence merit the buzzer that sounds afterwards. Strangely, unlike other appearances that used the top dollar value, the space landed on is not the famous silver $5,000, but the blue $600 space nearby.

In 2010, a commercial for the TX7 Cyber-Shot camera by Sony featuring singer Taylor Swift a brief cameo appearance of the wheel from Wheel of Fortune is being pulled by a stage hand.

Conan[]

On Conan's late-night talk show on TBS, Wheel was mentioned several times.

2012[]

Conan found pieces of "footage" where Sajak likes to drink.

2014[]

A one of the "Fan Correction" videos, AxeMan thinks Conan lacks "Wheel of Fortune" savvy, but Sajak is here in order to set the record straight.

2020[]

A segment featuring Conan's sidekick Andy Richter solving puzzles incorrectly as they are seen as foul.

NOTE: Richter himself appeared on Celebrity Wheel of Fortune in 2021.

In 2016, a commercial for the mobile game version of Wheel features a family competing on the set of Wheel while the young daughter solves the puzzle under the category of "Phrase" as "How Sweet It Is".

ADDITIONAL NOTE: The son was "Pat/Host" while the old lady was "Vanna/Letter-Toucher".

In 2016, a Garbage Pail Kids trade card in a series called "Prime Slime Trashy TV" had a parody of Vanna White as Vain Vanna with a puzzle board that reads "GET A L_FE" (GET A LIFE).

In 2017, a commercial for Wheel of Fortune Free Play features host Pat Sajak on the set of Wheel by sitting in his chair playing the mobile game while the current puzzle board says "Wheel of Fortune Free Play".

A 1986 Song by Dr. Dave (Dave Kolin) which was released on TSR Records #852 and frequently heard on The Dr. Demento Show. A parody of “The Letter” by The Box Tops, it describes a contestant on Wheel and mentions Bankrupt, Losa A Turn, the Final Spin chimes, The Bonus Round, the home game, and shopping for prizes. The song ends with the singer/contestant expressing shock at the fact that a black-and-white 5portable TV set costs $500. (You got ripped off, man.) A partial rewrite of the song, believed to have been performed by Gerg Barhill, was used in a 1987 promo for CBS affliate WWL-TV in New Orleans. The ad includes footage from several early season 4 episodes (one of which has the third starburst backdrops), plus an answer of NEW ORLEANS being revealed.

Wheel was also given a homage in The Nanny, in the episode "Schlepped Away" (aired March 9, 1994). The family was watching the show on the TV in Grandma Silvia's apartment while eating dinner.

In the 2000 biographical film Erin Brockovich a brief clip of Wheel can be seen on TV.

In the first Open Season movie from 2006, Boog the Bear (voiced by Martin Lawrence) is watching Wheel of Fortune on his TV but his master and him fight over the on off switch until he decides to go to bed. It's obviously appropriate because Open Season and Wheel of Fortune are both owned by Sony Pictures Entertainment. The DVD of the movie also has “Wheel of Fortune: Forest Edition”, where instead of word puzzles, pictures videos & sounds are used; also, the wheel is 4 spaces instead of the usual 24. Also, as a result, Wheel of Fortune eventually gave away an Open Season prize.

Wheel's companion show Jeopardy! also had a few references and appearances as well. The first was in 1986; Wheel of Fortune was one of the Double Jeopardy! categories but only four of the clues were played (one of them was a Daily Double clue). The next, in the mid 90's (while the trilon based board was still in use) is mostly unknown. Notably, once the category was finished a clip was shown of Vanna next to the puzzle board that reads: THANKS ALEX! Despite this, there is no known record of the show using exclamation points on the show itself until May 13, 2004; a puzzle that reads "JEOPARDY PREMIERES" in September of 1995 did not use one. The second time, which debuted originally on October 4, 2001, the category was titled "Wheel of Jeopardy!"; unlike the other games, the correct responses were not shown. In June 2004, during Ken Jennings' historic winning streak, one of the first round categories was JEOPARDY! OF FORTUNE. The clues in this category were revealed by Vanna on the puzzle board in a manner similar to the Toss-Up Puzzles. WHEEL OF JEOPARDY! was a second round category for April 25, 2007 although the $1,600 puzzle "POMP AND CIRCUMSTANCES" uses the top three lines when it could have easily fit on two. Interestingly, none of the puzzles used all four lines, and the "solved" puzzles are shown in a cropped format reminiscent of the original three-line board. Other times on Jeopardy!, both Pat and Vanna have been featured as clue givers: When both shows taped in New York City's Madison Square Garden in the Fall of 1999, only one episode (airing on November 16, 1999) Vanna shopped at Christian Dior and gave a clue about Elizabeth Taylor wearing a Dior gown when she won her first oscar for the 1960 flim Butterfield 8. Another episode (airing on January 4, 2000) Bob Goen gave a clue about Edd Byrnes for a category about "TV Pilots", while mentioning both of their connections to Wheel in the process. (NOTE: Perhaps coincidentally, this episode in particular aired very close to Wheel’s 35th anniversary). During the College Championship Quarterfinals game 2 (airing February 2, 2012), Vanna demonstrated a clue about "planking" in front of the current puzzle board. During the Teen Tournament Finals game 1 from DAR Constitution Hall (May 10, 2012), the category "Wheel of Movie Taglines" was true to its name and involved taglines for clues, and movies for correct responses. On another episode (airing April 2, 2013) Vanna gave an $800 clue about Ocho Rios in Jamaica for their "World Capitals" category. (NOTE: the clue itself was most likely taped while Wheel was taping its Sandals Resorts Week of shows, as the resort is located in Jamaica.) For the "I'd Like to Solve the Puzzle...Fast!" category on April 23, 2013, each clue was shown normally but the correct response was revealed as if the puzzle had been solved on Wheel (i.e., the remaining letters were quickly filled in). For the July 1, 2013 game, most likely to commemorate the upcoming July 4th holiday, a category was solely dedicated to Pat's time on Armed Forces Radio; with Pat giving each clue as a soundbite and each clue displayed as normal.

On a 1999 episode of Rock & Roll Jeopardy!, Bob Goen appeared as a celebrity contestant playing for the Make-A-Wish Foundation. (NOTE: His connection with the show was also mentioned in this episode.)

In 2001, TV Guide ranked Wheel #25 as one of The 50 Greatest Game Shows of All Time. Prior to this, in 2013, Wheel again was ranked #2 as one of The 60 Greatest Game Shows of All Time.

In 2002, Wheel was mentioned as a topic on VH1's nostalgic miniseries I Love the 80's 1986 episode.

In 2005, Wheel was a documentary on the E! True Hollywood Story.

In 2006, GSN ranked Wheel #6 as one of The 50 Greatest Game Shows of All Time. This special was hosted by Bil Dwyer.

In the 1983 song called "Game Show Love" by Ray Stevens, Wheel was mentioned in this lyric as "Love's "Wheel of Fortune" was causing me pain".

Wheel was mentioned in Billy Joel's 1989 hit song "We Didn't Start the Fire".

In Nelly’s 2001 song “Ride Wit Me,” Vanna White is mentioned: “I be on the next flight paying cash; first class - sitting next to Vanna White.”

In the 2005 song by R. Kelly called Trapped in the Closet, Wheel was briefly mentioned during Chapter 20 (a.k.a. "The Big Package", released in 2007) with the lyric: "I'm a go ahead and turn on the TV and watch me some "Wheel of Fortune".

In the 1984 episode of Gimme a Break! called "The Big Apple: (Part 1)" Nell & Addy appear and compete on Wheel during Best Friends week. Nell has $7,600 and wants to win a car. But after the commercial break, she accidentally says "GIVE ME LIBERTY OR GIVE ME A CAR!". Addy gets $2,700 and solves it correctly by saying "GIVE ME LIBERTY OR GIVE ME DEATH! as she buys a trip for two to New York.

In the 1986 debut episode of the Showtime sitcom, It's Garry Shandling's Show called "The Day Garry Moved In", Shandling's character moves into a condo previously owned by Vanna White. At one point, he fantasizes about an episode of Wheel where a contestant calls and "R" and solves "I STOLE GARRY SHANDLING'S FURNITURE", then goes shopping in a showcase of the said furniture. Although Vanna White makes an appearance in the sequence, her partner in crime Pat Sajak does not as an off-screen host who is only heard takes his place.

In the 1988 episode of the NBC daytime soap opera Santa Barbara, Gina Lockbridge (played by Robin Mattson) is solving the much rather appropriate bonus round puzzle "BLACKMAIL" (Thing, having chosen "BKLNRI") just ahead of the buzzer, winning a grand total of $55,700. Her husband, shortly after hugging Vanna, gets pinched by Gina's earring.

ADDITIONAL NOTE: It is not certain which version this was intended to be, partly since the Wheel is not seen clearly; the fact that both Santa Barbara and Wheel were on NBC at the time points to the daytime show and a large jackpot win, but the lack of a stated prize and no shots of center stage suggest the nighttime show and a $25,000 win. No announcer speaks or is shown, which may suggest it having been done after the late Jack Clark became too ill to continue working. It is reported that two versions of the sequence aired between May 23 and 24, 1988. Prior to that, a kid imitates the game on the May 12, 1988 episode.

In the Friends episode "The One with the Princess Leia Fantasy" from 1996, the contestant on Wheel was Michael Curtis (one of the writers of Friends) also the show was on Joey and Chandler Bing's apartment on TV as it shows the puzzle "_OUNT RUSH_ORE" to which Joey says: "These people are stupid, its Count Rushmore!" as Chandler response back "You know, you should really go on this show!"

In the Just Shoot Me! episode "A&E Biography: Nina Van Horn" from 2000, a clip of Wheel is shown where Nina's name is the solution to the puzzle under the category of "PERSON".

In a November 1999 episode of the short-lived syndicated talk show Richard Simmons' Dream Maker, it featured two older women who wanted to be on the set of Wheel of Fortune.

In The King of Queens episode "Inner Tube" from 2001; Doug is sick in bed watching an episode of Wheel in a dream sequence that Doug, Arthur, and Carrie are on the set as contestants. Arthur calls a 4 and then calls an H, in which that letter was already up there. Just as Carrie is about to solve the puzzle, reading "Doug Hefferman is A Big Fat Liar". Doug runs away from the wheel and touches the letters on the puzzle board frantically. It turns out that Doug woke up from a dream.

Transparent[]

The series had spoofed Wheel two times.

To Sardines and Back (9/23/2016)[]

While under the effects of nitrous oxide, Ali dreams she's on the show with her dentist, Dr. Gunderson as the host instead of Pat Sajak with Caitlyn Jenner & Ntozake Shange as the other contestants.

The Open Road (9/23/2016)[]

Ali dreams she's on the show when she's under the effects of nitrou oxide.

The Annoying Orange[]

The popular Internet web series has mentioned and parodied "America's Game" twice.

Let's Play[]

In 2016, Pear & Orange did an episode where they played the Wheel of Fortune Free Play app.

Wheel of FourCheese[]

On the May 1, 2020 episode, Wheel was parodied as Wheel of FourCheese. The show was hosted by a pancake named Pat Flapjack (parody of Pat Sajak) and co-hosted by Banana White (parody of Vanna White). Instead of a wheel, contestants spin a giant pizza that has dollar wedges on it. Pear, Grapefruit and Orange all compete on the show. However, Orange's annoying behavior annoys Flapjack and the others, but he actually manages to solve the puzzle, which was "Nya, Nya, Nya". The prizes that Orange won are a car and a pile of scrap metal, it falls down on him.

In 2017, a online comic of Web Toons has parodied Wheel with the main character saying the show's actual catchphrase I'd Like to buy a Vowel! as the host asks Aren't you a millennial? as the main character slaps his face and sighs then asks the question I'd like to rent a vowel!.

In a 2017 episode of Fresh Off the Boat called "B as in Best Friends", Jessica and Honey appears on the show.

In a January 14, 2019 episode of the BYUtv sketch comedy show called Studio C, Wheel was parodied as Wheel of Prizes.

In a April 4, 2019 episode of the sitcom Young Sheldon called "A Perfect Score and a Bunsen Burner Marshmallow", Connie 'Meemaw' Tucker (played by Annie Potts) along with Sheldon's mother named Marry (played by Zoe Perry) can be seen watching an episode of Wheel on a couch.

On March 25 & April 21, 2021, a music video called "You Can Get It" by the Canadian rock band Arkells Ft. K. Flay features a Wheel parody.

NOTE: Please note that the F-bomb is used in the refrain.

On July 8, 2021, a music video called "SHE" by country music singer Jordan McGraw features an appearance of the set of Celebrity Wheel minus the sign.

ADDITIONAL NOTES: Jordan McGraw is the son of former talk show host Dr. Phil McGraw.

Jordan's wife Morgan Stewart has appeared on the short-lived E! realty series Rich Kids of Beverly Hills airing from 2014 until 2016.

In addition, Chuck Woolery & Pat Sajak appeared as guests on each other's short-lived talk shows, and Sajak himself made a cameo on the premiere of Bob Goen's version.