Boulder, Colo. (Jan. 22, 2013)–IRONMAN is proud to announce Newton Running as the new official footwear and run course sponsor of IRONMAN® in the United States after agreeing on a three-year deal. Newton Running is the leader in performance running shoes that actively support and strengthen natural running motion.

“IRONMAN is extremely pleased to join forces with Newton Running,” said Andrew Messick, Chief Executive Officer of World Triathlon Corporation. “We truly believe in the product Newton Running offers as they have certainly had a valuable impact on IRONMAN competition. We look forward to seeing their continued growth and impact on the sport while in partnership with them.”

Newton Running, which will serve as the IRONMAN community’s resource for healthy running, is supporting IRONMAN events across the country starting with the 2013 Accenture IRONMAN 70.3 California, taking place in Oceanside, Calif. on March 30. Newton’s plans for full event activation, designed to elevate athlete’s experience on and off the race course, will begin at Memorial Hermann IRONMAN Texas on May 18.

“Newton Running was ‘born’ at IRONMAN when we sold our first pair of Newton Running shoes at the Oceanside 70.3 event in 2007,” said Newton Running CEO Jerry Lee. “Triathletes were the first to embrace our innovative technology and gave us the start we needed to become the running-shoe brand we are today. This sponsorship is a celebration of our heritage in triathlon and our desire to support the sport and the athletes who believed in us from the beginning.”

In celebration of the new partnership, Newton Running is hosting an invite-only launch party in Boulder, Colo., at the end of January. The event will feature special guests from the IRONMAN arena, as well as a private performance by Thad Beaty and his wife Annie Clements, band members of the Grammy-winning, multi-platinum country-music act, Sugarland. Beaty recently completed the 2012 IRONMAN Arizona as an IRONMAN Foundation athlete.

For more information, please visit www.ironman.com or www.newtonrunning.com. Media-related inquiries for Newton Running should be directed to Elinor Fish of Backbone Media at elinor@backbonemedia.net and media inquiries for IRONMAN should be directed to Jessica Weidensall at Jessica@ironman.com.

About IRONMAN

The iconic IRONMAN® Series of events is the largest participation sports platform in the world. Since the inception of the IRONMAN® brand in 1978, athletes have proven that ANYTHING IS POSSIBLE® by crossing finish lines at the world’s most challenging endurance races. Recognized for excellence through distinguished events, world-class athletes and quality products, World Triathlon Corporation (d/b/a IRONMAN), owner and operator of the IRONMAN® Series, has grown from owner of a single race to a global sensation with nearly 190 events across five unique brands: IRONMAN®, IRONMAN 70.3®, 5150™ Triathlon Series, Iron Girl® and IronKids®. For more information, visitwww.ironman.com.