Newton Running, the Boulder, Colorado-based performance running shoes specialist is welcoming athletes and supporters to its hometown for the second annual IRONMAN Boulder triathlon on Sunday 2 August 2015. As a company that ‘exists to make every stride better’, Newton is rolling out a series of offerings to enhance the event experience for IRONMAN participants and supporters.

To help athletes have a better Boulder experience with their friends and family, Newton Running will be providing maps featuring where to dine and explore before and after the race. With recommendations from Newton professional athletes including Craig Alexander, Tim O’Donnell and Chris McDonald, as well as from Newton’s own staff who call Boulder home, athletes and supporters can check out the best the town has to offer.

The maps also include exclusive race week discounts at downtown Boulder shops and restaurants. Maps will be distributed in athlete bags and are available at the Newton Running Flagship Store, 1222 Pearl Street, and local businesses throughout race week.

In addition, the brand will be debuting and selling a limited edition Newton Running Colorado Shoe, featuring the Colorado State Flag, on race weekend. The shoe is crafted with a summertime-suited breathable mesh upper and Newton’s patented P.O.P. 3 platform, offering locals and visitors alike ‘a dynamic running partner and a unique Boulder takeaway.’

The shoe will be sold for US$125 at the Newton Running Flagship Store and Newton’s booth at the IRONMAN Village while they last.

“We are proud to call Boulder our home and to welcome people into town for the race,” said Mike Nesladek, Vice President of Marketing for Newton Running. “For the athletes, their loved ones and the local community who will be participating in IRONMAN Boulder, Newton wants to make their experience memorable.”

Based in Boulder, Colorado, Newton Running is a leader in performance running shoes for people at all levels of the sport, from first-time 5K runners to seasoned marathoners. Newton Running’s patented Action/Reaction technology aims to provide dynamic full-foot cushioning and lightweight comfort.

Newton Running is the official footwear and run course sponsor for the IRONMAN US Series and presenting sponsor of the Destination Races Wine Country Half Marathon Series. Newton Running shoes are available at hundreds of specialty retailers across the US and around the world or online at NewtonRunning.com.

Newton Running launched in 2007 by Jerry Lee and Danny Abshire. Both co-founders run the company today. Newton Running was named after Sir Isaac Newton and Newton’s third law, which is the technology that has made Newton Running shoes renowned.

www.NewtonRunning.com