Hi YP!

I'm new to editing manga and to not write off-top in the actual thread I'll put my lame question here - what should I do with borders? I've read few guides, and only 1 guide pointed out that all borders should be redraw (even by the cost of losing some pixels of the actual image) by using the combination of Guides+Pencil Tool+Line Tool to create them. But is this necessary? I assume that visible gaps (like 1 on attachment) and corners (3) should be redraw but straights (2)?

And if yes - then by what tool? Line tool (with line from one corner to another) or more manually with brush/pencil? Or more free way - "use what looks good in the end" :D

Since the Sono Hanabira shorts have been translated, I started wondering whether someone would be interested in translating drama CDs. If anyone is interested in doing that we could make a thread or two on this board for translation projects.

So, for those interested there are quite a few drama CDs that are yuri-related.

Chatting at the Amber Teahouse has spawned a few. I know of these:

Pink Princess:

http://www.mediafire.com/?1s46gc18h4d3f8r

This one was distributed with a number of Yuri Hime. I've only mirrored this uplaod, and can't really remember where I found it.

White Engage:

http://www.mediafire.com/?9f71yw9rhbyrivz

This story came with the CE of volume 1. This upload is also merely a mirror.

Blue Christmas:

This one I couldn't find uploaded - but it was distributed with the collectors edition of the second volume of CatAT, which I bought, so if there's anyone who's interested in translating this one I could rip it.

Alongside the Blue Christmas drama CD there were three other drama CDs distributed with the CE of CatAT vol. 2 available as store-specific bonuses. If anyone could hunt them down I'll love you forever. (I might have one of those, but I also mightn't.)

There is also two The Miko's Words and the Witch's Incantations drama CDs. The first one came with the tank CE, which someone has uploaded to niconico:

http://www.nicovideo.jp/watch/sm1933365

The second one is... hard to find. It's called Madrigal Halloween, and was released for sale stand-alone. It's no longer available on amazon.jp, Q.Q

The CE of Fujieda Miyabi's Twinkle Saber Saber Nova usually comes with a drama CD or two. Don't know how yuri-related they are, but could perhaps be of interest. (I can rip the CDs of volume 2, 3 and 4 if there is anyone interested in translating.) There are also three stand-alone CDs, which I haven't looked around for. Only the third one is still available on amazon.jp.

...Fujieda really loves his Drama CDs.

Yuru Yuri CEs of volumes 8 and 9 came with drama CDs, which I could rip if anyone would like to translate.

CE of Love Gene Double X (Love DNA XX) vol. 1 came with a Drama CD. (Can rip if anyone wants to translate.)

There's a GIRL FRIENDS Drama CD, which I could probably buy if anyone wants to translate it. It should be more like the start of the manga than a side-story, from what I've heard.

There're plenty of Sono Hanabira drama CDs aswell.

That is what I can think of at the moment. (Yes, Yuri Danshi has a drama CD. No, I don't want to mention it.) If you know of any, or if you find uploads of any related drama CDs, please do tell.

Just a few tips and links I could pass around.

(It involves a LOT of reading and practice.)

First explore the site and familiarize yourself with the links ^ up there and the wiki page.

Then when you've got it down. Read the guidelines on editing manga:

http://main.storminheaven.org/guide/main.html

http://wiki.yuriproject.net/guidelines

Next, when you feel like you can do the job. Check the "Threads" section in the wiki and find something you would like to edit under the Need Editor section.

http://wiki.yuriproject.net/wiki:threads

Then click the link to the thread of whatever manga you want to edit, assuming no one is editing it, and post a reply stating your willingness to edit said manga.

If the moderators approve you may begin editing. If you need help about what you are editing, post a reply on the same thread you asked permission on and hopefully the mods and/or other people will help you.

Well I think that's all I can think of writing right now. The more experienced editors/mods/anons can explain it better.

If there is something I missed or said wrong please feel free to add and/or correct me.

the scans we use aren't really ours.. it's copyright belongs to the manga artists/author or company where he/she belongs.

and considering that we don't really ask permission or have a license from the manga artists/author or company where he/she belongs to, we are "technically" breaking the law. I said "technically" because we are using the manga without permission or license, but we aren't profiting from it.

Bottom line even if we scanlated the manga, we don't have any rights on it whatsoever nor can we take legal action against mangafox. Unless... Mangafox actually profits from scanlation which we know they do. We can report them to the manga artist/author or company where he/she belongs to and ask them to take legal action. But the consequence would be shutting down all scanlation activities and groups and taking down all unlicensed manga/anthology/etc. off of the internet. Which would totally suck.

If the the manga artist/author or company where he/she belongs to, does take legal action, Mangafox can still negotiate with the manga artist/author or company where he/she belongs to. Possible result could be:

Mangafox paying off the manga artist/author or company where he/she belongs to, to get the license for every scanlated manga. Mangafox remains free-to-read. Scanlation groups/activities unharmed.

Mangafox paying off the manga artist/author or company where he/she belongs to, and to get the license for every scanlated manga. Mangafox becomes pay-to-read. Scanlations groups get sued and/or shut down. Which in turn would make Mangafox more profitable since they have the only copies of the scanlated mangas.

All of number 2 and scanlation group members getting hunted down and sued.

-Leaving this space for your imagination-

If no action is taken by the manga artist/author or company where he/she belongs to, possible results would be:

Us getting free manga.

Us not getting sued, shut down or imprisoned.

We will not encounter a lot of "In response to a complaint we received under the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act, we have removed 1 result(s) from this page. If you wish, you may read the DMCA complaint that caused the removal(s) at ChillingEffects.org." dialogue when we search for stuff.

People will not have more reasons to say that we need laws that would prevent us from doing anything on the net. (ie. SOPA and PIPA)

Mangafox still using scanlations without permission and profiting from it.

>> Oh and I'm NOT a lawyer or anything. I just read about the copyright laws for a project in college. It may or may not be accurate, but I'm pretty sure it's close to accurate. :3

>> Was my explanation a bit of an overkill? Yes, it is, but I do like ranting.

>>10138

If I may say, Tovarisch is quite easily one of the most difficult edits on the site. I wouldn't recommend it. AnonT is also the translator for that series, if they wish to continue on it.

Unless I am mistaken, Renai Manga is 100% Kawaii Scans to finish. Feel free to apply there to see if you can help out (yes, they are recruiting).

You may also want to wait for someone to take a look over your QC's first, lest you have to re-do a lot of work. Of course, this is just an opinion, and I can't be of much assistance at the moment...

>>10137

Not to butt in - again, I'm really busy anyway - but if you're simply looking to get more series edited...I'm hard-pressed to think of any yuri series that wouldn't be picked up relatively quickly. The only series' that have difficulty with this are ones that have a lot of work to them. Huge SFX (Puberty Organism) or tons of pattern/line redraws (Sougou) and font changes (also Sougou) are the things to look out for.

Hallo, everyone.

My previous group (Trinity BAKumA) just disbanded, so I'm sorta looking for a new "host" for my personal little series for releasing the final chapters of it, if it's allowed and if any translator would be willing to help me out. The name of the series is "Otoshite Appli Girl"; it's technically a shounen, but contains shoujo-ai materials (It's been uploaded on the Dynasty Scans reader, and not by me, lol), and there are two chapters left of the original story plus an extra side story at the end. I will provide the raws, and I will do the editing on the chapters, as long as anyone translates them. It's a very silly and not particularly deep story, but it's got a special place in my heart; it's the first manga I ever provided raws for myself, that I bought on my vacation in Japan some years ago figuring I could do something with them. I figured I'd ask here first instead of just making a topic, just 'cause I want to make sure if any translator is on board with this.

(The disbanding of my group is also why I haven't worked on my Senno Knife chapter; we planned a big chapter batch for our final release so I've been fairly occupied...)

>>15562>>15563>>15579 You know what I really admire from you guys that no matter what you always find time to scan, work togethet, and deliver this work to everyone without asking for anything in exchange. When I was younger I admire yuri scalators even more than the manga itself because it was like they put so much effort into this. I became an editor because I couldn't own yuri manga at home due to my family. You guys gave me inspiration. I am truly thankful for everything. Also to be a girl and be accepted to work here with the tuffest of the tuff...to really clean every scrape of dirt. I never gave up because I wanted to give a bit of me to the community. We will miss you qt, you always have a place here. I also get angry and stress with the manga. Doing 10pages a day with Citrus and then cleaning...and people wanting more and more...and I learn thanks to my comrades and Phyis that it isn't about satisfying others, it's about you, what makes you happy about yuri scanlation. If we don't translate this stories people who don't speak Japanese might never get to read this stories. We do it for us...most importantly and we do it for those who wait for a well done work. You always will have a home here. Thanks for all.

TIP of the day, For yp editors

Have you ever have trouble or an accident happen on a scan it was save above original and a white nasty

mark is on it or a mistake that can't be undone and good heavens you don't want to redraw again all that time invested on the redraw of that one scan

......and it feels like its the end of you, live sucks.

Editors its not the end, breath relax this

is my solution. Open up the original raw again on another Photoshop window change to rgb and drag the layer

it into the bottom layer of your edited scan the scan with the mistakes straighten up like the original original raw.

Using an eraser, erase mess up layer to reveal the bottom original raw like nothing had happen and merge layers together

using crtl+d, and you just rescue your scan edits. It always work with me. Got almost all the solutions to bad

editing days and never redraw again the same scan. Feel free to ask me email me diazdotkarina112@gmail.com

use

crl+z to undo alot easier than using drop menu ^^;

ctrl+J TO MAKE COPY OF any LAYER, COPY BACKGROUND AND EDITED LAYER 2 TO 3 TIMES SO YOU CAN GO BACK and correct mistakes.

Releases have decreased in numbers considerably this year - no doubt you've already noticed this, it's kinda hard not to. The reason behind this is several core staff members leaving to pursue other interests or dealing with real life priorities. This isn't unusual for a volunteer project such as this, there's always some significant turnover, but the timing and me being one of the people plagued with personal medical issues and general disinterest caused a lack of timely recruiting to the point where the site simply can't operate anymore.

While I do try to keep the lights on by dealing with technical issues as they occur, I simply have no interest on editing or handling releases anymore and neither does green. Now, what does that mean for YP? Until we've found someone capable to take over responsibility for releases there'll simply be no more releases on the home page. And if no one is willing by the end of the year, the site will cease operation entirely. If you're interested, please send a mail to phyis at yuriproject.net and we'll work something out.

I signed up as editor for a project called "Ice Skating" last summer, which I then cleaned right away - but ended out putting away due to

work on "Poolside", and later on due to work upon the sequel "Rainy Holiday". I thought it might be due time do some more with the "Ice

Skating" project now, i.e. to typeset it and then send in a version to QC.

I noticed that there were a few words/SFXs that had not been translated, and I thought it might be nice to have those translated too before I started the typesetting.

I am quite positive that the project tread was listed under "IN EDITING", but now I can't find it there or any other place either.

Did the uploader withdraw the offer, or has the thread disappeared for some other reason?

I have attached the first page from that project to this post, in case that might help trigger someones memory about this story. (I don't

want to upload all the files, in case this was an offer the original uploader withdraw.)

I just want to come by and thank everyone who work on citrus Procyon, Phyis, Keira, Musicgod, Hong and so many others if it wasnt for Yuri project continuing the series Seven seas wouldn't have notice the amount of support it had and wouldn't have publish it and now we got an anime! Citrus comimg out! I want to thank every single one of you for what you have done for me and every single girl and guy who wants a new fresh story of love between girls. A story they are able to connect with. I appreciate everything you do. Thanks can't be enough thank you Phyis for keeping this amazing thread. Thanks to anyone really who does yuri manga scanlation because we help projects like these get notice that is something we can take pride for.

>>20898

>Like that one example of using "bitch" seems pretty harsh. Japanese doesn't really use curse words as far as I know.

Do you mean the Japanese original for this particular phrase, or Japanese in general? Because if you're speaking in general, then you're definitely wrong. Politeness and rudeness exist in cultural context. The job of a translator is to convey the original meaning to a new audience, not to simply replace phrases with dictionary equivalent ones. If something is very rude in Japanese, it's often best translated into English by using profanity.

Words like "bitch" have many different meanings and many different uses - the way it's used in this quote is clearly meant to convey strong self-disgust. I'm not sure if it's correct here, since I don't have the original in front of me, so I can't comment on this particular instance. However, if you attempt to "correct" a translation with the mindset that no matter what the Japanese says, it's never the right choice to translate it into profanity in English, then I think you've completely missed the point of what translators are supposed to do.

If you weren't talking about Japanese in general and meant simply that this section of text doesn't merit the use of a swear word, then I apologize.

Would yuri project consider requesting that all their work be taken off Dynasty. They are getting a really bad reputation for attacking both scanlators and artists.

The claim they respect scanlators, but they publicly attack anyone who requests their work not be honest on their site. And often even ignore the take down request.

https://e-hentai.org/g/1111845/52e64e54b4/

This scanlator requested their work not be put on Dynasty.

They ignored that, and instead choose to start attacking the scanlator on their forums while uploading their work anyway.

The author of the doujin even requested that it be taken down, and they ignored that as well.

They say that have evidence that it was done by some boogieman they don't like, but whenever anyone asks them to show that evidence, they just ban the person instead.

This is not the first time Dynasty has attacked authors and scanlators, Phyis also knows about this.

>>20988

You have proof right in front of that shows they are not trust worthy. Your not being reasonable at all.

Drpepperfan is a know liar who refuses to give proof for anything he says.

I will give you a first hand example right now. Watch.

>>20989

Drpepperfan, ACK does not exist, it is something you made up along with Troid. Troid started attacking memembers of the scanlation community years ago. I have attached a file from the Dynasty IRC channel where Troid is openly attacking people from yuri project.

Troid also used his 4chan mod status to harass people anonymous. If you read the 4chan staff IRC logs Troid literally says he wants to "purge" people he doesn't like from the fan base.

If you have any proof at all supporting your claim that I or anyone else is "ack", post it now.

I will also note that Dynasty scans has multiple times in the past tried to steal credit for work other scanlators have done.

Here's logs and proof.

https://puu.sh/xu4Zl/6a24e7bbe6.png

Those logs can be confirmed as true because the admin himself posted them in this thread https://dynasty-scans.com/forum/topics/6305-strike-that-reverse-it

Read the pastebin links he provided.

Also in those links he admits to harassing users and doesn't care about being fair, all he cares about is that people cow toe to him.

Note that Dynasty thread is also them attacking another scanlator for no reason

And Procyon, talk to Phyis about this. They have proof that Troid has been attacking scanlators for years, I'm sure you'll listen to them more than me.

I think you should change your perspective. Anyone could take any comic you or I had worked on and host it somewhere without our permission. They could change the credit page and take credit for someone else's work. And there's nothing anyone could do to make them stop. This is because the usual recourse for IP theft - a lawsuit - is denied to us. And why is it denied to us? Because we are thieves. Not only legally, but morally as well, I don't think any scanlator is in a position to get angry about having our work stolen.

Dynasty is a great place to read yuri manga, because it's where (almost) all the yuri is. When I translate something, I'd like for it to be read - that's why I'm taking the time to translate it in the first place.

Basically, even if dynasty is stealing other people's work (I find that one hard to believe) and hosting stuff without permission (I'm actually amazed at the extent of their willingness to remove stuff when asked), it doesn't matter. Readers go there who will read the stuff I translate.

>>21012

No, I don't, and that's not even what I said. I said I trust them and contributors can choose on their own.

>I fail to see how I'm not reasonable when all I ask is that you explain why you're siding with people who attack and harass me as well as others.

Because I said from the start I don't want to share my reasons, and because the answer is just for your own benefit when I have no obligation to you, and it has absolutely no relevance to Yuri Project which this discussion should be about.

It has no relevance to YP because if Phyis or a lot of current contributors demand an admin who dislikes Dynasty, then I'll simply leave.

The discussion should also not be about "the wrongs of Dynasty" but "what should YP do about the wrongs of Dynasty". Which as it turns out, given the principals of YP, is nothing (though I gave the above option to request removal). And further posts to get some kind of reaction are just spam.

You've been banned for prolonging this discussion into futility and are ban-evading. Any more and I'm deleting this whole topic.

>>21017

I've changed my IP nearly every single post, I had no idea you were banning me. Though, you really shouldn't be announcing you're banning people who do nothing wrong, only makes you look bad.

>I said I trust them

That amounts to the SAME exact thing.

That said, you have exactly ZERO reason to trust them, given the proof that has been shown in this thread.

You attack me, help them, Dynasty, attack other people (thus causing damage to the fan base as a whole), so yeah, you do kind of owe an explanation as to why you think what you think. This is obviously a case of you just lying because you have no actual reason. In criminal law, no innocent person ever takes the 5th, because they'd have no reason to. You've spent more time refusing to give your reasons than it would have taken you to give them.

The irony is that you say I'm prolonging this when you could have just ended it in a single reply by giving your reasons (which actually don't exist).

Feel free to delete these posts, I have the whole thread saved in a archive.is link. So I have all the proof I need of what a kind of person you are.

http://archive.is/C1ZKC

Some stuff is happening in the background as a result of Phyis's sudden passing. Her wife wasn't left with passwords and some e-mail addresses are unknown, so I'm currently working with her and NameCheap to get ownership of the yuriproject.net domain.

The hosting will stop at the next "billing cycle" (anywhere from April 18 (1 month) to March 18, 2019 (1 year), I'll try to find out when), which means the homepage and wiki will go down. The boards are hosted (webmastered) by K-zed and are fine.

Before the homepage goes down I'm thinking of switching to a smaller homepage that can be hosted on the server of the boards. At least until a new website is ready and run by a new webmaster.

For that I'll try to have a mini homepage done soon and have the domain point to that as soon as I have control.

(you can see progress here: http://status.yuriproject.net/mini/ )

Who will be next webmaster is not sure yet (maybe WeatheredPeach).

>>21948

http://wiki.yuriproject.net/status provides a list of series awaiting translation. You can use that as a starting point, but entries in that list frequently do not reflect the actual state of the series in my experience, so be sure to double-check. Alternatively, you can trawl the history for threads containing raws, with a promise to edit if upon translation, if you're lucky.

I once previously asked what the best way is to find out what's been done. I was referred to https://dynasty-scans.com/ as the most comprehensive list of scanlated series available. This, coupled with the status page from above, should give a pretty good idea of whether or not a series you want to translate has already been worked on, in whole or in part.

Unless there's a thread listing stated intentions, I don't know how it's possible to divine what people plan to do. In general, creating a thread is the way to show interest. Promises to do work if others show interest are common, as well as proof of intent by way of initial work.

I wasn't able to acquire the yuriproject.net domain. Phyis used a lot of security and Namecheap can't legally help me or Phyis's widow further.

The domain will point to the current homepage IP and the boards IP until March 18, 2019. The homepage will go down at an unknown time. I can't find out when.

So WeatheredPeach, as new webmaster, will buy a new domain and we'll have to transition to that. For instance, the yuriproject.net link in credit pages (of future releases) will have to change, as well as on other sites like Dynasty, or people's bookmarks.

The static homepage that I made doesn't have comments, so I'm thinking of making a thread on the boards for that, that has perma-sage. I'm also thinking of switching the boards to another image board software, like NPFchan. It may be possible to merge the nsfw in with the safe board. Let me know if anyone is opposed.

I don't have access to the yuri_project twitter account. Tweets are made by a Wordpress plugin and it just has some tokens and keys. The account seems to have almost 2000 followers, but I wonder if they rely on twitter to be informed of new releases.

>>22406

Thanks to k-zed working a lot with me on the HTTPS and other server configurations since last week, there is now a new wiki at wiki.yuri-project.net.

Notes:

The syntax isn't the same as it was on the old wiki, but helper pages are available. (A somewhat more similar syntax can be chosen, too, but there is no full feature parity in either case.) The links are mostly the same.

I moved (and adapted) only the pages that seemed the most important and useful: (updated) Start, Guidelines, Editing Tutorial, and Project Status.

New pages cannot be created, and the pages aren't editable, with one exception.

Logged in users can edit the Project Status page. Cecile and others who might be interested, please create a user to be able to edit it, no other steps are required after that.

https://wiki.yuri-project.net/wiki/Project%20Status has the most recent content from http://wiki.yuriproject.net/status. You may want to take a look at http://wiki.yuriproject.net/wiki:threads too, and may use old format as inspiration. (Currently it's hard to see what is SFW and what isn't.)

In the future, depending on people's initiatives some restrictions may be removed. E.g. to make it possible to add back some of the old pages without assistance.

There is a link on the start page to the non-formatted old wiki pages. The link on the homepage will navigate to the new wiki soon if it's satisfactory. (Otherwise another engine or other solution will be found.)

Some changes are yet expected to be made to the new wiki in the near future. I would've preferred it not to have "wiki" twice in the URLs, but we ran into some technical difficulties while trying to get rid of it. It's still safe to make changes to the Project Status page in the meantime, because they won't be lost, and I'll write a notification about the expected downtime here.

If you'd rather convey a request or issue directly, please send a mail to admin@yuri-project.net. (If you ask, I'll send a mail about when the wiki won't be in service.)

Sorry for the length and all the details. Kinda tired and annoyed after dealing with the mentioned technical issue for several hours...

The wiki's looks are very close to the default, though it's our own theme based on that and it already contains a few little changes. If someone would like to work on it, let me know. n.n

The wiki maintenance is over. Since it went live over a hundred users have been registered. While I'm optimistic they are all real, it's suspicious. For this reason a very simple (text) CAPTCHA has been added. You need to pass it to register or edit a page.

I'll either create a group in the future for known page editors or find a way to keep it only for new user registration, to spare you from having to deal with it all the time if it's too annoying.

Since most of those users may be fake, I plan to remove them at some point. Those who edited the Project Status page will obviously remain, as well as any I can recognize. If you didn't edit that page but would like to keep your wiki user, please send a mail to admin@yuri-project.net with your user name from the address you registered with, please! (Otherwise you'll just have to register again.)

The unidentified users will be removed a week from now.

>>22883

Ah, sorry about the bit of confusion, I tend to operate entirely off of mobile so I'm not too articulate. The wiki pages are great resources for myself, both for Tsubomi and for getting a general feel of the magazines, so I was just making sure they weren't going to be lost to the ether when the old site closes down. I'll update and maintain the Tsubomi pages (I have an excel spreadsheet that's tracking a lot of the same information already) and then do the same for the others when I have some time.

I'd love to get some modern magazines up there at some point, like Galette, but that would be a bigger endeavor since I don't really know any Japanese.

>>22887

Thanks so much to both of you! It means a lot!

Do you have any larger plans for the wiki? I've been collecting a lot of scanlation resources and guides for setting up the Tsubomi group if those are something you'd be interested in.

Also also, would you be interested, at some time in the future, in a Trello board to track your projects? I can send you ours if you want to see how it looks (though, there aren't many projects in process right now). Not that I have time to set one up right now >_>

>>22887

The wiki will be down from 5:30 PM UTC for at most half an hour. Then I'll update the manga pages to make use of what will have gotten added during maintenance.

>>22896

Losing them completely should never have been an option. We have copies of them, and the raw version of all the old wiki pages are also available through a link on the new wiki's start page.

They are certainly less accessible in that form, but the main focus before any of the wiki pages is to bring back all the old posts that aren't yet on the new homepage. Procyon and I don't have any larger plans for the wiki, but pages requested for any reasonable purpose will be created.

>Trello

One of the reasons we don't have bigger plans for the wiki is that we're thinking about adding a new status page, that'd get some data from the boards, if possible. It'll take time we don't have too much of, though. I already mentioned Trello as an option after seeing it being used both by scanlation groups and others. I'd be interested in what yours is like and what it's capable of.

>>23975

The cat's original name was written ミケ in the original. I didn't try to change Piranhaplant's translation to "Mikay" because "Mike" is a common English name, often used as a nickname for "Micheal." Rendering ミケ as "Mike" might lead readers to read the cat's as though it were pronounced like the English name, when that doesn't match the cat's name in the original. (It wasn't マイク, the standard Japanese adaptation of the English "Mike" or "mic.") "Mikay" transliterates the pronunciation of the name more unambiguously than a rigid adherance to Hepburn would.

The fact that the name is surrounded by English, and not other transliterated Japanese words, would prime most readers to assume the マイク pronunciation, because that's what's most familiar in an Anglophone context. In my mind, this further justifies the non-standard transliteration "Mikay" for the purpose of preservation and disambiguation.

I assume that's why Piranhaplant did it in the first place, but I never asked, so I can't be certain. If you'd like to ask directly, there's contact information available on Piranhaplant's blog, https://piranhaplant1.blogspot.com/ .

>>24564

I'd recommend getting some Japanese language textbooks and going through them. If you're a native English speaker, I'd recommend the Genki series of books, since that's what I used. http://genki.japantimes.co.jp/index_en

Otherwise, it might be best to find textbooks for your native language. It's very important to learn the basics of the language, and language textbooks are good for that. At a bare minimum, you need to know:

1) all the kana

2) the basic particles: は、が、を、の、に、へ、から、より、と etc

3) verb forms: ichidan and godan forms for present, past, negatives, te-forms, causative, passive, potential, and combinations thereof. Basically everything on this chart https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/6/68/AMB_Japanese_Verbs.pdf

4) adjectives: i-adjectives and na-adjectives

5) quotation and discourse

6) attributive verbs and sentence order

7) some kanji. Because of handwriting recognition, multi-radical search, and OCR, it's not super critical to learn to recognize all the kanji on sight. But the more you know, the better.

Once you've mastered the fundamentals, you can improve your knowledge by practicing translating. I learned a lot by writing out translations for manga. At first I encountered a lot of grammatical forms I wasn't familiar with, so I had to check my Japanese-English grammar dictionary very frequently (note: find an actual dictionary of grammatical forms, don't just use a general-purpose dictionary for grammar). I think the most important thing at this stage is to force yourself to learn from your mistakes. Recognize when you don't know something, and put in the effort to find an answer. Never let yourself be satisfied with a guess, because then you'll just get in the habit of guessing. Since manga is a visual medium, it's often really easy to guess what the text means. That's not the same as translating, and if you rely on that too much then you'll end up making a lot of mistakes. I think we've all seen manga where the "translator" very obviously just recognized a few words in each line and extrapolated from there without actually understanding what was being said.

Anyways, I think there are enough resources available that anyone who solidly knows the basics of Japanese can put out a decent translation with enough time and effort, and you'll learn more through the process.