Although Netflix and Amazon Prime is dominating the market of online movie streaming service, there are other popular websites that provide streaming services that are literally free. Not all Movie lover buy a subscription to Netflix or Amazon Prime. There are thousands of user who watch free movies, anime, TV shows online on websites.

One of those popular movie streaming service provider is SolarMovie. Basically, SolarMovie is a website that provides links to its users in one place to the latest and most popular films on the Web. However, SolarMovie is not limited just to movies, unlike many other streaming movie websites. They do have links to their website’s most famous TV show ever.

Recently some ISPs have prohibited the website of SolarMovie. There is also a potential that the website of SolarMovie may not be available. So movie lovers are in search of an alternative to Solarmovie. So I have researched and listed down some of the Best SolarMovie alternatives. You can also check my hot list of the best site to watch anime here.

List of Best SolarMovie Alternatives

Vumoo is one of the best Solarmovie alternatives. Vumoo.io harbour thousands of movies and TV shows available for online streaming just like SolarMovie. Vumoo’s online webpage usually features Hollywood movies and popular English TV series, but the site also has numerous foreign films available for online streaming. The website has multiple Japanese, Korean and Chinese films. Vumoo also has several animated films and series.

Features:

Ocean of Free online Movies

TV Series are available.

The website provides a search button to easily reach your favourite movie.

Unlimited Content

Allows you to stream and watch movies in HD quality.

VISIT VUMOO SITE

Movie4k.to is a user-contributed video directory for television programs and films which is previously known as Movie2k.to. It is aggregation-website acting as a search index for online videos. In May 2013, Movie2k.to was shut down by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) due to copyright infringement concerns, but shortly after reopened.

It primarily serves English and German-speaking areas. However, the site is also no longer accessible in the UK, Denmark, and customers of some ISPs in Austria due to ISPs blocking the site.

Movie4k is one of the best alternatives to SolarMovie because of its huge movie library.

Features:

It offers a wide-ranging list of the most popular TV shows and movies.

Provides impressive speed of streaming.

Search and category option available

Absolutely Free

Quality remarks are there.

VISIT MOVIES4K SITE

MoviesJoy is a streaming website where you can find almost any title that comes to mind to stream or download. We provide free movies and TV shows for every genre and occasion such as Action, Comedy, History, Thriller, Sports etc. New titles are updated on a daily basis to make sure you never need to leave.

MoviesJoy is one of the biggest gems you can find when it comes to free online movie streaming. More than ten thousands of titles are free for you to watch online or download with zero ads. Normally movie enthusiasts have to pay for paid content or sit through multiple ads and popups, but at MoviesJoy, all you need is the Internet, a device, and your time to enjoy our contents.

MoviesJoy doesn’t require your name, your email, and your credit card number as we don’t ask for a signup. Therefore, you can stay completely anonymous by using a VPN (if preferred). MoviesJoy has been a safe place for millions of users so rest assured, you can watch our movies and TV shows without worries.

Features:

Safety

Minimal UI design

Extensive content library

Great streaming Experience

Great customer care

No Ads and Popups

Device Compatibility

VISIT MOVISJOY SITE

Yifymovies is one of the most popular movie site and a strong competitor for solarmovies. Yify movies harbour a huge collection of movies and TV shows. One impressive thing about YifyMovies is that it uploads the latest movies very quickly.

Features:

Sorting options are available.

Rating, genres, ratings, and release year of movies are provided with filters.

Hd Quality Movies.

High Speed, no buffering.

VISIT YIFYMOVIES SITE

WatchmOviesFree provides free viewing of any movie and TV series. This site does not store files on our servers. They claim to have the goal to give people emotions from watching movies or favourite TV shows.

Features:

HD Quality movies available

Online Streaming as well as the downloading option is also available.

Absolutely Free

Search Button and Category option available, which will help users to navigate the site.

VISIT WATCHMOVIEFREE SITE

Features:

Search button and category available

Free content

HD Quality Movies

VISIT BMOVIES SITE

Cinebloom is a site that also provides an online movie streaming service. Cinebloom is a great solarmovie substitute. Cinebloom is a platform, where you can find all the latest released movies and web series in HD quality.

Features:

Search option available

Category for easy navigation

Most recent released movies and TV shows available

Free

VISIT CINEBLOOM SITE

LookMovie is infamous piracy promoting website. This illegal website provides many pirated movies and series to internet users for free illegally. LookMovie website is accessed by users all over the world for its illegal content. The website is known to leak movies within hours of its release. Lookmovie is used to download Hollywood movies and to watch Hollywood full length movies online. It is a strong solarmovie alternative.

Features:

Provides search button

Categories are there to navigate through movies easily

Movies rating are available

VISIT LOOKMOVIE SITE

MovieWatcher is an illegal streaming website that streams movies for free. The website provides content in various languages. It also caters to various sections in movies. It only lets its users and visitors stream the movies but also lets them download this content for free. MovieWatcher is one of the most common websites to stream movies and other video material on your computer, such as web series, tv shows, award shows, etc. Thus MovieWatcher can be a great choice as Solarmovie alternative.

The MovieWatcher website contains pirated material from various sites and has in the past been brought in by the authorities. MovieWatcher’s website houses a list containing a wide variety of videos as well as other materials such as web-shows and tv shows.

The website was shut offline by the government some time back, but other duplicate pages cropped up as soon as it went offline. Authorities are always on the lookout for such websites because they host pirated content.

VISIT MOVIEWATCHER SITE

The Putlocker.is streaming portal is one of the most popular websites in the USA besides 123movies. Around 100 million page views are generated there every day. The visitors want to consume TV series and current cinema films for free. There are no fees.

he Putlocker streaming portal is one of the many points of contact if you want to quickly watch one of the latest films currently running in the cinema on your home monitor. No entry, no argument about the armrest, you just have to bring the popcorn yourself.

You can directly search for the movies you want to see and enjoy the movie for free.

VISIT PUTLOCKER SITE

GoMovies is considered by online users as one of the biggest online portals and most popular sites for downloading free Hollywood and Netflix Movies or TV series. This global piracy website enables a user to download a vast resource of free online movies and series. These pirated films are uploaded as soon as they are released or sometimes even before their release.

This site is very much similar to that of Putlocker. The GoMovies Bollywood section provides the netizens to view and download Hollywood and Bollywood films without any charges. The site is responsible for providing users with easy access to download pirated videos for free across the globe. The site has a super clean design and thus a good contender to compete SolarMovie.

The site also has an additional features of theme which provide one dark theme and one night theme.