In 2004, Tsinghua University published a book called "Liang Sicheng, Lin Huiyin and Me". The cover of the book is Liang Sicheng and Lin Huiyin standing side by side, smiling. The author of the book is Lin Zhu, Liang Sicheng's second wife.

Everyone knows that Liang Sicheng and Lin Huiyin are gods and goddesses. The two words "with me" at the end of the book's title seem to be superfluous, but it is this little-known ordinary woman who accompanies Liang Gong to go. Ended the rest of his life. In 1971, Liang Gong was hospitalized. When Chen Zhanxiang went to the hospital to visit, Liang Gong said this: "In recent years, thanks to Lin Zhu!"

and The fate of all this must start from Lin Huiyin.

In 1948, Lin Zhu finished his middle school education in Shanghai and received admission notices from two private universities. However, the tuition fees of private universities are relatively expensive. Lin Zhu’s brother is already studying at a private university and his family is no longer Raise the cost of another private university for children.

Coincidentally at this time, Lin Zhu’s boyfriend Cheng Yingquan came to teach in the Department of Architecture of Tsinghua University, so Lin Zhu’s father wrote to Lin Huiyin, a fellow teacher at Tsinghua University, hoping that she could help Lin Zhu to pre-study at Tsinghua University Class learning.

Just like this Lin Zhu came to the Department of Architecture of Tsinghua University with her boyfriend. Lin Zhu, who first arrived at Tsinghua University, wore a headscarf, wore a dress with a covered hip, and showed slender calves with a sunny smile. .

Lin Zhu and Liang Sicheng first met in the building of the Department of Architecture of Tsinghua University. Lin Zhu recalled: “Walking in the corridor of the Department of Architecture, there was a A middle-aged man with a small stature and a hunchback. He wears an elegant suit and a pair of wide-brimmed eyes."

Liang Sicheng is also witty and funny. When he saw Lin Zhu, he said, "It's Miss Lin? I guess. Right? This beautiful girl must be Miss Lin."

Whether "Miss Lin" was beautiful when she was young, this remains to be verified, but one thing is certain, compared with Lin Huiyin in "April on Earth" The beauty of this "Miss Lin" can basically be ignored, and Liang Sicheng is just polite to say that she is beautiful here.

As a result, people are not as good as heaven. Because of the turmoil in the current situation, Tsinghua University has been arguing over the relocation of the school site, and the preparatory class was closed that year. Lin Huiyin decided to personally tutor Lin Zhu's English, so Lin Zhu became a frequent visitor to Liang Sicheng's family, and naturally the relationship with Liang Sicheng and Lin Huiyin also got closer.

And Lin Zhu’s boyfriend Cheng Yingquan, a lecturer in the Civil Engineering Department of Tsinghua University, is Liang Sicheng’s proud pupil. One is a student of Lin Huiyin and the other is a student of Liang Sicheng. As expected, when Lin Zhu and Cheng Yingquan were combined, Liang Sicheng and Lin Huiyin became the biggest pillars behind them.

In 1949, Lin Zhu and Cheng Yingquan got married. The two young people were impoverished. Lin Huiyin took his own passbook and helped them with the wedding, which made a couple of Bi people. Liang Sicheng was the contender for their wedding. He and Lin Huiyin also gave the newlyweds a set of precious Qing Dynasty official kiln blue and white porcelain cups and plates.

If the next thing does not happen, how wonderful it all looks.

In 1955, the 51-year-old Lin Huiyin passed away. When Lin Huiyin died, Liang Sicheng was also hospitalized in Tongren Hospital due to tuberculosis, but the blow to Liang Sicheng in this year was much more than that. In this year, Liang Sicheng was designated as a "bourgeois scholar", and for the next seven years Here, Liang Sicheng was physically and mentally hit, and a person savored the boundless bitterness and loneliness of life in the long dark night.

And Lin Zhu, as the secretary of the Department of Architecture in 1959, was responsible for helping Liang Sicheng deal with materials and documents. The two had frequent contact, talked and chatted together, Lin Zhu also cooked some side dishes from time to time and gave them to Liang Sicheng's mother-in-law.

It was probably a sunny day in 1962. If there is no sunshine outdoors, the hearts of the two of them must be sunny, because they read a poem by Lin Huiyin: "Forget the shyness, I must turn it over. Face it, tell a bunch of crazy things in front of you!"

The next day, Lin Zhu received an application full of "crazy talk":

I really did not expect that you would come here suddenly at this time, breaking the loneliness of so many years. Give me my great happiness. You must never take it back suddenly! If I formally send you an "application", I wonder how you "approved" the law? I have been completely captured by you.

The signature is "Uncertainty"!

Just like this, the two got married. Lin Zhu devoted himself to taking care of his 27-year-old husband Liang Sicheng, and his ex-wife’s 80-year-old mother, Ms. He Xueyuan. After Liang Sicheng's death, she was only 44 years old and she was only 44 years old for the rest of her life. He only did one thing, sorted out Liang Sicheng's materials and documents, and published more than 100 books about Liang Sicheng and his academic achievements.

If you look at this paragraph, it is not an exaggeration to say that it is a romantic idol drama. The woman is small and charming, and the man is a great love poem written by the leading architect in the Chinese society at that time. "Love doesn't know where it started, but goes deeper", I was captured by you.

But if you know what happened below, you don’t know what you will think!

In 1957, Lin Zhu’s ex-husband, Cheng Yingquan, was positioned as a “rightist”. The reason why he was named a “rightist” was nothing else. It was precisely because he supported Lin Huiyin’s view of urban transformation. The two children divorced, and both children changed their surnames to Lin.

The student was regarded as a “rightist” for supporting the teacher’s point of view. As a result, his wife was separated. Four years later, the teacher turned around and married the student’s wife. Moreover, everyone was working in the same building. , Don’t you think your life is awkward?

Cheng Yingquan’s niece said when Lin Zhu and Cheng Yingquan divorced, there is a saying, "Lin Zhuhe said when he divorced him in 58 years, he only had two things to make Lin Zhu feel good, one is In 1956, as a member of a delegation of Chinese architects, he visited Poland and other Eastern European countries. At that time, Lin Zhu was very beautiful as the wife of a young architect. Another thing was that his uncle translated a very good book and got a lot of money. "

Lin Zhu also said that he can remarry if he takes off the "rightist" hat within two years. After listening to these words, you can think of Cheng Yingquan’s despair. On the eve of her marriage to Liang Sicheng, she talked to Cheng Yingquan in the department and asked him if there was any possibility of remarrying. Cheng Yingquan replied: “It is impossible!”

After divorce, as The child’s biological father finds it hard to see the children. Every time he meets secretly, he doesn’t dare to let Lin Zhu know, otherwise the children will be beaten severely by her, and he often mistakenly calls other people’s daughters "little sister" , Because that is the nickname of his daughter Lin Tong.

Cheng Yingquan also tried to start a new life and fell in love with a woman who was a few years younger. This woman also fell in love with him, but after graduation, the department deliberately assigned her to the Yunnan-Guizhou Plateau. How could a "rightist" deserve it? In love?

On December 3, 1968, Cheng Yingquan changed into a brand-new suit that he was reluctant to wear and jumped into the Tsinghua swimming pool. At that time, he was only 49 years old. He used his life to do the saddest thing for the marriage of Lianglin and Lin. Footnotes.

So it is not difficult to imagine Liang Sicheng's remarriage. His daughter Liang Zaibing strongly opposed, and even mobilized the family's uncle to write to Liang Sicheng admonition. When Lin Zhu removed the indoor photo of Lin Huiyin, Liang Zaibing directly slapped Lin Zhu and did not go home for several years. This incident spread to Peking University, and the teachers and students applauded for a while.

Lin Zhu and Liang Sicheng have been married for nearly 10 years. After Liang Sicheng passed away, Lin Zhu published many books saying that Liang Sicheng loved her very much, even after one book. Half of the publication is all love letters written by Liang Sicheng to her. Let's not say whether this approach is appropriate. Readers feel that they are very numb after reading those love letters, and they don't know how embarrassed they are to publish them publicly.

Right and wrong are in the hearts of the people. After many years of reading Lin Huiyin’s story, I saw these sorrows, and then the book mentioned at the beginning of the article is called "Liang Sicheng, Lin Huiyin and"I" is actually an autobiography of Lin Zhu that has been published for many years, but no one cares about it after it was published. Later, it became a best seller under the name Lin Huiyin. It has been republished many times, but there are many inaccuracy and misleading in the book. A lot of readers.

Lin Zhu himself was able to be whitewashed, saying that history is a little girl dressed up. There is no way to verify what happened back then. I just hope everyone can see more facts.