Chart Korbjitti is a Thai writer.

Chart Korbjitti was born on June 25, 1954, in Samut Sakhon, Samut Sakhon, Thailand. His birth geographical coordinates are 13° 32’ 51” North latitude and 100° 16’ 25” East longitude. Chart Korbjitti is currently 70 years old.

Astrologically, Chart Korbjitti falls under the Sun sign of Cancer, with Virgo as his Ascendant, Aries as his Moon sign, and Scorpio as his Black Moon Lilith sign.

Planets

Planets represent different aspects of personality, life themes, and energies within a birth chart, influencing individual characteristics, motivations, and experiences.

Planets in Signs

Planets in a zodiac sign denote how the energies and qualities associated with those planets express themselves within the context of the themes and attributes of that particular zodiac sign.

Sun Cancer Moon Aries Mercury Cancer Venus Leo Mars Capricorn Jupiter Cancer Saturn Scorpio Uranus Cancer Neptune Libra Pluto Leo Ceres Libra Chiron Capricorn Eros Scorpio Hygiea Leo Juno Virgo Pallas Virgo Vesta Taurus Ascendant Virgo Black Moon Lilith Scorpio Midheaven Gemini North Node Capricorn South Node Cancer Part of Fortune Cancer Vertex Aries

Sunin Cancer3° 6’ 35”

What does it mean to be a Cancer Sun? The Cancer Sun in the Natal Chart makes you emotional and subject to your moods. You […] Read more »

Moonin Aries20° 35’ 32”

The Moon in Aries in a Natal Chart makes you determined and focused. You are intense and can be passionate and optimistic. Your moods drive […] Read more »

Mercuryin Cancer18° 39’ 57”

Mercury in Cancer in a Natal Chart makes you sensitive and thoughtful. You are imaginative and can be introverted. You frequently think about your feelings […] Read more »

Venusin Leo8° 51’ 33”

Leo Venus in the Natal Chart makes you bold and creative in love. You are attractive and popular, easily gaining attention. You are passionate about […] Read more »

Marsin Capricorn2° 29’ 23”

Capricorn Mars in the Natal Chart makes you eager to thrive. You are intense and can be persistent. You are patient and willing to face […] Read more »

Jupiterin Cancer7° 7’ 46”

Cancer Jupiter in the Natal Chart makes you an opinionated advocate for your loved ones. You nurture ideas and explore your philosophical beliefs about security, […] Read more »

Saturnin Scorpio2° 44’ 58”

Is Saturn in Scorpio good or bad? Scorpio Saturn in the Natal Chart is an ideal placement for a generation obsessed with security and power. […] Read more »

Uranusin Cancer22° 5’ 12”

Cancer Uranus in the Natal Chart indicates you are part of a generation that dramatically changes society. Your breakthroughs and epiphanies help redefine home and […] Read more »

Neptunein Libra23° 18’ 43”

Libra Neptune in the Natal Chart indicates you are part of a generation that craves connection. You want intellectual and emotional intimacy. You are artistic […] Read more »

Plutoin Leo23° 8’ 23”

The Pluto in Leo generation empowers celebrities, giving those with status the authority to lead. Society is materialistic during this transit, and you are part […] Read more »

Ceresin Libra5° 22’ 8”

Ceres in Libra in the Natal Chart is an ideal placement for a generation that supports beauty and justice. You help others feel comfortable and […] Read more »

Chironin Capricorn27° 11’ 19”

Chiron in Capricorn in the Natal Chart is an ideal placement for healing from subconscious wounds related to work, money, and security. You are productive […] Read more »

Erosin Scorpio19° 50’ 35”

Eros in Scorpio in the Natal Chart makes you intense and overwhelming. You are passionate and dramatic as you pursue your sexual desires. You are […] Read more »

Hygieain Leo9° 35’ 41”

You are a pioneer who explores new health products and routines. You can be expressive and eager to lead others to improve their health. When […] Read more »

Junoin Virgo2° 9’ 0”

Juno in Virgo in the Natal Chart makes you reserved and traditional. You take a cautious approach to settling down and are slow to fall […] Read more »

Pallasin Virgo9° 52’ 17”

Pallas in Virgo in the Natal Chart makes you sincere and authentic. You speak your mind about health issues and can persuade others to follow […] Read more »

Vestain Taurus27° 42’ 1”

Vesta in Taurus in the Natal Chart makes you sincere and compassionate. You are passionate about creating comfort and beauty. You seek romance and can […] Read more »

Ascendantin Virgo28° 6’ 12”

Virgo Ascendant in the Natal Chart makes you thoughtful and discerning. You have an intellectual and analytical personality. You may have a bookish appearance and […] Read more »

Black Moon Lilithin Scorpio1° 11’ 18”

Scorpio Black Moon Lilith in the Natal Chart is passionate about bringing transformation and empowerment. You are hedonistic and seek sexual expression and freedom. You […] Read more »

Midheavenin Gemini28° 14’ 11”

The Gemini Midheaven in the Natal Chart indicates you are creative and imaginative. You are curious and need change and variety in your career. Your […] Read more »

North Nodein Capricorn15° 28’ 27”

Capricorn North Node in the Natal Chart makes you eager to face your hardships and can bring challenges that lead you to evolve and grow. […] Read more »

South Nodein Cancer15° 28’ 27”

Cancer South Node makes you an ideal caregiver. You are maternalistic and can be empathetic and sensitive. You are attuned to your intuition and use […] Read more »

Part of Fortunein Cancer15° 35’ 8”

Cancer Part of Fortune in the Natal Chart indicates you are creative and comforting. You are nurturing and can be loving and sensitive. You are […] Read more »

Planets in Elements

Planets in elements denote how the fundamental energies and qualities associated with those planets interact with the elemental nature of the signs they inhabit, shaping an individual’s overall temperament and approach to life.

Water Element

Astrologers and other occultists study the water element to understand emotional healing. This element relates to love and compassion. Numerous planets in water signs in […] Read more »

Earth Element

The earth element in astrology is associated with practicality and grounding. This element is associated with career and wealth. Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn are signs […] Read more »

Fire Element

The fire element in astrology is associated with passion and motivation. This element brings creativity and intensifies planets and natal houses. Your competitive nature comes […] Read more »

Air Element

The air element in astrology corresponds to three signs; Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius. This element is associated with new insights and perspectives. The air element […] Read more »

Planets in Qualities

Planets in qualities signify how the inherent attributes and tendencies of those planets align with the modalities of the signs they occupy, influencing an individual’s style of action, decision-making, and engagement with the world.

Cardinal Quality

The Cardinal quality in astrology is associated with new seasons and initiative. Cardinal signs mark the equinoxes and solstices. The Cardinal modality represents the extremes […] Read more »

Fixed Quality

The second Quality in astrology is the Fixed modality. Fixed Signs follow the Cardinal Signs, bringing strength and endurance. These signs build upon the foundation […] Read more »

Mutable Quality

The third Quality astrological signs are grouped into is mutable. Mutable Signs come at the end of a season. Mutable Signs are associated with flexibility […] Read more »

Planets in Houses

Planets in a zodiac house signify where in life’s areas and experiences the energies and influences of those planets are predominantly focused and expressed.

Sun Tenth House Moon Seventh House Mercury Tenth House Venus Eleventh House Mars Fourth House Jupiter Tenth House Saturn Second House Uranus Tenth House Neptune First House Pluto Eleventh House Ceres First House Chiron Fourth House Eros Second House Hygiea Eleventh House Juno Twelfth House Pallas Twelfth House Vesta Eighth House Black Moon Lilith Second House North Node Fourth House South Node Tenth House Part of Fortune Tenth House Vertex Seventh House

Aspects

Aspects reveal the dynamic relationships and interactions between planets within a birth chart, influencing the way their energies combine and manifest in an individual’s life experiences and personality traits.

Within this birth chart, there are 15 major aspects, alongside 12 minor aspects, as well as 9 extra aspects.

Major Aspects

Major aspects highlight significant connections between planets, providing insights into key dynamics, challenges, and potentials shaping an individual’s life journey and psychological makeup.

Sun Trine Saturn Mars Sextile Saturn Neptune Sextile Pluto Sun Opposite Mars Moon Square Uranus Uranus Square Neptune Moon Square Mercury Moon Opposite Neptune Moon Trine Pluto Mercury Conjunct Uranus Sun Conjunct Jupiter Jupiter Trine Saturn Mercury Square Neptune Mars Opposite Jupiter Venus Square Saturn

Explore detailed articles on the major aspects in this birth chart, gaining deeper insights into this cosmic identity. Dive into each aspect and uncover how it shapes Chart Korbjitti’s life journey.

Sun Trine Saturnorb: 0°

The Sun trine Saturn in the Natal Chart makes you an old soul. You have a link to history and love learning about the past. […] Read more »

Mars Sextile Saturnorb: 0°

Mars sextile Saturn in a chart typically indicates that a person is patient and willing to wait for the things they want, but also knows […] Read more »

Sun Opposite Marsorb: 1°

The Sun opposite Mars in the Natal Chart indicates a discrepancy between your talents and energy. You may overpromise, assuming you have the focus and […] Read more »

Moon Square Uranusorb: 1°

The Moon square Uranus in a Natal Chart creates a tie between emotions and chaos. Someone with this square in their chart likely seeks out […] Read more »

Moon Square Mercuryorb: 2°

The Moon square Mercury in a chart will bring some conflict between a person’s heart and mind, but this conflict will have benefits. It brings […] Read more »

Moon Opposite Neptuneorb: 3°

When the Moon is opposite Neptune in a Natal Chart, this can cause a person to be completely confused and entirely unaware of themselves. They […] Read more »

Moon Trine Plutoorb: 3°

The Moon trine Pluto in a chart typically indicates that someone can develop profound connections with themselves, others, and the universe. Someone with this trine […] Read more »

Mercury Conjunct Uranusorb: 3°

Mercury conjunct Uranus in the Natal Chart makes you unpredictable. You are rebellious and can speak your mind. You may blurt out your ideas impulsively. […] Read more »

Sun Conjunct Jupiterorb: 4°

The Sun conjunct Jupiter in the Natal Chart amplifies your greatest strengths. You are generous and compassionate toward people in need. You can be the […] Read more »

Mars Opposite Jupiterorb: 5°

Mars opposite Jupiter in a chart typically indicates that a person has the potential to be highly successful. They will face challenges but are often […] Read more »

Minor Aspects

Minor aspects represent subtler connections between planets, offering additional nuances and layers of interpretation to understand more detailed influences on an individual’s personality and experiences.

Sun Square Vertex Mars Trine Juno Mars Square Vertex Saturn Quincunx Vertex Sun Sextile Juno Moon Quincunx Eros Mercury Trine Eros Venus Conjunct Hygiea Mars Sextile Black Moon Lilith Saturn Sextile Juno Sun Trine Black Moon Lilith Saturn Conjunct Black Moon Lilith

Discover additional layers of meaning with this collection of articles on the minor aspects found in Chart Korbjitti’s birth chart. Delve deeper into these cosmic nuances to gain a richer understanding of this astrological profile.

Sun Square Vertexorb: 0°

When the Sun squares the Vertex in a Natal Chart, you have unique insights into your fate. Yet your best advancements toward your purpose come […] Read more »

Sun Sextile Junoorb: 1°

The Sun sextile Juno in the Natal Chart makes you attentive to home and family. You are inspired by your loved ones and support your […] Read more »

Moon Quincunx Erosorb: 1°

The Moon quincunx Eros in a chart can create a disconnect between emotional and sexual needs. Anyone with this aspect in their chart will feel […] Read more »

Venus Conjunct Hygieaorb: 1°

Venus conjunct Hygiea in the Natal Chart makes you conscientious about your health, appearance, and wellness. You need clean and organized atmospheres to feel comfortable. […] Read more »

Extra Aspects

Extra aspects, though less emphasized than major or minor aspects, contribute subtle nuances and intricacies to the overall astrological interpretation, offering additional insights into an individual’s personality traits and life experiences.

Juno Quincunx Vertex Vesta Trine Ascendant Ascendant Square Midheaven North Node Opposite Part of Fortune South Node Conjunct Part of Fortune Chiron Trine Vesta Chiron Trine Ascendant Chiron Quincunx Midheaven Juno Sextile Black Moon Lilith

Explore how these extra aspects contribute to the intricate tapestry of Chart Korbjitti’s life path through subtler influences. Dive into each extra aspect and uncover the hidden gems that shape a unique cosmic identity.

South Node Conjunct Part of Fortuneorb: 0°

The South Node, conjunct with the Part of Fortune in the Natal Chart, aligns you with your past-life wisdom. When you replay lessons from your […] Read more »

Houses

A house starting in a zodiac sign indicates the area of life where the qualities and themes of that sign are particularly emphasized and influential within an individual’s birth chart.