A great student city

With a population of about 450,000, Leicester is the 10th largest city in the UK. Located in the East Midlands, Leicester offers a safe and vibrant city environment, with beautiful rolling countryside just past the city limits.

Leicester ranked among the top 10 most affordable cities for students in the UK in NatWest’s 2021 rankings. But the low-price tag doesn’t mean there’s less on offer; Leicester is home to a huge number of student-friendly restaurants, cafes, bars, nightclubs, galleries, and theatres. If you’re a sports fan, there are plenty of gyms and clubs to join around the city, as well as Leicester City FC, Leicester Tigers Rugby Club and the Leicestershire County Cricket Club.

Besides the entertainment, Leicester has all the amenities you need. There are plenty of supermarket options as well as the UK’s largest open-air market where you can buy inexpensive goods and produce. In terms of transport, there is an extensive network of buses; getting around the city by bike is also an easy and affordable option.

Festivals and events

Leicester residents enjoy festival fun throughout the year. From the famous Comedy Festival to the biggest Diwali party outside India, Leicester’s festival programme has got something for everyone.

Diverse and welcoming

Leicester is one of the UK’s most diverse cities, meaning you’ll be able to find the comforts of home just as easily as you can try something completely new.

Leicester is one of the most culturally diverse cities in the UK. In fact, one road in Leicester is officially the most diverse street in the UK with 22 nationalities among its shops and cafes!

There are restaurants and shops selling food and produce from all around the world, as well as cultural events throughout the year.

For example, Leicester is home to the biggest Diwali festival outside of India. This event takes place on the Golden Mile – an area home to a vast array of Indian jewellers, restaurants, and shops. There’s also the Caribbean Carnival each summer. This colourful street party is one of the largest celebrations of Caribbean culture in the UK.

Find out more