Normally, it wouldn’t be news that a 2007 Chris Rock dramedy hit Hulu, but I Think I Love My Wife is more than just a forgotten flick. It is at the center at one of a long simmering rumor about Chris Rock and Kerry Washington. You see, Chris Rock revealed in a 2017 stand up set that he had cheated three times on his wife, once with a famous actress. The gossip is that actress was his I Think I Love My Wife co-star Kerry Washington.

Page Six reported in 2017 that the “famous” woman Rock had an affair with was Washington, and they added that “buzz” about the hookup started back in 2007, but no one reported it. One unnamed source told Page Six, “He was cheating on his wife with Kerry when they were filming [I Think I Love My Wife] about him, ironically, having fantasies of cheating on his wife. That went on for a while, for like six months, and she found out. There’s no gray area.”

Another source, this one “close to Rock,” didn’t wholly confirm this rumor, but they also didn’t totally deny it. “[Rock] was friends with Kerry around that time. They did the movie together. He was also separated from [Rock’s ex-wife] Malaak around that time. They were off-and-on a lot during their marriage. It was a rocky situation.”

Now, it’s important to remember that neither Rock nor Washington has confirmed that there was an affair, so this is just gossip. Nevertheless the reason why this story is especially juicy because it would give I Think I Love My Wife an extra oomph of meta-ness.

I Think I Love My Wife is a remake of Éric Rohmer’s classic film Chloe in the Afternoon. That French film, like I Think I Love My Wife, is about a married man who finds himself tempted by a younger, sexier woman. Chris Rock wrote, directed, and starred in I Think I Love My Wife, and Kerry Washington plays Nikki, the incorrigible seductress. So the rumor is basically that Chris Rock cheated on his wife while filming a movie about cheating on his wife, and he cheated on her with the object of his lust in the film. Oh, and he directed the film, too, so it’s almost like he crafted his own fantasy on film — and possibly acted upon it in real life.

As cinema goes, I Think I Love My Wife is rather blah — you’d be much better served carving out time to watch Chloe in the Afternoon — but as a chapter in Hollywood gossip history, I Think I Love My Wife is explosive.