Peacefully passed away at Maple View Extendicare on Saturday, April 10, 2021 at the age of 93.

Jean was married to Stuart Livingstone MacDougall Jr. (late 2009). Mother of Charlotte Ann (Hugh Murray), Robert Douglas Stuart (Joanna McFarling) and Rosemary Ellen (Gerry Finlayson). Grandmother to Ian and Kathleen Murray, Carolyn Puillandrea (Finlayson), Bradley Finlayson and Eamon, Declan and Martin MacDougall. Great Grandmother of Clark Puillandrea. She was the elder sister of the late Robert (Bob) Taylor (Lorraine Headrick) and aunt to Taylor family, Stephen, Shelley, Sheryl and Marybeth. Aunt to MacDougall family, Karen, Susan, late John, Laura-Jean and Ryan, the children of Stuarts brothers, Roddie (late Merla), Dougie (Anne) (Late Joan), and Ken (Pat) (Late Nancy). Jean was the daughter-in-law of the late Stuart Sr. and Leona (Bradley) MacDougall.

Jean was born in Sault Ste. Marie on December 5th, 1927 to Robert and Lillian Taylor (West).

Granddaughter of Archibald and Charlotte (Marshall) West and Thomas and Sarah Jane (Davidson) Taylor. She attended Sault Collegiate High School. During the war she spent the summer at "Farmerette Camp" picking fruit with two Sault friends. She attended college in Toronto, studying Fashion Design and worked briefly in the design industry in Toronto. Jean returned to Sault Ste. Marie working in the office at Bell Canada.

In 1954 her move to California was to join Stuart who had relocated and was working with a large engineering company building the Richmond, San Rafael Bridge. After raising her children Jean worked with Stuart in his Ontario Land Surveyor business. Jean and Stuart eloped, married December 11, 1954 in a small church in Reno, Nevada with a minister and a witness. A few years later they returned to Sault Ste. Marie, residing briefly in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan. Their first Child, Charlotte was born a Canadian just hours after they crossed over on the ferry from Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan.

Jean had a keen interest in Genealogy and Canadian History. She and Stu spent years travelling through Canada, the USA and Europe. She was a long-time volunteer at the Sault Ste. Marie Museum and founding member of the Sault Ste. Marie Genealogy Society. As a young child Jean spent summers with her grandparents and extended family in Bruce Mines then at her parent's camps on Island Lake, Carpin Beach and Point Aux Pins. When her children were young, she talked Stu into purchasing a lot and building a log cabin on Goulais Bay where the family resided each summer. The "camp" remains in the family.

Her family would like to thank the staff at Maple View Extended Care for their support and kindness. Also, Marilyn Saville for her friendship during Jean's first two years at Maple View. Should you wish to make a donation in memory of Jean please consider a donation to the Maple View Residence council or Sault Ste. Marie Humane Society. At Jeans request a private family burial will take place, interment with Stu in Greenwood Cemetery.

Arrangements entrusted to the Arthur Funeral Home - Barton & Kiteley Chapel (492 Wellington St.E. 705-759-2522). Please visit Arthur Funeral Home website obituaries to leave memories and condolences as a keepsake for the family.