Season 2 Episode 2 - Straw Hat Trouble

It is a hot and sunny day on the island, so Abney and Teal make themselves some shady straw hats. Then the weather turns and a strong wind starts blowing them into all sorts of trouble. Air Date : 1st-Jan-1970 Read More

Season 2 Episode 3 - The Visit

Neep's friends and relations come to the island for a visit, but their digging soon causes a few problems around the place. Air Date : 1st-Jan-1970 Read More

Season 2 Episode 4 - The Enormous Sneeze

Teal is having a lovely time in the flowers that are blooming all over the island. She brings a bunch to Abney but they make him sneeze... and sneeze... and sneeze! His unstoppable sneezes get bigger and bigger and funny things start to happen. Air Date : 1st-Jan-1970 Read More

Season 2 Episode 5 - The Handbag

Abney and Teal go fishing. Teal soon loses interest, but Abney finally catches something very interesting - a handbag, the contents of which cause all sorts of chaos. Air Date : 1st-Jan-1970 Read More

Season 2 Episode 6 - Neep and the Dragon

Abney and Teal construct a dragon. Neep puts on a brave face, but he isn't sure he wants to share the island with a scary monster! Air Date : 1st-Jan-1970 Read More

Season 2 Episode 7 - The Mysterious Mist

Animated adventures of two friends who live on an island in the middle of the big city. Abney, Teal and Neep make mysterious noises on a misty day. They try to get Bop to join in the game but it's not so mysterious down by the lake. Air Date : 28th-Oct-2012 Read More

Season 2 Episode 8 - The Very Hot Day

Animated adventures of two friends who live on an island in the middle of the big city. It is a boiling hot day; much too hot to do anything apart from eat ice-cream and go swimming. But when Abney and Teal finally get to the lake there's something not quite right about it. Air Date : 29th-Oct-2012 Read More

Season 2 Episode 9 - Hiccups

Animated adventures of two friends who live on an island in the middle of the big city. The Poc-Pocs have got hiccups. Teal finds the cure, but they are spreading! When they reach Bop something has to be done. Air Date : 30th-Oct-2012 Read More

Season 2 Episode 10 - The Enormous Cabbage

Animated adventures of two friends who live on an island in the middle of the big city. Abney plants seeds in the moonlight. In the morning some have grown into lovely big cabbages. Abney and Teal decide to help out one that is struggling, which leads to big trouble. Air Date : 31st-Oct-2012 Read More

Season 2 Episode 11 - The Summerhouse

Animated adventures of two friends who live on an island in the middle of the big city. When Abney and Teal have a snooze in Abney's new summerhouse, they don't wake up where they expect. Abney has to use his building skills to find them a way home. Air Date : 1st-Nov-2012 Read More

Season 2 Episode 12 - Brilliant Wheels

Animated adventures of two friends who live on an island in the middle of the big city. Neep finds some wheels, Teal finds some wheels and finally, Abney gets hold of some wheels of his own. They are not brilliant at first - but soon they become a bit too brilliant! Air Date : 1st-Jan-1970 Read More

Season 2 Episode 13 - Bop's Babies

Animated adventures of two friends who live on an island in the middle of the big city. On a beautiful springtime day, it looks like Bop has had little babies! Abney and Teal find out just how much trouble growing babies can be. Air Date : 1st-Jan-1970 Read More

Season 2 Episode 15 - The Porridge Tower

Animated adventures of two friends who live on an island in the middle of the big city. Abney is making porridge bread, but he just can't get the recipe right, and he ends up with lots of spare loaves and nothing to do with them. Air Date : 1st-Jan-1970 Read More

Season 2 Episode 16 - Abney's Aquarium

Animated adventures of two friends who live on an island in the middle of the big city. Abney adds some shiny fish to his collection, but soon finds that they take up more room than expected. Now where can he get some sleep? Air Date : 1st-Jan-1970 Read More

Season 2 Episode 17 - Shadows

The moonlight is so strange and beautiful that it's hard for Abney to sleep. Teal decides to tire Abney out with an adventure, but she's soon feeling pretty sleepy herself. Luckily there's still a lot to look at. Air Date : 1st-Jan-1970 Read More

Season 2 Episode 18 - The Café

Animated adventures. Abney and Teal decide to set up a café. They're worried that they might not get any guests, but they needn't have worried! Air Date : 1st-Jan-1970 Read More

Season 2 Episode 19 - Abney's Precious Things

Animated adventures. Abney has so many precious things that he decides to put on a display. The display gets longer and longer until... Air Date : 1st-Jan-1970 Read More

Season 2 Episode 20 - Frogs

Animated adventures. A thunderstorm brings some visitors to the Island. Abney and Teal love their new friends, but Neep is not so sure. Air Date : 1st-Jan-1970 Read More

Season 2 Episode 26 - Rock Music

Abney is trying to write poems. Teal just wants to make noise! Maybe they can find a way to do both together? Air Date : 22nd-Nov-2012 Read More