Jerry Goldsmith, who has died aged 75 from cancer, was one of the most prolific, innovative and renowned composers for cinema and television. Over more than half a century, he scored nearly 200 movies: his first major feature, Lonely Are The Brave, a modern western starring Kirk Douglas and Walter Matthau, was in 1962, and his last, Looney Tunes: Back In Action, appeared last year.

Yet outside his core fans, neither Goldsmith's music nor his style were familiar to the general public - though many of his films were among Hollywood's most famous. He was quite happy about this. "The function of the score is to enlarge the scope of a film," he observed. "I try for emotional penetration, not for complementing the action."

A critic wrote: "If an audience was able to identify a score as one of his, he had failed; for the music should enhance the experience of the film and accentuate the story being told, not take the audience away from the tale to marvel at the music."

Goldsmith's music varied from orchestral to electronic, jazz, Chinese instruments, and, once, a wind machine. His score for Roman Polanski's 1974 classic, Chinatown, was played on four pianos, four harps, strings and a trumpet, all used to produce a jazzy theme, though not one that was strictly in the 1930s setting of the film. He had rejected that notion and suggested his odd choice of instruments on an impulse.

Goldsmith was nominated for an Oscar an extraordinary 17 times, though he only received the award once, for his eerie choral score evoking devil worship in the horror movie The Omen (1976). His five Emmys for television included the series Star Trek: Voyager, the 1981 mini-series Masada, and the television movie Babe.

Grammy nominations included best original score for the 1992 science-fiction drama Alien, and the wildly popular 1960s television action series, The Man From UNCLE. Among the other television shows Goldsmith scored were The Twilight Zone, the medical series Dr Kildare and the court-room drama Perry Mason.

Goldsmith had a classical music training and loved conducting orchestras, particularly British ones, which he "adored" - describing the experience as "like driving a Rolls-Royce". He made several visits to Scotland, though his favourite venue was the Barbican concert hall, playing with the London Symphony Orchestra. He regretted being too ill to conduct the orchestra earlier this year in honour of his 75th birthday.

Goldsmith was born in Pasadena, Los Angeles, and began playing the piano at the age of six. By 14, he was studying composition and theory, and wanted to become a concert composer. Then, at 16, he saw the 1945 Alfred Hitchcock mystery Spellbound, with Ingrid Bergman and Gregory Peck, and came under the spell of the title as he listened to Hungarian composer Miklos Rozsa's Oscar-winning score.

Goldsmith was able to learn directly from Rozsa in classes he took with the maestro at the University of Southern California, but decided that concert composing was not as financially viable as mass entertainment.

In 1950, he got a job as a clerk at CBS, and persuaded his network bosses to let him compose themes for radio shows. He stayed with CBS for 10 years, graduating to such television westerns as Gunsmoke and Wagon Train. The experience gave him discipline, and, in later life, he wrote music every day.

In 1962 came the success of Lonely Are The Brave, and he was off. Later that year, his score for Freud, John Huston's portrayal of the young psychoanalyst with Montgomery Clift, won Goldsmith his first Oscar nomination.

He was similarly nominated for A Patch Of Blue, with Sidney Poitier and Shelley Winters, in 1965 (Winters got the Oscar); Planet Of The Apes, in 1968, in which he persuaded the brass to blow without their mouthpieces - and conducted the orchestra wearing a monkey mask. In 1970, the biopic Patton brought another Oscar nomination, with its score invoking military themes interspersed with mood music woven around the mercurial US general's psychotic spells.

Goldsmith was Oscar-nominated for Chinatown and The Wind And The Lion (1975) - with Sean Connery as a Moroccan sheikh - before finally winning the statuette in 1976. His other Oscar near-misses were The Boys From Brazil (1978), Star Trek: The Motion Picture (1979), Poltergeist (1982), Hoosiers (1986), The Russia House (1990) and Basic Instinct (1992), with a score that accentuated Sharon Stone's erotic allure. Though Arnold Schwarzenegger's science-fiction epic Total Recall (1990) brought no nomination for Goldsmith, it was a favourite score.

He is survived by his second wife, Carol, and five children.