Main SS CoS PoA GoF OotP DH1 DH2 SONY Wonderbook Quidditch World Cup Hogwarts Legacy LEGO Harry Potter Harry Potter for Kinect LEGO Dimensions: Harry Potter Harry Potter Mobile Games

Summon the Wizard Within You…

In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Voldemort is tightening his grip on both the Muggle and wizarding worlds and Hogwarts is no longer the safe haven it once was. Harry suspects that dangers may even lie within the castle, but Dumbledore is more intent upon preparing him for the final battle that he knows is fast approaching. Together they work to find the key to unlock Voldemort’s defenses, and to this end, Dumbledore recruits his old friend and colleague, the well-connected and unsuspecting bon vivant Professor Horace Slughorn, whom he believes holds crucial information.

Meanwhile, the students are under attack from a very different adversary as teenage hormones rage across the ramparts. Harry finds himself more and more drawn to Ginny, but so is Dean Thomas. And Lavender Brown has decided that Ron is the one for her, only she hadn’t counted on Romilda Vane’s chocolates! And then there’s Hermione, simmering with jealously but determined not to show her feelings. As romance blossoms, one student remains aloof. He is determined to make his mark, albeit a dark one. Love is in the air, but tragedy lies ahead and Hogwarts may never be the same again.

The Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince video game was released June 30, 2009, by Electronic Arts for PC, Mac OS X, Nintendo DS, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Portable, Wii, and Xbox 360 platforms.

Cheats Walkthrough

Characters

Playable Characters

Ginny Weasley (only playable for a specific task, voiced by Bonnie Wright)

Harry Potter

Ron Weasley (only playable for a specific task, voiced by Rupert Grint)

⬆ Back to top

Non-Playable Characters

Albus Dumbledore

Amelia Bones

Argus Filch

Avery

Bellatrix Lestrange

The Bloody Baron

Cho Chang (voiced by Katie Leung)

Cormac McLaggen (voiced by Freddie Stroma)

Dean Thomas (voiced by Alfred Enoch)

Draco Malfoy (voiced by Tom Felton)

Fang (heard only)

The Fat Lady

Fenrir Greyback

Fred Weasley (mentioned only)

George Weasley (mentioned only)

Gregory Goyle (voiced by Joshua Herdman)

Hannah Abbott

Hermione Granger

Horace Slughorn

Katie Bell (voiced by Georgina Leonidas)

Lavender Brown (voiced by Jessie Cave)

Leanne

Luna Lovegood (voiced by Evanna Lynch)

Narcissa Malfoy

Nearly Headless Nick

Pansy Parkinson

Rodolphus Lestrange

Romilda Vane

Severus Snape

Sirius Black (mentioned only)

Susan Bones

Sybill Trelawney (mentioned only)

Tom Riddle

Vincent Crabbe (voiced by Jamie Waylett)

⬆ Back to top

Potions and Spells

Contents

Potions

Spells

Potions

Draught of Living Death

Felix Felicis

Polyjuice Potion

Shrinking Potion

Volubilis Potion

Wiggenweld Potion

Wit-Sharpening Potion

⬆ Back to top

Spells

Banishing Charm (Depulso)

Disarming Charm (Expelliarmus)

Fire-Making Spell (Incendio)

Full Body-Bind Curse (Petrificus Totalus)

Killing Curse (Avada Kedavra)

Knockback Jinx (Flipendo)

Levicorpus jinx (Levicorpus)

Levitation Charm (Wingardium Leviosa)

Mending Charm (Reparo)

Sectumsempra curse (Sectumsempra)

Shield Charm (Protego)

Stunning Spell (Stupefy)

Summoning Charm (Accio)

Vulnera Sanentur counter-curse (Vulnera Sanentur)

Wand-Lighting Charm (Lumos)

⬆ Back to top

Trivia

In the game, during the Death Eater attack on the Burrow, Harry duels Bellatrix Lestrange twice and Fenrir Greyback once. In the film, Harry only deflects a few of their spells and sends a couple of spells back at them with the aid of Ginny and later with the aid of Lupin, Tonks, and Arthur Weasley. In the book, the attack on the Burrow scene doesn't take place.

In the game, Harry duels two normal Death Eaters in the castle, Fenrir Greyback in the clock tower courtyard, and Bellatrix Lestrange by Rubeus Hagrid's cabin, which is on fire. In the film, Harry doesn't duel with any of the Death Eaters.

In the game, the stalls in the bathroom that Harry and Draco duel in have disappeared, leaving a wide open space with urinals on two walls. There is no cover whatsoever, unlike in the film.

After Harry takes Felix Felicis, he duels Crabbe and Goyle. During this duel, Crabbe and Goyle cannot hit Harry even when aiming directly at him. He then meets Slughorn in the Herbology greenhouses and brews a dragon dung fertilizer. While brewing this potion, Harry can add as much of each correct ingredient, and boil or stir the potion as much as he likes, without causing it to smoke.

Several areas were added to the castle, and some were taken away. Areas that were added are the entrance gates, the Quidditch gate, the Quidditch pitch, the Astronomy Tower, the training grounds, Slughorn's office, and a passage in the dungeons that leads to a spiral staircase that goes up to the sixth and seventh floors. Areas that were taken away include the entire fourth floor (except the hospital wing and the corridor outside of it that leads to the clock tower), the prefects' bathroom (you can see the door, but you can't go inside), Myrtle's bathroom (replaced with the boys' bathroom), the trophy room (you can see the door, but can't go in), North Tower, the Defense Against the Dart Arts classroom (which is inaccessible), and the Room of Requirement, which is also not accessible.

All the wands in the game are exact replicas of Harry Potter's wand, and all brooms resemble Harry Potter's Firebolt.

In the game, if you beat all of the Dueling Clubs, you can fire two Stunning Spells in one shot, making it easier to Stun someone.

In the game, during Gryffindor's second Quidditch match against Hufflepuff, Harry catches the Snitch, and Gryffindor wins the match. In the book, Harry is hit in the head with a Bludger by McLaggen, causing him to fall from his broom and Hufflepuff to win the match.

If Harry uses the Levicorpus jinx on Bellatrix or Fenrir Greyback, the effect is not like when Harry casts it on students. Bellatrix and Greyback just fly up and are not hoisted into the air to dangle upside-down.

This is believed to be Jamie Waylett's last time playing Vincent Crabbe in the series.

Reviews

"Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Review" - By Tom Mc Shea | GameSpot | July 2, 2009

"HARRY POTTER AND THE HALF-BLOOD PRINCE REVIEW" - By Greg Miller | IGN | July 2, 2009

"HARRY POTTER AND THE HALF-BLOOD PRINCE REVIEW" - By Matt Casamassina | IGN | June 30, 2009

"HARRY POTTER AND THE HALF-BLOOD PRINCE REVIEW" - By Jack Devries | IGN | June 30, 2009

"Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince Review: Almost Half-Good" - By AJ Glasser | Kotaku | July 29, 2009

Accolades

Awards Won

International Film Music Critics Association (IFMCA) Awards

Best Original Score for a Video Game or Interactive Media

James Hannigan

⬆ Back to top

Nominations

British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA) Awards

Original Score

James Hannigan

⬆ Back to top

Trailer