VH1 has greenlit “Satan’s Sisters,” a scripted drama inspired by Star Jones‘ 2011 book of the same name, which tells the behind-the-scenes story of a popular daytime ladies’ talk show, inspired by her time on “The View.”

“Satan’s Sisters” will focus on the five female co-hosts of a popular daily TV talk show and the fireworks that ensue each weekday when they discuss life, love, family, politics and gossip. These women, who all have very different points of view, are best friends and sisters — while they’re on TV. But behind the scenes, they are “Satan’s Sisters” — a backstage world filled with power struggles, personal demons, diva fits, love affairs, man troubles, cat fights and cocktails.

The book is a fictional work of satire, revolving around a talk show called “The Lunch Hour,” which will be the basis of VH1’s show, as alliances are forged, careers are made and bridges are burned among the five hosts.

Popular on Variety

“I’m so excited that ‘Satan’s Sisters,’ which was such a fun book to write, is finally coming to the small screen,” said Jones. “I would be lying if I said that ‘Satan’s Sisters’ wasn’t influenced by the soap opera life of daytime TV, but it is a work of fiction. All the characters are inspired, in parts, by someone I’ve worked with, worked for, interviewed, was interviewed by and/or even prosecuted.”

“Daytime TV now comments on and creates pop culture. Star Jones’ book is the perfect project for VH1 and our partners to bring to life,” said Chris McCarthy, general manager of VH1.

Jones will serve as an exec producer on the series, along with Josh Berman, Suzanne DePasse, Madison Jones and Susan Levison. Amy Engelberg and Wendy Engelberg will write the series, adapting the book, and will also serve as exec producers. Sony Pictures Television is the studio.

Jones was one of the original hosts of “The View,” co-hosting from the first season through the ninth. At the time of her departure, she claimed that her contract was not renewed and she was fired, and she then endured a very public fight with Barbara Walters.

The television satire genre has recently found success in Lifetime’s “UnReal,” which though also a fictional story, is based on a dating show like “The Bachelor.”

For VH1, “Satan’s Sisters” is a continuation in scripted programming, following “The Breaks,” which will become a series after the cabler’s original movie. The third season of “Hit the Floor” currently airs on Monday nights.

“Satan’s Sisters” is slated for a 2017 premiere.