Plus EP news and a new video

North Carolina’s KING HITTER will step in for Corrosion of Conformity Blind in Joliet, Illinois tonight; the current stop for the Cavalera Conspiracy Pandemonium Tour. The show will be King Hitter’s first outside of their hometown of Raleigh in support of their recently released self-titled ep (Restricted Release/Plastic Head). The ep is available now at FYE, Best Buy, Amazon, and ITunes. A limited-edition pressing of the ep on 12-inch vinyl is forthcoming; release date to be announced.

Corrosion of Conformity Blind features King Hitter vocalist Karl Agell with current COC/Teenage Time Killer drummer Reed Mullin. It was a natural to have King Hitter fill the spot left vacant due to a festival commitment Mullin has with Pepper Keenan, Woody Weatherman, and Mike Dean. Agell shares, “King Hitter are honored to fill in for Corrosion of Conformity Blind for two dates. We join the Pandemonium Tour with Cavalera Conspiracy, Death Angel and Lody Kong for tonight’s show at Mojoes in Joliet and tomorrow at The Rave in Milwaukee.”

Released last month, King Hitter’s five-song ep has been embraced by fan and critic alike. Decibel says, “King Hitter are pure rock ‘n’ roll.” IndyWeek notes, “the band’s balance of heavy riffs and bold melodies puts all in service of the hook.” Examiner.com adds, “it’s truly fantastic to hear Agell back in such killer form.”

Produced by James Lugo (Fuel/Matt Sorrum/311), King Hitter showcases the quartet’s tempered chops. In a recent interview Agell shared, “I remain proud of the work I did with Corrosion of Conformity and Leadfoot. That satisfaction has always led me to wonder if I would ever feel the same achievement that I still have for the Blind album. I finally have my answer to that; let me introduce you and the rest of the world to the real King Hitter.”

Corrosion of Conformity Blind will return to playing selections from 1991’s groundbreaking Blind Album in Minneapolis on Monday, April 27. It is a set not to miss. King Hitter is vocalist Agell with guitarist Scott Little, guitarist Mike Brown, bassist Chuck Manning, and drummer Jon Chambliss.