BILOXI, Mississippi -- The Bronze Star is the fourth-highest individual military honor the United States can bestow on a member of its armed forces. It is awarded for acts of heroism, merit or meritorious service in a combat zone.

Pascagoula's Darren DeFlanders won three Bronze Stars for his service in the U.S. Army during the Gulf War in the early 1990's, along with a slew of other medals and commendations.

DeFlanders has lots of medals. What he doesn't have is quality medical care through the Veteran's Administration.

He was but one of about 100 veterans who gathered at the VFW hall in Biloxi to listen and talk with U.S. Rep. Steven Palazzo, who hosted a veteran's forum to hear what those most affected by the widespread reports of incompetence and corruption within the VA had to say as he and his fellow lawmakers work on legislation to try and fix what is clearly a broken system.

DeFlanders, who was not wounded during the Gulf War but suffers a heart condition as a result of his time in combat, said a good place to start would be to hold those who are guilty of malpractice in the VA accountable.

"We have to start somewhere," he said. "We have to bring accountability to the those at the Biloxi VA who are mistreating veterans.

"I'd like to see Congressman Palazzo, Senator Wicker, Senator McCain -- all of them -- work with the President to come up with a bill to compensate veterans who have been involved in major malpractice -- something to benefit them and their families."

Palazzo said legislation is "moving through Congress" which will address many of the problems uncovered within the VA. Already, millions in annual bonuses for VA administrators have been suspended.

"We have been giving hundreds of millions of dollars to administrators and employees of the VA who aren't delivering service to our veterans," Palazzo said in his opening remarks.

In Biloxi, representatives from the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Combat Wounded Veterans of South Mississippi, Habitat for Humanity, AmeriCorps Mississippi, and the American Red Cross. More than 100 local veterans attended the Biloxi forum.

In recent months, Palazzo has called for the resignation of former VA Secretary Eric Shinseki, as well as supported reform legislation that would expedite firing of high-level VA officials, expand private care access to veterans at the expense of the VA and place a two year prohibition on any VA bonuses. He has also met with officials at VA facilities throughout South Mississippi.

Palazzo said Tuesday the top priority was to address the long wait times being reported by veterans needing medical care at the VA -- good news for vets like Therron Ducharme, who said he's been waiting a year and a half to see a doctor and the VA "has done nothing to help us."

Veteran Hunter McCoy said when it takes 1-3 months to get treatment, "the system is flawed" and asked Palazzo what the congressman could tell veterans to "give them confidence" things will change.

He said recently it took two months just to get a physical.

"They treat us like crap, they disrespect us," McCoy said. "They disrespect the veterans who have served this country. Things like loyalty and compassion have been lost. I get treated better at McDonald's."

Palazzo said the VA has been operating in a system that "has been broken for decades. When you have an incompetent administrator screwing up one VA and then they get transferred to another VA, what you've got is a culture of corruption."

Afterward, Palazzo, a Marine Corps veteran, said he shares the frustration he hears in the voices of his fellow vets.

"It's frustrating to listen and know that it's going to take time," he said. "One thing you can count on with veterans -- you're going to hear what's in their hearts and on their minds. They won't sugar coat it.

"This has been decades in the making," Palazzo continued. "Not just with the VA, but with the federal government. But because the VA problems affect our veterans, it's elevated to a higher level.

"We've got a lot of work to do."

Tuesday's event did feature a few smiles.

"I'm glad I came," said one WWII veteran, gesturing towards a female TV reporter, "just to see the cameraman. She's a cutie."

They aren't called The Greatest Generation for nothing.