THE death has occurred of Irish rugby legend Brian O'Brien at the age of 83.

He was a prominent figure through the decades across various capacities for Shannon, Munster and Ireland including as a player, selector, coach and team manager.

His playing days saw him line out for Shannon for 15 years before then taking the reins as a coach.

Under his leadership, they won the Munster Senior Cup in 1977 and 1978.

He then went on to hold selector and team manager roles with both Munster and Ireland.

Upon his death, the IRFU released a statement paying tribute to the wide-ranging impact he made on Irish rugby.

It read: "The IRFU and Munster Rugby are saddened to hear of the death of former Ireland international, Ireland team manager and Munster stalwart Brian O’Brien at the age of 83.

"Playing an integral role across the Munster and Irish rugby landscape O’Brien is a former player, selector, coach and manager.

"The centre played in Shannon’s first ever Munster Senior Cup Final in 1959 and following provincial representation went on to become the club’s first ever international player, winning his first cap in 1968.

"‘Briano’ spent almost 15 years playing with Shannon’s senior team, and following his retirement from playing, coached Shannon to Munster Senior Cup titles in 1977 and 1978.

"Serving on the IRFU Senior Selection Committee, he was also part of the 1983 British and Irish Lion’s selection committee.

"Manager of the Irish U21 team and the Shannon team that won the four in a row, he went onto become Team Manager of the Munster men’s team before being appointed Manager of the Ireland Men’s Team in 2000.

"As a Munster selector and team manager, O’Brien’s further impact on the province came by way of introducing his “Stand Up and Fight” party piece, with the song becoming a Munster Rugby anthem for over 20 years.

"He was inducted into the Munster Rugby Hall of Fame in 2014."

'WILL LIVE LONG'

Munster Rugby President Ger McNamara spoke of the indelible mark he made on the province.

He said: “It is with great sadness that I pass on condolences to Brian’s wife Olive, and children Siobhan, Brendan, Aidan, Ronan, Padraic, Maura and the wider O’Brien family, on behalf of everyone in Munster Rugby.

“Briano’s love of the game was forged from his playing days with Shannon RFC, with his ongoing commitment to the game seen across his coaching and management roles with club, province and beyond.

"His legacy will live long in the history of Munster Rugby, may he rest in peace.”