Doncaster Metropolitan Borough Council is the local authority of the Metropolitan Borough of Doncaster in South Yorkshire, England. It is a metropolitan district council, one of four in South Yorkshire and one of 36 in the metropolitan counties of England, and provides the majority of local government services in Doncaster. (Information from Wikipedia on 27/6/2018)

The district offices are in Matlock. It was formed on 1 April 1974, originally under the name of West Derbyshire. The district adopted its current name in 1988. The district was a merger of Ashbourne, Bakewell, Matlock and Wirksworth urban districts along with Ashbourne Rural District and Bakewell Rural District. (Information from Wikipedia on 27/6/2018)

Derby City Council is the local government unitary authority for Derby, a city in the East Midlands region of England. As a unitary authority, Derby City Council is responsible for all services within its boundary and is therefore distinct from the two-tier system of local government that exists in the surrounding county of Derbyshire. Outside the […]

Daventry is a local government district in Northamptonshire, England. Its council is based in the town of Daventry. The district was created on 1 April 1974, under the Local Government Act 1972, by a merger of the historic municipal borough of Daventry with the Daventry Rural District and most of the Brixworth Rural District. The […]

The Borough of Dartford is a local government district in the north-west of the county of Kent, England. Its council is in Dartford. It is part of the contiguous London urban area. It borders the borough of Gravesham to the east, Sevenoaks District to the south, the London Borough of Bexley to the west, and […]

Darlington Borough Council is the local authority for the town of Darlington and the surrounding villages in North East England. (Information from Wikipedia on 27/6/2018)

Dacorum Borough Council is the local authority for the Dacorum non-metropolitan district of England, the United Kingdom. Dacorum is located in the north-west of Hertfordshire, in the East of England region. The Council itself is based in Hemel Hempstead, the largest settlement in the district. (Information from Wikipedia on 27/6/2018)

There have previously been a number of local authorities responsible for the Croydon area. The current local authority was first elected in 1964, a year before formally coming into its powers and prior to the creation of the London Borough of Croydon on 1 April 1965. Croydon replaced Croydon Borough Council and Coulsdon and Purley […]

Crawley Urban District Council was formed in May 1956 from the part of the Horsham Rural District which covered the new town. The Local Government Act 1972 led to the district being reformed as a borough in April 1974, gaining a mayor for the first time. (Information from Wikipedia on 25/6/2018, click here for map […]

Craven District Council is now under the new unitary council of North Yorkshire. Craven is a local government district of North Yorkshire, England centred on the market town of Skipton. In 1974, Craven district was formed as the merger of Skipton urban district, Settle Rural District and most of Skipton Rural District, all in the […]

Coventry City Council is the local government body responsible for the governance of the City of Coventry in England, which has been a metropolitan district since 1974. (Information from Wikipedia on 25/6/2018, click here for map details)

Cotswold District Council is the local authority for the Cotswold District. Cotswold distric is located in East Gloucestershire in the South West of England region. The Council itself is based in Cirencester, the largest settlement in the district, but also comprises Tetbury, Moreton-in-Marsh, Stow-on-the-Wold, Chipping Campden, Fairford, Lechlade and Northleach. (Information from Wikipedia on […]

Cornwall Council is the unitary authority for the county of Cornwall in the United Kingdom, not including the Isles of Scilly, which has its own council. The council, and its predecessor Cornwall County Council, has a tradition of large groups of independent councillors. Cornwall Council provides a wide range of services to more than half […]

Conwy County Borough Council is the governing body for Conwy County Borough, one of the unitary authority areas of Wales. (Information from Wikipedia on 25/6/2018, click here for map details)

The Borough of Colchester is a local government district and borough in Essex, England, named after its main town, Colchester. The borough covers an area of 125 square miles (320 km2) and stretches from Dedham Vale on the Suffolk border in the north to Mersea Island on the Colne Estuary in the south. (Information from […]

Christchurch is a local government district which has borough status. It is the smallest of Dorset County Council’s six districts and one of the smallest boroughs in England by population. The district was formed by the merger of the Municipal Borough of Christchurch with part of Ringwood and Fordingbridge Rural District in 1974. Since then […]

The Borough of Chorley is a local government district with borough status in Lancashire, England. The population of the Borough at the 2011 census was 104,155. It is named after its largest settlement, the town of Chorley. The present non-metropolitan Borough of Chorley was formed on 1 April 1974 by the merger of the then existing […]

Chiltern is one of four local government districts of Buckinghamshire in south central England. It is named after the Chiltern Hills on which the region sits. It was formed on 1 April 1974 by the merger of the Chesham Urban District and surrounding Amersham Rural District. In 1988 it was the first Council to take up […]

Chichester is a largely rural local government district in West Sussex, England. Its council is based in the city of Chichester. The district was formed on 1 April 1974, under the Local Government Act 1972, as a merger of the municipal borough (city) of Chichester and the Rural Districts of Midhurst, Petworth and part of […]

Local government in Chesterfield is organised in a two-tier structure. At the upper tier, services such as consumer protection, education, main roads and social services are provided by Derbyshire County Council. At the lower tier, services such as housing, planning, refuse collection and burial grounds are provided by Chesterfield Borough Council. The borough is unparished […]

Cheshire West and Chester is a unitary authority with borough status in the ceremonial county of Cheshire, England. It was established on 1 April 2009 as part of the 2009 local government changes, by virtue of an order under the Local Government and Public Involvement in Health Act 2007. It superseded the boroughs of Ellesmere […]

Cheshire East Council is the local authority of Cheshire East. It is a unitary authority, having the powers of a non-metropolitan county and district council combined. It provides a full range of local government services including Council Tax billing, libraries, social services, processing planning applications, waste collection and disposal, and it is a local education […]

Cherwell is a local government district in northern Oxfordshire, England. The district takes its name from the River Cherwell, which drains south through the region to flow into the River Thames at Oxford. Towns in Cherwell include Banbury and Bicester. Kidlington is a contender for largest village in England. The district was formed on 1 […]

Cheltenham Borough Council is the local authority for Cheltenham, which is split into 20 wards, with a total of 40 councillors elected to serve on the borough council. Since 2002, elections have been held every two years with half of the councillors elected at each election. The district was formed on 1 April 1974 under the […]

The City of Chelmsford is a local government district in Essex, England. It is named after its main settlement, Chelmsford, which is also the county town of Essex. On 1 June 2012 Chelmsford was granted city status to mark the Diamond Jubilee of Elizabeth II. (Information from Wikipedia on 18/6/2018, click here for map details)

The Borough of Charnwood is a local government district with borough status in the north of Leicestershire, England, which has a population of 166,100 as of the 2011 census.[1] It borders Melton to the east, Harborough to the south east, Leicester and Blaby to the south, Hinckley and Bosworth to the south west, North West […]

Central Bedfordshire is a unitary authority area in the ceremonial county of Bedfordshire, England. It was created from the merger of Mid Bedfordshire and South Bedfordshire District Councils on 1 April 2009. With a budget of £500m the unitary council provides over a hundred services to a quarter of a million people, and is responsible […]

Carmarthenshire County Council (Welsh: Cyngor Sir Gaerfyrddin) is the local authority for the county of Carmarthenshire, Wales, providing a range of services under the control of elected county councillors that include education, planning, transport, social services and public safety. The council is one of twenty-two unitary authorities that came into existence on 1 April 1996 […]

In 1974, Carlisle City Council was created to administer the newly formed non-metropolitan district, which shares power with the strategic Cumbria County Council. The council offices are located in Carlisle, at the Civic Centre. (Information from Wikipedia on 18/6/2018, click here for map details)

The County Council of the City and County of Cardiff (Welsh: Dinas a Sir Caerdydd) is the governing body for Cardiff, one of the Principal Areas of Wales. The council consists of 75 councillors, representing 29 electoral wards. The authority is properly styled as The County Council of the City and County of Cardiff or […]

Canterbury City Council is the local authority for the City of Canterbury district of Kent. (Information from Wikipedia on 18/6/2018, click here for map details)

Cannock Chase is a local government district in England. It covers a large part of Cannock Chase forest and the towns of Cannock, Rugeley and Hednesford. (Information from Wikipedia on 18/6/2018, click here for map details)

Camden London Borough Council is the local authority for the London Borough of Camden in Greater London, England. It is a London borough council, one of 32 in the United Kingdom capital of London. Camden is divided into 18 wards, each electing three councillors. Following the 2014 election Camden London Borough Council comprises 40 Labour […]

Cambridge was granted a Royal Charter by King John in 1207, which permitted the appointment of a mayor. The first recorded mayor, Harvey FitzEustace, did not serve until 1213. Cambridge was granted its city charter in 1951 in recognition of its history, administrative importance, and economic success. There are a number of ceremonial items used […]

Calderdale Metropolitan Borough Council is the local authority of the Metropolitan Borough of Calderdale in West Yorkshire, England. It is a metropolitan district council, one of five in West Yorkshire and one of 36 in the metropolitan counties of England, and provides the majority of local government services in Calderdale. Since 1 April 2014 it […]

Caerphilly County Borough Council is the governing body for Caerphilly (county borough), one of the Principal Areas of Wales. (Information from Wikipedia on 18/6/2018, click here for map details)

Bury Metropolitan Borough Council is the local authority of the Metropolitan Borough of Bury in Greater Manchester, England. It is a metropolitan district council, one of ten in Greater Manchester and one of 36 in the metropolitan counties of England. It provides the majority of local government services in Bury. (Information from Wikipedia on 18/6/2018, […]

The Borough of Burnley is a local government district of Lancashire, England, with the status of a non-metropolitan district and borough. It has an area of 42.7 square miles (110.7 km2) and a population of 87,500 (mid-2016 est.), and is named after its largest town, Burnley. The borough is bounded by Hyndburn, Ribble Valley, Pendle, […]

Broxtowe is a local government district with borough status in Nottinghamshire, England, west of the City of Nottingham. The population of the district as taken at the 2011 Census was 109,487. It is part of the Greater Nottingham metropolitan area. Broxtowe’s neighbour to the west is the borough of Erewash, which is in Derbyshire. (Information […]

The Borough of Broxbourne is a local government district and borough in Hertfordshire, England. Its council is based in Cheshunt, other towns include Broxbourne, Hoddesdon and Waltham Cross. The eastern boundary of the district is the River Lea. The borough covers 20 square miles (52 km2) in south east Hertfordshire having a population of about […]

Bromsgrove is a local government district in Worcestershire, England. Its council is based in the town of Bromsgrove. It borders the built up area of Birmingham to the north. Other places in the district include Alvechurch, Aston Fields, Belbroughton, Catshill, Clent, Hagley, Rubery, Stoke Prior and Wythall. The current district was formed on 1 April […]

It was envisaged through the London Government Act 1963 that Bromley as a London local authority would share power with the Greater London Council. The split of powers and functions meant that the Greater London Council was responsible for “wide area” services such as fire, ambulance, flood prevention, and refuse disposal; with the local authorities […]

Broadland is a local government district in Norfolk, England, named after the Norfolk Broads. The population of the Local Authority District taken at the 2011 Census was 124,646. Its council is based in Thorpe St Andrew, which is a suburb of the City of Norwich. In 2013, Broadland was announced as the most peaceful locality […]

Bristol City Council is the local authority of Bristol, England. The council is a unitary authority, and is unusual in the United Kingdom in that its executive function is controlled by a directly elected mayor of Bristol. Bristol has 35 wards, electing a total of 70 councillors. The council was formed by the Local Government […]

Brighton and Hove City Council is the local authority of the city of Brighton and Hove. It is a unitary authority, having the powers of a non-metropolitan county and district council combined. It provides a full range of local government services including Council Tax billing, libraries, social services, processing planning applications, waste collection and disposal, […]

Bridgend County Borough Council is the governing body for Bridgend County Borough, one of the Principal Areas of Wales. (Information from Wikipedia on 18/6/2018, click here for map details)

The Borough of Brentwood is a local government district and borough in Essex in the East of England. The borough is named after its main town of Brentwood. There are still large areas of woodland including Shenfield Common, Hartswood (named after its last private owner, a Mr Hart), Weald Country Park, and Thorndon Country Park. The […]

Brent London Borough Council is the local authority for the London Borough of Brent in Greater London, England. It is a London borough council, one of 32 in the United Kingdom capital of London. Brent is widely known as the most diverse borough in London and one of the most diverse boroughs in the UK […]

Breckland District Council was formed on 1 April 1974 by the merger of the Borough of Thetford, East Dereham Urban District, Swaffham Urban District, Wayland Rural District, Mitford and Launditch Rural District, and Swaffham Rural District. (Information from Wikipedia on 18/6/2018, click here for map details)

Braintree is a local government district in the English county of Essex, with a population (2011 census) of 147,084. Its main town is Braintree. The main centres of population are Braintree, Witham and Halstead. The district was formed on 1 April 1974 by the merger of the urban districts of Braintree and Bocking, Halstead, and […]