NLIS offers a wide variety of searches including a Local Authority Search for Darlington Borough Council which are available electronically through the NLIS Ltd website. These searches can be paid for online by the casual buyer or an account can be opened for the regular buyer. NLIS is the fastest way to order conveyancing searches online including a Local Authority Search for Darlington Borough Council, Environmental Reports, Mining Reports and many more!

Ordering searches on NLIS

When you use our quick, easy, user-friendly ordering system to order a Local Authority Search for Darlington Borough Council for example, there are only five simple steps before your order is complete. Once you have ordered searches on the NLIS website, we are confident that you will never go back to your previous way of obtaining conveyancing searches including a Local Authority Search for Darlington Borough Council.

Local Authority Search for Darlington Borough Council From NLIS

NLIS can provide you with Local Authority Search for Darlington Borough Council for all councils in England and Wales. A Local Authority Search for Darlington Borough Council is generally required by solicitors & conveyancers acting on behalf of someone wishing to purchase a property. A Local Authority Search for Darlington Borough Council contains information compiled after an examination of council records and various other procedures. A Local Authority Search for Darlington Borough Council provides environmental information on a property such as planning applications, building regulations, traffic schemes, contaminated land, radon gas and Local Land Charges. When you order a Personal Local Authority Search for Darlington Borough Council on NLIS, you will receive a search that is Search Code compliant, displays the Search Code logo and is backed by an individual £2m Search Warranty including run-off cover. An NLIS Personal Local Authority Search for Darlington Borough Council is also regularly audited by the Property Codes Compliance Board (PCCB) and are members of CoPSO and IPSA.

About NLIS

Our company was formed in 1999 to provide a service to solicitors which included the provision of conveyancing searches throughout England and Wales. In those days the majority of conveyancers and solicitors purchased their searches directly from the councils. This was a laborious, confusing and a time consuming task with over three hundred and fifty separate councils, all with differing systems and prices which is why our service was so popular. Many of the councils were reluctant to develop their online ordering and delivery systems so in the early 2000’s a new system was developed to centralise the ordering, delivery and payment for local authority searches to be known as NLIS.

In February of 2003 we decided that we could do better so NLIS Ltd was formed with the intention of providing a fully electronic system for both ordering and delivering a Local Authority Search for Darlington Borough Council with account facilities for payments. As the conveyancing professionals became hungry for more information, further searches and reports were made available such as; Drainage & Water Searches, Environmental Reports, Mining Reports and many more in addition to the Local Authority Search for Darlington Borough Council.

Many conveyancers disliked the price some councils charged for their searches so we decided to give the option of our own regulated searches know as a Local Authority Search for Darlington Borough Council governed by the PCCB, the CoPSO code of practise and carrying indemnity insurance. The ability to choose the various reports from one site, pay after thirty days or instantly via card payment and receive all the reports electronically has proved very popular.