Grubsnitch Classification Tribe Rank Attribute Earth

Number Yokai Watch 1 Yokai Watch 2 115 162

General Information Japanese Name つまみぐいのすけ, Tsumamiguinosuke French Name Pikor Italian Name Time Present Evolution Fusion Favorite Food Ramen Acquired by

Stats HP Spirit Strength Speed Defense 1590 790 650 830 560

Combat Attack Smack Down Technique Rockslide Inspirit Gluttony Soultimate Move Grub Stealer Skill Snitch Debut Anime Episode 23 Game Yo-kai Watch 1 Voice Actor English Japanese Chie Sato

For more Yo-kai Watch information and discussion, check out our Forums

Grubsnitch is a Rank D Heartful Yo-kai with Earth attribute.

Official Description

If you can't stop snacking before dinner, Grubsnitch is probably nearby.

Yo-kai Watch 1 Game Information

How to Recruit/Befriend

In Yo-kai Watch, Grubsnitch can be found in Shopper's Row in bushes everywhere. You can also find Grubsnitch wandering around in some of the abandoned apartments.

Evolution

Fusion

Stats

Stat Level 99 HP ?? Spirit ?? Strength ?? Speed ?? Defense ??

Moveset

Type Name Power Attribute Range Description Attack Smack Down 20x2 Single enemy No description. Technique Rockslide 50 Earth Single enemy No description. Inspirit Gluttony Single enemy Gradually decreases HP from a stomachache. Soultimate Move Grub Stealer 60 Absorption All enemies Grows a hand from his mouth and gives enemy HP to allies. Skill Snitch Steals foe's HP with regular attacks.

Yo-kai Watch 2 Game Information

Buster stats

Soul

Appearance

Grubsnitch resembles a small boy with tan skin, blue hair tied in a topknot, and round green eyes. He wears a beige kimono, a green straw skirt, and goes barefoot. He is usually seen drooling from the right side of his mouth.

Personality

In the anime, Grubsnitch is a very gluttonous Yo-Kai, choosing to possess humans in order to pass on this trait and satisfy his hunger. When threatened, he does not budge and tries to fight back; however, he admits defeat when overpowered. His favorite phrase, which is also present when possessing his targets, is "Otsumami!".

Relationships

Anime

Tsumamiguinosuke makes his debut in episode 23, causing Keita's Mother to snatch a small snack of the breakfast; however, he reveals himself when Keita's mother prepares a big dinner for her family. Said Yo-Kai posesses her and causes her to snatch small snacks from the meal. Keita tries to stop her mother to do so, but to no avail. Keita finally has the idea of summoning Himojii to force his mother to eat the whole dinner in one step; soon, Himojii and Tsumamiguinosuke start a possession battle with Keita's mother as the host, causing her wavering between snatching small snacks and devouring the meal in one step. Himojii finally overpowers Tsumaiguinosuke, causing the latter to admit defeat and grant his Yo-kai Medal to Keita.

Trivia

Origin

Grubsnitch might be based on the old urban legend of Perori Taro, about a boy with such an irrefrenable appetite for food his parents chased him out before he would drive them to starvation. From then on he wandered the country, getting hungrier and hungrier and begging people for food, causing them to run away when they saw him.

Name Origin

"Tsumamiguinosuke" is a combination of tsumamigui (つまみ食い, eating food before a meal begins) and suke (助), a common part of a male given name.

"Grubsnitch" is a portmanteau of the words grub, slang for generic food or to take food, and snitch, to steal of pilfer something of minimal value.

Japanese: つまみぐいのすけ Tsumamiguinosuke

Korean: 자꾸손 Jakkuson