Former NBA superstar Tony Parker has confirmed he has struck up a romance with French tennis star Alize Lim, with the former San Antonio Spurs star taking to Instagram to confirm their relationship.

Parker, 38, ended his marriage to journalist Axelle Francine in August 2020, with his new romance with the former tennis pro quickly springing forth.

FANTASY MAILBAG: Concern over Giannis Antetokounmpo's knee injury

'WHY NOT?': Liz Cambage jokes about 'crazy' OnlyFans windfall

The French basketballer has an infamous romantic history, having ended his marriage to former Desperate Housewives star Eva Longoria in 2010 after what was labelled a 'sexting relationship' with the wife of former Spurs teammate Brent Barry.

One of the most prominent international players to have succeeded in the NBA, Parker overcame the locker room strife caused in 2010, going on to play a key role in San Antonio's 2014 championship run.

Parker and Francine had two children, Josh and Liam, who were respectively born in 2014 and 2016.

However the basketball superstar appears to have quickly moved on from his marriage to Francine, making his romance with the former world No. 135 public on Instagram just months after their separation.

Parker's romance with Lim had some fans though, with Washington Mystics WNBA star Alysha Clark declaring the couple were 'too cute' in the comments of Parker's post.

The French basketball star struck up his romance with Longoria back in 2004, with the couple making themsevles official in 2005 before marrying in Paris in 2007.

Longoria filed for divorce in November 2010 following the 'sexting' scandal, with their separation becoming official in 2011.

Celtics scorch Nuggets with epic NBA run

Instead of bowing to the NBA's hottest team, the Boston Celtics used a sensational 31-3 run to halt the Denver Nuggets' eight-game winning streak with a stunning 18-point victory.

The Nuggets looked well on their way to their ninth win in a row when they led by 14 points late in the third quarter but the visitors dominated from that point on to prevail 105-87.

"We just needed something to get us going," Celtics coach Stevens said after his Celtics won for the fifth time in six games.

"You know, I thought we were close to going the other way there when it was 76-62."

Jayson Tatum (illness) and Jaylen Brown (knee) fuelled the comeback despite being listed as questionable before tip-off.

Tatum finished with 28 points two days after a career-best 53-point performance against Minnesota, and Brown had 20.

The Nuggets looked well on their way to victory at 79-65 but that's when Brown got hot and Kemba Walker had a rim-rattling dunk that energised the Celtics, who scored the last nine points of the quarter.

The Celtics then scored the first six of the fourth quarter to grab their first lead of the game with 10 minutes and 32 seconds remaining.

"I think we just picked up the intensity," Tatum said.

The Nuggets, who had won 17 of 20, never recovered as the Celtics outscored them 31-8 in the fourth quarter, closing out the game with 40-8 overall run.

Michael Porter Jr. led Denver with 20 points despite missing 11 of 12 from beyond the arc.

The Nuggets lost for the first time since acquiring Aaron Gordon at the trade deadline.

With AAP

Watch 'Mind Games', the new series from Yahoo Sport Australia exploring the often brutal mental toil elite athletes go through in pursuit of greatness: