Towns and cities in Spain are being renamed on Google Maps after their former incarnations as Islamic kingdoms almost 10 centuries ago.

First to be affected was the Andalusian city of Algeciras, near Gibraltar, which suddenly showed up on the online map service as Taifa de Algeciras, in reference to its brief existence as an independent Muslim principality in the early 11th century.

Then on Friday morning Niebla, also in Andalusia, was replaced by Taifa de Niebla, and a Taifa de Albarracin appeared in northern Teruel province.

Taifa was the term used to describe about 30 small Islamic kingdoms which formed after the Caliphate of Cordoba descended into civil war in the 11th century.

"We have fixed it now," a Google spokesman in Madrid said. "We ask users to help us by adding information, but sometimes instead of this possibility being used for a positive reason, like someone adding their local knowledge, you get this kind of cyber-vandalism."

It is not known who is behind the spate of renamings. Google encourages users to moderate incorrect material and bars those found to have acted maliciously or to have given wrong information three times.

The company stressed that its maps service is used by billions worldwide and "occasional inaccuracies are a risk with this kind of collaborative system".

Andalusia's Islamic past is still a live political issue for some in Spain.

A video by the right-wing Vox party ahead of Sunday's regional election showed a mock newscast from 2018 in which a left-wing government had turned the cathedrals in Cordoba and Seville into mosques, leading to the arrival of 2 million Muslim immigrants.

Both al-Qaeda and the Islamic State have stated their aim to "liberate" Spain, which they refer to as al-Andalus, from what they consider Christian rule.

"For [Islamic] extremists, al-Andalus is a theme for violent mobilisation," according to Manuel R. Torres Soriano, an author and lecturer at Seville's Pablo de Olavide University. "The loss of Islamic dominion over the Iberian Peninsula connects with a series of cliches and founding myths which are deep-rooted in the Muslim world".

Telegraph, London