The SXSW Film & TV Festival is the best place in the world to bring together creative people from intersecting industries, making the festival an unparalleled experience at the forefront of discovery, creation, and innovation. SXSW provides the game-changing buzz every filmmaker dreams about for the premiere of their feature film, short, TV or XR project.

Submissions for the 2025 Film & TV Festival are open through October 2, 2024. Review important deadlines, application fees, and more for each screening category: Feature Film (Narrative / Documentary), Short Film (Narrative / Documentary / Animated), TV Project, XR Experience, or Music Video.

2025 Entry Dates & Deadlines

First Deadline

Aug 27 Second Deadline

Sept 17 Final Deadline

Oct 2 Application

Direct Link Feature Film $65 $85 $115 Apply Now Short Film $45 $60 $80 Apply Now TV Project $45 $60 $80 Apply Now XR Experience $45 $60 $80 Apply Now Music Video $45 $60 $80 Apply Now

All deadlines end at 11:59pm PT.

Submission Process

SXSW requires all projects to be submitted via link. If you change this link or any of your login information prior to March 2025 without contacting SXSW, your film may become ineligible for consideration.

Your submission link must be to a secure, online version of your film via an external site (i.e. your own website, Vimeo, etc.)

Your submission link must be working before you submit your application.

Please DO NOT send us a DVD copy as DVDs will not be considered.

Explore the FAQ for more details related to your project before submitting.

Submission Confirmation

You will receive a confirmation email from SXSW within 48 hours of your submission. This email will confirm that your film has been submitted correctly. If you do not receive this letter within 48 hours, please follow up via email to ensure your film has been submitted properly and is under consideration.

To keep important SXSW emails from landing in your spam folder, add the following address to your contact list: filmfest@sxsw.com.

All applicants will be informed of the status of their project no later than Tuesday, February 11, 2025.

Subscribe to SXSW Event Updates and the Film & TV Community Newsletter to keep up with the latest SXSW 2025 announcements and programming spotlights.

Awards Eligibility

We're pleased to count ourselves among the festivals eligible for both Oscars Shorts, BAFTA qualification, and the Film Independent Spirit Awards. Learn more here.