At Target Foundation, we believe a vibrant and growing economy is only possible when economic opportunities are available to all our neighbors. The Target Foundation is committed to advancing racial equity and shared prosperity in the Twin Cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul and the greater state of Minnesota.

LISC provides capital, strategy and know-how to the Twin Cities community development partners – helping to enhance the capacity of community-based partners to adapt to evolving needs in the region. To do this, it:

Invests & Leverages: Directs and leverages strategic flow of significant capital to people and communities with underdeveloped assets;

Builds Organizational & Ecosystem Capacity: Develops leadership and capacity at the local level to equip individuals, community partners and local coalitions to implement effective strategies;

Advises: Serves as trusted partner to residents, organizations and investors seeking to design and deliver solutions in their communities;

Convenes: Fosters collaboration by coordinating resources and actors across sectors and managing project implementation; and

Advocates: Lifts up innovative ideas from local leaders and residents and engages in local, state and national policy arenas.

The Target Foundation’s general operating funding will help LISC to implement its goals in the areas of recovery, asset-building and affordable housing.

We’re proud to support the work of the Asian Economic Development Association (AEDA) and its mission to increase economic opportunities for Asian Americans.

Envisioning vibrant diverse neighborhoods infused with the richness of Asian American cultures and leadership, AEDA builds innovative approaches to creating jobs and reducing poverty for the Twin Cities Asian population through in-language, culturally appropriate direct engagement with its communities.

We’re proud to support the work of the Housing Justice Center (HJC) and its mission to preserve and expand affordable housing for low-income individuals and families.

Housing Justice Center (HJC) partners with renters, community organizations, and policymakers to strengthen tenant protections and ensure that housing laws are not just words on a page but real rights that people can access. HJC works to increase the amount of affordable housing across the state and protect the scarce affordable housing opportunities that exist. Their team of lawyers, policy advocates, and organizers work diligently to transform the housing system so all Minnesotans can be stably housed with dignity while remaining rooted in community.