The three US service members killed in the weekend drone attack in Jordan were identified Monday as a decorated sergeant, a woman hoping to return home in June and a daughter whose mom called her an “angel.”

The tragic trio were all Georgia residents from the same military unit, officials said.

Sgt. William Rivers, 46, of Carrollton, Spc. Brianna Moffatt, 23, of Savannah, and Spc. Kennedy Ladon Sanders, 24, of Waycross were slain in the Saturday night attack by Iranian-backed militants on a small outpost near the Syrian border.

“All of these different things that she had plans for, you know, were just cut short in the blink of an eye,” Sanders’ weeping mother, Oneida, told the Washington Post. “I just feel like somebody like her, that’s so full of life, it’s just unfair that she’ll never get to realize those dreams that she had.”

Kennedy’s father, Shawn Sanders, a Marine veteran who affectionately called his daughter “Munchkin,” said the family was working on a plan to celebrate her return from the Middle East come June when they were informed of her death.

The heartbroken parents described their daughter as a hardworking young woman who helped coach local soccer and basketball teams and worked at a pharmacy while studying to be an X-ray technician.

Oneida added that Kennedy had plans to become a full-time Army soldier and was also studying Italian in hopes of visiting Italy once her service had concluded.

Kennedy was the first of the killed soldiers to be identified Monday.

“Our family would like to thank you for the respect given to Kennedy. Munchkin will be missed by many,” her father wrote in a Facebook post announcing her death.

Flags in Waycross were flying at half-staff Monday for Kennedy, her family said — and Mayor Michael-Angelo James plans to hold an honorary service when her body is returned home, WTOC reported.

The three slain service members served in the 718th Engineer Company, the 926th Engineer Battalion, and the 926th Engineer Brigade, based out of Fort Moore in Georgia.

They were killed when the armed drone hit their housing unit, US officials said.

Moffett’s mother Regina said news of her daughter’s death marked “one of the saddest days of my life.

“With a heavy heart I have to say that my Angel my first born has going on to be with GOD today,” the mom wrote over the weekend on Facebook.

“The pain will never go away and my life is forever changed. I will never get to cook your favorite food, we will never get to talk on the phone and I will never see you walk through my front door again,” she said.

“A piece of my heart and soul will always be missing,” the mom said.

“Love you Baby Girl. Rest Easy. Always will be my first born.”

Rivers had enlisted in the Army Reserves in 2011 as an Interior Electrician and had served nine months in Iraq in 2018 during Operation Inherent Resolve.

The US Army Reserve Command touted him as a decorated sergeant who had received a slew of honors, including the National Defense Service Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, the Inherent Resolve Campaign Medal with Campaign Star and other medals.

“On behalf of the Army Reserve, I share in the sorrow felt by their friends, family, and loved ones,” said Lt. Gen. Jody Daniels, Chief of the Army Reserve. “Their service and sacrifice will not be forgotten, and we are committed to supporting those left behind in the wake of this tragedy.”

Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp noted in an emotional statement that the three dead were all from the Peach State.

“Marty, the girls, and I are all saddened to learn of the deaths of three service members based out of Georgia,” the governor said, referring to his family. “These soldiers gave the last full measure of devotion in service to this country.

“This inexcusable loss of life and the attack from terrorists that resulted in these casualties is a reminder of why we stand with the friends of liberty. The entire Kemp family asks that Georgians everywhere join us in keeping the loved ones of those lost in this attack in our thoughts and prayers in the days ahead.”

The weekend assault happened at a remote base in northeastern Jordan and marked the first American fatalities from enemy fire in the region since US troops were placed on high alert after Hamas’ October 7 attack on Israel.

The drone assault also was the deadliest attack on US troops in the Middle East since an ISIS bomb killed four American soldiers in 2019.

President Biden was quick to blame Iran, which also backs Hamas, for the attacks — and vowed that the US would “respond.

“While we are still gathering the facts of this attack, we know it was carried out by radical Iran-backed militant groups operating in Syria and Iran,” the president said after the strike.

About 34 American service members also were injured, with an unknown number of them identified as members of the Arizona National Guard, who have been deployed in Jordan since September, according to FOX 10.

“Arizona National Guardsmen were identified to be in the area during the January 27th unmanned aerial drone attack in northeast Jordan, near the Syria border,” the Arizona National Guard said in a statement.

“Facts of this attack are still being collected and it is unknown at this time how many Arizona service members were impacted.”