I have bought multiples of certain records chasing “the best version,” but if I’m honest, most of the time, I’m just re-buying a record I love because it’s a record I love. I have several records on multiple formats, and multiple copies within the same format. I’ll stick with vinyl here, though, and try to note what’s different (if anything).

PiL - Public Image

First UK press - 3 copies, each with a different combination of stampers

First Japanese press - tip-on cover, Japan exclusive insert

First Australian press - clear vinyl, laminated cover

I used to have the UK second press (gave to a friend) and LITA pressing (sold, but kept the poster, insert, sticker, and pin)

Also own on SACD and have owned multiple CD versions

PiL - Metal Box/Second Edition

Metal Box first UK press - 3x12 45rpm in metal tin

Second Edition First UK press

Second Edition First Japanese press (listed as Metal Box on spine) - OBI, Japanese insert

I used to have the US version (traded a friend for the CD in the late ‘80s) and the the German first press (sold)

Also own on SACD and have owned several different CDs

PiL - Memories 12”

Two copies of the UK press because the second was irresistibly cheap

Sex Pistols - Never Mind the Bollocks…

Early French press (11 track)

Early UK press green/red label (same matrix as later sky blue label pressings)

Early Benelux pressing

80s US press

Euro Back To Black repress

1978 UK picture disc

I’ve owned a bunch of other variations, including an early Netherlands pressing and various UK and US versions

Also own on SACD and few different versions on CD

Love - Forever Changes

US red label second press

50th Anniversary set

Mono reissue (Rhino)

Used to own the CB master but sold it.

Also own on SACD and CD

Rowland S. Howard - Teenage Snuff Film

VMP red vinyl

UK Mute blue vinyl

UK Mute black vinyl

I had the Australian first press and the Spanish repress, but sold them for stupid money (to me)

Also own on CD

Rowland S. Howard - Pop Crimes

Australian first, second, and third pressings (third is red vinyl “audiophile” pressing)

That’s all I’ll bore you with for now.

None. I don’t see the point. If i find a good deal on an album i already own i might buy it as a gift to someone. Mono or stereo whatever i find first is what i got. Oh wait i have two copies of FM’s Black Noise cuz i found a copy signed by all three band members for a steal. But my german pressing sounds best.

I have multiple versions of in excess of 50 albums but the most versions I have are the following (the number of versions I have in some cases are guesses). By different versions I am counting different pressings (i.e different deadwax). In some cases they have the same deadwax but just a better copy of the vinyl but the majority have different deadwax.

- LZ II - 12 versions

- After The Goldrush - Neil Young - 9 versions

- Tea for the Tillerman - Cat Stevens - 6 versions

- Deja Vu - CSNY - 6 versions

- Crosby, Stills and Nash - CSN - 5 versions

- Aqualung - Jethro Tull - 5 versions

- ITCOTCK - King Crimson - 5 versions

- Moondance - Van Morrison - 5 versions

- Bob Dylan - multiple versions of most of his pre-1980 albums with around 5 versions of Blood on the Tracks

- Beatles - Mutiple versions of every album (except Let It Be, unless you count Let It Be Naked as a different version)

For most of the artists listed above, I have multiple copies of some of their other albums. I've been collecting albums for close to 60 years and have always looked for the albums above (and others) when I'm in record stores in any town/country that I visit.

Super list of versions