13 photos

Photo: Mattel

I think we all desire to leave something behind before we're gone. There are many ways you can do that. But very few of them will manage to echo through the ages. Life goes by in a blink of an eye.

A company as huge as Mattel will come up with hundreds of ideas to attract more customers. Some of them work better than others. I've seen people complain about the Red Line Club situation but keep returning for more with every new release. If there's one idea I genuinely love, it's the Hot Wheels Legends Tour. It has been going on for a few years, producing impressive results.

Some of my favorite castings that entered the Mainline series are the 1970 Pontiac Firebird (2020 Legends Winner) and the 1992 Mazda Autozam (2022 winner). Originally, the event ran across the United States but has since expanded worldwide to multiple countries. That's how Lee Johnstone won it back in 2021, with his 1969 Volvo P1800 Gasser dubbed Ain't No Saint.

That First Edition release was great, as it accurately portrayed the 1/4-mile racer. And it's interesting to see it even reached Super Treasure Hunt status this year! In 2023, the award went to New Zealand, where Chris Watson built a rather impressive Cyberpunk-like Mazda MX-5. But it faced some stiff competition, including a pair of BMW Isetta twins from Arizona, a famous Daihatsu Hijet with a motorcycle engine inside, and an aircraft/vehicle hybrid called Golgoth I from France, to name a few.

As you can imagine, plenty of exciting vehicles exist in the United Kingdom. Just think about last year's top runner: an MGB GT with a 3.0-liter AJV6 engine inside and many other cool upgrades. So it's no wonder the tour is returning this year, and I can't wait to see what different cars sign up for it.

I've already messaged Phil Morisson about the whole thing; his Murcielago GT1 might have a good chance of impressing the judges and spectators alike. Entries for the Hot Wheels Legends Tour UK are open until July 5. On July 24, we will get to know the first two finalists. And there's also a popular vote to look forward to: fans will designate the third finalist on August 5.

The three finalists will stand in front of the judges on August 25 at the SlammedUK Gravity Show, which will happen at the National Exhibition Center (NEC) in Birmingham. It's cool that Craig Callum is part of the judging panel this time. He has designed castings like the Vespa 90 SS Super Sprint (1966) and the Porsche 911 Carrera, which people love to use as a keychain.

Of course, the UK stage is just one part of the game. We won't know who the global winner is until November 11. Even if that sounds like a long time to wait, we'll have plenty of exciting updates to follow. Look at the photos from the Miami event I included in the gallery.