The Wheel of Time spoilers follow – including the season 2 finale.

The Wheel of Time season three is set to return in 2025, according to reports from Variety.

While reporting on star Rosamund Pike's role in Now You See Me 3, the outlet commented on The Wheel of Time's season three debut, stating: "[Pike] has played sorceress Moiraine Damodred in Prime Video's epic fantasy The Wheel of Time since 2021, with a third season of the series set to release in 2025."

This update will no doubt delight fans who have fallen in love with Robert Jordan's fantasy world.

But if you thought all the world-building has been complicated so far, just wait until you see what's next in store for The Randlands.

Join us here at Digital Spy as we weave a tale and reveal everything you need to know about The Wheel of Time season three on Prime Video.

The Wheel of Time season 3 potential release date – When does it come out?

As mentioned above, The Wheel of Time season three is due to land in 2025 – but the question is when?

We already know that filming for the third season wrapped in March 2024, thanks to a video posted on the official Wheel of Time X/Twitter page.

"Thank the Light, we're done filming season three," the post was captioned, while many of the cast in the clip confirmed in the video that it was a wrap for them.

Rand al'Thor actor Josha Stradowski went on to share that he was "very, very excited for the audience to see [the new season]," while Daniel Henney (who plays al'Lan Mandragoran) promised: "It's going to be big."

The Wheel of Time, of course, has an extensive post-production process, but given that filming ended in March 2024, we can expect an early 2025 release window.

The Wheel of Time season 3 cast – Who's in it?

Assuming no more cast members are replaced any time soon, here's who we can expect to see return for The Wheel of Time season three:

• Rosamund Pike as Moiraine Damodred

• Daniel Henney as al'Lan Mandragoran

• Zoë Robins as Nynaeve al'Meara

• Madeleine Madden as Egwene al'Vere

• Josha Stradowski as Rand al'Thor

• Marcus Rutherford as Perrin Aybara

• Dònal Finn as Mat Cauthon

One fan-favourite who won't be back, though, is Hopper the wolf, after he died protecting Perrin in the finale of season two. It's okay, though. All dogs go to heaven, and we can only assume that wolves do, too.

The Wheel of Time season 3 plot – What will happen?

The Wheel of Time season three is about to take the franchise down a wondrously strange path, at least according to executive producer Rafe Judkins.

Judkins commented on the opening scene of the third season, telling Deadline: "The first 15 minutes of season three is one of the most bonkers set pieces I've ever seen on television.

"I was just watching it this week, and it is absolutely bananas what our team pulled off … just a bunch of women in their 40s and 50s shredding each other, and it is wonderful to behold."

While we remain poised to find out exactly what that means, we can still hazard a pretty good guess about where the story will go in season three.

At the end of The Wheel of Time season two, Rand is finally proclaimed to The Dragon, as foretold by the prophecy. Ishamael is also dead, so there's plenty of cause to celebrate, right?

Well, the Forsaken are still hanging about, and they have plans for Rand, even with Lanfear trying his best to protect The Dragon from them.

At San Diego Comic-Con in July 2023, showrunner Rafe Judkins confirmed that season three will cover events from the fourth novel, named The Shadow Rising, which was first published in 1992.

It's Rafe's "favourite book in the series", but that probably won't stop him from making big changes to the source material like he's done with previous instalments.

The Shadow Rising primarily revolves around Rand al'Thor — who now wields the sword Callandor — as he seeks answers to another prophecy tied up with warrior people known as the Aiel.

On September 27, 2023, Judkins posted on X/Twitter that season three will be "even more sophisticated and rich and deep" than the previous season.

"I've always said that people grew up with the books," said Judkins. "That the tone and storytelling and emotions of the first book progress and mature until you reach the incredible depths of the final books. I hope the show is the same."

Speaking to Entertainment Weekly, Judkins also said that season three will reveal more about the Forsaken.

"Are there any Forsaken hiding in our world that we're meeting in season three? In the books, each of them appears in their own way that's unique to that Forsaken," he teased.

"And so it's a really fun thing to unravel in the show because they're almost like representatives of these different versions of evil. Moghedien's fun because she is not driven by love in the way that Lanfear and Ishamael are, and she is a much more dangerous character because of that."

Asked about Rand's season three arc, Josha Stradowski had a thoughtful and nuanced reply (via ScreenRant).

"I think for all the main characters, they get what they need, and that is each other, but for all of them comes the internal conflict that they also feel like they need to become something else," Stradowski said.

"It's like this growing pain, and I think Rand has that quite a lot. I feel like he wants to be there for his friends, he knows that he needs to be there for them to protect them, and the other way around as well, but he also needs to become the most dangerous man alive."

"How can you do that with someone that knows your dad, or the girl who kissed you for the first time? I don't know if that's Egwene, but in my head it is.

"So, I feel like they all struggle with this growing pain, but you see why they are friends, and you see why they are together; why they are the main characters of this story."

The Wheel of Time season 3 trailer – Any Wheel of Time season 3 footage yet?

New footage could arrive soon, potentially during San Diego Comic-Con. While we wait for teaser clips, you can channel all your love for the show in endless rewatches that infinitely loop and repeat – much like a wheel.