Mondays mean Motown!

The fifth blog in this series about some of Motown’s best known and loved acts, is all about Gladys Knight & the Pips. Gladys Knight was the lead singer and the Pips supported Gladys’ extraordinary voice with soulful harmonies.

The Pips

The Pips were a family group that began in their home town of Atlanta, Georgia in 1952. The original members were Gladys Knight, her brother Merald “Bubba”, sister Brenda and cousins Eleanor and William Guest. After performing for a few years, the group were signed to record Brunswick Records label in 1957 but their singles failed to chart. In 1959, Brenda and Eleanor were replaced by another of Gladys’ cousins, Edward Pattern, and Langston George, the first non-family member of the group.

Every Beat of My Heart was the Pips first hit and was released on three different record labels in 1961. During this year, the name of the group changed to Gladys Knight & the Pips to reflect Gladys’ role as lead singer and Langston left the group.

Gladys Knight & the Pips line up was now a true family affair: Gladys Knight, Merald Knight, William Guest and Edward Pattern.

Motown Music

Gladys Knight and the Pips signed to Motown Records in 1966, achieving 11 Top Ten hits between 1966 and 1972, when Motown’s headquarters up sticks and moved to Los Angeles, California. Norman Whitfield was the main producer and songwriter assigned to work with Gladys and the Pips. Knight’s bluesy voice and the gospel influence on the group made them stand out from other Motown acts. I Heard it Through the Grapevine was originally recorded by Gladys Knight in 1967 and produced great success, topping the R&B chart for 6 weeks and reaching no.2 in the pop charts. It was later, in 1969, recorded and released by the song’s author Marvin Gaye – this is the better known version today.

In the early 1970s, the Pips began moving away from their gospel/blues influence and became more of a pop-oriented harmony group. The group was very successful with this subtle change in sound, winning a Grammy Award in 1973 for Best Pop Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals for Neither One of Us (Wants to Be the First to Say Goodbye). The group left Motown in 1973, unhappy with the labels move from Detroit to Los Angeles, and signed with Buddah Records.

Seventies & Eighties

At Buddah, Knight & the Pips recorded one of their most famous hits Midnight Train to Georgia, this gentle but yearning soul ballad, released in 1973, topped the R&B and pop charts and won the group their second Grammy Award. Gladys Knight went on to win a total of seven Grammy Awards throughout her career, having been nominated over 20 times. The first in 1973 and the most recent in 2005 for One Voice by Gladys Knight and Saints Unified Choir for Best Gospel Choir or Chorus Album.

Gladys Knight had her first film credit in 1976 in the film Pipe Dreams, which Knight and the Pips also recorded the film soundtrack for. However, until the end of the 1970s, for legal reasons, Gladys Knight could not record with Pips. This resulted in two solo albums for Gladys Knight, but the group were brought back together again in 1980 and worked again with Ashford and Simpson, a writing and producing duo that had previously worked for Motown in Detroit.

Gladys and the Pips continued to release music together throughout the 1980s and in 1989, Gladys Knight sang the James Bond theme track for the film Licence to Kill.

Empress of Soul

The group disbanded in 1989, Gladys Knight continued to release solo music, releasing to date 11 solo albums, having previously released over 20 studio albums with the Pips. Gladys’ career also extended beyond music, she appeared in 9 movies, 17 television shows and in 1996, Gladys Knight and the Pips were inducted into the Roll & Roll Hall of Fame.

Gladys Knight is an extraordinarily talented woman, which her accolades reflect emphatically. The blend of soul, blues, gospel, R&B, pop and undoubtedly more genres that she transcended throughout her career has cemented her place as the Empress of Soul.

Recommendations

Midnight Train to Georgia (1973)

I Heard it Through the Grapvine (1967)

Take Me in Your Arms and Love Me (1967)

If I Were Your Woman (1971)

Neither One of Us (Wants to be the First to Say Goodbye) (1973)

Favourite Gladys Knights & the Pips Album: Everybody Needs Love (1967)

Next Week’s Motown Monday: Marvin Gaye, Monday 6th July

Sources:

Gladys Knight & the Pips, All Music: https://www.allmusic.com/artist/gladys-knight-the-pips-mn0000667169/biography

Gladys Knight Discography: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gladys_Knight_%26_the_Pips

**I do not own the images used in this blog post.