Grade School Confidential, the 19th episode of season eight and the 172nd episode, was first broadcasted on April 6, 1997 with a script by Rachel Pulido and directed by Susie Dietter.

Seymour Skinner and Edna Krabappel strike up a conversation at a party and take a romantic interest in each other. They try to keep their affair a secret, but Bart sees them kiss. The following day the couple hears Bart telling his classmates about it and silences him by deleting his permanent records. Bart becomes their go-between for exchanging love notes, but he gets tired of that and exposes Skinner and Krabappel in the janitor’s closet locked in a passionate embrace. The word spreads all over town and Superintendent Chalmers gives Skinner an ultimatum – either end the relationship or face dismissal.

This is the first episode that focuses mostly on the romantic relationship between Skinner and Mrs. Krabappel that would continue for a good decade after this episode aired. And for a lot of people, myself include, the show found a perfect way to showcase that bond and connection that Skinner and Krabappel have together, they seemed a lot like Homer and Marge, they don’t look like the perfect couple on paper but as you see them together more, you can definitely see their connection they have.

Part in that goes to the chemistry between Harry Shearer and Marcia Wallace in the two roles, you can’t help but see that amazing chemistry work so well and I think that was the main focus on why the producers finally decided to have the two of them get together.

Not only that, you have them finally getting their revenge on Bart as he finds out their secret relationships and becomes their go-to guy to continue their relationships in school…but even then, they take it too far and start to embarrass him thus leading to Bart exposing their relationship to the school in the funniest way they could’ve possibly done it.

The whole episode is just great and entertaining, it has a lot of funny moments, a great story, and great execution. Everything works the best way they could’ve made it work from expanding on Skinner and Krabappel’s relationship while also ending their episode on one of the best endings they could’ve ended it with.

Definitely give Grade School Confidential a watch if you want to see a great story and a lot of really funny moments.