6 photos

Photo: www.vnycmag.com

One of the pioneers of hip hop culture and founding members of Run-D.M.C. group, Darryl McDaniels has recently modeled alongside his wife Zuri for the Summer issue of Vintage NYC Magazine. The two were posing next to a vintage London cab and a Lamborghini Murcielago Art Car.

The New York-based Vintage NYC Magazine edited by Amelia Meloni, a fashion enthusiast, had legendary rapper Darryl McDaniels and his wife shooting for the third issue of the magazine. Folks can find two editorial photo shoots of the high profile couple also present on the website.

In the pictures we can see the famous rapper posing next to a Lamborghini Murcielago and a famous Austin London Cab, having his wife wearing all sorts of vintage outfits. The issue went on the market last month, but readers can also watch an interview with the two celebrities online. Even though the legend passed through some tough times back in the day, it's good to see he’s doing fine.

For those are wondering what the famous artist has been doing in the last years, you’ll want to know he’s been through some bad experiences.

In 1997, McDaniels began to slide into a deep depression. He became extremely unhappy with the rigorous routine of touring and performing, and with being away from his family. He began to rely heavily on prescription drugs and alcohol to ease the pain. While on tour, DMC noticed his voice was giving out. He was later diagnosed with spasmodic dysphonia, a vocal disorder which causes involuntary spasms of the larynx muscles. Meanwhile his collaboration with bandmates turned weaker by the month and he finally decided to stop taking part of it and walk on a solo career.

His second album, the more rock orientated The Origins Of Block Music was due out in summer 2010, however has been delayed since. In December 2010, Darryl appeared with Talib Kweli, Mix Master Mike and Ahmet Zappa on a cover of Frank Zappa’s “Willie the Pimp” for the The Frank Zappa AAAFNRAAA Birthday Bundle 2010, a compilation album released as a digital download through Zappa Family Trust.