As information technology spending costs soar with Y2K issues, technology migration, and e-business opportunities, more pressure exists than ever on IT to justify expenditures and lower operating costs.

To address these challenges, Attachmate SA, a provider of host access management and e-business solutions, has announced the release of its Y2K compliant EXTRA! Personal Client 6.5 desktop host access solution that lowers administrative overhead while providing the ability to migrate desktop clients from thick to thin.

Paul Cripsey, MD of Attachmate SA, says, With the desktop no longer being overlooked in regard to Y2K readiness, desktop compliance projects are becoming a major part of Year 2000 IT spending. Organisations are looking for solutions that are stable, reliable, as well as easy to deploy and manage throughout the enterprise. IT departments can now quickly and easily address the desktop component of their projects and devote their resources to other critical Y2K issues.

E!PC's Management Console allows for enterprise-wide deployment of the 6.5 version. and enables organisations to migrate all enterprise desktops to 6.5 from older non Y2K versions.

In addition, the Management Console allows administrators to install, configure, distribute, upgrade and manage desktop clients and gateways.

The new application addresses the needs of those customers who are evaluating and implementing client-server computing as a means to lower their overall total cost of ownership. The solution offers support for the Microsoft Windows Terminal Server and Citrix WinFrame platforms.

Customers now have the flexibility to run their host connectivity on these servers and download only requested screens to the desktop, saving valuable network bandwidth.

The 6.5 version also includes dozens of customer-driven enhancements increasing usability, expanding printing capabilities, and adding support for legacy connectivity. Directed at mainframe, AS/400, and UNIX/VMS environments, these enhancements make it easier for users to interact with host data and give administrators the opportunity to further reduce network complexity.

Personal Client 6.5 provides host access to conventional client desktops inside the enterprise, while providing centralised management. As companies extend Web-to-host access to remote users, business partners, and customers over the Internet, they can do so without disruption to internal users, by migrating to Attachmate e-Vantage solutions.

Attachmate e-Vantage is a server-based host access management solution, providing browser-based connectivity in both ActiveX and Java Viewers. The Viewers are deployed from a centralised server to remote and thin client users.

Attachmate e-Vantage also includes conventional EXTRA! Desktop connectivity, ensuring a smooth migration from traditional host access to Web-to-host computing. The Attachmate e-Vantage Host Access Server Management Console centrally controls the complexity of configuring, distributing, and updating traditional, thin, and custom host-integrated client applications. The Attachmate e-Vantage family of products and services provides a secure foundation for evolving to e-business.