Plans are being worked on which could see several sky-scraping buildings tower over Plymouth. Currently, the Beckley Point student block at 23 floors and 78m, is the tallest building in the city - and the whole of Devon and Cornwall.

The Civic Centre, planned to be transformed into flats above a City College Plymouth campus, is 14 storeys high, 58.8m. The three Devonport high-rise tower blocks are each 14 floors.

Plymouth has 73 buildings that are 18 metres or higher. Buildings of this height, which is six storeys, are generally considered to be “high rise”.

READ NEXT

New £25m Royal Eye Infirmary suffers major teething troubles

Hundreds of people sign Central Park 'eyesore' petition

But all these will be dwarfed if the four proposals outlined below are built. Here are the details:

Shepherds Wharf - 29 storeys

The waterfront could be transformed into Plymouth’s “go-to area” by three skyscrapers including the city’s tallest building under a £60m plan. Developers are working on proposals for the derelict former Plymouth Fruit Sales site at Sutton Harbour which would see a 29-story block of flats, with a hotel at the top, and neighbouring apartment blocks of 23 and 12 floors.

If plans for the Shepherds Wharf development are given approval, the central tower would be the tallest building in Plymouth, and the entire South West, and six floors higher than the Beckley Point student flats in the city centre.

The plans for the former Plymouth Fruit Sales site come with a vision to create two-floors of commercial space, for the likes of coffee shops and restaurants, right on the waterfront. Mike Leech, marketing manager for developer Comcor (Shepherds Wharf) Ltd, said: “It would create a go-to area.”

In August 2023, developer Comcor (Shepherds Wharf) Ltd outlined plans for a single 30-storey tower on the patch of land next to two Premier Inn hotels and near Sutton Harbour Group’s proposed 21-floor Sugar Quay apartment project. That was consulted on, and some neighbouring residents recently said they were unhappy.

But it was a scheme based on a previously approved plan dating from 2008, which was never built and followed by the land changing hands several times. So during the following eight months, Comcor came up with an entirely new vision.

It envisages a 200-home development with a central double-storey plinth full of commercial space, ideal for waterfront coffee shops and restaurants. On top of this would rise two towers, the largest having a third floor of commercial space, and then 20 floors of single- to three-bed flats, with a six-level serviced aparthotel on the top.

The second tower would again have a third floor of commercial space, which could include offices, and then 20 floors of apartments. Slightly behind the two blocks would be a 12-level block of flats, its ground floor being a single story plinth.

The scheme also envisages public space next to the waterfront, with outdoor seating, and the plinth having a rain garden, social space and play area, for residents and a mobility hub and parking too. The two main blocks are designed so they are narrower on some elevations, planned at 9m and 18m, and “twisted” so whichever what they are looked at they do not present a huge block but allow views past them.

Under the proposed scheme 95% of the apartments would have a dual aspect so they would receive all-day sunlight. The cost would be £50m to £60m, with the scheme fully-funded and purchase of the land agreed in principle contingent on planning consent.

A planning application is expected to be submitted this summer. If permission is granted in 2024, work could begin in 2026 with the building complete by 2029.

Crescent Green - 30 storeys

Plans have been revealed for a 30-storey tower and three other buildings with gardens on the roof to be built on a derelict piece of land in Plymouth city centre. Developers envisage buildings containing 300 flats and a 114-bed hotel, plus 120 parking spaces, on the 1.5-acre former ITV television studios at Derry’s Cross,

The proposed development, to be called Crescent Green, would also have commercial space in what is being described as an “exciting, new, mixed-use urban quarter”. The plan is for four buildings, although one is linked to the dominant 30-floor skyscraper by a single core. Two stand-alone buildings, facing onto The Crescent, would be about eight- to 10-floors in height. The plans also include the reinstatement of a “historic route” between Millbay and the city centre, “regreening” the area with a “pocket park”.

The site, next to Plymouth Athenaeum and the Saltwater Pace student flats, was tidied up in March 2023 ready for development. Private investment company SLB Investments (Plymouth) Ltd expects plans to be submitted in the autumn with work beginning by the end of 2025, subject to the plans being approved.

In 2007 planning permission was granted for a 31-storey residential tower. The new proposal is actually lower than the one given planning consent. The highest accessible roof-garden floor is on level 30 so overall it is 5.5m lower than the previously approved scheme.

A landscaped pedestrian route, envisioned as a “green sanctuary”, will become a new public space and roof gardens at many levels of the proposed buildings, including the top level 30 of the new tower on Derry’s Cross, would create a “green and softened silhouette in the urban landscape”.

The land was once a military graveyard where sailors were buried between 1762 and 1822, with an estimated 2,000 cadavers possibly still under the ground. It is proposed there would be a commemoration to the service personnel laid to rest in the old Pinfold burial ground.

The land was put on sale for £3.5m in 2021 after previous plans to build on it never got off the ground. London-based SLB Investments bought the site after it had been taken over by receivers when a previous owner failed to keep up with mortgage payments.

The patch of land, once home to ITV’s Plymouth studio, has been empty since law firm Foot Anstey moved from it to Sutton Harbour in 2009. Among schemes proposed for the plot over the years was Devington Homes’ enormous Oceanique project, which at 365 feet would have been more than twice the height of the Civic Centre.

Sugar Quay - 21 storeys

A £60m skyscraper planned for Plymouth’s waterfront is now likely to be built in three phases instead of all at once. Sutton Harbour Group Plc (SHG) is looking to change its approach to building the enormous Sugar Quay apartment block earmarked for the eastern side of Sutton Harbour.

Construction of the block - which, at 21 storeys, will be just three floors lower than the Beckley Point student flat tower which overlooks the city centre - was due to begin in 2023, but last year SHG said it will look at changing its strategy in light of economic factors and how long it would take to construct the apartments in one go. The company also took into account how long it took to sell the flats in the nearly completed Harbour Arch Quay block, also at Sutton Harbour.

SHG was given planning consent for Sugar Quay in 2022. It will contain 170 apartments, restaurants and shops and SHG said it would form a centrepiece development in the regeneration of Plymouth’s historic harbourfront. Plymouth City Council ’s planning committee unanimously approved plans for the building in April 2022 followed two months later by a successful completion of the Section 106 legal agreement with the local authority.

But then the UK’s economic outlook worsened, with the energy price shock caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine hitting post-Covid recovery and UK growth.

In its financial results for the year to the end of March 2023, SHG said: “The company is now working on modifying the approved plan for this site (Sugar Quay) that will allow for the development to be delivered in three distinct phases.”

Sugar Quay has been designed as a “sentinel building” for the harbour. The planned layout optimises its location, providing a significant increase in public space and space for leisure and retail activities, incorporating westerly views to the marina, the Barbican, and the Hoe.

Planned features at ground level include improvements to public areas along the east side, with large open areas replacing the current narrow walkways. The Marrowbone slip will be fully integrated with the harbourfront spaces.

SHG has also acquired additional land on the east side of the Sugar Quay site for redevelopment in accordance with the long-standing policy of Plymouth City Council for the regeneration of the area between Sutton Road and Gdynia Way. These plots could accommodate a new neighbourhood which would feature homes, including affordable housing and social housing, retail space, car parking and an urban park.

This neighbourhood is being designed to complement the Sugar Quay development. SHG said that together they would provide an eastern gateway to the harbour, with improved walkways and streetscape along Sutton Road and opening up new routes to/from the waterfront and the residential communities east of Gdynia Way. It would also achieve the strengthening of activities of the city centre with the enhanced integration of Sutton Harbour and these residential areas.

Mecca Bingo Centre - 23 storeys

Plans have been put forward to demolish the current Mecca Bingo centre in Devonport and replace it with what could be one of Plymouth’s tallest buildings. A pre-application was this year put forward that would see a 23-storey mixed-use building built on the corner of Fore Street.

The scheme for Fore Street would see commercial units provided on the ground and first floors, with living accommodation above. A statement with the pre-application said the development plan seeks to rejuvenate the area and stimulate economic growth while providing high-quality residential options.

The pres-app also said the tower could serve as student accommodation, particularly given the local plan’s emphasis on urbanisation and educational growth in Plymouth and West Devon. It said developers and architectural designers are “committed to flexibility”.