As the Winter season gradually releases its grip, the Spring season stands poised to rejuvenate life. The flora and fauna have commenced showing positive signs of growth and activity. The universe is once again regaining vitality. The Masonic community is brimming with enthusiasm at the possibilities that this new season brings.

Spring is a period of readiness, and our interested gentlemen are preparing for their initiation into Freemasonry. At Blazing Star Lodge, every Brother is enthusiastically preparing for the Summer opportunities that lie ahead.

During the summer months, Blazing Star Brothers take every opportunity to get involved with the East Aurora community. The town will soon be bustling with activity and events. As part of the East Aurora community since 1817, we joyfully get involved with cookouts and other opportunities to strengthen our contribution to The Village of East Aurora.

Our main charitable outreach, Brothers Of The Bread, continues to grow and provide thousands of loaves of bread, jelly, treats, and green beans to food pantries across New York State and now into Pennsylvania. We are welcoming another Lodge near the Buffalo City limits to assist with at least three new food pantries. We also welcomed a Lodge in Cattaraugus County to help supply our Southertier pantries.

If you are interested in Freemasonry in East Aurora, NY, and want to help those in need, contribute to the community, and become part of a worldwide fraternity, contact us for an in-person or Zoom meeting to learn more.

Blazing Star Lodge #694 F&AM – East Aurora

Proud yet unassuming and slightly hidden behind some old-growth trees, the Blazing Star Masonic Lodge stands as a permanent fixture in East Aurora, New York. It overlooks the town with a protective eye ensuring all who pass are good and upright citizens. We like to think that the presence of the Lodge in our town sets a stage of history, pride, and Brotherly love among the members of the Lodge and the citizens of the town.

As part of the East Aurora, New York community since 1818, the Blazing Star Masonic Lodge actively seeks ways to contribute to the success of our neighbors. We do this by supporting little league baseball, FISH of East Aurora, The Rural Outreach Center, and Scholarships to graduating seniors at Iroquois High School and East Aurora High School. Most recently the formation of Brother Of The Bread, led by Brother Andrew Egressy. We are interested in our community and the people who call East Aurora and surrounding areas, home.

Our members meet in the Lodge every second and fourth Tuesday of each month September through June. Dinners begin at 6:30 pm with communications starting promptly at 7:30 pm. If you are a good and upstanding man, interested in improving your life and the life of everyone around you, please do not hesitate to knock on our door, virtually or literally, before 7:30 pm, and join us for dinner. We encourage social discussions before and after official communications are complete.

Since 1906 our Lodge stands as a building of humble men striving to better themselves and in turn make the world a better place. This is what we do. We would love to talk to you more about Freemasonry please contact us anytime.

We are not affiliated with any of these Podcasts but they are so informative we wanted to provide a way for our visitors to learn from their content.

Masonic Membership Programs — Bro. Brian McNaughton – Craftsmen Online Podcast

In this episode, we're focusing on the Scottish Rite Northern Masonic Jurisdiction and their exciting membership programs that are designed to enrich the Masonic experience and connect men with a vibrant community of Brothers. Bro. Brian McNaughton, 33° is the Director of Program Management and shares how the SRNMJ helps Brothers continue their quest for self-improvement through the Pathfinder Program.Show Notes:Visit the Scottish Rite Northern Masonic Jurisdiction online.Follow the Craftsmen Online Podcast on Spotify.Subscribe to the Craftsmen Online Podcast on Apple Podcasts.Follow Craftsmen Online on YouTube, hit subscribe and get notified the next time we go LIVE with a podcast recording!Visit the Craftsmen Online website to learn more about our next Reading Room event, New York Masonic History, and see the Lafayette Bicentennial Calendar!Get our latest announcements and important updates in your inbox with the Craftsmen Online Newsletter.Email the host, RW Michael Arce! Yes, we will read your email and may even reach out to be a guest on a future episode.Support the Craftsmen Online Podcast. Whether it's a one time donation or you become a Patreon Subscriber, we appreciate your support!Become a supporter of this podcast: https://www.spreaker.com/podcast/craftsmen-online-podcast–4822031/support.

Masonic Membership Programs — Bro. Brian McNaughton 36:01

Metropolitan Grand Lodge of London – RW Anthony Prizzia 30:12

My Masonic Journey: Revisited – Bro. Luis Diaz 31:02

July Reading Room — Bro. Jason Short 33:46

The Esoteric Blueprint: Tracing the Masculine Path of Self-Actualization in Freemasonry – RW Michael LaRocco 29:03

Whence Came You? – 0649 – Unveiling 'Black Ink Farther Stars' with Illustrious Brother Austin Shifrin – Whence Came You? – Freemasonry discussed and Masonic research for today's Freemason

🎙️ In this week's must-listen episode, we are honored to sit down with the insightful Illustrious Brother Austin Shifrin, the brilliant mind behind the newly released book "Black Ink Farther Stars." Join us as we dive deep into a conversation that's as inspiring as it is enlightening. Austin Shifrin shares the journey and inspiration behind his latest work, offering listeners a unique glimpse into his creative process and the profound themes explored within the pages of his book. Throughout the interview, we touch on thought-provoking questions and explore the intersections of Freemasonry, philosophy, and the boundless expanse of human potential. Whether you're a long-time member of the fraternity, a curious seeker, or simply in search of some intellectual stimulation, this episode promises to be a stellar addition to your week. Tune in now, and let Illustrious Brother Shifrin's wisdom and passion ignite your own inspiration! #WCYPodcast #BlackInkFartherStars #AustinShifrin #Freemasonry #Inspiration #Interview #NewRelease Links: Black Ink Farther Stars https://amzn.to/3XcTo52 More Light – Collected Writings https://amzn.to/3MdsmV3 Skull and Crown Ltd. www.skullandcrownltd.com Austin on FB Austin R. Shifrin, authorfacebook.com Austin on GoodReads Austin Shifringoodreads.com Centennial Lodge 544 https://www.masonpost.com/pa/centennial544/profile.html Craftsman+ FB Group https://www.facebook.com/groups/craftsmanplus/ WCY Podcast YouTube Channel https://www.youtube.com/c/WhenceCameYou Ancient Modern Initiation: Special Edition http://www.wcypodcast.com/the-Shop The Master's Word- A Short Treatise on the Word, the Light, and the Self – Autographed https://wcypodcast.com/the-shop Get the new book! How to Charter a Lodge https://wcypodcast.com/the-shop Truth Quantum https://truthquantum.com Our Patreon www.patreon.com/wcypodcast Support the show on Paypal https://wcypodcast.com/support-the-show Get some swag! https://wcypodcast.com/the-shop Get the book! http://a.co/5rtYr2r

Whence Came You? – 0649 – Unveiling 'Black Ink Farther Stars' with Illustrious Brother Austin Shifrin 46:10

Whence Came You? – 0648 – Initiates of the Flame Pt 8 39:23

Whence Came You? – 0647 – Initiates of the Flame Pt 7 30:02

Whence Came You? – 0646 – Initiates of the Flame Pt 6 19:46

Whence Came You? – 0645 – Initiates of the Flame Pt 5 16:34

Like this:

Like Loading...