Constructed in 1912 at 5418 West Gale Street, Jefferson Park Masonic Temple has been home to La Fayette Chapter No. 2 since the chapter’s

removal from the

Chicago Scottish Rite Cathedral in December 2006. The cornerstone was laid 13 September 1912, and the temple was dedicated 4 January 1913.[1]

Fellowship Chapter No. 235 met there until that chapter’s merger into

Irving Park Chapter No. 195 on 17 January 1964.

La Fayette Chapter’s monthly convocations are held on the fourth Tuesday evening of each month.

Click here to visit the chapter’s website.

The mid-construction photograph and the blueprints, both shown to the left, come to us through the courtesy of Hesperia Lodge No. 411,

A.F.&A.M.

See Bruce Barnes, ed.,

“History and Rededication of Jefferson Masonic Temple,” The Hesperian (Chicago), vol. 70, no. 3 (July 2005): 1, 16. See also Edward E. Gaunt, A Historical Account of the First 100 Years of Providence Lodge No. 711, A.F.&A.M., (date unknown [c. 1968?]).

The upper portion of the two-storey commercial building located at

10 South 2nd Street, has held Geneva’s Masonic Hall since the temple association purchased the structure in 1944. It is home to Fox River Chapter No. 14 whose monthly convocations are held on the 2nd Thursday evening of each month, less July and August when the chapter is dark.

See “Geneva Masonic Lodge 139 History”.

Click here to visit the chapter’s website.

The first image, looking roughly south-west shows both the building’s Main Street façade and 2nd Street side. The second photo, facing essentially west, reveals the 2nd Street entrance for the stairs up to

the chapter hall on the 2nd storey. An illuminated sign on the building’s

north-east corner, announces which body is meeting. At the bottom is the plaque on the north edge of the east wall, proclaiming the lodge and chapter.

These four photographs were captured by Companion Dave Miley, on 27 June 2010 during the town’s annual Swedish Days festivities.

Click on any of the images for a high-resolution version.

Located at 34 West Jefferson Avenue, this temple is the home of Euclid Chapter No. 13 whose convocations are held on the second Tuesday evening of each month.

The cornerstone was laid in an elaborate ceremony on 9 September 1916. The following is the newspaper account from the 13 September 1916 issue of the former

Naperville Clarion:

Corner Stone Laid For Masonic Temple

The corner stone of the new Masonic Temple in this city was laid on Saturday afternoon with impressive Masonic ceremonies, before a large assemblage of residents and Masons of the city and from surrounding counties. Bro. Ralph H. Wheeler, Grand Master of

Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Illinois, officiated, assisted by an occasional Grand Lodge composed as follows: Brothers H. H. Benjamin, Deputy Grand Master; C. W. Reed, Senior Grand Warden; C. A. Ashley, Junior Grand Warden; Claude V. Leffler, Grand Treasurer; Isaac Cutter, Grand Secretary; A. E. Randell, Grand Orator; Harry Woodward, Grand Chaplain; C. V. Wellner, Senior Grand Deacon; Edward Enck, Junior Grand Deacon; Wm. H. Bird, Grand Marshall; C. F. Wm. Schultz, Grand Pursuiviant; John Eisele, Senior Grand Steward; Earnest Rich, Junior Grand Steward; Ralph Steele Shepardson, Grand Architect; C. S. Gurney, Grand Tiler; John A. Bell, Master of Oldest Lodge.

The Most Worshipful Grand Master was escorted from the depot to the Masonic Hall by Aurora Commandery No. 22, Knights Templar, under Commander F. Merritt Pepper and Captain-General C. E.

Cooley, which was headed by the Lounge Factory Band and the G. A. R. Drum Corps of Aurora.

The Grand Lodge was then convened at the Masonic Hall where together with a delegation of Master Masons, the procession was again formed, the line of march being east on Jefferson Ave. to Washington St., south to Water St., west to Main St. to Jefferson Ave., and east to the Temple site. The Grand Lodge then counter-marched through the line of procession and assumed their places on a tastefully decorated platform, erected for the occasion.

Worshipful Master Sankey S. Good, after a few introductory remarks, then requested the Most Worshipful Grand Master and the Grand Lodge, on behalf of Euclid Lodge No. 65, to officiate at the ceremonies of the laying of the corner stone, which was performed with Masonic honors. The occasion was most impressive and will never be forgotten by those who were privileged to witness it.

Appropriate vocal selections were rendered in the course of the ceremonies by the Oriental Quartet of Chicago and a feature most appreciated was an oration delivered by Rev. A. E. Randell, the gist of which was the relation and benefits of Masonry to society in general and the fact that the importance and desirability of any edifice to a community, no matter how beautiful architecturally, rested absolutely on the nature of the institution which it houses.

The corner stone was the gift of Bro. Arthur R. Beidelman, a member of Euclid Lodge No. 65; it is exceptionally beautiful in design and will be a lasting and worthy monument to Masonry and to the beneficence of Bro. Beidelman.

Please visit the history section of Euclid Chapter’s website to see the buildings that formerly served as their temple.

These images are presented through the courtesy of Euclid Chapter No. 13.