The divine state of Uttarakhand, which is also known as the “abode of gods” is truly a fascinating state with plenty of places for an avid traveler. Most of the towns in Uttarakhand are showered with paramount natural beauty and pure magnificence. Due to its pristine beauty and surrounding natural environment the state has made a significant boost in tourism. Uttarakhand is simply a sacred land with many ancient towns and cities with their own significance. Blessed with implausible magnificence and grace of Gods, most of the parts in Uttarakhand still remain untouched and profoundly create an impact on travelers. With its mighty Himalayan Snow-Clad peaks, magical waterfalls, rich biodiversity, distinctive gastronomy and incredible culture the state has become a major tourism hub of the country and has a lot of potential for tourism sector development.

DIVISIONS OF UTTARAKHAND

Covering a total area of 53,483 square kilometer, 86% of the state is mountainous with dense forests surrounding 65% of the area. The land of Uttarakhand is divided into two major divisions namely Kumaun and Garhwal, former at the southern region and latter at the northern. Both these subdivisions have lot to offer for the enthusiastic traveller with considerable differences in cultures and way of living. Travellers can plan a visit to several places of interest in both these regions like Nainital, Almora, Binsar, Kausani, Badrinath, Auli, Dehradun, Mussoorie, Corbett and many other places with their own distinctive features.

ADVENTURE AND TOURISM IN UTTARAKHAND

Due to its changing climate and geographical attributes the state of Uttarakhand makes a fine land for a number of adventure sports. Tourists arriving at different places in Uttarakhand can just take utmost pleasure out of different adventure activities like white water rafting, parasailing, water-skiing, boating, ice-skiing and snowboarding. Simple things such as climbing hills or strolling past dense forests offer a lot of enthusiasm in itself. Deep lakes and large white-water rivers are ideal for hosting water sports in the region.

The Uttarakhand experience might leave you stranded for words, when someone asks you to define the simple word ‘beauty’. Beauty is so inherent to almost all things Uttarakhand stands for – the magnanimous Himalayas, the holiest of the rivers, the spiritual mystery, stunning landscapes, the incessantly colorful play of nature, enchanting history carved in ancient stones, a mesmerizing floral and faunal plethora and the simplest of the people. Myths, anecdotes and stories are part of every visual that unfolds itself to the eyes of the beholder.

It was thus not a mere coincidence that Charles A. Sherring, the celebrated 19th century British anthropologist and surveyor noted down in his highly acclaimed work ‘Western Tibet and British Borderland’ - “In those lovely valleys there is still the romance and poetry of life: each tree has its god, each bush its spirit” – Mr. Sherring was describing a fair part of Uttarakhand.