Mamaia

Mamaia - the biggest and most famous resort in Romania, located in the north of Constanta, known as the Pearl of the Romanian coast, is a stretch of sandy beach, which stretches over a length of about 8 km. its west side of the lake lying Siutghiol. The beach is dotted with numerous hotels, swimming pools, discos, parks, playgrounds, and a summer theater. Mamaia resort offers guests the possibility to practice water sports, fishing lake and Mamaia.

Eforie Nord

Eforie Nord is the second largest tourist resort on the Romanian seaside resort with a spa treatment permanently. Located east of Lake Techirghiol lake known for its curative properties of the mud, Eforie Nord is situated at a distance of about 15 km from Constanta. Eforie Nord resort has a Mediterranean climate characterized by hot summers with average temperatures between 22-30 degrees Celsius and a low precipitation rate (approximately 400 ml per year). The sun shines for 10-12 hours a day, conditions were optimal for the beach. The resort of Eforie Nord trament works offered throughout the year and has a well developed infrastructure and diversified with sports, swimming, and many possibilities of accommodation in hotels, guesthouses and villas.

Neptun

Neptune spa interest is 6 km north of Mangalia, at an altitude of 5-18 m. The resort is a mild climate (warm summers and mild winters, with small amounts of snow due to the average temperature of 0 degrees in January) which allows continuous operation even if the resort is the summer that attracts most tourists. Neptune is also a summer resort mondena, sheltered on three sides by forest, with more remote hotels. Green grass, comfort and quality make Neptune favorite place to spend the holidays for families with children. Luxury and quality are found everywhere: in restaurants, bars, clubs, discos, the multi-purpose sports fields, swimming pools, the Summer Theatre, amusement park, the water sports facilities or shops.

Venus

Venus Resort is located in the county of Constanta on the Black Sea coast, at 3-20 m altitude resorts between Saturn and Cap Aurora, 3 km north of Mangalia Municipality, to which the administration and 41 km south of Constanta .. Venus, the goddess of beauty resort that bears his name, was in 1972 and includes design as chic hotel surrounded by gardens, almost every girl wearing a name. Modern and comfortable hotels of Venus have been favorites for years among foreign tourists, especially Germans, who enjoyed excellent conditions here at very low rates.

Jupiter

Jupiter-Cap Aurora (40 km from Constanta, 4 km from Mangalia), summer spas, between forest and seashore Comorova. Jupiter Beach Resort is spread over a distance of 1 km in a picturesque bay. Cap Aurora, the youngest Romanian seaside resort with beautiful landscape attract countless tourists and hotels, with names of precious stones.

Saturn

Saturn is located near the resort town of Mangalia, 43 km from Constanta. Saturn North is adjacent to the resort spa Venus. In addition to recreational opportunities, the strength of the existing resort is mesothermal springs and sulphurous mud with therapeutic value, used in treating gynecological diseases and the locomotion. Saturn is a resort clean, cheerful, with a good beach and accommodation charges are among the lowest. Saturn is a new resort, Romanian spas inserted in the list in 1972. The resort has developed along with the other resorts on the Romanian coast.

Olimp

Olympus Resort is located on the Black Sea, 7 km. north of Mangalia. Many elegantly furnished hotel is named after some historical Romanian provinces (Banat H., H. Transylvania, Maramures H., H. Oltenia, Muntenia H., H. Moldova, H. Dobrudja, etc.).. The resort is actually a part of the Neptun resort. The hotels are situated along the sea on a natural dam at 20-30 m above sea level. The resort is an ideal place for vacations and for treatment and has recovered from the sea beaches narrow creeks by creating artificial sand and the best quality.

Cap Aurora

Olympus - Built in a Western manner, Olimp resort has 8500 beds in 3 and 2 star hotels and 500 camping places. Here is all the "Amphitheater, Panoramic, Belvedere", the largest and most beautiful tourist resort on the Romanian coast. Other hotels are known Romanian historical provinces: Moldavia, Transylvania, Oltenia, Muntenia. Olympus Resort is located in south-eastern Romania, in an area with a relatively high vegetation, forest Comorova on the Black Sea, 7 km north of Mangalia city and 38 km from Constanta.

Costinesti

Costinesti, the capital of youth on the coast, is the summer resort with varied and numerous elements that distinguish it from other pearls Siragul vacation resorts on the Romanian Black Sea shore. Costinesti center is the largest youth summer vacation. After several days spent in the tourist resort realizes another specific Costinesti: good mood. Youthful and refreshing way of life here can be found in other seaside resorts. Youth at the seaside resort, which started a tourist brochures describe four decades ago as a tent camp with minimal design, now forms the major details of summer vacations.

Eforie Sud

Eforie Sud was called between the two world wars, Carmen Sylva, the poetess after nickname of Queen Elizabeth of Romania. Became Member in 1912, Eforie Sud resort is distinguished by a promontory of limestone cliff and sometimes reaching 35 meters. Is a summer resort Eforie Sud Eforie integrated city, located in south-eastern Romania, on the coastal strip between the Black Sea and Lake Techirghiol at 8-20 m above sea level, 5 km from Eforie Nord 19 km from Constanta. Lying on a narrow beach is two kilometers long at the foot of the cliff to reach the South Eforie highest height of all the resorts.

Mangalia

Mangalia, the southernmost resort on the Black Sea coast, climate is sweet, similar to the Mediterranean, making spring arriving earlier and autumn is here more delay. Mangalia is the only sea side resort which has mineral springs (sulfur, mesothermal and radioactive, used in Roman antiquity).

Constanta

Constanta is situated in the same name County , in the south-eastern Romania. It is situated on the Black Sea coast in the lagoon area to the east, hilly in north and central, plains in south and west. Constanta has a private beach with a length of 6 km. The northern part of the district, Mamaia, the most populated seaside tourist resort, is located on the shores of a lagoon, with a 7 km long beach, beach continues with another 6 km in the city Navodari. Constanta is the oldest attested city in Romania. The first document dates from 657 BC the current place peninsula (under water today, Casino right) formed a Greek colony called Tomis.

Navodari

The city is located in the central area Năvodari the county of Constanta, on the southern shore of Lake Tasaul and Siutghiol isthmus between it and the lake. It is situated at a distance of 15 km from Constanta, its neighbors to the North - and the village of Lake Tasaul Sibioara, South - Lake Siutghiol and Mamaia, the West - the area of Light, and east - the Black Sea.

Vama Veche

Vama Veche is located at a distance of 7 km from the May 2 and 12 km from Mangalia. Vama Veche can be reached at Mangalia, which is the terminus of the railway, with minibuses that can take the train or by car on the main road E 87. Vama Veche is a resort in constant transformation - a bad thing as some - there was built a lot in recent years and the "spirit" is lost among the tons of rubble and concrete. You should not forget that the "spirit" you more than people who populate Vama Veche and less than surrounding buildings. Vama Veche was and remains one of the most nonconformist vacation destinations, although the true-born vamaiotii say the atmosphere has deteriorated, so they founded the Association Save Vama Veche.

Techirghiol

Extrmitatea Techirghiol is a city in south-eastern Romania (Constanta county), situated on Lake Techirghiol (12 sq km, depth of 10-15 m), 16 km from the city of Constanta, near the Black Sea. Legend says the city forming a crippled and blind old man came along with the donkey or by mistake on the lake shore. Old struggled for hours to get out of smelly mud, but no he wanted bidiviul stubborn to move, exerting a mysterious attraction that bank on it. Great was the surprise and joy, but when the old man, coming from the lake, and realized that his eyes could again distinguish a beautiful light, and his feet, helpless for a long time, began to listen.

2 Mai

Located near the border with Bulgaria, the village has become very popular for tourists, perfect for those who like quiet and discreet moments. Isolation, wildness and noncomformismul annually attracts many young people. Accommodation can be made in local homes or at one of the villas in the village or the beach. Who wants to be closer to nature, to hear the sounds of guitar and May to spend nights on the beach, near camp fires or terraces with reeds, must arrive at May 2.

Corbu

Corbu village is located 8 km. north of Mamaia resort and the town is bordered to the south and has a good connection Navodari county road, the DJ 226. It starts in the Midia Navodari relationships with DN 22 B, by Navodari - Ovid, DN 2 A - E 60 to Bucharest - Constanta and the seaside tourist area Navodari - Mamaia - Constanta.

Poiana Brasov

Poiana Brasov is the most famous winter sports resort in Romania and also an important international tourist center. It has 12 ski trails, with varying degrees of difficulty, sports fields, a lake, discos, bars and restaurants. Accommodation is provided in good part to luxury hotels, guesthouses, villa or cottage.

Sovata

All-season resort, Sovata was first mentioned as a place for healing in a document dated 1597, but only a resort in 1850. It is surrounded by hills Cireselu (912 m), Chapel (720 m), Bechiş (1,079 m) and Mt Low Salt Hill, covered with forests of beech, oak, hornbeam, elm, chestnut, fir and birch. The resort has a subalpine climate with cool summers (July average temperature is 18.5 ° C) and mild winters (average temperature in January is -3.5 ° C). The average annual temperature is 7.6 ° C and average annual rainfall is 750 mm. The fame of the resort is made lakes Ursu (46,000 m2), Aluniş (9,000 m2), Green (5.

Brasov

Brasov (German: Kronstadt, Hungarian: Brasso) is the capital and largest city of Brasov county, Transylvania, Romania. It has a population of 283,901 inhabitants. Between September 8, 1950 and December 24, 1960 was called the city Stalin after Joseph Stalin, and Stalin was the capital of the Region. It was declared a municipality on 17 February 1968. Atestat pentru prima data in anul 1234 in asa zisul "Catalogus Ninivensis" orasul isi intinde existenta istorica pana in vremurile indepartate ale epocii neolitice si a bronzului, gasindu-se urmele unor asezari omenesti in zona dealurilor Melcilor si Sprenghi.

Covasna

Location: is at an altitude of 564 m, the slope of the eastern contact with the depression Barsa Vrancea Mountains, 31 km from Saint George, 60 km from Brasov. The first courses were held in Covasna spa in the nineteenth century: mineral water was removed from wells cast in wooden tubs and heated with hot stones. And mofettes were actually large holes in the ground, with stairs, the patient with the whole body letting go and just head out into the open. Today Covasna has a modern treatment base to come in any time of year, those who prefer a natural therapy against cardiovascular disease.

Baile Tusnad

Baile Tusnad (in Hungarian Tusnádfürdő) is a town in Harghita County, Romania. It has a population of 1728 inhabitants, is the city with the lowest number of inhabitants in Romania. It is located in the southern part of Ciuc basin between mountains Harghita and Bodoc, in Olt docks, at an altitude of 650 m. It is an important spa resort.

Balvanyos

Today's Balvanyos Baths was formed from the merging of three colonies of bathrooms colonies that worked once. The oldest is the one that stands in step Balvanyos: Smelly from Turia (the word "putsch" refers to the unpleasant smell of hydrogen sulfide), because the cave from Turia Smelly therapeutic gases had accumulated on his wall drops found "vitriol" that were and are today used by people for healing and self healing. Operation in terms of tourist resort began in 1938. Volcanic and sedimentary rocks from the soil emanations of carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide favored the occurrence of several mineral water springs.

Geoagiu Bai

Geoagiu City is situated at the confluence with the lower river Mures Geoagiu in a depression formed in the last branch of the Ore Mountains. The village is known by the Romans when Gemisara and was named after Dodoni Thermae. Unearthing the statues representing the witness stand Aegean Aesculapius and intense life of those times. The climate is moderate depression intramontane, soothing, mild winters (average January temperature of -2 degrees Celsius) and pleasant summers (July average temperature around 20 degrees). The average annual temperature is 9.

Sighisoara

Sighisoara is situated in Hârtibaci Plateau, Plateau subdivision Tarnavelor, hilly part of the Transylvanian Depression. Laying down the Castle Hill (425 m), hills crowned by medieval castle and spread from southeast to SE in the middle of a huge natural amphitheater, bordered to the north of Stejaris Hill (524 m) and Hula Danesi, S of Meadow Post to climb to Hill Middle (511-603 m) and to E Bradet Hill (524 m). The difference in height is 110 m, such as Castle Hill dominates the entire valley upstream Tarnava Big is the maximum elevation of 430 m at S and the minimum of 350 m V.

Cluj Napoca

Cluj-Napoca is located in the heart of Transylvania, with an area of 179.5 km ². Located on the relationship between the Apuseni Mountains, Transylvania Somes Plateau and Plain, the city is located at the intersection of parallel 46 ° 46 'N, longitude 23 ° 36' E. It lies on the Somes Mic and Nadas river valleys, and some extensions, the Popeştiului side valleys, Chintau, Borhanciului and Kings.

Sangeorgiu de Mures

Sangeorgiu de Mures is a village in the county of Mures, Transylvania, Romania. It is located north of Targu Mures on road DN 15 Targu Mures - Reghin, at a distance of 5 km from Targu Mures 27 km from Reghin.

Colibita

Colibița is a village in Bistrița Bârgăului commune in Bistrița-Năsăud county, Transylvania, Romania.

Timisu De Jos

Timișu de Jos (in Hungarian Alsótömös, in German Untertömösch) is a component locality of Predeal city in Brașov county, Transylvania, Romania.

Alba Iulia

Alba Iulia is located at an altitude of 270 m at a distance of 340 km from Bucharest, Cluj 100 km, 70 km to 241 km from Sibiu and Arad. The municipality is located within the perimeter formed by Ampoi river, the river Sebes, Apuseni Mountains and Plateau Transylvanian peaks. The town itself is located on the first terrace of the Mures, forming a plain east of 8-10 km long and 2-4km wide. The western town is surrounded by wooded heights of the mountains Metal Mammoth Peak (630 m). To the east, over Mures, there are reddish clay hills of the Transylvanian plateau, eroded by the rivers Mures, Sebes and Secas, they form a series of ravines with interesting shapes and sparse vegetation.

Cristian

Cristian village is situated in the south east of the county of Brasov, a amplasandu the sides of the DN 73 road that links the capital of Romania, Bucharest, Pitesti, and in the north of the city of Cluj and Targu Mures . In the area bordering the perimeter of town, this town is bordered in the north Ghimbav, west of the village of Vulcan, the Rasnov Southern and Eastern Brasov that it lies about 8 km.

Targu Mures

Targu Mures is located in north-central area of Romania is located at the intersection of three geographical areas of Transylvania Plain, Niraj Mures Valley and Valley at an altitude of about 320 m above sea level. Built initially on the lower terrace on the left river Mures, the city has developed over time and occupying the slopes and hills. Presently, the city lies on both sides of the river Mures and Corneşti hills and studying. Excavations carried out by archaeologist Stephen Kovacs confirmed that the city's territory Targu Mures was inhabited since prehistory.

Sacele

Săcele City is the gateway to the two mountain ranges: Ciucaş and Piatra Mare. Tourists fond of hiking and winter sports lovers will find attractive landscapes and suitable conditions for practicing sports (paragliding, skiing and jumping, lift) Piatra Mare Mountains are characterized by great diversity of landscape pattern. Ciucaş Massif is one of the most beautiful and impressive looking attractive landscapes. You can practice jumping parasailing, artificial hill - one of the country, there are also three trails of medium difficulty (Baciului Slope, Slope Barsa Plaiul Mocanita).

Hunedoara

Located in the central county of the same name, Cerna Valley, Hunedoara county, is 19 km from Deva. The administrative territory covered city and neighboring villages Racastie Zlasti, Bos, Gros, and Pestisu Hasdat Great. It crossed the county road DJ 687 Santuhalm - Hunedoara county road which connects with the European road in July, and county roads that connect Hunedoara, Calan, Hunedoara and Hateg respectively. Relief is represented by hills and piedmont aprons, with altitudes of 300 400 m, plus the Cerna Valley wide meadows and trails well expressed.

Turda

Turda (Latin Potaissa) is a municipality in the county of Cluj, Transylvania, Romania, with a population of 43,472 inhabitants (20 October 2011). It is situated about 30 km southeast of Cluj-Napoca.

Praid

Mine is a resort village situated at an altitude of 500-525m, Harghita County, surrounded by famous tourist destination with an old, well and Corund Sovata, but blessed with a salt mine. Praid has created a well-deserved reputation own spectacular combines the rustic charm of village Székely, developing structure, rural-tourism, spa and entertainment. The springs are found mine hyperthermia (49 degrees) and a mountain of salt salt springs and salt clints. In statiune there is a landscaped swimming pool with salt water, which are arranged near the hot salt baths (in valves) salt water is heated in boilers.

Odorheiu Secuiesc

Székelyudvarhely is a municipality in the county. The city is located 105 km south-east of Targu Mures and crossed the Târnava Great. The first mention of the city dates from 1301 with the name Uduord. Name City indicates that the bailiff had his Szeklers headquarters here. It is assumed that the city was a free city before the fourteenth century. In 1357 there was held the first Diet of the Szeklers. Fortress (castle) in the city was built in 1492 using materials of construction of a monastery. John Sigismund, Hungarian prince of Transylvania, took possession of the city after winning a battle against Szeklers.

Sangeorz Bai

Resort to a permanent (also known as a spa since the seventeenth century), enjoy the mountain climate is moderate with cool summers (July average is - 5.5 ° C). The average annual temperature is 7.5 ° C, humidity exceeds 82%. The resort has many mineral springs bicarbonate, chlorinated, sodium, calcium, magnesium, carbonated, hypertonic and isotonic mineral mud, pits.

Sibiu Bazna

Attested since 1302, an act that justifies the Board of monasteries in Oradea donated a Saxon town named Bazna to the Catholic Church in Alba Iulia. Contributing begin setting up the resort since 1671, when some shepherds found the deposit of natural gas in Bazna. This, as well as by later discovered mineral waters, the resort has attracted attention not only to people ofTransylvania, but from other places. In November 1814 it decides to build a spa establishment, in 1835 have made the first arrangements: 4 cabins and a heating water boilers, and only in 1843, completes the project.

Vulcan

Vulcan (formerly called Jiu-Vaidei-Vulcan) is a municipality in Hunedoara county, Transylvania, Romania, consisting of the component localities Dealu Babii, Jiu-Paroșeni and Vulcan (residence).

Bistrita

Located in the foothills north of Romania Bargaului, Bistrita-Nasaud Bistrita is the county seat of 87,000 people with. The first documentary attestation dates from 1264. Residence of Bistrita - Nasaud, Bistrita is located in the northeast of Transylvania Plateau in Bistrita depression. Bistrita is located on level ground at an altitude of 356 m.

Borsec

The town Borsec is situated at 26 km from Toplita, on the national road 15 which leads to Piatra Neamt. Surrounded by Mountains, Bistrita, Calimani, Gurghiu and Ceahlau Massif, the city is situated at an altitude of 900 m. It's an old resort (from 1804), open all year round, with numerous sources of carbonated mineral water or containing calcium, magnesium. These waters are known for their beneficial effect since the second half of the sixteenth century. Therapeutic effects of mineral water springs have been recognized internationally first medal of the Vienna International Fair (1873) Borsec water is called "Queen of Mineral Waters", the silver medal and Diploma of Honor at the exhibitions held in 1876 in Berlin respectively, Trieste, Diploma of Honor at Paris Exposition (1878).

Hateg

Placed in the depression with the same name, at an altitude of 310-350 m and surrounded by mountains, has the charm of a small town Hateg mountain province. The city is situated at the foot of the mountains Retezat at a distance of 40 km from the capital Hunedoara, Deva, 26 km from the town of Hunedoara, Petrosani 50 km and 70 km of Caransebes.

Lacu Rosu

Red Lake is a natural dam lake, situated at the foot of Hasmas Mountains, near the town of Gheorgheni, Harghita County. It is the largest natural mountain lake in Romania name from Red Creek, crossing the layers of red, iron oxides and hydroxides. Red Lake Resort is a paradise for those seeking relaxation and rest. Situated in the eastern part of Transylvania in the Eastern Carpathians, Red Lake and Gorge Gorge is a region of unique beauty in the world.

Sfantu Gheorghe Covasna

Sfântu Gheorghe municipality is located in the depression of Brașov, crossed by the river Olt and reaches an altitude of 550 m. It is located at the intersection of several roads, the most important being DN12 that connects the municipality of Brasov with the municipality of Miercurea-Ciuc. The relief and climate conditions provided a favorable framework for the development of this locality.

Orastie

Orastie is part of Hunedoara county and represents one of the oldest cities in the country, located on an ancient Dacian settlement.

Dej

Dej is a municipality in the county of Cluj, Transylvania, Romania, consisting of the component localities Dej, Ocna Dejului, Cave, Pintic and Șomcutu Mic. It is located 57 km northeast of the city of Cluj-Napoca, at the confluence between the Someșul Mare and Someșul Mic rivers.

Baile Homorod

Homorod Resort is situated at 18 km from Odorheiu Secuiesc, 34 km from Miercurea Ciuc and 6 km of the Vlachs. It is situated on the Homorodul Great river valley and stream Bath, at an altitude of 740-760 m. Typical alpine village has a microclimate, being sheltered from the winds, and is conducive to recreation, and postoperative recovery. Featuring local interest baths of mineral water, with several mineral water springs (springs Lobogo, Maria, Csorga, Homoradi, Ilona, Fenyves). The common characteristic of these springs water is rich in mineral content (Li, Mn, Br.

Medias

Medias is located in the heart of Transylvania, Sibiu County, Great Valley Târnava. Attested in 1267, Medias is a true open air museum. Historical monuments of medieval art and are distributed throughout the area between the city walls. Medias in 1359 was appointed first city.

Fagaras

The village is situated on a terrace, relatively low, left bank of the Olt, cut of the old riverbed of the river Berivoi. Fagaras was in ancient times, with Barsa, a refuge area before the enemy, because of its favorable geographic position. Situated on the row component of the Romanian Country (Fagaras and Almas feudal estates rediscovered in the great princely title of Mircea the Old) and the lordship of the kings of Hungary, Romanian territory is the homeland of the ancient mother once with Great Union of December 1, 1918. Fagaras City, with its centuries-old city, has long been the political-administrative center of the province, as the residence of the district until 1886, the county between 1886 and 1918 and then the county seat between 1918 and 1950, polarizing the entire economic life, social political and cultural area.

Harghita Bai

Harghita Bai mountain resort, with an area of 34 ha, is a component city of Miercurea Ciuc, situated at the highest elevation in Harghita county (at 1350 m), nestled between mountain peaks of wild beauty, very appreciated by fans mountain tourism. Harghita Bai is a local interest spa founded in the 1800s. He became known thanks to the surrounding landscape on the one hand, and on the other hand due to its mineral water and sulphurous mofettes indicated in the treatment of cardiovascular and rheumatic diseases. Harghita Bai resort fits in a certain geographical environment with possibilities of recovery in tourism.

Piatra Fantanele

Fantanele is a village in the east of Bistrita-Năsăud in Step Tihuţa at 1,201 m altitude, 45 km from the city of Bistrita, the E58 road DN17 linking Transylvania and Bucovina NE SW. Common administrative belongs Tiha Bârgăului.

Zalau

Zalau is the capital and largest city of Salaj County, Transylvania, Romania. Located in northwestern Romania, crossing the Eastern Carpathians and Apuseni Mountains, Salaj County is known from ancient times Silvaniei country, that country forests, with an area of 3850 km2 and its neighbors to the north of Satu Mare and Maramureş west and south-western district of Bihar and south-eastern county of Cluj.

Izvoru Muresului

Spring Mures is a mountain resort at the foot Hasmas Mare (1793 m), on the southern slope of Black Mountain (1538 m) leisure resort that has received the name of the source of the river Mures, located in the village. Railway station is the highest point (850 m) circular track that runs through the region of Transylvania. On Road 12 is 45 km from Miercurea Ciuc and 23 km from Gheorgheni at the turn of the water catchment of the Mureş and Olt. Spring Mures is a town that has homes lined specific national road line, a youth recreation center of national fame.

Timisu De Sus

Resort village, Timisu de Sus is located in the depression Timis, at a distance of 18 km from Brasov and 4 km from Predeal . In terms of geographical locality is situated at an altitude of 800-850 meters from north Postăvarul Massif, Massif Piatra Craiului to the east and south-west Predealului platform. From the administrative point of view, Timisu de Sus belongs Predeal. And this town like Timisu de Jos is considered a tourist attraction because of the landscape, hence leaving more large combines interactive trails. From the medical point of view, the resort climate is recommended to treat respiratory disorders, states of debility, treatment of asthenic neurosis, rickets and overwork.

Pianu De Sus

Pianu Upper is a village in Alba County, Transylvania, Romania. It belongs administratively to the village Pianu.

Boghis

Boghis spa, spa resort is a permanent, an oasis away from everyday stress recovery is fueled by three wells with cold water (potable) and 3 wells mineral sulfur, sodium, bicarbonate and shrink at 42 degrees Celsius, used in the treatment of locomotor deficiencies, peripheral nervous system, arthritis, polyarthrosis and gynecological diseases, colitis biliary and renal lithiasis or simply for relaxing or entertaining. Were renovated two outdoor pools (seasonal one with night lighting installation) and indoor (permanent) in the summer about 4,000 people being able to enjoy the healing properties of the water here.

Sancrai

Bosnyak Sancrai is near creek, 10 km from Szekelyudvarhely nearest town and 4 km from Dealu community center. În partea central-sudică a judeţului Harghita, la numai 12 km depărtare de Odorheiu Secuiesc şi la 74 km de municipiul Miercurea Ciuc, se află Dealu, una dintre cele mai dezvoltate comune din fostul Ţinut Secuiesc, formată în proporţie de 98,8% din cetăţeni maghiari. Cu o suprafaţă totală de 9695 hectare comuna este alcătuită din şapte sate: Dealu, Sîncrai, Ulcani, Fîncel, Tămaşu, Tibod şi Valea Rotundă. Climal este caracteristică zonelor intramontane, cu ierni lungi şi reci şi cu veri scurte şi calde. Numărul zilelor reci pot ajunge la 160. Precipitaţiile medii anuale ajung la 600-1000 litri/mp.

Tarlungeni

Tărlungeni is a village in the county of Brasov, Transylvania, Romania, contained in the administrative territory of Brasov County, is located in the southeast of. It Tărlungeni village resident. Distance between Brasov and Tarlungeni county seat is 17 km.

Miercurea Ciuc

Miercurea Ciuc is the capital and largest city of Harghita County, Transylvania, Romania. The city is attested for the first time as Csíkszereda in a 1558 letter, referring to the weekly fairs held here on Wednesday. By the interwar period Romanian name of the town was Cicului Sereda, after which the name was translated into its present form. The city is situated at an altitude of 662 m, on the Olt River in the Ciuc Depression. One of the most important civil buildings of the city are Miko Fortress, built in 1623, ENT hospital (the building was originally built for border guard headquarters office) and infectious diseases hospital, both buildings dating from the late 1700s.

Sfantu Gheorghe

St. George is a city, the county seat and largest city of Covasna county, Transylvania, Romania. St. George is the largest city in Covasna County, Three Chairs historical region and also the largest city in Transylvania Hungarian majority.

Danes Sighisoara

Daneș is the village of residence of the commune of the same name in Mures county, Transylvania, Romania. The village stretches on the Târnava Mare river when the Criș stream flows into Târnava Mare. It is located on the national road DN 14 Sighișoara-Mediaș, close to Sighișoara.

Murighiol

City Murighiol is attractive for those who spend their vacations in the Delta. Murighiol town with a rich history that comes from the ancient hearth of the village were present when the Black Sea port, and the old Danubiu, enjoy some advantages they have only a few Romanian localities. Two steps from the village opens kingdom of Delta waters. Murighiol Razelm Lakes and surrounds the city, and the cobweb of canals around these lakes can get into areas of the wildest and picturesque Danube Delta Biosphere Reserved. Besides the lush landscape of water specific provinces, which constitute an irresistible attraction for nature lovers, MURIGHIOL has the advantage of being accessible to tourists who do not have enough time to vacation.

Sfantu Gheorghe Delta

Located in the extreme east of the Danube Delta area, GEORGE SFANTU is situated in the eastern county of Tulcea Tulcea Km 120 on the arm of Saint-George and 35 km from Sulina. The village is bordered to the north of the village Crisan and Sulina, on the east and south of the Black Sea and west of the village Murighiol. The climate is continental with hot summers, cold winters with strong winds, average annual temperature of 11 ° C and the average amount of annual rainfall is 440l/mp. On an administrative area of 60,575.87 hectares, the village consists of about 358 households living in about 971 people have preserved their traditions and language Ukrainian.

Danube Delta

Delta (3446 km ²), located mostly in Dobrogea, Romania and partly in Ukraine is the second largest and best preserved of European deltas. Delta entered the UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1991, is classified as a Biosphere Reserve in Romania national and international taxonomy as a national park in the IUCN.

Sulina

Sulina is a town and a free port in Tulcea county, Dobrogea, at the eastern extremity of Romania, the Danube Delta, the mouth of the Sulina branch point in the Black Sea. It has a population of 4601 inhabitants. Sulina is not directly related to road network in Romania and can be reached only by water or on the Danube or Black Sea.

Tulcea

Tulcea County is located in south-eastern Romania, in North Dobrogea, and is crossed by 45 parallel, north west and is bordered to the east of the Danube and Black Sea. Tulcea is 30 meters high and 292 km from Bucharest. It is situated on seven hills hills of Tulcea, on a house inhabited continuously since Gumelniţa culture period (2900-2200 BC), continuing with Aegyssus Greek settlement (eighth century BC), the port and the city dating from Roman I - II AD, the city of Tulcea appointed time of Mircea the Old. Under Ottoman rule the town decades, a reversal occurring with the opening of the Sulina channel.

Dunavatul De Jos

Lower Village belongs to the village Dunavatul Murighiol and is an old fisherman's village. It has the advantage of being directly linked by road from the town of Tulcea. It is located in the Dobrogea horst contact with the depression of Ostrov Dranov delta in the north-east of Tulcea County, is a township in the village Murighiol. The settlement dates back to ancient times, its name having origins in the Slavic name - Dunaveţ (Small Danube) - Girl of the link between the St. George arm of the Danube and Razim - Sinoe. Ties on land and on water with neighboring towns, including the city of Tulcea, and permanence traces historical, cultural and traditional roots entwined with the local community - Ukrainian ethnicity is predominant - generates a mood of school students continue to open , search and community understanding of environmental features.

Uzlina

In 1989, city Uzlina longer appeared on maps in name only. The village has fallen victim to demolition plan abnormally small towns of Ceausescu. Tourism has been restored but the village life. Three families have resisted Uzlina forced systematic program initiated by Ceausescu. Thus, despite the immense pressure by the authorities and the Murighiol Tulcea, three families refused to leave their homes they owned Uzlina Sand. This refusal has led, over the years, this city, left only with the name on the map to transform itself into a modern tourist resort.

Mahmudia

Mahmudia was born on the site of an ancient Roman settlement, City Cross, whose ruins are still visible on one of the five hills

Crisan

Crisan is the town where it divides, most often, most of the escapades in the Delta. Fishing village origins, Crisan has experienced rapid growth especially because of its privileged position on the most traveled channel - Sulina, frequented by merchant ships as well as those of tourism and recreation. Three large meanders of the river come together here, they are all ways of access to some of the original columns of the Delta. South to Caraorman Puiu Lake and Red Lake and the north shore of the Danube old arms, to Mile 23 or to the village and the forest Letea.

Nufaru

Nufăru is a commune located in the northeast of Tulcea county, Dobrogea, Romania, consisting of the villages Ilganii de Jos, Malcoci, Nufăru (residence) and Victoria.

Baltenii De Sus

Location Bestepe common belonging, situated in Tulcea County.

Gura Portitei

Portiţei is located on a narrow strip of sand between the Black Sea and Lake Goloviţa in the Danube Delta.

Maliuc

Maliuc part of the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve - Tulcea County is located in the eastern extremity of the island, the Sulina, about 30 km from Tulcea and at a reasonable distance from the fishing village Lipoven Mile 23.

Partizani

City of Maliuc belonging situated 8 miles from the Sulina arm of the Danube, Tulcea County. Distance from the city of Tulcea is 20 km.

Jurilovca

Jurilovca village was founded by the verge Lipovan nineteenth century, the first document dates from 1826. Although its inception was a small hamlet, settlement developed in the late nineteenth century became a center of fishing importing delta, is now the largest community of fishermen in the Delta Center collection and processing of fish and a point tourist attraction.

Mila 23

Mila 23 is one of the most famous villages are located in the heart of the Delta, halfway between sea and Tulcea. The locals are fishermen of different ethnic groups: Ukrainians, Russians, Turks and some Lipovan. There are many young families who grew up in the old traditions of the place.

Bucharest

Bucharest is Romania's capital and at the same time, the largest city industrial and commercial center of the country. Population of 1,944,367 inhabitants is that Bucharest is the sixth city in population in the European Union. In fact, however, Bucharest gather daily over three million people, and experts predict that over the next five years, the total will exceed four million. Currently, the capital has the same administrative level as a county and is divided into six sectors.

Amara

The settlement was documented during the reign of Matei Basarab, who endowed the monastery built by him in Slobozia vast land around the lake. In 1864, the secularization of the monasteries, these lands were taken over by the state. When the first human settlements were established. By 1903, Amara was a hamlet and village belonged Slobozia Veche. In April 2004 received the status of the city of Amara. Situated in the eastern Romanian Plain, Amara has a continental steppe climate with hot summers and cold winters. The average annual temperature is 10.

Slanic Prahova

Spa resort, including the center of Salt Salt Mountain is unique in the world and the largest salt mine in Europe, a city surrounded by spectacular scenery and providing accommodation, treatment and devertisment various Slanic Prahova is the ideal place for spending holidays. The distinct beauty of the landscape adjacent, local climate peculiarities determined by location in the hearth of a river not far from the last depression and mountain peaks and the presence of remarkable sights and spectacular scale of the bases and treatment recognized are prerequisites for a pleasant stay, quiet and restful.

Bucharest Otopeni

Is situated in Otopeni town adjacent area north of the capital of Romania - Bucharest, between km. 12.800 and 17.900 on the national road No. 1 (E60). In terms of physical geography, the city is situated on the interfluve Colentina Otopeni - Bird in Vlasiei Plain, a subdivision of the Romanian Plain and the administrative point of view - the territory is located in Ilfov county.

Pucioasa

Resort city of more than 170 years, located on the upper course of Ialomita 21 km north of the city of Targoviste and an altitude of about 400m, Smelly has a beautiful open position, the one with hills on both sides under the outward delayed binefacatoarele sources of sulfur (sulfur), where it gets its name Smelly.

Ploiesti

Ploiesti, one of Romania's major cities, capital of Prahova County, is seated in the center of Wallachia, north-central part of the Romanian Plain, situated 60 km north of Bucharest. The current area surrounding the town is about 60 km ². Ploiesti is located near Big Hill-growing region will continue to happen and have direct access to the Prahova Valley, the most important alpine tourist area of Romania and is an important transport hub, being on the roads linking the capital Bucharest and Transylvania Moldova.

Lacu Sarat

Salt Lake is a village in the county of Braila, Muntenia, Romania, located in the village Chiscani. In the village, there is a salt lake, the banks of which stood the resort of the same name. The beginnings of the resort dates from the second half of the nineteenth century, the first settlements were described by writer Alexander Vlahuţă in Romania picturesque. In the early years of the twentieth century, the resort was about Braila city by tram, which operates today.

Buzau

Buzau is located in the center of the county, 120 km from Bucharest, in southeastern Romania, and occupies a total area of ​​81.3 km2. The municipality lies in the Carpathians bend curvature at the junction of roads between the three Romanian provinces: Wallachia, Transylvania and Moldavia. Buzău River, on whose right bank is forms the northern boundary of the city. City shape is elongated, the largest city along the river. Buzau occupies altitudes from 101 meters in the northwest near the hills to 88 meters close to the river, averaging 95 meters (as is the altitude in the center of the market Dacia). Thus, Buzau is a city in a flat relief, with an altitude difference of 10 meters along a line of 4 km.

Curtea De Arges

At 37 km from Pitesti, DN 7C, Arges town is situated on one side of Arges, ancient capital of the Romanian Country, known today more due to the monastery of the same name built in 1517 by Neagoe, but also monuments of architecture and art. The city has an area of 75 square kilometers, is surrounded by hills and southern muscelele Fagaras Mountains, Southern Carpathians. Attested in 1330, control of many facts and events of the past generations, Arges is a price guide research historical vestiges. The natural condition of this city is near the mountain area, which is located about 28 km away and introduces variation and diversity in geographical landscape.

Braila

Braila is a city, the capital and largest city of Braila County in northeastern historical region Muntenia, South-eastern Romania. The city is situated on the left bank of the Danube.

Pitesti

Pitesti is the capital and largest city of Argeş County in the historical region Muntenia, Romania. The town has city status and reputation of the city of tulips [3] here are hosted important annual festival called Tulip Symphony. At the 2011 census, had a population of 155,383 Pitesti inhabitants, being the thirteenth largest urban center in Romania in terms of population.

Targoviste

The old fortress, Targoviste is located in central-southern part of Romania on a high terrace of 260m above the valley Ialomita, the boundary between the High Plains region and the Carpathian foothills of Targoviste, Dambovita River that includes the interfluve between the Ialomita river and to contact with "plain ramble, low and monotonous, being an extension of the hilly plains.

Snagov

Snagov is located in the northern part of Ilfov County, 28 km from Bucharest, DN 1 to Ploiesti.

Valea Doftanei

Doftana Valley village is situated in a picturesque landscape, with many valences of interest and lack of sources of pollution and environmental degradation. It is located in the northern part of the county Prahova Prahova valley between Teleajen. Mountainous landscape of this locality is more pronounced to the north, which is adjacent to the county of Brasov. Thence Doftana origin of the high mountains: Orjogoaia, Radela, Cucioaia, Zanoaga, Baiu Mare, Baiu Small, Small-angle high angle. Seen from afar, the mountain high angle, with its geometric lines resembling a pyramid of Egypt, seems purposely here kneading impantata Carpathian landscape.

Campulung Muscel

Is a city of Campulung Muscel Arges, Wallachia region. Depression is located in Campulung, Fair River at an altitude of 590 m above sea level on an area of ​​11.7 km ² and has a population of 40,000 inhabitants. It has the subordinated Rumanestilor Valley area. Campulung Muscel is set in the midst of a unique natural environment characterized by a varied landscape: mountains, hills, mountain plateaus. The diversity of terrain units is due mainly to the complex geological structure. Known as the first royal residence of the Romanian country here has its roots in Romanian first known document, letter Neacşu.

Calarasi

Calarasi (formerly Lichireşti and temporarily Ştirbeiu) is the city of residence of Calarasi county, Muntenia, Romania. It is the largest city in the county and one of the most important cities in the South Region. Located in south-east Romania, on the right side of the Danube course Borcea, Călăraşi is known for food, melamine chipboard industry, steel industry, paper and precast industry.

Alunis

Aluniş (formerly Strâmbeni) is a commune in Prahova county, Muntenia, Romania, composed of villages Aluniş (resident) and Ostrovu.

Vatra Dornei

Worcester resort, known as the "Pearl of Bucovina", is situated at an altitude of 802m in Dorna Depression, the distance of 112km and 89km from Bistrita Nasaud, Suceava, Bistrita Aurie to the confluence with Dorna. Dorna region is protected from being defended by winds that protect the Carpathians. The area has a temperate continental alpine shade, with an average annual temperature of 4.5 degrees C.

Gura Humorului

Gura Humorului Gura Homorului earlier, (in Hebrew and Yiddish - Mouth Shut Humura Humuruluei or in German and Polish: Gura Humorului) is a town in Suceava County, Bukovina, south, northern Romania. It has a population of 15,837 inhabitants. Historical Raising in 1488, building on the site of a old wooden Voronet monastery, Prince of Moldova, Stefan cel Mare a settlement founded the monastery whose fame has gone over the centuries the borders. The exterior painting preserved in remarkably good condition, the monastery church, like those from the Monastery Humor Monastery of Moldova, is a testament to the unusual decorative technique was one of the most exciting art events of the past Romanian people.

Suceava

Suceava is located in the north-east of Romania and is built on two geographical areas: the hills and river valleys of Suceava. The relief of the city and surrounding area is very varied with a fragmented form of plateaus and hills (Zamca, 385 m, Vine, 376 m; Monastery, 375 m; Ţarinca, 435 m) separated by river valleys Suceava, Scheia, Fair River, Bogdana and Mill Creek. The main relief units in the city and surrounding area, the Quaternary age can be classified into three main groups: - Highlands, represented by Hill Zamca and Hill City, the hills only meet in the south-east of the city; - Delluvial slopes (about 25% of the surface), assets arising from the dynamics of geomorphological processes (landslides, erosion and linear areola) are found mainly in the upper basin of the River Valley Fair, on the west and south slopes and east of the hill Zamca on the right side of Suceava; - Alluvial plains, which are shaped in the form of steps, interlocked in nature.

Sucevita

Suceviţa village, situated in a wonderful area at the confluence with the Great Depression Obcina Rădăuţi, surrounded by the beautiful peaks of Furcoiului, Tărşcior Poiana, Poiana oats, is a unique, unparalleled jealously for those who come and visit her. Suceviţa well known settlements is part of Romania in the first place because Suceviţa Monastery, which actually gave the name of the glorious chapter ends Suceviţa localităţii.Mănăstirea Moldavian art from the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, and unlike the monuments that precede it is no longer work of a builder, but a family of nobles who gave the country one metropolitan and two rulers: Movileştii.

Campulung Moldovenesc

Campulung is a municipality in Suceava County, in north-eastern Romania. The village is situated in the historical region of Southern Bucovina.

Fundu Moldovei

Fundu Moldovei is a representative locality for the Bucovina area due to its ethno-folkloric glass, particularly interesting as noted by Dimitrie Gusti. It also represents a conservative region inhabited by mountain dwellers who have maintained their own form of material and spiritual life.

Voronet

Voroneţ is common in Suceava County, 3.5 km from the town of Gura Humor.

Vama

Located in Suceava county, city customs may be likened to a gate to heaven that I represent, to more and more, agrotourism. Located between two rivers Moldova and Moldova, city Vama "guarding" the entrance of the Eastern Carpathians, Transylvania, respectively. The name "Custom" comes from the geographical location and attributes that they had "more big time" in this village, namely the customs, tax collector respectively.

Cacica

Archaeological discoveries in 1989 Cacica attested that here was one of the oldest salt mines recrystallized from brine (boiling and evaporation) in Europe, dating from the period Starčevo Early Neolithic Cris. In the area there are now several salt springs.

Dorna Arini

Dorna Arini is a locality located at the contact between the Pietrosu Massif and the Giumalau Massif, crossed by the Bistrita river through numerous terraces. The beauty of this area is provided by the natural environment that forms a pleasant environment due to the landscape with mountains of different heights, rounded peaks along with the therapeutic factors, of the pure and aerosol rich air. The abundance of mineral springs and the stimulating sub-montane climate contribute to the recognition of this area as a beautiful balneocilmaterial settlement of the Carpathian north.

Vatra Moldovitei

Vatra village Moldovitei, they shaped the current administration, which dates from 1968, is located in the central-western part of the county of Suceava, Bukovina center in Moldovitei basin, a tributary of the Moldova village runs a gap altitude of between 600-1380 m and has general direction north - north-east - south - southeast.

Manastirea Humorului

City Humor Monastery is located at the intersection of geographical coordinates of 47 ° 32 north latitude with the 25 ° 54 east, north-east of the country, on the river Humor. It covers an area of 9628 ha, of which 7653 ha are covered with forests.

Bucovina

Bucovina is one of the most popular areas of Romania because it impresses with its historical, geographical and tourist character, but also due to the architectural monuments with interior and exterior frescoes from this corner of the country that were passed in UNESCO heritage.

Moldovita

Moldova is a small town in northern Moldavia, Suceava county. She became best known for the monastery. Regions of the country is mentioned for the first time in chancery documents of Alexander the Good, the beginning of the fifteenth century - century, when Prince gives Monastery Moldova Moldova these lands. The document does not mention the existence of inhabitants. Was documented in 1443 forming a community free from forest monastery outside of Moldova, by establishing and transhumance shepherds in Transylvania was populated in the second half of the 16th century Hutsuls, scattered from their homes, and land Pocutiei Cernohora Mountains , and the Germanic nations, and Swabians in Teresa tipterii cooperage, timber exploitation and processing it.

Arbore

Shaft is a town in Suceava, Moldova, the residence of the village with the same name. The first document of the city wrote Isaiah, chancellor to the bathroom in January 15th 1418. Suceava Hatmanul goalkeeper Luca Arbore, son of Luke Arbure Elder, chief magistrate of Neamt, buying from Nastasia Simon and his sister, his children and grandchildren's sSan Cârstea Horaiş and Sandru Herman's, the village bottom Tataresti amount of PLN 350 and 330 on top with the landlord Ivul Tataresti PLN and birth. Document of the city is from 15.01.1418 territory but were still traces of Stone Age human coexistence.

Bucsoaia

This village belongs among specific areas of mountain settlements, the average locality size but which gives scenic beauty and diversity of the relief is available on this range.

Slanic Moldova

Slanic Moldova is situated on the eastern slope of the Eastern Carpathians (the mountain Nemira) at a height of 530 m on the valley Slănic. The city takes place in a depression covered with deciduous and coniferous forests. Slanic-Moldova, a city in eastern Romania (Bacau County) located Slănic River (a tributary of Trotus) at Nemira Mountains (Eastern Carpathians), elevation 530 m, in a valley surrounded by forests of beech and fir, the 84 km southwest of the city of Bacau (Bacau county). All-season resort, with an intra-depression temperate climate, with a pure air free of dust and particles that can cause allergies, and rich in resinous aerosols and negative ions.

Iasi

Iasi (IASS history, Іашіі, Iasi) Iasi is the county seat and principal urban center in northeastern Romania. Iasi was the capital of Moldova in the period 1564 - 1859, one of the two capitals of the united principalities between 1859 and 1862 and the capital of Romania between 1916-1918. Science is the cultural, economic and academic Moldova. This work Alexandru Ioan Cuza University, one of the most prestigious academic institutions in Romania and four other public universities and seven private. Iasi was first mentioned in a commercial privilege issued in 1408 by Mr.

Durau

Located 100 km from Piatra Neamt and 6 km southwest of the village Ceahlău (which administratively belongs), at an altitude of 780-800 m at the foot of the famous massively Ceahlau (in the NW) - famous for its legends and magical traditions - resort is located in a mountainous region frequented since the eighteenth century. Durau resort is suitable for recreation and treatment of asthenic neurosis, the weakness, anemia, for recovery from mental or intellectual effort. Among natural factors mention clean air, dust and allergens, ozonated atmosphere are the main natural cure factors.

Piatra Neamt

Piatra Neamt - Neamt county - is situated on Bistrita River Valley, more specifically, its exit of the mountains at the confluence with the brook Cuiejdi. Piatra Neamt is located in an intra-mountain basin at an altitude of 310 m, guarded by Pietricica peaks (590 m) south-east Cozla (679 m) north, Cernegura (852 m) south-west Cârloman (617 m) north-west and Bâtca Lady (462 m) south-west. The city enjoys all the advantages of a unique nature, a temperate continental climate with short summers, cool and pleasant, long autumns, mild winters without frost and snow in abundance large.

Galati

Galati is the capital and also the largest city of Galati county, the county located near the corner of the three frontiers of Moldova, Romania. It is one of the largest economic centers in Romania, Moldova respectively. Galati city has a history because it is charged and placed on the Danube, the most important artery of trade and European river, the Rhine-Main-Danube Canal.

Bacau

London is the largest city of residence and county of Bacau, Romania. Bistrita river, which provides, through local hydroelectric power, a significant part of the local power consumption. City area is 60km ² and a population of approximately 175,500 inhabitants. The town is crossed by the E85 and E57 European highways, thoroughfares and national European connecting to Bucharest, with the north, and Transylvania. On national and international rail links is done by railway network. On air, Bacau has an international airport whose aerogarǎ for freight and passenger transport, provides regular flights to various domestic and European destinations.

Botosani

Botosani is the capital and largest city in the county of Botosani, Moldova, Romania. It is located in the south-west of the county of Botosani, on the interfluve between the rivers and Dresleuca Sitna, westbound between Dresleuca and Siren, then descends between the hills Criva Agafton, Baisa, relying on the deep platform of. The city itself has an area of 4132 hectares, and a character slightly elongated north-south. The average altitude is 163 meters from the city, only exceptionally exceeding 200 meters in the west. Characteristic of this region is underscored by low hills and rolling hills, deposits developed monoclinal (slightly tilted to the south-east), with low slopes, with very wide valleys, with dishes like inter-energy and low relief, an average of 30 - 40 meters.

Targu Neamt

Targu Neamt is the third largest city in Neamt county, Moldavia, Romania. The village is famous for Neamt Fortress, built by Petru I Musat, home where he grew poet Veronica Micle and also the village (now district) Humuleşti, cradle storyteller Ion Creangă. Also, the city is the center of a complex of northern Neamt county where there are about 20 monasteries, some of an important artistic and cultural, for example Văratec agape or Secu. It has a population of 18,695 inhabitants (2011).

Roman

Rome is a city of Neamţ County, Moldavia, Romania. It is located in the central part of the plateau Moldova, Neamţ County at the confluence of Siret and Moldova.

Focsani

Known in many writings "City of the Milcov" river that voivod Stephen the Great established the border between Moldova and the Romanian Country in 1482, the town entered into people's consciousness as "Union City".

Ceahlau

Mount Ceahlău was considered by the Gauls, as the abode of the god Zamolxis. Ceahlau ancestor's name for roughy, or Peon, word comes from the Greek which translated would mean "pole house". Today Ceahlau is considered as the second holy mountain of Orthodox Christianity after Mount Athos. Perhaps for these reasons his name is common in Romanian literature, most notably what pages were devoted to the writings Calistrat Hogaş Alexander Vlahuţă and Sadoveanu.

Nordul Moldovei

The north of Moldova and Bukovina offer breathtaking views, the area being strewn with churches and monasteries renowned for their exterior and interior paintings, treasures that are included in the list of UNESCO World Heritage, a land of monasteries, full of history, culture and Cheerfulness.

Vaslui

Vaslui is a municipality located in eastern Romania, Vaslui county of historic Moldova region near the border with Moldova. The accession of Romania to the European Union, Vaslui county became the eastern border of the Union. Border crossing point Albiţa reaching the highest in Eastern Europe. From the municipality became part: Vaslui, Bahnari, Brodoc, Mill Greeks, Rediu, Viişoara. It is attested in 1375.

Onesti

Honest is a Tier 2 city in Bacău County, Moldavia, Romania.

Adjud

Is a city of Adjud Vrancea, Moldova, Romania. It has a population of 17,585 inhabitants (2002). Located north of the point where the rivers meet and Trotuş Siren, Adjud city was originally a deal. The land is Adjud city is generally flat, sandwiched between the sub-Carpathian hills with heights up to 400 m. The altitude of the city's overall average is about 100 m above sea level. The terrain is favorable to crops, and has built will meet the drinking water blade less than 10 m deep. Meets its settlement temperate climate and is characterized by prevailing winds from the north with alternating warm season southern and south-east, average annual temperature of 8-10 ° C, average rainfall of 500 mm / m² a year.

Tecuci

Este situat într-o zonă de câmpie, pe malul râului Bârlad afluent al râului Siret și pe malul râului Tecucel, afluent al Bârladului. Este un oraș mijlociu, cu un comerț în continuă dezvoltare. Așezată la o răspântie de drumuri vechi comerciale, localitatea s-a dezvoltat în vatra unei așezări geto-dacice și apoi daco-romane. Atestat încă din 1435, târgul Tecuci era un important centru de tranzit și de schimb pentru negustorii din țările de la nordul și de la vestul Moldovei, ca și pentru cei din regiunile limitrofe.

Viseu De Sus

Vișeu de Sus (in German Oberwischau, in Hungarian Felsővisó) is a city in Maramureș county, Transylvania, Romania. It is located in the northeast of the county of Maramureș, in the Depression of Maramureș, at the confluence between Valea Vișeului and Valea Vaserului.

Ocna Sugatag

Held on the history and legend, set in a natural setting for an excellent landscape beauty, at the foot of Gutai, a vast panorama where you can admire the Maramures mountains that close like a fortress wall Depression Maramures, Ocna Sugatag lies at the crossing roads dating from historical times, today the area representing a famous tourist area.

Borsa

Borsa town is a starting point for tourists to visit the lands of Maramures. It is located in southern Maramures, at an altitude of 850 m Rodna, Viseu River valley. Relief Bor area is mountainous, very rugged, with steep and fast high-level differences. Heights are found in mountainous area covered by three parties: Rodna Mountains and Maramures Mountains Tibau. Tourism in the area is developed, especially in winter, due to existing conditions for winter sports. For those interested in skiing, it can be practiced on two slopes for intermediates and one for beginners.

Baia Mare

The town was first attested in 1329 in an act of the chancery of King Charles and was developed as a center for gold in the 14-15 centuries. In 1446 the city became Hunyadi his family. In 1469, under the leadership of the Hungarian King Matthias Corvinus (son of Iancu de Hunedoara) is fortified city. Baia Mare is located in the western county of Maramures, Săsar River. With the built-up area of 234.7 km2, includes administration and rural municipality Blidari, Firiza Valea Black Valley. Because the city's position at the foot of the Eastern Carpathians, around town there are several hills and mountains, the Flower Hill (367 m), Morgue Hill (633 m) Cross Hill (501 m), Ignis (1307 m), Mogoşa (1246 m), gout (1443 m), Cocosului Ridge (1450 m) Falcon Stone (839 m), Pleştioara (803 m), Bulat Hill (683 m) etc.

Sighetu Marmatiei

Municipality belongs administratively Sighetu Marmatiei Maramures county, situated in northern Romania, on the border with the Republic of Ukraine. As it is positioned off center position against the territory or influence (Maramures History), but the convergence of five main valleys in the region (Iza Valley, Great Valley, Valley Cosău Tisza Valley and the Valley of dreams.

Cavnic

Located in the heart of Maramures county, a distance of 30 km from Baia Mare, situated in a narrow valley at the foot of Gutai Mountains (1445m) and Mogosa (1249), Cavnic stretches approximately 10km in length and 500 m altitude difference (550m to 1050m flotation Quarter-Wheel) crossed the valley from east to west, representing the last branch of the emptiness of the Baia Mare depression.

Maramures

Maramures is a county in Maramures region in the north-western Romania, residing in Baia Mare. In terms of traditional culture, the current district consists of four areas (ethno-folklore) distinct Chioarului Country, Country Lapus, Maramures Country (half northeast of Maramures History) and Country Codrului (south-west) , plus Metropolitan Area Baia Mare.

Baia Sprie

Sprie bath is a town in the county of Maramures, Transylvania, Romania. He was one of the important mining centers of Maramures. A mining activity in the city region is already reported in the Bronze Age. The exploitation of gold and silver is postponed by the Saxons in the years 1141 to colonize the region. In 1329 the area is known as the Mons medius. In 1774 published the first scientific research is the exploitation of minerals. Sprie around Baia, are the most important places of tourist interest in the area. Whatever the season, tourist resort and cottage Suior Mogosa put at your disposal with rich and diverse recreational activities.

Vadu Izei

Iza Vadu village, situated at the confluence of the Iza and Mara valleys, is that all settlements from Maramures, a preserver of traditions and customs that are still transmitted to the young. But further, the most precious pride of the village is represented by the many carved doors - to be considered as the most beautiful in the area. Along with them - spirituality maximum rates around the holidays, customs, places, art and folk - that people regardless of the day wearing it.

Ieud

Located on the Izei Valley, Ieud is a settlement that preserves a vast history and a land considered an open air museum. It is noted through story landscapes, through the many traditions that have been preserved over the years and through the folklore and ethnographic values.

Sapanta

Sapanta village is located on the right bank of the Tisza River in the valley of the terrace, near the confluence Sapanta and Tisza, in the extreme north of Romania, Maramures Country. The village is situated about 18 km from Sighet Marmatiei. Village area is approximately 150 square kilometers and includes meadows, terraced hills and mountains. The settlement is dominated by Sapanta Stone, an impressive volcanic formation. Attested in the 1300s, known in 1373 under the name "Zapancha" Sapanta city, part of the historical Maramures, his name may be derived after the statement poet John Alexander, from the Latin Sapientia (wisdom).

Barsana

Barsana is one of the largest joint in Maramures, and one of the most important villages of the Iza Valley. The term "Barsan" denotes a shepherd keeps his sheep in wool rich and long, the word became a name in medieval times. Barsana village was owned by Prince Stanislau, son of Stan Barsan, attested in documents between 1326 and 1346.

Botiza

Botiza is situated at the foot of Mount Tibles (Tibles comes from the Latin word Cibele = great mother of all gods), Maramures county. Free Dacians lived here before and their descendants today inhabit these places. The first scholar wrote in 1326 about Botiza. Jews have inhabited the area through the second half of the eighteenth century. In 1881 there were 207 houses in Botiza. Today I live in Botiza about 4,000 people. Botiz Residents are particularly proud of their churches. The treasured tradition that if sent to a village church lost another neighboring village richer villagers gave them their own or a new church.

Poienile Izei

Iza Meadows is located in the historical heart of Maramures, where age costumes blend perfectly with the purity of nature. Between the mountains and forests of Maramures, a true piece of heaven, is common Iza Meadows, where you have the opportunity to experience country life in the purest way possible. Iza hospitality of the people of Meadows will charm, providing specific relief the visitor a sense of place rooted in the traditions and centuries-old lifestyle It is located in the historic-ethnographic "Land of Maramures, in the central-eastern county of Maramures, Baia Mare 100 km, 50 km from Sighet.

Viseu De Jos

Viseu de Jos commune is located in the south-east of Maramures Depression, settled on both sides of the Viseu River, at a distance of 117 km of county, city of Baia Mare and at a distance of 6 km from Viseu de Sus at a medium altitude, with an area of 5,600 ha. Viseu de Jos is composed of a single locality, namely Viseu de Jos, free and neighboring villages belonging to Viseu de Sus, Upper Salistea south, south-west by Bogdan Voda, east Rozavlea north Leordina-west to north under Ruscova and Mountain Meadows. Viseu de Jos, the settlement is documented in 1353, the year recorded in several documents written as free village inhabited by kniezates and princes.