Reading Time: 2 minutes

The games with the famous German accent are now available via Hölle Games’ hinterzimmer.io Remote Gaming Server

Hölle Games, the Berlin-based start-up studio, has announced a ground-breaking collaboration with Apparat Gaming, the fellow slot game provider with the German accent.

This partnership marks a significant milestone as Hölle Games is now able to distribute Apparat Gaming’s captivating games to a broader audience, by having the games embedded and available through the hinterzimmer.io platform that has been developed by Hölle Games.

Both companies are proud of their German heritage and use this to create games and experiences that are distinctly German but perform just as successfully in international markets.

As part of this collaboration, both parties have leveraged their tech prowess and substantial experience in game delivery, successfully adding all of Apparat Gaming’s currently more than 30 innovative titles to the deliverable portfolio from Hölle. This includes the epic Jack Potter series and blockbuster slots like Total Eclipse XXL, 100 Sevens or October Bier Frenzy.

The strategic partnership aligns with the vision of fostering strong relationships within the gaming industry.

As they continue to expand their distribution network, the collaboration with Apparat represents a step towards this while providing an even more diverse and thrilling gaming experience for players.

Robert Lenzhofer, CEO of Hölle Games & hinterzimmer.io, said: “Apparat Gaming is not just a partner, but the founding team has been friends for many years and one of the co-founders is inadvertently responsible for my move to Germany and as such the foundation of Hölle Games. I try to never forget the people who have lifted you up in the past!”

Martin Frindt, Co-Founder and Chief Product Officer at Apparat Gaming added: “We have entered into many aggregation partnerships since our foundation, but working with Robert and his team is something very special.

“They always say that you always meet twice, but when friendly competition turns into friendship, that’s really unique. This collaboration expands our partner network in an outstanding way, as our recently announced live deal with Stargames.de impressively demonstrates.”

Related

Reading Time: 2 minutes

ReferOn, the state-of-the-art affiliate management system, proudly announces its strategic partnership with Quickcasino.se, Soft2Bet’s latest innovative gaming portal. This collaboration will optimise Quickcasino.se’s affiliate programmes, with ReferOn’s advanced developments aimed at process flexibility and increased efficiency.

Quickcasino.se launched in Sweden in the fall of 2023 to innovate the iGaming industry with its transformative gaming portal, including one optimised for mobile devices.

It offers an accessible and personalised gaming experience and supports various payment methods, including key Swedish banks SED, Handelsbanken, Nordea, Swedbank and Apple Pay.

Quickcasino.se offers a warm welcome bonus for new players and unlocks a diverse collection of 4,500+ games from the industry’s leading suppliers, while offering an expanded selection of live casino games and sports betting options.

ReferOn, which recently celebrated its first birthday, was meticulously designed to cater to the needs of the affiliate gaming industry. The platform provides specific tools for experienced marketing professionals, such as transparent reporting, detailed tracking, scalable payouts and commission structures with customisable automation.

Alexia Gauci, B2B sales manager at ReferOn, commented on the collaboration: “We were glad to start working with Quickcasino.se in order to increase our performance in the highly competitive iGaming market.

ReferOn’s cutting-edge affiliate management system will provide Quickcasino.se with the tools to optimise its affiliate programs, drive increased traffic and achieve higher conversions. The platform’s advanced features and real-time analytics will empower Quickcasino.se to make data-driven decisions, fostering trust and long-term partnerships with affiliates.”

The representative of Quickcasino.se added: “The collaboration with ReferOn is a significant step for Quickcasino.se. The ReferOn team’s experience in affiliate marketing has significantly strengthened our innovative gaming platform, allowing us to increase player engagement. This partnership impacts business growth, solidifying Quickcasino.se’s position in the Swedish iGaming market.”

ReferOn’s multi-channel support and suspicious anomaly tracking will ensure maximum fairness and efficiency of processes in affiliate marketing to grow the business and expand into new markets. To learn more about Quickcasino.se and ReferOn, please visit their official websites: quickcasino.se and referon.com.

Related

Reading Time: 2 minutes

Arena Racing Company (“ARC”), Britain’s largest racing group, and 1/ST, North America’s preeminent Thoroughbred racing and pari-mutuel wagering company, today announce a new partnership to open new opportunities across some of their feature races.

The winners of a selection of prestigious races at Doncaster Racecourse, home of the Betfred St Leger Stakes, the World’s Oldest Classic, will be offered free entry to races across 1/ST’s portfolio of elite tracks in the United States, including for the inaugural California Crown race day at Santa Anita Park on 28 September, and on the prestigious Pegasus World Cup program held at Gulfstream Park on 25 January 2025.

At the upcoming Betfred St Leger Festival, the winner of the Group 2 Betfred May Hill Stakes will receive an invitation, with no fees attached, to the $500,000 Pegasus World Cup Filly and Mare Turf Invitational (GII), run over 1m 1/16f at Gulfstream Park in January 2025. Equally, the winner of the Carlsberg Danish Pilsner Flying Childers Stakes will receive free entry to the $750,000 California Crown Eddie D. Turf Sprint (GII), run over 6½ furlongs at Santa Anita Park at the end of September.

For the first time, Season 12 of the All-Weather Championships will open Finals Day qualification to any horse running three times over the season on an artificial surface in the USA, in addition to runs in the UK, Ireland or France.

As such, the winner of the Carousel Club Handicap at Gulfstream Park on 25 January will receive free entry to the All-Weather Championships Mile Final at Newcastle Racecourse on Good Friday, with two other qualifying runs. Season 12 of the All-Weather Championships begins in October 2024 across the six all-weather racecourses in Britain culminating with £1,000,000 Finals Day at Newcastle on Good Friday, 18 April 2025.

In addition to the free entry to each of these races, ARC and 1/ST will support the connections of any qualifying horse with a subsidy towards their travel.

This agreement follows on from the recent announcement of a new strategic alliance between ARC, 1/ST, Tabcorp and Racecourse Media Group to create a network of rights holders that will distribute content across multiple international markets.

Director of Media and International at ARC, Brendan Parnell, said: “We are delighted to announce this partnership with 1/ST to offer the winners of two of the most high-profile races during the Betfred St Leger Festival the opportunity to take up some exciting opportunities in the USA.

“Likewise, in extending the qualification criteria for the All-Weather Championships, and the link with Gulfstream Park, we hope that we might look to add some further international interest in the £1,000,000 Good Friday fixture, alongside the long standing Irish and French participation.”

Aidan Butler, President of 1/ST, said: “We’re thrilled to expand our existing partnership with ARC. Working with Doncaster and its revered St Leger Festival is truly a privilege, while we’re also looking forward to sending over a horse for the All-Weather Championships next Spring at Newcastle. Collectively, we’re playing our part to bring US and UK racing closer together across elite races on all surfaces.

“By coupling timeless tradition to forward-thinking innovation, via newly-conceived concepts like the California Crown at Santa Anita Park on 28 September (California’s richest day of racing outside the Breeders’ Cup), we will only build on this association and progressive program in the years ahead. At 1/ST, our goal is always the betterment of top-class international fields, a cornerstone project in growing and sustaining the sport we love on both sides of the pond.”

Related