Visitation:

Services:

Dale Wayne Crowley was born in Evansville, Indiana, on November 4, 1941, to Clarence and Lola Winebarger Crowley. Wayne passed away peacefully at his home on Wednesday, December 2, 2020.

Except for the years that he spent at Indiana University in Bloomington, Wayne lived his entire life in Evansville and Newburgh. He was a member of the Benjamin Bosse High School Class of 1959, where he lettered in football. He was the treasurer of the Class of ’59 Reunion Committee for many years. He graduated from the IU School of Business in 1965.

Wayne was a Certified Public Accountant who took his professional responsibilities very seriously. He was formerly a partner with Geo. S. Olive CPA firm, and CFO of Seedkem and Riverside Oil. He was CFO for Frontier Kemper Constructors for more than 20 years. He also worked for Toro (Hahn Inc.), and he retired from Kemper CPA firm. He was of the ‘old breed’ of accountants who worked tirelessly for their clients.

Wayne and his family began boating on the Ohio River in 1972 after Wayne totally refurbished a 1959 wooden Chris-Craft ski boat. They soon moved their recreation to Rough River Lake in Kentucky, where they boated until 2019. His boats were always immaculate. He loved boating and watching his boys have fun in the water. He was at the helm teaching many young people how to water ski.

He was the epitome of ‘Do It Yourself.’ Rare was the time that he called in outside help. He was capable of repairing and building all things for his house. Wayne was at the forefront in computers. He was using computers long before Windows made things easy. He had a keen in-depth knowledge of programming.

Wayne was active in the Newburgh Youth Football League when his sons played youth football. He was a very kind man who respected others. Wayne is survived by his wife of 57 years, Jackie Grimmer; his sons, Dale Wayne (Griffin) of Vallejo CA, James Christopher (Tara) of Winthrop, MA, and Christopher Wayne (Pam) of Chagrin Falls OH; grandchildren, J.D. and Landyn Crowley,his brother, Norman of Panama City Beach FL; his nieces, Vicky Bates and Connie McNichols; his nephews, Kyle Crowley, Bobby Adams and Larry Adams; his sisters-in- law, Vicki Grimmer and Martha Klueh; and his brother-in-law, Gib Riffle.

Preceding him in death were his parents; his sister, Jean Adams; his niece, Debbie Richards; his nephews, Gary Crowley, Kurt Crowley and Ronnie Adams; his sister-in-law, Barbara Trockman; his brothers-in-law, Jon Grimmer and Michael Klueh; and his stepmother, Beatrice Eakins Sandefur Crowley.

The family would like to express their deep gratitude to April and Laurie with Southern Care Hospice, and to Cori and Carla with Need a Nurse.

Memorial services will be at a later date. Titzer Family Funeral Homes Simpson Chapel in Newburgh is in charge of arrangements.

Memorial contributions may be made to Santa Clothes Club, 4000 East Division Suite A, Evansville IN 47715.