Swimmer tried three times to reach games

By Jonathan Lintner

Michael Klueh will be 29 years old when it comes time for the 2016 Summer Olympics.

It's a fact that's weighed heavily on the Evansville native's mind since his third unsuccessful bid at making the United States' Olympic swimming team earlier this month.

"You sit there and think, 'What could I have done different?'" Klueh said. "Then at the same time, I know there wasn't much I could have done."

A few tenths of a second one way or the other, and Klueh wouldn't be looking back on his lengthy swimming career but rather forward to his first trip to the Olympics after falling short at the Olympic Trials in 2004 and 2008.

Klueh finished third in the 400-meter freestyle at this year's trials, one place out of moving on to the Olympics, and eighth in the 200-meter freestyle, which takes six to London for relay competition. Because 16-time Olympic gold medalist Michael Phelps dropped the 200-meter from his program, Klueh again ended up one spot from making the team.

Klueh's coach, Jon Urbancheck, said the former Newburgh Sea Creatures swimmer's hopes for 2012 still aren't completely dashed even 15 days out of the first pool events at the London Games.

"It's almost hard to describe how close Michael came," Urbancheck said from Knoxville, Tenn., where he's helping coach a third straight Olympic team. "As a matter of fact, he had to sign a statement saying he's going to continue to train. If there's somebody who gets injured, he's got two events where he could move into a spot if something happens."

Klueh is on call but also ready to move on.

At prior Olympic Trials, Klueh saw some familiar faces — former teammates of his from the Newburgh Sea Creatures club — but not in 2012. Klueh guesses he's the last of the area swimmers his age chasing the dream, which became a serious goal when he moved from Evansville to Texas in high school.

Klueh now owns the American record in the 800-meter freestyle with his time of 7:39.90 set at last December's Duel in the Pool, which pits American swimmers against Europeans. He also won gold last year in the 800-meter freestyle and the 4x200-meter freestyle relay at the World University Games in Shenzhen, China.

After months of postgraduate training in California under Urbancheck, the former University of Texas All-American allowed himself a few days off following the trials to clear his head and start thinking about the future.

Up next on his swimming slate is the U.S. Open in Indianapolis next month. The 2013 World Aquatics Championships in Spain are also on his radar.

"I think maybe one more year trying out for the world championships would be a good way to culminate all his swimming efforts — go to the world championships, make it next summer, and that would be a nice way to say goodbye to swimming and move on with life," said Urbancheck, a former Michigan swimming coach who won 13 Big 10 titles in 22 seasons at the school.

Now Klueh is considering fulfilling another lifelong dream, to attend pharmacy school, or perhaps enter a DeVry University MBA program funded by the United States Olympic Committee.

"I'm just going to take it year-by-year and just really try to enjoy what I'm doing, because if you put everything toward 2016 right now, there's probably no way I'd make it that far," Klueh said. "I'd burn out."