Former United strike-partner Guy Ipoua described Stansfield as a genuinely lovely man who always played with a smile on his face.

And ex-Hereford captain Tony James, who still lives in the city, said Stansfield’s death has put footballing matters into perspective.

Stansfield’s current club Exeter City confirmed he had died on Tuesday night.

The striker had been diagnosed with bowel cancer in April.

Hereford chairman David Keyte said United planned to remember ‘Stanno’ at Saturday’s match with Gillingham at Edgar Street.

Defender Ryan Green said he was lost for words because he thought Tivertonborn Stansfield had won his cancer battle.

“I am in total shock because I thought that the cancer had been cleared,” said Green.

“I found out the news when I got home on Tuesday night when Alex Jeannin told me. My thoughts are with his family at this sad time.”

Stansfield was a fans’ favourite at Edgar Street for his all-action approach, scoring 36 goals in 88 appearances for the Bulls.

He set up Hereford’s opening goal in the memorable 3-2 win over Halifax Town in the Conference play-off final in May 2006.

Stansfield crossed for Andy Williams to head in Hereford’s first equaliser at the Walkers Stadium.

“Alex Jeannin was training at Exeter City for pre-season a month ago and Adam turned up and was running with them,”

said Ipoua.

“He told me you could see that Adam was not at his best but he was running as well as everybody else.

“He was a genuinely very nice person - not someone who tried to create an image that he was nice. I have never played with a strike partner who would run as much as Adam and he always played with a smile on his face.

“Adam came to Hereford with his wife, who was very popular, and his children.

“They were very much part of the club and were always around the club on matchdays supporting him.”

James, who now plays for Burton Albion, said he got to know Stansfield well during his time at Edgar Street.

“We both had a young family so we had that in common.

“When something like this happens, it does open your eyes and puts football into perspective.

“Adam would score goals and he was a menace to defenders all the time.

“Before Adam came to Hereford, I played against him. He was incredibly fit and would never stop running.”

Stansfield also previously played for Yeovil Town where he was a fans’ favourite.