Michael Blu-ray Review

A fascinating black-and-white love triangle drama by director Carl Theodor Dreyer (The Passion of Joan of Arc)

Reviewed by Neil Lumbard, April 22, 2020

Michael (1924) (otherwise known as Hearts Desire) is a classic silent film produced in Germany. The film is based upon the acclaimed novel by Herman Bang. Produced by Erich Pommer (Spies, The Last Laugh), Michael is highlighted by the magnificent performances by actors Walter Slezak and Benjamin Christensen.

The story centers on Eugène Michael (Walter Slezak). An assistant to the acclaimed painter Claude Zoret (Benjamin Christensen), Michael is a much younger man with an eye on the painter that can suggest a romance between the two men. The early German silent film is one of the first films to explore homosexuality between men as the story explores how Michael and Claude fall in love, eventually living together as a couple.

Princess Fürstin Lucia Zamikoff (Nora Gregor) is a much younger woman who comes to the estate of the wealthy Zoret in the hopes of seducing the painter Claude Zoret but instead finds that Michael is easier to become involved with. The unexpected romance leads to behind the scenes drama as the love triangle unfolds and ultimately affects the work of Zoret. Can the paintings of Claude Zoret survive the dramatic triangle of lust and love?

Behind the Canvas

The black and white cinematography by Karl Freund (Key Largo, Metropolis) and Rudolph Maté (Foreign Correspondent, Gilda) is one of the most impressive elements of the film. It's almost impossible to believe that Michael is an almost 100 years old production. The visuals are quite surprisingly complex for an early black and white silent production. As the film utilized two of the greatest silent era cinematographers, it's no wonder the end result is as impressive as it is. The vivid photography resembles art in motion.

There are a few other interesting production elements of note: the costumes and art direction by Hugo Häring are similarly impressive and have a number of compelling aspects. The score by Pierre Oser (Distant Memory, Prem Sanyas) is likewise a gem which gives some new life and vitality to the presentation. For a classic silent film, music plays a central role in the success of the film. The impressive compositions from the score help the film to excel at raising the dramatic stakes.

The screenplay by Thea von Harbou (Metropolis, M) and director Carl Theodor Dreyer (The Passion of Joan of Arc, Ordet) is a fascinating one. The script is particularly unique in that is pushes the envelope for gay cinema. Much to my surprise, Michael is an early film to discuss the topic of homosexuality. Though the film might not present the topic in as overt a way as a modern film would, the clear relationship between Michael and Claude Zoret is a the forefront of the plot.

The fact that the storytelling of Michael revolves around the love triangle and how it causes conflict between Michael and Claude is surprising. No American or British films were as frank at the time-period, but in Germany it was a topic that was explored in film with more honesty. Michael is an interesting and effective cinematic exploration of homosexuality. While not a favorite, the film deserves recognition for its forward-thinking approach.