The third book (after The Family Trade and The Hidden Family) in the saga of the Merchant Princes by Charles Stross, in which Miriam gets into deadly trouble.

Miriam Beckstein has gotten in touch with her roots and they have nearly strangled her. A young, hip, business journalist in Boston, she discovered (in The Family Trade ) that her family comes from an alternate reality, that she is very well-connected, and that her family is a lot too much like the mafia for comfort. In addition, starting with the fact that women are family property and required to breed more family members with the unique talent to walk between worlds, she has tried to remain an outsider and her own woman. And start a profitable business in a third world she has discovered, outside the family reach (recounted in The Hidden Family). She fell in love with a distant relative but he's dead, killed saving her life. There have been murders, betrayals.

Now, however, in The Clan Corporate, she may be overreaching. And if she gets caught, death or a fate worse is around the bend. There is for instance the brain-damaged son of the local king who needs a wife. But they'd never make her do that, would they?

At the Publisher's request, this title is being sold without Digital Rights Management Software (DRM) applied.

Praise for this book

“The Clan Corporate offers more proof, if any were needed, why Charles Stross has become universally acknowledged as one of science fiction's major new talents.” —Mike Resnick

“The Hidden Family is a festival of ideas in action, fast moving and often very funny, but underpinned by a rigorous logical strategy. . . .Stross's breezy, almost Heinleinian mode of narration is on fine display in The Hidden Family.” —Locus

“Stross continues to mix high and low tech in amusing and surprising ways. . . .[he] weaves a tale worthy of Robert Ludlum or Dan Brown.” —Publishers Weekly on The Hidden Family

“It's simply a great adventure, full of danger, of plots within plots, of forbidden love and political murder.” —Orson Scott Card on The Family Trade

About the Author

CHARLES STROSS lives in Edinburgh, Scotland

Title: The Clan Corporate : Book Three of The Merchant Princes

Author(s): Charles Stross

Volume: 3

ISBN: 9781429914864

Copyright 2007

Release Date: April 01, 2007

Publisher: Tor Publishing Group

Countries: United States, Canada | Learn more about available countries

Language: English

Format: mobi,ePub | Learn More about our supported formats

Dragonmount is a proud provider of DRM-free eBooks. By purchasing any eBook from our store, you are not only helping support our website, but you are helping small businesses thrive in a market traditionally dominated by large companies. Learn more in our eBook FAQ.