Ministries in the Community (Outreach)

Outreach at St. Stephen’s includes parish & community-based ministry projects that provide support and services to our local community as well as to our diocesan ministries. Through individual giving to PWRDF, families can also support world-wide relief efforts.

Martha’s Cupboard

Outreach supports our various community houses through food donations. Please contact the church if you are interested in helping with this ministry.

The Big Give

Since 2016 St. Stephens has been involved in the Big Give Initiative. This annual June event reaches out to our community as whole through various parish donations. The Parish receives updates and reminders as events are planned.

OWECC

St. Stephen’s is one of the founding churches for the Ottawa West End Community Chaplaincy (OWECC) and continues to support this crucial ministry with the culturally-diverse group of people who live in west-end Ottawa Housing communities.

White Gift

Supporting families with Christmas Hampers. Donations are usually made during the Advent season, with one service in December being dedicated to this ministry.

Algonquin College Campus Ministry

St. Stephens actively supports college students throughout the year, particularly during their exam weeks by providing refreshments on campus at “The Pause Table : campusministryac.com

Refuge N.O.W. (Nepean, Ottawa, West)

St. Stephens is one of many churches involved in assisting various refugee families settle and integrate within their new community. For more information please contact the coordinator of Outreach Ministries through the church office.

Long-term Care & Retirement Home Support

Support is provided to various residents of our local Retirement and Long term Care Homes through prayer and visits. If you have a loved one who would benefit from a parish visit, please contact the church office with their information.

Backpack & School Supply Assistance

Some financial assistance is provided at the beginning of the school year for various community families in need for purchase of school supplies.

Diocesan-run “Community Ministries”

There are several Community Ministries in Ottawa and throughout the Diocese which St. Stephen’s supports through ‘Parish Fair Share’ and the annual campaign, “Today for Tomorrow “:

Ottawa Pastoral Counselling Centre

The Ottawa Pastoral Counselling Centre offers counselling and psychotherapy services for individuals, couples and families (including children and teens). This service is open to all, regardless of their faith affiliation or income scale. Their service is available in person or virtually.

Centre 454

Centre 454 is a day program serving people who are homeless or living in poverty in the Ottawa area. It is located in St. Alban’s church on King Edward St. Ottawa.

The Well/La Source

The Well/La Source is a day program of women and children, based in St. John’s Church on Somerset and Elgin Sts.

St Luke’s Table

St Luke’s Table is a day program serving nutritious lunches. It is currently being hosted at the Bronson Centre.

Refugee Ministry Office

has 40 years experience of helping community groups to sponsor refugees. They shepherd sponsors through the federal government’s stringent rules and regulations

Individual Outreach Ministries

There are many ministries around Ottawa and beyond that the people of St. Stephen’s support. with money, with time, with prayers. Below are a few examples for your interest.