The Weierstrass Institute for Applied Analysis and Stochastics (WIAS) is an institute of the Forschungsverbund Berlin e.V. (FVB). The FVB comprises seven non-university research institutes in Berlin which are funded by the federal and state governments. The research institutes belong to the Leibniz Association.

WIAS cordially invites applications within the

Iris Runge Postdoctoral Program

(Ref. 23/21)

The Weierstrass Institute dedicates itself to mathematical research in applied analysis, stochastics and numerical methods, as well as the development of algorithms and scientific software.

Research at WIAS is organized in a matrix structure. Scientifically, the institute is divided into 8 research groups representing different subfields of applied analysis and stochastics. From application point of view WIAS research is centered around main application areas, in which the institute has a special competence and experience.

As part of its recruitment strategy, WIAS has founded the Iris Runge Postdoctoral Program in order to foster the careers of early-stage female postdocs. The program envisions to provide an ideal framework allowing candidates to develop their own research scope and to mature towards outstanding research personalities with growing international visibility.

Application details:

We are inviting applications by candidates in their early postdoctoral phase, i.e., a maximum 3 years after completion of their doctorate, with an excellent PhD thesis related to one of the scientific fields of work at WIAS. If the degree was obtained more than 3 years ago, applications are not excluded, however, candidates are kindly requested to elucidate why their career is still to be considered to be in an early postdoctoral phase and thus fitting this program. Periods of parental leave or times of care work are e.g. taken into account.

Applicants are requested to provide a motivation letter naming two research groups at WIAS in which they would like to work (and briefly substantiate their choices) and to arrange two recommendation letters to be sent directly to WIAS (to the Human Resource department at hr@wias-berlin.de) no later than the application deadline mentioned below.

What we offer:

· Postdocs in the Iris Runge program will be part of a top-notch research environment at WIAS. The institute is located in the heart of the pulsating city of Berlin while being embedded in an outstanding regional, national and international scientific network.

· WIAS Berlin is a premier research institution known for its strength in mathematical modeling, optimization, dynamical systems, and applied mathematics in general.

· Iris Runge postdocs receive a full-time 2+1-year postdoctoral position paid according to the collective agreement for the public service (TVöD Bund) with flexible and family-friendly working conditions (certified with the Work and Family certificate) including social benefits (such as 30 vacation days in a 5-day week, company pension plan, etc.).

· Mobile working

· Berlin offers endless opportunities to enjoy life outside work. Neither the job nor living in Berlin requires German language (although WIAS offers free German courses). We highly welcome international applications. Scientifically, Berlin offers a rich landscape with numerous opportunities for research, as well as job prospects in academia and industry.

WIAS is an equal opportunity employer dedicated to an international and inclusive environment and to supporting its staff in their career development.

Technical queries should be directed to Dr. Eleanor Eife-Horn, WIAS Head of Administration (eife-horn@wias-berlin.de).

Please upload your complete application documents including motivation letter, curriculum vitae, copies of certificates and transcripts via our online job-application facility (https://short.sg/j/34771379) by 30.09.2023 using the button “Apply online” (https://short.sg/a/34771379). We kindly ask candidates to arrange for two recommendation letters to arrive at hr@wias-berlin.de no later than that deadline for the applications to be considered.

We are looking forward to your application!