Brooksville, FL - We are heartbroken to announce the passing of Donald Lee Collins. Big Don was a Master Electrician by trade and was the owner of Don Collins and Son's Electrical Contractors for many years in Swansea, MA, before moving to Maine, and working at Eastern Fine Paper before his retirement. Don's greatest pride and achievement was his family that he made with the love of his life, Florence Irene Collins, his "Princess." He was an avid fisherman and loved spending time in Maine in a bass boat cultivating he and his children and grandchildren's love of fishing. Don loved baseball and shared his passion with many generations of children and grandchildren as a coach and mentor to all. When he retired to Brooksville, Florida, he was active in the Brookridge Community golf club, even serving as a golf ranger.

His legacy will be lived on through his children, Michael Lee Collins and wife, Sandy, Mark Peter Collins and partner, Linda, Kathleen Ann Douglass and husband, Michael, Donna Marie Collins, Linda Joy Cain and husband, Darren, Kimberly Ann Shaw and husband, Thomas, Paul Patrick Collins and wife, Linda, Patricia Aline Sennett and husband, Jeff. He also leaves behind his grandchildren that adored his stories and funny sayings. His grandchildren are William, Catherine, Jennifer, Rebecca, Daniel, Patrick, Christina, Winslow, Travis, Gary, Kaylee, Chelsea, Cassandra, Nicholas and Megan. In addition to this he leaves behind 24 great-grandchildren. He is also mourned by his remaining brother, Dale Collins; and many family members in Oklahoma. He was predeceased by his parents, Arthur and Stella Collins; and his in-laws, Arthur and Estelle Valcourt; and brothers, Jimmy, Roy and Troy.

Dad's are most extraordinary men turned by love into heroes, adventurers, storytellers, and singers of songs. "No man I ever met was my father's equal, and I never loved any other man as much" "My father gave me the greatest gift anyone could give another person, he believed in me."

To Quote our Dad's famous line "Call me when you get home, Daddy."