Welcome aboard a fabulous musical journey as part of the Monte-Carlo Summer Festival! Two stages and unique settings brought to you by Monte-Carlo Société des Bains de Mer for two timeless months, with performances and melodies intertwined with the Resort’s lifestyle.

From July 6th to August 16th, concerts will come to life in two of Monaco’s most iconic venues: the Opéra Garnier Monte-Carlo and the Salle des Étoiles, with its open-air roof. A series of events, ranging from the legendary Stars 80 (in support of Fight Aids Monaco), to Sam Smith and the incredible pianist Diana Krall.

Jamiroquai will take the spotlight during the Gala of the Monegasque Red Cross, while Duran Duran will make their grand and fantastic return alongside the Italian trio Il Volo and Myriam Farès with her oriental pop performances.

Worldwide superstar Lenny Kravitz will be present for two concerts in a “standing configuration”! A newcomer is Jorja Smith, for fans of hip hop and R&B.

Concert Dates

Stars 80 Encore

July 6th at SALLE DES ÉTOILES SPORTING MONTE-CARLO

Their new tour is called ENCORE! The phenomenon with 4.5 million people will bring on stage Sabrina, Emile & Images, Patrick Hernandez, Jean-Pierre Mader, William from Début de Soirée, Christiane from Zouk Machine, and also Joniece Jamison, Phil Barney, and Vivien Savage for another exceptional show!

Sam Smith

July 9th at SALLE DES ÉTOILES SPORTING MONTE-CARLO

With an undeniable soulful voice, Smith has made a mark with collaborations with renowned artists like Disclosure and Naughty Boy. After making waves with successful singles like “Latch” and “La La La,” the artist confirmed his talent with iconic tracks like “Stay with Me” and “Too Good at Goodbyes,” thus propelling his career to new heights.

Diana Krall

July 16th at OPÉRA GARNIER MONTE-CARLO

Diana Krall, a global jazz icon, continues to enchant the music world with her incomparable talent. From her debut in 1993 with the album Stepping Out, where she collaborated with jazz legends like Jeff Hamilton and John Clayton, to her international successes with albums like When I Look In Your Eyes, Diana Krall has won the hearts of fans and critical acclaim.

Jamiroquai

July 19th at GALA DE LA CROIX-ROUGE MONÉGASQUE

Founded in 1992 by frontman Jay Kay, the pioneers of “future funk” have conquered the world, establishing themselves as one of the most successful groups on the planet. Since the release of their debut album Emergency on Planet Earth in 1993, Jamiroquai has rejuvenated modern pop music and paved the way for some of today’s most exciting artists.

Duran Duran

July 25th at SALLE DES ÉTOILES SPORTING MONTE-CARLO

Duran Duran, the legendary pop-rock group, has made music history since their debut in the 1980s. After an 18-year hiatus, the five founding members reunited in 2002 to record a new album and go on tour.

Trevor Noah

July 29th at SALLE DES ÉTOILES SPORTING MONTE-CARLO

Former host of the Daily Show, one of America’s premier comedy programs, Noah now dedicates himself to stand-up comedy and international tours. After seven years of hosting the Daily Show, marked by Donald Trump’s presidency and the Covid pandemic, the 39-year-old comedian has established his style and uniqueness, becoming one of the leading voices in the comedy world.

Miriam Fares

August 2nd at SALLE DES ÉTOILES SPORTING MONTE-CARLO

The talented Lebanese singer, performer, and songwriter has illuminated the music scene for two decades with her charisma and unique style, transcending geographical boundaries. Nicknamed “the queen of the stage,” Myriam is also an actress, producer, fashion icon, and influencer, with one of the largest fan bases in the Middle East.

Il Volo

August 3rd at SALLE DES ÉTOILES SPORTING MONTE-CARLO

Il Volo, the world’s most famous Italian trio, which has captivated audiences on all continents for over fifteen years thanks to the extraordinary voices of Piero Barone, Ignazio Boschetto, and Gianluca Ginoble, will perform in Monaco this summer.

Jorja Smith

August 14th at OPÉRA GARNIER MONTE-CARLO

Jorja Smith, the talented English singer and songwriter, has won over audiences with her unique blend of soul, jazz, and sincere lyrics. From her debut with singles like “Blue Lights” and “Where Did I Go?” to her international success with prestigious collaborations, she has asserted her distinctive style on the music scene.

Lenny Kravitz

August 15th and 16th at SALLE DES ÉTOILES SPORTING MONTE-CARLO

Lenny Kravitz, the timeless rock’n roll icon, returns with his 12th studio album, Blue Electric Light, a passionate collection of tracks that highlight his unparalleled talent as a musician, songwriter, and producer. With his unique style and explosive energy, Lenny continues to inspire millions of fans worldwide. In this album, the artist once again demonstrates his undisputed mastery of deep-soul rock’n roll, further enhancing his distinction as a visionary artist.

Visit Our Instagram Page

Read More Articles