Background

Charles Robert Darwin was a geologist, a biologist, and a naturalist who believed that the branching pattern of evolution was a result of natural selection. Darwin was born on February 12, 1809, in Shrewsbury, Shropshire, England. His family was well known. His father, Robert Darwin, was a wealthy doctor and financier, and his mother, Susannah Darwin. His love for natural history came from his grandfather, who had picked theories of evolution and common descents in his “Zoonomia.” In 1809, Darwin was baptized in Anglican St. Chad’s Church, Shrewsbury, but he still attended Unitarian chapel with his mother and siblings.

After high school in 1825, he joined his father and became an apprentice doctor before going to the University of Edinburgh Medical School, the best medical school in the United Kingdom at the time, but Darwin quickly lost interest in medicine, so he abandoned his studies altogether. He started affiliating himself with natural-history students and participated in their debates. He aided Edmond Grant in his investigations on the anatomy and life cycle of marine invertebrates in the Firth of Forth. Grant also applauded Lamarck’s evolutionary ideas, which reminded Darwin of his grandfather’s journal. After school, he traveled on a five-year voyage on H.M.S. Beagle, and that established him as a geologist.

The voyage’s findings, such as the geographical placement of wildlife and fossils, shocked him, so he started thorough research on his findings and, in 1838, came up with the theory of natural selection. Alfred Russel Wallace was also writing the same theory in 1859, and this prompted Darwin to join forces with him, and they published both their theories. His work instituted the evolutionary origin, with an adjustment being the dominant description in the science of multiformity in nature. He went on to investigate plants as well and printed a series of books about them. In “The Formation of Vegetable Mould Through the Actions of Worms,” his last book, he researched earthworms and their effect on soil.