Overview: Dublin University Football Club (DUFC) is the rugby union club of the University of Dublin, Trinity College, in Dublin, Ireland, which plays in Division 1B of the All-Ireland League.

Overview: Queen's University Rugby Football Club is the rugby union team of Queen's University Belfast, playing in Division 2A of the All-Ireland League. Founded in 1869, it is the second oldest rugby union club ...

Overview: Shannon Rugby Football Club is an amateur rugby union team from Ireland, they hail from Limerick near the banks of the Shannon river. The club is a member of the Irish Rugby Football Union Munster Branch ...

Overview: Nenagh Ormond RFC is an Irish Rugby union club based in Nenagh, County Tipperary. It was founded in 1884 as The Ormond Cricket and Football Club. The club plays in Division 2A of the All-Ireland League ...

Overview: Young Munster is a Rugby union club based in Limerick, Ireland, playing in Division 1A of the All-Ireland League. It was founded in 1895 and plays its games at Tom Clifford Park in Rosbrien, Limerick.

Overview: Naas RFC is an Irish rugby club based in Naas, Leinster. They play in division 2A of the All-Ireland League. The club colours are green and white hoops with black shorts and green socks. The Club is the ...

Overview: Suttonians Rugby Football Club is affiliated to the Irish Rugby Football Union. The 1st XV team plays in Division 1A of the Leinster League.

Overview: Banbridge RFC (Banbridge Rugby Football Club) is a rugby union club based in Banbridge, County Down, in the province of Ulster. It currently plays in Division 2A of the All-Ireland League. In addition ...

Overview: Midleton RFC is an Irish rugby union club that currently plays in Division 2B of the All-Ireland League.

Overview: Ards RFC (Ards Rugby Football Club) is a rugby club based in Newtownards, County Down, Northern Ireland, playing in the Ulster Qualifying League. It is affiliated to the Ulster Branch of the Irish Rugby ...

Overview: Thomond RFC is an Irish rugby team based in Limerick. They play in Division 2A of the All-Ireland League. The colours of the club are blue and white.

Overview: MU Barnhall Rugby Football Club is a rugby club in Parsonstown, Leixlip, County Kildare, playing in Division 2B of the All-Ireland League. The club has a very successful history and one of the largest ...

Overview: Bruff Rugby Union Football Club, a rugby union club, playing in Division 2C of the All-Ireland League. The club plays at home in Kilballyowen Park, near the town of Bruff, in County Limerick, Ireland ...

Overview: Buccaneers Rugby Football Club is a rugby union club in Athlone, Ireland. The club's colours are Black and Gold. They compete in Division 1B of the Ulster Bank All-Ireland League for 2014/15.

Overview: Belfast Harlequins is a multi-sports club located off the Malone Road in south Belfast, Northern Ireland. The club name provides the overall umbrella for rugby union, men's and ladies' hockey and squash ...