(C) PIKLIZ.COM

Photo By Rachel Moscoso Denis

NBA Star

Samuel Dalembert was born on October 5, 1981, Port-au-Prince (Haïti). Like young Haitians majoritiy, Samuel lived in misery (he had neither television nor pair of tennis shoes to play soccer). His grandmother, Hypromene Charle, now 72 years old, raised Samuel until he was 14. Then, he left his native country to join his parents at Montreal, because in Haiti, if the Haitians majoritiy have the possibility of going to the school, very often unemployment is the only result of these years of studies. Because Haitian economy (in ruin) doesn't allow to develop employment.

Samuel Dalembert' story is all the more atypical as he played his first official games at 15, only 5 years before his entry in the prestigious NBA. This is by seeing the legendary DR. J (Julius Erving) that Samuel discovered basket-ball and thanks to the former Philadelphia star that he began to love this game. After, Samuel appeared first once with his college of Seton Hall, where he played two seasons. He remains the best shot-blocker in Seton-hall history.

Thanks to an impressive physique (6-11, 250 pounds) and especially thanks to phenomenal wingspan and vertical leap (he is maybe today the most athletic center in the league), Samuel attracted Larry Brown attention who see in him a potential successor of Theo Ratliff, the best current shot-blocker in 2003-2004 season. He is thus drafted in 2001 by the Philadelphia 76ers in 26th position (just before of Tony Parker).

His first season was especially an high-level training season since his time of game (5.2 minutes per game) and his injuries (with his knee in particular) didn't enable Samuel to show his talents. The following season (2002-2003) seems more promising (he realized a very good pre-season) but Samuel wounded a few days before the beginning of the season and must have an operation. His return, schedlued for December is differed to February then deferred to the beginning of the play-offs (April) but Larry Brown didn't want to let play a player who didn't play one game in regular season. After an animated summer in Philadelphia (Larry Brown resigns and leave Philadelphia for Detroit, Randy Ayers replaces him) Samuel is ready to show his talent. The various injuries of Marc Jackson and Derrick Coleman allowed him to have more and more time of game. Throughout the season, he progresses, gains teammates confidence and adversaries respect. Thanks to performances like at Dallas, at Atlanta or at New York (see statistics), Samuel became one of the major players of Philadelphia, especially on the defensive side. Now, he's ready to confirm what he did last year.

Very affected by what happened in his native country (where his grandmother still lives), Samuel wanted to make a gesture to help his compatriots. That's why March 24, 2004, he offered 22 500$ (with Sixers members help) to The Red Cross in order to help Haitians hospitals. And he repeated his help 6 months later because of floods.