ANNOUNCER: This holiday, join us for "Season of Light: Christmas with the Tabernacle Choir," featuring herald trumpets and the Orchestra and Bells at Temple Square, with Tony Award-winning Broadway singer Lea Salonga and world-renowned actor Sir David Suchet.

♪ ♪ The wonder of Christmas is illuminated in all who yearn for the light of Christmas love and the hope of Christmas service.

♪ ♪ SUCHET: The spark of our tiny effort can fill this world with a light and write a story of hope and peace that never ends.

ANNOUNCER: This season, join Lea Salonga, Sir David Suchet, and the Tabernacle Choir and Orchestra at Temple Square in "Season of Light: Christmas with the Tabernacle Choir."

(crowd applauds) [trumpet fanfares] [orchestral music] ♪ When the shepherds saw the light ♪ ♪ Round the angels winging down, did they know that hope ♪ ♪ would rise ♪ ♪ From the manger and the Crown?

For the Holy Child was Born!

♪ ♪ Strike the drum and sound the horn!

♪ ♪ Sing and dance for joy, ev'ry girl and boy, ♪ ♪ For the King came to bring ♪ ♪ You His endless glory ♪ ♪ story after story!

♪ [orchestral music] ♪ When the wisemen saw the rays ♪ ♪ From the star a-streaming down, ♪ ♪did they know that peace would rise ♪ ♪ from the manger and the Crown?

For the Holy Child was Born!

♪ ♪ Strike the drum and ♪ ♪ sound the horn!

Sing and dance for joy, ♪ ♪ Ev'ry girl and boy, for the King ♪ ♪ came to bring you His endless glory ♪ ♪ story after story!

♪ [orchestral music] ♪When the oxen saw the glow from the child extending round,♪ ♪ did they know goodwill ♪ ♪ would rise ♪ ♪ from the manger and the Crown?

♪ ♪ For the Holy Child is Born!

♪ ♪ Strike the drum and ♪ ♪ sound the horn!

♪ ♪ Sing and dance for joy, ♪ ♪ Ev'ry girl and boy, for the King ♪ ♪ came to bring you His endless glory ♪ ♪ story after story!

♪ ♪ Ah, ♪ ♪ ah, ♪ ♪ ah ♪ ♪ ah!

♪ ♪ Sing and dance for joy, ev'ry girl and boy, ♪ ♪ for the King ♪ ♪ came to bring you His endless glory ♪ ♪ story after story!

♪ [orchestral music] ♪ Sing, sing ♪ [orchestral music] ♪ for Christ the King.

♪ [applause] [gentle orchestral music] [announcer] Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome world renowned, Tony Award winning singer, actor, and columnist Lea Salonga [applause] ♪ It's the most wonderful time of the year, ♪ ♪ with the kids jingle belling ♪ ♪ and ev'ryone telling you ♪ ♪ be of good cheer!

♪ ♪ It's the most wonderful time ♪ ♪ of the year!

♪ ♪ It's the hap-happiest season ♪ ♪ -of all, -It's the hap-happiest season.

♪ ♪ with those holiday greetings and gay happy meetings ♪ ♪ -when friends come to call.

-when our friends come to call.♪ ♪ It's the hap-happiest season of all.

♪ ♪ There'll be parties for hosting, marshmallows ♪ ♪ for toasting and caroling out in the snow.

♪ ♪ There'll be scary ghost stories and ♪ ♪ tales of the glories of Christmases long, long ago.

♪ ♪ It's the most wonderful time of the year ♪ ♪ There'll be much mistletoeing ♪ ♪ and hearts will be glowing when ♪ ♪ -loved ones are near -when loved ones are near.

♪ ♪ It's the most wonderful time of the year!

♪ ♪ There'll be parties for hosting, ♪ ♪ marshmallows for roasting and ♪ ♪ -caroling out in the snow.

-in the snow.

♪ ♪ There'll be scary ghost stories and tales of ♪ ♪ the glories of Christmases ♪ ♪ long, long ago long ago.

♪ ♪ It's the most wonderful time of the year.

♪ ♪ There'll be much mistletoeing ♪ ♪ and hearts will be glowing ♪ ♪ -when loved ones are near.

-when loved ones are near.

♪ ♪ It's the most wonderful time, It's the most wonderful time, ♪ ♪ It's the most wonderful time ♪ ♪ of the year.

♪ [applause] Thank you.

It really is a wonderful time of year.

Especially being here with this spectacular Choir and Orchestra!

[applause] You know, in my home country, the Philippines, Christmas actually begins, as you know, in September!

And that's how much we love the holidays.

And it's not just the decorations, the food, the food and the presents.

We love the music.

Tonight, we'd like to share one Christmas song that is especially beloved in the Philippines.

And for good reason.

On New Year's Day 1942, a few weeks after the bombings at Pearl Harbor, Manila was attacked.

By the time the war Ended three years later, it was almost completely destroyed.

Then, a year after that, on Christmas night 1946, a young Filipino musician by the name of Filipe de Leon climbed to the top of the tallest remaining ruins.

There, as he looked out on the dark devastation of war, he was inspired to write this carol of peace.

It has brought hope and healing to the Filipino people ever since.

May it bring hope to you this Christmas as well.

[piano music ] ♪ Ang gabi'y payapa ♪ ♪ Lahat ay tahimik ♪ ♪ Pati mga tala ♪ ♪ Sa bughaw na langit ♪ ♪ Kay hinhin ng hangin ♪ ♪ Waring umiibig ♪ ♪ Sa kapayapaan ♪ ♪ Ng buong daigdig ♪ ♪ Payapang panahon ♪ ♪ Ay diwa ng buhay ♪ ♪ Biyaya ng Diyos ♪ ♪ Sa sangkatauhan ♪ ♪ Ang gabi'y payapa ♪ ♪ Lahat ay tahimik ♪ ♪ Pati mga tala ♪ ♪ Sa bughaw na langit ♪ ♪ Payapang panahon ♪ ♪ Ay diwa ng buhay ♪ ♪ Biyaya ng Diyos ♪ ♪ Sa sangkatauhan ♪ ♪ Ang gabi'y payapa ♪ ♪ Lahat ay tahimik ♪ ♪ Pati mga tala ♪ ♪ Sa bughaw na langit.

♪ ♪ Pati mga tala ♪ ♪ Sa bughaw na langit.

♪ ♪ Na langit.

♪ [applause] ♪ And then, then shall your light break forth as the ♪ ♪ light of morning breaketh, and your health shall ♪ ♪ speedily spring forth then, and the glory of the Lord ♪ ♪ the glory of the Lord ♪ ♪ ever shall reward you, ever shall reward you.

♪ ♪ Lord our Creator how excellent ♪ ♪ thy name is in all the nations.

♪ ♪ Lord our Creator how excellent ♪ ♪ thy name is in all the nations, ♪ ♪ Lord our Creator how excellent ♪ ♪ thy name is in all the nations, ♪ ♪ Lord our Creator how excellent ♪ ♪ thy name is in all the nations, ♪ ♪ in all the nations ♪ ♪ Lord our Creator how excellent ♪ ♪ thy name is in all the nations, ♪ ♪ Lord our Creator how excellent ♪ ♪ thy name is in all the nations, ♪ ♪ Lord our Creator, Lord our Creator, Lord ♪ ♪ our Creator, how excellent thy name is ♪ ♪ Lord our Creator, how excellent thy name is ♪ ♪ Lord our Creator, how excellent thy name is ♪ ♪ Lord our Creator, how excellent thy name is ♪ ♪ in all the nations, ♪ ♪ Lord our Creator, ♪ ♪ Lord our Creator, how excellent ♪ ♪ thy name is in all the nations, ♪ ♪ in all the nations, ♪ ♪ thou fillest heav'n with thy glory!

♪ ♪ Lord our Creator, ♪ ♪ Lord our Creator how excellent ♪ ♪ thy name is in all the nations, ♪ ♪ thou fillest heav'n with thy glory!

♪ ♪ Amen, ♪ ♪ Amen, ♪ ♪ Amen, ♪ ♪ Amen, ♪ ♪ Amen, ♪ ♪ Amen!

♪ [applause] [orchestral musc] [applause] [announcer] Ladies and Gentlemen, Please welcome back Lea Salonga.

♪ Just hear those sleigh bells jingling, ♪ ♪ ring-ting-tingling, too; ♪ ♪ Come on, it's lovely weather ♪ ♪ for a sleigh ride together with you.

♪ ♪ Outside the snow is falling and friends are calling ♪ ♪ "Yoo-hoo."

Come on, it's lovely weather ♪ ♪ for a sleigh ride together with you.

♪ ♪ Giddy yap, giddy yap, giddy yap, ♪ ♪ -let's go!

-Let's look at the show.

♪ ♪ We're riding in a wonderland of snow.

♪ ♪ Giddy yap, giddy yap, giddy yap, ♪ ♪ -it's grand!

-Just holding your hand.

♪ ♪ We're gliding along with a song of a wintery fairy land.

♪ ♪ Our cheeks are nice and rosy and comfy cozy are we, ♪ ♪ We're snuggled up together like two birds of ♪ ♪ a feather would be.

Let's take that road before us and sing ♪ ♪ a chorus or two.

Come on ♪ ♪ it's lovely weather for a sleigh ride together with you.

♪ ♪ There's a birthday party at the home of farmer Gray, ♪ ♪ It'll be the perfect ending of a perfect day.

♪ ♪ We'll be singing the songs ♪ ♪ we love to sing without a single stop, ♪ ♪At the fireplace while we watch the chestnuts pop.

♪ ♪ Pop, pop, pop!

♪ ♪ There's a happy feeling nothing in the world ♪ ♪ can buy when they pass around the cider and the pumpkin pie.

♪ ♪ It'll nearly be like a picture print by Currier and Ives.

♪ ♪ These wonderful things are the things we'll remember ♪ ♪ all through our lives.

♪ ♪ These wonderful things are the things we'll remember ♪ ♪ all through our lives.

♪ ♪ Just hear those sleigh bells jingling, ♪ ♪ ring-ting-tingling too, ♪ ♪ Come on it's lovely weather for a sleigh ride ♪ ♪ together with you.

♪ ♪ Outside the snow is falling and friends are ♪ ♪ calling "Yoo-hoo."

♪ ♪ Come on, it's lovely weather for a sleigh ♪ ♪ ride together with you.

♪ ♪ Come on it's lovely weather for a sleigh ride ♪ ♪ together with you.

♪ [gentle orchestral music] So, not everyone rides a sleigh home for Christmas, right?

For me, it's a plane.

But all of us know what it means to yearn for family at Christmas time and to dream about coming home.

♪ I'll be home ♪ ♪ for Christmas, ♪ ♪ you can plan ♪ ♪ on me.

♪ ♪ Please have snow ♪ ♪ and mistletoe ♪ ♪ and presents ♪ ♪ on the tree.

♪ ♪ Christmas Eve ♪ ♪ will find me ♪ ♪ where the love ♪ ♪ light gleams, ♪ ♪ I'll be home ♪ ♪ for Christmas ♪ ♪ if only in ♪ ♪ my dreams.

♪ ♪ Oh, ♪ ♪ Oh, ♪ ♪ oh, ♪ ♪ I'll be home ♪ ♪ for Christmas, ♪ ♪ if only in ♪ ♪ my dreams.

♪ ♪ If only in ♪ ♪ my dreams.

♪ [gentle orchestral music] Wherever we come from, the Christmas story reminds us that if we're with family, we're home.

That's how it was for the holy family in Bethlehem on that first, blessed, holy night.

♪ O Holy Night!

The stars are brightly shining.♪ ♪ It is the night of our dear Savior's birth!

♪ ♪ Long lay the world in sin and error pining ♪ ♪ 'till he appeared and the soul felt its worth.

♪ ♪ A thrill of hope the weary world rejoices ♪ ♪ for yonder breaks a new and glorious morn; ♪ ♪ fall on your knees, ♪ ♪ O hear the angel voices.

♪ ♪ O night divine.

♪ ♪ O night when Christ was born ♪ ♪ O night, ♪ ♪ O holy night, ♪ ♪ O night divine!

♪ ♪ Oh, fall ♪ ♪ Oh, fall on your knees.

♪ ♪ Oh, hear ♪ ♪ Oh hear the angel voices.

♪ ♪ O night divine, ♪ ♪ O night when Christ was born ♪ ♪ O night, ♪ ♪ O holy, ♪ ♪ holy night.

♪ ♪ -O night divine -O night divine!

♪ ♪ O, night divine!

♪ [applause] [gentle orchestral music] ♪ Lo, how a rose e'er blooming ♪ ♪ from tender stem hath sprung!♪ ♪ Of Jesse's lineage coming, ♪ ♪ as men of old have sung.

♪ ♪ It came a flow'ret bright, ♪ ♪ amid the cold of winter, ♪ ♪When half-spent was the night.♪ ♪ Isaiah 'twas foretold it, ♪ ♪ the rose I have in mind, ♪ ♪ With Mary we behold it, ♪ ♪ the virgin mother kind.

♪ ♪ To show God's love aright ♪ ♪ she bore to men a Savior ♪ ♪ when half-spent was ♪ ♪ the night.

♪ [organ and orchestral music] ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis ♪ ♪ Hosanna in ♪ ♪ excelsis deo ♪ [applause] [orchestral music] ♪ Here we come a-caroling among the leaves so green.

♪ ♪ Here we come a-wand'ring so fair to be seen.

♪ ♪ Love and joy come to you, and to you, glad Christmas too.♪ ♪ And God bless you and send you a Happy New Year.

♪ ♪ And God send you a Happy New Year.

♪ [orchestral music] ♪ We come here not as Strangers to knock upon ♪ ♪ your door, but we are neighbors' ♪ ♪ children whom you have seen before.

♪ ♪ Love and joy come to you, ♪ ♪ and to you, glad Christmas too.

♪ ♪ And God bless you and send you a Happy New Year.

♪ ♪ And God send you a Happy New Year.

♪ [orchestral music] ♪ God bless the master of this house, likewise ♪ ♪ the mistress too, and all the little children ♪ ♪ who count them kind and true: Love and joy come to you, ♪ ♪and to you, glad Christmas too.

And God bless you ♪ ♪ and send you a Happy New Year.

♪ ♪ and God send you a Happy New Year, ♪ ♪ New Year, New Year, ♪ ♪ New Year, New Year!

♪ [applause] [organ and orchestral music] [applause] So, I have a secret to share.

With all of you, 15,000 of my newest, closest friends.

The Nativity story means something special to us as women.

The journey to Bethlehem, the stable, the manger we don't take any of that lightly.

Mary is not just another character in the Bible.

She is a mother.

A first-time mother with a unique role and responsibility.

I still remember my feelings when I learned I was expecting a daughter.

Feelings that are perfectly expressed in this next song.

Whether we are daughters, sisters, aunts, mothers, or grandmothers, Christmas for us includes thinking about new life coming into the world and nurturing the next generation.

It's the story we all share as women.

The story that goes on.

♪ So this is the tale my mother told me, ♪ ♪ That tale that was much ♪ ♪ too dull to hold me, And this is the surge and the rush ♪ ♪ she said would show, our story goes ♪ ♪ on.

Oh, I was young I forgot that ♪ ♪ things outlive me; my goal was the kick that life ♪ ♪ would give me.

And now like a joke something moves ♪ ♪ to let me know our story goes on.

♪ ♪ And all these things I feel and more ♪ ♪ My mother's mother felt and hers before.

♪ ♪ A chain of life begun upon the shore of ♪ ♪ some dark sea ♪ ♪ has reached to me!

♪ ♪ And now, I can see the chain extending, ♪ ♪ my child is next in a line that has no ending, ♪ ♪ and here am I full of life that her child will feel ♪ ♪ when I'm long gone; and thus it is ♪ ♪ our story goes on.

♪ ♪ -And on, -and on, ♪ ♪ -and on, -and on, ♪ ♪ -and on, -and on, ♪ ♪ -and on, -and on, ♪ ♪ -and on, -and on, ♪ ♪ -and on, -and on, ♪ ♪ -and on, -and on, ♪ ♪ and on.

♪ [gentle orchestral music] ♪ And all these things I feel and more.

♪ ♪ My mother's mother felt and hers before.

♪ ♪ A chain of life begun upon the ♪ ♪ shore of some primordial sea.♪ ♪ Has stretched through time to reach to me!

♪ ♪ And now, I can see the chain extending, ♪ ♪ My child is next in a line that has no ending, ♪ ♪ And here am I feeling life that her child will feel ♪ ♪ when I'm long gone!

♪ ♪ Yes, all that was is part of me ♪ ♪ As I am part of what's to be; ♪ ♪ And thus it is, our story ♪ ♪ goes on, ♪ ♪ and on, and on, and on, ♪ ♪ and on, ♪ ♪ and on!

♪ [applause] [orchestral music] [announcer] Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome international star of stage, screen and television, Sir David Suchet.

Thank you all, so very much.

And a very good evening to you.

What a pleasure and privilege it is, for me, to be with you this evening.

And together with this extraordinary choir amazingly talented orchestra!

[applause] This evening, we come together to share a true story from over 80 years ago.

It takes place near a region connected with my own heritage, the former Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.

And it's also about people who were Jewish, like many of my own ancestors devoted to their faith and deeply dedicated to their families.

During this period, they lived in a land occupied by a foreign power.

Well not unlike the Holy Family so long ago.

Indeed, it's a familiar scene in the world today, suggesting that this is a story for our time.

♪ Once in royal David's city ♪ ♪ Stood a lowly cattle shed ♪ ♪ Where a mother laid her baby ♪ ♪ in a manger for his bed.

♪ ♪ Mary was that mother mild, ♪ ♪ Jesus Christ her little child.

♪ In the final months of 1938, the shadow of war was spreading across Europe.

Hitler's armies had marched into the borderlands of Czechoslovakia, forcing Jewish families, among others, to flee their homes and seek refuge inland.

As the light of Hanukkah And Christmas drew near, so did the darkness of ethnic cleansing.

Meanwhile, 800 miles away in London, a 29-year-old English stockbroker, Nicholas Winton, was preparing for a ski vacation in Switzerland.

But, just days before his departure, a friend called from Prague.

"Nicky," he said, "forget the skis.

You need to see what's happening here."

Nicky, the son of Jewish-German immigrants, had a background in international banking and was fluent in German and French.

Long interested in world politics, he was naturally curious and immediately changed his plans.

Nicky arrived in the Czech capital on New Year's Eve.

There, in the throes of winter, he found sprawling encampments of refugee families, mostly Jewish, huddled in tents and makeshift huts, at best.

They were trapped.

Visas for adults were nearly impossible to obtain, much less for entire families.

Some wanted to escape, and others were determined to stay, but most agreed that something had to be done to safeguard their children now, before it was too late.

Well Nicky turned this problem over in his mind: "If it's not impossible," he thought, "then there must be a way to do it."

Working with other organizations, a plan emerged: By special waiver, children could leave the country without their parents, as long as host families abroad took them in.

Well as word spread of the plan, parents lined the hallways and staircases of Nicky's hotel, begging for their little ones to be included.

If they could get their children out of the country, they would find a way to follow them.

Three weeks later, when Nicky's holiday vacation came to an end, he carried home the names and photographs of literally hundreds of children, entrusted to him by their parents.

Back in London, Nicky worked at the Stock Exchange by day and coordinated the rescue by night.

To expedite the effort, well he "borrowed" stationary from the British refugee committee, adding the words "Children's Section" and calling a meeting of one to appoint himself "Honorary Secretary."

Using that title, he wrote to various governments for help.

Several declined, but the British Home Office agreed.

As long as Nicky provided a #50 guarantee for each child now that's the equivalent today of over four-thousand American dollars per child.

With the assistance of his mother and a growing circle of helpers, Nicky threw himself into recruiting host families, raising funds, and securing visas.

For nine months the work continued.

And for nine months, children traveled by train and ferry to England.

Among the most moving images of Nicky's service are parents on the train platforms at Prague Wilson Station.

Hiding their grief, they took their children in their arms, assured them of an exciting adventure ahead, and promised to be reunited soon.

Through that spring and summer of 1939, as train whistles blew and steam filled the skies, parents waved goodbye, pleading for the strength that only God could provide.

♪ Maoz tsur y'shuati ♪ ♪ L'cha naeh l'shabeiach ♪ ♪ Tikon beit t'filati ♪ ♪ V'sham toda n'zabeiach.

♪ [choir humming] All too soon, war was declared, and the Czech border closed.

At final count, 669 children had been rescued.

With few exceptions, their families perished, never to be seen again.

The only record of the rescue was a scrapbook, made by one of Nicky's team members.

The book's pages were brimming with lists of children, emigration passes, diplomatic correspondence, and so on.

But Nicky was not focused on the past.

He was thinking about the future.

So, the scrapbook went into the attic and Nicky moved on with his life.

He married, had three children, worked in local business and government affairs, organized assistance for the disabled and elderly, and went about doing good wherever a need was found.

For some 50 years Nicky rarely spoke of his rescue work, and when he did, well it was only in passing.

And that brings us here, to a setting like this one.

In the months before Nicky's 80th birthday, his wife Grete found herself in the attic sorting papers.

And there, in a worn leather case, she discovered the scrapbook.

Well needless to say, she was astonished.

"Who were these children?

"she wondered, and why didn't she know about them?

"Well, it happened so long ago," Nicky explained.

"Quite frankly, I haven't given the episode much thought since."

As they talked, they agreed that the book and the history in it had to be preserved.

And with the help of a well-known Holocaust expert, the story began to come to light.

Eventually, the BBC invited Nicky to appear on a television program called "That's Life."

And what happened next was a total surprise, even to Nicky himself.

Back here you will see is the list of all the children and the foster families who took them in.

This is Vera Diamant, when she was 10, now she is Vera Gissing.

She had no idea that Nicholas Winton had, in fact, arranged her rescue!

But we did find her name, Vera Diamant, who she was then, on his list.

Vera Gissing is with us here tonight.

Hello, Vera.

And I should tell you that you are actually sitting next to Nicholas Winton.

[applause] -Thank you -One more story for you.

Milena Fleishman.

Milena, I believe you still have the nametag you wore round your neck when you arrived as a little girl at Liverpool.

-Yes, I have.

I wore this around my neck.

And this is the actual pass that we were given to come to England, and I'm another of the children that you saved.

[applause] -Can I ask, is there anyone in our audience tonight who owes their life to Nicholas Winton.

If so, could you stand up please?

[gentle orchestral music] In his last years, Nicky was continually surrounded by his honorary children and grandchildren, all grateful to finally understand the story of their lives.

And though Nicky was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II and often referred to as "The British Schindler," he rejected adulation.

"I am not a hero," he insisted.

"I just did what needed to be done."

When Nicky died at the age of one hundred and six, most of the original children had still not been found.

But the known posterity of his rescued family numbered over six thousand.

In time, Nicky's scrapbook was placed in Yad Vashem, the World Holocaust Remembrance Center in Jerusalem.

And in that setting, his wartime service shines as it should, in memory of the parents and families who sacrificed to save their children.

Nicky was once asked, "Why did you keep the scrapbook a secret?"

"I didn't keep it a secret," he said, "I just didn't talk about it."

Well, perhaps that's because Nicky knew he had more good to do in his life, more than could be contained in any book.

For gifts of goodness are truly endless.

As we are blessed, we bless others.

And the giving goes on.

During that last winter before the war, Jewish parents in Czechoslovakia were not able to celebrate Hanukkah in all the customary ways.

But they knew that in the Hanukkah menorah, the single center candle lights all of the others.

The light of God's goodness in just one person can bring light to many, now and for generations to come.

This season, what endless light will we bring to others?

What stories will fill the scrapbooks of our lives?

For some it will be helping refugees in war-torn lands.

For others, it will be visiting a lonely neighbor or even lifting up a downcast friend.

Whatever we do, the spark of our tiny effort can fill this world with light and write a story of hope and peace that never ends.

And in that spirit, as the Choir sings a final, newly written verse of the carol, "Once in Royal David's City," we invite you to sing along.

And if, this year, you wish to dedicate yourself to sharing God's light through service to others, turn on the light of your phone.

Lift it up high.

And let it be the symbol of His Light and Life, shining through you, to all the world.

[choir and audience singing] ♪ Light of God grow bright within us, ♪ ♪ Let Thy love in us increase, ♪ ♪ Shine through us in all our service, ♪ ♪ Lift us up in joy and peace.

♪ ♪ Lead us in Thy path we pray ♪ ♪ Make us one this holy day.

♪ ♪ One in hope, One in love, ♪ ♪ One in Thee this blessed, ♪ ♪ holy day.

♪ ♪ Holy day!

♪ ♪ Holy day!

♪ [applause] Thank you.

Thank you.

My goodness, Thank you so very much.

But... we're not finished yet.

Because this evening, we have the most wonderful surprise.

We are absolutly delighted to have with us the son of Nicholas Winton.

Please join me in welcoming his namesake, Mr. Nick Winton.

[applause] I'm still a bit overcome.

Amazing.

[applause] -Nick, thank you so much for being here.

And I don't have to say it.

A huge welcome from everyone.

Nick you are, are you not, the last of your father's three children still alive?

-Yes, sadly that's true.

My brother died quite young.

Sorry, I'm still very overcome by the evening.

My sister died quite recently.

Um, but I shall also say that there are many thousands all over the world who are alive because of the rescue that my father did.

Many of them considered him to be their father or their grandfather or even their great-grandfather because he was their only living connection with their past.

The rest of their family had perished.

-Remarkable.

Absolutely remarkable.

Could you tell us what you have found to be most helpful about your father's experience for you, personally?

-Well.

I guess the most valuable lesson I've learned is that each one of us changes the world every single day.

Sounds kind of grandiose.

But it may be just in small ways like helping someone with their groceries, or even just a smile when they need something.

And of course we also make life worse by not doing something that's needed.

But my father he believed in what he called active goodness.

That is, to be a good person we should actively do things to help others rather than be passive.

Simply avoiding doing anything bad.

He spent most of his very long life helping to make the world a better place and loved doing it.

And that, to me, is the essence of the Christmas spirit.

-Nicky, we're so grateful to you for coming here and we wish you, your family and all those that you love a very blessed and truly joyful Christmas.

-Thank you [applause] ♪ One in hope, One in love, ♪ ♪ One in Thee this blessed, ♪ ♪ holy day.

♪ ♪ Holy day!

♪ [gentle orchestral music] ♪Little Jesus, rest thy head,♪ ♪ close thine eyes, here beneath ♪ ♪ thy starry skies.

Here we rock thee, ♪ ♪ rock thee, rock thee.

♪ ♪ Here we rock thee, rock thee, ♪ ♪ rock thee.

We with angels, ♪ ♪ hover near; ♪ ♪ sleep dear Jesus, slumber here.

♪ [gentle orchestral music] ♪ Mary's pure and Holy Son, ♪ ♪ from above, here we tender ♪ ♪ Thee our love.

Here we rock thee, ♪ ♪ rock thee, rock thee, ♪ ♪ Here we rock thee, rock thee, ♪ ♪ rock thee.

We beside ♪ ♪ thy cradle sing, ♪ ♪ praise for thee, our Savior King.

♪ ♪ Praise for thee ♪ ♪ our Savior King.

♪ ♪ Savior King ♪ You know, many years ago, I turned to the writings of the Apostle Paul in the New Testament.

And while reading from Chapter 8 in his letter to the Romans, I found the most beautiful expression of the life I had hoped to live.

I read about a life of caring, generosity, and being there for other people.

Since then, I've had the opportunity to read biblical scripture in many live presentations and I've been privileged to record the Bible in its entirety.

And whether or not we imagine ourselves rocking Little Jesus in the manger as described in the carol, I hope that this reading, this Christmas, will inspire us to regard one another as lovingly and tenderly as a newborn child, for we are all God's children.

And it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed.

And all went to be taxed, everyone into his own city.

And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judaea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem to be taxed, with Mary his espoused wife, being great with child.

And so it was, that, while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered.

And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in the inn.

And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night.

And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them: and they were sore afraid.

And the angel said unto them, fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people.

For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord.

And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger.

And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men.

♪ Angels from the realms of ♪ ♪ glory.

Wing your flight o'er all the earth.

♪ ♪ Ye who sang Creation's story.

♪ ♪ Now proclaim Messiah's birth.

♪ ♪ Gloria ♪ ♪ in excelsis Deo, ♪ ♪ Gloria ♪ ♪ in excelsis Deo.

♪ [gentle orchestral music] ♪ Shepherds in the field abiding.

♪ ♪ Watching o'er your flock by night.

♪ ♪ God with man is now residing.

♪ ♪ Yonder shines the Infant Light.

♪ ♪ Gloria ♪ ♪ in excelsis Deo ♪ ♪ Gloria ♪ ♪ in excelsis Deo.

♪ ♪ Sages leave your contemplations, ♪ ♪ brighter visions beam afar.

♪ ♪ Seek the Great Desire of Nations.

♪ ♪ Ye have seen His natal star.

♪ ♪ Gloria ♪ ♪ in excelsis Deo, ♪ ♪ Gloria ♪ ♪ in excelsis Deo.

♪ ♪ Saints before the altar bending, ♪ ♪ watching long in hope and fear.

♪ ♪ Suddenly the Lord descending ♪ ♪ in His temple shall appear.

♪ ♪ Though an infant now we view Him.

♪ ♪ He shall fill His Father's throne.

♪ ♪ Gather all the nations to Him.

♪ ♪ Every knee shall then bow down.

♪ ♪ Gloria ♪ ♪ in excelsis Deo, ♪ ♪ Gloria ♪ ♪ in excelsis Deo.

♪ [orchestral music] ♪ Gloria!

♪ ♪ Gloria!

♪ ♪ Deo!

♪ [applause] ♪ Gloria ♪ ♪ in excelsis Deo, ♪ ♪ Gloria ♪ ♪ in excelsis Deo.

♪ [orchestral music] ♪ Gloria!

♪ ♪ Gloria!

♪ ♪ Deo!

♪ [applause] [Announcer] To order this program on DVD or the companion book or CD with new and expanded content, visit shoppbs.org, or call 1-800-PLAY-PBS [applause] ♪ [Music ID] ♪ ♪ [Music ID] ♪