About the Program

The World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program is a limited federal health care program that provides high-quality, compassionate medical monitoring and treatment for WTC-related conditions to those directly affected by the September 11th attacks in New York, at the Pentagon, and in Shanksville, Pennsylvania.

The Program also funds medical research into physical and mental health conditions related to 9/11 exposures.

Key Facts

Who We Serve

The WTC Health Program is dedicated to helping those who were there during and after the attacks of September 11, 2001. The Program provides services to the following categories of individuals when the individual meets activity, location, time period, and minimum hour requirements.

WTC Responders

Workers or volunteers who provided rescue, recovery, debris cleanup, and related support services on or in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001, attacks for certain amounts of time during the period between September 11, 2001, and July 31, 2002.

There are three types of responders: FDNY Responders, WTC General Responders (including NYPD), and Pentagon and Shanksville, PA, Responders.

WTC Survivors

Individuals who were present in the New York City (NYC) Disaster Area in the dust or dust cloud on September 11, 2001; who worked, resided, or attended school, childcare, or adult daycare in the NYC Disaster Area from September 11, 2001, to July 31, 2002; who were eligible for certain residential grants; or whose place of employment was eligible for certain grants following the September 11, 2001, attacks.

What We Cover

The WTC Health Program pays for medically necessary treatment of certified conditions, as well any medically associated health condition(s), as long as the treatment is provided by a WTC Health Program affiliated provider or pharmacy.

A member must have a certified or medically associated health condition(s) to be covered. To learn more about covered conditions, visit Covered Conditions.

Members can access services without having to pay any co-payments, deductibles, or other out-of-pocket expenses for medically necessary treatment of certified WTC-related health conditions. Survivors must follow the Coordination of Benefits process. Visit Coordination of Benefits to learn more.

Where We Provide Care

The WTC Health Program provides care through multiple Clinical Centers of Excellence (CCE) and the Nationwide Provider Network (NPN).

The WTC Health Program only covers medically necessary healthcare services within the United States and its territories, including the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.

Clinical Centers of Excellence

CCEs treat members in the NY metropolitan area. Responders, survivors, and FDNY have specific clinics.

Nationwide Provider Network

Care is provided in all US states and territories through the NPN. The NPN is a network of health care providers across the country under contract with the Program to provide care for members who live outside the NY metropolitan area.

Outreach to Potential Members

The Program performs ongoing outreach to those that may be affected by the 9/11 attacks and may not be aware that the Program is available to them. Outreach is performed by outreach and education partners engaged with the 9/11 community and New York City neighborhoods. We assist our partners through coordination efforts, social media, and communication material development.

Outreach and Education Partners

Program Videos

Outreach Materials

About the Administrator

John Howard, MD, serves as Administrator of the WTC Health Program. Dr. Howard is a medical doctor and a lifelong advocate for workers' health. He has served as the Administrator of the Program since the Program’s launch in 2011.