Program News

Uterine Cancer Added to the List of WTC-Related Health Conditions

On January 18, 2023, the World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program issued a final rule to add all types of uterine cancer, including endometrial cancer to the List of WTC-Related Health Conditions (List). This means that Program members with uterine or endometrial cancer(s) who meet the certification requirements may now get these conditions certified as WTC-related health conditions.

“With the publication of this rule, a critical gap in coverage for women in the Program has been eliminated. All types of cancer, if determined to be related to 9/11 exposures, are now covered by the World Trade Center Health Program, providing women equal access to the treatment they deserve,” said Administrator of the WTC Health Program John Howard, M.D.

Members who think they may have symptoms of uterine cancer should contact their Clinical Center of Excellence or the Nationwide Provider Network. Program doctors will review your uterine cancer symptoms and will refer members for further evaluation should this be medically necessary.

WTC Health Program members who have already been diagnosed with uterine cancer(s) should contact their clinic or the Nationwide Provider Network to see if their cancer qualifies for certification and to learn more about treatment through the Program.

To learn more about the addition of uterine cancer, visit the Program's website.

Want to Read the Latest in 9/11- Related Health Research?

Access over a thousand publications on 9/11 health topics, view upcoming research webinar topics, and join the discussion on our most recent NIOSH Science Blog posts.

Explore the new research section of the WTC Health Program website.

Acupuncture Now Covered for Some Conditions

The WTC Health Program now covers acupuncture services as part of the treatment for the following:

Certified WTC-related cancer

Cancer medically associated with a certified WTC-related health condition

Chronic pain resulting from a:

certified WTC-related acute traumatic injury

certified WTC-related muscular skeletal disorder

condition medically associated with a certified WTC-related acute traumatic injury or muscular skeletal disorder

Acupuncture services include traditional acupuncture with needles. They also include other acupuncture services involving heat, pressure, friction, suction, and electromagnetic impulses.

Other alternative treatments are not available at this time. More important information on coverage of acupuncture by the Program is available.

Coming Soon: New WTC Health Program Member Satisfaction Survey!

This spring, the WTC Health Program will mail a new survey to all members. This survey will be anonymous and will ask you questions about:

Your overall satisfaction in the WTC Health Program

Your experience with the WTC Health Program call center

How you would like to receive Program communications

Your satisfaction receiving medical and pharmacy benefits from your clinic, the Nationwide Provider Network, and the Pharmacy Benefits Manager.

The WTC Health Program will use your responses to learn about your experience as a member and to make improvements to the Program.

You will be given the opportunity to provide written feedback in addition to the questions that are asked. However, to ensure anonymity, we ask that you do not provide any protected health information or personally identifiable information. This includes your name, date of birth, Member ID (911#), or other identifying information.

Each survey will be mailed with a pre-addressed and stamped return envelope. After you finish the survey, please fold your responses, seal the envelope, and send back the envelope in a timely fashion. We will be collecting responses for a few months prior to reviewing these results.

If you have specific questions or concerns about your experience in the WTC Health Program, please call the Program call center at 1-888-982-4748.

Telehealth in the Program

While the WTC Health Program currently allows our clinics and the NPN to conduct telehealth visits, there are many factors that may affect your access to telehealth. Each Clinical Center of Excellence or NPN provider has their own telehealth process and/or system. The WTC Health Program does not have a universal telehealth provider. Telehealth availability continues to be subject to change at any time.

Also, telehealth is not always available due to state medical rules. This means that a provider may not be able to provide telehealth services if you and your provider are not in the same state

Reminder: Primary Health Insurance Required for All Program Members

Under the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010 (Zadroga Act), as amended, all members of the WTC Health Program are required to have primary health insurance, including pharmacy and medical coverage. Primary health insurance may be public, like Medicare or Medicaid, or private, such as insurance received through an employer.

Unlike a health insurance program that covers all health conditions, the WTC Health Program is a limited health benefit program that provides medical monitoring and treatment for certified WTC-related health conditions only. Primary health insurance may provide coverage for non WTC-related health conditions.

If you do not obtain primary health insurance, it will impact the Program’s ability to pay for your monitoring and treatment.

There are limited exceptions to this requirement and your benefits counselor at your Clinical Center of Excellence or the Nationwide Provider Network can help if you have questions about whether an exception to the requirement for primary health insurance applies to you.

Learn more about the primary health insurance requirement.

Coming Soon: WTC Health Program eNews!

Interested in getting the latest updates on the WTC Health Program directly in your inbox? We will launch an eNews service later in 2023 to bring Program news and updates to current and prospective members, media, the 9/11 community, and beyond. It is not quite ready yet, but you can sign up to automatically be added to the list once it launches!

Health Effects of 9/11 Tells the Moving Stories of Responders and Survivors

New online exhibition provides poignant look at the ongoing health effects linked to 9/11 exposures

The content and images in this exhibition may be sensitive in nature to some audiences, especially responders and survivors of 9/11. Discretion is advised.

Tour Online Exhibition

World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program members Mark Dennis, a New York City Police Department (NYPD) responder, and Tracy McNeil, a civil service transit worker, were childhood friends from the same neighborhood in Queens, New York, who had lost touch over the years. They recently reconnected over their shared experience of serving as responders at Ground Zero after seeing each other’s stories featured in the WTC Health Program’s Health Effects of 9/11, an online exhibition devoted to raising awareness about the ongoing health effects linked to 9/11 exposures.

“Seeing Tracy’s photograph and reading his story was surreal, the first thought I had was a memory of us winning our thirdgrade science fair together,” Mark said. “I had no idea that he also proudly served in the recovery operation at Ground Zero and that he was also dealing with health conditions stemming from his time there.”

A photograph by Richard Wiesel of Tracy bearing his scars is featured in the exhibition along with a reflection from Tracy that conveys his poignant story and his appreciation for the care provided by the WTC Health Program: “My scars are a constant reminder of the sacrifices and selflessness all us first responders endured…the WTC Health Program is instrumental in making sure we get all the proper care mentally and physically.”

“I am proud to announce the launch of this online exhibition to honor the precious lives lost on 9/11 and those still struggling with chronic health conditions stemming from that tragic day.”—John Howard, M.D.

Developed by the WTC Health Program in partnership with the David J. Sencer CDC Museum, the exhibition is dedicated to all people impacted by 9/11, including those who lost their lives that day, those who have died from 9/11-related illnesses, and those who continue to struggle with 9/11-related illness or injury.

In announcing the online exhibition launch last May, John Howard, M.D., Administrator of the WTC Health Program, said, “The online exhibition offers a wide audience the opportunity to learn and reflect on the lingering effects of 9/11 through the moving visuals and firsthand stories of sacrifice and survival.”

Responders and survivors of 9/11 actively participated in the development of the exhibition, sharing their stories, images, and experiences as 9/11 health advocates and WTC Health Program members. Other organizations and advocacy groups also contributed to the development of the exhibition.

The Health Effects of 9/11 exhibition features:

Information on 9/11 exposures and the emergence of WTC-related health conditions,

The events and advocacy that established the WTC Health Program,

Research achievements that have led to improvements in medical treatment and knowledge, and

Multimedia components such as videos, illustrations, and compelling images including photographs by renowned photographers Richard Wiesel and Earl Dotter.

Among the images in the online exhibition is an editorial cartoon by Ali Shapiro, who was a student at Stuyvesant High School on 9/11. Ali originally drew the image for her student newspaper to raise awareness about the health impacts of 9/11. Ali’s story is a reminder of the thousands of children who lived, worked, or went to school or daycare in close proximity to the World Trade Center, and who are now dealing with health conditions stemming from their 9/11 exposures.

Today, Mark, Tracy, and Ali are among the more than 122,000 members enrolled in the WTC Health Program. As members continue to enroll or be diagnosed with WTC-related health conditions, this exhibition serves as a powerful tool to raise awareness among potential members and the public about the human toll of 9/11 exposures and the benefits of the Program.

This is the first iteration of the exhibition; a physical installation is being planned for the David J. Sencer CDC Museum in Atlanta at a future date.

Black and white member portraits are courtesy of photographer Richard Wiesel.

Nationwide Provider Network Update

As of August 1, 2022, the Nationwide Provider Network (NPN) is administered by Managed Care Advisors (MCA)-Sedgwick, replacing Logistics Health Incorporated (LHI). MCA-Sedgwick now provides WTC Health Program benefits to members who live outside the New York metropolitan area.

The following is an update for Nationwide Provider Network members from MCA-Sedgwick.

NPN call center is open

The NPN call center is available to assist NPN members Monday through Thursday 8am to 10pm ET and Friday 8am to 8pm ET. We have shortened call wait times, with the average call answered in less than 1 minute. If you have questions or need help receiving Program benefits through the NPN, please call us at 1-800-416-2898.

Interested in Joining the NPN?

Are you currently at a Clinical Center of Excellence but thinking of moving outside of the NY metropolitan area? MCA-Sedgwick is here to help you continue your WTC-related care. We collaborate with medical professionals with a variety of specialties and hospital systems in all 50 states to provide care to NPN members. Members interested in transferring into the Nationwide Provider Network should speak with their clinic about their options.

Already an NPN Member? Stay in Touch Through the NPN Member Portal:

MCA-Sedgwick provides a member portal .

The NPN Member Portal lets you:

View medical bill status

View referrals and authorizations

Update demographic information

View/upload requested documents

View certified conditions

If you have not yet set up your NPN Member Portal account, please call MCA-Sedgwick at 1-800-416-2898 to get started.

Please note: This portal is not the same as LHI.Care, which was discontinued when NPN operations were transitioned to MCA-Sedgwick.

Outreach & Education Partnerships

The WTC Health Program’s outreach and education partners provide information about the Program and assist in the recruitment of eligible responders and survivors through various outreach activities.

In 2022, NIOSH-funded outreach and education contracts were awarded to the following organizations:

Responder Outreach/Education

FealGood Foundation

New York Committee for Occupational Safety and Health (NYCOSH)

Survivor Outreach/Education

9/11 Environmental Action (also partners with the survivor organization StuyHealth to reach a population of former students, locally and nationally.)

Hispanic Federation

The 2022 awards were for a contract term of 1 year with the option for two additional years of funding. Contract details can be found by searching by award number, organization name, and/or contract year.

More information on the Program’s outreach and education resources is available.

Pharmacy Benefit Manager Update

Express Scripts became the new Pharmacy Benefit Manager for the WTC Health Program on June 1, 2022.

Express Scripts has approximately 62,000 pharmacies in their national retail pharmacy network, which includes major retail pharmacy chains and independent pharmacies. Home delivery and specialty pharmacy options are also available for eligible Program members.

Members can visit the Express Scripts website for the latest news and to register for the Express Scripts Member Portal, which allows you to:

Check your prescriptions status,

Find your local in-network pharmacies, and

Track any home deliveries you may have.

Responder Members

If you have WTC-related specialty prescriptions, you needed to switch those prescriptions to Accredo by September 1, 2022. You should have received a letter from Express Scripts with instructions. To fill specialty prescriptions online, track shipments, and access your plan information, visit Accredo's website or call 1-855-540-1780.

Have Questions Related to Pharmacy Benefits?

Any questions or concerns related to pharmacy benefit information should be directed to Express Script’s WTC Health Program dedicated member services desk at 1-800-935-7179. Representatives are available to assist you 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

For the latest information on the Program’s pharmacy benefits visit the Program's website.

Survivor Members

As a reminder, the Zadroga Act, as amended, the federal law that created the WTC Health Program, requires that the pharmacy and medical claims for Survivor members go through a process called Coordination of Benefits (COB). COB sets the order of payors that pay their share of costs for treatment-including medications- of a Survivor’s certified WTC-related health condition

As a Survivor member you play an important role in ensuring your benefits are coordinated.

To ensure that you are not billed for your WTCrelated care:

Bring your primary health and pharmacy insurance information when you check-in for your WTC visits and to all of your WTC Health Program doctors and providers.

If you do not have primary health insurance or pharmacy insurance, your clinic or the NPN can provide health insurance eligibility screening and enrollment assistance.

More information on Coordination of Benefits is available.

September 11th Victim Compensation Fund Update

The September 11th Victim Compensation Fund (VCF) has provided the following updates that may be of interest to WTC Health Program members. Remember! The VCF is a separate program administered by the U.S. Department of Justice. Membership in the WTC Health Program does not register you for the VCF.

New “Proof of Presence” Relationships

Proving you were at an eligible location between September 11, 2001, and May 30, 2002, is a requirement for VCF compensation. The VCF understands it can be hard to find documents to prove where you were and when you were there.

To help, the VCF establishes relationships with various employers, unions, and other entities to try to help you prove presence. New relationships are formed regularly. See the latest list on the VCF's website .

TIP: Check the list before filing your claim to see if your organization has a way to support your proof of presence!

2022 VCF Annual Report

The VCF regularly releases program statistics to update the 9/11 community and the public on VCF progress. The VCF recently released its 2022 Annual Report, a comprehensive look at last year’s performance. Included is a glimpse into the VCF’s plans for 2023, such as the “VCF Transformation Project” and the design of a new claims system. Read the 2022 VCF Annual Report .

VCF Questions?

For more information about the VCF or for any questions, visit the VCF's website or call the VCF Helpline at 1–855–885–1555. Please note: the WTC Health Program call center and Program providers are not able to provide information on VCF claims.

New York State Workers’ Compensation Board Update

State of New York legislation signed on September 9, 2022, extended the New York State Workers’ Compensation World Trade Center rescue, recovery, or clean-up effort service registration to September 11, 2026.

If you participated in the World Trade Center rescue, recover, or clean-up efforts (paid or volunteer), and you want to reserve your right to file a Workers’ Compensation claim in the future, your service needs to be registered with the New York State Workers’ Compensation Board by this new deadline.

The New York State Workers’ Compensation Board has updated their website and fact sheet with the new deadline.

Please Note: This is a New York State program and is not affiliated with the WTC Health Program, September 11th Victim Compensation Fund, or the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene WTC Health Registry. We are sharing as a courtesy since some members may also be eligible for this state program.

988 Lifeline

If you are someone you know needs support, call or text 988.

988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline educational magnets are now available and may also be found at your WTC clinic. Help spread the word to those who are struggling in your communities.

For more mental health or social assistance resources, visit these pages on the WTC Health Program website:

Mental Health Resources

Social Assistance Resources

Who do I call when I have questions about...?

For information about enrollment, appeals, program benefits, program policies, and updating contact information call the WTC Health Program Call Center at 1-888-982-4748.

For appointments, care, treatment, medications, case management, and clinic transfers call your CCE (see below) or NPN at 1-800-416-2898.

For pharmacy benefits and issues filling your prescriptions call Express Scripts at 1-800-935-7179.

WTC Health Program Call Center

Monday–Friday 9am to 5pm Eastern

1-888–982-4748

Pharmacy Benefits Manager

Express Scripts

1-800-935-7179

Nationwide Provider Network

MCA-Sedgwick

1-800-416-2898

Survivor Clinics

NYC Health + Hospitals

Elmhurst & Bellevue: 1-877-982-0107

Gouverneur: 1-212-238-7400

William Street Clinic

1-800-714-7426

General Responder Clinics

Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai

1-888-702-0630

New York University Grossman School of Medicine

1-212-263-7335

Northwell Health

1-718-267-2420

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey

1-848-445-0123

State University of New York, Stony Brook

1-631-855-1200

FDNY Clinics

All FDNY locations:

1-718-999-1858

Spread the Word!

An estimated 400,000 people were directly impacted by 9/11 and its aftermath. With just over 120,000 members, there are many more people that may not know they are eligible for health benefits through the World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program.

We need your help!

If you know someone that responded to the WTC, Pentagon, or Shanksville sites—or lived, worked, or went to school/daycare in Lower Manhattan or parts of Brooklyn on or after 9/11–encourage them to visit the Program's website or call the Program at 1-888-982-4748 to learn more.

Moving? If you have moved or are planning to move, please let us know

Call 1-888-982-4748 to update your contact information to be sure you receive important Program information.

Follow the WTC Health Program