The World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program is a limited federal health program administered by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the US Department of Health and Human Services and is authorized through 2090. The Program provides no-cost medical monitoring and treatment for certified WTC-related health conditions to those directly affected by the 9/11 attacks in New York, the Pentagon and in Shanksville, Pennsylvania.

The program also funds medical research into physical and mental health conditions related to 9/11 exposures.

The WTC Health Program is dedicated to helping those who were there during and after the attacks of September 11, 2001. The program provides services to the following categories of individuals when the individual meets activity, location, time period, and minimum hour requirements.

WTC Responders

WTC responders are workers or volunteers who provided rescue, recovery, debris cleanup and related support services on or in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001, attacks for certain amounts of time during the period between September 11, 2001, and July 31, 2002.

There are three types of responders: FDNY Responders, WTC General Responders (including NYPD), as well as Pentagon and Shanksville, PA, Responders.

WTC Survivors

Individuals who were present in the New York City (NYC) Disaster Area in the dust or dust cloud on September 11, 2001; who worked, resided, or attended school, childcare, or adult daycare in the NYC Disaster Area from September 11, 2001, to July 31, 2002; who were eligible for certain residential grants or whose place of employment was eligible for certain grants following the September 11, 2001, attacks.

What They Cover

The WTC Health Program pays for medically necessary treatment of certified conditions, as well any certified medically associated health conditions, as long as the treatment is provided by a WTC Health Program affiliated provider or pharmacy. The member must have a certified or medically associated health conditions in order to be covered. To learn more about covered conditions, visit the CDC site for covered conditions.

Members can access services without having to pay any co-payments, deductibles or other out-of-pocket expenses for medically necessary treatment of certified WTC-related health conditions.

For Health Care Providers: 9/11 Health Information

If you think your patient may be sick due to 9/11 exposure, see the factsheet below.