The city of Zurich and its surrounding communities have long since grown together functionally. The need for inter-municipal cooperation has been identified. Institutionalized forms of cooperation are available, new approaches are under discussion. For the city of Zurich, there was no overview of its manifold cooperations with the neighbouring municipalities. As part of the legislative priority "Creating alliances - politics beyond borders", Zurich sought increased cooperation with the municipalities of the agglomeration as well as the formulation and development of common problems and interests. In this context, the City of Zurich participated in the CityRegion.Net project, which was completed in mid-2011.

Zurich's twin cities in the URBACT project CityRegion.Net are Arezzo, Châlons-en-Champagne, Graz, Kielce (PL), Munich, Oradea (RU), Trikala (GR) and Częstochowa (PL). The structures and processes that take place in the cooperation between core cities and their surroundings are analyzed in this city network and the strategies of the partner cities are compared. Best practices at the planning and financial level as well as in the area of regional structures will be exchanged. For Zurich, cooperation in the regional environment is paramount. Each partner city develops an individual, local plan with concrete recommendations for action (so-called Local Action Plan). The project was supported by the Federal Office for Spatial Development, ARE.

12 neighbouring municipalities of the city of Zurich, namely Adliswil, Dübendorf, Fällanden, Kilchberg, Opfikon, Regensdorf, Rümlang, Schlieren, Stallikon, Wallisellen, Uitikon and Zollikon, participated in parallel with the international network of cities CityRegion.Net at political and administrative level in a study on concrete cooperation in the field of municipal services. The aim of the study was to find opportunities for improvement at the strategic and operational level for today's cooperation and to examine conceivable new forms of cooperation. The result was concrete recommendations for action that are already being implemented.