Albisrieden

Albisrieden is a quarter in the district 9 in Zurich. It was formerly a municipality of its own, having been incorporated into Zurich in 1934. The quarter has a population of 17,226 distributed on an area of 4.6 km².

Altstetten (Zurich)

Altstetten is a quarter in the district 9 in Zurich. It was formerly a municipality of its own, having been incorporated into Zurich in 1934 together with Albisrieden. The quarter has a population of 28,278 distributed on an area of 7.47 km².

District 9, Zurich

District 9 is a district in the Swiss city of Zurich. The district comprises the quarters Albisrieden and Altstetten. Both entities were formerly municipalities of their own, but were incorporated into Zurich in 1934.

Uitikon Waldegg railway station

Uitikon Waldegg is a railway station in the village of Waldegg in the municipality of Uitikon in Switzerland. The station is on the Uetliberg line, which is operated by the Sihltal Zürich Uetliberg Bahn (SZU). The station is served by the following passenger trains:

Ringlikon railway station

Ringlikon is a railway station situated near to the village of Ringlikon in the municipality of Uitikon in Switzerland. The station is on the Uetliberg line, which is operated by the Sihltal Zürich Uetliberg Bahn (SZU). The station is served by the following passenger trains:

Schlieren railway station

Schlieren is a railway station in Switzerland, situated in the municipality of Schlieren. The station is located on the Zurich to Olten main line and is a stop of the Zurich S-Bahn served by line S3 and S12. The former Schlieren carriage works of the Schweizerische Wagons- und Aufzügefabrik AG Schlieren-Zürich were once situated adjacent to the station. The works closed in 1985, and the site is now partially occupied by a printing works for the Neue Zürcher Zeitung.

Urdorf Weihermatt railway station

Urdorf Weihermatt is a railway station in the municipality of Urdorf, in the Swiss canton of Zurich. The station is located on the Zurich to Zug via Affoltern am Albis railway line and is served by Zurich S-Bahn lines S9 and S15. Urdorf Weihermatt railway station should not be confused with Urdorf railway station, situated some 1.25 kilometres away on the same line and served by the same trains.

Birmensdorf railway station

Birmensdorf is a railway station in the municipality of Birmensdorf, in the Swiss canton of Zurich. The station is located on the Zurich to Zug via Affoltern am Albis railway line and is served by Zurich S-Bahn lines S9 and S15.