Location

Zumikon, the village bordering the municipality of Küsnacht, is surrounded by unspoiled landscape. Proudly enthroned above the city of Zurich, it lies at an elevation high enough that the sun still shines even while the countryside below lies enshrouded in fog. In addition to villas and village neighborhoods, you can still find farmsteads here as well. Zumikon represents the good life for its 5,000 inhabitants.

Public transportation

You can get from Zurich-Stadelhofen Station to Zumikon – a mere 5 kilometers from the city limits – within 18 minutes on the S18 line of the Forchbahn Rail (FB). A ride to Zurich/Kloten International Airport takes 39 minutes on public transportation. To get to the town center of Küsnacht, the neighboring municipality, simply hop on the 919 bus.

Shopping

Zumikon has an excellent selection of retail options. The town square serves as both a traditional meeting place as well as a conventional marketplace, surrounded by Coop, various retail shops, the post office, banks, and restaurants. And the grand new Migros fresh foods market has only the finest of the finest for that discriminating gourmand hiding inside you.

Schools

Zumikon takes good care of its school children, with daycare service, nursery, after-school lunch programs, kindergartens and all levels of schooling. Zumikon and Zollikon merged their secondary schools into the Sekundarschule Zumikon/Zollikon SZZ. In addition to the public schools, the Inter-Community School ICS has been operating in Zumikon for several years now. Naturally, students are also eligible for a well-rounded education with a musical orientation through the Music School.

Recreation

The Juch indoor/outdoor swimming pool and the renowned GolfClub Zumikon invite you to partake in recreational activities, as do the Kunsteisbahn KEK ice rink and the lighted Finnenbahn cross-country/racing tracks.

Hotels/restaurants

The “Frohe Aussicht” hotel and the “Rössli” inn offer visitors both cozy overnight accommodations and a delightful tavern in which to dine. Restaurants like the “Triangel” and “Italia 2000 de Remo” will tickle your palate all’ italiana until you scream “basta”! Then there is the “Neue Forch”, which serves guests from far and wide on its sleek vista terrace; it is located just outside the town gates, heading toward the Forch Pass.

Sites/culture

Milchhütte (milk/dairy shed); Max Daetwyler Memorial.

Top locations (streets)

Peteracher, Benet, Waldegg, Chapfstrasse, Haldenstrasse, Langwisstrasse, Ruchenacher, Rigistrasse, Weid, Rebhusstrasse, Ringstrasse

www.zumikon.ch