Shariq Ahmad, M.D.

Dr. Shariq Ahmad graduated from Dow Medical College in 1991. He completed his residency at Englewood Hospital and Medical Center in New Jersey and his fellowship in nephrology at the University of Mississippi Medical Center in Jackson, MS. He has recently joined the Nephrology Associates team from Naples, Florida and will begin practicing in June of 2022. He has over 25 years’ experience in practicing medicine and nephrology. He has special interest in intensive care nephrology, hypertension, and internal medicine. He has excellent interpersonal and communication skills. He has had many successful leadership experiences, especially involving medical team, practice development and has served in a wide variety of professional and administrative roles.

Sanjiv Anand, M.D.

Dr. Sanjiv Anand, MD, received his medical degree from University College of Medical Sciences, India. He then obtained a master’s degree in visual neurosciences from SUNY, NY. He then completed his residency in internal medicine from Maimonides Medical Center, NY, and nephrology fellowship from Indiana University, Indianapolis.

Subsequently, Dr. Anand completed a transplant nephrology fellowship at Indiana University, Indianapolis. Dr. Anand joined Nephrology Associates of Utah in 2013. His special interests are resistant hypertension, glomerulonephritis, hypertension in hemodialysis, fluid and electrolyte disorders, polycystic kidney disease and kidney and pancreas transplantation. Dr. Anand speaks English, Hindi and Punjabi. Dr. Anand is board certified in internal medicine and nephrology.

Marcellus Assiago, M.D.

Marcellus Assiago MD went to Moi University Medical School, Eldoret Kenya. His Internal Medicine training was at Lehigh Valley Hospital and Health Network, Allentown, Pennsylvania from 2003 to 2006. He completed his fellowship training in 2008 at Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts, specializing in Nephrology and Hypertension. Upon completion of his fellowship, he joined the Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology at the University of Utah. We are excited to welcome him to the Nephrology Associates of Utah team, he will be practicing in Salt Lake, Utah Valley and the St George, Cedar City areas.

Jeff Barklow, M.D.

Dr. Jeff Barklow, M.D. obtained his medical degree from University of Cincinnati in 1997. He completed his residency in Internal Medicine from University of New Mexico and Nephrology fellowship from University of New Mexico.

Dr. Barklow joined Nephrology Associates of Utah in 2002. His special interests are chronic kidney disease, peritoneal and hemodialysis, and hypertension. Dr. Barklow is board certified in Internal Medicine and Nephrology.

Andrew Cortez, D.O.

Dr. Andrew Cortez attended medical school at Western University of Health Sciences. He completed his internal medicine residency at Maricopa Medical Center in 2000 and his nephrology fellowship at the Medical College of Georgia in 2005. He has been a vital part of many nephrology research projects since 2007 and has had multiple publications in medical journals throughout his career. Dr. Cortez joined Nephrology Associates of Utah in February 2022. He joins us from Arizona where he has had a fabulous reputation practicing nephrology since 2005.

Landon Dickson, M.D.

Landon Dickson, M.D., is a native of Salt Lake City, Utah. He obtained his medical degree from the University of Utah in 2008. He completed his residency in Internal Medicine at Indiana University and his fellowship in Nephrology at Indiana University where he was Chief Fellow. Dr. Dickson is board certified in Internal Medicine and Nephrology. He is a fellow of the American College of Physicians.

Dr. Dickson has worked with Nephrology Associates of Utah since 2013. He is an adjunct community faculty member at the University of Utah School of Medicine and the medical director of West Salt Lake Dialysis. He is involved in clinical research, trying to improve the quality of healthcare delivered to patients. His interests are in slowing the progression of chronic kidney disease, resistant hypertension, kidney stone prevention, polycystic kidney disease, kidney disease in pregnancy, geriatric kidney disease, hemodialysis, and home dialysis. He is fluent in English and Spanish. In his free time, he enjoys spending time with his wonderful wife and 5 children, playing jazz piano, fly fishing, and skiing.

Arasu Gopinath, M.D.

Arasu Gopinath, M.D. obtained his medical degree from Kilpauk Medical College in 1992. He completed his residency in Internal Medicine from University of Connecticut and Nephrology fellowship from University of Pennsylvania.

Dr. Gopinath has worked with Nephrology Associates of Utah since 2009. His special interests are chronic kidney disease, peritoneal and hemodialysis, and hypertension. His foreign languages include Tamil. Dr. Gopinath is board certified in Internal Medicine and Nephrology.

Ruth Indahyung, M.D.

Dr. Indahyung obtained her medical degree from Gadjah Mada University, where she was awarded for graduating at the top of her class. She completed her residency in Internal Medicine at Harbor Hospital, Baltimore in 2008. She then completed her fellowship and chief fellowship in Nephrology at the University of Florida in Gainesville, FL in 2010.

Dr. Indahyung serves as the Medical Director of South Mountain Dialysis, recognized as one of model facilities promoting health and improving quality of life by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid/CMMS. Additionally, she conducts clinical research in the areas of anemia of chronic kidney disease, treatment for Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis (FSGS), and atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS). Her special interests include chronic kidney disease; acute kidney injury; secondary hypertension; glomerulonephritis; dialysis and kidney stones.

Dr. Indahyung joined Nephrology Associates of Utah in 2012 and is board certified in Internal Medicine and Nephrology.

Sey Lau, M.D.

Dr. Lau is currently the medical director of the Wasatch Artificial Kidney Center of Fresenius Medical Care. A native of Canada, she received her Medical Degree from the University of Ottawa, in Ontario, Canada. Thereafter, she completed her Internal Medicine residency and Nephrology & Hypertension fellowship at the Cleveland Clinic.

Dr. Lau is board certified in Nephrology. In addition to the practice of general nephrology, her interests include management of chronic kidney disease and glomerulonephritis. Dr. Lau joined Nephrology Associates of Utah in 2008.

Prior to her medical career, Dr. Lau was a member of the Canadian National Gymnastics team and graduated Magna Cum Laude in Microbiology from the Ohio State University as a varsity student athlete competing in NCAA Women’s Gymnastics. Her interests outside of her career include mountain biking, photography and orchid growing.

Donald Morris, M.D.

Dr. Morris is originally from Georgia. He attending the University of Georgia and then the University of Alabama at Birmingham School of Medicine. He came to Utah in 1998 and completed residency at the University of Utah in Internal Medicine and fellowship in Nephrology.

Dr. Morris has been with Nephrology Associates since 2006. He is currently assistant director for the Kidney Pancreas Transplant program at Intermountain Medical Center. He is the medical director for the Woods Cross Dialysis unit. He is adjunct faculty at the University of Utah. He is the director for the outpatient Nephrology rotation for Internal Medicine Residents at Nephrology Associates.

His professional interests include transplantation, chronic kidney disease, peritoneal dialysis, complicated hypertension and complicated glomerular diseases. His major emphasis is to practice evidence based medicine to improve outcomes and reduce cost. His major goal is to improve the health and quality of lives in patients with all forms of kidney disease

James Shaffner, D.O.

Dr. James Shaffner is a nephrologist specializing in kidney disease at Nephrology Associates of Utah in Salt Lake City.

He graduated Magna Cum Laude from the Ohio State University with a Bachelor of Science and a minor in Business. He attended medical school at the Lake Erie College of Medicine in Bradenton, Florida, completed his internship at the St. Petersburg General Hospital in St. Petersburg, Florida, and his internal medicine residency at Medical City Weatherford in Ft. Worth, Texas. Subsequently, Dr. Shaffner completed his nephrology fellowship at the University of Toledo in Toledo, Ohio.

Dr. Shaffner's clinical interests include ICU care, electrolyte disturbances, acute kidney injury, chronic kidney disease, hypertension, diabetes-related kidney disease, glomerular disease, renal transplant management, and ESRD.

Dr. Shaffner enjoys spending time with his wife and two children. His interests include pre-war aircraft and automobiles, target shooting, and golf.

Dr. Shaffner joined the team of nephrologists at Nephrology Associates of Utah in January 2023.

Zubair Zafar, M.D.

Dr. Zubair Zafar attended his residency at Southern Illinois University School of Medicine and completed his fellowship training in clinical and transplant nephrology at the Yale School of Medicine. He graduated with honors in 2011. Having more than 11 years of diverse experiences, he has received many awards throughout his career, including the Apple Award three years in a row 2015, 2016, and 2017 as well as Most Outstanding Clinical Medical Resident in 2017. He joined the Nephrology Associates of Utah in 2021 and is becoming an integral part of our chronic kidney disease and transplant team.

Danyi Zheng, M.D., PharmD

Dr. Danyi Zheng, MD, PharmD, earned her pharmacy and medical degrees from Texas Tech University in Lubbock, Texas. She completed her internal medicine residency and nephrology fellowship at the University of Texas Health Science Center in Houston, Texas. Further specializing, she underwent transplant nephrology fellowship training at the University of Washington in Seattle, WA. With a diverse range of healthcare experiences, her primary interests lie in chronic kidney diseases and kidney & pancreas transplantation. In 2023, she joined Nephrology Associates of Utah. She is board certified in internal medicine and nephrology.

Ron Zuiderweg, D.O.

Dr. Zuiderweg is a dedicated Nephrologist who received his medical degree from Touro University in Vallejo, California in 2001. He completed his medical residency at The Medical College of Wisconsin, where he developed a keen interest in Nephrology. He subsequently undertook his Nephrology Fellowship at the same institution before relocating to Arizona, where he enjoyed a busy and successful practice for over 16 years, earning accolades such as the prestigious "Top Doc" award.

In early 2023, Dr. Zuiderweg moved to Utah and joined Nephrology Associates. He is passionate about providing individualized treatment to each patient and believes in tailoring care to their unique needs and experiences. He has a broad range of expertise in all aspects of nephrology practice, with a particular interest in diabetic kidney disease, acute kidney injury, chronic kidney disease, and prevention of progression through diet and a healthy lifestyle.

Dr. Zuiderweg enjoys spending time with his family and exploring the great outdoors when he's not working. He is an avid skier, mountain biker, hiker, and horseback rider and is thrilled to be living in Utah, where he can pursue these activities to his heart's content.

Phyllis Aseltine, MSN, FNP-BC

Phyllis Aseltine, FNP is an experienced Advanced Nephrology Nurse Practitioner that has been a part of the Nephrology Associates of Utah team for more than 18 years and has been the Advanced Practitioner Supervisor for 3 years. She came from a critical care background and has been given the honor of being on the Medical Advisory Committee for Fresenius Medical Care, she is 1 of only 2 nurse practitioners nationally on this team. She is a great leader in the Utah nephrology community and has been a member of American Nephrology Nurses Association for 18 years and has been the President elect for the past 5 years.

Wendy Frey, NP-BC

Wendy Frey attended the University of Nevada in Las Vegas to earn her Bachelor of Science in Nursing. She then attended Weber State University to earn her Master of Science in Nursing to specialize as a Family Nurse Practitioner. She has 11 years experience in direct patient care and is Committed to practicing healthcare using a holistic approach. She has strong clinical skills enhanced by natural ability to build rapport with patients and families.

Trenton Gray, FNP-BC, CNN-NP

Trenton Gray, FNP-BC, CNN-NP is an Advanced Practitioner with specialized, post-graduate training and certification in Nephrology. He is distinguished as one of only ~120 APRN’s throughout the entire nation to hold a certification as CNN-NP from the Nephrology Nursing Certification Commission. He has specialized experience in nephrology including: hypertension management, specialized dialysis care (peritoneal and hemodialysis), CKD-bone mineral disease, acute kidney injury, and chronic kidney disease management. His primary background prior to moving into nephrology was in critical care nursing. He has strong acute illness management and planning skills that he acquired while working at North Mississippi Medical Center – Tupelo, the largest non-metropolitan hospital in the United States with over 650 beds and a very high acuity of patients as a regional referral center. He has been designated Lead Clinical Supervisor for our team of nurse practitioners.