Thousands of Czech hockey fans gathered spontaneously on Prague’s Old Town Square on Wednesday evening to mourn the deaths of three of the nation’s best ice hockey players, world champions Jan Marek, Karel Rachůnek and Josef Vašíček, who perished in a plane crash in Russia along with 40 others.

The accident — the worst in the sport’s history — took the lives of 36 members of the Lokomotiv Jaroslavl ice hockey team and seven crew members. Although a black box flight recorder has been recovered from the Volga River, the cause of the crash has yet to be determined, but team fans reportedly blame the glut of private jets and charter flights there for the Global Policy Forum — forcing a hasty take off on a crowded runway — while pilot error and the quality of the fuel are also possibilites.

Meanwhile, two survivors of the Yaroslavl air catastrophe, a crew member and a 26-year-old player, Alexander Galimov — whom Czech Television (ČTV) and other media had erroneously reported had died — were in critical but not life-threatening condition. The Russian Ministry of Emergency Situations was also preparing a special flight to Moscow to treat the survivors at a specialized burns clinic. Doctors described Galimov as having burns on 80 percent of his body.

The director of Continental Hockey League (KHL) board, Vyacheslav Fetisov, league head Alexander Medvedev, and KHL players’ association representative Andrei Kovalenko, decided following the crash to suspend all games until further notice. On Thursday morning, Medvedev said matches could resume on Sept. 13, adding that this was still to be confirmed.

The Russian Ministry of Emergency Situations has announced that the bodies of all 43 crash victims have been found, but that only 13 have been formally identified.

The majority of those who died were Russian hockey players (Vitali Anikienko, Mikhail Balandin, Marat Kalimulin, Alexander Kalyanin, Andrei Kiryukhin, Nikita Klyukin, Maxim Shuvalov, Pavel Snurnitsyn, Ivan Tkachenko, Pavel Trakhanov, Yuri Urychev, Alexander Vasyunov and Artem Yarchuk) and team staff (Alexander Karpovtsev, Igor Korolev, Yuri Bakhvalov, Aleksandr Belyayev, Nikolai Krivonosov, Yevgeni Kunnov, Vyacheslav Kuznetsov, Vladimir Piskunov, Yevgeni Sidorov, Andrei Zimin). Staffer Brad McCrimmon of Canada also died.

In addition to the three Czechs nationals, the crash victims included a number of other foreign star players: Pavol Demitra (Slovakia), Robert Dietrich (Germany), Stefan Liv (Sweden – Polish born), Sergei Ostapchuk (Belarus), Ruslan Salei (Belarus), Karlis Skrastinš (Latvia), Daniil Sobchenko (Russia/Ukraine), and Alexander Vyukhin (Russia /Ukraine).

Three versions

One of the Yak-42’s black box flight recorders was retrieved from the Volga River on Thursday morning. Thus far, terrorism has been ruled out as a cause for the accident, which occured shortly after take-off, with investigators saying no traces of explosives were found.

Investigators are looking at three possible causes: the technical state of the plane, human error, and also substandard aviation fuel.

The Russian news agency RIA Novosti cited Russia’s Deputy Transport Minister Valery Okulov as saying investigators were looking at three potential causes of the crash, two of which are more probable: the technical state of the elderly plane, human error, and also the use of substandard aviation fuel.

“The fuel with which the plane was tanked has been impounded. We will receive the results later today,” Okulov said, adding that the ministry is considering ordering the permanent withdrawal from service of all Yakovlev Yak -42 planes.

“The question remains why the pilots attempted to lift the plane off the ground until the last moment and didn’t use the emergency brake,” a source in the crash investigation committee told the Interfax news agency Thursday morning, adding that the plane overshot the end of the runway by some 400 meters.

Witnesses reported seeing the plane break in two after hitting a communications mast or tree, when only 1.5 to two meters off the ground.

The chartered Yak-42 belonging to the company Yak-Servis went into service in 1993. According to the independent Aviation Safety Network (ASN), in July 2009, Yak Service’s Yak-42 and Yak-40 planes were grounded due to “major safety deficiencies affecting flight operations.”

On Thursday morning, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, who was due to attend the Global Policy Forum taking place in Yaroslavl, laid flowers by the bank of the Volga where the wreckage of plane fell. Speaking to reporters at the scene, he said “radical reforms in the area of civil aviation are required,” including blanket modernization of airline fleets in Russia and a reduction in the number of airlines.

Three days of mourning

Various Russian news outlets reported that traffic jams formed in Jaroslavl on Wednesday evening — an unprecedented phenomenon in the town in evening hours — as over 10,000 mourners gathered at the Arena 2000 Lokomotiv to pay tribute to the team and staff, laying flowers, candles and hockey dresses at a makeshift shrine.

Initially, the Arena 2000 Lokomotiv’s management did not open the gates of the arena’s grounds due to the Global Policy Forum 2011 taking place at the venue on Sept. 7–8, but soon reneged. The news server Gazeta.ru reported that the fans’ chants of “Loko – Loko – Lokomotiv” soon changed to “Down with the forum!”

A Yaroslavl supporter told the server that fans were convinced the crash was the result of the town’s Tunoshna airport being overstretched by the number of private jets and charter flights arriving for the forum. “The rumors centered on the airport being overloaded with VIP planes,” Denis Nikitin told the server. Fans were convinced the crash was the result of the airport being overstretched by the number of private jets and charter flights

Three days of official mourning on September 9–11 have been announced in the Yaroslavl region by the governor Sergei Vakhrukov. The KHL players’ association has launched a fund for the relatives of the deceased.

Back in the Czech Republic, distraught fans placed candles, flowers and hockey memorabilia around upright hockey sticks at the Old Town Square — which has become a traditional place to watch national hockey team matches on giant screens, and which invariably attract tens of thousands of fans.

On Wednesday evening around 500 fans gathered at the ice hockey arena in Zlín, south Moravia, the hometown of Karel Rachůnek. A steady stream of mourners continued to place candles and pictures of Rachůnek by the arena on Thursday. Rachůnek, who turned 32 on August 27, leaves his wife and two children.

In Havlíčkův Brod, southeast Bohemia, where Josef Vašíček started playing in his youth, the town’s elected leaders laid a wreath at the ice hockey stadium, and the club’s fan club is planning a memorial on September 14.

In Jindřichův Hradec, south Bohemia, where Jan Marek rose through the youth ranks of the local club, a shrine has been set up in arena of the local club. “With the consent of the family we have made place of remembrance in the entrance hall of the stadium. As well as photos of Jan Marek and flowers, there’s a book of condolence in which people can write messages in homage to the native of this town,” Karolína Průšová from the Jindřichův Hradec administration told ČT. 31-year-old Marek leaves his wife and baby who was born at the end of July.

On Thursday at 15:00, hockey fans began gathering on Prague’s Old Town Square to observe a silence in memory of the crash victims and leave messages in a book of condolences.