1.2K

Shamrock Rovers v Derry City, Tallaght Stadium(Game live on Setanta Sports and Drive105)

The Candystripes head for Tallaght Stadium tomorrow night, with another chance to close the gap on leaders St Pats. However with Rovers one of the form teams in the division, City will need an improved performance after last week’s late defeat to Dundalk at Brandywell.

City defeated Rovers 2-1 earlier in the season at Brandywell, but with Trevor Croly’s side experiencing an upswing in form, this game will pose a significant challenge for Devine’s City. Leading that challenge may be former City striker, Eamon Zayed who has returned to Ireland after his sojourn in the Middle East and signed on at Tallaght.

Devine has a number of injury concerns with Patrick McEleney, Ruaidhri Higgins, Barry Molloy, Kevin Deery, Thomas Crawley, Dean Jarvis and Sean Houston all ruled out through injury. Significant doubts exist over the fitness of Rory Patterson who has been struggling with a back issue all week. However Devine is finally able to consider David McDaid in his plans, with international clearance for the young striker received today. McDaid who scored against Rovers last season in Tallaght will be rearing to go as he has been training with the clubs for a number of weeks.

Devine refused to play up the injury ahead of the departure for Dublin noting “”It doesn’t come any bigger than Derry City v Shamrock Rovers, two huge clubs with a lot of history between them. We won the last game between the two sides but Trevor has them playing very well at the minute so we know that going to Tallaght on Friday evening is going to be a very tough assignment for us. In spite of that, we have a very good record in Tallaght. We have picked up a couple of wins there since Rovers moved in, so we will certainly go down to Tallaght with a lot of confidence and mount a good challenge.”

City have also added Dundalk full back Eoghan Osborne to the panel this week, picking the youngster up on an amateur contract until the end of the season. Osborne impressed last week playing for Dundalk in the Brandywell and upon news of his release, Devine moved quickly to bolster the panel “It’s been well documented the problems we have had with the left back position this season, with the likes of Dermot McCaffery, Thomas Crawley and now new signing Dean Jarvis all being injured. This has left me having to play Barry McNamee and Sean Houston in this position which I feel has affected the balance of the side. So when I heard that Stephen Kenny had released Eoghan on Monday morning it was a no brainer for me, we have signed what is a very exciting young attacking full back that has plenty of pace and ability”