Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (1982)

Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's smash hit operetta about a London barber who seeks revenge on the judge who destroyed his life. The original Broadway production filmed live in Los Angeles starring Angela Lansbury and George Hearn.

Stage Production Notes ​

​With music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim, and a book by Hugh Wheeler, Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street is a “dark operetta” that tells the story of a London barber who seeks revenge on the judge who destroyed his life. Partnering up with Mrs Lovett, owner of the pie shop downstairs, Sweeney slaughters his customers and turns them into pies.

Unlike other shows of the period, Sweeney Todd did not have an out-of-town try-out before its Broadway opening. Following 19 previews, the show opened at the Uris Theatre on March 1, 1979. The production was directed by Harold Prince, and starred Len Cariou and Angela Lansbury.

Sweeney Todd received mixed reviews. Writing for the New York Times, Walter Kerr stated that the “performances can scarcely be faulted” though claimed the music got in the way of the story. While lamenting there was “no serious social message” in the show, critic Richard Eder described the score as “fascinating… wicked, witty, [and] muscular” and claimed that Sweeney “is the kind of work… that makes second‐thinking obligatory.”

Despite the critics opinions, Sweeney Todd was nominated for multiple awards. Amongst its many accolades, the production won 8 Tony Awards, including the awards for Best Musical, Best Book of a Musical, Best Original Score, Best Actor in a Musical (Len Cariou), Best Actress in a Musical (Angela Lansbury), Best Scenic Design (Eugene Lee), Best Costume Design (Franne Lee), and Best Director (Harold Prince).

After 557 regular performances, the original Broadway production of Sweeney Todd closed on June 29, 1980.

Sweeney Todd embarked on national tour, with George Hearn and Angela Lansbury at the helm. The tour played its final stop at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion in Los Angeles. It was the first production in a joint venture by the Los Angeles Civic Light Opera and American Corporation for the Arts (part of Nederlander) to bring new musical theatre to Los Angeles.

Although deemed a commercial flop, Sweeney Todd has become a staple in the musical theatre canon, widely performed at professional and amateur levels. The show has been twice revived on Broadway, received five productions in the West End, and played in countless full-scale and concert versions around the world.

A movie version directed by Tim Burton, and starring Johnny Depp and Helena Bonham Carter was released 2007 and is available on Amazon Prime (as an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases from this link).

Seven productions of Sweeney Todd have been filmed live for distribution.

North American National Tour (1982)

Royal National Theatre, BBC (1994)

Barcelona Cast, Spanish television (1995)

Opera North, BBC (1998)

San Francisco Symphony Orchestra and Chorus (2001)

Opera House, BBC (2003)

New York Philharmonic Concert version, PBS (2014)

Filmed Production Notes

In the final month of its first national tour, Sweeney Todd was taped over a grueling four days the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion in Los Angeles.

Sweeney Todd was the first major American musical to be taped while on tour.

Several different unions, including the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IATSE), the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (AFTRA), the Screen Actors Guild (SAG), and Actors Equity, were all involved in negotiating contracts for the taping.

Two nights were taped with an audience, although according to the New York Times only “one percent of the footage with an audience was used, primarily shots of the proscenium, the curtain going up, and the audience applauding.” The New York Times also noted that the lighting, make-up, and even some of the performances, were adjusted for the camera.

The musical was taped for distribution of pay tv. The Entertainment Channel (TEC) reportedly invested $1.5 million in the project. In an unprecedented deal, two Manhattan-based cable companies, Manhattan Cable and Group W, agreed to offer Sweeney Todd to their subscribers (on Channel 6 and Channel 10 respectively), even though they did not normally offer TEC content.

Sweeney Todd aired on cable TV on September 12, 1982.

The program was nominated for five Primetime Emmy Awards, winning three, including Outstanding Director in a Variety or Music Program (Terry Hughes), Outstanding Individual Performance in a Variety or Music Program (George Hearn), and Outstanding Videotape Editing for a Limited Series or a Special (Jimmy B. Frazier).

The taped version received high praise from reviewers. New York Times television critic John J. O’Connor stated that Sweeney Todd “works very well on a small television screen… [and] generates absorbing television.” Billboard magazine noted “This production is poetry for all the senses, and goes a long way toward promoting the recently maligned “promise of cable TV.””

Sweeney Todd was released on VHS in 1984. The TLA Film and Video Guide described the video as “magnificently re-created” and “not to be missed.”

Home Warner Video released the musical on DVD in 2004. The release was a digital restoration of the VHS, though DVDTalk reviewer John Sinnott notes the transfer was “not clean.”

Turner Classic Movies aired Sweeney Todd on March 21, 2017. ​It was also briefly available on BroadwayHD (until March 31, 2020).

Sweeney Todd is currently available to view on Apple TV, Amazon, and on DVD (as an affiliate, I may earn income from qualifying purchases made through these links).

Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street ​PRODUCTION CREDITS

Theatre: Dorothy Chandler Pavilion, Los Angeles

Producer: RKO-Nederlander, Entertainment Channel, Ellen M. Krass, Archer King, Bonnie Burns

Book: Hugh Wheeler

Music and Lyrics: Stephen Sondheim

Director: Harold Prince Film: Terry Hughes

Musical Director: Paul Gemignani

Orchestrations: Jonathan Tunick

Dance arrangements and incidental music:

Choreography: Larry Fuller

Scenic Design: Eugene Lee

Costume Design: Franne Lee

Lighting Design: Ken Billington Film: Bill Klages

Wig Design: Lynn Quiyou

Stage Manager: Frank Hartenstein, Patrick O’Leary

Conductor: Jim Coleman

Cast:

Angela Lansbury (Mrs. Lovett), George Hearn (Sweeney Todd), Cris Groenendaal (Anthony Hope), Sara Wood (Beggar Woman), Edmund Lyndeck (Judge Turpin), Calvin Remsberg (The Beadle), Betsy Joslyn (Johanna), Ken Jennings (Tobias Ragg), Sal Mistretta (Pirelli), Spain Logue (The Birdseller), Walter Charles (The Passerby), Michael Kalinyen (Jonas Fogg)

Ensemble:

Roy Gioconda, Skip Harris, Duane Morris, Patricia Parker, Meredith Rawlins , Stuart Redfield, Candace Rogers, Dee Etta Rowe, Carrie Solomon, Melanie Vaughan, Joseph Warner ​

Sources

​Books

Ed. David Bleiler, TLA Film and Video Guide: The Discerning Film Lover’s Guide 2000 - 2001, St Martins Griffin (1999)

Articles

Chris Alexander, “Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street in Concert Blu-ray Review,” ComingSoon.net, (Nov 18, 2016)

Lawrence Christon

“A Sweeney Out of the Blue,” Los Angeles Times (Aug 12, 1981) p. G1

“Capturing ‘Sweeney Todd’ on Tape: ‘Sweeney’: Capturing Show on Tape,” Los Angeles Times (Sept 16, 1981) p. G1

Angela Dalecki, “Sweeney Todd in Concert,” Nights and Weekends (undated)

John Duka, “Cable TV Turns Hungrily to the Theatre,” New York Times (June 27, 1982)

Sylvie Drake

“ACA and CLO Form Joint Venture,” Los Angeles Times (Jan 7, 1981) p. G3

​“No Late Date for ‘Sweeney Todd’” Los Angeles Times (Aug 6, 1981) p. G7

Richard Eder,

“Introducing 'Sweeney Todd’,” New York Times (March 2, 1979)

​ “Critic’s Notebook: ‘Sweeney’s’ Dark Side,” New York Times (March 29, 1979)

Andrew Gans,

“'Sweeney Todd in Concert' with LuPone & Hearn Arrives on DVD May 14,” Playbill (May 14, 2002)

“Sondheim's Sweeney Todd and "Last of Sheila" Arrive on DVD in April,” Playbill (Jan 29, 2004)

​ “TCM Will Broadcast Angela Lansbury-George Hearn Sweeney Todd,” Playbill (March 20, 2017)

Mel Gussow, “‘Sweeney Todd’: A Little Nightmare Music,” New York Times (Feb 1, 1979)

Kenneth Jones, “Epiphany! "Sweeney Todd in Concert" is 2002 Emmy Winner,” Playbill (Sept 16, 2002)

Jeffrey Kauffman, “Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street in Concert Blu-ray Review,” Blu-Ray.com (Oct 29, 2016)

Walter Kerr, “Is ‘Sweeney’ On Target?” New York Times (March 11, 1979)

Susan King, “Taking On a Still Razor-Sharp 'Sweeney Todd’,” LA Times (Oct 30, 2001)

John J. O’Connor, “TV Weekend; A Bounty of Specials Tennis, Beauty, Music,” New York Times (Sept 10, 1982)

Michael Portantiere, “Swooning over Sweeney in S.F.” TheaterMania (July 24, 2001)

Frank Rich, “The Sondheim Puzzle,” New York Magazine (Dec 1, 2013)

Megan Rosenfeld, “Attend the Tale Of 'Sweeney Todd’,” The Washington Post (Oct 31, 2001)

Barry Singer, “Losing the Present While Waiting For the Future,” New York Times (July 16, 2000)

John Sinnott, “Sweeney Todd - The Demon Barber of Fleet Street,” DVDTalk (April 20, 2004)

James Traub, “‘Sweeney Todd’ Tries to Cut a Slice of Manhattan’s Cultural Pie,” New York Times (Sept 5, 1982)

“Video Reviews,” Billboard (Sept 4, 1982) p. 42

“Calendar: Stage,” Los Angeles Times (Aug 23, 1981), pg. M55

“September 1981 Calendar,” Orange Coast Magazine (September, 1981), p. 74

Websites

IMDb, “Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (1982)”, Accessed via: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0084747/?ref_=ttawd_awd_tt ​

Sondheim Guide, “Sweeney Todd: 2001 Television Concert,” Accessed via: http://www.sondheimguide.com/sweeney.html#2001TV

Written by Luisa Lyons (November, 2017)