Dear SAVCA Members and Friends,

Realising value through successful exits

A number of factors point towards an uptick in exit activity in coming quarters: public markets are at a high, the range of exit avenues are broadening and a number of funds are nearing the end of their terms. With this in mind, in this week’s newsletter we look at exits from a number of industry perspectives. We bring you the second in a series of videos titled SAVCA-EY Excellence in Exits which explores exit experiences across the region. We also talk to Graham Stokoe, Executive Director and Africa Private Equity Leader at Ernst & Young about the major themes driving exit activity across the continent.

The exit process will also come under the spotlight at the upcoming SAVCA LP Breakfast to be held at The Saxon Hotel on the 21st October 2014. The breakfast, which is exclusive to representatives from limited partners and fund of funds, will cover exit trends and options and key success factors.

We’re also covering the other end of the private equity deal spectrum: The upcoming SAVCA GIBS Advanced Programme in Private Equity on 8 of October 2014 will tackle every aspect of successful deal completion – from due diligence and negotiation, to structuring, approvals and sign-off. The speaker line-up is impressive: We have secured Ron den Besten from The Abraaj Group and Stuart Bradley from Phatisa as keynote presenters. Joining them will be Richard Fienberg and Shaun Zagnoev from Ethos Private Equity, Alex-Handrah Aimé from ECP, Jayendra Naidoo from the J&J Group and Peter McCrystal and Craig Miller from PwC. Please secure your place soonest.

Looking forward to 2015, the SAVCA team is keeping busy with the preparations for next year’s SAVCA Private Equity Industry Conference to be once again held at Spier in Stellenbosch. The conference is scheduled for 13 February 2015. With the tagline Investing for Growth, Investing for Good, the conference will showcase how private equity funding gives investors exposure to African growth while also developing the economies on our continent. We will soon communicate more regarding the conference line-up as well as enticing early-bird specials.

Finally, have a look at some of the photos from the recent SAVCA Venture Capital (VC) Foundation Course.

Please keep us updated with your news and visit the SAVCA website to find new research, industry updates and upcoming events.

Regards

Erika van der Merwe

CEO: SAVCA

Research

Insights on exits

This week we bring you the second in the SAVCA-EY Excellence in Exits Video Series illustrating private equity exit experiences in Southern Africa. This video features an interview with Clive Howell, Head of Private Equity at Nedbank Capital. Enjoy!

SAVCA Events

Women in Private Equity Presentation – Private Equity in Africa: Finding the Women

Date: 23 September 2014

Time: 8:00am for an 8:30am start. Event to end by 10:00am.

Venue: Norton Rose Fulbright, 5 Alice Lane, Sandton, Johannesburg

RSVP: Booking is essential: The SAVCA Office on events@savca.co.za or +27-11-2680041

SAVCA GIBS Advanced Programme Course – A Done Deal

Date: 8 October 2014

Time: All day conference

Venue: GIBS Campus, 26 Melville Road, Illovo, Johannesburg

RSVP: Booking is essential: The SAVCA Office on events@savca.co.za or +27-11-2680041

Click here for more information

LP Breakfast (Institutional Investors and Fund of Funds welcome)

Date: 21 October 2014

Time: 8:00am for an 8:30am start. Event to end by 10:00am.

Venue: The Saxon Hotel, 36 Saxon Road, Sandhurst, Johannesburg

RSVP: Booking is essential: The SAVCA Office on events@savca.co.za or +27-11-2680041

Click here for more information

SAVCA AGM (Members only)

Date: 22 October 2014

Time: 5:00pm-7:00pm

Venue: Webber Wentzel, 10 Fricker Road, Illovo, Johannesburg

RSVP: Booking is essential: The SAVCA Office on events@savca.co.za or +27-11-2680041

Click here for more information

SAVCA Master-Classes in Competition Regulation: Developments in South African competition legislation and regulation and their implications for private equity

The Southern African Venture Capital and Private Equity Association (SAVCA), together with Webber Wentzel, are hosting a full day master-class which provide insight into recent trends in competition regulation in South Africa, with a focus on the economic and legal principles behind regulatory action. Emphasis will be placed on the implications for merger-and-acquisition activity and private equity transactions.

Speakers:

Trudi Makhaya, independent strategist and economist, and former deputy commissioner of the South African Competition Commission

Robert Wilson, partner at Webber Wentzel

See brochure for the programme for the day: SAVCA Competition Matters Master Class Cape Town Invitation

SAVCA Master-Classes in Competition Regulation: Developments in South African competition legislation and regulation and their implications for private equity @ Webber Wentzel Cape Town Offices

Date: 31 October 2014

Time: All day

Venue: Webber Wentzel, 10 Fricker Road, Illovo, Johannesburg

Cost: Delegates attending both sessions: SAVCA members pay R3 500; non-members pay R4 000. Delegates attending single session: SAVCA members pay R2000; non-members pay R2500

RSVP: Booking is essential: The SAVCA Office on events@savca.co.za or +27-11-2680041

Click here for further information

SAVCA Annual Conference: LP Masterclass

Date: 12 February 2015

Time: 12:00pm-5:00pm

Venue: Spier Stellenbosch

RSVP: The conference organiser, Karin Diederichs on karin@soafrica.com or +27(0)214210345

Click here for further information

SAVCA Annual Conference: Members Reception

Date: 12 February 2015

Time: 12:00pm-5:00pm

Venue: Spier Stellenbosch

RSVP: The conference organiser, Karin Diederichs on karin@soafrica.com or +27(0)214210345

Click here for further information

SAVCA Annual Conference

Date: 13 February 2015

Time: All day conference

Venue: Spier Stellenbosch

RSVP: Booking is essential: The conference organiser, Karin Diederichs on karin@soafrica.com or

Tel: +27(0)21 421 0345/Cell: +27 (0)83 270 9219

Click here for further information

Keep up to date with all our events and courses by regularly visiting the SAVCA online calendar.

Industry Events

EMPEA Private Equity in Emerging Markets 2014 | Tapping Global Growth and Driving Returns

Date: 14 October 2014

Venue: InterContinental Park Lane, London

Leveraging the expertise of the Financial Times’s global markets coverage and EMPEA’s insight into long-term, growth capital investments, Private Equity in Emerging Markets is returning to London this October to explore the latest developments in emerging markets private equity.

Click here for further information

EMPEA Private Equity in Africa 2014 | Achieving Africa’s Economic Potential

Date: 15 October 2014

Venue: InterContinental Park Lane, London

The Financial Times and EMPEA will once again convene the African private equity industry in London for the sixth annual summit

Click here for further information

SuperReturn Africa 2014

Attend SuperReturn Africa this December in Cape Town to meet, network and exchange ideas with the very best managers with a solid track record of investing in Africa

Dates: 2 December – 4 December 2014

Venue: The Westin, Cape Town

• Join 500+ private equity professionals

• Meet 150+ local and international LPs

• Hear from 130+ industry leading speakers

• 30+ countries represented

• 2 pre-conference summits – The West Africa Summit OR The Fundraising Summit

SAVCA members can benefit from an exclusive 20% discount. Please quote VIP code: FKR2356SAVCA1 when registering. For more information or to register online, please visit: www.superreturnafrica.com/FKR2356SAVCA1

Asian Financial Forum | Asia: Sustainable Development in a World of Change

Date: 19-20 January 2015

Venue: Hong Kong

The Asian Financial Forum (AFF) brings together some of the most influential members of the global financial and business communities each January to discuss developments and trends in the dynamic markets of Asia.

Deal Flow Matchmaking session (20 January 2015)

The forum features a unique deal-sourcing and matchmaking session jointly organized by the Hong Kong Venture Capital and Private Equity Association and the HKTDC. One-on-one meetings are arranged between sources of funds and sources of deals, enabling participants to meet with potential business partners from around the world.

Click here for further information

SAVCA In the News

Private Equity the Future of Energy Infrastructure in Africa | AFKInsider

Private equity funding could assist with meeting Africa’s massive infrastructure needs. Erika van der Merwe, CEO of SAVCA comments that infrastructure assets in Africa still offer private equity-style returns and moreover enable private equity to invest in scale on a continent where there are limited investment opportunities of sufficient size.

SAVCA Members in the News

Media release: Vantage Capital provides funding to one of the fast growing pharmaceutical company Vantage Capital, Africa’s largest independent provider of mezzanine risk capital, announced it had provided mezzanine debt funding to support Austell Laboratories, a fast growing and 100% black-owned pharmaceutical’s company in South Africa.

Media release: Major investments flow into Affordable housing fund

Investors are lining up for a share of sub-Saharan Africa’s booming affordable housing market, with global private equity investor, International Housing Solutions’ second fund attracting an impressive R1.5-billion.

Private equity in SA is robust | Financial Mail

Foreign investor interest in SA private equity is robust, judging by the fund-raising success achieved by Capitalworks Equity Partners. According to the firm’s cofounder and chairman, Chad Smart more than two-thirds of the fund’s investors are foreign including global institutional investors, family funds and large charities.

How to get Michael Jordaan’s team excited | Moneyweb

Only around one in every 100 potential deals in the venture capital market turn into an investment.

Brett Commaille, CEO at AngelHub Ventures, speaking at the SAVCA Venture Capital Foundation Course, gives some tips to entrepreneurs to help their raise their chances of getting venture capital financing.

Industry News and Updates

Media Release: Where to Invest in Africa 2014/15 — A Guide to Corporate Investment I RMB

Rand Merchant Bank’s fourth annual Where to Invest in Africa 2014/15 — A Guide to Corporate Investment shows a less favourable year for Africa’s investment attractiveness ratings with 22 countries receiving lower scores than the previous year.

Private equity diversifies product offering in LatAm: LAVCA I PeHub

The Latin American Private Equity & Venture Capital Association last week revealed first half 2014 fundraising numbers that indicate a resurgence in the region.

News-driven, short-term sentiment has pushed LPs into new vehicles I Asia Asset Management

The author of this opinion piece argues that trend towards first time fund managers is overstated and driven by news headlines and short-term sentiment.

Sub-Saharan Africa debt sales hit record high I Financial Times

Sub-Saharan Africa sovereign bond issuance has hit a record, with the return of Ghana to international capital markets in spite of its shaky financial situation pushing sales so far this year to nearly $7bn, above the record set in 2013 for the whole year.

Investment strategies of wealthy families I Moneyweb

While wealthy families and individuals are often associated with an entrepreneurial mind-set and an appetite for risk, this does not necessarily mean that they aggressively pursue high-risk investments.

The myth of venture capital I Recode

Jon Oringer, Founder and CEO, Shutterstock believes that tech entrepreneurs need to put more focus on generating value for their users instead of pursuing venture capital funding as a primary strategic priority.

Deciphering the economics of venture capital I TechCrunch

This article explores how a comprehensive study of the economic nature of venture capital is a must in every venture capital firm. Understanding the statistical distribution of returns provides guidelines around how capital is deployed instead of arbitrary rules-of-thumb.

Job Opportunities

Private Equity Senior Investment Manager I Symbiotics I Cape Town

Symbiotics is a large independent asset manager dedicated to sustainable and impact investments in emerging markets. They are looking for an experienced Investment Manager with experience with microfinance institutions in Sub-Saharan Africa and transforming them into leading sustainable banks.

Private Equity Senior Deal Executive I African Alliance I Cape Town

African Alliance is looking for a Senior Deal Executive to play a significant role in the Private Equity business on the African continent. The successful candidate will provide direction and leadership towards achievement of the business unit’s strategy and annual goals.

Contact info@savca.co.za to advertise an opening at your firm on our online jobs portal.

Advertising with SAVCA