Hollywood great Paul Newman, one of the screen's longest survivors, should know a thing or two about movies. The fact that he chose to star in four films directed by Stuart Rosenberg can only be a tribute to the director. Only Martin Ritt, with five Newman films, could claim more.

Rosenberg, who has died of heart failure aged 79, knew how to bring out the best in Newman, offering him four very diverse roles, the most notable being Cool Hand Luke (1967), a brutal but less dark and more irreverent chain-gang movie than most. It is memorable for the egg-eating contest and the violent boxing match, which seems to interpret Luke's masochism as his invincible spirit.

WUSA (1970) - the title is the fictional name of a New Orleans radio station used to propagandise a neo-fascist movement - had Newman as a disc jockey who hated himself for selling out his liberal principles. Although the screenplay was rather muddied, the film retained enough force to make it a worthwhile contribution to the list of American political satires.

The quirky, buddy-buddy contemporary western Pocket Money (1972) offered Newman a change of pace as a naive cowboy opposite the tougher, but equally dumb Lee Marvin, though the film's anti-Mexican sentiments would not have survived in today's politically correct climate. In The Drowning Pool (1976), Newman reprised his role as the world-weary private eye Lew Harper, seen previously in The Moving Target (1966). It gave him a few dryly humorous lines: when Melanie Griffith asks him to help her put on some suntan lotion, he says, "Won't help honey, you're gonna be burned out by the time you're 30."

Rosenberg learned his craft in the early days of television, and it could be argued that that was where he did his best work. It was while trying to survive as a graduate student (born in Brooklyn, he had studied Irish literature at New York University) and part-time teacher that he got a job as an apprentice television film editor at the start of the 1950s.

In 1957, he began directing episodes of the series Decoy, starring Beverly Garland as a New York policewoman, quite a novelty in those days. He followed this with stints on the still-cherished The Naked City (1958-59), Alfred Hitchcock Presents (1959-61), The Untouchables (1960-62) and The Defenders (1962-64), an episode of which won him an Emmy.

Before Cool Hand Luke, Rosenberg's only feature was Question 7, a Lutheran-financed, English-language film about religious persecution in East Germany, with an all-German cast supporting the British actor Michael Gwynn as a priest.

After proving with April Fools (1969, featuring Jack Lemmon and Catherine Deneuve) and Move (1970, with Elliott Gould and Paula Prentiss) that swinging 60s romantic comedies were not his forte, Rosenberg was back on form with The Laughing Policeman (1973), a taut cop thriller starring Walter Matthau.

He also turned his hand to two well-meaning dramas, the almost three-hour Voyage of the Damned (1976), which told of German Jews on a ship in 1939 vainly attempting to find refuge in another country, and Brubaker (1980), a realistic look at US prisons, starring Robert Redford as a reforming warden.

The plot of The Pope of Greenwich Village (1984) was dangerously close to that of Martin Scorsese's Mean Streets, but comparisons aside, it was a fairly good movie about the planning of a robbery. Rosenberg's biggest box-office success was The Amityville Horror (1979), with Margot Kidder and James Brolin; to date it has inspired seven sequels.

Rosenberg's last film was My Heroes Have Always Been Cowboys (1991), a predictable but touching story focusing on a rodeo rider's relationship with his cantankerous father (Ben Johnson). Rosenberg is survived by his wife and son, Benjamin, who worked as assistant on many of his father's films.