As you may have already noticed, my musical tastes tend to change frequently without any warning. With the coming and going of the latest trends in music, its hard to keep up with whats good and whats not. One genre of music, however, that I have been a consistent fan of over the past decade has been Stone Rock/Metal. Yes, I know, the label may be a little off-putting, but I assure you do NOT have to be a “stoner” to enjoy this music. Anyways, click the jump to read about the history of this genre and hear some of my all-time favorite songs associated with the almighty Stoner Rock.

Though its origins can be traced back to bands such as Black Sabbath, Blue Oyster Cult, and Deep Purple, the Stoner Rock/Metal term was first coined in the early 90s for its pioneers; Kyuss and Sleep. The main characteristics of this genre include fuzzy guitars, with rifftastic and bass-heavy music. This type of music is often associated with the Doom and Sludge metal scenes also growing around the same period. With the limited yet notable commercial successes of Kyuss and Sleep, the genre produced numerous other bands that furthered its success. Bands like Acid King, Bongzilla, and Electric Wizard (buy their album Dopethrone, its a classic), expanded on this style and built a substantial cult following. Queens of the Stone Age and Monster Magnet helped push Stoner Rock into a mainstream audience with a slew of memorable releases. Guitarst/vocalist Josh Homme had a rather large hand in the progression of this genre as he was the principal songwriter for both Kyuss and Queens of the Stone Age, even going as far as recruiting the Foo Fighters’ Dave Grohl to drum on their third LP, Songs For the Deaf in its entirety.

But enough of the history lesson, here are some of my favorite songs that hopefully do this genre justice:

My favorite Kyuss song, heavy in all the right ways, yet still incredibly melodic.

If you dont know, now you now. This is the song that put Josh Homme and QOTSA on the map. Stoner rock with pop sensibilities.

Once again, one of my favorite albums of all time, and this is a standout. The breakdown at the end is incredible. Riff-fucking-tastic.

Heavy, heavy, heavy. All I have to say.

Finally, another personal favorite. If you’re not familiar with the Melvins, one of Cobain’s personal favorites, get to know them. Plus King Buzzo has the greatest fro in music (yeah, I said it).