Smith College is a private women’s college located in Northampton, Massachusetts in a suburban setting. The College was established in 1871 and opened its doors in 1875 with only 14 students. It is known as one of the largest women’s colleges in the U.S. The college has an enrollment of nearly 2,900 students with a total of 2,400 undergraduate students living in Northampton and 145 studying elsewhere. International students from around 48 states and 68 countries all around the world call Smith College their home.

The college is a part of the Five College Consortium whose other members are Amherst, Hampshire, and Mount Holyoke Colleges and the University of Massachusetts. It offers a wide spectrum of programs from the undergraduate to doctoral levels in 50 areas of study. The college imparts education to only females at the undergraduate level while graduate programs are available to both men and women. Smith College ranks in the top 50 colleges in the U.S. for its study abroad programs. The college follows a semester-based academic calendar and has quite a selective admission policy. In fall, the college had an acceptance rate of only 32%.

The College only educates women at the undergraduate level while offering co-education at the graduate level. Coming from 48 states and 68 countries, more than 2,400 undergraduates are studying in Northampton and 145 studying elsewhere. Smith College is a part of the Five College Consortium, which has four college members - Amherst, Hampshire, and Mount Holyoke Colleges and the University of Massachusetts.

Smith College Rankings

Smith College is a popular college in the U.S. with the following rankings:

Times Higher Education World Education Rankings

43rd in U.S. College Rankings

QS Top Universities

#601-650 in QS Global World Rankings

U.S. News and World Report

#15 in National Liberal Arts College

#19th in Best Undergraduate Teaching

#8th in Best Value Schools

#94 in Top Performers on Social Mobility

#17 in Best Undergraduate Engineering programs

#31 in Study Abroad

Niche Best Colleges

Parameter Ranking in America Ranking in Massachusetts Ranking in Springfield area Best Women Colleges #3 out of 24 #2 out of 5 - Best Small Colleges #24 out of 978 #4 out of 34 - Best College #71 out of 1,619 #10 out of 59 #2 out of 11 Best Value College #169 out of 1,572 #17 out of 59 #2 out of 11

Highlights

College Type Private Campus Setting Suburban Establishment Year 1871 Location North Hampton, Massachusetts Work-study program Yes Mode of Program Full time; part-time; online Campus Housing Capacity 95% Student-faculty ratio 9:1 Mode of application Online Financial Aid Grants, scholarships, loans, and work-study Admission Helpdesk admission@smith.edu;

413 585-2500

Smith College Campus

Smith College campus is spread across 147 acres in North Hampton, Massachusetts.

The field of the college consists of classic brick buildings, green lawns, specimen trees, Botanic Garden, and Paradise Pond.

The New Neilson Library of the college has a collection of more than 1 million items designed to advance and celebrate learning.

Alumnae Gym is connected to the Neilson Library via a tunnel lit by skylights and provides additional library 24-hour study space.

Smith College Museum of Art is recognized as a leading academic museum that aims to educate women of promise for lives of distinction and purpose.

All students are members of the Student Government Association that supports the programs of more than 120 organizations catering to students with varied interests.

Students at Smith can play tennis on the indoor courts at the Ainsworth sports complex.

At Smith College, the Office of Disability Services ensures equal access and full participation across all programs and activities.

Around 11 varsity sports and extensive intramural and club sports programs are offered at Smith College.

The college consists of a Center for Molecular Biology to conduct meaningful research.

Smith College Residence

Residence at Smith College consists of 41 self-governing houses and complexes which is an important part of a traditional-aged student’s education.

Students that accommodate may have between 10 and 100 housemates depending on which house they are assigned.

Most houses represent students from all four classes. For instance, entering students are considered as first-year, transfer, and exchange students are assigned with double rooms and in some cases, singles, as they are available.

In each house, the live-in staff consists of head residents or house coordinators, house community advisers, and elected student leaders, such as house presidents.

Each house council sponsors various activities for students such as lectures, workshops, debates, discussions, films, study breaks, community service opportunities, and field trips.

With 15 dining rooms on campus, Smith provides outstanding customer service and the highest quality food of large variety, including a kosher and halal menu.

Smith College Courses

Smith College covers about 1,000 courses at the undergraduate and graduate levels.

Smith offers programs in 50 areas of study in social sciences and history, mathematics, arts, literature, mathematics, Africana studies, East Asian language and literature, statistical and data sciences, and the natural sciences.

The College has 290 professors in 58 academic departments and programs.

Smith’s Pre College Programs offers limitless ways for high school girls to explore the world during the summer.

The College offers study abroad opportunities and more than half of junior students of Smith study in Florence, Paris, Africa, Asia, Europe, and other English-speaking countries.

Smith College Application Process

The student population of the college has over 450 international students representing 48 states and 56 countries. Smith College welcomes applications for the fall and winter semesters. The college offers early and regular decision deadlines.

How to Apply?

The process for admission to Smith College can be completed online.

Application Portal: UG - Common Application or Coalition Application; PG: Graduate application portal

Application Fee: No application fee

Application Deadline: International students must complete applications within the following deadlines:

Application Process Fall Early Decision Winter Early Decision Regular Decision Common Application

and Fee November 15 January 1 January 15 Common Application Supplement and all required credentials November 15 January 1 February 2

Admission Requirements: The College expects students to submit certain documents at the time of applying for admissions. These include:

Secondary School Report, including an official high school transcript

Recommendation from counselor

Smith Writing Supplement

Two Teacher Evaluation Forms

Official SAT and ACT score

TOEFL, IELTS, PTE or the Duolingo English Test as proof of English language proficiency

Smith College Cost of Attendance

The cost of attendance for undergraduate and graduate students at Smith College is calculated separately.

Cost of attendance for undergraduate students is as follows:

Expenses Cost in USD Tuition and fees 55,830 USD Room and board 18,760 USD Books and supplies 400 USD Student Activities Fee 284 USD Student Health Insurance Plan 2,274 USD

The tuition fee for various graduate programs differs. The graduate cost of attendance is as follows:

Expenses Cost in USD MAT 16,000 USD MFA 55,830 USD MS in biological sciences 27,840 USD MS in exercise science 41,760 USD Post-baccalaureate mathematics 55,830 USD Health Insurance 2,500 USD Room and Board (diploma students only) 18,760 USD

Smith College Scholarships/Financial Aid

Financial aid is provided in the forms of grants, scholarships, loans, and work-study to the students who meet specified criteria.

Smith College has tried to meet with the needs of around 58% of the students in recent years.

The college assigns an average financial aid package of 48,257 USD in some form.

At Smith, if international students do not apply for aid prior to admission, they are not eligible to receive institutional aid at any time.

If the students are applying for readmission to Smith College, they are required to complete their financial aid application by August 15 for fall readmission or January 4 for spring readmission.

International students with a student visa may apply for a work-study program. However, due to visa restrictions, they are not allowed to work off-campus.

All first-year students can only work in the dining department of the house-keeping department.

Smith College Alumni Network

The university has around more than 48,000 undergraduate and 7,000 graduate degree recipients in all 50 states and more than 120 countries.

The Alumnae Association of Smith College was founded in 1881 which now meets the needs of more than 45,000 alumni worldwide.

Alumni members are entitled to benefits that include:

Access to the college library

Access to gymnasium

Book Smith College Conference Center to conduct events

Visit the Smith College Museum of Art

Take an auditing course at the college

Discounts on purchase from Grecourt Bookshop on-campus

Discount on auto insurance, home insurance, travel insurance, etc.

Some of the famous alumni are:

Madeleine L’Engle - Award-winning author of A Wrinkle in Time

Otelia Cromwell - Educator, author; first African American woman to receive a doctorate from Yale

Barbara Bush - Former First Lady of the United States

Margaret Edson - Teacher and author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning play Wit

Smith College Placements

Over 6,600 jobs, volunteering opportunities, and internships are advertised for students annually on Handshake. Six career advisers are available for the students at Smith College to guide them related to the career prospects available for them. The Lazarus Center for Career Development prepares students for meaningful undergraduate and postgraduate job opportunities in the U.S. and other places around the world.

Two years after graduation from Smith College, 91% of graduates are employed and 42% of the undergraduate students have enrolled in graduate studies. After twenty years of graduation from Smith College, 10% of alumni report holding chief executive positions. More than 176 companies recruit students from Smith College every year.

91% of Smith’s graduates were employed within 2 years from graduation while 42% enrolled in further studies.

More than 176 companies recruit students from the college.

Smith College graduates earn around 67,000 USD per year. The median starting salary of the college alumni is 47,000 USD.

The Smith College has a tie up with the Handshake portal where employers list job openings. Students of the college can find relevant jobs and internships through the portal. Several workshops, career events, resume building, interviews, etc. are also organised for the students.

FAQs

Ques. Is Smith College Liberal or Conservative?

Ans. Smith College is a private liberal arts college for women.

Ques. What is the tuition for Smith College?

Ans. The tuition fee for the students for the session is 55,830 USD.

Ques. How do I know if Smith College is worth the money?

Ans. Smith College ranks at the 8th position for Best Value Colleges in the U.S. News and World Report. Hence, it can be said that Smith is definitely worth the money.

Ques. Where does Smith College rank in the world?

Ans. According to QS Top Universities, Smith College ranks #601-650 in Global World University Rankings.

Ques. What is the acceptance rate of Smith College?

Ans. Smith College has a very competitive admission policy. It had an acceptance rate of only 32% in fall.

Ques. Is Smith College test-optional?

Ans. Smith College is following a test-optional policy for the domestic applicants and permanent residents. However, international students are still required to submit SAT I, ACT, TOEFL, IELTS, PTE or Duolingo scores as proof of English language proficiency.

Ques. How can I apply to Smith College?

Ans- The undergraduate students can submit their applications through the online mode using the common application or the coalition application and the graduate applicants can submit the applications using the graduate application portal.

Ques. Does Smith College offer housing facilities for the students?

Ans. Yes. Smith College offers housing facilities and has a total of 41 self-governing houses for women.

Ques. Does Smith College offer need-based aid to international students?

Ans. Yes. Smith College offers need-based financial aid to international students of the first-year as well as transfer applicants. International students who apply to the college are highly competitive and so the value of the award ranges widely and is also determined on the basis of family circumstances.

Ques. Does Smith College offer diploma courses?

Ans. No, Smith College does not offer any diploma course.

Ques. Is there any admission helpdesk through which Smith College can be contacted?

Ans. Yes, the students can contact the University through