Growth Tech, a provider of tech services and solutions, has acquired majority ownership of electronic products and office supplies retailer Innovative Systems Limited.

The price of the transaction was not disclosed.

The acquired business comprises two Innovative Superstores in Kingston, the second of which was opened during the pandemic.

Co-founder and Chief Operating Officer of Innovative Systems, Lesa Chang, described the deal as a “right fit” for the business and the brand to move it forward.

“The whole process of legacy planning and succession planning for Innovative was a priority and, in that, we feel we have found the right partner in Growth Tech to take Innovative forward,” Chang said in a statement announcing the transaction.

Innovative Systems has been in business for 35 years.

Growth Tech was formed by Garth Walker, Ryan Reid and Neil Lawrence in 2016 and rebranded to Growth Tech Group last year. At the heart of its business is the provision of hardware and software technology solutions, incorporating commercials, information and educational content.

The company also offers targeted marketing services, passenger surveys, Wi-Fi advertisements, fixed Wi-Fi hotspots, network security, video surveillance, network design and installation, cabling, fleet management and remote network management.

Innovative Systems’ new board comprises Garth Walker, Ryan Reid, Neil Lawrence, Lesa Chang and Stephen Chang. The business will operate as a subsidiary of the Growth Tech Group, joining Growth Tech Limited, Bumble Bee Digital Agency and Brain Boxx Solutions.

Walker will also oversee its day-to-day operations. His plans for Innovative Systems include heightened brand marketing, broadening the company’s retail and commercial customer base as well as an upgrade of the e-commerce platform for the retail store.

“An integrated marketing approach will be used incorporating both traditional and digital media, to further enhance the presence of the brand in the market going forward. The expansion of our e-commerce platform is also an immediate plan,” Walker said.