If he had made a list there and then, he could probably have correctly predicted as many as 10 of the team for Medinah.

Of the two exceptions, Nicolas Colsaerts might have appeared somewhere in the long shots category but if Paul Lawrie’s name had been written down anywhere, it would have been on the crumpled sheet somewhere among the pencil sharpenings at the bottom of the wastepaper basket.

Lawrie was heading for golfing anonymity at Celtic Manor. He was at the course but only as a TV commentator; his one Ryder Cup appearance belonged to another century.

He was in his 40s, carrying a spare tyre and had just been beaten by his 14-year-old son, Craig. You would have enjoyed better odds on Bruce Forsyth making the 2012 side.

“I hadn’t been playing or practising enough. I had put weight on and so on,” recalled Lawrie. “All those things combined to put me in the position where my son might beat me.

“We were playing at Deeside and when we teed off at the last, I realised he was two shots ahead.

“I even ended up trying to put him off on the green, which is just terrible. I said, ‘You do realise this is to win, don’t you?’. He said, ‘Yep’, knocked it in the middle of the hole and followed it with a fist-pump.

“It was what I needed because I hadn’t been doing what I needed to be doing. Soon after he beat me I did the Ryder Cup commentary and although I enjoyed it, I thought ‘I’m too young for this yet’.”

The handbrake was applied to his decline and a turbo-charger fitted to his game. The turnaround was dramatic and wins in Qatar and at Gleneagles this season restored him to the European team after a 13-year absence at the age of 43.

“Paul Lawrie is the big story of this Ryder Cup,” said former captain Bernard Gallacher.

“I think two years ago, after the last Ryder Cup, Paul woke up. “He saw the clock ticking. He re-dedicated himself and now Paul is playing great golf. There has been a huge turnaround in his game. Paul Lawrie is a changed guy.”

And he is. Having been in the three-man European contingent who flew out to Chicago together on Sunday – the others were living or working in the USA – there was a born-again glow around him yesterday as he happily held court, a dour Aberdonian replaced by a kid in a sweet shop.

“I’m going into this one as confident as I was the last time and looking forward to it. I can’t wait,” he said.

“I am playing nicely and hitting it by far and away the best I ever have. “I’m sure I’ll be shaking like a leaf, like I was the last time, but you have just got to get through the situation and get on with it.”

Lawrie had every reason to turn to jelly at Brookline in 1999 after being chosen by captain Mark James to hit the first ball for Europe.

He was in the company of Colin Montgomerie at the time, taking on America’s star pairing of David Duval and Phil Mickelson.

His tee shot went into the righthand rough – but even as that year’s Open champion, the triumph was in connecting with the ball.

“I was just shaking. It was frightening. My mind was just blank,” he said. “At the time you are thinking, ‘I’m a rookie, let someone else hit it’. Afterwards you are so glad you did it.

“I hit it in the rough but it wasn’t bad and once we were down the fairway it was fi ne. It’d be great to do it again.”

Duval and Mickelson were defeated as Lawrie picked up a highly creditable two and a half points out of four in Europe’s narrow defeat at the most spiteful Ryder Cup in history.

Invalid email

We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy

Whatever Medinah throws at him this time, it is unlikely to match Brookline for rancour.

“It was an awful experience in many ways and I think it will stand him in good stead this time,” said Montgomerie.

“He is playing the golf of his life, he is confident and he can handle it. Paul is a much better golfer now than he was then.”

Despite rising to No 28 in the world, Lawrie is ranked below all 12of the American team. He has come too far to harbour any inferiority complex this week.

“We all know how good a player Tiger Woods is and some of the American boys but I certainly don’t tee off in any tournament thinking that I’m going to get beaten,” he said.

“Whoever I get, I’ll play as hard as I can and as well as I can and hopefully win some points.”