ARLINGTON, Va., Feb. 16, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Naviance, the K-12 division of Hobsons, and the leading provider of measurable student success solutions for schools and districts, today announced its acquisition of PrepMe, a leader in adaptive learning technologies and test preparation programs for the PSAT, SAT and ACT.

(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20081111/CLTU018LOGO )

Naviance Succeed® enables schools and districts to collect, monitor and analyze the deep data needed to tailor curriculum to individual student strengths, challenges and goals. With the addition of PrepMe, Naviance will offer an adaptive test preparation platform that leverages these individual details to create a personalized study plan for each student.

"Achieving student success requires a holistic approach to college and career planning that ties academic rigor to post-secondary goals and achievement," said Stephen M. Smith, president of Naviance. "PrepMe's innovative application of adaptive learning technology to test preparation has earned numerous accolades. Its robust, easy to use test preparation solutions allow students to receive personalized instruction while giving schools comprehensive data to assess the effectiveness of their PSAT, SAT and ACT preparation efforts."

"In a time of increasing mandates for student success, schools and districts need cost-effective, comprehensive programs that help students connect learning to personalized goals," said Karan Goel, co-founder, PrepMe. "The combination of PrepMe and Naviance will allow students and families to realize the impact their PSAT, SAT and ACT test preparation has on post-secondary planning and achievement."

The combined entity, operating as Naviance, will deliver a suite of integrated solutions for improving college readiness. Naviance welcomes PrepMe's existing clients to the Naviance Network and is excited to use the capabilities of PrepMe to advance its efforts to put millions more students on the path to college and career success.

About Naviance

Naviance, a Hobsons company, is the leading provider of measurable student success solutions for K-12 schools. Serving more than 300,000 educators and 4.5 million students across nearly 5,400 schools in 84 countries, Naviance provides student-centric tools for course, career, college and success planning. Established in 2002, Naviance's mission is to help every student graduate from high school prepared for success in post-secondary education and the twenty-first century workplace.

SOURCE Hobsons