Change leadership behavior with scalable AI Coaching

How self-coaching with artificial intelligence ensures transfer in leadership development programs.

Encouraging self-reflection and creating cultural change.

Customer

Skanska was founded in 1887 and is a global leader in construction and project development based in Sweden. Skanska has over 27,000 employees and a turnover of more than 14 billion euros.

The company is known for its innovative and sustainable designs within office buildings, smart homes and infrastructure.

Powerhouse Drøbak Montessori School Norway (www.group.skanska.com/projects/)

Starting situation

Goals

Measures

Starting situation

Matthias Magnell, responsible for leadership development at Skanska, saw a need for innovation in the company’s L&D.

Previous stand-alone methods such as workshops and training were no longer up to date, as they were not available “on demand” in everyday life.

As part of the leadership development program, Matthias Magnell was looking for a future-oriented, scalable and cost-effective method for developing soft skills that would support the transfer and embed them in leadership behavior: a measure to drive cultural change within the company.

Goals

Skanska’s goal was to embed leadership behaviors in everyday work. The skills and competencies of the management team were to be continuously improved, and Matthias Magnell also recognized the potential of scalable coaching for all executives.

Measures

AI Coaching platform for middle management at Skanska

Individual development plan – and additional systemic AI Coaching

Strengthen leadership skills in the areas of self-leadership, leading with purpose, communication, and collaboration through complementary approaches and knowledge integrated into the AI Coach – e.g., resilience, problem-solving, feedback, overcoming biases, etc.

Leadership Development

Middle Management

Transfer and embedding

in everyday life through

scalable AI Coaching

Leadership Development

Middle Management

Transfer and embedding

in everyday life through

scalable AI Coaching

Reports for insights and

cultural changes

Result

Skanska started the transformation journey with an AI Coach with several department heads and middle managers.

Leadership skills in middle management were significantly strengthened by repeatedly reminding executives during AI coaching of what is essential for their current and future roles.

The monthly insights provided by the reports improved leadership skills and led to significant organizational improvements and greater clarity.

The reports highlighted the importance of changes in leadership development, particularly with a focus on purpose and prioritization. They highlighted the need for changes in Skanska’s support organization to improve overall clarity of responsibilities, roles and coordination capabilities.

They signed the contract to scale AI Coaching to 10,000 people.

Feedback from participants and L&D

“

These sessions are very suitable for a time of reflection. The questions are designed to encourage thought.

„

“

This is just what I needed, and I didn’t even know that I needed the exercise. 🙂

I have been pretty overwhelmed with my emotions the past week and didn’t know how to handle them, but this is like a tutorial for my thought labelling process.

„

“

We reached the same level of behavior change with 2 months of AI coaching as we would in 6 months with what we normally do.

„

“

We saw the same number of people benefit as we typically see with executive coaching.

That’s why we signed the contract to scale AI coaching to 10,000 people.

„

Info on AI Coaching

Development programs

Do you want to unleash the development potential of your employees? With our modern learning architectures, you can support your target groups in their individual development.

We take a holistic approach and integrate your internal competency model and leadership principles.

Find out more about our innovative development programs with AI coaching and increase your employee retention! We support you in your strategic personnel development.

Read more customer projects

Goodbye silo: Together towards a new leadership culture

Customer-specific development programs for leaders to create a dialogue-oriented leadership culture on the basis of newly developed leadership guidelines.

Knettenbrech + Gurdulic: Customized development program

Develop the competencies of experienced and new executives and develop, apply and model a common understanding of leadership based on the KNETTENBRECH + GURDULIC values.

Cross-cultural collaboration in international teams

Fostering cross-cultural collaboration in international teams. Client and stakeholders in Europe and the team in Mexico and US.

Getting managers on board for the implementation of a climate strategy

At one of our international customers in China, we raised awareness among managers about different perspectives on sustainability in companies. The measure ran as a parallel to the development of the climate strategy for the site.

Established bi-national training team in China

Personnel development of a German-Chinese management team at a German automotive supplier in China and establishment of an internal training center. “Train the Trainer” of the existing training staff in the cultural context.

Yamaha – International Management Development Program

International Management Development Programme for European managers at an international brand supplier.

Coaching of executives in Australia

Personal development support for sales executives in Australia. Culturally experienced coach, valid psychometric tests incl. debriefing.

Multicultural collaboration in production

Multicultural collaboration in production, sensitize teams to communicate effectively.

Qualification and training of Shopfloor Employees

Accompanying the target group during the commissioning of a new plant and the changing production processes. Maintaining the positive corporate culture.

Activly shaping virtual Customer Relations

Development of a digital learning architecture to train sales employees. Intensify customer contacts and improve the virtual communication.