The Real Housewives of Atlanta star Drew Sidora is opening up about her divorce filing from her ex-husband Ralph Pittman and shares that she hopes the two can end their marriage amicably.

“Well everything in the petition I obviously stand by and it was just a culmination of things that should not happen in a marriage,” Sidora, 38, explained to PEOPLE. “And I think the inability to own it, the inability to apologize, the inability to work through it, the inability to care about my emotional state and wanting to work and heal that, was very challenging.”

Sidora and Pittman both filed for divorce within an hour of each other in March. The RHOA star has alleged that her husband was a "serial cheater and adulterer" and even got "physically aggressive" with her. Pittman's team has not responded to those allegations, according to PEOPLE.

RELATED: Robyn Dixon And Gizelle Bryant Fight Back Against Eminem’s Trademark Opposition

Sidora said that she reached her "boiling point" when Pittman's alleged aggressive actions spilled over from their personal life to on-camera.

“[It was] definitely the breaking point and enough is enough,” she said. “And I didn't see that coming. Of course I was forever, but it was like [there was] nothing else left for me to hold onto because the behavior and inappropriateness just never stopped. It was just too much.”

The 38-year-old said she is “hopeful for an amicable divorce.”

“I'm hoping for a great co-parenting partner. I'm hoping for us to come out of this and be able to be friends and be respectful,” she said. “I'm hoping for my kids to be happy and just to really see what life has for me on the other side of all this. It's hard to imagine right now, but I would love to just be completely whole moving forward.”

The couple share two children Aniya, 5, and Machai, 7. Sidora is also mom to Josiah, 11, from a previous relationship).

RELATED: Real Housewives Of Potomac Reportedly Adding Two New Faces For Season 8

In a statement to PEOPLE announcing her divorce, Sidora stated, "After eight years of wholeheartedly fighting for my marriage, I have made the agonizing decision to release my husband with love," she said. "Although Ralph and I have decided to move forward separately, the hope is to remain friends so that we can co-parent responsibly. In spite of our very public life, I am asking for privacy during this difficult time as my children and I learn how to navigate through our new beginnings."