Synopsis

After several years of marriage, the couple has decided to go separate ways. Ralph Pittman is said to have filed for the divorce.

After being together for almost nine years, Drew Sidora and Ralph Pittman have decided to end their marriage. According to court documents obtained by a media outlet on March 1, Pittman filed for divorce from 'The Real Housewives of Atlanta' star on February 27, citing their date of separation as February 23 and stating that there is no possibility of reconciliation.

Sidora and Pittman got married in 2014 and have two children together, Machai and Aniya. When Sidora joined the cast of 'The Real Housewives of Atlanta' in 2020, she shared how a brief separation from her husband led them to seek marriage counseling.

In December 2020, during her debut on season 13 of the show, Sidora spoke with Us Weekly about the unexpected separation, saying that her husband left for three days and she didn't know where he was. She also shared that her mother witnessed the events unfold.

Throughout the season, viewers saw Sidora and Pittman work on the issues in their marriage that they had previously put on the back burner, and have the hard conversations that they were forced to have due to their situation.

Although Sidora and Pittman reconciled after their separation, their relationship was once again in the spotlight during season 14 of the same show. In one episode, Sidora revealed that she had discovered inappropriate texts between her husband and his assistant, which led her to pack up her children and leave for Chicago.

Viewers watched as the couple tried to work through their issues, including ongoing counseling sessions.

In May 2022, Sidora spoke to Us Weekly about their marriage, saying that they were still in counseling and that their relationship was not always easy. She acknowledged that as they grow together each year, they learn new things about each other. Sidora also explained that their struggles were a reflection of the reality of marriage, and that their ups and downs were something that people who knew them were aware of. She also recalled how the couple had once "made a decision to stay committed" at one phase of life.

FAQs:

When did Ralph Pittman and Drew Sidora get married?

August 2014

How many children does Drew Sidora have?

Three; Josiah, Machai and Aniya.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

Disclaimer Statement: This content is authored by a 3rd party. The views expressed here are that of the respective authors/ entities and do not represent the views of Economic Times (ET). ET does not guarantee, vouch for or endorse any of its contents nor is responsible for them in any manner whatsoever. Please take all steps necessary to ascertain that any information and content provided is correct, updated, and verified. ET hereby disclaims any and all warranties, express or implied, relating to the report and any content therein.

(Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates.

...moreless

15 Atmanirbhar stocks to include in your portfolio this Independence Day

Five reasons why India’s Economic Survey mentioned Apple five times

The Ola Electric story: What makes Bhavish Aggarwal India's most impatient man?

Why Akasa’s losses are mounting when IndiGo is posting record profits

Your EV is 40% Chinese, and will remain so if this jigsaw is not solved

Why success of Blackstone’s repeat IT bet depends on these ifs and buts

1

2

3