In her Golden Globe-winning role, Awkwafina plays Billi, a woman on a trip to China for a "family wedding" that's actually a final goodbye to he...Show more In her Golden Globe-winning role, Awkwafina plays Billi, a woman on a trip to China for a "family wedding" that's actually a final goodbye to her grandmother. While there, Billi struggles to find a deeper connection to the country and tries to understand her family's decision to keep her grandmother's sickness a secret from her. Show less

Two friends set out on a road trip, but end up on the wrong side of the law after Louise shoots and kills a man who tries to rape Thelma. It’s a story of ...Show more Two friends set out on a road trip, but end up on the wrong side of the law after Louise shoots and kills a man who tries to rape Thelma. It’s a story of freedom and female friendships that has a lot of great scenes, some of which feature a shirtless 26-year-old Brad Pitt. Show less

All hail the queen of romantic comedies, Ms. Nancy Meyers! You grew up watching another movie she directed, The Parent Trap (1998), so we owe her another ...Show more All hail the queen of romantic comedies, Ms. Nancy Meyers! You grew up watching another movie she directed, The Parent Trap (1998), so we owe her another round of applause for the masterpiece that is The Holiday. Los Angeles-based Amanda (Cameron Diaz) and a London woman named Iris (Kate Winslet) holiday in one another's homes after a bad break-up. Once in their new postal codes, they meet people who change everything they thought they knew about love. Show less

An unemployed family of four slowly starts to put themselves into the lives of workers of the crazy wealthy Park family. Then, there's an incident that ca...Show more An unemployed family of four slowly starts to put themselves into the lives of workers of the crazy wealthy Park family. Then, there's an incident that can’t entirely be cleaned up in a shift. Long after the credits roll, you’ll be questioning the ending. Show less

James Bond is known in the movieverse for its action-packed, women-objectifying spy films, but all that changed when Daniel Craig took over the role. His ...Show more James Bond is known in the movieverse for its action-packed, women-objectifying spy films, but all that changed when Daniel Craig took over the role. His first movie as Britain's most notorious secret agent is filled with deception, love, unreal stunts, strong female leads, and a twist ending you won't see coming. If you've never seen a 007 film before, let this one be your first. Show less

Before Christopher Nolan was known as the popular director with brain-bending plots, he made this small film. It's about a man who has no short-term memor...Show more Before Christopher Nolan was known as the popular director with brain-bending plots, he made this small film. It's about a man who has no short-term memory, who's after vengeance for his murdered wife—oh, and it's shot almost entirely in reverse chronology. It's the thing that put Nolan on the map, and it holds up incredibly well. This isn't just a gimmicky premise; It also happens to be a great movie with an impressive twist ending. Show less

Set in San Francisco in the '70s, 15-year-old Minnie (Bel Powley) has just had sex for the first time, and she wants a lot more of it. Director Marielle H...Show more Set in San Francisco in the '70s, 15-year-old Minnie (Bel Powley) has just had sex for the first time, and she wants a lot more of it. Director Marielle Heller gives us the sex-positive coming of age movie you never thought would arrive, while throwing in great performances from Kristen Wiig and Alexander Skarsgård. You'll wish you had this movie as a teen. Show less

The '00s weren’t the '00s without Amanda Bynes, and She’s the Man proves it. When Viola (Bynes) finds out that her school is cutting the women’s soccer te...Show more The '00s weren’t the '00s without Amanda Bynes, and She’s the Man proves it. When Viola (Bynes) finds out that her school is cutting the women’s soccer team, she decides to take a chance and disguises herself as her twin brother to play for his school. When she gets there, she starts to fall for her roommate and teammate, Duke (Channing Tatum). Things get messy. Show less

It’s the classic underdog story that made Sylvester Stallone a household name. The movie follows boxer Rocky Balboa on the road to fight heavyweight champ...Show more It’s the classic underdog story that made Sylvester Stallone a household name. The movie follows boxer Rocky Balboa on the road to fight heavyweight champion Apollo Creed in a match deemed “a somebody v. nobody.” The film, written by Stallone, would go on to win Best Picture at the Oscars in 1977. Show less

Olivia Wilde’s directional debut about two overachieving high school seniors' wild night on the eve of their graduation is so stomach-hurting-from-laughin...Show more Olivia Wilde’s directional debut about two overachieving high school seniors' wild night on the eve of their graduation is so stomach-hurting-from-laughing-too-hard funny. It hits to my inner core a level of nostalgia I haven’t felt in years. Oh, to be 17-years-old again. Show less

When Steven Spielberg made this movie, I’m unsure if he knew it would become the face of anti-shark propaganda. Regardless, this movie about a sheriff, ma...Show more When Steven Spielberg made this movie, I’m unsure if he knew it would become the face of anti-shark propaganda. Regardless, this movie about a sheriff, marine biologist, and fisherman hunting down a shark that’s terrorizing their beach town is must-see. Show less

All copies in use Availability details

Saoirse Ronan shows us why she's an icon in this '50s story of an Irish immigrant who moves to New York. She falls in love with a local Italian fella, but...Show more Saoirse Ronan shows us why she's an icon in this '50s story of an Irish immigrant who moves to New York. She falls in love with a local Italian fella, but then has to return back to Ireland for some unexpected business—and finds herself forced to choose between two countries and two men. Sounds good, right? Show less

A movie about the Holocaust is almost guaranteed to be poignant (and, frankly, depressing), but under Stephen Spielberg's expert direction, this one surpr...Show more A movie about the Holocaust is almost guaranteed to be poignant (and, frankly, depressing), but under Stephen Spielberg's expert direction, this one surprises with its restraint. That's deliberate—the sadness and symbolism build throughout the film so that you have a full sense of what happened, who did it, and why it matter so, so much. The movie's in black and white, with the smallest pop of color to offer a moment of hope and then (devastatingly) all possible heartbreak in one unforgettable image. Show less

Jack Nicholson is on this list a few times, but this is probably his most well-known role. The Torrance family, husband Jack, wife Wendy, and son Danny, a...Show more Jack Nicholson is on this list a few times, but this is probably his most well-known role. The Torrance family, husband Jack, wife Wendy, and son Danny, are staying in the Overlook Hotel during the winter. Then, the hotel begins to come alive with a terrible, terrifying evil. Stephen King famously hated this adaptation, because Stanley Kubrick takes out all the empathy from the patriarch (Nicholson, playing crazy like he was born to do it). But it makes the story even more powerful. Viewed through today's lens, it's also a haunting look at the effects of domestic violence. Show less

Listen. We could put a lot of Wes Anderson movies on here: Rushmore, The Royal Tenenbaums, and The Darjeeling Limited are all worth a watch. But this is t...Show more Listen. We could put a lot of Wes Anderson movies on here: Rushmore, The Royal Tenenbaums, and The Darjeeling Limited are all worth a watch. But this is the perfect film if you're looking for quintessential Anderson: It's jam-packed with his favorite stars, quirky as hell, loaded with family drama (Bill Murray perfecting his role as charming jerk), and an epic sea journey at the same time. Show less

This is Bong Joon-ho pre-Parasite. Even though this film didn't get quite as many accolades, he was already getting very good at commentary about social d...Show more This is Bong Joon-ho pre-Parasite. Even though this film didn't get quite as many accolades, he was already getting very good at commentary about social disparity and climate change (I'd actually argue that this might even be a little better?). In time for the TV show, watch the original movie: The few survivors of a post-apocalyptic Earth survive, broken apart into classes, in a train that races around the globe. Show less

Based very, very loosely on the book of the same name, Natalie Portman is a scientist who goes in search of her husband. She enters Area X, a mutated, tri...Show more Based very, very loosely on the book of the same name, Natalie Portman is a scientist who goes in search of her husband. She enters Area X, a mutated, trippy landscape that's been expanding ever since it was hit by a meteorite. And shit just keeps getting weirder and scarier. This is directed by Alex Garland, the same guy who did Ex Machina (another fascinating, freaky watch). Honestly, he's becoming the next big sci-fi director, and this proves it. Show less

Shot entirely on an iPhone 5S, this film is groundbreaking for another reason: It actually cast (unbelievably talented) transgender actors to play transge...Show more Shot entirely on an iPhone 5S, this film is groundbreaking for another reason: It actually cast (unbelievably talented) transgender actors to play transgender characters. And with all that, this movie is most known for being utterly hysterical and beautifully poignant. Sex workers traverse L.A. in search of friends, clients, and spurned lovers—with some of the snappiest banter I've heard in years. Show less

A movie about the last day of school for a group of teenagers in Austin, Texas, in 1976, starring Matthew McConaughey and Ben Affleck? Sign us up. You'll be quoting McConaughey for weeks after it's done. A movie about the last day of school for a group of teenagers in Austin, Texas, in 1976, starring Matthew McConaughey and Ben Affleck? Sign us up. You'll be quoting McConaughey for weeks after it's done. Show less

The only acceptable film adaptation of the beloved Jane Austen novel is the 2005 movie from Joe Wright (fight me). In this film, we find Elizabeth Bennet ...Show more The only acceptable film adaptation of the beloved Jane Austen novel is the 2005 movie from Joe Wright (fight me). In this film, we find Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Darcy fighting their feelings for each other over the course of two "please, someone, kiss!"-filled hours. The final scene of this film is so beautiful, it makes me cry every time. Show less

Believe the hype on this one—this film set the stage for smart horror movies to come. It was unbelievably innovative for the time by integrating modern re...Show more Believe the hype on this one—this film set the stage for smart horror movies to come. It was unbelievably innovative for the time by integrating modern research about sociopaths from the FBI’s Behavioral Science Unit. It really shows: Hannibal Lector is smart and charismatic as well as being, you know, the scariest ever. He's widely known as one of the best book/film villains of all time. Show less

Set at a New England private school in 1959, this movie follows an English teacher, played by Robin Williams, and his relationship with his students as he...Show more Set at a New England private school in 1959, this movie follows an English teacher, played by Robin Williams, and his relationship with his students as he teaches them to live a little more through poetry. The movie gave Williams his second Oscar nominee, and Ethan Hawke said that working on this movie inspired him to continue to be an actor. Show less

All copies in use Availability details Holds: 1 on 9 copies

This is the best Rob Reiner movie, without a doubt. 'The Princess Bride' is a fairytale story of a princess and her one true love's journey back together ...Show more This is the best Rob Reiner movie, without a doubt. 'The Princess Bride' is a fairytale story of a princess and her one true love's journey back together after many years apart. It's very fun, very wholesome, and just all-around a feel-good movie for the ages. Show less

Somewhat based on the life of writer and director, Cameron Crowe, Almost Famous is a coming-of-age story about a 15-year-old boy who is offered the chance...Show more Somewhat based on the life of writer and director, Cameron Crowe, Almost Famous is a coming-of-age story about a 15-year-old boy who is offered the chance to write for Rolling Stone about a new rockband that’s on the come up. It's a love letter to 70s culture in the best way. Show less