SPOILER ALERT: The following contains spoilers for “Victory Lap,” the June 24 episode of “All American.”

After six seasons as the star of the “All American,” Daniel Ezra is taking a step back. The actor will not return to the sports drama as a series regular in Season 7, though the CW says he will still remain an “integral part” of the franchise by appearing as a guest star.

The news comes after the airing of Season 6’s 13th episode on Monday night. Titled “Victory Lap,” the episode sees Spencer (Ezra) drafted into the NFL, followed by a time jump that shows him playing at the Super Bowl and getting engaged to Olivia (Samantha Logan). The final two episodes of Season 6 will follow Spencer and Olivia as they plan their wedding.

The decision was made by Ezra and showrunner Nkechi Okoro Carroll before production on Season 6 began.

“After making the difficult decision to leave ‘All American’, my sole focus became completing the journey of the most life-affirming character I’ve ever played in the manner he deserves,” Ezra said in a statement. “Thanks to Nkechi and the writers, I got my wish. Season 6 is ‘Spencer’s goodbye.’ I’ll miss him. I’ll miss our cast and crew. I hope it’s been as fun to watch him as it has been to play him.”

“Partnering with Daniel Ezra over the last six seasons to bring Spencer’s story to life has been such an amazing, fulfilling, experience,” Caroll said. “Daniel truly is a gift and brought so much to the character on and off the field. And while Spencer has achieved his NFL dreams, I’m grateful Daniel will still remain an important part of this family, both in front of and behind the camera as we step into a new, exciting chapter of ‘All American.’”

In addition to starring in “All American” since Season 1, Ezra has directed multiple episodes, including the 100th episode “100%,” which aired May 27.

Hailing from Berlanti Productions in association with Warner Bros. Television and CBS Studios, “All American” is the CW’s most-watched series. Executive producers include Carroll, Greg Berlanti, Jameal Turner, Sarah Schechter, Mike Herro and David Strauss.