TY - JOUR

T1 - Light modulates task-dependent thalamo-cortical connectivity during an auditory attentional task

AU - Paparella, Ilenia

AU - Campbell, Islay

AU - Sharifpour, Roya

AU - Beckers, Elise

AU - Berger, Alexandre

AU - Aizpurua, Jose Fermin Balda

AU - Koshmanova, Ekaterina

AU - Mortazavi, Nasrin

AU - Talwar, Puneet

AU - Degueldre, Christian

AU - Lamalle, Laurent

AU - Sherif, Siya

AU - Phillips, Christophe

AU - Maquet, Pierre

AU - Vandewalle, Gilles

PY - 2023/9/16

Y1 - 2023/9/16

N2 - Exposure to blue wavelength light stimulates alertness and performance by modulating a widespread set of task-dependent cortical and subcortical areas. How light affects the crosstalk between brain areas to trigger this stimulating effect is not established. Here we record the brain activity of 19 healthy young participants (24.05±2.63; 12 women) while they complete an auditory attentional task in darkness or under an active (blue-enriched) or a control (orange) light, in an ultra-high-field 7 Tesla MRI scanner. We test if light modulates the effective connectivity between an area of the posterior associative thalamus, encompassing the pulvinar, and the intraparietal sulcus (IPS), key areas in the regulation of attention. We find that only the blue-enriched light strengthens the connection from the posterior thalamus to the IPS. To the best of our knowledge, our results provide the first empirical data supporting that blue wavelength light affects ongoing non-visual cognitive activity by modulating task-dependent information flow from subcortical to cortical areas.

AB - Exposure to blue wavelength light stimulates alertness and performance by modulating a widespread set of task-dependent cortical and subcortical areas. How light affects the crosstalk between brain areas to trigger this stimulating effect is not established. Here we record the brain activity of 19 healthy young participants (24.05±2.63; 12 women) while they complete an auditory attentional task in darkness or under an active (blue-enriched) or a control (orange) light, in an ultra-high-field 7 Tesla MRI scanner. We test if light modulates the effective connectivity between an area of the posterior associative thalamus, encompassing the pulvinar, and the intraparietal sulcus (IPS), key areas in the regulation of attention. We find that only the blue-enriched light strengthens the connection from the posterior thalamus to the IPS. To the best of our knowledge, our results provide the first empirical data supporting that blue wavelength light affects ongoing non-visual cognitive activity by modulating task-dependent information flow from subcortical to cortical areas.

KW - Humans

KW - Female

KW - Thalamus/diagnostic imaging

KW - Cross Reactions

KW - Healthy Volunteers

KW - Light

U2 - 10.1038/s42003-023-05337-5

DO - 10.1038/s42003-023-05337-5

M3 - Article

SN - 2399-3642

VL - 6

JO - Communications Biology

JF - Communications Biology

IS - 1

M1 - 945

ER -