Duration

50h ITCR

Number of credits

Master in medicine (180 ECTS)5 crédits

Lecturer

Jo Caers, Arnaud De Roover, Alexandre Ghuysen, Yves Gilon, Jean-François Kaux, Edouard Louis, Pierre Maquet, Didier Martin, Paul Meunier, Gabrielle Scantamburlo, Laurent Servais, Thierry Thirion

Language(s) of instruction

French language

Organisation and examination

Teaching in the first semester, review in January

Schedule

Schedule online

Units courses prerequisite and corequisite

Prerequisite or corequisite units are presented within each program

Learning unit contents

This teaching follow PBL seminars of Baccalaureate formation. It aims to develop knowledge integration and clinical / diagnostic reasoning throughout clinical cases.

Learning outcomes of the learning unit

The seminars of diagnostic and therapeutic reasoning I to IV are developed from Baccalaureate (year 3) to Master (Year 2).

At the end of this teaching, student would be able to analyze a different new clinical case about the same topics:

To list the possible diagnoses and to classify them according to their probability

To discuss about each diagnoses (supporting or rejecting elements)

To comment further examination

To comment treatment

Prerequisite knowledge and skills

Co and pre-requisites are detailed in the general Master Medical formation (global course program).

Planned learning activities and teaching methods

This Teaching is multidisciplinary and complete theoretical learning with seminars of clinical and therapeutic reasoning.

It involve PBL seminars (clinical reasoning learning) in small groups and clinical teaching.

Mode of delivery (face to face, distance learning, hybrid learning)

Face-to-face teaching.

Recommended or required readings

The useful knowledge are those from theoretical teaching and whose slides and course notes are made available to students on MyULg and / or on eCampus websites.

Any session :

- In-person

oral exam

- Remote

oral exam

- If evaluation in "hybrid"

preferred in-person

Additional information:

oral exam

Work placement(s)

See MSTG1001-1.

Organisational remarks and main changes to the course

The attendance at PBL seminars is required. The PBL seminars involved active learning.

Contacts

See coordinators contact details.

Contact details are available at the following website: http://www.chu.ulg.ac.be/jcms/c_61986/annuaire-des-medecins/ et https://www.ulg.ac.be/cms/c_6099593/fr/repertoire-personnel