Catbird Hotel

Located in Denver’s Arts District, the Catbird Hotel’s bright pink façade makes way for a contemporary and eclectic lobby. The main hotel holds 165 guest rooms; there is an adjacent 3,600-SF, four-bedroom historic home originally built in 1890, which has been preserved as part of the hotel property. Our design blends the distinct feel of the art district where industrial brick buildings hold court next to new, modern architecture. Moving from the lobby to the rooms, guests will pass some of the 300 unique art pieces curated for the hallways. A handful of unique and hidden features are behind the guestroom doors. A custom loft bed, designed meticulously for maximum storage, can be opened to reveal hidden wardrobe pullouts and a full-size desk for work or dining within the room. There is a semi-concealed projector and blackout roller shade which provide guests with a personal movie theater experience they won’t forget.

Check into more hotel details here.

Our Denver Studio

Our Denver studio celebrates the individual while promoting what they accomplish together. An adaptable, multi-use space at the office’s entry includes a café bar, tiered lounge, and conference space with flexible walls that expand to connect with the open area. Sketches from the staff form a layered graphic that extends from the reception to the café backsplash, reflecting our culture of communal creative expression. Employees are encouraged to change their perspective to whatever space supports the task at hand – be it a tech-enabled touchdown space, materials library, deadline “sprint” room, model shop, or more traditional sit-stand desk. Employees have sweeping views of the Colorado mountains from almost anywhere in our studio. By focusing on both the individual and the group, our office celebrates the design process, our identity as a global design leader, and most importantly, the people who are our lifeblood.

Tap into our Denver studio culture, leadership, and design work here.

The Elizabeth Hotel, Autograph Collection

Named for the “founding mother” of Fort Collins, our design throughout the hotel uses an abundance of neutral tones in painted moldings, lavish filigree, and rich ornamentation on the walls. Handcrafted details in furnishings and moldings, juxtaposed by raw and aged wood, speak to the refined hotel brand and the raw beauty of the Colorado wild. In a town renowned for its music scene, we incorporated design elements that encourage guests to play and hear music. A music library offers guests an opportunity to explore vinyl records and play various musical instruments, encouraging impromptu sessions in public or private. An award-winning grand staircase brings guests from the lobby to the rooms. With unique music suites – one of which has a baby grand piano in it – we created unique and memorable moments to enjoy. And that includes catching a show at the Magic Rat, one of Fort Collins’ premier live music venues.

More on what this destination has to offer here.

Wayne N. Aspinall Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse

Our comprehensive renovation of the Wayne N. Aspinall Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse focused on restoring and preserving its historic character while employing a range of updates for building performance. We designed award-winning systems upgrades for occupant comfort and energy use reduction, including a large roof-canopy-mounted solar photovoltaic array. Originally built in 1918 and listed on the National Register of Historic Places, the four-story building houses numerous professional federal agency office tenants, who benefit from the return of the original high ceilings, enhanced daylighting, and increased openness. The restored lobby is complete with period-inspired light fixtures, restored original artwork (get the scoop on the “missing masterpiece” from Accidentally Wes Anderson), and technologically advanced security. The project has received over a dozen awards and distinctions, including a National GSA Design Award with citations in architecture, interior design, engineering, and preservation. The project was recognized by the AIA Committee on the Environment as a Top Ten Green Project. And it was the GSA’s first site net zero energy building on the National Register of Historic Places.

Learn more about the project.

Avalon Theater

Built in 1923 as a Vaudeville house, the Avalon Theater is one of Colorado’s largest performance halls. The 1,000+-seat theater presents a broad range of programming from dance, music, theatrical, and variety shows to films, lectures, and private functions. The theater’s central location between Denver and Salt Lake City makes it a popular stopover between cities for many major acts. Although the Avalon underwent significant renovations in 1947 and the early 1990s, improvements were necessary to bring the venue into the 21st century and to accommodate the Grand Junction Symphony Orchestra. Our renovation revitalizes the beloved venue, creating an intimate theater experience with excellent acoustical quality, great visibility of the stage, and providing a much-needed expansion of key support areas.

The modernization project began with a master plan identifying potential alternative programming options and strategic partnership opportunities with regional arts and cultural groups. Together, we implemented a plan that includes the renovation of the audience chamber and the addition of variable acoustics; improvements to attain full ADA compliance; upgrades to the HVAC and electrical systems throughout the theater; and an 11,950-SF addition comprising expanded lobbies on all floors, a multi-purpose room, new elevator, and additional restrooms and concessions. A planned future phase includes an expansion of the stage house and loading area as well as new dressing rooms, green room, catering, and storage. The project was funded by a public/private partnership involving the City of Grand Junction, the Downtown Development Authority (private/downtown business organization), and the Avalon Foundation.

Here’s more on the history of this theater.