Bollywood diva Kareena Kapoor Khan revealed when everyone warned her on marrying Saif Ai Khan as it might ruin her acting career. Scroll down to know more.

Mumbai: Bollywood couple Kareena Kapoor and Saif Ali Khan tied the knot in 2012. Before marrying Kareena, Saif Ali Khan was married to fellow actor Amrita Singh. In a candid interview with Filmfare in 2020, Kareena discussed her decision to marry Saif while she was at the height of her career. She mentioned the concerns people expressed about her choice. Scroll down to find more details.

‘Shaadi Mat Karna Varna..’ Kareena Kapoor Khan Reacts To The Statement

Kareena Kapoor Khan has spoken about not feeling anxious in the initial years of her marriage to Saif Ali Khan. Kareena said, “I wasn’t edgy or anxious. But it’s a new journey. I started living in with Saif before I got married, not because I wanted to experiment or test. It was because we weren’t getting much time to spend with each other as we were shooting continuously. After that, it was a natural transition. He asked me to marry him and that was it (sic).”

The actor, touched by the outpouring of support, spoke about…”Everyone was like, ‘Shaadi mat karna, warna career khatam ho jayega (Don’t marry, your career will be over)’. I said, ‘Career hi khatam ho jayega na? Jaan toh nahi chali jayegi na (Only my career will end right, I won’t die)?’ I love this man (Saif). If living with him means that producers don’t want to work with me, so be it. Of course, after that, I’ve done some good films. Saif has also been extremely encouraging. I only get edgy when we don’t see each other for a long time (sic).”

About Kareena Kapoor and Saif Ali Khan

Saif Ali Khan has four children. From his first marriage to actress Amrita Singh, he has a daughter, Sara Ali Khan, and a son, Ibrahim Ali Khan. After marrying Kareena Kapoor Khan in 2012, they had two sons together, Taimur Ali Khan (born 2016) and Jehangir Ali Khan (born 2021).

What are your thoughts on the equation between Kareen Kapoor Khan and Saif Ali Khan? Watch this space to get more updates on the same!