The latest episode of Karan Johar’s ‘Koffee With Karan 8’ stars the mother-son duo, Sharmila Tagore and Saif Ali Khan. Amid a lot of spilling the beans and fun conversations, Saif and his first wife Amrita Singh's marriage and divorce were also discussed on the show.

SAIF ALI KHAN ON MARRYING AMRITA SINGH

Saif Ali Khan secretly married Amrita Singh in 1991. It was after the wedding that he informed mother Sharmila Tagore about it, who was seemingly ‘hurt’. On ‘Koffee With Karan 8’, Saif looked back at his previous marriage with Amrita and said, “I was running away from home. I don’t remember so many things going on. I found it as a security and an idea that this is safe and great. I could make a home out of her.”

advertisement

Sharmila Tagore added, “They were both very similar. They were very funny. Both of them when they used to talk, there used to be a lot of laughter, mimicking other people, tearing somebody into bits in a funny way. As you know he is good at mimicking and she is a great storyteller. They looked very happy together.”

He mentioned how hurt Sharmila was after he told her that he was already married. “A big tear fell out of her eye and she started crying. She said, 'you've really hurt me’”, said Saif. In similar lines, Sharmila said, “Parents have brought you up and been with you, it’s a good thing to share things with parents. Every aspect of your life.”

SAIF, SHARMILA ON FORMER’S DIVORCE WITH AMRITA

Saif Ali Khan spoke about his divorce with Amrita Singh. He said, “Things changed but she was a wonderful support. She is mother to two of my kids and I share a very good relation with her. It’s always respect. It's always bad when things don't work well, especially for the kids, something that you don’t want for them but unfortunately it happens.”

He also mentioned that Sharmila Tagore was the first person to whom he spoke about his decision to divorce. “You know the first person that I broke the news was to my amma. She said I am with you if that’s what you want. That helped me a lot,” he said.

Sharmila Tagore also reacted to Saif-Amrita’s divorce. She said, “When you are together for such a long time and you have such lovely children, then no break up is easy. And I know it is difficult to have harmony at that stage as everybody is hurt and that stage is not nice, but I tried. But that’s water under the bridge. She (Amrita) needed time to cool down and they worked it out together. It' not just staying away, there were many things involved. It wasn't a happy time for us as Ibrahim was just 3 and we were really fond of the children and especially Tiger [Mansoor Ali Khan Pataudi]. He was very fond of Ibrahim and he would say 'that’s a good lad.'”

Further adding, “We were doubly deprived to lose Amrita and the two kids. So it's just not him (Saif), we also had to adjust to all that.”

Saif Ali Khan and Amrita Singh parted ways in 2004. They are parents to Sara Ali Khan and Ibrahim Ali Khan.