Assistant District Attorney Positions

Click here to apply for current Assistant District Attorney Positions/Internships

Investigative/Administrative Positions

Click here to apply for current Investigative/Administrative Positions

Assistant District Attorney Positions

The Next Generation of Assistant District Attorneys

The Queens District Attorney’s Office is privileged to represent the most diverse county on the planet – Queens County. Assistant District Attorneys hail from all corners of the county and the globe. Many are multilingual. They can work with, and relate to, people from all over the world and from different paths in life. Our Assistants chose to work here because Queens is the personification of the American Dream and they want to help protect that dream for those that pursue it.

District Attorney Melinda Katz is a true daughter of Queens County, who knows every nook and cranny of the World’s Borough. Her progressive reforms have transformed the Office into a 21st Century operation that focuses on fairness, safety, and justice for everyone involved in the criminal justice system. This new forward-thinking and modern prosecutor’s office needs unique individuals who reflect the community we serve.

Each year we seek candidates who are ready to serve our community. Although strong academic credentials are a factor, we also look for a demonstrated commitment to public service and interest in criminal law. Successful candidates must evince an ability to empathize, exercise good judgment, and possess a mature understanding of the needs of the community.

Each seat in the Fall and Spring classes is highly competitive. All applications are thoroughly reviewed, and successful candidates undergo three rounds of interviews as follows:

Initial Interview with an Assistant District Attorney from the Hiring Committee.

Panel Interview with two senior Assistant District Attorneys from the Hiring Partners Committee.

Executive Interview with the Director of Legal Hiring and two members of the Executive and/or Senior Management staff. The performance of an opening statement (fact pattern provided) is also required.

Interview Tips

Do your homework and learn everything you can about the Queens District Attorney’s Office and Queens County.

Be prepared to discuss in detail what is expected from the role of a prosecutor.

Be prepared to discuss why you want to become a prosecutor in Queens County.

A high level of understanding on topics such as ethics and suppression issues is expected.

It's vital to show the reasoning behind your answers, whether you know the law or not.

Taking initiative is highly valued. We encourage you to make your case as to why you should become a prosecutor for the Queens District Attorney’s Office.

Be yourself and be genuine in your responses. We welcome diversity of thought and opinion.

Don’t feel pressured to ask questions at the end of your interview, you don’t want to pose “canned” questions. Genuine questions only!

In the event of a virtual interview, try to neutralize your background so that nothing is distracting the participants.

FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions)

What is the starting salary?

Non-admitted: $85,000

Admitted: $88,000

How long is the commitment?

There is a 3-year commitment for ADAs.

Do I have to live in New York State?

Yes.

Do you require recommendation letters?

Not required but will accept them if sent on your behalf.

Are references required?

Yes, when you are asked to complete an Employment Application. References and/or prior employers will be contacted during the hiring process. Let us know if you do not want your current employer to be contacted.

Is there a deadline to apply?

Unless otherwise indicated in our posting, the application period will remain open until the class is filled. We encourage you to apply as early as possible. It is great to see enthusiastic candidates.

How many classes do you have a year?

We have two classes a year. Our Spring class is a small class of 8 -10 ADAs and it usually starts in March or April. The Fall class is our larger class and it starts right after Labor Day.

When do you perform the background check?

A background check is conducted after the acceptance of our offer. The list of required documents will be sent to you when an offer is made.

What happens if I get an offer from another office/employer and I have not received a decision from the Queens District Attorney’s office?

Call us and we will try to expedite the review of your application.

Should I apply for the position through On Campus Interview at my school or should I apply directly through your website?

First, try to get an interview through On Campus Interview at your school. If you do not get an interview, apply to us directly.

If I interned in your office, do I still have to go through all the hiring rounds?

No. If you have completed an internship and an evaluation was done, that counts as an initial interview.

Training for New Entry Level Prosecutors

The Legal Training Department is responsible for all tiered training of assistant district attorneys as well as the continuing legal education of the office's professional staff. The department administers career-oriented training programs which include an intensive four-week Incoming Orientation Training Program for new hires, a Felony Assistant/Grand Jury Training Program, meant to develop prosecutors as they progress in their career and begin handling felonies, as well as trial advocacy training for both Criminal Court and Supreme Court assistants. In addition to the career programs, the Legal Training Department administers Monthly Office-Wide CLEs and weekly CLEs designed to address issues specific to individual divisions and bureaus.

Brave Justice Summer Legal Internship

The Brave Justice Summer Legal Internship Program, established by District Attorney Melinda Katz, is designed to provide law students with an outstanding opportunity to learn about the Queens District Attorney’s Office, which serves the most diverse county in the country. Summer Interns have the unique experience to see the transformation in progress as District Attorney Katz continues to take on a bold new course to achieve a more forward looking and progressive office. Interns will be assigned to a specific bureau under newly created Divisions and will work with Assistant District Attorneys.* Depending on the assignment, they engage in many aspects of prosecutorial work, such as:

research and writing assignments, including briefs to be heard by the Appellate Division, Second Department of New York State Supreme Court

motion and discovery practice

civilian and police interviews

court appearances pursuant to the student practice order

crime scene visits

participation in community outreach through the Community Partnerships Division

Interns are also exposed to the inner workings of the Alternative Sentencing initiatives which give selected defendants a second chance to redirect their lives.

The Brave Justice Summer Legal Internship Program also includes numerous events and multiple presentations throughout the summer to introduce Interns to the various bureaus in the office, and most importantly, to the community of professionals in the criminal justice system who work in their respective roles to achieve justice for everyone.

*The format and activities of this internship will be dependent on maintaining a healthy and safe environment for all. The options will range from in person, to hybrid (in person/remote work), or a fully remote program. Interns will be advised of the format before their start date.

Investigative/Administrative Positions

A number of key functions for the office are performed by the Office's support staff, including vital support for trial divisions, as well as other community services and office functions.

The City of New York is an inclusive equal opportunity employer committed to recruiting and retaining a diverse workforce and providing a work environment that is free from discrimination and harassment based upon any legally protected status or protected characteristic, including but not limited to an individual's sex, race, color, ethnicity, national origin, age, religion, disability, sexual orientation, veteran status, gender identity, or pregnancy.