Overview: The Central District of Chavar County (Persian: بخش مرکزی شهرستان چوار) is in Ilam province, Iran. Its capital is the city of Chavar.

Overview: Kabir Kuh Rural District (Persian: دهستان کبیرکوه) is in Gachi District of Malekshahi County, Ilam province, Iran. Its capital is the village of Qaleh Juq. Prior to the formation of the rural district ...

Overview: Darbid Rural District (Persian: دهستان داربید) is in Jazman District of Holeylan County, Ilam province, Iran. Its capital is the village of Sar Cham, whose population at the National Census of 2016 was ...

Overview: Jazman District (Persian: بخش جزمان) is in Holeylan County, Ilam province, Iran. Its capital is the village of Cheshmeh Mahi, whose population at the 2016 National Census was 827 in 246 households.

Overview: Dajivand Rural District (Persian: دهستان داجیوند) is in the Central District of Holeylan County, Ilam province, Iran. Its capital is the village of Mahdiyeh, whose population at the 2016 National Census ...

Overview: The Central District of Holeylan County (Persian: بخش مرکزی شهرستان هلیلان) is in Ilam province, Iran. Its capital is the city of Towhid, whose population at the National Census of 2016 was 2,128 in 601 ...

Overview: Takhtan Rural District (Persian: دهستان تختان) is in Sarab Meymeh District of Dehloran County, Ilam province, Iran. Its capital is the village of Takhtan. Prior to its creation, its constituent villages ...

Overview: Gurab Rural District (Persian: دهستان گوراب) is in Sarab Meymeh District of Dehloran County, Ilam province, Iran. Its capital is the village of Gurab-e Sofla. Prior to its creation, its constituent villages ...

Overview: Sarab Meymeh District (Persian: بخش سراب میمه) is in Dehloran County, Ilam province, Iran. Its capital is the city of Meymeh. In May 2013, the city of Meymeh and certain villages were transferred from ...

Overview: Dalpari Rural District (Persian: دهستان دالپری) is in Musian District of Dehloran County, Ilam province, Iran. Its capital is the village of Jalizi-ye Bala, whose population at the National Census of 2016 ...

Overview: Dasht-e Abbas District (Persian: بخش دشت عباس) is in Dehloran County, Ilam province, Iran. Its capital is the village of Dasht-e Abbas.

Overview: Chakor Rural District (Persian: دهستان چکر) is in Boli District of Chavar County, Ilam province, Iran. Prior to the formation of the rural district, its constituent villages were in Boli Rural District ...

Overview: Boli District (Persian: بخش بولی) is in Chavar County, Ilam province, Iran. Its capital is the village of Ganjevan.

Overview: Hajji Bakhtiar Rural District (Persian: دهستان حاجی‌بختیار) is in the Central District of Chavar County, Ilam province, Iran. Prior to the formation of the rural district, its constituent villages were ...

Overview: Halehsam Rural District (Persian: دهستان هلسم) is in the Central District of Chardavol County, Ilam province, Iran. Prior to its formation, its constituent villages were in Shabab Rural District. Its ...

Overview: Zarangush Rural District (Persian: دهستان زرانگوش) is in Hendmini District of Badreh County, Ilam province, Iran. Its capital is the village of Zarangush. Prior to the formation of the rural district ...

Overview: Hendmini District (Persian: بخش هندمینی) is in Badreh County, Ilam province, Iran. Its capital is the city of Cheshmeh Shirin.

Overview: Kolm Rural District (Persian: دهستان کلم) is in the Central District of Badreh County, Ilam province, Iran. Its capital is the village of Kolm-e Bala. Prior to the formation of the rural district, its ...