L’Oulibo is a cooperative with over 1,000 growers in three departments of Southern France. The olives produced, oils processed at the mill and products made with these olives are 100% local and authentic. This contributes to their high quality and sustainability. All of their oils are guaranteed to be of French origin, extra virgin and cold pressed.

Five types of olives are processed here, but the most unique is the Lucques olive – known as “the green diamond” due to its shape. In fact, in 2017 the cooperative obtained AOP Lucques du Languedoc, which is a designation that means it’s guaranteed top quality, superior and 100% hand harvested. It’s a very special oil indeed.

Olive Oil Tour and Tasting in Languedoc France at L’Oulibo

During our private tour, we had a brief walk around the property, which was rustic and gorgeous. The olive trees were large, old, gnarly and simply beautiful. We saw some of the equipment used in hand- harvesting and milling.

Interactive experience on ‘The Odyssey of the Olive Tree’

Our outdoor tour was followed by an interactive multi-media educational experience featuring lights, sound and film. Seated on bleachers, we learned about the history of the olive tree by viewing a brief film, The Odyssey of the Olive Tree from the beginning to the present day. I enjoyed the information, but the way it was presented as well; both educational and fun!

Museum Space

Next up was a museum of sorts, which is set in the old olive mill. Here you can find tools, artifacts and items used in olive harvesting and oil making. There’s a special focus on how olives are used in cosmetics and beauty products and how olives contribute to heath and longevity.

Guided olive and olive oil tasting

Finally, we were led to another area to enjoy a guided tasting of different types of olives, olive oils and tapanades. Our guide shared hints, tips and recipes for how to use products back home. They also had a shop where you could purchase olives, olive oils, products made from local olives and beautiful hand-crafted gourmet cooking items – like olive wood utensils and cutting boards. Lovely beauty and body products made with olive oil like soaps, body lotions, face cream are fully stocked too.

One little know fact: our guide explained that Lucques olives were available through the Trader Joes back in the states; adorably branded as Trader Jacques.

Unfortunately, they have since been discontinued, which is a great reason to pick up a jar (or ten) during your guided visit. L’Oulibo has an online shop, but delivery isn’t readily available to customers outside France. For those in the US, jars of Lucques olives can be ordered here.

As a foodie and devout consumer of olive oils and olives, I really enjoyed learning about the process and tasting. I especially loved the buttery flavor of the Lucques olives, which were new to me.

Honestly, I was a bit disappointed I didn’t take more photos, but I was very engrossed in the tour, tasting and drooling over the gourmet offerings in the shop. This speaks well for the experience actually, as I’d rather be immersed and engaged than be so bored as to wander off or resort to taking so many photos just to fill my time.

The great thing about L’Oulibo is that you can custom design your visit and spend as much or as little time as you’d like there. Some experiences are only included if you book a guided tour, but many activities like the grounds, museum space and gift shop are free to visit without a prior booking.

L’Oulibo is located in the Minervois, a short drive from Carcassonne and only about 10 minutes from the Canal du Midi, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It’s a must visit for any gourmet traveler in the Languedoc region of France. It’s exactly the type of local, authentic experience I prefer for my clients.

Melange Travel has been providing fee-based custom travel planning and coaching for independent travelers to Italy and France since 2008. I design self-guided food and wine itineraries, arrange winery visits and authentic tours with locals.

*This post may contain Amazon affiliate links. If you click on a link and make a purchases I may receive a small commission, but there is no extra cost to you.