Mr Alkatiri has denied the allegations against him

East Timor's Premier Mari Alkatiri is holding meetings with his ruling party, Fretilin, on his political future.

They are discussing an ultimatum he was sent by President Xanana Gusmao, asking him to resign or face being sacked.

Mr Alkatiri has been widely blamed for failing to stop the recent violence in the East Timorese capital, Dili.

One of his former allies, Rogerio Lobato, is also facing problems. He was charged on Thursday with conspiracy, arming civilians and attempted

revolution.

Mr Lobato, the recently sacked interior minister, was escorted to a Dili court by Australian troops.

He had been under virtual house arrest since Tuesday, when a warrant for his arrest was issued over accusations he armed a hit squad commissioned by Mr Alkatiri - a charge the prime minister has vehemently denied.

Prosecutor-General Longuinhos Monteiro said Mr Lobato faced a 15-year jail term if found guilty.

Growing pressure

On Wednesday, President Gusmao added his voice to growing calls for Mr Alkatiri to resign.

In the letter, Mr Gusmao said that he had lost confidence in the prime minister after viewing an Australian documentary alleging Mr Alkatiri supplied weapons to civilians, apparently to intimidate his opponents.

Many blame Mr Alkatiri for not controlling the violence

Mr Alkatiri has faced mounting criticism for failing to control the recent violence in the country.

Many East Timorese say his decision to fire 600 soldiers in March was to blame for the street clashes that left at least 21 people dead.

Mr Alkatiri has also been damaged by the accusations against Rogerio Lobato.

In Thursday's emergency meeting, senior members of Fretilin must now decide whether to continue to support their prime minister.

"He is expected to announce his resignation if he does not have support," an official at Mr Alkariti's office told the French news agency AFP.

Mr Gusmao is due to meet with the embattled prime minister after the meeting.

Mari Alkatiri is a veteran of East Timor's independence movement, who spent the 24 years of Indonesian occupation in exile in Mozambique.

He is credited with skilfully negotiating with Australia over East Timor's rights to oilfields in the Timor Sea, but he is also viewed by many Timorese as a cold and arrogant politician.