SPATIAL 3D TECHNOLOGY PROVIDES OPPORTUNITY FOR SOFTWARE INNOVATION

Broomfield, CO – Sept 20, 2011- Spatial Corp., the leading provider of 3D development components for engineering and manufacturing software applications, today announces that Mentor Graphics Corporation, the market share and technology world leader in PCB systems design solutions, will utilize Spatial’s 3D software components in select Mentor product offerings. Spatial components provide an innovative approach to 3D modeling and analysis within Mentor’s PCB systems design and mechanical analysis products. 3D and ECAD/MCAD collaboration are essential as electronics companies strive to deliver more competitive products to market faster. Spatial’s 3D technology enables Mentor to enhance their 3D performance and integration capabilities, while maintaining focus on their own core competencies.

"For several years we have been developing and delivering design and analysis products that require 3D functionality," stated Dan Boncella, Director of Marketing for Mentor’s Systems Design Division. "By incorporating these specialized engines we further enhance our ability to visualize, model and analyze in full 3D as well as provide more seamless collaboration between the ECAD and MCAD domains. We chose Spatial because 3D is their business."

Mentor’s Expedition™ Enterprise PCB systems design flow contains many processes that incorporate 3D design, analysis and visualization capabilities. Some of these also require integration and collaboration with activities typically performed in the mechanical design and analysis domain. With the implementation of Spatial’s 3D components, Mentor provides higher performance full 3D design in the electronic domain and tighter integration with the mechanical domain. The result enables users to shorten their product development cycle times, reduce development costs, and produce more competitive products. The Spatial components in the agreement include:

3D ACIS® Modeler for wireframe and solids modeling

3D InterOpfor data exchange of parts and assemblies to/from MCAD systems

3D Meshtoolkit for surface and volumetric meshing

3D Visualizationframework

"We look forward to working with Mentor as they leverage the value of our 3D components to innovate, reduce time-to-market, and minimize development risk," commented Jean-Marc Guillard, Spatial Chief Operating Officer. "We are very pleased that Mentor, the worldwide leader in their industry, has chosen our technology to enhance their PCB design and simulation products."

About Spatial

Spatial Corp., a Dassault Systèmes subsidiary, is a leading provider of 3D development software components for technical applications across a broad range of industries. Spatial’s 3D modeling, 3D visualization, and Data Exchange software components help application developers deliver market-leading products, maintain focus on core competencies, and reduce time-to-market. Spatial 3D components have been adopted by some of the world's most recognized software developers, manufacturers, research institutes, and universities. Headquartered in Broomfield, Colorado, Spatial has offices in the USA, Germany, Japan, China and the United Kingdom. For more information, please visit www.spatial.com or contact Spatial by email at info_spatial@3ds.com or by phone at 303-544-2900.

ACIS and SAT are registered trademarks of Spatial Corp. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective owners. Copyright © 2011 Spatial Corp.