The Great white shark (Carcharodon carcharias), also known as the Great white, white shark or “white pointer”, is a species of the large mackerel shark which can be generally found in the temperate waters of all the major oceans. Great Whites get their name because they are great in size and have a clean white belly and underside. The upper body is slate-grey to blend in with the sea floor. It is a worthy name for a majestic and truly awesome predator. White Pointers were so named by Australian whalers as these sharks were often seen feeding belly up as they gorged on the blubber of whale carcasses. The normally, rarely seen white underbelly was in this case so prominent that it inspired the name “White Pointer”. Great Whites are streamlined, torpedo-shaped fish with powerful equally lobed shaped tails that can propel them through the water at speeds of up to 25 miles per hour. Aside from giving thrust, the caudal keel(tail) acts as a stabilizer.

While these measurements have not been confirmed, some Great white sharks caught in modern times have been estimated to be more than 7m (23ft) long, but these claims have received some criticism. However, J.E. Randall believed that Great white shark may have exceeded 6.1m (20ft) in length. A Great white shark was captured in Australia on 1 April 1987. This shark was estimated to be more than 6.9m (23ft) long by Peter Resiley and has been designated as KANGA.[Another Great white shark was caught in Malta by Alfredo Cutajar on 16 April 1987. This shark was also estimated to be around 7.13m (23.4ft) long by John Abela and has been designated as MALTA. However, Cappo drew criticism because he used shark size estimation methods proposed by J.E. Randall to suggest that the KANGA specimen was 5.8–6.4m (19–21ft) long. In a similar fashion, I.K. Fergusson also used shark size estimation methods proposed by J.E. Randall to suggest that the MALTA specimen was 5.3–5.7m (17–19ft) long. However, photographic evidence suggested that these specimens were larger than the size estimations yielded through Randall’s methods. Thus, a team of scientists—H.F. Mollet, G.M. Cailliet, A.P. Klimley, D.A. Ebert, A.D. Testi, and L.J.V. Compagno—reviewed the cases of the KANGA and MALTA specimens in 1996 to resolve the dispute by conducting a comprehensive morphometric analysis of the remains of these sharks and re-examination of photographic evidence in an attempt to validate the original size estimations and their findings were consistent with them. The findings indicated that estimations by P.Resiley and J.Abela are reasonable and could not be ruled out.]A particularly large female Great white nicknamed “DeepBlue”, estimated measuring at 6.1m (20ft) was filmed off Guadalupe during shooting for the 2014 episode of Shark Week “Jaws Strikes Back”. Deep Blue would also later gain significant attention when she was filmed interacting with researcher Mauricio Hoyas Pallida in a viral video that Mauricio posted on Facebook on 11 June 2015.Deep Blue was later seen off Oahu in January 2019 while scavenging a sperm whale carcass, whereupon she was filmed swimming beside divers. A particularly infamous great white shark, supposedly of record proportions, once patrolled the area that comprises False Bay, South Africa, was said to be well over 7m (23ft) during the early 1980s. This shark, known locally as the “Submarine”, had a legendary reputation that was supposedly well founded. Though rumours have stated this shark was exaggerated in size or non-existent altogether, witness accounts by the then young Craig Anthony Ferreira, a notable shark expert in South Africa, and his father indicate an unusually large animal of considerable size and power (though it remains uncertain just how massive the shark was as it escaped capture each time it was hooked). Ferreira describes the four encounters with the giant shark he participated in with great detail in his book “Great White Sharks on Their Best Behaviour’

Most sharks are ovoviviparous, including Great white sharks.

Ovoviviparous sharks have eggs that develop within the mother’s body. The eggs are fertilized internally and the developing sharks are nourished by the egg yolks. The young hatch within the oviduct and continue to receive nourishment from the remainder of the egg yolk, still attached to their body, as well as from fluids secreted into the oviduct. Some species of shark are cannibalistic, feeding on other eggs and embryos within the oviduct. Only a small number of these pups survive until birth. The young are then born live, and are fully functional.

It is believed that Great white sharks, like ragged tooth sharks, practise what is known as oophagy also known as inter-uterine cannibalism where the strongest and fiercest developing embryos eat the unfertilized eggs (potential siblings) for nourishment.

Sharks are born with teeth. Unlike humans, shark pups enter the world sporting a full set of teeth. This makes it easy for them to feed and fend for themselves, since there is no parental care. They are essentially born and right from their first moments are ready to go as perfect little predator pups.

A baby Great white sharks tooth is a lot narrower than an adult and is more suited to feeding on smaller sharks and fish and when they are really young their teeth are actually tri-cusped meaning that on either side of the base of each tooth there are two sharp little points.