Trials of a Truth Warrior

Dick Russell

384 Pages

ISBN: 9781510776098

Imprint: Skyhorse Publishing

Trim Size: 6in x 9in x 0in

Format:

$32.50

Description

An epic biography filled with drama, conflict, and surmounted challenges.

The Real RFK Jr. is an intimate biographical portrait examining the controversial activist's journey from anguish and addiction to becoming the country's leading environmental champion fighting government corruption, corporate greed, and a captured media. Written by his longtime colleague Dick Russell, the biography also exposes the misconceptions and explains the rationale behind Kennedy's campaign to protect public health.

Provided exclusive source material, including access to Kennedy’s unpublished writings and personal journals, the author conducted dozens of interviews with him as well as numerous friends and associates. Russell delves into everything from Kennedy’s sometimes death-defying river rafting adventures to his pioneering legal cases against polluters such as Smithfield Foods and Monsanto, while founding the world’s largest water protection group. The Real RFK Jr. also examines Kennedy’s pursuit of the truth about the assassinations of his father and uncle, the wrongful murder conviction of his cousin, and the false narratives around the COVID-19 pandemic.

Authors

Dick Russell is an investigative journalist and the eclectic author of fifteen books, including three New York Times bestsellers coauthored with Jesse Ventura and Eye of the Whale, named a Best Book of the Year in 2001 by three major newspapers. His book The Man Who Knew Too Much, probing the forces behind the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, has been hailed as a “masterpiece of historical reconstruction.” The final two volumes of his biographical trilogy, The Life and Ideas of James Hillman, are being published in 2023. Russell is also the author of Black Genius and the American Experience and the memoir My Mysterious Son: A Life-Changing Passage Between Schizophrenia and Shamanism. He was a recipient of the citizen’s Chevron Conservation Award for his environmental activism. Russell resides in Los Angeles.

Reviews

PRAISE FOR DICK RUSSELL

“No praise can be too high for Russell’s mastery. —Publishers Weekly

“Dick Russell’s investigative and writing skills top the list.” —Jesse Ventura

PRAISE FOR ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR. AND HIS BOOKS

“The Robert F. Kennedy Jr. I’ve known for the last 20 years is a courageous truth-teller. In speaking out about the corporate assault on our rights and health, he has provoked the most powerful interests in this country. But he speaks for all of us who still believe in American democracy.” —David Talbot, author of the New York Times bestsellers The Devil’s Chessboard and Brothers: The Hidden History of the Kennedy Years

“RFK Jr is a tireless champion of Americans’ rights.” —Naomi Wolf, bestselling author of The Beauty Myth, Give Me Liberty, and Outrages

“Robert F. Kennedy Jr. provides something denied to most Americans in recent years: the opportunity to hear more than one perspective.” —Gavin de Becker, bestselling author of The Gift of Fear

“[Bobby’s] not running to get rich. He’s trying to make things better, but he’s not allowed to have those conversations. He’s been censored. Notice, not there, not anywhere is a point-by-point rebuttal of his actual points. They never engage him on the facts. They can’t. They would lose. Instead, they impugn his character.” —Tucker Carlson

“Robert F. Kennedy Jr. has taken on the world’s most powerful corporations and held them accountable for harming people and the environment” —Tony Robbins, New York Times bestselling author

“I deeply respect [Bobby], and I think if there’s anyone that deserves the Nobel Peace Prize, he is the one.” —Robert W. Malone, MD, virologist, immunologist, molecular biologist

“RFK Jr. exposes the decades of lies.” —Luc Montagnier, Nobel laureate

Climate in Crisis is “A must read for anyone concerned with climate and energy issues.” —Leonardo DiCaprio, Academy Award winning actor and environmental activist

related titles

The Life and Ideas of James Hillman

Volume III: Soul in the World

by Dick Russell

On the Trail of the JFK Assassins

A Groundbreaking Look at America's Most Infamous Conspiracy

by Dick Russell

Coup in Dallas

The Decisive Investigation into Who Killed JFK

by H. P. Albarelli Jr., Dick Russell

American Conspiracies

by Jesse Ventura, Dick Russell

Mary's Mosaic

The CIA Conspiracy to Murder John F. Kennedy, Mary Pinchot Meyer, and Their Vision for World Peace

by Peter Janney, Dick Russell

Horsemen of the Apocalypse

The Men Who Are Destroying Life on Earth—And What It Means for Our Children

by Robert F. Kennedy Jr., Dick Russell, David Talbot

The Skorzeny Papers

Evidence for the Plot to Kill JFK

by Ralph P. Ganis, Dick Russell

63 Documents the Government Doesn't Want You to Read

by Jesse Ventura, Dick Russell

Don't Start the Revolution Without Me!

by Jesse Ventura, Dick Russell

My Mysterious Son

A Life-Changing Passage Between Schizophrenia and Shamanism

by Dick Russell