Three Must-See Czech Films of All-time

Celebrating the airing of Up and Down, one of the most successful Czech films in recent years, Eurochannel has selected three key movies to understand the country’s filmmaking history. These productions overcame the language barriers to become worldwide masterpieces.

The Shop on Main Street

Written by Ladislav Grosman and directed by Ján Kadár and Elmar Klos, The Shop on Main Street is a 1965 Czechoslovak film about the Aryanizationplan during World War II in the Slovak State. The movie tells the story of Tono, who lives a poor life but the authorities offer him to take over the Jewish widow Lautman's little shop for sewing material. She is old and confused and thinks that he is only looking for employment and hires him. The odd couple begin to like each other. But some time later the authorities decide that the Jews must leave the city. Tono then faces the dilemma of what should he do with the old lady.The film won the 1965 Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, andactress Ida Kamińska was nominated in 1966 for Best Actress in a Leading Role.

Closely Watched Trains

This 1996 Czechoslovak film was directed by one of the most important directors of Czech cinema history, JiříMenzel. Based on a 1965 novel by BohumilHrabal, the film tells a coming-of-age story about a young man working at a train station in German-occupied Czechoslovakia during World War II. As this apprentice train dispatcher seeks his first sexual encounter becomes despondent when he is unable to perform.Closely Watched Trainswon the Best Foreign Language Oscar at the 40th Academy Awards in 1968.

Kolya

Winner of the the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film and Golden Globe Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 1996, Kolyawas directed by Jan Svěrák and stars his father, ZdeněkSvěrák. The movie tells the story of a 55-year-old musician who struggles with the new government. Having lost his place in the state orchestra, he must make ends meet by playing at funerals and painting tombstone until a Russian girl presents with the opportunity to marry her so she can obtain the Czech citizenship. But the musician never expected she would leave him with her son to face a new adventure.

Return to Up and Down