Research Interests: Applied Mathematics, Bioinformatics, Control Theory, Geometry, and Mathematical Biology

Bijoy K. Ghosh received the B.Tech. and M.Tech. degrees in Electrical and Electronics Engineering from BITS, Pilani, and the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, India, and the Ph.D. degree in Applied Mathematics from the Decision and Control Group of the Division of Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, in 1977, 1979, and 1983, respectively. From 1983 to 2006, he has been a faculty member in the Department of Electrical and Systems Engineering, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, as a professor, and directed the center for BioCybernetics and Intelligent Systems. Presently he is a Dick and Martha Brooks Endowed Professor in the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX. Bijoy received the American Automatic Control Council's Donald Eckman Award in 1988 in recognition of his outstanding contributions in the field of Automatic Control. He received the United Nations Development Program Consultancy in India under the TOKTEN program in 1993, the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science invitation fellowship for research in Japan in 1997. In the year 2000, he became a Fellow of the Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineering for fundamental contributions to System Theory with applications to robust control, vision and multi sensor fusion.Bijoy is a member of the editorial board of The IEEE Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics. He has held visiting academic positions at the Yale University, USA; Universita di Padova, Italy; Institut Mittag-Leffler and Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden; Tokyo Institute of Technology and Osaka University, Japan. He is a permanent visiting professor at the Tokyo Denki University, Saitama, Japan and Technical University of Munich, Germany.

Research Interests: Algebra

Lars Winther Christensen graduated from the University of Copenhagen in 1995 and obtained his Ph.D. from the same institution in 1999. After this he worked with telecommunications and crypto software development. In 2004 Lars went to University of Nebraska as visiting professor, and in 2007 he joined Texas Tech University. Lars' research is in algebra; his interests focus on applications of homological and homotopical algebra to ring theory. Lars is the author of a monograph on Gorenstein homological dimensions and currently writing another book on derived category methods in commutative algebra.

Research Interests: Applied Mathematics, Dynamic Equations, Ordinary Differential Equations, Time Scales, and Outreach Programs

Raegan Higgins' research is in time scales; her interests focus on oscillation criteria for certain linear and nonlinear second order dynamic equations. She is also interested in applications of time scales to biology, economics, engineering, and statistics. Additionally, Dr. Higgins is involved in funded projects focused on STEM outreach with an emphasis in increasing minorities in STEM. She received her bachelor's degree in Mathematics from Xavier University of Louisiana in 2002 and her Doctorate in Mathematics from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln in 2008.

Research Interests: Applied Mathematics, Computational Mathematics, and Numerical Analysis

Dr. Long's research is in scientific computing: ranging from work on developing efficient mathematical algorithms for large scale simulation and optimization, to the design of advanced software architectures for high-performance simulation, to application of computational simulation to problems in physics, engineering, biology, and national defense. Dr. Long joined Texas Tech in 2007 after nine years in the computational mathematics research department at Sandia National Laboratories in Livermore, California. Previously, she worked in industry at Beam Technologies, was on the physics faculty at the State University of New York at Brockport, and was a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Massachusetts. Her undergraduate degree is in astronomy from the University of Maryland. Her graduate study was at Princeton University where she received a PhD in theoretical astrophysics in 1991.

Research Interests: Solid Mechanics, Boundary Value Problems, Differential and Integral Equations

Lawrence Schovanec joined the faculty of Texas Tech University in 1982. He received a B.S. degree from Phillips University, a M.S. degree from Texas A&M University, and his Ph.D. from Indiana University. He has been a professor of mathematics since 1996 and he served as chair of the Department of Mathematics and Statistics from 1999 to 2008.

His early research dealt mainly with solid mechanics with an emphasis on dynamic fracture of elastic and viscoelastic materials. More recently his work has dealt with control theoretic aspects of biological systems and hybrid parameter models of biomechanical systems.

In 2008 he was appointed as the Interim Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences and in 2010 as the Dean. In 2012, he was appointed as the Interim President of Texas Tech University. In 2013, he served as Interim Provost. He is currently serving as President of the University.

Research Interests: Complex Analysis, Potential Theory, and Qualitative Theory of Partial Differential Equations

Alexander Solynin received his Diploma (with honors) in Mathematics in 1980 from the Kuban State University, Krasnodar, Russia and his Ph.D. in 1985 from the Institute of Applied Mathematics and Mechanics, Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Donetsk. From 1983 to 1989, he was an assistant professor of mathematics and from 1989 to 1990, an associate professor at the Kuban State University in Krasnodar, Russia. In 1990, Dr. Solynin joined the Steklov Institute of Mathematics at St. Petersburg, Russia, where he was a senior research fellow from 1993 to 2004. He came to Texas Tech University in Fall 2004 as an associate professor.

Research Interests: Applied Statistics, Reliability and Survival Analysis, and Statistics

James G. Surles received B.S. degrees in Mathematics and Computer Science from McNeese State University in 1995 and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Statistics from the University of South Carolina in 1997 and 1999, respectively. Dr. Surles came to Texas Tech University in 1999, where he is currently an Assistant Professor. His main research interests are Reliability and the Exponentiated Weibull and Burr type X lifetime models, but he also enjoys working with researchers from around Texas Tech on a variety of research projects.

Research Interests: Statistics

A. Alexandre Trindade earned a B.S. in Mathematics from the University of Southampton (U.K.) in 1988. He left Europe shortly thereafter to pursue graduate studies in the U.S., completing an M.A. in Mathematics at the University of Oklahoma in 1992. He worked as a programmer for the IBM Corporation in Dallas (Texas) for two years, before returning to graduate school in 1995. In 2000 he received a Ph.D. in Statistics from Colorado State University. From 2000 to 2007, Dr. Trindade was an assistant professor in the Department of Statistics at the University of Florida. He joined Texas Tech's Department of Mathematics and Statistics in Fall 2007. His main research interests include: time series; multivariate volatility modeling; state-space models and longitudinal data; saddle point-based bootstrap methodology and applications; asymptotic theory and higher-order approximations. His work on saddle point-based bootstrap has been funded by the National Security Agency. Dr. Trindade has extensive consulting experience; in 2003-04 he was the primary statistical consultant on a reliability project with The Boeing Company funded by DARPA, and in 2005 was contracted by Encision, Inc., for a reliability study on medical devices.

Research Interests: Statistics and Geometric Shape Analysis

Leif Ellingson joined the department as an assistant professor in the fall of 2011. Prior to this, he completed a Ph.D. in statistics at Florida State University in the summer of 2011 and an M.S. from the same institution in 2009. Previously, he received a B.S. in mathematics from the University of Maryland in 2007. Dr. Ellingson's dissertation research was in shape analysis with a focus on computationally efficient nonparametric methodology in application to the study of planar contours and structural proteomics. In addition to expanding upon those projects, his current research interests include statistics on manifolds and sample spaces with manifold stratification, as well as statistical applications in bioinformatics and computational biology.

Research Interests: Algebra, Geometry, Mathematical Physics, and Topology

Alastair Hamilton joined the mathematics department in the fall of 2010. Prior to this, he spent three years at the University of Connecticut as a postdoctoral fellow and a year at the Max Planck Institut fur Mathematic in Bonn, Germany. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Bristol in 2005 and his master's degree from the same institution in 2002. His research interests lie in algebra and topology. His research explores the connections between these areas and parts of mathematical physics, such as quantum field theory.

Research Interests: Computer Algebra, Differential Algebra, Computational Mathematics, Mathematical Biology, Dynamical Systems, Symbolic Integration, Algorithmic Methods in Mathematics and Optimization

Lourdes Juan received an undergraduate degree with honors (Titulo de Oro) in Mathematics from the University of Havana in 1991. From 1991-1995 she worked first as a trainee and then as a research resident in the department of Artificial Intelligence and Pattern Recognition of the Cuban Academy of Sciences. In 1995 she was granted the first student visa that the US government gave in Cuba since the 1960's to pursue doctoral studies at the University of Oklahoma. She graduated with a PhD in Mathematics in 2000 under the direction of Professor Andy Magid. She was a Postdoctoral Fellow at the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute in Berkeley during 2000-2001, and joined the Math Department of Texas Tech in the Fall of 2001 as an assistant professor. She is currently an associate professor with tenure. Her research interests include the Galois Theory of differential and difference equations, algebraic groups and computer algebra.

Research Interests: Algebra

Arne Ledet graduated from University of Copenhagen (Denmark) in 1992, and obtained his Ph.D. from the same institution in 1996. His subsequent postdoctoral employment included stays at Queen's University (Canada), MSRI (USA), Tokyo Metropolitan University (Japan), and University of Waterloo (Canada), before he came to Texas Tech in 2002 as Assistant Professor. His graduate and postgraduate work was in Galois theoretical embedding problems. Currently, his research is concerned with the related problem of constructing generic polynomials for Galois extensions. He is the co-author of a book on this subject, "Generic Polynomials" (with C. U. Jensen and N. Yui), published in 2002.

Research Interests: Differential Geometry, Minimal Surfaces, Einstein Structures, 4-D Manifolds, Ricci flow, Harnack inequalities, and Applications of Geometry in Math Bio and Data Science

From a small village in Vietnam, Hung Tran obtained his bachelor degree from Berea College in Kentucky and in 2014 received his PhD degree in mathematics from Cornell University. He was a visiting assistant professor at the University of California at Irvine before joining Texas Tech University in 2017. His research lies at the interface of geometry and analysis with potential applications to mathematical physics, math bio, and data science. In other words, he utilizes analytical techniques (aka PDE) to investigate geometric equilibrium configurations. His recent work focuses on generalized Willmore and minimal surfaces, Einstein structures, and spectral analysis.

Research Interests: Statistical Genetics and Epigenetics

Fangyuan Zhang joined the department as an assistant Professor in the fall of 2015. Prior to this, she received a B.S. degree in statistics at Beijing Normal University in China. In 2015, she received a PhD in Biostatistics from the Department of Statistics at The Ohio State University. Fangyuan Zhang's research interests are in statistical genetics and epigenetics. Her current research projects include developing parametric and nonparametric statistical methods to detect genomic imprinting and maternal effects under different study designs, and testing for association in a heterogeneous sample and its application to tumor clustering.

Research Interests: Mathematical biology, Mathematical modeling, Numerical analysis, Scientific computing, Applied machine learning

Dr. Travis Thompson was a strategic hire at the rank of assistant professor in the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at Texas Tech effective Fall 2022. Prior to this, he received a Ph.D. in Mathematics from Texas A&M University for work in numerical analysis and finite element methods with application to problems in computational fluid dynamics. Following his doctoral work, Dr. Thompson held postdoctoral fellowship positions in applied mathematics at Rice University, Simula Research Laboratory and Oxford University where he focused on numerical methods and mathematical modeling of neuropathology and the brain. His research focuses on the mathematical modeling of complex biological systems and the development, analysis and application of the numerical methods and data-driven scientific computing approaches enabling their study.

Research Interests: Applied Mathematics, Computational Mathematics

Dr. Ignacio Tomas obtained his Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics from the University of Maryland in 2015. Following his doctoral work on Numerical Analysis of PDE models describing ferrofluids, he took a Visiting Assistant Professor position at Texas A&M University (TAMU). Before joining TTU he held a postdoctoral position at Sandia National Laboratories (Albuquerque, New Mexico). During his time at TAMU he developed non-variational schemes for hyperbolic systems of conservation laws with mathematically guaranteed properties. More recently he has worked in the analysis and development of numerical schemes for PDE models of electric charge transport, such as Euler-Poisson and Euler-Maxwell system of dense plasmas. Overall, his research focuses on the analysis, development, and implementation of physically motivated PDE-models and their respective numerical schemes.

Research Interests: Statistics

Before getting his Ph.D. in mathematical statistics at Catholic University in Washington D. C., 1964, Dr. Conover taught as a TA at Iowa State University, and as an Instructor at the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis Maryland. His first tenure track position was at Kansas State University, where he taught in the Statistics Department for 9 and a half years before joining the Texas Tech Department of Mathematics and Statistics in 1973. His research interests are in applied statistics, and especially in nonparametric methods. He is a Highly Cited Researcher according to ISI, with over 30,000 citations to his books and papers. He has consulted with various pharmaceutical companies, and has done extensive consulting with several national laboratories including especially Los Alamos, Sandia in Albuquerque, Hanford Lab in Richland Washington, and Oak Ridge Lab in Tennessee. He has held visiting positions at the University of California at Davis, and the University of Zurich in Switzerland. He is listed in Who's Who in America, and Who's Who in the World.

Research Interests: Applied Mathematics, Analysis, Industrial Mathematics, Mathematical Biology, Mathematical Physics, Ordinary Differential Equations, and Partial Differential Equations

Akif Ibragimov obtained his Master's degree in Mathematics in 1975 from the Azerbaijan Oil Academy. He also interned at the Department of Computational Mathematics and Cybernetics (CMC) of Lomonosov Moscow State University (MSU) in 1974 and 1975 and one year later, in June 1976 Akif defended his PhD thesis at the CMC Department of MSU. During the next 10 years his research was focused on the Qualitative Theory of Partial Differential Equations and in 1985 he defended his dissertation at the Steklov Mathematical Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences in Moscow, and obtained the degree Doctor of Science in Mathematics. Since then his research interests diversified; he worked at several academics and industrial positions in Russia, Azerbaijan and USA. From 2000-2004 he was a Visiting Professor at Texas A&M University, and Research Scientist at Knowledge Based Systems in College Station. Akif joined Texas Tech in September 2004. His research interests cover broad areas of applied mathematics including fluid flow in porous media, mathematical modeling in bio-medicine, fluid structure interaction, and image processing.

Research Interests: Continuum Theory, Geometric Topology, and Topological Dynamics

Wayne Lewis received his Ph.D. from the University of Texas at Austin in 1977. He has been on the faculty of the Department of Mathematics at Texas Tech University since 1977 and Professor of Mathematics since 1989. Dr. Lewis has research interests in continuum theory and in its relations to geometric topology and to topological dynamics. He has extensive results on hereditarily indecomposable continua, especially their structure, characterizations and mapping properties. He has given numerous short courses and workshops related to the subject.

Research Interests: Biostatistics, Nonparametric Statistics, and Statistics

Hossein Mansouri is professor of statistics in the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at Texas Tech University and served as an associate dean in the College of Arts and Sciences from November 2001 to September 2010. He received a B.S. degree from the Institute of Statistics and Informatics in Iran, an M.S. in Statistics from the Ohio State University, and a Ph.D. from the University of Kentucky. Before joining the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at Texas Tech University in 1985, he served as a visiting assistant professor in the Department of Mathematics at Tulane University and in the Department of Statistics at the University of Kentucky. His research interests include nonparametric statistics with focus on the study and development of statistical methods based on ranks; and biostatistics with focus on studies in biomechanics.

Research Interests: Applied Mathematics, Analysis, Control Theory, Geometry, Mathematical Physics, Ordinary Differential Equations, and Partial Differential Equations

Lance Drager received his BA Magna Cum Laude from the University of Minnesota in 1972 and received Master's (1973) and Ph.D. (1978) degrees from Brandeis University. After a Visiting Membership at the Courant Institute and an appointment at Georgia Tech, he came to Texas Tech as an Assistant Professor in 1983, and became Associate Professor in 1990. His research interests are in Geometric Analysis and its applications, including Differential Geometry, Mathematical Control Theory, Ordinary, Partial and Functional Differential Equations and Mathematical Physics. He has worked with scientists in other disciplines; a paper with two co-authors was awarded the Best Paper of the Year in 2003 by the journal "The Log Analyst" (Petroleum Industry). He is also very interested in computing.

Research Interests: Applied Mathematics, Analysis, Control Theory, and Partial Differential Equations

David S. Gilliam came to Texas Tech University in 1977 and has been a Professor of Mathematics since 1990. During this period he has held visiting positions at Arizona State University, Colorado School of Mines, University of Texas at Dallas, and Washington University in St. Louis. He was an affiliate professor of Systems Science and Mathematics at Washington University in St. Louis from 1989-2006. His research interests have been quite diverse. His dissertation was in an area of abstract functional analysis but he soon turned to problems in the theory of partial differential equations of mathematical physics. In 1986 he began working in distributed parameter systems and the solution of ill-posed inverse problems. His current main research interests are in the control of distributed parameter systems governed by partial differential equations.

Research Interests: Potential Theory and Complex Analysis

Stamatis Pouliasis received his Ph.D. in Mathematics from the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece in 2011. Since 2012 he has been working as a postdoctoral fellow in different universities across multiple continents. His main interests are in complex analysis and potential theory; in particular, capacity, harmonic measure, conformal and quasiconformal mappings, symmetrization, and spaces of analytic functions. He started at Texas Tech University January 2018 working as postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Mathematics and Statistics, then was hired as an Assistant Professor. He returned to Greece in the Summer of 2022.

Research Interests: Statistical Shape and Trajectory Analysis, Medical Imaging, Computational Statistics

Jingyong Su joined the department as an assistant professor in the fall of 2013. Prior to this, he completed a Ph.D. in statistics at the Florida State University in the summer of 2013. Previously, he received a M.S. in computer science from Harbin Institute of Technology Shenzhen Graduate School in 2008 and a B.S. in electrical engineering from Harbin Institute of Technology in 2006. His current research interests include statistical trajectory analysis on manifolds with different applications, statistical shape analysis and medical imaging.

Faculty 1974 - 2012

Associate Professor 1981

Retired August, 2012

Deceased November 2021

From 1982-1984, Harold Dean Victory, Jr. was a Humboldt Fellow in applied mathematics-kinetic theory at the Universities of Frankfurt and Kaiserslautern in Germany. In the summer of 1987, he was invited by the Mathematics department of the University of Munich to resume his research as a Humboldt Fellow in the area of kinetic theory. He was the author of over 50 research papers in applied and pure mathematics.