Munakata Taisha shrines

Chief Priest

Takayuki Ashizu

Born in 1967.

1985: Graduated from Kogakukan University, entered service at the Atsuta Jingu shrine.

1987: Joined the Association of Shinto Shrines.

1996: Became a Director, holding positions as Chief of the General Affairs Section, Chief of the Information Management Section, Chief of the Education and Learning Section, and Chief of the International Affairs Section.

2009: Became a Councillor, holding positions as Director of the Financial Affairs Department and Director of the Public Relations Department.

April 2012: entered service at the Munakata Taisha shrines.

2013: Promoted to Assistant Chief.

June 2015: Promoted to Chief Priest. Presently serves as Chief Priest.

His life-work is environmental conservation.

Ministry of Foreign Affairs

Assistant Minister & Director-General for Global Issues (Ambassador)

Tamaki Tsukada

Previously he was Deputy Assistant Minister for Economic Affairs and Latin American & Caribbean Affairs (2019) and Deputy Assistant Minister for Parliamentary Affairs (2018).

He was Chief Negotiator for Climate Change for COP 23 (2017), while serving as board member of the Green Climate Fund and the Global Fund to fight AIDS, TB and Malaria (2017-2018).

Joined the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1987. Worked in the areas of trade (TPP and bilateral FTAs), development cooperation (loan aid; policy planning; ODA budget) and energy & food security, among others.

He was seconded to the Cabinet Secretariat in 2006-2008 as senior coordinator for overseas development cooperation and global health.

Foreign postings in London (Economic & Energy) 1990-1992; Moscow (Political &Foreign Policy) 1999-2001;

Permanent Mission to the UN in Geneva (Political &Human Rights) 2001-2004; New Delhi (Economic & Development Cooperation)

2011-2014; Washington D.C. (Culture, Media, Strategic Communication) 2014-2017.

Graduated from Tokyo University (BA Law, 1987) and Oxford University (Merton College, BA/MA Modern History, 1990).

Born on November 23, 1964; he is an amateur flautist and a keen Shogi (Japanese Chess) player.

Ministry of the Environment

Vice‐Minister of the Environment

Hiroshi Kamagata

Born in Tokyo, October 1959. He joined the Environment Agency in 1984.

Hiroshi was Director-General of the Ministry of the Environment, Director of the Global Environment Bureau, Chief Director of the Minister’s Secretariat for Countermeasures for Waste & Recycling, Cabinet Secretariat Councilor (Deputy Cabinet Secretary) & Head of the Cabinet Secretariat Nuclear Regulation Reform Promotion Organization & Deputy Director‐General of the Ministry of the Environment, Treasurer in Chief, Director of General Affairs of the Global Environment Bureau, Cabinet Secretariat Counselor, and more before he took on his present post in July 2019.

During that time, in addition to being involved with the establishment of the Ministry of the Environment, he was engaged with countermeasures for global warming, the reconstruction & restoration of Fukushima, countermeasures for Minamata Disease, measures for recyclable resources, and more.

登場プログラム

P-2

Under adjustment

Governor of Tokyo

Yuriko Koike

【Biography】

October 1976 Graduated from Cairo University, Faculty of Arts, Department of Sociology

July 1992 Elected to House of Councilors

July 1993 Elected to House of Representatives

September 2003 Minister of Environment

September 2004 Additional duties as Minister of State for Okinawa and Northern Territories

September 2006 Special Advisor to the Prime Minister for National Security Issues

July 2007 Minister of Defense

September 2010 President of the Liberal Democratic Party

October 2011 Budget Committee Director of the House of Representatives

July 2016 Elected Governor of Tokyo Metropolis

President, Fisheries Research & Education Agency

Special Adviser, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries for International Affairs Adviser, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries for Fisheries Policy Reform

Masanori Miyahara

Education

1978 BS Faculty of Fisheries Science, University of Tokyo

1985 MA Department of Political Science, Duke University

Job Record

1978 Joined Fisheries Agency of Japan

1986－90 First Secretary, Embassy of Japan in US

1994－97 Director of Fishery Dev. ,Ishikawa Prefecture

2002ー05 Chairman of International Commission for Conservation of Atlantic Tunas

(ICCAT)

2005－08 Director, Fisheries Coordination Div, Fisheries Agency

2008－11 Senior Counselor, Fisheries Agency

2011－14 Deputy Director General, Fisheries Agency

2011ー13 Chairman of ICCAT

2013ー Visiting Professor of Nagoya University

2014ー President, Fisheries Research & Education Agency

Special Adviser to Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries for

International Affairs

2017ー Adviser to Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries for Fisheries

Policy Reform

登場プログラム

P-6

Envisioning 2030 Japanese Fishery with the Fishery Reform and Resource Recovery

Environmental Defense Fund (EDF)

Senior Vice President, Oceans

Eric Schwaab

In his role as Senior Vice President for the Oceans program, Eric leads a global team of scientists, lawyers and advocates working to create thriving, resilient oceans. He brings more than two decades of experience in government and the foundation and non-profit sectors, driving complex conservation initiatives to scale.

Schwaab, who served as head of NOAA’s National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), has deep expertise coordinating environmental policy while working with stakeholders on all sides to ensure the best possible outcomes for the environment and fishing communities. At NMFS, Eric led the transformation of U.S. fisheries management, including widespread adoption of science-based catch limits and catch shares. He represented the United States in negotiations of international fishing treaties such as the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT).

登場プログラム

P-6

Envisioning 2030 Japanese Fishery with the Fishery Reform and Resource Recovery

Former Ministry of Agriculture

Forestry and Fisheries Administrative Vice-Minister

Masaaki Okuhara

Born 1955.

Graduated Azabu High School・University of Tokyo Faculty of Law.

Joined the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in 1979, and went on to serve as Assistant Director of the Fisheries Marketing Division, First Secretary at the Japanese Embassy in Germany, Secretary to the Minister, Section Chief of the Agricultural Cooperatives Division at the Economic Affairs Bureau, Director of the General Affairs Division at the Food Safety and Consumer Affairs Bureau, Director of the Secretarial Division of the Minister's Secretariat, Division Chief of the Fisheries Administration Department at the Fisheries Agency, Bureau Chief of the Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Research Council, Bureau Chief of the Food Safety and Consumer Affairs Bureau, and Bureau Chief of the Management Improvement Bureau before becoming Vice-Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in 2016, and retiring in 2018.

While serving in Germany he witnessed the reunification of East and West Germany, and as Bureau Chief of the Management Improvement Bureau and as Vice-Minister was engaged in the the enactment of agricultural land bank laws, restructuring of the agricultural cooperatives, enhancement of agricultural competitiveness programs, and the restructuring of the forestry and fishery industries.

A more detailed account of these events is described in "Reforming Agricultural Policy -The Job and Responsibilities of an Administrative Official-", published in July 2019 (Nikkei Publishing).

登場プログラム

P-6

Envisioning 2030 Japanese Fishery with the Fishery Reform and Resource Recovery

Stockholm Resilience Centre

Deputy Science Director

Henrik Österblom

Henrik Österblom's research focuses on ocean stewardship, global cooperation and marine ecosystems. He is also deputy science director at the Stockholm Resilience Centre

Österblom has a Master’s Degree in Behaviour Ecology from the Department of Zoology at Uppsala University, and a PhD in Marine Ecology from the Department of Systems Ecology at Stockholm University. His research ranges from studies of seabird ecology, Baltic Sea ecosystem management, and fisheries compliance in the Southern Ocean, to the role of transnational actors in shaping the past, present and future ocean. He has worked at the Swedish Museum of Natural History, and as Special Advisor to the Swedish Government in the Secretariat for the Environmental Advisory Council.

Henrik is leading the Keystone Dialogues, a global co-production project including major private actors in global seafood, which has resulted in the establishment of the Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship (SeaBOS) initiative, aimed to transform global seafood towards more sustainable practices. He is principal investigator in Nereus – Predicting the Future Oceans Program, member of the IMBeR Human Dimension Working Group and the Seas of Norden Network.

Österblom serves on the international advisory board of the South American Institute for Resilience and Sustainability Studies (SARAS), as board member of Race for the Baltic, and represents Stockholm University in the United Nations Global Compact Action Platform for Sustainable Ocean Business.

He represents the Stockholm Resilience Centre in the Section for Earth and Environmental Sciences at Stockholm University and is subject editor for Ecology and Society, and PLOS One.

登場プログラム

P-7

SeaBOS – Consolidating and accelerating change

SeaBOS

Managing Director

Martin Exel

Martin has been in the seafood sector for 40 years, and working with an Australian seafood business called Austral Fisheries since 1997, mainly in their Southern Ocean operations. He has held many other roles, such as Chair of the international Coalition of Legal Toothfish Operators; member and Chair of Australian seafood industry Associations; and Board member of the Institute of Marine and Antarctic Studies (UTAS). Before this, he worked for the Australian government, culminating in 5 years as General Manager Fisheries at the Australian Fisheries Management Authority and, earlier, he spent several years as a deckhand on longline and trawl vessels. He holds a Bachelor of Science from Victoria University of Wellington (NZ), a Graduate Diploma in Fisheries Technology from the Australian Maritime College, and is a passionate recreational angler.

登場プログラム

P-7

SeaBOS – Consolidating and accelerating change

Sustainable Fisheries Partnership

CEO and Founder

Jim Cannon

Jim Cannon is CEO and founder of the Sustainable Fisheries Partnership. He has worked on fisheries, forestry, and conservation issues in Asia, Europe, and the Americas. Jim edited the UN Food and Agriculture Organization’s World Review of Marine Fisheries in the late 1990s, advised McDonald’s since 2002 on their fish-sourcing guidelines and annual sourcing evaluations, and advised Walmart on seafood sustainability since 2004. He served on the Marine Stewardship Council’s (MSC’s) Technical Advisory Board from 2005 to 2008, and worked at Conservation International from 1997 to 2006, where he headed the economics program and then the policy center. Jim studied ecology at Cambridge University and environmental economics, management, and fisheries at Imperial College, London. In 2009, Jim was named Intrafish’s “Person of the Year.”

登場プログラム

P-9

Role of Retailers: Driving the Sustainable Seafood Initiatives

登場プログラム

Luncheon C: SFP Tuna SR

Tuna Sustainability Overview: Introduction to the Supplier Roundtable

Aeon Co., Ltd.

Manager, Merchandising Strategy Department

Yasuyuki Yamamoto

Yasuyuki joined in JUSCO (currently AEON) in 1984.

Yasuyuki has extensive experience in importing high-quality products which meets the various food safety standards. He had been in charge of developing eel, shrimp, crab, and organic agricultural products in the past.

In 2001, he developed AEON’s eco-friendly seafood private brand “Greeneye” which incorporates EU organic standard. He also launched chemical-free eel and shrimp aquaculture products in the past.

After a year of preparation, Yasuyuki successfully introduced MSC certification to AEON in 2006. Most recently, he developed AEON’s seafood sustainable seafood procurement policy and 2020 goal. His motto is to provide sustainable lifestyle to the society.

Senior editor, Nikkei ESG & Producer, Nikkei ESG management forum

Kaori Fujita

kaori was born in Uozu, a fishing town in the Toyama Prefecture. She graduated from the University of Tokyo Department of Physics and joined Nikkei Business Publications after.

Prior to the current position, Kaori worked as a writer for "Nikkei Electronics", an associate editor for "National Geographic Japan" and an editorial committee member for "Nikkei Ecology", among other things.

Her current focus is ESG governance, SDGs, biodiversity, natural capitalism, and countryside revitalization, and serves as a stakeholder of the Ministry of the Environment's SDGs Association and as a local government authority figure as well as publishing "Natural Capitalist Management, an SDGs and ESG Era of Biodiversity", and others. Kaori is also a visiting scholar at the University of Toyama and part time lecturer for the University of the Sacred Heart.

登場プログラム

P-10

Measuring the Progress Towards SDGs

登場プログラム

B-2

How to Attract ESG Investment by Improving Corporate and Community Value

登場プログラム

C-3

Activating the Fishing Communities and Their Tradition with Sustainable Branding

登場プログラム

B-5

Smart Fishery: Revolutionalizing Japanese Fishery with Technology

Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd.

Senior Principal

Mariko Kawaguchi

Mariko obtained a master's degree in environmental economics from Hitotsubashi University. After joining Daiwa Securities, she went on transfer to the Daiwa Institute of Research in 1994. She was the lead of the research division at the Daiwa Institute of Research since December 2018.She is in charge of sustainability issues including CSR and ESG investing, and ethical consumption. Mariko is also an official member of an analysts association, a part time lecturer at Waseda University, a director of United Nations Global Compact Network Japan, a joint representative of the board of directors for the nonprofit organization Japan Sustainable Investment Forum, a temporary member of the Ministry of Education Central Environment Council since 2018, and has written The Social Finance Textbook published by Seisansei Publishing, and more.

登場プログラム

P-10

Measuring the Progress Towards SDGs

登場プログラム

B-2

How to Attract ESG Investment by Improving Corporate and Community Value

Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management

Supervisor, Stewardship Development Department

Seiji Kawazoe

1987: Joined Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank

1992: Graduated from the London Business School

1994: Public Funds Management Department

1995: Resided in New York as an International Stock Fund Manager

2004: Resided in London as an International Stock Fund Manager

2007: Resided in Luxembourg while working for the Trust Asset Planning Department. Managed ESG.

2010: Deputy Director in charge of ESG and product development, Trust Asset Planning Department

2017: Supervisor, Stewardship Development Department

Joined Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank in 1987, where he assisted corporations in managing securities and exchanges. After graduating from the London School of Business in 1992, he served in a variety of international settings as an international stock fund manager and, starting from his time in Europe, has been responsible for ESG- and investment-related business planning. Since returning to Japan in 2010, he has contributed to engagement initiatives at PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment, supported by the United Nations). He also gives lectures on ESG and currently holds positions as a Part-time Lecturer for The University of Tokyo's Graduate School of Frontier Sciences and as an Associate Fellow at the University of Reading's Henley Business School. He is a Certified Member Analyst of the Securities Analysts Association of Japan and a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA).

Marine Stewardship Council (MSC)

Chief Program Officer

Nicolas Guichoux

Nicolas is the Chief Program Officer at the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) and has been with the MSC since 2002. During this time, he has played a key role in enabling the MSC to go to scale and increase the impact of its work towards a sustainable global seafood industry.

In 1994, after graduating from the French Business School EDC, Nicolas started his career in international business at the French Chamber of Commerce in South Korea. In 1997 he was appointed Export Manager for leading French seafood processor, Cité Marine.

Coming from Brittany - the main fishing region in France - Nicolas had long been concerned by the increasing impact of fishing on the environment and on people’s livelihoods. This led him to join the MSC in 2002 as the Manager for continental Europe. He later became the Regional Director of Europe in 2007. ​

He is a member of the Marine Stewardship’s Executive Committee and is currently responsible for the development and delivery of its global outreach program strategy.

Panasonic Corporation

Brand Communication Headquarters CSR・Social Culture department Director

Rika Fukuda

In 1986, Rika joined Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd. (Presently, Panasonic Corporation)

Thereafter, participated in the planning and operations of human resources management systems such as the fund system of the Panasonic Group while at the Human Resources and Labor Administration Division.

In 2002, she led the way in introducing Japan's first system for severance payments and pension plans. This system became the foundation stone of the system structure for Japan thereafter.

From December 2010, she was in charge of human resources and general affairs while at the Public Affairs Division in Tokyo.

In May 2014, she was group manager of the Corporate Social Responsibility and Society and Culture Group while at the Brand Communication Division.

In April 2015, she became chief of the Corporate Social Responsibility and Society and Culture Section.

Lloyd's Register Japan K.K.

Director

Hidemi Tomita

Graduated from Department of Engineering, University of Tokyo

Master of Science in Chemical Engineering at Princeton University

He served as General Manager for about ten years from the beginning of the Sony Corporation CSR Department was established in 2003. Meanwhile, he managed all kinds of CSR activities, including establishment of CSR management system, information disclosure, stakeholder engagement with investors and NGOs, collaboration project with NGOs, and supply chain management. After he left Sony, he joined Lloyd’s Register Group. Currently he is Director of Lloyd Register Japan K.K. He has involved in various domestic and international standards such as ISO 26000, ISO 20400, GRI standards, and Sustainable procurement codes for Tokyo Olympic & Paralympic Games etc. Publication "Sustainable Procurement in the Age of ESG Investment" (Nikkei BP)

登場プログラム

P-11

Beyond 2020: Tokyo Olympic Legacy

Patagonia Japan

Provisions Manager

Katsuhiro Kondo

Katsuhiro was born in Kanagawa Prefecture in 1973. In 1995, he started working part–time at the Patagonia Kamakura store. After becoming a full–time employee, he became a store manager and then a marketing manager. In 2016 he became the manager in charge of Patagonia Provisions, which is their new food business line.

He loves spending his days surfing and snowboarding and lives a life that is close to nature.

Walton Family Foundation

Program Officer, Environment Program

Teresa Ish

Teresa manages grants in the Environment Program that leverage the power of the supply chain to advocate for more sustainable fisheries. Before joining the foundation, Teresa was the seafood project manager for the Corporate Partnerships Program at Environmental Defense Fund, where she worked with leading seafood buyers to develop and implement sustainable seafood purchasing policies. During her tenure at EDF, she played an instrumental role in merging the organization's seafood buyer work and its extensive experience in the fishery policy arena. Prior to joining EDF, she co- founded FishWise and served as its director of science.

Teresa holds a bachelor’s degree in environmental studies and biology and a Master of Science in oceans science from the University of California Santa Cruz.

Patagonia Japan

Senior Director, Environmental and Social Initiatives

Junichi Sato

Graduated from Fort Lewis College in Colorado studied the culture of Raramuri, a native tribe in Mexico. Worked for an International Environmental NGO for 15 years promoting businesses and governments to implement environmental solutions on issues like overfishing, toxic waste, illegal timber imports and climate change. Currently working as the Senior Director of Environmental and Social Initiatives in Patagonia Japan and overseeing all the activities not only to reduce its environmental footprint but also to implement creative and responsible solutions for climate change working with other companies and industries in Japan.

登場プログラム

A-1 Welcome Session

Corporate Responsibility and Supply Chain Management in Patagonia

Seafood Legacy

Senior Officer

Aiko Yamauchi

Born in Tokyo. After studying coastal fisheries resource management and operation, Aiko joined WWF Japan Conservation team as a fisheries officer. At WWF Japan, Aiko focused on engaging domestic and international stakeholders to collaborate and promote sustainable fisheries and smart management of ocean resources. She also led a joint marine conservation project of WWF Japan, Chile, Indonesia, and China. After Aiko joined Seafood Legacy, she is in charge of strategy development and technical implementation for both Fishery Program and Business Engagement Program. Aiko holds a doctorate degree from Graduate School of Tokyo University of Marine Science and Technology.

・Member of the special committee of stock management of Fisheries Policy Council

・External reviewer of SH”U”N project by The National Research and Development Agency, Japan Fisheries Research and Education Agency

・Coordinator for Anti- IUU Forum in Japan

登場プログラム

A-2

Human Right Issues and IUU Fishing: Understanding the Risks in the Seafood Supply Chain

登場プログラム

C-6

Dialogue on Eel Conservation and Our Food Culture

Plan International

SAFE Seas Project Director

Nono Sumarsono

Nono Sumarsono has over 20 years of experience developing, implementing and evaluating programs to prevent human trafficking and forced labor in the Asia-Pacific region. In the last five years he has actively involved in the issue of IUUF and labor exploitation in fishing industry. He was the Program Director for Plan International Indonesia and has six years of experience working with Unicef in Indonesia and Malaysia as Child Protection Officer. Currently he is leading the Safeguarding against and Addressing Fishers’ Exploitation at Sea (SAFE Seas) Project in Indonesia and the Philippines as a Project Director with Plan International Asia Regional Office.

Labour Rights Promotion Network Foundation

Director

Patima Tungpuchayakul

Patima Tungpuchayakul has emerged as the key person behind attempts to end slavery at sea in South-East Asia.

Patima founded the Labour Rights Promotion Network Foundation (LPN) in Thailand in 2004 with Sompong Srakaew. Her interest in human rights began in 1996 after graduation from Mahasarakham University, when she realized that the owners of factories near her home north of Bangkok were abusing migrant workers, especially women and children. LPN rescued about 3000 captive and stranded fishermen from isolated Indonesian islands in 2014.

In more than two decades as an activist, Patima has deeply involved to support and protect Thais and migrants, created awareness of chronic rights breaches and worked with reformers to build understanding and improve the lives of workers and the laws governing their employment.

She remains a dedicated innovator and recognizes that much more reform work still needs to be done in the region, on land and sea.

FleishmanHillard Japan K.K

FH Sports & Entertainment Division Senior Consultant/Tokyo Olympic Athlete Committee Member

Shintaro Ikeda

Former Olympic badminton athlete

In the 2007 World Championships, he won the first medal as a Japanese male.

Participated in the 2008 Beijing Olympics and the 2012 London Olympics.

As a member of the Athletes' Commission for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games, he is leading initiatives for the success of the Games.

He currently works as a senior consultant at FleischmannHillard Japan, one of the world's largest communication consultant company.

ATHLETE SAVE JAPAN（ASJ)

Representative of the board of directors

Seiji Iinuma

Born in Tokyo in 1974, he graduated with a master's degree in sport science research from Waseda University. After starting college, he was a main participant in the Oceanman race series, the leading event in lifesaving competitions. Upon on graduating the university, he was selected to represent Japan in the Oceanman race's world series "World Oceanman Series" hosted by Australia, and he became the first Japanese to sign of professional contract as a lifesaver. He earned five consecutive championships at the All-Japan Lifesaving Championships. In 2010, he achieved numerous good results from races overseas including placing second at the Lifesaving World Championships. In 2006, he established the "Tateyama Surf Club", and he has been active on the forefront of rescuing drowning victims.

・ Representative of the board of directors for the general incorporated association Athlete Save Japan

・ General supervisor for the Setagaya Swimming School

・ Japanese representative director for lifesaving competitions, and the representative of Tateyama Surf Club

・ Director for the nonprofit organization Kidssaver

Environmental Justice Foundation（EJF）

Executive Director

Steve Trent

Steve Trent has over 25 years experience in environmental and human rights campaigning. He is co-founder of the Environmental Justice Foundation (EJF) (www.ejfoundation.org), headquartered in London and serves as the organisations Executive Director; he co- founded the US-based organisation WildAid (www.wildaid.org), where he served as President for over a decade and led their programs in China and India. Prior to this Trent was the Campaigns Director at the Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA). He has led advocacy and communications campaigns, field programs and investigations in over 40 countries.

Tokyo University of Marine Science and Technology

Associate Professor,School of Marine Life Sciences

Takahiro Matsui

Takahiro graduated from Tokyo University Agricultural Sciences Department in 2004, and continued as a graduate student and researcher of life science in the Agricultural Sciences Department where he completed his doctoral course in 2010. He holds a doctorate of the Agricultural Sciences. He became a research fellow (DC2) with the Japanese Society for the Promotion of Science in 2008. In 2010, Takahiro became the CEO research fellow of Kinki University Global Program, and in 2012, became associate professor of the post-graduate biology and natural resources program at Mie University, where he has held his current position since 2018. Takahiro specializes in fishery economics, natural resources theory, food systems theory, and agricultural economics, as well as some other fields. In recent years, he has been focusing on the economic assessment and impact of IUU (illegal, unreported, and unregulated) fishing activity. In particular, he has been involved with tackling the management of marine resources, countermeasures against poaching, and the branding and marketing efforts meant to reinvigorate fishing communities.

Resona Bank

Asset Management Department/Group Leader

Minoru Matsubara

Minoru Joined Resona Bank in April 1991 and assigned to the Pension Trust Management Department. Since then, he has been in charge of operation management and planning of the Investment Development, Public Fund Management, Pension Trust Management, Trust Property Management, and Operation Integration Departments. In April 2009, he became the planning and monitoring group leader of the Trust Property Management Department, with his present position since April 2017. He was a guest researcher at the Pension Fund Management Research Center in 2000 and at the Pension Integration Research Center in 2005. He is a JSIF (Japan Sustainable Investment Forum) management committee member, Ministry of the Environment "Investment Review Committee Considering Sustainability Issues" committee member, Investor Forum management committee member (-2016.7), and leader of the Financial Action Principle Management, Securities, and Investment Banking Working Group for the Formation of a Sustainable Society. Official member of the Securities Analysts Association of Japan and the Japan Finance Association.

Rakuten, Inc.

Senior Manager, Sustainability Department/Researcher at the Future Merchant Design Laboratory, Rakuten Institute of Technology

Takayuki Mamabe

Takayuki joined Rakuten after honing his professional skills as a researcher in NGOs and think tanks. In 2015 he took the helm of Rakuten Group projects focused on sustainability strategy development, ESG information disclosure, and activating social innovation through multi-stakeholder collaboration. He oversaw the launch of the “Earth Mall with Rakuten” project, an internet marketplace focused on sustainable products, in 2018. Through this project he collaborates with consumers, Rakuten shop owners and merchants, academics, and other businesses to promote certification products such as MSC, ASC, FSC, and RSPO, while driving the creation of an internet shopping platform that contributes to a sustainable society by enabling and encouraging responsible production and consumption.

Tokyo University of Marine Science and Technology

Associate Professor

Toshio Katsukawa

Dr. Toshio Katsukawa is an associate professor at Tokyo University of Marine Science and Technology. He graduated Ph.D. from University of Tokyo. He worked as assistant professor at University of Tokyo, and as associate professor for Mie University. His current research focus is reform of Japanese fisheries based on sustainable resource use. He received Award of Excellence for a Scientific Paper of Japanese Society of Fisheries Science, and Achievement Award for Young Scientists in Fisheries Science of Japanese Society of Fisheries Science.

Environmental Defense Fund (EDF)

Japan Director, Oceans

Kazuhiko Otsuka

Kazu Otsuka is a practical solution builder of sustainable fisheries that align conservation with the business of fishing. As the Japan lead of the EDF’s Ocean program, Kazu is responsible for conducting collaborative research, growing diverse partnerships and building technical capacity to bring lasting stability to fisheries resources in Japan.

Prior to joining EDF, he worked as a consultant at Boston Consulting Group, specializing in partnership coalition, corporate transformation, and business development. He received B.S. in Geology and Mineralogy at Kyoto University and Ph. D. in Geology and Geophysics from Yale University. He teaches at the Department of Food Production and Environmental Management, Faculty of Agriculture of Iwate University.

登場プログラム

C-2

Fishery Reform and the Future of Fishery Communities in Japan

Munakata Fishery Cooperative Member

Squid Fishermen

Katsushi Kuwamura

Born in 1967, Fukuoka Prefecture. Completed master's course at Department of Fisheries, Graduate School of Agriculture, Kyoto University. In April 1993, commenced fisheries administration and test research as fisheries engineer for Fukuoka Prefecture. Retired in March, 2013, then joined fishing industry in April of the same year as medium-scale roudhall fishery crew in the Kanezaki Fishery Cooperative (present-day Munakata Fishery Cooperative) in Munakata, Fukuoka Prefecture. Since April 2014, has been self-employed as a member of the association. Is currently continuing to fish while exploring how to practice fishery resource management, marine environment conservation, and improvement to fishery management from the viewpoint of someone in the field, using own experience as material.

FEM Co.,Ltd.

Representative Director, Japan Sustainable Labels Association CEO

Manami Yamaguchi

Manami participated in international certification and global environment conservation research from the perspective of environmental science and economics since she was in graduate school. She was also involved in environmental education, CSR (corporate social responsibility), and sustainability issues throughout her academic career.

After working with the Worldwatch Institute and other foundations and research institutes, Manami established FEM in 2003. In 2006, she opened Control Union Japan Office and had served as its representative for 12 years.

Currently, Manami is providing services related to sustainable and responsible resources, SDGs, CSR, and international certifications through consulting, advising, and providing educational training.

In order to promote a sustainable society, Manami connects sustainable business initiatives to individual lifestyles by raising awareness of international certifications, ethical consumption, and organic products.

Manami also serves as representative director of Japan Sustainable Labels Association, vice president of the Japan Ethical Initiative, director of Organic Village Japan, and the board chairman of the Environmental Business Research Institute.

Marine Stewardship Council (MSC)

Program Director Japan

Kozo Ishii

After graduating from National Fisheries University, Kozo worked in the food industry for several years before acquiring his MPA from the Indiana University, School of Public and Environmental Policy in Bloomington, USA. Prior to joining the MSC, Kozo was a senior research consultant at the International Development Center of Japan, leading the development of resource management plan and regional development plan in developing countries. Kozo is one of the founding members of MSC Japan office and has been a director of the Japan office since 2007. As a program director, he is responsible for raising awareness of MSC and promoting its programs among key stakeholders.

MSC is an international non-profit organization which promotes sustainable fishing practices by using ecolabel and fishery certification program for the health of the global seafood resources. 12% of the global marine wild catch is now MSC certified.

登場プログラム

B-3

Communicating Ethical Consumption and SDGs Through Certifications

WWF Japan

Nature Conservation Office Marine Fisheries Group Director

Satoshi Maekawa

Satoshi joined WWF Japan at 2001. Satoshi worked for migration waterbirds conservation as a coordinator of census survey and international conservation programme in Japan. From 2003, Satoshi worked for environmental research involving with local residents and environmental education at WWF Coral Reef Conservation and Research Centre in Ishigaki Island, Okinawa for 8 years. After moving to Tokyo office, Satoshi reviewed MPA of Japan for CBD 2010 and afterword he engaged in fishery ecolabel promotion and recovery project of areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake and promotion since 2011.

Seven & I Holdings Co.

Sustainability Promotion Department officer,Corporate Communications Headquarters

Kazuo Ozaki

After joining Ito-Yokado, Kazuo worked in the sales promotion department for 15 years.

Kazuo transferred to Seven & I Holdings Co. in 2006 where he was in charge of social contributions.

From 2012, he was in charge of the Group Environment Subcommittee in the CSR Management Department. From 2017, he was in charge of the Group Corporate Behavior Subcommittee (action guidelines, whistleblowing systems, employee engagement surveys, compliance, etc.).

From 2019, he once again headed a Group Environment Subcommittee, but in the Sustainability Promotion Department.

Kazuo is currently working towards the achievement of the goals of the Seven & I Holdings Environmental Declaration “GREEN CHALLENGE 2050” announced in May this year.

登場プログラム

B-3

Communicating Ethical Consumption and SDGs Through Certifications

McDonald's Japan

Manager,Corporate Relations Headquarters CSR Division

Masato Iwai

Masato joined McDonald's Japan in 1984. As the manager and supervisor of several franchises, he dedicated himself to providing our customers "the greatest restaurant experience."

Later, Masato was transferred to headquarters, where he provided support for efforts which enabled our restaurants to deliver their highest-level performance to customers, such as developing new products and new business model.

As of September 2014, Masato has been in charge of environmental efforts. In order to fulfill the corporate responsibilities borne by the 2,900 McDonald's restaurants located throughout Japan, he has been in charge of promoting information awareness campaigns for our Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and various efforts contributing to the environment on our Earth.

登場プログラム

B-3

Communicating Ethical Consumption and SDGs Through Certifications

Mie Prefecture Fishery Cooperative Female Division Association Toba Isobe Fishery Cooperative Association

Sugashima Branch Female Division

Megumi Kodera

Megumi is from landlocked Kamo, Gifu. After graduating from Business Administration and Design Institute at Ritsumeikan University, where she studied the coexistence of business and the environment, she worked as a system engineer at a company in Aichi Prefecture. Taking the opportunity to take over her husband's business, she moved to Sugashima in Toba-city, Mie. She feels that "ama (ama culture)" comes from independently coexisting within nature and society to form one part in one's life, work, and livelihood through the work of ama diving. While thinking about what could be done for the mothers, wives, daughters-in-law, and other fishing village women, and what should be done to continue the movement of its small economy while preserving the area's resources, she endeavored to grapple with forming six subsequent businesses including a cooking school for the promotion of seafood, and branding for seafood caught by ama divers. She is the youngest lifetime member of the nationwide fishery cooperative female division coordinated conference "FreshMs. Working Group" and the Fisheries Agency's "Ocean Treasure! A Lively Project of Fishing Women". She is a seafood leader in Mie Prefecture. She is a mother of a twin boy and girl.

IPNLF

Southeast Asia Director

Jeremy Crawford

Grew-up in tuna fisheries in the Asia-Pacific. Over 10 years professional experience working in capture fisheries for both the private sector and civil society groups on common threads around commercialization, environmental sustainability, IUU-mitigation, traceability and social responsibility. Work includes seafood processing start-ups in India, with over 1-million USD in turnover the first year of operation; Southeast-Asia principle for the NFI Crab Council's sustainability programs throughout the region; Responsible Sourcing Manager for the Thai Union Group, with oversight on sustainable procurement and social responsibility commitments including FIPs and pilot initiatives. Wealth of experience in managing cross-sectoral development programs in capture fisheries. Currently the Southeast Asian Director for the International Pole-and-Line Foundation (IPNLF), leading IPNLF’s programs in the region.

登場プログラム

Luncheon A: Lightning Round

Under adjustment

Kochi University

Executive Director (Regional Collaboration, International Affairs, Public Relations, and Institutional Research) and Vice President

Hiroyuki Ukeda

Sustainable Skipjack fisheries from Kochi ~ Kochi Sustainable Skipjack Association ~

For over 30 years, skipjack has been the popular seafood item in Kochi as the prefectural fish. The history of skipjack is represented in our food culture, such as Katsuo (skipjack) sashimi and tataki (seared sashimi). Many tourists come to Kochi for the delicious skipjack. Recently, a critical situation has been drawn attention upon skipjack resources. Skipjack fishing along the coastal areas of Kochi has been experiencing severely poor catches. The causes are considered to be climate change and overfishing. To address the issues, in 2017, volunteers in Kochi Prefecture launched the Kochi Sustainable Skipjack Association (KSSA) to preserve skipjack resources and food culture. Currently, over 140 members are working towards establishing sustainable skipjack fisheries by following the vigorous activities such as (1) active information sharing and outreaching; (2) raising public awareness of the fishing industry and consumption manner; (3) conducting survey of resources and carrying conservation activities; and (4) preservation and sharing of food cultures. In 2019, the association joined the International Pole and Line Foundation (IPNLF) as its 1st member from Japan. In partnership with the IPNLF, the association is aiming to be the local solution of the global sustainable seafood movement.

登場プログラム

Luncheon A: Lightning Round

Introduction of Kochi Prefecture Pole and Line Initiatives

BirdLife International

Marine Programme Officer

Yasuko Suzuki

After studying conflicts between fisheries and seabirds for 14 years along the west coast of the United States, Yasuko joined BirdLife International, an environmental NGO. Currently, she works on marine conservation as a member of the global team. In particular, her work focuses on reducing seabird bycatch in fisheries, through collaboration with fishery communities and seafood supply chain in Japan.

Born in Kanagawa, Japan. Yasuko holds PhD in Wildlife from the Department of Fisheries of Wildlife at Oregon State University.

Australis Aquaculture

CEO and Co-Founder

Josh Goldman

Josh Goldman, CEO of Australis Aquaculture, is an internationally recognized leader in sustainable seafood who spent the last 30 years developing some of the biggest ideas in aquaculture. Beginning in a solar greenhouse attached to his college dorm, Josh developed many of the core innovations used in closed-containment aquaculture globally. He co-founded Bioshelters, Inc. one of the world’s first commercial aquaponic farms which helped introduce tilapia to the American market. After embarking on a three-year global quest to identify the fish species best suited to sustainable ocean farming, Josh founded Australis Aquaculture in 2005 to scale production and create the market for barramundi. In 2018, Josh spearheaded an ambitious project to address climate change called Greener Grazing, which aims to initiate commercial cultivation of the red seaweed which has the unique ability to virtually eliminate methane emissions from ruminant animals when fed at a >1% of diet. Goldman holds multiple patents on water re-use and low carbon shipping technologies and was named a “Seafood Champion” for sustainability by the Seafood Choices Alliance.

登場プログラム

Luncheon B: Lightning Round

Barramundi: Reimagining the Future of Fish

登場プログラム

C-5

The Future of Responsible Aquaculture in the Asian Consuming Market

Veramaris

Global Business Development Director

Ian Carr

Ian is passionate about sustainable aquaculture and has substantial experience in aquafeed innovation, marketing and sustainable development from earlier roles with EWOS, Cermaq and Cargill. Ian holds an MBA from the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, Scotland and has also studied aquaculture. “Sustainability has been a red-thread throughout my career in aquaculture” says Ian. “So, when the opportunity came for me to help close the gap in supply and demand of EPA & DHA, I was already interested. Veramaris is helping to make our world a better place with healthier, more sustainable seafood. That’s enough to get me up in the morning!”.

登場プログラム

Luncheon B: Lightning Round

Barramundi: Reimagining the Future of Fish

Light House Co.,Ltd.

Lead Designer

Takayuki Ogawa

Takayuki joined Hakuhodo Inc. in 2013 and resigned in 2018.

During his employment at Hakuhodo, he was in charge of projects for companies such as Nissan, Intel, Airbnb, KOSE, and CCJC.

He is currently affiliated with Light House, believing that rather than just designing on behalf of clients, a designer must work side by side with a company's owner and be directly involved in a company's growth.

At the Cannes Creative Festival 2019, he received Silver in the design division.

In 2017, he received the ACC Creative Award Gold.

In 2016, he received the Tokyo Midtown Award Grand Prix.

In 2015, he received the Tokyo Midtown Award of Excellence and the Kundo Koyama Award.

Culinary Collaborations LLC

Special Projects Director

Yoshiki Haibara

Yoshiki Haibara has been in the tuna business for 20 years. Apprenticing at a tuna wholesaler in Tsukiji Market, he learned and became an expert in “mekiki” (how to find good fish), “kakou” (how to process fish), “kenpin” (grading & selection methodologies), and finally, “kaitsuke” (a qualified purchasing professional).

In 2002, he moved his family to the US and has worked on the sushi sales side since then. Leveraging his Japan experience, he has managed operations from purchasing, to processing, to grading, to sales. His particular focus is SuperFrozen (ultra-low-temperature) Tuna and is considered one of the top experts on -60C tuna in the US. Once thought difficult to handle, -60C tuna is now common at top US sushi chains.

Culinary Collaborations LLC is a product development company, importer, distributor, and wholesaler serving large sushi operators in North America. Valued by their clients for the deeply educational approach to sushi ingredients, CCL is credited with helping develop some of the best sushi programs in the US. Their stated mission is to assist clients to discover the finest all-natural, sustainable, traceable, ingredients for sushi, and partner with them on the journey.

Global Fishing Watch

CEO

Tony Long

Tony Long is CEO of Global Fishing Watch, an independent non-profit that aims to improve sustainability in our ocean resources through increased transparency in commercial fishing activity.

Previously, he led the Pew Charitable Trusts’ work to end illegal fishing.

Global Fishing Watch, is evolving to deliver in four key areas; the public and free technology platform monitoring fishing activity; research and innovation to promote data sharing for better science; provision of a Data and Analysis Cell to support the wider understanding of fishing activity and benefits of transparency, and the transparency program designed to bring more vessel tracking data into the public realm, improve compliance and make plain the global footprint of fishing.

He entered into ocean conservation after 27 years in the Royal Navy. He commanded a mine-hunter and a frigate, and served on the head of the Navy’s strategy team, providing ministerial-level defence planning and policy support.

Australian National Centre for Ocean Resources and Security (ANCORS) University of Wollongong

Associate Professor

Quentin Hanich

Quentin Hanich leads the Fisheries Governance Research Program at the Australian National Centre for Ocean Resources and Security (ANCORS), University of Wollongong, and advises international organisations and national governments on fisheries governance and marine conservation. He has extensive project management experience and a strong research and consulting background. Dr Hanich has worked widely throughout the Asia Pacific region in various international research partnerships focusing on ocean governance and emerging technologies, marine conservation, fisheries management and development.

The Fisheries Governance Research Program studies how communities and States manage human interactions with our marine environment, and supports the development of innovative solutions to manage our activities and impacts. Our applied research engages with communities, governments and industry, analyses key problems, and creates new solutions that deliver real outcomes with tangible impacts. Our program includes a number of projects focusing on: ocean governance and technology; multi-lateral frameworks for assessing and distributing conservation burdens in trans-boundary fisheries; coastal fisheries, climate change and food security; marine conservation; and integrated ocean management. Communication and engagement are key components of our research.

The Pew Charitable Trusts

International Fisheries, Director

Amanda Nickson

Amanda Nickson directs Pew’s international fisheries efforts to conserve important marine species through science-based policy development and advocacy. Her work includes reducing overfishing; minimizing the impact of destructive fishing gear; and eliminating illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing. She also helps lead advocacy efforts with regional fisheries management organizations, the international bodies that govern the treaties regulating commercial fishing on the high seas. Nickson’s work also addresses the overfishing of other valuable marine species in international waters and helps to protect the ocean environment.

Before joining Pew, Nickson worked for the World Wildlife Fund, most recently directing international efforts to protect threatened charismatic species such as tigers, pandas, and marine turtles. She also developed and led WWF’s Bycatch Initiative, a major policy and field program aimed at reducing the incidental catch of non-target species in fisheries in more than 20 countries throughout the world.

登場プログラム

A-3

Under adjustment

Japan Fisheries Research and Education Agency

Senior Adviser

Yoshioki Oozeki

Dr. Yoshioki Oozeki serves as the Senior Adviser for the Japan Fisheries Research and Education Agency. Dr. Oozeki graduated from Tokyo University of Fisheries in Aquaculture Science in 1981, and Graduate School of Agriculture at the University of Tokyo in 1989 where he received his PhD in Agriculture. He joined the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in 1989, where he held various positions, including as a Researcher at Tohoku National Fisheries Research Institute, Visiting Fellow at Alaska Fisheries Science Center, Head of Fisheries Biology Section at National Research Institute of Fisheries Science (NRIFS), Visiting Professor at Tokyo University of Marine Science and Technology, Director of Research Center for Fisheries Management, NRIFS, Councilor of Headquarters. He has served the current position since 2018. He had also been appointed to the President of the Japanese Society of Fisheries Oceanography during 2017 to 2019. Dr. Oozeki specializes in Marine Resource Ecology and Fisheries Oceanography of small pelagic fish species such as the Japanese sardine and the Pacific saury.

Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute (ASMI)

Sustainability and Certification Advisor

Susan Marks

Susan is the Sustainability and Certification Advisor for the Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute (ASMI). She serves as the internal leader and subject matter expert on sustainability and certification in the seafood marketplace, represents Alaska at industry conferences and speaks to relevant issues that help leverage and expand ASMI's sustainability thought leadership. During her tenure with ASMI she directed Alaska's Responsible Fisheries Management (RFM) Certification Program for seafood sustainability where she implemented strategies for global awareness and recognition and managed all marketing, outreach and communications.

Susan's seafood career started with the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) as a Commercial Manager where she promoted the use of the MSC ecolabel in the North American market. She later joined the Monterey Bay Aquarium's Seafood Watch program where she oversaw the business relationships with major seafood buyers in the retail and foodservice sectors.

A Seattle native, Susan has a BA in Communications from Washington State University.

Kaiko-Bussan

CEO

Kazuhiko Ono

1959 Born in Funabashi-city, Chiba prefecture.

1982 Graduated from department of industrial business in Meiji University, began his career at Daiden-Maru Corporation, where his father was managing.

1989 Co-found Kaiko-Bussan Corporation with Nakasen-maru.

1993 Assigned as a CEO. In order to promote seafood consumption and to maximize the true value of domestic seafood, Kazuhiko set corporate philosophies for both Daiden-maru, “漁魂 (Fishermen’s spirit)”, and Kaiko-bussan, “KIWAMERO-命 (Exceeding the spirit)” .

2014 Registered the company philosophy “漁魂 (Ryokon)” and their quick nerve removing technique, Shinkei-jime, as “Shunjime” for trademark. Kaiko-Bussan’s seaperch product was certified as “Chiba prefecture brand fish” and “All Japan pride fish”.

2016 Launched very first FIP in Japan to achieve sustainable management of traditional edomae (old Tokyo) fisheries.

2017 Met 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games’ procurement policy. Published “Fishermen’s spirit ~Globalizing Tokyo’s Edomae Fisheries Toward 2020”.

2018 Acquired Marine Eco Label (MEL) fishery and processing certification as

登場プログラム

C-4

Workshop: FIP/AIP Landscape in Japan

Marukin Co.,Ltd.

Shingo Suzuki

In Onagawa, Miyagi prefecture, Shingo works along with his father and grandfather to run a marine products processing company which handles silver salmon, oyster, and scallops from the area. Their company began working to farm silver salmon in 1977, and they were pioneers; the first in the industry to succeed in turning such a venture into a business.

Over 40 years the company has worked to accomplish every step of this process themselves, from farming the fish to processing it. Their branded traceable silver salmon ”Gin Ou” is popularly used by retailers restaurant chains. Shingo established the Miyagi Onagawa Silver Salmon AIP (Aquaculture Improvement Project) to help spread the word about silver salmon aquaculture in Miyagi throughout Japan and the world. He is also working together with Ocean Outcomes to gain ASC certification.

Shingo and the other young fishermen in Miyagi have come together to form the Fisherman Japan Company, working to improve the image people have of fishing and fisheries, and to train new workers. He also collaborates with other industries and raises the next generation of fishermen.

Seafood Legacy

Vice President / COO

Shunji Murakami

Shunji leads the strategic development and implementation of programs at Seafood Legacy as COO/ Vice President. He maintains strong relationships with Japanese fishery communities, seafood business, and key Japanese NGOs, working closely with these stakeholders to co-develop solutions that lead to improved fishing practices and improved fishery-based livelihoods. Responsible for the launch Japan’s first ever FIP and AIP, he has pioneered the improvement model in Japan. He has served as a moderator and panelist on numerous domestic and international sustainable seafood forums such as the SeaWeb Seafood Summit, etc. Prior to O2, Shunji led the Japan Program for Wild Salmon Center and Ocean Outcomes as Japan Program Director where he worked with wide range of stakeholders from fishery to government on fisheries improvements.

・Steering Board Member of Scaling Blue, LLC

・Member of Japan Fishery Agency Promotion Committee of Development of Aquaculture Industrialization

NTT DOCOMO, INC.

Chief manager, ICT and Regional revitalization promotion office

Keiichi Yamamoto

Born in Hiroshima, Keiichi joined NTT in 1995 and transferred to NTT DOCOMO in 2002.

At NTT DOCOMO, he worked at customer solutions for corporate sales. In December 2011, he was appointed as a leader of Reconstruction and Renovation Support for Tohoku Project and worked in the affected regions of the Great East Japan Earthquake such as Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima prefectures. Since March 2016, he has been engaged in aquaculture of those areas, conducting onsite experiments of “Fishery + d” at oyster and seaweed farms in Higashi-Matsushima, Miyagi prefecture. Based on the results from the experiments, he launched an ocean climate monitoring system, “ICT Buoy Solution” in 2017.

Keiichi’s philosophy is “Think at the site,” and has been committed to creating services for solving social issues, mainly for the primary sector, by using mobile technology and IT. He enjoys building relationship with people over good drinks and conversations.

登場プログラム

B-5

Smart Fishery: Revolutionalizing Japanese Fishery with Technology

Food Marketing Research and Information Center

Jun Sakai

Born in 1968. Jun has been working at the Food Marketing Research and Information Center since 1998. He has been in charge on development and implementation of food traceability system since 2002, focusing on field research and guideline development for Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries’ Food Safety and Consumer Affairs Bureau and Fisheries Agency.

His previous projects are:

- Miyagi prefecture oyster traceability system development and implementation support (supported by Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries, 2002)

- "Handbook for introduction of Food Traceability Systems” and category guideline (supported by Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries, 2004 ~ 2007)

- Field study of food traceability at supply chain stakeholders level and research on global traceability policies (supported by Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries, 2011)

- “Traceability Guideline for Exporting Seafood Products” (supported by Fisheries Agency, 2017)

登場プログラム

A-4

Traceability and Regulation: Eliminating Illegal Seafood Products from the Market

WWF Japan

Seafood Markets Manager / Plastics Policy Manager

Yukihiro Misawa

Yukihiro Joined WWF Japan after participating in the plans and promotions of domestic and foreign businesses. At WWF Yukihiro conducts activities connected to ocean preservation inside and outside the country with the purpose of building a future where mankind and nature can live in harmony.

WWF supports the the introduction of procurement policies and promote improvement projects in order to improve the sustainability of marine products management's business operations, and globally promote from haul/cultivation to the dining table, and the construction of sustainable marine product supply chains.

In addition, WWF appeal to the policy makers and related enterprises to realize the WWF vision of eradicating the influx of plastic to nature by 2030, and strive to construct a resource circulating society where plastics will be sharply reduced.

The Nature Conservancy

Oceans Governance Director, Global Oceans Team

Marta Marrero Martín

Marta has been directing the Ocean Governance programme at the Conservancy since 2016. She is an environmental lawyer with over 10 years of experience protecting nature through international and European Union policy and law. For over 6 years she has worked to tackle the issue of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing globally, and helped to establish groundbreaking legislation to protect the deep sea. She works with public and private partner organisations around the world to enable accurate fisheries management decisions and monitoring.

Marta holds a Masters degree in Environmental Policy and Management from the University Carlos III of Madrid, Spain; and a Masters in Energy and Environmental Law from the Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium.

The Nature Conservancy is committed to conserving and sustainably managing our ocean, seas and marine resources. We are working in Europe, Africa, Asia, North America, South America and Australia in order to develop this global strategy.

登場プログラム

A-4

Traceability and Regulation: Eliminating Illegal Seafood Products from the Market

FishWise

Director of Business Engagement

Ashley Greenley

Ashley is the Director of Business Engagement at FishWise, a California-based non-profit sustainable seafood consultancy that partners with companies to address environmental, social, and traceability challenges in seafood supply chains. As the Business Engagement Director, Ashley oversees the development and implementation of comprehensive sustainable seafood programs with major retailers, seafood suppliers, and hoteliers, including Albertsons Companies, Target Corporation, and the Venetian Casino Resort. For the past several years, Ashley has worked closely with the Traceability and Social Responsibility Divisions at FishWise to develop approaches for seafood buyers to mitigate risks of illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing and human rights abuses. Ashley also represents FishWise as an advisor on the Food Marketing Institute’s Seafood Strategy Committee.

Ashley holds a Masters degree in Marine Science from Moss Landing Marine Laboratories and B.S. in Aquatic Biology from the University of California Santa Barbara. Prior to FishWise, Ashley worked with fishermen in Mexico and California, where she led collaborative research projects for Stanford University and the UC Sea Grant Extension Program.

登場プログラム

A-4

Traceability and Regulation: Eliminating Illegal Seafood Products from the Market

Usufukuhonten co.,ltd.

President and CEO

Sotaro Usui

He was born in 1971 in Kesennuma, Miyagi. After graduating from the Department of Law at Senshu University, he joined a maritime affairs company in Ishinomaki, Miyagi, went on to join the Japan Tuna Fisheries Cooperative Association, and after working in Las Palmas in Spain's Canary Islands, he joined the family business Usufukuhonten (co., ltd.) (established 1882) in 1997. In 2009, he served as the board chairman of Junior Chamber International Kesennuma. In 2012, he assumed office as the fifth president of Usufukuhonten (co., ltd.). Currently, he is the chairman of the National Tuna Modernization Promotion Committee (an association of deep sea tuna shipowners nationwide). Outside of work in a volunteer capacity, he represents an association to promote the inclusion of fish from Kesennuma in school lunches, serves as a fish promoter for the Fisheries Agency, and he also works to promote fish served nationwide in elementary and middle schools. As a student, he practiced fencing and participated in the 1995 Universiade event in Fukuoka. He was also formerly on the national Japanese fencing team.

Kamoenai, Hokkaido

Village mayor

Masayuki Takahashi

Born in 1950, at Kamoenai, Hokkaido. In 1970, commenced work at Kamoenai Village Office. Since then, held several positions, such as industries chief and residents' section chief, before being elected as Kamoenai village mayor for the first time in March 2002, and currently in the fifth term. Worked in field of fisheries for a long time while working as an office worker, and currently holds positions such as head of Hokkaido Association of Fisheries Infrastructure, vice head of National Association of Fisheries Infrastructure as well as National Association of Fisheries Infrastructure and Coastal Defense, and executive director of the Council of the National Municipalities on Promotional Measures of Fisheries. Much of his focus is on gaining back the bustle and energy of villages which once flourished with herring fishing, and projects such as "Seaweed bed ∞LAND Project" and "Fisheries that Create and Nurture," which are projects to create a rich sea forest by creating seaweed beds.

KDDI Corporation, IoT Business Development Division

Manager,Local Development Support Office

Tomomasa Ishiguro

Tomonari joined the KDDI Corporation in 2001. After working in the customer service and human resources departments, he transferred to the revitalization support section in 2012 via an in-house appeal, and that same year, he transferred to Kamaishi, Iwate. At the Kamaishi office, he was involved in revitalization support work and was responsible for regional computerization. In 2015, h was appointed as the policy examiner in the Iwate revitalization department (his term ended in March 2017), and starting in 2016, he has served as a member of the Iwate Prefecture ICT Use and Application Strategy Committee. Starting in 2017 at his current post, he has been involved in the introduction and promotion of ICT/IoT into regional industries centered on the primary sector, and starting in 2019, he has been appointed by the Reconstruction Agency as a supporter for restoration businesses following the 2011 Tohoku earthquake.

Food journalist / President, Chefs for the Blue

Hiroko Sasaki

Hiroko studied international relationship in Japan, journalism and gastrology in the US, and cultural anthropology in Hong Kong, and now she’s writing mainly about food culture, restaurants and cuisine on magazine, newspaper, and web. She is an advisory committee of World Gastronomy Institute (WGI).

Chefs for the Blue is an organization of top 30 Tokyo-based chefs, and has been advocating sustainable seafood. They are hosting various events such as collaboration dinner with MSC, talk session, and food truck events since 2017. In March 2018, Chefs for the Blue became the first champion of Seafood Co-Lab competition hosted by SeaWeb.

登場プログラム

B-6

Top Chefs are Seeking for Domestic Sustainable Seafood

Global Aquaculture Alliance(GAA)

Vice President,Market Development Asia

Steve Hart

Dr. Hart received his Ph.D. in 2006 from Purdue University with an emphasis on aquaculture nutrition. After completing his degree, he worked for the Indiana Soybean Alliance as their Director of Aquaculture, and in 2011, was named the Executive Director of the Soy Aquaculture Alliance where he worked closely with allied groups to coordinate aquaculture research and development in a strategic approach.

Dr. Hart joined GAA in 2015 as Vice President. His primary responsibility is directing GAA activities within Asia, focused on growing market acceptance of the Best Aquaculture Practices (BAP) sustainability certification program. He also is leading efforts focused on updating and improving animal welfare protocols, investigating emerging issues affecting aquaculture stakeholders, working with GAA constituents to respond to emerging issues, expanding activities with other related groups, and generating content for GAA’s communications vehicles. In early 2019, Dr. Hart was named chairman of the board of directors for the Seafood Nutrition Partnership, an organization with a mission to increase seafood consumption in America.

Seiyo Food-Compass Group, Inc

Group Purchasing & Marketing Division Purchasing Department Specialist

Hirotoshi Akita

Starting in 2013 at Seiyo Food-Compass Group (Inc.)'s contract service, he is responsible for supplying ingredients, primarily seafood, for menus for staff cafeterias and the heath care industry. After having been involved in the seafood supply chain for more than 10 years, he personally observed the recent frequent changes in the quantity of seafood, and started in 2017, he began taking part in the sustainable seafood movement.

As part of the contract service industry, he has worked hard on realizing the ideals, values, and sentiments with his customers through the introduction of sustainable seafood, primarily into staff cafeterias.

Prior to joining the Compass Group, Hirotoshi was involved in the production, planning, development, and supply of seafood for the side dish (sozai) industry. He completed a postgraduate course in fisheries science at Kagoshima University (fisheries science master's degree). He has a first class Japanese Fish Certification.

登場プログラム

C-5

The Future of Responsible Aquaculture in the Asian Consuming Market

Blueyou

Founder and Managing Director

René Benguerel

René Benguerel holds a master’s degree in Aquatic Ecology and Fish Biology. Before founding Blueyou in 2004, he worked in the Swiss retail sector where he was appointed procurement manager for sustainable fish and seafood. The Blueyou group of companies is active in the production, trade and distribution of sustainable seafood. Blueyou is partnering with fisheries and aquaculture producers worldwide, implementing certifications such as MSC, ASC and Fair Trade, connecting to markets in Europe, North America and Asia, including Japan. The company also offers consulting and advise for sustainable seafood production and acts as project developer for impact investors, NGO and governmental organisations in this emerging field. Blueyou has been developing innovative concepts and investable business models for the transition of the seafood sector towards more sustainable practices in SE Asia, Africa and Latin America.

Haneda Ichiba Co.,Ltd.

CEO

Ryohei Nomoto

Born November 23rd, 1965 in Chiba Prefecture

Founder of Haneda Ichiba

After leaving his family's delicatessen business in 2000, he became the executive vice president of AP company in 2009. In 2013, he became the managing executive officer of Kakiyasu Honten, and started his own business in 2014.

In September 2015, he established a fresh seafood processing center in the Haneda International Airport terminal, which is the first of its kind in Japan.Seafood products with outstanding freshness are bought directly from fishers and fishery cooperatives throughout Japan via air transport. This led to the development of a new distribution system where the fish is processed in the center and shipped out on the same day. Most of the products are sold to department stores, volume retail stores, supermarkets, fresh seafood retail stores, the Toyoso Market, restaurant chains, and more. Instead of just around the Tokyo area, the sales area has been expanding to all across Japan as well as North America and Southeast Asia.

Ryohei appeared on TV programs such as "Cambria Kyuuden," "Gaia no Yoake," and "Hayashi-sensei ga Odoroku Hatsumimigaku!," and received coverage in many business magazines and newspapers.

Sea Pact

Managing Director

Rob Johnson

Rob Johnson is a dynamic and innovative seafood sustainability professional that brings together a comprehensive background of markets-based solution-oriented sustainable seafood program development, business partnership leadership, and industry procurement and supply chain management. He has a strong basis of expertise and professional knowledge of marine ecosystem science, improvement projects and certification and rating programs, seafood industry and supply chain dynamics, and ecological economics. Rob has a Master's degree in Natural Resource and Ecosystem Management from Stockholm University, Sweden, and is a strong advocate for fisheries and aquaculture improvement projects and pre-competitive business collaboration as key tools for conserving healthy productive oceans that provide a long-term supply of seafood to ensure a viable industry and sustain the planet.

WWF Japan

Public Outreach Officer, Oceans and Seafood Group, Conservation Division

Maya Takimoto

Maya Takimoto is a Public Outreach Officer for WWF-Japan’s Oceans and Seafood Group. Her work focuses on raising public awareness of sustainable fish consumption. She is also engaged in advocacy work for eliminating IUU fishing. Prior to joining WWF in 2017, Maya was an environmental consultant in the environmental policy field. She received her Bachelor of Laws from Keio University and her MSc. in Environmental Governance from Albert-Ludwigs-University of Freiburg, Germany.

Yamada Suisan Co.,ltd.

Senior Managing Director

Shintaro Yamada

Born on March 20th,1974.

Joined the Hanwa Co., Ltd., in 1996. After being stationed in Seattle, returned to Japan.

Joined the Yamada Suisan Co., Ltd., in 1998.

Assigned to the Eel Operations Department, Ariake Farm, Shibushi city, Kagoshima Prefecture, in 2000.

Assumed the position of Project Supervision General Manager in 2008.

Assumed the position of Representative Director and Managing Director in 2014.

Chuo University

Associate Professor, Faculty of Law/Director, Eel Conservation Research Unit, Chuo University Research Development Initiative International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) SSC Anguillid Eel Specialist Group (AESG)

Kenzo Kaifu

Prior to his current position, he worked as an assistant professor at the University of Tokyo and Chuo University.

In 2013, Kenzo joined IUCN’s Anguillid eels subgroup and conducted an assessment of eel species including Japanese eel. Later, he became a member of SSC AESG in 2015. He also led a Japanese eel conservation research project by Ministry of the Environment.

With his extensive knowledge in conservation ecology, he is dedicated to protecting eel species through studying the life history of Anguillid eels and understanding the effectiveness of releasing. Kenzo has been engaged in information sharing and building consensus among a wide range of eel stakeholders, and held “Japan Eel Forum.”

He published “Eel Conservation Ecology (Kyoritsu Shuppan, 2016) “and “My Research into Eels (Saela Shobo, 2013) “.

Kenzo graduated from the Department of Sociology in Hitotsubashi University and received a doctoral degree in agriculture at the Graduate School of Agricultural and Life Sciences, University of Tokyo.

登場プログラム

C-6

Dialogue on Eel Conservation and Our Food Culture

Seafood legacy

Business Engagement

Daisuke Matsui

Born in Tsuruga city, Fukui prefecture. Growing up in a coastal city, his childhood experience made him realize that seafood resource around Japan is depleting. In 2015, he opened his first restaurant in his hometown Fukui, which only served MSC/ASC certified seafood. This initiative was first in Asia. In 2017, he opened “Sustainable seafood restaurant BLUE” in Tokyo, with a rigorous procurement policy set with NGO and experts. As a business engagement manager at Seafood Legacy, Daisuke is working with domestic business players to support their sustainable seafood agenda as well as designing a sustainable solution for both producers and buyers. Learning from success stories from overseas, he hopes to provide innovative and forward-looking consulting service.

登場プログラム

A-6

Introducing Sustainable Seafood to Corporate Cafeteria

Panasonic Corporation

Manager, Program Management Section, CSR & Citizenship Department, Groupwide Brand Communications Division

Kosuke Kino

He started his career at Panasonic Corporation in 1988. Since then, he worked in corporate sales division for audio visual communication system, concept design and development of Panasonic Center Tokyo and RiSuPia (an interactive children’s museum of physics and mathematics), and event planning and operation of Eco-Pro and CEATEC exhibitions. He has been working as a manager of Program Management Section, CSR & Citizenship Department since 2016.

登場プログラム

A-6

Introducing Sustainable Seafood to Corporate Cafeteria

MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc.

Manager, Sustainability Section, Corporate Planning Dept.

Yoshitomo Tomita

Yoshitomo was born in Katsushika, Tokyo, and joined Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co.,Ltd. in April 1991.

Yoshitomo started his career in sales division such as automotive dealer sales, corporate sales which includes leading a project in Indonesia and working with life insurance companies. He transferred to his current department in April 2017.

Yoshitomo has been in charge of the Indonesian Forest Regeneration Program since 2005 as well as JBIB corporate biodiversity initiative activities. He is also responsible for promoting sustainability initiatives internally within the company.

Miyagi Prefecture Fisheries Cooperative

Shizugawa Branch, Branch Head

Fujio Abe

Fujio was born in March 1963. He graduated from the National Fisheries Cooperative School in March 1982 (42nd term). In the same year, he entered the Shizugawacho Tokura fishery. In April 2001, it merged with the Shizugawa fishery. In 2004, he was the Head of the same Tokura fishery. In April 2007, with the merger of fisheries in Miyagi prefecture (prefectural fishing cooperative), he became the Head of the Tokura branch. In March 2016, he was on the inaugural Oyster Tokura Production Committee in Japan. He endeavored to obtain the Oyster ASC Certification. In September 2017, he aspired to achieve the Japan Biodiversity Award for Excellence at the Aeon Environmental Foundation. In April 2018, he became the Head of Miyagi Prefecture fishery cooperative, Shizu Branch.

The Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC)

General Manager

Koji Yamamoto

Koji has marine biology degree from Bangor University and aquaculture master degree from James Cook University. Prior to joining the ASC, he had worked in over 20 countries as a FAO aquaculture specialist and The Network of Aquaculture Centres in Asia-Pacific (NACA) staff to implement sustainable aquaculture development projects. He also took a part on developing FAO “Technical guidelines on aquaculture certification”, which was published in 2011. Since September 2017, he has been working as a general manager of ASC Japan to promote environmentally and socially responsible aquaculture in Japan.

登場プログラム

C-7

Sustainable Aquaculture Initiatives and the Certification in Japan

Kurose Suisan Co.,ltd.

Production Promotion Department Manager

Hisashi Fukushima

Born in the landlocked prefecture of Gunma. With a yearning for the sea, Hisashi went on to study at Faculty of Fisheries, Kagoshima University. After graduating, he worked for a seafood company and joined Kurose Suisan in 2011. At Kurose Suisan, Hisashi has been working in yellowtail aquaculture and is also responsible for ASC certification-related work.

Kurose Suisan farms yellowtail in the rich seas of Miyazaki and Kagoshima prefectures and processes the fish at its own processing facility by the port. In 2013, Kurose Suisan established a breeding center and started artificial breeding. The company ships yellowtail with good fat content throughout the year.

Environmentally, economically, and locally sustainable farming is Kurose Suisan’s core mission and has been participating in ASC yellowtail aquaculture standards since the 2013 investigative commission. In connection with the development of the standards, the company acquired ASC certification in December 2017, and recently acquired MEL certification.

Skretting

Product Manager

Yuta Hamasaki

He studied fish nutrition at Tokyo University of Marine Science and Technology (formerly Tokyo University of Fisheries) of Marine Science and Technology and after completing his master's degree in 2002, he joined Yamaha Nutrecoaquatec (now Skretting).

Working initially in the marketing of aquaculture feeds, formulation design, and research and development, he is now engaged in product strategy as a product manager.

Learning about sustainable aquaculture and ASC certification at the 3rd Seriola and Cobia Aquaculture Dialogue held in 2013, he has been passionate about supplying the feed which is compatible with ASC standards.

In addition to the supply of ASC compatible feeds, he also provides comprehensive support to other areas, such as support for the Aquaculture Improvement Project (AIP), and works tirelessly to increase the sustainability of the aquaculture industry.