Shaykh Sayed Mohiuddin Tanveer Hashmi Al Qadri Wishes Ramadan Mubarak to all the Ummah across the globe.

We really need to understand the opportunity that Allah swt bless us every year so that we get blessed with His mercy Alhamdulillah.

Ramazan is the month when every fard is rewarded with 70 times more and every nawafil is rewarded as fard, every good deed is multiplied with 70 times, Mashallah.

Remember that the reward for fasting is just with Allah swt.

We must understand the actual message of Islam which is spirituality/Roohaniyat and that can attain through Taqwa, and Roza/Fasting is the easiest and best way to attain it.

Assalamu Alaykum Wa Rahmatullahi Wa Barakatuh ,

We pray this finds everyone well, wrapped in Allah’s mercy and steadfastly travelling the path to eternal felicity, in sha Allah.

Our Grand Sheikh (Dada Murshid) Naqib al-Ashraaf Sayyid Shaykh Ahmad Zafar al-Jilani has Passed Away, he passed away this morning (19/7/14) in Baghdad, His Excellence was the Custodian of the Mosque and Maqam (Tomb) of Ghawth al-Adham Sayyiduna Shaykh ‘Abd al-Qadir al-Jilani in Baghdad, Iraq and he was the older brother of the Late Qudwatul Awliya Sayed Sheikkh Tahir Allauddin Al-Qadri Al-Gillani RadiAllahu Anhu.

“Inna lillahi wa inna ilayhi raji’un. “

May He give him to drink from the Basin of His Prophet (alayhi salat wa salam), that he may never thirst thereafter, and may He enter him into the highest gardens of Paradise! Ameen.

The genealogy of the Naqib al-Ashraaf is as follows:

Sayyid Shaykh Ahmad Zafar al-Jilani, Son of Shaykh Sayyidna Mahmood Hussamu-ud-Din Al-Jilani Al–Qadri Son of Shaykh Sayyidna Said Abd Al-Rahman Al-Jilani Al-Mehadh Al-Qadri, Son of Shaykh Sayyidna Ali Al-Qadri, Son of Shaykh Sayyidna Mustafa Al-Qadri,Son of Shaykh Sayyidna Suleman Al-Qadri, Son of Shaykh Sayyidna Zain-ud-Din Al-Qadri, Son of Shaykh Sayyidna Muhammad Dervesh Al-Qadri, Son of Shaykh Sayyidna Hussamm-ud-Din Al-Qadri, Son of Shaykh Sayyidna Noor-ud-Din Al-Qadri, Son of Shaykh Sayyidna Wali-id-Din Al-Qadri, Son of Shaykh Sayyidna Zain-ud-Din Al-Qadri, Son of Shaykh Sayyidna Sharaf-ud-Din Al-Qadri, Son of Shaykh Sayyidna Shams-ud-Din Al-Qadri, Son of Shaykh Sayyidna Muhammad Hattak Al-Qadri, Son of Shaykh Sayyidna Abdul Aziz Al-Qadri, Son of Ghawth al-Adham Shaykh Muhyiuddin Abd al-Qadir al-Jilani (radhi allahu ta’ala anhu).

Photos of the Late Sheikh:

Dear Islamic Brothers/Sisters ,

As Salaamu Alaikum Warahmatullahi Wabarkaatuhu

All Praise and thanks is due to Allah,Rabb of the Universe, Peace and Blessings upon His beloved Habeeb, the Intercessor of Sinners, Sayyiduna Rasoolullah Sallal Laahu Alayhi Wasallam, his family,Companions and all the Pious Servants of Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta’ala.

Ramadan Kareem!

We thank Allah , subhanahu wa ta’ala, for giving us this month to strengthen our faith and improve our selves. Our Beloved Prophet s a w said “(during Ramadan) Every action of the son of Adam a.s. is given manifold reward, each good deed receiving ten times its like, up to seven hundred times.” This Ramadan, We appeal to you to donate your zakat to Al Hashmi Trust and multiply your good deeds. Your donation will help us continue to make a significant impact as the largest grassroots Muslim organization in the Bijapur Karnataka India.

Alhumdoallah Al Hashmi Trust is expanding its activities in Field of Education with recent Launch of Primary school along with Deeni Madrasa.

Now Students can become Hafiz e Quran & Alim e Deen with worldly education as Per Govt of India.

This year Annual Budget is 30,00,000 INR (55,000 $USD )

JAMIATUL HASHMIA (JAMIA HASHIMPEER) is running successfully under the management of “AL-HASHMI TRUST”(Regd) from past 18 years in Bijapur (KARNATAKA).Its located at Hashmi Nagar,Anaipur Main Road of Sindgi,in 8 acres of Land.

ALLHUMDOALLAH many students have completed their Hafiz course, and giving their esteem service to the Muslim Ummah. Currently Now 200 Students are doing Hafiz/Aleem courses. These entire Students get FREE EDUCATION, which include their Lodging, Boarding, Books, Cloths, etc

AL HASHMI TRUST IS UNDER SPIRITUAL GUADIANCE OF QUBUL KATAB HAZRATH HASHMIPEER (RH).

Al-Hashmi Trust is registered 1. Indian Trust Act. 2. Under Income Tax 80 G & 80 D.(Donor will get certificate which can be used for IT) 3. FRCA.

For More Details find the attached brochure & Also Pls visit http://www.alhashmi.org http://www.qadrihealing.wordpress.com

Request to you all, Please come forward in this great Task by contributing your DONATIONS (Please Specify the purpose of Donation- Zakat, etc) .

Also very good opportunity for those who want to built their Royal Executive Suite in Heaven ,Send in your donation & installments to Masjid Al Hashmi.

Those who wish to take Insurance cover for yourself & family from mishaps,accidents ,Illness,etc ;Give regular Sadaka every month .This sadaka will create A wall between you and problems which they can’t cross.

This Insurance is From The Lord of Almighty Allah .

For online transfer /DD /Cash Deposit Use below account

Account details: Account Name: Founder President Al-Hashmi Educational & Welfare Trust. Bank:Bank of India, Bijapur Branch, State:Karnataka, INDIA. Account No: 849520110000072 IFSC Code:BKID0008495

For any clarification please feel free to reach, Founder President Sheikh E Tariqath, Fazil e Bareli- Syed Mohammed Tanveer Hashmi Al Qadri Al Shuttari Al Gheelani at +91 9448126876

Address: Al-Jamiatul Hashmia, Ainapur,Sindgi Road,Bijapur-586104, Karnataka(India).

SADQA BEST WAY OF PROTECTION:

Sadqa (charity) jab apne malik ke hath se nikalta hai to Uss waqt 5 jumley kehta hai

1. Main faani maal tha tu nay mujhe baqa di 2. Main tera dushman tha ab tu nay mujhe apna dost bana liya 3. Aaj say pehlay tu meri hifazat karta tha ab mein teri hifazat karoun ga 4. Main haqeer tha tu nay mujhe azeem bana diya 5. Pehlay mein tere hath mein tha ab mein khuda ke haath mein hun

Hadith e Sarkar e doo Aalam Muhammad PBUH

Give your regular sadqa to Al Hashmi Trust and sawab e jariya (infinity & never endings sawab )

Allah like a acts which is regular even if it is little.Lets make habit of giving little but regular without fail.

Monthly 10$ (500 rupees) until we r alive ,will safeguard from all mishaps -physically, mentally & spiritually ;all risk covered insurance policy from Almighty Allah .

Our Allah! accept from us; surely Thou art the Hearing, the Knowing. Our Allah! grant us good in this world and good in the hereafter, and save us from the chastisement of the fire. (Ameen)

Thinking of our Aakhirat “DO FOR ALLAH, ALLAH WILL DO FOR YOU.”

Remember, one day you will appear before Allah and answer for your deeds. FORWARD THIS MAIL TO YOUR FAMILY & FREINDS FOR MORE CONTRIBUTION TOWARDS THIS NOBLE CAUSE.

Thanks & Warm regards

Allha Hafiz

http://www.alhashmi.org jamiahashmi@rediffmail.com , info@alhashmi.org