Colonel William Davis

Chief Deputy

Colonel William Davis joined the Sheriff’s Office in December of 2014, and was appointed as Chief of the Police Operations Bureau (rank of major) in Sheriff Gahler’s Administration. In that role he oversaw the daily operations of the Patrol Division, Criminal Investigations Division, Special Operations Division, and the Special Investigations Division. In February of 2019, Colonel Davis was promoted to Chief Deputy at the rank of colonel. In this role he assumes the role of second in command of the entire Office, and will work with Sheriff Gahler to lead the Agency into the future.

Prior to joining the Sheriff’s Office, Colonel Davis served as the Assistant Director of Public Safety for the Community College of Baltimore County. Prior to his appointment with the Community College of Baltimore County, he served as a Major in the Baltimore Police Department and Commanding Officer for the Southeastern District. In this position, Major Davis oversaw the daily police operations of more than 200 officers, sergeants, lieutenants and civilian personnel. His responsibilities included the development and deployment of crime prevention and response strategies as well as cultivating and sustaining solid partnerships with community and business leaders within the City of Baltimore.

Over the course of 25 years with the Baltimore Police Department, Major Davis worked in a variety of roles, progressing from patrol assignments to criminal investigative positions. These include working on federal task forces and as the commanding officer of district detectives and operations units.

Major Davis holds a Master of Science in Management from The Johns Hopkins University and currently serves adjunct faculty in The Johns Hopkins University’s Division of Public Safety Leadership. Major Davis is also a recent graduate of the Police Executive Research Forum’s (PERF) Senior Management Institute for Police.

Warden Daniel Galbraith

CORRECTIONAL SERVICES BUREAU

Daniel J. Galbraith currently serves as the Warden of the Harford County Detention Center. Warden Galbraith started his law enforcement career in 1984 when he enlisted in the United States Army as a Military Police Officer. While stationed at Aberdeen Proving Grounds, he served as a Military Police Investigator investigating violations of the military and federal code. After Warden Galbraith’s Honorable Discharge from the United States Army, he started his civilian law enforcement career with the Havre de Grace Police Department. He attended the Harford County Sheriff’s Office Training Academy entrance level class #8. Upon graduation from the police academy, he served for two years with the Havre de Grace Police Department as a patrol officer for one year and a narcotics detective for one year working on a statewide narcotics taskforce.

In 1989, Warden Galbraith joined the Harford County Sheriff’s Office as a law enforcement deputy. Since serving the citizens of the Harford County at the Sheriff’s Office, he has worked as a patrol deputy, narcotics detective, and community relations deputy. Warden Galbraith has supervised the Community Action Response Team, the Harford County Narcotics Task Force, the Internal Affairs Unit, and the Planning and Research Unit. As a Commander, Warden Galbraith led the Midnight shift at the Southern Precinct, Planning and Research Unit, the Administrative Services Division, before ultimately being promoted to the rank of Major and given command of the Services and Support Bureau. In December 2020, Galbraith retired from the Harford County Sheriff’s Office.

In January 2021, Galbraith rejoined the Sheriff’s Office, being appointed to the position of Warden for the Harford County Detention Center.

Warden Galbraith attended and graduated from the Federal Bureau of Investigations National Academy Session #250, the Homeland Security Leadership Academy Session #1, and the Harford County Leadership Academy.

Warden Galbraith enjoys working with the youth in the County as an advisor in the Harford County Sheriff’s Office Explorer Program and during the yearly Badges for Baseball Program.