SUNNY SIDE UP

2019/Ireland (11 minutes)

Director: Peter Kilmartin

Peter Pringle and Sunny Jacobs both served years in prison for crimes they did not commit. After being exonerated, what are the chances they both met and fell in love? This film explores how love can prevail, and hearts can keep beating when a soul is dragged through so much.

THE NIGHT IS BLACK AND THE DAY IS WHITE

2019/Ireland/United Kingdom (8 minutes)

Director: Joe McStravickA mother and a father share their experiences of living with, caring for and loving a child who has been diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder (ASD).

THE WORKHOUSE PRODIGY

2020/Ireland (7 minutes)

Director: Paul Murphy

Born in a workhouse, in post famine Ireland Johnny Butler's prospects are not great, but help comes from the most unlikely source.

MAID IN AMERICA

2019/Ireland (1 minute)

Director: Kathy Raftery

Josephine from County Galway shares a story of when she encountered a member of the Rockefeller family whilst she was working as maid in America in the early 1950's.

THE LAST ORGANIST

2019/Ireland (6 minutes) Director: Paddy McConnell

A 94 year old organist reminisces on his love of music and his move to Ireland from Belgium 67 years ago.

COMING HOME: AG TEACHT ABHAILE

2019/Ireland/United States (24 minutes)

Co-directors: Dylan Ladds and Ryan Scura

Paddy O'Leary grew up in Wexford, Ireland, but didn't discover his love and talent for running until he moved to San Francisco. Now, he is returning to Ireland to take on the fastest known time on the self-navigated 115 kilometer Wicklow Round, and to rediscover his home through the lens of running.

Facebook: @doosterfilm

Instagram: @doosterfilm

Instagram: @poleary87

THE VASECTOMY DOCTOR

2018/Ireland (11 minutes)

Director: Paul Webster

Dr. Andrew Rynne was the first doctor to perform vasectomies in Ireland; he estimates that he has performed over 35,000. This is a distinction that did not come without controversy in the extremely Catholic Ireland of the nineteen seventies and eighties, but Dr. Rynne persevered in the face of opposition from the church. In the eighties, he challenged the restrictive laws on contraceptives by selling condoms without a prescription. He got his day in court and forced the government to change policy. In 1990, Dr. Rynne was about to perform a vasectomy on a patient, when a gunman entered his surgery and shot him. After surviving the attempt on his life, he would later meet with his assailant and forgive him.

STRONG AT THE BROKEN PLACES

2018/Ireland (14 minutes)

Director: Anna Rogers

Raped at 14 by a Catholic Priest, human rights activist Colm O’Gorman challenges Pope Francis to tell the truth about the cover up of abuse during his divisive visit to Ireland in August 2018.