APPENDIX (E).

Observations by Major [afterwards Sir Henry) Rawlinson on a Persian Memorandum

Relative to the Situation oj the Cities of Mohammerah and Feitahiah.

[Enclosed in Sir Stratford Canning's despatch No. 155 of the 18th July, 1844.]

Observations.

Persian Memorandum.*

From the point of confluence of the Tigris and Euphrates

at Korna, the river flows in a general direction of south

east to Bussorah; it is subject to few windings, and the

distance has been fixed by survey at 38 miles.

If the title of Ears is here used in its general application

to the province of that name the description is altogether

incorrect, not a single rivulet that rises within the frontiers

of the said province finding its way to the Shat-el-Arab.

The expression may, however, have a general reference to

the Persian territory; and even then, the assertion that all

rivers rising within that territory disembogue, like the

Karun, into the Shatt-el-Arab, will require to be greatly

modified—the fact is that the Kai-un itself does not dis

embogue into the Shatt-el-Arab, the main body of the river

finds its way by a separate channel (the Bamishere) to the

sea, and is merely connected with the Shat-el-Arab by the

artificial cut of the Hafar, on the right bank of which is

situated the town of Mohammerah. Independently of this

Hafar canal there is only one other stream which joins the

Shatt. el-Arab between Korna and the sea and ttiat is the

Soweib, which carries off the superfluous waters of the great

Ibur of Howeizeh, a huge marshy lake, in which the river

Choaspes or Kerkha and the minor streams of the Tib and

Dowairej exhaust themselves, and which is also fed from

the Tigris through the channel of the Had.

There is much confusion in this description. The Bakh-

tiari rivers descending to the south-west from the culmina

ting ridges of Aosteran Koh, Miyaneh Koh, Zardeh Koh,

and Mungusht fall into three distinct channels. The Dizful

river to the west, the Karun in the centre, and the Tab or

Jerrahi to the east. The waters of the Eeili mountains on

the contrary flow on the one side into the Kerkha and form

on the other side the petty streams of the Gangir, the Abi-

Jestan, the Teb, and the Dowairij, which are lost in the

marshy plains of Settacene. The streams of Koh Griluyeh

unite and fall into the sea at Hindiyan. The river of

Shuster is the Kerkha itself, and that of Bizful joins the

former at Bandi-Kir, while the river of Bebahan, or which

flows near Bebahan, is the main stream of the Tab or

Jerralii. The general direction of these streams is south

west, and the only channels by which any part of their

waters join the Shatt-el-Arab are the Soweib and Hafar.

It is begging the question altogether to lay it down as an

axiom that the Shal t-el-Arab is the boundary between Persia

and Turkey. Sultan Murad's treaty expressly names

Bussorah as the Turkish limit, and under this head includes

of course the acknowledged dependencies of the city which

have always been the lands on either side of the Shatt-el-

Arab watered by that river. The claim of Persia to Mo

hammerah consists in the latter city being on the ITafar,

which is now a continuation of the Karun, and not on the

Shatt-el-Arab, but until the present year Persia has never

received Maliyat or revenue from Mohommerah.

The measured distance between Bussorah and Mohammerah

by the river, which has few sinuosities, is 25 miles, and a

MOHAMMERAH is situated to the east of the

Shatt-el-Arab, which is formed by the junction of

the Tigris and Euphrates at a village named

Korna, distant 10 farsangs from Bussorah.

All the rivers, great as well as small, on the

confines of Fars, flow into the Shatt-el-Arab, which

continues its course till it disembogues into the

Persian Gulf The historical term used to describe the body of water between the Arabian Peninsula and Iran. . The Karun is one of the streams

which thus unites with the Shatt el-Arab, the

latter river passing Bussorah and forming, on the

west, the boundary of Nejd and Arabistan.

The right of Turkey to the ports which are

situated on the western bank of the river is not

contested, but those to the east of the Shatt-el-

Arab, which forms the boundary of Fars, depend

upon that province.

All the rivers, great as well as small, which rise

upon the borders of Fars, traverse the territory of

the Bakhtiaris, of the Fili Lurs, of Karoua (?), of

Koh Giluyeh, of Shuster, of Dizful, and of Beba

han, and flowing towards the east ("vers rorient")

disembogue into the Shatt-el-Arab and thence into

the Persian Gulf The historical term used to describe the body of water between the Arabian Peninsula and Iran. , the western shore of which is

formed by Arabistan and Nejd. The Gulf and

the above-mentioned river divide the two conti

nents, and Mohammerah becomes in consequence a

part of the territory of Fars, to which province

accordingly it has always paid its revenue. The

distance between the latter city and Bussorah is

4 farsangs by land, by water the interval may be

traversed in an hour. The port of Mohammerah is

situated on the banks of the Karun, a river which

in its descent from Shuster becomes first a con-

* Communicated to the Foreign Office by Colonel Sheil, Iler Majesty's Minister at Tehran, in his despatch

No. 41, April 16, 1844.

[2440 c—10] Q