UEFA CUP Fifteen people were injured as Italian and English fans clashed in a popular square in Rome ahead of Middlesbrough's face-off against AS Roma

AP

Despite losing, Middlesbrough and Rapid Bucharest advanced to the quarterfinals of the UEFA Cup on Wednesday.

Middlesbrough lost at AS Roma 2-1, but advanced on away goals after the two-leg series ended 2-2 on aggregate. Rapid lost 3-1 at Hamburg but also advanced on away goals after the series finished level at 3-3. Sevilla also reached the last eight on Wednesday, beating Lille 2-0 to advance on a 2-1 aggregate score.

The five other second-leg matches were scheduled for yesterday: Schalke vs. Palermo, Real Betis vs. Steaua Bucharest, Strasbourg vs. FC Basel, Zenit St. Petersburg vs. Marseille, and Levski Sofia vs. Udinese.

The quarterfinal draw is today.

Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink put Middlesbrough ahead in the 32nd minute, beating France defender Philippe Mexes to a cross from midfielder Stewart Downing. It was Hasselbaink's 21st goal in 45 European matches.

Midfielder Amantino Mancini then scored twice for Roma, which played without injured captain Francesco Totti and most of the rest of its attack.

In the 43rd, Mancini was set up by Rodrigo Taddei and equalized with a shot from outside the goalbox. Ray Parlour was called for a foul inside the area on Roma's Stefano Okaka, and Mancini converted the penalty in the 66th.

Roma has not won a title in 22 seasons of European play. The club's highlights remain two runner-up finishes -- losing to Liverpool on penalties in the 1984 European Cup final and to Inter Milan in the 1991 UEFA Cup final.

On Tuesday, 13 Middlesbrough fans and two Italian policemen were injured -- some with knife wounds -- in a fight.

Scuffles broke out between Italian and English fans in Campo de Fiori, a square in downtown Rome popular with tourists and locals. One British man was hospitalized with knife wounds to his back, chest and thigh.

In Hamburg, Sergej Barbarez scored one goal and set up the other two for the German side, which is in second place in the Bundesliga. But Barbarez headed wide late in injury time to waste his team's best chance of overcoming the deficit.

Frederic Kanoute and Luis Fabiano scored first-half goals for Sevilla, which advanced to the quarterfinals of the UEFA Cup for the first time.

The Spanish team, playing without injured goalkeeper Antonio Notario and midfielder Enzo Maresca, almost scored in the 13th minute when Kanoute's shot hit the crossbar.

Kanoute then scored the first goal in the 29th minute, three minutes after midfielder Mathieu Bodmer was ejected for hitting Sevilla defender Javi Navarro in the face. Luis Fabiano scored the second after Kanoute headed down a cross from Adriano Correia before halftime.

Sevilla also finished with 10 men. Jesus Navas was sent off for hitting midfielder Jean Makoun in the 71st minute.

Robbie Fowler scored his first goal in nine games since his return to Liverpool, helping the Reds beat Fulham 5-1 in the English Premier League on Wednesday.

Elsewhere, West Ham beat Bolton 2-1 in an FA Cup fifth-round replay to set up a quarterfinal with Manchester City.

In next week's other quarterfinals, Chelsea hosts Newcastle, Liverpool goes to Birmingham and Middlesbrough visits Charlton.

Fowler had 120 goals in 236 appearances in his first nine-year spell with Liverpool. His 16th-minute header spurred Fernando Morientes and Peter Crouch to score their first league goals of the year.

Fulham midfielder Michael Brown turned the ball into his own net and Liverpool defender Stephen Warnock added a fifth. Collins John's reply for Fulham was a first-half equalizer before Liverpool took control.

The victory moved Liverpool within two points of second-place Manchester United, while Fulham stayed two places above the relegation zone.

Liverpool manager Rafa Benitez dismissed speculation that he had signed a new deal with Liverpool but said talks were ongoing. He was two years into a five-year contract.

"We are talking about the future," he said. "I have three years left on my contract here, so there is no hurry, I have not signed anything."

Four days after Bolton beat West Ham 4-1 in Premier League action, the Hammers knocked the Wanderers out of the Cup with the help of a crazy own-goal.

Marlon Harewood broke down the right and there seemed no real danger when his low cross came to Nicky Hunt. The Bolton defender could have left goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen to deal with the cross, but he decided to concede a corner only for the ball to bounce off the keeper and into an empty net.