Heritage Images Photo Prints and Wall Art

Jose Echegaray, (Madrid, 1832-1916), Spanish playwright, writer, engineer and mathematician

Jose Echegaray, (Madrid, 1832-1916), Spanish playwright, writer, engineer and mathematician, Nobel Prize for Literature in 1904. He introduced in Spain the Chasles geometry, the Galois theory, elliptic functions, he is considered the greatest Spanish mathematician of 19th century

Heritage Images features heritage image collections

Media ID 15197438

© Docutres - Index / Heritage-Images

19th 20th Centuries Engineer Jose Mathematician Nobel Prize Personages Playwright Echegaray Santiago Ortega

FEATURES IN THESE COLLECTIONS

> Arts > Literature

> Europe > Spain > Madrid

> Europe > Spain > Posters

EDITORS COMMENTS

This print showcases the remarkable Jose Echegaray, a man of many talents and accomplishments. Born in Madrid in 1832, he left an indelible mark on Spanish literature, engineering, and mathematics. Echegaray's brilliance was recognized globally when he was awarded the prestigious Nobel Prize for Literature in 1904. Not only did Echegaray introduce revolutionary concepts such as Chasles geometry, Galois theory, and elliptic functions to Spain but he also cemented his legacy as the greatest Spanish mathematician of the 19th century. His contributions to these fields continue to shape our understanding today. In this vertical portrait captured by an unknown photographer from Santiago Ortega's private collection, we witness Echegaray's intellectual prowess emanating through his gaze. The photograph transports us back to a time when great minds like his were revered for their multifaceted abilities. As we admire this historical image, let us remember that it represents not just one man but an era defined by innovation and intellectual curiosity. It serves as a testament to the power of knowledge and reminds us of the immense impact individuals can have across various disciplines.

MADE IN THE USA

Safe Shipping with 30 Day Money Back Guarantee

FREE PERSONALISATION*

We are proud to offer a range of customisation features including Personalised Captions, Color Filters and Picture Zoom Tools

SECURE PAYMENTS

We happily accept a wide range of payment options so you can pay for the things you need in the way that is most convenient for you

* Options may vary by product and licensing agreement. Zoomed Pictures can be adjusted in the Basket.

Related Images

Collections