Project Description

An equity investment of up to EUR 25 million in favour of V4C Poland Plus Fund II S.C.A. SICAV-RAIF (the "Fund"), a corporate partnership limited by shares under the laws of Luxemburg.

Project Objectives

The Fund will make equity and equity-related investments in middle market companies principally in Poland and also in other Central and Eastern European countries (the "Target Region") with the objective of achieving long-term capital growth.

Transition Impact

ETI score: 64

The Bank's investment is expected to contribute to the resilience of financial markets in the target countries by sustaining private equity as an alternative funding source, and also the increased competitiveness of the Fund's investee companies via the implementation of operational improvements and/or the expansion of their presence in new markets.

Client Information

V4C POLAND PLUS FUND II SCA SICAV-RAIF

The Fund will be managed by V4C General Partner II SARL, a limited liability company registered in Luxemburg.

EBRD Finance Summary

EUR 25,000,000.00

Total Project Cost

EUR 140,000,000.00

The Fund is targeting total commitments of up to EUR 140 million.

Additionality

The Bank's investment is required for the fund to successfully raise the targeted fund size. Furthermore, the Fund is expected to be an SFDR Article 8 fund.

Environmental and Social Summary

Categorised FI (ESP 2019). The Fund will comply with EBRD's Performance Requirements 2, 4 and 9. The fund manager will adopt and implement the EBRD's Environmental and Social Risk Management Procedures for Active Equity Funds and will submit Annual Environmental and Social Reports to the Bank.

Technical Cooperation and Grant Financing

None.

Company Contact Information

Bill Watson

bill.watson@value4capital.com

+48 22 627 4000

https://www.value4capital.com/

V4C Advisers Sp. z o.o., Wspólna 47/49, 00-684 Warsaw, Poland

PSD last updated

18 Mar 2024

Understanding Transition

Further information regarding the EBRD’s approach to measuring transition impact is available here.

Business opportunities

For business opportunities or procurement, contact the client company.

For business opportunities with EBRD (not related to procurement) contact:

Tel: +44 20 7338 7168

Email: projectenquiries@ebrd.com

For state-sector projects, visit EBRD Procurement:

Tel: +44 20 7338 6794

Email: procurement@ebrd.com

General enquiries

Specific enquiries can be made using the EBRD Enquiries form.

Environmental and Social Policy (ESP)

The ESP and the associated Performance Requirements (PRs) set out the ways in which the EBRD implements its commitment to promoting “environmentally sound and sustainable development”. The ESP and the PRs include specific provisions for clients to comply with the applicable requirements of national laws on public information and consultation as well as to establish a grievance mechanism to receive and facilitate resolution of stakeholders’ concerns and grievances, in particular, about environmental and social performance of the client and the project. Proportionate to the nature and scale of a project’s environmental and social risks and impacts, the EBRD additionally requires its clients to disclose information, as appropriate, about the risks and impacts arising from projects or to undertake meaningful consultation with stakeholders and consider and respond to their feedback.

More information on the EBRD’s practices in this regard is set out in the ESP.

Integrity and Compliance

The EBRD's Office of the Chief Compliance Officer (OCCO) promotes good governance and ensures that the highest standards of integrity are applied to all activities of the Bank in accordance with international best practice. Integrity due diligence is conducted on all Bank clients to ensure that projects do not present unacceptable integrity or reputational risks to the Bank. The Bank believes that identifying and resolving issues at the project assessment approval stages is the most effective means of ensuring the integrity of Bank transactions. OCCO plays a key role in these protective efforts, and also helps to monitor integrity risks in projects post-investment.

OCCO is also responsible for investigating allegations of fraud, corruption and misconduct in EBRD-financed projects. Anyone, both within or outside the Bank, who suspects fraud or corruption should submit a written report to the Chief Compliance Officer by email to compliance@ebrd.com. All matters reported will be handled by OCCO for follow-up. All reports, including anonymous ones, will be reviewed. Reports can be made in any language of the Bank or of the Bank's countries of operation. The information provided must be made in good faith.

Access to Information Policy (AIP)

The AIP sets out how the EBRD discloses information and consults with its stakeholders so as to promote better awareness and understanding of its strategies, policies and operations following its entry into force on 1 January 2020. Please visit the Access to Information Policy page to find out what information is available from the EBRD website.

Specific requests for information can be made using the EBRD Enquiries form.

Independent Project Accountability Mechanism (IPAM)

If efforts to address environmental, social or public disclosure concerns with the Client or the Bank are unsuccessful (e.g. through the Client’s Project-level grievance mechanism or through direct engagement with Bank management), individuals and organisations may seek to address their concerns through the EBRD’s Independent Project Accountability Mechanism (IPAM).

IPAM independently reviews Project issues that are believed to have caused (or to be likely to cause) harm. The purpose of the Mechanism is: to support dialogue between Project stakeholders to resolve environmental, social and public disclosure issues; to determine whether the Bank has complied with its Environmental and Social Policy or Project-specific provisions of its Access to Information Policy; and where applicable, to address any existing non-compliance with these policies, while preventing future non-compliance by the Bank.