STOCKHOLM, Sweden -- Gerard Debreu of the University of California at Berkeley won the 1983 Nobel Prize for Economics today for two decades of work that formally proved Adam Smith's classic theory of supply and demand.

The announcement by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences that the French-born Debreu, 62, received the award came 11 years after his research partner, Kenneth J. Arrow of Harvard University, won the Nobel in 1972.

In Berkeley, Debreu, a professor at UCB, was awakened by early morning callers and at first thought they were joking. But as calls of congratulations and inquiry poured in, he said, 'I'm believing it more and more.'

Debreu, a U.S. citizen since 1975, was the 12th professor from an American university to have won or shared the prestigious prize. He will receive a gold medal and a 1.5 million Swedish Kroner ($200,000) in Stockholm Dec. 10.

The economist was cited for his abstract mathematical models that formally proved Smith's theory that an 'invisible hand' works on the economy to balance supply and demand. In the process, Debreu's work vastly improved modern economic forecasting.

In its citation, the Swedish Academy said his foremost contribution was for work that had a 'profound and unsurpassed effect on the choice of methods and analytical techniques in economics.'

The work for which Debreu was cited expanded on a mathematical model designed by him and Arrow in the early 1950s confirming the logic of Adam Smith's 'theory of general equilibrium' in which prices, supply and demand tend toward a balance within a free market economy.

Debreu's models 'confirmed the internal logical consistency of Smith's model,' Nobel officials said in their citation.

The theory, the so-called 'invisible hand' on the economy conjured up by Smith, the 18th century Scottish pioneer, is the basis of classic 'laissez-faire' economics -- and today's Reaganomics.

'Debreu's work addresses the evasive invisible hand directly by describing the conditions under which an economic system is coordinated, even when individuals are looking only at their own interests,' said Assar Lindbeck, chairman of the judging committee.

Arrow, 62, now at Stanford University, said he thought the prize was 'fully deserved' because Debreu 'set the patteron for all subsequent work in this field.'

'Debreu is a great pioneer in applying mathematics to economic theory,' Arrow said. 'His work has been marked by the highest degree of originality and integrity.'

Debreau, whose master work 'Theory of Value' was published in 1959, shuns the adjectives 'liberal or conservative' in describing his approach to economics.

'I seek to set up abstract models, couched in mathematical terms, to give an account of the way the many agents of which an economy is composed make decisions and how those decisions are consistent with each other,' the bespectacled scholar said in French-accented English.

Nobel officials said computer models based on Debreu's work are routinely used by the World Bank and similar agencies for analyzing trends in national economies and world markets.

'Many interpretations of economics have become easier even though he is using sophisticated mathematical equations,' said Lindbeck.

Debreu, born July 4, 1921 in the French city of Calais, received his doctorate at the University of Paris in 1956 and moved to Berkeley in 1962. He became an American citizen in 1975.

Debreu has studied the market's use of resources, clarifying the influence of the market price on the allocation of resources, and has also made significant contributions to the theory of consumer behaviour, the Academy said.

Stephen Littlechild, economics professor at the University of Birmingham in England, said Debreu was a pioneer in mathematical economics.

He said that ever since Adam Smith, 'It has been the theory that if you leave the economy to itself and don't interfere, then it will come to an equilibrium between supply and demand and that this will be efficient -- that government doesn't need to intervene.

'Debreu put that theory into a mathematical model and proved it formally,' Littlechild said.

Nobel officials said Debreu's 'Theory of Value,' 'has already become a classic both for its universality and for its elegant analytical approach.'

He is the 12th American of the 21 economists to have won or shared the Nobel since it was inaugurated in 1969 by the Bank of Sweden in the memory of Alfred Nobel, the Swedish millionaire inventor of dynamite.

The economics award, first given in 1969, is the only one of the six Nobels not provided for in Nobel's 1895 will.

As with the other Nobel awards, the economics prize has been controversial at times, mainly because of widespread doubts that economic models have been able to explain fully or cope with the world's economic woes.

George Stigler of the University of Chicago won the award last year for demonstrating how laws of market economics function under public regulation.

The announcement of the award for economics came one week after the medicine prize was awarded to botanist Barbara McClintock of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, N.Y., for her discovery 30 years ago that genes can 'jump' from one cell to another.

The 1983 peace prize went to Lech Walesa, founder of the banned Solidarity free trade union in Poland, and the literature prize to British writer William Golding, author of 'Lord of the Flies.'

On Wednesday the Royal Academy of Sciences will announce the winners of the last two Nobel awards -- physics and chemistry. Presentation of all six awards will take place Dec.