Director of photography Shane Hurlbut, ASC works at the forefront of cinema as a storyteller, innovator, and discerning collaborator, who brings more than three decades of experience to his art.

Most recently, Hurlbut worked on the Netflix film Love Hard starring Nina Dobrev and Jimmy O. Yang. The story follows an unlucky LA writer who falls for an East Coast guy on a dating app and decides to surprise him for the holidays, only to discover that she's been catfished.

In addition, Hurlbut lensed the Disney+ original film Safety, along with Holidate for Netflix, starring Emma Roberts and Luke Bracey, and the pilot episode for SyFy's Resident Alien, starring Alan Tudyk.

Hurlbut frequent joins forces: with director Scott Waugh (on Need for Speed and Act of Valor); with McG (on Rim of the World, Netflix's The Babysitter, Terminator: Salvation and We Are Marshall); and with Gabriele Muccino (on There Is No Place Like Home and Fathers and Daughters).

His additional film credits include: Semi-Pro; The Greatest Game Ever Played; Into the Blue (2005); Mr 3000; Drumline; 11:14, which earned Hurlbut a DVDX nomination; and The Skulls. Notably, his television credits include the first season of AMC's Into the Badlands (2015).

Earlier in his career, Hurlbut photographed iconic music videos including Guns N' Roses' November Rain and collaborated with artists Smashing Pumpkins, Stone Temple Pilots, The Rolling Stones, and Nirvana. His debut feature film, The Rat Pack, received critical acclaim and earned him a nomination from the American Society of Cinematographers, making him the youngest nominee to date.

Hurlbut is based in Los Angeles, where he lives with his wife Lydia, who runs Filmmakers Academy, a platform dedicated to educating the next wave of great filmmakers. He is a member of the American Society of Cinematographers, the International Cinematographers Guild/Local 600, and The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.

He is represented by Worldwide Production Agency (WPA).