Director of photography Shane Hurlbut, ASC works at the forefront of cinema as a storyteller, innovator, and discerning collaborator, who brings more than three decades of experience to his art.

Most recently, Hurlbut worked on the Netflix film Love Hard starring Nina Dobrev and Jimmy O. Yang. The story follows an unlucky LA writer who falls for an East Coast guy on a dating app and decides to surprise him for the holidays, only to discover that she's been catfished.

In addition, Hurlbut lensed the Disney+ original film Safety, along with Holidate for Netflix, starring Emma Roberts and Luke Bracey, and the pilot episode for SyFy's Resident Alien, starring Alan Tudyk.

Hurlbut frequent joins forces: with director Scott Waugh (on Need for Speed and Act of Valor); with McG (on Rim of the World, Netflix's The Babysitter, Terminator: Salvation and We Are Marshall); and with Gabriele Muccino (on There Is No Place Like Home and Fathers and Daughters).

His additional film credits include: Semi-Pro; The Greatest Game Ever Played; Into the Blue (2005); Mr 3000; Drumline; 11:14, which earned Hurlbut a DVDX nomination; and The Skulls. Notably, his television credits include the first season of AMC's Into the Badlands (2015).

Earlier in his career, Hurlbut photographed iconic music videos including Guns N' Roses' November Rain and collaborated with artists Smashing Pumpkins, Stone Temple Pilots, The Rolling Stones, and Nirvana. His debut feature film, The Rat Pack, received critical acclaim and earned him a nomination from the American Society of Cinematographers, making him the youngest nominee to date.

Hurlbut is based in Los Angeles, where he lives with his wife Lydia, who runs Filmmakers Academy, a platform dedicated to educating the next wave of great filmmakers. He is a member of the American Society of Cinematographers, the International Cinematographers Guild/Local 600, and The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.

He is represented by Worldwide Production Agency (WPA).

Alex Ferrari is an author, blogger, speaker, consultant, the host of the #1 filmmaking podcast on iTunes Indie Film Hustle Podcast, and an award-winning writer/director with 25 years of experience in the film industry. As a director, his films have screened in over 500 international film festivals.

Alex exploded onto the indie film scene with his award-winning short film Broken. To date, the film has screened at over 200 international festivals and has been reviewed by over 250 news outlets world-wide including famed film critic Roger Ebert.

"Broken is essentially a demonstration of the mastery of horror imagery and techniques." - Roger Ebert.

Through self-distribution, the Broken: Special Edition DVD has also sold over 5000 units worldwide. Produced on a budget of $8000 and boasting over 100 visual effects shots, Broken is one of the most celebrated shorts in recent years.

Frustrated that his fellow filmmakers were being "chewed up" by the film business, Alex decided to start Indie Film Hustle®, a website dedicated to educating filmmakers and artists on how to survive and thrive in the film business. He also launched a podcast focused on filmmaking called The Indie Film Hustle® Podcast. Within three months of its start date. the show became the #1 filmmaking podcast on Apple Podcasts. He's also the host of the popular screenwriting podcast Bulletproof Screenwriting®, and the filmmaking business podcast Filmtrepreneur®.

After launching Indie Film Hustle, Alex created the world's first streaming service dedicated to filmmakers, screenwriters, content creators and artists called Indie Film Hustle Tv. Alex has worldwide his life to helping people realize their dreams using Indie Film Hustle and Indie Film Hustle Tv as platforms to do so.

Alex's feature film debut was the award-winning This is Meg. The film stars comic actress Jill-Michele Meleán (Reno 911, MadTV), along with Krista Allen, Joseph Reitman, Debra Wilson, Carlos Alazraqui, and Jenica Bergere. Alex wore many hats on this indie film including directing, producing, cinematographer, cameraman, editor, and colorist. The film was sold to on Hulu and is available on Indie Film Hustle Tv, Apple Tv, and Amazon.

Alex's current project is the feature film On the Corner of Ego and Desire. A satirical look at the indie film world shot entirely at the Sundance Film Festival. It will be released sometime in 2020.

His book Shooting for the Mob (Based on the Incredible True Filmmaking Story) hit the Amazon Best Seller's List within a week of its release.

The book is about: A bipolar gangster, a naive, young film director, and Batman. What could go wrong? Alex Ferrari is a first-time film director who just got hired to direct a $20 million feature film, the only problem is the film is about Jimmy, an ego maniacal gangster who wants the film to be about his life in the mob. From the backwater towns of Louisiana to the Hollywood Hills, Alex is taken on a crazy misadventure through the world of the mafia and Hollywood. Huge movie stars, billion-dollar producers, studio heads and, of course, a few gangsters, populate this unbelievable journey down the rabbit hole of chasing your dream.

His second book Rise of the Filmtrepreneur® How to Turn Your Indie Film into a Moneymaking Business rocketed to the top of the Amazon charts and became a #1 Best Seller within 10 hours of its release as well.

Alex lives in Los Angeles with his lovely family. He is a devoted practitioner of meditation and how it aids in the creative process. He also speaks regularly at screenwriting and film events, festivals and conventions.