Director of photography Shane Hurlbut, ASC works at the forefront of cinema as a storyteller, innovator and discerning collaborator, who brings more than three decades of experience to his art.

He is currently shooting the Netflix limited series “The Perfect Couple” starring Nicole Kidman, Dakota Fanning, and Liev Schreiber directed by Susanne Bier.

Last year, Shane wrapped the Amazon Prime feature, Música, slated for a festival release in 2024. Working alongside director Rudy Mancuso, Hurlbut lenses the story of a young man with synesthesia who has to come to terms with an uncertain future while balancing life and Brazilian culture in Newark, New Jersey.

Hurlbut lensed Netflix’s Tall Girl 2, starring Ava Michelle, and Love Hard, which stars Nina Dobrev and Darren Barnet and Jimmy O Yang. He also photographed the pilot and one episode of the SYFY TV series Resident Alien, about a crash-landed alien who takes on the identity of a small-town Colorado doctor who wrestles with the moral dilemma of his secret mission on Earth.

In 2020, Hurlbut worked on the Disney+ original film Safety, directed by Reggie Hudlin. Inspired by the true story of Ray-Ray McElrathbey, the film follows a freshman football player for Clemson University who secretly raised his younger brother on campus, after his home life became too unsteady. In addition, he lensed the Netflix original film, Holidate, directed by John Whitesell, which stars Emma Roberts and Luke Bracey.

Hurlbut frequently joins forces with great directors: McG’s Netflix Rim of the World and The Babysitter, plus Warner Bros. We Are Marshall and Terminator: Salvation; Scott Waugh’s Need for Speed (Dreamworks) and Act of Valor (Relativity); and Gabriele Muccino’s There Is No Place Like Home (Lotus Prod) and Fathers and Daughters (Voltage).

His additional film credits include: Semi-Pro; The Greatest Game Ever Played; Into the Blue (2005); Mr 3000; Drumline; 11:14, which earned Hurlbut a DVDX nomination; and The Skulls. Notably, his television credits include the first season of AMC’s Into the Badlands (2015).

Earlier in his career, Hurlbut photographed iconic music videos including Guns N' Roses' November Rain and collaborated with artists Smashing Pumpkins, Stone Temple Pilots, The Rolling Stones, and Nirvana. His debut feature film, The Rat Pack, received critical acclaim and earned him a nomination from the American Society of Cinematographers, making him the youngest nominee to date.

A recognized mentor to his fellow DPs, Hurlbut is based in Los Angeles, where he lives with his wife Lydia, CEO of Filmmakers Academy (formerly Hurlbut Academy.) This award-winning professional filmmakers platform fast-tracks members' careers in the content and entertainment industry, helping them master their craft.

Hurlbut is a member of the American Society of Cinematographers, the International Cinematographers Guild/Local 600, and The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.

He is represented by Worldwide Production Agency (WPA).