REDWOOD CITY, CA – June 10, 2008 - Hudson Entertainment today released a new trailer for galactic shooter Star Soldier R for WiiWare™ on Wii™, which recently launched. The trailer highlights game play from both the 2-Minute and 5-Minute modes. There is also still time for players to compete in Star Soldier R’s “Shoot Now, Win Prizes Later” tournament and sweepstakes, running until June 24.

Star Soldier R is a 2-level game that features a tournament-style approach in its gameplay which challenges players to achieve a high score in either a 2-Minute or 5-Minute Mode. Each mode offers quick and exciting gameplay and gives players just enough time to play through each mode. The 2-Minute Mode features one stage where gamers have 2 minutes to battle their way tp a fight against one giant boss. In the 5-Minute Mode, players have five minutes to work their way past the first level and its boss to fight and defeat another boss in a second level.

Both modes are time-limited, and added competitive and replay value for players comes after they earn their scores, which they can post to the in-game leaderboards and then check out how they compare with other players in the region or even the world. The goal is for players to replay the game over and over again to beat their high score, improve their ranking, and discover different strategies in order to earn bonus points in the 2-Minute and 5-Minute Modes. If they can collect them all, they might have the honor of boasting the top score in the world!

For players who want to see if they can achieve the highest score in Star Soldier R in the nation, it’s not too late for gamers to vie for the high score in Star Soldier R’s “5-Minute Mode” where the top players on the ranking leaderboards have the chance to win prizes through June 24. To sign up, players must register on the tournament registration page, located at ( http://hudsonentertainment.com/tournament_register.php?tournament_id=2).

For more information about the contests please visit the registration page.

For the latest trailer, info and artwork, please visit: http://press.hudsonent.com/ or http://www.clevercomm.com/StarSoldierR/

For more information on Hudson Entertainment, please visit http://www.hudsonent.com/.

Contact:

Tina Casalino

Clever Communications

(408) 823-5779

tina@clevercomm.com