Maybe we should just call this Jill Hennessy Visibility Month.

There she is playing a lesbian in Chutney Popcorn, the first feature film by Vancouver-born Nisha Ganatra, opening today at Toronto's Carlton and Vancouver's Fifth Avenue Cinemas.

There she is in a cameo as one of Richard Gere's love interests in Autumn in New York, an otherwise execrable film now in wide North American release.

There she is as Elsie Douglas, executive secretary (and perhaps more) to Alec Baldwin (as Supreme Court Justice Robert Jackson) in Nuremberg, a two-part Turner Network miniseries that played to huge audiences last month in the U.S. and is airing next month in Canada on CTV.

And here she is in Toronto, wrapping up a 13-week shoot as Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis in Jackie, Ethel, Joan: The Women of Camelot, a four-hour, two-part NBC miniseries to be aired next February.

"I think I've had three days off in the last three months," the 30-year-old Edmonton-born actor said over a recent pot of hot chocolate.

There's unlikely to be much more downtime in the months ahead. Two days after she wraps Camelot, she starts shooting opposite Steven Seagal in Exit Wounds, which will also be filmed in the Toronto area.

And she hopes to have a chance to promote The Acting Class, a feature she wrote, executive-produced, acted in and co-directed with Elizabeth Holder. Hennessy describes it as a festival film about a group of incredibly dysfunctional actors and their teachers, with cameos from Alec Baldwin, Benjamin Bratt and Jerry Orbach.

Apart from her recent holiday deficit, however, Hennessy isn't really complaining. Although she now makes her home in New York's West Village, she loves Toronto, where she launched her acting career 13 years ago and where her twin sister, Jacqueline -- a Chatelaine writer -- lives. Her only complaint: the city's increasingly ubiquitous moose.

"Don't get me started. First I thought it was kind of cute and a great charitable idea. But then the city council was upset that all the moose were male, which incited this wave of vandalism. . . . C'mon people: let's remind ourselves what this is about."

Hennessy's appearance in Chutney Popcorn, made for less than $1-million and also starring Ganatra, Madhur Jaffrey and Nick Chinlund, was born out of a serendipitous meeting with the 27-year-old director at the New York Women In Film Festival. They started to talk "about film, art, food, life, whatever," and Ganatra asked her to read a script she'd written with Susan Carnival, adding, "You'd be really right for one of these characters."

"Dude, I would be so there," Hennessy said, adopting the hipster idiom that turns up frequently in her conversation.

She got the script the next day, read it, called her agent and said, "You've got to make this work."

She won't divulge what she earned for the shoot, but says, "there were jobs where I was paid substantially more that I would never do again. But if I could do a TV series or a group of films like this. . . . It was one of the most joyous experiences I've had on a set. I got to explore different parts of myself and places that I'd never been able to go."

And though Ganatra was making her debut as a feature-film director, Hennessy says she had "a wonderful security level about her. She doesn't have to push actors. I've seen a lot of far more experienced directors behave like, 'I need to remind you that I'm in control.' "

Ganatra reminded her most, she says, of director Ron Howard, with whom she worked on the 1994 film, The Paper -- "an attitude of coming to the set and just enjoying himself, willing to try different things, not premeditated. Nisha was exactly the same."

Her character's sexual orientation was almost incidental. "I never think, 'Oh, I'm playing a lesbian now.' I'm playing a character, somebody who's in love with this beautiful girl, who is desperately terrified of commitment and terrified of having children, but secretly wanting to have children -- all issues I can relate to."

After a peripatetic childhood that saw her meat-packing executive father move the family every two years (she lived in Edmonton and Calgary; Cranbrook, B.C., and Vancouver; Burlington and Kitchener-Waterloo, Ont., and Ottawa), Hennessy left home at 17 for Toronto determined to act.

A year later, she and her sister won small parts in David Cronenberg's Dead Ringers (1988).

So there she was, just 18, in her own trailer, with Jeremy Irons asking her out for tea to discuss twin behaviour. Less memorable, she says, was seeing herself on the big screen for the first time. "I hated it. My heart was beating so strongly I was about to pass out."

Her film debut did not generate instant stardom. Between theatre and movie gigs, Hennessy waited tables, bartended and played guitar. She also did improv at Second City, a regimen she considers some of the best training she's received, learning "to play it moment to moment, to not censor yourself, to not premeditate anything."

After touring with The Buddy Holly Story (with Melanie Doane), she won parts in RoboCop 3, on Howard's The Paper and then Law & Order, where she starred for three seasons as assistant district attorney Claire Kincaid. Her three-year contract was ordained from the start; at 23, Hennessy had no desire to fall into television's typecasting straitjacket.

"Even after the second season, when I try to audition for comedic parts, I'd hear back, 'Oh, that's the Law & Order girl, too serious, uptight.' It's frustrating."

Off the set, Hennessy plays her guitar, seeks out the best Italian restaurants and hangs out with her sister. For the past six years, she's been involved with New York actor/restaurateur Paolo Mastropietro; among other benefits, the relationship has helped make her fluent in Italian (Hennessy also speaks French, Spanish and -- courtesy of Chutney Popcorn -- a little Hindi).

Beyond the Seagal film, her future is uncharted. The scripts pour in, but much, if not everything, depends on financing, an elaborate and complex chess game. It wouldn't be surprising to see Hennessy do more writing, producing and directing. She won't be typecast in a role and she won't be typecast as an actor.