The collection consists of professional and personal correspondence, assorted clippings, film festival awards and memorabilia, and scripts and production documents related to Alan Rudolph's filmmaking career, spanning his early work in Riot (1969), through 2002's The Secret Lives of Dentists. Also included are a plethora of documents from various unproduced projects. In the Artifacts and Graphics series are a small selection of props from Rudolph's films, most notably The Moderns, along with an assortment of film cast and crew branded gear, including caps, shirts, and jackets, movie posters, and a representation of some of the numerous awards won by the Rudolphs.

A small sub-series of material devoted to friend and mentor, Robert Altman, consists of articles and reviews, assorted programs, and, most notably, photographs taken by Joyce Rudolph.

Joyce Rudolph is represented by hundreds of her professional and sought-after on-set photographs, company stills, and candid shots, all taken during the filming of projects by Alan Rudolph and a wide variety of other notable filmmakers.

A series of Audio and Moving Image material consists of several VHS tapes, several movie video disks as well as two soundtracks. The Artwork series contains an assortment of drawings and paintings, most likely created by Alan Rudolph, along with two large acrylic paintings used as props in The Moderns.

Alan Rudolph, born on December 18, 1943 in Los Angeles California, is a director, writer and producer, and artist, best known for his work on the films Choose Me, Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle, Afterglow, and Breakfast of Champions. He was mentored by director Robert Altman and served as Altman's assistant director on multiple films

Joyce Rudolph is an artist and still photographer who worked on many of Alan Rudolph's and Robert Altman's films, as well as others, such as James Cameron's The Terminator, Robert Rodriguez's From Dusk Till Dawn, and Bobcat Goldthwait's World's Greatest Dad.