Terms of Service and Privacy Policy

We place a high priority on protecting your privacy. This privacy policy was created in order to demonstrate our firm commitment to the privacy of our website users.

We own and operate this Website, and this document governs your relationship with www.prtms.com. This policy explains what types of information is collected by this website, www.prtms.com, and how this information is used.

Access to and use of this Website and the products and services available through this Website (collectively, the “Services”) are subject to the following terms, conditions and notices (the “Terms of Service”). By using the Services, you are agreeing to all of the Terms of Service, as may be updated by us from time to time. You should check this page regularly to take notice of any changes we may have made to the Terms of Service.

Access to this Website is permitted on a temporary basis, and we reserve the right to withdraw or amend the Services without notice. We will not be liable if for any reason this Website is unavailable at any time or for any period. From time to time, we may restrict access to some parts or all of this Website.

By using this Website, you consent to the processing described therein and warrant that all data provided by you is accurate.

What Personally Identifiable Information is Collected

PrTMS® site visitors that register, and individuals that sign up to receive PrTMS® e-communications voluntarily provide us with contact information (such as name and e-mail address). We may use this information for specific, limited purposes. You may always “opt out,” either now or at any time in the future if you do not wish to receive our messages.

​

IP addresses

Our site uses your IP address to help diagnose problems any server issues with www.prtms.com, and for statistical metrics used to track website visitor traffic.

​

Cookies

Our site also uses “cookie” messages to automatically help provide better services. They remind us who you are and your preferences for our website based on what you’ve done and told us prior. The “cookie” is placed in your computer and is read when you come back to our website. Cookies let us take you to the information and features you’re particularly interested in. They also let us track your usage of www.prtms.com, so we know which parts of our sites are most popular. You can reject cookies or cancel them by instructing your web browser accordingly.

​

How Your Information May Be Used

We use your personal information to provide you with personalized service, to send e-mail alerts to you, to answer your requests, to process your donations, etc. You may choose to opt out at any time, which will cease all communications from us. We may also use your information to track visitor use of our website. This lets us see which of our features are the most popular, so we can better serve our users’ needs. It also lets us provide aggregate data about our traffic (not identifying you personally, but showing how many visitors used which features, for example) to outside parties.

​

Email Privacy

We do not provide, sell, or rent email addresses to anyone outside the organization.

​

External Links

Our site, www.prtms.com, may include links to external websites. These links do not fall under the domain, and we are not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of external websites. Your use of any linked website is solely at your own risk.

​

Modifications

We may amend this privacy policy from time to time, so please review it periodically. We maintain the option to modify this privacy at any time by electronic notice posted on our website. Your continued use of our website after the date that such notices are posted will be deemed to be your agreement to the changed terms.

​

You must not misuse this Website. You will not: commit or encourage a criminal offense; transmit or distribute a virus, trojan, worm, logic bomb or any other material which is malicious, technologically harmful, in breach of confidence or in any way offensive or obscene; hack into any aspect of the Service; corrupt data; cause annoyance to other users; infringe upon the rights of any other person’s proprietary rights; send any unsolicited advertising or promotional material, commonly referred to as “spam”; or attempt to affect the performance or functionality of any computer facilities of or accessed through this Website. Breaching this provision would constitute a criminal offense and we will report any such breach to the relevant law

enforcement authorities and disclose your identity to them.

We will not be liable for any loss or damage caused by a distributed denial-of-service attack, viruses or other technologically harmful material that may infect your computer equipment, computer programs, data or other proprietary material due to your use of this Website or to your downloading of any material posted on it, or on any website linked to it.

Intellectual Property, Software and Content

The intellectual property rights in all software and content (including photographic images) made available to you on or through this Website remains our property or the property of its licensors and are protected by copyright laws and treaties around the world. All such rights are reserved by us and our licensors. You may store, print and display the content supplied solely for your own personal use. You are not permitted to publish, manipulate, distribute or otherwise reproduce, in any format, any of the content or copies of the content supplied to you or which appears on this Website, nor may you use any such content in connection with any business or commercial enterprise.

When contacting us through www.prtms.com, you certify that all details you provide to us are true and accurate, that you are an authorized user of any credit or debit cards used to make any financial transactions, and that there are sufficient funds to cover the amount of any such transactions.

Linking to this Website

You may link to our home page, provided you do so in a way that is fair and legal and does not damage our reputation or take advantage of it, but you must not establish a link in such a way as to suggest any form of association, approval or endorsement on our part where none exists.

​

You must not establish a link from any website that is not owned by you. This Website must not be framed on any other site, nor may you create a link to any part of this Website other than the home page. We reserve the right to withdraw linking permission without notice.

Disclaimer As To Ownership of Trade Marks, Images, and Third-Party Copyright

Except where expressly stated to the contrary all persons (including their names and images) , third-party trade-marks and content, services and/or locations featured on this Website are in no way associated, linked or affiliated with www.prtms.com, and you should not rely on the existence of such a connection or affiliation. Any trade marks/names featured on this Website are owned by the respective trade mark owners. Where a trade mark or brand name is referred to, it is used solely to describe or identify the products and services and is in no way an assertion that such products or services are endorsed by or connected to www.prtms.com.

Indemnity

You agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless www.prtms.com, its directors, officers, employees, consultants, agents, and affiliates, from any and all third-party claims, liability, damages and/or costs (including, but not limited to, legal fees) arising from your use this Website or your breach of the Terms of Service. PeakMD Institute shall have the right in its absolute discretion at any time and without

notice to amend, remove or vary the Services and/or any page of this Website.

Invalidity

If any part of the Terms of Service is unenforceable (including any provision in which we exclude our liability to you) the enforceability of any other part of the Terms of Service will not be affected, and all other clauses remaining in full force and effect. So far as possible where any clause/subclause or part of a clause/sub-clause can be severed to render the remaining part valid, the clause shall be interpreted accordingly.

Alternatively, you agree that the clause shall be rectified and interpreted in such a way that closely resembles the original meaning of the clause /subclause as is permitted by law.

Complaints

We operate a complaints handling procedure which we will use to try to resolve disputes when they first arise. Please let us know if you have any complaints or comments.

Waiver

If you breach these conditions and we take no action, we will still be entitled to use our rights and remedies in any other situation where you breach these conditions.