According to the most recent figures, autism spectrum disorder affects about 2% of all children under eight years old. The MindSet team is at the forefront of an innovative autism treatment alternative known as personalized repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (PrTMS®). Nerve function is stabilized, and autism symptoms improve as PrTMS® restores damaged brainwaves to a healthy state. To find out more about the ability of PrTMS to treat San Diego autism patients, contact the MindSet office or book an appointment online today.

What is autism spectrum disorder?

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental issue marked by an extensive range of symptoms, beginning in childhood and continuing into adulthood. Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) covers a wide variety of abilities. Nonetheless, all people living with autism have three main issues:

Communication and socialization issues

Constricted preferences and habits

Repetitive patterns of conduct

Each individual with autism faces unique challenges that differ in magnitude and nature. Some autistic children do not speak at all, while others talk nonstop about a single subject. Unfortunately, these core issues are serious enough to obstruct their lives at home, in school, and in the community.

What is Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) and how does it benefit people with autism?

TMS is a treatment that stimulates nerve activity in the brain using magnetic impulses. TMS can result in long-term changes in nerve electrical activity, which are mirrored in brain waves when it is administered to the brain continuously. The US Food and Drug Administration has endorsed TMS to treat mental health disorders, including post-traumatic stress disorder and depression.

Autism patients' brainwave patterns vary from those of non-autistic individuals, according to studies. These variations are so significant that brainwave patterns might show a distinct biomarker, which can one day be utilized in autism diagnosis.

TMS can help with a wide range of symptoms and challenges linked to autism by restoring normal nerve and brainwave activity. TMS for autism is still undergoing testing, but studies show that it helps with concentration, information processing, and behavior problems.

What is the difference between TMS and PrTMS®?

PrTMS® utilizes a similar device as TMS to reconfigure brain arrhythmias by emitting magnetic pulses. PrTMS®, on the other hand, builds on traditional TMS by tailoring each patient's care. To produce the best results, the MindSet team follows these steps:

• Analyze the brainwaves

• Patients questionnaire about their unique challenges and symptoms

• Data assessment through PeakLogic Software

• Continuing assessment of brainwaves through ongoing Electroencephalograms (EEGs)

What To Expect With A PrTMS Procedure

Patients just need to relax in their chair for about 30 minutes during PrTMS® appointments. The TMS system is placed next to your head and then turned on to transmit magnetic waves into the desired brain region in a safe manner.

Since TMS devices click as they function, the MindSet team works closely with kids and their families to ensure that they know the sound and any stimuli they can experience. Patients must also be ready to attend five sessions a week for six to eight weeks. This initial exposure is vital for you to achieve long-term effects.

Do not allow autism to take a toll on the quality of your life. Call the MindSet San Diego, CA office or book an appointment online to learn more about PrTMS's ability to treat autism better.