Maybe it's the business cards or the hanging plants on the factory floor or the indoor-outdoor lounge where employees' lunches are hot and waiting for them when their break starts.

Something seems different almost from the moment the doors swing open at Sun Hydraulics Corp., a manufacturer of hydraulic cartridge valves and manifolds based in Sarasota County, just south of University Parkway.

A few feet from the shop floor, engineers, sales people and executives work within earshot of one another in waist-high cubicles.

Then it hits. There are no offices. No carpeted, walnut-paneled suites overlooking the plant. No executive washroom.

Job titles are another headache. So get rid of them, says Bob Koski, who co-founded Sun in 1970 and still owns more than a third of the multinational company.

Koski despises corporate organizational structures that narrow employees' focus to one or a handful of tasks and stifle creativity. That goes for supervisors on the plant floor.

Why have them when employees can manage themselves through a peer system and be cross-trained to perform almost every function in the plant?

Ask human resources employee Greg Glass about job titles. Better yet, ask to see his business card. It includes Glass' name, along with the name, address and phone number of Sun Hydraulics, but nothing else.

"I work in human resources," he says, shrugging. "That's it."

Koski says his business model turned heads when he and John Allen started the company 33 years ago.

Even more unusual is that Sun has managed to adhere to Koski's vision all these years, even as the company has expanded from 20 to 550 employees and as Koski stepped aside as chairman to accept a less active day-to-day role.

Management experts say most companies adopt corporate hierarchies when they expand.

Just how many U.S. companies, like Sun, shun traditional corporate structures is difficult to measure. But variations of team-based management, if not exactly Koski's style, are gaining momentum.

Even large corporations, seemingly loathe to adopt open management, are using some team concepts and cross-training employees to control overhead and save money.

"I think management, in general, is coming to the realization that they just have to listen to people, that people who work in companies know what they're doing," said Colleen Kaftan, who writes about management structures and manufacturing, and co-authored four case studies about Sun Hydraulics for the Harvard Business School.

"Employees can bring a lot more to the table if you ask them to."

Koski and others insist that besides obvious reasons of morale, there's a practical side to empowering employees: the bottom line.

Throwing employees at a problem they wrestle with daily will produce a successful solution more often than having one mandated from the top down.

Koski points to employee-inspired efficiencies used at Sun last year to save the manufacturer 100,000 hours in direct labor.

In fact, says Koski, the larger the company, the greater potential for savings through economies of scale and cost-saving initiatives floated by employees.

"This can actually be measured in terms of improved productivity and efficiency," he says.

Across Sarasota County in Lakewood Ranch, Teleflex Morse, a maker of gauges, steering columns and shift controls, introduced management changes that were so successful in fattening the bottom line that its corporate parent, Plymouth Meeting, Pa.-based Teleflex Inc., implemented many of the same changes corporatewide.

One idea was a variation of the old suggestion box. Instead of dropping ideas into a box, where they're forwarded to one or two people, ideas are written on poster board in public view inside the plant. That prompts co-workers to make more suggestions and creates a kind of dialogue, says Teleflex plant manager David Suchy.

Suchy, who helped introduce many such changes at Teleflex 13 months ago, says he's prouder still of the company's cross-training program and recent modifications to the assembly lines.

Instead of performing a single function along a straight line, employees are cross-trained and work in U-shaped "cells," so they can move quickly from one end of the line to the other to correct bottlenecks.

Inventory is kept close by so workers don't waste time retrieving parts across the shop floor.

Combined with a build-to-order production style, where output is matched to orders received, these changes generated significant savings, Suchy said. More importantly, they helped boost sales.

Within a year, sales at the Lakewood Ranch division jumped 20 percent and profits more than doubled -- all while keeping user-end prices unchanged.

"The efficiencies helped us to focus on better-made products and on-time delivery," said Suchy, adding that the company's reliability helped it win new and larger contracts. "We went from 70 percent on-time delivery to the high 90s. That made a real difference to a lot of people."

Farther south, at the Eastern Industrial Park in eastern Sarasota County, the founders of Florikan, a fertilizer manufacturer and distributor, had a practical reason for empowering employees.

"We had two choices: Not to grow and continue to work 24 hours a day or empower people to make decisions for you," said Ed Rosenthal.

The couple hired a chief technical officer and a chief operations officer. To make sure they got the best and the brightest, they offered salaries far above the industry average.

"Sarasota pays about $25,000 to $30,000 for office workers. We decided to pay $50,000 and $60,000 and get the right people to help us," Rosenthal said.

The two didn't stop there. They urged employees to suggest ways to improve business, which had the added benefit of identifying potential leaders and fostering a sense of teamwork.

Then, borrowing a page from Japanese manufacturers, the Rosenthals took their team concept to new and different heights.

They launched a wellness program to urge employees to stop smoking and lose weight. To help them get fit, they offered free yoga classes once a week. So far, about half of the company's 25 employees are participating.

"We think the payback is people will take less time off for illnesses," Rosenthal said. "We've already got the whole accounting and IT departments going."

He added, "It's harder to get our warehouse department to go."

Kaftan and others say companies that start with open management styles often see them evaporate as they expand.

Certain functions, such as bookkeeping, must be performed in specific ways. In the case of incorporated businesses, state and federal laws require certain job titles.

Then as companies expand, other pressures -- office politics, unions and the desire to succeed as measured by titles and perks -- emerge that choke the team atmosphere, which was evident when the company was smaller and younger.

"New, small companies tend to be egalitarian in a way where everybody pitches in. The trick is staying that way when you get bigger," Koski said.

Koski doesn't reject all structure and he doesn't advocate that approach. Certain functions require certain employees -- engineers, accountants and sales representatives. But too much structure, particularly a top-down model, can create divisions: a worker versus management mentality.

One way to avoid that is to get rid of titles. That, too, can get tricky when some titles are required under law, but even then titles can be effectively downplayed. At Sun, for example, the president sits in a cubicle alongside sales representatives and engineers. Koski's cubicle is no larger than anyone else's.

Pay raises, meanwhile, are tied to years of service, responsibilities and job performance. As for perks and fat year-end bonuses paid out to executives, there aren't any. Employees are encouraged to seek satisfaction through their job and working with like-minded, inspired co-workers.

"We wanted the office to be open, where people don't have to feel intimidated to share ideas," said Glass, the human resources employee.

But if all that sounds uninviting, consider that Sun pays 100 percent of premiums for major medical insurance. Only 4 percent of U.S. companies still do that. Also, Sun has never laid off any workers, even when profits slipped, and pays at or above the average wage.

Koski said he wants investors and workers to think long term. Cross-training enables workers to stay busy in lean times and keeps the work force intact so the company can ratchet up production when the economy turns.

"Some people say they care about employees, but they don't show it," Koski said.

Lexjet Direct Inc., based in Sarasota, also fits the Koski mold.

The company, which sells photographic paper, ink and other components related to digital imaging, insists on an informal, relaxed atmosphere where working as a team is the main job description.

Its two dozen employees show up in jeans and shorts to sell Lexjet products over the phone and Internet. Salaries are commission-driven, although employees are required to help one another, even when that means sacrificing a commission. The idea is that someday the favor will be returned.

"Nobody is gunning for the president's job here," said Dean Lambert, whose father, Art Lambert, co-founded the company with Ron Simkins nine years ago.

Most employees are sales associates who have undergone rigorous training in Lexjet's products, clients and the market.

If any structure exists, it's that employees work in regional teams, but any employee can help any client.

Employees are urged not only to keep tabs on the market, but to develop leads for new products and sales. Bonuses are tied to the company's yearly performance and each employee shares in the bounty.

"It's a fast-growing industry, and it's changing every six months," said John Lane, who helps oversee the company with Dean Lambert and Chris Cudzilo, all friends from their days at the University of Kentucky.

Although, Lane, Lambert and Cudzilo work in a kind of supervisory role, they all perform the same jobs as their co-workers. Workers understand what's expected of them not because they receive daily supervision, but because they've been well trained.

It helps, though, that they're young. Most employees are in their 20s and 30s. For some, Lexjet represents their first or second job, so they haven't been subjected to rigid corporate structures.

"No one person is responsible for everything. The reason for our growth is the team we have right here," says Lane.

Cudzilo said the company finds most of its workers through referrals. Other than enthusiasm and a competitive spirit, potential employees must be moldable. They must be pliable enough to fit into Lexjet's loose, team-based business model.

"Every employee has a stake in this company," he said.

Also, Lexjet isn't going to change to fit other corporate models. Why should it? Eight years ago, it had $65,000 in sales. This past year, Lexjet reported $18 million in sales.

The tricky part, said Lane, "will be to see if we can keep this going in the future, and not become more structured."