Herefordshire, UK | Ad Astra Record shop has opened in Leominster, Herefordshire: A new record shop has opened in Leominster. Ad Astra Records welcomed their customers to School Lane last Saturday (August 26). The shop, which is trading both in-person and online, will stock second-hand records alongside recent releases from established and new artists including limited editions and future rarities. They also intend to be a hub for the local music scene by hosting music nights with Herefordshire’s promising young bands. …“Vinyl records have been growing year on year for the last decade or so,” said Mr Barton. “I think part of the reason for that growth is because it’s so good for mindfulness. The ritual of taking a record out and it just being you and the music for an hour or two.”

Portland, OR | Jackpot Records 25th Anniversary Celebration: While vinyl has been steadily growing in popularity over the last several years, it’s still not easy being in the business of selling physical copies of music. So it’s more than a little impressive when a record store can stick around for a couple decades or more. Jackpot Records, which Rolling Stone magazine once dubbed “one of the 10 best record stores in the US,” is celebrating 25 years of business with an all-day anniversary party on October 21. The store was launched by musician Isaac Slurarenko, and has grown into a place where you can hear live music sets while you shop, as well as being the home of the award-winning Jackpot record label, releasing rare gems by the likes of Mudhoney, Etta James, Nirvana, The Meters, and more. In addition to surprise guest DJs, and a free anniversary tee with purchase (while supplies last), the shop is offering 25 percent off all Jackpot Records releases. Be there or be square.

Calgary, CA | Calgary’s Recordland Hosts 1.7 Million Records & More: Right in the heart of the Great White North, there is a record store so enticing and lively it almost feels like a dream. Recordland is located in Calgary Alberta, Canada, and is home to what has to be one of the largest record selections in all of Canada. The shop has been updating its immense catalog for decades now and has found a formula that allows them to line its shelves with new and used vinyl from across genres and generations. Recordland is constantly updating its stock, making it a paradise for music nerds to find that rare gem they’ve been looking for or for new collectors to discover their new favorite album to spin. Glide had the pleasure of speaking with the good people over at Recordland to discuss their massive selection, how they keep track of it all, and the history of the shop. Check out our full conversation.

El Cerrito, CA | Audio Postcard: A Sentimental Journey to Arhoolie Records: Earlier this spring, one of the most influential producers in music passed away. Chris Strachwitz was born in Germany at the end of World War II and emigrated with his family to the United States, where he grew to love the distinctive jazz and blues of his new home. His label, Arhoolie Records, put artists like Lightning Hopkins and Mississippi Fred McDowell on the map, and fostered the careers of big names like Taj Mahal and Ry Cooder. For Sitkan Suzanne Portello, the passing of Chris Strachwitz was an invitation for a pilgrimage back to the Bay Area, and to Down Home Music, the record store where Arhoolie was formerly housed. KCAW’s Robert Woolsey suggested that Portello make an audio postcard of her journey.

Warrington, UK | Stepping back to the world of vinyl at Lizard Records: People of a certain age (author included), remember the world of vinyl records very well and it appears many younger music fans are returning to it and are clearly enjoying the world of the original (non-digitized) sound in all its glory. In between extensive festival reporting Warrington Worldwide popped along for a chat with owner Steve Davidson aka ‘Diddy.’ Next time you are in Warrington town centre or sat in the 9 Gallon real ale pub on Legh St enjoying a quiet pint, why not walk another 20 yards on the left to Lizard Records—keep your eyes peeled, you might not see it but you will hear it! Crossing the threshold you will be greeted enthusiastically by ‘Diddy’, you might even recognize him as he has been a D.J since the age of 13 when he helped out at various shows by playing his own ‘punk’ set at Woolston Leisure Centre and the Cantilever Youth Club and continues to ‘spin’ records today at many of the festivals in town and beyond.

Las Vegas, NV | Searching for vinyl? These Las Vegas-area record stores offer a variety: Whether it’s nostalgia, the need to own a collectible or the sound that the needle hitting the spinning disc produces, vinyl records are experiencing a revival — sort of. Vinyl sales in the U.S. totaled nearly 42 million pieces in 2022, which accounted for about half of total physical album purchases, according to Luminate’s “Year-End Music Report.” However, the figure pales in comparison to the roughly 280 million pieces sold in 1973, when the format was in its heyday, the Recording Industry Association of America notes. The resurgence is being fueled by Gen Z, who were 27 percent more likely to buy vinyl records, according to Luminate, a music-data service. Only about half of consumers who buy vinyl own a record player, the report said. Numbers, generations or consumption habits aside, vinyl collectors in the Las Vegas Valley are lucky to have brick and mortar shops to fill their needs.

Benton Harbor, MI | Southwest Michigan Record Show set for September 16: Coming back to the Lake Michigan College Mendel Center on September 16 is the Southwest Michigan Record Show. Organizer Jeremy Bonfiglio tells us the first ever event was held in May and was a success. He started the show to give collectors of vinyl records a place to meet, trade, and buy. He got the idea from running a similar show in South Bend. “There always seems to be a number of people coming down from this area for that show, and I kept thinking right here in Berrien County, there’s not a lot of places where people can buy vinyl,” Bonfiglio said. Bonfiglio says the local collecting community is getting clued into the show. “I think as we continue to get the word out and let people know that this is something we’re going to hold twice a year, every year, more and more people will get excited about it and come out on a regular basis.”

Dundee, UK | Promoter involved in iconic Iron Maiden gig at Caird Hall revives Dundee Record Fair: The event will return next month under the stewardship of Andrew Kennedy. Andrew Kennedy is looking forward to welcoming hundreds of vinyl enthusiasts to the reinstated event next month. The Peterhead businessman is taking the reins of what is thought to be Scotland’s longest-running record fair. Many feared the fair could be consigned to the history books when previous organiser, George Robertson, retired in January. But Dundee Record Fair – which has run for more than 40 years – will return to Marryat Hall, inside the Caird Hall, on Sunday September 3 between 10am and 4pm. It was after reading about the closure of the record fair in The Courier that Andrew, 71, expressed an interest in taking it over. He said: “I was actually on holiday when I read the story about the record fair coming to an end. “I’ve attended it myself for the last eight years and knew the work that both George and Alastair ‘Breeks’ Brodie had put into it.