Richard “Rick” Dale Brown, Jr. of Cherryville, MO was born on Wednesday, September 28, 1955 in Cabool, MO to Richard D. Brown, Sr. and Bertha Luper Brown. He passed away on Sunday, November 28, 2021 at Phelps Health in Rolla, MO at the age of 66 years and 2 months.

Rick graduated from Fort Campbell High School in 1974. He was a member of the United States Army and later was employed with the Missouri State Parks Department where he retired as a maintenance worker III. He worked at Mastodon State Park, Dillard Mill State Park, and Hawn State Park where he participated in several projects including the Dorothy Heinze Memorial Garden. Rick was later employed with EMPAC in Sullivan, MO where he was a personal assistant. He loved assisting individuals with disabilities. He then became the manager of the rest area in St. Clair, MO. He was always watching for anyone who needed assistance. He married the love of his life, Judy Ann Casteel on October 12, 1973 in Hillsboro, MO. They celebrated 48 years of marriage. One son was born to this union and in 2007 five children were adopted. Together they raised six children and fostered many. Rick accepted the Lord as his personal savior on October 30, 1988 at Victory Christian Fellowship in Pevely, MO and was an active member of the Steelville First Assembly of God Church. He assisted with the men’s breakfast, played the cowboy in the annual church play, drove the golf cart assisting members from the parking lot to the church, and was a member of the security team. Rick enjoyed riding, shoeing horses, and hunting. He especially enjoyed spending time with his family at deer camp. He was very friendly, giving, and never met a stranger. Most of all, Rick loved his family.

Rick is preceded in death by his parents Richard and Beulah Brown; parents-in-law Paul and June Casteel; sister Sandra Harmon; brother-in-law Joseph Richterberg; and sister-in-law Vicky Therell.

Rick is survived by his wife, Judy Ann Brown of Cherryville, MO; children Richard Brown, III (Dana) Brown of Ste. Genevieve, MO, Jared Chapman of Steelville, MO, Travis Smith of LA, Vincent Smith of Bourbon, MO, Nicole Brown of Cook Station, MO, and Gabriella (Doug) Bequette of Villa Ridge, MO; siblings Amy Richterberg of Schriever, LA, Elizabeth Woodrum of Tempe, AZ, Forrest (Kathi) Brown of Boxelder, SD, Roy (Susan) Brown of New Melle, MO, and Gloria Mayrand of Natchitoches, LA; brothers and sisters-in-law Paul Casteel, Jr. of Bismark, MO, Mark (Janna) Casteel of Valle Mines, MO, and Gregory Casteel of Bloomsdale, MO; grandchildren Ashley (Joseph) Mayberry of Fredericktown, MO, Richard Brown, IV (Kortney Campbell) of Valle Mines, MO, Bradly Brown of St. Genevieve, MO; Wesson Smith, Cashen Smith, and Colt Smith all of LA, and Lyla Bequette of Villa Ridge, MO; great grandchildren Joseph and Austyn Mayberry both of Fredericktown, MO, and Liam Brown of St. Genevieve, MO.

Visitation was Saturday, December, 11, 2021, from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at Steelville First Assembly of God Church in Steelville, MO. Memorial Service immediately followed with Pastor Jerry Beers officiating. The service was live-streamed on Hutson Funeral Home in Steelville, MO’s Facebook page beginning at 11:55 a.m. The family chose cremation as his final disposition. A private Inurnment will be held at a later date at Boss Cemetery, Boss, MO. Memorials were suggested to the Life Line Pregnancy Center, Cuba, MO.

All arrangements under the direction of Hutson Funeral Home, Steelville, MO.