Herbert Dale Brown, longtime Mexia educator, passed away November 13, 2019, in Mexia, at the age of 97. He was born at Lost Prairie, in Limestone County, Texas on September 19, 1922 to Elbert and Maggie (Lansford) Brown. After graduating high school, he received a Masters Degree from Sam Houston State and earned an Administrative Certification in Vocational Education from Texas A&M University.

Dale was an Army Veteran of World War II. He participated in the invasions of Siapan, Tinian, Leyte in the Philippines and Okinawa. Soon after World War II, he served as an instructor in the Veterans Training Program in Limestone County

After obtaining his education and a tour of duty with the Army, Dale retired in 1982, after dedicating 40 years of service in public education. He taught agriculture at Temple High School and Mexia High School. He also served as the first Director of the Mexia Area Vocational School.

Dale was actively involved in many school, church and community organizations. He was chosen, by his peers, as Captain of the Sam Houston State Bearkat football team, unfortunately, he never got to play due to being drafted into the Army. He was named Outstanding Young Man of the Year by the Mexia Chamber of Commerce and served as Area President and State Director of the Texas Vocational Agriculture Teachers Association. Dale was a longtime member of the First Baptist Church where he taught the Brown Sunday School Class for twenty years, served a term as Moderator when the church was without a Pastor and served as a deacon.

He was preceded in death by his wife, Fayrene (Thompson) Brown in 1991; parents, Elbert and Maggie Brown; brother, Willard K. Brown; and two sisters, Margrette Croft and Mary Ann Brown.

Dale is survived by his two sons, Barry Brown of Mexia (formerly of Corpus Christi) and Steven Brown and wife, Jackie of Millersburg, Ohio; three grandchildren, Joshua, Samuel and Emily Brown; and brother, Gordon Brown and wife, Genevive of Huntsville.

Memorials may be made to either, Bearkat Champions (athletics) or College of Education or Agricultural Science, send to Office of University Advancement, Sam Houston State University, P. O. Box 2537, Huntsville, TX 77341 or LaSalle Cemetery, %P. O. Box 215, Groesbeck, TX 76642.

Funeral services will be 2:00 p.m., Sunday, November 17, 2019 at Blair-Stubbs Chapel with Rev. Marcus Sheffield officiating. Interment will follow in the Mexia Cemetery. Pallbearers will be Jack Beene, Don Beene, John Nabors, Otis Bozeman, Larry Story and Tom Johnson. Honorary pallbearers will be all Former Students.

Visitation with the family will be prior to the service beginning at 1:30 p.m.