Historical Fic Rec

Frank/Gerard

When Frank stopped coming to the fence, the bluebirds stopped singing.

Titanic AU - The Way's are one of the richest families in America and sometimes being an artist requires the need to travel. On the doomed maiden voyage of Titanic old friends are found, new love is formed and put to the test and the most luxurious crossing of the Atlantic ocean becomes a fight for survival.

Just before the turn of the twentieth century, the Iero household experiences it’s second devastating loss. When Edward Iero, world renowned architect, replaces the recently deceased and much loved head of staff, Donald, with his eldest son, Gerard, no one knows if anything will work out.

Frank is a book loving recluse who rarely sees the outside of his study, but when Gerard enters his house and his life, he gets a love story all of his own.

A BBC Merlin AU. The passing of the crown is never easy, but Gerard has the additional task of bringing Camelot out from the shadow of his late father's fear of magic. Meanwhile, Mikey's nightly visions are growing more ominous by the day, and Frank, a new arrival at court, is occupying more and more of Gerard's thoughts. Is Frank other than he appears at first glance? And how can Gerard, Ray and the rest of his knights protect Camelot from the dangers of the world when the threat may come from within? A tale of magic, betrayal, sacrifice and true love.

Sir Frank Iero is married to the man he loves, but nothing is perfect.

Gerard's smile is slow and lazy, reflected in the mirror he's seated in front of as he fixes his hair and smudges kohl around his eyes. "Well, well, well," he says, his voice low and pleased. "To what do I owe the pleasure?" The year is 1927, and Frank Iero never did learn to look before he leaps.

1933. Frank's been on the run a long time and he's forced to stop in his old hometown. At first things are about what he expects - old friends, unpleasant memories, and a less-than-desirable home life. Everything changes one night when he stumbles on an old hedge maze hidden in the woods. It's not the hedge maze that intrigues him the most, though, but the secrets of the house hidden inside.

The pirate nods. “Frank. I like it. I’m Gerard. I would shake your hand but, I’m afraid I can’t reach from here.” He tilts his head back to laugh and Frank can’t take his eyes off the line of Gerard’s throat. “So, Frank,” he starts, and Frank’s eyes snap up, unaware he’s been staring. “How would you feel about rescuing an innocent man?”

Frank Iero is a young nobleman currently living with his parents in the Lake District, where he plans on leading a quiet life away from London and its temptations. However, temptation moves into his neighbourhood in the face of one Gerard Way. (Early Edwardian AU.)

The year is 1792, and the mysterious Black Parade has become famous for saving people from the guillotine. Frank, an idealistic revolutionary, has been recruited by Korse to uncover the secret identities of the notorious Black Parade. What he discovers will change his life.

Victorian era. Gerard is the son of a wealthy salesman and Frank is his chimney sweep. ‘Calming’ is an important word for Gerard, especially when his brain spends most minutes of the day in a blind and desperate panic about the rest of his life. But somehow, Frank manages to stop all of that.

Michael didn’t seem particularly shocked when Gerard approached him with the idea, but then, Gerard had never seen his younger brother look particularly shocked at anything. He merely looked at Gerard, blinked once or twice, and repeated in a flat tone, “You want me to help you dress up like a woman.”

“It’s the stays in particular I think I’ll need help with,” Gerard told him. “Well, and buttoning the dress, and perhaps the wig.”

It began with two boys, brothers, peculiar even in the peculiar place where they grew up.

Frank is the tutor for the two young children of Michael and Alicia Way. He has always been sickly, but when he begins to fall seriously ill he tries to hide it from his employers, terrified he will lose his position and have nothing. When Michael’s older brother Gerard unexpectedly returns from the continent, however, his problems only grow.

Written for prompt number five of the yobrothatssick challenge: One foggy, wet afternoon, a mysterious young man collapses on the doorstep of Lord Morrison's manor. He does not remember his name or how he came to be there, but he does not seem that unfamiliar to Gerard, Lord Morrison's ward...

WWII AU

Frank is in an arranged marriage and/or a mail-order bride type position (with Gerard), and is... secretly sick and hiding it!

Prompt: 77 - Secret Garden-style AU where Frank is the sickly son of a reclusive Lord, hidden away from the world because his family believes he will never, ever get well. So he stays in his room with his guitars and his books, basically just waiting for the time when he gets so sick that he wastes completely away. Then Gerard comes to stay at his manor (bonus points if there is also Mikey and they are ORPHANS) and accidentally discovers him one night during a storm, and they become friends and bond over music, and Gerard basically out-stubborns Frank and forces him to believe he can get better. And he does! And then they make out!

Frank is just a kid when he discovers Gerard's secret, and it changes his life. When they meet again by chance years later, Frank's carrying around a few secrets of his own.

A ship is safe in a harbor, but that's not what ships are for. -William Shedd

Gerard is most concerned when he finds that, while away at university, his father has taken in a new ward of his own brother's age. But upon his return home, he finds the young man to be particularly enchanting; unfortunately, according to the High Society he lives in, not only is Frank entirely too poor to be considered, but they might as well be brothers.

Frank was raised wild, on a merchant vessel that sailed all around the world. When he returns home, an orphan, he is wed to a man with money and name that he has never met. A Victorian AU.

Gerard falls in love with the stable boy.

Gerard and Mikey are wealthy land-owners, and Frank is a newly-attained slave with trust issues. They show him they're not like typical masters.

When Frank, a sickly young man, is advised by his doctors to leave London for the country, he makes arrangements to stay with his friend Michael, who just so happens to be in possession of a large, old, and somewhat creepy manor house. What Frank has no idea of at the time is that Michael has an older brother, whose presence in the house he conceals. Gerard is an eccentric recluse who spends most of his time hiding in the attic and avoiding any kind of interaction with people, but he finds himself fascinated with Frank, who in turn realizes that the house has secrets, and becomes determined to uncover them. When he finally does discover Gerard, their first meeting is only the beginning of their story.

Today, they'd woken up and Gerard was King of Illyria. Frank hasn't really been a stable boy since he ended up in the archduke's bed, but now Gerard's exile is over and he's king. Frank has to survive court, politics, and scheming nobles to figure out exactly what he is now.

Written for the hc_bingo challenge, for the square of 'forced soul-bonding.'

It's 1949 and Dr. Way is a professor of Archeology and Frank is his constantly exasperated (and secretly pining) assistant. When their latest trek takes them to South America to locate the fabled Blood Stone, however, they both find more than they bargained for.

Frank/Mikey

In the mid-1920s, Gerard and Mikey moved to France - Gerard to pursue art, Mikey because he couldn't stay behind. Now, it's 1930, and Mikey's become an airmail pilot, flying the mail route to Dakar with his navigator Frank. For a long time, the only rough thing about Mikey's life was the strain on his and Gerard's soulbond when Mikey was away, but his growing feelings for Frank and the arrival of Frank's old friend Ray could change everything.

Sick!fic Fic Rec

Frank/Gerard

Sometimes, Frank is really grateful for his failure of an immune system.

Gerard has a cold.

Coffeeshop AU! Frank is a struggling (or maybe just thrifty) sole proprietor, and when he gets sick, he tries to keep the place open. Longtime customers and acquaintances-on-their-way-to-friendship Waybros are horrified, and Gerard gets Mikey to take over operations while he gets Frank tucked in and hydrated.

When Frank is well and truly sick, he dreams.

For some inexplicable reason, Frank’s not sick, even though Gerard’s been moaning about his flu-like symptoms for the past couple of days and it usually doesn’t take much more than someone saying the word “flu” for Frank’s shitty immune system to just curl up in a corner and raise the white flag. So Frank’s enjoying playing nurse for once, getting to be the one who fetches tea and tissues and scarves instead of the one who needs to be taken care of.

Frank got sick so many times as a child that as an adult being sick just makes him feel scared and out of control.

Frank's never been one to let sickness keep him from hooking up on tour.

Gerard gets really worried when his fave barista isn't at work for three days in a row.

Just another day on tour and Frank's sick (again)

yobrothatssick Prompt #16 - Van days. Frank's just joined the band and has been playing through a fever every night of their first mini-tour because this band is the best thing that ever happened to him and he CAN'T FUCK THIS UP BY BEING SICK. Frank thinks he's fooling everyone, but Gerard definitely notices.

Frank is the tutor for the two young children of Michael and Alicia Way. He has always been sickly, but when he begins to fall seriously ill he tries to hide it from his employers, terrified he will lose his position and have nothing. When Michael’s older brother Gerard unexpectedly returns from the continent, however, his problems only grow.

Written for prompt number ten of the yobrothatssick challenge: Frank and Gerard work in an office building together. One day, Frank doesn't show up for their smoke break. And then again. Where is he? What can Gerard do? What happens NEXT?

Revenge-era Tour AU. Frank is sick but won't admit it. Gerard just wants to take care of him, but Frank isn't having it.

Frank is in an arranged marriage and/or a mail-order bride type position (with Gerard), and is... secretly sick and hiding it! (10.573 words)

Prompt: 77 - Secret Garden-style AU where Frank is the sickly son of a reclusive Lord, hidden away from the world because his family believes he will never, ever get well. So he stays in his room with his guitars and his books, basically just waiting for the time when he gets so sick that he wastes completely away. Then Gerard comes to stay at his manor (bonus points if there is also Mikey and they are ORPHANS) and accidentally discovers him one night during a storm, and they become friends and bond over music, and Gerard basically out-stubborns Frank and forces him to believe he can get better. And he does! And then they make out!

for prompt #21 at yobrothatssick, the sick!Frank challenge: "Judge me if you will! I really want teenage!bedridden!Frank and older student!reluctant tutor!Gee."

Frank gets silver poisoning. His pack protects him.

Frank is no stranger to sickness. He's been wheezing his way in and out of hospitals since he was a kid, but things are different now. He was already pulled from two assignments due to illness, and the third time is the charm. Three strikes and you're out.

yobrothatssickPrompt #60. Frank loses his voice and has to use notes, texts, charades, etc. to communicate.

Written for the yobrothatssick challenge, prompt #9 - High School AU. Frank's spending the afternoon in the nurse's office YET AGAIN, until his mom can get off work and pick him up. Gerard's the new kid and shows up (drunk, not that the nurse notices) and claims the other bed. GO!

Like almost every other man on the planet his bouts of the manflu reduce him to a pitiful, sniffling (and smelly…smelly-er) bundle of misery.

Van days. Frank is not getting sick, because he'd just been sick, and it wouldn't make any fucking sense at all for him to be getting sick again.

Frank/Frank

Frank woke up struggling to breathe.

He sat up in his rumpled bed, fighting against the oppressive pressure in his chest. There wasn't enough air. He heard himself gasping and choking, felt the congestion and blockage in his lungs stealing his ability to inhale. What little air he managed to draw in jammed in his throat and suddenly he couldn't exhale, could only wheeze in more air as his chest expanded and dizziness made his head spin.

Prompt: 44. TIME-TRAVELING FRANK GOES BACK IN TIME TO TAKE CARE OF HIMSELF. Clearly this should end in h/c self-cest.

Frank/Ray

Frank gets sick again. Ray takes care of him.

Gen

The whole band takes care of Frank when he gets sick on tour.

@gerardway sickness has reached 'delirious" level, Borderlands 2 isn't helping

Gerard is sick. Mikey looks after him.

Frank is sick. Again.

Killjoys Fic Rec

Frank/Gerard

He’s been taking three pills three times a day since he was a preteen, when most kids were still on a twice a day routine. His condition has always been harder to control -- that’s what the doctors tell him, anyway. Maybe he does need to up the dosage again. Maybe another pill wouldn’t hurt.

Fun Ghoul is in love with Party Poison, but it's not a problem if nobody knows and he doesn't say anything. Except it turns out everyone knows, so he's got no choice but to say something.

Here's the thing with having a crush on a mysterious DJ; it's kind of an inconvenient place to hang your affections.

‘Mikey stops taking his pills the day after Gerard takes all of his at once. It’s a beginning of sorts.’ Out in the zones, there’s very little holding Gerard together – Mikey is trying his best, but something’s been praying on Gerard’s mind for years and even he isn’t sure what it is, apart from the nightmarish flashes of dark eyes watching him. They’re doing almost alright until the roadhouse run by the semi-legendary ex-Zonerunner Jet Star is hit by a BL/ind patrol and Gerard and Mikey finally decide to let someone else run with their crew in order to help track down the kidnapped motorbaby Grace. However, it isn’t until they make a shocking discovery during an attack by the sinister masked Draculoids that they can even begin to find what they’re each looking for…

Gerard hasn't looked at himself properly in a while.

In which 2005!Frank and Fun Ghoul get it on. Then Frank accidentally winds up in 2019.

Written for bandombigbang 2011

Frank Iero has spent the majority of his life in and under Battery City. When he meets the notorious gang of outlaws that call themselves "The Fabulous Killjoys", his life is turned on its head. But much like Frank, the Killjoys are not what they seem. Through the roaring roads of the desert, and the winding tunnels of underground life that eat at the base of Battery City, Frank (Fun Ghoul), Ray (Jet Star), Grace, Mikey (Kobra Kid), and Gerard (Party Poison) find that they have a place, nestled out in the zones, that they can call home. When their way of life is threatened by Battery City's government, the Better Living Industries, the Fabulous Killjoys put everything they have on the line to protect the place they have fought so hard to call their own.

Part 1 of Children of the Gun

Part 2 of Children of the Gun

It’s 2011 and Frank Iero’s life is pretty average until the night where he starts getting dreams about a strange, apocalyptic California where there’s rayguns, grey corporations and terrorists who use art and colour as a weapon. Interesting and fun at first, but the more he dreams about this world, the more he starts to wonder if it really is a dream... and the deeper he gets into this futuristic world, the more it seems to affect his life in the present day. And just how exactly does everything all seem to link in with that douche-bag black-haired artist who sits in Starbucks every day? (Set in the Danger Days world but not necessarily following the cannon established by the album and music video's.)

A Danger Days: True Lives of the Fabulous Killjoys AU

The Killjoys love doing as much damage to BL/ind as they can, and until now, they've been lucky enough to avoid getting caught by Korse and his draculoid followers. But Korse's mission isn't to just kill them, it's to hurt them—hurt Gerard. And to do that, he uses Frank. After a traumatic, death-defying escape, Frank sets out with the guys to get revenge. In between the car chases and the gunfights, Frank has to let himself heal and figure how to return Gerard's feelings.

It totally wasn't his fault, okay? Frank would like that on record. Because it wasn't. An exploration of the complex dynamic between... oh, sod it. This is SHAMELESS KILLJOY PORN. \o/

After so long on the run, always watching their backs and jumping at every little fucking noise, this is so good. Dominant!Frank/submissive!Gerard in a dirty back alley at a sleazy wave-head party.

Frank/Mikey; Gerard/Ray

Gerard and Mikey Way are the Killjoys, a motorbaby duo. That is, until their car gets wrecked in a battle and the dashboard accessory of their new Trans Am is an ex-Companion with a mission.

Bob/Gerard

Bob Bryar - also known as Spit Fire, the fifth Killjoy - should've died in the desert after Korse shot him in the head. But death isn't permanent in the zones, and rescue's nearly as ugly. When the fate of the resistance rides on Bob's shoulders, can Bob stop the mysterious enemies who anticipate his every move and cope with the mess Better Living Industries made of his life?

Gerard/Party Poison

"The fuck do you want?" asks Gerard, tipping his chin up, his voice unsteady. Poison wants to laugh; it's like watching a kid waving a gun around, all paper-thin bravado. He steps closer, into Gerard's space. Poison can feel the warmth rolling off Gerard in the biting chill of the desert night, can smell the sweat and the booze and the smoke. Written for an anon_lovefest prompt: "I gave him a kiss and he gave me his fist."

Gen

Grace learns the lyrics to Queen's entire oeuvre when she's two, how to kill a drac when she's four and a half, and what a flush toilet is for when she's nine.

We're pretty sure Gerard was only ever depressed in the first place because the world hadn't ended yet.

Gerard may be free, but he's discovered freedom costs. He's holed himself up in a room that's falling apart, he's lost the man he loves, and his brother is slipping away. Now Gerard's on the verge of losing himself, unless he can somehow find the strength to fight back.

Kobra Kid has been kidnapped and the Killjoys are declaring fucking war