By Connor Beach

cbeach@longislandergroup.com

Not everyone has what it takes to be the front man in a punk rock band. And not everyone wants to.

Frank Iero, who for years was the rhythm guitarist and backup vocalist of former punk band My Chemical Romance, never thought that he had the personality for job.

But, four years since the band broke up, he’s changed his tune.

And he’ll be front and center next week at The Paramount when his band, Frank Iero and the Patience, take the stage as the opening act of a night sure to be packed full of punk rock music.

“It’s like anything, the more you do it the more comfortable you become with it. And once you figure that out, you can start to have fun with it,” Iero said of stepping into the front man role.

It took some time to get to that point though. Iero, 36, of Belleville, New Jersey, joined My Chemical Romance in 2002 and was a member for the next 11 years. He had musical side projects throughout that time, but embraced Frank Iero and the Patience in 2015.

“When the band turned into my solo thing, that’s what felt weird,” Iero said. “I never wanted to be the singer or be the one who had to talk between songs; that just felt strange to me.”

Over the last two years, Iero said, he’s been learning how to be the front man and lead singer on his own terms, growing more confident with each show.

The band released its second album “Parachutes” just over a year ago and it was well-received by both fans and critics.

As a tri-state area native, Iero said, he has many fond memories of playing gigs on Long Island during his younger years in some of his first bands.

“I remember one time our van broke down on the LIE, and we didn’t want to cancel the show so we got a tow truck to tow the van to the venue while we hid in the back,” he said.

Along with Frank Iero and the Patience, the night of punk rock next week will also feature Pup and headliner Thursday.

“Any chance you get to see that band, let along perform with them, it’s definitely something you want to jump on,” Iero said.

Doors will open at 7 p.m. for the 8 p.m. on Dec. 28. Tickets are $20-$50 and available at both the box office and online at Paramountny.com