This is the chilling moment Katrina Walsh reveals where she hid the weapons used to murder Sadie Hartley.

Businesswoman Sadie was viciously murdered by Sarah Williams and Katrina Walsh and now ITV's groundbreaking documentary The Murder of Sadie Hartley has given an insight into the entire chilling crime.

A clip from the documentary, which airs tonight at 9pm on ITV, shows police escorting Katrina back to the farm where she hid the weapons and having her reveal the locations.

In the footage, police searching unearth the stun gun used, as well as a knife and car keys that were hidden by the murderous pair after their crime.

Confessing that she hid the knife in soil before covering it in horse manure, so she could find it in the future.

One of the officers in the clip talks about the moment he matched the stun gun found with the barb found at the crime scene.

"There was at the scene a barb that was recovered, we believe from a stun gun," he said.

"We have just recovered a stun gun as well missing a barb, so there is just the one barb on there when there should be two. We’ve also recovered a car key, which we believe is of interest to the inquiry team as well."

The ITV documentary is set to reveal the "inside story" of the investigation and show the steps that lead to Sarah Williams and Katrina Walsh being found guilty.

On 17 August 2016, Williams and Walsh were found guilty of murdering of Sadie Hartley.

This dramatic new documentary tells the gripping story of how detectives solved the shocking case.

Detailing everything from the first call to the crime scene, through to the convictions of the vicious killers, viewers are given extraordinary access to the multidisciplinary police operation.

Filmmakers were there though every step as Lancashire Police investigated the violent stabbing to death of the businesswoman at her home in January 2016, unpicking a crime committed with what prosecutor John McDermott QC described as ‘demonic savagery’.

Steve Warr, Executive Producer for Raw Cut TV says: “We were privileged to get the inside story of the investigation into who killed Sadie and the story that evolved is stranger than any crime drama.

"How these detectives hunt down the two women at the heart of the murder is utterly compelling and the most complete and gripping picture of a real life crime being solved I have ever seen.”

Sadie's daughter Charlotte, 23, also appears in the film.

Cameras follow detectives as the case unfolds from the crime scene to the dawn raid in which key suspect Williams was arrested, and the moment the murder weapon and other key evidence is discovered and ultimately to the arrest and conviction of the key suspects.

As lead Detective Superintendent Paul Withers and his team including Detective Bryony Midgley piece together evidence, they discover that Sarah Williams, who enjoyed a tangled web of relationships with multiple lovers including a 75-year-old 'sugar daddy' and Sadie’s partner, former fireman Ian Johnson, considered herself Sadie’s love rival.

The police also unravel lies told by Williams and discover her accomplice, Katrina Walsh, who claims to have no memory of the crime. Yet evidence showed the pair hatched an 18-month-long plan to kill Sadie involving scouting her house, visiting Germany to buy a key weapon, and even buying a second-hand car in a bid to evade detection and pull off the perfect murder.

The Murder of Sadie Hartley follows the case over 90-minutes, telling the compelling story of a dark and tragic crime that left family members searching for answers.

* The Murder of Sadie Hartley airs tonight, Thursday 1 September 2016 at 9pm on ITV