Since 1987, the California State Archives has been the repository for the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) invesitgation files of the assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy. An agreement between the Secretary of State and the City of Los Angeles transferred the investigation records (including documents, photographs, audio tapes, videotapes, and evidence items collected by the LAPD) in the possession of the City to the State Archives. This transfer occurred under the authority of Government Code 12226, which states:

With the consent of the Secretary of State, the governing body of a county or city may by order or resolution direct the transfer to the Secretary of State for inclusion in the State archives, of official items it deems have historic interest or value, and which are in the custody of any officer of the county or city.

The Guide to the Los Angeles Police Department Records of the Robert F. Kennedy Assassination Investigation (PDF) provides detail about the contents of the collection.

Guides to this collection can also be found on the Online Archive of California.

Inventory of the Los Angeles Police Department Records of the Robert F. Kennedy Assassination Investigation, ca. 1968-1978

Inventory of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Records - Sirhan Sirhan Case File

Contents of the Guide (and appendices):

Introduction

Records of Special Unit Senator:

Card Index

Office Files

Arrest Reports

Broadcasts and Teletypes

Crime Reports

Rosters

Evidence Files FBI Indexes and Report

Polygraph Reports and Charts

Logs

Interviews

Final Reports

Investigative Field Notes

Letters

Medical Reports

News Media Reports

Motion Picture Films

Phone Call Summaries

Photographs

Records and Background Check Files

Progress Reports

Transcripts

Tape Summaries

Vehicle Reports

Legal Files

Case Preparation

Conspiracy Investigation Files

Sirhan Family Files

Reporter's Daily Transcripts

Tape Recorded Interviews

Stenotype Notes

Magnetic Tapes

Physical Evidence

Records Relating to the Re–investigation

Exhibits from Sirhan's Trial, Case No. A233421

Records of the Wolfer Board of Inquiry

Appendices