Nothing stays the same forever and that’s true of the doll world as much as anywhere. I wanted to mention a couple of changes I’d recently noticed. One is great news, another not so much.

A Thousand Splendid Dolls

Many of you may have already noticed that the girls from “A Thousand Splendid Dolls” are back. I noticed this quite a few weeks ago and meant to post about it but got caught up with other things. I know there are many fans of this YouTube channel amongst our readers so I’m sure that you’ll agree that this is great news.

For those of you that haven’t seen the YouTube channel. Here is a link.

Stickatill Barbie

The second bit of news is a bit sad. I’ve posted before about the doll outfits I’ve knitted using patterns from Stickatill Barbie. Recently I wanted to make some outfits for my fixer uppers and as I couldn’t find my printed patterns, I went to the website to download them again. I discovered that as of earlier this year the site is closed. As I don’t read Swedish, I can’t tell you why but I’m sure that there is a good reason. The good news is that all is not lost. Although the Stickatill website is no more the patterns have been preserved on “The Wayback Machine” web archive. I went through them and most but not all the patterns seem to be there.

Here is a link to the Ravelry knitting and crochet site which gives a bit more detail. https://www.ravelry.com/patterns/sources/sticka-till-barbie/patterns

And if you want to go straight there here is a link to the patterns on the Wayback Machine.

https://web.archive.org/web/20211224010505/http://stickatillbarbie.se/

The Little Sindy Museum

I don’t visit this YouTube channel very often but the other day a video caught my eye because it said “Last Visit to The Little Sindy Museum”. I think this one is more of a relocation than a closure so I am hopeful that The Little Sindy Museum will reappear in a new location in a few months. Here is a link to the video.

So that’s my news for today. If I find out about any other changes to favourite doll related sites or channels, I will pass the news on.