1. BIOLOGY OF DUGONG VINOD KUMAR FRM

2.  Dugong dugon, also known as sea cows is a marine mammal.  It is one of four living species of the order Sirenia, which also includes three species of manatees.  It is the only living representative of the once diverse family Dugongidae; its closest modern relative, Steller’s sea cow (Hydrodamalis gigas), was hunted to extinction in the 18th century.

3. Taxonomy Kingdom : ANIMALIA Phylum : CHORDATA Class : MAMMALIA Order : SIRENIA Family : DUGONGIDAE Genus : DUGONG

6. Distribution  They have a broad but fragmented range, encompassing tropical waters from East Africa to Vanuatu, about 26 degrees both north and south of the equator.  This range spans at least 48 countries and about 140,000 km of tropical coastline.  Largest population is found in the northern waters of Australia between Shark Bay (Western Australia) and Moreton Bay (Queensland).  Second largest is found in the Arabian Gulf.  They are not considered migratory but are known to travel great distances within their range in order to find food.

8. External features  They are large, solid mammals with short, paddle like front flippers and a tail with a straight or concave perimeter that is used as a propeller.  Dugong fins resemble those of dolphins, but unlike dolphins, dugong lack dorsal fin.  Females have mammary glands under the fins from which their calves suckle.  Adult dugong weigh from 230-400 kg and can range from 2.4-4 m in length.  Their thick skin is brownish-grey, and its colour can vary when algae grows on it.

9.  Tusks are present in all dugongs, but they are usually only visible through the skin in mature males, whose tusks are prominent, and in old females. Their tusks are projections of the incisor teeth.  There are no other external physical differences between sexes, as they are monomorphic.  Their ears have no flaps or lobes but are nonetheless very sensitive.  Dugongs are suspected to have high auditory accuity to compensate for poor eye sight.  Their snout is rather large, rounded over and ends in a cleft. This cleft is a muscular lip that hangs over the down-turned mouth and aids the dugong in its foraging of sea grass.

10.  Dugongs have a down-tipped jaw which accommodates the enlarged incisors.  Sensory bristles that cover their upper lip assist in locating food. Bristles also cover the dugong’s body.  Paired nostrils, used in ventilation when the dugong surfaces every few minutes, are located on top of the head. Valves keep them shut during dives.

12. Habitat  Dugongs are generally found in warm waters around the coast with large numbers concentrated in wide and shallow protected bays.  The dugong is the only strictly marine herbivorous mammal, as all species of manatee utilize fresh water to some degree.  Nonetheless, they can tolerate the brackish waters found in coastal wetlands, and large numbers are also found in wide and shallow mangrove channels and around leeward sides of large inshore islands, where sea grass beds are common.

13.  They are usually located at a depth of around 10 m (33 ft.), although in areas where the continental shelf remains shallow dugongs have been known to travel more than ten kilometers (6 mi) from the shore, descending to as far as 37 meters (121 ft.), where deep-water sea grass such as Halophila spinulosa are found.  It has been observed that shallow waters are used as sites for calving, minimizing the risk of predation. Deep waters may provide a thermal refuge from cooler waters closer to the shore during winter.

15. Reproduction  The mating behavior of dugongs varies slightly with location.  For example, in a mating herd in Moreton Bay, off the coast of Queensland, males take part in aggressive competitions for females in oestrous.  In comparison, dugongs in South Cove in Western Australia display a mating behavior similar to lekking.  A lek refers to a traditional area where male dugongs gather during mating season to participate in competitive activities and displays that attract females.  As these lekking areas lack resources necessary to females, they are drawn to the area only to view the males' displays.

16.  Male dugongs defend their territories, and they change their behavioral displays to attract females.  After attracting females, male dugongs proceed through several phases in order to copulate.  The “following phase” occurs when groups of males follow a single female, attempting to mate with her.  The “fighting phase” occurs after, consisting of splashing, tail thrashing, rolls and body lunges. This can be violent, as witnessed by scars observed on the body of females and on competing males from their protruding tusks.  The “mounting phase” occurs when a single male mounts a female from underneath, while more males continue to vie for that position.  Hence, the female is mounted several times with the competing males, almost guaranteeing conception. Dugongs are thus polyandrous.

17.  Female dugongs reach sexual maturity at 6 years of age and may have their first calf between the ages of 6 and 17.  Males reach sexual maturity between 6 and 12 years of age. Because breeding occurs year-round, males are always waiting for a female in oestrous.  The reproductive rate of dugongs is very low, and they only produce one calf every 2.5 to 7 years depending on location. This may be due to the long gestation period, which is between 13 and 14 months.  At birth, calves are about 30 kg in weight, 1.2 m in length, and very vulnerable to predators.  Calves nurse for 18 months or longer, during which time they do not stray far from their mother, often riding on their mother's back.

18.  Despite the fact that dugong calves can eat sea grasses almost immediately after birth, the suckling period allows them to grow at a much faster rate.  Calves mature between 6 and 9 years of age for both genders. Once mature, they leave their mothers and seek out potential mates.

19.  Females dugongs invest considerable time and energy in raising calves and are the primary caregivers of their young.  Mothers and calves form a bond which is strengthened throughout the long suckling period of the calf, which is up to 18 months, as well as physical touches that occur during swimming and nursing.  Each female spends about 6 years with their calf. During the first 1.5 years, mothers nurse their calf and demonstrate how to feed on sea grasses. The next 4.5 years, or until the calf reaches maturity, are spent feeding together and bonding.  In their early years, calves do not travel far from their mother as they are easy prey for sharks, killer whales and crocodiles.

21. Lifespan  Dugongs have lifespans of 70 years or more in the wild, which is estimated by counting the growth layers that make up a dugong’s tusks.  However, they are prone to a extensive array of parasites and diseases, some of which are infectious.  Dugongs are difficult to keep in captivity due to their specialized diet, which is expensive to provide as the specific type of sea grasses cannot be grown in captivity.  Calves are rarely seen in captivity because they suckle for about 18 months after birth.  Only one orphaned calf has ever been successfully introduced into captivity in Australia.

22. Feeding  Dugongs are primary consumers and the only completely herbivorous marine mammals.  They consume sea grass, particularly of the families Potamogetonaceae and Hydrocharitaceae in the genera Halophila and Halodule.  They prefer sea grasses that are low in fiber, high in available nitrogen, and are easily digestible for better nutrient absorption.  Their long intestine aids the digestion of sea grass. They also have a low metabolism.

23.  When sea grass is scarce, dugongs also eat marine algae. They are speculated to supplement their diet with invertebrates such as polychaete worms, shellfish and sea squirts which live in sea grasses.  Dugongs use their flexible upper lip to rip up entire sea grass plants.  If the entire plant cannot be uprooted, they rip off leaves.  Their grazing leaves distinctive furrows in the sea grass beds that can be detected from the surface.  To be supported properly by their environment for a year, dugongs require a territory with approximately 0.4 ha of sea grass.

24.  This area varies with individual and the extent of their movement, the amount of sea grass detected on the sea floor compared to what it actually ingested, the yearly productivities of sea grass, and the rates of re-growth of sea grass.

25. Behaviour  Dugongs are a very social species and are found in groups varying from 2 to 200 individuals.  Smaller groups usually consist of a mother and calf pair.  They are uncommon as sea grass beds cannot support large groups of dugongs for extended periods of time.  Dugongs are a semi-nomadic species.  They may migrate long distances in order to find a specific sea grass bed.  Traveling is driven by the quantity and quality of their primary food source, sea grass.

26.  Dugongs are usually found in turbid water, they are difficult to observe without disturbing them.  When disturbed, they rapidly and furtively move away from the source.  They are quite shy, and when approached cautiously, they investigate diver or boat at a long range but hesitate to come any closer.

27. Communication  The two primary methods of communication this species uses are sound and vision.  Much like dolphins, dugongs use chirps, whistles, barks and other sounds that echo underwater in order to communicate.  Each sound has its own amplitude and frequency that characterizes the signal, which implies a possible purpose. For example, “chirp-squeaks” have frequencies between 3 and 18 kHz and last for about 60 ms.  “Chirp-squeaks" were observed in dugongs foraging on the sea floor for vegetation and when patrolling territories.  Barks are used in aggressive behavior and trills in movements that seem to be displays.  In order to hear the ranges of sound, dugongs have developed exceptional hearing, which they use more than their sight.

28.  Visual communication is a useful source of communication when dugongs are in close contact.  The vision of dugongs, however, is quite poor and they rely on other senses to create a mental map of their surroundings.  Dugongs also utilize their sense of smell.  They have an elementary olfactory system that allows them to sense chemicals in their environment to a certain degree.  This can be used to detect other dugongs, or most likely, for foraging.  They can smell aquatic plants and can therefore determine where the next feeding ground should be or where to proceed on their feeding furrow.

29.  Touch is another sense that dugongs use in order to communicate.  They have sensatory bristles all over their body, including many on their lip, which help detect vibrations from their surrounds.  This allows dugongs to forage more efficiently as they can sense the sea grass against their bristles. This is particularly useful as it complements their poor eyesight.  Mothers and calves also engage in physical communication, such as nose touching or nuzzling that strengthens their relationship.  Mothers are almost always in physical contact with their calf, the calf either swimming beneath the mother by the fin or riding on top of her.  Calve may even on occasion reach out a fin to touch their mother to gain reassurance.

30. India  Dugong population has now reduced to about 200 individuals and is believed to be continuously declining in its number and range.  In order to conserve and manage the declining populations of dugong in India, the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change under the Government of India constituted a ‘Task Force for Conservation of Dugongs’

31. Threats  Incidental capture in fishing gear (e.g. gill nets), shark nets for bather protection, IUU  Hunting: legal (i.e. culturally sanctioned) and illegal  Boat strikes and boating activities (e.g. acoustic pollution)  Damage/modification/loss of habitat caused by human settlement on coasts, shipping, trawling destructive fishing, natural processes (e.g. cyclones and tsunamis)  Threats to sea grass (including untreated sewage disposal, coastal dredging and reclamation, inshore commercial trawling, agricultural pollution)  Chemical pollution (e.g. oil spills and heavy metal loads)  Climate change (extreme weather events and high temperatures)

32.  Red List Category & Criteria: Vulnerable A2bcd+4bcd

33. Conservation  Dugongs are covered under three international conservation conventions: The Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), the Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) and the Convention on Migratory Species of Wild Animals (also known as CMS or the Bonn Convention).  Dugongs are also included in the Coral Triangle Initiative (CTI), goal five (Threatened Species).  Additionally, the Convention on Wetlands (the Ramsar Convention) protects some important Dugong habitats.

34. Reference  Husar, S. L. 1978. Dugong dugon. Mammalian Species. The American Society of Mammalogists 88: 1-7.  IUCN. 2015. The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Version 2015-4. Available at: www.iucnredlist.org.