Every woman who wants to, can and deserves to have her own business

Meet our mentors

One of the reasons why a woman does not go ahead with her business idea is lack of guidance. In the context of supporting women, we are looking for professionals -women and men- either online from any part of Greece or in person from Crete, who wish to volunteer as Mentors and offer 1-2 hours per month in 1on1 Mentoring. The aim is to promote new entrepreneurs and thus strengthen the market.

The benefits of mentoring are manifold for the Mentor himself/herself, since he/she will gain experience and important leadership skills through the programme, as well as the corresponding communication of his/her contribution through the communication channels of the organisation.

Life & Business Coach for women and mothers

Olga Koumparaki

Relationship Coach και Breakup Expert.

Jo Kostourou

Co- Founder Creative Digital Marketing Agency "Mene & Jo"

Executive at Coca-Cola 3E

Personal and Professional Development Consultant specializing in Maternity.

Author, Life & Relationship Coach

Economist and Inspirational & Transformational Speaker and Coach.

Viki Petalidou

Life, Health & Wellness Coachand Creator of Better Life Lab.

App Partnerships Manager at Google Customer Solutions in Dublin

Founder at Freen OE - Business Consultants | Application Development

Nudge the Good Unit Director at RW Institute & co-founder at ethelon

Business Coach, Director of the Island of Man Success Coaching Academy

Purpose & Career Coach and TEDx Speaker

Mindset & High-Performance Executive and Business Coach

Senior Business Development Manager at Mindspace NPO

Social Entrepreneur and Founder of "Wise Greece"

Founder & CEO της Guest Experience Startup,Tourmie

Vodafone Store Owner

Production and Management Engineer.

General Manager of the "Business Park of Chania"

Innovation Consultant and Personal Development Coach. Founder of Innobatics.

Coordinator of the IslandofMan team and Head of IslandofMan E-learning Programs.

Hiraklis Karantonis

Technology Transfer Advisor at the PRAXI Network of the Foundation for Technology and Research

Agronomist, Head of European Programmes at the Chamber of Heraklion

Lecturer in Nutritional Genetics, Accredited Coach, Author

Ioanna Stanegloudis

Co-founder & Chief Risk Officer της Finclude

Antigoni Kouvidi

"Managing Editor at the research and analysis organization diNEOSIS. Women Act."

M.Sc. in Marketing, B.A. in Business Administration

Kontilenia Ch. Mila

Certified Adult Educator - College Professor

Lambrini Dossi

Dossi-Consult.de/ Psychologist / Business and Personal Coach/ Syst. Counsellor, Family and Pair Therapist

Michalis Tsagarakis

Marketing and Communications Manager for Chalkiadakis Supermarkets

Dr. Joanna Charlton

Stress and Emotional Management in Βusiness and Life how EXCITING

Founder @Lemonpie, Digital Marketing Instructor

Dimitra Nika

Designer and Owner of MYA Collection

Niki Smirni

Founder, Travelgems-Mindfulgems.

Charis Lalatsis

Founder of the research and analysis company Ierax Analytix

Magda Katopi

MSc. Economist | Corporate Affairs Business Communications & PR Strategist Business Advisor | Certified Mentor & Job Developer

Dr. Maria Gianniou

Empowerment & Leadership Coach, Corporate Trainer, Founder του Lead From Within και συνιδρύτρια στην Women Act.

Zoi Ntelekou

Chemical Engineer, Senior Marketing Executive; Brussels Mentor at Manatee Mentor, Coach to Aspiring Corporate Females

Nikolas Smirnakis

Author, Creator of the Philosophy of Man on the Island, Founder of the IslandofMan Academy

Panagiota Giapountzi

Co-Founder and Co-Owner of the Community-Based Social Enterprise "Home Care"

Irene Gogianaki

CEO of L'esclusivo Lighting, Co-Founder at FEGGO, Founder of Retreat in Crete

Michail I. Rolakis

Mechanical Engineer - General Manager of Development Company Gergiris S.A.

Sofia Avramidou

Career Transformation Coach, Regular Member of HCCMA, Founding Member of Mentoria, Instructor at LAEK-OAED

Kristallenia Drosou

Founder & CEO of company pandrosia

Iliana Tzanaki

Director of Growth & Business Development, Coaching & Training

Dimitris Grammenos PHD

Principal Researcher, Institute of Computer Science, ITE

CEO & Founder | Fira Soda GmbH The Feierabend Company

Iro Charokopou

Marketing Communications Consultant

Co-Founder & CEO SUPER CRETA GAS – KOYMOYLAS AE

Spiros Zilis

Business coaching CEO Founder of Wethrive

Eleni Matraki

Legal Professional and Accredited Life, Wellness & Business Coach

Aristea Ksilouri

Economist - Cost Controller at Med Hotels Greece, Member of the Assembly of Representatives of the Economic Chamber of Greece

Froso Dimitrakopoulou

Sustainable Tourism Advisor, Co-Founder of Ecoclub, Vice President of the Greek Ecotourism Society

Georgia Aggelidaki

Mediator at the Ministry of Justice and Lawyer. COO at the Greek branch of the European Legal Training Center. Co-Founder of 'MEDIAcTION'

Despina Limniotaki

Psychologist, Co-Founder, and President of the Governing Committee of the Social Cooperative Enterprise 'The Healing Tree'

Gregory K. Kokolakis

Accountant - Tax Consultant, Financial Advisor for Businesses

John Chatzibeis

Marketing & Fundraising professional, Paralympian, Ironman, Mentor, Motivational Speaker

Author & Academic Lecturer, English Literature | LGBTQIA+ Business Consultant | Public and Motivational Speaker

Isidora Karadimitriou

Founder & Managing Director | Trainer & International Keynote Speaker

Michalis Solanakis

Insurance & Investment Unit Manager

Magy Kontou

Co-Founder & Lead Product and UI/UX Designer at SimpleApps

Polimnia Pateraki

Personal Development & Executive Coach

Success & Freedom Business Coach

Ioanna Margaroni

Life Coach, soft skills Trainer, Energy Therapist

Katerina Charalambidou

Insurance Consultant

Markos Korvesis

Career Consultant & Master NLP Practitioner

Aspasia Provou

Integrative Coach & Energy Therapist

Marietta Sarigiannidou

Founder: MYND Retreats & MYND Digital Agency

Mina Misirli

Economist - Development Consultant & Communication- Project Coordinator

Katerina Andreou

Online business & social media consultant, Certified adult educator

Katerina Stathopoulou

Child Psychologist-Educator

Apostolis Koumarinos

Founder of theSPEAKERS.

Kiki Mouladoudi

Career Counsellor, Lifelong Development KOIN.S.E.P.

Instructional Learning Engineer

Dr. George Lagios

PhD, M.Sc. (CBT)

Andreas Stefanidis

Founder of the Greek Center for Management Accounting, President of the Academy of Entrepreneurship, and Business Director of Aephoria.net

Director at European Progress, Project Manager & Researcher in European & National Projects, Journalist at Thema Kritis 103,1

Natalia Deligiorgi

Certified Performance & Development Coach, Lean In Circle Leader Startups & Entrepreneurship

Irene Kontra

Business Consultant, Executive and Professional Trainer & Business/Career Coach

Executive Director Branding/ Public image/ Project Management/ Sales and Marketing/ Seminars and Coaching

Tzoulia Zisopoulou

Feng Shui & LifeCoach

Collaborators/Instructors

Dimitris Flamouris PhD

Mental Health Consultant, Author, Speaker

Kleio G. Apostolaki

Ecopsychologist, Certified Adult Educator, specialized in Trauma Therapy

Christina Doukouzgiani

YouTube Expert & Founder of Make Video Greece

Co-Founder of InterMediakt & ICT Consultant

Dionysis Bougas

Psychologist-Trainer, Founder of "Metamorphosis"

Maria Papamichail

Communication and Strategic Planning Manager

Argyro Katheri

Human Resources & Marketing Manager

Arthur Antonopoulos

Author

Christina Tripodianaki

Digital Marketing Consultant, Public Relations Specialist, Speaker

Pantelis Papanastasiou

PhD candidate of the University of the Aegean & Business Consultant

Efi Psaraki

Digital Marketer & Personal Branding Strategist - Founder of Effiecient Marketing & Branding.

Aggelos Fiskilis

President of KoinSEp.gr (KoinSEp.gr) (PoKoinSEp.org)

Liana Reraki

Colour Analyst & Image Consultant

Enhance Digital Agency

The Digital Camp

Legal and Accounting Advisors

Dimitris Theodosoulis

Accountant - Tax Consultant

Evaggelia Farmaki

Lawyer, Business and Family Law, Contract Expert

Polina Aggeli

Business Consultant - Subsidy Programmes

Matoula Kampari

Accountant - Tax Consultant

Konsolaki Popi

Accounting Office

Contribute with a donation

Do you want to contribute with some sponsorship to our initiative? Are you a mentor or business coach and do you want us to get in touch?