For natural persons who have trained with our Center, registration if FREE. For other members the cost is €50 per year.

Evripides Hadjinestoros Lawyer

Evripides is a Lawyer and the founder of the Cyprus Center for Alternative Dispute Resolution. After completing the LLB Law degree at Queen Mary University in London in 2009, he then completed a post-graduate diploma in Company Law LLM, at University College in London. He graduated with Distinction. In 2016, Evripides published the book «The Law on the Sale of Goods and Consumer Protection in Cyprus», which was published by Nomiki Vivliothiki. He has taught and is currently teaching extensively on commercial and consumer law matters at the European University Cyprus.

Dr. Christiana Markou Lawyer

Christiana is a Lawyer, managing director at a law firm and Training Supervisor at the Cyprus Center for Alternative Dispute Resolution. She specialises in consumer protection law and teaches European Consumer Law, Private International Law and EU Internal Market Law at the European University Cyprus. She specialises in e-commerce and protection of personal data law. She is frequently a speaker at legal scientific conferences in Cyprus and abroad.

Christiana Antoniou Lawyer

Christiana is a Lawyer and she has graduated from Kingston University and followed a post-graduate program on Company and Commercial Law at the University of London. Since 2010, she is a licensed advocate by the Cyprus Bar Association and since 2018 she is an accredited Mediator, having successfully completed a 40-hour mediation training program.

Mikaela Koni Lawyer

Mikaela is an associate lawyer at a Law firm in Cyprus and is a member of the Cyprus Bar. She is a graduate of the University of Reading of the United Kingdom with masters in commercial law with focus on competition law. Mikaela’s practice mainly focuses on corporate and commercial law, contract law matters, mergers and acquisitions, banking and finance, liquidations, restructurings and reorganisations. Also, advising on general EU law and in particular competition law, data protection law and consumer protection laws. Mikaela is fluent in five european languages and is currently progressing through a master in business administration.

Mikaela Koni Lawyer

Andria is a lawyer. After completing her LLB Law degree at the University of Nicosia in 2011, then completed her LL.M Master of Laws on Transnational Oil, Gas and Energy Law at the University of Derby in 2014. She is also a Member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2014. She is employed since 2014 at a law firm in Cyprus and mainly she is dealing with Civil Litigation mainly in areas such as Torts, Contracts, and Land Law. She is also specialising in the Will and Succession Law and the Administration of Estates and also involved in other areas of the law such as Employment Law and Rent Control. She is an active litigator with extensive knowledge on the Civil Procedure Rules and experienced in Court Appearances and Hearings. She is also an accredited Mediator, having successfully completed a 40-hour training program held by the Cyprus Center for Alternative Dispute Resolution in 2019 and registered at the Ministry of Justice and Public Order since January 2020.

George Christofides Lawyer

George is a Lawyer and has been a licensed practitioner of the Cyprus Bar Association since 1997. He is a shareholder and director of a law firm in Cyprus, and a member of the Faculty of Law of Frederick University (Law School). From 2015 until today he is an Arbitrator at the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) based in Lausanne, Switzerland and holds the qualifications of Mediator with corresponding registration in the Mediators Register. He has published studies, reviews and articles in legal journals and collective volumes. He has participated in European Programs and Actions on European Union Human Rights and Personal Data Protection Policies. His main areas of activity are Civil Law, Labor Law, Sports Law, Banking Law, Public Law and Alternative Dispute Resolution.

Galatia Petsa Lawyer

Galatia is a Lawyer. She is a U.K. University graduate and since 2012, is a licensed advocate by the Cyprus Bar Association. Galatia is a member of the Board of Directors of the club APOEL and carries out the duties of Deputy Secretary General. Since 2016, she is a mediator accredited by the Ministry of Justice.

Daniel Antoniou Accountant

Daniel is a member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), a member of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Cyprus and is a licensed Certified Auditor Accountant and Registered Auditor. Daniel also holds a BA (Hons) degree in Accounting, from the London Metropolitan University. He is a partner in a Limassol based Partnership. Daniel has extensive experience of over 26 years in advising companies involved in manufacturing and trade, hospitalisation treatment and real estate. He is vastly experienced in corporate taxation, company law and human resource management.

Archimedes Andreou Lawyer

Archimedes is an active lawyer in Cyprus. He is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2018. He graduated from Nottingham Trent University in 2016 and after completing his degree he studied for his LLM at Cardiff University where he obtained a master's degree in Maritime Law. He focuses mainly on banking disputes and represents national and foreign banking and financial institutions before the Courts in Cyprus, providing them with advice on court and out-of-court disputes as well as legislation and regulations at both national and European Level. He is also involved in advising on matters relating to debt financing, debt recovery and procedural measures to enforce court judgements. He also advises and has experience in drafting various legal documents, including loan facilities and other types of securities.

George Antoniades Lawyer

George is a Lawyer. He is a U.K. University graduate and since 2010, is a licensed advocate by the Cyprus Bar Association. George is employed at a law firm in Cyprus and is knowledgeable on banking matters as well as matters regarding the provision of services.

ZILIN HU Lawyer

An Actuarial (Msc.) oriented operational leader extended to European Financial & Commercial law (LLM) legal and compliance skills with an indelible reputation for delivering inventive business strategies and client-focused solutions that promote FinTech product and improve investment firm revenue in the European regulated financial industry, specifically, in the derivative field.<br /> Broad experience building profitable start-up divisions, growth business lines, deal transactions and streamlined operations. Mobilizes top-tier talent to create high performing cultures that consistently achieve in volatile markets.

Anastasis Anastasiou Lawyer

Anastasis is a Lawyer and a U.K. University graduate and holder of an LL.M from the University of Edinburgh. Anastasis teaches at the European University Cyprus and is a managing director of a law firm.

Michael Hadjinestoros Lawyer

Michael is a Partner at a law firm. He is a graduate of Queen Mary University of London and of the London School of Economics and since 2008, is a licensed advocate by the Cyprus Bar Association. Michalis is a highly experienced barrister with regards to Court proceedings as well as dispute resolution.

George Charalambous Lawyer

George is a Lawyer and a graduate of Kings College of London. In 2016, George published the book «The Law on the Sale of Goods and Consumer Protection in Cyprus», which was published by Nomiki Vivliothiki. He has published books and articles in Cyprus and is mainly involved in banking law as well as consumer protection matters. Since 2011 he is a licensed advocate by the Cyprus Bar Association.

Dr. Tasos Hovardas

Dr. Hovardas holds a doctorate in environmental training. He has authored approximately 32 articles in international scientific journals as well as an author of chapters in books. He teaches and has taught in the University of Cyprus and the University of Thessalia.

Maria Skarpari Lawyer

Maria is a Lawyer. She is a graduate of the Aristoteleio University of Thessaloniki. Maria is mainly involved with commercial and banking law. Maria handles Court cases and has represented clients in the Cyprus District Courts as well as the High Court since 1993.

Andros Karagiannis

Andros is an active member of the citizen’s society and has held the position of Chairman of the Cyprus Mediation Association, of which he is a founding member. He has been involved in mediation since 1997. He has acquired over 400 hours of training in Cyprus, the United States and Norway and he has successfully carried out mediations. Among others, he has provided mediation services to the Office of the Financial Ombudsman. He was a member of the Cyprus Mediation Association team which in cooperation with the Norwegian governmental Mediation Services, developed a 16-hour mediator training program.

Theo Demetriou Lawyer

Theodoulos is a Lawyer and a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators. Today he is a senior associate at a law firm and is mainly involved with litigation regarding the construction sector. He is an accredited mediator and experienced in arbitration matters. He advises major construction companies and semi-governmental organisations.

Mayia Kleopa Lawyer

Mayia is a lawyer at a lawfirm in Cyprus and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association and the Lawyers Association of Famagusta since 2014. Since 2017, Mayia is an accredited mediator from the Ministry of Justice. She is a graduate of the University of Manchester and she has followed a Masters Degree focusing on Corporate Law from the University of London. Mayia is a Barrister-at-Law and a member of the Honourable Society of Gray's Inn with vast experience in the provision of services, Banking Law and Corporate Law, Contract Law and Land Law.

Antonis Neofytou Lawyer

Antonis is a Lawyer. He is a graduate of the University of Nicosia and since 2012 he is a licensed advocate by the Cyprus Bar Association. Antonis is employed at a law firm in Cyprus and mainly deals with civil law matters as well as matters regarding the provision of services.

Elena Stylianou Lawyer

Elena is a Lawyer and Barrister-at-law. Since 1995 she is member of the Cyprus Bar Association and specialises in banking law as well as company law matters. She has vast experience in handling Court cases and for the he purposes of the Cyprus Center for Alternative Dispute Resolution she mainly handles banking cases.

Andi Georgiou Financial Advisor

Andri Georgiou is a graduate of the Cyprus University of Technology with a Bachelor's degree in Hotel and Tourism Management and a Master's degree in Entrepreneurship and Small and Medium Business Administration. She has been working as a Financial Advisor in recent years and deals mainly with cases involving studies and loan restructuring as well as negotiations with Banks and Credit Facility Management Companies. She previously worked for an insurance company in the Credit Control Department with the main activity of receipts from clients and insurers and the management and reconciliation of funds.

Marios Charalambous

Marios is a financial advisor. He helps clients to improve the whole range of their fund management, whether this concerns retention, optimization, investment, or raising new funds. His services include loan restructuring, valuations (such as companies), feasibility studies, business plans for banks, investment evaluation etc. He is a member of ICPAC and ACCA and author of the book "Business Valuation in Practice" and also provides training on issues related to corporate finance and capital management.

Eleni Tzioni Lawyer

Eleni is a Lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2010. She is a graduate of the University of Southampton and of the Queen Mary’s College, University of London. She is an accredited mediator by the Ministry of Justice and holds vast expertise in banking and finance law as well as in commercial law and company law matters. She is a partner at a law firm.

Panayiotis Drakos

Panayiotis is a Senior Consultant. He is a graduate of the University of Nottingham. He is an open-minded, alert and objective individual. Panayiotis has managed to gain an extensive insight within the consulting field through an experience of more than 4 years working in an international accounting organisation.

Andreas M.Damianou Lawyer

Andreas is a Partner at a Law Firm based in Limassol. He is an Advocate – Legal Consultant and received his LL.B (Hons) from the University of Surrey in 2010 and his LL.M in International Commercial Law from the University of Bristol in 2011. He was admitted to the Cyprus Bar Association in 2012. Andreas is a member of both the Limassol and Ammochostos Bar Association. He is an accredited civil and commercial Mediator since 2017 and has been primarily involved in a range of general civil, criminal, corporate and commercial litigation and works extensively on cases related with interim injunctions, admiralty issues, property matters and succession. He has extensive experience in resolving and settling high end disputes on an out-of-court basis.

Christos Heracleous Lawyer

Christos is a lawyer at the Corporate and Commercial department of a Law firm, focusing on all aspects of corporate finance, corporate governance, M&A and reorganisations. His experience extends to dispute resolution, with a particular emphasis on commercial and banking law matters. Christos studied Law at the University of Leicester, and specialised in Alternative Dispute Resolution during his master's degree at University College London. Having successfully completed the Legal Practice Course at the University of Law in 2015, he has been admitted to the Cyprus Bar in 2016, and he is an accredited mediator since 2018

Chrysanthos Pissarides

Chrysanthos graduated from the University Institute of Architecture in Venice and set up his architectural practice in 1999 where he deals with private and public works. He is the Chairman of the Cypriot ICOMOS, treasurer of the Board of Directors of the Association of Architects, a member of the Board of Directors of the Cyprus Architectural Heritage Organization and a member of the Disciplinary Board of ETEK and Chairman of the Committee of Monuments and Traditional Construction of ETEK. Since 2015 he is an Accredited Mediator and attended a seminar for mediators on credit restructurings organized by the Central Bank of Cyprus as well as a Medical Mediation seminar. He is the editor-in-chief of the magazine "Architects + Engineers" and speaks Greek, English and Italian.

Demetris Demetriades Lawyer

Demetris is a lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2014. He holds a law degree with accounting from Derby University in the United Kingdom. He has worked as a lawyer in the fields of Corporate and Commercial Law and since 2016 he is the managing director and partner at a law firm. Demetris focuses mainly on Intellectual Property, Real Estate, Inheritance Law, Family Law, Maritime Law, Corporate and Commercial Law as well as debt restructuring.

Miltiadis Vasileiou Lawyer

Miltiadis studied Law at the European University Cyprus where he graduated in June 2020. After that he started practicing Law. His native language is Greek but also speaks English.

Kyriaki B . Hitaridou Lawyer

Kyriaki is a lawyer-legal advisor. She has graduated from the Law School of the Kapodistrian University of Athens. She holds a Masters degree in International and European Economic Law. She speaks Greek, English and Russian.

Anastasia Aivaliotou Lawyer

Anastasia is a law graduate of the European University of Cyprus, in the field of Greek Law with an overall grade "Excellent". She has very good knowledge of the English, French and Italian languages.

Irini Emmanuela Tachtatzi Lawyer

Irene is a graduate of the Law School of the University of Nicosia.

Doria Varoshiotou Lawyer

Doria is a graduate of the University of Cyprus with a degree in Greek Literature - Byzantine and Modern Greek Studies (2009). She is also a law graduate of the University of Leicester (Law LL.B Hons.) and she holds an MBA in Economics and Management from the University of Cyprus. Her practice areas include Litigation and Arbitration, Commercial and Corporate Law, EU Law, Constitutional, Public and Administrative Law, Cross-Border-Disputes, Private International Law, Real-Estates, Investments, Employment Law, Intellectual Property Law, Banking and Finance, Will and Successions, Trusts, Winding-up and liquidation of Companies as well as medical negligence.

Yannis Karamanolis Lawyer

Giannis is a lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association and the Nicosia Bar Association since 2009. He holds a law degree from the National Kapodistrian University of Athens with a "Very Good" degree as well as a postgraduate Degree in law in Commercial and Corporate Law from Queen Mary College. He worked as a lawyer in the litigation departments of two large law firms in Cyprus and since 2019 he is the CEO of a law firm. Giannis has significant experience in a wide range of fields of law and specialises mainly in international commercial law, international transactions, company law, consumer law, banking law, civil law, intellectual property law and labor law.

Lenia Youselli Lawyer

Lenia is a lawyer who graduated from the Democritus University of Thrace (Komotini). She has been a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2006. She is an active lawyer with extensive experience in appearing and in hearings before all Courts as well as out of court cases.

Andreas Karamanolis Lawyer

Andreas is a lawyer qualified in Greece and Cyprus. Andreas has earned an LLB from the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens in 2009. In 2010 he obtained an LLM in Tax Law from Queen Mary College, University of London and in 2012 he obtained his second LLM in Administrative and Constitutional Law from the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. Before coming to Cyprus, Andreas worked for a leading law firm in Athens as a lawyer and the Tax Department of one of the largest international professional services networks, where he acquired significant experience in advising clients on cross-border transactions. After his return to Cyprus, Andreas joined one of the largest law firms in Nicosia. In September 2019, Andreas joined Y. Karamanolis & Associates LLC as a Director. Andreas has significant experience in complex banking issues, multifaceted commercial and corporate disputes and contentious matters of construction law.

Egli Kourtellou Lawyer

Egli is a lawyer-legal advisor. She has graduated from the Law School of Athens. She is currently attending a distance learning course at the University of London with the aim of obtaining a Bachelor in Accounting and Finance. She maintains a law office in Limassol and her areas of expertise are Civil, Administrative and Family law.

Nicolas Makrides Lawyer

Nicolas has graduated with distinction from the University of Warwick (LLB) and the University of Vienna (LLM in International Legal Studies). He is a determined and dedicated individual with a business aptitude, willing to listen and find practical solutions. He has deep knowledge in Commercial Law.

George Hadjinicolaou Lawyer

George is a lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2018. He studies law (LLB) at the University of Essex (2013-2016) and he obtained an LPC with LLM in Professional Legal Practice from the University of Bristol.

Christos Georgiou Lawyer

Christos has graduated from the University of Reading with a degree in Law LLB (Hons) from the University of Durham with a degree in LLM (Dunelm) International Trade and Commercial Law. As a student he was the General Secretary of ELSA (European Law Students' Association) of Reading. Having completed his 12-month training as a practicing Lawyer and having passed the examination of the Cyprus Legal Council, he is now a member of the Cyprus Bar Association. As a lawyer, he specialises in Alternative Dispute Resolution Methods (and especially International Commercial Arbitration) as well as in contract law, property, commercial and civil disputes. He speaks Greek, English and German.

Alexandra Eleftheriou Lawyer

Alexandra is a Law School graduate of the University of Nicosia graduating with "Very Good". She also successfully completed the Cyprus Legal Council exams with "Very Good". She is currently undertaking the postgraduate program "European Commercial Law" of the University of Cyprus. She is a person with very good social skills, focusing on European Commercial Law, and in particular Company Law and International Commercial Law as well as resolving commercial disputes.

Galatia Hadjiperikleous Clinical Psychologist

Galatia is a Clinical Psychologist. She works privately and provides psycho therapeutic services to people of all ages, as well as to couples and families.

Angela Zachariou Clinical Psychologist

Angela is a clinical Psychologist and she works for an NGO in health services. Through her work she deals with the development and improvement of communication skills on an individual and family level with people of all ages.

Phaedra Exadaktylou Lawyer

Phaedra graduated from the Law School of the University of Cyprus in June 2019 (LLB). During her studies, among other things, she attended courses on Consumer Law and mediation techniques. She worked for Trojan Economics and she has completed her legal practice course in June 2020 at a law firm in Cyprus. She is now continuing her postgraduate studies at the University of Bristol, in International Commercial Law (LLM).

Panagiotis Adamou Lawyer

Panayiotis has graduated from the European University of Cyprus in 2017. Since 2018 he is a practicing lawyer and member of the Cyprus Bar Association. He works at a law firm dealing mainly with court cases.

George Kanaris Lawyer

George is a lawyer, an accredited mediator and a political scientist. He was born in 1989 in Thessaloniki and graduated in 2007 from Secondary Education where he was admitted to the Department of Political Science of the University of Crete. He then studied, as was his wish from a young age, Law, at the Law School of the University of Nicosia. He participated in a transnational-comparative research project between Canada, Greece and Cyprus relating to the administration of justice in relation to systems applying a different philosophy of law. He is practicing as a lawyer in Cyprus.

Louiza Petrou Lawyer

Louiza is a lawyer and works for a law firm in Cyprus. She is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2014. She graduated from the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens in 2013 and she has obtained a master's degree in Corporate and Commercial Law from the University of London. She practices law and she has many years of experience in court proceedings before the District as well as the Supreme Court. Her areas of expertise are civil and criminal law and she specialises in road accidents, medical negligence, accidents at work, insurance claims, as well as matters relating to contractual claims, debt collection as well as resolving and settling disputes outside the court.

Zak Papadopoulos

Zak has more than 30 years of international multidimensional experience, working as a senior executive in notable organisations in Central Europe, Asia and the Middle East. He specialises in market research and consulting services and his main areas of focus are inter alia consumer goods, retail, telecommunications, banking and catering. He has also been a visiting profession at various universities in Central Europe teaching business administration and consumer behaviour. He has given interviews in reputable newspapers including the Financial Times. He holds a Bsc (Eng) from University College London, an MBA from the University of Stirling-Business School, and a Chartered Diploma in Marketing from the Chartered Institute of Marketing (UK). He speaks Greek, German, English, Czech and Italian.

Antonis Glykis Lawyer

Antonis Glykis is a lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 1993. He has been the elected Secretary of the Cyprus Bar Association for the past 12 years and a member of the Legal Council. His main areas of practice are litigation and in particular, general commercial, civil and criminal law. He is the author of books and articles of legal and other content and is a member of the International Bar Association (IBA), the Council of Bars and Law Societies of Europe (CCBE) as well as an honorary member of the Association of Fellows of Legal Scholars of the Center for International Legal Studies.

Myrsini Kloutsinioti Lawyer

Myrsini is a holder of a law degree from the University of Nicosia. She is also a holder of a degree in Political Sciences (Universite a Paris 13) and of the following diplomas: Proficiency (Michigan), DAIF C1 and IC3 (Microsoft).

Mikaella Hadjieftyhymiou Lawyer

Mikaella has studied law at the University of Nicosia and she is also a holder of a Master's degree in International Business Law from Cardiff Metropolitan University. She is a practicing lawyer since 2014.

Panagiotis Georgiou Lawyer

Panayiotis is a qualified lawyer and has been a licensed practitioner of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2015. Since then he has worked for a number of top tier law firms in Cyprus. He has successfully completed the courses "Introduction of Blockchain in Financial Services" and "Sports Law" awarded by the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. From 2016 he is heavily involved in the sports sector and provides legal support and advice to professional athletes, sports companies, clubs and organisations. His main areas of activity are Civil Law, Contract law, Family law, Sports Law, and Alternative Dispute Resolution. He is fluent in Greek and English and he is currently learning Turkish.

Christiana Charalambous Lawyer

Christiana Charalambous is a graduate of the European University of Cyprus, Law School.

Lana A. Al Taher Lawyer

Lana is a holder of a degree in dentistry from the University of Athens DDS and she works as a dentist from 2005 to 2020. She is also a holder of a Law degree (LLB) from the University of Nicosia in Cyprus Law. She speaks 3 languages, Greek, English and Arabic. She is a mother of 2.

Maria Kelepeshi Lawyer

Maria is a lawyer at the corporate department of a law firm in Nicosia and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2016. She studied Law at the University of Kent (LLB, First Class Honours) and focused on corporate law during her masters degree at the University of Edinburgh (LLM in Corporate Law, Distinction).

Afxentia Hadjiafxenti Lawyer

Afxentia is a law graduate of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. In the years 2010-2012 she worked at UNFICYP and later started her legal practice at the Law Office of the Republic of Cyprus. Since 2014 she practices as a lawyer and deals with a wide range of cases. She is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association and of Famagusta Bar Association.

Nasia K. Ambiza Lawyer

Nasia is a lawyer and she is also a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2013. She is a holder of a law degree from the National Kapodistrian University of Athens and she is the holder of an MBA from the Cyprus International Institute of Management. She has worked in the litigation department of a law firm in Cyprus where she has dealt with a wide range of cases. She is currently in the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party.

Katerina Evangelou Lawyer

Katerina is a graduate of the Democritus University of Thrace. She a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since January 2005 and she is based in Limassol. Katerina has been occupied in all areas of law, with vast experience in Civil Law, Family Law, Banking Law as well as Probates and Administration.

Antigoni Markou Christofi Lawyer

Anigoni is a lawyer and she is a licensed advocate by the Cyprus Bar Association since 2015. She is a partner and a director at a Law Firm in Cyprus. She is a graduate of an LLB Law degree at the University of Nicosia and she has also completed her Master’s Degree in Sports Law at the University of De Montfort in UK. Anigoni is a member of the Cyprus Volleyball Association since 2019. She practises Law mainly in the areas of Civil, Family and Sports Law. Additionally, she practises Contract Law and Property Law.

Georgia Lavithi Lawyer

Georgia is a lawyer and legal consultant and a holder of an LLB (Hons) from the University of Huddersfield as well as a post-graduate degree in Commercial Law LL.M from the same University. She is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association and of the Nicosia Bar Association. She worked as a Legal Consultant at the Cyprus Consumer Association. Georgia’s main areas of practice are Property Law, Copyright Law, Wills and Estates Law, Trust Law, Corporate and Trade Law and investments.

Andreas Michaelides Banking Consultant

Andreas works as a Banking Consultant in Paphos on cases based on the law relating to the Insolvency of Individuals (Personal Repayment Plans) 2015, negotiations and restructuring of non-performing loans, calculations of over-indebtedness, expert report for court testimony, accounting and other governmental and non-governmental plans.

Sophia Kolani Public.Relations.&.Political.Sciences

Sophia was born in Derynia. She studied Public Relations and Political Sciences in the UK and she is a candidate for the postgraduate degree in Communication Sciences during times of crisis. She likes studying in order to improve her knowledge and therefore she is enrolled in distant-learning courses at the National Kapodistrian University of Athens. Her main skills are communication, organization, corporation and team spirit, empathy, problem solving, analytical thinking, order and diligence, reliability and consistency.

Maria Vassiliou Lawyer.Insolvency.Practitioner

Maria is a Lawyer/ Insolvency Practitioner, owner of the CONSULTING ZONE LTD company, which specializes in Banking and Insolvency Issues, such as Corporate Insolvency and Loan Restructuring, Personal Data Protection (GDPR), Legal Compliance with Human Resources Procedures, etc. She is a holder of a Law Degree (LLB) and Statistics (B.Sc) and of a Master Degree in Human Resources and Labor Law Management. She is an officially approved member and a graduate from the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management (CIPD), a Licensed Insolvency Practitioner and a Certified Instructor from the Human Resource Development Authority of Cyprus (HRDA). She has worked in Cyprus, Greece and in London (Η.Β.) in various responsible positions and she has a long working experience as a Legal Advisor in a large Banking Organization of Cyprus. She is also a member of the Board of Directors of Finance Public Loans’ Committees of the Republic of Cyprus (Public Loans). During her career, she has presented and organized various seminars related to Insolvency, Contracts with Banks and Companies, Loan Restructuring, Rights and Obligations of Debtors and Guarantors, Personal Data Protection, Corporate Issues as well as Issues of Human Resources Development and Labor Relations/Disputes. In addition, she has published articles in newspapers and professional sites and she is a regular speaker on television and radio.

Sotos Skinitis Solicitor

Soto qualified as a solicitor with Lewis Moore & Co in London in 1999 having started his legal career at Poles, Tublin Patestides & Stratakis in New York. He then went on to practice with Jackson Parton and Norton Rose, before founding the Skinitis Maritime Law firm in May 2006. He has lectured on Marine Litigation and Ship Finance Law at the Business College of Athens. Soto remains focused on litigation, particularly in the fields of corporate and international trade disputes. He also regularly consults for the banking sector on financing disputes in the shipping and aviation sector. His main area of expertise relates to disputes with common trade agreements, asset sale and purchase, corporate loans, injunctions, and bank finance, as well as disputes regarding various instruments of international transactions, i.e Letters of Credit His extensive legal knowledge is complemented by a thorough understanding of the technical aspects of international trade following his time gained serving in the Greek merchant navy. Soto is fluent in English and Greek, and has a good command of French.”

Evanthia Tsolaki Lawyer

Evanthia is a holder of a Law Degree from the National Kapodistrian University of Athens and a holder of a postgraduate Business Administration (MBA) from the Open University of Cyprus. she is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association and a member of the Limassol Bar Association. She practises law in Limassol. She is also a member of the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission as well as a member of the Municipal Council of Limassol and the Sewerage Board of Limassol Amathous (2002-2016). She has an active role in several volunteer organisation and participates in social activities.

Fotini Fidogianni Lawyer

Fotini has graduated from the Law School of the National Kapodistrian University of Athens in 2018. After successfully completing her internship and successfully passing the Legal Council examinations. She is continuing her studies for a postgraduate degree in “European Law”. She is a fluent speaker in Greek, English and French.

Savvas Stavrou Historian

Savvas Stavrou was born in 1989 in Limassol. He is a graduate in History and Archaeology from the University of Cyprus. He is also a graduate in History and Civilization studies from the University of Berlin (Erasmus). Savvas holds a postgraduate degree in Modern and Contemporary History (19th-20th Century) from the Department of History and Archaeology of the University of Cyprus. He has participated in numerus lectures and conferences in Cyprus and Greece.

Georgia Stamatina Constantinidou Lawyer

Georgia is a lawyer and works at a law firm in Cyprus. She studied law (LLB) at the University of Nicosia (2014-2018). Additionally, Georgia holds a degree in Civil Sciences from the University of Crete (2019-2013). She is a lawyer licensed by the Cyprus Bar Association. Her main areas of practice are Civil Law, Corporate Law, Contract Law, Immigration Law and the provision of administrative services.

Lora Stylianou Lawyer

Lora is a lawyer and the managing director at a law firm. She is a gratuate of the University College London, UK and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 1996. Lora's practice mainly focuses on Commercial and Corporate law, Mergers and Acquisitions, Contract Law, Banking and Finance and Alternative Dispute Resolution. She is also a Licensed Insolvency Practitioner.

Alkmini Pantazi Lawyer

Alkmini is a lawyer and a legal consultant, and she works at a law firm in Cyprus. She is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2012 and a member of the Thessaloniki Bar Association (Greece) since 2009. She practices Law mainly in the areas of Corporate, Commercial, Civil, Banking, Family Law and Immovable Property Law. She is a certified Mediator, registered at the Ministry of Justice Cyprus.

Irene Prokopiou Lawyer

Irene is a lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2020. She has passed the She trained at a law firm, before she has successfully passed the examination of the Cyprus Legal Council. She studied Law at the Cyprus University (2015-2019) and also at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (2018) during the Erasmus Programme. She has been admitted at the University of Reading with a partial scholarship to study in the field of Human Rights Law (LLM). She is a determined and dedicated lawyer with good social skills.

Evangelia Michaelidi Papaiakovou Legal Advisor

Evangelia is a lawyer who graduated from the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki Law School (2011). In 2016 she obtained a Masters Degree in International Affairs and European Studies from the University of Nicosia and in 2020 a Diploma in Negotiations from Athens University of Economics and Business. She is currently attending courses to obtain a Masters Degree in International Commercial Law at the European University Cyprus (until March 2021) and at the same time a Masters Degree in Constructıon Law at the University of Salford Manchester (until September 2022). She has worked as a civil servant in several positions, such as the Directorate of Armaments of the Ministry of Defence from 2011 until September 2020 at which time she started practicing law. She is experienced in negotiations, in concluding and monitoring the implementation of commercial contracts, as well as in the field of Research and Development (R&D) projects.

Spyros Andonikou Banker

Spyros has more than 19 years in the Banking sector. He served from various positions, R&D Officer, Internal Audit, Executive Retail Director in a local Bank. Now he is an AML & Compliance Manager at an EMI and PI. He graduated from California State University of Fresno and furthered his studies pursuing an MBA from National University in San Diego. He was awarded a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Manchester in Financial Services and an Associateship from the Charter Institute of Bankers which he is a member. He received a Certificate from the Institute of Directors with emphasis in Corporate Governance. He participated in courses regarding personal data protection at National & Kapodistrian University, Fintech and Ethics from the University of Hong Kong. He has an advance CySec certificate.

Stella Savva Banker

Stella is highly experienced in banking, with specific experience in debt collection and arrears management. During her 20 year career within the Bank of Cyprus (BOC) she undertook a number of job roles, where most of them entailed high interaction with clients . Within the BOC she has 10 years of experience as the Head of Collections and Arrears Management teams in both Cyprus and Greece. She is an HRDA certified trainer, a CySEC Certified Professional ( Advanced Level ) and a Certified Mediator. She is currently offering in-house seminars and consulting based on her expertise and knowledge as well as subsidised training programmes by HRDA. She is a holder of a higher diploma in Architecture from Frederick University (1995) and a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics and Technology from State University of New York (1999). She has successfully completed the AIB diploma in banking from the American Bankers Association in 2010 and she has all the professional qualifications for the subsidised training programmes that she provides.

Andreas Hadjiyiannis Former Banker

Andreas is a former banker with 25 years of experience. He is an expert in negotiation/mediation regarding bank cases. He is independent, objective and trustworthy and respects the confidentiality of the Mediation's procedure.

Pieros Zapounis Lawyer

Pieros is an active lawyer based in Larnaka, and a member of the Cyprus Bar Associaton offering legal services to the whole of Cyprus. His fields of expertise are Criminal Law, Commercial Law, Banking Law and Civil Law. As a Mediator he acts in civil and commercial disputes.

Evangelia Adamou Lawyer

Evangelia is a Lawyer. She graduated in 2018 from the University of Huddersfield where she acquired an LLB Law Degree. In 2019, she obtained an LLM Law Degree in International Law at the University of Leeds. She is a native Greek speaker and is also fluent in English.

Alexandra Economou Lawyer

Alexandra has graduated as a lawyer from the UCLan University Cyprus in July 2019 (Bachelor of Laws LLB Hons) and then started practicing law in Larnaca. She has attended several seminars in Corporate Law, Personal Data Protection, Anti money laundering etc. Her main areas of expertise are litigation cases and especially in Corporate, Civil and Banking Law.

Sotiris Iosif Student

Sotiris is 23 years old. He is a graduate of Law from the Swansea University. He is currently enrolled as a postgraduate student at Intellectual Property and Commercial Practice degree.

Eleni Mathikoloni Lawyer

Eleni is a lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2014. She is the founder and managing partner of her own law firm. She holds a Bachelor of Laws (LLB) from the University of Leicester in UK and a Master of Laws (LLM) from the University of Westminster in London with specialization in International Commercial Law. She started her career as a litigation lawyer in reputable law firms in Cyprus and then she continued her career as legal and compliance consultant in administrative service providers offering financial services to high net worth individuals and companies. Eleni is currently handling cases related to legal, corporate and financial matters and her goal is to contribute to out-of-court dispute resolution, in order for such matters to be solved within less timeframes and at minimum expense. She is a native Greek speaker and is also fluent in English.

Thanasis Fiakas Lawyer

Thanos is a lawyer, he works in a law firm and has been a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2016. He is a graduate of the University of Leicester (LL. B Hons) and a holder of an LL.M degree in International Commercial Law from the same University. He specializes in company law, commercial law, contract law, civil law, and real estate law. He handles commercial and corporate disputes between shareholders, contracts, banking law and real estate. He is a certified mediator registered at the Ministry of Justice.

Ioanna Samara Lawyer

Ioanna is a Lawyer in a law firm in Limassol. She is a licensed lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2006. She is graduated of the Law School of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens and has a master's degree from the University of Bristol specializing in Commercial Law. She is mainly active in litigation in civil, commercial and administrative Law representing natural and legal persons before the Courts. She specializes in and represents banking and credit institutions, providing legal advice on matters relating to the settlement/litigation of banking disputes.She also deals with provision of the legal advice/services and representation in cases related to Civil Law, Administrative Law and Environmental Law.

Fani Ioannou Lawyer

Fani is a lawyer and graduated from the University of Nicosia. She has been a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2020 and an approved mediator after successfully attending the mediation training program of the Cyprus Center for ADR.

Pavlos Pavlou Banker

Pavlos has been working as a bank clerk since 2000 and for the last 10 years he has been a loan officer at a bank. He is a holder of the Financial Services Management, of the Institute of Financial Services, United Kingdom and a Member since 2001 and a holder of a diploma from the American Bankers Association. He is also a holder of an Insurance Practice License from the Cyprus Insurance Institute.

Marina Pillakouri Law Student

3rd year law student.

Chrysanthi Epifaniou Lawyer

Chrysanthi Epifaniou is a lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2015. She holds a law degree from the University of Cyprus and a postgraduate law degree from University College London. She is an approved mediator by the Ministry of Justice and her main areas of expertise are court cases with significant experience in labor, commercial, corporate, banking, financial law, and civil law.

Kyriakos Kounnas Student

Kyriakos is 23 years old. He is a student in the field of Civil Engineering. At the same time, he works as an Assistant Civil Engineer in a company in Cyprus with a long experience in the construction and contracting sector, with valuable experience for his professional development in difficult construction projects. He likes studying, to develop his knowledge, and broaden his horizons to whatever he may find useful in the future and takes every opportunity of learning beyond his university courses. His core skills are communication, organization, collaboration and team spirit, problem solving abilities, reliability, and consistency. His mother tongue is Greek, and he is a fluent speaker of English.

Eleni Kounna Lawyer

Eleni is a lawyer-legal consultant and works in a law firm in Cyprus. She has been a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2014. She holds a an LLB (Hons) (2012) degree and a Masters degree in International Business law (LLM) (2013). Her mother tongue is Greek, and she is fluent in English. Her main areas of expertise are Civil, Corporate and Family Law. She specializes in matters relating to family law claims and everything correlated to that particular field. She also deals with insurance claims, bank disputes, debt collection, as well as the out-of-court settlement of disputes. Eleni is a member of the board of a non-profit organization and a member and legal advisor of charitable foundations.

Emilios Christofides Accountant

Emilios holds of a BSc Economics degree from the University of Reading. He is a chartered accountant (Association of Chartered Accountants) and an approved Business Finance Professional with 3 years of experience in providing corporate audit, internal audit, and consulting services. Among other things, he has attended seminars on data analysis and financial analysis of various organizations. He is also a co-founder of a startup company that specializes in data analytics.

Μαριάννα Οικονομίδου Lawyer

Marianna is a lawyer and works as a Legal Advisor in a consulting company that specializes in Competition Economics. She is a graduate of the University of Cyprus (LLB Law) and of the Queen Mary University of London (LLM E.U. Competition Law). She has worked as a trainee in the European Parliament in Brussels, particularly in the Internal Market and Consumer Protection Committee. She then worked for a law firm in Brussels and was mainly engaged with lobbying of the institutions of the European Union. She participated in the writing of a chapter in a book (under review) regarding competition law cases in Cyprus.

Eleni Neoptolemou Law Graduate

Eleni is a graduate of the Law School of the National Kapodistrian University of Athens and has obtained a master's degree (LLM) specializing in Oil and Gas from UCLan Cyprus. She is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2015 and works in a law firm in Nicosia, in the Commercial department. She deals with Contract Law, Energy (Oil and Environmental Issues), Intellectual Property, Civil Law, Data Protection, Public Procurement, Consumer Law and Administrative Law. She is fluent in English and has a very good knowledge of French. She has also successfully completed the UCLan Cyprus University arbitration training program.

Anna Konstantinou Lawyer-Compliance.Officer

Anna holds a law degree from the University of Lancaster and has been working for a financial consulting firm for the past three years as a compliance consultant. She studies and is constantly informed about changes in the legislation/case law. She also prepares the reports to the Management of Cyprus Investment Companies with the goal of informing and these Companies about their legal obligations towards the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, she is responsible for the compliance of Cyprus Investment Companies in accordance with the laws and their internal procedures. Her mother tongue is Greek, she speaks fluent English, and she has a good knowledge of Russian.

Georgia Georgiou Lawyer

Georgia is a lawyer and works for a law firm in Cyprus. She is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2017. She graduated from De Montford University of Leicester and obtained a master’s degree in Insurance Law from the University of Southampton. She practices litigation before the Cyprus Courts with a main focus in the areas of Civil, Criminal, Family Law and Real Estate Law and she also deals with the General Data Protection Regulation, providing advice for resolving disputes, legislation and regulations at both national and European level. In the context of her work, she deals with a wide range of cases, including insurance claims, car accidents, medical negligence, work accidents, labor disputes, contractual claims and debt collection. She is a certified mediator, registered at the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Cyprus.

Marina Nikolaou Law Graduate

Marina is a graduate of the Law School of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, a Barrister-at-Law and a member of the Honorable Society of Lincoln's Inn and holds a Master of Laws degree from Cardiff University. She has been a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2011 and currently practices law mainly in civil cases. She is also an accredited mediator in commercial and civil disputes since 2014 and she is registered in the relevant Register of Mediators of the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus.

Julia Theophanous Lawyer

Julia is a lawyer registered with the Cyprus Bar Association since 2003. She lives and works at a law firm in Nicosia and she deals with all areas of Law and especially in the areas of Civil Law, Banking, Labor Law and Family Law. She is part of the Litigation Department at the law firm she works for.

Rita Olympiou Lawyer

Rita Olympiou graduated in 2009 from the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens with a Law Degree. She was admitted to the Cyprus Bar in 2011. She works at a Law Firm as a Lawyer - Manager at the Litigation Department - Commercial Law. Rita’s main areas of practice include civil, administrative litigation, banking, business law, insolvency, immigration law, family law, EU law and children’s rights.

Neofyta Chimona Accountant

Neophyta (Toula) is a graduate of the University of Piraeus in the Department of Business Administration and Management with a specialization in the field of Accounting - Taxation. She worked as an Insurance Consultant and then as a Professor of Accounting in the private sector. She has extensive experience in the commercial sector after working for many years as a Sales and Human Resources Manager in a trading company. With her professional experience she has acquired skills of negotiation, organization, communication, goal setting, efficiency in problem solving with customers, suppliers, and staff. She is characterized by integrity, responsibility, initiative, confidentiality, and discretion.

Natalie Panagidou Lawyer

Natali is a Lawyer in Limassol. She holds an LLB and an LLM from the University of East London and in 2011 joined the Pancyprian Bar Association as a Lawyer. She specializes in commercial and corporate law, contracts and copyright, licensing, and compliance. Her mother tongue is Greek, and she is fluent in English.

Nektaria Symeou Lawyer

Nektaria is a Lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association and the Larnaca Bar Association. She holds a law degree from the National Kapodistrian University of Athens. She works in a Law Firm in Larnaca and deals with a wide range of cases. She deals with judicial representation and legal advice to legal and natural persons.

Melita Despina Theodorides Lawyer

Melita has been a lawyer and member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 1996. She holds a UK Law degree and is a Barrister-at-law of Lincoln’s Inn (London, UK). She worked as an in-house legal consultant for a shipping company until 2000 and later as a lawyer in the field of Corporate and Commercial Law. Since 2016 she has been the director of the Department of Corporate and Commercial Law at a law firm in Nicosia. She has extensive experience in high-value financing, cross-border mergers and acquisitions, and provides consultation on joint ventures and shareholder disputes.

Michalis Severis Lawyer

Michalis is a Lawyer in a law firm in Cyprus. He is a licensed lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2008. He is a graduate of the Law School of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens and has a master's degree from the University of East Anglia (UEA) specializing in International Commercial and Business Law. He is mainly active in litigation in civil and commercial cases, representing natural and legal persons before the Courts. He specializes in and represents banking and credit institutions, providing legal advice on matters relating to the settlement/litigation of banking and financial disputes. He also deals with the provision of legal advice/services and representation in cases related to civil law, contract law including real estate recovery procedures and corporate and commercial disputes.

Stelios Chrysostomou Lawyer

Stelios is a lawyer in a law firm in Cyprus and is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association. He holds a Law Degree (LLB) from the University of Reading (UK) and a Master of Laws (LPC and MSc) from the University of Law (London), specializing in Law, Business and Management. He started his legal career in the United Kingdom, in a transatlantic law firm with a presence in the United Kingdom and the United States, where in addition to his legal duties, he was involved in Legal Technology and Legal Artificial Intelligence. Currently, Stelios works as a lawyer and legal advisor in a large law firm in Cyprus and his goal is to contribute as a mediator in out-of-court dispute resolution, in order to resolve such cases immediately and at a low cost.

Kalia Loizidou Psychologist

Kalia Loizidou is a Registered School Psychologist with additional studies in Criminology, Career Counseling. This year (2020) she completed her studies in Acting. She specializes in Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy and communication skills training - after being certified by the EACH (International Association for Communication in Healthcare). She is also an examiner at St George’s School of Medicine in Nicosia and lectures for the past 7 years communication skills to students at the Medical School. She is currently based at the University of Nicosia. She has held workshops and lectures at festivals, at the University of Nicosia, in schools in Cyprus in all districts, at the Multipurpose Center of Nicosia and at psychology conferences in Europe (e.g. EPSA).

Christophoros Stavrinos Lawyer

Christoforos is a registered member of the Cyprus Bar Association and the Bar Association of Nicosia since 2016. He is a lawyer at the Litigation Department of one of the biggest lawfirms in Nicosia. He studied Law at the University of Surrey (LLB, Hons) and continued his postgraduate studies at Durham University (LL.M, Master of Laws).

Christiana Petrou Lawyer

Christiana is a Lawyer registered with the Heraklion Bar Association since 2004 and with the Cyprus Bar Association since 2005. She is a shareholder and director of a law firm in Cyprus. She participates in European Actions and European Programs related to the subject of Technology and Internet Law as well as Women Rights. She has published studies, comments, and articles in legal journals. She also participates in committees for the protection of women rights in the European Union and is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association’s Intellectual Property Committee. Her main areas of activity are Commercial and Corporate Law, Intellectual Property Law and Technology, IT & Telecommunications Law, with main specialization in e-commerce law, Sports Law, Banking Law and Alternative Dispute Resolution.

Yiannis Meraklis Lawyer

Ioannis is a graduate of the Law School of the University of Nicosia, where he obtained his Law Degree (LL.B), and also holds a Master's Degree (LL.M) from the same University. He is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2013 and is a partner at a Law Firm based in Nicosia. In recent years he has focused on the negotiation and drafting of contracts in the field of real estate, in matters of Personal Data Protection as well as in cases of Civil and Criminal Law. He was the President of the Institute of Young Scientists (IYS), for the years 2013 – 2016, involved mainly in the committees for the employment and creation of jobs as well as the Legal and Economic Committee.

Chrysovalantis Charalambous Lawyer

Chrysovalantis holds a Law Degree (LLB) from the University of Nicosia in Cyprus Law. During his studies he received, among other things, training in Consumer Rights but also in Arbitration and Mediation.

Despina Zeniou Lawyer

Despina is a graduate of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens since 2010. After her studies she returned to Cyprus where she completed her internship. She is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2011. She practices law with many years of experience in litigation in the Supreme Court. She deals extensively with court cases (Administrative Law, Maritime Court, Litigation, Family Disputes, Criminal Law, Rent Control, Labor Disputes, Corporate Law etc.), drafting and perusing contracts, registering companies in Cyprus and overseas and also registering national and international trademarks and patents. She is also involved with the registration of Associations and Trade Unions, preparation of legal opinions for clients as well as with the out-of-court settlement of disputes.

Efi Monou Lawyer

Efi has an LLB in Law and Business Administration. She is a licensed and practicing lawyer from 2003 and insolvency practitioner from 2016, registered with the Cyprus Bar Association. She has experience in matters of corporate and commercial law, insolvency, trusts, intellectual property, banking and finance.

Yannos Poumpouris Civil Engineer

Giannos is a Civil Engineer. He is the Director of the Federation of Cyprus Construction Contractors Associations, a Member of the General Council of the Cyprus Scientific and Technical Chamber and a Member of the Board of Directors of the Cyprus Association of Civil Engineers. He graduated from the Democritus University of Thrace and then completed his master's degree in Project Management at the University of Naples. As a design consultant he has worked in design offices and collaborated with construction authorities, in the preparation of static studies, project supervision and contract management.

Stelios Xenophontos

As a mediator, Stelios is experienced in applying confidential and humane practices, person to person. Utilizing his multidimensional business experience, over 30 years, he aims at using mediation to allow for a workable solution to be reached between parties to a dispute.

Marios Stylianides Lawyer

Marios is a lawyer in a law firm in Cyprus. In 2015 he graduated from the University of Manchester and in 2016, he completed the Bar Professional Training Course (BPTC) at BPP University and is a member of the Honorable Society of the Middle Temple. Since 2018 he is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association and has been practicing law since that date. Marios specializes in real estate, construction law and banking law. Since 2021 he is an approved mediator by the Ministry of Justice..

Lakis Argyrou Communication Specialist

Lakis is a Communication Specialist specializing in Public Relations. BSc in Communications - Cum Laude. He attended a specialized leadership program entitled "Leadership and Community Service" through a scholarship at the American University - Washington DC. He is a graduate of the Kapodistrian University of Athens in the field of "Executive and Corporate Coaching and Mentoring". He is also an HRDA certified trainer. For the last 20 years he has been conducting trainings and seminars related to the field of Communication, Leadership, Public Relations and Personal Development, in Cyprus and abroad, while at the same time he participates in trainings to upgrade his knowledge and skills. He pursues lifelong learning, and he strongly believes that people's differences are resolved when they talk to each other instead of talking about each other. Sometimes to achieve this you need a competent mediator who will normalize the relationship and help alleviate the crisis. He is an active listener, with deep empathy that facilitates his action in all areas of his life, professional and personal.

Michael Papachristodolou Lawyer

Michael is a Trainee Lawyer at a Law Firm in Nicosia, where he has gained experience in resolving disputes through the Litigation Department - Commercial Matters. He holds a Master of Laws (LLB) from King 's College London, and a Master of Laws (LPC) as well as an MSc from the University of Law (London), specializing in Law, Business and Management, where he graduated with distinction.

Ioanna Ioannou Lawyer

Ioanna Ioannou is a lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2015. She holds a law degree from the University of Cyprus and a postgraduate law degree from the University of Leeds. She deals with court cases of civil and commercial nature and she is an accredited mediator by the Ministry of Justice.

Ava Chrisanthou Architect

Ava is an Architect and holds a Masters of Science degree from the University of Architecture, Building and Geodesy in Sofia, Bulgaria. She also holds a Diploma in Computer Programming. She speaks four languages - Greek, English, Russian and Bulgarian. She has been working in Cyprus as an architect since 1993 until this day. She has designed over 1000 buildings in Cyprus - houses, apartment buildings, shopping malls, government projects and much more. Her main areas of expertise are resolving commercial disputes in the field of real estate, construction, and technical projects.

Anthi Vassiliou Lawyer

Anthi holds a law degree from the European University of Cyprus (2017 - 2021) in the field of Cyprus law, where she graduated with distinction. Her main goal is to obtain a license to practice the profession. At the same time, she wants to become a Licensed Insolvency Practitioner. Her striking characteristics are communication, organization, cooperation and team spirit, empathy, problem-solving abilities, analytical thinking, order and diligence, reliability, and consistency. Her mother tongue is Greek, but she also speaks English very well.

Eleftherios Michailas Lawyer

Lefteris is a Lawyer and works in a Law Firm in Larnaca. He is a graduate of the University of Sheffield where he obtained a law degree - LLB (Hons). He has gained experience in the Litigation Department in the fields of Criminal, Civil and Family Law and has attended seminars in the field of Corporate Law and in the documentation and conclusion of agreements. He deals with the provision of legal advice to natural and legal persons and his goal is to contribute as a mediator in the out-of-court settlement of legal disputes.

Antria Georgiou AML Officer

Antria is a graduate of the Intercollege Campus College Validated by the Middlesex University. She holds the CYSEC Anti Money Laundering diploma and shas been working as an Anti-Money Laundering Officer since 2018.

Maria Orphanidou Banking Administrator

Maria is a graduate of the Department of Primary Education of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and holds a master’s degree in European Youth, Education and Culture Policies. She is currently working in the Finance sector as a Banking Administrator, focusing on continuous professional development and lifelong learning. Her goal, as a mediator, is to contribute to the out-of-court settlement of disputes and resolve such cases promptly and at low cost.

Ioannis Aggeli Lawyer

Ioannis is a lawyer and a graduate of the University of Sheffield (2019). He is a member of the Famagusta Bar Association. He completed his internship successfully in 2020 by passing the exams of the Legal Council of Cyprus and has since then been practicing the profession of Law. He is an active litigant, with experience in appearances and hearings before all Courts as well as resolving out-of-court disputes. His mother tongue is Greek and he is fluent in English.

Christina Chrysostomou Lawyer

Christina holds an LLB and an LLM in Public International Law (University of London). She also holds a BA in European Studies (University of Reading) and a Diploma in Political Studies (Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Lyon). She is a lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association. Her main areas of expertise are business law, real estate, contracts, company law, EU law and human rights. As an expert and analyst, she has 10 years of experience in organizations such as the European Commission and the European External Action Service in Latin America, the Middle East and Africa. Christina speaks fluent Greek, English, Spanish, French and Portuguese.

Christina Fiakka Lawyer

Christina is a graduate of the Law School of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and has been a registered lawyer of the Cyprus Bar Association as well as the Famagusta Bar Association since 2012. Today, she is the head of the litigation department at a law firm in Limassol. Her main areas of expertise are Civil, Corporate, Labor, Inheritance and Family Law. She also specializes in banking disputes, insurance claims as well as out-of-court dispute resolution.

Maria Sokratous Lawyer

Maria is a lawyer in the Corporate and Commercial department of a law firm and focuses mainly on real estate issues, such as the development, sale, and rental of commercial and residential real estate, as well as large-scale investments in construction projects. She has also dealt extensively with banking law and the law of credit financing and has extensive experience in resolving disputes in commercial and banking law, both out of court and before the Courts. Maria studied Law at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and holds a master’s degree in European Commercial Law from the University of Leicester. She has been a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2009 and an accredited mediator since 2021.

Dimitris Papadimitris Lawyer

Dimitris holds a Law Degree from the University of Nicosia and two masters’ Degrees in Public Administration and Business Administration (MBA). In addition, he successfully completed the courses «Mediation, Negotiation And Dialogue Skills» και «Conflict Analysis Course» at the European Security & Defence College (ESDC), as well as the course «Mediation And Crisis Management» held in collaboration with the Pantheon University of Athens and Frederick University of Cyprus. His key skills are confidentiality, consistency, cooperation, and excellent problem-solving abilities. His mother tongue is Greek; he speaks fluent English, basic French and Russian.

Carlos Partasides Lawyer

Carlos is a lawyer licensed by the Cyprus Bar Association since 2016. In 2013, he obtained a master's degree (LLM) with “Distinction” from the University of Bedfordshire specializing in International Commercial Law. In 2016, he obtained a second master’s degree (LLM) with “Distinction

Dina Hilides Financial Advisor

Dina holds an NE Honors in Mathematical Economics from the University of Essex. She has 30 years of banking experience in banking operations with specialization in handling non-performing financing of large and small and medium enterprises. She is a Credit Advisor (Financial Issues) and an Insolvency Practitioner. She is involved with mediation since 2014. She currently offers mediation services at the office of the Financial Ombudsman with successful results.

Constantinos Yiatrou Lawyer

Constantinos is a Lawyer - Legal Advisor and member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2014. He is a graduate of the Law Department of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. He works as a lawyer in a large law firm in Limassol and deals mainly with civil, criminal, corporate and commercial disputes. He also deals extensively with cases related to interim decrees, as well as cases related to real estate issues. He is active in litigation with experience in appearances and hearings before all Courts. He has extensive experience in resolving and settling high value disputes out-of-court.

Panayiotis Panayi Lawyer

Panayiotis is a practicing lawyer in Cyprus. He holds an LLB from the University of Maastricht with a degree in European Law and an LLM from the University of Edinburgh with a specialization in International Financial Law (specifically in International Banking Law). He has participated in mediation and negotiation programs in Maastricht, making him an expert in the field of alternative dispute resolution. Parallel with his internship, he has obtained (online) a diploma on the financing of real estate from the London School of Economics and Political Science. He has an excellent knowledge of Greek and English.

Antreas Elia

Andreas is a graduate of the University of Ioannina in Pedagogy and a graduate of the Athens University in Physical Education. He is also a CEO in an Investment Company and a consulting services company.

Nicolas Erotokritou Lawyer

Nicolas is a Lawyer. He is the Director at a Law Firm. His field of expertise is the purchase and sale of real estate, drafting of commercial and investment contracts, financing, and tax planning of companies. In addition, he deals with Corporate Litigation before District Courts. As a mediator, his priority will be to find a solution between the parties, in order to avoid the time-consuming process before the Courts.

Yvoni Lambrianou Lawyer

Yvonni is a lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2018. Since then, she has been working in the litigation department of a law firm in Limassol. Her main areas of expertise are international commercial law and banking law. She is a law graduate of the University of Manchester and holds the professional title "Legal Practice Course" from the University of Law in Bristol.

Sofia Raunich Lawyer

Sofia is a lawyer and works as a Legal Advisor in a consulting company that specializes in competition economics. She is a law graduate of the University of Cyprus (LLB Law) and registered in the Register of Lawyers of the Supreme Court. She deals with competition law, mainly compliance programs and trade disputes on competition issues.

Marilena Shambarta Lawyer

Marilena is a lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2013. She is a graduate of the University of Southampton and the University of Nottingham.

Frixos Nikolaou Lawyer

Frixos is a lawyer at a law firm in Nicosia and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association and the Nicosia Bar Association since 2017. He is an approved mediator by the Ministry of Justice. He is a graduate of the University of Sheffield in England and holds a master’s degree in International Law (the University of Bristol). During the year 2014/2015 Frixos completed his internship at the European Parliament in Brussels. His main areas of expertise are Civil Law, Insurance Law, Construction Law, Labor Law, Public Law and Competition Law.

Panayiotis Karayiannis Civil Engineer

Panayiotis Karayiannis is a Civil Engineer. He is the owner of a Consulting Engineering and Project Management firm based in Limassol – Cyprus, he gained his Civil and Structural Engineering Degree from the ‘University of Wales’ UK and he specialised in Engineering Management at ‘Iowa State University’ USA. He has more than 25 years professional experience in Cyprus, Greece, and the Middle East, dealing with the design, supervision, contract administration and management of various projects such as Hotels & Resorts, Marinas, Golf Courses, High Rise Buildings, Theatres, Museums, Residential & Commercial Buildings, Roads, Bridges, Tunnels, and Infrastructure works. As an independent Engineer and Project Manager, he has gained over the years extensive experience by practising Negotiations and Alternative Dispute Resolution methods, tools, and techniques in the construction industry. Member of the Institution of Civil Engineers ICE UK, the Project Management Institute PMI USA, Cyprus Association of Civil Engineers CYACE, Scientific Chamber of Cyprus ETEK.

Demetris Tsingis

Demetris A. Tsingis founded FINCAP Advisers in late 2016 as its Managing Partner, previously serving as a Partner heading the Financial Regulation & Advisory, London Office and Executive Academy departments in one of the leading advisory firms of Cyprus. Demetris holds a BSc in Government & Economics (LSE) and an MBA with Honours in Finance, Entrepreneurial Management and Private Equity & Venture Capital (Wharton Business School) with a Fulbright Scholarship. He is a Fellow Chartered Accountant (FCA/BFP), a practicing member of the ICPAC Cyprus and of the ICAEW UK, a CYSEC advanced and AML examinations holder, a Chartered Member of the Chartered Institute of Securities & Investments (Ch. MCSI), an approved HRDA External Trainer, a licensed Mediator and a licensed Insolvency Practitioner amongst other qualifications. He further is a part-time PhD candidate in Entrepreneurship with Warwick Business School. Demetris worked on Private Equity and Investment Banking clients during his time at Arthur Andersen/Deloitte in London, in M&A in BNP Paribas New York, Private Banking in Bank of Cyprus before returning to the financial advisory space in 2013 specializing on investment funds, investment firms, fintech and payment services.

Savvia Georgiou Lawyer

Born in Larnaca on 13/05/1963, in Agios Ambrosios of Kyrenia. She graduated from high school with honors and studied Law at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, specializing in Public Law. She is married and has five children. She has been an active litigator since 1999. She works at a Law firm in Larnaca.

Anthoula Tsangaridou Lawyer

Stelios Alvanis Lawyer

Izabel Anemomylou Lawyer

Η Ιζαμπέλ αποφοίτησε από το Ευρωπαϊκό Πανεπιστήμιο Κύπρου και είναι κάτοχος Πτυχίου Νομικής. Είναι μέλος του Παγκύπριου Δικηγορικού Συλλόγου από το 2018. Μετά την ολοκλήρωση της επαγγελματικής της κατάρτισης συνέχισε να εργάζεται στον εταιρικό και τραπεζικό νόμο. Οι βασικοί τομείς ειδικότητας της Ιζαμπέλ είναι εταιρικές, τραπεζικές και χρηματοοικονομικές υπηρεσίες. Μιλάει Ελληνικά, Αγγλικά και Βουλγαρικά.

Anastasios Kallinikou Mechanical Engineer

Ο Αναστάσιος είναι απόφοιτος της πολυτεχνικής σχολής του Δημοκριτείου Πανεπιστημίου Θράκης στην Ξάνθη με πτυχίο στον κλάδο της μηχανολογικής μηχανικής, και κάτοχος μεταπτυχιακού διπλώματος στη διοίκηση επιχειρήσεων (ΜΒΑ) του Πανεπιστημίου Κύπρου. Απο το 2017 ο Αναστάσιος είναι μέλος του Επιστημονικoύ Τεχνικού Επιμελητηρίου Κύπρου (ΕΤΕΚ). Από τον Ιανουάριο του 2020 εργοδοτείται στην πολυεθνική εταιρία PERI ως μηχανικός στο τμήμα πωλήσεων. Κατέχει πρόσθετη εργασιακή εμπειρία σε διάφορους άλλους τομείς όπως στον τομέα της μηχανολογίας, όπου εργαζόταν ως επιβλέπων μηχανικός εργοταξίου μηχανολογικών εγκαταστάσεων για περίοδο 15 μηνών καθώς επίσης στον τραπεζικό τομέα όπου εργάστηκε για περίοδο 8 μηνών στην Ελληνική τράπεζα ως λειτουργός εξυπηρέτησης πελατών.

Panayiotis Hadjipanayiotou Lawyer

Panagiotis graduated from the University of Kent where he graduated with an LLB (Hons) Law degree and also a graduate from the University of Reading where he received a postgraduate degree in LLM International Commercial Law, International Banking Law and Financial Regulation. Since 2018, he holds a license to practice the profession as a lawyer from the Cyprus Bar Association. He works at a law firm and deals mainly with court cases.

Chriso Papachristodoulou Lawyer

Chryso began studying law at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, where she studied for two years, while she completed the next two years at the European University of Cyprus, where she graduated with distinction. Since then, she has been practicing law at the Law Office of the Republic of Cyprus, where she deals mainly with issues of Civil and Administrative Law. During her studies, she received among other things, training in Cyprus and Greek Consumer Law.

Penelope Charalambous Lawyer

Pinelopi Charalampous is an Immigration and Real Estate Lawyer in Paphos, Cyprus. During the past decade she has obtained an LLB (Hons) as a scholarship student from Frederick University of Cyprus and then a Graduate Diploma in Law from BPP University of London and an LLM in Commercial and Corporate Law from Queen Mary University of London. At the moment she is currently studying towards her PhD in Law and Technology at the University of Central Lancashire. Penelope has been highly interested in Alternative Dispute Resolution since she started her Bachelor Decree in Law and for that reason she has pursued a Mediation Certification from Cyprus Chambers of Commerce and while living in London she was cooperating with Debate Mate, an organization who teaches Debate Techniques to high school students and large organizations such as Accounting Firms and many more. Further to the above, Penelope is an Associate Member of the Charter Institute of Arbitrators in London with specialization in International Commercial Arbitration and I currently teach Mediation as an external partner of FredMed at Frederick University of Cyprus.

Elena Charalambous Lawyer

Elena is a lawyer and a graduate of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. She has completed her internship at the Law Office of the Republic of Cyprus and has dealt with civil and criminal cases. She is in the process of obtaining a postgraduate degree from a British University in the field of International Commercial Law.

Chryso Argyrou Lawyer

Chryso is a lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2010. She holds a law degree from the Democritus University of Thrace and a postgraduate degree from Leicester University. She is a shareholder and director of a law firm in Cyprus. She specializes in Civil Law, Family Law, Banking Law, Inheritance Law and Real Estate, Intellectual Property law, Non-performing loan restructurings, corporate, shipping, legal and other regulatory issues as well as market level mutual fund and management services. Her goal is to contribute to the out-of-court settlement of disputes that arise between the parties at a short time and at a low cost.

Athena Evagorou Lawyer

Athina is a Lawyer at a law firm in Cyprus and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2014. She is a graduate of the University of Manchester, England and pursued a master’s degree in Environmental Law & Policy at University College London. Her main areas of practice is banking law, contract law, commercial disputes, real estate law as well as the settlement of disputes on an out-of-court basis.

Christos Georgiou Lawyer

Christos is a lawyer and legal adviser. He holds a law degree (LL. B) and a master's degree (LL.M - Master of Laws) in International Corporate Law. He works at a law firm and deals mainly with Contract Law, Commercial Law and Civil Law. He has extensive experience in Banking Law. He represents banking institutions before the Courts and provides advice on lending and debt recovery. In addition, he represents and provides legal advice to various state and semi-governmental organizations.

Panayiota Sofokleous Civil Engineer

Panagiota is a Civil Engineer and works as a design consultant in a design office in Limassol. She graduated from the Cyprus University of Technology and then completed a postgraduate degree in Construction Law from Strathclyde University in Glasgow. She is an active member of the Cyprus Association of Civil Engineers since 2016 and holds the position of the Secretary at the Limassol District Council.

Sotiris Hadjiadamou Lawyer

Sotiris is a lawyer and works for a law firm in Cyprus. He is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2017. He holds a law degree from the National Kapodistrian University of Athens and a master's degree in European Commercial Law from the University of Nicosia. He is a litigator with experience in court proceedings before the District and Supreme Court. He deals mainly with Civil Law, Criminal Law and Administrative Law and specializes in traffic accidents and insurance claims.

Katerina Dimitriou Lawyer

Katerina is a Lawyer - Legal Advisor and registered with the Cyprus Bar Association since 2016. She attended Leeds Beckett University and completed her studies (LL. B) at the University of Nicosia in 2015. In 2020, she completed her postgraduate studies in the field of Maritime Law & Shipping Management at Frederick University, and deals mainly with matters falling within the fields of Corporate Law, Contract Law, Civil Law, Immigration Law, Commercial Law, Family Law, and more generally the provision of legal services. Her mother tongue is Greek, and she is fluent in English.

Charalambos Soleas Psychotherapist

Charalambos Soleas is a Psychotherapist (EAP) Mental Health Consultant (EES) and a certified trainer of Neurolinguistic Programming, Life Coaching, Hypnotherapy, Personal and Professional Development Seminars. He holds a degree in Criminology and a postgraduate degree in Health Psychology. He has many years of experience which confirms the high quality of his teaching with the aim of each client and his student, to be provided with techniques and knowledge to change his life. He is often invited to TV shows and to organized lectures and courses on the subjects he teaches. He owns a master’s degree in Health Psychology from Cardiff University UK, a Degree in Criminology from University of Greenwich UK, a Higher Diploma in Hypnotherapy with Psychotherapy from Essex Institute UK. He is an NLP Trainer Certification from Meta Institute USA, an NLP Trainer Certification from NFNLP USA, a Life Coaching Trainer Certification from AC UK, and has a Diploma in Managing from Management Institute UK. He also holds a First Aid Trainer Certification from RT International and a Certified trainer by AN.AD (Cyprus Human Resources Development Authority)

Panayiotis Savva Lawyer

Panagiotis Savva is a lawyer - Legal Advisor, Graduate of the Law Department of the European University of Cyprus and a partner at a law firm based in Limassol. His professional skills are the Extensive engagement with legal issues in theoretical and practical level, the writing of civil, administrative, commercial, and criminal cases and appearances in Criminal, Civil and Administrative Courts.

Simos Schizas Lawyer

Simos is a lawyer, a member of the Cyprus Bar Association and the Kyrenia Bar Association. He holds a law degree (LLB Hons) from the University of Nottingham in the United Kingdom. He works for a law firm in Cyprus and among others, deals with issues of Corporate and Commercial Law. He has successfully completed the training program from the Cyprus Center for Alternative Dispute Resolution and is registered in the Register of Mediators as an accredited Mediator.

Kyveli Christophorides Lawyer

Kyveli completed her Law Studies in the UK and holds an LLB from Middlesex University London and an LLM & LPC University of Law Bloomsbury London. She is also a Member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2017. She is a lawyer at a law firm in Nicosia.

Dr Nicolas Kyriakides Lawyer

Nicolas has been teaching Civil Procedure at the University of Nicosia since 2018. He practices law at a company since 2013 and is the head of the Insurance Department of the company and the Department of Personal Injuries. He has contributed to several pioneering legal research high-level initiatives and publications in both his professional and academic life, particularly in the field of Civil Procedure and in the establishment of the pioneering research center, the Unit of Procedural Law of the University of Nicosia. He holds a PhD from Oxford University, with Professor Adrian Zuckerman. He also holds two LLMs from UCL and NYU and an LLB from the University of Athens. Nicholas was also a Visiting Fellow at Harvard Law School (Spring 2020) with Professor David Rosenberg.

Christos Efstathiou Lawyer

Christos is a Law graduate of the European University since 2018 and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2021. He deals with Civil and Criminal Law cases.

Savvas Theofanous Lawyer

Savvas is a lawyer in Limassol, a licensed practitioner and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2017. His practice focuses on civil, commercial and corporate matters whereas he maintains a genuine interest as well as a solid background in the area of ADR and especially in arbitration and mediation. In terms of his academic background, he was admitted to the degree of Bachelor of Laws from the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki in Greece and he subsequently obtained his LLM in International Commercial Law from the University of Bristol in the UK with Distinction. In 2021 Savvas was registered as a Mediator in civil and commercial disputes in the Registry of the Ministry of Justice and Public Order.

Spyros Vrionides Psychotherapist

Spyros Vryonidis was born in Limassol. He studied Psychology at Clement Onrichski University in Sofia. He has been working as a mental health counselor for the last 12 years. He has established various ways of counseling and mentoring psychological rehabilitation, always depending on who he had to counsel. For the last 5 years he has been working on his own model of psychological rehabilitation, which seems very promising.

Christiana Christofi Lawyer

Christiana is a Lawyer and holds an LLB Law degree from University of Leeds and an LLM in International Commercial Law from Kings College of London, with distinction. Christiana is a member of Cyprus Bar Association since 2012. She has many years of experience in Corporate and Commercial Litigation, Banking Law, Debt recovery, Family Law, Employment Law, Personal Injury and Medical Negligence and she now specializes in Real Estate and Construction Law.

Antriani Petrou Banker

Andriani is a graduate of the School of Economics and Management (2006) of the University of Cyprus. She pursued postgraduate studies in Finance (2009) at the same University. She has been working in the banking sector since 2006. She specializes in the management of Non-performing loans, ways of restructuring and resolving banking disputes.

Pantelis Tryfonos Lawyer

Pantelis Tryfonos has graduated from the Law Department of the University of Nicosia, he is a lawyer and a registered member of the Cyprus Bar Association and an accredited mediator.

Katerina Chrysostomou Lawyer

Katerina is a graduate and holds an LLB (Hons) law degree from the University of Central Lancashire Cyprus. After graduating, she attended the University of Nottingham where she completed her Master of Laws in International Criminal Justice and Armed Conflict. She is a lawyer and works for a law firm in Cyprus which deals with a wide range of cases. She is a registered member of the Cyprus Bar Association and the Nicosia Bar Association. Her mother tongue is Greek, she speaks fluent English and knows little French (B1 level) and Italian (A2 level).

Maria Malevi Athanasiou Lawyer

Athanassiou Maria-Malevi is a lawyer at a law firm in Cyprus, a lawyer in Greece and an accredited mediator. She is a graduate of the Law School of the University of Nicosia as well as a graduate of Political Science of the Panteion University of Athens. She is a registered lawyer with the Cyprus Bar Association since 2018 and since then she has dealt with Company and Commercial Law, Civil Law and Immigration Law as well as cases related to the Cyprus Investment Program.

Nicolas Constantinides Lawyer

Nicolas is a lawyer, a partner in a large law firm based in Nicosia. He is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association and the Kyrenia Bar Association. He obtained a Law Degree (LLB) in 2008 and a master’s degree (LLM) in International Law with Distinction in 2009 from the University of Surrey in the United Kingdom. He graduated from the Bar Vocational Course at the College of Law of England and Wales (London Bloomsbury) and was named Barrister-at-Law by the Honorable Society of the Middle Temple in 2010. Until 2013, he has been working as a collaborator of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic in the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Cyprus in the EU in Brussels, where he was responsible for the relations of the Republic of Cyprus with the European Parliament. He deals with commercial, corporate and construction law as well as contract law, competition law and represents parties in court and arbitration proceedings. He is a member of the Committee of the Kyrenia Bar Association, the Arbitration and Mediation Committee and the Committee on International and European Law of the Cyprus Bar Association, the International Bar Association, the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators in London and is a member of the Commonwealth Investment Council.

Christina Sofocleous Lawyer

Christina is a lawyer. She graduated from the University of Kent and pursued an LLM at the University College London. Since 2014 she is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association and specializes in issues relating to commercial and corporate law, contract law as well as issues relating to the provision of services.

Fanos Fani Lawyer

Fanos is a graduate of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (School of Law, Economics and Political Science), Department of Law. He works as a lawyer in Larnaca and is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association and the Larnaca Bar Association. Until today, in his professional career, he has dealt with almost all fields of law, specializing in issues relating to Civil - Commercial and Banking Law.

Annita Constantinou Financial Advisor

Annita is a graduate of CBI (Chartered Banker Institute) and holds a Professional Banker Certificate. She also holds a CIM (Chartered Institute of Marketing London) Diploma in Professional Marketing & Professional Digital Marketing. She worked in the Marketing Department of a major bank in Cyprus and as a Credit Officer. She is currently a financial advisor and helps clients improve their entire asset portfolio. Some of the services she offers to achieve the above objectives include loan restructuring, loan Analysis, non-performing loan negotiations and the preparation of expert testimony reports in court.

Theofano Panagi Lawyer

Panagi Theofano is a trainee lawyer at a law firm in Cyprus. She is a graduate of the Law School of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki.

Chrysis Protopapas Lawyer

Chrysis Protopapas is a lawyer. He is an English University graduate and since 2010 he holds a license to practice law from the Cyprus Bar Association. Chrysis works in a law firm in Cyprus and he has extensive experience in issues relating to the provision of services, real estate, and corporate law.

Andreas Xiaris Lawyer

Andreas is a graduate of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens (2015 - 2019) and since 2020 he has a license to practice law as a lawyer from the Cyprus Bar Association. He works at a law firm in Limassol, he is an active litigant, appearing before all Courts, dealing mainly with Civil, Criminal and Administrative Law.

Markella Kalli Lawyer

Markella is a Lawyer and works at a law firm in Cyprus. She has a law degree (LLB) from the University of Reading (UK) and a postgraduate degree in Law (LPC) and (LLM) from the University of Law (London-Bloomsbury). She works mainly in litigation and deals with cases related to financial institutions, contracts, probates, real estate, family, labor, and civil law.

Fostira Paradisou Lawyer

Fostira is a graduate from the Law School of the University of Naples Paphos. She has a law degree and a master's degree in European and Finance Law. She has a license to practice law and she is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2018.

Charis Orphanides Lawyer

Charis has a BA in International Relations, a Masters degree in European Business Law, a Diploma in VIP Protection and Security Management and a Law (LLB) degree from UWE-Bristol University as well as other legal education.

Yolanda Zachariou Lawyer

Georgia (Yolanda) Zachariou is a lawyer, shareholder and director of a law firm in Cyprus and has been a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2003. She is a graduate of the University of Leicester in the United Kingdom, holds a Master's Degree and a Bachelor's Degree. She is a Barrister-at-Law, a member of the Lincolns Inn, in the United Kingdom, as well as a licensed Consultant since 2016. She is a litigator and she also deals with out-of-court matters such as the provision of services, banking and financial law, liquidations, restructuring and reorganisation of companies, corporate law, contract law and real estate.

Iacovos Georgiades Lawyer

Iacovos Georgiades is one of the Managing Directors of a Law Firm. He graduated from the Law School of the University of Nicosia. During his studies he was selected to participate in the Legal Clinic unit of the University of Nicosia, where he obtained clinical legal training with active participation in real court proceedings. Mr. Georgiadis has also specialized in the field of Non-performing Loans - "Red Loans", successfully completing the educational program of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. In 2016, after attending the required lectures of the Cyprus Legal Council and successfully completing the relevant examinations as provided by Article 5 of the Law on Lawyers, he became a member of the Cyprus Bar Association. Mr. Georgiadis has participated in many seminars on various branches of law as well as other aspects of public interest while speaking Greek and English fluently. In addition, Mr. Georgiadis has extensive experience in the field of commercial and business transactions as a director of various Investment Companies operating in Cyprus and abroad and are registered in the Department of Registrar of Companies and Official Recipient.

Rafael Mougis Lawyer

Rafael Mougis is one of the Managing Directors of a law firm. He graduated from the Law School of the University of Nicosia with honors. He pursued a master's degree in European Business Law and Human Rights and Social Justice at the same University. During his studies he was selected to participate in the Legal Clinic unit of the University of Nicosia, where he obtained clinical legal training with active participation in real court proceedings. Mr. Mougis has also specialized in the field of Non-performing Loans - "Red Loans", successfully completing the educational program of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. In 2016, after attending the required lectures of the Cyprus Legal Council and successfully completing the relevant examinations as provided by Article 5 of the Law on Lawyers, he became a member of the Cyprus Bar Association. He has also participated in many seminars on various areas of law as well as other aspects of public interest. He is a fluent speaker of Greek and English.

Ermina Papasolomou Lawyer

Ermina studied Law at the University of London and has obtained her LLB with honours in 2017. Ermina also holds a Bachelor Degree in Business Administration and a Diploma in Office Administration. She started her career working as a legal administrator for a leading Cypriot Law firm and she continued her career as a lawyer in November 2017. Ermina deals with a range of areas including property law, banking law, family law, rent control law and other general civil litigation matters. She is also an experience negotiator and has settled numerous cases out of the Court in favour of the party she was representing. Ermina is a fluent speaker of Greek and English and can advise and represent clients in both languages without any reservations.

Christiana Kouppi Lawyer

He later joined the Victorian Bar Association, was a member of the Dispute Resolution Center in Melbourne Victoria and later joined the Cyprus Bar Association. She has worked in several of the leading law firms in Cyprus and Australia and is a member of STEP (Society of Trust and Estate Practitioners, CYFA (Cyprus Fiduciary Association), is a certified person by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission and now heads her own law firm. office in Limassol and practices in all areas of law.

Demetris Lazarou Lawyer

Demetris has got a degree in Political Science and Public Administration from the Law School of EKPA in Athens and a Law Degree from the European University of Cyprus in Nicosia. From 2008 until today he is employed in a Group of Companies in several positions, while from 2018 he has been working in the Legal Department of a company as an internal lawyer and Secretary of all Private Companies as well as Data Protection Officer (DPO).

Konstantina Anemou Lawyer

Konstantina is a lawyer-legal advisor. She is a graduate of the Law School of the Democritus University of Thrace, with a master's degree in European Commercial Law. She speaks Greek and English.

Sotos Kasinos Lawyer

Sotos is a lawyer and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association. He graduated from Queen Mary University of London and since then he has dealt mainly with commercial, civil, banking, and corporate law matters as well as matters of private international law. He has extensive experience in resolving and adjudicating complex disputes while he is also providing regular legal support to domestic and foreign companies, banking institutions and individuals.

Ioanna Christofi Lawyer

Ioanna is a graduate and holder of a degree from the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. She practices law and deals mainly with the fields of Civil, Criminal and Administrative Law. Her next goal is to complete a postgraduate program in commercial law.

Anna Pavlou Lawyer

Anna is a licensed lawyer from the Cyprus Bar Association since 2014. She is a graduate of the Law School of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and holds a Diploma in Negotiation from the Athens University of Economics and Business. Anna works for a law firm in Cyprus and her main areas of concern are Civil, Family and Banking Law.

Laura Pangou Lawyer

Lora is a lawyer and works for a law firm in Nicosia. She is a member of the Cyprus Bar Association and the Nicosia Bar Association since 2016. She deals with civil disputes and more extensively with cases of labor and property disputes, real estate issues and inheritance.

Christina Dimosthenous Lawyer

Christina is a lawyer, partner in the law firm and a member of the Cyprus Bar Association since 2020. She holds a Law degree (LLB Hons) from Queen Mary University of London and has successfully completed the Legal Practice Course (LMC) with LM in Professional Legal Practice at the University of London. Her mother tongue is Greek, and she is fluent in English.

Anna Hadjizorzi Lawyer

Anna is a graduate of the Law School of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. In 2020, she started her internship in a law firm in Larnaca. At the same time she has attended seminars in Corporate Law, in Judicial Practice in the Cypriot Legal Order etc. Her mother tongue is Greek and she is fluent in English. Her aim is to contribute to the out-of-court settlement of disputes that arise between parties, in order to ensure the fundamental human right to Effective Access to Justice.

Fanouria Georgiou Lawyer

Fanouria Georgiou is a member of the Cypriot Bar Association since 2018. Prior to that she worked for a large law firm in Nicosia, Cyprus as part of her training to become a Lawyer. Fanouria attended the University of Canterbury where she graduated with an LLB (Hons) Degree in Law and continued her studies in London for her master’s degree in International Development Management (MSc). Fanouria’s work experience focus is on Family Law, Contract Law, Company Law, Probate, and Conveyancing matters and she will be glad to assist you fluently in English and Greek.

Sofoklis Psaltis Lawyer

Sofoklis is a law graduate. He is currently having his internship in a law firm. He believes that being a lawyer, the continuous development of skills is necessary.
