the King Of Fighters '95 Game Can play For Both iPhone And Android, This Game Can Also play For Iphone And PC. the King of Fighters '95 Plus Game is a series of King of Fighters games. The King of Fighters '95 game is now available directly on the character select screen so you can easily crush your opponent using Rugal God! Become the new challenger in the all-time classic The King of Fighters '94 on iPhone, iPad, Android. The King of fighters 95 Game Performance NeoGeo Perfect port with extra features! You have the possibility to play the game as it was intended with 4 buttons, or you can enjoy the new control scheme using 6 button settings and easy special moves with the SP button! King of Fighters 94 Game Fight against your friends via Wi-Fi multiplayer mode! The worst game i have ever played, and its rigged i do not recommend. how the hell does every opponent get straight sixes all the time while i dont. dont talk about chances pls i played for 400 games and its still the same thing, u always get bad luck when you play against higherlevels or on higher amounts. and might i add its pay to win... you are winning then all of a sudden the opponent spends gems and oops u lost. Heavily dislike its a money grab basically. The King of Fighters 95 Plus game has a total of 17 playable characters! Play as famous SNK fighters like Iori, Kyo and Terry Bogard and try to master the infamous "New Face Team" or "KOF '95 Special Team" in The King of Fighters 95 game. foiled the scheme, and eventually settled the score. Between Kyo Kousangi and Iori Yagami! Revisit this battle gem, playing one of its legendary (and sometimes hidden) teams, and see the many endings the game has to offer. KOF '95 uses 2 different gameplay modes, Extra and Advanced! Master the system that fits you best and burn your competitors!

Procedure:

after install and open game

enjoy the game

Hardware:

ROM required minimum 40MB

RAM required minimum 1GB

Android Version OS 5.0+ Above

All Android Phone work 100%.