Huawei is a Chinese multinational telecommunications equipment and services company headquartered in Guangdong, China. Founded in 1987, the company originally focused on manufacturing phone switches but has expanded its operations to building telecommunications networks and manufacturing communications devices.

Huawei is the largest network service provider in the world, accounting for about 30 percent of the global market share, largely due to the dominant market position in the most populated country in the world. Huawei is also the leading manufacturer of VoIP and IMS equipment with about 26 percent of the global market. Ericsson and Nokia are the company’s closest competitors in both markets. The company is also one of the main players in the telecom equipment and ethernet switch market.

Dell EMC (until 2016, EMC Corporation) is an American multinational corporation headquartered in Hopkinton, Massachusetts and Round Rock, Texas, United States. Dell EMC sells data storage, information security, virtualization, analytics, cloud computing and other products and services that enable organizations to store, manage, protect, and analyze data. Dell EMC’s target markets include large companies, small and medium-sized businesses across various vertical markets.

EMC was acquired by Dell in 2016; at that time, Forbes noted EMC’s “focus on developing and selling data storage and data management hardware and software and convincing its customers to buy its products independent of their other IT buying decisions” based on “best-of-breed”. It was later renamed to Dell EMC. Dell uses the EMC name with some of its products.

Vertiv, legally Vertiv Holdings Co, is an American, Ohio-based, provider of equipment and services for datacenters, with a portfolio of power, cooling and IT infrastructure solutions and services that extends from the cloud to the edge of the network. Formerly Emerson Network Power, Vertiv supports today’s growing mobile and cloud computing markets with a portfolio of power, thermal and infrastructure management solutions including the ASCO, Chloride, Liebert, NetSure and Trellis brands.

Vertiv brings together hardware, software, analytics and ongoing services to enable continuous and optimal running of vital applications for data centers, communication networks, and commercial and industrial facilities.

Microsoft is a leading global vendor of computer software; hardware for computer, mobile and gaming systems; and cloud services. Microsoft’s corporate headquarters is located in Redmond, Wash., and it has offices in more than 60 countries. It develops, manufactures, licenses, supports, and sells computer software and related services. Its best-known software products are the Microsoft Windows line of operating systems, the Microsoft Office suite, and the Internet Explorer and Edge web browsers. Its flagship hardware products are the Xbox video game consoles and the Microsoft Surface lineup of touchscreen personal computers.

VMware is a well-established server-based hypervisor, but it also sells software that virtualizes desktop operating systems. The company accelerates digital transformation by enabling unprecedented freedom and flexibility in how its customers build and evolve IT environments. Its software helps business users simply and securely access the apps and data they need, from anywhere, to do their best work. The company’s software spans compute, cloud, networking and security, and digital workspace.

VMware’s desktop software runs on Microsoft Windows, Linux, and macOS, while its enterprise software hypervisor for servers, VMware ESXi, is a bare-metal hypervisor that runs directly on server hardware without requiring an additional underlying operating system.