They formed in 1983

Led by singer-songwriter Mick Hucknall, Simply Red’s soul music has seen them become one of pop music’s most popular and enduring acts, with hits such as 'Holding Back the Years', 'If You Don't Know Me by Now', 'Stars' and of course the massive hit 'Fairground'.

The band are still going strong with their most recent album, 'Time' released in May 2023, featuring songs 'Better with You', 'Shades 22', and 'Just Like You', and a 40th anniversary tour announced for 2025.

Who are Simply Red?

Put simply, Simply Red are one of Britain’s favourite pop groups. Fronted by singer and sole constant member Mick Hucknall, their seamless blending of soul and pop music has seen them release 13 studio albums, and more than 20 UK Top 20 singles.

Some of the Top 10 songs you'll know and love include, 'Holding Back the Years', 'If You Don't Know Me by Now', 'Fairground' and 'You Make Me Feel Brand New'.

WATCH: Simply Red - 'Holding Back The Years'

How did Simply Red form?

Believe it not, Simply Red’s formation owes a huge debt of gratitude to the Sex Pistols. Inspired by the infamous punk band’s famed 1976 gig at the Lesser Free Trade Hall in Manchester, a teenage Mick Hucknall formed The Frantic Elevators.

When they broke up in 1984, Mick hooked up with former members of Manchester post-punk band The Durutti Column, and moved into a soul direction. Simply Red were born. Swiftly attracting the attention of various labels, Simply Red signed to Elektra Records in 1985.

When did Simply Red first become successful?

Simply Red’s 1985 debut single was a cover of The Valentine Brothers’ ‘Money’s Too Tight (To Mention)’. Catching the mood of the time, the single went to Number 13 in the UK charts. Several chart misses followed, including a re-worked version of The Frantic Elevators’ final single, ‘Holding Back The Years’.

WATCH: Simply Red - 'Money’s Too Tight (To Mention)'

You can’t keep a good record down and ‘Holding Back The Years’ shot to Number 2 in the UK charts upon its re-release in 1986. Incredibly, it topped the US single charts as well. The single helped promote Simply Red’s debut album, ‘Picture Book’, which earned them a 1987 GRAMMY nomination for Best New Artist. ‘Holding Back The Years’ was also nominated for Best Pop Performance by a Duo or Group With Vocals.

Their second album, ‘Men And Women’, went to Number 2 in the UK album charts and spawned the hits ‘The Right Thing’ and a soulful cover of Cole Porter’s jazz classic,’Ev’ry Time We Say Goodbye’.

How successful have Simply Red been?

Helped by the cover of Harold Melvin & The Blue Notes’ hit, ‘If You Don’t Know Me By Now’, Simply Red’s third album, 1989’s ‘A New Flame’, became the band’s first UK Number 1 album and has, to date, sold 2.1 million copies just in the UK.

However, it was their next album that turned Simply Red into global superstars. Released in 1991, ‘Stars’ was the best-selling album in the UK in both the year of its release and 1992 – a feat not achieved since ‘Bridge Over Troubled Water’ by Simon & Garfunkel dominated in 1970 and 1971. The first Simply Red album to feature solely original material, it included five singles in the shape of ‘Something Got Me Started’, ‘For Your Babies’, ‘Thrill Me’, ‘Your Mirror’ and the title track.

Eventually going 12 x Platinum in the UK, ‘Stars’ was also nominated in the inaugural Mercury Music Prize Award in1992 where it lost out to Primal Scream’s ‘Screamadelica’.

A two-year touring schedule for ‘Stars’ meant that it would be 1995 before the world heard new material from Simply Red. Heralding their fifth album, ‘Life’, the single, ‘Fairground’, gave Simply Red their first UK Number 1. The album went to the top of the charts and also included ‘We're In This Together’, the official theme song for Euro '96.

WATCH: Simply Red - 'Fairground'

What happened to Simply Red after ‘Life’?

Simply Red enjoyed the 25th anniversary of 'Life' in October 2020, taking to their Instagram to celebrate the occasion!

After that album, Simply Red released two more albums in the 90s – ‘Blue’ and ‘Love and the Russian Winter’. By this point, Simply Red had essentially become a solo vehicle for Mick Hucknall. The three albums released in the noughties – ‘Home’ (2003), Simplified’ (2005) and ‘Stay’ (2007) – charted in the Top 5.

Having retired Simply Red, Mick Hucknall reactivated the band with the release of ‘Big Love’ in 2015, an album that proved they were as popular as ever.

The band released a DVD and album in November 2018 called ‘Simply Red – Symphonica In Rosso’. The release included performances from Simply Red's shows at Amsterdam’s Ziggo Dome in 2017, when they were accompanied by a 40-piece orchestra.

Before the release of the album, there was a limited showing in cinemas, giving fans a chance to view the show on the big screen. Meanwhile, the physical release had a hard back Deluxe format with 20 tracks across a double live album and live concert DVD.

'Blue Eyed Soul'

On 8th November 2019 Simply Red released their 12th studio album 'Blue Eyed Soul'. The album debuted at number six on the UK Albums Chart which was their 14th Top 10 album in the UK.

When are Simply Red on tour?

Simply Red have announced they will be going on tour in 2025 to celebrate their 40th anniversary.

Has Mick Hucknall sung with any other bands?

In 2009, Mick Hucknall replaced Rod Stewart in The Faces when surviving members Ronnie Wood, Ian McLagen and Kenney Jones decided to reform. And in a strange coincidence that harked back to his early Manchester days, Sex Pistols’ Glen Matlock stood in for deceased bassist Ronnie Lane.

Is Mick Hucknall married?

Having dated many women including Catherine Zeta-Jones, Martine McCutcheon, Ulrika Jonsson and supermodel Helena Christensen, Mick Hucknall married his partner Gabriella Wesberry in 2010. They have a daughter called Romy True Hucknall who was born in 2007.

Check out these legendary artists then and now:

You can hear many of Simply Red's songs on Magic.

Now read:

Simply Red announce 40th anniversary tour

How to listen to Magic:

From Ed Sheeran to ABBA, and Take That to Madonna, Magic Radio plays more of the songs you love! Listen on Rayo, on DAB nationwide, 105.4FM in London, on this website (click the play button below), or try us on your smart speaker – just say "Play Magic Radio".