Saturday

12/05/1990

1989-90

Glasgow Celtic 0 v 0 Aberdeen aet. (8-9 on pens)

Scottish Cup Final

Attendance 60,493

DONS LIFT CUP AFTER DRAMATIC PENALTY SHOOT-OUT

It had been four years since Alex Ferguson moved to Old Trafford and Aberdeen’s haul of trophies had dried up. However season 1989-90 saw resurgence and having lifted the League Cup in October they now faced Celtic today in an attempt at the cup double. After a fairly grim 120 minutes, history was created as the final went to penalties for the first time. If the open play hadn’t been a classic then the spot kick’s certainly made up for it. Both sides missed one of their opening five kicks and with the introduction of sudden death nerves were held including Charlie Nicholas who knew this would be his last kick of a ball in an Aberdeen shirt as he was moving back to Celtic knowing that if Aberdeen won then his new side would be denied European football for the first time in 12 years. With the score at 8-8 Snelders saved from Rogan and big Brian Irvine held his nerve to take the cup north.

Aberdeen Team: T. Snelders, S. McKimmie, D. Robertson, B. Grant, A. McLeish, B. Irvine, C. Nicholas, J. Bett, P. Mason, B. Connor, H. Gillhaus. Sub used G. Watson,

Referee: Smith, G

Managers: Smith, Alex – Scott, Jocky

THREE DONS GET THE CALL UP

Three Dons players are included in Andy Roxburgh’s Scotland squad to face Egypt at Pittodrie next week. Alex McLeish, Stewart McKimmie and Jim Bett will all be looking to impress ahead of the World Cup in Italy. This is the final game before Roxburgh names his 22-man squad for the finals. The main reason that todays final was played to a finish was to ensure that the Scots preparations were not affected.

NINETY NINE CHANNELS …

Viewers in the city are spoilt for choice in this modern era. BSB with their squarial and SKY TV with their more rounded Astra dish has recently been launched. Of course, If you don’t fancy a satellite dish stuck to the side of your house then Aberdeen Cable can pump any amount of movies, sport and entertainment into your front room. It’s a long way from the days of deciding if you would watch BBC or ITV.

INFLATION HITS EIGHT-YEAR HIGH

Share prices rose sharply on the London Stock Exchange despite an announcement that inflation had hit a new eight-year high. April prices were 9.4% above what they were this time last year, but the markets had feared a much higher figure. Inflation is however expected to reach double digits by the end of the summer fuelling mounting speculation on the future of Margaret Thatcher as leader of the Conservatives. All this comes on top of recent poor showings in the polls and continuing displeasure among the public over the hated Poll Tax. In other news Robert Maxwell launched “The European” this week. The publication was marketed as “Europe’s first national newspaper.”

NEW NATIONAL STADIUM PLANS REVEALED

A steering group that was formed nine months ago has unveiled plans for a new 100 million pound stadium to replace Hampden Park. The design, based on the Toronto Skydome. The stadium will be a 65,000 all-seater and will have a retractable roof. It will come as no surprise to anyone that it will be located at Strathclyde Park if it gets the go ahead.

SIR ALEX WINS FIRST TROPHY WITH UNITED

Underdogs Crystal Palace forced a replay against Manchester United at Wembley with Mark Hughes saving United late in extra time. It was 2-2 after 90 minutes and 3-3 after extra time. The late goal ensured a replay where sadly ex-Don Jim Leighton was left out and United won 1-0 to ensure Alex Ferguson would collect his first silverware.

MUPPET MASTER DIES

Four days after the end of the season Jim Henson, creator of the muppets, died. Another star of the entertainment industry passed when actress Jill Ireland, wife of actor Charles Bronson, died at the age of 54. She was previously married to actor David McCallum and had appeared in Star Trek and also some of the Death Wish films.

Number 1 Single

Killer

Adamski

Movie Releases

Class of 1999

Malcolm McDowell