Cwm, of course, is the Welsh word for ‘valley’, and more specifically for a steep-sided valley cutting into a hill or range of hills. It’s related to the English word ‘combe’, which is common in some areas with a strong Celtic influence, like the West Country and the Lake District. In this particular case, Cwm is both an apt description of the landscape and a reminder that Welsh influence is strong in this area.

There’s no shortage of Welsh placenames within a few miles of Cwm: Llan Farm, Llanhowell and Llanadevy just down the valley, Pen-y-cwm and Pen-y-wern just the other side of Black Hill. They’re mixed, apparently indiscriminately, with distinctively English names – Rock of Woolbury, Fiddler’s Elbow, Clunton, Clunbury. It should remind us that the Welsh were not just opportunistic raiders from beyond Offa’s Dyke. Borders can be moveable, and often represent a zone of mingling and co-existence (peaceful or otherwise!) rather than a simple rigid barrier.

In 1982 Bruce Chatwin (perhaps better known as a travel writer) published his greatest novel, On the Black Hill, which won the James Tait Black Memorial Prize. In 1987 it was made into a film, directed by Andrew Grieve and starring Bob Peck. Variously described as ‘brooding’, ‘poignant’ and ‘lyrical’, it’s essentially the story of two brothers, unbreakably bound to each other and to the land; great events and changes in the outside world impinge only occasionally.

The novel is set a little further south, on the borders of Herefordshire and Radnorshire, but owes much of its inspiration and atmosphere to the Shropshire Black Hill. Chatwin was friends with the owners of Cwm Hall and stayed several times in a cottage near the house. It was here, early in 1979, that he wrote the first chapters, and it’s reported that one night in the Hall’s kitchen, he said, ‘I’ve got it, I will call my book On the Black Hill’. The looming presence of the Black Hill (just look to your left as you walk past Cwm Hall) and the confined, almost claustrophobic character of the valley, are strongly reflected in the novel. It’s still easy, in Cwm today, to feel that the outside world is very far away.