Teaching Ontario’s curriculum

Training and professional growth

Teaching in French

Indigenous education

How schools are governed and administered

Principals’ associations

Three associations represent the interests of, and provide services to, principals and vice-principals in Ontario's publicly funded education system: the Ontario Principals' Council (OPC), the Catholic Principals' Council of Ontario (CPCO) and L'Association des directions et directions adjointes des écoles franco-ontariennes (ADFO).

Key policy and resource documents

Ontario Education Number (OEN)

We give each student in Ontario’s elementary and secondary education system a unique number called the Ontario Education Number (OEN).

Overview of policy and program requirements in Ontario schools

This resource sets out the requirements of the Ministry of Education that govern the policies and programs of all publicly funded elementary and secondary English-language schools in Ontario. It is intended for school and school board administrators, but will also be of interest within the broader educational community.

Creating pathways to success

This resource describes a comprehensive education and career/life planning program for kindergarten to Grade 12 students. It is designed to help students achieve their personal goals and become competent, successful and contributing members of society.

Legislation and regulation amendments

Overview

These are the relevant legislation and regulations, new or amended, related to programs that support the teaching profession in Ontario.

Education Act (as amended)

The Education Act and its regulations provide the statutory basis for how education is delivered to students who are enrolled in the publicly funded school system.

Performance appraisal-related regulations made under the Education Act

Operation of Schools – General, Ontario Regulation 298

The regulation includes sections on the assignment and duties of teachers.

Teacher Learning Plans, Ontario Regulation 98/02

The regulation provides detail with respect to what a learning plan must contain and how often it would be reviewed and by whom.

Teacher Performance Appraisal, Ontario Regulation 99/02

The regulation specifies the standards, processes, time lines, and forms to be used for performance appraisal of teachers.

New Teacher Induction Program, Ontario Regulation 266/06

The regulation sets out the minimum elements of the New Teacher Induction Program.

For further information, please visit the New Teacher Induction Program page.

Ontario College of Teachers Act, 1996

The Ontario College of Teachers Act, 1996 provides the Ontario College of Teachers with the legislative authority to govern and regulate the teaching profession in Ontario.

Teacher qualification-related regulations made under the Ontario College of Teachers Act, 1996

The Teachers' Qualifications, Ontario Regulation 176/10 sets out the requirements for certification with the Ontario College of Teachers.

Learn more

Visit the government's e-Laws website to view the consolidated laws of Ontario. On this site you can find:

a specific statute of a specific regulation

reference tables that will help you to check for recent changes in the law