By APA Staff

Independent Spirit Award nominees announced; Hiro, George Takei is your father; and no critical love for Taj Mahal Badalandabad. All this and more in the latest edition of News Bites.

The Independent Spirit Awards Nominees

The Independent Spirit nominations are in, and some of APA's recently reviewed Asian films have made the cut. Asian American flicks The Motel (director Michael Kang) and Man Push Cart (director Ramin Bahrami) have been nominated for the First Feature award. Man Push Cart is also nominated in the best male lead category (Ahmad Razvi) and best cinematography category (Michael Simmonds). Some of the newest Asian directors to hit the indie scene are also being recognized. So Yong Kim (In Between Days) and Richard Wong (Colma: The Musical) are both contending for the Acura Someone to Watch award. In the Foreign film category, Auraeus Solito‘s The Blossoming of Maximo Oliveros (Philippines) is the only nominee from Asia. The Independent Spirit Awards take place on February 24, 2007 and will be screened on the Independent Film Channel. --Ana La O'

For more information, visit http://filmindependent.org/spiritawards/index.php

APA commentary on The Motel

APA review of Man Push Cart

APA review of In Between Days

APA review of Colma: The Musical, interview with Richard Wong

APA review of The Blossoming of Maximo Oliveros

National Board of Review Winners

The first awards of the award season have been announced, and several Asian-related films were in the top ten. Best Picture went to Clint Eastwood's Letters from Iwa Jima, which was a big surprise, considering Flags of Our Fathers was also a competitor and Letters from Iwa Jima is in Japanese with English subtitles. Other Asian-relevant films include Babel, The Departed, Flags of Our Fathers, and The Painted Veil.

The top five foreign films include Zhang Yimou's Curse of the Golden Flower and Deepa Mehta's Water. Water also picked up an award for "Freedom of Expression." The winner of Best Breakthrough Performance Female was a tie -- with Jennifer Hudson from Babel tying with Rinko Kikuchi from Babel. This is likely good news for Kikuchi, as it may put her in the running for more awards down the line. --Brian Hu

APA review of Babel

APA review of The Departed

APA review of Curse of the Golden Flower

APA review of Water

Asian Films shine in Sundance

IndieWire recently commented that Sundance film festival is diversifying, and given this year's Asian and Asian American film selections, we can't disagree. Gina Kim's Korean language drama Never Forever is contending in the narrative competition. In the best documentary category, the jury has nominated Protagonist by Jessica Yu -- who won an Academy award for Breathing Lessons: The Life and Work of Mark O'Brien -- and White Light/Black Rain: The Destruction of Hiroshima and Nagasaki by Steven Okazaki, who took the Sundance Best Documentary award in 1990 for Days of Waiting. Finally, South Korea's Driving With My Wife's Lover (director Kim Tai-sik) and UK's How is Your Fish Today? (Jin (Director: Xiaolu Guo) make their North American premieres in the World Cinema Documentary --Ana La O'

George Takei Multi-Tasks with Howard Stern, Star Trek, and Heroes

George Takei, who was mostly known as a Star Trek veteran, has been quite a busy man these days. He joined Howard Stern's uncensored satellite radio show as Stern's official announcer. Although many of the jokes on the show revolved around his recent coming out of the closet, Takei surprisingly tends to divert the attention to more serious issues such as gay rights and the war in Iraq. Also, staying true to his trekkie roots, Takei also did voiceovers for the animated series of Star Trek, which was released this past month on DVD. For upcoming projects, Takei is also going to have guest appearances on the hit show Heroes as Hiro Nakamura's father. And if the man didn't have enough on his plate, he is currently practicing for an upcoming play, Yankee Dog You Die, and had just finished a project called The Great Buck Howard with Tom Hanks. --Julie Hong

Clint Eastwood Takes on Another War Project

After his success with the critically acclaimed Flags of Our Fathers, Eastwood is planning to direct another war film, Letters From Iwo Jima, a story about World War 2 from the Japanese perspective. Written by Iris Yamashita, the film is supposed to be complimentary to his previous Flags of Our Fathers, because Eastwood claimed that he always wanted to direct two different films telling two different perspectives of the same point in history. His efforts are to show a humanistic side of the Japanese soldiers rather than treating them simply as “the enemy.” Eastwood is going against the grain by breaking down the orthodox view that Americans have about World War 2. Letters from Iwo Jima was previewed in Japan this past month and will be released in limited theaters starting December 20, qualifying it for the Oscar run. The film stars Ken Watanabe as General Kuribayashi and features a prominently Asian cast. --Julie Hong

National Lampoon- Harpooned by Audiences and Critics

National Lampoon's Van Wilder: The Rise of Taj, starring Kal Penn, did not fare too well with moviegoers this past weekend, raking in a measly $2.3 million for its debut week. Penn plays Taj Majal Badalandabad, who was Van Wilder's personal assistant and protégé in National Lampoon's Van Wilder, is now departing from Coolidge College to bigger and brighter things: He is following his father's footsteps into the prestigious Camford University. But Taj is in for a rude awakening when he finds out that his acceptance to “Fox and Hounds” fraternity, probably the most distinguished frats at Camford, was a fluke. A crushed Taj finds revenge in creating his own frat, “Cocks and Bulls,” and the two rivals eventually have a face-off at the Camford Cup, a series of the campus' academic and athletic competitions. Although Penn's previous films, such as Harold and Kumar Go To Whitecastle, and Superman Returns, have done well in the past, The Rise of Taj hasn't seem to have caught on. However, Penn will continue to grow and expand with an upcoming role on 24 as well as the lead role in Mira Nair's much anticipated film The Namesake. --Julie Hong

Ono pleas for world healing

In 1969, avant-garde artist Yoko Ono held a bed-in protest for peace with her husband John Lennon. Today, Yoko Ono is still asking us to give peace a chance, this time in Lennon's memory. In a full page advertisement of last Sunday's edition of The New York Times, Ono urged, "Every year, let's make December 8th the day to ask for forgiveness from those who suffered the insufferable," signing the letter with the name Yoko Ono Lennon. The late Lennon was shot and killed by Mark David Chapman on December 8th, 1980. Of her loss, Ono told the Associated Press that "I don't know if I am ready to forgive the one who pulled the trigger… But healing is what is urgently needed now in the world." Turning tragedy into activism, Ono now asks that people to take responsibility for failing to intervene for or defend victims and to start sharing their burden because well, all the world needs is love and a little healing. -- Ana La O'

Rosie O'Donnell.. Joining the ranks of Adam Carolla and Shaq

The well-meaning, unfortunate masochists that subject themselves to The View might have noticed Rosie O'Donnell ching-chonging in the midst of all the self-congratulatory banter on the morning of December 5th. The gals were chatting about how, ohmigod, everyone's talking about their show because of the Danny DeVito "scandal." After a full two minutes of being impressed with themselves, dear Rosie ad-libbed some "Chinese" to make fun of news stations in China talking about them. "Ching chong ching chong.. The View. Ching chong ching chong.. Danny DeVito." Ah, ching chong. The lesser known racial slur. Let's at least be grateful that we have people like Guy Aoki to talk to the ABC studio execs for us. --Ada Tseng

To view the clip and be confused by society: http://www.gawker.com/news/clips/rosie-odonnells-sophisticated-grasp-of-mandarin-stuns-and-impresses-220029.php

"Finally, in San Francisco, a theater is saved"

It's final: the 4 Star Theatre, the last theater in the United States to play first-run Chinese films, won't go the way of other historical venues like the Alexandria and the Metro. After a long legal battle against the Canaan Lutheran Church over the ownership of the Richmond district property in San Francisco, 4 Star owners Frank and Lida Lee can continue an enterprise that's not only a family tradition (Frank Sr. owned several theaters throughout the continent) but a cultural one as well. Chinatown movie theaters have long been a staple of the Chinese American experience, and long before the Jackie Chans and Crouching Tigers, and well before VHS and DVD, these theaters served as America's main gateway into Chinese cinema. San Francisco: be grateful. --Brian Hu

Read the details in SF Gate: http://sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2006/12/08/DDGBHMQUEU1.DTL

4 Star Theatre website: http://www.hkinsf.com/4star/

APA at the 4 Star one year ago: http://www.asiaarts.ucla.edu/article.asp?parentid=35943