The federal court system consists of three tiers. At the bottom are federal district courts, also called trial courts. In the middle are the federal appeals courts, also known as the circuit courts of appeal. At the top is the US Supreme Court.

In general, federal courts may decide cases that involve the US government, the US Constitution or federal laws, and/or controversies between states or between the US and foreign governments. Additionally, federal judges serve in lifetime seats subject to confirmation by the US Senate (with very few exceptions).

There are 94 federal judicial districts, including at least one district in each state, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. Each judicial district has one or more federal judges.

The 94 judicial districts are organized into 12 regional circuits, each of which has a US Court of Appeals. Cases appealed from district courts go to the appeals, or circuit courts. In addition, there is the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (the 13th circuit court), with nationwide jurisdiction to hear appeals in specialized cases. Generally, an appeal must be based on a claim that the district court judge committed a legal error. At the circuit court level, cases are typically heard by a panel of three judges, which means that even a few individual judges can be crucial to protecting the basic rights of many, many people.

An appeal of a circuit court decision would go to the US Supreme Court. Because so few cases are accepted for review by the Supreme Court, federal appeals court judges wield tremendous power. If the Supreme Court chooses not to hear an appeal, the decision made by the federal appeals court applies to all the states in the circuit.

Over 400,000 cases are filed in federal district courts and circuit courts each year. These cases include discrimination and civil rights claims, criminal prosecutions, environmental and consumer protection litigation, challenges to government power, lawsuits to hold corporations accountable for wrongdoing, and more. Federal judicial nominees must have the requisite trial or litigation experience or its equivalent to manage and resolve the many diverse areas of law facing them daily. The accumulation of experience and legal knowledge gained by practicing law over time (at least 12 years according to the nonpartisan American Bar Association) prepares an attorney to handle a broad spectrum of legal issues in a wide variety of subject matters and to manage a courtroom over which they will preside as a judge.

Further, because each federal judge wields so much power, nominees must demonstrate that they will be impartial arbiters of the law. Indeed, the independence of federal judges is essential to serve as a check on politicians in all branches of government when they break the law or violate the Constitution.