Prime Minister of a small party? Impossible? Well… there are examples

Professor Ofer Kenig analyzes examples of parliamentary democracies where the Prime Minister comes from a small party.

Prime Ministers in parliamentary democracies most often come from large parties, but there is certainly the possibility of a government headed by someone from a small party. In Belgium and Latvia, Prime Ministers representing smaller parties now hold such positions. This situation usually occurs in circumstances where the political system is at a dead end and a compromise candidate is named. While this is not an ideal situation, it may be preferable to the reality of a prolonged political stalemate." Prof.Ofer Kenig

The political system is, for the fourth time in less than two years, immersed in the complex process of government formation. And as in previous eras, achieving success is questionable, and the nightmare of a fifth election is not in the realm of the impossible. One of the solutions to the political deadlock that has emerged recently is the formation of a minority government, even one headed by a Prime Minister who comes from a medium to small-sized faction. To what extent is this type of scenario unusual? To what extent does it go against the principles of the parliamentary democratic regime?

The fundamental principle of the parliamentary system of government is that the Executive Branch (the Government) depends on the confidence of the Legislative Branch (the Parliament). However, this trust is not necessarily expressed in the government's dependence on the majority of parliamentarians, for example, in minority governments. A study that examined the types of governments in Europe between 1945 and 2010 found that 33% of them were minority governments.

The following overview presents the various types of governments in 25 parliamentary democracies, as of April 2021, and provides us with several insights. First, in the majority of cases (17 out of 25) these are governments that enjoy a majority in Parliament. This group includes single-party governments (United Kingdom, Greece, New Zealand) or coalition governments (13 cases). Secondly, 8 cases (32%) are minority governments. This group includes minority governments formed by a single party (Denmark, Portugal, Canada) or minority coalition governments (5 cases). Third, even when there is a coalition government that enjoys a majority in parliament, the Prime Minister does not always come from the largest party in parliament or in the coalition. In Belgium, for example, the current Prime Minister, Alexander de Croix, belongs to the Flemish Liberal Party (Open VLD), although the party won only 12 of the 150 seats in parliament (8%), making it the fifth largest party in parliament. In Latvia, Prime Minister Krisinis Karinesh is serving on behalf of a New Unity (JV) which in the last elections received only 8 of the total 100 seats, i.e. the smallest party in Parliament!

Belgium

Current Prime Minister Alexander de Crooo (in office since October 2020) serves on behalf of the Flemish Liberal Party (Open VLD) despite his party winning only 12 seats out of 150 (8%) in the last election. It is the fifth largest party in parliament…even if we include the Walloon Liberal Party (MR), which is considered a “sister” party, both have only 26 seats (17%).

Furthermore, after the 2014 elections, a Prime Minister from a medium-sized party was finally appointed. Charles Michel served on behalf of the Walloon Liberals (MR) even though they received only 20 seats (13%), placing them as the third largest party.

Latvia

The current Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš [Krisinis Karinesh] is serving on behalf of the New Unity List (JV) which in the 2019 elections received only 8 seats (8%), placing it as the smallest party in the Parliament. Following the failure of the main party candidates to form a government after the elections, the president gave Kariņš a chance and he managed to form a coalition of 5 parties.

Italy

Giovanni Spadolini served as Prime Minister of Italy for a year and a half (1981-1982). He served on behalf of the Italian Republican Party (PRI), a small center-right party that won only 16 seats out of 630 in the elections (2,5%). In fact, it was only the fourth largest partner in a 5-party coalition. The coalition parties decided to appoint him after the previous Prime Minister (on behalf of the Christian Democrats) resigned amid a corruption scandal.

Benedetto "Bettino" Craxi served as Prime Minister from 1983 to 1987. He represented the Italian Socialist Party (PSI), a medium-sized party that won 73 seats (approximately 12% of all seats). It was the second largest party in a 5-party coalition, but the majority party resigned from the position of Prime Minister.

Giuliano Amato served as Prime Minister for one year (1992-1993). He served on behalf of the Italian Socialist Party (PSI), a medium-sized party that won 92 seats (approximately 15% of all seats). It was the second largest party in a 4-party coalition.

Finland

Ahti Karjalainen served as Prime Minister for a year and a half (1970-1971) on behalf of the Center Party (KESK), a party that came just third in the elections with 36 seats out of 200 (18%). The party was the second largest in a 5-party coalition.

Martti Miettunen served as Prime Minister for a year and a half (1975-1977) representing the Center Party (KESK), a party that came just third in the elections with 39 seats (19,5%). The party was the largest of a minority government formed after a deadlock over government formation.

Norway

Kjell Magne Bondevik served as Prime Minister for two and a half years (1997-2000) representing the Christian Democratic Party (KrF) despite the fact that in the elections he only came in fourth place and won 25 seats (15%). He returned to office after the 2001 election, although in this election the party came just fifth and won only 22 seats (13%).

Source: The Israel Democracy Institute