There is a flurry of tributes on Twitter and Instagram to acknowledge the sacrifice of the great Indian patriot Udham Singh who cared not for his own life when it came to the pride and dignity of Mother India and was hanged in a British jail in 1940 on this day 31 July. His great sacrifice highlighted before the world the plight of Indians who had to tolerate British colonial rule or die.

Udham Singh was born Sher Singh on 26 December 1899 into a Kamboj Sikh family of Jammu at Sunam, Sangrur district of Punjab. His father - a Railway line crossing watchman - died when Udham Singh and his brother Mukta Singh were still young children. The boys were taken in to care by the Central Khalsa Orphanage in Putlighar, Amritsar. It was here that Udham made many friends and even when he moved out as a young Indian fired by ideas of service to his people and patriotism, he stayed connected to his friends in the orphanage.

What happened on Baisakhi Day at Jallianwala Bagh:

On the day the Jallianwala Bagh massacre took place (Baisakhi festival, 13 April 1919), he and his friends from the orphanage were serving drinking water to the thousands who had gathered at the park grounds. the ground was walled from three sides, and only one side had a gate that was blocked by General O'Dyer's men holding guns. Thousands died. The British lied. Udham was 20 then.

The Butcher of Amritsar General Reginald O'Dyer is infamous for the orders that he gave on 13 April 1919 in Amritsar. He ordered British troops to fire on a non-violent gathering of unarmed civilians at Jallianwalla Bagh on Baisakhi day in 1919. The massacre brought a wave of global anger against the colonial rulers.

Governor O'Dwyer and General O'Dyer:

Sir Michael O'Dwyer, the Lieutenant-Governor of Punjab backed General O'Dyer before a Committee of Enquiry that was set up by the British and chaired by Lord Hunter to investigate the massacre.

O'Dyer died a disgraced retired 62-year-old man on 23 July 1927. But O'Dwyer who had backed the killer General was still alive. Udham Singh travelled to London.

Udham Singh shot at Michael O'Dwyer on March 13, 1940, when he was scheduled to speak at a meeting at Caxton Hall, London. O'Dwyer died almost immediately, several others were injured.

Udham Singh was arrested immediately and tried. told his name as Ram Mohammad Singh Azad. The first three words stood for three religions of Punjab. Azad meant free. He made a fiery speech before the trial court that sentenced him. The speech was blocked from being released to the public until it was released in 1997.

On 31 July 1940, Singh was hanged at Pentonville Prison.

Captain Amarinder Singh, the Chief Minister of Punjab has tweeted: "I join the nation in paying humble tributes to our great freedom fighter Shaheed-E-Azam Sardar Udham Singh Ji. His patriotism & sacrifice will continue to inspire generations of Indians. Work on his Memorial at Sunam is underway & will be completed within a year. Jai Hind!"

In 1974, Singh's remains were exhumed and repatriated to India at the request of MLA Sadhu Singh Thind. Udham Singh was later cremated in his birthplace of Sunam in Punjab and some part of his ashes are kept inside a sealed urn at Jallianwala Bagh.