Our Leadership

Colonel John W. Taylor III

Colonel John W. Taylor III serves as the 50th Commander of Martin Army Community Hospital, US Army Medical Department Activity Fort Moore, and the Director of the Defense Health Agency Southwest Georgia Market.

He was born in Washington D.C., then raised in Georgia until he entered military service. He joined the Army in May of 1996 as an enlisted Military Police Officer and later commissioned as a Medical Service Corps Officer in December of 2000 through the Reserve Officer Training Command (ROTC) at North Georgia College.

During his career, Colonel Taylor served as a Platoon Leader, Medical Logistics Officer, Medical Operations Planner, and Company Commander in an Armor Brigade Combat Team (ABCT). As a field grade officer, he served as a Combat Support Hospital S3, the Chief of Operations for a Counter Corruption Task Force, Multifunctional Medical Battalion (MMB) Support Operations Officer and Executive Officer, a Medical Brigade S3, a Strategic Planner for the Office of the Surgeon General, Battalion Commander, and most recently as a Deputy Commander for Strategy. He has deployed in support of Operation Desert Spring, and multiple times in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom throughout his military career.

He has served with the following units: 3rd Brigade, 3rd Infantry Division, Ft. Benning Georgia; 2nd Brigade, 1st Infantry Division, Ft. Riley Kansas; 14th Combat Support Hospital, Ft. Benning Georgia; Task Force 2010 in Qatar and Afghanistan; 261st MMB, 44th Medical Brigade Ft. Bragg North Carolina; Office of the Surgeon General in Falls Church, Virginia. Battalion Commander of Public Health Activity – Fort Gordon in Fort Gordon Georgia; Deputy Commander for Strategy, Dwight D. Eisenhower Army Medical Center in Ft. Gordon, Georgia.

Colonel Taylor’s military officer and civilian education includes Officer Basic Course, Medical Material Managers Course, Combined Logistics Officer Advance Course, Joint Planners Course, Support Operations Officer Course, Intermediate Level Education at the Command and General Staff College, School of Advanced Military Studies (SAMS), and the Senior Service College. His degrees include a Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice from North Georgia College, a Master’s in Military Arts and Sciences in Military Operational Art and Science from SAMS, and a Master’s in Strategic Studies from the Air War College.

His awards and decorations includes the Bronze Star Medal with oak leaf cluster, Defense Meritorious Service Medal, Meritorious Service Medal with three oak leaf clusters, Army Commendation Medal with three oak leaf clusters, Army Achievement Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Army Presidential Unit Citation, Joint Meritorious Unit Award, Afghanistan Campaign Medal with one campaign star, Iraqi Campaign Medal with six campaign stars, the NATO Medal (ISAF), the Combat Medic Badge, the Army Staff Badge and the Order of Medical Military Merit.

Command Sergeant Major Jonathan J. Graves