We all want to find that perfect movie to watch at home! Do you want to be entertained and learn at the same time? The Peruvian film industry offers incredible movies that you can enjoy on different platforms. This 2021, several of them have been included in the catalogs of renowned streaming services. Here we recommend some of them!

LA CASA ROSADA (2017)

Available on Amazon Prime Video. Directed by Palito Ortega Matute

Adrian Mendoza has become a widower as a result of the war against terrorism and has to take care of his two children. After being arrested by some policemen who brand him a terrorist for listening to the radio, the subversives force him to join them. This will trigger a number of events in the dreaded Casa Rosada.

LA HORA FINAL (2017)

Available on Netflix.

Directed by Eduardo Mendoza de Echave

"A captivating true story about two Peruvian detectives working undercover to find and capture the elusive leader of the Shining Path.” (Netflix)

EL SOÑADOR (2016)

Available on Cine Aparte.

Directed by Adrian Saba

A criminal named Sebastian will turn to his imaginary worlds to escape his desolate existence and especially, to protect the love of his life from various threats. What is he dreaming and what is reality?

EL RINCÓN DE LOS INOCENTES (2012)

Available on Amazon Prime Video and Cine Aparte.

Directed by Palito Ortega Matute

After Pedro's death at the hands of the military, violent groups try to convince his father to join them. The intelligence service will make his father disappear because they believe that he is an accomplice. For this reason, his wife and son will look for him even with the bishop of the city. Will they find him?

NO ME DIGAS SOLTERONA (2018)

Available on Netflix.

Directed by Ani Alva Helfer.

"After an unexpected and traumatic separation, Patricia is about to discover that, at the age of 35 and with the help of her friends, spinsterhood has its charm.” (Netflix)

DESAPARECER (2015)

Available on Amazon Prime Video and Cine Aparte.

Directed by Dorian Fernandez-Moris.

A mathematics teacher travels to the Peruvian jungle to look for his ecologist girlfriend, who moved there for her job in an NGO and has suddenly disappeared. In his search he will encounter a community linked to timber trafficking. Where is his girlfriend?

EL NIÑO QUE NO QUERÍA MATAR (2020)

Available on Cine Aparte.

Directed by Wesley Verastegui.

Juan suffers emotional and physical bullying by Matias, his schoolmate. When the teacher finds out, asks him to denounce these acts without knowing that Matias was after her as well. However, Juan is getting closer and closer to overcoming the malice of his bully. What is Juan capable of?

CANCIÓN SIN NOMBRE (2019)

Available on Netflix.

Directed by Melina Leon.

"In 1988, when Peru is governed by martial law, the baby of an indigenous woman disappears at birth. A journalist risks his life to investigate the heartbreaking reason for her disappearance.” (Netflix)

These are undoubtedly some options to enjoy Peruvian cinema from the most popular streaming platforms. Let's bet on Peruvian talent!