Plan to spend an out-of-this-world evening with the Barton College Friends of Hackney Library as members welcome speculative fiction author John Kessel for the annual Spring Dinner and Lecture scheduled for Tuesday, March 31. This will be the Friends’ first opportunity to host an author working in the genre of speculative fiction, which includes science fiction, fantasy, slipstream and other works that embrace supernatural or futuristic themes.

The evening will begin with an alfresco book signing and wine reception at 6 p.m. on the bricked patio area in front of Hardy Alumni Hall. Dinner will be served at 6:30 p.m. in Hardy Alumni Hall, with the program immediately following.

The cost for the event is $35 per person, and the deadline for reservations is at 5 p.m. on Monday, March 23. For additional information or to reserve seats, contact Ann Dolman, outreach and public services librarian, Hackney Library, at adolman@barton.edu or 252-399-6507.

Born in Buffalo, New York, Kessel is the award-winning author of the novels “Pride and Prometheus,” “The Moon and the Other,” “Good News from Outer Space,” “Corrupting Dr. Nice,” and, in collaboration with James Patrick Kelly, “Freedom Beach.” Kessel’s short story collections include “Meeting in Infinity” (a New York Times Notable Book), “The Pure Product” and “The Baum Plan for Financial Independence and Other Stories.”

Kessel’s stories have twice received the Nebula Award given by the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America (for the best science fiction or fantasy published in the United States), in addition to the Theodore Sturgeon Memorial Award (the University of Kansas Center for the Study of Science Fiction’s award for best science fiction short story), the Locus Poll (chosen by readers of “Locus” magazine), the Shirley Jackson Award (for outstanding achievement in the literature of psychological suspense, horror and the dark fantastic) and the James Tiptree Jr. Award (a literary award encouraging the exploration and expansion of gender).

His play “Faustfeathers” won the Paul Green Playwright’s Prize, and his story “A Clean Escape” was adapted as an episode of the ABC TV series “Masters of Science Fiction.”

In addition, Kessel has collaborated with Jim Kelly to edit five anthologies of stories re-visioning contemporary short sci-fi, most recently “Digital Rapture: The Singularity Anthology.”

Kessel holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in physics and English and a Ph.D. in American literature. He helped found and served as the first director of the Master of Fine Arts program in creative writing at North Carolina State University, where he has taught since 1982. Kessel currently lives and works in Raleigh, with his wife, author Therese Anne Fowler.