Founded in 2024, Northumbria Student Journal is peer-reviewed, Open Access journal dedicated to the promotion and publication of multidisciplinary student-led research undertaken by Northumbria University students across all study levels.

Devoted to providing a platform for showcasing excellence in research and creative fields from across Northumbria University, the journal features both academic and creative pieces.

Submissions are now open for Northumbria University students!

ISSN: 3033-4217

Founded in 2023, the Graduate Journal of Sport Science, Coaching, Management, and Rehabilitation (GJSSCMR) is an international, peer-reviewed, open access journal promoting excellence in student-led research and intends to become the journal of choice for research projects across undergraduate and postgraduate sport related programmes of study. Submissions are welcome from any area studying sport, where the first named author is (or has recently been) a student.

We welcome your submission to help us achieve our aim of being a database for excellent sport related research.

ISSN 2977-1579

The overall aim of this brand new, peer-reviewed, open-access journal is to showcase the range of high-quality empirical research projects conducted by students within Northumbria University's Department of Psychology.

This journal currently accepts research articles in any area of psychology from current, or previous, students within the department. This journal adopts a fully Open Access and Open Science approach. This journal is run by the academic staff within the Department of Psychology, and was founded in Autumn 2023. The journal accepts submissions on a rolling basis, and will publish two issues per year (April and October).

Instructions for authors, and the journal policies, can be found here: Submission Guidelines & Instructions for Authors.

More information about the Department of Psychology can be found here: Northumbria University Department of Psychology, and the Department of Psychology blog can be found here: Northumbria University - Department of Psychology Blog.

ISSN: 3033-4225

Journal is not currently accepting submissions

The Journal of Law, Technology and Trust (JLTT) is a peer reviewed, open access online journal that aims to encourage interdisciplinary and international debate of issues focused upon law, technology and trust and trustworthiness.

JLTT publishes a range of articles: peer reviewed articles and future-thinking pieces, policy reports and case reviews. The journal embraces both academic debate, and discussion of practical and regulatory issues faced by those in policy and practice.

ISSN: 2634-4343

Follow us on Twitter for the latest news and developments.