Following up on last week’s post, “Euclid of Alexandria: Mathematician & Author of Elements” today’s LinkedIn newsletter features Pythagoras, the Greek mathematician & philosopher, known for his contributions to geometry, especially the Pythagorean Theorem.

---

Pythagoras of Samos was considered a Greek philosopher and mystic during his lifetime. It’s generally accepted that he lived from 570 to 490 B.C. and made important developments in mathematics, astronomy, and the theory of music.

Pythagoras formulated a concept by which he stated that music and harmony are present in the entire Universe. He believed that there are spheres among the celestial bodies, for example between Earth and the Sun… that each object on the sky must produce a noise as it flies by, and these are in perfect tonal harmony.

From Earth to the sphere of the Moon, one tone. From the sphere of the Moon to Mercury, one half-tone. From Mercury to Venus, one-half, from Venus to the Sun, one and one-half tones. From the Sun to Mars one tone, from Mars to Jupiter one-half tone. From Jupiter to Saturn one-half tone, and from Saturn to the fixed stars one-half tone.

He’s also credited with formulating the theorem now known as Pythagoras's theorem, which was known to the Babylonians 1,000 years earlier, but he may have been the first to prove it.

The Greek considered Egypt to be the birthplace of mathematics. They observed the night skies and attempted to explain the movement of the planet and stars, using geometry for construction and agricultural purposes.

Little is known of Pythagoras's childhood except for the description of a birthmark on his thigh. He grew up on the island of Samos, near the birthplace of Greek philosophy, Miletus, on the coast of Asia Minor. Pythagoras's father was Mnesarchus, a merchant from Tyre. His mother was Pythais, a native of Samos.

Pythagoras played the lyre throughout his lifetime, knew poetry and recited Homer. He was interested in mathematics, philosophy, astronomy, music, and was greatly influenced by Pherekydes, Thales and Anaximander.

Pythagoras himself wrote nothing. A large collection of books had been forged in the name of Pythagoras and other early Pythagoreans, which purported to be the original Pythagorean texts from which Plato and Aristotle derived their most important ideas.

Pythagoras founded a philosophical and religious school in Croton which focused on philosophy and mathematics. He was the head of the society with an inner circle of followers known as mathematikoi. The mathematikoi lived permanently with the Society, had no personal possessions and were vegetarians. They were taught by Pythagoras himself and obeyed strict rules. Pythagoras believed:

All things are numbers. Mathematics is the basis for everything, and geometry is the highest form of mathematical studies. The physical world can understood through mathematics.

The soul resides in the brain, and is immortal. It moves from one being to another, sometimes from a human into an animal, through a series of reincarnations called transmigration until it becomes pure. Pythagoras believed that both mathematics and music could purify.

Numbers have personalities, characteristics, strengths and weaknesses.

The world depends upon the interaction of opposites, such as male and female, lightness and darkness, warm and cold, dry and moist, light and heavy, fast and slow.

Certain symbols have a mystical significance.

All members of the society should observe strict loyalty and secrecy.

Of Pythagoras's actual work nothing is known. Pythagoreans always gave credit to Pythagoras for:

The sum of the angles of a triangle is equal to two right angles.

The theorem of Pythagoras - for a right-angled triangle the square on the hypotenuse is equal to the sum of the squares on the other two sides. The Babylonians understood this 1,000 years earlier, but Pythagoras proved it.

The theorem can be written as an equation relating the lengths of the sides a, b and the hypotenuse c, sometimes called the Pythagorean equation: a2 + b2 = c2

Constructing figures of a given area and geometrical algebra. For example they solved various equations by geometrical means.

The discovery of irrational numbers is attributed to the Pythagoreans, but seems unlikely to have been the idea of Pythagoras because it does not align with his philosophy the all things are numbers, since number to him meant the ratio of two whole numbers.

The five regular solids (tetrahedron, cube, octahedron, icosahedron, dodecahedron). It is believed that Pythagoras knew how to construct the first three but not last two.

Pythagoras taught that Earth was a sphere in the center of the universe, and that the planets, stars, and the universe were spherical because the sphere was the most perfect solid figure. He also taught that the paths of the planets were circular. Pythagoras recognized that the morning star was the same as the evening star, Venus.

The evidence is unclear as to when and where the death of Pythagoras occurred. He was famous in his own day and even 150 years later in the time of Plato and Aristotle, it was not mathematics or science upon which his fame rested.

---

Hope you enjoyed this week’s Notable People in History newsletter. Subscribe to Notable People in History on your favorite podcasting platform.

Come along with me and explore the lives of Archimedes, Galileo Galilei, Albert Einstein, Wangari Maathai, Ctesibius, Valentina Tereshkova, Chiune Sugihara, Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, Bill Gates, Warren Buffett… and others who’ve greatly influenced society.

What life choices led them to be so extraordinary… what can we learn from them?