Forget Rachel and Ross. Pacey and Joey who? There is one TV couple that we’re still heartbroken isn’t a reality, and that’s Seth Cohen and Summer Roberts.

While The OC tried to get us to be all about Ryan and Marissa/Teresa/Lindsay/Sadie/Taylor (man got around), it was odd couple Seth and Summer who truly stole our hearts.

And 12 years after the iconic series ended, actors Adam Brody and Rachel Bilson have reunited, and our teenage hearts are bursting to the strains of Death Cab For Cutie.

Rachel, 37, shared her run-in with on-screen lover and IRL ex Adam, 39, to Instagram after they bumped into each other at the airport.

In the selfie, Rachel stuck out her tongue while Adam smiled away, wearing a baseball cap.

The actress, who played rich b**** turned philanthropist Summer from 2003 until 2007, captioned the pic: ‘Ran into my ol buddy from jfk to lax #californiaherewecome.’

Side note – what a theme song.

While fans totally freaked out over the pair briefly reuniting, The OC creator deadpanned it in the comments, replying: ‘Sorry don’t get the reference.’

For those of you who never watched The OC – honestly, what have you been doing with your life, nerdy-but-ridiculously-hot Seth was head over heels for the super-popular Summer, but after from-the-wrong-side-of-the-tracks bad boy Ryan Atwood (Benjamin McKenzie) began living with the Cohen family and struck up a romance with Seth’s next door neighbour and Summer’s BFF Marissa Cooper (Mischa Barton), he began dating his dream girl.

Over the four series, there were hijinks, break-ups and new flings (who were they kidding, Zack was never any competition), but a flash forward in the series finale showed that Seth and Summer got married.

Sadly, in real life, we didn’t get that happy ever after, despite Rachel and Adam dating during the show for three years.

After breaking up in 2006, Rachel went on to have a nine year relationship with Hayden Christensen, with whom she has a daughter, Briar Rose, but the couple split in 2017.

Meanwhile, Shazam! star Adam had a bit of a teen drama crossover when he married Gossip Girl’s Leighton Meester in 2014.

So this is as much as a reunion as we’ll ever get with Rachel and Adam – although we could see Seth and Summer back together again, if Rachel has anything to do with it.

The Hart Of Dixie actress told Pure Wow that she would be all in for a The OC reboot if Summer didn’t have to be in bikinis all the time. Er, but that’s her brand?

She said: ‘It was such a great show and a great group. I’m still super close with [series creators] Josh Schwartz and Stephanie Savage. I would trust them with my life. So, anywhere they would go I would follow. Of course, I’d be open to it. It’s a very fond memory for me and something I’m super grateful for.’

And speaking of where Summer would be now, Rachel theorised: ‘I would imagine that she’s had kids. I would also think that she’s fighting for something. Perhaps a cause, or maybe she’s a lawyer.

‘She’d definitely have her hand in the philanthropy world. It’d be really interesting to see them as adults.’

We honestly can’t think of anything we want more. Captain Oats and Princess Sparkle forever.

MORE : Madonna shares adorable video of 6-year-old daughters wearing her heels and dancing in dressing room