After years away, multi-hyphenate celebrity Demi Lovato returns to the big screen — well, your big screen. She has a role in the new Netflix film Eurovision Song Contest: The Story of Fire Saga. Read on to learn more about her part in the movie and her history in Hollywood.

Demi Lovato got her start as an actor

Lovato’s first gig in the entertainment industry was on the TV series Barney & Friends. She starred alongside her former friend Selena Gomez on the kid’s program for years before both left their home state of Texas to work on the Disney Channel.

There, Lovato acted in the network’s short series As the Bell Rings before landing her breakout role in the Disney Channel Original Movie Camp Rock. She starred in the film’s sequel as well as her own show, Sonny with a Chance.

She is now better known for her music

What do most of the roles above have in common? Singing. Lovato’s musical talent is on display in nearly every gig she takes. And in the years since her exit from the Disney Channel, she’s prioritized releasing music over appearing in films and TV shows.

Lovato has released a total of six albums — Don’t Forget, Here We Go Again, Unbroken, Demi, Confident, and Tell Me You Love Me — all at least in part through Disney’s Hollywood Records. She is currently working on her seventh album, for which she’s released singles such as I Love Me.

Lovato teased her return to acting

After leaving Sonny with a Chance, Lovato’s most notable acting gigs have on the small screen, appearing in popular series like Grey’s Anatomy and Glee. But aside from a couple of movie voice roles, Lovato really didn’t act for a few years before her 2018 overdose.

However, 2019 saw her return with a vengeance. In August of that year, Lovato teased not one but two new projects. In addition to sharing photos from her time on the sitcom, Will & Grace, she alluded to an exciting film opposite actor Will Ferrell.

She called Will Ferrell her ‘second dad’

In the above video, Ferrell announced both the film and Lovato’s participation in it. He said, “We’re having a great time, we just started filming. And we want to make a very special announcement about a brand new cast member.” The video was posted on Lovato’s 27th birthday.

Months later, Lovato gushed about her co-star on The Ellen DeGeneres Show, calling him “so funny.” She said, “I walked away from that set…being like, can I have a second dad? Will Ferrell is so cool! I love him.” Of the movie, Lovato added, “It’s going to be really fun.”

Who is Demi Lovato in ‘Eurovision Song Contest: The Story of Fire Saga’?

Now that movie is finally here. Eurovision Song Contest: The Story of Fire Saga debuted on Netflix on June 24, 2020. Ferrell stars opposite Rachel McAdams as Lars and Sigrit, respectively. The pair are an Icelandic musical duo who achieve their dream of competing in the famed Eurovision Song Contest.

Lovato portrays Katiana Lindsdottir, a talented singer who is the obvious choice to front represent Iceland in the contest. While we won’t give away any plot details, Lovato’s role in the film is minimal — she appears in just a few scenes. Fortunately, she does get a chance to show off her musical talents in one of them.