Deployed globally with leading financial companies

GoldenSource EDM enables our clients in leading capital market financial institutions to unlock the value of their data. The same proven platform is used across all lines of business by universal banks, investment banks, asset managers, custodians, fund administrators, application and data providers, exchanges, and regulatory bodies.

We are the largest team of EDM professionals world-wide and have been successfully delivering data management solutions to the financial services industry for longer than any other firm.

By partnering with GoldenSource, our clients benefit not only from almost 30 years of industry experience, but also from the peer input of over 50 global institutions who have deployed the GoldenSource solution.

More than 50% of our company’s activities are dedicated to the research & development of our products. It is an investment that is returned directly to our customers in product evolution through advanced technologies.

We work with global financial enterprise:

Investment and merchant banks

Insurance companies

Broker dealers

Retail brokers

Asset and wealth managers

Hedge funds

Security services firms

Exchanges

Government entities

The yardstick for EDM solutions…no product can rival it for breadth and depth.

Financial-I Jury Report

Integrating the GoldenSource solution within local banking environments has confirmed its powerful functionalities and considerable flexibility, even in very complex and fast changing contexts.

Giusy Mainardi, Sales and Partner Manager at Corvallis

GoldenSource understands our business requirements and can provide the high-quality reference data management platform we require to enable us to deliver accurate, timely reference data across our organisation.

Business CIO, Nordea

The GoldenSource EDM platform is a leader in its class with some of the world's most sophisticated banks successfully deploying the solution.

Oleg Baranov, Managing Partner at Neoflex

Standard Chartered Bank has chosen to partner with GoldenSource because we feel its Securities & Products solution offers the best mix of functionality, architecture and domain expertise. This enables us to offer a superior quality of service and grow our business in a very competitive marketplace.

Global Product Head, Standard Chartered Securities Services

GoldenSource provides the optimum mix of out-of–the-box capability and configurability that is flexible yet structured. It gives ASX the ability to enhance its responsiveness to the marketplace.

Timothy Hogben, Group Executive Operations, Australian Securities Exchange

What differentiates GoldenSource is that it does not simply provide a toolkit. Rather, it offers a mature set of out-of-the-box solutions aligned to common capital markets functions.

Madan Sheina, Lead Analyst, Ovum

GoldenSource offers a robust, complete and flexible data model, flexible workflow and comprehensive validation and distribution capabilities, which allow us to manage, and importantly link our reference data on one platform.

Kevin Gage, Senior Managing Director, Mizuho