On holiday in the south of France, a Parisian woman, Marie, devotedly in love with her husband of six years, Jean, meets a younger man, also on holiday. She seeks him out on a solitary walk, and finds him; he tries to force himself on her, and she rebuffs him; he gives her his phone number in Paris. When she gets back from the holiday, her husband has to go away on business for three days, which makes her weep; but after she has seen him off, she calls the number ...

Marie, originally titled A la Recherche de Marie, in conscious homage to Marcel Proust, was written in 1940; but with Paris occupied by the Germans, it took three years for Madeleine Bourdouxhe to find a publisher she was happy with – that is, one uncontaminated by fascism. (The publisher, perhaps surprisingly given the year, was in her native Brussels.)

This is one of the most French novels I have ever read. Bourdouxhe was friends with Simone de Beauvoir (who quotes from Marie several times in The Second Sex), and the book’s concerns are, to put it broadly, existentialist. The novel is about Marie’s state of mind, as it develops from the acte gratuit of her liaison with the young man: increasingly alert, engaged, sensitive almost to the point of synaesthesia. Here she is after having done the dishes:

She has finished her household task and before going into another room to rest and read, she lingers in the kitchen for a while. Sitting at the table, head in hands, she hears the sound of her blood, beating loudly, powerfully, rapidly, at her temples ... These muffled, rhythmical shocks are accompanied by an unusual sound, like a buzzing or a reverberation. She compares it to the sound of insects’ wings – smooth, shiny.

At first I thought this a somewhat overwrought reaction to housework, but then reconsidered: all of us have such moments when, like Marie at other times, we are suffused with joy or fascination at our surroundings, and can’t account for any proximate cause. This is a novel about such experiences, about “the simple grace of being alive”.

“If her friends were there at this moment,” the passage continues, “and asked her: ‘What are you thinking about, Marie?’, she couldn’t answer, ‘I am comparing the sound of my blood to insects’ wings.’” This is a compelling moment of realisation in a fictional character, but also a moment when the membrane between creator and creation becomes permeable. Bourdouxhe said the only thing she and Marie had in common was that they were both married women, but I take this as a deflective gesture, for Marie is an incarnation of the novelist’s ability to notice things. (Bourdouxhe cannot answer for herself, having died in 2007 at the age of 90.)

There are times when Marie’s state of mind makes me want to say, “Oh, come on.” The book is almost self-parodically French, ruminating on the grand questions of life in a way most English novels do not. But then events – Marie’s sister Claudine’s suicide attempt, the menacing backdrop of approaching war – encourage such speculation, and Bourdouxhe is confident enough in her ability and purpose to bring up these questions without apology or irony.

It is a remarkable novel very well translated, with a useful afterword, by Faith Evans. Proust may have been Bourdouxhe’s primary influence but there is also a lot of Virginia Woolf here – without the occasional whiff of social snobbery. It is also feminist in an understated way, not declaring any feminist agenda as such, beyond allowing an intelligent woman full agency. It is a grown-up novel about ordinary lives, and many thanks to Daunt Books for rediscovering it for us.