Don’t look now, but a Filipina has landed one of the plum roles in the ‘re-imagination’ (or remake if you will) of the hit 1980 movie “Fame” which opened in the U.S. last weekend. Anna Maria Perez de Tagle, granddaughter of one of Philippine TV’s classic music icons (Sylvia La Torre) and daughter of one-time showbiz personality Artie Perez de Tagle, is part of the youth-driven cast. She was ecstatic after getting the part.

“When I found out I got this role in “Fame,” I screamed at the top of my lungs! I even cried a little. I studied this role and worked so hard to impress the director, casting director and producers, so once I got the call, I was obviously very happy. At the same time I am so lucky and blessed to be a part of such a great movie and to be able to share the opportunity with an amazing cast tops it all.”

Anna Maria, who paid her dues in Hollywood by regularly appearing in such Disney shows like “Hannah Montana” (with Miley Cyrus) and “Camp Rock” (with one of the Jonas Brothers), landed what could be her biggest break on the big screen. She describes her role in the movie as follows:

“My character’s name is Joy. She’s the aspiring/exuberant actress who’s outgoing/outspoken and never second guesses herself. She is not afraid to say what’s on her mind. She’s a gregarious amped up talent who has a lot to say. In the beginning, Joy is like a spastic puppy and throughout the movie she matures into a young lady so you really see the character development in her.”

“It is my first feature film which is the most exciting part! I also get to showcase all my talents like singing, acting, and dancing. The audience and fans are used to seeing the comedic side of my acting – not only will they see that in this movie, but also more drama, like me crying and being more serious overall. Hopefully they will appreciate it, and see how much fun I had filming the movie.”

Anna Maria co-stars with Kherington Payne, Kay Panabaker, Naturi Naughton, Collins Pennie, Walter Perez, Paul Iacono, Paul McGill and Asher Book, plus the senior members Megan Mullally, Kelsey Grammer, Bebe Neuwirth, Charles S. Dutton and (from the original movie) Debbie Allen.

Do watch the movie and I’m sure it’s going to be a fun, music- and dance-filled retelling of the original!

Here’s the full trailer of “Fame”

video courtesy of YouTube/FilmCentralHD