HOUSTON – Many Houstonians are with heavy hearts hearing about the death of Guadalupe “Don Lupe” Camarena, 92, co-founder of Arandas Bakery’s Airline Location.

His passing was confirmed by his family and the company on June 26.

Don Lupe migrated to the U.S. to work in the government-sponsored Bracero Program to help raise his family of 9.

His son, Don Jose Camarena, then migrated to Houston and founded Taquerias Arandas in 1981.

KPRC 2′S RESTAURANT COVERAGE

The restaurant chain grew to 10 locations, and his son noticed the lack of Mexican bakeries (panaderías) in Houston, which led to Don Lupe eventually becoming the co-founder of Arandas Bakery’s Airline location.

Don Lupe will be remembered for his generosity, strong work ethic, and his highly ethical and assertive leadership skills.

Don Lupe was a man of humble upbringing who aimed to achieve his life dreams, achieving the American Dream by creating a household name and outstanding reputation.

SEE ALSO: ‘More Trill Burgers to the world’: Texas rap legend Bun B talks about first year after opening Houston burger joint 🍔

The Camarena Family said they greatly appreciate the incredible team at the Houston Methodist Hospital for all the care they provided him in his last years.

“To the wonderful men from Houston Fire Station 30, thank you for caring for him in his last moments,” the family said.

Below is the full statement from Arandas Bakery:

“We’re deeply saddened to share that our patriarch Don Lupe Camarena passed away yesterday. He will be missed by his employees, friends, customers and family. We know many have shared wonderful memories with him since our bakery first opened in 1993. Don Lupe instilled a strong work ethic in us and a strong desire to fulfill his life goal of achieving the American Dream. He first started his migration to the USA working in the Brasero Program to help in raising his family of 9. His first born, our founder Don Jose Camarena, then migrated to Houston, TX and started Taquerias Arandas in 1981. As the restaurant chain quickly grew to 10 stores by 1990, his son quickly noticed the lack of Mexican Sweet Pastries (Pan Dulce) in Houston that can only be found in Mexican Panaderías (Bakeries). So, in 1993 he decided to open Arandas Bakery so that his father could be his own proprietor. What originally started as a small bakery to supply their own restaurants quickly grew to the now expansive 6 locations. Even though we say farewell to him today, we have faith that one day we will be reunited with him. John 11:25-26″