If you are a fan of modernist architecture, you cannot miss Casa Lleo i Morera. Without a doubt, it is one of the most spectacular buildings in Barcelona. Located at Passeig de Gracia 35, this house is a masterpiece by the great architect Lluis Domenech i Montaner. He also designed UNESCO World Heritage Sites such as Hospital de Sant Pau and Palau de la Musica Catalana.

History and Architecture of Casa Lleo i Morera

Casa Lleo i Morera was built between 1902 and 1906 on the site of a former neoclassical building that belonged to the Morera family. The owner, Francesca Morera, commissioned Domenech i Montaner to renovate the house and give it a modernist style. The architect collaborated with some of the best craftsmen of the time, such as sculptor Eusebi Arnau, mosaicist Mario Maragliano, stained glass artist Antoni Rigalt, and ceramicist Lluis Bru.

The result was a stunning facade that features elaborate sculptures, mosaics, stained glass windows, and ceramic tiles. The facade also incorporates elements that represent the Morera family’s name and coat of arms, such as mulberry leaves and lions. The house has a corner tower with a dome that resembles a mulberry fruit.

The interior of the house is equally impressive, with richly decorated rooms that showcase the modernist artistry and craftsmanship. Some of the highlights include:

The vestibule, which has a marble staircase with a wrought iron railing and a stained glass ceiling that depicts the four seasons.

The main floor, which has a gallery overlooking Passeig de Gracia and a dining room with a fireplace and a mural painting by Ramon Casas.

The noble floor, which has a music room with a piano and a ceiling decorated with musical motifs, and a smoking room with a coffered ceiling and leather walls.

The attic, which has an exhibition space that displays original furniture, photographs, and documents related to the house and its architect.

The history of the Morera family and their relationship with Domenech i Montaner

The Morera family was a wealthy and influential family of merchants who had made their fortune in the Americas. Francesca Morera i Ortiz inherited a neoclassical building on Passeig de Gracia from her uncle, Antoni Morera. She then decided to renovate it in 1902. The work was commissioned by Domenech i Montaner, one of the leading architects of modernism, to transform the house into a modernist masterpiece. Francesca died in 1904, and her son, Albert Lleo i Morera, a renowned doctor and scientist, took over the project. He also had a close friendship with Domenech i Montaner and shared his interests in art, culture, and technology.

The artistic and cultural context of modernism in Barcelona and Catalonia at the beginning of the 20th century

Modernism was an artistic and cultural movement that emerged in Europe at the end of the 19th century and lasted until the First World War. It was characterized by a rejection of traditional styles and a search for innovation, originality, and beauty. In Barcelona and Catalonia, modernism was also influenced by the political and social aspirations of Catalan nationalism, which sought to affirm the identity and autonomy of Catalonia within Spain. Modernist architects, such as Domenech i Montaner, Gaudi, and Puig i Cadafalch, created some of the most emblematic buildings of Barcelona, such as Casa Lleo i Morera, Casa Batllo, Sagrada Familia, and Palau de la Musica Catalana. They used organic forms, floral motifs, geometric shapes, and rich materials to express their artistic vision and their cultural values.

The restoration and conservation process of the house and its artworks

Casa Lleo i Morera suffered several alterations and damages throughout its history. By 1943, the family sold the house to an insurance company, which modified some of the rooms and removed some of the artworks. Then in 1976, a fire destroyed part of the attic and the dome. In 1982, the house was declared a historical-artistic monument by the Spanish government. In 2006, the house was acquired by Group Nunez i Navarro, which undertook a comprehensive restoration and conservation project. The project involved restoring the original facade, repairing the damaged artworks, recovering the lost artworks from private collections or museums. Once completed the house was opened to the public for guided tours.

The events and activities that take place at Casa Lleo i Morera

Casa Lleo i Morera is not only a museum but also a cultural space. The house also hosts various events and activities throughout the year. Some of these events include:

Concerts: The music room of the house is an ideal setting for classical music concerts that feature renowned musicians and singers.

Exhibitions: The attic of the house is an exhibition space that displays temporary exhibitions related to modernism, architecture, art, or history.

Workshops: The house organizes workshops for children and adults that teach them about modernism, crafts, or photography.

Private events: The house can also be rented for private events such as weddings, parties, or meetings.

Visiting Casa Lleo i Morera

Casa Lleo i Morera is open to the public from Monday to Sunday, from 10:00 am to 6:00 pm. You can book your tickets online or buy them at the ticket office. The tickets include an audio guide in several languages and access to all the rooms of the house.

The prices are:

General: 15 euros

Students and pensioners: 12 euros

Children under 12: free

You can also book a guided tour with an expert guide who will explain the history of the house. The guided tours are available in Catalan, Spanish, English, French, German, Italian, Russian, Japanese, and Chinese. The prices are:

General: 20 euros

Students and pensioners: 17 euros

Children under 12: free

Casa Lleo i Morera is part of the Block of Discord (Illa de la Discordia), a group of modernist buildings that contrast with each other in style and design. The other buildings are Casa Batllo by Antoni Gaudi, Casa Amatller by Josep Puig i Cadafalch, and Casa Mulleras by Enric Sagnier. You can visit them all and admire the diversity and beauty of modernism in Barcelona.

Conclusion

Casa Lleo i Morera is one of the most remarkable examples of modernist architecture in Barcelona. It is a must-see for anyone who appreciates art, culture, and history. Don’t miss the opportunity to discover this hidden gem in the heart of the city!