Front Range Wireless is a Wireless Infrastructure Services Provider; a trusted partner in planning, designing, executing, deploying, and maintaining our customers’ needs. At Front Range we are experienced in all components of wireless construction, such as tower and cell site construction, modification upgrades, microwave system installation and testing, MSC maintenance, MSC upgrades and MSC project management. We pride ourselves on our continuous dedication to excellence on efficiency, budget, and execution while complying with all required applicable laws, rules and safety regulations. Our belief is our company should be as diverse as the customers and markets that we serve. We have two strategically placed Colorado Front Range locations to provide our customers adequate support: one in Centennial and one in Colorado Springs.

This year, one of our goals is to expand our reach for our customers and to provide employment to talent in other areas of the Western United States.

A Message From Our President

At Front Range Wireless we strive to provide a diverse, positive, and professional culture. We prioritize diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging for our team, we truly believe this gives our employees the liberty to be creative and innovative. Front Range Wireless is a trusted partner whom our clients know they can depend on. For over 20 years we have taken pride in our safety record and the accomplishments our team has made throughout the years. We empower our employees to provide and drive our five core values: integrity, collaboration, accountability, innovation, and respect. Coupling innovation with our team’s knowledge and experience is our gateway to success. Ever since I was a little girl, I dreamed of owning my own business and being able to provide opportunities for others and a gateway to a brighter future. My entire career in telecom has led me to this position; I am completely humbled, blessed, and truly excited to see the growth of FRW with our remarkable team in 2023.

MELISSA ACOSTA

President, Front Range Wireless