Delta Air Lines is continuing to transform its New York airport hubs, building upon an investment of over 12 billion USD in the US.

In 2022, the company celebrated major milestones in airport infrastructure, debuting new terminals at its New York LaGuardia (LGA) and Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) hubs.

Throughout 2023, Delta will continue to enhance the travel experience for its passengers.

Specifically, Delta customers in New York will benefit from upgrades and expansions at both of Delta’s local hubs: John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) and LaGuardia Airport (LGA).

This work will expand the 7 billion USD infrastructure investment that Delta has made in New York airports alone since 2010.

Chuck Imhof, Vice President of New York &amp; Eastern Division Sales, said:

As Delta continues to bolster its leading position as the premium global carrier in New York City, we remain committed to building airports of the future that are comfortable, easy to navigate and part of an effortlessly connected journey.

John F. Kennedy International Airport

Delta’s latest 1.5 billion USD expansion project at JFK Terminal 4 broke ground 13 months ago, and the airline and its partners at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (PANYNJ) have since been working to deliver an improved experience for passengers.

As of 14 January, Delta has moved its operations out of Terminal 2 and consolidated all operations to Terminal 4, with 10 new gates now open on Concourse A. This facility provides modern, spacious seating areas and upgraded restrooms, with concessions soon to follow.

The airline’s updated check-in and baggage drop area at Terminal 4 uses the latest technology to improve efficiency during busy travel times and includes Delta’s digital backwall with up-to-date gate information.

Meanwhile, the Concourse B expansion is expected to be complete by early autumn 2023. It will feature 28 gates to accommodate various aircraft types, as well as an expanded security checkpoint and baggage claim area.

LaGuardia Airport

Following a 4 billion USD investment, Delta opened its first four gates in the third new concourse at LGA Terminal C in October 2022.

The first four gates in the fourth and final concourse are now scheduled to open later this autumn, and new walkways connecting the arrivals and departures hall to the new concourses will open ahead of summer 2024.

Once complete, Terminal C will span 1.3 million square feet and will include 37 gates across four concourses.

The terminal will deliver enhanced efficiency thanks to up-to-date technologies such as hands-free bag drop, self-service check-in and biometric screening capabilities.

Tags