EUGENE, Ore. – Oregon head women's tennis coach Courtney Nagle announced the signing of Tilde Jagare to a National Letter of Intent (NLI) during the fall signing period Wednesday.

A native of Gävle, Sweden, Jagare comes to Eugene as a 2021 Swedish national junior champion, reaching a world ranking as high as No. 564 in the International Tennis Federation (ITF) rankings.

"We are so excited for Tilde to join us in 2023," Nagle said. "She is a worker and a competitor. She is going to come in and make a strong impact and continue to make strides that help us elevate our program. We can't wait to get started!"

"We are extremely excited to welcome Tilde Jagare to the Duck Family," said associate head coach Elizabeth Lumpkin Robinson. "Tilde's professionalism and maturity were evident from our first call through her entire recruiting process. Her exceptional commitment to growing as a player and person aligns with our team culture. She connected with our team so well during her visit on campus and we know she will be a great teammate. We look forward to her being an integral part of the future of our program!"

During the 2022 season, Jagare has claimed three titles: Swedish Tennis Academy Open (singles) and both the singles and doubles crowns at the 2022 JSM Race Finals. She also added a pair of silver medal finishes at the XL Bygg Open and Ystad Indoor as part of the Vintertour 2022.

In addition to her national title, Jagare advanced to the semifinals after three singles victories at the J5 Roskilde tournament in Roskilde, Denmark in 2021. Jagare also claimed a pair of tournament titles in doubles at both the J4 Frederiksberg and J5 Roskilde, both held in Denmark.

While on the ITF circuit in 2022, Jagare reached the quarterfinal round of the J3 Varnamo in Varnamo, Sweden last May in singles while reaching the quarterfinal rounds in both the J4 Bromma and J4 Malmo tournaments in doubles action.

Jagare will join the Ducks in the fall of 2023. Oregon is coming off its first NCAA Tournament appearance since the 2018 campaign and finished with a No. 38 national ITA ranking.