Greenville County School District

Greenville County School District (GCSD) is a public school district in Greenville County, South Carolina (USA). It is the largest school district in the state of South Carolina and the 47th largest in the US. Greenville CSD also takes students from…

Peace Center

The Peace Center is located adjacent to Falls Park in downtown Greenville, South Carolina. It is an arts center that contains the 2100 seat Peace Concert Hall, 400 seat Dorothy Hipp Gunter Theater, and the amphitheater (TD Stage at the Peace Center)…

James F. Byrnes High School

James F. Byrnes High School is located in Duncan, South Carolina. The school has 2289 students enrolled as of the 2008–2009 school year. It is the only high school in Spartanburg District 5. The James F. Byrnes Freshman Academy is located at the for…

Five Forks, South Carolina

Five Forks is a census-designated place (CDP) in Greenville County, South Carolina, United States. The population was 14,140 at the 2010 census.

Wade Hampton, South Carolina

Wade Hampton is a census-designated place (CDP) in Greenville County, South Carolina, United States. The population was 20,458 at the 2000 census.

WOLT

WOLT (103.3 FM, "ALT 103.3") is an FM radio station in Indianapolis, Indiana. The modern rock-formatted station is owned by Clear Channel Communications. The studios are located at 6161 Fall Creek Road on the northeast side of Indianapolis.

Falls Park on the Reedy

Falls Park on the Reedy is a 32-acre (130,000 m2) park adjacent to downtown Greenville, South Carolina in the historic West End district.Considered the birthplace of Greenville, the park was founded in 1967 when the Carolina Foothills Garden Club re…

Donaldson Center Airport

Donaldson Center Airport (IATA: GDC, ICAO: KGYH, FAA LID: GYH) is a public airport six miles (10 km) south of the central business district of Greenville, a city in Greenville County, South Carolina, United States.

WGGS-TV

WGGS-TV, virtual and UHF digital channel 16, is an independent television station located in Greenville, South Carolina, United States. The station is owned by Carolina Christian Broadcasting (also known as Dove Broadcasting).

Lyman, South Carolina

Lyman is a town in Spartanburg County, South Carolina, United States. It is a suburb of Greer.

Gantt, South Carolina

Gantt is a census-designated place (CDP) in Greenville County, South Carolina, United States. The population was 13,962 at the 2000 census.

Parker, South Carolina

Parker is a census-designated place (CDP) in Greenville County, South Carolina, United States. The population was 10,760 at the 2000 census.

WYRD-FM

WYRD-FM, known on-air as News Radio WORD, is a news/talk-formatted radio station in the Greenville-Spartanburg area of Upstate South Carolina. The Entercom Communications outlet is licensed by the FCC to Simpsonville, SC, and broadcasts at 106.3 MHz…