BELTON, Mo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Hillman Solutions Corp. (Nasdaq: HLMN), a leading provider of hardware products and merchandising solutions, has opened its brand-new distribution hub in Belton, Missouri, a southern suburb of Kansas City. Relocating from Rialto, California, Hillman’s new facility is approximately 305,000 square feet and fulfilled its first shipment on Monday, April 3, 2023.

This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230425005379/en/

(Photo: Business Wire)

“As 85 percent of the U.S. population can be reached in one to two business days, the central location of the new distribution hub will allow us to better serve our customers,” said Doug Cahill, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Hillman.

According to Cahill, the Kansas City facility will be optimal for logistics, allowing the facility to get products on the shelves of the more than 40,000 retail locations Hillman ships to faster than ever. “Taking care of the customer is in our DNA and this move will help us do just that.”

“We’re proud that a leading company like Hillman has recognized Missouri as an ideal location for business,” said Governor Mike Parson. “Our state’s advantages, including its strategic location, strong infrastructure, and low business costs, continue to attract investments from innovative companies. We look forward to the Hillman’s success as it grows and creates jobs in the Kansas City area.”

“Hillman’s decision to open a new distribution hub here in Missouri strategically positions them within 600 miles of 135+ million potential customers, helping them reach even more customers quickly and efficiently. We are excited to welcome Hillman to Missouri, and we are looking forward to watching them grow in our state,” said Subash Alias, CEO of Missouri Partnership.

“The City of Belton is proud to be chosen as the newest location for Hillman. The leading North American hardware company plans to bring 120 new jobs to Belton’s Southview Commerce Center,” said Mayor of Belton, Norman K. Larkey Sr.

The Kansas City region offers abundant access to rail, air, water and road transportation, with 30% more interstate miles per capita than any other U.S. city. This contributes to the region as an ideal location for industrial growth, with 11.4 million sq. ft. of industrial space delivered in 2022, totaling an industrial market footprint of nearly 321 million sq. ft.

“Hillman’s selection of Belton, Missouri, for its new facility reinforces our region as a hub for distribution,” said Chris Gutierrez, president of KC SmartPort. “The Kansas City region’s central location, multi-modal transportation, skilled workforce and vertical readiness help position leading companies like Hillman for continued growth.”

For those interested in becoming a part of the Hillman team in Belton, please visit hillmangroup.com/careers.

About Hillman Solutions Corp.

Founded in 1964 and headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Hillman Solutions Corp. (“Hillman”) and its subsidiaries are leading North American providers of complete hardware solutions, delivered with outstanding customer service to over 60,000 locations. Hillman designs innovative product and merchandising solutions for complex categories that deliver an outstanding customer experience to home improvement centers, mass merchants, national and regional hardware stores, pet supply stores, and OEM & industrial customers. Leveraging its leading distribution and sales network, Hillman delivers a “small business” experience with “big business” efficiency. For more information on Hillman, visit www.hillmangroup.com.

About the Kansas City Area Development Council (KCADC)

Serving the 18-county, two-state Kansas City area, the Kansas City Area Development Council is an economic development nonprofit that promotes the region’s business and lifestyle assets to companies and talent around the world. Working closely with its two states, and 50-plus county and community partners, the region has attracted more than 60,000 new jobs over its 40-year history. KCADC also leads the efforts behind the KC Animal Health Corridor, KC SmartPort and TeamKC. www.thinkKC.com

About Greater Kansas City

Home to 2.5 million people, Kansas City is a vibrant metro in the heart of the U.S., known as the “KC Heartland.” The KC region is a center for leading industries including technology, logistics, animal health and entrepreneurship, and is home to a renowned arts community. www.KC.org

Forward Looking Statements

You should not rely on these forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Words such as "expect," "estimate," "project," "budget," "forecast," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," “target”, “goal”, "may," "will," "could," "should," "believes," "predicts," "potential," "continue," and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, the Company’s expectations with respect to future performance. These forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from the expected results. Most of these factors are outside the Company's control and are difficult to predict. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to: (1) unfavorable economic conditions that may affect operations, financial condition and cash flows including spending on home renovation or construction projects, inflation, recessions, instability in the financial markets or credit markets; (2) increased supply chain costs, including raw materials, sourcing, transportation and energy; (3) the highly competitive nature of the markets that we serve; (4) the ability to continue to innovate with new products and services; (5) seasonality; (6) large customer concentration; (7) the ability to recruit and retain qualified employees; (8) the outcome of any legal proceedings that may be instituted against the Company; (9) adverse changes in currency exchange rates; (10) the impact of COVID-19 on the Company’s business; or (11) regulatory changes and potential legislation that could adversely impact financial results. The foregoing list of factors is not exclusive, and readers should also refer to those risks that are included in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 to be filed subsequent to the conference call presenting 2022 results. Given these uncertainties, current or prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward looking statements.

Except as required by applicable law, the Company does not undertake or accept any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements in this communication to reflect any change in its expectations or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20230425005379/en/

Laura (Patriquin) Phillips

Kansas City Area Development Council

phillips@thinkkc.com

207.712.4517

Michael Koehler

Vice President of Investor Relations & Treasury

513-826-5495

IR@hillmangroup.com

Source: Hillman Solutions Corp.