At North Kansas City Hospital (which includes Meritas Health Corporation, a subsidiary of North Kansas City Hospital and the Meritas Health Corporation d/b/a Total Weight Loss Center) we are committed to protecting the privacy and security of visitors to our websites. Our websites' privacy policy ("Privacy Policy") will tell you what information we collect, how it is used and your options as you interact with our websites. By using our websites, you agree to this policy. Please read the following carefully before using our websites.

Protected Health Information

Protected Health Information, as defined under the Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act and related regulations (collectively referred to as "HIPAA"), includes information you provide to a North Kansas City Hospital or Meritas Health Corporation facility while being treated as a patient of that facility or that you provide within the MyHealth patient portal. Our use and disclosure of Protected Health Information is outlined in the North Kansas City Hospital Notice of Privacy Practices.

Your Consent

By using our websites, you consent to the collection, use and sharing of information as described in this Privacy Policy. By providing us with an email address, you agree that we may use your email address to communicate with you about our services and select messages from our partners or affiliates.

NOTE: Opt-out options are discussed in the sections entitled "Cookies, Tracking and Internet-based Advertising" and "Newsletter/ Press Release Subscriptions."

Information That We Collect

You may use our websites without providing any personal information. When you reply to any of our communications with a request, we may need to collect additional information. For example, you may be asked to provide personal information, such as name, email address, and demographic information, if you choose to complete any of the online forms used for class registration, special events and promotions, appointment requests, and to provide feedback.

If you submit any personal information relating to other people, you represent that you have the authority to do so and permit us to use the information in accordance with this Privacy Policy. By submitting personal information, you grant North Kansas City Hospital the right to transmit, monitor, retrieve, store and use your information in connection with the operation of our websites.

MyHealth Patient Portal:

Patients can opt to create MyHealth patient portal account. The MyHealth patient portal is a secure way for patients to manage their health. Features include reviewing test results, managing appointments, messaging your doctor, and renewing your prescriptions. Before creating an account, please review the Terms of Use available on the MyHealth Patient Portal website here.

On-line Bill Pay:

Patients can opt to use our on-line Bill Pay system to pay their hospital or physician/clinic bill. Before creating a Bill Pay account, please review the Terms of Use available on Bill Pay website here.

Philanthropy:

When you give to North Kansas City Hospital, your support helps us deliver our mission of providing hope and healing to every life we touch. To learn more about making an on-line donation, you can visit: https://www.nkch.org/giving/. Before submitting payment through our on-line donation system, please review the Terms of Use available on the donation website here.

Data Security

North Kansas City Hospital is committed to protecting the privacy of the personal information you provide to us via our websites. We use reasonable efforts and maintain electronic and physical safeguards to guard personal information from loss, unauthorized access and disclosure.

Although we work hard to protect your personal information, North Kansas City Hospital cannot guarantee the security and privacy of any information you transmit to us through online applications, and you do so at your own risk. Depending on the nature of the inquiry, your communication could be discarded or archived. If you wish, you can contact us instead by telephone at the numbers provided throughout our websites.

Newsletter/Press Release Subscription

If you wish to subscribe to our newsletters and publications, we collect and store first and last names, email address, and information about how you engage with our content. We may also ask for additional information to send you content that is relevant to your interests. This information is used for distribution purposes. If you would like to unsubscribe from our email newsletters, please use the "unsubscribe" link at the bottom of every e-mail communication or you can email your request to email.team@nkch.org.

Cookies, Tracking and Internet-based Advertising

Our websites work with third-party products or services ("Service Providers"). These include Google and other Service Providers who help us track and analyze visitor activity on our websites, measure the effectiveness of our advertising efforts, and support the optimization of our digital marketing campaigns.

Our websites use "cookies," tracking pixels and related technologies. These can be set by North Kansas City Hospital or by our Service Providers. Cookies are small data files that online services can store on, and retrieve from, a user's computer or mobile device through the user's web browser. The information is stored and retrievable either for the duration of a website visit (known as "session cookies"), or until some later point in time set by our websites setting the cookie (known as "persistent cookies").

Examples of information we and our Service Providers collect include how often someone visits our websites and what they do while on our websites. We and our Service Providers use this information in the aggregate to understand how our visitors as a group use different resources and to help us improve our websites. We and our Service Providers may collect information about the activity of individual website users. This information may be used to direct related North Kansas City Hospital advertisements and/or informational content to website users when they visit other websites.

Most internet browsers accept cookies by default, but you can modify your browser preferences to block or restrict cookies if you do not want your web browsing activity tracked. There are a variety of tools publicly available to manage cookies and similar technologies that collect information related to your use of our websites. Learn more from (i) the FTC or (ii) the Digital Advertising Alliance opt-out page, which allows users to opt out from receiving interest-based advertising.

We are not responsible for the effectiveness or compliance of third party opt-out mechanisms or programs. How Google uses information from sites or apps that use our services.

Our Service Providers may acquire additional information about your activity on our websites, including pages you visit, access times, visit duration, how you arrived at our websites and your IP address. An IP address is a number that identifies a device connected to the internet. For most devices, the IP address changes on at least a weekly basis. Our Service Providers may also acquire device identifiers and specific information about the browser you use. In some cases, this information may be unique to you.

How We Use This Information

North Kansas City Hospital uses the information you provide to fulfill online requests, process credit card information and respond to customer service inquiries, or in other ways as required by law.

We may use your information to:

Help us improve the services we offer

Personalize your experience and inform you about the treatments/services in which you have indicated an interest

Tailor digital advertisements on third-party websites based on your interactions on our websites

Improve our website offerings and send you information and updates

Respond to your questions and requests and improve customer service

Administer a promotion, survey or other site feature

Communicate changes to our Privacy Policy or terms of use

In some cases, third parties contracted by North Kansas City Hospital may have access to your information to perform a specific task, for example, to send you an e-newsletter.

Users in the European Economic Area (EEA) and Switzerland

Our Services are controlled and operated from the United States and are not intended to subject North Kansas City Hospital to the law or jurisdiction of any state, country, or territory other than that of the United States. By using our Services and providing us information, you understand and agree that your information may be transferred to and stored on servers located outside your resident jurisdiction and, to the extent you are a resident of a country other than the United States, that you consent to the transfer of such data to the United States for processing by us in accordance with this Privacy Policy.

Third-Party Vendors/ Content Providers

North Kansas City Hospital shares information with third parties, including as required by law or in order to provide the services requested. North Kansas City Hospital engages reputable third-party vendors to help us manage our websites, provide content and information, and interact better with our patients and visitors.

Transfer in the Event of Sale or Change of Control

If the ownership of our business changes or we need to transfer assets relating to our websites to a third party, we may transfer your personal information to the new owner. Your information would remain subject to the promises made in the applicable Website Privacy Policy unless you specify otherwise.

Online Surveys

Occasionally we may request feedback on our websites to better understand how we can improve what information we present and how we present it. These surveys do not ask questions that could personally identify you. We may ask for contact information to follow-up, but you can decline to provide that information. Information that you provide in a survey may be shared with employees or third parties to aggregate the data.

Email Information

Please do not provide personal information via email to us unless it is through a secure channel (these will be marked, as secure online forms, for example). Remember that email messages, unless encrypted while in transit, can be viewed by other internet users.

If you have personal information to communicate, please use the appropriate secure online form or contact the necessary party using traditional means such as phone or mail. If you receive an email that looks like it is from North Kansas City Hospital and asks for your personal information, do not respond. This may be a scam or “Phishing” email intended to steal your information. North Kansas City Hospital will never request your password, username, credit card information or other personal information through email.

Links to External Websites

This online Privacy Policy applies only to our websites. Our websites contain links to other websites, within and outside of North Kansas City Hospital. Please be aware that this Privacy Policy does not apply to those websites. We encourage you to read the Privacy Policy on any other websites before providing them with personal information.

Certain interactive patient applications may be linked to our websites as a convenience for you. If you choose to utilize a specific patient application, please be sure to read the privacy policy associated with that application.

The MyHealth patient portal, which offers patients secure electronic messaging to participating practices, is an example of such a patient application.

Changes to This Policy

North Kansas City Hospital has the right to change or update our websites' Privacy Policy from time to time without notice, so please review it periodically to keep informed of any changes. If you have questions about this Privacy Policy or concerns about how we collect, use or protect your personal information, please contact us as listed below.

Contact Us

If you would like additional assistance or have accessibility concerns, please email Web Access or call 816.691.3021.

Last Revised November 1, 2023