The latest single from Lizzie Morgan can now be heard in rotation on 89.5 KTSY!

“Maybe The Miracle” is a song every follower of Jesus needs to hear. There are so many songs about having faith that God can bring the breakthrough and work a miracle, and we need those songs! I’m always encouraged by songwriters who are not trying to talk people out of believing God can do amazing things. With this song, Lizzie Morgan brings into focus an idea from the other side of the coin–recognizing the miracle in your situation when God doesn’t work everything out the way you wanted or expected. And both perspectives are needed in our theology and our songs.

In these lyrics, Lizzie is honest with God about how hard it is that they “don’t see eye-to-eye” all the time and how their plans are different sometimes. (I can relate to that feeling. Can you?) But she also recognizes that even in pain and brokenness, God’s faithful friendship and presence is a miracle we can be grateful for too. Whether the miracle in your life looks the way you expected or not, take comfort in knowing God is with you either way and His presence is the greatest gift you could ask for.

When you go through deep waters, I will be with you. When you go through rivers of difficulty, you will not drown. When you walk through the fire of oppression, you will not be burned up, the flames will not consume you. (Isaiah 43:2 NLT)

Lyrics

I prayed, tears on my face

I asked for You to do

What only You could do

I waited, day after day

But nothin’ seemed to change

And then there came the day

When all I wanted fell apart

But it fell in Your hands

Maybe the miracle is not what I asked You for

Maybe my deepest pain, deepens me to know You more

God in my brokenness, you were my faithful friend

And now I see, that may be the miracle

You and I don’t always see eye to eye

We make such different plans

In time, I understand

Your thoughts are higher

Ways are wiser

If I look back, I realize that

Maybe the miracle is not what I asked You for

Maybe my deepest pain, deepens me to know You more

God in my brokenness, you were my faithful friend

And now I see, that may be the miracle

And I know, I am not forsaken

I know, I’ll never be abandoned

I know even at my lowest

That’s when You are closest to me, oh-oh

Author: Jasmin Patterson

Jasmin Patterson is a lifelong fan of Christian music who is passionate about helping others connect with Christ. In addition to serving KTSY in the digital department, she serves in college ministry and loves to write for seekers and believers, helping them discover and live biblical Christianity.

Listen Live To KTSY 24/7 | Subscribe To KTSY Newsletter