John Schumann, 90, of Sheboygan, passed away June 29, 2017, at the Sharon S. Richardson Community Hospice.

He was born in Watertown to the late Stella (Wollin) Schumann and Henry Schumann on May 25, 1927.

He graduated from Watertown High School in 1945 and immediately left to serve in the U.S. Navy during World War II. John served on the U.S.S. San Juan in the South Pacific until the war’s end. Returning to Wisconsin, John attended, which was at the time La Crosse State College. During this time, he played two years of professional baseball with the Philadelphia Phillies Farm System, signing a contract for $500 in 1946. John averaged .283 and .308 as a hitter, setting the league double-play record as a second baseman.

On June 11, 1950, he returned to Watertown to marry Ethel Mae Bast.

The couple resided in La Crosse for one year while John finished his degree. While attending La Crosse, John earned four letters in basketball and was on the All-Conference Team each year. As a point guard, John tied the single game-scoring total of 25 points for the La Crosse Indians. John also earned four letters in baseball. Unfortunately, a knee injury as a freshman ended his career in football.

After graduating, John entered the teaching profession. He taught history and physical education, coached football, basketball and baseball in Harmony, Minn., for two years, his first job. John and Ethel’s next move was to East Troy. For 11 years, John taught physical education and coached varsity basketball at East Troy High School. Here he was twice named Coach of the Year in the Southern Lakes Conference, winning several championships even though East Troy had the smallest enrollment.

As a baseball player with the Tri-Troy Boosters, the team won nine out of 10 championships in the Southern Land of Lakes League. During this time, John batted his personal best of .460, an accomplishment he recalled with great pride. In 1954, Johnny Logan, the Milwaukee Braves Shortstop, presented John with the league trophy for highest average.

In 1964, John, Ethel and family moved to Sheboygan. He continued his education receiving his master’s degree at which was at the time Stout State University. At Sheboygan South High School, he taught physical education and coached boys varsity basketball and junior varsity football. He was named coach of the year for the Fox River Valley Conference in 1981. In the same year, he retired from coaching basketball, continuing to teach for several more years before retiring altogether.

Now retired, golf became his sport of choice. As a member of Riverdale Golf and Country Club he was senior champion in 1997 through 2000.

John also joined the Plymouth Kettle Karvers to try his hand at woodcarving. Here he was named most improved carver in 2006 and was the feature carver for the yearly show in 2010.

In 1981, John was named basketball coach of the year by the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse and, in 1988, was inducted into the UW-La Crosse Wall of Fame. He was named to the Sheboygan South High Wall of Fame in 1998, and in 2007 had the South High community gymnasium dedicated in his honor, aptly named The Schumann Gym. The Sheboygan County Baseball Association inducted him into its Wall of Fame in 2016.

John was a member of the American Legion, East Troy baseball team, Sheboygan County Baseball Association, Riverdale Golf and Country Club, Wisconsin Education Association, Sheboygan County Area Teachers Association, Lifetime member of the National Education Association, the Elks Lodge serving on the Gridiron Committee, La Crosse Alumni Association, Plymouth Kettle Karvers, the St. Paul’s Lutheran Church Council in East Troy and the board of elders and the board of education at Our Saviors Lutheran Church in Sheboygan.

He is survived by his wife, Ethel, of Sheboygan; three children, Marcia (Rob) Schumann-McMaher, of Lone Tree, Colo., Jeffrey (Sherri) Schumann, of Omaha, Neb., Sandy (Marc) Papendieck, of Edgerton; eight grandchildren, Cari Kate Schumann-McMaher, Venessa Gatuma, Kristin McMaher, Danny (Haley) Schumann, Dr. Chris (Dr. Jessica) Schumann, Stephanie Schumann, Nick (Alea) Papendieck and Alissa (Aaron) Prater; four great-grandchildren, Patrick and Robert Gatuma, Reece Schumann and Ivy Rae Papendieck; and one expected great-grandchild to be born in September. John is also further survived by a sister-in-law, Norma Schumann, of Watertown; brother-in-law, Jack (Carole) Bast, of La Crosse; and numerous nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his parents and his two brothers, Clarence (Lucille) Schumann and Raymond Schumann.

A funeral service for John was Monday at Our Saviors Lutheran Church, 917 Mead Ave., Sheboygan with the Rev. James Schulz officiating. VFW Post 9156 provided full military honors following the service.

The family wishes to thank Dr. Qiaofang (Lisa) Chen and Ron Rekowski, patient navigator of the Vince Lombardi Cancer Clinic. Special thanks to the staff at Memorial Hospital and the Sharon S. Richardson Community Hospice for wonderful care. The family also extends gratitude to supportive neighbors and friends.

The Reinbold-Novak Funeral Home is assisting the family with arrangements.