LOS ANGELES (August 6, 2024) – Platinum Equity announced today the acquisition of ASP Global, a leading strategic partner to the healthcare industry that develops, sources and distributes consumable medical products for healthcare providers and distributors.

Financial terms were not disclosed.

Based in Atlanta, ASP leverages its global sourcing network to provide high-quality products that are customized to meet the specific needs of health systems, labs, GPOs and distributors. The company’s capabilities give customers control over the design and functionality of their products, helping them meet patient experience goals in a cost-effective manner.

ASP’s portfolio spans a diverse range of consumable product categories, including: lab supplies, blood collection, wound and injury protection, critical care, staff apparel and rehab mobility.

“Healthcare providers are intensely focused on managing costs and increasing control of their supply chains,” said Platinum Equity Co-President Louis Samson. “By providing direct sourcing solutions featuring customized, quality products, ASP has created an attractive value proposition. Based on our assessment, ASP’s business model has resonated with customers and has significant room for growth.”

Platinum Equity Managing Director Jason Price praised the company’s leadership as key to its success.

“ASP has an experienced management team that has articulated a compelling vision for the future,” said Price. “We have a shared belief in what ASP can become and are excited to get to work.”

ASP Global President and CEO Doug Shaver will continue to lead the company going forward.

“We are proud of the business ASP has built and have ambitious long-term plans to continue growing,” said Shaver. “Platinum’s expanded access to capital, M&A resources and operational expertise can help us achieve our goals and create new opportunities for ASP to serve the evolving needs of our customers.”

“ASP has a lot of runway to continue expanding organically and we expect to be active in pursuit of additional M&A opportunities, too,” added Price.

Platinum Equity currently owns healthcare products distributor NDC, which serves a different part of the medical supplies market. ASP and NDC will operate as separate, standalone companies in Platinum Equity’s portfolio.

Solomon Partners served as financial advisor to Platinum Equity on the ASP acquisition. Latham and Watkins served as legal counsel to Platinum Equity on the transaction.

About Platinum Equity

Founded in 1995 by Tom Gores, Platinum Equity is a global investment firm with more than $48 billion of assets under management and a portfolio of approximately 50 operating companies that serve customers around the world. Platinum Equity specializes in mergers, acquisitions and operations – a trademarked strategy it calls M&A&O® – acquiring and operating companies in a broad range of business markets, including manufacturing, distribution, transportation and logistics, equipment rental, metals services, media and entertainment, technology, telecommunications and other industries. Over the past 28 years Platinum Equity has completed more than 450 acquisitions.

About ASP Global

With headquarters in the Greater Atlanta Area, ASP Global partners with health systems, labs and healthcare providers to directly develop and source medical-surgical products and patient-preference items. ASP Global provides customized, comprehensive, clinically-sound supply programs that are designed to optimize their customers’ supply chains through streamlined processes, extensive global buying power, and a proven team of clinical, procurement, operations, logistics and regulatory experts