Boalter History, Family Crest & Coats of Arms

Origins Available:

England

Ireland

The many generations and branches of the Boalter family can all place the origins of their surname with the ancient Anglo-Saxon culture. Their name reveals that an early member worked as a sifter of meal. Other evidence suggests that the surname Boalter was established as an area called Boulder. From there people acquired the surname. The name is also derived from the Old English word bulder which means boulder or cobblestone. Alternatively the name could have been derived from the word bolter which was a miller. Boulter's Lock and Boutler's Island are both located on the River Thames on the eastern side of Maidenhead, Berkshire.

Early Origins of the Boalter family

The surname Boalter was first found in Yorkshire, where they held a family seat from ancient times, long before the Norman Conquest in 1066.

Early History of the Boalter family

This web page shows only a small excerpt of our Boalter research. Another 33 words (2 lines of text) covering the years 1272, 1635, 1671, 1672, 1694, 1698, 1701, 1709, 1719, 1724 and 1742 are included under the topic Early Boalter History in all our PDF Extended History products and printed products wherever possible.

Boalter Spelling Variations

Before the last few hundred years, the English language had no fast system of spelling rules. For that reason, spelling variations are commonly found in early Anglo-Saxon surnames. Over the years, many variations of the name Boalter were recorded, including Boulter, Bolter, Boulder, Bolteir and others.

Early Notables of the Boalter family

Distinguished members of the family include Edmund Boulter (c.1635-1709), a London merchant and politician, Sheriff of London (1694); Edmund Boulter (c. 1635-1709), a London merchant and politician, Sheriff of London in July 1694, Member of Parliament for Boston (1698-1701); and Dr. Hugh Boulter (1672-1742), Church...

Another 45 words (3 lines of text) are included under the topic Early Boalter Notables in all our PDF Extended History products and printed products wherever possible.

Migration of the Boalter family to Ireland

Some of the Boalter family moved to Ireland, but this topic is not covered in this excerpt. More information about their life in Ireland is included in all our PDF Extended History products and printed products wherever possible.

Migration of the Boalter family

To escape oppression and starvation at that time, many English families left for the "open frontiers" of the New World with all its perceived opportunities. In droves people migrated to the many British colonies, those in North America in particular, paying high rates for passages in cramped, unsafe ships. Although many of the settlers did not make the long passage alive, those who did see the shores of North America perceived great opportunities before them. Many of the families that came from England went on to make essential contributions to the emerging nations of Canada and the United States. Research into various historical records revealed some of first members of the Boalter family emigrate to North America: Nathanial Boulter who settled in Hampton New Hampshire in 1630; William Boulter settled in New England in 1748; John Bolteir settled in Virginia in 1654..

Related Stories +