At Instagram of the Royal Palaces

Favorite from the royal collections - The Green Salon at the Chinese Pavilion

On Tuesdays, the Royal Palace's museum teachers have taken over the Instagram account and presented their favorites from the #Royalcollections. Museum teacher Sanna Linderoth talks about her favorite room at the royal palaces:

This beautiful room - the Green Salon at the Chinese Pavilion - is one of Sweden's foremost examples of a rococo interior of rank. The fantastic murals are made by the court painter Johan Pasch, based on French models. These paintings provide an insight into the 18th century European view of China and life there. We see Chinese figures making music in nature, these are idyllic scenes taken from paradise. Living close to nature was important during the 18th century, the philosopher Rousseau believed that in the state of nature man was harmonious, free and healthy. Lovisa Ulrika and Adolf Fredrik were able to live close to nature with the children at the Chinese Pavilion, the many doors and large windows give the feeling of a conservatory. Nature is also present in the interiors, which is typical of rococo, which uses organic forms, flowers and snail forms. The green lounge was used as a dining room and lounge.

https://www.instagram.com/p/CLoVZHYpZAG/

Drottningholm Palace Theatre has been open for guided tours from 30th April.

They take measures in order to follow the recommendations of the Public Health Authority for social distancing, by allowing eight people on each tour. In the Theatre Shop the number of customers at the same time is limited to three.

2020 — Drottningholms Slottsteater

The persistent and heavy rain has created problems in many places around the country in recent days and the king is one of those affected. Parts of the Palace park at the World Heritage-protected Drottningholm Palace are now under water.

Svensk Damtidning asked Margareta Thorgren if the king is informed. Thorgren said that the Park Administration at Drottningholm handles this. Everyone has probably seen that it has rained a lot in Stockholm lately. But after rain comes sunshine.

It is not known if any of the sculptures in the Palace park were damaged during the flood. Svensk Damtidning has asked this from the court, but has not received an answer.

Översvämning på Drottningholm – kungen informerad _*Svensk Dam

Older photos of Drottningholm Palace by Peter Moore Photography.

Image Upper.com - Free Image Hosting - View Image

Image Upper.com - Free Image Hosting - View Image

Image Upper.com - Free Image Hosting - View Image

The persistent and heavy rain has created problems in many places around the country in recent days and the king is one of those affected. Parts of the Palace park at the World Heritage-protected Drottningholm Palace are now under water.

Svensk Damtidning asked Margareta Thorgren if the king is informed. Thorgren said that the Park Administration at Drottningholm handles this. Everyone has probably seen that it has rained a lot in Stockholm lately. But after rain comes sunshine.

It is not known if any of the sculptures in the Palace park were damaged during the flood. Svensk Damtidning has asked this from the court, but has not received an answer.

Översvämning på Drottningholm – kungen informerad _*Svensk Dam

Older photos of Drottningholm Palace by Peter Moore Photography.

Image Upper.com - Free Image Hosting - View Image

Image Upper.com - Free Image Hosting - View Image

Image Upper.com - Free Image Hosting - View Image

As long as it is just the park and not the palace itself it is unpleasant but they should be able to deal with it

(based on personal experience; the street and parts of the garden were flooded twice this week as well as a few weeks ago - but I count myself lucky that my main trouble is the drainage system affecting the toilet and shower compared to those whose houses are flooded)

At Instagram of the Royal Palaces

Already as a child, Gustav (III) appreciated staying at Drottningholm. In August 1754, he tells his parents: “Last night I ran around the gallery with my brothers. Then I asked architects Linneus to tell me about animals. He told me about mosquitoes, about birds that ate them, about swans, and pelicans and sea lions.” A few days later he was in his mother's coin cabinet looking at Roman medals "which amused me quite a lot". He also enjoyed spending time in the library and reading the French-language books. The weather was beautiful, you walked through the park to Chinese Pavilion in the morning. Gustav thought it was boring and described it as a walk in the "rocky sands of Arabia".

Sunday is the UN Day and we note that Drottningholm, as Sweden's first World Heritage Site, is part of UNESCO's and the UN's work to promote international cooperation. Drottningholm Palace reopens on weekends in November. The palace park, which is part of the world heritage, is always open.

The pictures: The entrance to Drottningholm Palace.

Pastel painting by Gustav III as a child, Gustaf Lundberg (1695–1786), in the Green Cabinet at Drottningholm Castle.

Photo: Ralf Turander.

https://www.instagram.com/p/CVU90cnsxET/

At Instagram of The Royal Palaces

Drottningholm's golden age

Drottningholm was given as a wedding gift to Princess Lovisa Ulrika of Prussia in connection with the marriage to the Swedish heir to the throne Adolf Fredrik in 1744. Lovisa Ulrika's time at Drottningholm meant a new golden age for the palace. Culture was her guiding star and she surrounded herself with poets, artists, scientists and writers. They talked, walked out in the park and played music together. From this time there is the library, which with its even rhythm of shapes, classifying gilded pilasters and playful Rococo ornaments is considered one of Sweden's most beautiful rooms. The architect was Jean-Eric Rehn, assisted by the foremost craftsmen and the library is a test of exquisite craftsmanship. Here we can imagine how the Queen discussed with the authors Hedvig Charlotta Nordenflycht and Olof von Dahlin, which she greatly appreciated. The scientific researchers also met and discussed at Drottningholm. Under the leadership of Carl von Linné, people gathered at Drottningholm to arrange the Queen's collection of natural resources.

This weekend, Drottningholm Palace opens, and is then open weekends up to and including December 5th. The palace park is always open.

https://www.instagram.com/p/CV4viMzM9RU/

At Instagram of The Royal Palaces

Chateau Gothique. When Gustav III took over Drottningholm in 1777, he wanted to incorporate the latest park ideal from England, the natural landscape park. Among the features of the new English park was the Gothic Tower, a medieval romantic Gothic building that would be reminiscent of the country's ancient history. The tower was designed by the French architect Louis Jean Desprez and was not completed until after the assassination of the king, 1792. The tower's function and significance is a bit of a mystery, but it was probably built to act as a backdrop for the king's knight game. From the beginning, Gustav III had planned an entire "Chateau Gothique" with four towers and two cohesive wall lengths, but in the end was content with the tower. Gustav III, like many others in his day, was a history romantic with a predilection for Gothicism and the heroic Nordic antiquity and the Middle Ages, as this building clearly shows.

https://www.instagram.com/p/CWdGngxs7iE/

At Instagram of the Royal Palaces

World Heritage Drottningholm 30 years

#onthisday 13 december 1991, the royal facility Drottningholm - the Royal Domain of Drottningholm - was inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List, as Sweden's first world heritage site. The decision was made at the 15th session of the World Heritage Committee held in Carthage, Tunisia, on 9-13 December. At the same time, a total of 22 new places were added to the list, including Notre Dame in Paris and Suomenlinna in Helsinki.

Drottningholm has been a meeting place for centuries, from the time of its construction by architects and craftsmen of different nationalities to the theatre's activities and today's tourism. For the same length of time, the Drottningholm area has been used for pleasure and recreation. Both theater performances and the interest that visitors show in Drottningholm maintain this tradition, as well as its function as a home for the Swedish royal family.

Drottningholm Palace park is always open. The Palace is closed during Christmas and reopens on New Year's Eve.

https://www.instagram.com/p/CXaf8t5M0OL/

A police operation at Drottningholm Palace in the afternoon

- According to initial alarm information, security guards have seen people inside an area where unauthorized persons may not be. We have a patrol on site and working, says Towe Hägg, press spokesperson for the Stockholm region police.

Later, the police states that two women in their 20s were discovered in the area and Towe Hägg said that she doesn't know any details about how they got in or if they were found indoors or outdoors. They are suspected of violating the Protection Act.

The court confirms that two unauthorized persons were in the area. The King and Queen are at Drottningholm Palace as part of the isolation since they tested positive for covid-19. Information officer Daniel Urso said that two people were taken into custody by the Guard and handed over to the police. It is now a police matter. No one has been injured.

Två kvinnor tog sig in på Drottningholms slott – Supernytt – Aftonbladet live

Back to nature. Rococo is the period that followed the Baroque. The style originated in France in the early 18th century and had its heyday in the mid-18th century.

In Sweden, the Rococo style was strongest during the time of Queen Lovisa Ulrika and King Adolf Fredrik. Other Rococo celebrities are architect Carl Hårleman, artist Alexander Roslin, architect Carl Fredrik Adelcrantz, artist Gustav Lundberg and interior designer Jean-Eric Rehn.

Drottningholm Palace is open on weekends. Here you walk on your own. Discover the Swedish Rococo style at Drottningholm Palace with the photo hunt RokokoGo. Look for elegant playfulness, a natural craze, the Chinese series and the characteristic pastel portraits. The picture hunt can be picked up at the box office.

The pictures: Interior details from Drottningholm Palace, photos by Kate Gabor.

https://www.instagram.com/p/CY_tj98sAvI/

At Instagram of the Royal Palaces

Karl XI's Gallery

Hedvig Eleonora had two memorial galleries decorated at Drottningholm Palace, one for her husband Karl X Gustav and one for her son Karl XI. In the galleries image programs, the two kings warlike exploits are depicted. In Karl XI's gallery, Johann Philip Lemke's (1631–1711) battle paintings from the 1690s depict field battles in Karl XI's war against Denmark. The decisive battle of the war at Lund on December 4, 1676 is illustrated in the four paintings against the stairwell, from the morning's first clash to the Swedish victory in the afternoon. Sylvius' ceiling painting from 1690 depicts how Fama, the good reputation, wakes up to the news of Karl XI's victorious warfare. The marble bust depicting Karl XI is made by Nicolaes Millich.

https://www.instagram.com/p/CZRv1LrMYFQ/

Photos from Drottningholm some years ago

Bilder från Drottningholms slott _ MOLLES BILDER

Höstpromenad på Drottningholm _ MOLLES BILDER

At Instagram of the Royal Palaces

In Karl X Gustav's gallery at Drottningholm Palace, battle paintings of the king's achievements in the wars against Poland and Denmark during the 1650s can be seen. Perhaps Karl X Gustav's most famous feat, "The March across the Great Belt", was the risky march across the ice between Langeland and Lolland in February 1658. The painting by Johann Philip Lemkes (1631–1711) can be seen on the window wall in the gallery. The painting above the door (interior picture) shows Karl X Gustav looking at how Swedish and Danish cavalry collide on the ice over the Little Belt at Iversnes cape. The memorial gallery was created by Queen Hedvig Eleonora, who also created a gallery at Drottningholm Palace for her son Karl XI's military exploits.

https://www.instagram.com/p/CZl1xzFMoVA/

At Instagram of the Royal Palaces

The green cabinet at Drottningholm Palace is the first room in Lovisa Ulrika's private room suite. Hårleman was commissioned to design a completely new room interior where all traces of 17th century decor were removed. In 1747, Lovisa Ulrika's cabinet was completed with green silk-clad walls, simple wooden panels in white and gold and with ornaments in window niches and mirror trims. The cabinet was furnished with sculpted gilded tables with marble tops where porcelain vases and figures were placed and with seating furniture in a modern French style. In a letter to her mother, Queen Sofia Dorotea of ​​Prussia, Lovisa Ulrika describes her new living room: "[the room] that will be most dear to me, has boiseries in white and there hangs portraits of my dear family". The fixed interior still includes the mirror frame's recessed still life with a hare and partridge by Jean Baptiste Oudry from 1739. Today, Gustaf Lundberg's pastel portrait from the middle of the 18th century of Queen Lovisa Ulrika and King Adolf Fredrik and their children hangs in the room. Above the office is the young Crown Prince Gustav, later Gustav III. The portrait shows when he was first shown to the estates and at that time he was only nine months old.

https://www.instagram.com/p/CZ1SszNMzcF/

At Instagram of the Royal Palaces

The grand staircase on Drottningholm

The staircasein Drottningholm Palace is without comparison the most lavish and lavish of this kind that the palace's chief architect Nicodemus Tessin has created in any of his buildings. Work began in 1665 and the decoration of its lower part took place under his direction. After Tessin's death in 1681, his son, Nicodemus Tessin the younger, took over the work and the decoration thus changed character. In the upper part of the staircase, the decoration has become lighter and more restrained. The staircase dominates the central part of the palace and occupies the entire height of the building body. The staircase also opens to the sides in the illusion-creating perspective paintings of the walls, whose rooms seem to extend far into the palace. These murals were made by Johan Sylvius, who during studies in Italy and France partly learned the technique of painting al fresco but also of constructing such seminal perspective images. At each change of direction in the upper parts of the staircases, the railings take the form of strong plinths on which marble sculptures, carved by Nicolaes Millich, are placed. The sculptures depict the nine muses. They have been supplemented with their protector Apollo, which stands on the resting plane between the floors.

https://www.instagram.com/p/CaHrQRjsf0l/

The National Property Board published these photos at its social media some days ago

Pic 1

Pic 2

Pic 3

At the square of Drottningholm Palace Theatre (Teaterplanen)

https://www.sfv.se/media/1tzjbizr/6...&width=1920&height=960&rnd=132470617171630000

there are four other buildings:

Kyrkpaviljongen - The Church Pavilion (previously called the "Southern Wooden Pavilion") housed parts of the royal staff during the summer stays at Drottningholm. In the 1780s, the ladies-in-waiting lived here, and at the turn of the century, the king's cavaliers were in the building. The pavilion is a wooden house that was later plastered and discolored to better fit in with the surrounding stone houses. Members of the staff of the court live there.

https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipe...ngen_2011.jpg/1280px-Kyrkpaviljongen_2011.jpg

Jaktpaviljongen - The Hunting Pavilion (previously called the "Northern Wooden Pavilion" and "Duke Fredrik Adolf's Pavilion") was, until 1777, the residence of the Queen's Chief Marshal, Mistress of the Court and Lady of the Court. In 1779, a rebuild was carried out for Gustav III's brother Fredrik Adolf. During the late 19th century, a hunting hall was furnished on the ground floor. Today there is the Theatre's Gift Shop on the ground floor and a private residence in the other parts.

https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipe...11.jpg/1280px-Drottningens_paviljong_2011.jpg

Drottningens Paviljong - The Queen's Pavilion (also called "Duke Karls' Pavilion") was built in 1780 for Duke Karl, later Karl XIII. The building is called the Queen's Pavilion after Queen Sofia of Nassau, Oscar II's wife. Their son Gustaf (later King Gustaf V) was born here. In addition to minor changes, a more comprehensive renovation was carried out in 1910. Some of the original decoration such as joinery, door panels and silk wallpaper are preserved.

https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipe...ngen_2011.jpg/1280px-Jaktpaviljongen_2011.jpg

Hovmarskalksflygeln - The Marshal of the Court's Wing was built of Gustav III's initiative, which thus completed Queen Lovisa Ulrika's begun expansion with pavilions along the Theater square. The wing began to be built in 1791 and was the summer residence of Gustav III's sister Sofia Albertina, who managed the house until her death in 1829. During the 19th century, the pavilion was used for the royal courtship. Former Marshal of the Realm Ingemar Eliasson lives at the house.

https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipe..._2011.jpg/1280px-Hovmarskalksflygeln_2011.jpg

At Instagram of the Royal Palaces

Drottningholm Palace area, which is located on Lovön just outside Stockholm, has been a royal residence since the 1660s. It is an exceptionally well-preserved facility with parks of various style ideals and buildings with original furnishings that showcase Swedish and European architectural history. For centuries the palace grounds have been a place of quiet recreation, pleasure and a meeting place, an international one. From the time when the current palace was built in the 17th century by architects, craftsmen and artists from different parts of Europe to today's tourism with hundreds of thousands of visitors, from near and far. A lively world-unique 18th-century theatre, extensive parks with high natural values, and a palace that still serves as a royal residence, mean that the area still keeps a royal cultural heritage alive today. In 1991, Drottningholm Palace area was designated Sweden's first world heritage site. Thus, the area is on the UN agency Unesco's list of especially valuable environments that are considered to be of inalienable value to humanity.

Two queens have marked Drottningholm Palace. One, Hedvig Eleonora, built the palace, the other, Lovisa Ulrika, took the palace into modern times. Drottningholmsmusiken was composed by Johan Helmich Roman and was first performed at Drottningholm Palace in connection with the wedding between Adolf Fredrik and Lovisa Ulrika of Prussia in 1744. Drottningholmsmusiken consists of 33 movements, the first being performed here by Drottningholm Baroque Ensemble.

https://www.instagram.com/p/ChErtFEjFSz/

After the pandemic years, tourists are starting to find their way back to Drottningholm Palace. But the number of visitors is still not as many as before.

During the pandemic years 2020 and 2021, the number of visitors to the palace dropped significantly. Morgan Gerle, head of the public department of the Royal Palaces, says that they have not yet reached the same number of visitors as before the pandemic.

- We have perhaps 55 % of the number of visitors we had if you compare with 2019, but we must remember that the high season for Drottningholm Palace is not until August-September, when many Europeans have their holidays. But it has certainly exceeded expectations given the world situation.

Taking the boat from Stadshuskajen to Drottningholm is a common route for tourists and Stockholmers alike. At Strömma, it has been noticed that the pandemic is still leaving its mark, especially regarding foreign guests.

Drottningholms turister på väg tillbaka

Photo from Drottningholm

Kungaparets privata del = The Royal Couple private apartment

Silvias pool = Queen Silvia's pool

Slottskyrkan = Drottningholm Palace Chapel

Sjöflygeln = The house where Patrick and Leopold Sommerlath live. Victoria had her apartment there when she lived at Drottningholm.

https://image.svenskdam.se/drottnin...5869890&width=1600&height=1366&compression=80