US-based financial services company Wells Fargo has sold approximately USD 2 billion of private equity investments in certain NEP and NMP funds.

The Norwest Equity Partners and Norwest Mezzanine Partners funds were sold to a group of lending investors, including AlpInvest Partners (a subsidiary of Carlyle), Atalaya Capital Management, Lexington Partners, and Pantheon. Previously, Wells Fargo represented the sole institutional limited partner in these funds.

According to the press release, Wells Fargo will continue its relationship and investment strategy with Norwest Venture Partners separately, while keeping its focus on its core business and overall customer needs and experience at the same time.

Wells Fargo’s recent strategy of development

US-based Wells Fargo represents a multinational financial services company that had multiple partnerships and launches in the last couple of months, covering several different geographic areas around the world.

In August 2023, the US-based multi-lender point-of-sale platform ChargeAfter announced its partnership with Wells Fargo in order to expand its embedded lender network.

Following this strategic deal, the company incorporated Wells Fargo’s suite of services into its network of lenders. This focused on giving merchants and traders the possibility to deliver rapid approvals to their eligible users. In addition, businesses that used the ChargeAfter platform for extending point-of-sale (POS) financing were enabled to provide their clients with Well Fargo’s private label credit programmes.

The programmes included prolonged promotional periods, as well as fast and secure approvals for eligible clients. Furthermore, they were designed to be essential to retailers and service providers that were operating in sectors such as home improvement, home goods, jewellery, outdoor living, and others.

Earlier in the same month, the credit aggregation for merchants and lenders Versatile Credit partnered with the Nationwide Marketing Group (NMG) in order to launch a customer financing portal in a strategic deal closed with Wells Fargo.

The financial service was named `The Finance Hub` and it was developed to optimise the client financing experience by providing a comprehensive, secure, and tailored financing programme for a broad range of users. By using the offerings and capabilities of Versatile’s credit cascade technology, as well as its collaborations with multiple lenders, merchants and traders were enabled to improve their overall equipment and technologies in order to deploy and manage financing programs for clients across the credit spectrum in an efficient manner.

In February 2023, Wells Fargo launched its digital planning platform LifeSync, which was made available for customers on the company’s mobile application. The launch focused on improving the wealth and investment management of the overall firm, as well as enabling clients and users to leverage and track their money more efficiently and securely.

More: Link