Less than two months into her job, Japan's trade and industry minister, Yuko Obuchi, apologized on Thursday for a controversy caused by reports that political funds were spent buying theater tickets for supporters and goods from her relatives' businesses.

House of Representatives member Yuko Obuchi became the youngest postwar minister Wednesday when she was named state minister in charge of tackling the declining birthrate in the newly launched Cabinet under Prime Minister Taro Aso.

Friday, a weekly photo magazine, will publish a photograph of the late former Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi in a hospital in an issue to hit newsstands Friday, magazine editors said Thursday.

Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad expressed condolences Monday on the death of former Japanese Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi.

The Japanese Cabinet resigned yesterday, opening the way for the ruling party's second-in-command to replace Prime Minister Mr Keizo Obuchi, who is reported to be brain dead after suffering a stroke.

Japanese Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi told his Laotian counterpart Sisavath Keobounphanh on Wednesday that Japan will support Laos in the field of macroeconomic management to help it overcome its current economic difficulties.

Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi welcomed Tuesday a capital tie-up between Nissan Motor Co.

However, on the day after the conference ended, the new Foreign Minister, Keizo Obuchi, objected to his government's intention not to sign the treaty.

A ceremony to mark the first anniversary of the death of former Prime minister Keizo Obuchi was held Monday night at a Tokyo hotel with some 450 people from political and business circles attending.

Another significant discrepancy has surfaced in the varying accounts of how Yoshiro Mori came to the office of prime minister after Keizo Obuchi was hospitalized.

One of Singapore's state-run television stations reported Japanese Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi's illness as top news Monday morning, broadcasting live a Tokyo press conference given by a senior cabinet official.