Panjwar Map — Satellite Images of Panjwar

original name: Panjwār

geographical location: Rawalpindi, Punjab, Pakistan, Asia

geographical coordinates: 33° 33' 0" North, 73° 33' 0" East

detailed map of Panjwar and near places

Welcome to the Panjwar google satellite map! This place is situated in Rawalpindi, Punjab, Pakistan, its geographical coordinates are 33° 33' 0" North, 73° 33' 0" East and its original name (with diacritics) is Panjwār. See Panjwar photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Panjwar in Pakistan. Panjwar hotels map is available on the target page linked above.

Do you like this map? Link to it or recommend it!

Register at Panjwar or add new placemark for Panjwar.

Get your personal map homepage and much more for free.

Panjwar hotel reservations

Book hotel in Panjwar online and save money

Browse & Book hotels – low rates, no booking & cancelation fees »

Panjwar hotels – Panjwar hotel guide »

Search for hotels in

Check-in date

Check-out date

Panjwar hotels: low rates, no booking fees, no cancellation fees.

Maplandia.com in partnership with Booking.com offers highly competitive rates for all types of hotels in Panjwar, from affordable family hotels to the most luxurious ones. Booking.com, being established in 1996, is longtime Europe’s leader in online hotel reservations.

At Maplandia.com you won't be charged any booking fees, cancellation fees, or administration fees – the reservation service is free of charge. The reservation system is secure and your personal information and credit card is encrypted.

We have put together also a carefully selected list of recommended hotels in Panjwar, only hotels with the highest level of guest satisfaction are included.

Panjwar hotels map

The location of each Panjwar hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Panjwar hotel map is available where all hotels in Panjwar are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location.

Panjwar hotel reviews

Many photos and unbiased Panjwar hotel reviews written by real guests are provided to help you make your booking decision.

Panjwar hotel deals

Luxury hotels (including 5 star hotels and 4 star hotels) and cheap Panjwar hotels (with best discount rates and up-to-date hotel deals) are both available in separate lists. Always bear in mind that with Maplandia.com and Booking.com the best price is guaranteed!

Hotels nearest to the centre of Panjwar

Hotel Zahgeer Continental - Gulmarg *** (in Gulmarg, distanced approximately 94 km)

Number Eleven **** (in Gulmarg, distanced approximately 97 km)

Hotel Sadaf ** (in Srinagar, distanced approximately 130 km)

The Residency *** (in Srinagar, distanced approximately 130 km)

Swan Group of Houseboats, Golden Dal Lake ** (in Srinagar, distanced approximately 130 km)

Mandalay Houseboats *** (in Srinagar, distanced approximately 130 km)

The LaLit Grand Palace Srinagar ***** (in Srinagar, distanced approximately 130 km)

more Panjwar hotels »

Panjwar car rental

Compare Panjwar car rental offers of 500+ suppliers

We search over 500 approved car hire suppliers to find you the very best Panjwar rental prices available. You can compare offers from leading car hire suppliers like Avis, Europcar, Sixt or Thrifty as well as budget rental deals from Holiday Autos, Budget, Economy, EasyCar, or 121 carhire. Choose Panjwar car hire supplier according to your preferences. The booking process is secured and is made as simple as possible. You don't have to browse through several websites and compare prices to find cheap car rental in Panjwar — we will do it for you!

Car hire Panjwar and neighbourhood

Car rental offices nearest to Panjwar the city centre. Compare Panjwar car rental offers by various suppliers.

Islamabad International Airport car rental (distanced approximately 49 km)

Islamabad City car rental (distanced approximately 55 km)

Allama Iqbal International Airport car rental (distanced approximately 240 km)

Lahore Downtown car rental (distanced approximately 240 km)

Noida car rental (distanced approximately 440 km)

more offers and Panjwar car hiring guide »

Flights from airports close to Panjwar

Search and compare flights

Flights to nearby airports to Panjwar »

Overview of flights to and from Pakistan »

Flights search »

Compare prices on flights to and from the closest airports to Panjwar. We search through offers of more than 600 airlines and travel agents. When you find a deal you want, we provide link to the airline or travel agent to make your booking directly with them. No middlemen. No added fees. You always get the lowest price.

Airports in Panjwar and in the neighbourhood

Airports nearest to Panjwar are sorted by the distance to the airport from the city centre. Follow relate airport hotel guides for accommodation booking.

Sawan Airport (distanced approximately 30 km) – airport hotels

Rawalakot Airport (distanced approximately 40 km) – airport hotels

Islamabad Chaklala Airport (distanced approximately 42 km) – airport hotels

Qasim Airport (distanced approximately 48 km) – airport hotels

Mangla Airport (distanced approximately 56 km) – airport hotels

Panjwar 3D map in Google Earth

3D map of Panjwar in Pakistan

You can also dive right into Panjwar on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Panjwar 3D map within your web browser.

See the 3D map of Panjwar, Pakistan in Google Earth »

Get more out of Panjwar map

Add placemark to Panjwar

No placemark has been added to this place yet. You can add the first.

users registered in this area

No users is registered to this place. You can be the first.

recommend this page

If you would like to recommend this Panjwar map page to a friend, or if you just want to send yourself a reminder, here is the easy way to do it. Simply fill in the e-mail address and name of the person you wish to tell about Maplandia.com, your name and e-mail address (so they can reply to you with gracious thanks), and click the recommend button. The URL of this site will be included automatically. You may also enter an additional message that will be also included in the e-mail.

Panjwar google map link options

link to us:

small Panjwar google map image link

medium Panjwar google map image link

large Panjwar google map image link