The family of William John Davis of Kenton, Ohio, sadly announces that he passed on November 7, 2023, peacefully at his home, after bravely enduring a lengthy illness. He was 85 years old.

Bill was born on June 6, 1938, and resided in Kenton for most of his life. He is survived by his beloved wife of 61 years, Myrna Caroline Davis (Kemppainen) of Kenton, and his four children: Mona (Will) Goble of Parish, NY; Kelly (Tom) Thompson of Beverly Hills, MI; Steve (Merri) Davis of Azulauke, Lithuania; Wendy (James) White of East Liberty, OH; and one spoiled dog, Gwilym.

He was blessed with 20 grandchildren, who loved him dearly and fondly nicknamed him “Popsie”; eight great-grandchildren (with three more on the way), and three granddogs. He had deep affection for all his nieces and nephews and other extended family.

Bill was preceded in death by his parents, David and Nelle Davis, and eight brothers and sisters: Philip Davis, Jane Ehlen, Barb Tilton, Margaret Mullady, David Davis, Lou Davis, Tom Davis, and Ruth Wallace. He is survived by his younger brother, Jim Davis (Jayma).

He proudly served in the U.S. military for 27 years, first with the Air Force and then the Ohio Army National Guard, retiring with the rank of E8 Master Sergeant. He served in the American Veterans Honor Guard, Post 1994. He was employed with and retired from the city of Kenton’s Waste Water Treatment Plant.

Bill treasured his family above all things. He was a true patriot and loved his hometown and the United States. He had a soft spot for dogs, was a lifelong OSU football fan, and enjoyed golf and fishing throughout his life. He will be remembered by his family for his routine of “good morning cookie time” and for sitting around the kitchen table with friends and family sharing memories.

He and Myrna spent decades vacationing in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula where they enjoyed a network of friends, and traveling to Florida in the winter with Myrna’s siblings. They also traveled the world with their sidekick, Sylvia McMahon (Kemppainen), visiting China, Lithuania, Finland, Estonia, Austria, South Korea, and Hungary. The Davis family enjoyed many adventures together at home and abroad. Throughout their marriage they opened their home to friends, neighbors, and foreigners, who became family. They welcomed all and embodied the gift of hospitality.

Popsie was an American classic and “the last of the good guys.” He will be deeply missed. He would want everyone reading this to know that family was his greatest gift, which he expressed to his loved ones throughout his life and in his final hours.

A memorial service will begin at noon Saturday, November 11, 2023 at the SCHINDEWOLF-STOUT-CRATES FUNERAL HOME where the family will receive friends for one hour (11 a.m. to noon) prior to the service. Full military rites will be conducted by the Amvets Post 1994. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made in memory of William to the Amvets Post 1994. Online condolences can be expressed to the family by visiting stoutcrates.com.