The Animal Kingdom is directed by Thomas Cailley who previously directed Love at First Flight (2014).

The Animal Kingdom is definitely an interesting one for sure, the film takes place in a world where humans gradually transform into animals. We follow François (played by Roman Duris) and his son Émile (played by Paul Kircher) who go on a journey together which becomes quite an experience.

Going into this movie I did not really know what to expect, but the movie delivers quite well, for starters the performances from both Kricher and Duris are fantastic. The father and son bond works incredibly well and the two share a lot of heartwarming moments between one another, the body horror elements are quite neat as well with some neat looking visuals. The theme of change is present throughout the film and how the characters have to go through it, although this isn’t something new as many films before have explored this before. The way the film goes about it with the whole animal transformation element makes it much more interesting and in a way sort of sad.

If there’s one major criticism it’s most definitely the running time which is 130 minutes long, the ideas of the film start to lose steam towards the end due to just how long the film goes on and it starts to repeat itself a bit. It also does lose its focus towards the end as well, like it almost forgets what it’s exactly trying to say.

However that really is not enough to stop the film from being quite beautiful, it’s a beautifully told film with a mix of great makeup and visual effects that do a really great job of telling the story. Some of the film’s strongest moments is Émile interacting with the animals, you can tell through the expressive visual effects and makeup the feelings and actions of the animals and what they are thinking. Which really fits for this movie!

Overall The Animal Kingdom might not be saying anything incredibly new but it is a very interesting film that executes its ideas quite well for the most part!

The Animal Kingdom is available on all VOD platforms.

7/10 B