The injury-troubled Clippers needed a lot to happen for them to have a shot at beating the surging New Orleans Hornets.

They needed some strong inside scoring from Chris Kaman. Timely shooting from Sam Cassell would have helped, too, and maybe given them a chance at winning consecutive games for the first time since Nov. 7.

They got neither, so the Clippers lost another home game, falling 95-81 Wednesday night to the Hornets at Staples Center.

Kaman made just 1 of 10 shots from the field and finished with nine points, 11 rebounds and five assists, and Cassell went just 1-for-8 for two points.

“There’s no excuse,” Kaman said. “I struggled. They did some different things that I haven’t seen this season, and every time I got the ball there were two or three guys around me. I was 1-for-10, and obviously, that’s terrible.”

It was only the second time this season that Kaman didn’t score in double figures.

Clippers coach Mike Dunleavy, gave credit to the Hornets and the defense of Tyson Chandler, but he mentioned something else, too.

“In the first half, I thought there were some plays where I don’t think he got calls,” Dunleavy said of Kaman. “I think if the referees went back and looked at it, they’ll probably tell you the same thing. But that’s just the game. Sometimes, when you just don’t get it, you end up putting pressure on yourself, and you end up thinking too much.”

The Hornets, who have the third-best record in the West, have won six of seven and boast a strong crew with Paul, Chandler, David West and Peja Stojakovic. West finished with 29 points and 10 rebounds, and Paul had 16 points and 13 assists with only one turnover.

It took until the third quarter for that talent to come through. After being tied at halftime, the Clippers fell down by 17 points in the third quarter and trailed 71-58 heading into the fourth quarter.

Stojakovic started the game 1of8 but hit three consecutive 3-pointers in the third quarter to help New Orleans take the lead for good.

Things didn’t get much better in the fourth quarter. New Orleans led by as many as 17 points in the quarter, and the Clippers never got closer than 11.

With Kaman and Cassell struggling, Corey Maggette scored 20 points, and rookie Al Thornton added 15 points on 7-of-11 shooting.

Cuttino Mobley (13 points) said the Clippers’ problems go much deeper than off nights from Kaman and Cassell.

“Good teams make each other better, so it’s easier for your key guys to score,” Mobley said. “Things are contagious. It’s like life. If you’re around a lot of bad people, you become bad. If you’re around a lot of good people, you become good. If you’re around dumb people, you’ll stay dumb. If you’re by smart people, you’ll be smart after a while.

“Do you understand what I’m saying to you? So when you got people who are passing and cutting and moving, it becomes contagious after that.”