The Mali flag was officially adopted on March 1, 1961. The national flag of Mali has a simple design and is modeled after the French Tricolore. It is a tricolor featuring equal vertical bands of green(left/hoist side), gold (middle), and red (right). These colors are the Pan-African colors. Mali’s flag is nearly identical to Guinea’s flag, however the colors are arranged in the reverse order. The national flag of Mali has a height to length proportion of 2:3.

The green color in the flag of Mali symbolizes the fertility of land. The gold color represents the country's mineral wealth, as well as purity. The red color is a reminder of the blood that was shed to gain independence from the French rule, gold represents the country's mineral wealth and purity, while green stands for its forests and fertility of the land. .

History of Mali's Flag

The current national flag of Mali was adopted on March 1, 1961. However, Mali's first flag was adopted in 1959, when Mali joined the Mali Federation. The original flag was similar to the current flag but featured a human stick figure on the middle stripe. The figure was black in color and had its arms raised towards the sky. Following opposition by Muslim fundamentalists, the figure was removed from the flag.

National Coat of Arms of Mali

The first seal for Mali was designed soon after the dissolution of the Mali Federation in 1960. It almost resembled current arms save for the color scheme. The current seal was adopted on October 20, 1973. It consists of a light blue circle with a vulture flying above the mosque of Djenne. Below the mosque is a rising sun and on each side of the sun are bows bent by their arrow. The vulture, mosque, and rising sun are allin gold colors while the arrows and bows are in white. The name of the country: REPUBLIQUE DU MALI (REPUBLIC OF MALI) is displayed at the top, and the national motto: Un Peuple, Un But, Une Foi ("One People, One Goal, One Faith") at the bottom.

The currency of Mali is the West African CFA franc, which is denoted by the symbol CFAF, and has an ISO code of XOF. The West African CFA franc broken into 100 subdivisions known as centimes. Mali previously had an independent currency known as Malian franc, that was in use between 1962 and 1984, before readopting the CFA franc as the official currency. Although the CFA franc is subdivided into 100 centimes, the subdivisions are not in circulation in the country.

CFA franc is a name given to the two currencies issued in West and Central Africa. The two currencies assume permanent parity and are effectively interchangeable. The CFA franc coins and notes are issued in Mali by the Central Bank of West Africa. The currency is issued in 14 West and Central African states. The CFA franc was developed in 1945 as a result of the weakness of the French franc after the World War II. It was created in French colonies to cushion the colonies from the strong devaluation of the French franc and thereby enhance export to France.

Banknotes and Coins

In 1961, aluminum coins dated 1961 were issued in different denominations including 5, 10, and 25 francs. The second series of coins made of aluminum and bronze were issued between 1975 and 1977 in additional denominations of 50 and 100 francs. In 1962, banknotes in the denomination of 50, 100, 500, 1000, and 5000 francs were issued by the Bank of the Republic of Mali. A second series of banknotes were issued in 1967 in the same denominations as the notes issued in 1962. In 1971, the Central Bank of Mali began issuing notes, producing the third series of banknotes in denominations ranging from 100 to 10,000 francs.