Countess Markievicz

Countess Markievicz was the first woman ever elected the United Kingdom House of Commons but abstained from taking her seat. Subsequently, she became the first woman elected to Dáil Éireann when it was first assembled in 1919. She was also the first woman cabinet minister in all of Europe. Markievicz too became one of the founding members of political party Fianna Fáil. Learn more about her here.

Former President Mary Robinson

Mary Robinson was the first woman President of Ireland, serving from 1990-1997. Prior to her Presidency, Robinson was a councillor and a Senator. She became the first independent candidate to win the Presidency. When she stepped down from Office, Robinson became the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. She too was a founding member of The Elders and became the first female chancellor of the University of Dublin. Learn more about her here.

Kathleen Clarke

In 1939, Kathleen Clarke became the first woman Lord Mayor of Dublin. She served as a Senator and a TD and was elected to Dublin Corporation. Clarke was one of the founders of Cumann na mBan. Throughout her life, she campaigned for better political representation for women. Learn more about her life here.

Margaret Buckley

Margaret Buckley was elected Sinn Fein Vice – President. Three years later, she became president of Sinn Fein, making her the first woman to ever lead a political party in Ireland. Learn more about her here.

Former Tánaiste Mary Harney

Mary Harney was the first woman to serve as Tánaiste in Ireland. She is also the second longest serving female member of Dáil Éireann, serving as a TD from 1981 – 2011. Harney too was one of the founders of the political party the progressive democrats which disbanded in 2009. Learn more about her here.

Nan Joyce

Nan Joyce was the first Traveller candidate to contest a general election in 1982. She too co-founded the Committee for the Rights of Travellers and campaigned for equality and human rights for the travelling community and beyond for decades. Joyce was awarded a lifetime achievement award for her campaigning work. Learn more about her here.

Yemi Adenuga

Yemi Adenuga was elected to Meath County Council in 2019. She became Ireland’s first black female councillor and the first migrant councillor elected to Meath County Council. She is the first migrant woman to ever be written into an Irish school text book and the first migrant peace commissioner for Meath County Council. Councillor Adenuga has also founded mentoring programmes for women and youth. Learn more about her here.

Former President Mary McAleese

Mary McAleese was the first woman to succeed another as President of Ireland. Her election to the Presidency, succeeding former President Mary Robinson became the first instance worldwide where a woman had succeeded another woman in this office. She was the first President ever elected from Northern Ireland and served from 1997-2011. During her Presidency, the first State visit by a monarch since Ireland’s independence occurred. She has since been appointed to numerous roles as chair and is the current chancellor of Trinity College Dublin. Learn more about her here.

Senator Eileen Flynn

Senator Eileen Flynn was nominated to the Seanad in 2020 by the Taoiseach at the time. Her appointment as Senator made her the first ever Traveller to be a member of the Oireachtas. Prior to her appointment as Senator, Flynn worked as an activist and a community worker with various different groups. Senator Flynn is the chair of the Joint Oireachtas Committee on Key Issues affecting the travelling community. Learn more about her here.

Uruemu Adejinmi

Uruemu Adejinmi’s journey with politics began in 2016. In 2018, she began an internship with the Immigrant Council of Ireland, shadowing Joe Flaherty while he was a councillor. In 2020 she became a councillor and in 2021, she was elected Cathaoirleach of Longford Municipal District. She became Ireland’s first black woman Mayor. She is also the first migrant to ever hold this role. Learn more about her here.

Máire Geoghegan-Quinn

Máire Geoghegan Quinn first served as a TD in 1975. Since her election to Dáil Éireann, she has held numerous different Ministerial positions and was appointed to the European Court of Auditors in 1999. Geoghegan Quinn became the first Irish woman ever appointed EU Commissioner. She is currently serving as Chairperson of Údarás na hOllscoile, the governing authority of NUI Galway. Learn more about her here.

Frances Condell

Frances Condell was elected Mayor of Limerick City in 1962. She became the first woman to ever hold this position. She too was instrumental in securing Limerick as a stop on JFK’s visit to Ireland. Learn more about her here.

Eileen Desmond

Eileen Desmond was first elected to Dáil Éireann in 1965. She too served as a Senator and an MEP. She was the first woman ever appointed Minister for Health and Social Welfare and she was the third woman in the history of the State to hold the position of a cabinet minister. Learn more about her here.

Gemma Hussey

Gemma Hussey was first elected to Seanad Éireann in 1977 and went on to be leader of the Seanad. In 1982 she was elected to Dáil Éireann and became the first woman to hold the position of Minister for Education. She too co-founded the European Women’s Federation. Learn more about her here.

Nora Owen

Nora Owen was first elected to Dáil Éireann in 1981. She went on to become the first woman deputy leader of Fine Gael in 1993. During her political career she focused on gender equality in politics. Learn more about her here.

Margaret Tynan

Margaret Tynan became Kilkenny’s first ever woman Mayor in 1969 and in 1975 became the first ever chairwoman of Kilkenny County Council. She was also the first woman president of the chamber of commerce. Learn more about her here.

Monica McWilliams

Monica McWilliams is the founder of the political party the Northern Ireland Women’s Coalition in 1996. The party was peace based and focused on inclusion, human rights and equality. Learn more about her here.

Niamh Bhreathnach

Niamh Bhreathnach was first elected to Dáil Éireann in 1992 when she served as Minister for Education. She was the first woman to ever be appointed as a Minister for State at the start of her first Dáil term. Learn more about her here.

Katherine Zappone

Katherine Zappone served as a Senator from 2011 – 2016. She was then elected to Dáil Éireann in 2016 and served as Minister for Children and Youth Affairs. This made her the first woman to be appointed to an Irish Cabinet as an independent politician. She is also the first openly lesbian TD and Government Minister. Learn more about her here.

Jane Dowdall

Jane Dowdall was the first woman member of Cork City Council and became the first woman Lord Mayor of Cork in 1959. Prior to her serving as Lord Mayor, she too served as a Senator from 1951-1961. Learn more about her here.

Tras Honan

Tras Honan was elected to Seanad Éireann in 1977. She served as Cathaoirleach of Seanad Éireann from 1982 – 1983 and again from 1987-1989. She was the first and only woman who has ever held the position of Cathaoirleach of Seanad Éireann. She too served as Leas- Cathaoirleach from 1983-1987. Learn more about her here.

Mary Hilda Cavanagh

Cllr Mary Hilda Cavanagh was elected to Kilkenny County Council in 1974 while still in college and has been elected in nine successive Local Elections. She is the longest serving, continuously elected woman councillor in Ireland. Learn more about her here.

Pádraigín Uí Mhurchadha

Pádraigín Uí Mhurchadha was first elected to Monaghan Town Council in 1985. She served for 30 years and was the longest serving councillor in the town council. Learn more about her here.

Ruth Illingworth

Ruth Illingworth was elected to Mullingar Town Council in 2004. In 2009, she was elected Mayor of Mullingar Town Council. This made her the first ever openly lesbian mayor of an Urban District Council. Learn more about her here.

Ellen Ryan

Ellen (Nell) Ryan was elected to Wexford County Council in 1928. She was the first woman elected to the council and served until 1954. Learn more about her here.

Sarah Cecilia Harrison

Sarah Cecilia Harrison became the first women to serve as a councillor for Dublin Corporation in 1912. She was closely involved in the efforts of Hugh Lane to establish a modern art gallery in Dublin. Learn more about her here.

Josephine Carroll

Josephine Carroll became the first woman to be elected to Monaghan Urban District Council. She too was elected as Chair of Monaghan District Council, making her the first woman to ever do so. Learn more about her here.

Kate McCarry

Kate McCarry was elected to Letterkenny Urban District Council in 1925. She was the first woman to ever hold the position of a councillor in Letterkenny. In the 115 years of the council’s existence, only 5 out of 96 councillors were women. Learn more about her here.

Uruemu Adejinmi and Peggy Nolan

In 2020, Peggy Nolan and Uruemu Adejinmi were elected to the top positions in Longford’s Municipal District as Cathaoirleach and Leas Cathaoirleach. This is the first time two women have ever occupied both roles at municipal district level.

Síle DeValera and Eileen Desmond

Síle DeValera was first elected to Dáil Éireann in 1977 and was the youngest TD elected in that election. Eileen Desmond was first elected to Dáil Éireann in 1965. She too served as a Senator. Both DeValera and Desmond served as Ministers of State. They were two of the first women to serve as Members of the European Parliament and were elected in 1979.