Well-known housing campaigner Rory Hearne has been selected by the Social Democrats as the party’s general election candidate in Dublin North-West.

Co-founder of the party Róisín Shortall has held a Dáil seat in the constituency since 1992 but has recently confirmed she is retiring from politics and will not contest the next general election.

Mr Hearne, who is an associate professor at Maynooth University and stood for the Social Democrats in the Midlands-North West during last month's European elections, was selected as a general election candidate at a convention this evening (July 25) in the Skylon Hotel, Drumcondra.

Read more: Former Social Democrats leaders Catherine Murphy and Roisin Shortall not contesting next election

Sign up to the Dublin Live Newsletter to get all the latest Dublin news straight to your inbox.

Mr Hearne said he was "honoured" to have been selected and said he will "work tirelessly to retain the seat held by Róisín for so many years".

"While hers are extremely big boots to fill, I am really excited about the challenge ahead," he said. “As someone who has lived on Dublin’s northside for 20 years and is raising a young family here, I am acutely aware of the issues affecting the constituency – not least the housing crisis.

“As a father, it breaks my heart that there are still thousands of children in Ireland living in homelessness, growing up in hotels and in family hubs. Like all parents, I worry every day about what the future is going to look like for our children, from the housing crisis to the environment and the growing divide in Ireland.

“For me, out of all the parties in Ireland, the Social Democrats have demonstrated the most political will to solve the major challenges facing us as a country. I will do everything possible to ensure that the people of Dublin North-West will continue to have strong representation in Dáil Eireann by a Social Democrats TD after the general election.”

Ms Shortall welcomed Mr Hearne's selection and asked her constituency to "put their trust in him". She said: "It has been an incredible honour to represent this constituency for more than three decades.

"I am always mindful that I was able to do that because the people of Dublin North-West placed their trust in me for seven consecutive general elections. I am now asking those who supported me to put their trust in Rory, who I believe, would make an exceptional TD for this area.

"I know he shares my vision for improved public services, a properly functioning health service and housing that is genuinely affordable. From standing up to vulture funds to working with the homeless, Rory has been a powerful and empathic voice for the generation locked out of housing in Ireland.

"I wish him every success in the general election and look forward to campaigning with him.”

For all the latest news from Dublin and surrounding areas visit our homepage.