Whenever anyone asks for a free alternative to Adobe Photoshop, GIMP (GNU Image Manipulation Program) is always the first app that people talk about. It is a bitmap/pixel-based image manipulation program for photo editing and retouching and creating images and animations.

Today open source image editor GIMP has been updated to version 2.10.28. Because GIMP 3.0 is pretty far away from becoming a stable release, we recommend that you stick with the new 2.10.28 release for now if you use GIMP regularly and you do not want random crashes or unexpected behavior.

GIMP 2.10.28 Highlights

The latest GIMP 2.10.28 release is in principle a “minor” bug-fix release. It is mostly the same program, there are no big changes like there are in the development branch for the next major version that will be released as GIMP 3.0, but there are some noteworthy bug fixes and performance adjustments mainly aimed at Windows users.

GIMP 2.10.28 is out mostly with fixes, most notably for Windows-specific issues. We don’t have contributors to make a macOS build available immediately at this time, so please expect a delay.

In GIMP 2.10.28, more work than ever has been done around Windows version of the app. The bug about very slow file dialogs on Windows has been fixed. In addition, opening files in specific third-party software that was causing GIMP to crash is now also fixed.

Among the 82 languages for which GIMP is available, 14 more translations have been updated. On top on that, the Windows installer now contains Vietnamese and Lithuanian translations, making it available in 34 languages.

OpenBSD users have reason to rejoice with the new GIMP 2.20.28 version. The dashboard dockable now has memory support in this Unix-like operating system.

The following plug-ins received fixes: C-source, DICOM, GIF, PS, Sunras, BMP, DDS, PSD, TIFF, Gimpressionist, metadata viewer and several script-fu scripts as well as the script-fu interpreter itself. In addition a new Script-Fu function, called dir-make enables to create directories from scripts.

However, the news is not good for the macOS users, as the GIMP 2.10.28 is not yet available for them.

We remind that GIMP is made by you. Windows developers used to be very few too. As you can see, this is clearly changing. Therefore, if anyone cares about GIMP for macOS, please step forward.

For detailed information on all changes in GIMP 2.10.28, you can refer to the official announcement.

Download

You probably may have noticed that GIMP devs skipped version 2.10.26. The reason behind this decision is because a build bug has been discovered just after tagging the 2.10.26 release. GIMP 2.10.28 is the same without the bug.

You can (as always) download the latest version from the official GIMP website:

Linux users can also install the latest GIMP version from Flathub. This is the project’s officially recommended way to get the latest version of the app on most distros.