AKC BIPS GCH UKC CH RO1

Fishercreeks Take A Chance On Me

RN RI RA ​BN CGC RATI DS WC JH

Nina exemplifies the Flat-Coated Retriever's happy-go-lucky attitude. Nina not only has great field drive, but she is incredibly smart and easy to train. As a puppy, Nina loved to spend her days chasing tennis balls, playing in the hose, and cuddling up for a good nap. Now that she's grown-up, she still loves those things, but has added birds and bumpers, long retrieves, playing with her puppies, and so much more.

Structurally, Nina has a lovely headpiece, moderate bone, a stunning front assembly, a rock-solid topline, and beautiful reach and drive. She is an easy mover who is very intelligent, loves challenging work, and remains a devoted and loving companion.

At 5 months old, Nina won three back-to-back Puppy Sporting Group 1sts, and a Best Puppy in Show. At her first pointed show at just 6 months old, she won a 3-point major by going Best of Breed over 3 specials under a breeder judge. Nina easily completed her Championship at 18 months with limited showings and 3 majors. She then breezed through her Grand Championship before she turned 2 years old.

At just 2 years old, Nina was awarded a Judge's Award of Merit at 2017 Royal Canin AKC National Championship Dog Show under esteemed breeder judge Ann Yuhasz. In May 2018, Nina attended at the Flat-Coated Retriever National Specialty with almost 1000 entries. There, at just 2.5 years old, Nina was awarded the Judge's Award of Merit from International breeder judge Jim Irvine, Vbos Kennels. Nina was just one of 16 dogs who were top finishers.

Throughout this time, Nina has competed in other performance venues earning field, rally and obedience titles. Nina is easy to train and competes with great ability -- she went three for three earning qualifiers and placements for her AKC Rally Advanced title; Nina also earned her AKC Junior Hunt Test passing every test with high marks and excellent comments from the judges. We're looking forward to seeing what she accomplishes next!

At home, Nina is a joy to live with, easy to train, a loving companion and devoted momma who has produced puppies with excellent conformation, temperament and trainability. Nina loves to hang out with her family, she likes to play with other dogs, and loves taking her daily hikes in the woods out back. Nina shows great promise and continues to enjoy training in Field, Obedience, Rally, Coursing Ability and Therapy.