List of members

The composition of the University of Westminster Court of Governors is set out in the Articles of Association.

The following are Governors (Directors) of the University as of 1 July 2023.

Professor Lynne Berry CBE

Chair/Independent Governor

Lynne is Chair of the Human Tissue Authority, the regulator for human tissue and organs and is a Trustee of Welsh National Opera. She is a visiting professor in the Centre for Charity Effectiveness, City, University of London. She has chaired a number of bodies including Sustrans, Breast Cancer Now, CPAG, Glandŵr Cymru and the Commission on the Voluntary Sector and Ageing. She was also deputy chair of the Canal and River Trust and a NED at Cambridge University Hospitals FT. She has held several chief executive posts including the General Social Care Council, Equal Opportunities Commission, Charity Commission, Family Action and RVS and held a number of government advisory posts. She has received several awards, including a CBE and an OBE, and a number of honorary degrees and fellowships. Her commitment to Westminster is long-standing: she was both a part-time postgraduate student and a lecturer at the former Polytechnic of Central London (now the University of Westminster).

Linda Phillips BSc(tech) FCILT

Deputy Chair/Independent Governor

Linda is a graduate of Cardiff University and a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport. She has held senior positions in a number of blue-chip companies in the field of logistics and operations and is an expert in supply chain and road safety. As a senior leader, Linda has gained extensive experience working with and across different cultural and geographical boundaries. She is chair of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Governance and Nominations Committee. She is also Vice Chair and Director of Cardiff City Transport Limited.

Professor Fiona Ross, CBE, PhD, BSc, RGN

Deputy Chair/Independent Governor

Fiona Ross is Emerita Professor in Health and Social Care at Kingston University and St George’s, University of London. She has a background in community nursing and social policy and has worked at King’s College London and as Dean of Health and Social Care Sciences at St George’s, University of London and Kingston University. She was the Director of Research for the Leadership Foundation for Higher Education commissioning research on governance and leadership in UK universities and has had executive roles in higher education leading equalities, managing teacher education and in partnership with health providers delivering health and social care improvement. A former non-executive on a NHS Trust Board, trustee and Chair of Princess Alice Hospice, member of REF2021 Equality and Diversity Advisory Panel, she is currently a trustee of Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity.

Divanshu Airan

Student Governor

Divanshu is a dedicated and passionate individual committed to making a significant impact in higher education. With a Master's degree in Corporate Finance Law, his academic achievements reflect his deep interest in the intersection of law and finance. Throughout his academic journey at the University, Divanshu actively participated in various roles, including serving as the Vice President of Welfare at UWSU. In this role, he implemented numerous initiatives to support student wellbeing, demonstrating his unwavering commitment to enhancing the student experience. As an advocate with experience practicing criminal law in India, Divanshu brings a unique perspective to his new role. Now, as the President of the Students' Union and an appointed governor, he is poised to continue his advocacy for student welfare and contribute significantly to the University community. His dedication, vision, and diverse experience make him an invaluable asset to the institution.

Ayo Ajayi

Independent Governor

Ayo is a Chartered Quantity Surveyor and currently holds the position of Director at WT Partnership, leveraging seven years of prior leadership. With an impressive 17-year career in the industry, Ayo has excelled in delivering cost management services across a spectrum of complex and prestigious projects in both the Residential and Commercial sectors across Europe. Committed to supporting the next generation, Ayo is involved in various roles, including membership on the Mayor of London Infrastructure Advisory Board, Chair of The Land Collective Advisory Board, and as a founding member of The Property Development Book Club.

Justin Bairamian

Independent Governor

Justin is Founding Director of BBC Creative, the BBC’s in-house creative agency, and Director of Brand Strategy at the BBC. He started his career in advertising at Saatchi & Saatchi and spent a number of years in advertising agencies, ending up as Managing Director of Leagas Delaney. He has since worked in a variety of marketing, strategic and creative roles at the BBC. He is also the Vice Chair of Governors at Lady Margaret School in Parson’s Green.

Professor Peter Bonfield, OBE, FREng, FIET, FICE, FIOM3, FCGI, FCIOB, HonFIStructE, HonFCABE

Ex-officio Governor

Peter is Vice-Chancellor and President of the University. He has responsibility for directing all University activities and developments and is Chair of the University Executive Board and Academic Council. He also has statutory reporting duties on behalf of the University to the Office for Students. Peter is Chair of IOSH, Vice-Chair of London Higher, a member of the Board of UK Active and a former President of the Institution of Engineering and Technology.

Chidambar Dhapatkar

Student Governor

Chidambar Dhapatkar is a dedicated and resourceful individual with a background in commerce and a growing passion for entrepreneurship. He earned his bachelor’s degree in commerce and is currently pursuing a Master’s degree in entrepreneurship, driven by a desire to explore new ideas and contribute meaningfully to the business world. With 3.5 years of hands-on experience, Chidambar has worked across various roles in sales and marketing, eventually stepping into a leadership position as a Senior Manager. This journey has given him valuable insights into project management and team collaboration.

Now serving as the Vice President of Postgraduate Education for the Students’ Union, Chidambar is committed to advocating for the needs of postgraduate students. His focus is on enhancing the academic experience and providing support for his peers during their studies. Chidambar’s blend of academic knowledge, professional experience, and a genuine commitment to student welfare reflects his dedication to making a positive impact within the University community.

Victoria Foster, BA, ACA

Independent Governor

Victoria is Deputy Director, Head of Finance Business Partnering at the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero (DESNZ). She is responsible for providing professional financial support and enabling delivery across the Government's Energy and Net Zero agenda. After graduating from Cambridge in 2010 with First Class Honours in Classics, Victoria joined the Audit graduate scheme at Deloitte London. There she worked on audit and assurance engagements for clients from a wide range of sectors that included retail, law, education and charity. In 2014 she joined FTI Consulting, working in its Economic and Financial Consulting practice where she was engaged as a Senior Consultant. Victoria joined the Civil Service in October 2018 as Head of Strategic Finance and Reporting. She moved to the Home Office in May 2021 and to DESNZ in June 2023.

Sean Griffiths

Colleague Governor

Sean is Professor of Architecture at the University of Westminster and also a practicing architect and artist. He undertook his post graduate studies at the Polytechnic of Central London (now University of Westminster) before setting up the architectural practice, Fashion Architecture Taste (FAT) which went on to represent the UK at the 2014 Venice Architecture Biennale. Sean has previously been appointed Visiting Professor of Architectural Design at Yale University and Visiting Professor of Architecture at ABK Stuttgart. Sean is also an activist around social and environmental issues and is currently the UCU rep for Architecture and Cities.

Sara Hafeez, BA MA PGCert FHEA

Colleague Governor

Sara is an Academic Engagement Librarian at the University, supporting all School of Media subjects as well as Fashion Business programmes, and Music. She has been elected as the nominee for Colleague Governor by professional support colleagues. Within Westminster, she is a member of Black History Year Steering group, Decolonising the Curriculum steering group and co-manages the Read & Relax fiction collection. She is also a member of the Friends of Marcus Garvey Library, in Tottenham.

Dr Sal Jarvis

Ex-officio Governor

Sal is Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Education) and Provost. She has responsibility for the strategic leadership of all aspects of learning and teaching at the University, including academic professional development, student partnership and portfolio development. She chairs the University Teaching Committee, Portfolio Planning Committee and co-chairs the University’s Student Voice Forum with the President of the Student Union. Sal’s background is in primary education, with expertise in Inclusion, and she joined Higher Education as a Teacher Educator. She is a governor, and Chair of the School Development Board, at a 4-19 School for pupils with physiological and neurological impairments. Sal is a Non-Executive Director of the Tavistock and Portman NHS Trust, with a particular focus on education.

Jameela Khan, FCCA

Independent Governor

Jameela is an experienced finance and corporate resources director. She is a qualified accountant with over 25 years’ experience of working in organisations with a social cause. She has worked as a senior consultant for NHS and as an executive director in several national and international charities, including GambleAware, Livability, Refuge, HelpAge International, Coeliac UK and others. Jameela runs her own strategic consultancy business, and she brings extensive financial insight and experience in the fields of corporate law, governance, income generation, business planning and change management.

Professor Graham Meikle, PhD, MA, MA (Hons), SFHEA

Colleague Governor

Graham is Academic Council’s nominee to the Court of Governors. He is Professor of Communication and Digital Media, and Director of Westminster’s Communication and Media Research Institute. Graham is a National Teaching Fellow and a Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy. He has published eight books, most recently Deepfakes.

Charlotte Morgan

Independent Governor

Charlotte is a Chartered Accountant and Corporate Treasurer. She is non-executive director and Audit Committee Chair of SMBC Bank International plc and Union Bank of India (UK) Ltd. She has served as Vice President of the Association of Corporate Treasurers and as a non-executive director of FCE Bank plc (Ford Credit). During her executive career she was Head of Corporate Treasury and Tax at Standard Chartered plc, amongst other senior finance roles. She is a trustee and Chair of the Finance Committee at the London Sinfonietta Orchestra, and Chair of Second Movement Opera. She has served as a trustee at the Oxford School of Drama and as a school governor and Finance Committee member with the Methodist schools group.

Jane Robson

Independent Governor

Jane is an entrepreneur, business advisor to a range of digital, retail and manufacturing businesses. Her career has been spent living in Asia and Europe pioneering retail supply chains, and developing diverse, regional strategy and teams. She has successfully founded, merged and sold several business entities including two design and sourcing companies and a women’s fashion brand. Jane holds a number of non-executive roles in the charity and business sector, with focus on education, startups, and those operating in the green economy. She recently completed the Cambridge University Institute of Sustainability Leadership, and was awarded an Honorary Doctorate by Manchester Metropolitan University.

Shehma Shabbir

Independent Governor

Shehma is a commercially astute finance professional with over a decade of experience gained in private and public sector roles. She is an Assistant Director at UK Government Investments, a role she has held since 2022, and is part of a team responsible for ensuring the effective governance and stewardship of Government arm’s length bodies and advising His Majesty's Government on major corporate finance matters. Shehma began her career in Corporate Banking at Lloyds Banking Group in 2009 and has worked in various roles including debt restructuring, mid-market lending, and finance business partnering. She joined the Civil Service in 2018 and worked at the Cabinet Office in Strategic Finance. She moved to the Corporate Finance Advisory team in the Department for Transport in 2020. Shehma graduated from Brunel University in 2009 with a Distinction in a Masters degree in International Money, Finance and Investment.

Thomas Toumazis MBE

Independent Governor

Tom graduated from London South Bank University with a Higher National Diploma in Business Studies. He has worked in the media and entertainment industry since 1983. He has experience running small and large businesses, from start-ups to businesses employing over 7,500 people. Tom has worked for a number of leading media companies, including ITV, Bauer Radio (formally Emap), The Walt Disney Company, Endemol, Yahoo and Mecom plc. He is now a portfolio director, investor and advisor, focused on technology, media and the arts. He is a Non-Executive Director of the Performing Rights Society for Music, Directors UK, Chair of Product Earth, Global Senior Advisor TMT at AlixPartners as well as a Trustee for the NSPCC.

Mei Xin Wang, Lady Farrell

Independent Governor

Mei Xin has over 30 years of experience in the financial sector, in particular commodities trading. She began her working life in Beijing, China, as a lecturer at the University of International Business and Economics (UIBE). In 1987 She moved to London to start the London office of Sinochem, a Chinese energy trading company. Since then, she has held the roles of executive commodity trader, senior advisor and Non-Executive Director, among others. A strong believer in learning and education, Mei Xin holds three postgraduate degrees in business and arts from the UK and China. She was actively involved in the creation of Kensington Wade School, an English-Chinese Dual Language School. She is China Resource Specialist at the British Museum, a role she has held since 2009.

Meeting dates

2023–24: 4 October 2023; 29 November 2023; 13 March 2024; 22 May 2024; 17 July 2024

2024-25: 2 October 2024; 27 November 2024; 12 March 2025; 21 May 2025; 16 July 2025

Inclusion statement

Read the Court of Governors inclusion statement.

Effectiveness reviews

In May 2019 the Court commissioned an external and independent review of the effectiveness of the Court and its committees. The report on their findings was reported to the meeting of the Court in October 2019 and governors agreed on an implementation plan to address the recommendations in November 2019.