Proprietor Body and Executive Board

Anglo-Chinese School of London Ltd (ACSL) is the operating company which owns Kensington Wade. The Executive Board of ACSL is made up of: Chairman Professor Hugo de Burgh, Principal Joanna Wallace and CEO Matt Alexander as well as Senior Advisers Rodney Harris and Dr Stephen Tommis.

Advisory Board of Governors

The Executive Board and Kensington Wade’s Senior Leadership Team are supported by an advisory board of governors.

Mr Rodney Harris (Chair)

Mr Harris is the former Head Master of Chengdu Westminster School. He was previously Deputy Head (Academic) at Westminster with responsibility for all aspects of the academic programme. More recently, he was China Project Manager for Westminster, where he was also a Housemaster and Head of Geography during his 29 year career there. He has been an ISI School Inspector and has been extensively involved with public exam boards, including ISEB and Cambridge Assessment International Education.

Mr David Summerscale

Mr Summerscale was educated at Sherborne School and Trinity Hall, Cambridge. His teaching posts have included: Lecturer and Tutor, St Stephen’s College, University of Delhi; Head of English and Housemaster, Charterhouse School; Master of Haileybury College and Head Master, Westminster School. Mr Summerscale is also a governor and adviser to schools in India, the Middle East and Sri Lanka.

Mr Chris Skelton

Mr Skelton is Head at Newland House Prep School, a leading co-ed prep school in Twickenham. He was previously Academic Deputy Head at Newton Prep School in Battersea.

Mrs Wendy Archibald

Mrs Archibald was Deputy Head at Kensington Wade from 2017-2021. She previously spent fifteen years as the Junior School Director of Music at Putney High School where she was also Pastoral Deputy Head during the last eight of those years.

Professor Li Wei

Professor Li Wei is Director and Dean of the UCL Institute of Education where he is also Professor of Applied Linguistics. He previously worked at Newcastle University where he was Head of the School of Education and at Birkbeck College, University of London where he was Pro-Vice Master for Research and Postgraduate Studies. His research work focuses on the bilingual development of young children and bilingual education. He is Editor of the ‘International Journal of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism’ and Fellow of the British Academy, Academia Europaea, Academy of Social Sciences and the Royal Society of Arts.

Mr Omar Bucchioni

Mr Bucchioni is a barrister and solicitor. He is currently Legal Counsel at Reckitt Benckiser Group and Director of the Monte San Martino Trust.

Mrs Prema Pritchett (Parent Governor)

Mrs Pritchett has worked in corporate affairs for high-tech sectors including health, fintech, defence and aerospace. In addition to her consultancy work, she is Managing Director of the Partnership for Growth and Innovation, a joint venture between Imperial College London and Hammersmith and Fulham Council which aims to make the borough a leading destination for the tech and creative industries. Born in Singapore, Mrs Pritchett studied at the London School of Economics and Political Science and speaks Mandarin.