GeekGaps.com Launches "Kilroy Was Here - Leave Your Mark on the World" for iPhone and iPad – the Future of Mobile Advertising

Kilroy Was Here is a free app allowing users to leave a see-through fingerwritten message or photo called a “Mark” at their current location - visible to viewers within 30 meters. Businesses are using the Kilroy Was Here App to drive traffic to their nearby locations.

Chicago, IL, October 24, 2014 --(PR.com)-- GeekGaps.com today announced the launch of 'Kilroy Was Here - leave your mark on the world', a free app for iPhone and iPad allowing users to create or view a fingerwritten message, drawing or photo, called a “Mark,” at their current location. Each message is visible within 30 meters from where it was left and viewers can comment on others’ “Marks.” With this free app users can create unlimited “Marks” which last for 30 days. “Marks” will be extended for another 30 days if they receive 30 different likes.

For a small monthly fee businesses are using the Kilroy was Here App to physically position their advertising in places that would have been prohibited in the past.

With the Kilroy Was Here App, users simply hold up their iPhone or iPad in front of them like they are getting ready to take a photo. The user leaving a “Mark” simply points his device where he wants to leave it (ex: inside the local coffee house, airport terminal, amusement park, retail store, restaurant, etc.) wherever they are standing at that moment, and taps the Save button once he has finished drawing or selecting a photo.

Users searching for a “Mark” or “Swiggen” (which is a time sensitive, location aware coupon for a local businesses) simply hold their device out in front of them and pan around until the image hovers on their screen. If they want to keep a certain coupon all they do is tap it. It will be added to their Passbook for future use.

Mina Dillard, artistic director and co-founder of GeekGaps.com says, “Kilroy Was Here is a fun creative way to share without becoming a felon by spray painting or carving your initials into a tree, wet cement or a bathroom stall. The coupon, 'Swiggen,' eliminates wasting resources and the need to carry around paper coupons. Follow this link to watch a short 30 second video preview.

"'Swiggens' also contain turn-by-turn directions to the nearest store backing the coupon, and directions are launched when the coupon is added to your Passbook. The benefits to business owners are in eliminating expensive advertising costs and the ability to advertise where they were prohibited in the past (for example, on the pitcher's mound at Wrigley Field).”

Use this link to install 'Kilroy Was Here - leave your mark on the world' for iPhone and iPad or at www.AppStore.com.

Multimedia

Screenshot - leaving a mark inside a local coffee house

This mark is visible to everyone from 30 meters away, and will last for 30 days. Share this mark and get 30 different likes so it can last another 30 days. When you share it, the Mark also provides turn-by-turn directions back to itself.

Categories

Advertising

Apple

Arts & Entertainment

Food & Beverage

Retail

Social Media

Travel