Kilroy is here — in Abilene.

The simple drawing of Kilroy peering over a fence became a ubiquitous symbol of World War II, an emblem GIs scrawled wherever they went.

On Friday, 10 students from the Taylor County Learning Center descended on downtown to paint and draw their versions of Kilroy on Cypress Street sidewalks and windows to celebrate Armed Forces Day on Saturday.

There will be a number of activities going to as part of 'Abilene Celebrates Armed Services Day: Discover Downtown with Kilroy,' including the Military Benefits Fair and ArtHEALS Workshop for Warriors at the Center.

The students have been enrolled in art classes with the Center for Contemporary Arts throughout the school year. Cara Hines, gallery manager at CCA traveled to the Learning Center to teach art.

To celebrate success in the program and the end of the school year, 10 students got to visit the gallery for a tour and a secret art project.

During the tour, the youngsters, who ranged from fifth-graders to a junior in high school, closely examined the art on the wall. As Hines directed them to the photo gallery at the back of the building, she stopped and pointed out a special exhibit on the wall.

There were gasps as they recognized their own work and looks of pride as they saw what they had created hanging in an art center.

After the tour, they sat with Bird Thomas, curator of fun learning experiences, and she talked about World War II and Kilroy and how he came to be such a representation of the GIs in WWII.

As one story goes, a ship inspector named James Kilroy used to sign 'Kilroy was here' whenever he completed his inspection of the rivets on a ship. Troops headed overseas would see those words on the ships and took them for their own.

The servicemen put Kilroy's picture and the words, 'Kilroy was here,' wherever they landed or passed through. Kilroy spread wherever servicemen went, Thomas said.

She showed the students a drawing of Kilroy and had them draw their own.

Then the fun began. Thomas said some of the businesses on Cypress Street agreed to have the students paint Kilroy on their windows or draw him in chalk on the sidewalks as a way to say thank you to those who served in the military.

The kids might have been a bit hesitant at the beginning, but they soon got into the spirit and Kilroys multiplied in colorful chalk and patriotic red-white-and-blue paint.

Thomas watched the kids working hard on their art, a huge grin on her face.

'I'm really happy,' she said. 'I can't stop smiling.'