Danbury, USA / Lagos, Nigeria - U.S.-based fuel cell and hydrogen company Fuelcell Energy and Oando Clean Energy Limited (OCEL), the renewable energy subsidiary of Oando Energy Resources, an Oando PLC company, have signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU).

The aim is to jointly develop a large-scale fuel cell electrolysis system with a capacity of 5 to 15 MW, according to Fuelcell.

In addition to Fuelcell Energy's fuel cell and electrolyzer technology, the MOU between the companies also includes the possibility of using Fuelcell Energy's carbon capture and sequestration technologies.

Unlike other carbon capture technologies that require electricity to capture carbon dioxide, Fuelcell Energy's platforms can generate electricity and capture carbon dioxide simultaneously, the company said.

"Nigeria has an abundance of renewable energy sources that can be harnessed with the power of fuel cell technology. We are proud to have the opportunity to collaborate with OCEL to deliver stable electricity supply, better grid reliability, and security while contributing to Nigeria’s goal of net-zero emissions by 2060", said Jason Few, CEO and president of Fuelcell Energy.

"We are excited, not just by signing this MOU, but the progress we continue to make in identifying and deploying solutions that show Nigeria and the continent as committed to a cleaner and more sustainable future", added OCEL Chairman Adewale Tinubu.

Nigeria has relied heavily on generators to support power generation at the local and commercial levels. For example, about 84 percent of urban households use backup power systems such as diesel/gasoline generators and/or solar panels, while about 86 percent of the companies in Nigeria own or share a generator. These fossil fuel-powered generators generate noise and particulate pollutants and are substantial contributors to greenhouse gas emissions. There is also a significant shortfall in access to electricity, with 85 million Nigerians - or about 43 percent of the country's population - not connected to the national grid.

The Nigerian Federal Government’s Renewable Energy Master Plan seeks to increase the share of renewable electricity from 13% of total electricity generation in 2015 to 23% in 2025 and 30% by 2030. In addition, in 2021, Nigeria passed the Climate Change Act to lower greenhouse gas emissions and implement a supporting framework to meet the country’s commitment to net zero emissions by 2060.

Source: IWR Online, 17 Oct 2023