Quick facts for kids

The Love Bug

Theatrical release poster

Directed by Robert Stevenson Produced by Bill Walsh Screenplay by Bill Walsh

Don DaGradi Story by Gordon Buford Starring Dean Jones

Michele Lee

David Tomlinson

Buddy Hackett Music by George Bruns Cinematography Edward Colman Editing by Cotton Warburton Studio Walt Disney Productions Distributed by Buena Vista Distribution Release date(s) December 24, 1968 ( ) (limited)

March 13, 1969 ( ) (wide) Running time 108 minutes Country United States Language English Budget $5 million Money made $51,264,000

The Love Bug (sometimes referred to as Herbie the Love Bug) is a 1968 American comedy film directed by Robert Stevenson and the first in a series of films made by Walt Disney Productions and distributed by Buena Vista Distribution that starred an anthropomorphic pearl-white, fabric-sunroofed 1963 Volkswagen racing Beetle named Herbie. It was based on the 1961 book Car, Boy, Girl by Gordon Buford.

The movie follows the adventures of Herbie, Herbie's driver, Jim Douglas (Dean Jones), and Jim's love interest, Carole Bennett (Michele Lee). It also features Buddy Hackett as Jim's enlightened, kind-hearted friend, Tennessee Steinmetz, a character who creates "art" from used car parts. English actor David Tomlinson portrays the villainous Peter Thorndyke, the owner of an auto showroom and an SCCA national champion who sells Herbie to Jim and eventually becomes his racing rival.

Cast

Dean Jones as Jim Douglas, a racing driver

Michele Lee as Carole Bennet, Jim's love interest

David Tomlinson as Peter Thorndyke, the owner of the car shop

Buddy Hackett as Tennessee Steinmetz, Jim's friend and roommate and partner in racing

Joe Flynn as Havershaw, Thorndyke's right-hand man

Benson Fong as Tang Wu, Jim's friend and team supporter

Joe E. Ross as Detective

Barry Kelley as Police sergeant

Iris Adrian as Carhop

Gary Owens as Announcer

Chick Hearn as Announcer

Andy Granatelli as Association President

Ned Glass as Toll Booth Attendant

Robert Foulk as Bice

Gil Lamb as Policeman at Park

Nicole Jaffe as Girl in Dune-Buggy

Wally Boag as Flabbergasted Driver

Russ Caldwell as Boy Driving Dune-Buggy

Peter Renaday as Policeman on Bridge

Brian Fong as Chinese carrying Herbie

Pedro Gonzalez Gonzalez as Mexican Driver

Dale Van Sickel as Driver

Comic book adaptation

Gold Key: The Love Bug (June 1969)

Legacy

Four theatrical sequels followed: Herbie Rides Again, Herbie Goes to Monte Carlo, Herbie Goes Bananas, and Herbie: Fully Loaded. Some parts of the racing sequences from the film were later reused for Herbie's dream sequence in Herbie Rides Again, responding to Grandma Steinmetz's telling Willoughby Whitfield that Herbie used to be a famous racecar.

A five-episode television series, titled Herbie, the Love Bug, aired on CBS in the United States in 1982. Directed by Vincent McEveety, the series acted as a continuation of the films, with Dean Jones reprising his role as Jim Douglas. In 1997, there was a made-for-television sequel which included a Dean Jones cameo, tying it to the previous films. A final sequel titled Herbie: Fully Loaded, was released on June 22, 2005, by Walt Disney Pictures.

At Disney's All-Star Movies Resort at Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida, Herbie has been immortalized in the "Love Bug" buildings 6 and 7.

See also