Raul Acosta Garcia was born on March 15, 1953, in Alpine, to parents Magdaleno and Maria Garcia. He passed away peacefully amongst family on Dec.15, in Kingwood.

Raul grew up in Marathon, playing football and basketball and spending his summers alongside his father at the Castolon Store in Big Bend National Park. In 1974, he married his high school sweetheart, Florencia Fierro, and moved to Houston, shortly after. As their family grew, Raul worked hard to be involved in every aspect of his daughter’s lives, coaching softball at North Channel Little League and often volunteering with his daughters’ dance studios and North Shore High School. A lifelong Dallas Cowboys fan, Raul didn’t let distance keep him from becoming a season ticket holder in 2006. For 15 years, he and Florencia drove to Dallas for nearly every

home game, always stopping at Whataburger after the games. In his final years, he found his greatest joy in road-tripping to Dallas and cheering on the team with his grandchildren.

Raul was what one would call a “gentle giant,” a man of great physical stature, but an even bigger heart. Family members often called on him as a source of thoughtful advice and guidance. He lead with kindness, and his generosity had no bounds.

He is survived by his wife of 48 years, Florencia Garcia; two daughters whom he supported with his whole heart, Marissa and husband Gabe Bernal, and Clarissa and husband Weston Smith; and 4 grandchildren who were his pride and joy, Kaylyn, Gabriel, Katia and Lola; brothers Jesus and wife Gracie Garcia, Gabriel and wife Ercilia Garcia, and Jose Garcia; and sister Baudelia and husband Orlando Leyva; and many nephews and nieces for whom he loved dearly.

He is preceded in death by his parents Magdaleno and Maria Garcia.

His family would like to thank those who sent their thoughts, prayers, and well wishes to Raul as he battled his illness to the very end.

Memorial services for Raul Garcia will be held Saturday Jan. 14, at St. Mary Catholic Church in Marathon at 10 a.m.

In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations be made to the Colorectal Cancer Alliance.

Arrangements handled by Kingwood Funeral Home Fond memories and expressions of sympathy may be shared at www.kingwoodfuneralhome. com for the Garcia family.