The DMRC has provided parking facilities at metro stations for commuters to park their vehicles and use metro service. The safety of the vehicles parked at these lots is the responsibility of the parking contractors. The contractors will also have to pay compensation in case of theft or damage to vehicles. The DMRC supervises smooth operations and adherence to provisions made in contract by the contractors.

New Delhi: To aide Delhi Metro commuters and other NCR residents who need a safe spot to park their vehicles closer to their workplace, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has created parking facilities at several spots in the city. Many have lots have been outsourced and are managed by private contractors.

Delhi Metro stations where parking is available

DELHI METRO PARKING FACILITY 1. Red Line 2. Yellow Line 3. Blue Line-1 4. Blue Line-2 5. Green Line Shaheed Sthal

(New Bus Adda) Rohini Sec-18, 19 Noida City Centre Karkardooma Punjabi Bagh Hindon River Haiderpur Badli Mor Botanical Garden Vaishali Madipur Shaheed Nagar Jahangirpuri Mayur Vihar 1 Kaushambi Peeragarhi Dilshad Garden Azadpur Mayur Vihar Extension Paschim Vihar East Mansarovar Park Guru Tegh Bahadur Nagar Akshardham Tikri Kalan Shahdara Vishwa Vidyalaya Yamuna Bank Udyog Nagar Welcome Kashmere Gate

Kashmere Gate (Lot-II)

Kashmere Gate Indraprastha Nangloi Seelampur Patel Chowk Supreme Court Mundka Shastri Park Qutab Minar Ram Krishna Ashram Pandit Shree Ram Sharma Pulbangash Hauz Khas Rajendra Place Brig. Hoshiar Singh City Park Pratap Nagar Saket Patel Nagar Shastri Nagar Chattarpur Shadipur Inder Lok Sultanpur Kirti Nagar Kanhaiya Nagar Ghitorni Moti Nagar Keshav Puram Arjangarh Ramesh Nagar Netaji Subhash Place Guru Dronacharya Tagore Garden Kohat Enclave Sikandarpur Subhash Nagar Rohini East MG Road Nawada Rithala IFFCO Chowk Tilak Nagar Janakpuri East Uttam Nagar(E) (LOT-I)

Uttam Nagar(E) (LOT-II) Uttam Nagar West Dwarka Mor Dwarka Dwarka Sector-14 Dwaraka Sector-11 Dwarka Sector-9

DELHI METRO PARKING FACILITY 6. Violet Line 7. Pink Line 8. Magenta Line 9. Grey Line 10. Airport Express Line) Lajpat Nagar Rajouri Garden Palam Najafgarh Dhaula Kuan Moolchand Mayapuri Kalkaji Mandir Dhansa Bus Stand

(Smart Parking) Govindpuri Vinobapuri Jamia Milla Islamia Harkesh Nagar Okhala Jasola Vihar Shaheen Bagh Jasola Apollo Kalindi Kunj Sarita Vihar Okhla Bird Sanctury Mohan Estate Vasant Vihar Badarpur Border Sarai NHPC Chowk Mewala Maharajpur Sector-28 Old Faridabad Neelam Chowk Ajronda Bata Chowk Escorts Mujesar Raja Nahar Singh

Delhi Metro: Parking charges, timings

Delhi Metro parking: Responsible authorities

The DMRC has provided parking facilities at metro stations for commuters to park their vehicles and use metro service. The safety of the vehicles parked at these lots is the responsibility of the parking contractors. The contractors will also have to pay compensation in case of theft or damage to vehicles. The DMRC supervises smooth operations and adherence to provisions made in contract by the contractors.

Latest Stories

Delhi Metro

Next Article