Like many things in Ukraine, the English-language name of the nation’s capital has become a touchstone of divisions over both the country’s Soviet-era past and present-day relationship with Russia.

Known as Київ in Ukrainian and Киев in Russian, the city – which charts its foundation back more than 1,500 years – is today home to three million people in the centre of Ukraine, around 7 per cent of the nation’s population.

As with many words in languages that use Cyrillic script, the transliteration of the name into the Roman alphabet is not precise, and it could be spelled variously as Kyiv, Kiev, Kyyiv or Kiyev.

For much of recent history, Britons and Americans knew the city as “Kiev”, which was the standardised spelling under Soviet rule and continued to be used when Ukraine declared itself an independent country in 1991.

The spelling Kyiv was legally approved by the Ukrainian government in 1995, but the change did not become a major cause celebre until the 2014 Maidan uprising, which saw the ousting of the pro-Russian Viktor Yanukovych and the rise of a new administration seeking closer ties with the EU and Nato.

For younger Kyivians who are overwhelmingly supportive of pro-Western policies, the name “Kiev” is a relic of the Soviet past, bearing a closer resemblance to the pronunciation of the city in Russian – the language imposed on Ukraine under Russian and Soviet rule – than it does to the pronunciation in Ukrainian, with the vowel sound not stressed.

That view has been shared by Ukraine’s government since the Maidan uprising – and in 2018 the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs launched the “KyivNotKiev” campaign to seek the adoption of their preferred spelling, Kyiv, internationally.

The campaign targeted airports, embassies and international media still using the name “Kiev” for the city, with Ukrainians coordinating a mass of messages to English-language outlets requesting they adopt the new spelling.

The ministry declared: “Ukraine has been an independent sovereign nation for more than 27 years, but the Soviet-era versions of many geographic names stubbornly persist in international practice. The usage of Soviet-era place names – rooted in the Russian language – is unacceptable to the people of Ukraine.”

The combination of quiet pressure from Ukraine’s government and public campaigning has yielded results, with the US and UK governments, as well as the International Air Transport Association representing global airlines, embracing the preferred spelling, Kyiv.

They have been joined by media including the BBC, the New York Times and The Wall Street Journal, with changes also made to the Associated Press and Guardian style guides that are influential across English-language journalism – which is why readers are much more likely to see “Kyiv” in reports these days.

Associated Press said at the time: “Although the AP prefers traditional English spellings for many cities, including Rome, Moscow and Warsaw (not Roma, Moskva and Warszawa), we regard the Ukrainian spelling of Kyiv as an important adaptation because it is linked to Ukraine’s present status.

“To many Ukrainians, the former spelling Kiev appears outdated because it is associated with a time when Ukraine was part of the Russian and Soviet states, rather than an independent country.”