Russian missiles struck the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, in a predawn attack on March 24, the third “massive” attack on the city in the last four days.

Serhiy Popko, head of the Kyiv military administration, wrote on Telegram that there were no immediate reports of casualties. The air raid in the capital lasted about two hours.

Russian missiles also hit the western Lviv region, prompting NATO-member Poland to place its air defenses on heightened alert. Warsaw reported that one Russian cruise missile had violated the country’s airspace near the town of Oserdow.

Two Polish and two U.S. F-16 fighters were scrambled during the incident, during which the Russian missile reportedly penetrated about 2 kilometers into Polish territory.

WATCH: Police in Kyiv cordoned off a park where fragments of a Russian Kh-55 cruise missile intercepted by Ukrainian air defenses landed on March 24.

Embed share

The code has been copied to your clipboard.

width px height px

The URL has been copied to your clipboard

No media source currently available

0:00 0:00:36 0:00

Poland’s Foreign Ministry said it would demand an explanation from Moscow for the incident and called on Russia to “stop terrorist air attacks on the inhabitants and territory of Ukraine.”

Defense Minister Wladyslaw Kosiniak-Kamysz said the missile was not shot down because there were no signs that it was headed for targets in Poland.

Kosiniak-Kamysz said Poland will strengthen its troop presence in the areas bordering Belarus and Russia, adding that this had already been a topic at a government national security meeting last week.

Lviv Mayor Andriy Sadoviy wrote on Telegram that the Russian missile attack had not targeted Lviv city but was aimed at “critical infrastructure” in the region.

Ukrainian military officials said at least two advanced Russian Kinzhal missiles were used in the Lviv region attack.

The Ukrainian military said that 18 of 29 missiles and 25 of 28 attacking drones had been intercepted. It also claimed to have hit two Russian military ships stationed at the annexed peninsula of Crimea in overnight strikes.

"The Ukrainian Armed Forces successfully struck the amphibious landing ships Yamal and Azov, a communications center, and a number of the Black Sea Fleet's infrastructure sites," the Ukrainian armed forces' strategic communications center said on March 24.

Live Briefing: Russia's Invasion Of Ukraine

RFE/RL's Live Briefing gives you all of the latest developments on Russia's full-scale invasion, Kyiv's counteroffensive, Western military aid, global reaction, and the plight of civilians. For all of RFE/RL's coverage of the war in Ukraine, click here.

Mikhail Razvozhayev, the Moscow-installed governor of the Russian-occupied Crimean port of Sevastopol, said one person was killed and four were wounded in a "massive" Ukrainian missile attack on the city on March 24.

Razvozhayev said 10 missiles were shot down during the attack which he called “the most massive in recent times.”

Residents reported explosions and smoke in the area of an oil depot in the village of Gvardiyske near Simferopol.

In Ukraine's northeastern Sumy region, a Russian air strike damaged energy infrastructure in a village near Bilopol, the mayor of Bilopol, Yuriy Zarko, said. Private houses, farm buildings, cars, and garages were also damaged, he added.

Russian forces dropped three high-explosive aerial bombs on the settlement around 1 p.m. local time, Zarko said, adding that the village had no electricity, water, or gas services as a result of the attack.

Volodymyr Kudrytskiy, the chairman of Ukrenerho's board, said the latest Russian attacks on energy facilities caused losses of at least 100 million euros, according to preliminary calculations.

Kudrytskiy said Ukrenerho was prepared for more attacks on the energy system and had set up a warehouse to hold the necessary equipment and materials and trained personnel, he said.

Oleksiy Chernyshov, the chairman of the board of Naftogaz of Ukraine, said earlier on Facebook that Naftogaz Group facilities were damaged in attacks on infrastructure in western Ukraine on March 24.

Chernyshov said Naftogaz was currently working on localizing and eliminating the impact and vowed that that attack would not affect the supply of natural gas to Ukrainian customers.

Ukraine's largest private energy provider, DTEK, lost 50 percent of its capacity, according to the head of the Yasno distribution firm, Serhiy Kovalenko.

Kovalenko told Ukrainian national television that Russia had attacked two parts of the energy system -- generation and distribution, hitting both thermal and hydropower plants.

The Energy Ministry said that Russia attempted to hit a critical energy infrastructure facility in the Lviv region on March 24, sparking a fire. There were no casualties, and the consequences are being assessed, the ministry said.

With reporting by Reuters

Russian shelling in Ukraine's eastern Donetsk region has killed three and injured nine people, the head of the regional military administration, Vadym Filashkin, said on August 19.

He said casualties were reported in Myrnograd, Toretsk and Rozliva.

Separately, Russia launched 11 Shahed-type drones toward Donetsk and several other regions, including Kyiv, but the Ukrainian Air Force said they had all been intercepted.

Live Briefing: Russia's Invasion Of Ukraine

RFE/RL's Live Briefing gives you all of the latest developments on Russia's full-scale invasion, Kyiv's counteroffensive, Western military aid, global reaction, and the plight of civilians. For all of RFE/RL's coverage of the war in Ukraine, click here.

A day earlier, Russia fired a total of 16 missiles and drones against targets in Ukraine. Kyiv said the Russians had used two North Korean KN-23-type ballistic missiles and three cruise missiles. Thirteen drones and missiles were shot down while three missiles failed to reach their targets, the military said.

The attacks come as Ukraine tries to strengthen its positions in Russia's Kursk region, nearly two weeks after launching a surprise counteroffensive into Russian territory.

Ukrainian troops have struck two key bridges over the Seym river in Kursk, in what analyst say is a crucial tactic to ensure a secure flank to Ukraine's offensive in Kursk by making it difficult for Moscow to supply its troops south of the river.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said the Ukrainian operation in Kursk "is still inflicting losses on the Russian Army and the Russian state, their defense industry, and their economy."

He said in his evening address on August 18 that his top military commander, Colonel General Oleksandr Syrskiy, told him that the situation at the front is showing "good results" in all directions.

In addition, he said there were "good and necessary results in the destruction of Russian equipment near Toretsk," a town in the Donetsk region north of the regional capital.

Aleksei Kulemzin, the Russian-appointed mayor of the occupied city of Donetsk, said a man and a woman were killed by Ukrainian shelling on August 18, according to Reuters. The claim could not be independently verified and there was no immediate comment from Ukraine.

Embed share

The code has been copied to your clipboard.

width px height px

The URL has been copied to your clipboard

No media source currently available

0:00 0:02:49 0:00

Meanwhile, Russian authorities in Moscow have intensified inspections among migrants who have acquired Russian citizenship.

The Russian daily Kommersant reported on August 18 that military investigators and police conducted raids at bus stations, warehouses, and hostels across the capital to identify illegal migration and ensure compliance with new legal requirements.

This comes after the State Duma adopted a law on July 31 obliging naturalized Russians to enlist with the military. Those who fail to comply could have their citizenship revoked.

On the diplomatic front, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Ukraine, New Delhi announced on August 19 without giving an exact date.

India is a traditional ally of Russia and Modi was criticized by Ukraine last month for embracing Russian President Vladimir Putin during a trip to Moscow.

Modi has not explicitly blamed Putin for ordering the full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 and has urged Moscow and Kyiv to resolve the conflict through dialogue.

The United States has raised concerns over India's relationship with Russia, especially at a time when Washington has been seeking to strengthen ties with New Delhi as a potential counterweight to an ascendant China.

With reporting by Reuters

The commander of Ukraine’s air force says a second bridge in Russia’s Kursk region has been struck as Kyiv tries to weaken Russia’s combat operations in the area.

“Minus one more bridge,” Air Force Commander Mykola Oleschuk wrote on Telegram on August 18. “The air force continues to deprive the enemy of logistical capabilities with precise air strikes, which significantly affect the course of hostilities.”

Moscow has not yet commented on the strike, which came nearly two weeks into Ukraine's surprise counteroffensive into Russia’s Kursk region, altering the dynamics of the two-and-a-half-year war and causing 120,000 people to flee.

Russian military bloggers previously posted an image of the first bridge that was hit. It spans the Seym River near the village of Zvannoye in Kursk.

According to Russian security officials, the destruction of that bridge cut off part of the Glushkov district, making it more difficult for the civilian evacuation out of the region.

On August 16, the Russian Foreign Ministry accused Ukraine of using American long-range rockets to destroy a key bridge in the Glushkov district in the Kursk region, killing in the process "volunteers" helping to evacuate civilians.

Embed share

The code has been copied to your clipboard.

width px height px

The URL has been copied to your clipboard

No media source currently available

0:00 0:02:01 0:00

Analysts say taking out bridges over the Seym is crucial for Ukraine to ensure a secure flank to its offensive in Kursk by making it difficult for Moscow to supply its troops south of the river.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said the Ukrainian operation in Kursk "is still inflicting losses on the Russian Army and the Russian state, their defense industry, and their economy."

He said in his evening address on August 18 that his top military commander, Colonel General Oleksandr Syrskiy, told him that the situation at the front is showing "good results" in all directions.

In addition, he said there were "good and necessary results in the destruction of Russian equipment near Toretsk," a town in the Donetsk region north of the regional capital.

Ukraine's main task now is "to destroy as much Russian potential as possible and conduct maximum counterattack work." This "also applies to the creation of a "buffer zone" thanks to the operation in the Kursk region, he added.

Aleksei Kulemzin, the Russian-appointed mayor of the occupied city of Donetsk, said a man and a woman were killed by Ukrainian shelling on August 18, according to Reuters. The claim could not be independently verified and there was no immediate comment from Ukraine.

Fighting elsewhere in the Donetsk region prompted Iryna Vereshchuk, Ukrainian deputy prime minister and minister of reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories, to urge citizens of Pokrovsk, Myrnohrad, and Selydove to evacuate.

"The situation remains difficult in the Pokrovsk area. Therefore, I appeal to the residents of settlements in the immediate vicinity of the front line...please evacuate. If you are not involved in the defense of settlements, then you should leave for safer regions," Vereshchuk said.

In Russia, debris from a drone downed in the Rostov region caused a fire at a diesel fuel storage facility in an industrial warehouse in the early hours of August 18, regional Governor Vasily Golubev wrote on Telegram.

Live Briefing: Russia's Invasion Of Ukraine

RFE/RL's Live Briefing gives you all of the latest developments on Russia's full-scale invasion, Kyiv's counteroffensive, Western military aid, global reaction, and the plight of civilians. For all of RFE/RL's coverage of the war in Ukraine, click here.

He said firefighting units were putting out the fire in the Proletarsk district and added that there were no casualties.

The General Staff of the Ukrainian military said its forces hit a facility in the Rostov region where oil and oil-products used by the Russian military are stored. At least two fires have been recorded on the territory of the facility, the General Staff said.

In Ukraine, authorities in the Kharkiv region said a 52-year-old woman was injured in Kupyansk as a result of shelling by the Russian Army. Private homes were also damaged, the local prosecutor-general's office said.

In addition, a nearby village was shelled, damaging equipment belonging to a utility company. There were no casualties, the press service of the prosecutor-general's office said.

According to preliminary data, the Russian Army used rocket-propelled grenades in the attack.

The Russian Defense Ministry said its air defenses had intercepted five Ukrainian drones overnight over Belgorod, Kursk, and Rostov. Kyiv does not usually comment on reports of drone attacks.

Meanwhile, the head of Kyiv’s military administration, Serhiy Popko, said on August 18 that Russia had launched its third ballistic missile against the Ukrainian capital this month.

He added that Russian forces had then launched a cruise missile toward Kyiv.

Popko said on Telegram that the Russians had likely used a KN-23-type North Korean ballistic missile to target the Ukrainian capital.

The head of Kyiv's regional military administration, Ruslan Kravchenko, said two private houses were destroyed in the attack and dozens of other homes were damaged. There were no injuries reported, he said.

Ukraine's air force said earlier that it had downed eight drones and five missiles in total over the Kyiv, Sumy, and Poltava regions.

With reporting by dpa and Reuters

As mass protests in Belgrade against the development of a lithium mine rattle Serbia's leadership, officials are looking to blame the West.

Washington, for its part, said the protests are just an example of democracy at work, shrugging off accusations it somehow has a hand in it the events.

"Peaceful protest and the right of citizens to demonstrate and speak freely is an important part of democracy," the State Department said in a response to an RFE/RL request for comment to accusations in Belgrade and Moscow.

Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic earlier this week accused demonstrators who opposed the multibillion-dollar lithium-mining project of being part of Western-backed "hybrid" warfare against his government, without giving any evidence.

Moscow has accused the West of being behind the protests, while Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vulin thanked the Russian security agencies for warning his government about alleged "preparations for mass unrest and an attempted coup."

Serbia and Russia maintain close ties even as Belgrade seeks to join the European Union. The United States last year designated Vulin for sanctions for his ties to the Kremlin.

In a response to RFE/RL on August 17, the State Department said any assertion that the United States supports anti-government protests in Serbia "is false."

"We are not surprised that Russia, in contrast, has instrumentalized protests to pursue its own agenda in Serbia, as it does around the globe," the State Department told RFE/RL on August 17.

The protesters demand a halt to Anglo-Australian metals and mining giant Rio Tinto's $2.4 billion lithium project in Jadar in western Serbia over fears it could pollute nearby land and water.

In 2022, the Serbian government rejected the project in the wake of massive public protests amid concerns over its impact on the environment.

But it reinstated the plan on July 16 this year, days after the Balkan state's Constitutional Court said the government had acted unconstitutionally when it withdrew permits for Rio Tinto.

Jadar has the capacity to supply 90 percent of Europe's current lithium needs and make Rio Tinto one of the world's leading lithium producers. Serbia is seeking to process the lithium locally and use it for the production of batteries for electric vehicles (EVs).

Such large-scale mining projects often trigger protests in Western countries by local residents who fear the ecological devastation outweighs any potential economic gains. In the United States, citizens have sought to stop lithium projects in Nevada and North Carolina.

Serbia is no different. Citizens fear the Jadar mine will pollute water and land resources in a country that already suffers from significant environmental degradation, a legacy of communist rule.

Lithium is typically mined through a process called brine mining, which involves extracting lithium from underground saltwater reserves, opening up the possibility of water contamination.

The Serbian lithium project could play a critical role in Western EV supply chains as Washington and Brussels seek to reduce dependency on rival China.

The United States and Europe have put policies in place to significantly increase the number of EVs on the road in the coming years as they seek to reach emission targets.

As a result, global lithium demand is expected to surge. China is currently the third-largest producer of lithium after Australia and Chile but the largest lithium refiner and producer of batteries for EVs, giving it signficant influence over markets.

The project would also be a boon to Western investors in Rio Tinto.

President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has said Ukrainian forces are continuing to make progress in Russia's Kursk region after launching a major cross-border offensive 11 days ago that caught the Kremlin's military leadership off-guard and altered the dynamics of the 30-month war.

Following an update from Ukraine's top military commander, Colonel General Oleksandr Syrskiy, Zelenskiy said in a post on Telegram on August 17 that Ukraine had been "strengthening" its positions in the Kursk region and stabilizing more territory under its control.

Ukrainian forces have penetrated deep into Russian territory after sweeping over the border in a surprise attack on August 6, capturing dozens of settlements.

The surprise incursion, coming as Russia continues to advance in Ukraine's eastern Donetsk region, seemingly strengthens Kyiv's hand in any future peace negotiations.

WATCH: Ukrainian troops near the city of Toretsk say they believe Russia will have to redirect resources back to its own territory, but they have yet to see a letup in the fighting.

Embed share

The code has been copied to your clipboard.

width px height px

The URL has been copied to your clipboard

No media source currently available

0:00 0:02:49 0:00

Russia claims to have annexed four Ukrainian regions -- Donetsk, Luhansk, Kherson, and Zaporizhzhya -- in addition to the Crimean Peninsula. If Ukraine can continue to hold parts of Kursk and neighboring Russian regions, it could potentially seek to swap it for the allegedly annexed regions, experts say.

The Kremlin has been embarrassed by the incursion, the first foreign occupation of its territory since World War II, and has accused NATO of helping Ukraine plan the attack, an allegation Washington denies.

The Kremlin, which frames the war as one between Russia and the West, has often hinted at escalation in what analysts say is an attempt to intimidate Washington so it refrains from supplying Ukraine with powerful weapons, such as long-range precision rockets and F-16s.

As Ukrainian forces continued their surprising advance in Kursk, Russia's Foreign Ministry accused Ukraine of using U.S.-made long-range rockets to destroy a key bridge in the Glushkov district in the Kursk region, killing in the process "volunteers" helping to evacuate civilians.

"For the first time, the Kursk region was hit by Western-made rocket launchers, probably American HIMARS," ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said late on August 16.

According to Russian security officials, the destruction of the bridge cut off part of the district, making it more difficult for civilian evacuation out of the region. Ukraine’s incursion has so far led to the evacuation of more than 120,000 civilians, according to Russian authorities.

By comparison, Russia's invasion of Ukraine has forced as many as 7 million Ukrainians to flee their homes. Russia has also killed thousands of civilians through drone and missile strikes on nonmilitary sites like homes, shopping centers, and railroad stations.

Live Briefing: Russia's Invasion Of Ukraine

RFE/RL's Live Briefing gives you all of the latest developments on Russia's full-scale invasion, Kyiv's counteroffensive, Western military aid, global reaction, and the plight of civilians. For all of RFE/RL's coverage of the war in Ukraine, click here.

Kyiv claims to have taken control of 82 settlements over an area of 1,150 square kilometers since its surprise cross-border incursion on August 6.

The United States so far deems the incursion a protective move that justifies the use of U.S. weaponry, according to officials in Washington.

Nonetheless, Ukraine still faces Western restrictions on the use of some weapon systems inside Russia, including long-range missiles like the U.S.-made ATACMS. The Biden administration views the use of ATAMCS inside Russia as escalatory. There has been no indication from Western capitals that Ukraine has violated those rules during the course of the war.

The Times of London reported on August 17 that the United States is also blocking Britain from supplying its powerful, long-range Storm Shadow cruise missile. The U.K. sent a corresponding request to the United States more than a month ago, but has not yet received a response, the paper reported.

In a post later in the day, Zelenskiy expressed regret that the U.K. was restricting the use of Storm Shadows, saying long-range strike capability "is really a matter of principle for us." The Storm Shadow, which has a payload of 400 kilograms, can devastate targets more than 300 kilometers away. Kyiv wants to use them to strike Russian air bases that house fighter jets pounding Ukrainian troops and cities.

"It is crucial that our partners remove barriers that hinder us from weakening Russian positions in the way this war demands. Long-range capabilities are the answer to the most critical strategic questions of this war," he wrote.

Former British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on August 16 urged Washington and London to allow Ukraine to attack Russian territory with ATACMS and Storm Shadow missiles.

In a separate setback for Ukraine, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung reported on August 17 that Germany has halted any new financial and military aid to Ukraine due to budgetary constraints.

In an August 5 letter to Defense Minister Boris Pistorius and Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock and seen by the news outlet, Finance Minister Christian Lindner said new aid allocations can only be made if financing is guaranteed.

"Starting today, Olaf Scholz and the coalition government under his leadership are freezing financial and thus military support for Ukraine," Ingo Gadehens, a member of the opposition Christian Democrats, told the news outlet.

Aid that had previously been promised will be delivered. Going forward, funds for Ukraine will be allocated from the profits generated by Russia's frozen assets, the outlet reported.

Energy Facilities Targeted

Meanwhile, Russia's Defense Ministry accused Ukraine on August 17 of planning to attack the Kursk nuclear power plant and blame it on Moscow.

Russia would respond harshly in the event of such "provocation," Interfax news agency quoted the ministry as saying.

Meanwhile, Russian-installed officials at the Zaporizhzhya nuclear power plant in southern Ukraine said on August 17 that a Ukrainian drone dropped an explosive charge on a road outside the plant, endangering staff who use the road.

Moscow and Kyiv have repeatedly accused each other of sabotaging the operation of the plant, which was occupied by Russia soon after it launched the full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022.

Last week, Zelenskiy accused Russia of causing a fire at a cooling tower of the plant, while Russian officials said Kyiv was deliberately trying to destroy the plant and sow "nuclear terror."

Non-nuclear energy facilities have been targeted by both sides during the war, with Russia damaging half of Ukraine power facilities and Ukraine damaging more than a dozen Russian refineries, some more than once.

Kyiv and Moscow were to hold "indirect talks" next week in Doha on halting attacks on energy infrastructure but it has been postponed due to the Kursk incursion, The Washington Post reported on August 17, citing people familiar with the developments.

Russia Plans More Evacuations

Ukrainian forces on August 17 damaged another bridge over the Seim River, limiting the ability of Russia to supply its troops south of the river. Another road bridge and a pontoon bridge remain but are coming under Ukrainian fire.

Ukraine is seeking to capture the town of Korenevo, south of the river, to strengthen its position in Kursk.

Earlier this week, Ukraine announced the capture of Sudzha, a town with a population of 5,000, the biggest to fall so far in the incursion. Korenevo is slightly bigger in size.

Zelenskiy said Ukraine will establish a command office in Sudzha to coordinate aid and military affairs.

Russian forces have so far struggled to mount an effective response to the incursion, which is widely seen as a major morale boost for Ukraine.

Ukrainian forces have already captured hundreds of Russian troops, who Kyiv plans to use in a prisoner swap, Zelenskiy said on August 17.

"By this morning, our country's 'exchange fund' has been replenished. I thank all our soldiers and commanders who are capturing Russian military personnel, thereby advancing the release of our warriors and civilians held by Russia," he posted on social media.

Authorities in Russia's Belgorod region bordering Ukraine and Kursk have said they will evacuate five villages starting next week.

"From August 19, we are closing access to five settlements, removing residents and helping them bring out their property," regional governor Vyacheslav Gladkov announced on Telegram.

WATCH: Skepticism prevailed in the Ukrainian border city of Sumy when locals were asked about government plans to accept refugees from Russia's Kursk region.

Embed share

The code has been copied to your clipboard.

width px height px

The URL has been copied to your clipboard

No media source currently available

0:00 0:01:16 0:00

Russian Strike, Ukraine Hack

As it sought to beat back Ukrainian forces in Kursk, Russia continued its bombardment of Ukraine.

In the northeastern Sumy region, at least two people were wounded in a Russian missile strike early on August 17, according to emergency services.

The missile hit a parking lot near a high-rise apartment building, setting at least 10 vehicles on fire and shattering the windows and damaging the façade of the nearby buildings, Ukrainian officials said.

Overnight, Ukraine's air defenses shot down all 14 Russian drones launched in an overnight strike, the Ukrainian Air Force said in a statement early on August 17.

The Shahed drones were downed over six Ukrainian regions in the south and center of the country, including areas near the capital, Kyiv, according to the statement posted on Telegram.

Meanwhile, Ukraine's Main Intelligence Directorate said its cyber-specialists together with the hacker group VO Team had successfully infiltrated an Internet provider to an enterprise belonging to Russia's nuclear weapons program.

In an August 17 statement, the directorate said they hacked Chelyabinsk Internet provider Vega, whose clients include the All-Russian Scientific Research Institute of Technical Physics, disabling 1,173 switches and 10 servers.

"The information on the Vega servers has been destroyed. A number of strategic enterprises of the city were left without Internet and communication services for almost a week," the intelligence service reported.

RFE/RL could not confirm the information.

With reporting by RFE/RL's Ukrainian and Russian services