Overview: Road to Zanzibar is a 1941 Paramount Pictures semi-musical comedy film starring Bing Crosby, Bob Hope, and Dorothy Lamour, and marked the second of seven picture in the popular "Road to …" series made ...

Release date: 11 April 1941

Genre: Romance, Musical, Comedy, Adventure

Director: Victor Schertzinger

Stranded in Africa, Chuck and his pal Fearless have comic versions of jungle adventures, featuring two attractive con-women.

Overview: The Fleet's In is a 1942 movie musical produced by Paramount Pictures, directed by Victor Schertzinger, and starring Dorothy Lamour and William Holden. Although sharing the title of the 1928 Paramount ...

Release date: 24 January 1942

Genre: Musical, Romance

Director: Victor Schertzinger

Shy sailor Casey Kirby suddenly becomes known as a sea wolf when his picture is taken with a famous actress...

Overview: Road to Singapore is a 1940 American semi-musical comedy film directed by Victor Schertzinger and starring Bing Crosby, Dorothy Lamour and Bob Hope. Based on a story by Harry Hervey, the film is about ...

Release date: 14 March 1940

Genre: Romance, Musical, Comedy

Director: Victor Schertzinger

Two playboys try to forget previous romances in Singapore - until they meet a beautiful dancer.

Overview: Birth of the Blues is a 1941 American musical film directed by Victor Schertzinger and starring Bing Crosby, Mary Martin and Brian Donlevy.

Release date: 31 October 1941

Genre: Music, Comedy, Musical

Director: Victor Schertzinger

Jeff grows up near Basin Street in New Orleans, playing his clarinet with the dock workers. He puts together a band...

Overview: Love Me Forever (also released as On Wings of Song) is a 1935 American drama film directed by Victor Schertzinger. The film was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Sound Recording (John P. Livadary) ...

Release date: 28 June 1935

Genre: Musical, Crime, Drama, Romance

Director: Victor Schertzinger

A man who loves an aspiring opera singer is prepared to sacrifice everything to help her with her career, even though he knows she doesn't love him ...

Overview: Something to Sing About, (1937), re-released in 1947 as Battling Hoofer, is the second and final film James Cagney made for Grand National Pictures – the first being Great Guy – before mending ...

Release date: 30 September 1937

Genre: Comedy, Musical

Director: Victor Schertzinger

A New York bandleader journeys to Hollywood when he is offered a contract with a studio, but he is determined to do things his way and not theirs.

Overview: Rhythm on the River is a 1940 musical comedy film directed by Victor Schertzinger and starring Bing Crosby and Mary Martin as ghostwriters whose songs are credited to a composer played by Basil Rathbone ...

Release date: 28 August 1940

Genre: Musical, Comedy

Director: Victor Schertzinger

Popular songwriter Oliver Courtney has been getting by for years using one ghost writer for his music and another for his lyrics...

Overview: The Mikado is a 1939 British musical comedy film based on Gilbert and Sullivan's 1885 comic opera The Mikado. Shot in Technicolor, the film stars Martyn Green as Ko-Ko, Sydney Granville as Pooh-Bah, the ...

Release date: 12 January 1939

Genre: Comedy, Musical

Director: Victor Schertzinger

The son of the Mikado of Japan, a wandering minstrel, falls for a girl who is engaged to her guardian.

Overview: Jinx is a 1919 American silent comedy film starring Mabel Normand and directed by Victor Schertzinger. It is not known whether the film currently survives, which suggests that it is a lost film.

Release date: 13 December 1919

Genre: Comedy, Action, Adventure

Director: Victor Schertzinger

The circus comes to town, and the town's orphans are treated to a day at the circus. The circus troupe's...