Music and lyrics by Lisa Lambert & Greg Morrison

Book by Bob Martin and Don McKellar

Department of Musical Theatre

October 13-23, 2016 • Lydia Mendelssohn Theatre

Do you remember that moment when you first got a recording and played it over and over until you had all the songs memorized? Well, that’s the scenario here – an obsessed musical theatre fan needs a little pick-me-up so he puts on a record to hear his all-time favorite cast recording: the fictional 1928’s smash hit, The Drowsy Chaperone. As he begins to share the story (inserting some wry narration along the way), the musical comes to life in his living room – transforming the dingy apartment into a grand estate, perfect for the upcoming nuptials of debonair Robert Martin and Broadway starlet Janet van de Graaff. Unfortunately, not all the guests are in favor of the impending wedding, so as in all good musicals, confusion, mistaken identity, hijinks, and a few big dance numbers abound on the way to the altar.

While the The Drowsy Chaperone may not be the most familiar title, the show has garnered incredible buzz from its first performance at the Toronto Fringe Festival in 1999. The Toronto Star declared “The Drowsy Chaperone is so much fun, it’s barely legal!” while The New York Magazine hailed it as “The perfect Broadway musical.” This sleeper hit of a show made its way to Broadway in 2006, winning Tony Awards for Best Book and Score along with Drama Desk awards for Outstanding Musical and Book of a Musical. A loving parody of 1920s American screwball musical comedy, The Drowsy Chaperone is a madcap delight filled with show-stopping dance, witty dialogue, and over-the-top hilarity that guarantees an evening of laughter and enjoyment.

Artistic Staff

Director: Mark Madama

Music Director/Conductor: Jason DeBord

Choreographer: Mara Newbery Greer

Scenic Designer: Caleb Levengood

Costume Designer: Camille Charara

Lighting Designer: Martijn Appelo

Sound Designer: Al Hurschman

Wig & Makeup Designer: Taylor Thiede

Stage Manager: Eleanor Howell-Shryock

Cast

Man in Chair: Alexander Sherwin

Mrs. Tottendale: Isabel Stein

Underling: Aidan Ziegler-Hansen

Robert Martin: Kyle McClellan

George: Christopher Campbell

Feldzeig: Riley McFarland

Kitty: Jo Ellen Pellman

Gangster #1: Joseph Sammour

Gangster #2: Simon Longnight

Adolpho: Charlie Patterson

Janet Van de Graaff: Hannah Lynne Miller

The Drowsy Chaperone: Nkeki Obi-Melekwe

Trix: Cydney Clark

Superintendent: Griffin Binnicker

Ensemble: Spencer Croy, Audrey Kennedy, Carina Kay Louchiey, Christopher Washington

Swings: Griffin Binnicker, McKenzie Kurtz

Media

Program

Video

Photos

[cycloneslider id=”16-17-drowsy-chaperone”]