Just when listeners got used to all the changes on WFLA-AM 970, the station is at it again.

The syndicated Phil Hendrie Show has swapped time slots with the syndicated Lionel Show. Hendrie's show originates from California and will now air live on WFLA, 7 to 10 p.m. That moves Lionel to the 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. slot. Starting Saturday, Hendrie re-runs will air 8 p.m. to midnight.

WFLA debuts a new local show, Wired Radio, on April 2. Host John Manzo (executive producer of WFLA's A.M. Tampa Bay) will talk about computers, cell phones, DVDs and other electronic gizmos. The show will air 11 a.m to 1 p.m. Sundays.

As we reported earlier this week, longtime Tampa Bay area radio personality Mason Dixon is now at WYUU-FM 92.5. He's one happy camper now that he's back on the radio.

"I'm excited," Dixon said from the WYUU studio. "It's what we've been waiting for and wanting to do."

Dixon said he was miserable during the 6{ months he waited out his non-compete clause after being fired from WAKS-FM 100.7 (now WMTX). Though he said he had plenty of offers, he chose to stay in the bay area so he wouldn't disrupt things for his two children.

During the down time, Dixon put together a studio in his garage and worked on some of his morning show bits and other radio-related things.

Until April 3 when his morning show debuts, Dixon said Tom Rivers, former disc jockey and program director at country station WQYK-FM 99.5 and now that station's general manager, will fill in and do some morning air shifts on WYUU.

The recent pledge drive at WMNF-FM 88.5 was so successful, the community radio station may shorten its next pledge drive from three days to two or one in June.

WMNF raised more than $308,000 March 10-17. The increase in pledges may be due to the free compact disc WMNF gave to those who pledged. It was the first time the station offered a gift. Fish Out of Water: Music Outside the Mainstream includes music from WMNF benefit shows and in-studio concerts. The CD isn't for sale in any stores and is only available to people who pledge. Listeners can still make Web site pledges at http://wmnf.org to receive it.

The goal for the recent pledge drive at public radio station WUSF-FM 89.7 was $250,000. By Thursday afternoon, the station had raised $219,000 and expected to meet its goal by the pledge's end at midnight. WUSF shortened its pledge drive from 11 days to seven.

_

Pamela Davis can be reached at (727) 893-8355 or www.pamsptimes.com.