Flash Of Genius

Based on the true story of intermittent windshield wipers and the man who invented them, Flash Of Genius stars former Academy Award nominee Greg Kinnear as physics professor Dr. Robert Kearns, who, after suffering an injury to his eye and then getting caught in a rain storm, came up with the idea for windshield wipers that "blink," a feature that the Ford Motor Company, after an abortive partnership, incorporates into their new Mustang.

"Flash Of Genius" follows Kearns in his attempts to sue Ford and get the recognition he expected and deserved. However, the focus of the story is how long this process took and how it adversely affected his family. His long-suffering wife Phyllis, played by the always-welcome Lauren Graham, is the most obviously fazed as she endures her husband's nervous breakdown and watches as he neglects his own children. This is a man obsessed, and understandably so.

Kinnear is expectedly good as Kearns and Graham gives a warmth and intelligence to a role that could have certainly been one-note. Alan Alda shows up briefly as a prospective attorney for Kearns, but he disappears after one scene. This is Kinnear's show all the way, and while he does an admirable job, the problem with the film is the story.

There is something to be said for the little guy who fights The Man. "Erin Brockovich" did this very well, as did HBO's two cable films "Recount" and "Afterburn." In fact, cable is where this film is better suited. It's no surprise that it barely made a blip at the box office. If someone were to read the two-line synopsis about the man who invented the intermittent windshield wiper, one could only expect they'd move on to the next offering (if they didn't fall asleep by the end of the first line).

Directed by first-timer Mark Abraham (a prolific producer), the film feels a bit too serious, especially in how it's shot. It's colorless and harshly lit, making situations both light and heavy appear more dire than they might actually be. That's not to say that the story isn't an important one to tell, but film isn't the best format for it. Originally an article in the New Yorker, the impetus to make it a film is understandable, but quite frankly, a compelling article is the best arena for this type of story. It just doesn't play that dramatically. It's mildly diverting, but with a two hour running time, a single sitting to view it is unlikely for most. Better suited for a cable network, "Flash Of Genius" isn't a bad movie; it's just one that inspires apathy.