Dame Vera Lynn, icon of the second world war, is to give a full, personal account of her extraordinary story to a new generation of Britons this summer.

Famous for stirring songs such as "We'll Meet Again" and "The White Cliffs of Dover", the woman who became known as the "Forces' sweetheart" at the age of 21 will reveal in her forthcoming autobiography how the hardships of her upbringing in London's east end and her early singing career in working men's clubs prepared her for gruelling visits to the front line.

She was so determined to do the right thing for the troops that she wrote personal messages by hand on thousands of portrait photographs for her fans on active service in Europe and the Far East, men who had no other contact with life back in "Blighty". Many of the wives and girlfriends of soldiers who later received them could not believe the singer would have been so kind to a stranger, so she was regularly accused of having affairs with men she had not actually met.

HarperCollins plans to publish the autobiography in June, ahead of the 70th anniversary of the start of the war, on 3 September 1939.

"People have been hearing about me for many years, I know, but the publishers think it is a story that will be surprising," the singer said this weekend. "There is a section on the war years, of course, and on the visits to Burma. But there will also be memories from later in my life." She hopes the book will encourage the public to see her as a person and not just a patriotic institution.

Some Sunny Day will be a "full account" of her life, according to Kate Latham of HarperCollins, who bought the rights from Andrew Gordon at David Higham Associates. "She has reached a point in her life where she can put it all in a proper context," said Latham. "There is huge interest nowadays in historical and nostalgic writing, and this book is an incredible combination of both markets. Her story is one of a woman in extraordinary times."

Lynn, who wrote most of the memoir in the 1970s, once she had stopped performing full-time, has agreed to travel around Britain to promote the book, even though she will celebrate her 92nd birthday next month.

She describes her efforts to appear glamorous for soldiers in the jungles of Burma who were living close to danger and in continual discomfort. Putting on an evening gown, she would appear covered in mosquito bites and perspiration to sing for them all evening.

"The book is fascinating not only about the war, but about the music industry of the era and the world of 'Tin Pan Alley' in London," said the novelist and screenwriter Deborah Moggach, who hopes to adapt the autobiography for television.

"She has a very modest tone and her book is very funny. She says, for instance, that the war was the best agent anyone could ever have wished for."

Moggach said that while Lynn is regarded as a sentimental figure, the book shows that the songs she sang provided the only glimpse of a better life ahead for those who were separated from their families. Moggach was drawn to the contrasts in Lynn's life, which took a respectable, fairly sheltered girl through smoke-filled men's clubs and then into the horror of war.

"She did not have a trained voice, and I think that was part of it," Moggach added. "It really cut through to the heart. She talks about times when concerts would go on through the air-raid sirens regardless. They would just shut the doors and go on."

Lynn was appointed an OBE in 1969 and a DBE in 1975. Her most famous song, "We'll Meet Again" - used ironically at the end of Dr Strangelove, Stanley Kubrick's 1964 black comedy about nuclear war - was written by Ross Parker and Hughie Charles in 1939.

Lynn, who was born Vera Welch in March 1917, sang the song in the 1942 movie of the same name, in which she starred as a character much like herself. She made two more films, Rhythm Serenade and One Exciting Night. In 2000, a nationwide poll voted her the person who "most represents the spirit of the last century". No names were suggested to those taking part in the survey, but she won 21 per cent of the votes.

Lynn's early memoir, recordings of her songs and a full-sized cut-out of her wearing an army uniform were sealed in the Millennium vault at Guildford Castle in Surrey. The vault is not due to be opened until 3000.