Dame Emma Thompson, DBE, is a British actress, author, and screenwriter, who is best known for her role as Margaret Schlegel in the 1992 romantic drama film Howards End (in which she earned an Academy Award for Best Actress). She was also nominated for her roles in James Ivory's The Remains of the Day, Jim Sheridan's In the Name of the Father (both released in 1993), and Ang Lee's 1995 period drama film Sense and Sensibility (in which she garnered another Best Actress nomination and won an Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay). Her other film roles include Sybill Trelawney in the Harry Potter franchise, Karen in Richard Curtis' 2003 Christmas-themed romantic comedy film Love Actually, the titular character of the 2005 comedy fantasy film Nanny McPhee and its 2010 sequel (the latter of which was also scripted by her), and voicing Polynesia the macaw in the 2020 Universal Pictures film Dolittle.

For Disney, she voiced Captain Amelia in the 2002 Disney animated feature film Treasure Planet, as well as Queen Elinor in the 2012 Disney/Pixar film Brave. She also played P. L. Travers in Saving Mr. Banks, Mrs. Potts in Bill Condon's 2017 live-action adaptation of Beauty and the Beast, and Baroness Von Hellman in Craig Gillespie's 2021 One Hundred and One Dalmatians live-action prequel/spin-off Cruella.

Roles[]

Gallery[]

Trivia[]

Dame Emma Thompson shares the following things with Emma Watson:

Both of them are famous British actresses.

Both of them were born on April 15.

Their first names of both of them is Emma, and their respective surnames end in "-son".

Both of them starred in the Harry Potter franchise. Also, both of them starred in the 2017 remake of Beauty and the Beast (Emma Thompson as Mrs. Potts and Emma Watson as Belle).

In reference to the movie, they also share the same birthday with Luke Evans, who portrayed Gaston and Nathan Mack, who portrayed Chip.

Her character that she portrayed in Beauty and the Beast, Mrs. Potts, was voiced by Dame Angela Lansbury in the 1991 animated film of the same name. Interestingly, both of them were highly-acclaimed and widely-respected British actresses, and were close friends in real life.

Coincidentally, Thompson portrayed P. L. Travers in the biopic about the production of the 1964's Mary Poppins, Saving Mr. Banks; whereas Lansbury played the Balloon Lady in its 2018 sequel Mary Poppins Returns.

Additionally, both Thompson and Lansbury collaborated in Nanny McPhee (2005), as well as played the role of Mrs. Lovett in their respective theater productions of Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (Thompson played the part in the 2014 Lincoln Center play; whereas Lansbury portrayed the part in the 1979 Broadway play).

Thompson reprised the role of Mrs. Potts in a sketch that was based on Beauty and the Beast in an episode of the NBC show Saturday Night Live.

Thompson was once married with Sir Kenneth Branagh from 1989 to 1995, of which they met in 1987 during the filming of the BBC1 television series Fortunes of War, and has appeared together in several films, such as Look Back in Anger, Henry V, Much Ado About Nothing, Dead Again, and Peter's Friends, and both couples would eventually separate in 1995 due to Branagh's affair with Helena Bonham Carter.

In addition, Thompson, Branagh, and Bonham Carter later went on to appear in the Harry Potter franchise, albeit in different films; as well as participated in the respective Disney live-action adaptations (of which Branagh directed 2015's Cinderella; with Bonham Carter portraying the Fairy Godmother, while Thompson played Mrs. Potts in 2017's Beauty and the Beast, respectively).

Although providing musical vocals for the 2017 B&TB Thompson herself career does not focus too much on music vocals or singing.

[]