Rincon de Pau is a Rural house in Torres Torres, which in turn is divided into six independents little rural houses. Torres Torres is a municipality in the Province of Valencia (Spain), Region Camp de Morvedre and Commonwealth of the Barony. It has a population of about 500 people and occupies 11,8Km2.

Geography

It is accessed from Valencia through the A-23. Its neighboring municipalities are Segorbe (Castellon Province) and Serra, Estivella, Sagunto and Algimia of Alfara (Valencian Province).

History and artistic heritage

The Valterra were the ancient lords of this population. The ancient village of Torres Torres, who was head of the barony of its name, formed by Algimia and the nearby Alfara, this last population still retaining the Arab street layout.

Torres Torres has remains of his important castle, fortress where the well known Cid Campeador encamped in 1089 while coming from the nearby Aragon to lift the siege of the besieged Valencia. At the exit of the village, next to the Acequia Mayor of Sagunto, watering all the Palancia Valley before the conquest of the kingdom by King James I, a medieval baths declared a National Monument in 1938 can be found, which by their status of conservation are considered some of the best in the Valencian Community. Alongside these baths and opposite the parish church, which is worth contemplating its slender masonry tower, there is the former home of Valterra, ancient lords of this town, historic building from the XV century currently in rehab. It exists in the parish a stature of the Virgin of milk, patron saint of the town, which seems to date from the fifteenth century. Despite the restoration work to which it was submitted during the XX century, the stature seems quite run down, but there is a replica of it, which is used in processions of the festivities.

Festivals and other local traditions

The local festivities take place during the month of September, whether or not during the days leading some recreational activities of various kinds are scheduled, the days designated as holidays are 8, 9 and 10 of September. Although the head of the church is Our Lady of the Angels, the patron saint of the town is the Virgin of Milk, to whom the feast day of September 8 is dedicated, being considered this as the main day of the festival. The 9th is also dedicated to the Virgin under her title of Our Lady of Vallivana, while the 10th the festivity is dedicated to the figure of Saint Roque.

During the course of these festivities the traditional dance or verbena of the shawl is celebrated. There is no dance without a traditional verbena, as it is common in the rest of Spain. But with the peculiarity that all women come out to dance wearing a shawl of Manila.