Hardly had Italian designer Daniel Del Core’s eponymous label celebrated its fourth anniversary when it unveiled its new Madison Avenue flagship: a way to say to the fashion world “I have arrived.” Since its creation in 2020, Del Core has devised custom looks for icons like Adele, Beyoncé and two famous Florences (Welch and Pugh).

This year, the luxury label has only gotten bigger. It made waves at the Met Gala with a petal-pink dream dress for Eiza González and created custom couture for “Quantico” star Priyanka Chopra, who attended a Bulgari event in Milan rocking a priceless Serpenti necklace while her off-the-shoulder Del Core design unfurled effortlessly down her back.

The brand turned out three more recent fashion moments, dressing Bridgerton babe Simone Ashley, member of the 2024 Cannes jury Eva Green and the ever-glamorous Sharon Stone in three gowns from the brand’s fall 2024 “Lissom” collection.

Taking in the array of styles he’s behind, it’s clear that Daniel Del Core is something of a fashion chameleon — and he likes it that way.

His garments are variously suited to daytime luxury and dark, romantic evenings. But in Del Core’s diverse designs, there is an ever-present penchant for nature inspired motifs (Gonzales’ dress was inspired by the Mexican vanilla orchid) and a “fantasy of mutant glamor,” traceable in the smallest touches on deceptively simple styles.

With its new cruise 2024 collection — also known as “Abstract 5” — Del Core’s brand identity continues to take shape. The Abstract collections are about invention via reduction, where “shapes are relaxed and deconstructed,” this time with “a renewed emphasis on the shoulders.” Across 27 looks, Del Core plays with simplicity: light, gauzy materials in pastel colors are accompanied by loose, sleek suiting.

if all this piques your interest, you certainly wouldn’t be the first.

From runway-ready pieces for Taraji P. Henson and Julianne Hough to cool luxury for Rachel McAdams and Demi Moore, celebrities have been slipping into Del Core all throughout 2024. We now present some of the most enviable celebrity-endorsed Del Core moments — and all the links you need to get the looks.

Demi Moore in the Bustier Pencil Dress

“The Substance” star Demi Moore was poised and perfect promoting her new film at the 77th International Cannes Film Festival. The actress had it made in the shade with the addition of a pair of oversized black sunglasses.

Benedetta Porcaroli in the Orchid Draped Jumpsuit and John Large Flower Belt

The fact that Benedetta Porcaroli starred in a film called “Immaculate” has never seemed more apt — in a slick, brick red jumpsuit made of 100% virgin wool, the Italian actress looked bellissima. She paired the look with one of Del Core’s iconic leather flower belts.

Anya Taylor Joy in the Sculpted Detail Midi Dress

The secret’s out: we’re obsessed with Anya Taylor-Joy’s style. At an event for Tiffany, for which she is a brand ambassador, the actress slipped into a white peplum number from Del Core.

Taraji P. Henson in the Sleeveless Orchid Drape Mini Dress (Similar Style)

“Empire” actress Taraji P. Henson conquered the carpet at the 2024 NAACP Image Awards. Henson was in full bloom wearing another instance of Del Core’s favored orchid flare styles.

Julianne Hough in the Embroidered Petal Bustier Gown

Longtime fan of the brand Julianne Hough was dancing in her best dress at Elton John’s 2024 Oscars After Party in March. With a sleek viscose number and gem-encrusted bustier, the “Safe Haven” actress was a Del Core dream.

Rachel McAdams in the Sleeveless Single-Breasted Jacket and Bootcut Trousers

The Tony-nominated Rachel McAdams (“Mary Jane”) looked superbly sophisticated attending the 90th Annual Drama League Awards in May. A tailored sleeveless suit with a plunging neckline? Jot that down in your “Notebook” to check out later.