Thank you, my friend Maj Marty Hogan for making us aware that December 8 is the anniversary of the birth of former Pentecostal preacher who became a American stand-up comedian and actor Samuel Burl Kinison

Rest in peace Samuel Burl Kinison.

Image: Sam Kinison

Background from imdb.com/name/nm0455630/bio

"Sam Kinison Biography

Born December 8, 1953 in Yakima, Washington, USA

Died April 10, 1992 in Needles, California, USA (road accident)

Birth Name Samuel Burl Kinison

Height 5' 6½" (1.69 m)

Mini Bio

Sam Kinison was born on December 8, 1953 in Yakima, Washington, USA as Samuel Burl Kinison. He was an actor and writer, known for Back to School (1986), Married with Children (1986) and Savage Dawn (1985). He was married to Malika Kinison, Terry Marze and Patricia Adkins. He died on April 10, 1992 in Needles, California, USA.

Spouse (3)

Malika Kinison (5 April 1992 - 10 April 1992) ( his death)

Terry Marze (28 May 1981 - 1989) ( divorced)

Patricia Adkins (28 November 1975 - 1980) ( divorced)

Trade Mark (3)

His Oh Oooh!!! scream

Long overcoat

Beret

Trivia (13)

Standup comic.

Started out as a Pentecostal preacher--as was his father--and traveled all over the southern US'. doing tent-based revivals.

Interred at Memorial Park Cemetery, Tulsa, Oklahoma, USA. Memorial Park Cemetery is located 2 miles East of Interstate 44 (or 1.5 miles West of highway 169), at 51st St and Memorial Ave. Sam's burial site is next to his father and brother in Section 28 - Garden of the Apostles (Southeast quadrant), in the middle of the cemetery.

A long-time heavy drinker and drug user, he was (ironically) killed in a traffic accident by a drunk driver.

Was originally chosen to be Al Bundy on Married with Children (1986). He guest-starred as Al's guardian angel on Married with Children: It's a Bundyful Life Part 1 (1989), Married with Children: It's a Bundyful Life Part 2 (1989).

Was born on the same day as actress Kim Basinger.

His trademark scream "Ahh-ohhh-ahhh!" is sampled in Anthrax's recording of "I'm The Man".

He was a good friend of shock jock Howard Stern, who had written about his friendship with Sam as a tribute in his autobiography "Miss America", his follow-up to "Private Parts".

The long grey coat Kinison often wore early in his career actually belonged to Richard Widmark. Kinison was friends with Widmark's daughter and took the coat from his house.

Was cast in Caddyshack II (1988) alongside close friend Rodney Dangerfield (reprising his Al Czervik character from the first film, Caddyshack (1980)). Kinison left the production when Dangerfield left due to "creative differences", mainly problems with the script. It is rumored that Kinison was to portray the "Peter Blunt" character, the role eventually went to Randy Quaid.

Brother of Bill Kinison and Keith Kinison.

Friend of Carl LaBove, Corey Feldman, Richard Belzer, Richard Lewis, Jim Carrey and Pauly Shore.

Died five days into his marriage to Malika Kinison.

Personal Quotes (4)

I don't worry about terrorism. I was married for two years.

[Joseph, dealing with the Virgin Birth] You better be the son of God, little mister - and you better be the only son of God.

You don't know what a rough crowd is. If all I have to do is go make people laugh, that's nothing. Let me tell you what a tough crowd is. A tough crowd is going to a morning service and you got six people there and you gotta pay your house payment. That's a tough crowd.

Every generation has someone who steps outside the norm and offers a voice for the unspeakable attitudes of that time. I represent everything that's supposed to be wrong, everything that's forbidden."

Mr.L: I Am Sam Kinison

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jN_KFjNcqJI

FYI LTC Orlando Illi CPT Jack Durish CMSgt (Join to see) MSG Andrew White Sgt Albert Castro SSgt Boyd Herrst] SSG Ray Adkins SGT Charles H. Hawes SSG Martin Byrne CPT Gabe Snell SGT John MeredithMSgt John McGowanMSgt David M.1SG John MillanTSgt Rodney Bidinger 78081:SFC Randy Purham]CDR (Join to see) MSG Brian Ross