The University of Ostrava today is not only a landmark research and educational research center, but also an active participant in the social life of Ostrava, which helps transform the image of a once industrial city into a modern academic center.

Ostrava

Official name:

Technická univerzita Ostrava

Website: www.vsb.cz

Type of university: state

Language of instruction: Czech

Faculties: 7

Number of years of study: 3-7 years

Training program:

bachelor's, master's, doctoral studies

One of the state universities of the Czech Republic, which grants the right to free education for foreign students, is the Ostrava Technical University. One of the oldest educational institutions in the country, which never tires of surprising with innovations and an innovative approach to learning. The Ostrava Technical University or Mining Institute, as the students themselves call it, was founded in the 19th century as a small school, and then moved to Ostrava and got a second life here.

Currently, 124 bachelor's, master's and doctoral degree programs are taught at the university at the following faculties:

Economic

Construction

Mechanical Engineering

Electrical Engineering and Computer Science

Mining and Geological

Metallurgy and Materials Engineering

Security Engineering

Additionally, two university-wide programs have been created:

Mechatronics

Nanotechnology

Technical University in Ostrava: how the university was created

Like most popular universities in the Czech Republic today, the University of Ostrava was not created "from scratch". VŠB "grew" out of the mining school, founded by order of the emperor in 1849. The vocational school produced high-level miners, which contributed to the recovery of the economy. Until the middle of the last century, the educational institution was located in Pribram, but in 1945, after the end of the war, it was accredited, received the status of a university and "moved" to the industrial center of the republic — the Moravian-Silesian region, the city of Ostrava.

In terms of the number of students enrolled in various programs, the University of Ostrava ranks 4th in the Czech Republic. The Faculty of Economics of VŠB-TUO is particularly popular, which is second only to the Prague University of Economics in terms of quality of training. The transition to the Bologna system of education was made by the Ostrava University of Technology one of the first in Europe.

The diploma of this university is recognized in all EU countries. The University of Ostrava is a member of numerous international associations, in particular such as:

IAU (International Association of Universities)

IACEE (The International Association for Continuing Engineering Education)

ELLI (European Lifelong Learning Initiative)

AUDEM (Alliance of Universities for Democracy), etc.

After the Czech Republic joined the EU, the university began to pay special attention to European research programs, introduced the European ECTS credit system. Due to the orientation towards the training of mining specialists, the university is a member of the association "Czech Mining Machinery".

Ostrava Technical University today

The main specialization of VŠB is technical and economic, but partnership with international organizations allows graduates to provide jobs in companies engaged in various activities. Among the partners: both Czech enterprises — Moravian forestry and automobile companies — and well-known international corporations:

American Nano Society (USA);

European Association for Security in Krakow (Poland);

International Association for Engineering Geology and Environment, International Association of Science and Technology for Development (branches worldwide);

JSME – Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers (Japan);

Nordic Rheology Society (Norway).

The university is a full member of one of the associations engaged in the development of rocks and the organization of mining. Of course, this has a positive effect on the employment of graduates. The full list of partner organizations includes several dozen research and industrial enterprises. Perhaps that is why students of the Technical University in Ostrava are not afraid of unemployment. According to the information provided by the Czech Department of Employment, graduates of this university get a job in 97% of cases.

What are the chances of admission to VŠB: competition for faculties

A popular educational institution in the Czech Republic offers education in 124 curricula, half of which are taught only in Czech. You can get knowledge at this university not only in person, but also in a remote format. Without tuition fees, you can enroll in one of the seven faculties:

Faculty of Economics

It is one of the oldest faculties of the university and ranks second in popularity in the country after Prague University in a similar specialization. It is possible to obtain a "double" diploma if the level of English and Czech languages is high (C1) level. It is a partner of the University of Huddersfield (UK).

Entrance Exams: OSP and NSZ test

Faculty of Mechanical Engineering

It is easy to enter here, provided you have a good command of Czech, because the competition is small. A prerequisite is excellent grades in physics and mathematics in the certificate / diploma, Czech language level B2 and a certificate of health are also required.

Entrance Exam: Written math test.

Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science

One of the largest faculties specializing in computer science, telecommunications, electrical engineering and electronics. The faculty is known for its high employment rate among its graduates, as it actively cooperates with dozens of associations of programmers. Excellent equipment with technology and teaching not only theory, but extensive practice. Moreover, classes are conducted by both the faculty and well-known research scientists who have reached heights in electrical engineering and computer science.

It is possible to study in Czech and English.

Faculty of Civil Engineering

One of the "youngest" faculties of the Technical University in Ostrava, was opened in 1997. According to statistics, the Czech Republic annually needs 200 highly qualified engineers, which is why the department produces specialists of various fields. The faculty is the leading link in the training of construction specialists. Graduates are given the opportunity to work in the industrial and mining industries:

stabilization of the consequences of mining and industrial activities;

production and processing of building materials;

the expediency of using special vehicles;

underground and geological engineering construction.

There are no entrance tests at the faculty, but the passing score will be an assessment of studies at secondary school and a test of the applicant's ability to study in the Czech language. Required language level B1. The profile of graduates' work is wide: from employees of construction organizations to leading engineers of state-owned companies.

Faculty of Safety Engineering (Safety Engineering)

This faculty is the only one of its kind in the country, it is a unique educational and research institution. European standards dictate that in order to perform rescue work, a specialist must have a higher education. It is for this reason that in 2002 the faculty was founded, which graduates professional employees of the Ministry of Emergency Situations, fire protection officers and emergency rescue teams. Specialization in the research industry in the field of security innovations is possible. The recruitment to the faculty is small — about 300 people annually, the competition is from 1.3 applicants per place, but graduates do not have unemployment — they have an open road to government agencies and private business.

The faculty works closely with the fire service, police, customs, special services, local authorities and industrial enterprises, where graduates can subsequently get jobs.

Faculty of Mining and Geology

The faculty is a partner of many well-known enterprises, including Viessmann Group, Tatra, so students do not experience a shortage of places for practical classes.

Entrance exams are not held: the average score of the certificate and grades in specialized subjects (mathematics and physics) are evaluated.

Faculty of Nanotechnology and Mechatronics

This faculty is the only one of its kind in the country, it is a unique educational and research institution. At the initiative of the Ministry of Education of the Czech Republic, a faculty was opened, graduating in the field of analytical activity and research:

nanoparticles of metals, their oxides and sulfides;

combinations of mechanical and physico-chemical methods for nanocomposite materials;

toxicity and medical risk of nanoparticles;

ultrafast electron microscopy;

biochemistry and synthesis of organic molecules.

Training programs

You can enter the Technical University in Ostrava both after graduating from secondary school for a bachelor's degree program (3-4 years of study), and if you have a diploma of secondary technical and higher education (master's degree — 2 years, doctorate — 2-3 years). The duration of training depends on the chosen specialty.

The university cooperates with a number of the largest mining and metallurgical enterprises of the country. Here students undergo practical training, and in case of excellent academic performance and achievements in the research field, they become applicants for jobs.

The university is also distinguished from its competitors by the presence of a powerful material and technical base and the functioning of the newest research center on its territory.

Why you should choose a technical university in Ostrava to study

The university is state-owned, therefore it supports a program on budget education of citizens of the Czech Republic and foreigners. Ostrava is the third largest city in the Czech Republic (after the capital Prague and Brno) and the second Moravia. The VŠB campus occupies a significant territory, from the dormitories it is easy to get to Masaryk Square, where the old and modern are bizarrely combined. Students will have to visit this attraction repeatedly, the university administration is located here.

To the attention of connoisseurs of culture Silesian-Ostrava Castle, brewing Museum, art Gallery. Do you want to relax? Cafes and bars in the city open early — so it's quite realistic to have a cup of fragrant coffee before classes.

The undoubted advantage of studying at VŠB is the student exchange program and the possibility of obtaining a diploma both at the alma mater and at a partner university in Europe. Moreover, the education document is valid throughout the EU, with it you can get a job not only in the Czech Republic, but also in countries offering a higher level of income. In addition, this is a great opportunity to see the world without funding from your own budget — the educational institution invests in the program.

What living conditions are offered by the Technical University in Ostrava

The campus of the educational institution is one of the largest in central Europe. On the territory:

several dormitories with different levels of comfort;

own post office;

free wireless internet;

self-service laundry;

rental of household appliances;

discount stores for students;

cafes and pizzerias;

sports grounds: tennis and badminton courts, modern football field, basketball and volleyball halls, gym and fitness room.

There is no curfew on campus, public transport runs even at night. A 10-minute drive from the campus is the city swimming pool and Planetarium.

A little bit about dormitories and student canteens

Students are accommodated in multi-storey (21 floors) buildings. Most of the rooms are formed according to a block system – one block has a triple and a double room with a shared bathroom and shower. The kitchen with the necessary household appliances is one per floor, but each unit has a refrigerator, so you can stock up on food for the future.

Don't like cooking? In addition to cafes and pizzerias on campus there is a dining room offering a good buffet for students. The peculiarity of nutrition is that the menu must specify products that can cause allergies, so the risk of diseases is minimized. Dishes from the buffet can be ordered from a smartphone, such a service is provided for students in VŠB. Excellent students receive the right to subsidized meals, that is, the university fully pays for breakfast, lunch and dinner in the dining room.

The peculiarity of admission to the Ostrava Technical University for foreign citizens

Since the university offers education on a budget and does not require payment, the flow of foreign applicants has significantly increased. Due to the growth of the competition, a decision was made on a two-stage admission:

Foreigners who want to study for free must provide a certificate of category B2 (high level of proficiency in Czech) or pass an exam in this subject. In order to be guaranteed to master the necessary vocabulary, it is better to study at a language school, so you will not only learn the material, but also receive specialized training for studying at this university, as well as adapt to living in a new country. Despite the similarity of mentality, the culture in the Czech Republic is different from the post-Soviet one and you should get used to it.

If the certificate or the result of the language exam meet the requirements of the university, a certificate competition is held. Before submitting documents, they must be nostrified — to confirm the compliance of the document on secondary or higher education received outside the Czech Republic. Remember that the nostrification takes from two weeks to two months, and the deadline for submitting documents is March 31.

With good grades and passing the certificate competition, the applicant is admitted to an interview in the chosen specialty and profile test. Most of the questions are in mathematics, there are blocks with tasks in chemistry, physics, biology. The applicant's task is to put "ticks" next to the correct answers.

If you are interested in studying at the Ostrava Technical University, use the Prague Education Center training program. For 17 years of our work, we have trained more than 9400 students who have successfully enrolled in this university for a free form. In order to apply or get advice, use the form.