PHOTOS: Worsley Cup Final (by Stephen Fallows)

Stephen sent in 148 phenomenal pictures last night of the game and the fans. Thank you Stephen – too many to put in one post but we’ve made an album…

House break League Record gate!

On behalf of everyone involved at Lowerhouse Cricket Club, we’d like to once again take the opportunity to thank everyone who helped make yesterday a real showcase event. Special thanks…

PHOTOS: Worsley Cup Final (by Bob Sandiford)

We’re getting photos sent in thick and fast! Bobs been on his usual duties! Find all the photos Bob took in this album here.

PHOTOS: Worsley Cup Final (by Jack Mark photography)

Jack Mark photography came down and did an outstanding job with photos yesterday capturing an excellent day. This included some great shots and drone footage. You can see the full…

Worsley Cup Final Match Report

By Paul Hargreaves Lowerhouse and Todmorden contest the 98th edition of a Worsley Cup final today. It is the tenth meeting between the clubs and the first beyond the second…

1991: Manoj aims to beat disappointing start

One for the history books today. Sent in by Paul Spencer as he interviewed pro Manoj Prabhaker in 1991

1974: New-Boy Alan Is West End Hero

Article sent in by Anne Cochrane, a feature on BCTHIC Lowerhouse top scorer Duncan Hall drives a ball from Birtwistle into the covers for a single during the home match…

An email from Australia…

A lovely write up by Anne Cochrane. The club was delighted to receive this surprise email today: “Hi Adam and lads at Lowerhouse, just wanted to drop you guys an…

UPDATE: Lowerhouse Heroes (Amateur Centurions)

By Paul Hargreaves As a very strange cricket season concluded at ‘bonny’ Colne, a few Lowerhouse ultras were considering if any of us had foreseen Matt Hope, after a 12…

Hello Richard Cook!

A very welcome surprise visitor to the ground this morning was Richard Cook, who is a descendant of the cricketing Cook brothers Lol, Jack, Billy and Billy’s son George and…

Lowerhouse Heroes (Amateur Centurions)

By Paul Hargreaves As a very strange cricket season concluded at ‘bonny’ Colne, a few Lowerhouse ultras were considering if any of us had foreseen Matt Hope, after a 12…

Jonny breaks all records!

Lowerhouse Cricket Club is celebrating an extraordinary milestone today, as Jonny Whitehead has shattered all previous records in the club’s 162-year history. In a stunning display of skill and endurance,…

Burnley Pride of Place Project Exhibition

Artists and photographers Jan Williams Chris Teasdale aka #TheCaravanGallery have been commissioned by Burnley Leisure to create a fantastic participatory exhibition celebrating all things Burnley with local people. They’ll be…

1910: Colourised photo of the club

The Civic Trust has recently inherited the complete archive of the late local historian, Brian Hall. Among his contributions is a book on Lowerhouse, along with a collection of old…

The Original English Lady Cricketers

In 2017 we posted a short piece on the time Burnley CC hosted the “Original English Ladies Cricket Team” in July1890. https://www.lowerhousecc.com/womens-cricket-in-the-past-part-one-the-lady-cricketers-in-burnley-1890/ This was prompted by a reference in the…

The story of the missing tea room…

As shown on the 1974 team photo, there is an empty space where a tea room used to be! So we know that the first tea room was the 1921…

A Seismic Shift in the Hall of Fame Batting Positions

By Paul Hargreaves Hall of fame is located here. Yesterday marked a significant moment in the history of our Hall of Fame batting positions. For years, Stan Heaton held firm…

1987: Games to Remember

By Paul Hargreaves This article is largely inspired by the events of Lowerhouse’s League opener at Clitheroe last Sunday. The pattern of the match mirrored closely the ‘House versus Nelson…

1974: Lowerhouse Visitors

50 years ago! This was found by Susan at the BCTHIC. Jez Hope is also padded up.. Some of the Lowerhouse CC juniors had the benefit of words from the…

1974: West Enders Drop their chances

Another great submission for the History Books from Anne and Susan at the BCTHIC. The Lowerhouse team which opposed East Lancashire last Sunday. Standing: T. Boardwell, J. R. Stott, T….

1974: Benneworth Arrives

. Another great find by the BCTHIC – thanks for forwarding on Anne Lowerhouse CC professional Tony Benneworth (centre) with his Tasmanian colleague Clem Smith, are welcomed by Mr Scaife…

2 LIVE BANDS: Good Friday at the home of cricket!

Good Friday at The Home of Cricket The Club Bar opens at noon this Friday for our annual Easter event, featuring: An Easter Quiz for 9-15-year-olds. Collect our quiz sheet…

1964: Rainy Days

2023 has certainly been a wet season, but it’s amazing really that for over 100 years, league cricket has survived in the Lancashire rains. Already, 100 years ago, in the…

Info request on the Cowpe Shield

The Burnley Civic Trust Heritage Image Collection are asking for memories of the Cowpe Shield, especially the last time it was awarded, possibly 2001, as in 2002 the amateur league…

1973: Matthew Brown Trophy win scorecard

Anne and her colleagues at the BCTHIC archive have found the scorecard got the 1973 Second Eleven cup win.

1973: West Enders triumph at last

Another great contribution from Anne and the BCTHIC team, from the 1973 Matthew Brown trophy win. Original post here.

2023: Worsley Cup Final Littleborough Photos

Some great photos taken by Jack Mark Photography if Littleborough in action and being handed the trophy. (Give them a follow on Instagram!) View the full album here

2023: Worsley Cup Final Lowerhouse Photos

Some great photos taken by Jack Mark Photography if Lowerhouse in action. (Give them a follow on Instagram!) View the full album here.

2023: Worsley Cup Final Fan Photos

Some great photos taken by Jack Mark Photography. (Give them a follow on Instagram!) You can view the full album here

1991: Rain ruins derby, again!

Another great find from Anne Cochrane and the BCTHIC website. From 1991, some action shots of the rained off derby game. Original post here From the site: Lowerhouse professional Manoj…