Manon Les Suites

Average review score: 8.4

Featuring an organic breakfast buffet, this hotel is situated 1 km from Copenhagen Central Station. Each spacious suite has a flat-screen TV. The hotel features a rooftop cafe. WiFi is free.

“The hotel is in a quite nice area. It can be accessed either from Vesterport station, which is a short walk away or you can also take the 2A bus from Copenhagen Central Station, which stops opposite the hotel. Nørreport station is also a short walk away but a bit further. I loved staying at this hotel. The suite was lovely and spacious and all the room doors are overlooking the swimming pool area, which is beautiful, like a tropical rainforest, nice and warm with relaxing music and a lounge area and bar by the pool. It is great to start the day at the gym or use the swimming pool in the evening to chill after a long day out and about. I loved the fact that there is a Marshall speaker in the room to play music. There are also all sorts of toiletries in the room, from a toothbrush to a disposable razor, things that sometimes we forget. Also, everything is organic and environmentally friendly! Everyone in reception is lovely and they do everything they can to make your stay a perfect one. I found everyone very helpful and friendly.”

58 hotel reviews

Nimb Hotel

Average review score: 9.1

Located in Copenhagen’s famous Tivoli Gardens, this stylish boutique hotel is housed in an impressive Moorish-style building.

“The facade is mind bendingly beautiful. I requested a couple of things like champagne and flower petals on the bed and they were ready and waiting for us. They accommodated my nut allergy fabulously well. They also upgraded our room as we'd just gotten engaged. It was a truly fantastic and memorable experience that will be with us forever :-)”

130 hotel reviews

Guesthouse Copenhagen

Average review score: 7.5

Situated only one bus stop from Christianshavn, Guesthouse Copenhagen offers rooms with flat-screen satellite TVs and free Wi-Fi. All rooms have wooden floors and shared bathroom facilities.

“At arrival I was shown into a much larger room than the one agreed for the price. Lots of light, view at the main street. It was available so they decided to give it to me at no extra charge. Toilet paper always there, hot water at all times, all the appliances in the kitchen work, someone to ask local stuff. I needed just a place to sleep, and I got more than I paid for.”

215 verified B&B and Inn reviews

Hotel Tiffany

Average review score: 8.3

This homely hotel is 5 minutes’ walk from Copenhagen Central Station and Tivoli Gardens. Guests enjoy free Wi-Fi access and a free in-room breakfast.

“When we came to the location it was very welcoming but first our room was not ready yet but it pretty okay. We are not there just to relax but we had a little time to explore so we left our belongings and we explore the city in a seconds. When we got in the room it was very clean, very comfortable after the tiring day and a lot of walks.”

634 hotel reviews

Scandic Sydhavnen

Average review score: 7.3

This eco-friendly hotel is 2 train stops from Copenhagen Central Station and Tivoli Gardens. It offers in-room flat-screen TVs and a sauna and gym. WiFi and parking are free.

“The buffet breakfast is very good, the organic coffee delicious, you can also find the danish pastry, different kind of ham, turkey, cheese, 3 types of bread, gluten free cookies and bread, Very good breakfast, the room very clean and confortable, the staff very friendly. Easy to reach from Copenaghen Central train station, only 2 stop from there. Metro stop´s name: Sydhavnen. From the airport first take the train to central station and then the blue line to Sydhavnen. 2 option: You take the metro to Nørreport Station.And from here you take the train; line A or E to Sydhavn station, from here you can see the hotel. the bus 14 also is going to Nørreport Station. And the bus 3A to Forum metro station.”

169 hotel reviews

M18

Average review score: 9

M18 is set in Copenhagen, 1.6 km from Parken Stadium and 2.2 km from Tivoli Gardens. Every room has a TV. Some rooms include a seating area where you can relax. The rooms have a private bathroom.

“Large, comfy room. Well connected to city centre (bus stop is very close, but if you're up for a walk it's not too far away). There is a shared kitchen on the ground floor, which is very useful if you have other engagements and you need to be flexible for breakfast/dinner time. Luciana (manager) is very nice and super helpful!”

Villa Armonia Guest Rooms

Average review score: 8.2

Located in central Copenhagen, this guest house is just 2 minutes’ walk from Rådhusplassen Square and Strøget shopping street. All rooms have free WiFi access and a wardrobe.

“The location is superb! It is right in the center of Copenhagen. There are 2 supermarkets nearby and the famous shopping street is just a 5-minute walk away. The owner was so friendly and checking-in was such a breeze. The room was clean, the kitchen+dining room was nice and spacious, and I love that we can use the washer and dryer for a small amount of change. We had to check-out really early (at 3 AM) and the owner helped us move our bags downstairs (it was 4 flights of stairs!). I was really impressed with everything here. The facilities, the staff and also the cleanliness.”

330 verified B&B and Inn reviews

Studio Rådmandsgade

Average review score: 6.4

Situated in the Nørrebro District of central Copenhagen, these studio apartments are 12 minutes’ walk from the Nørrebro Train Station. Each offers free Wi-Fi and a fully equipped kitchen.

“The staff were really friendly and explained how to use all of the facilities and informed us of the required public transport route to get to the apartment. The apartment was in a great location with an easy transport links to the centre and Copenhagen airport, as well as shops and food outlets within walking distance. The room was comfortable, warm, clean and well presented.”

34 holiday rentals reviews

Apartments Ålholmvej

Average review score: 6.4

Apartments Ålholmvej offers accommodation in Copenhagen. Tivoli Gardens is 5 km from the property. Free WiFi is provided . The accommodation has a flat-screen TV with cable channels.

“The beds were luxurious,bedroom most spacious with plenty of storage space.There was also a sun lounge and windows that could be opened at night as we felt safe on second floor.The living cum dining room was expansive and most comfortable.The kitchen was perfectly fitted with hot water at all times. The bathroom was practical with hot water 24/7. We found the apartment very quiet during normal sleeping hours(10 p.m.to 6 a.m)”

26 holiday rentals reviews

Jansvej Homestay

Average review score: 8.4

Featuring free WiFi and a terrace, Jansvej Homestay offers accommodation in Copenhagen. All rooms are fitted with a flat-screen TV. All rooms include a shared bathroom.

“The service is very nice. On the first day I arrived in Copenhagen at 22:00 due to the bus was delayed and no place to change the currency. The landlord is very nice and said I could pay on the next day. He also waited there until I came, nice people nice room. Looks as the pics show, the bed is too much comfortable;) excellent!”

31 hotel reviews

Canal Apartment

Average review score: 8.8

Situated 1.9 km from Bella Center and 2.1 km from Islands Brygge, Canal Apartment offers accommodation in Copenhagen. The unit is 2.6 km from Tivoli Gardens.

“The apartment was really fresh and comfortable, with a pleasant view from the windows. Internet access was the fastest I have ever experienced during travel. Location was great for accessing the city centre, via bus or car. Facilities in the apartment included everything we could wish for.”

Amaliegade Front Apartments

Average review score: 9

Amaliegade 45 front offers pet-friendly accommodation in Copenhagen, 900 metres from Nyhavn and 1.6 km from Christiania. The property features views of the garden and is 2.2 km from Parken Stadium.

“The style and airiness of the apartment upon entering was pleasing. The instructions for accessing and leaving were simple and easy to follow. The location was good away from the main hussle and bustle but near taxis and metro station. The communication with owners was prompt.”

Babette Guldsmeden

Average review score: 8.6

Opened in 2014, this central Copenhagen hotel is 450 metres from the Amalienborg Castle. It offers individually designed rooms and free Wi-Fi access.

“This is, hands down, the nicest hotel we have ever stayed in. The staff was excellent, and the room was perfect. We only wish that we had been able to stay longer!”

772 hotel reviews

Bed and Breakfast hos Hanne Bach

Average review score: 9.2

Bed and Breakfast hos Hanne Bach is situated in Copenhagen, 2.6 km from Bella Center and 2.7 km from Christiania. The rooms are fitted with a flat-screen TV with cable channels.

“Lovely hosts - no fuss, very helpful and accommodating. I was travelling for work and ended up here due to severe lack of hotel availability in the centre of Copenhagen but it met all my needs. Room is nothing fancy but bed was perfectly comfortable with plenty of space, good wifi, table to work at, separate (and newish, very clean) bathroom and small kitchen of my own with good supplies provided to make breakfast (filter coffee/tea, bread, jam, cheese etc, cereals, juice, milk and good fresh fruit - including crisp Pink Lady apples). The street at the end of road has a few restaurants (I had a decent Thai takeaway from Jasmine Rice) and a Netto supermarket within a few minutes. walk.”