Biography

Lenny Deneb a St. Lucian born singer/songwriter has been described as exciting, impressive and intelligent in his writing. His first successful music venture was a reggae act named Cygnus. This group was signed to Greensleaves Records in London, England back in the late 70's early 80's. During this period Lenny worked with such notables as John Holt, Errol Dunkley, Producer John Rubie and appearing live on French TV with Jimmy Cliff. After the breaking up of Cygnus in the mid 80's, Lenny released three solo singles for his own L.E.D Records namely 'Reggae Party', 'Mustique Girl / Soldiers' EP and 'Who or what turns you on', which received the accolade of Record of the week from Simon Buckland of The Echoes music magazine on June 8, 1985, (recently this song showed up on the Discog website selling as a collectors record). In addition praise was also given by Capital Radio disc-jockeys David 'Kid' Jenson and Nicky Horne. During his time with Cygnus Lenny toured extensively within the UK, Europe, Scandinavia and Finland.

Lenny's brand of music has been described as reggae-rock, bringing together the styles of Bob Marley, Steel Pulse and the rock influences of U2, Bruce Springsteen, The Police, Radiohead, Ocean Colour Scene, Lenny Kravitz and R.E.M.

At the age of ten years Lenny immigrated to England. Those early years were difficult, learning to cope with the life changes and a new environment. As part of his coping mechanism, Lenny would frequent the local youth and community center affectionately known as 'Saxon'. Many young people of different race and culture would congregate there. The years spent at Saxon contributed tremendously to his understanding of human development. The community center was seen as a form of 'sanctuary' from all the chaos taking place in the outside world; hence the title of his self-produced debut CD album 'from the sanctuary'.

The songs on 'from the sanctuary' are reflection of those early years, plus his work with youth and families in crisis. Lenny remains ever thankful to the Almighty Father for the experiences that a cosmopolitan country such as England has given him.