Christmas Round The Fireside

Readers Digest RDA248

According to the nativity story, on the first Christmas morn, when the infant Jesus lay in His manger, the heavens resounded with the singing of angels. Since that time 2000 years ago, the songs the angels sang have been echoed by men on earth. The beautiful hymns and carols inspired by the Nativity have come from all over the world — from people of all eras, all languages and all traditions. In the Christmas Sing-Along are some of the loveliest Christmas songs ever written — the old as well as the new, the sacred as well as the secular. “Peace and joy” is the message of the Christmas season, and of mankind’s many arts, music expresses that message best.

In “Christmas Round The Fireside”, Readers Digest presented a collection of holiday music we all grew up singing. In the 6-Record set album jacket they included a booklet will all the song lyrics. We share that song listing together with lyrics here.

Silent Night

Music by Franz Gruber; Lyrics by Joseph Mohr

Silent night, holy night,

All is calm, all is bright.

Round yon Virgin Mother and Child,

Holy infant so tender and mile,

Sleep in heavenly peace,

Sleep in heavenly peace!

Silent night, holy night

Shepherds quake at the sight.

Heav’nly hosts sing Alleluia;

Christ, The Savior, is born,

Christ, The Savior, is born!

Silent night, holy night,

Son of God, love’s pure light.

Radiant beams from Thy holy face,

With the dawn of redeeming grace,

Jesus, Lord, at Thy birth,

Jesus, Lord, at Thy birth.

The First Noel

Traditional

The first Noel, the angel did say,

Was to certain poor shepherds in fields as they lay;

In fields where they lay keeping their sheep,

On a cold winter’s night that was so deep.

Chorus:

Noel, Noel, Noel, Noel,

Born is the King of Israel.

They looked up and saw a star

Shining in the East, beyond them far;

And to the earth it gave great light,

And so it continued both day and night.

Repeat Chorus

This star drew nigh to the northwest;

O’er Bethlehem it took its rest,

And there it did both stop and stay,

Right over the place where Jesus lay.

Repeat Chorus

O Little Town of Bethlehem

Music by Lewis H. Redner

Lyric by Phillips Brooks

O little town of Bethlehem, how still we see thee lie;

Above thy deep and dreamless sleep, the silent stars go by.

Yet in thy dark streets shineth the everlasting Light;

The hopes and fears of all the years are met in thee tonight.

For Christ is born of Mary, and gather’d all above,

While mortals sleep, the angels keep their watch of wond’ring love.

O morning stars together proclaim the holy birth!

And praises sing to God the King and peace to men on earth.

O holy Child of Bethlehem! descend to us, we pray;

Cast out our sin and enter in; be born in us today.

We hear the Christmas angels, the great glad tidings tell;

O come to us, abide in us, Our Lord Emmanuel!

Away In A Manger

Traditional

Away in a manger, no crib for a bed,

The little Lord Jesus laid down His sweet head.

The stars in the sky looked down where He lay,

The little Lord Jesus asleep on the hay.

The cattle are lowing; the poor Baby wakes,

But little Lord Jesus no crying He Makes.

I love Thee, Lord Jesus, look down from the sky,

And stay by my cradle till morning is nigh.

Be near me Lord, Jesus, I ask Thee to stay

Close by me forever and love me I pray.

Bless all the dear children in Thy tender care,

And take us to heaven to live with Thee there.

Angels from the Realms of Glory

Music by Henry Smart;

Words by James Montgomery

Angels from the realms of glory

Wing your flight o’er all the earth;

Ye who sang creation’s story

Now proclaim Messiah’s birth:

Come and worship, come and worship,

Worship Christ, the newborn King!

Shepherds in the fields abiding,

Watching o’er your flocks by night’

God with man is now residing;

Yonder shines the infant Light:

Come and worship, come and worship,

Worship Christ, the newborn King!

Saints before the altar bending,

Watching long in hope and fear;

Suddenly the Lord descending

In His temple shall appear:

Come and worship, come and worship,

Worship Christ, the newborn King!

Hark! The Herald Angels Sing

Music by Felix Mendelssohn

Lyric by Charles Wesley

Hark! the herald angels sing,

“Glory to the newborn King;

Peace on earth and mercy mild;

God and sinners reconciled!”

Joyful, all ye nations rise;

Join the triumph of the skies;

With the angelic host proclaim,

“Christ is born in Bethlehem!”

Hark! the herald angels sing,

“Glory to the newborn King.”

Christ, by highest heaven adored;

Christ, the everlasting Lord!

Late in time behold Him come,

Offspring of the Virgin’s womb.

Veiled in flesh the Godhead see;

Hail the incarnate Deity

Pleased as man with men to dwell,

Jesus, our Emmanuel!

Hark! the herald angels sing,

“Glory to the newborn King.”

hail, the heaven-born Prince of Peace!

Hail, the Son of Righteousness!

Light and life to all He brings,

Risen with healing in His wings.

Mild He lays His glory by,

Born that man no more may die.

Born to raise the sons of earth;

Born to give them second birth.

Hark! the herald angels sing,

“Glory to the newborn King.”

Deck the Halls

Traditional

Deck the halls with boughs of holly,

Fa la la la la la la la la.

‘Tis the season to be jolly,

Fa la la la la la la la la.

Don we now our gay apparel,

Fa la la la la la la la la.

Troll the ancient Yuletide carol,

Fa la la la la la la la la.

See the blazing Yule before us,

Fa la la la la la la la la.

Strike the harp and join the chorus,

Fa la la la la la la la la.

Follow me in merry measure,

Fa la la la la la la la la.

While I tell of Yuletide treasure,

Fa la la la la la la la la.

Joseph Dearest, Joseph Mild

Traditional

Joseph dearest, Joseph mild,

Help me rock my little Child.

Christus natus hodie,

The Babe, the Son, the Holy One of Mary.

He is born our Lord to be,

On this day for you and me.

Ex Maria virgine,

The God, the Lord, by all adored forever.

Let the bright re berries glow,

Everywhere in goodly show.

Chritus natus hodie,

The Babe, the Son, the Holy One of Mary

Christian men, rejoice and sing,

‘Tis the birthday of a King.

Ex Maria Virgine,

The God, the Lord, by all adored forever.

It Came Upon the Midnight Clear

Music by Richard Storrs Willis;

Lyric by Edmund Hamilton Sears

It came upon the midnight clear that glorious song of old,

From angels bending near the earth to touch their harps of gold.

“Peace on the earth, goodwill to men, from heav’n’s all-gracious King.”

The world in solemn stillness lay to hear the angels sing.

Still through the cloven skies they come with peaceful wings unfurled;

And still their heav’nly music floats o’er all the weary world.

Above its sad and lowly plains, they bend on hov’ring wing,

And ever o’er its Babel sounds the blessed angels sing.

O Come, All Ye Faithful (Adeste Fideles)

Music by John Reading

Lyric by Frederick Oakeley

O come, all ye faithful, joyful and triumphant,

O come ye, O come ye to Bethlehem.

Come and behold Him, born the King of angels.

Chrous:

O come, let us adore Him; O come, let us adore Him;

O come, let us adore Him; Christ, the Lord.

Sing, choirs of angels, sing in exultation;

Sing all ye citizens of heav’n above;

Glory to God in the Highest.

Repeat Chorus

Yea, Lord we greet Thee, born this happy morning;

Jesus, to Thee be glory giv’n;

Word of the Father, now in flesh appearing.

Repeat Chorus

I’ll Be Home for Christmas

Music and lyrics by Kim Gannon, Walter Kent, and Buck Ram

I’ll be home for Christmas;

You can plan on me.

Please have snow and mistletoe,

And presents on the tree.

Christmas Eve will find me

Where the love light gleams.

I’ll be home for Christmas

If only in my dreams.

Christmas Is

Music by Percy Faith

Lyric by Spence Maxwell

Christmas is sleigh bells’

Christmas is sharing;

Christmas is holly;

Christmas is caring.

Christmas is children who just can’t go to sleep.

Christmas is mem’ries, the kind you always keep.

Deck the halls and give a cheer

For all the things that Christmas is each year.

Christmas, merry Christmas,

When all your wishes come true.

Christmas is carols to warm you in the snow;

Christmas is bedtime where no one wants to go.

All the world is tinsel bright,

So glad to know that Christmas is tonight.

Christmas, merry Christmas,

When all your wishes come true.

Christmas, merry Christmas;

May all your wishes come true.

It’s Beginning to Look a Lot Like Christmas

Music and Lyric by Meredith Wilson

It’s beginning to look a lot like Christmas

Ev’rywhere you go;

Take a look in the five-and ten, glistening once again,

With candy canes and silver lanes aglow.

It’s beginning to look a lot like Christmas,

Toys in ev’ry store;

But the prettiest sight to see is the holly that will be

On your own front door.

A pair of hopalong boots and a pistol that shoots

Is the wish of Barney and Ben;

Dolls that will talk and will go for a walk

Is the hope of Janice and Jen;

And Mom and Dad can hardly wait for school to start again.

It’s beginning to look a lot like Christmas

Ev’rywhere you go;

There’s a tree in the grand hotel, one in the park as well,

The sturdy kind that doesn’t mind the snow.

It’s beginning to look a lot like Christmas;

Soon the bells will start,

And the thing that will make them ring is the carol that you sing

Right within your heart.

Let It Snow! Let It Snow! Let It Snow!

Music by Jule Stune

Lyric by Sammy Cahn

Oh! the weather outside is frightful,

But the fire is so delightful,

And since we’ve no place to go,

Let it snow! Let it snow! Let it snow!

It doesn’t show signs of stopping,

And I brought some corn for popping;

The lights are turned way down low,

Let it snow! let it snow! let it snow!

When we finally kiss good night,

How I’ll hate going out in the storm!

But if you’ll really hold me tight,

All the way home I’ll be warm.

The fire is slowly dying,

And, my dear, we’re still good-byeing

But as long as you love me so,

Let it snow! let it snow! let it snow!

Winter Wonderland

Music by Felix Bernard

Lyric by Dick Smith

Sleigh bells ring, are you list’nin’?

In the lane snow is glist’nin’,

A beautiful sight, we’re happy tonight

Walkin’ in a winter wonderland.

Gone away is the bluebird;

Here to stay is a new bird;

He sings a love song as we go along

Walkin’ in a winter wonderland.

In the meadow we can build a snowman,

Then pretend that he is Parson Brown.

He’ll say, “Are you married?”

We’ll say, “No, man!

But you can do the job when you’re in town!”

Later on we’ll conspire as we dream by the fire,

To face unafraid the plans that we made

Walkin’ in a winter wonderland.

In the meadow we can build a snowman,

And pretend that he’s a circus clown’

We’ll have lots of fun with Mr. Snowman,

Until the other kiddies knock him down.

When it snows ain’t it thrilling?

though your nose gets a chilling.

The frolic and play the Eskimo way

Walkin’ in a winter wonderland.

Frosty the Snow Man

Music and Lyric by Steve Nelson and Jack Rollins

Frosty the Snow Man was a jolly, happy soul,

With a corncob pipe and a button nose and two eyes made out of coal.

Frosty the Snow Man is a fairy tale, they say;

He was made of snow but the children know how he came to life one day.

There must have been some magic in the old silk hat they found,

For when he placed it on his head, he began to dance around.

Oh, Frosty the Snow Man was alive as he could be,

And the children say he could laugh and play just the same as you and me.

Frosty the Snow Man knew the sun was hot that day,

So he said, “Let’s run and we’ll have some fun now before I melt away.”

Down to the village, with a broomstick in his hand,

Running here and there all around the square, sayin’, “Catch me if you can.”

He led them down the streets of town right to the traffic cop,

And he only paused a moment when he heard him holler, “Stop!”

For Frosty the Snow Man had to hurry on his way,

But he waved good-bye sayin’, “Don’t you cry; I’ll be back again some day.”

A Marshmallow World

Music by Peter De Rose, Lyric by Carl Sigman

It’s a marshmallow world in the winter

When the snow comes to cover the ground.

It’s the time for play; it’s a whipped cream day;

I wait for it the whole year round.

Those are marshmallow clouds being friendly

In the arms of the evergreen trees,

And the sun is red like a pumpkin head;

It’s shining so your nose won’t freeze.

The world is your snowball; see how it grows;

That’s how it goes whenever it snows.

The world is your snowball just for a song;

Get out and roll it along.

It’s a yum-yummy world made for sweethearts;

Take a walk with your favorite girl.

It’s a sugar date; what if spring is late;

In winter it’s a marshmallow world.

Jingle Bell Rock

Words and Lyric by Joe Beal and Jim Boothe

Jingle bell, jingle bell, jingle bell rock,

Jingle bells swing and jingle bells ring.

Snowing and blowing are bushels of fun,

Now the jingle hop has begun.

Jingle bell, jingle bell, jingle bell rock,

Jingle bells chime in jingle bell time.

Dancin’ and prancin’ in jingle bell square

In the frosty air.

What a bright time; it’s the right time

To rock the night away;

Jingle bell time is a swell time

To go riding in a one-horse sleigh.

Hey giddy-yap jingle horse; pick up your feet’

Jingle around the clock.

Mix and mingle in a jingling beat.

That’s the jingle bell rock.

Sleigh Ride

Music by Leroy Anderson

Lyric by Mitchell Parish

Chorus:

Just hear those sleigh bells jingling, ring-ting-tingling too;

Come on, it’s lovely weather for a sleigh ride together with you.

Outside the snow is falling and friends are calling “Yoo-hoo,”

Come on it’s lovely weather for a sleigh ride together with you.

Giddy-yap, giddy-yap, giddy-yap, let’s go;

Let’s look at the show;

We’re riding in a wonderland of snow.

Giddy-yap, giddy-yap, giddy-yap, it’s grand,

Just holding your hand;

We’re gliding along with a song of a wintery fairyland.

Our cheeks are nice and rosy and comfy cozy are we;

We’re snuggled up together like two birds of a feather would be.

Let’s take that road before us and sing a chorus or two;

Com on, it’s lovely weather for a sleigh ride together with you.

There’s a birthday party at the home of Farmer Gray.

It’ll be the perfect ending of a perfect day.

We’ll be singing the songs we love to sing without a single stop.

At the fireplace while we watch the chestnuts pop.

There’s a happy feeling nothing in the world can buy,

When they pass around the coffee and the pumpkin pie.

It’ll merely be like a picture print by Currier and Ives;

These wonderful things are the things we remember all through our lives.

Repeat chorus.

Joy to the World

Music by Lowell Mason

Lyric by Isaac Watts

Joy to the world! the Lord has come: let earth receive her King.

Let ev’ry heart prepare Him room, and heav’n and nature sing,

And heav’n and nature sing, and heav’n and heav’n and nature sing.

Joy to the world! the Savior reigns: let men their songs employ;

While fields and floods, rocks, hills, and plains

Repeat the sounding joy, repeat the sounding joy,

Repeat, repeat the sounding joy.

He rules the world with truth and grace, and makes the nations prove

The glories of His righteousness and wonders of His love

And wonders of His love, and wonders wonders of His love.

What Child Is This? (Greensleeves)

Lyric by William C. Dix

What Child is this, who, laid to rest,

On Mary’s lap is sleeping?

Whom angels greet with anthems sweet,

While shepherds watch are keeping?

Chorus:

This, this is Christ the King,

Whom shepherds guard and angels sing.

haste, haste to bring Him luad,

The Babe, the Son of Mary.

Why lies He in such mean estate,

Where ox and ass are feeding?

Good Christian, fear for sinners here

The silent Word is pleading.

Repeat Chorus

So bring Him incense, gold and myrrh;

Come, rich and poor, to own Him.

The King of Kings salvation brings;

Let loving hearts enthrone Him.

Repeat Chorus.

O Holy Night

Music by Adolph-Charles Adam

Lyric by John Sullivan Dwight

O holy night, the stars are brightly shining;

It is the night of the dear Savior’s brith.

Long lay the world in sin and error pining,

Till He appeared and the soul felt its worth.

A thrill of hope, the weary soul rejoices,

For yonder breaks a new and glorious morn.

Fall on your knees, oh, hear the angel voices!

O night divine, O night when Christ was born!

O night divine! O nigh, O night divine!

Led by the light of faith serenely beaming,

With glowing hearts by His cradle we stand.

So led by light of a star sweetly gleaming,

Here came the Wise Men from out the Orient land.

The King of Kings lay thus in lowly manger,

In all our trials born to be our friend;

He knows our need, to our weakness is no stranger,

Behold your King! before the manger bend!

Behold your King! before the manger bend!

The Holly and The Ivy

Traditional

The holly and the ivy,

When they are both full grown,

Of all the trees that are in the wood,

The holly bears the crown.

Chorus:

O the rising of the sun

And the running of the deer,

The playing of the merry organ,

Sweet singing in the choir.

The holly bears a berry;

They holly bears a thorn;

And Mary bore sweet Jesus Christ

On Christmas Day in the morn.

Repeat chorus

The holly bears a berry

As red as any blood,

And Mary bore sweet Jesus Christ

To do for sinners good.

Repeat chorus

Angels We Have Heard On High

Traditional

Angels we have heard on high

Sweetly singing o’er the plains,

And the mountains in reply

Echoing their joyous strains.

Chorus:

Gloria in excelsis Deo,

Gloria in excelsis Deo

Shepherds, why this jubilee?

Why your joyous strains prolong?

What the gladsome tidings be

Which inspire your heavenly song?

Repeat Chorus

Come to Bethlehem and see

Him whose birth the angels sing;

Come, adore on bended knee

Christ the Lord, the newborn King.

Repeat Chorus

See Him in a manger laid,

Whom the choirs of angels praise;

Mary, Joseph, lend your aid,

While our hearts in love we raise.

Repeat Chorus

Here We Come A-Caroling (The Wassail Song)

Traditional

Here we come a-caroling among the leaves so green;

Here we come a-wandering so fair to be seen.

Chorus:

Love and joy come to you, and to you glad Christmas, too,

And God bless you and send you a Happy New Year,

And God send you a Happy New Year.

We are not daily beggars that beg from door to door;

But we are neighbors’ children whom you have seen before.

Repeat Chorus

Good Master and Mistress, as you sit by the fire,

Pray think of us poor children whom you have seen before.

Repeat Chorus

God bless the master of this house, likewise the mistress, too,

And all the little children that round the table go.

Repeat Chorus

Jingle Bells

Music and Lyric by James Pierpont

Chorus:

Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the way!

Oh, what fun it is to ride in a one-horse open sleigh!

Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the way!

Oh, what fun it is to ride in a one-horse open sleigh!

Dashing through the snow

In a one-horse open sleigh;

O’er the fields we go,

Laughing all the way.

Bells on bobtail ring,

Making spirits bright;

What fun it is to ride and sing

A sleighing song tonight!

Repeat chorus

Good King Wenceslas

Lyric by John Mason Neale

Good King Wenceslas look’d out on the feast of Stephen,

When the snow lay round about, deep and crisp and even.

Brightly shone the moon that night, though the frost was cruel,

When a poor man came in sight, gath’ring winger fuel.

“Hither, page, and stand by me, if thou know’st it, telling,

Yonder peasant, who is he? Where and what his dwelling?”

“Sire, he lives a good league hence, underneath the mountain;

Right against the forest fence, by Saint Agnes’ fountain.”

In his master’s steps he trod, where the snow lay dinted;

Heat was in the very sod which the Saint had printed.

Therefore, Christian men, be sure, wealth or rank possessing;

Ye who now will bless the poor shall yourselves find blessing.

Carol of the Bells

Music by M. Leontovich

Lyric by Peter J. Wilhousky

Hark! how the bells,

Sweet silver bells,

All seem to say,

“Throw cares away,”

Christmas is here,

Bringing good cheer

To young and old,

Meek and the bold,

Ding, dong, ding, dong

That is their song

With joyful ring,

All caroling.

One seems to hear

Words of good cheer

From everywhere,

Filling the air.

O how the pound,

Raising the sound

O’er hill and dale,

Telling their tale.

Gaily they ring,

While people sing

Songs of good cheer,

Christmas is here!

Merry, merry, merry, Merry Christmas;

Merry, merry, merry, Merry Christmas;

On, on they send,

On without end

Their joyful tone

To every home.

Repeat from beginning

Ding, dong, ding, dong;

Ding, dong, ding, dong;

Hark how the bells

All seem to say

Christmas is here.

God Rest Ye Merry, Gentlemen

Traditional

God rest ye merry, gentlemen; let nothing you dismay.

Remember, Christ our Savior was born on Christmas Day

To save us all from Satan’s power when we were gone astray.

Chorus:

O tidings of comfort and joy, comfort and joy!

O tidings of comfort and joy!

In Bethlehem, in Jewry, this blessed Babe was born,

And laid within a manger upon this blessed morn;

The which His Mother Mary did nothing take in scorn.

Repeat chorus

From God our heav’nly Father, a blessed angel came;

And unto certain shepherds brought tidings of the same;

How that in Bethlehem was born the Son of God by name.

Repeat Chorus

There’s No Place Like Home for the Holidays

Music by Robert Allen

Lyric by Al Stillman

Oh, there’s no place like home for the holicays,

‘Cause no matter how far away you roam,

When you pine for the sunshine of a friendly gaze,

For the holidays you can’t beat home, sweet home.

I met a man who lives in Tennessee,

And he was headin’ for Pennsylvania

And some homemade pumpkin pie.

From Pennsylvania folks are trav’lin’ down to Dixie’s shore;

From Atlantic to Pacivic, gee, the traffic is terrific,

Oh, there’s no place like home for the holidays,

‘Cause no matter how far away you roam,

If you want to be happy in a million ways,

For the holidays you can’t beat home, sweet home.

Over the River and Through the Woods

Traditional

Over the river and through the woods

To Grandfather’s house we go.

The horse knows the way

To carry the Sleigh

Through the white and drifted snow.

Over the river and through the woods;

Oh, how the wind does blow!

It stings your nose

And bites your toes,

As over the ground we go.

Over the river and through the woods,

Trot fast, my dapple gray!

Spring over the ground

Like a hunting hound,

For this is Thanksgiving Day!

Over the river and through the woods,

Now Grandmother’s face I spy!

Hurrah for the fun!

Is the pudding done?

Hurrah for the pumpkin pie!

Have Yourself A Merry Little Christmas

Music and Lyrics by Hugh Martin and Ralph Blane

Have yourself a merry little Christmas;

Let your heart be light.

From now on, our troubles will be out of sight.

Have yourself a merry little Christmas;

Make the Yuletide gay.

From now on, our troubles will be miles away.

Here we are as in olden days, happy golden days of yore;

Faithful friends who are dear to us gather near to us once more.

Through the years we all will be together

If the Fates allow.

Hang a shining star upon the highest bough,

And have yourself a merry little Christmas now.

The Christmas Song (Chestnuts Roasting on an Open Fire)

Music and Lyric by Mel Torme and Robert Wells

Chestnuts roasting on an open fire;

Jack Frost nipping at your nose;

Yuletide carols being sung by a choir,

And folks dressed up like Eskimos.

Ev’rybody knows a turkey and some mistletoe

Help to make the season bright.

Tiny tots with their eyes all aglow

Will find it hard to sleep tonight.

They know that Santa’s on his way;

He’s loaded lots of toys and goodies on his sleigh;

And ev’ry mother’s child is gonna spy

To see if reindeer really know how to fly.

And so I’m offering this simple phrase

To kids from one to ninety-two;

Although it’s been said many times, many ways

Merry Christmas to you.

The Christmas Waltz

Music by Jule Styne

Lyric by Sammy Cahn

Frosted windowpanes, candles gleaming inside,

Painted candy canes on the tree;

Santa’s on his way; he’s filled his sleigh with things,

Things for you and for me.

It’s that time of year

When the world falls in love;

Ev’ry song you hear seems to say:

“Merry Christmas, may your New Year dreams come true.”

And this song of mine, in three-quarter time,

Wishes you and yours the same thing too.

We Three Kings of Orient Are

Music and Lyric by John Henry Hopkins

We three kings of Orient are,

bearing gifts we traverse afar,

Field and fountain, moor and mountain,

Following yonder star.

Chorus:

O star of wonder, Star of night,

Star with royal beauty bright,

Westward leading, still proceeding,

Guide us to Thy perfect light.

Born a King on Bethlehem’s plain,

Gold I bring to crown Him again,

King forever, ceasing never

Over us all to reign.

Repeat Chorus

Glorious now behold Him arise,

King and God and Sacrifice;

Alleluia, Alleluia,

Peals through the earth and skies.

Repeat Chorus

I Wonder As I Wander

Music and Lyric by John Jacob Niles

I wonder as I wander out under the sky

How Jesus the Savior did come for to die,

For poor ordin’ry people like you and like I;

I wonder as I wander out under the sky.

When Mary birthed Jesus, ’twas in a cow’s stall

With Wise Men and farmers and shepherds and all.

But high from God’s heaven, a star’s light did fall,

And the promise of ages it did then recall.

If Jesus had wanted for any wee thing,

A star in the sky, or a bird on the wing,

Or all of God’s angels in heav’n for to sing,

He surely could have it, ’cause He was the King.

Repeat Verse 1

While Shepherds Watched Their Flocks

Traditional; adapted from Handel

While shepherds watch’d their flocks by night,

All seated on the ground,

The angel for the Lord came down,

And glory shone around,

And glory shone around.

“Fear not!” said he, for mighty dread

Had seized thir troubled minds.

“Glad tidings of great joy I bring

To you and all mankind,

To you and all mankind.”

“To You in David’s town this day

Is born of David’s line,

The Savior who is Christ the Lord;

And this shall be the sign,

And this shall be the sign.”

“All glory be to God on high,

And to the earth be peace.

Goodwill henceforth from heav’n to men

Begin and never cease,

Begin and never cease.”

March of the Kings

Traditional

Three great kings I met at6 early morn,

With all their retinue were slowly marching,

Three great kings I met at early morn

Were on their way to meet the newly born,

With gifts of gold, brought from far away,

And valiant warriors to guard the royal treasure,

With gifts of gold, brought from far away,

Their shields all shining in their bright array.

When a Child Is Born

Music by Acar, Lyric by Fred Jay

A ray of hope flickers in the sky;

A tiny star lights up way up high.

All across the land dawns a brand-new morn;

This comes to pass when a child is born.

A rosy hue sails the seven seas; the winds of change whisper in the trees.

And the walls of doubt crumble tossed and torn;

This comes to pass when a child is born.

It’s all a dream and illusion now;

It must come true, sometime soon, somehow.

All across the land dawns a brand-new morn;

This comes to pass when a child is born.

Santa Claus Is Comin’ To Town

Music and Lyric by J. Fred Coots and Haven Gillespie

You better watch out; you better not cry;

Better not pout, I’m telling you why:

Santa Claus is comin’ to town.

He’s making a list and checking it twice,

Gonna find out who’s naughty and nice:

Santa Claus is comin’ to town.

He sees you when you’re sleepin’;

He knows when you’re awake;

He knows if you’ve been bad or good;

So be good for goodness sake.

Oh! you better watch out; you better not cry;

Better no pout, I’m telling you why:

Santa Claus is comin’ to town.

Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer

Music and Lyric by Johnny Marks

Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer had a very shiny nose,

And if you ever saw it, you would even say it glows.

All of the other reindeer used to laugh and call him names;

They never let poor Rudolph join in any reindeer games.

Then one foggy Christmas Eve, Santa came to say:

“Rudolph, with your nose so bright, won’t you guide my sleigh tonight?”

then how the reindeer loved him as they shouted out with glee:

“Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer you’ll go down in history.”

Here Comes Santa Claus

Music and Lyric by Gene Autry and Oakley Haldeman

Here comes Santa Claus, here comes Santa Claus

Right down Santa Claus Lane.

Vixen and Blitzen and all his reindeer are pulling on the rein.

Bells are ringing, children singing;

All is merry and bright.

So hang your stockings and say your prayers,

‘Cause Santa Claus comes tonight.

Here comes Santa Claus, here comes Santa Claus,

Right down Santa Claus Lane.

He’s got a bag that’s filled with toys for boys and girls again.

Hear those sleigh bells jingle jangle;

Oh! what a beautiful sight!

So jump in bed and cover your head,

‘Cause Santa Claus comes tonight.

Here comes Santa Claus, here comes Santa Claus

Right down Santa Claus Lane.

He doesn’t care if you’re rich or poor;

He loves you just the same.

Santa Claus knows we’re all God’s children;

That makes everything right.

So fill your hearts with Christmas cheer,

‘Cause Santa Claus comes tonight.

Repeat Verse 1

Up on the Housetop

Traditional

Up on the housetop the reindeer pause;

Out jumps good old Santa Claus;

Down through the chimney with lots of toys,

All for the little ones Christmas joys.

Chorus:

Ho, ho, ho! who wouldn’t go!

Ho, ho, ho! who wouldn’t go!

Up on the housetop, click, click, click,

Down through the chimney with good St. Nick.

First comes the stocking of little Nell;

Oh, dear Santa, fill it well;

Give her a dolly that laughs and cries,

One that can open and shut its eyes.

Repeat Chorus

Look in the stocking of little Bill;

Oh just see what a glorious fill!

Here is a hammer and lots of tacks,

Whistle and ball, and a whip that cracks.

Repeat Chorus

I Saw Mommy Kissing Santa Claus

Music and Lyric by Tommie Connor

I saw Mommy kissing Santa Claus

Underneath the mistletoe last night.

She didn’t see me creep down the stairs to have a peep;

She thought that I was tucked up in my bedroom fast asleep.

I saw Mommy tickle Santa Claus

Underneath his beard so snowy white.

Oh, what a laugh it would have been,

If Daddy had only seen Mommy kissing Santa Claus last night.

Jolly Old St. Nicholas

Traditional

Jolly old St. Nicholas,

Lean your ear this way!

Don’t you tell a single soul

What I’m going to say;

Christmas Eve is coming fast,

Now you dear old man,

Whisper what you’ll bring to me;

Tell me if you can

When the clock is striking twelve,

When I’m fast asleep,

Down the chimney, broad and black,

With your pack you’ll creep.

All the stockings you will find

Hanging in a row;

Mine will be the shortest one;

You’ll be sure to know.

Johnny wants a pair of skates,

Suzy wants a dolly,

Nellie wants a storybook,

She thinks dolls are folly.

As for me, my little brain

Isn’t very bright;

Choose for me, old Santa Claus,

What you think is right.

Repeat Verse 1

The Little Drummer Boy

Music and Lyric by Harry Simone, Katherine K. Davis, and Henry Onarati

Come, they told me,

Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum

Our newborn King to see,

Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum

Our finest gifts we bring

Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum

To lay before the King,

Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum, rum-pum-pum-pum, rum-pum-pum-pum,

So to honor Him,

Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum

When we come.

Baby Jesu,

Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum

I am a poor boy, too;

Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum

I have no gift to bring

Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum

That’s fit to give our King.

Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum, rum-pum-pum-pum, rum-pum-pum-pum

Shall I play for you?

Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum

On my drum?

Mary nodded;

Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum

The ox and lamb kept time

Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum

I played my drum for him

Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum

I played my best for him

Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum, rum-pum-pum-pum, rum-pum-pum-pum

Then He smiled at me,

Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum

Me and my drum.

A Holly Jolly Christmas

Music and Lyric by Johnny Marks

Have a holly jolly Christmas; it’s the best time of the year.

I don’t know if there’ll be snow, but have a cup of cheer.

Have a holly jolly Christmas, and when you walk down the street,

Say hello to friends you know and ev’ryone you meet.

Oh, ho the mistletoe hung where you can see;

Somebody waits for you; kiss her once for me.

Have a holly jolly Christmas, and in case you didn’t hear

Oh, by golly, have a holly jolly Christmas this year.

Do You Hear What I Hear?

Music and Lyric by Noel Regney and Gloria Shayne

Said the night wind to the little lamb,

“Do you see what I see?

Way up in the sky, little lamb,

Do you see what I see?

A star, a star,

Dancing in the night, with a tail as big as a kite,

With a tail as big as a kite.”

Said the little lamb to the shepherd boy,

“Do you hear what I hear?

High above the tree, shepherd boy

Do you hear what I hear?

A song, a song high above the tree with a voice as big as the sea

With a voice as big the sea.”

Said the shepherd boy to the might king,

“Do you know what I know?

In your palace warm, mighty king,

Do you know what I know?

A child, a child, shivers in the cold

Let us bring Him silver and gold. Let us bring him silver and gold.”

Said the king to the people ev’rywhere,

“Listen to what I say!

Pray for peace people ev’rywhere. Listen to what I say!

The Child, the Child, sleeping in the night

He will bring us goodness and light, He will bring us goodness and light.”

Toyland

Music by Victor Herbert;

Lyric by Glen MacDonough

Toyland, Toyland

Little girl and boy land,

While you dwell within it,

You are ever happy then.

Childhood’s joyland,

Mystic, merry Toyland!

Once you pass its borders,

You can ne’er return again.

Rockin’ Around the Christmas Tree

Music and Lyric by Johnny Marks

Rockin’ around the Christmas tree

At the Christmas party hop.

Mistletoe hung where you can see

Ev’ry couple tries to stop.

Rockin’ around the Christmas tree,

Let the Christmas spirit ring.

Later we’ll have some pumpkin pie,

And we’ll do some caroling.

You will get a sentiment6al feeling

When you hear voices singing

“Let’s be jolly! Deck the halls with boughs of holly!”

Rockin’ around the Christmas tree,

Have a happy holiday.

Ev’ryone dancing merrily

In the new old-fashioned way.

O Christmas Tree (O Tannenbaum)

Traditional

O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree, thy leaves are so unchanging.

O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree, thy leaves are so unchanging.

Not only green when summer’s here, but also when ’tis cold and drear

O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree, thy leaves are so unchanging.

O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree, you fill all hearts with gaiety.

O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree, you fill all hearts with gaiety.

On Christmas Day you stand so tall, affording joy to one and all.

O Christmas tree, O Christmas tree, you fill all hearts with gaiety.

Christmas in Killarney

Music and Lyric by John Redmond, James Cavanaugh, and Frank Weldon

The holly green, the ivy green,

The prettiest picture you’ve ever seen

Is Christmas in Killarney.

With all of the folks at home.

It’s nice to know to kiss your beau

While cuddling under the mistletoe,

And Santa Claus, you know, of course,

Is one of the boys from home.

The door is always open;

The neighbors pay a call;

And Father John, before he’s gone,

Will bless the house and all.

How grand it feels to click your heels,

And join in the fun of the jigs and reels;

I’m handing you no blarney,

The likes you’ve never known

Is Christmas in Killarney,

With all of the folks at home.

Pat-a-Pan

Traditional

Willie, take your little drum;

Robin, take your flute and come;

Let us hear the music play

Tu-re-lu-re-lu, pa-ta-pa-ta-pan.

Let us hear the music play

On this joyful Christmas Day.

Like the men of oldne days

Gave the King of Kings their praise;

On these instruments the’d play

Tu-re-lu-re-lu, pa-ta-pa-ta-pan.

On these instruments they’d play

Tu-re-lu-re-lu, pa-ta-pa-ta-pan.

And their hearts were light and gay.

God and man this day become

Joined as one with flute and drum,

When we hear the music play

Tu-re-lu-re-lu, pa-ta-pa-ta-pan.

When we hear the music play

On this joyful Christmas Day.

Bring a Torch, Jeannette, Isabella (Un Flambeau, Jeannette Isabelle)

Traditional

Bring a torch, Jeannette, Isabella!

Bring a toch, to the cradle run!

It is Jesus, good folk of the village;

Christ is born and Mary’s calling:

Ah! ah! beautiful is the Mother!

Ah! ah! beautiful is her Son!

It is wrong when the Child is sleeping;

It is wrong to talk so loud.

Silence, all, as you gather around,

Lest your noise should waken Jesus:

Hush! hush! see how fast He slumbers;

Hush! hush! see how fast He sleeps.

Softly to the little stable,

Softly for a moment come;

Look and see how charming is Jesus,

How He is white, His cheeks are rosy!

Hush! hush! see how the Child is sleeping;

Hush! hush! see how He smiles in dreams.

Good Christian Me, Rejoice

Words by John Mason Neale

Good Christian men, rejoice

With heart and soul and voice.

Give ye heed to what we say:

News! News!

Jesus Christ is born today.

Ox and ass before Him bow,

And He is in the manger now.

Christ is born today!

Christ is born today!

Jesus Christ was born for this!

He hath ope’d the heav’nly door;

And man is blessed evermore.

Christ was born for this!

Christ was born for this!

Good Christian men, rejoice

With heart and soul and voice

Now ye need not fear the grave:

Peace! Peace!

Jesus Christ was born to save!

He calls you one and calls you all

To gain His everlasting hall.

Christ is born today!

Christ is born today!

We Wish You a Merry Christmas

Traditional

Chorus:

We wish you a Merry Christmas;

We wish you a Merry Christmas;

We wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!

Good tidings to you wherever you are;

Good tidings for Christmas and a Happy New Year!

Repeat Chorus

Oh, bring us a figgy pudding;

Oh bring us a figgy pudding;

Oh bring us a figgy pudding, and a cup of good cheer.

Good tidings to you wherever you are;

Good tidings for Christmas and a Happy New Year!

Repeat Chorus

And we won’t go till we’ve got some;

And we won’t go till we’ve got some;

And we won’t go till we’ve got some, so bring some out here.

Repeat Chorus

Silver Bells

Music and Lyric by Jay Livingston and Ray Evans

Christmas makes you feel emotional;

It may bring parties of thoughts devotional.

Whatever happens or what may be,

Here is what Christmastime means to me.

City sidewalks, busy sidewalks, dressed in holiday style,

In the air there’s a feeling of Christmas.

Children laughing, people passing, meeting smile after smile,

And on ev’ry street corner you hear:

Silver bells, silver bells,

It’s Christmastime in the city.

Ringaling, hear them ring,

Soon it will be Christmas Day.

Strings of streetlights, even stoplights, blink a bright red and green.

As the shoppers rush home with their treasures.

Hear the snow crunch, see the kids bunch, this is Santa’s big scene.

And above all this bustle you hear:

Silver bells, silver bells,

It’s Christmastime in the city.

Ringaling, hear them ring,

Soon it will be Christmas Day.

I Saw Three Ships

Traditional

I saw three ships come sailing in on Christmas Day, on Christmas Day.

I saw three ships come sailing in on Christmas Day in the morning.

And what was in those ships all three, on Christmas Day, on Christmas Day!

And what was in those ships all three, on Christmas Day in the morning?

The Virgin Mary and Christ were there on Christmas Day, on Christmas Day

The Virgin Mary and Christ were there on Christmas Day in the morning.

Repeat Verse 1

The Twelve Days of Christmas

Traditional

On the first day of Christmas, my true love gave to me a partridge in a pear tree.

On the second day of Christmas, my true love gave to me two turtle doves and a partridge in a a pear tree.

On the third day of Christmas, my true love gave to me

Three French Hens, two turtle doves, and a partridge in a pear tree.

On the fourth day of Christmas my true love gave to me

Four mockingbirds, three French hens, two turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree.

On the fifth day of Christmas my true love gave to me

Five golden rings, four mockingbirds, three French hens, two turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree.

On the sixth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me

Six geese a-laying, five golden rings, four mockingbirds, three French hens, two turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree.

On the seventh day of Christmas my true love gave to me

Seven swans a swimming, six geese a-laying, five golden rings, four mockingbirds, three French hens, two turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree.

On the eighth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me

Eight maids a milking, seven swans a swimming, six geese a-laying, five golden rings, four mockingbirds, three French hens, two turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree.

On the ninth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me

Nine ladies dancing, eight maids a milking, seven swans a swimming, six geese a-laying, five golden rings, four mockingbirds, three French hens, two turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree.

On the tenth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me,

Ten lords a-leaping, nine ladies dancing, eight maids a milking, seven swans a swimming, six geese a-laying, five golden rings, four mockingbirds, three French hens, two turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree.

On the eleventh day of Christmas my true love gave to me

Eleven pipers piping, ten lords a-leaping, nine ladies dancing, eight maids a milking, seven swans a swimming, six geese a-laying, five golden rings, four mockingbirds, three French hens, two turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree.

On the twelfth day of Christmas my true love gave to me

Twelve drummers drumming, eleven pipers piping, ten lords a-leaping, nine ladies dancing, eight maids a milking, seven swans a swimming, six geese a-laying, five golden rings, four mockingbirds, three French hens, two turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree.

I Heard the Bells on Christmas Day

Medley of music by John Baptiste Calkin and Johnny Marks; Lyrics by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

I heard the bells on Christmas Day

Their old familiar carols play,

And wild and sweet the words repeat

Of peace on earth, goodwill to men.

I thought how, as the day had come,

The belfries of all Christendom

Had rolled along the unbroken song

Of peace on earth, goodwill to men.

And in despair I bowed my head:

“There is no peace on earth,” I said.

“For hate is strong and mocks the song

Of peace on earth, goodwill to men.”

The pealed the bells more loud and deep:

“God is not dead, nor doth He sleep.

The wrong shall fail, the right prevail,

With peace on earth, goodwill to men!”

Till, ringing, singing on its way,

The world revolved from night to day.

A voice, a chime, a chant sublime

Of peace on earth, goodwill to men!