Day 1: Arrive at Kathmandu

Upon your arrival at Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu, our company representative will meet and welcome you to Nepal and then you'll be transferred to your confirmed hotel. Once you finish the check-in procedure, you can rest & relax at the hotel. Later you will be accompained by the office staff for a short tour of Thamel to make you familiar with some good restaurants, ATMs, money changer and other necessary places you might need during your stay in Thamel.

Day 2: Sightseeing around Kathmandu Valley

After morning breakfast Wongchhu Peak Promotion will introduce you with your tour guide and he will pick you from respective hotel for an interesting tour of Swayambhunath Stupa located on a hill top, with fabulous views of Kathmandu city, green hills that surrounds the valley and of high snow capped mountains.

Swayambhunath one of the oldest historical sites listed in world heritage of more than 2,5000 years old Buddhistreligious complex with huge dome shape stupa with four mystical eyes of Buddha overlooking four directions North, South, East and West. After an impressive tour visiting the monastery and small chapels this place surrounded with green forest with many monkeys around and this place is also known as “Monkey Temple”.

Next nice tour leads towards east of Kathmandu city at Pashupatinath Temple area, tourist or non Hindu are not allowed inside the main temple, however one can overlook the temple from the bank of Bagmati river the holy and famous Shiva temple with golden pagoda tier roofs and four silver doors surrounded with lovely forest with many monkeys around. This place is flooded in the mid February on Shiva Ratri (birth anniversary of lord Shiva). Nearby on the opposite bank of the river funeral and cremation takes places for all Hindu religion.

Then after drive towards north east reaching at Bouddhanath Stupa also called as “Little Tibet” due to strong Tibetan influence in culture, traditions and Buddhist religion, Bouddhanath a huge dome with tow tier where one can walk up near the top with nice views of surrounding Bouddhanath area with shop, stores, restaurants and monasteries.

After a fascinating and lovely historical and cultural tour return back to respective hotels. Then take rest for a while and in evening you will meet with your trekking guide and representative from Wongchhu Peak Promotion (WPP) office for short briefing before your trip because you should know all the essential factors and places before going to the trek.

Finally, day ends with a Authentic Nepalese Dinner in Nepali Cultural Restaurant.

Day 3: Fly to Lukla (2,860m) & trek to Phakding (2,610m/8,560ft)

The next day, you need to be well prepared for the trek. Flight leave at the crack of dawn from Kathmandu domestic airport and check-in is even earlier. Lukla is situated at the altitude of 2880m you need to get to the domestic airport of Kathmandu in order to fly to the Lukla. It takes around 35 to 40 minute flight from Kathmandu to Lukla. After such a literally breathtaking flight, it is pretty normal to feel slightly fuzzy in the head on arrival in Lukla. Most people take tea, a second breakfast or lunch before setting out.

There is no great rush to reach Phakding. The trek can be done in 4 hours or so. The trail passes through Choplung (2660m) and Nachi Pang, with its magnificent view of the snowy peak of Kusum Kanguru. The sprawling village of Ghat has a small monastery. Phakding village has lodges on either bank of the Dudh Koshi. Phakding monastery, high above on the west side, is best visited on the return to Lukla . Overnight in Lodge.

Day 4: Trek from Phakding to Namche Bazar (3,440m/11,283ft)

In the fourth Day, early in the morning after having breakfast you will have a walk through a magnificent forest of Rhododendron with unimaginable views of the river side. From Phakding the trail climbs and contours through pleasant pine forest. The next village, Bengkar (2630m), is well known for its apple pies. The route climbs to Monjo (2835m) and the entry check post for the Sagarmatha National Park. From Jorsale (2740m) it’s all up, with a glimpse of Everest as the trail climbs to Namche (3440m).This beautiful trek will take around 6/7 hours from Phakding and end at Namche Bazaar. This is normally one of the harder days on the trek, not because of the particularly different terrain, but because it’s the first critical day in which altitude plays a part. Overnight in Lodge.

Day 5: Acclimatization Day at Namche

Everyone should take a rest day in Namche to adjust to the altitude. Namche Bazaar is a very famous place for sight-seeing of Mt. Everest and all Himalayan ranges as well as wonderful sunrise and sunset, not only that it is also famous for a local museum. So, early in the morning after having breakfast you will walk around one and a half hour to have a wonderful Everest view and sunrise. After a few hours back to the hotel you will take some rest. Then in the evening, you will enjoy the beauty of Namche village and lively markets, where you will get unimaginable hospitality from the local people. Then you will visit the local museum and in the museum, you will get chances to see native flora and fauna as well as about the history of Mt. Everest. Overnight in Lodge.

Day 6: Trek from Namche to Tengboche (3,860m/12,660ft)

There are several routes from Namche to Tengboche. The next trek destination is to Tengboche and it takes almost 5-6 hours to reach the destination. Tengboche is one of the well-known traditional places and it is famous for its Tibet Buddhist monasteries with Sherpa religion and lots monks as well. You will start your treks early in the morning around 8 am, during your journey you will have remarkable views of Mt. Everest, Nuptse, Lhotse, Cholatse, Kantaiga, AmaDablam and Thamserku. You will also enjoy with great Tibet Buddhist monasteries along with Sherpa religion. Buddhist monasteries will open every day at 4o’clock in the evening that every tourist will welcome over there and tourists will enjoy best worship and meditations. And finally, you will have wonderful sunset views from there. Overnight in Lodges.

Day 7: Fly via Helicopter to Khamding Hospital Site (Chyangba Village)

After early Morning breakfast, we decend down towards Khamding by helicopter. Khamding is magnificent, deep and green with scattering of neatly keep homes and fields. It's a place where Wongchhu Sherpa Memorial Construction work is going on. We will be staying 2 days at a site. & then we will be doing camping trek upto to Phaplu. Overnight in Tent.

Day 8: Extra day in Khamding Hospital Site

No trekking is scheduled today; instead we will be going to visit the Hospital site. You can also interact with the Local people and get chance to learn more about their life style. You can enjoy by seeing the fresh atmosphere with ever green forests.

Day 9: Trek from Khamding to Bhittakharka (2,250m/7,380ft) via Chyangba Village

After seeing such a beautiful Chyangba village, monastery and interacting with their local people we head towards Bhitakharka via Chyangba village. During our trek to Bhitakharka we see many local people engaged in their daily household work.

Day 10: Trek from Bhittakharka to Phaplu (2,413m/7,914ft)

Another great day of trekking. Up and down valleys. Passing through villages with colorful doors, many beautiful snowy mountains can be seen. Local people waking here to there for their household works, children running from up and down with joyful face. We reach Phaplu and take a rest. It will be the last day of our trip. We enjoy, dance, sing at the evening take our dinner and go for bed.

Day 11: Fly back to Kathmandu

We wake up early in the morning have our breakfast and fly back to Kathmandu. After arriving at Kathmandu, you can visit any place wherever you are intended to.

Day 12: Leisure Day

Leisure day at Kathmandu followed by farewell dinner & celebration. Leisure day at Kathmandu followed by farewell dinner & celebration. You can ask your guide to take you on a sightseeing trip inside Kathmandu Valley. On this day you can go to the various museums around the valley including the Narayanhiti Museum which earlier used to be the residence of the last king of Nepal. You may also go to the hilltop of Nagarkot. After some sightseeing around the world heritage sites in the valley, you will have a farewell dinner and enjoy with your Nepali friends and guide. You might even make plans for extending your stay for Chitwan jungle safari, rafting activities, and more with your guide.

Day 13: Departure

Finally it’s SEE OFF TIME. You will be picked from Hotel by representatives of Wongchhu Peak Promotion staff and dropped at Tribhuvan International Airport with a hope to see you again.