Two of Taiwan's hottest matinee idols arrived in Manila on July 12, 2008 to promote their hit TV series, Romantic Princess, now airing in ABS-CBN. Wu Chun and Calvin Chen are both members of a phenomenal Asian boy band called Fahrenheit but have also successfully ventured into TV's primetime.

Romantic Princess showcases the talents and good looks of the two members and tells of the story of a young girl (played by Angela Zhang) who dreams of becoming rich but ends up falling in love.

In a press conference held in ABS-CBN last July 12, both Taiwanese stars greeted the media with enthusiasm. Both stars were asked if it was their first time in Manila and surprisingly, Chun and Calvin responded that it was not.

Calvin says, "I came here like ten years ago with my family just for a family retreat ‘cause I know there are so many places in the Philippines. It is a good place for resort and going on retreats...many islands in Philippines...a lot. And I remember, in my memory when I was a kid, that the seafood here was very nice, very yummy."

Wu Chun, on the other hand, owns a health club in Brunei where he claims his staff is composed of 80 percent Filipinos. He comes to Manila once in a while to meet his staffing needs. Chun characterizes Filipinos as "nice and very professional."

When asked about the good and bad side of their popularity, Wu Chun states, "I can't spend more time with my family because I'm staying in Taiwan but my family is in Brunei and sometimes I really miss home."

As for the good things, Chun continues by saying, "Good thing a lot. We can influence a lot. We can encourage."

Calvin also responded by saying, "When you lose your privacy [that] it makes you more responsible to yourself."

He adds, "Isn't it weird that we have to shake so many hands of many people? How many people can have this kind of experience in their whole life? We can see people's love and their care so truly and directly to us."

PEP (Philippine Entertainment Portal) asked the two heartthrobs what they enjoyed doing more—singing or acting?

Wu Chun said that they cannot choose one over another as they really enjoy acting in front of the cameras as much as singing in front of a crowd. As for dream roles, Wu Chun wants to star in an action movie and Calvin expresses humorously that he wants to play the role of a killer. Both admit though that it may be hard to deviate from the usual prince-and-heartthrob roles they have been accustomed to being seen.

For fans who want to know if they have girlfriends back home, Calvin answers for both of them, "Too busy."

Wu Chun is a Brunei-born Chinese who was discovered when he came to Taiwan. His first shot to fame was playing one of the leads in the series Tokyo Juliet. But acting in the popular drama, Hua Yang Shao Nian Shao Nu a.k.a Hana Kimi in 2006 propelled him to stardom. Outside his acting, singing and modeling commitments, Wu Chun owns a health club in Brunei.

Calvin Chen won first place in a talent competition held in Canada where he finished his college education. This proved to be his golden ticket to Taiwan's entertainment industry.

As for future plans, Wu Chun and Calvin said that they are open to working with local talents if their busy schedules will permit. Wu Chun, though, is set to make hearts flutter once again with Hot Shots, a new TV series he will co-star with F4's famous heartthrob, Jerry Yan. It is set to air in Taiwan by the end of July and fans hope to see it on Philippine TV soon.

For the meantime, they just have to catch the last two weeks of Romantic Princess in ABS-CBN as the drama moves towards an exciting and romantic ending.