Sure I know the story we live in a world I sue you you sue me! It's all to common and it's true that many people will fake or play hurt to collect money from someone or some company. So it may be true that our system of awarding folks money for damages within the legal system is abused and gotten out of hand. Yet they are some cases where after seeing you just get steamed up and mad and you want to stand up and fight for the people against the companies and corporations. And in Susan Saladoff's recent HBO documentary "Hot Coffee" you see the evidence of the wrong doing of companies and corporations, as they are now using the law more and more to their advantage thru politics, tort reform, and arbitration. Highlighted is the well known mid 90's McDonald's coffee case from New Mexico. And I must agree when company temperatures are so hot that they cause burns that require skin grafts, then the injured is entitled a money settlement and rightfully justice.

This documentary is informative and educational as it showcases the legal system and how people and the courts are affected by lawsuits. It's supported by newscast clips, interviews from legal and committee experts and touching is seeing how many people are done wrong by bad medical practices and corporations with arbitration rules. And the issue and debate of tort reform is interesting you must think should their really be a limit on it? And interesting and revealing is seeing how politics and the court system are becoming intersecting as more and more business type judges are being elected to the courts who are supported by the corporations so that they can be sided with over the common man.

No matter what your stance is on the issue of tort, political connection, arbitration and wanting to file lawsuits, after watching this hot steamy revealing documentary "Hot Coffee" you will probably feel like standing up for the little people in their fight against the wrongs and personal physical damages that companies and corporations bring against them. It's clear it shows that the devil is many corporations best friend and arbitration is it's pitchfork. And showcasing tort reform is now a hot political topic everywhere. Overall "Hot Coffee" is one hot steamy documentary not to miss it's tasty energy will inspire you to fight for your legal rights just like those hurt and injured by political corporate greed.

I saw Hot Coffee at the San Francisco Film Festival last night (4/22/2011). Trial lawyer Saladoff has done well with this debut documentary feature and the case studies were presented well.

That being said, I think it needs greater balance in order to work as a serious statement. The subjects of tort reform and mandatory arbitration are her targets in directing this film. 4 cases are presented supporting her thesis that they are damaging to democracy and not supportive to the masses who are looking for accountability when treated badly by corporations.

I am not defending tort reform or mandatory arbitration because I don't know enough about the issues or the subject. After seeing this movie, I feel the same way, in fact I feel a thirst to hear from the other side as this film had me feeling manipulated by cherry picked cases and emotionalism. I don't doubt that there will sometimes be harm done to the individual by corporations but there are also "opportunistic" cases brought forth by individuals when the situation calls for it. There was no addressing this in the film and no explication of what happens to professionals such as doctors when they are, perhaps, unjustly accused by individuals.

Saladoff's claim is that the "other side's" story has been told for the past 25 years. I don't feel I know that story well enough and would have appreciated more background of why tort reform and mandatory arbitration exist in the first place and, perhaps, even a story or two where their existence may have worked in everybody's favor.

When all was said and done, the film painted a dire situation for and effectively raised strong emotion against, tort reform and mandatory arbitration. I felt a trifle manipulated in the process.