Non-Enlisted Replacement Soldier Military Training Badge/未入営補充兵軍隊宿泊教育之章

Size 24 mm. Reverse 未入営補充兵 - Non-Enlisted Replacement Soldier 軍隊宿泊教育之章 - Military (Quartering) Training Badge Replacement military service is a type of military service to make up for vacancies in active service. Reservists provided training for those who had not yet enlisted during...

Eastern Army Badge/東軍章

Obverse 東軍 - Eastern Army /Eastern District Army (東部軍, Tōbugun) was a field army of the Imperial Japanese Army responsible for the defense of the Kantō region and northern Honshū during the Pacific War. It was one of the regional commands in the Japanese home islands reporting to the General...

39th Infantry Regiment 1925 Battle with Fengjun Clique's General Guo Songling Commemorative Watch Fob/大正十四年末駐満歩三九奉郭戦記念章

At the end of November 1925, Fengjun general Guo Songling led his troops back to Shenyang from Shanhaiguan in an attempt to overthrow Zhang Zuolin's rule in the three eastern provinces. One month later, Guo's army was defeated in the Liaohe River and Guo was killed. Commentators mostly attribute...

2nd Infantry Regiment Battle Flag Supporting Association Honorary Member's Badge/歩兵第二連隊軍旗奉讃会名誉会員章

See also Regular Member's badge https://asiamedals.info/threads/2nd-infantry-regiment-battle-flag-supporting-association-regular-member-badge.23904/ Obverse 奉讃 - Support Given to a Temple/Shrine or Association reverse 歩兵第二聯隊 - 2nd Infantry Regiment 軍旗奉讃會 - Battle Flag Supporting...

Imperial Japanese Army Noborito Research Institute Staff Badges/陸軍登戸研究所職員章

The Noborito Research Institute (登戸研究所/Noborito Kenkyūjo), officially the Army Ninth Technical Research Institute (第9陸軍技術研究所/Dai-kyū Rikugun Gijutsu Kenkyūjo), was a military development laboratory run by the Imperial Japanese Army from 1939 to 1945. Based at a compound in the Noborito area of...

Army Tractor Driver Badge History

Established on September 1, 1942 by Army Military Ordinance No.13 /軍令陸第十三號/ . Badge was issued to drivers of tractors/ towing vehicles for "outstanding driving performance". Badge has one class and was issued only to soldiers. Badges were made in cupronickel. Original name of the badge...

1941-1943 Nanhanjing Region Fortification Construction Commemorating Watch Fob/自昭和十六年至昭和十八年南漢井地區肅正建設井手部隊記念章

Size 26.3 mm. Thickness 2 mm. Weight 8.3 g. Obverse 記念 - Commemorative reverse Crossed Flags of Empire of Japan and Reformed Government of the Republic of China https://asiamedals.info/forums/provisional-reorganized-china-national-government.595/ 南漢井地區 - Nanhanjing Region /Shanxi...