D. Parks White was sworn in as District Attorney of the Northern Judicial Circuit on January 1, 2013. Since that time he and his dedicated staff have closed more than 16,000 criminal cases, and improved the conviction rate at trial to better than 90%.

Parks is a graduate of Clemson University, where he earned a Bachelor of Science in Mathematical Sciences. He graduated from the University of Alabama School of Law in 2003, and joined the Georgia Bar that year.

Parks has more than a decade of experience in public service, beginning as an Assistant District Attorney in the Augusta Judicial Circuit in 2003, where he worked for former District Attorney Danny Craig, considered by many to be one of Georgia's best District Attorneys. Parks served as an ADA in the Augusta office for three and a half years, where he learned the complexities of criminal law and quickly became a highly proficient trial attorney. He tried numerous serious criminal cases, including many murders, child molestation cases, drug trafficking cases, and aggravated assaults.

In 2007 Parks left Augusta to join the military as a Judge Advocate General in the United States Navy. He spent four years on active duty, defending sailors, marines, and coastguardsmen charged with violations of the Uniform Code of Military Justice at courts martial. In 2010 Parks volunteered for deployment to Iraq, where he served with the Law & Order Task Force, responsible for transitioning high level terrorism suspects, including leadership in ISIS, into prosecution in the Iraqi judicial system. In 2011 Parks separated from active duty and returned to the Augusta District Attorney’s Office, where he worked for the Honorable Ashley Wright. In his first year back in the Augusta DA’s office, Parks tried 12 felony jury trials, including two murders back-to-back in two weeks, securing guilty verdicts in all.

In 2012 Parks ran for District Attorney of the Northern Judicial Circuit, winning the Republican primary against a 16 year incumbent. Parks took office as District Attorney in January of 2013, and has worked tirelessly since to restore integrity to the office of the District Attorney, and to deliver justice to victims.