Age of the company

1 Year

Turnover in CHF

PremiumPremium

Liability

Owner

Employees

PremiumPremium

Active brands

0

Address

Kantonsschulstrasse 12

8180 Bülach

Would you like to customise your address? Click here.

Reports for&nbspPoskok NT Bogdanovic

*displayed reports are examples

Credit rating information

Evaluation of credit rating with traffic light as risk indicator and other helpful data about the company.&nbspFind out more

Economic information

Comprehensive information about the economic situation of a company.&nbspFind out more

Payment behaviour

Assessment of the payment behaviour based on past invoices.&nbspFind out more

Payment collection information

Overview of current and past debt enforcement proceedings.&nbspFind out more

Company dossier as PDF

Contact information, changes in the company, turnover and employee figures, management, ownership, shareholding structure and other company data. Retrieve company dossier

About Poskok NT Bogdanovic

Poskok NT Bogdanovic is a Sole proprietorship with its legal headquarters in Bülach. Poskok NT Bogdanovic belongs to the industry «Trading with various goods» and is currently active.

The management has one active person registered.

The company has last changed their commercial register entry on 13.04.2023, under «Notifications» you will find all changes.

In the commercial register the company Poskok NT Bogdanovic is registered under the UID CHE-411.301.815.

Management (1)

Executive board

Nenad Bogdanovic

newest authorized signatories

Nenad Bogdanovic

Source: SOGC

Commercial register information

Source: SOGC

Entry in the commercial register

06.04.2023

Legal form

Sole proprietorship

Legal headquarters of the company

Bülach

Commercial Registry Office

ZH

Commercial register number

CH-020.1.093.822-5

UID/VAT

CHE-411.301.815

Sector

Trading with various goods

Purpose (Original language)&nbspCustomise the company purpose with just a few clicks.

Verkauf von Occasion Geräten.

Other company names

Source: SOGC

Es sind keine früheren oder übersetzten Firmannamen vorhanden.

Would you like to update the company name? Click here.

Ownership structure

Holdings

No information on holdings is known to us.

Newest SOGC notifications: Poskok NT Bogdanovic

The latest updates from the Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce (SOGC) are available in the original language of the source commercial register office only. View all notifications

SOGC 230413/2023 - 13.04.2023

Categories: Company foundation

Publication number: HR01-1005722305, Commercial Registry Office Zurich, (20)

Poskok NT Bogdanovic, in Bülach, CHE-411.301.815, Kantonsschulstrasse 12, 8180 Bülach, Einzelunternehmen (Neueintragung).

Zweck:

Verkauf von Occasion Geräten.

Eingetragene Personen:

Bogdanovic, Nenad, serbischer Staatsangehöriger, in Bülach, Inhaber, mit Einzelunterschrift.

Hit list

Here you will find a link from the management to a hit list of persons with the same name who are registered in the commercial register.