REPORT. Two main Bosniak parties progress as social democrat, multi-ethnic bloc and Croat parties retain their share of votes · Milorad Dodik again wins in the Republic of Srpska, but his party loses seat in Bosnia's three-member presidency · Winners hold opposed stances over Bosnia's structure · Bosniak parties want a stronger central state, while the main Croat party wishes a Croat entity along the lines of Srpska

Parties claiming to represent each of the three main national groups in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats) achieved a large majority in the country's central Parliament elected assembly (the House of Representatives) and ensured all three seats in Bosnia's presidency, according to partial results released between Monday and Tuesday. Analysts suggest that these results could further complicate the country's political management and could also make it difficult to implement reforms.

Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of two federated entities: the Serb-majority Republic of Srpska (35% of Bosnia's population), and the Bosniak- and Croat-majority Federation of Bosnia and Hercegovina (62.5%). Each has its own government and parliament. The Federation, in turn, is divided into ten cantons, which also have their own parliaments and governments. Brcko District operates as a de facto third entity apart. (See map above.)

All three seats of the Bosnian presidency, the House of Representatives' seats, the seats of parliaments of entities and cantons, and the presidency of the Republic of Srpska were elected on Sunday. This report focuses on the results of the three-member presidency and the all-Bosnian House of Representatives.

Largest Bosniak party regains ground in the Federation

With more than 84% of polling stations having been counted, conservative Party of Democratic Action (SDA) emerged as the largest party in the House of Representatives election in the Federation (27.7% of the vote, up from 19% in 2010). The party also captured the Bosniak seat of the tripartite presidency, which will be held by Bakir Izetbegovic. SDA supports a more centralized Bosnia. It seeks to advance the rights of Bosniaks, while advocating a Bosnian multiethnic state. The party was founded in 1990 by the father of Bosnian independence, Alija Izetbegovic.

Also in the conservative Bosniak camp, the Alliance for a Better Future (SBB) was left on Sunday only one percentage point down from capturing the presidency seat from the SDA. In the House of Representatives, the party obtained 14.6% of the vote in the Federation, up from 12.2% four years ago. SBB sees itself as the renovation party as regards SDA, which has retained Bosniak votes since the days of independence.

While the SDA and SBB made gains on Sunday, the Social Democratic Party (SDP BIH) lost ground. SDP BIH was the strongest party in the 2010 House of Representatives election in the Federation (26% of the votes), but it has now achieved only 9.5% of the votes. Like SDA, SDP BIH also wants a strong central state, but unlike SDA it rejects ethnic divisions. SDP BIH was until now heading the Bosnian government, and this could be the reason why it has been punished by voters, due to poor social and economic situation facing the country. The party most liley has lost a large number of votes to new Democratic Front (DF) party. DF was established in 2013 by one of SDP BIH leaders, Zeljko Komsic. DF achieved on Sunday 15% of the votes in the Federation. Komsic's defines itself as multi-ethnic and social democratic, and wants to internally reorganize Bosnia not on current ethnic principles, but on an "economic, geographic and social" basis.

Another party having achieved a considerable share of votes in the Federation (12%) is the Croat Democratic Union (HDZ BIH), whose candidate Dragan Covic also secured the Croatian seat of the presidency. HDZ BIH styles itself as the party representing the interests of Bosnia's Croatian community, and calls for the reorganization of the country into four constituent entities: a Bosniak one, a Serbian one, a Croatian one and a multi-ethnic one in Sarajevo. Another Croatian party with a similar program (HDZ 1990) reached 4% of the votes.

Overall, if results are analyzed according to ideological blocs, it emerges that vote patterns have undergone relatively minor changes since 2010. Both main Bosniak parties (SDA and SBB) made gains, but not at the expense of a social democrat decline: when their results are added, both multi-ethnic social democrat parties (SDP BIH and DF) keep a share of approximately 25% of the votes. It seems rather that SDA and SBB could have benefited from the decline of other smaller groups. This includes the Bosniak-supported Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which on Sunday lost more than half of its votes (from 7% in 2010 to less than 3% now), and People's Party for Work and Betterment, which achieved 4.8% of the Federation votes in 2010 but could only retain 1.4% now. Vote to both main Croat parties (HDZ and HDZ 1990) has remained quite stable, at approximately 16% at the Federation level.

Milorad Dodik retains Republic of Srpska presidency

Bosnian Serb President Milorad Dodik retained the Republic of Srpska presidency for an additional next four-year term. His Alliance of Independent Social Democrats (SNSD) was again the strongest party both in the Srpska Assembly (33% of the votes) and in the Srpska constituencies of the all-Bosnia House of Representatives (39%). Even though, the SNSD lost some ground if compared to the 2010 election. Furthermore, SNSD candidate to the Serbian seat of Bosnia's presidency Zeljka Cvijanovic lost the election to Mladen Ivanic, who was running as the leader of an opposition conservative coalition. Besides, it is unclear whether SNSD will be able to form a new majority in the Srpska Assembly.

In any case, none of these Bosnian Serb leaders are willing to discuss a reorganization of Bosnia and Herzegovina if it means the dissolution of the Republic of Srpska. Dodik has repeatedly warned that in that event, he would call a referendum on independence or would directly declare secession. Dodik has also been seeking closer relations with Russia. Ivanic's election to the three-member presidency could lead to some tensions with Dodik. In this interview with Le Monde, Ivanic said Dodik's rethoric on independence is empty, and further he announced to be in favor of a wide Bosnian deal in order to drive Bosnia into the European Union.

(Image: Map of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Map by Bennet Schulte.)

Further information: