Viva Friday is a compilation of the best new songs, albums and videos recommended by Billboard Latin editors.

This week on the Viva Friday playlist, we’ve got Joss Favela and Becky G’s “Pienso en Ti,” “Imposible” by Luis Fonsi and Ozuna, Trending Topics’ “Dandy del Congo” featuring Amayo, Ruben Blades, and more.

Joss Favela, Becky G – “Pienso en Ti”

Joss Favela and Becky G, two young artists, who have joined forces for a very romantic Regional Mexican song called “Pienso En Ti.” The single was released with a beautiful music video where the two singers are a couple who are deeply in love. — SUZETTE FERNANDEZ

Luis Fonsi, Ozuna – “Imposible”

Trending on Billboard

This track will make you fall in love. The romantic reggaeton combines both artist’s styles, resulting in a unique song. “Imposible” was released alongside a music video directed by Carlos Perez, and filmed in Miami, Fla. and Los Angeles. In the clip, Luis Fonsi and Ozuna are singing at a train station. Watch it below. — S.F.

Tito Nieves, Sergio George – “Como Yo” ft. Pacho “El Antifeka”

Tito Nieves singing reggaeton! We never saw this coming…or did we? Following their single “Viv la Musica,” the renowned salsa singer and Grammy-winning producer Sergio George present “Como Yo,” a salsa-meets-reggaeton single featuring Pacho “El Antifeka.” The music video, filmed in Naguabo, Puerto Rico, brings to the forefront the beautiful attractions it offers, such as its virgin beaches and colorful lifestyle in the barrio. With this tropical single, Nieves and George prepare fans for their upcoming musical project and tour. — JESSICA ROIZ

Trending Topics – “Dandy del Congo” ft. Amayo

The future of Latin music is here! “Dandy del Congo” with an assist from Amayo is the new single coming hand-in-hand with Eduardo Cabra (Calle 13’s “Visitante”) and Vicente Garcia’s highly-anticipated Trending Topics album. Counting on the participation of artists such as Ziggy Marley, Ile, Ana Tijoux, and PJ Sin Suela, the new album tackles subjects such as a future that has already happened, relationships supplanted by smartphone addiction, and a look at the African “Dandy Men” tradition, as seen in the new music video below. — J.R.

Ruben Blades – “Pedro Navaja” Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra with Wynton Marsalis

Clad in a gray suit, white shirt under a checkered tie, and his usual narrow-brimmed hat, Ruben Blades surrounds himself with a robust music ensemble: Jazz at The Lincoln Center Orquestra with Wynton Marsalis who put a new spin on his classics. For the release of the live LP, Una Noche Con Rubén Blades, recorded live in 2014 in New York City’s Rose Theater, Blades presents a jazzed version of “Pedro Navaja,” the immortalized barrio bully, one of his cast of characters, whom he cleverly endeared to us through a narrative prose turned salsa, one of the best classic storytelling tunes of his glorious career; a journey of incommensurable hits that challenge our thinking mode with vivid reflections drawn from personal experiences. — PAMELA BUSTIOS

Kany Garcia – “A Mis Amigos” featuring Melendi

With an acoustic guitar and her signature charisma, Kany Garcia releases “A Mis Amigos,” a song that features Spanish singer-songwriter, Melendi; a beautiful tune exceeding nostalgia reflected through a confessional dialogue of intimacy. In their first collaboration, Garcia and Melendi’s profound conversational storyline, friendship takes precedence. Sensibly urging one another to stay, the song’s music video journeys through a collection of images from the past with a strong message: no te vayas de aquí, yo te necesito pa’ salvarme (don’t leave, I need you to save me). — P.B.

Beto Cuevas & Monsieur Periné – “Rosas en El Lodo”

Chilean Singer-songwriter, Beto Cuevas returns with “Rosas en El Lodo,” his new single in collaboration with Bogota-based music ensemble, Monsiuer Periné. The 70’s inspired tune, bursting old-school rhythms, comes to live through a Bond-inspired clip. The song’s music video teems with flamboyant images depicting the most iconic scenes of the classic; a persecution whereby Cuevas and Monsieur Periné’s lead vocalist, Catalina Garcia traverse amid a thread of love and lack thereof. — P.B.

Plan B, Natti Natasha, Daddy Yankee, RKM & Ken-Y, Arcangel – “Zum Zum” (Remix)

Just when you thought a song with Daddy Yankee, RKM & Ken-Y, and Arcangel was everything you ever wanted… BAM! comes Plan B and Natti Natasha. On Friday (Oct. 19), Pina Records dropped the remix for “Zum Zum,” adding the old-school reggaeton duo and Dominican urban singer into the mix. Keeping its catchy flow and sexy essence, Plan B and Natti kick off the remix with their own unique twists. Could this mark a possible comeback by Plan B? We hope so! Check out the lyric video below.