PAR-Projects' Headquarters (HQ) can be found at 1662 Hoffner Street and our recent expansion project — Studeō PAR- — is located directly next door at 1646 Hoffner Street. As part of Northside 45223, our campus is located 1 mile off of I-74, between Hamilton Avenue (BP) and Colereain Avenue (SPCA).

At HQ, assited by PLATTE Architecture + Design, Team B Architecture & Design, along with faculty, students & staff from UC DAAP's Architecture Program, we're creating a space that utilizes our existing, hundred year old, 6,000 sq/ft building and pairs it with contemporary, shipping-container-based architecture.

At Studeō PAR-, we've reimagined a 15,000 square foot distribution facilty to serve as a place that supports artistic eduaction, while promoting creative practice in both the visual & media arts.

-

The video below is a remnent of 2018's Cincinnati 5 project, which brought together Cincinnati-based artists for a one-of-a-kind exhibition. If you have a moment, it's worth your time. It'll also give you a quick look at our space.

Hmm...

There's more.

Our Mission

To empower diverse communities of people who believe in the arts.

Our Approach

As artists, we host thought provoking exhibitions & large scale collaborations throughout Cincinnati and Northern Kentucky. As educators, we provide workshops & multi-week classes, related to career development & skills training.

Our Adage

Beyond face value.

-

Our Story?

To say the least, it's complicated. From illegal evictions in the private sector, to the loss of a 30 year lease in the public sector, we've found a way to keep the arts at our forefront and continue pushing forward.

Find a number of our milestones by scrolling through the timeline below.

#AccessGranted

For more information from over the years:

Check out our blog. >>

To support our energy with a contribution:

Visit our donate page. >>

It takes a TEAM.

Leadership.

Structure.

Support.

Participation.

Consultation.

What others are saying.

"Thanks again!" for print media.

One Creative Community... via Cincinnati Magazine

Above PAR Art Events via CityBeat

Good Art in Small Galleries via Cincinnati Magazine

Our director's efforts recognized via Movers & Makers

About our Executive Director via Creative Exchange

Plans to start an outdoor theater via The Northsider

Our #MakersMobile Shipping Container via CityBeat

The start of PAR-Gardens via The Washington Post

Join our distribution list to stay tuned in to our things and stuff.

Learn more about how you can help.