This is an essay I wrote few months ago. It is a bit longer than your average blog but I though it was worth sharing.

The choice of topic was motivated by my interest to learn more about Brian Eno and his legacies. Brian Eno has been described (and in my opinion, this has been affirmed) as one of the most creative music producers, who not only shaped popular music by developing a new sonic language, but by also bringing it to major acts, thereby catalysing their creative, artistic revolution. To support this statement, this essay will start by briefly explaining what characterized Eno’s style, demonstrate his impact on some of the major artists he collaborated with and lastly identify more recent acts which adopted his style and approach.

The Foundation

Born 1948 in Suffolk England (Sheppard, 2009, p. 14) Eno first became known as a keyboard player for the band Roxy Music. When reviewing his credits they include a list of; Member of Attributed Artist, Keyboards, Synthesizer and Tapes. These early credits show he was already diversifying himself, not limiting himself to one instrument. Amongst other forms of artistic creations, Eno has been as prolific as an electronic music composer and amongst his catalogue of ambient music albums. He has managed to obtain international recognition in the genre. Eno, still releases new albums each year. The latest “Reflection” was launched in January 2017, alongside a regenerative music App with its objective of never repeating the same musical sequence.

His work as music producer is significant and interestingly, not limited to electronic music. In Five Things, Your Favorite Indie Band Owes To Brian Eno, (Heigl, A., n.d.) Alex Heigl describes aspects of Eno’s influences that can be recognized in other musical genres. This includes the use of ambient soundscapes, building layered tracks of guitar with echoes and swirls and assembling songs using collages. Markedly he was also cutting tapes, an impressive feat, given sampling machines were not even invented.

He is credited for his use of wild theatricals, as demonstrated in the “Glam” era, while also creating new methodical and intellectual approaches to creativity. We can refer to these as part of Eno’s style and see how they apply to some of the artists and productions Eno was involved with or influenced, such as: David Bowie, U2, Roy Orbison, Cold Play, Paul Simon, Johnny Cash and many more (Allmusic.com).

The Producer

David Bowies’ album, Heroes, is one of Eno’s first important collaborations. David Bowie is one of many artists who was strongly influenced by and benefited from Eno’s style, approach and contributions. Eno was credited on this album with; Main Personnel, Vocals, Guitar, Piano, Chamberlin, Keyboards, Synthesizer, Instrumental, Composer (Allmusic.com). He also co-wrote the hit song Heroes. At the time Eno was also producing Ultravox, the iconic new wave and electronica groups, first album. His contribution to Bowie’s sound and style was monolithic and as captured by a statement from Stephen Thomas Erlewine, it demonstrates the cogent stand- point, that Eno was an influential and remarkable producer.

…Heroes (the album) develops and strengthens the sonic innovations David Bowie and Brian Eno explored on their first collaboration. The vocal songs are fuller, boasting harder rhythms and deeper layers of sound. …. Similarly, the instrumentals on Heroes are more detailed, this time showing a more explicit debt to German synth pop and European experimental rock. (Erlewine, n.d.)

Eno manages to extract from electronic music and applies it to popular music. The swirls and echoes are very present. This becomes obvious when listening to the title track, opening guitar sounds. Eno recorded and mixed guitarist Robert Fripp, having him moving back and forth between pre-marked feedback prone distances, separating his guitar from the amplifier (Heigl, A.). These types of sounds are still well sought and emulated in today’s music. He also contributed to the ambient sound landscape creating more depth in the musical landscape. But it also sounded more pop!

In 1978, Rolling Stone magazine, Bart Testa proclaimed: “Eno clearly has effected a nearly miraculous change in Bowie already”. Eno’s collaboration was carried over to many of Bowie’s subsequent studio works, both as composer and producer, shaping its modern sound throughout decades.

Following on working with Bowie, Ultravox and others, Eno also produced several albums with Taking Head and David Byrne, another highly creative and influential artist of the 80’s. 1978 marks the release of his iconic ambient music production “Music for Airport”, reflecting his own creative direction. But it is his role as producer for the band U2, is what captures our attention.

This collaboration started in 1984 with Eno co-producing the album “The Unforgettable Fire” with French Canadian musician and producer Daniel Lanois. It is The Edge, U2’s guitarist, who suggested Brian Eno produce their next album. The band clearly wanted to move forward and explore new sounds rather than reproducing the previous success. The Edge had heard and tried to reproduce some of the sounds Eno had achieved on his electronic music album “Before and After Science” (Pancella, n.d.). The Edge is now well known for its atmospheric sounds, guitar echoes and other unusual guitar effects.

U2’s first three albums were more rock oriented, without many synths or keys, but a few piano lines by The Edge in “New Year’s Day”. One can understand now his desire to seek Eno’s expertise helped the band achieve new directions. The previous album sound was a cruder mix of electric guitars, bass and drum delivering high-energy rock. The guitars were already using delays but were nowhere layered to the extent U2 is now known for. U2’s previous album “War” had been released is 1983. But the band counted on Eno and Lanois to achieve something different. The two producers took turns in the studio focusing on different aspects. Eno would come in and delete whatever sounded too much like U2’s previous recordings.

“The Unforgettable Fire” was released the following year with a completely different sound. When listening to this album, one would be forgiven for thinking it’s a different band. The new production catalysed The Edge’s soundscape creating skills using the guitars effects, to a point where it becomes as complex and layered as using keys and synths, which were also used. Ambiences were slowly created within the songs intros with multiple instruments layered over textured drums sounds. There were no limitations of sound source. The album is a masterpiece.

“The Unforgettable Fire”, was shockingly different with its exploration of ambient and atmospheric segments, to the point of being called “off” by initial critics like Rolling Stone magazine:

And what all his masterful marshaling of tribal-style chants, ethnoramic percussion and lush electronic sounds often serves to reveal here, dismayingly enough, is a creative vacuum where the band should be. The album sounds formless and uninhabited. (Loder, 1984).

More to it, nothing in the early 80’s, new wave pop and big hair rock band era, was anywhere near this sound. But soon, the album takes its place as a game changer and finally Eno’s contribution is recognized. Brian Eno has been key contributor to U2 successful innovative and creative long musical catalogue. The Independent wrote: “Eno helped create the lush, layered arrangements and sonic soundscapes that proved so crucial to the record’s appeal” (Duerden, 2012).

Eno has since worked closely with the band for such iconic albums as “The Joshua Tree” 1987, “Achtung Baby” 1991, “Zooropa” 1993 , “All that you can’t leave behind” 2000, “No line on the horizon” 2009. This recognition led Eno to work with many more recording artists found within a broad range of musical genres. Since 1985, more than 300 different artists have collaborated with Eno, of genres as different as classical, rock, country, punk, as well as movie score (AllMusic.com).

Cold Play is another renowned act of the twenty first century who sought guidance from Eno for its “Viva la Vida” album. It lead to their first number one single in both the UK and the USA (NME, 2008). Eno “who took them to Spanish cathedrals” not only affected how the band sounds but also how they wrote and how they approached studio works (Montgomery, 2008). Lynne D Johnson lists Brian Eno as one of the top 10 most influential persons in the music industry (Johnson, L., 2009).

The Legacies

But what about the one he did not work with? Alex Heigl from Nerve has already given us few “Indie” bands he believed have been influenced by Brian Eno’s musical genius. Bands like Sigur Ros, Of Montreal, The Rapture and Arcade Fire have been recognised as being influenced by Eno (Heigl, A.,n.d.).

A final point to demonstrate the cogent argument of how remarkable Eno truly is as a producer, is the case of the UK based group Daughter. Described as an Indie Folk trio, the band is composed of a guitarist and a drummer. The band relied first on studio technics to layer sounds, creating complex landscape around the unconventional rhythm patterns and the singer’s voice. Like with U2, guitar echoes and reverbs are used to shape the sounds beyond recognition. The trio launched its first album in 2011. Already Paul Lester (2011) from the Guardian makes the connection with Brian Eno’s ambient music contribution: “Like the musical progeny of Enya and Eno, Elena Tonra merges haunting melodies with moody atmospherics”. In the song “Youth” launched in 2013, string sounds are created applying long church- like reverb effects to slow single notes played on a grand piano. Then layers of guitar fill the remaining sonic space. While there is no known connection between the production team and Brian Eno, the atmospheric moods and sounds that were created during his work with Bowie, U2, Coldplay and others, reappear, tinted in a different and darker lyrical context.

The case is made

To conclude, Brian Eno has created a new way to approach music production and creating music. His audio engineering skills and electronic music composer abilities have been instrumental, taking electronic and ambient music to new levels. As a music producer, not only has he been associated with some of the biggest names of the music industry such as Bowie, U2, Coldplay and many more, but he also has been taking them to new trendsetting artistic directions. It is demonstrated through these major artists, Eno’s influences are carried out to today’s popular new music and young bands. It can be concluded that Brian Eno has and is still contributing significantly in shaping current popular music in sound, style and essence.

Reference List

AllMusic.com, Brian Eno’s Credits. Retrieved from

http://www.allmusic.com/artist/brian-eno-mn0000617196/credits

Bahn, C. (2005, August30). Interview: Of Montreal’s Kevin Barnes. The A.V.Club. Retrieved from

http://www.avclub.com/article/interview-of-montreals-kevin-barnes-16634

Coldplay score first ever UK number one single. (2008, June 22nd), NME, Retrieved from

http://www.nme.com/news/music/coldplay-424-1326383

Duerden, N. (2012, November 11). Brian Eno: ‘It’s simply not my temperament to look back’. The Independent. Retrieved from

http://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/music/features/brian-eno-its-simply-not-my-temperament-to-look-back-8294822.html

Erlewine, S.T. (n.d.), David Bowie: Heroes. AllMusic Review by Stephen Thomas Erlewine Retrieved from

http://www.allmusic.com/album/heroes-mw0000098921

Heigl, A. (n.d.) Five Things Your Favorite Indie Band Owes To Brian Eno. Nerve.

Retrieved from

http://www.nerve.com/music/five-things-your-favorite-indie-band-owes-to-brian-eno

Johnson, Lynne d, (2009, June 16th). The 10 Most Creative People in the Music Biz, Fastcompany.com, Retrieved from

https://www.fastcompany.com/1290830/10-most-creative-people-music-biz

Lester, P. (2011, September 30), New Band of the Week: Daughter, The Guardian, UK Retrieved from:

https://www.theguardian.com/music/2011/sep/29/new-band-daughter

Loder, K. (1984, October 11), U2: The Unforgettable Fire, Rolling Stone magazine,USA

Retrieved from

http://www.rollingstone.com/music/albumreviews/the-unforgettable-fire-19841011

Montgomery, James, (2008, September 6th), Coldplay Give Track-By-Track Tour Of Viva La Vida, Explain Handclaps, Tack Pianos And The Number 42, MTV.com Retrieved from

http://www.mtv.com/news/1589032/coldplay-give-track-by-track-tour-of-viva-la-vida-explain-handclaps-tack-pianos-and-the-number-42/

Pancella, A. (n.d.), BRIAN ENO: U2 Connections, Retrieved from

https://www.atu2.com/news/connections/eno/

Sheppard, D. (2009). On Some Faraway Beach. Chicago: Chicago Review Press.

Sherburne, P. (2017, February16). A Conversation With Brian Eno About Ambient Music, Pitchfork Retrieved from

http://pitchfork.com/features/interview/10023-a-conversation-with-brian-eno-about-ambient-music/