Ever listen to Peter Gabriel? There are African influences on this tune.

Yes. And Talking Heads were incorporating heavy African influenced rhythms and sounds going back to "Fear Of Music" and the astonishingly great "Remain In Light" from 1979 and 1980, respectively.

Some of this, I believe, was due to producer Brian Eno's influence. Eno had done various ethnic/world-infused music (mostly in collaborations with others like Jon Hassel and Harold Budd) going back further than that.

I have a lot of admiration for Brian Jones, but no, he didn't bring world music into popular Western music. Heck, William S. Burroughs and Bryon Gysin had even recorded Joujouka musicians prior to Jones.

In the 50s, people like Martin Denny and Les Baxter made a lot of "faux-ethnic" lounge music (a lot of which is excellent) with copious Polynesian and Caribbean and other sounds like Calypso music woven in.

During that time, artists like Yma Sumac were popular, doing her take on "Indigenous Music From The Andes." Mambo and Calypso albums were popular. Robert Mitchum even released a Calypso album (!)

John Cage experimented with prepared piano and African-derived rhythms prior to that.

Before that, classical composers like Bela Bartok were using bits of local folk melodies and such as the basis for some of their work...

And as someone else said ,Hawaiian music was huge in the 20s and 30s. The production of ukuleles during this period actually saved Martin from bankruptcy. It stems from a 1915 World Expo in which native Hawaiian Islanders performed. Their "lap guitars" played with slides influenced the instrument building and music of many. The pedal steel sound of early Western Swing music (Bob Wills & The Texas Playboys, etc.) is considered by many to owe a huge debt to Hawaiian guitar playing.

I think the idea of Brian Jones is WAAAAAY better than the actual Brian Jones.

That is one of my buddies favorite phrases !

“I like the idea of Gino Vanelli waaaaay more than Gino Vanelli”

To which I always respond, “I’m not sure if I’m even comfortable with the idea of Gino Vannelli”

Come on, who doesn't like a marimba on a rock song?

Brian Jones importance in the Rolling Stones is way overstated/overrated by hipsters of all generations.

The irony is they are usually not interested in his real importance and role in the Rolling Stones, especially early on. And that is as , by far, the most accomplished blues player in the Stones .

Played open tunings and slide way before Keith, played harmonica in a different style though just as well as Jagger, and insisted on playing certain covers the others didn’t know.

“No Jones ? No Stones !” is a hipster credo just like “ Velvets Uber Alles !” or “well, just the early Big Star...” or “music was basically over by ‘67 or so man...”

That is one of my buddies favorite phrases !

“I like the idea of Gino Vanelli waaaaay more than Gino Vanelli”

To which I always respond, “I’m not sure if I’m even comfortable with the idea of Gino Vannelli”

Brian Jones importance in the Rolling Stones is way overstated/overrated by hipsters of all generations.

The irony is they are usually not interested in his real importance and role in the Rolling Stones, especially early on. And that is as , by far, the most accomplished blues player in the Stones .

Played open tunings and slide way before Keith, played harmonica in a different style though just as well as Jagger, and insisted on playing certain covers the others didn’t know.

“No Jones ? No Stones !” is a hipster credo just like “ Velvets Uber Alles !” or “well, just the early Big Star...” or “music was basically over by ‘67 or so man...”

I like that Keith has always placed more importance on Charlie Watts and Ian Stewart. There were other blues guitarists around that probably could have filled Jones's spot musically. But could they have added the image that Jones added?

Don't forget english is not my prime language, it's juste harder to give my point in a clear way sometimes.

I guess question which are not question are a Very french way to start a conversation on a point.

I don't really define World music, that's just a word to put on overseas music and non-occidental music origin closer to folk music from overseas.

I'm sure even for the minor part of playing in paint it black it helped discovering part of traditional music, I would probably not have known sitar without them, nor ravi shankar.

And I don't really see who had this approach before.

George Harrison played Sitar on Norwegian Wood a year before Paint it Black. Beatles win over the Stones again.

And, just out of curiosity - where does La Bamba (1958) fall on your World Music continuum?

Jones created such an image; such great expectations about his future accomplishments, that I suspect it just reached out and crushed him one day. It is hard to get out of a catapulting aircraft in mid flight.

Think about it. How many musicians managed such an eclectic work product?

When is a savant a fraud?

even his death was much vaunted but turned out to be the handyman... and not some interesting story at all...

I think he just beat herman's hermits to the haircut.