“Dead people who walk! You still don’t believe in zombies?” Of course we do! Join this episode’s Grue Crew – Whitney Collazo, Joseph Perry, Chad Hunt, and Jeff Mohr – as they take in some Lucha libre featuring the great El Santo in Santo vs. the Zombies (original title: Santo contra los zombies).

Decades of Horror: The Classic Era

Episode 54 – Santo vs. the Zombies (1962)

Wrestling superhero Santo battles an evil scientist who has created a race of zombies.

IMDb

Director: Benito Alazraki

Writers: Benito Alazraki, Antonio Orellana, Fernando Osés

Featured Cast:

Santo (Rodolfo Guzmán Huerta) as Santo / the Saint

Lorena Velázquez as Gloria Sandoval/Gloria Rutherford (US version)

Armando Silvestre as Lt. Sanmartin / Lt. Savage

Jaime Fernández as Det. Rodriguez

Dagoberto Rodríguez as Det. Chief Almada

Irma Serrano as Det. Isabel

Carlos Agostí as Genaro / Uncle Herbert

Ramón Bugarini as Rogelio / Roger, the male nurse

Alejandro Cruz as Black Shadow, a wrestler (as Black Shadow)

Gory Guerrero as Wrestler (as Gori Guerrero)

Sugi Sito as Wrestler

El Gladiador as Wrestler

Needless to say, your Classic Era Grue Crew loves Santo movies and Santo vs. the Zombies is no exception. Whitney recounts the importance of Santo in Mexico as relayed to her by her father, while Joseph schools everyone on some interesting information about lucha libre and luchadores. It is the classic battle between good and evil that warms Chad’s heart and as usual, he brings in a Batman connection. Jeff finally turns the corner as he too now loves the Santo movies and recommends director Benito Alazraki’s Curse of the Doll People (Muñecos infernales, 1961) as a decidedly creepy Mexican horror film.

Treat yourself to a fun-filled experience and watch Santo vs. the Zombies! While you’re at it, make it a double feature with Santo and Blue Demon Against the Monsters and revisit episode 19 of Decades of Horror: The Classic Era on that film. Better yet, let your Grue Crew know your favorite Santo movie. They expect to be covering more!

The Decades of Horror: The Classic Era Grue Crew plan to release a new episode every other week. Hey, where else will you hear podcasts on films ranging from The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari (1920) to The Curse of Frankenstein (1957) to Maneater of Hydra (1967)? The next episode in our very flexible schedule will be Carl Th. Dreyer’s Vampyr (1932).

Please send us feedback on the films we cover, ideas for future films, or the podcast itself. After all, without you, we’re just four unmasked luchadores talking about the films we love. Send us an email at feedback@gruesomemagazine.com or leave us a message, a review, or a comment at GruesomeMagazine.com, iTunes, the Gruesome Magazine Horror News Radio Facebook group or your friendly neighborhood podcast aggregator.

To each of you from each of us, “Thank you so much for listening!”

The gallery was not found!