Robert Redford is an ardent conservationist and environmentalist, a man who stands for social responsibility and political involvement, and an artist and businessman who is a staunch supporter of uncompromised creative expression.

Redford landed his first Broadway starring role in Sunday in New York, followed by Little Moon of Alban and Neil Simon’s Barefoot in the Park, directed by Mike Nichols. His first movie role was in War Hunt. He reprised the role of Paul Bratter in the film version of Barefoot in the Park, for which he received praise from critics and audiences. In 1969, Redford and Paul Newman teamed to star in Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. Directed by George Roy Hill, the film became an instant classic and firmly established Redford as one of the industry’s top leading men. He, Newman and Hill later reunited for The Sting, which won seven Oscars®, including Best Picture, and brought Redford his Best Actor nomination.

He has since built a distinguished acting career, starring in such notable films as Jeremiah Johnson, The Way We Were, The Great Gatsby, Three Days Of The Condor, The Great Waldo Pepper, Brubaker, A Bridge Too Far, The Natural, Out of Africa, Legal Eagles, Sneakers, Indecent Proposal and Up Close and Personal, Spy Game, The Last Castle, The Clearing, An Unfinished Life and All Is Lost. Currently, Redford can be seen in A Walk in the Woods, a film he produced based on the Bill Bryson novel co-starring Nick Nolte. In October, Redford will star as Dan Rather in Sony Pictures’ Classics’ Truth, directed by James Vanderbilt and also starring Cate Blanchett and Elizabeth Moss. The film chronicles the news story that irreversibly changed the life and legacy of legendary news anchor Dan Rather, and is based on the book Truth and Duty by Mary Mapes. Redford also recently wrapped Disney’s Pete’s Dragon, directed by David Lowery, co-starring Bryce Dallas Howard. The film is scheduled for release in spring 2016.

Redford has starred in several films produced by his own Wildwood Enterprises, including Downhill Racer, The Candidate, The Electric Horseman and All the President’s Men, which earned seven Oscar® nominations including Best Picture.

Redford won a Directors Guild of America Award, a Golden Globe Award and the Academy Award® for Best Director for his feature film directorial debut Ordinary People. He went on to direct and produce The Milagro Beanfield War and A River Runs Through It, for which he received a Best Director Golden Globe nomination; and earned dual Oscar® nominations for Best Picture and Best Director and a Golden Globe nomination for Best Director for Quiz Show. He earned two Golden Globe nominations (Best Picture and Best Director) for The Horse Whisperer. Other films as director and producer include The Legend Of Bagger Vance, Lions For Lambs, The Conspirator and The Company You Keep.