The 23–year-old wideman from Amsterdam is working with his new colleagues after signing a two-year deal at the Checkatrade Stadium.

Boldewijn knew of Reds’ interest in January, even before their change of ownership was complete. He went on to complete his best season yet for high-flying Dutch second-tier outfit Almere City.

But, even had they won their promotion play-off with Willem II and gone into the Eredivisie, he insists he would have taken his big chance to head to England.

Boldewijn told The Argus: “Last season was very good with my assists and goals. From January I knew Crawley were interested. It was extra motivation.

“I was in the play-offs in Holland at the end of the season but even at that moment I knew I was coming to Crawley.”

Even if Almere had gone up to secure games against Ajax, Feyenoord, PSV and company?

Enzio Boldewijn in action for Almere City

“Yes,” he replied. “I’ve always dreamed of playing in England and, when Crawley came in, I was in love straight away.

“I came here and looked at the club and it made my decision easy. I could have gone to Turkey or Austria but that doesn’t suit me.

“I think, with my game and my speed and strength, I could do well here. The Premier League has very fast players out wide and I am that kind of player.

“I think a lot of players in Holland would want to come and play in England but it’s not very common that it happens.

“Eredivisie or League Two, it doesn’t matter for me. I want to play here and make steps in England.”

Boldewijn arrives in Crawley, one of the country’s first new towns, from a similar urban development in Holland. He was born in Amsterdam, of Surinamese parents, before moving to the planned development of Almere, which was built in the mid 1970s on the other side of the IJmeer lake.

Although he joins Reds from his home town club, he made his name at nearby Utrecht. That was where he progressed through the academy and had a dozen Eredivisie games.

He said: “I played at Utrecht and Den Bosch but I was very young. I was not sure what they wanted from me but now I’m more experienced.

“My manager in the Utrecht youth team was (former first team player) Jean-Paul De Jong and he taught me a lot. He was good with people so he talked to a lot about what I was going to do on the pitch.”

Boldewijn has been settling in this week as Crawley report back for, initially, fitness assessments and then pre-season training.

He is a big Premier League watcher and a keen admirer of Chelsea. But League Two will be a bit more of a mystery for now.

“I had a bit of trouble with the accents,” he said of his first day.

“My English is not very good but I hope it will get better in time. I met my team-mates right away and we shook hands.

“I hope to play a lot of games here, get promotion and have a good season with my team mates and everybody here at Crawley.”