Throughout much of their tenure as the Highlanders, the logo was variations of a stylized N and Y, which lay separately on either side of the jersey's breast. In 1905, the two locked for one season, but not in the way used today. It wasn't until 1909 that the team changed to the familiar interlocking NY that would be the team logo long after the team became known as the Yankees, and would continue to be the cap insignia until today. The interlocking NY was originally designed by Tiffany & Co. and struck on a medal of honor presented in 1877 to John McDowell, a NYC police officer shot in the line of duty.

The primary logo, created in 1947 by sports artist Henry Alonzo Keller, consists of "Yankees" against a baseball, written in red script with a red bat forming the vertical line of the K, an Uncle Sam hat hanging from the barrel. The logo was slightly changed over the years, with the current version first appearing in the 1970s.

The interlocking NY has varied greatly, and there are

In 1992, the Yankees along with all MLB teams, had an MLB logo on the back of their caps for the first time. The following year, the Yankees became one of the last teams to wear a cap with a green underbrim. They did not switch to a gray underbrim until 1994, when most teams had been wearing a gray underbrim since the late 1980s. In the 1996 World Series, the Yankees, along with the Atlanta Braves, became the first teams to wear their caps with World Series patches sewn on the side. In 1998, the Yankees had the number #39 sewn on the back of their caps, next to the MLB logo, for Darryl Strawberry, because he was suffering from colon cancer at the time. When the MLB season opened in 2001, it was the 100th Anniversary of the American League. The Yankees had an AL 100th Anniversary patch on the side of their caps for the opening day series. When the Yankees celebrated their 100th Anniversary in 2003, they had a patch on the side of their caps, commemorating it as well. The Yankees along with all MLB teams stopped wearing wool caps, beginning in the year 2007. The new caps now have a black underbrim to reduce glare, and a more 3D MLB logo on the back. In 2009, to celebrate the inaugural season at Yankee Stadium, the Yankees had an inaugural season patch on the back of their caps. It is the first time in MLB history that a patch was in the back of a cap instead of just the MLB logo. However, the Yankees players that played in the 2009 Major League Baseball All-Star Game, in St. Louis had the regular MLB logo on the back of their caps. Starting in the 2010 MLB season, the Yankees MLB logo on the back of the caps and the back collar of the jerseys had gray behind the bat of the MLB logo instead of the usual red, which was present on Yankee caps since 1992.

The Yankees use a block letter "NEW YORK" wordmark on the gray road uniform which has also become emblematic. There is also a print version of the full name, which is of a more fanciful script than the name appears in the team logo.