Italian visa

Leonardo: the Genius

Leonardo da Vinci, was born near Florence in a period when Italy was divided in many different States. During his life he travelled and worked for the Medici in Florence, the Duke of Milan, the Pope and Cesare Borgia (Duke of Urbino), the Republic of Venice and finally also for the King of France.

Leonardo’s mirror writing

Leonardo left behind thousands of notes and manuscripts, which were over time to become located in their present collections in the Victoria and Albert Museum, Windsor Castle, the Louvre, Biblioteca Nacional de España, Biblioteca Ambrosiana (Milan). One collection is held by Bill Gates.

Many of these notes are written in mirror-cursive which was originally thought to be some sort of code, but then was attributed to da Vinci’s left-handedness. He started writing at the right side of the page and moving to the left. Only when he was writing something intended for other people did he write in the normal direction.

The purpose of his mirror writing is unknown, but one idea is that it may have kept his hands clean. People who were contemporaries of Leonardo left records that they saw him write and paint left handed. He also made sketches showing his own left hand at work. As a lefty, this mirrored writing style would have prevented him from smudging his ink as he wrote. (*)

Try It Out! Type a message to generate it in Leonardo’s style.

How a Genius could travel during the Reinassance?

At the time of Leonardo, an individual could travel to another State usually by obtaining a letter or permission denominated “salvacondotto” (safe-conduct) and it has been found the original salvacondotto issued by Cesare Borgia to Leonardo dated 1502, where Leonardo was given the permission to travel freely within the territory after having been appointed by the Duke as “Architecto et Ingegnero Generale”.

Which visa could Leonardo obtain in present times?

Most countries have special visas to facilitate the entry and stay of individuals with special skills and who could be beneficial for the national economy. In USA, aliens with extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, can obtain the O-1A visa. In UK, the Global Talent Visa is for whoever is a “leader or potential leader in academia or research, arts and culture, digital technology”. in France, the Talent Passport Foreigner of International or National Fame” (L313–20–10 °) visa can be obtained by any individuals who is able to prove to have national or international reputation, or to performers or anyone who has created a literary or artistic work. In Australia,the Distinguished Talent Visa is for, individuals who prove they are internationally recognised with evidence of outstanding achievements, still be prominent in their field of expertise, provide evidence that they would be an asset to Australia, in their area of expertise

And in Italy?

There are 2 different kind of visas which can be applied for by individuals with special qualifications:

(a) Internationally well-known and highest repute artists, artists of recognised high professional qualification or artists who are hired by well-known Italian theatres, important public institutions, public television or well-known national private televisions can apply for an artist self-employment visa;

(b) A “mission visa” (visto per missione) can be issued to foreign nationals who need to travel to Italy for reasons related to their political, governmental or public interest function, in particular:

Government officers, employees of Public administration/public bodies or Employees of International organisations who are sent to Italy to perform their duties

private citizens whose importance and purpose of stay may be considered of public interest for relations between the home country and Italy.

Work visas can also be obtained by investors, entrepreneurs and startuppers.

What can you do if you are not a “Genius”?

In order to work in Italy, NON-EU citizens must obtain work authorization. Immigration for work purposes in Italy is based on a quota-system which is fixed annually by means of a Decree — the so-called “decreto-flussi“. The decree sets the numerical limits (quota) for each category of foreign nationals allowed to apply for a work permit and the period during which applications can be submitted. Work permits are normally granted on a “first come, first served” basis.

Extra Quotas Admissions

Several categories of workers are excluded from the cap and are not subject to a fixed limit, such as ICT assignments, highly qualified workers, executives or managerial employees assigned to the Italian branch of a foreign legal entity, university lecturers and professors, translators and interpreters, professional nurses, researchers, etc.

How to be hired with a local contract

If someone wants to be hired directly by an Italian company, an option could be the EU Blue card (Carta Blu UE — Art. 27-quater of Italian Immigration law), a work permit for non-EU highly skilled workers. It was introduced in Italy to implement EU Directive 2009/50.(*)

The EU Blue Card can be applied for at any time of the year, as it is not subject to the limitations of the immigration yearly quotas. To obtain the work permit, the applicant shall meet the requirements below:

3 year University diploma: the foreign worker must be in possession of an academic degree awarded on completion of a University course of at least 3 years’ duration and, if required, of the necessary professional qualifications (if the position offered is for a regulated profession). The degree must be validated by the Italian Consulate in the country where it was issued (Declaration of Value — Dichiarazione di Valore).

1 year job offer: the applicant shall have a valid work contract to work in Italy or a binding job offer from an employer based in Italy.

High-level job position in Italy: The position offered in Italy must be for a highly qualified position, falling within Level 1, Level 2, or Level 3 of Italian Institute of statistic jobs classification ISTAT CP 2011.

Minimum € 25,000/year salary: the salary offered must not be lower than 3 times the minimum wage to be exempted from national health care contributions i.e. € 24,789.