Archduchess Maria Christina (1858-1929), sister of Archduke Frederick, married King Alfonso XII of Spain in 1879 and was regent of Spain from 1885 to 1902. Her brother Archduke Frederick had the so-called “Spanish apartment” in the Albertina furnished for his sister’s frequent stays in Vienna. This piece of furniture could probably come from the furnishings of the “Spanish apartment”. After the expropriation of the Albertina in 1918, Archduke Frederick took all the movable objects with him into exile in Hungary as private property.

Archduchess Maria Christina (1858-1929), sister of Archduke Frederick, married King Alfonso XII of Spain in 1879 and was regent of Spain from 1885 to 1902. Her brother Archduke Frederick had the so-called “Spanish apartment” in the Albertina furnished for his sister’s frequent stays in Vienna. This piece of furniture could probably come from the furnishings of the “Spanish apartment”. After the expropriation of the Albertina in 1918, Archduke Frederick took all the movable objects with him into exile in Hungary as private property.

At present, there is no adequate level of data protection in the USA, and it cannot be excluded that state security authorities may issue corresponding orders to the third-party providers (Google and Meta Platforms, Inc.) to gain access to the aforementioned data for control and monitoring purposes. There are no effective remedies or legal protection against this. Moreover, the US does not provide adequate guarantees for the protection of personal data. However, since we only forward your IP address (in shortened form, so that no clear identification is possible) and technical information such as browser, Internet provider, terminal device and screen resolution to Google, we consider the risk to be moderate and the probability of actual access to your data rather low.

When you visit our website, the following data, among others, is recorded:

Pages viewed

Your behaviour on the pages (e.g. clicks, scrolling behaviour and stay time length)

Your approximate location (country and city)

Your IP address (in shortened form, so that no clear identification is possible)

Technical information including browser, internet provider, terminal device and screen resolution

Source of your visit (i.e. via which website or advertising material you came to us)