ZeroZeroZero

9pm, Sky Atlantic

A dramatisation of the journalist Roberto Saviano’s 2013 eponymous exposé of the international drug trade, this Italian crime thriller tells the story of the New Orleans-based Lynwood family and their brokering of drug deals between the Mexican cartels and the Italian mafia. In tonight’s opening episode, Don Minu La Piana (Adriano Chiaramida) gathers his clan to decide the future of their criminal organisation, while in Mexico the Leyra drug cartel is being tracked down by soldier Manuel Contreras (Harold Torres). Ammar Kalia

Inside Culture With Mary Beard

7pm, BBC Two

Beard is joined by Young Vic theatre artistic director Kwame Kwei-Armah and comic Kiri Pritchard-McLean to discuss the changing nature of audiences throughout history and in the current era of Covid. The musician Tim Burgess joins the conversation to talk about the success of his Twitter listening parties during lockdown. AK

Ken Burns: Here & There

7.15pm, PBS America

As the creator of The Vietnam War and a plethora of other films and miniseries, Burns is synonymous with accomplished historical documentaries. This one-off sees family, contemporaries and friends – as well as Burns himself – offer a window into his “labour-intensive” craft. Hannah J Davies

Pooch Perfect

8pm, BBC One

Sheridan Smith and canine co-host Stanley present the dog’s show that is so soothing it should be available on prescription. This week, the groomers reach the quarter-finals and battle the clock to hand-strip a Welsh terrier. If that isn’t enough to lure you in, join the contestants in a guess-the-breed game. Hannah Verdier

Rob & Romesh vs

10pm, Sky One

Romesh Ranganathan and Rob Beckett return for a new series of competitive shenanigans, beginning in the world of art. Beckett visits his first art gallery, then joins Ranganathan for lessons at an art school. Finally, each of them has to create an exhibition of their work at London’s Saatchi gallery. AK

Those Who Kill

10pm, Fox

A sporadically gripping crime series in which angsty homicide detective Catherine Jensen (Chloë Sevigny) joins forces with James D’Arcy’s college professor Dr Thomas Schaeffer to investigate serial killers and discover the truth about Jensen’s missing brother. Tonight, a body is found at a construction site. Phil Harrison

Film choice

The Swimmer 7pm (Frank Perry, Sydney Pollack, 1968), Sony Movies Classic

Burt Lancaster drops in for a swim: he’s heading for home in a posh California suburb where everyone has a pool, stopping to make a splash at each friend and neighbour’s home. But there’s something off: they don’t like him and he doesn’t like them. A faintly daft allegory kept afloat by Lancaster’s big-hearted performance. Paul Howlett

Live sport

Test cricket: Pakistan v South Africa 5am, Sky Sports Main Event. The first day of the second Test at Rawalpindi Cricket Stadium.

ATP tennis: Murray River Open 8am, Eurosport 1. The opening quarter-finals from Melbourne Park.