The game is fully tested & guaranteed to work. It’s the cartridge / disc only unless otherwise specified.

This time it’s not about winning. It’s not about riding on dubs or gaudy neon lights. It’s about an utter disregard for the rules of road and total domination. This time it’s personal.Burnout Revenge is a racing game in which your desire for destruction is as important as your ability to reach the finish line. Game modes run the range from pure racing to pure destruction on a handful of real-world locations, including Detroit and Rome. Burnout Revenge also supports online play for challenging other players.

PRODUCT DETAILS

UPC:014633151039

Condition:Used

Genre:Racing

Platform:Playstation 2

Region:NTSC (N. America)

ESRB:Everyone 10+

SKU:PS2_BURNOUT_REVENGE

———This game is fully cleaned, tested & working. Includes the Disc/Cartridge Only. May have some minor scratches/scuffs.This description was last updated on October 28th, 2020.

When EA released Burnout 3: Takedown, the game took the world by storm with its high-speed graphics, more advanced level of racing thanks to the addition of Takedowns and several new racing modes such as Road Rage and Crash Junctions. So how do you take the game of the year from 2004 and make it better. Ask EA because they did it with Burnout: Revenge.Burnout: Revenge is like Takedown on some serious steroids with a side of caffiene. The game is ramped up several major notches to give it a feel that makes it more advanced and more fun than Takedown. One of the biggest new additions to the game is called Traffic Checking, where you can take your car and literally plow through traffic that is going in the same direction as you are and send them flying into oncoming trafficor other racers causing a Takedown (and adding on to your Boost Meter). This also helps in a new mode of racing know as Traffic Attack, where plowing through the traffic and using it as a weapon can earn you serious cash.The additional ranking system is based on how well you perform in the events of Revenge. Each race has a 4-star rating system that increases or decreases dependent on your race performance, so if you score an Awesome rating and get a gold medal in the event your rating will advance to Perfect (5 stars)but conversely if you get an Awesome but you finish with a bronze medal your rating will decreaseto 3 stars.New features include brand new Takedowns including the extremely tricky Vertical T.

Burnout 3 was undoubtadly a crowning achievement in the racing genre, and Burnout Revenge proudly carries the torch. Boasting another glossy, bug budget package; Burnout Revenge features pretty much everything veterans of the series would come to expect. There’s some improvements to the gameplay here and there (Eliminator is much better here), but for the most part Burnout Revenge plays identical to it’s predecessor. Oh yeah, the game looks great too. The cars look great and the various modes of play are still oh so much fun, but for the most part there isn’t anything here that we haven’t seen before. Burnout 3 was ahead of it’s time, and while Burnout Revenge doesn’t really do much to improve on a formula that didn’t need many improvements to begin with, it’s still one of the best racers and driving games you’ll find on the PS2 today. Whether you’re a longtime fan or newcomer to the series, Burnout Revenge is a treat, and it’s worth picking up.

I have been a fan of the entire burnout series and revenge is a great addition. it is very similer to burnout 3 but the graphics have improved and also the vehicle selection. yeah its pretty much the same one player, race/crash/elimination layout but ya gotta love the improved graphics. i didnt really give this game a chance at first cause it was just like starting 3 all over again but after awhile I dusted it off and played and next to nfs underground this is my fav racing game.

This is the newest installment of the Burnout series. And in my opinion, it is the best.1. Although it doesn’t have single event mode, you can still play a single event by going to the world tour mode and choosing any event in that, it’s practically the same thing.2. This game brings new things into the Burnout series, just as each game before this one has. In this game, the new parts include Traffic Attack, Shortcuts, and several different types of cars. Some cars in this game will even go 210 mph.3. Traffic Attack and Checking Traffic is an extremely fun thing to do. The Traffic Attack events aren’t amazingly fun, but just having the ability to “check” traffic (Which is ramming cars, that are travelling in the same direction as you, from behind and sending them into your opponents, which in turn crashes the opponent.) is very, very fun!4. The shortcuts are one of the best new additions to the Burnout Series in my opinion. It makes the game so much faster and extreme. The shortcuts aren’t really that short though, when you come out of them you usually end up only a little bit more ahead of the opponents that didn’t take the shortcut, but sometimes that’s all that matters. There are so many shortcuts in the tracks that if you were to race at one track twice in a row, you probably would not have gone the exact same way.5. Some shortcuts can send you through the air which could make you land on your opponents which is a new takedown called a Vertical Takedown. There’s no greate.