$14.99

Out of stock

Want to be notified when this product is back in stock?

Description

Reviews (0)

Description

Good condition & 100% complete with contents: BURNOUT DOMINATOR for SONY PlayStation 2 / PS2. This preowned game includes case + cover + manual / booklet + game disc. Some light superficial markings / cosmetic scratches, but these are very minor imperfections which do not affect game play in any way. Does not come with original case.

SCHOOL HOLIDAYS ARE ALMOST HERE! Grab some bargains here at Appleby Games, Christchurch!

Enjoyed by players of Need for Speed Most Wanted, Need for Speed Underground 2, Burnout Revenge.

Description

Push the limits of reckless driving and let adrenaline and danger take you to the edge in the most intense, challenging Burnout experience ever seen on PlayStation2 and PSP.

Rage against the road and engage in every type of dangerous racing. Ignite and empty a full boost bar without crashing to perform a Burnout and reach mind-blowing speeds. Chain multiple burnouts to push the score multiplier and your nerves to the limit as you tear across the new world tour!

Battle traffic across tracks built to handle every style of racing. Uncover and exploit shortcuts, master drift corners and unflinchingly weave through the oncoming cars in a bid to become the ultimate burner.

Pushing the limits of the PSP and the PlayStation 2, Burnout Dominator features the most explosive visuals seen on the platforms, engaging multiplayer modes to suit, and a PSP exclusive feature that allows you to synchronise your game with your friends and thrash their high scores and race times.

With a host of unlockable features, awards and exclusive downloadable content on the PSP, Burnout Dominator will keep you locked in vehicular combat this coming spring.

Features:

Master a new world tour: Battle across all-new tracks built for every style of racing. Drift around the traffic on open urban roads and race in the oncoming lane in claustrophobic city streets.

Unprecedented speed: Drive like a maniac to max out your boost. Drain it totally to perform a Burnout and get an instant boost recharge. Chain multiple burnouts to keep the adrenaline burning!

New ways to burn: Don’t just throw caution to the wind in Maniac mode – pulverise it. Drive on the edge in the most challenging race mode seen yet and watch your score soar!

Signature Shortcuts: Watch out for the signature shortcuts on every track. Ram a rival through the barrier of a shortcut entrance to unlock it and shave those precious seconds off your race times.

Unique rides: Every car offers a unique experience, and you need to master them all as you drift, smash and race your way through the world tour.

Domination Points: Win races, takedown rivals and nail the challenges thrown at you to progress to the deadly Dominator series.

Join the party: Pass the PSP or Analog Controller (DUALSHOCK) and own the competition in Party Play Mode or go head to-head in split-screen Multiplayer Mode on the PlayStation 2 and in Ad Hoc Mode on the PSP.

Scoresync functionality: Exclusive to PSP. Synchronise your game with friends on game completion and then smash their best race times and scores.

Downloadable game content: Extend your game experience on the PSP by downloading exclusive new tracks after game launch.

Related products

George Of The Jungle (AS NEW) *MINT COLLECTOR’S*

0 out of 5

$20.94 Add to cart

COMMANDOS 2: Men of Courage *MINT COMPLETE*

0 out of 5

$14.39 Add to cart

Call of Duty Finest Hour (PS2) *MINT COMPLETE*

0 out of 5

$24.99 Add to cart

Alias (PS2) *MINT COMPLETE*

0 out of 5

$14.39 Add to cart