New Orleans' own Greg "Tarzan" Davis flies across movie screens as a fighter pilot in the summer blockbuster "Top Gun: Maverick." The “Grey’s Anatomy” actor hit the big time only a few years ago after leaving Louisiana. Now, not only is he appearing in the year's biggest film, but he’ll be featured in the latest installment of the "Mission Impossible" spy franchise.

In May, the Algiers native, Edna Karr High School and LSU graduate attended "Top Gun: Maverick" premieres on the deck of an aircraft carrier in San Diego, the Cannes Film Festival and the United Kingdom.

Last week, under the wings of a F/A-18 fighter jet in London's famed Leicester Square, actor Tom Cruise introduced Davis to the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, Prince William and Catherine, before the cast viewed the film with the royals.

Such is the young actor's rapid ascent. Last summer saw Davis seated in a private box at Wimbledon next to Cruise. The two enjoyed the London social season between takes filming “Mission Impossible: Dead Reckoning Part One.”

Davis portrays naval aviator Lt. Javy "Coyote" Machado in the sequel to the 1986 film “Top Gun.” Locals won’t be able to miss his character’s New Orleans accent. It’s surreal to watch the film’s lightning-fast aerial jet maneuvers and then hear a chill fighter pilot drawl "try da stay wit me" to his wingman.

Taste of New Orleans

The actor recently sat down to talk about “Top Gun: Maverick” — and the lack of decent seafood in Hollywood.

Amid the chaos of a media tour, and between anecdotes about pulling G’s, the actor continually brings the conversation back to his hometown and what he misses most — and as with all New Orleanians who've left the city, after family and friends, it's the food.

In Davis' case, he misses the seafood. Whether London, the South of France or Los Angeles, he says he's not feeling it.

“It’s not good,” said Davis. “Other than New Orleans, I won’t eat seafood anywhere else. I tried it in California. Ugh. It’s horrible."

When he’s home, he says his first stop is Morrow’s in the Faubourg Marigny, his favorite eatery in the city.

"I love it there," Davis said. "Oh, hell, yes!"

Kicking tires, lighting fires

Davis filmed "Top Gun: Maverick" two years ago, but he still gets excited talking about it.

"Oh, man, there are certain things you can put on your bucket list, and then things you know are unachievable," said Davis. "Then others you don't even consider, like flying in a F/A-18."

The original "Top Gun" was primarily filmed in the studio; this time, the cast filmed the flight scenes in real fighter jets.

"It was fun, and it was tough," Davis said describing the physical aftermath of experiencing G-forces. "I felt like I'd just survived a car wreck."

The actors went through a rigorous training program to increase G-force tolerance levels before they began shooting.

"Tom Cruise created this amazing program so we could adjust," said Davis. "We started out flying in Cessnas before moving to the next upgrade, the EA-300, then after that, we moved to the jet most closely related to the F/A-18, the L39, then to the Big Daddy itself ― the F/A-18."

Toward the end of the shoot, there was a competition among the actors to see who could pull the most G's in the various Navy jets used for filming.

Bringing diversity

Fans of the original "Top Gun" remember the only Black naval aviator in the film was LTJG Marcus "Sundown" Williams, a F-14 Tomcat, an NFO, or navigator in the original movie. This time, "Top Gun" has Black pilots up front.

"My character's backstory work is of a literal underdog," Davis said.

Coyote has something to prove. He's an officer who works hard, but he is the best of the best, Davis said.

"I think we're making steps in the right direction with diversity," Davis said. "I am honored to be that person who can bring that diversity to the film."

He says he's happy that a child who looks like him can now look up at the movie screen and say, “Oh, one day I can be like him, I can be a naval aviator.”

"Growing up, when I saw the film 'Top Gun,' I would ask, where am I in the film?" Davis said. "Not just 'Top Gun,' but many other films."