What Is Will.I.Am's Net Worth?

Will.I.Am is an American rapper, songwriter, record producer, DJ, actor, and television personality who has a net worth of $50 million. Will.I.Am is the founding and lead member of the hip hop group the Black Eyed Peas, and is also known for being a judge and mentor on various television talent show franchises, including "The Voice UK" and "The Voice Kids".

Will.I.Am, also known as William Adams, began performing while he was in eighth grade, and four years later, he was signed to Eazy-E's label. By 1996, the members of the Black Eyed Peas, then known as the Black Eyed Pods, had formed a cohesive trio and subsequently released two albums, one in 1998 and the next in 2000. However, it was not until the release of their third album, "Elephunk," that the Black Eyed Peas truly arrived. With the addition of singer Fergie, the group established itself as a funky quartet with an innovative sound. In addition to his work with the Black Eyed Peas, Will.I.Am has recorded multiple solo albums and produced tracks for a range of artists, including Michael Jackson, Justin Bieber, Britney Spears, U2, and Bone Thugs-n-Harmony.

Early Life and Career Beginnings

William James Adams Jr., more commonly known by his stage name will.i.am, was born in Los Angeles, California, on March 15, 1975. He was raised by his mother, Debra, and has never met his father. He grew up in Eastside Los Angeles, in the Estrada Courts housing projects. To encourage his musical career, his mother sent him to school in the more affluent West Los Angeles.

While attending John Marshall High School, Adams became best friends with Allan Pineda Lindo (also known by his stage name apl.de.ap.), who would become a future member of the Black Eyed Peas. In high school, the duo teamed up with another pair and began to perform around Los Angeles as a rap group called Atbann Klann. They were signed to the label Ruthless Records in 1992. Adams first began rapping under the name Will-1X, recording the song "Merry Muthafuckin Xmas" with Atbann Klann. In 1995, he left Ruthless Records and began to form the group that would later be known as the Black Eyed Peas.

Music Career

The Black Eyed Peas signed with Interscope Records and released their debut single, "Joints and Jam," in early 1998. This original lineup only included Adams, Lindo, and Jaime Gomez (known by his stage name Taboo). Their debut album "Behind the Front," released in June 1998, was successful enough that their contract with Interscope was renewed, and they subsequently released their second album, "Bridging the Gap" (2000). Around this time, Adams began working on his own material and released his first solo album, "Lost Change" (2001), which was a big critical success.

It was while working on material for their third album "Elephunk," that the Peas realized that female vocals might work on the song "Shut Up". They originally approached Nicole Scherzinger to feature on their track, but she already had prior commitments, so they turned to singer Stacy Ann Ferguson (better known as Fergie). Fergie immediately bonded with the group, and she joined them as a permanent member. "Elephunk" was released in 2003 and reached #14 on the "Billboard" Top 200. It went on to sell 8.5 million copies worldwide. It was during this time that Adams also recorded and released his second solo album, "Must B 21" (2003).

The Peas released their fourth album, "Monkey Business," in 2005. It was certified three times Platinum by the RIAA in the US, and the single "Don't Phunk with My Heart" won the group the Grammy Award for Best Rap Performance by a Duo or Group. After a brief break, they would go on to release the albums "The E.N.D." (2009), "The Beginning" (2010), and "Masters of the Sun Vol. 1" (2018). Adams also released two more solo albums of his own, "Songs About Girls" (2007) and "#willpower" (2013). Furthermore, as a music producer, Adams has produced music for artists including Cheryl, Michael Jackson, Justin Bieber, Kesha, Britney Spears, Miley Cyrus, David Guetta, U2, Rihanna, Lady Gaga, Usher, Justin Timberlake, Nicki Minaj, and 2NE1.

Other Projects

Outside of music, Will.I.Am has a wide variety of other pursuits and projects that he has worked on. He starred in the animated film "Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa" (2008) as the voice of the hippo Moto Moto. He then made his major film debut as the character John Wraith in "X-Men Origins: Wolverine" (2009). Other acting appearances he has made include the film "Date Night" (2010), the series "Joan of Arcadia" (2005), and the animated films "Rio" (2011) and "Rio 2" (2014).

Additionally, he has been a judge and mentor on the television talent show franchise "The Voice." He has appeared on several different versions of the show, including "The Voice UK," "The Voice Australia," and "The Voice Kids." As of May 2020, he is still a mentor on the UK and Kids versions of the show.

Will.I.Am is a noted fan of fashion. Before joining the Black Eyed Peas, he was a student at the Fashion Institute of Design & Merchandising in Los Angeles. He designed his own signature clothing line, i.am, in 2001, and it officially debuted at the 2005 Magic Apparel Trade Show in Las Vegas. He also released the book "WaR: Wizards and Robots" in 2018 in collaboration with Brian David Johnson.

Furthermore, Adams has dabbled in investing. He founded the technology company i.am+ in 2013. The company acquired the Tel Aviv machine-learning technology start-up Sensiya in April 2016. Then, in July 2017, i.am+ acquired Wink, a software and hardware brand that offers products that can be used on a Smart Home hub platform, for a reported $38.7 million. In late 2019, i.am+ was the subject of multiple tax liens. The state of California alleged that the company owed more than $500,000 in delinquent taxes. The US government also filed a lien against the company in August 2019, alleging over $1 million in delinquent taxes and interest.

Personal Life

Adams is notoriously tight-lipped about his personal life. Not much is known, but he is rumored to have dated singer Cheryl. He suffers from tinnitus and has also stated that he has ADHD. Additionally, he follows a vegan diet.

Custom Cars

Will.I.Am is known for owning several unique custom cars. One of them cost $700,000 and is a cross between a DeLorean and a Dodge Charger.

Another car is based on the body of a 1958 Volkswagon Beetle. From there, it branches off into a world all its own, which includes a matte paint job, a red leather interior, customized wheels, and grille work straight out of "Batman." The car cost $900,000.