Linda Jones Herbert, Ph.D., completed her Ph.D., in human services psychology from University of Maryland Baltimore County in 2011. She is an associate professor of psychology and behavioral health at Children’s National Hospital and an associate professor of pediatrics at George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences. Dr. Herbert is the director of Psychology Research and Clinical Services for the Division of Allergy and Immunology at Children’s National, a program which she started in 2013 and which represented one of the first such programs in the United States.

Dr. Herbert is an NIH-funded clinical researcher whose research interests include pediatric allergic diseases and acute and long-haul COVID-19. Dr. Herbert is the principal investigator for an NIAID-funded R01 to conduct a clinical trial of a behavioral intervention for early adolescents with food allergy and a co-investigator on a multi-site prospective longitudinal cohort to systematically investigate disparities among Black, Hispanic and White children in food allergy clinical and psychosocial outcomes, food allergy phenotypes and endotypes, and food allergy management practices. She is a co-investigator on the Global Access to Psychological Services for Food Allergy (GAPS) Study, a global study of psychological distress related to food allergy, the aim of which is to develop an accessible online behavioral interventions for families around the world affected by food allergy. Dr. Herbert is also a co-investigator on an NIH-funded study regarding the trajectory of COVID-19 infection on pediatric patients. Dr. Herbert has authored over 60 publications and is a member of the editorial board for the Journal of Pediatric Psychology.

Dr. Herbert presents her research at pediatric psychology and allergy and immunology conferences and was awarded the Heritage Lectureship by the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology in 2018. She regularly engages in advocacy work with national food allergy organizations such as Food Allergy Research & Education (FARE) and Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Connection Team (FAACT).