Ako Adjei -- the walking history of Ghana: Cameron Duodu on one of the founding fathers of Ghanaian independence who died in Accra on 14 January.

Page/Link:

Page URL: HTML link: Citations:

MLA style: "Ako Adjei -- the walking history of Ghana: Cameron Duodu on one of the founding fathers of Ghanaian independence who died in Accra on 14 January.." The Free Library. 2002 IC Publications Ltd. 17 Aug. 2024 https://www.thefreelibrary.com/Ako+Adjei+--+the+walking+history+of+Ghana%3a+Cameron+Duodu+on+one+of...-a083534325

Chicago style: The Free Library. S.v. Ako Adjei -- the walking history of Ghana: Cameron Duodu on one of the founding fathers of Ghanaian independence who died in Accra on 14 January.." Retrieved Aug 17 2024 from https://www.thefreelibrary.com/Ako+Adjei+--+the+walking+history+of+Ghana%3a+Cameron+Duodu+on+one+of...-a083534325

APA style: Ako Adjei -- the walking history of Ghana: Cameron Duodu on one of the founding fathers of Ghanaian independence who died in Accra on 14 January.. (n.d.) >The Free Library. (2014). Retrieved Aug 17 2024 from https://www.thefreelibrary.com/Ako+Adjei+--+the+walking+history+of+Ghana%3a+Cameron+Duodu+on+one+of...-a083534325

Ebenezer Ako Adjei, who died in Accra on 14 January can best be described as a "walking history of Ghana". The 86 years that he was blessed to spend on this earth encompassed the most important historical periods in the life of Ghana.

There may have been others whose lifespans also covered equally crucial epochs in our annals. But the difference between them and Ako Adjei is that he was an actor on the stage on which our national drama unfolded and reached its moments of greatest dimax, and never a mere spectator.

Ako Adjei first entered the cauldron of politics in the "Gold Coast" (as Ghana was known before its independence) in 1947, after his return from Britain where he had studied law and economics, as a post-graduate student from the USA.

He had been very active in African politics in Britain and America, and thus was well known to the intellectuals and businessmen in the Gold Coast, when he returned home from England.

By 1947, many of the top educated Gold Coasters had begun a serious struggle to wrestle power from the British.

The most influential members of this nationalist group were, from the intellectuals' side: Dr J. B. Danquah, one of the first West Africans to obtain a PhD from a British University, and a very prominent lawyer who had been dragging the colonial administration to the Privy Council in London over a sensational murder case; and George Alfred "Pa" Grant, grandson of one of the earliest indigenous "merchant princes" in the Gold Coast and was now a rich timber merchant based in Sekondi.

("Pa" Grant's grandfather had not limited himself to trading but had been a member of the Fanti Confederacy -- an organisation that had worked with the Gold Coast Aborigines Rights Society to oppose several measures proposed by the British to alienate Gold Coast lands).

It might have been thought that these two gentlemen, as "bourgeois" as they come, would have been accepted by the colonial administration and even co-opted into its ranks to stem the tide of nationalism that was sweeping the country.

But that is not how colonialism works. Its interests are primarily economic, and any local merchant who wanted to be more than a petty agent of white traders -- as Pa Grant did -- and a brilliant lawyer who could draw rings around colonial bureaucrats who tried to extend their hold over "native lands" -- as J.B. Danquah did -- would be the object of their ire.

Thus, it was from the ranks of those whom Marxist analysts would probably regard as their best "natural allies" that, ironically, the British administrators in the Gold Coast drew their fiercest enemies.

Why was this so?

AWAM

By 1947, the selfishness of British rule had become obvious to everyone. Cocoa, the biggest industry in the Gold Coast, was in the hands of British merchant companies. Ghanaians produced the crop, but its marketing was in the hands of British companies.

The price of the crop was decided in London and handed down to Gold Coast farmers, without reference to their costs of production or their economic and social needs. Low as the price paid to the farmers usually was, it was diminished even further by the commissions subtracted by the European companies before they paid the farmers.

Simultaneously, the import trade was also being monopolised by European companies. There were quite a number of them, and it would have been thought that they would compete against one another and thus bring down prices. But no -- they formed, instead, an importation cartel called "The Association of West African Merchants" (AWAM).

AWAM members harmonised their prices, so that if one wanted a piece of cloth and one thought the price demanded for it by, say, the United Africa Company (UAC) was too high and therefore one would try the shops of the Union Trading Company (UTC) or G. B. Olivant, one would be wasting one's time.

The price would be the same in all the shops. Even the relatively small Lebanese and Syrian retailers who took their stock from the European merchants, maintained uniform prices as soon as they became members of AWAM. That is why, to this day, AWAM has acquired the derogatory meaning, in Ghanaian English, of subterfuge or pretence.

(For instance, if you are conducting a love affair with a girl in your office, and in order to lead people off the trail, you pretend to be very hostile to her in public, anyone who knows the real truth will whisper to others behind your back: "Don't mind them -- all that squabbling is nothing but AWAM!"

Or if a footballer dives to try and get a free kick, when no opponent has touched him, you will hear shouts of "AWAM!, AWAM!" Most people would understand that to mean blatant fakery).

Second World War

It was not only the manipulation of trade that was causing discontent in the Gold Coast. The thousands of young men who had been conscripted to fight for the British in South-east Asia (especially in Burma) as well as in East Africa, in the Second World War, expected that when they were demobilised at the end of the war, the British would provide them with an adequate pension.

But instead, they were dumped in their villages with a few weeks "pay-off" and promptly forgotten. They formed an "Ex-Servicemen's Association" through which they began to condemn British rule. The achievement of independence in 1947 by India gave their protests a shot in the arm.

Ako Adjei had attended the 5th Pan-African Congress in Manchester in 1945, at which colonised people from all over Africa and the Caribbean had articulated demands similar to those being made in the Gold Coast when he returned.

So when he surveyed the local scene, it was only natural that he should get together with the most vociferous nationalists, especially Pa Grant and Dr J. B. Danquah, to exchange ideas on what was to be done to challenge British colonialism.

They decided to form an organisation that would lead the chiefs and people of the Gold Coast to fight for their freedom and independence. They inaugurated the organisation, which they called The United Gold Coast Convention (UGCC) at Sekondi on 4 August 1947. It elected Pa Grant as chairman, while two lawyers, R S. Blay and J. B. Danquah became vice-chairmen.

The executive committee included William Ofori Atta, Edward Akufo Addo and E. Obetsebi Lamprey (who were later to become flimous as members of "The Big Six" of Gold Coast politics) and John Tsiboe, founder of the Ashanti Pioneer newspaper based in Kumasi.

The UGCC then invited Ako Adjei to become its secretary-general. Adjei was uniquely qualified for the post. His organisational abilities had been amply proved whilst he was a student in America and later, in Britain.

He arrived in America in 1939 to study economics and sociology at Lincoln University. He then left to continue at Columbia University, from where he obtained an M.Sc in Sociology, in June 1943.

In 1962, while accepting an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from Lincoln University, Ako Adjei recalled:

"I arrived on this campus [Lincoln University in Pennsylvania] in January 1939, in bitingly cold and snowy weather, which was the first in my experience... Mr [K. A. B.] Jones-Quarrey arrived at Lincoln a year before me, and Dr Kwame Nkrumah [who had arrived at Lincoln in 1935] was then in his senior year.

"The important point I wish to emphasise is that on my arrival at Lincoln University, I was fortunate enough to have two Gold Coast students -- Dr Kwame Nkrumah and Mr Jones-Quartey -- to meet me and to welcome me to Lincoln and introduce me into student life in the University.

"Less than two weeks after my arrival, a batch of students from Nigeria also arrived in Lincoln. The group included some of the men who have distinguished themselves in different aspects of the national life of Nigeria in the past 10 or 15 years."

Student life

Ako Adjei, Nkrumah and Jones-Quartey soon collaborated to publish a paper called The African Interpreter. Its objective was to print "analytical and fiery articles about Mother Africa." Jones-Quartey became its editor, with Nkrumah and Ako Adjei as founders.

Both Adjei and Nkrumah were imbued with a strong spirit of Pan-Africanism, and in September 1941, they founded the African Students Association (ASA). Its aim was to promote "due recognition, adequate security, balanced education and international co-operation" amongst African students in American universities.

Its membership was open to "distinguished Africans in human endeavour" as well as "honorary members." Mbonu Ojike, from Nigeria, was the first president of the ASA. Other office holders were Jones-Quartey, Ernest Kalibala, Ozuomba Mbadiwe, A. A. Nyabongo (of Uganda) and Nwafor Orizu.

The Association's seriousness of purpose was signalled by the fact that it hired offices in Madison Avenue, in New York's Manhattan district, where the plush offices of the top American advertising companies were to be found.

Nkrumah was elected president of the Association at its second annual meeting, with Ako Adjei as director of information. By then, the office holders had come to include a Sierra Leonean, W.H. Fitzjohn.

Apart from Lincoln and Columbia, Ako Adjei also cultivated a connection with Fisk University. But he realised that no matter how well qualified he became in America, he would meet with discrimination and even contempt back home, with his string of American degrees, unless he was able to add a British university degree to them.

Why the British were so snobbish towards American educational qualifications, when the USA had emerged from the Second World War as the leading power in the world, whose industrial might was to help it become the saviour of Europe, with the Marshall Plan, is difficult to fathom.

But Ako Adjei wasn't going to wait until the British revised their attitudes. So he set sail from the USA in 1944 for London, where he studied to become a barrister and succeeded in being called to the Bar, at the Inner Temple, in 1947. He also took a post-graduate course in sociology at the London School of Economies.

Probably through Adjei's advice on the difficulties he would meet in the Gold Coast unless he added a British qualification to his American degrees, Nkrumah also left the USA to join him in London, arriving in 1945. Adjei found Nkrumah lodgings at 60 Burghley Road, Tufnell Park, north London.

Nkrumah enrolled at the London School of Economies as a PhD candidate in anthropology in October 1945. He withdrew after one term. The next year, he registered at the University College of London for a PhD degree, with a dissertation theme that he had worked upon in the USA -- "Knowledge and Logical Positivism."

In November 1946, he registered as a student member of Gray's Inn, to study law.

Colonial struggle

Both Ako Adjei and Nkrumah immersed themselves in the struggle against colonialism whilst they were in England. They helped the fathers of Pan-Africanism, George Padmore and W. E. B. Dubois, to organise the 5th Pan-African Congress in Manchester in October 1945.

Among those who attended the Congress were two future African presidents -- Jomo Kenyatta of Kenya and Hastings Kamuzu Banda of Malawi. Nkrumah's organisational work on the Congress endeared him to both Du Bois and George Padmore as well as, of course, to his fellow African students.

Nkrumah and Ako Adjei also helped to revitalise the West African Students' Union (WASU) and later formed the West African National Secretariat (WANS) with a specific objective, namely "to put into action, the new Pan-African nationalism".

Impecunious students that they were, they nevertheless ventured, in March 1946, to found a newspaper called The New African, whose title was borrowed in 1978 by the magazine you are now reading (New African). The motto of Nkrumah's The New African was: "For Unity and Absolute Independence."

Among Gold Coast nationals who contributed to the anti-colonial struggle of those days in London were Joe Appiah, Kojo Botsio, Awooner Renner and Ashie Nikoi.

It was only natural, then, that when Ako Adjei was invited to become the secretary-general of the newly formed United Gold Coast Convention shortly after his return home in 1947, and he found he could not accept the job because he was only just beginning to build up his legal practice (whereas other UGCC leaders like Danquah and Akufo Addo already had a lucrative practice), he should have thought about Kwame Nkrumah.

He described Nkrumah's organisational abilities to the UGCC leadership, and as Pa Grant already knew of Nkrumah (who had lodged with Pa Grant's agent in Liverpool for a while on his arrival in England), an invitation was sent to him to come down.

Nkrumah was wary of going to work with a bunch of what he called "reactionaries, middle class lawyers and merchants." But Ako Adjei reassured him and he accepted the offer. He arrived back home on 10 December 1947, disembarking at Takoradi. He was accompanied by Kojo Borsio.

Back home

The arrival of Nkrumah transformed the UGCC. From his office in Salt-pond, he feverishly set about creating UGCC branches all over the country. He also courted special interest groups that he knew could invigorate the organisation, especially the youth and women.

He managed to associate the UGCC with every manifestation of unrest in the Gold Coast. Thus, by the time three members of the Ex-Servicemen's Union were shot dead in Accra on 28 February 1948 by a British police officer, Superintendent Imray, during a demonstration to present a petition to the governor, Sir Gerald Creasy, at the Castle, Osu, and riots broke out throughout the Gold Coast, the colonial administration immediately laid the blame on the UGCC.

Nkrumah sent a telegram to the colonial office in London on behalf of the UGCC, declaring that law and order had broken down in the Gold Coast and that the British should hand over power immediately to the leaders of the UGCC.

On 1 March 1948, a state of emergency was declared throughout the Gold Coast under the "Riot Act".

On 12 March, Governor Creasy issued "removal orders" against the "Big Six" (executive committee members) of the UGCC -- J.B. Danquah, Ako Adjei, Akuffo Ado, Obetsebi Lamptey, William Ofori Atta and Kwame Nkrumah. They were "deported" to the far north of the Gold Coast.

Meanwhile, the British imported troops from Nigeria to restore order to the Gold Coast. The Nigerian troops were reportedly told that they were being sent to the Gold Coast to save Nigerian nationals there who were being "killed". The Nigerians therefore set about the people of the Gold Coast with extreme brutality, and had to be sent back only a few weeks after they had arrived.

All this united the people of the Gold Coast against the British in a manner never seen before. The British had to set up a commission of enquiry (under the chairmanship of A. K. Watson, recorder of Bury Sr. Edmunds, in England) to investigate the reasons for the disturbances and to make recommendations for the continued governance of the Gold Coast.

The "Big Six" were released on 12 April 1948. The Watson Commission reported that the country was ripe for self-government and that a constitution should be drafted as a prelude to possible self-rule.

The colonial government accepted this recommendation, and appointed an all-African Committee (under the chairmanship of Sir Henley Coussey) to draft a new constitution for the Gold Coast.

Birth of CPP

Meanwhile, Nkrumah toured the length and breadth of the country making fiery speeches. The Riot Act was read, and as Nkrumah's stock rose in the country at large, that of the UGCC leadership declined almost exponentially. They thought he was too radical and somewhat insubordinate.

Nkrumah finally resigned, and on 12 June 1949, he announced the formation of his own party, the Convention People's Party (CPP) at a rally in Accra. Its motto was: "Self-Government Now!"

With Nkrumah out of the UGCC and Ako Adjei still in it, the two old friends were now political opponents.

The Coussey Committee published its report on 7 November 1949. It advocated the establishment of a government in which elected and nominated Africans would serve in a parliament with a cabinet drawn from the African MPs, while selected British civil servants would be in charge of certain important portfolios, such as Finance and Defence.

In the elections held in 1950-51 to implement the Coussey Committee recommendations, Nkrumah's CPP won over the UGCC by a landslide. Nkrumah who had won a seat even whilst he was serving a prison term, was released on 19 February 1951 and invited to become "Leader of Government Business".

He formed a cabinet comprising seven Africans and four Britons. Just over a year later, on 5 March 1952, Nkrumah's appointment was re-designated "Prime Minister".

Although Ako Adjei, like other UGCC leaders, had lost out to Nkrumah in the power stakes, it appears that he and Nkrumah retained their relationship, for in 1953, Adjei joined the CPP.

Nkrumah rewarded him with a safe seat to parliament in the 1954 election, and appointed him minister of trade and labour and later, minister of the interior. Ako Adjei served twice as foreign minister: in 1959-1960 and 1961-1962. He was at Nkrumah's side when he signed the declaration creating the "GhanaGuinea-Mali Union" with Sekou Toure of Guinea and Modibo Keira of Mali in May 1961.

One of the biggest failures of Ako Adjei as a member of Nkrumah's cabinet was not to have resigned when Nkrumah used his majority in parliament to enact the Preventive Detention Act in 1958.

This Act enabled the government to detain any person without trial for a period of five years, which could be renewed. It stood against everything that the democratic self-government which both Adjei and Nkrumah had worked for required.

The whole country had risen against the British like one man when the British had detained the "Big Six" UGCC leaders without trial for a mere one month. Yet here was Nkrumah proposing to imprison his political opponents without trial. And those on his own side who could tell him he was doing wrong, like Ako Adjei, remained silent -- at least in public.

In fact, Ako Adjei was to be done in by the very authoritarian system he had colluded with by his silence.

In August 1962, a bomb was thrown at Nkrumah at a village called Kulungugu, in the north, while he was returning from a meeting with President Maurice Yameogo of Upper Volta (now Burkina Faso) on the border. Nkrumah was injured and a little girl who was presenting a bouquet to him was killed.

Within three weeks of the incident, Ako Adjei, as well as Tawia Adamafio, (general secretary of the CPP), H. H. Cofie-Crabbe (administrative secretary of the party) and a few others, had been arrested and detained without trial, under the Preventive Detention Act, in connection with the bomb explosion.

They spent one year in prison before appearing in court to answer charges of treason. One of the judges who tried them was Edward Akuffo Addo, who had been detained by the British with Ako Adjei in 1948. It would have been interesting to read Akufo-Addo's mind, as he ruminated about the chequered back-ground of Ako Adjei who now stood before him as a prisoner at the bar.

The trial

There was a bizarre twist to the trial of Ako Adjei. The prosecution, under Bashiru Kwaw-Swanzy, sought to prove that Adjei had financed the treason plot with a huge sum of money borrowed from a bank and which he had not repaid because he claimed the money had got lost when taken to a spirit called "Zebus of the Kingdom of Uranus" to be "doubled" for him. The judges were scathing in their cross-examination of Ako Adjei.

What was Zebus like? Did he have a halo around his head? If he had doubled the money for Adjei, what serial numbers would it have borne? How could money from the "spirit world" be integrated into a terrestrial economy? And so it went on, whilst the spectators in court roared with laughter.

The Adjei affair became the butt of jokes in town -- not all of them necessarily against him, however. One joke was that he was actually spitting in the eye of Nkrumah -- "Uranus", the wits pointed out, sounded very much like "Your anus!"

The judges found Ako Adjei, Tawia Adamafio and Cofie-Crabbe not guilty of treason.

On Ako Adjei, they stated that there was no "onus" on him to show what he did with the money; merely borrowing money and not giving a rational reason for its use did not mean one had financed treason with it.

The judgement infuriated Nkrumah. And he did an unheardof thing: he used his majority in parliament to nullify the judgement!

He then "retired" the chief justice, Sir Arku Korsah, who had presided over the treason trial. The two other judges, Akuffo Addo and Van Lare, also soon left the bench.

Another court, with a different panel of judges, tried Ako Adjei and the others again, duly found them guilty and sentenced them to death. They were taken to the condemned cells in Nsawam prison, where, according to Tawia Adamafio, they could hear everything that went on in other death cells every time a prisoner was taken to the gallows. "We were all left to wonder when it would be our turn," Adamafio said.

They were saved by the coup of 24 February 1966, which overthrew Nkrumah. On being released and returning home, Ako Adjei was asked whether he had anything to say. His answer, a pregnant observation if ever there was one, which can be interpreted in different ways by diverse people, was, in his native Ga: Mini make-r? (What can I say?").

Adjei didn't speak much in public after his release and although he tried to rebuild his legal career, he became a sort of recluse. He died on 14 January this year, leaving behind his wife Theodosia (nee Kote Amon) and three daughters, Irene, Violet and Linda.

His Ghanaian alma mater was Accra Academy (1936-38). He also attended Labadi Presbyterian Junior and Senior Schools.

According to Robin White, editor of BBC Focus on Africa programme, who had a bizarre interview with Ako Adjei a few years ago (Adjei refused to answer any of White's questions, and instead, sang "Rule Britannia" for him!), Adjei showed him a huge manuscript that he had written about his life, which, he complained, "nobody was interested in".

Unless the manuscript glosses over the more interesting events of Adjei's life, it should make extremely interesting reading. Maybe some enterprising publisher will go and fish it out and enable us to read what Ako Adjei had to say.