Miscellaneous Commercial ServicesCommercial Services

Rusnano OJSC operates as an investment company focusing on nanotechnology. Its activities include building nanotechnology infrastructure, which includes the nanotechnology centers of excellence, business incubators and early stage investment funds; It also provides scientific and educational programs. The company was founded on September 19, 2007 and is headquartered in Moscow, Russian Federation.

Investment ManagersFinance

Rusnano Projects is a private equity and venture capital operating division of the State-owned Rusnano OJSC. The firm was founded in 2007 and is headquartered in Moscow, Russia.

Electrical ProductsProducer Manufacturing

Nanoelectro LLC develops nanostructured electro technical conductors. Its products include large section conductors, hollow conductors, thin wires, super slim wires, and wire rod. The company was founded in 2011 and is headquartered in Moscow, Russian Federation.

Pharmaceuticals: MajorHealth Technology

NovaMedica LLC operates as a pharmaceutical company. Its portfolio includes gastroenterology, ophthalmology, and neurology. The company was founded in 2012 and is headquartered in Moscow, Russian Federation.

Miscellaneous Commercial ServicesCommercial Services

Sunflake LLC operates as a management company. It also provides business consulting services. The company was founded by Dmitriy Alexandrovich Arzhanov, Sofiya Anatolyevna Afanasyeva, Boris Vladimirovich Shchurov, and Sergey Borisovich Afanasyev and is headquartered in Moscow, Russia.

SemiconductorsElectronic Technology

Prepreg CJSC manufactures semi-products for new generation polymer matrix composites and prepregs with improved, as compared with analogues, strength and other performance characteristics with carbon and mineral fibers and nanomodified and filled with nanoparticles polyimide and epoxy resins. It serves the aircraft, wind power, sporting goods manufacturing, and construction, motorcar and shipbuilding industries. The company is located in Moscow, Russia

Electric UtilitiesUtilities

TNS Energo Tula JSC engages in the purchase and sale of electric energy. It also supplies electricity and provides metering services. The company was founded on May 29, 2006 and is headquartered in Tula, Russia.

Miscellaneous Commercial ServicesCommercial Services

The Russian Union of Industrialists & Entrepreneurs operates as a non-political organization to protect the interests of industry. The company is based in Moscow, Russian Federation and has subsidiaries in the Russian Federation.

Investment ManagersFinance

RusnanoMedInvest (RMI) is a subsidiary of RUSNANO, a 100 percent Russian state-owned company whose mission is to develop the Russian nanotechnology industry through co investment in nanotechnology projects with substantial economic potential or social benefit. RMI was founded in 2012 headquartered in Russian. The firm to realize advanced projects in medicine and pharmaceuticals involving the transfer of intellectual property rights and modern pharmaceutical production technology to Russia.

Miscellaneous Commercial ServicesCommercial Services

Skolkovo Foundation was founded in 2010 and engages in fostering startups and venture capitals. The non-profit company is based in Moscow, Russian Federation. and has subsidiaries in Russian Federation.

Pharmaceuticals: MajorHealth Technology

Panacela Labs, Inc. specializes in oncology and orphan drug development. It operates as a clinical stage biotech firm that develops anticancer drug products. The firm provides its Mobilan drug for prostate cancer therapy. The company was founded in 2011 and is headquartered in Buffalo, NY.

Pharmaceuticals: MajorHealth Technology

SynBio LLC engages in original research and introduction of conceptually new medicines. The firm’s medicines help treat diseases like liver disease, cardiovascular disease, acute leukemia, growth hormone deficiency and diabetes milletus. Its work is based on scientific developments and conducted in cutting edge laboratories. The company was founded in 2011 and is headquartered in Moscow, Russian Federation.

Financial ConglomeratesFinance

Part of Telconet Capital, Ltd., Yota Holding (Cyprus) Ltd. is a Cypriot company that provides investment services. The company is located in Cyprus.

Aerospace & DefenseElectronic Technology

Rostec Corp. operates as a holding company with interest in the development, manufacture and export of industrial products. The firm engages in the promotion of development, production and export of hi-tech industrial products by providing assistance, at internal and external markets, as well as investments into the organizations of various industries, including military-industrial complex. The company was founded on November 23, 2007 and is headquartered in Moscow, Russian Federation.

Wholesale DistributorsDistribution Services

Arbat Prestige OOO operates a chain of perfume stores. It distributes perfume and cosmetic products among specialized chains in the Russian market. The company was founded in 1989 and is headquartered in Moscow, Russia

Marine ShippingTransportation

Part of Transneft PJSC, Transneft-Service LLC is a Russian company that provides maritime transportation services. The company is based in Novorosiiysk, Russian Federation. The CEO of the company is Sergey Georgievich Kireev.

Construction MaterialsNon-Energy Minerals

Kyshtymskiy Gorno-Obogatitelnyy Kombinat OAO engages in the manufacturing and mining of raw quartz. Its products are used for applications such as telecommunications, lighting, optics and solar cells. The firm also offers crystals and grains of natural quartz. The company was founded in 1966 and is headquartered in Kyshtym, Russia.