Normal weather for Leicester in January

It's cold in January in Leicester with an average temperature of 8°C. Temperatures this month range from a low of 6°C to a high of 9°C. At night, you can expect temperatures between -1°C and 5°C.

In January, there is an average of 52 mm of precipitation, spread over 16 days days. Of the total precipitation, about 0,8 cm falls as snow in January. The wind speed is around 4 Bft, mostly coming from the Southwest.

Check out the climate of Leicester for all months and discover the best travel time

Leicester in January

New York

Average Temperature

8°C 7°C

High Temp

9°C 9°C

Low Temp

6°C 5°C

Total Precipitation

52 mm 84 mm

Rainy Days

16 days 16 days

Total Snowfall

0,8 cm 1,5 cm

Snowy Days

1 day 1 day

The UV index is a maximum of 2 this month. That's a low value on the intensity scale of 1 to 11. The risk of sunburn is minimal at this time.

Find affordable trips to Leicester

Daily Temperature in January in Leicester

This chart shows the average daily high temperatures in January in Leicester, measured in degrees Celsius. The bottom of the chart shows the days of January. Based on historical data, this chart shows the average daily temperatures for this month.

Daily Precipitation in January in Leicester

This chart shows the average daily precipitation in January for Leicester, measured in millimeters over the past years. Precipitation is always measured as water, whether it’s snow or hail. The bottom of the chart shows the days of January. Based on historical data, this chart gives an idea of how much rain you can expect each day.

Daily Snowfall in January in Leicester

This chart shows the average daily snowfall in January in Leicester, measured in centimeters. The bottom of the chart shows the days of the month. The data is based on historical measurements and gives an idea of the average snowfall in January.

Daily UV Index in January in Leicester

This chart shows the average daily UV index in January in Leicester, with the UV index ranging from 0 to a maximum of 11. The bottom of the chart shows the days of the month. Based on historical data, this chart provides an idea of the daily UV radiation levels you can expect.