Yes, I know Cerberus was the name of one creature and not the name of the species. Just like ‘Pegasus’ was the name of one creature but is now used to describe a common fantasy species, Cerberus can be used to describe a three headed dog beast.

The most distinctive and consistent feature of Cerberus is that he has three heads. Those heads are usually canine (but sometimes some are serpentine), which is a mercifully near-normal piece of anatomy for me to discuss.

The head of a dog is more or less mundane. The interesting part is how to make a multi-headed creature work. Fortunately, there have been the occasional samples of multi-headed animals pop up in real life.

Digestive system: Different heads means different mouths, and those oesophagi will usually connect at the stomach. It’s possible for the different heads to each have their own stomach, but a shared stomach is statistically more likely. Certainly, after the stomach there is likely to be only one digestive system in the animal. All three heads would have shared nutrition.

Musculoskeletal System: You will have a more useful creature if your Cerberus has three necks as well as three heads, allowing each head some degree of independent movement .You are unlikely to achieve as much movement as the Cerberus in the gif above, especially side to side movement, just because there are other muscles in the way.

Two headed mammals often have some difficulty figuring out how to walk if they have equal control over the body, so for simplicity and increased functionality it might be best to have the central head have control over the limbs, and threat the two lateral (side) heads as being partially parasitic. That is to say, they control their head and neck but nothing else.

Behavior: As far as we can tell, separate heads have separate personalities and cognition. This can be a real problem in reptiles when the heads take offense at each other’s presence ad can become aggressive, but in canines we have the benefit of a social species which can learn to get along.

You’re unlikely to have one head that’s ‘dominant’, but you are likely to see the heads communicating with each other with ear posture, gazes or little noises. The head that’s ‘in charge’ is the one with the strongest ‘wants’ at the time

Snakey bits: though not often depicted in popular media, Cerberus has been described sometimes as either having a serpent tail, or being covered in snake heads. Ancient Greece seemed to be having a bit of a snake thing going on.

A snake tail takes minimal stretching of the imagination, but coating the body in snake heads would leave for very unhappy little snakes and extreme difficulties petting the creature, so I’m inclined to chalk that up to ‘exaggeration’.

Variants: These are so many possibilities because there are already so many variations within real dog breeds, but here are a few of my favorite mental images

Cart Guard: These enormous shaggy dogs bred to haul carts to market are extra efficient at guarding them, in this case three heads being better than one.

Spaniel: The spaniel variant, often kept as a pet by the society elite, is a total lap dog and has so much ears it’s unbelievable.

Yap Dog: These tiny variants, resembling a chihuahua, are mostly kept for companionship but also as extremely loud and vigilant guard dogs.