HOLLYWOOD -- A gracious Warren Beatty stood before his directing peers to accept their top award for his movie epic 'Reds,' and simply told them he was 'flattered to be in such good company.'

'Only in America could a film with this subject matter and this size be made without censorship from the people who put up the money,' said Beatty, who wrote, produced, directed and starred in 'Reds.'

The Director's Guild of America award for 'Reds,' the story of radical journalist John Reed's participation in the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution, almost assures Beatty an Oscar in the March 29 Academy Awards competition.

In the 34 years of the director's award, the winner has taken the Oscar 32 times.

Beatty received an ovation from more than 1,000 directors and assistant directors at the awards ceremony Saturday night at the Beverly Hilton Hotel.

'When I was here a few years ago for 'Heaven Can Wait,' I had an extremely good time even though I didn't win,' Beatty said. 'I was flattered to be in such good company. I still feel that way.

'I just want to say, if one of you guys would give me a job, I'll stop all this.

'Making films is a hard job to do. I'm not sure how anyone knows how to do it. But I'm good at one thing -- I get good people to work with me,' he said.

It was the second time in two years an actor carried off the award. Last year, Robert Redford won the coveted prize for his direction of 'Ordinary People.'

Beatty mentioned Diane Keaton and Jack Nicholson, who co-star with him in the sweeping motion picture, set against the backdrop of the Marxist Revolution.

Beatty also is nominated for best writer and producer in addition to actor and director in the Academy Awards.

Losing to Beatty in the directors' balloting were Hugh Hudson, 'Chariots of Fire;' Louis Malle, 'Atlantic City;' Mark Rydell, 'On Golden Pond;' and Steven Spielberg, 'Raiders of the Lost Ark.'

Another actor, Alan Alda, won the the award for best directorial achievement of 1981 in a TV comedy series, 'The Life You Save' episode of 'M-A-S-H.'

Robert Butler won the award for best dramatic TV series for the 'Hill Street Station' episode of 'Hill Street Blues' and Emile Ardolino carried off the award for best TV musical-variety show, 'The Spellbound Child.'

Best direction for TV actuality show went to Stan Harris, 'Command Performance at Ford's Theater -- the Stars Meet the President.'

Best TV documentary direction award went to Robert Guenette for 'Great Movie Stunts: Raiders of the Lost Ark,' and Herbert Wise won for best TV special for 'Skokie.'

Rick Levine won the award for best commercial of 1981 for his porfolio that included 'Summer Colt' (Kodak), 'First Love' (Pepsi) and Papa (Pepsi).