Tournai is one of the oldest cities in Belgium and it is a very interesting city to visit. These are the best things to do in Tournai.

About Tournai

Tournai (Doornik in Dutch) is one of the oldest cities in Belgium. The city is located in the Hainaut Provence, not far from the French border. Fun fact: in the fifth century, Tournai was the first capital of France!

Of course, this is no longer the case (hello Paris!), but you can still see much of the history as you walk through the city. You will see numerous historic buildings during your walk, including the UNESCO World Heritage Cathedral, the belfry, and the Cloth Hall that bear witness to the city’s past. Tournai was founded by the Romans and was an important episcopal city for centuries. For a while, Tournai was a rival to the famous cities of Bruges and Ghent.

Tournai is not only a city with an interesting past, but also a city with a modern atmosphere. There are many cozy restaurants, trendy bars, and unique boutique stores. Beautiful street art can also be discovered here and there. The Scheldt River, which flows through the city, provides a relaxing atmosphere and invites you to take a relaxing boat ride or stroll.

Are you looking for a unique city break full of history, culture, and great food? Then Tournai is the perfect destination! I visited Tournai as a day trip from Brussels and although the weather wasn’t perfect, I had a great time. In this article, I tell you all about what to do in Tournai.

Things to do in Tournai

Are you ready to discover Tournai? These are the best things to do in Tournai and the most beautiful sights.

The Cathedral of Tournai

The Cathedral of Tournai, also known as the Cathedral of Our Lady, is an architectural masterpiece dating back to the 12th century. It is the oldest Gothic cathedral in Belgium and is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Although the cathedral is currently under scaffolding for a major renovation, you can still visit the impressive building. Inside you can admire the beautiful stained glass windows, the extraordinary sculptures and paintings. In one corner of the church, you will find a small treasury, here you can see works of art and special relics.

A visit to the cathedral is free; to visit the treasury you must pay a small fee.

The Belfry of Tournai

Tournai’s Belfry is another UNESCO World Heritage Site and a symbol of the city. It is the oldest Belfry in Belgium and its impressive tower dates back to the 12th century. You can climb the 72-meter tower for a panoramic view of the city.

Unfortunately, the Belfry is currently closed.

The Grand Grand Place

Another highlight of Tournai is the Grand Place. What makes the square so special is that it is not square or rectangular, but a triangular shape. At the tip is the imposing Belfry and the other buildings around the square are also very impressive.

On the south side, for example, you can admire the Cloth Hall, a silent witness to Tournai’s rich textile past. On the other side of the square, you will find a series of restaurants with terraces that invite you to enjoy a snack and a drink overlooking this beautiful square.

The Museum of Fine Arts

For the building alone, you’ll want to visit the Museum of Fine Arts. In fact, it is housed in a magnificent building designed by Victor Horta. At the museum, you can admire an extensive collection of paintings, sculptures, and other works of art, both ancient works from the Middle Ages and modern art.

The museum is open Wednesday through Monday and a ticket costs €4. Check the official website for more information and opening hours.

Natural History Museum

There is no shortage of museums in Tournai, and the Natural History Museum (or Musée d’Histoire Naturelle & Vivarium) is also highly recommended. This museum is especially a fascinating place to visit for nature lovers. It houses an extensive collection of fossils, minerals, and stuffed animals. Here you can learn more about the flora and fauna of the region and discover the evolutionary history of life on Earth.

The museum is open Wednesday through Monday and a ticket costs €4. For the latest information and opening hours, check the official website.

The old towers

Tournai used to have a great city wall and you can still discover remnants of it in the city. Thus, two more towers can be admired:

Tour Henri VIII – a 21-meter tower near the station and dates from the 16th century.

Fort Rouge (the Red Fort) – this tower is located behind the Grand Place with a nice little park next to it. Fort Rouge was part of Tournai’s first city wall and dates back to the 12th century. It owes its name to its red roofs.

Discover fun Belgian cafes

Always when I am in Belgium, I like to visit typical Belgian cafes. Usually, you will be sitting comfortably among the locals and the ambiance is always good. Are you a beer lover? Belgium is known for its beer culture, and in the pubs, you will find a huge selection of beers from different breweries. In addition, you can often eat very good food there too!

I myself had lunch at L’Impératrice, a nicely decorated café with friendly owners. And the food was really delicious!

Musée de la Tapisserie

We are not done with the museums in Tournai yet (by far), because next to the Natural History Museum is another gem: Musée de la Tapisserie. This unique museum is dedicated to the art of carpet weaving.

The museum houses an extensive collection of antique and contemporary carpets, as well as textile artworks. Very special and fun place to visit on a rainy day.

The museum is open Tuesday through Sunday and a ticket costs €6. Check the official website for more information and opening hours.

The Museum of Folklore

One of the old streets of the historic center also hides a beautiful museum: the Museum of Folklore (Musée de Folklore et des Imaginaires). This museum offers insight into the traditional culture and heritage of Tournai.

The museum displays a variety of objects, costumes, and utensils that are part of local folklore. Here you will learn about the traditional festivals, crafts, and customs of the region. Personally, I really enjoyed visiting this, as it really is a kind of journey through time. The historic building that houses the museum is also a gem to explore.

The museum is open Wednesday through Monday and a ticket costs €4. Check the official website for up to date information and opening hours.

Museum Park

The Museum Park (Parc du Musée) is an oasis of greenery in the heart of the city. The park is located between many of the previously mentioned museums, including the Museum of Fine Arts and the Museum of Natural Sciences. Here you can also admire the beautiful Tournai City Hall (Hôtel de ville de Tournai).

In addition to the museums, there are several sculpture parks and gardens to see. Museum Park is a wonderful place to relax and enjoy a green oasis.

This was it! These 10 Tournai sights offer a varied view of the city. Whether you are interested in history or just looking for a fun destination for a relaxing city break, there is plenty to see and do in Tournai.

Where to stay in Tournai

Although Tournai is a perfect destination for a day trip (for example, from Brussels), it is also a great place to stay for a night or two. As you can see, there is plenty to see! These are a few good places to stay in Tournai:

Hotel d’Alcantara (3⭐) – enjoys a beautiful location in the center of town and is housed in two historic buildings.

AGORA Tournai – Wellness Suites – Also located in the center, this hotel has an outdoor pool and sauna as a nice bonus. Wonderfully relaxing after a day in the city.

ONIRO – Luxury Rooms & Wellness Suites – this is one of the highest rated accommodations in the city. The rooms are spacious and very luxurious. Many even have hot tubs.

Check out Booking.com for more features, availability, and prices.

Good to know: in Belgium they speak Dutch and French. In Tournai, it’s mostly French.

Book a trip to Belgium

Besides Tournai, there are many other beautiful places in Belgium and it is highly recommended to spend a weekend or maybe even a few weeks exploring the country. Book your trip to Belgium now!

🚆 Train tickets – Belgium is the ideal country to visit by train thanks to its central location in Europe. Check Rail Europe for train tickets.

✈️ Plane tickets – Brussels has a large international airport. Check WayAway to find the best deals and get cashback on plane tickets.

🚘 Rental Car – Although you can get around in Belgium by public transport, it is very useful to have a rental car if you want to visit more rural places. Check Rental Cars to find the best deals.

💊 Travel insurance – Having travel insurance will give you more peace of mind during your trip. Check out Insubuy to find the travel insurance that fits your needs.

🎡 Tours and activities – There are many fun guided tours and activities that you can book during your stay in Belgium. Check Get Your Guide for all the options and availability.

Read more about Belgium

Want to visit more great places in Belgium besides Tournai? These guidebooks are full of tips.

Fodor’s Essential Belgium

Lonely Planet Belgium & Luxembourg

You can also read more about Belgium on this website. Check out one of these articles:

28 Most Beautiful Places in Belgium – Bucket List

15 great things to do in Leuven Belgium

Visiting Bruges | 19 fun things to do

Sign up for my newsletter for great travel stories, travel inspiration, and tips for interesting destinations.