As we come together to reflect on the extraordinary year, we are grateful for the opportunity to continue serving you in our respective roles: as your Board President and your Acting CEO.

In 2023, we retained our position as the largest Girl Scout council in the nation, with a vibrant community of 76,648 members, including 46,187 youth members. This achievement underscores our joint commitment to empowering the leaders of tomorrow.

In the past year, Girl Scouts in our region reached sold over 4.4 million boxes through our Cookie Program. An accomplishment that fueled memorable trips, activities, and community service projects for our troops. The program’s proceeds to our Girl Scou troops, exceeding $4 million, became a catalyst for positive change, supporting our Girl Scouts and their impactful initiatives.

With great enthusiasm, we welcomed 2,478 campers to sleep-away-camps and 3,164 to volunteer-led day camps where Girl Scouts had the opportunity to connect with the great outdoors while fostering a sense of adventure, leadership, and community.

Our 165 Gold Award Girl Scouts exemplify the transformative impact Girl Scouts have. Their projects covered a wide range of areas, from environmental protection to mental health advocacy, leaving a lasting impression on both their lives and their communities. Their dedication and impact were reflected in the significant number of higher awards earned: 1,534 Bronze Awards, 628 Silver Awards, and 163 Silver Trefoil Awards.

Nationally, we witnessed a vital decision at the 56th National Council Session, incorporating “anti-racism” into the Girl Scouts Constitution, reinforcing our Movement's commitment to a just world.

Locally, our progress was marked by the establishment of our new Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility (DEIA) department. This department will play a crucial role in strengthening a diverse Girl Scout community within our region that champions equity and makes inclusion a norm. Together, we are on a collective journey to create a stronger and more inclusive community where all Girl Scouts feel like they belong.

As we dive into a new Girl Scout year, our mission remains to build Girl Scouts of courage, confidence, and character by creating more ways to engage and support our Girl Scout community. To our exceptional volunteers, Girl Scout families, supporters, donors, and staff, we thank you for serving as the driving force behind the empowerment of our Girl Scouts.

Yours in Girl Scouting,

Colleen Cibula - Acting Chief Executive Officer

Barbara Krumsiek - President of the Board of Directors