Ulaanbaatar /MONTSAME/ In frames of his official visit to the Republic of France, the President of Mongolia Ts.Elbegdorj received the French Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Development Laurent Fabius in the Quai d’Orsay on November 18.

Unique historic documents on the relations between our two countries were presented during the meeting. For instance, the letter sent from Mongolia in the end of 1912 about the declaring of Mongolia’s independence in 1911 and requesting France’s acknowledgement was among the documents. The French side had received this letter in Harbin in early 1913. The original copy of the letter has been sent to Ulaanbaatar upon the opening of French embassy here. The Foreign Ministry showed the first official notes on receiving the historic letter to our President.

Despite the geographical distance, said Mr Fabius, Mongolia and France have mental bond. “I always mention Mongolia first as a shining example of consolidating democracy. You can consider me as the second ambassador of Mongolia in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Development”, Mr Fabius said and expressed a gratitude to the President for visiting the Republic of France.

He also talked about the cultural days of Mongolia, which took place last June in Paris in a scope of marking the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations.

In response, the President Ts.Elbegdorj spoke about the Foundation of International Cooperation. He highlighted that Mongolia considers France as its "Third neighbor" and a trusted partner in Europe. “Mongolia and the Republic of France are successfully developing cooperation in culture, education, agriculture, livestock farming, defense and tourism”, he added.

The sides will sign important documents on culture, education and tourism cooperation on Thursday.

The President extended gratitude for France’s support for Mongolia in the UN Human Rights Council election. Then, the dignitaries exchanged views on the critical regional issues, on refugees' flow to Europe, and on preventing terrorism.

The President wished that French high and extended delegation take part in the ASEM Summit, which will run Mongolia next year, and highlighted the permanent neutrality of Mongolia.

The Minister Laurent Fabius stated that he respects Mongolia’s position.