Synopsis

After two days of ministerial deliberations, a first draft of what could eventually be the Paris outcome was presented to French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius.

LE BOURGET, PARIS: After two days of ministerial deliberations, a first draft of what could eventually be the Paris outcome was presented to French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, who is the chair of the 21st edition of the UN-sponsored climate change negotiations on Wednesday afternoon.

#Budget' 2024 with ET

Budget Highlights: Your 2-minute guide

Tax tweaks, jobs & more: All that FM announced in Budget

FM 's plan for Viksit Bharat: A look at key numbers

The draft text of the Paris Outcome, though far from complete, is considerably shorter than the text that the negotiators had handed over at the end of the first week of negotiations. However, the politically contentious issues of differentiation, finance, level of ambition, transparency remain unresolved. Countries are yet to react to the text, which offers the broad contours of what the Paris Outcome will look like.

The ministers had begun work on Monday with a 48-page text containing 940 brackets and 145 options."We have made progress from Saturday, the text is shorter, now 29 pages. And there has been a three-quarters reduction in the points in brackets," Fabius said. The draft text is clearer in that it makes it easier to identify the areas where political compromise needs to build and offers the broad contours for this to happen.

The 29-pages draft text of the Paris Outcome still contains some 47 differing options and 366 brackets, which deal with many of the politically contentious issues. The French minister said "the political issues have been clearly identified in the text," referring to issues such as differentiation, finance, and level of ambition on which ministers will now have to focus their attention. These three issues are interlinked and will be the focus on ministerial negotiations.

Different options on how to address the temperature goal are still reflected in the text. There has been a demand by the small island states and other vulnerable countries to amend the globally agreed goal of keeping temperature increase to below 2 degrees Celsius above pre industrial levels. Countries like the United States, China and India have come out in favour of reflecting this demand of the small island states and vulnerable countries to restrict temperature rise to 1.5 degrees.

Finance continues to be a contentious issue, however there has been progress in identifying $100 billion as the floor of funds provided by the industrialised countries.

There has been progress on addressing the issue of technology transfer, adapting to the impacts of climate change, capacity building.

"Now the focus will be on loss and damage," Fabius said. The issue of loss and damage has seen major difference of opinion over the past few years. Loss and damage refers to instances where there has been permanent loss on account of climate change, and to slow onset events like changing rainfall patterns or rising sea levels which over a period of time will lead to permanent loss and damage to human live and livelihoods.

The draft text of the Paris Outcome has provided a map, highlighting the divergences, the agreements, and possible landing zones for all countries.

#Budget' 2024 with ET

What's cheaper and what's costlier? Here's the list

New slabs announced in new income tax regime

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News, Budget 2024 Events and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News, Budget 2024 Events and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

FM played angel, but demons are still lurking for thousands of startups

Will the government reinstate indexation benefit for real estate?

25 stocks that gained most during Nirmala Sitharaman’s Budget speech

How law caught up with ex-Amtek promoter in INR30k crore bank fraud case

Has Nirmala Sitharaman listened to Warren Buffett on capital gains?

Sitharaman’s fiscal roadmap is smooth with some bumps for investors

1

2

3