​SHAWN JAXX - Lead Vocals

Shawn Jaxx was born in Illinois and began his music career in 1987. Besides being the front man for his band Skin Kandy, Shawn performs as front man for his new original heavy metal band DEVIL LAND. "Devil Land represents pure metal brutality with melodic hooks and vocals equal to razor blades cutting through glass. Our sound is like brushing your teeth with antifreeze. Orgasmic metal that will never leave your senses." Being no newcomer to the rock and metal music scene, Shawn has opened for a variety of headliners and national acts throughout his career for bands such as Overkill, Slaughter, and Ratt as well as sharing the stage with Vince Neil (Mötley Crüe), Rob Halford (Judas Priest), Eric Martin (Mr. Big), and Bret Michaels (Poison). Shawn also sang lead vocals during former Great White guitarist Mark Kendell’s solo tour. Some of Shawn’s most prominent band recordings include Top Heavy - Transparent World (1997), Skin Kandy - Matters of Flesh (2006), Army of Souls - Army of Souls (2001); The Beginning (2012), and The Jet 65 - Bloody Knuckle Blues (2013).

DAVID SHANKLE –- Lead Guitar

David Shankle is well known as a legendary guitar virtuoso and master instructor, often referred to as David “The Shred Demon” Shankle. David is one of the most respected and talented composer/guitarists shredding up the metal scene today. He is well known for playing 7 string over-the-neck scales, incredibly fast arpeggios and string skipping, along with mastering a multiplicity of other guitar techniques. David was a former member of the highly successful heavy metal band Manowar from 1988 to 1994, playing on the epic album The Triumph of Steel (1992) and co-writing Master of the Wind, The Burning, Ride the Dragon and Demon’s Whip. After countless sold-out tours around the world, David left in 1994 to attend Roosevelt Music University in Chicago to improve his jazz and classical guitar skills. In 2003, David Shankle formed his own band, David Shankle Group (DSG) and introduced the metal world to a new breed of speed while, at the same time, displaying awesome classical guitar and balladry. The David Shankle Group released Ashes to Ashes(2003), Hellborn (2007) and Still A Warrior (2012). David’s signature over the neck guitar playing style can be seen on various videos including Ashes to Ashes and Glory of Achilles, the 2005 Manowar Earthshaker Fest DVD. Now having refined and nearly perfected his craft, David brings decades of experience and hard work to the stage for DEVIL LAND.