ABU DHABI, 29 November 2003 — Tournament favorites Argentina edged past Spain 2-1 in their opening Group B match yesterday at the 14th World Youth Championship in Abu Dhabi while in Group C Brazil secured a 2-0 win over Canada.

Argentina, who have nominated an entirely home-based squad, fell behind to a goal from Atletico Madrid’s Gabriel Fernandez after 25 minutes but claimed victory with a strong second-half performance as Leandro Fernandez scored twice to seal victory.

Fernandez’s first came in the 49th minute when he got on the end of a Franco Cangele cross to head home powerfully from eight meters and with 15 minutes remaining the Newells Old Boys player scored from virtually the same spot to make it 2-1.

The impressive Sergio Garcia almost got a last-minute equalizer for last year’s U-19 European champions but the Argentinian defense somehow managed to scramble the ball clear.

In Group B’s other game, Mali needed a last-minute winner from Bakary Coulibaly to seal a 3-2 victory and move level with Argentina at the top of the group with three points.

Drissa Diarra and Mamadi Berthe twice gave the Africans the lead but Islom Innomov and Alexander Geynrikh equalized for Uzbekistan before Coulibaly sealed the win for Mali.

In the opening game in Group C, Brazil defeated a plucky Canada side by 2-0 thanks to second-half goals by Daniel Cavalho after 56 minutes and Nilmar on 84 minutes.

Meanwhile, the Czech Republic and Australia played out a 1-1 draw in Dubai in the group’s other game.

David Limbersky gave the Europeans the lead in the 24th minute with a firm right-foot shot after he was left totally unmarked in the area but Scott Mc Donald, who scored seven goals in qualifying, squared the match for Australia just after the restart.

There was also one game in Group A where Burkina Faso overcame Panama 1-0 to move level with Slovakia on three points.

Dortmund, Feyenoord Suffer Shock UEFA Cup Exits

In London, Borussia Dortmund and Feyenoord, who contested the 2002 UEFA Cup final, were dumped out of this season’s competition at the second-round stage on Thursday.

On a bad night for German clubs, Schalke also exited on penalties to end Bundesliga interest in the UEFA Cup, though Bayern Munich could still end up in the competition if they finish third in their Champions League group.

Dortmund, Champions League winners in 1997, were humiliated by French club Sochaux, going down 4-0 for a 6-2 aggregate defeat.

Their cause was not helped when Salvatore Gambino was dismissed after five minutes for hauling down Santos in the area and Pierre-Alain Frau converted the penalty.

Second-half goals from Santos, Wilson Oruma and Jeremy Mathieu completed a miserable night for the Bundesliga club.

Schalke, the 1997 UEFA Cup winners, were protecting a 2-1 lead against Danish side Brondby but fell behind after 15 minutes when Andreas Jakobsson scored from the penalty spot.

Victor Agali equalized after the break but a Mattias Jonson goal in the 70th minute took the game into extra time before a penalty shootout sealed Schalke’s fate.

Dutch club Feyenoord, who won the competition in 2002 and 1974, were humbled by Czech outsiders Teplice. Despite gaining a 1-1 away draw, the damage had been done in a 2-0 defeat in Rotterdam two weeks ago.

Liverpool and Newcastle United maintained English interest in the third round after 1-0 home victories over Steaua Bucharest and FC Basel respectively, but Manchester City were knocked out on away goals following a 0-0 draw in Poland against Groclin Grodzisk. Spanish clubs fared well with Barcelona, Real Mallorca and Villarreal all progressing.

Barcelona’s 2-0 home victory over Panionios completed a 5-0 aggregate win, Mallorca advanced despite being held 1-1 by FC Copenhagen, and Villarreal scraped through despite a 1-0 defeat at Torpedo Moscow.

Serie A club Parma bounced back from a weekend defeat by lowly Empoli to thrash Salzburg 5-0 and complete a 9-0 aggregate victory, Benito Carbone scoring twice.

AS Roma were pushed harder, however, needing a late goal from Antonio Cassano to knock out Croatian side Hajduk Split.

Red Star Belgrade, the 1991 European Cup winners, were eliminated by Norwegian champions Rosenborg Trondheim, losing 1-0 in front of a stunned 53,000 crowd.

Russians Spartak Moscow also suffered a shock 3-1 defeat at Dinamo Bucharest, but went through 5-3 on aggregate.

After Turkey’s elimination from Euro 2004 qualifying, Gaziantepspor and Genclerbirligi restored pride with impressive away victories.

Gaziantepspor won 3-1 in Lens for a 6-1 aggregate thrashing of the French club, while Genclerbirligi eliminated Sporting Lisbon with a 3-0 victory.

Benfica, however, did keep the Portuguese flag flying with a 2-0 win at Norway’s Molde for a 5-1 aggregate success.