(Translated by Thomas Snaith)

Before the game:

Marcel Koller decided to play his left defender Raoul Petretta in an offensive position and selected Blas Riveros to fill the gap in defence. FCB-Coach Koller was forced to improvise as both Valentin Stocker and Kevin Bua were suspended and Noah Okafor was injured. Edon Zhegrova played as a winger; his debut in European group stage football for FCB. The tip of FCB´s offense was represented by Arthur Caral who was picked by Koller opposed to striker, Kemal Ademi.

PETRETTA aND RIVEROS put on the pressure along the wings. They did a great job tonight.

Marcel Koller

Getafe-coach José Bordalas made 8 changes to the team which played against Real Club Celta de Vigo on the weekend. Only Francisco Portillo, David Timor and Enric Gallego were picked for two fixtures in a row.

It was a fantastic Choreography. Its great to qualify and celebrate amongst this amazing atmosphere.

Marcel Koller

Before kick-off the Muttenzerkurve showcased an amazing choreography, transforming the St. Jakob-Park into a sea of red and blue. In big letters the words “UNENTWÄGT UNTERWÄGS“ (continuously on the go) were spelled out, with the FCB emblem in the centre.

The first half:

Yet again FCB kicked off the fixture against the Spanish with power and positivity. After 8 minutes it was Arthur Cabral and Paoul Petretta who caused chaos for Getafe´s defence. Basel´s Brazilian striker (Cabral)lobbed the ball over keeper Leandro Chichizola, into the back off the net (1:0), after beating Getafe´s defenders with a cheeky one-two pass with Petretta. The fixture evolved to be very entertaining with chances on both sides.

Unfortunately Basel´s 1:0 lead was destroyed by a Getafe penalty just before the end of the first half: Blas Riveros tackled Hugo Duro in the box, who fell to the ground. Referee Serhiy Boiko pointed to the penalty spot. Jaime Mata was cold as ice, equalizing (1:1) just minutes before the end of the 1st half.

The second half:

Just after kick-off FCB put on the pressure. The home side won 3 corner kicks within 3 minutes and had several attempts on target. An hour into the game Basel´s 2nd goal was finally scored; Edon Zhegrovaüs back heel pass launched Silvan Widmer (right defender) into space, when he passed to Fabian Frei, inside the penalty box….. GOAL!NUMBER 20! FABIAN FREI 2:1!

We profited from a mistake which let to the 1st goal. The 2nd goal was craated beautifully.

Marcel Koller

The visiting team became more dangerous and FCB need that little bit of luck to hold onto that important victory. Nemanja Maksimovics hit the post and Àngel´s goal was disallowed due to offside. After seeing the re-play it was understandable that the Spanish players were not that happy with the referee´s decision. Rotblau also had a few more chances; 15 minutes before the end of the fixture Kemal Ademi´s head hit the top netting of the goal. No more goals on the night.

After the game:

FC Basel 1893 have never in club history ever qualified for the last 32 round of the UEFA Europa League, so early into the group stage. Two teams can no longe overtake FCB. In the event that Getafe and FC Krasnodar , who beat Trabzanspor A.S. 3:1 collect as many point s as FCB, then only the teams with the same number of points will be counted. As the fixture against Tanzonspor would have no effect, FCB would no be able to be overtaken by the other teams, in the group table.

it´s good that the pressure is reduced for the last two fixtures.

Marcel Koller

Basel´s group table is looking great from FCB´s perspective: Two rounds to go and FCB lie 4 points ahead of the Spanish and the Russians. Based on the current standings FCB need to aim on winning the group, even though two tough fixtures lie ahead. After two consecutive victories against a Spanish side (not FCB´s favourite type of opponent),winning the group should be in reach.

Match Report:

FC Basel 1893 – Getafe CF 2:1 (1:1)

St. Jakob-Park. – 26‘298 Supporters. – Referee Serhiy Boiko (Ukraine).

Goals: 8. Cabral 1:0 (Petretta). 45. Mata 1:1 (Penalty). 60. Frei 2:1 (Widmer).

FCB: Omlin; Widmer, Cömert, Alderete, Riveros; Frei, Xhaka (64. Campo); Zhegrova (88. Pululu), Zuffi, Petretta; Cabral (73. Ademi).

GCF: Chichizola; Maksimovic, Bruno, Oliveira, Raùl Garcia; Portillo, Fajr (79. Ángel), Timor (68. Nyom), Hugo Duro (68. Kenedy); Mata, Gallego.

Notes: FCB without Kuzmanovic, Okafor, Ramires, van Wolfswinkel (all injured), Bua und Stocker (banned). GCF without Bergara, Cabrera, Manojlovic, Ndiaye (all injured) and Etxeita (not permitted tp play). Substitutes FCB: Ademi, Bergström, Campo, Kaiser, Marchand, Nikolic und Pululu. – Yellow Cards: 17. Gallego (Foul). 38. Xhaka (Foul). 44. Riveros (Foul). – 72. Hit the post Maksimovic. 86. Ángel´s goal notr valid due to offside position.