Victor Hugo is the most iconic authors of French Romantic movement. Known for his works that weaved political upheavals of his age in timeless tales, Hugo was one of the greatest literary sensations of French literature and was one of the most popular novelist, dramatist and poet of his time.

Victor Hugo’s novels and plays have received much critical acclaim and appreciation not just in the 19th century but also in the contemporary era. Two of his well-known books “Les Miserable” and “The Hunchback of Notre-Dame” are rated amongst world's greatest classics.

To celebrate his birthday and his literary contributions to the world, here are 10 books by Victor Hugo you should definitely know about.

“Cromwell” is one of the renowned plays by Victor Hugo, whose preface is considered to be a manifesto in favor of artistic freedom. He elaborates on the ideas that separate his work from the traditional forms of classical theater and opens up the path to French Romanticism. The plot of “Cromwell” however delves into the life of Oliver Cromwell, the controversial English political leader who led the country for a short period without a monarchy and became the Lord Commander during that time.

Photo Credit: Nabu Press

Written years after the French revolution, “The Last Day of a Condemned Man” is Victor Hugo’s attempt to establish a civilized society that is free from the terror of death penalty. The story narrates the thoughts of a man who is on his way to be executed. Through this narrative, Hugo attempts to showcase his disregard for the guillotine and criticize the society for the spectacle they make out of it.

Photo Credit: Ingram short title

“The Hunchback of Notre-Dame” is one of the most popular Gothic novel by Victor Hugo, which has also been adapted into several movies. The book showcases the story of an impossible love between Quasimodo and Esmeralda. It not only seeks to portray a picture of medieval Paris but also to criticize the society for forgetting the relevance of Gothic architecture and artistry. Quasimodo 's love is so pure and true that one hardly finds its parallel in literature.

Photo Credit: Wordsworth Editions Ltd

Not only was Victor Hugo a novelist and a dramatist, he has written several poems. One of them is the collection of poems called “Les Contemplation”. The poem reflects the sad instances in the life of Hugo and builds on the line of memory and recollections. It is an autobiography that takes up the form of verses in the poetic compilation.

Photo Credit: Independently Published

The book is the most wonderful of all his books also the least appreciated of all. Written during his days of exile on an island named Guernsey, Hugo weaves the story of a Guernseyman named Gilliatt, a social outcast who falls in love with Deruchette, the niece of a local shipowner. It is then the narrative of a man with all his trials and tribulations to rescue the love of his life.

Photo Credit: Nabu Press