His was a career that most film directors would envy. But some chose to define Dutch maestro Bert Haanstra’s career as ‘ridiculously successful’. Born on May 31, 1961 into a family with an inclination towards art, Haanstra was so restless and fascinated with the then new and upcoming art of filmmaking that he neglected his studies. He started working as a press photographer and just as he started getting noticed, the World War II put an end to his dreams.

Undaunted, Haanstra turned into an active member of the Resistance movement and with the end of the war, got his

first break in the movies as a cinematographer.

Moving into film direction, his very second film, Mirror of Holland won him the Grand Prize alongside greats like Vittorio De Sica (The Bicycle Thieves). Haanstra then never looked back. A few more acclaimed shorts followed like the Oscar-winning Glass and very soon he made his first feature length film The Brass Band which not only won him the Best Film at the Berlin Film Festival but broke all box-office records in native Denmark. For his groundbreaking Ape and Super-Ape Haanstra travelled from pole to equator, covering more than 175,000 kilometres and returning with a gargantuan 40,000 metres of film to be edited into a 2,825 metre film.

His prolific career continued inspite of a debilitating heart-attack after which he resumed painting. After some time he got back with a vengeance which even flummoxed his doctors. Haanstra returned to the film world at the age of 71. He was so passionate about films that he even ventured into the dense jungles of Central Africa with his family and a pygmy guide for his classic Monument for a Gorilla. Unlike other European masters and at some point of time, contemporaries, though he probably out-filmed them all by working in late 90s, Haanstra’s films are not well remembered outside native Denmark. Some of the themes he explored in his films were — a child’s first attempt to swim, the ritual of the breakfast, birth, death, love, family. His films will be screened from September 13 at Jnana Jyothi Auditorium, Central College Campus, near Mysore Bank circle, Palace Road.

Mirror of Holland

Duration: 10min

Mirror of Holland didn’t just immortalise ‘a day in the peaceful country’ but was a meditation on the under-currents of life itself. The movie was Haanstra’s breakthrough film that first got the world to notice the Dutchman who could make your dream a vivid beautiful dream.

And There Was No More Sea

Duration: 24min

Chronicling a small fishing village and its very unique flavour that touches every aspect of life from clothes to religion to birth, livelihood and death, Haanstra reflects on a way of life nearing its end as the pillars of modernity rise from beneath the sea, reclaiming land where once there was a wide blue liquid expanse and soon, before you even know it, there was no more sea.

Delta Phase 1

Duration: 20min

A land in constant danger of being sunk by the sea and the solution seems to be the construction of a dam and a flood barrier. A fishing village has to make way for this rosy future and Haanstra documents with a befuddled detachment as

the sea and land and its people are displaced by the towering structures.

The Voice of The Water

Duration: 93min

The director chronicles his native, The Netherlands, with an acute eye for everyman-everyday quirks and discovers a connection between the ubiquitous water and the rhythm of life on the land that lies ever so precariously in between.