By Claudia Dudman | Wed 5th Apr 2023

Share on Facebook Tweet on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest

https://www.independentschoolparent.com/education-news/westminster-school-to-welcome-girls-to-all-year-groups/

Link copied to clipboard

Westminster School in London is to welcome girls to all year groups for the first time

The 700-year-old Westminster School has been an all-boys’ school with girls admitted to the sixth form since 1967. Situated next to Westminster Abbey and the Houses of Parliament it aims to be fully co-educational by 2030 although no dates have been confirmed. According to The Daily Telegraph a spokesman said: “Although no dates are yet confirmed, we look forward to reaching the point at which we can make this significant change to our school, enabling any child who would flourish here to be able to come, irrespective of gender.

They added: “Co-education is based on demand – the number of parents, pupils, staff, alumni and interested outsiders asking about girls joining the school has grown year-on-year. It is also based on a desire fully to reflect the community we serve, and to shape that community by educating brilliant young men and women with a commitment to making a difference.”

The move which will also apply to its junior school, Westminster under School, currently for boys aged seven-13, follows a series of independent schools who have made the change from single sex to co-educational. Westminster School alumni include six former British prime ministers, composer Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber, broadcaster Louis Theroux and actress Helena Bonham Carter.

Read More:

The Guide to Independent Schools Spring 2023 is Out Now!

The 2023 Spring Prep Schools Edition of Independent School Parent is Out Now!

Nominations are Open for the Independent Schools of the Year Awards 2023!

Want more information and inspiration from Independent School Parent? Hit ‘Like’ on our Facebook page, follow us on Instagram and join the conversation on Twitter.