MOSCOW -- Relations between the superpowers may be sour, but American movies are a hit with the Soviet public.

'As a rule, all the tickets are sold for American films,' said a cashier at the Gorizont theater, which was packed when the comedy 'Going in Style' ran for one day recently.

'Kramer vs. Kramer' is playing at a number of theaters in Moscow. 'Three Days of the Condor' just finished a successful run.

The Gorizont is a preview house, showing foreign films one day a week so decision-makers can gauge public reaction.

'Would I see it again?' a middle-aged man read from a questionaire he was handed after seeing 'Going in Style,' the story of three pensioners who hold up a bank, starring George Burns.

'Yes,' he said, tearing the paper along a dotted line. His wife said she would give the film five points, the top grade.

Some American films shown in the Soviet Union have a critical view of life in the United States or of U.S. foreign policy. The newspaper Soviet Culture praised 'Three Days of the Condor' for showing one man's struggle against the CIA.

'The moral climate of today's America is characterized first of all by the crisis of the American dream,' critic Oleg Sulkin wrote. He said there was a 'metamorphosis of social criticism in American cinema.'

Not all foreign movies are American -- Italy's 'Amarcord' and Sweden's 'Autumn Sonata' also played in Moscow -- but foreign films generally fit into four categories:

-Political exposes of problems such as corruption and crime in the capitalist world, like 'The China Syndrome' or 'The Border,' which played last year.

-Psychological studies showing Soviet viewers other peoples' problems. This would include 'Kramer vs. Kramer' and 'Alice Doesn't Live Here Any More.'

-General entertainment: adventure stories, slapstick comedy and detective thrillers. 'The Stuntman' was a big hit recently. 'The Great Race,' 'The Vikings' and 'The Deep' also were shown.

-Children's films like 'Lassie,' 'Benji,' 'Hugo the Hippo' and 'Living Free.'

Since new Hollywood releases are expensive, none of the films is very recent.

'Kramer vs. Kramer,' the latest release, was shown unofficially at the Moscow film festival in 1981 but only reached Moscow movie houses last October.

The story of family tensions struck a chord for many viewers in the sellout audience at the Artistic Theater less than a mile from the Kremlin.

'We were all crying,' said a woman office worker. 'Some of the men were crying too.'

Leaving the theater, a woman in her 60s said she didn't understand how heroine Meryl Streep could have gone without working for six years after her son was born. Unemployment is illegal in the U.S.S.R. Only mothers with many children stay home and most families cannot afford to get by on one paycheck anyhow.

'Evidently it's different over there,' the moviegoer said with a sigh.

The film was dubbed so professionally that it seemed as though Dustin Hoffman was speaking in Russian. Other movies do not fare so well.

'Going in Style' suffered from a recorded translation read by a bored-sounding woman who took all the parts. But the audience laughed in all the right places.

The popularity of American films guarantees that movie houses will meet their quotas for tickets sold no matter what film is shown.

'The taste of cinema-goers is not as well-developed as that of theater lovers,' said a Soviet fan. 'They can swallow everything shown on the screens. Even the worst films go to remote villages in the countryside and people pay to see them.'

Even so, the profits are only in rubles, and Sovexportfilm, a government agency, has to pay in dollars for the films it imports.

U.S. Ambassador Arthur Hartman arranged a screening of Stephen Speilberg's 'E.T.' for local audiences. Afterward a top Soviet official begged U.S. diplomats to let him borrow the film 'only for a day.'

The request was refused in case the Soviet might copy the film.

Sources in the film industry say such copies are sometimes made of sample movies sent in from abroad and screened for select audiences.

Films shown to audiences of Communist Party officials, journalists and police commanders include 'The Spy Who Loved Me,' 'Dirty Harry,' 'Bonnie and Clyde,' 'The Godfather' and 'Taxi Driver,' these sources said.

None of these has been shown at any of Moscow's 140 movie houses, apparently because of excessive violence or what Soviet censors see as an inappropriate political slant.