NOTE: no spoilers here

“You can’t understand death until you’ve given life.”

This 2010 dark comedy remake of the 2007 British film of the same name has a stellar cast list, engaging story, and unpredictable fun. The subpar 2009 Indian film Daddy Cool: Join the Fun was also based on the 2007 original film.

This darkly themed comedy follows the original very closely and is written by the same screenwriter Dean Craig. It’s rare to get a chance to remake a film – this one was unnecessary, but made a very entertaining addition to the comedy genre.

Comedy is hard enough to successively produce and audiences rarely see dark comedy gems, so this one is essential viewing.

I loved all the events that occurred throughout this memorable day as well as seeing the talented cast stretch their skills to great an entertaining collaboration. The impressive casting strengthens the film as Neil LaBute directs. Each fantastical incident, gag, and one-liner combine into enjoyable laughs.

Brothers Aaron and Ryan Barnes (Chris Rock and Martin Lawrence) take the lead and supply a basic sibling rivalry relationship as their father passes away and the responsible Aaron must take care of arrangements and host amid his own personal and family challenges. Aaron writes novels…so does Ryan.

This comedy duo play their roles well as the widow/family matriarch Cynthia (Loretta Devine) and Aaron’s wife (Regina Hall) try to be the voices of reason, but chaos ensues as the numerous guests arrive. The supporting characters fold into the comedy mix that Rock and Lawrence anchor.

This comic cavalcade also includes family friend Norman (Tracy Morgan), Uncle Russell (Danny Glover), Reverend Davis (Keith David), and the undertaker Brian (Kevin Hart).

Zoe Saldana as Elaine Barnes, Aaron and Ryan’s cousin Elaine (Zoe Saldana) brings her fiancé Oscar (James Marsden). Derek (Luke Wilson) is Elaine’s ex and Norman’s best friend. Elaine’s brother Jeff (Columbus Short) and father (Ron Glass) factor into the story. Peter Dinklage returns in his memorable and crucial role as Frank Lovett.

Marsden stretches his comedic talents with the most high-profile comedic moments and almost steals the movie from the talented cast.

Death At a Funeral is a rambunctious riot, which only irritates slightly when the cast shout their lines too loudly. Experienced playwright and dark comedy director LaBute handles all the characters and their actions well with good timing and well-framed shots. Filmmakers and cast get a lot out of the one-hour and 32 minutes running time.

Death at a Funeral comes recommended (*** out of four stars) and rated R for language, drug content, and some sexual humor.