The great Chas Chander would have celebrated his 75th birthday today.

A giant of the North East pop scene, Chas sadly passed away in 1996, but leaves a legacy of great music and the bricks and mortar of Newcastle Arena.

Born in Second Avenue Heaton, Newcastle, on this day in 1938, Bryan ‘Chas’ Chandler took an early interest in guitar as the rock’n’roll craze swept across the country in the mid-1950s.

But like many Tyneside lads of his generation, his first job took him into the booming shipyards where he worked as a turner.

Chas’s shipbuilding career was short-lived, however, after he became bass player with a seriously good Newcastle band called Alan Price Rhythm and Blues Combo who would soon re-name themselves as The Animals.

The quintet featuring Chandler, Price, Eric Burdon, Hilton Valentine and John Steel would, of course, achieve massive success in both this country and in the United States, where in 1964-65 they rivalled the mighty Beatles in terms of popularity.

The Animals’ success and the story of their hits like House Of The Rising Sun, and We Gotta Get out of This Place has been well-documented.

But following the band’s acrimonious break-up in 1966, a hard-up Chandler would continue to be a big player in the music business.

He famously discovered Jimi Hendrix playing in a coffee bar in New York’s Greenwich Village.

Years later, Chas remembered: “Jimi didn’t even have a pair of socks. He just lived anywhere he could lay his head.

“Our main topic of conversation was music. You’ve got to be obsessed with it. It took us two months to achieve success and that felt like a long time. I even had to sell my guitars.

“When Hey Joe entered the charts we had three quid between us.”

Chas would become Hendrix’s manager, produce two of his albums, and guide him to international fame and fortune before the guitar legend died at the age of just 27 in 1970.

The entrepreneurial Chandler then struck gold managing Slade, one of the biggest pop bands of the 1970s, for 12 years.

In 1981, Chas said of his success with the group: “It feels like an achievement, but you never really get the time to sit down and say to yourself ‘great, I’ve done this’.

“You have one hit record but you don’t relax. You’re always obsessed with finding the next one.”

In 1983, the 45-year-old Chandler re-entered the performing fray as The Animals briefly reformed.

The project was short-lived but had some success, especially in the States.

The bass player told the Chronicle: “We were playing in front of audiences of 17,000 in Seattle and 12,000 in Philadelphia.”

He also joked: “After sharing the same coach and hotels for the last five months, nobody in the band has a black eye.”

Chandler married twice, his second wife being a former Miss UK, and he had four children from the two marriages.

The lasting testament to one of the region’s greatest musical sons is, of course, Newcastle Arena which he masterminded with business partner Nigel Stanger.

Chas told the Chronicle in 1995: “It’s about time this city saw the big stars. Take That didn’t play Newcastle on their last tour as there wasn’t a suitable venue. Next time there will be.”

The Arena opened that year and has since hosted many of the world’s biggest acts.

Happy birthday, Chas Chandler.