Moshonki

Moshonki (Russian: Мошонки) is a rural locality (a selo) in Meshchovsky District of Kaluga Oblast, Russia, located 155 kilometers (96 mi) southwest of Moscow River Serena (A tributary of the Oka tributary Zhizdra).

Moscow-Riga Railroad Bridge

Moscow-Riga Railroad Bridge is a concrete arch bridge that spans Moscow Canal between Tushino and Shchukino Districts in northwestern Moscow, Russia. The bridge does not have an official name and is sometimes styled as Railroad bridge over Moscow Ca…

Monument to Sergei Yesenin in St. Petersburg

Monument to Sergei Yesenin is a sculpture representing the Russian poet Sergei Yesenin on a small pedestal, it is located in Tauride Garden in the centre of St. Petersburg.

Molodyozhnoye, Saint Petersburg

Molodyozhnoye (Russian: Молодёжное; Finnish: Metsäkylä) is a municipal settlement in Kurortny District of the federal city of St. Petersburg, Russia, located on the Karelian Isthmus, on the northern shore of the Gulf of Finland. Population: 1,587 (2…

Molochny

Molochny (Russian: Моло́чный) is an urban locality (an urban-type settlement) in Kolsky District of Murmansk Oblast, Russia, located on the Kola Peninsula on the lower Kola River, 15 kilometers (9.3 mi) south of Murmansk.

Mogzon, Khiloksky District, Zabaykalsky Krai

Mogzon (Russian: Могзон) is an urban locality (an urban-type settlement) in the eastern part of Khiloksky District of Zabaykalsky Krai, Russia, located at the confluence of the Khila and Khilok Rivers. Population: 3,856 (2010 Census); 4,455 (2002 Ce…

Mezmay

Mezmay (Russian: Мезма́й) is a settlement in Apsheronsky District of Krasnodar Krai, Russia, located in the valley of the Kurdzhips River near its confluence with the Mezmay River, 35 kilometers (22 mi) south-east of Apsheronsk. Population: less tha…

Mengon

Mengon is an air base in Amur Oblast, Russia located 17 km southwest of Elban. Its purpose is unknown; it may be a diversion or dispersal airbase for bombers from Zavitinsk (air base) or Ukrainka (air base). It has a very long runway and large tarma…

Medyn-Aduyevo

Medyn-Aduyevo was an Soviet Air Force base in Kaluga Oblast, Russia located 56 km northwest of Kaluga. It was a 1960s-era airbase, situated 9 km northeast of the town of Medyn.

Mazilug

Mazilug (Russian: Мазилуг) is a rural locality (a village) in Torbeyevsky District of the Republic of Mordovia, Russia. It is in administrative jurisdiction of the urban-type settlement of Torbeyevo and is located within 3 kilometers (1.9 mi) of it.…

Matsuri, Estonia

Matsuri (also known as Matsurdi, Matšuri, Belohvostovo and Piiroja) is a village in Värska Parish, Põlva County, in southeastern Estonia, on the border with Russia. The Tartu–Pechory, Valga–Pechory railways and Karisilla–Pechory road (nr. 63) all pa…

Martyshkino

Martyshkino (Russian: Мартышкино) is a historical part of the town of Lomonosov near St. Petersburg, Russia. It is located in the east of Lomonosov, not far from Petrodvorets. One of the first business parks in the St. Petersburg is built in the are…

Malye Derbety

Malye Derbety (Russian: Ма́лые Дербе́ты; Kalmyk: Баһ Дөрвд, Bah Dörvd) is a rural locality (a selo) and the administrative center of Maloderbetovsky District in the Republic of Kalmykia, Russia. Population: 6,434 (2010 Census); 5,980 (2002 Census); …

Malakatyn-Tas

Mount Malakatyn-Tas is a mountain on Kotelny Island, part of the New Siberian Islands north of mainland Russia.

Machevna Bay

Machevna Bay (Russian: бухта Мачевна) is a bay in Koryak Okrug of Kamchatka Krai, Russia, located approximately 350 kilometers (220 mi) (by air) north of Tilichiki. Machevna River flows into this bay.

Lykoshino (settlement), Bologovsky District, Tver Oblast

Lykoshino (Russian: Лыко́шино) is a rural locality (a settlement) in Bologovsky District of Tver Oblast, Russia, located on the Valdayka River, northwest of the town of Bologoye (the administrative center of the district).

Lyambir (air base)

Lyambir (Russian: Лямбирь) is an air base in Russia, located 12 kilometers (7.5 mi) north of Saransk. It is a large airfield with parallel taxiway and tarmac space. Probably a forward deployment airfield.