Title: Ti Amo Chocolate

Cast:

Vanness Wu as Fang Jia Hua 方家驊

Joanne Tseng as Hong Xi En 洪希恩

Michael Zhang as Fang Jia Rui 方家瑞

MC40 as Wei Li 威力

Wang Zi as Wang Zi Yi 王子翊

Ah Ben as Hong Xi Ping 洪希平

Bu Xue Liang as Su Yi Cheng 蘇一誠

Guo Shu Yao (郭書瑤) as Hong Xi Hui 洪希惠

Dou Zhi Kong as Lu Zheng Ting 陸政廷

Lene Lai as Lu Zheng Jun 陸政君

Ge Wei Ru as Ge Jia Yi 戈嘉怡

Jian Chang as Hong Zhong Xin 洪忠心

Doris Kuang as Ye Mei Ren 葉美人

Shen Meng Sheng as Fang Pei Long 方珮瓏

Zhou Dan Wei (周丹薇) as Li Ru Yun 李如芸

Angie Tang as Fang Lin Wen Yue 方林文月

Zhong Xin Ling as Su Xiao Xiao 蘇小小

Zhao Shun as Flower store owner

Qian De Men as Fortune teller

Na Wei Xun as Bakery store manager

My Thoughts:

This drama is generally great but it can get dragged out sometimes. I also find that a lot of scenes are unnecessary and are fillers. The drama would’ve been much better if it is concentrated to 50 episodes but some of the filler episodes are so I don’t mind it that much. The summary of this drama that I saw is very different to the actual drama. It only tells us about the bit where Xi En is cross-dressing to work at Ti Amo Chocolate and that’s not even half of the actual drama because, well, how can you expect someone to look at Xi En and think that she is a he?

What I don’t like about the drama is the arrangements of the events that happened. Sometimes you will only see one set of characters in one episode and so it is different from what I am used to. It is good sometimes if you like the particular character but imagine if you don’t like them and you have to be stuck looking at them for a full episode.

???

Then there’s also the magical disappearance of some characters. Zi Yi is definitely one that just went missing in the middle of the drama. He didn’t even appear at the ending and there’s no proper explanation as to where he went and what happened to him. Hao Jie and Master didn’t come back until the very end. This frustrates me the most because Chocolate and Xi En wanted to get married because of Hao Jie but we didn’t get to see her reaction to the wedding being cancelled at all!

I did mention that some fillers are fun to watch but some irritates me as well. For example, near the end, when Zheng Jun decides to cancel her wedding with Chocolate and lets Xi En to be the bride. It was fine until Xi En decides to trick Chocolate and tells him that she gives up on him for the trip to France when she is actually preparing for their wedding. Another scenario is when Zheng Tin chases after the Vampire guy (P.S. he is not an actual vampire, I just call him that because of his pale skin) and experiences a fake death. I don’t see the point because they actually reunited straight after.

The ending was satisfying because I think this is the only drama that finished up perfectly. Everyone has a happy ending and they all live happily ever after. I don’t think I would change the ending if I have the chance. It is that perfect!