Title: Ti Amo Chocolate

Cast:

Vanness Wu as Fang Jia Hua 方家驊

Joanne Tseng as Hong Xi En 洪希恩

Michael Zhang as Fang Jia Rui 方家瑞

MC40 as Wei Li 威力

Wang Zi as Wang Zi Yi 王子翊

Ah Ben as Hong Xi Ping 洪希平

Bu Xue Liang as Su Yi Cheng 蘇一誠

Guo Shu Yao (郭書瑤) as Hong Xi Hui 洪希惠

Dou Zhi Kong as Lu Zheng Ting 陸政廷

Lene Lai as Lu Zheng Jun 陸政君

Ge Wei Ru as Ge Jia Yi 戈嘉怡

Jian Chang as Hong Zhong Xin 洪忠心

Doris Kuang as Ye Mei Ren 葉美人

Shen Meng Sheng as Fang Pei Long 方珮瓏

Zhou Dan Wei (周丹薇) as Li Ru Yun 李如芸

Angie Tang as Fang Lin Wen Yue 方林文月

Zhong Xin Ling as Su Xiao Xiao 蘇小小

Zhao Shun as Flower store owner

Qian De Men as Fortune teller

Na Wei Xun as Bakery store manager

My Thoughts:

There are just so much to this drama and I just feel like I can’t leave out anything so I’m going to split this review into three parts: “Characters”, “Relationships” and “Plot”. In this post, “Character”, I’m going to talk about my thoughts on the actual developments of the characters. While in “Relationships”, I’m going to talk about our couples, their chemistry and other heart-racing scenes and in “Plot”, I’m going to talk about the storyline and conflicts, etc.

This is officially the longest drama I have ever watched! I can’t believe I went through the trouble to actually finish this. I’ll talk more about the actual story in my “Plot” post so I’ll head straight into our characters~

In this drama, there are quite a few main characters. From the official poster, we see Xi En, Chocolate, Jia Rui, Wei Li and Wang Zi Yi. However, what confuses me is that a lot of the “main characters” are not as important as I thought and one even disappeared from the second half of the drama! It just annoyed me how they organised the appearance of the characters because you might have an episode based on for example, the Xi En/Chocolate couple. You will see the events that happened to them and the relevant people that they are connected to but all of the other characters are just gone for that episode. It is really a problem of trying to fit a large cast in the 45-min episode. Nevertheless, I still love the characters.

My favourite character has got to be Xi En. She is just so candid and forthright. She is the breadwinner of the family but she doesn’t complain and works hard willingly to make her family happy. I liked the from start to end but it was a bit frustrating watching her being so soft-hearted towards Zheng Jun. I’m glad that she finally learns to get a backbone and fight for what she wants and deserves at the end……..though that took about 10 episodes. Xi En’s character really gives you a familiar feeling and I can’t really pinpoint what it is exactly. But she is definitely a character loved by everyone! Her genuine character also eventually won Zheng Jun over and I think this is something worth noting in her character.

Next up I have Chocolate on my list. I love him more in the middle and less in the second half because his stupidity. At first I didn’t like him that much because even though he is eager to find his mother, he is still a spoil brat. The one thing I like about him from the start is that he straight away knew to fight for want he wants instead of listening to his father’s unreasonable requests. He breaks out of his cage and frees himself from his father’s reign even if it means to give up on the inheritance. Though by the second half, he loses this quality and became obedient to Zheng Jun. That really disappointed me and I face-palmed myself until I can’t feel the pain anymore. Chocolate definitely grows stronger emotionally throughout the whole drama and he also learnt a lot of values in life such as the importance of family. Just this alone is worth watching, I think.

Xi Hui is adorable in this drama and she captured my heart with her purity and innocence. I personally think that Xi Hui is the character with the most changes/developments. At the beginning, she is over-protected by her family who has put all their hopes on her because she is the only one in the family receiving a third level education. She is confined in a small world away from danger until she meets Zheng Tin. Can you imagine that Xi Hui actually believed Zheng Tin when he told her that he is a national spy?! Yes…….that is how gullible she is. Xi Hui gradually experienced the harsh reality of life but she remains pure and positive. This is a side of her that I find very charming. Unlike her sister Xi En, who is aware of the reality of the world and becomes stronger at the end of the drama, Xi Hui is a character that learns about the reality of the world while trying to retain her genuine personality.

Zheng Tin is not so much a character I spaz over but one that I respect. Like Xi En, Zheng Tin sacrificed so much for his own family. He joined a gang hoping that would prevent his family from being harassed but this only made his family members leave him. It was so heart-breaking looking at him in his empty house. He is obviously a main character but he is not in the poster and I thought it was a bit misleading. I’m just one of those people who hate when the blurb/summary doesn’t really match up with the story. I would spend ages waiting for whatever to come but when it doesn’t, it kills me! In this case, it isn’t so bad because Zheng Tin is not mentioned in the summary so he is more like a pleasant surprise:D

Zheng Jun is the antagonist of the show and to be honest, she isn’t as evil as I thought she would be. She is nearly getting there at the end but still not evil enough. It was interesting to see how she slowly evolves into this person who is full of hatred and jealousy. I actually don’t like her more at the start because she was being too nice and I just don’t see how she could expect to have the same relationship with Chocolate when clearly he’s dating. It was hard to hate her while she’s being nice because I’d feel like a bully so it was much better when she turned to the dark side completely. Some of the stuff she did when she turned evil are just *facepalm*. I didn’t like that she got better because I felt that she needs to learn a lesson but then again if she doesn’t I would cry for Jia Rui.

Jia Rui is the only character that I love from the start but grows to hate as the story progresses. I know persistence is one of his good traits but to me he just seems extremely desperate. I felt sorry for him but at the same time I felt like he was digging his own grave. I wouldn’t mind it as much if he just keeps on with his own crush but then he went ahead and ruined someone else’s perfect relationship. It was so irritating to see him like that and I was screaming at my screen the whole time! But then I guess “Love is blind and lovers cannot see, the petty follies that themselves commit”. Haha……sorry>.< I just had to do it:P I’m studying this for my English exam and I’m trying to keep up with my studies as well as this blog:)

The other characters such as The Hong Family members, Wei Li, Hao Jie, Master and Xiao Xiao are all worth mentioning and some of them play big roles in the drama. For example, Papa Hong is definitely in charge of being the cock-blocker. I’m pretty sure Chocolate and Xi En would at least have 7 or 8 babies if it weren’t for Papa Hong. I still like Papa Hong though, he brought in a lot of laughters throughout the drama. Another person who is the happy virus is Xi Ping. It is hard for people who doesn’t Mandarin to understand his jokes sometimes because the jokes he makes are pretty local. Xi Ping is a character that brings a smile on your face whenever he is on-screen. The actor did an excellent job portraying the character and bringing out Xi Ping’s innocence. Mama Hong has a motherly figure which makes you warm and fuzzing inside. She takes care of the family very well and she really sends the message “Mother sacrifices a lot for us” out to us when ever she does a warm gesture for her family.

The actor who played Wei Li is in Love Around so it is one of the reasons why I started this 80-episode drama(so long!). He and Xiao Xiao are more like chocolate and Xi En’s sidekick as they really didn’t contribute much to the plot except for their relationship and when they console Xi En with her relationship. I don’t have that much opinion on them except that they are likable and useful sometimes.

Hao Jie is such an appealing character so it was disappointing to see her disappear for a while. I guess what’s attractive about her is that she is Chocolate’s mother and that she is left with no choice but to abandon her son when he was still young. It was painful to watch her being unable to let her son know about her identity because it would hurt Chocolate in the end. I’m glad that she doesn’t actually die though because I would’ve burst into tears! Hao Jie is another motherly figure in this drama that inspire me to do more for my mum. I think Master is the master of unrequited love like in kpop, we have GOD, Shinhwa, etc. I wonder if there’s anyone in dramaland that has had a crush on someone for more than 17 years. This is the one thing that I really admire about him other than him being a master chocolatier. It is hard to explain but I guess I don’t like Jia Rui’s crush on Zheng Jun as much because Master’s crush on Hao Jie is just so chivalrous and gentleman-like.

I don’t really remember much about any other characters because there’s so freakin’ many of them!!! Anyways, that’s my thought on the characters of this drama and I hope you like my review on the characters. In general, you would find most of the characters are attractive and likable but like any other drama, there’s always a few that you wish to slap the hell out of them . Stay tune for my “Relationship” post!:D

LOVE AROUND CAST:

George Huas Zhou Zhen 周震

Annie Chen as Liang Xiao Shu 梁小舒

Jack Li as Gao Zee Zuan 高哲宣

Elleya Tao (陶妍霖) as Zhou Ying Ying 周瑩瑩

Tan Ai Zhenas Chen Mei Li 陳美麗

Jian Cheng as Zhou Da Kuan 周大寬

Zhang Fu Jian as Liang Yi Lei 梁一磊 親

Wang Juan as Tang Hui Shan 唐惠珊

Mo Yun Wen (莫允雯) as Chen Ping Ying 陳品穎

Zhao Jie(趙杰) as Fei Li 菲力

Yao Han Yi(瑤涵沂) as Jessica 潔西卡

Xue Shi Lin(薛仕凌) as James 詹姆士

Stephanie Chang as Fei Fei 菲菲

Qiu Wei Wen(邱慧雯) as Yu Mi 玉米

Yu Jue Ru (余月如) Pei Li 培麗

Huang Deng Hui(黃鐙輝)

Su Gao Hoa(孫國豪) as Zhang Jie Wei 張建偉

Zhou Zhen is in the police station and is explaining why he is in the hotel with Xiao Shu but the police isn’t convinced because they can’t find Xiao Shu’s purse and phone so they can’t even contact any of her friends to confirm. The police tells him they can only confirm that he’s not a rapist if Xiao Shu wakes up.

Zhou Zhen then starts shaking her in attempts to wake her up but when Xiao Shu finally wakes up, she ends up headbutting Zhou Zhen’s chin. Zhou Zhen quickly calls for the police.The police asks if she knows Zhou Zhen and after taking a better look at him she shakes her head. Only after she pukes on him that she realises what happened.

Outside, Xiao Shu immediately apologies for her troubles. Zhou Zhen thanks her for the dinner and gives her back the autographed baseball bat but she tells him to take it back saying that even if it hurts, the relationship has to cut clean and that he is the one who won it so it is fair for him to take home.

Zhou Zhen gets a call from his sis, it seems like his granny has a heart attack and is in the hospital. He is about to go but Xiao Shu asks him to lend her some money since she spent it all on dinner. He gives it to her and tells her she doesn’t need to return it. She says that it isn’t fair but Zhou zhen tells her that it’s fine. And of course our smart girl thought of something and asks him for his phone. She rings her co-worker Jessica and tells her to save the phone number.

Xiao Shu sneaks back in her house quietly but is stopped by her mum. Her mum scolds her for being so late. Xiao Shu gets teary eyed and tells her mum that Jason cheated so she went and drank with her friends. Her mum comforts her and tells her it’s fine to drink and talk with her friends but she at least should tell them(parents) cuz they are worried.

Xiao Shu asks her mum what they should do about Dad. Her Mum tells her not to worry as she has a plan.

When they see Dad, Xiao Shu’s mum tells Xiao Shu to say the truth but Xiao Shu says she doesn’t dare to so the mum starts to hit her(pretend) and tells the Dad what happened. Dad sees through it right away and tells them to stop pretending.

Xiao Shu apologies to Dad but he is still angry( I think). Mum convinces him saying that it’s Jason’s fault so if he is angry, he should be angry with Jason, not Xiao Shu. Dad tells Xiao Shu to never make that mistake again and with a softer expression, tells her that Jason is not worth crying for while handing her a tissue. Aww~ I get the feeling that the Dad loves Xiao Shu a lot but just doesn’t know how to express it properly.

Meanwhile in the hospital, a group of men in black outside a dorm lines up to give an ultra loud and passionate welcome to Zhou Da Kuan a.k.a. Papa Zhou Zhen. Zhou Da Kuan shush them saying that they are in the hospital.

When Zhou Zhen arrives, Zhou Da Kuan tells Fei Li to treat the men in black some tea before going in to see Granny.

When they arrive in the room, Granny and Zhou Ying Ying are looking for something which gets Zhou Zhen to wonder if Granny really has a heart attack. Granny is looking for her phone and she needs to level up in the games on her phone. So a gamer granny….hmm…Zhou Zhen’s family is pretty interesting.

Granny throws a tantrum as she isn’t able to find her phone. Afraid that his granny might get another heart attack, he calms her down and finds the phone almost immediately. Though he made Granny promise to rest her eyes for ten mins for every hour she plays. Ying Ying starts complimenting Zhou Zhen but he isn’t impressed and instead asks for the reason why Granny had a heart attack.

Granny tries to talk her way through but can’t and it is revealed that because Granny was winning so much in mahjong that she got a heart attack.It is Ying’s idea to play mahjong so obviously she gets into trouble which she tries to avoid by hiding behind Granny. Granny starts to blame Zhou Zhen for coming home so late which is the cause of why they are playing mahjong in the first place.

Zhou Zhen apologies and Granny says it’s fine since she was happy playing mahjong. Ying Ying starts saying that Granny is happy whenever Zhou Zhen is with her, which gets Ying Ying in trouble when Granny blabs out that she was very happy too when Ying Ying gave her alcohol last time.

Xiao Shu goes to visit her brother’s grave with her family. They seem to be annoyed that SOMEONE gives the brother flowers again this year. They start talking to the brother as if he is alive. Then Dad angrily takes away the flowers and put the flowers they bought on the grave.

Fei Fei is hosting the radio show as Xiao Shu’s substitute and she is talking about zodiac fortune telling. She is saying how accurate it is as she has luck with opposite sex this week like the reading is told but James mocks her by asking if her luck with opposite sex is luckier than the little boy who smiled at her for three seconds that she talked about last time. She then warns him to be careful of his words as it might get him in trouble and just after she said that James falls off his chair in attempt to get his water. When they come out of the recording room everyone laughs at him.

Xiao Shu and her parents arrive to the radio station with food and everyone thank only the parents so Xiao Shu is like “what about me??”. So it turns out that Xiao Shu’s parents are the owner of the radio station.

Zhou Da Kuan is cropping his plant in his house when his assistant comes in and reports on the financial situation of his company.Zhou Da Kuan doesn’t care but wants to know if he can buy a radio station if he wants to and of course yes since he’s so rich. Zhou Da Kuan is listening to Xiao Shu radio show and she is talking about him! Well…..more like complaining.

Zhou Da Kuan gets cross and calls in to the show. He doesn’t tell her his name and talks back to her for himself on that incident that she talked about. He says it isn’t fair to judge on him like that because he mightn’t know about what happened. As they argue back and forth, Xiao Shu finds it suspicious and asks if Zhou Da Kuan paid him to call in. Zhou Da Kuan denies but Xiao Shu keeps on asking how much he was paid. Zhou Da Kuan hangs up on her and tells his assistant to buy Xiao Shu’s radio station in a month.

Zhou Zhen falls asleep in his on the way to work. When he wakes up, he is surprised to find himself in front of his ex-girlfriend’s music school. He asks Fei Li why they are there and Fei Li says because for the past 2 weeks he has been requesting to go there before going to work. Zhou Zhen tells him he doesn’t need to go there anymore.

Yu Mi sprays rose perfume around the office, hoping that will help Xiao Shu find another boyfriend. That reminds Jessica that Xiao Shu called her yesterday and asks her why she needs to save the number. Xiao Shu gets the number off her and calls Zhou Zhen.

Zhou Zhen is shocked to find that Xiao Shu is the caller since he didn’t give her his number. Xiao Shu explains how she got his number and asks if he is free tonight, to which he answers no on purpose cuz he doesn’t want her to give back the taxi fare. He then hangs up on her.

After Zhou Zhen hangs up, Xiao Shu’s co-workers start to interrogate her on what happened last night and who Zhou Zhen is. Jessica tells them to give Xiao Shu a chance and that she won’t be able to get away with it anyway since it is the monthly co-workers dinner gathering. Xiao Shu barely escapes and tells them to go to the karaoke place first as she has something to do.

Zhou Zhen receives a box from Ying Ying which informs him of her friend Pei Li’s birthday party. He also receives an enormous ribbon which suggests he should tie the ribbon to himself and give himself as present.

Yay!! A new character~ Gao Zee Zuan is a neat freak and he starts cleaning the stuff on the table and lining them neatly.He meets with a man who gives him account details and tells him that the work needs to be done by tomorrow. Zee Zuan starts to tell him that it is his fault for handing the paperwork so late and that now he want him to work over time for something that he didn’t do wrong. The poor man begs him and he promises to hand in the stuff tomorrow.

Outside, Ying Ying is walking confidently with her head high up and everyone turns to look at her. A motorbike is speeding straight at her from behind and behold~ Zee Zuan pulls her into the spin of drama land. (again) She looks at him gratefully but then a bucket of cold water splashes right at her, literally.

For a moment when she looks at him I thought she likes him but then she blames Zee Zuan for the water incident and demands him to apologies. Zee Zuan doesn’t give in and says that if it’s anyone’s fault it’s her. He tells her that it is because she listens to music and doesn’t notice the car that he has to get her out of the way so that’s why it’s her fault. She keeps demanding for apologies but he still doesn’t give in and walks away.

Xiao Shu arrives at the karaoke room first and her co-workers all left her notes. All her co-workers have something to do suddenly so she has to sing alone herself.

Zhou Zhen arrives at Pei Li’s birthday and hands her the gift. Ying Ying takes the gift off her and push her into Zhou Zhen’s embrace, saying that it counts as a better present. He tells them that he’ll pay for the expenses and enjoy themselves. Then he excuses himself and leaves.

On his way out, Zhou Zhen walks pass a room and sees Xiao Shu singing with really sad eyes. Their eyes met.

Zhou Zhen wonders why she is singing alone in a huge room and Xiao Shu tells him what happened. then she asks Zhou Zhen the reason he is here and he tells her what happened too. Zhou Zhen asks her why she sounds so sad earlier and comforts her by saying that she will find a better man. Then the song “I’ll be by you side” that Zhou Zhen requests on the radio comes on and seeing that Zhou Zhen knows the song, Xiao Shu makes him sing with her.

After karaoke-ing Zhou Zhen accompanies Xiao Shu to find her phone. When Xiao Shu comes across a paint can, she has an idea. She thinks the revenge she got yesterday is too small and wants to do something bigger. She decides to write ” Propriety, Righteousness, honest, shame” (basically it is a phrase commonly use to describe people who are douchebags) with the paint.

Zhou Zhen is baffled at her idea of a BIG revenge and decides actually do something big…….by throwing the whole can of paint at the wall. At first Xiao Shu is worried because she thinks it is too big but then when Zhou Zhen asks if she feel good she says she is super thrilled and starts to giggle to herself saying that she can imagine how angry Jason is.

Just as Xiao Shu is laughing away at how Jason will never know who did that, Jason appears…..with a gang! Jason knows something is wrong when his tire is flat and gets his gang to ambush them. He asks if they are the ones who flattened his tire and Xiao Shu quickly gets in front of Zhou Zhen and takes the blame all by herself.

Zhou Zhen warns them that they are no match for him but Xiao Shu pulls him away , takes his hand and run.

Unfortunately for Xiao Shu, she trips and falls. Zhou Zhen then jumps in front of her so she lands perfectly on top of him. I was kinda expecting a kiss since it reminded me of the fall in Flower Boy Next Door.

They are now surrounded by Jason’s gang and Xiao Shu is hiding behind Zhou Zhen. I’m not really good at describing fighting scenes so let’s just say the gang is beat up before they can scratch our man. But Jason’s smart enough, he sees that his gang is no match for Zhou Zhen so he grab a rock from the ground and threatens Xiao Shu with the rock.

Jason threatens to kill Xiao Shu unless Zhou Zhen kneels before him. Xiao Shu tells Zhou Zhen to run and to leave her be. Jason shouts at him to kneel while Xiao Shu begs him not to.

Finally Zhou Zhen gives in and kneels. Xiao Shu then screams that she hates gangsters the most in her life. Aww….you can see that Zhou Zhen got really hurt by his eyes:(

Jason orders his gang to beat him up. Xiao Shu yells at Jason to stop while crying. Jason warns Xiao Shu to never give him trouble again before leaving. Xiao Shu rushes to Zhou Zhen’s side to see if he’s hurt. Xiao Shu suggests going to police station before going to the hospital but he refuses to saying that her parents will find out.

He wants to take her home so he looks at his watch to see if it’s her curfew yet but it’s broken. Xiao Shu feels bad and wants to repair his watch / buy him a new watch but he refuses again saying that if things are over, it will be hinted where ever you go. Xiao Shu doesn’t understands so Zhou Zhen simply explains that she has to cut things clean and to forget that bastard. Xiao Shu then goes back to her house.

So to be honest I wasn’t expecting to recap a taiwanese drama first but since my first taiwanese drama is Romantic Princess which stars George Hu so in honor of him I decided to recap his newest Sunday drama ,Love Around. Love Around is just airing its 8th episode and I’m only starting to watch it so it’s perfect to recap:) First I have to say that I made a lot of english mistakes here because I’m really not used to writing in the present tense so I hope you won’t mind and hopefully I will get better by the next few recaps ~anyway here is the LOVE AROUND CAST:

George Huas Zhou Zhen 周震

Annie Chen as Liang Xiao Shu 梁小舒

Jack Li as Gao Zee Zuan 高哲宣

Elleya Tao (陶妍霖) as Zhou Ying Ying 周瑩瑩

Tan Ai Zhenas Chen Mei Li 陳美麗

Jian Cheng as Zhou Da Kuan 周大寬

Zhang Fu Jian as Liang Yi Lei 梁一磊 親

Wang Juan as Tang Hui Shan 唐惠珊

Mo Yun Wen (莫允雯) as Chen Ping Ying 陳品穎

Zhao Jie(趙杰) as Fei Li 菲力

Yao Han Yi(瑤涵沂) as Jessica 潔西卡

Xue Shi Lin(薛仕凌) as James 詹姆士

Stephanie Chang as Fei Fei 菲菲

Qiu Wei Wen(邱慧雯) as Yu Mi 玉米

Yu Jue Ru (余月如) Pei Li 培麗

Huang Deng Hui(黃鐙輝)

Su Gao Hoa(孫國豪) as Zhang Jie Wei 張建偉

So we begin with Zhou Zhen (George Hu) celebrating his birthday with his girlfriend in a baseball stadium. His girlfriend sings him happy birthday and he tells her to give him the camcorder which is recording what he is going to do.

On the other hand Liang Xiao Shu (Annie Chen) is in a taxi and she is in a hurry for work but unfortunately she is stuck in a traffic jam. She asks the taxi driver to turn on the radio show, Voice of Asia for her. Then she gets impatient and runs to work herself.

So back to Zhou Zhen….. his girlfriend is getting his birthday cake when he asks her to wait at the other side for a minute . He then surprises her with a watch and she in turn asks him why he is giving her a present when it is HIS birthday not hers. He answers super sweetly saying because she is his wish. Arrgh I wish I have a boyfriend like that >~<!!!

Xiao Shu arrives at the lobby but is too impatient to wait for the lift so she runs up the stairs. So Xiao Shu is a radio host for the Voice of Asia and she is just in time for work ! (yay!:D)

So the scene with Zhou Zhen with his girlfriend at the baseball stadium is just a video and with beer cans scattered on the floor Zhou Zhen keeps on watching the bit of the video where his girlfriend says she will fulfill his birthday wish every year. AWW!! He looks so sad:( I feel so bad for him…..

Xiao Shu gets a call from a creep on the show. He asks her the color of her underwear.

Meanwhile Zhou Zhen gets a call from his assistant, Fei Li who wishes him happy birthday. He gets up and finds a box in his way. He opens it and finds the watch he gave her girlfriend in the video and framed photos of himself and his girlfriend. He caresses them with sad puppy eyes T^T~Anyway poor guy at the other end is still screaming happy birthday at his general manager:P…haha

Now Xiao Shu is dealing with the creeper and she says she didn’t deal with him before because she was being nice and now that she remembers his voice clearly she will post a photo of him when she meets him in person so he can’t get away with it.

One of her co-workers comes back and joins the other co-workers. She asks what happened cuz she heard on her way back that Xiao Shu is arguing with a listener again. The other co-workers just told her to listen.Oh~ so she always argue with her listeners…..?

The creeper hangs up on her and she gets pissed off. She tells her listeners to never tolerate such harassments and must fight back righteously. She also tells her listeners to believe that justice will be victorious. Okay~I’m liking her character already:) can’t wait to see our couple:D

Her next call in is from Mr. J who is actually Zhou Zhen. He requests her to play the same song as before. He then gets into Fei Li’s car and Fei Li asks him where he wants to go. Fei Li suggests skipping work since it’s his birthday but Zhou Zhen just quietly asks him to go to the music school and to turn on the radio. Fei Li says it’s been 2 weeks under his breath. Okay it’s confusing cuz I’m not sure what Fei Li means by it’s been 2 weeks~ is it calling in for 2 weeks or going to the music school or both? That’s why I love to read recap because sometimes if I don’t really understand a scene I can read other people’s understanding of it. Sorry for rambling on>P<

Anyway Xiao Shu announces that Mr.J requests for the song ” I’ll be by your side” for Ms. C who likes music. She says that if she remembers correctly he’s been requesting for that song for 2 weeks and that it must have a special meaning for them both. She tells him that even though she doesn’t know why he is persisting she will support for him til the end if he needs her. Awww isn’t that so sweet!!!>~<

Xiao Shu’s co-worker comes into the room and asks why her why she said those things. Xiao Shu says she wanted to give him encouragement because he sounded lonely. Another co-worker comes in and tells her not to be too nice or she’ll get another sasaeng fan.

Zhou Zhen goes to talk to his girlfriend but she tells him off saying that they’ve broken up already and to never come for her again. Zhou Zhen said he can’t accept it because she broke up with him for no reason.

He reminds her that she promised to fulfill his every wish and since today is his birthday, his wish is for her to come back to his side. He then tries to give her the watch and begs her to take it back. But his girlfriend tells him to stop and that she is tired.She tells him that she is sick and tired of explaining to his friends and co-workers that he is not a gangster. He argues back saying he isn’t but she snaps saying that his family is!

He says that his dad is out of the gang for over a decade already and doesn’t understand why they have to break up just because of that. His girlfriend says because she doesn’t want him to bring shame into her life. OMG! what a b!tch!!>:/ She continues hurting him by telling him that she was fired by many music schools because every time he picks her up the parents would complain. Also she says that the reason she never brought him to her friends’ gathering is because she never told anyone that he was her boyfriend. Aww you can see that Zhou Zhen is holding back his tears T^T~

She tells Zhou Zhen to take the watch back but he insist it belongs to her now since he gave it to her. Then she smashes the watch on the ground telling him “From now on, every day, every minute and every second my happiness will have nothing to do with you.” and walks away coolly without turning back. Okay~ I’m seriously hating the girlfriend>:/ I mean can’t you not throw it after you go home?? You just have to smash it in front my boy!! Poor guy I feel so bad for him:(

Xiao Shu dresses up prettily for her boyfriend Jason’s birthday and she is getting off work early to buy him his present.

At the batting cage Zhou Zhen is playing baseball and is getting every hit.(oh damn it~nose bleeds again!>< thank god i have a box of tissue next to me!) Fei Li is cheering for him at the side and even compliments him as the manliest boss he’s ever served…haha….so true:D but unfortunately Zhou Zhen is not impressed and he even sends him far away. Then Fei Li gets a call from Chairman and has to go.

Xiao Shu is looking hard for the best baseball bat for her boyfriend and she comes across one that has the autograph of her boyfriend’s favorite baseball player. Unfortunately it is not for sale but it is the prize of the afternoon baseball competition so Xiao Shu quickly signs up!

Xiao Shu wants to practice before the competition but an employee tells her there’s no place available. After the employee left she spots one empty cage so she heads in. Zhou Zhen is in the cage beside her and he tells her that he bought the two cages next to his so she has to leave. Xiao Shu reasons with him but he doesn’t give in. As the argument is getting heated, an announcement for the people who entered the competition is made over the speakers so Xiao Shu leaves reluctantly but not before telling him to consider listening to her advice.

The competition starts and the highest score so far is 8/10 hits. It is Xiao Shu’s turn and in the cage she puts on the helmet, takes off her heels then holds the bat into what I think is the perfect posture for baseball. Then…….yeah~ she kept that posture and misses the first ball. All the audience laugh and Zhou Zhen just stand there with a “Are You Kidding ME” face. But it’s alright because she tells them it’s just a mistake and tells to continue. This time she moves forward a bit and ends up getting hit on the arm. For the rest of the balls she gets hit on the head, butt and leg. Then for the last one one she over swing the bat and ends up falling on the ground. By now everyone feels bad for her, especially when she is told she won’t be able to win even if she continues.

She sadly sits on the bench to check her bruises when she spots Zhou Zhen and his outstanding baseball skills. She asks him for a favor: to enter the baseball competition for her. And of course Zhou Zhen refused.

She tells him not to refuse first and to listen to her reason. As she pleads with him she gets in the hitting zone and the next thing you know a ball is heading straight at her but it’s alright because our hero already pulls her into THE spin of dramaland! Zhou Zhen asks her how many times she wants to get hit by the balls. After few seconds of blank stares, she thanks him and starts to explain the reason why she wanted the autographed bat so badly.

Since it is about the boyfriend’s birthday present, he can relate to it so he winds up entering the competition. In the competition he won by getting 10/10 hits! The host is about to present him with the prize and Xiao Shu hurries him to take the prize but he just tells her to get it herself and that she doesn’t need to pay and left. Xiao Shu mutters that he is actually not a bad person.

It’s raining outside and Xiao Shu gets in the taxi only to find that there’s another passenger which is none other than Zhou Zhen. She finds it strange that it stopped but Zhou Zhen points out to her that there is a red light ahead. She thanks him for the bat before quickly leaving the taxi.

She can’t find another taxi but yay for her because Zhou Zhen decides to come back for her. He tells her to get on the taxi which she politely refuses but after a few offers she gives in and gets on.

During the ride she asks Zhou Zhen to pass her a tissue that is on his side but he was already fast asleep. She tries to get it herself but ends up falling on his lap and waking him up. She then gets a call from her mum, who tells her that her curfew is at 10 then she begs her mum for a later curfew because today is her Jason’s birthday.

After the long winded conversation with her mum, she discovers that Zhou Zhen is gone and when she asks the taxi driver he tells her that Zhou Zhen already left and that he also paid for her taxi fare. Feeling guilty she tells taxi driver to head back so she can give him back the taxi fare.

Xiao Shu excitedly calls Jason outside of the hotel to tell him about her curfew extention only to be splashed with cold water of disappointment when he tells her that he still has work to do and that they’ll have to celebrate it tomorrow.

Xiao Shu is getting help from hotel staff to look for Zhou Zhen when she notices something and gasps……

Zhou Zhen goes to find his sister Zhou Ying Ying and finds that she has taken up the hotel swimming pool by herself. He gives out to her and tells her that she is limiting the customers’ rights to swim. (hmm….where have I heard that before?)She tells him that she doesn’t like to have other people beside her when she swims which triggers his memories and reminds him of what he said to Xiao Shu a.k.a ” I don’t like to have people beside me when I play baseball”. Haha…..they are so alike!!>.<

So what Xiao Shu saw is actually her boyfriend with another woman. She goes up to the hotel reception and asks the receptionist to inform Jason that he has left something. She then watches as the receptionist types the number and leaves for his room.( woah~ she is actually so smart!)

As Zhou Zhen gets out of the elevator he sees Xiao Shu so he follows her. He watches as Xiao Shu confronts Jason cheating on her. At first he denies it but then he admits cheating on her and the reason is because she is too old fashion ( in terms of love). He rants on about how she would only hold his hand and not kiss and that he is looking for the type of girl he can hug and have warmth with. Xiao Shu just stands there crying while Zhou Zhen is growing angry.

Zhou Zhen’s anger erupts when Jason pushes Xiao Shu onto the floor and he gives Jason a hard punch across the face. Jason tries to fight back but Zhou Zhen locks his arm with just one move. He then takes the bat before leaving

Zhou Zhen follows Xiao Shu to outside and finds her sitting at the steps, sobbing. He hands her the bat and she cries even louder. He tells her that it’s just a waste of energy and tears if the other person doesn’t love you because to them your tears and pleading is just hateful things they can’t stand.

Xiao Shu sees a couple fighting in a distance. She pretends to be the girl and fills in what she think she is saying and Zhou Zhen replys as the guy:

Xiao Shu: You’ve crossed the line! How can you do this to me? I hate you! I hate you!

Zhou Zhen: You hate me……..because you like me alot.

Xiao Shu: Then why did you betray me? Did I force you to chase me? When we first started dating you knew I was a old fashion girl. I never changed . I’m still me.

Zhou Zhen: You can yell at me, you can hit me, I still won’t let go. If you hate me for pestering you then hate me for it. ’m not scared of you looking down on me and I don’t need any dignity…as long as you are willing to still be with me. Please don’t break up with me. Please.”

Xiao Shu realises that the reason he understands as well is because he is suffering from a break up too. The couple they were watching is now making up and Xiao Shu wonders if they can both love another person again. He tells her he doesn’t know.

Zhou Zhen sends her off in a taxi. Xiao Shu remembers the reason she came to the hotel and asks Zhou Zhen if he is free later.

So they arrive at the restaurant Xiao Shu booked for her ex-boyfriends birthday in order to repay Zhou Zhen’s taxi fare and to celebrate his birthday. It seems like she found out his birthday when she was asked to sign for the bat.

Things get awkward when the birthday cake is being brought out and Xiao Shu totally forgot that the cake is decorated with a cartoon version of Jason’s face and his name on chocolate plate. Haha…this is hilarious XP especially when the music stops and the shot zooms on the cake…lol.

She awkwardly apologies and hurries the waiter the take it back but Zhou Zhen tells him to keep it. Then he takes out a knife and stabs the cake.She follows his lead and stabs it a few more times with a fork. After “Jason’s” face is completely destroyed, Zhou Zhen blows out most of the candles and Xiao Shu blows out the others while giggling.

Xiao Shu wants to drink but Zhou Zhen doesn’t think a curfew person likes her can drink. She tells him that is because her dad used to be a policeman so he is more strict but claimed to be the champion of Wine Kingdom.

Xiao Shu is drunk on a glass of wine and is staggering on the street. She lead Zhou Zhen to Jason’s house and tells him it’s the douchebag’s house. He tells her to go home but she insists on getting revenge………..by trying to burst the car’s tire with a twig?

Zhou Zhen coolly bents down and takes off the air cap and releases the air. Xiao Shu laughs like an idiot excitedly and high fives Zhou Zhen before passing out.

Zhou Zhen ends up carrying Xiao Shu and all her stuff and drops her bag once walking. He tries to get her address but to no avail so he ends up bringing her to a hotel.

In the hotel room Zhou Zhen drops her onto the bed and notices the bruises she got in the competition. Xiao Shu sobs in her sleep while Zhou Zhen takes off her shoes and puts blanket on her.

Zhou Zhen goes to the washroom to wash his face and remember during the day when his girlfriend smashes the watch on the floor.

Suddenly, there is a knock on the door. It is the police checking for drug dealers, they wanted Zhou Zhen’s identification card. While looking for his identification card, the police notices Xiao Shu’s feet and asks for her identification card as well. Zhou Zhen tells them that she is his friend but is stuck when they asks for her name.

The police goes in and tries to wake her up but she just mutters “Don’t touch me, let me go” which gets the police to suspect him drugging her. He denies it but the police doesn’t believe him and wants him to go to the police station.