London School of Economics and Political Science

The Fulbright London School of Economics and Political Science Award covers the first year of any master's degree programme offered by the university.

The London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) is the world’s leading dedicated social science institution. Founded in 1895, the School enjoys a global reputation for academic and research excellence.

LSE offers over 140 taught master’s programmes in a wide range of social science subjects; from international development and economics, human rights and gender, to finance, law and media and communications.

LSE staff undertake research into issues affecting society today, and their research expertise is recognised around the world. LSE’s position as a world-leading research university was confirmed by the most recent Research Excellence Framework (REF), with the School topping or coming close to the top of a number of rankings for research excellence.

LSE alumni and former staff include 18 Nobel Prize winners in economics, peace or literature, and 37 past or present Heads of State.

Master's programs in the UK may last up to 1 year (and in rare circumstances, 2 years). Unless otherwise stated, funding is provided for the first year of the degree - although the grant period is 10 months, tuition waivers cover the entire first year and student visas are not impacted by grant length.

Stipend amounts are set and do not change based on length of the degree.

Step into Fulbright in the United Kingdom—a vibrant exchange opportunity that has weaved strong bonds between the UK and the US since 1948. From the buzzing energy of large metropolitan cities to the charm of quaint towns, daily life as a Fulbright Postgraduate to the United Kingdom offers a wide array of experiences. Our awards unfold across the UK's diverse landscapes throughout England, Northern Ireland, Scotland, and Wales.

Navigating the country is made easy with efficient public transportation networks, allowing scholars to explore cities, countryside, and coastlines. Throughout the year, grantees engage in cultural events and festivals, immersing themselves in the arts, music, and local traditions. To name a few opportunities, previous Fulbrighters have participated in Highland games, organised writing workshops in picturesque locations, and visited National Trust properties across the UK.

With over 160 universities, the UK is home to innovative and globally significant research and teaching projects spanning all disciplines and sectors. Fulbright awards are offered across all 4 nations and the British Virgin Islands, with a range of all disciplines awards and subject-specific awards.

Candidates interested in applying for an award in the United Kingdom are advised to visit the US-UK Fulbright Commission's website for more information on the awards offered by the Commission and to hear from our alumni community.

Explore firsthand accounts from US Postgraduates like Asael Rodriguez, who engaged with his host community of Canterbury through volunteering opportunities, and Katelyn Barnes and Paul Kyumin Lee, who deepened their work in peacebuilding and conflict resolution while researching in Belfast.

Hear about Fulbright experiences from Cesar Cortorreal, 2022-23 Postgraduate Awardee here:

Applicants may also wish to consult Universities UK, Universities Scotland, Universities Wales, and UK Research and Innovation for more information about higher education in the UK.

Applicants may contact the US-UK Fulbright Commission with any queries by emailing fulbrightprogrammes@fulbright.org.uk

Applicants are responsible for arranging their own affiliation and must apply for admission according to the relevant university’s admissions procedures. Applicants are not expected to have a letter of admission/affiliation at time of application, but awards are made conditional upon acceptance by the chosen institution before arrival. Applicants for Ph.D. programs should include a letter of support from their proposed supervisor.

Applicants will complete two applications, the Fulbright application and the university’s application (according to the university’s admissions procedures). Applicants must submit their university applications as early as possible, ideally before January 13, 2025. Applicants who fail to do so may be at a competitive disadvantage. The Fulbright Program does not cover the application fee for the university.