Category: American Folklife Center

Results: 1 - 9 of 75

Folklorist Sidney Robertson and Her “California Gold”

July 8, 2024

Posted by: Neely Tucker

The folklorist Sidney Robertson was one of the trailblazing American women of the 1930s and 1940s, the kind of life you’d associate with Martha Gellhorn, Dorothea Lange or Zora Neale Hurston. Her work directing the California Folk Music Project from 1938-40 is the subject "California Gold," a new book from the Library and the University of California Press.

Posted in: American Folklife Center, Collections, Library Work and Employees, Lomax Collection, Music, Performing Arts, Preservation and Conservation, Women's History, Writers

Treasures Gallery: The AIDS Quilt

June 10, 2024

Posted by: Neely Tucker

The AIDS Memorial Quilt is often regarded as the largest folk art project ever created and the Library’s American Folklife Center has held the quilt’s archival collections since 2019. Parts of it are on display at the initial exhibit of the Library's Treasures Gallery, opening in June.

Posted in: American Folklife Center, LCM, LGBTQ

Researcher Story: Cormac Ó hAodha & the Heart of Irish Music

April 24, 2024

Posted by: Wendi Maloney

Cormac Ó hAodha, a resident fellow in the John W. Kluge Center, is taking a deep dive into the Library's Alan Lomax Collection. Lomax, a major figure in 20th-century folklore and ethnomusicology, made field recordings in the Múscraí region of County Cork, Ireland, in the early 1950s. Ó hAodha is using those recordings as part of his Ph. D studies at the University College Cork into the history of the Múscraí song tradition.

Posted in: American Folklife Center, Gazette, Kluge Center, Library Work and Employees, Lomax Collection, Music, Performing Arts, Preservation, Researcher Stories

“Language is Life” and Native American Historical Voices

April 2, 2024

Posted by: Wendi Maloney

The Library and three Native American tribes are collaborating on a project to digitize and restore some 9,000 wax cylinder recordings of Native Americans singing and telling stories from more than a century ago. The work is the subject of "Language is Life," a documentary narrated by Joy Harjo, the former U.S. poet laureate. It premiered at the Library in November in advance of its broadcast as part of the PBS series, “Native America.”

Posted in: American Folklife Center, LCM, Library Work and Employees, National Audio-Visual Conservation Center, Native Americans, Technology, U.S. Poet Laureate

The Library Wants Your COVID-19 Stories!

January 25, 2024

Posted by: Maria Peña

he Library, in collaboration with the nonprofit organization StoryCorps, has launched the COVID-19 Archive Activation website to encourage everyone share their COVID-19 stories. Stories will be deposited into the American Folklife Center and made accessible at archive.StoryCorps.org. The new website is part of the COVID-19 American History Project — a congressionally mandated initiative to document and archive Americans’ experiences with the pandemic.

Posted in: American Folklife Center, COVID-19, Gazette, Influeza/Covid-19, Library Work and Employees

World War II’s Navajo Code Talkers, In Their Own Words

November 10, 2023

Posted by: Neely Tucker

Some of the U.S. military's best intelligence assets during both World Wars were Native American troops who used their own, unwritten languages as the basis for coded radio messages. These Code Talkers, particularly Navajo Marines, were invaluable in the Pacific theater of World War II. Twenty-nine Navajo Code Talkers were later awarded the Congressional Gold Medal. Many of these soldiers' personal stories are preserved in the LIbrary's Veterans History Project.

Posted in: American Folklife Center, LCM, Native Americans, Veterans History Project, World War II

World War II’s “Rumor Control” Project

November 2, 2021

Posted by: Neely Tucker

In World War II, the U.S. government enlisted American citizens to report what their neighbors, coworkers and classmates were saying about the war in a controversial "rumor control" project.

Posted in: American Folklife Center, World War II

Season Two of “America Works” Podcast Launched

April 16, 2021

Posted by: John Sayers

The American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress continues to bring voices of workers throughout the country to listeners with the second season of our “America Works” podcast.

Posted in: American Folklife Center

Free to Use and Reuse: Fun and Games

December 21, 2020

Posted by: Neely Tucker

The Library's Free to Use and Reuse sets of copyright-free images from our vast collections of prints and photographs are endlessly entertaining, so why not check out the collection of Games for Fun and Relaxation?

Posted in: American Folklife Center, Free to Use and Reuse, Photos