July 11th, 2018

This summer we’re continuing to bring new services into Azure Government to support the innovation happening in the public sector. We would like to announce the following new services, with more coming soon:

Azure Media Services is now generally available in Azure Government. Media Services makes it easy to use high-definition video encoding and streaming services to reach your audiences on today’s most popular devices. Media Services also enables you to extract richer metadata and improve accessibility, distribution, and scalability —all while protecting your content

Media Services is based on REST APIs that enable you to securely upload, store, encode, and package video or example, encode using a third-party encoder. Then you can upload, protect, package, and deliver audio content for both on-demand and live streaming delivery to various clients (for example, TV, PC, and mobile devices)

You can build end-to-end workflows using entirely Media Services, and you can also choose to use third-party components for some parts of your workflow.

Azure Batch AI Service is now in preview in Azure Government. With Batch AI, you can easily experiment and train your deep learning and machine learning models in parallel at scale, using GPUs in Azure. There’s no additional charge for using Batch AI in preview beyond the underlying compute and other resources consumed. The preview of Batch AI supports both standard and low priority virtual machines. Only Linux virtual machines in the East US region are supported in the preview.

Focus on your workload, not your infrastructure by leaving resource provisioning and management to Batch AI. Save time by running experiments in parallel and reduce costs with automatic scaling and access to low priority virtual machines for learning and experimentation

Azure Cosmos DB is coming to the DoD IL5 East region. Easily build globally-distributed applications without the hassle of complex, multiple-datacenter configurations. Cosmos DB automatically replicates all of your data to any number of regions of your choice, for fast, responsive access. Azure Cosmos DB supports transparent multi-homing and guarantees 99.99% high availability.

New marketplace partners!

We’d also like to welcome these new partners to the Azure Government Marketplace:

ATLGaming

CGI Technologies and Solutions Inc.

Futurez Consulting, LLC

Globalscape, Inc.

mindSHIFT Technologies, Inc.

Norseman, Inc

NuSoft Solutions (Atrio Systems, Inc.)

PCM

Redhorse Corporation

Phacil Inc

Synergy Technical, LLC

TechFlow

Universal EVoIP Transitions

VertoSoft

VisioLogix Corporation