* Indirect election by parliament

At stake in this election:

The 15 seats in Bosnia and Herzegovina’s National House of Peoples.

Description of government structure:

Chief of State: Chairman of the Presidency Bakir IZETBEGOVIC (Bosnian)*

Head of Government: Chairman of the Council of Ministers Denis ZVIZDIĆ

Assembly: Bosnia and Herzegovina has a bicameral Parliamentary Assembly (Skupstina) consisting of the House of Peoples (Dom Naroda) with 15 seats and the National House of Representatives (Predstavnicki Dom) with 42 seats.

* Bosnia has a three-member (one Bosnian, one Croatian, and one Serbian) rotating presidency that changes every 8 months. Each member is separately elected by plurality vote. This is done via separate lists, with each voter in Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina choosing either a Bosnian, a Croatian, or a Serbian candidate. Republika Srpska has its own president.

Description of electoral system:

The Chairman of the Presidency is elected by plurality vote to serve a 4-year term. All members of the presidency serve 4 year terms.

Chairman of the Council of Ministers is appointed by the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the approval of the parliament.

In the In the House of Peoples (Dom Naroda) 15 members are indirectly elected by parliament to serve 4-year terms.*

In the National House of Representatives (Predstavnicki Dom) 42 members are elected through an open-list proportional representation system to serve 4-year terms.**

* The seats are made up of 5 Bosnians, 5 Croats, and 5 Serbs. Members are elected by the Bosniak/Croat Federation House of Representatives and the Republika Srpska National Assembly.

** 28 seats are allocated from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBiH) and 14 seats from the Republika Srpska (RS). In the FBiH, 21 of the 28 deputies are elected in five multi-member constituencies. The remaining seven are elected from political party compensatory lists. In the RS, 9 of the 14 deputies are elected in three multi-member constituencies, with the remaining five elected from political party compensatory lists. There is a 3 percent threshold for entering parliament. Bosnia and Herzegovina utilizes a "zipper" style gender quota, which means that members of the "minority gender" must be equally spaced out in the party list. Parties must allocate approximately one-third of their seats to the "minority gender." Pure Seats are allocated using the pure Sainte-Lague method.

Population and number of registered voters:

Population: 3,503,554 (2018 est.)

Registered Voters: 3,352,933 (2018)

Gender Data:

Female Population: 1,783,152 (2018 est.)

Is Bosnia and Herzegovina a signatory to CEDAW: Yes (the former Yugoslavia signed the treaty in July 1980)

Has Bosnia and Herzegovina ratified CEDAW: Yes (1 September 1993)

Gender Quota: Yes (In the House of Assembly)

Female Candidates in this election:

Number of Female Legislators: 9 (House of Assembly); 2 (Parliamentary Assembly)

Human Development Index (HDI) Position: 81 (2016)

Social Institutions and Gender Index (SIGI) Ranking: Very Low (2014)

Disability Data: