Tudástár

Wikipedia (angol)

Snitt

>

Sebastian Junger: The Perfect Storm · Sebastian Junger: War

Background

Junger graduated from Concord Academy in 1980 and received a bachelor of arts degree from Wesleyan University in cultural anthropology in 1984.

Career

Junger began working as a freelance writer, often trying to publish articles on topics that interested him. He often took other jobs for temporary periods of time to support himself. Researching dangerous occupations as a topic, he became deeply engaged in learning about commercial fishing and its hazards.

Ernest Hemingway

Sebastian Junger: The Perfect Storm

Tim Hetherington

Sebastian Junger: War

Sebastian Junger: Tribe

Sebastian Junger: Freedom

Personal life

Between at least 2011 and 2014, Junger was married to writer Daniela Petrova.

His first daughter was born in 2016 when he was age 55. He is married and lives with wife and 2 children in Cape Cod. He co-owned a bar in New York called The Half-King. He is an atheist.

Notable work

Sebastian Junger: The Perfect Storm

In 2000, the book was adapted by Warner Brothers as a film of the same name, starring George Clooney and Mark Wahlberg.

Sebastian Junger: The Perfect Storm

Junger established The Perfect Storm Foundation to provide cultural and educational grants to children across the country whose parents make their living in the commercial fishing industry.

Junger suggests that Smith's conviction for Goldberg's death was influenced by racism. The prosecution called witnesses who remembered seeing Smith chiefly because he was a black man walking in a predominately white neighborhood. (Eyewitness testimony has been shown to be notoriously flawed.) Smith had cleaned Goldberg's house the day she was attacked and left a receipt (for his work) with his name on her kitchen counter. No physical evidence, such as bruises or blood, linked Smith to the crime. In 1976, he was granted commutation of his life sentence. Before he gained release, Smith died of lung cancer.

Alan Dershowitz

Tim Hetherington

Sebastian Junger: War

Sebastian Junger: Tribe

Recognition

In 2015, Junger received the International Press Academy’s Humanitarian Award.

External links

Sebastian Junger: War