Full Name: Yekaterina Alexeevna

Profession: Empress of Russia

Biography: Catherine the Great is known for greatly expanding and modernizing Russia during her reign as Empress from 1762 to 1796. She is the longest leading female ruler of Russia, with her reign often considered to be Russia's golden age.

Catherine was born in 1729 in Prussia as Sophie Augusta Frederica. In 1745 she married Peter III, the heir to the Russian throne with whom she had an unhappy marriage, and took the name Catherine.

In 1762, Catherine took power from her husband in a coup with help from her supporters. As empress, she worked to bring Enlightenment ideas and culture to Russia. She built new cities, universities and theaters. Catherine also expanded Russia's territory through both conquest and diplomacy, taking over lands like Crimea and parts of Poland.

Catherine did not end the serfdom system, however, which continued to keep many Russians as slaves and led to rebellions during her rule. Her relationships with many noble favorites and lovers also caused scandals.

Born: April 21, 1729

Birthplace: Stettin, Kingdom of Prussia

Star Sign: Taurus

Died: November 6, 1796 (aged 67)

Cause of Death: Stroke

Articles and Photos

Catherine the Great Builds a New Russia

Catherine the Great, who died on this day, dragged Russia into the modern era while leading a life filled with political drama, sexual intrigue – and murder.

Tsar Goes a Step Too Far

For over 300 years Russia’s famous Romanov family possessed fabulous wealth and power, but it wasn’t enough to keep them out of reach of assassins.

Historical Events

Russian Tsarina Catherine II seizes power, declaring herself sovereign ruler of Russia

Empress Catherine II becomes Tsarina of Russia following the murder of Tsar Peter III

Catherine II of Russia endorses Ivan Betskoy's plans for a Foundling Home in Moscow

Catherine the Great Empress of Russia, ends tax on men with beards, enacted by Tsar Peter the Great in 1698

Catherine II of Russia annexes the Crimea

Catherine II of Russia confers on the nobility the "Charter to the Nobility", increasing further the power of the landed oligarchs

Russian Empress Catherine II (Catherine the Great) grants Jews permission to settle in Kiev

The Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg first opens to the public with Catherine the Great's collection of 4,000 paintings forming its core collection

Personal Life

Future Russian Tsar Peter III marries Ekaterina Alexeievna later Catherine II (Catherine the Great)

Russian Tsar Peter III divorces his wife Catherine II

Famous Queens