U.S.S. Dennis

D.E. 405

Log Book

Historic Summary

Diary of Edward Cafferty

F1C – USNR

1944-1946

Note –

Notes from the ships log of U.S.S. Dennis are written in blue

Notes from the diary of Edward Cafferty F-1C are written in green

20th March 1944

Ship Commissioned at Houston, Texas

20th March – 7th April 1944

Fitting out at Houston & Galveston, Texas

7th – 13th April 1944

Enroute to shakedown area Bermuda, BWI

13th April – 10th May 1944

Shakedown training Bermuda area

10th – 12th May 1944

Enroute Bermuda to Boston, Mass.

12th – 20th May 1944

Post shakedown availability at Navy Yard, Boston, Mass.

29th May 1944

Passage through Panama Canal

30th May – 6th June 1944

Enroute Balboa Canal Zone to San Diego, Calif.

6th – 13th June 1944

Availability for voyage & other repairs at destroyer base San Diego

14th June 1944

I was sworn in – USNR

17th June 1944

My 18th birthday

19th – 23rd June 1944

Final exams 4th year High School of Commerce

N.Y.C (History exam. Fri. 6/23/44 9 a.m. to 12 noon)

23rd June 1944

Left home for active duty (8 p.m.)

13th – 19th June 1944

Enroute to Pearl Harbor, Hawaii to Eniwetok,

Marshall Islands as screen commander for

Convoy #4219A. The trip was made by way of

Majuro & Kwajelein and ships were detached

from convoy at both of these ports.

24th June – 5th Sept. 1944

Boot Camp – Samson N.Y.

5th – 12th Sept. 1944

On leave at home

4th – 5th July 1944

Enroute Eniwetok to Kwajelein proceeding independently

5th – 13th July 1944

Enroute Kwajelein to Pearl Harbor as part of

Escort for Convoy Kwajelein Pearl #1

13th – 22nd July 1944

Availability & voyage repairs at Pearl Harbor

22nd – 29th July 1944

Enroute Pearl Harbor to Kniwetok as escort to

U.S.S. Belleau Wood CVL -24

29th July – 2nd Aug. 1944

Enroute Eniwetok to a rendezvous position

east of Guam, as escort for U.S.S. Belleau Wood CVL-24

1st August 1944

Recovered 3 man crew of crashed Belleau Wood plane

2nd – 4th August 1944

Enroute from rendezvous point to Eniwetok

4th – 9th August 1944

Repair & upkeep at Eniwetok

9th – 13th August 1944

Enroute from Eniwetok to Manus Island,

Admiralty Islands to commander of screen

12th – 21st Sept. 1944

OGU (Outgoing Unit) Samson, N.Y.

22nd Sept. 1944

Arrived Great Lakes Naval Training Center, Ill.

25th Sept. – 9th Nov. 1944

Attended Basis Engineering School. Weekend

liberty in Chicago, Ill. and Milwaukee, Wisc.

For Carrier Division #22

10th Sept. – 1st Oct. 1944

At sea as part of escort screen for Task Group

77.1 which acted as the support air group for

the invasion of Morotai Island. During this

operation, (the only one in which Escort

Division 63 acted as a unit with Com. Cort Div.

63 as screen commander) no direct enemy

contact was made by this ship, although

several unidentified aircraft were reported

near the formation. No attach was made on

the formation during the time this ship was in

formation. After the ship had been detached

to return to the Admiralty Islands, the U.S.S.

Shelton – DE 407 (one of our sister ships) was

torpedoed & sunk by an enemy submarine.

1st – 12th October 1944

Upkeep & repair at Seeadler Harbor.

12th – 25th October 1944

At sea as part of escort screen for Task Unit

77.4.3, Northern Air Support Group covering

the landings on Leyte Island, Philippines on

October 20th 1944. This ship was attached to

Task Unit 77.4.34, which furnished air support

for the Northern Transport Group enroute to

the objective area. On 20th Oct. 1944 Task Unit

77.4.34 was dissolved and the ships in the unit

joined Task Unit 77.4.3. No enemy contact

was made by the ships of this unit until 0650

item on 25th Oct 1944, when an enemy task

force was sighted 15 miles from the unit,

between our ships & Samar Island. As the

faster enemy task group composed of 4

battleships, 8 cruisers & 12 destroyers closed

our formation destroyers & destroyer escorts

of our screen interposed to the westward

between the enemy & our own carriers. This

ship opened fire on the enemy formation at

0740 & continued fire throughout the

engagement with main batteries. A torpedo

attack was made on an enemy cruiser, firing 3

torpedoes at a range of 8000 yards. On

completion of the torpedo run, this ship was

ordered to lay a smoke screen between the

carriers & the enemy. While interposing

between our carrier group & the enemy

cruiser, this ship was hit 4 times, 3 direct hits

from 6 or 8 inch enemy guns firing armor

piercing shells & one hit from shrapnel. All

damage was brought under control & when

the enemy retired to the north, this ship

rejoined the carrier group. When the U.S.S.

Saint-Lo CVE 63 was hit & subsequently sunk,

this ship effected the rescue of 434 survivors

from the sunken carrier. The personnel losses

suffered were 5 men killed in action & 12 men

wounded in action. The Commanding Officer

Lt. Comm. Hansen was awarded the Navy

Cross for his heroism during the engagement.

While enroute to Kossol Passage, our 5 dead

and one of the rescued survivors, which died

overnight, were buried at sea. Shortly after

the burial ceremonies were complete,

torpedoes were sighted coming in our direction,

and a rapid port turn saved this ship from total

disaster as two torpedoes traveled alongside

on starboard, within 50 feet of this ship.

25th – 27th October 1944

Enroute to Kossol Passage where survivors A&

hospital cases were discharged. Passed

through enemy mine field enroute.

27th – 31st Oct. 1944

Anchored in Kossol Passage. Upkeep & repairs.

10th – 13th Nov. 1944

66 hrs. liberty

21st Nov. 1944

On draft (as fireman 2nd class)

31st Oct. – 3rd Nov 1944

Enroute to Manus Is. Admiralty Islands.

3rd – 7th November 1944

Upkeep & repairs – Manus Island.

7th – 18th November 1944

Enroute Manus Island to Pearl Harbor, T.H. as

part of screen for CAR-Div 25.

22nd – 25th Nov. 1944

On troop train enroute Chicago, Ill. to

Shoemaker Calif. On train for Thanksgiving

day. Waiter said “1st turkey dinner is on Uncle

Sam. If you want a 2nd one you’ll have to pay

for it.” 3 of us had 2 dinners.

27th November 1944

I passed physical for overseas duty.

20th – 26th November 1944

Enroute Pearl Harbor, T.H. to San Francisco,

Calif., as escort for merchant ship.

26th Nov. – 22 Dec. 1944

Availability & repair San Francisco, Calif.

1st December 1944

I boarded the U.S.S. Dennis – DE 405 at

Alameda Shipyard, Alameda, Calif. Welding

going on all over the ship repairing damage

from sea battle. Crew very nervous. Talked

about the battle. I was assigned a battle

station on gun 42 as second loader. Gun 42

was being changed from twin 40 mm to quad

40 mm. I found that the man I replaced was a

colored fireman who was killed in the sea

battle. He was decapitated by shrapnel. While

the ship was in the U.S.A. 23 of the crew went

(AWOL) over the hill.

12th December 1944

Left Alameda for Mare Is. – Loaded Ammo. –

Then to Treasure Island.

1st – 22nd December 1944

While in California had liberty in Oakland and

San Francisco. George “Red” Geisen from

Buffalo, N.Y. & Al “Cisco” Cofrancisco from

Deep River, Conn. & I went through Great

Lakes Basic Engineering School together. We

came west on the same troop train to

Shoemaker, California. From there we were

assigned to the U.S.S. Dennis, Red to the

forward fireroom, me to the aft fireroom &

Cisco to the aft engine room. We went on

liberty together to San Francisco, & we bought

a pint of what the sailors called Chinese

whiskey – chen-lee. I drank my 1/3 of the

bottle in one gulp. That was my first taste of

whiskey. You might say we took Cisco to

Frisco to sow some wild oats before we went to war.

21st December 1944

Last day in the states before going overseas.

Order of the day – no one is to leave the ship.

Don’t set foot on the dock. Marine guards on

the dock with submachine guns to enforce the

order. Movie on the fan tail that night.

22nd – 28th December 1944

Enroute San Francisco, Calif. To Pearl Harbor,

T.H. Steaming independently. I was seasick all

the way. (It started shortly after we lost sight

of Golden Gate Bridge over the horizon)

25th December 1944

Christmas at sea. Captain Hansen awarded

purple heart medals to the men who were

wounded in previous engagement with the enemy.

1st January 1945

My 1st liberty in Hawaii – Honalulu & Wikiki.

Dec. 1944 – March 1945

I was assigned to the mess hall.

28th Dec. 1944 – 12th Jan. 1945

Upkeep & training at Pearl Harbor, T.H.

12th January 1945

Left Pearl Harbor

12th – 18th Jan. 1945

At sea conducting rehearsal exercises with

Task Force 51 as part of screen of Transport

Group Able. I was seasick this week too.

13th January 1945

Arrived off Molokai Hawaiian Is. Patrolled off

coast for mock invasion.

17th January 1945

Left Molokai with convoy

18th January 945

Arrived beach at Oahu

18th – 24th January 1945

Upkeep & training at Pearl Harbor, T.H.

24th January 1945

Left Hawaii with convoy. The sea was calm & I

didn’t get seasick. I must have found my sea

legs – I wasn’t seasick anymore after this.

30th January 1945

Crossed International Date Line. 180o

longitude. Initiated

6th February 1945

Arrived Eniwetok Marshall Islands. Low sandy

islands with few palm trees. Most palm trees

were shot off at the trunk. When we came

into the Marshall Islands, I saw more ships

than I ever saw before. There was every type

of ship here. They were anchored as far as you

could see (to the horizon) in every direction as

we sailed through them for 20 minutes to our

anchorage. There must have been hundreds of

ships here.

24th Jan. – 20th Feb 1945

At sea with Task Group 51.5 enroute from

Pearl Harbor, T.H. to Iwo Jima. Stops at

Eniwetok & Guam, enroute for fueling &

provisions. The commanding officer

(Commander Hansen) of this ship served as

commander of screen during this operation.

9th – 13th February 1945

Enroute from Eniwetok to Guam. On this trip I

was talking to Mr. Tuck one day as we stood at

the ships rail looking out at the sea. I asked

him if he know where we were going. He said

“we’re going to invade a place called Iwo

Jima”. That was the first time I has ever heard

of the place.

13th – 16th February 1945

Anchored at Guam. A pretty island with

mountains. Went ashore here on loading

details & beer party

16th – 20th February 1945

Left Guam with LST Convoy with marines for

invasion of Iwo Jima. Slow convoy.

Since leaving the states we had tests of G.Q.

(general quarters) alarm every sunrise &

sunset and another test once or twice a day,

with verbal orders over the P.A. system

announcing “testing general alarm – man you

battle stations”. Then the alarm would be

sounded. On the evening of the 18th of Feb. I

was washing mess trays from evening chow, in

the scullery with John Glenn when the G.Q.

alarm went off. We looked at each other for a

split second then I said “They didn’t announce

that they were testing.” I leaped over the split

door with a stack of mess trays on the ledge &

made it to Gun 42 in record time. It’s amazing

how fast you can move when your scared.

Boogies (unidentified aircraft) in vicinity – no

enemy contact – secured from G.Q. – this was

the first of many calls to G.Q. most of which

are forgotten but I’ll always remember the first one.

18th February 1945

Sighted enemy mine. Sank same with small arms fire & 20 mm.

19th February 1945

D-Day – Iwo Jima

20th February 1945

D-Day + 1. At G.Q. this morning, we saw a

volcano island. It rose out of the sea to a

height of a few thousand feet. We are in the

Volcano Islands. This group consists of 3

islands: Iwo Jima the largest, 8 square miles,

highest elevation Mt. Surabachi 546 ft.

Minami the southernmost island has an

elevation of 3021 ft. (this was the island that

we saw that morning). The 3rd & northern

most island is Kita with elevation of 2520 ft.

We arrived at Iwo Jima this date. It’s 70 miles from Tokyo.

Observed shelling of Island. The sky was

heavily overcast all the time we were here.

Everything seemed colorless & gray. I thought

as I watched the island & all the ships this is

just the way it would look in the newsreels in

the movies back home – black, gray & shades of gray.

20th Feb. – 1st March 1945

At sea as part of screen covering the Iwo Jima

operation (Task Group 51.2). During this

period, this ship observed considerable anti-

aircraft firing, but didn’t take any enemy

aircraft under fire. This ship also took part in

hunter killer operations against enemy

submarines with other escorts.

21st February 1945

While I was off duty I was hanging around by

my battle station. This was common practice.

If they came over you didn’t have far to run.

While looking through the lookouts binoculars

at the beach I saw a group of our planes dive

bombing a Jap position. They went in singly

one after the other. I could see the Jap anti

aircraft fire all around them. The third plane in

got hit before he pulled out of his dive & he

went straight down and exploded. I handed

the binoculars back to the lookout and went below.

22nd February 1945

Air raid

23rd February 1945

Went up to hospital. Ship relief, to transfer

gunnersmate who was injured at G.Q. – his

foot was caught in 5” gun mount. Saw the

marines on the beach using flame throwers on

Japs in the caves. That morning I was off duty

& at Fun 42 when the captain announced over

the P.A. system that the U.S. Marines had

raised our flag on top of Mt. Surabachi at 10:38

that morning. We were off the end of the

island on Mt. Surabachi side about 2 miles out.

I looked through the binoculars & could see

our flag clearly.

23rd and 24th Feb. 1945

Air raids

1st March 1945

Detached from Task Group 51.2 & reported to

Task Group 52.2, for duty in escort carrier screen.

1st March 1945

Left our patrol position to escort carriers about 30 miles out.

1 to 9 March 1945

Operating in screen for escort carrier group launching strikes on Iwo Jima.

2nd March 1945

At 0400 called to G.Q. when I got out on deck it

was pitch black. The sky was heavily overcast

& there was no light from the moon or stars. I

groped for the ladder to the torpedo deck

bumping into a couple of men in the dark.

Once at my station I put my hand up close to

my face & moved it around. I couldn’t see it.

It was so dark it didn’t make any difference if

you had your eyes opened or closed, you

couldn’t see anything anyway. In spite of the

dark, everyone was at his station within a

couple of minutes. This is a good crew. As I

stood at my station there was a sudden

explosion & flash of light on the main deck

below us. Someone said “we’re hit”.

A minute later we felt the friendly vibrations of

depth charge going off. What we saw & heard

was the K guns below firing depth charges at a

sub. We never will know if we hit him or not.

3rd March 1945

While on patrol saw object in the water.

Moved in to investigate. The air was filled

with a sickening smell. It was a body in a life

jacket. We caught it with a grappling hock

from the bow and pulled it up to the deck. It

was the torso in the jacket – no head, no arms

or legs. The executive officer shouted up at

the Captain on the bridge “It has Japanese

writing on it”. The Captain said “Throw that

thing back in and let’s get out of here.” I

watched it float past and wondered, as I guess

the rest of us did, if I might wind up like that

one of these days. As we picked up speed and

moved away from area we were glad to get a breath of fresh air.

9 to 11 March 1945

Enroute to Ulithi Harbor, Western Carolines.

11th March 1945

Nearing the western Caroline Islands. It was

morning and the sea was like a green sheet of

glass. It was that calm and that color. We

sighted a bright colored object on the horizon

as we went towards it, the only ripple on the

water was from our wake. We pulled up

alongside the object that we now saw was a

huge life raft. It was riddled with holes &

submerged except for a foot or two that had

an air pocket and held it afloat. This bubble is

what we first sw. I stood at the rail above the

life raft as we came up to it and stopped. Dow

in the green clear water circling the raft was a

huge white shark. He had to be 20 foot long or

bigger. I figure that’s how long the raft was &

he was just as big. As we lay still in the water

you couldn’t help but get a little nervous –

we’re a sitting duck for a sub right now. Our

sister ship, the U.S.S. Shelton DE407, was

torpedoed by a Jap submarine under less

favorable circumstances (for the sub) and we

see below us in the water what is waiting if we

should be sunk. I looked at the holes in the

raft and wondered about the men we didn’t

save. The Islands of Yap and Truk are in this

group and are still held by the Japanese. If we

have any air raids while in Ulithi the enemy

plans will be coming from them. We were at a

dead stop for 2 or 3 minutes. We started off

slowly and the show wasn’t over yet. As we

moved out a school of large fish, each one

about 3 foot long, started passing under our

ship. They were racing. They kept coming for

about 5 minutes. There were thousands of

them. As the end of the school approached we

could see why they were in a hurry. There

were 8 or 10 sharks each about 5 foot long

chasing the school.

11th March 1945

Arrived Ulithi, in the western Carolines. A

pretty group of tropical island in a green sea,

about 9o above the equator.

11th to 20th March 1945

Carrying out logistics & upkeep, Ulithi.

While at Ulithi we had a couple of beer parties

on Mog Mog Island. You get two or three cans

of beer which go down pretty quick in this

heat. A lot of heavy gambling goes on. It’s

nice to set foot on dry land again but after a

few hours in the heat it’s good to be going

back out to the ship where there’s a breeze.

On one trip ashore I took a long walk on the

beach away from everyone. I saw a native

fisherman in an outrigger. We waved to each

other. I walked further & came across a

wrecked landing barge about 30 yards out. I

stripped down and swam out to it. It was nice

on the barge. Very peaceful. The water was

so clear I could see all kinds of fish & coral on

the bottom about 20 feet below. I had a nice

b.a. swim & got a very B-A-D sunburn.

While at Ulithi I saw the prettiest sunset I’ve

ever seen or hope to see again. The red ball of

fire going down into the sea of green splashed

the clouds with the colors of the rainbow.

18th March 1945

Sunday – went to church on Ulithi. The chapel

was a native type structure with a high grass

roof. The posts along the sides supported the

roof. There were no walls.

21st to 25th March 1945

At sea, enroute to Okinawa with Task Group

52.1 as part of escort carrier screen.

21st March 1945

Left Ulithi with carriers

25th March 1945

Arrived Okinawa. D-Day minus 7 days

At sea in assigned carrier strike area near

Okinawa, screen escort carriers of support air

group (Task 5.1.1) for invasion. Sank 2nd mine today.

Note

Julius Tueckhardt

A short stocky fellow in his late 20’s from Brooklyn, N.Y. He was a

little loud at times, but what a pair of eyes. Julie was a seaman and

did his watch on the bridge, as a lookout.

There was a story around the ship of a time a boogie (unidentified

aircraft) was reported 50 miles away. Old eagle eye Tueckhardt raised

his binoculars to his eyes and sounded off “I can see him”. We all got

a big laugh out of that. But we didn’t laugh the night he was on the

0400 to 0800 watch. There was a moderate sea with a moonlit sky.

He spotted a mine in the water dead ahead of us. We hung around

the area until daylight and sunk it with gunfire.

Thank you Julie and God bless you.

27th March 1945

Was called general quarters 5 times today. (If

this keeps up somebody’s liable to get hurt.)

28th March 1945

Finished my 3 months of mess hall duty.

Started standing watches in aft fire room. My

watch was made up of: falls 3C WT in charge;

Jenkins on evaps; Kornwiski on feedwater

throttle & Cafferty burnerman.

30th March 1945

Our radio picked up an observation plane over

Okinawa. He was directing the shelling by our

battlewagons off at sea. We were in the

mess hall having noon chow when they piped

this over the radio. Today is Good Friday, 3

days before D-Day.

31st March 1945

Detached & ordered to report to Task Unit 5.2.1.2.

Convoys arriving today.

1st April 1945

Easter Sunday – April Fool’s Day and D-Day on

Okinawa. A formation of flying forts flew over

our ship on the way to Okinawa. They were

miles high. We could just about see them. I

never saw planes fly so high before.

1st – 2nd April 1945

Enroute with U.S.S. Saginaw Bay (CVE-82) to

Kerama Retto for logistics. Shortly after arrival

all ships went to battle stations to repel enemy

air attack. At 0859, April 2, 1945, one enemy

aircraft which apparently was making a suicide

run on the Saginaw Bay, was after intense A.A.

fire by ships further out, observed to crash in

water about 50 feet from an LST anchored one

mile away from this ship.

1st – 2nd April 1945

Left southern part of Okinawa for Karama

Retto. (Secured March 26th 1945.) We call this

place ‘Suicide Bay’. A name well earned. For

the past week never a day went by without 30

or 40 jap suicide planes comer over. We were

tied up alongside a landing craft type

ammunition barge taking on ammo, when a

jap came over. I was assigned to the loading

part on the barge. When the G.Q. alarm

sounded we men on the barge were told to say

where we were. I look around. There was

nothing but shells & powder canisters. 5”

shells, 8” shells & I was standing on shells for

battelleships big guns that were bigger than I

was. The plane made a suicide run on our

carrier that was off our starboard side. He

must have overshot his mark because he flew

right over us, and went for an amphibious

ammunition ship on our port side. (I guess it

was an ammo ship – she was flying baker).

(Baker = red flag signal flag for letter B).

There was a lot AA fire & I was told he crashed

into the water near the LST on the other side

of us. We finished loading supplies & left to

join the other carriers the next morning.

Kerama Retto was an atoll type island with

high rocky sides and lots of vegetation. It had

a large lagoon and it provided an anchorage

for a large number of ships. Ships that were

damaged by suicide planes were towed in

here. I saw a large supply ship here that hit a

mine. It took some chunk off the bow.

Another time we saw a tin can that took a

kamakazi hit on the bridge. The deck was

wiped clean right back to the stack. It killed all

the officers except the engineering officer. He

brought the ship in with after steering. This

ship was the U.S.S. Hazelwood DD531. That

Warren Schmitt later served on in Korea in the

50s. (Warren was friend of ours who we met

when moved to Hastings.) Another time at

Kerama Retto, a jap swam out at night from

the island and climbed up the anchor chain of

one of our cruisers. He ran down the deck and

stabbed the O. D. (officer of the day) killing

him. He then dove into the water and swam

to shore. After that when we came in here

overnight, we had a shotgun watch on the bow

and on the fain tail. I took my turn at this watch.

3rd April 1945

Rejoined air support group. Sank floating

mine. Formation attacked by enemy planes,

two of which made suicide dives on U.S.S.

Wake Island (CVE-65) with resultant near miss

damage. During action, two flight deck

crewmen fell overboard in parked Wake Island

plane and were shortly thereafter picked up by

this vessel. This ship did not open fire on

enemy planes which were on foul bearing on

the other side of formation. Ordered to

proceed to Kerama Retto with U.S.S. Wake

Island for her emergency repairs.

While out with carriers, 4 jap planes came

over. Our planes got one. One was shot

down. The other two made unsuccessful

suicide dives on the Wake Island (the carrier

directly in front of us). One plane avoided by

making a sharp turn, but a bomb hit the water

close to the carrier causing her to rupture

below the water line. The sharp turn caused

planes on her deck to turn over and smashed

into each other. One plane fell over the side

with two men. Our ship, being closest, picked

up the 2 men. The second man to be picked up

was on some floating wreckage. At first he

appeared to Japanese. The first lieutenant

stood at the rail with a 45 automatic. We

thought the guy was one of the jap pilots that

crashed. He must have seen the gun and

hollered up “Hey – I’m an Indian – I’m more an

American than you are”. We picked him up.

4th April 1945

Rejoined escort carrier group.

Note: These T.U. consisted of 6 CVE (baby flat

tops) & 7 escort ships (D.E.& D.D.s)

7th April 1945

Left carrier group with 2 carriers and escort to

rendezvous with carriers joining Task Unit

52.1.2. Enemy plane intercepted by cap and

shot down close aboard friendly carrier 3 miles

off this formation.

While taking 2 CVEs to rendezvous point we

passed to CVLs. A jap plane (a betty) came

over and was downed by corsairs from the

other carriers. He hit the water with a terrific explosion.

8th April 1945

Rejoined carrier group. On returning from bombing the

beach, plane from our carriers would sometimes horse

around and dogfight each other in the sky over

our group after a successful mission. One

evening we were called to battle stations.

Before our planes returned from the beach.

Shortly after some of our planes returned in a

playful mood. One made a dive at the radar

atop our mast. Another flew along our

starboard side about 20 feet above the water

and 100 fee off our ship. Our guns were

loaded and trained on them. As the plane flew

past our quad 40 mm. We hollered “Fire!

Fire!” The man on the trigger turned and said

“It’s one of ours”.

Another time we were called to quarters. We

were called to quarters one evening. Guns

were loaded. Boogies were reported at a

distance. The distance increased. They were

after another target. We secured from

quarters. That night I had the 12 to 4 watch.

The next morning, I was sleeping in, when they

announced of the P.A. system that the aft 5”

gun would be unloaded through the muzzle.

My bunk was right next to the lower handing

room of the 5’ fun. I was sound asleep when

they fired. I jumped up. The compartment

was filled with the smell of gun powder and no

one was around. I grabbed my life belt and

took off through 2 compartments in my skivy

shorts and was headed up the ladder to the

main deck when someone hollered “Hey

Cafferty, where are you going?” He told me

what happened and I went back to bed.

9th April 1945

Enroute to Karama Retto with carrier for

replenishment. Took on mail from another DE,

whose captain was Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr.

10th – 11th April 1945

Logistics in Kerama Retto & rejoined carrier group.

It became common to be called to battle

stations a number of times every day and night

by the G.Q. (General Quarters) alarm bell. It

was about 0400 when I was awakened by the

sound of the bell. I was awakened from a

sound sleep. I pulled myself up, but before

(bunks were 3 high. I had the bottom bunk, by

a compartment door. There was a red battle

lamp by door. It came on when regular lights

were turned off.) I could swing around to get

out of my sack. I could see by the red light of

the battle lantern below my bunk that

everyone was still sleeping. The ship rolled

along and the bunks creeked back and forth. I

could still hear a distant bell ringing in my ear.

I laid back down and as my head hit the pillow,

the G.Q. alarm went off. As I leaped up with

everyone else, I thought to myself “My God!

Now I’m hearing the alarm before it goes off”.

(ESP - ?)

April 12th 1945

President Franklin D. Roosevelt died and

Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr.’s ship left the group

Planes from our carriers intercepted jap planes

on their way to us and downed 14 of them in

an air battle. The rest got away. We lost no

planes. The Captain announced over the P.A. system.

15th April 1945

Escorting carrier to Kerama Retto for

replenishment. (To pick up mail for our group

& food, ammo & fuel)

16th April 1945

Logistics, upon return from Kerama Retto,

C.A.B (combat air patrol) shot down enemy

plane at dusk, approximately 2 ½ miles away.

Enemy plane burned in water and explosion

felt as from depth charge depth charge detonating.

Took carrier to Kerama Retto. Up leaving

around sundown, a jap plan was spotted. The

planes from the carrier were off bombing

Okinawa. He circled our position on the

horizon. It was a torpedo bomber. The man

on the phones said we got orders from the

carrier to stay between the carrier and his fish.

At the moment we were expendable. As I

stood cuddling my greasy 40 mm clip and

cursing that jap, my life flashed before me. As

he came in for a landing, he circled and went

after the jap. The torpedo bomber was making

his run on us and we were running along side

our carrier protecting her. I was scared. Even

if our plane gets him, if he get that fish off first,

we’ll have to take it if there is any danger to

our carrier. Frank Dibella said to me “Cafferty,

I’m scared.” The big Indian on the other side

of Frank said “Shut up – we’re all scared”. For

a second I felt good. We watched and cursed

as the drama which we were very much a part

of unfolded before us. The jap was about 2 ½

miles from us flying about 10 feet off the

water, over a fairly calm sea as our man made

his strafing run. He got him. We let out a

holler as the jap hit the water burning. He

burned for about 20 minutes before he blew

up. We neared the wreckage in time to see it

sink and a lot of us were still cursing it.

17th April 1945

Rejoined carrier group.

Our radio often picked up Tokyo Rose and we

would hear her on the radio in the mess hall at

chow time. She played all the popular songs of

the time in between little propaganda pitches.

One evening we went to general quarters and

there was a jap plane over the horizon. He

would pick up enough altitude to see us, and

we him, the drop back below the horizon. He

didn’t attack us. I didn’t realize it at the time

but this was an observation plane counting the

ships in our group. The next day Tokyo Rose,

in reporting the news, stated that the Imperial

Japanese Air Force attached our group giving

our location and number and types of ships

and said the Imperial Japanese Air Force sank

us all. I guess this was just their way of letting

us know that they know where we were at.

Hell, we know that they know where we were.

They visited us often enough. In another

propaganda pitch, Tokyo Rose told us that

there were 13,000,000 men in the U.S. Armed

Forces. Of these a million were

overseas, and of these so many hundred

thousands were involved in actual combat.

Suckers! Wouldn’t you like to go home?

22nd April 1945

Made three hedgehog attacks on underwater

sound contact originally picked up by adjacent

escort. Negative results. Assisted other escort

in carrying out retiring search plan for nine

hours on contact with negative results. Rejoined formation.

Sub contact – Hunted sub all day with tin can –

never got him though.

23rd April 1945

Proceeding to Kerama Retto with carrier.

24th – 25th April 1945

Logistics in Kerama Retto. Rejoined group.

26th April 1945

Left group with carrier on special duty.

Exploded horned type contact mine.

Sighted another mine, started shooting at

same with 20 mm guns and small arms fire.

She was off our starboard side in a sea of

heavy swells. As we fired at the mine, our ship

drifted in closer. Then it exploded. Shrapnel

landed all over the ship. Some even flew over

our ship and landed hundreds of feet off our

port side. A piece as big as my helmet flew

hundreds of feet into the air and dropped on

the bridge. When the mine was sighted, I was

watching from the forward 40 mm gun mount

near the bridge. When it exploded there was a

white cloud of smoke as high as a five story

building. I dove under the twin 40 mm, and

looked up to see this chunk of shrapnel drop

on the bridge.

27th April 1945

Rendezvoused with joining carrier. Rejoined

air strike group.

29th – 30th April – 1st May ‘45

Task Unit 52.1.2 dissolved and absorbed into

52.1.1. Detached from Task Unit 52.1.1 and

joined Task Unit 52.1.3. Detached on

independent duty to rendezvous with Task

Group 50.8 to transfer pilots for replacement planes.

2nd May 1945

Rejoined carrier formation.

3rd May 1945

Enroute Kerama Retto with carrier U.S.S.

Sangamon – CVE-26 for logistics.

4th May 1945

Logistics in Kerama Retto. Upon departure,

the formation, composed of U.S.S. Sangamon –

CVE-w6, U.S.S. Fullam – DD474 and this ship

was attacked by enemy planes. This ship was

first to open fire and fired continuously

throughout the approach of the first plane

which missed the carrier by a matter of feet in

a suicide dive. Thereafter, the carrier and

destroyer commenced fire on two enemy

aircraft. One plane crashed on the carrier’s

flight deck resulting in a serious fire and severe

accompanying explosions. The Fullam later

reported destroying the plan which they had

under fire. This ship, together with the Fullam,

was proceeding to the aid of the stricken

carrier, but was ordered to stand clear and

pick up survivors. The carrier was saved after

an hour and a half only by the superb damage

control and fire fighting of it own personnel,

personnel of the Fullam and another destroyer

which came out of Kerama Retto to assist. In

the meantime, this ship picked up 68 survivors

in the darkness and its motor whaleboat

reported delivering an additional 20 to rescue

vessels which had come out from Kerama

Retto to assist. The ship also received credit

for the destruction of the first suicide plan

which was also fired upon by the Sangamon.

(Commander Hansen – our captain received

the bronze star for this action)

Note: On rereading this I want to add this

note. While in the war zone there were two

things that a ship should never do:

1.) Never stop dead in the water

2.) Never show a light at night. No smoking

allowed on deck after dark.

In picking up men from the U.S.S. Sangamon

the U.S.S. Dennis stopped dead in the water

and turned on its searchlights to aid in picking up 88 men.

Took Sangamon – CVE 26 to Kerama Retto.

Took on supplies. As we left in late afternoon

before sunset, we had report of boogies at 60

miles and closing. Each succeeding report

brought them closer. At flash red condition

yellow, we were called to battle stations.

Shortly later they arrived. The sky had patches

of low clouds. Te first one came diving out of

the clouds and there we were dead ahead of

him on a 45o angle. The carrier was astern of

us and to starboard less than half a mile away.

I looked up and saw him and it looked to me as

if he was making his dive right at me. We

started firing and didn’t stop until 40 mm

ammo racks were empty. The plane banked

and went for carrier. We must of hit him. The

smoke was streaming from his tail when he

crashed into the water right along side the

carrier. A few minutes later another jap

appeared on starboard side and then

disappeared into the clouds again. The carrier

fired into the clouds. A second later a jap

plane dropped out of the clouds, went straight

for the carrier. I saw him drop his bomb on the

flight deck and go right in after it. A terrific

explosion followed. Flames flew a hundred

feet upwards. Columns of black smoke

blackened the sky. It all happened so fast. Our

guns couldn’t fire at the second plane without

hitting the carrier. Gun 42’s ammo racks were

empty from the first plane, and we were

having more ammos passed up from down

below. We headed for the carrier to help

extinguish the flames. A tin can cut across our

bow and ordered our skipper to pick up

survivors. (Thank God for that.) The ammo on

the carrier was now going off. The sky around

the burning ship was filled with tracer fire.

The next day when we saw that can, we could

see where she was hit by exploding ammo and

we heard some of her men were injured. We

secured from quarters to pick up survivors.

The calm water helped a great deal. In all we

picked up 88 men. When it got dark, we

turned on our search lights to find them. I

helped one fellow aboard whose face was very

badly burned, I’ll never forget him. I brought

him below to doc. Another survivor praised

the output of our quad 40. He said he never

saw so much ammo thrown up so quickly. I

told him I was passing ammo on that gun and

we moved it as fast as we could. In the

darkness you could see the little lights from

the flash lights on their life preservers and

hear their whistles in the sea all around us.

We worked at picking up survivors until there

were no more to be found. The men

remaining on the carrier put out the fire. I’ll

never know how.

5th May 1945

Rejoined carrier group. Detached with

Sangamon which was proceeding for

emergency repairs to Ulithi. (Western

Carolines) During the Okinawa operations,

there were numerous air alerts, but due to the

sterling work of the C.A.P., only one group of

enemy planes made contact with the carrier

groups in company with this ship. This contact

resulted only near miss damage to one carrier.

(the Wake Island.)

Our main contacts with the enemy came when

we were detached with one carrier enroute to

or returning from, or at Keramam Retto. We

went in average once a week.

Left Okinawa area on May 5, 145 with the

Sangamon CVE 26.

May 30th 1945

Additional recollections from notes I recently

came across Ulithi memorial day. Tied up along side

merchant ship carrying ammo. Holiday –

Merchant seamen don’t work – had to go over

and load ammo ourselves.

Mass on troopship before invasion – general

absolution – no fasting. Remember the

incident but not the date or what invasion it proceeded.

9th – 18th May 1945

Logistics and routine upkeep in Ulithi.

19th – 26th May 1945

On early warning radar picket station, south of

Ulithi, Western Carolines.

26th – 28th May 1945

Ulithi Harbor – logistics.

While enroute conducted firing exercises and

other drills. Our 5” shot down one of their

drones and was complimented on their

marksmanship by the battlewagon’s skipper.

6th – 8th June 1945

Conducted unsuccessful search for two of

U.S.S. Tennessee’s reconnaissance planes.

8th – 10th June 1945

Enroute to Okinawa.

10th June 1945

Anchored in Okinawa. Enroute to join Taks Unit 32.1.1.

Arrived at Okinawa. Observed shelling. Went

to Kerama Retto then picked up carrier.

11th June 1945

Rejoined escort carrier air strike group.

Sighted object in water. Picked up same. Was

landing gear off jap plane. Tire held it afloat.

There was Japanese writing on tire.

13th June 1945

Sank another mine with 20 mm and small arms fire.

16th June 1945

Enroute to Kerama Retto for carrier replenishment.

17th June 1945

Lieutenant Commander Stanley N. Gleis, USNR

relieved Commander Sigurd Hansen, USNR as

commanding officer during replenishment stay

at Kerama Retto. Steaming to rejoin carrier group.

Had change of command ceremony at Kerama

Retto. Today is my 19th birthdeay.

18th – 26th June 1945

At sea with escort carrier group. Detached 22

June to proceed to Ulithi.

Note:

Sailors who served on destroyers (designated

DDs) also called cans or tin cans, destroyer

escorts (Des) and smaller ships were said to be

in the dungaree navy.

On larger ships the men would have to wear

what was call the uniform of the day. On our

ship, men were allowed to wear whatever part

of the dungaree uniform that was appropriate

for weather conditions. In the southern

latitudes, this would usually mean shoes &

shorts. The white uniform was only called for

on special occasions.

A few years ago, around 1995 while at a

reunion, a number of my shipmates were

sitting around chatting. Frank Tyrrell who has

served as first Lt. raised the question – does

anyone remember when Capt. Hansen retired

and Capt. Gleis took command? I said I can tell

you. It was June 17th 1945. They were all

amazed & said how did you remember that. I

said it was my 19th birthday. We were all

dressed in our whites for the occasion. As we

stood at attention for inspection, I remember

smiling and thinking to myself, “Isn’t it nice

everyone’s dressed up for my birthday.”

Captain Hansen was a tug boat captain before

the war & was probably retired for age.

26th – 30th June 1945

Logistics and maintenance in Ulithi.

30th June 1945

Enroute to Guam with mail and passengers.

1st – 4th July 1945

Logistics in Guam. Received orders to report

to commander Philippine sea frontier.

4th – 5th July 1945

Enroute to Ulithi

5th – 8th July 1945

Anchored in Ulitthi

8th – 12th July 1945

Enroute to Subic Bay, Philippine Islands in

company with U.S.S. Eastland (APA-163) &

U.S.S. Eastland, U.S.S. R.W. Herdon (AD-

121)and other escorts.

Rudyard Kipling wrote of “The Road to

Mandalay Where the Flying Fish Play.” While

sailing through the San Bernardino Straights,

we saw the flying fish at play, and in the

morning we would find a number of them on

our decks. At times schools of porpoise would

race our ship. While going through these

straights, we saw a volcano in the distance

with a column of smoke rising from it. While

at sea, a number of times we saw water

spouts, sometimes two or three together. We

would just alter course and sail around them.

July 12th 1945

Arrived at Subic Bay, Philippine Islands, with troop ships.

That night while in port, we saw a movie on

the fantail. While the movie was on we could

hear the gunfire in the mountains around us

and see the light from exploding shells.

12th – 16th July 1945

Availability in Subic Bay, P.I.

While in Subic Bay, we would often see

Lightsey, Signalman 1C signal to his brother

who was a signal man on a cruiser that

happened to be in port at that time.

Now Lightsey was a man who if you ever

served with him you would never forget him.

First, his name. Not one you hear very often, if

at all. Second, his home. He came from

Okeechobee, Florida. Third, his appearance.

He had red hair, a full red beard and a big

barrel chest covered with curly red hair. He

would have been perfectly cast as a pirate in one

of Errol Flynn’s swashbuckler movies. On a

D.E. with a crew of 200 that you live with all

day every day it doesn’t take long to get to

know everyone, his name, where he’s from,

what he did in civilian life, etc. etc. etc. The

day the japs surrendered, I passed Lightsey on

the main deck and did a double take. He had

shaved off his beard. It was like we had taken

on a new crew member over night. A

shipmate told me he had been in from the

beginning and said he wasn’t going to shave

until the war was over.

Sad Footnote:

After the war I knocked around with different

jobs. I finally settled down working in power

plants, doing the job I learned in the Navy. I

was working for N.Y.C. Dept. of Correction. A

number of Navy vets who were correction

officer were joining the Navy reserves. It

looked like a good deal at the time. In 1949, I

joined the inactive Navy reserves. In June

1950, the North Koreans invaded the South.

Harry Truman called up the reserves. In Sept.

1950, I got my notice. In Oct. 1950, I was in

Port Lyaute in French Morocco, North Africa in

a C.B. detachment. One day while standing on

the chow line, a cook walked by with the name

Lightsey on the4 back of his T-shirt. A fellow

from my outfit that was standing next to me

knew him. I asked him if he came from Florida.

He said he did. I said I have to talk with him.

When inside, I got ahold of the cook and said

“I see your name is Lightsey. Do you happen

to come from Florida?” He said yes, but how

did you know that. I said “Did you happen to

have a relative on the 405?” He said yes that

would have been my brother, Big Red. I said

“How is he?” He said he’s dead. After he got

out he was to be married. He was at a

bachelor’s party with a bit of drinking. He

smashed up his car on the way home and was

killed. He went all through the war only to be

killed in an auto accident afterwards.

Second footnote:

At one of our reunions, one of our

shipmates, John Hindes, who stayed in the

Navy found himself in South Florida after the

war. He thought he would look up Lightsey.

He stopped at a gas station in the Okeechobee

area and said I’m looking for a fellow named

Lightsey. The attendant told him everybody

around here is named Lightsey.

P.S. The cook from Port Lyaute was the signal

man from Subic Bay, P.I. He had stayed in the

Navy & had changed his rate to cooking.

16th – 23rd July 1945

Enroute to Okinawa as escort for T.U. 72.10.3

(13 LSTs and crash boats). Due to bad

weather, convoy was diverted and delayed

and crash boats detached. Convoy proceeded to Okinawa.

This was one of three typhoons that we rode

out. On one, we headed into the storm and at

the end of the day we were 6 miles behind

where we started. The next day, we broke

even and would up the day where we started.

23rd – 25th July 1945

Logistics in Hagushi Anchorage and Buckner

Bay, Okinawa

25th – 30th July 1945

Enroute with Okinawa – Leyte Convoy #7

Enroute to the Philippines, we were lead ship

in the convoy. One night we picked up a sub

contact. We attacked, dropping depth

charges. When these explode, they shake the

whole ship. After a number of attacks, the

vibration damaged our sound gear which

protrudes from the bottom of our ship.

Unable to track the sub any longer, we were

assigned a position on the port side of the

convoy. The next night we heard the

explosion when the ship that took our place

was torpedoed.

30th – 31st July 1945

Logistics San Pedro Bay, Leyte Gulf, P.I.

We were anchored in Leyte Gulf between

Leyte & Samar Islands. A beach party had

been arranged for our crew to play a softball

game with local C.B.s. Red and I were in the

party of about 60 of our crew who were

landed on a small beach. We were not that

interested in baseball & decided to see what

we could see of the island. As the crew

marched along the beach to a street that ran

down to the water, Red and I fell back to the

end of the column. At the street, our column

made a left turn & walked about 2 blocks to

the main road. There they made a left turn to

head for the ball field. Red & I made a right

turn & walked on to see what we could see.

We saw some native huts as we walked along.

We walked a little further & a command car

pulled up along side of us. The officer at the

wheel said “You fellows want a lift?” We

jumped in. As we drove off he said, “I’m going

as far as Provost Marshal’s office. Where are

you going?” At that we became a little

worried. Not know how far that was or what

was ahead, I took a chance and said “Oh, we’re

going a little past that.” We must have gone a

mile or two when we came to his turn off. He

stopped to let us off & we walked into

Tacloban. We saw a big old Spanish church &

some of the local housing. We decided to

head back as it was getting late & we had

come a good ways. On the way back, we saw 2

soldiers with submachine guns guarding a

bunch of jap P.O.W.s. When we finally got

back to the beach, it was late and the beach

was deserted. We were all alone & our ship

was a long way off. After a while, we spotted

a motor whaleboat heading our way. It landed

& we asked if we could get a ride back to our

ship. They were off an Australian Corvet that

was anchored not too far from the Dennis.

They had come in to pick up their mail & were

very obliging. As we neared the Dennis, I

suggested that there was a ladder hanging off

the fantail & they could drop us off there. I

was hoping we could be back on board

without being spotted (not realizing that the

men were counted leaving they ship & again

on returning. The O.D. was 2 men short.) I

started up the ladder. When I came to the top,

I saw a pair of Khaki pants legs. Red was on

the ladder below me & hollering for me to

move up. I was telling him to be quiet, that I

was caught, but maybe they didn’t see him.

We were held for Captain’s mast the next day.

We were found guilty of being AWOL. The

sentence was to be confined to the ship for the

rest of the time we were in port. The ship

sailed the next day.

31st July – 4th Aug. 1945

Enroute independently to Hollandia, New Guinea

On this trip, we crossed the equator on the 3rd

of Aug. 1945 at latitude 00000 & longitude

137o 45’ E. I was initiated into the trusty order

of the shellbacks. On 4th Aug. 945 we arrived

at Hollandia, New Guinea for R&R for the

crew. We all had 3 – 4 days ashore with no duties.

4th – 11th Aug. 1945

Availability, rest and recreation in Hollandia.

The local natives here were head hunters. The

chief of the local tribe had a collection of Japanese heads.

11th – 12th Aug. 1945

Enroute to Biak Island, Dutch New Guinea.

12th – 13th Aug. 1945

Anchored Sorido Lagoon, Biak.

While at Biak the natives would row out to our

ship in their outriggers to trade beautiful sea

shells for cigarettes. (Cigarettes sold at ship

store for 5 cents a pack.) Shortly after this a

number of the crew (this sailor included) came

down with what was called ‘jungle rot’,

circular scabs about the size of a dime all over

your body that itched like crazy. Doc (our

pharmacist mate) (Carlton Antoine Phm 1/C.

He received meritorious advancement for

work with wounded after sea battle.) treated

this with a red solution that he painted on us.

It burnt like hell, but it did the job of clearing it up.

13th – 18th Aug. 1945

Enroute Leyte, Philippine Islands as sole escort

for T.U. 76.14.22 (seven LSTs)

These LSTs were being brought up to the P.I. in

preparation for the next invasion – Japan.

While at sea, we received word of the

dropping of the A-bomb. It looks like the war

may be over soon. This is the happiest day of

my life. It looks like we’ll make it through the war.

15th Aug. 1945

Received word at sea of unconditional

surrender of Japan.

The Captain signaled the convoy that we had a

sub contact. We dropped back a couple of

miles and 2 cans of beer were passed out to all

hands. That was the best can of beer I ever

had. Not that it was a great beer, but for the

celebration that it represented. After a short

period of time the captain announced, “All

right men, throw the cans over the side. We

have to get back to work.” We rejoined the

convoy and sailed happily on the Leyte Gulf.

18th – 19th Aug. 1945

Logistic in Leyte Gulf, Philippine Island.

That night in port observed firework

celebration as the ships all fired off their star

shells. I’ve seen more impressive fireworks

since, but none of them could equal what that

celebration that night in Leyte Gulf meant to me.

19th – 28th Aug. 1945

Patrolling sea lanes off Leyte Gulf, P.I.

28th Aug – 5th Sept. 1945

Tender availability, San Pedro Bay, Leyte, P.I.

5th – 15th Sept. 1945

At sea, Leyte, P.I. to Okinawa.

15th – 16th Sept. 1945

Logistics in Buckner Bay, Okinawa. Harbor

Typhoon plan in effect.

Arrived Okinawa last night. When I woke up in

the morning, our ship was pitching & rolling

heavily. I thought we must have gone back to

sea. When I went up on deck, I saw that we

were still anchored in port. We were told that

a bid typhoon was coming our way and that

we were going back out to sea to ride it out.

16th Sept. 1945

Typhoon plan executed. Proceeded

immediately south and west of Okinawa to

ride out the storm. The ship rode very well

and received minor damage, though center of

storm with winds of 175 MPH approached to

within 100 miles. During the height of the

storm, this ship made several rolls of more

than 50 degrees. A number of smaller ships

were washed ashore and some were sunk.

Coming up the ladder from the mess hall there

is a door on the port side that opens to a

sheltered area on the main deck. A few of us

opened this door to see what it looked like

outside. The sea was wild and the waves were

tremendous. We saw an APA off our port side.

The bow was coming out of the water to

midship by the stack. Then the bow would

plow back into the water and rear of the ship

would rise out of the water to midship with its

screws spinning in the air. It just kept see-

sawing back and forth like that. That ship was

about twice our size. We said if that ship is

doing that what are we doing? We closed the

door and dogged it. We were doing much the

same because the whole ship would shake

when the rear of the ship cam out of the water

and the twin screws would spin in the air It

was quite a ride and we were all glad when it was over

Additional note:

In Jan. 1946 issue of Reader’s Digest, Lt.

Commander Robert Esson Rew, Captain of the

U.S.S. Beagle, a large armed supply ship of

14,000 tons with 29’ draft wrote of his ship’s

experience in the “Typhoon off Okinawa” Sept

16-17, 1945. “The waves were giants 60 to 80 feet high.”

“Ships all around calling for help when there

wasn’t any help and there couldn’t be until the

storm ended.” “I am adrift, out of control;

estimate my position to be…” “I am on the

rocks and breaking up, am abandoning ship.”

“Please send assistance if at all possible.” “ It

was pitiful. Mostly these were little ships –

minesweepers and such. It is

incomprehensible to me how any of them survived.”

17th – 19th Sept 1945

Continued independently to Leyte, P.I. Sank

horned mine by gun fire enroute.

19th – 30th Sept. 1945

Logistics and upkeep in San Pedro Bay, Tolso

Anchorage, Samar, P.I.

14th – 25th Oct. 1945

Returned to Pearl Harbor with the remains of

D.E. Division 63.

Note:

D.E. Division 63 consisted of:

D.E. 402 Richard S. Bull

D.E. 403 Richard M. Rowell

D.E. 404 Eversole (Sunk)

D.E. 405 Dennis

D.E. 406 Edmonds

D.E. 407 Shelton (Sunk)

The 401 Holder and 413 Sammuel B. Roberts

were also sunk.

On the way to Pearl, the Captain made an

announcement over the P.A. system. He said

our ship has been awarded the presidential

unit citation. The citation read: The 63rd D.E.

Division was the most outstanding division in

the Pacific area and the Dennis was the most

outstanding ship in our division. This made me

very proud of my ship, but I realized that the

award was mainly for action before I was a

member of the crew. She was credited with

assisting the sinking of the Japanese cruiser

along with bombs from one of our planes.

I would like to dedicate this book to 5 men I

never knew. They were killed 25th Oct. 1944 in

battle with a larger Japanese task force that consisted of:

4 battleships

8 cruisers

12 destroyers

The American task unit Taffy 3 consisted of:

6 escort carriers – 2 sunk

3 destroyers – 2 sunk

4 destroyer escorts – 1 sunk

In memory of Dennis crew men K.I.A Oct. 25, 1944

George Washington Grater S/1C

John Andrew Sambo F/1C

William A. Curtis FC/3C

Charles Davis, Jr. F/1C

Maynard W. Emery F/1C

6th Nov. 1945

Arrived San Diego, California, U.S.A.

Home on leave for Christmas 1945 and New

Year’s 1946. Celebrated New Years in Times

Square. Back in San Diego had liberty in L.A.,

San Bernardino, San Diego and Tijuana,

Mexico. Worked on decommissioning ship

until end of May, 1946. Was discharged from

the Navy 7th June 1946 (10 days before my 20th birthday.)

More about the U.S.S. Dennis DE405. She was named in Honor of

radio man Otis Lee Dennis. He stayed in his downed airplane,

radioing his position during fall, which made it possible to rescue the

pilot, at the cost of his own life.

The ship was launched 4th Dec. 1943 sponsored by Mrs. J.L. Dennis,

Mother of Otis L. Dennis.

Otis Lee Dennis, Born 25th March 1913 in Scottsville, Ky. Enlisted in

Navy 25th Oct. 1940. Radioman 3rd Class was killed in action Feb. 1,

1942 in attack on Kwajalein in the Marshall Is. Group.

U.S.S. Dennis DE405 was a Butler Class DE

General Information

Overall Length 306’

Length at waterline 300’

Beam 36’ 10’’

Max Speed 24 knots

Displacement 1,600 tons

Complement 14 officers, 201 men

Armor Plate – 3/8’ steel armament

2 5’/38 cal. Guns – main battery

1 twin 40 mm gun

1 quad 40 mm gun

1 triple torpedo tube

10 – 20 mm guns

1 hedgehog rack

2 depth charge tracks

8 ‘K’ gun depth charge projector

Miscellaneous Summary

Total miles steamed from 20 March 1944 to Oct. 1945 – 104,923 miles

Number of survivors rescued – 526

Took part in 4 invasions and 1 sea battle

Mines destroyed – 12

Longest period at sea – 49 days (at Okinawa including days spent in

Karama Retto)

Number of days underway – 350 days (approximately 63%)

Credited with assisted sinking of Japanese cruiser

Credited with downing Japanese plane at Okinawa

Awards

Captain awarded Navy Cross and Bronze Star

Ship awarded Presidential Unit Citation

Crew earned

17 Purple Hearts (5 posthumously)

Navy Combat Action Ribbon

Asiatic Pacific Campaign Medal with 4 Battle Stars

Philippine Liberation Medal with Battle Star

Japanese Occupation Medal

Victory Medal WWII

American Campaign Medal

National Defense Service Medal

Heroes

In my opinion all of the men on the U.S.S. Dennis who fought off a

much larger enemy force at Leyte on Oct. 25, 1944 were heroes.

I would especially like to point out some individuals. First: the men

below decks in the engine room & fire rooms, who could hear our

guns going off & feel the enemy shells hitting our ship. I’ve been

below when the guns were firing & know that your mind can imagine

all kinds of things when you don’t actually know what’s going on. I

thought myself lucky to be assigned a battle station on the aft 40 mm

gun. There I could see what was going on & know when it was time to

worry & when not.

Lt. John Smyth, a soft spoken gentleman, was assistant gunnery

officer & during the battle he was in charge of firing the torpedoes. It

was like a bombardier on a bomber. When the run starts, he is in

charge of the ship. As the O.D. steered the ship on the torpedo run,

enemy shells were splashing in the water around them. He would

steer the ship to the side the last salvo landed. As the japs corrected

their fire, the next salvo would land where the ship had been. He

played this deadly game until the torpedoes were fired. At 10,000

yards the Captain called Mr. Smyth on the phones & ordered him to

fire. My Smyth replied “We will go down to 7,500 yards or by God we

will go down with the fish in the tubes.”

Later, Lightsey, Signalman 1C, in talking of the battle aid the jap shells

were flying over our heads on the bridge. I could have reached up &

touched some of them, they came so close.

Leroy Blackburn was Chief Gunners Mate. He was another soft

spoken gentleman who was well respected & called Blackie by all

hands. During the battle at one point, he was making the rounds of

the gun positions. At the K-guns, he came across Fred Grazino & Bill

Curtis standing together. He told them to break it up & not hang

together. Fred walled off. A few minutes later a shell hit. Fred

turned around, Curtis was gone. Fred lives in Nyack, N.Y. & we

occasionally get together for lunch. Fred told me “Ed, Blackie saved

my life.”

Blackie wrote a letter a few years ago to the Destroyer Escort Sailors

Assoc. newspaper. In it he praised his shipmates for their conduct

during the battle. He singled out Tony Manzi, A shipfitter who

volunteered to stay & worth with him in a 5’ gun mount when the

spring closing the breech block was broken. The barrel was almost

red hot with a live shell in it, that couldn’t be removed. It could have

“cooked off” at any time. They ran a fire hose down the barrel in an

attempt to cool the projective. The water seeping past the shell was

steaming hot. The repair was made & the shell fired. It went about

200 yards & exploded. Blackie called Tony a hero because he didn’t

have to stay, but he volunteered. Blackie said “I stayed because it

was my job.” I talked to Blackie a number of times over the past few

years, before he passed away. He had joined the Navy in the early

‘30s when he was 17. He talked of the China sailors in the 30s. They

spent years in the Orient. (As in the movie ‘ The Sandpebbles”)

Blackie was at Pearl Harbor Dec. 7, 1941. He sent me a copy of an

article he wrote for his local paper in Oklahoma, about that

experience. In it he state that after it was over you would see

American sailor’s body parts floating in the harbor.

I served on the U.S.S. Dennis for 18 months, from Dec. 1, 1944

through the end of May, 1946. I lived with these men, worked with

them, ate with them, joked with the, drank with them, fought

alongside them and prayed with them. I am proud of the U.S.S.

Dennis and of the men that sailed on her. It is an honor to have

served with them. God bless them all.