Wondering where to watch Wagon Train Season 7 online? We have all the streaming details right here. Wagon Train is a Western television series of the 50s and 60s, inspired by the 1950 John Ford film “Wagon Master” that continues to follow the adventures of a wagon train traveling from Missouri to California post the American Civil War. The format of the show features a mix of episodic tales that often focus on the personal stories of the travelers within the wagon train, reflecting the hardships and dangers faced by the travelers in these journeys.

Here’s how you can watch and stream Wagon Train Season 7 via streaming services such as Starz.

Is Wagon Train Season 7 available to watch via streaming?

Yes, Wagon Train Season 7 is available to watch via streaming on Starz.

Each episode of the series tells a new story involving the passengers and crew of the wagon train. This episodic format allowed a wide range of genres to collide, from drama to romance and action.

The main cast of Wagon Train includes Ward Bond, Robert Horton, John McIntire, Robert Fuller, Frank McGrath, Terry Wilson, Michael Burns, Scott Miller, Chick Hannan, and more. Guest stars who played a variety of characters the wagon train encountered along the way included Claude Akins, Eddie Albert, Roscoe Ates, William Bendix, and Theodore Bikel, to name just a few.

Watch Wagon Train Season 7 streaming via Starz

Wagon Train Season 7 is available to watch on Starz. This streaming service also offers other popular and exciting shows you can binge-watch online, such as the time-traveling historical drama Outlander, the fantasy series based on Neil Gaiman’s novel American Gods, the historical drama The Spanish Princess.

You can watch via Starz by following these steps:

Go to Starz.com’s sign-up page.

Select either the six-month plan or the monthly plan

The standard rate for the six-month plan is $46, excluding any special offers

The standard for the monthly plan is $9.99 per month, excluding any special offers

Starz is also available as a Prime Video Channel, meaning that subscribers to the Amazon Prime Video service can also receive discounted access to Starz. The discounts offered vary throughout the year. You can sign up here.

Wagon Train’s synopsis is as follows:

“The series initially starred veteran movie supporting actor Ward Bond as the wagon master, later replaced upon his death by John McIntire, and Robert Horton as the scout, subsequently replaced by lookalike Robert Fuller a year after Horton had decided to leave the series. The series was inspired by the 1950 film Wagon Master, directed by John Ford and starring Ben Johnson, Harry Carey Jr., and Ward Bond, and harkens back to the early widescreen wagon train epic The Big Trail starring John Wayne and featuring Bond in his first major screen appearance playing a supporting role. Horton’s buckskin outfit as the scout in the first season of the television series resembles Wayne’s, who also played the wagon train’s scout in the earlier film.”

NOTE: The streaming services listed above are subject to change. The information provided was correct at the time of writing.