Mercedes (Marga Lopez) dances for money with the clients of Salon Mexico, a famous cabaret in Mexico City. Her younger sister Beatriz (Derbez) studies in an expensive private school, paid by Mercedes. Obviously, young Beatriz doesn't know about her sister's job. Troubles begin when Mercedes wins a danzon contest with Paco (Acosta), her pimp. Paco refuses to share the prize with Mercedes, so she steals the money when he's sleeping.

Left alone after her mother runs off with another man and her father kills himself, Elena attempts to make a new life for herself in a new city. Believing he's a friend, Elena goes to dinner with "Pretty Boy" Lucio, but he drugs her champagne and sells her to Rosaura, who runs a brothel out of her nightclub. Elena becomes a sensation as a dancer, but all the while she nurtures plans of revenge against those who have conspired against her.

Rosario (Palma) becomes a prostitute after losing her father and discovering her boyfriend had a liaison with another woman. In Veracruz, Rosario lives above a sordid cabaret "selling her love to the men coming from the sea." One night, sailor Alberto (Soler) rescues Rosario from the dirty hands of a drunk man. They get along and go to Rosario's room. After making love, they begin to talk and Rosario discovers they're siblings...

In México City, a Cuban dancer from "Cabaret Changó" rescues a baby from a garbage can and decides to raise him, but her pachuco pimp gets in her way.

Due to her inexperience, a young woman falls into the clutches of an exploiter who wants to use her sexually to take her down the path of prostitution.

Regina de Alba returns home from a trip to Europe, only to learn that her mother left suddenly, but she suspects that her step father has something to do with her sudden disappearance, through her own investigations she learns of her step father's criminal past and the truth about what happened to her mother.

After losing a hand in an accident, Rogelio returns to work at the factory. Rogelio loves Marta, but she is married to his friend, Pablo. When Alicia, twin sister of Marta, enters the picture, her twisted ways will wreck the life of all around her.

When a robbery goes wrong, the thief takes a singer as hostage, they fall in love and try to rebuild their lives, but tragedy surges in the most unexpected way.

When Evangelina's former lover Alberto is murdered, the evidence point to her although she claims innocence. She is sentenced to 20 year in prison, where she meets Dora, who was Alberto's girlfriend and says that Evangelina is a murderer.

A artist model who leads the ever hapless Arturo de Córdova away from the arms of his innocent, blue-eyed wife and down, down, down into the ecstatic depths of degradation which include a stop at seedy Panamanian nightclub.

The disaffected wife of a failed civil servant, is thrilled to re-encounter Octavio, a former lover who is now a union activist on the run from a corrupt politician. Hoping to help him, she descends into the Mexican underworld, where she finds a purpose-and a thrill-missing from her married life.

A young lawyer and owner of a great property in the interior of Venezuela tries to recover its control in the name of the law, fighting against his neighbour, a powerful, seductive and misterious lady named Doña Bárbara, learning in the process that the only chance to win is by playing on Doña's rules.