Sprawling, sometimes sexist, often exclusionary: on the surface, heavy metal might not seem like a wellspring of varied, interesting female voices. But let’s be real…with singers as diverse as Jennifer Haben, Zala Hodnik, Doro Pesch, and Marcela Bovia actively singing and touring, we’re living in a golden age. Been thinking about adding some kvlt-as-hell groups to your iTunes? Consider this just one map of many to female-fronted metal.

If you’re into… goth and industrial like The Birthday Massacre, you might like Lacuna Coil. This Italian gothic metal group features the voice of Cristina Scabbia, along with male vocals from Andrea Ferro. Scabbia’s ethereal voice is set against intense guitar and icy keyboards, creating songs chockablock with doom-inspired poetry. Try-Out Tune: “Heir of a Dying Day.” For more atmospheric female metal vocalists, check out Theatre of Tragedy and Tristania.

If you like… fast, poppy rock like Ting-Tings, you might like Amaranthe. Elize Ryd’s catchy vocals anchor Amaranthe’s mix of power and melodic metal, soaring above the male voices of Jake E and Henrik Englund. Big sing-a-long choruses and crunchy riffs make Amaranthe great for headbanging in the car with your friends. Try-Out Tune: “Burn With Me.” For more pop-inspired female metal vocalists, check out Elysion and Delain.

If you’re a fan of… opera singers like Renee Fleming, you might like Epica. Frontwoman Simone Simons has soaring pipes to complement the elaborate composition of Epica’s symphonic metal songs. Layered orchestral pieces and guitar riffs go hand-in-hand with Simons’ evocative voice. Try-Out Tune: “Unchain Utopia.” For more dramatic female metal vocalists, check out Nightwish and Within Temptation.

If you’re a fan of… edgy, eclectic rock like St. Vincent, you might like iwrestledabearonce. Straddling the lines of metal, hardcore, and math rock, this experimental group features the vocals of Krysta Cameron and Courtney LaPlante (currently LaPlante is the only vocalist). Both singers use melodic vocals as well as death growls, creating an atmosphere that’s frenetic, uncertain, ear-catching, and heavy. Try-Out Tune: “You Ain’t No Family.” For more genre-bending female metal vocalists, check out Merdarahta and Torpor.

If you’re into… punky girl rock groups like Shonen Knife, you might like BABYMETAL. Viral phenoms Suzuka Nakamoto, Yui Mizuna, and Moa Kikuchi dropped their full-length debut just last February. Backed by their very own Kami Band of Japanese metal musicians, BABYMETAL alternate J-pop vocals with screams to produce a sugar-edged kaiju of pure pastel goth adrenaline. Try-Out Tune: “Megitsune.” For more idol-metal female vocalists, check out Alice Juban and Dazzle Vision.

If you’re a fan of… modern hard rock like Halestorm, you might like Arch Enemy. Original female lead Angela Gossow ripped fans’ ears to shreds for more than a decade with her signature death growl before stepping down in 2014. New singer Alissa White-Gluz carries on the screamer legacy, with War Eternal being the first Arch Enemy record to feature her vocals. Try-Out Tune: “We Will Rise.” For more rough-and-tough female metal vocalists, check out Walls of Jericho and The Agonist.