SIDE ONE:

Magazine Woman

The Sun Shines

Doctor Doctor

I Can't Stand To Lose You

Market Tavern

Take A Look

SIDE TWO:

The View

If You Don't Come Back

Thoughts Of An Old Man

Francis

I Promise To Love You

Whatever Happened To Happy

Okay let's just assume you've been on Mars for the past 50 years and were unaware of an American U.K. based mid 60's pop sensation trio called The Walker Brothers. The Walkers rode high on the hit parade led by Scott Walker's (real surname Engel) moody baritone backed up by John Walker's similar tones (real last name Maus) and then there was Gary Walker (nee Leeds) on drums. There were claims that he didn't drum on their records because of American contractual obligations, in fact I can barely tell if he sang on their records either. Gary, was however, the first Walker to be afforded "solo" records (long before the "Solo Scott/Solo John" EP, see January 11, 2009 entry): "You Don't Love Me"/"Get It Right" U.K. CBS 202036 in February 1966 and "Twinkle Lee"/"She Makes Me Feel Better" U.K. CBS 202081 in May 1966. But by 1967 the rot had set in and despite a brief Japanese reunion tour the Walkers were dead. Gary wasted little time putting a group together: Gary Walker and The Rain with Gary on lead vocals and drums, ex- Masterminds guitarist Joey Molland on lead guitar, Paul Crane (formerly of The Cryin' Shames) on rhythm guitar and ex-Universals member John Lawson on bass. Nasty legal proceedings by former management scuttled any chance of their February 1968 debut "Spooky"/"I Can't Stand To Lose You" (U.K. Polydor 56237) gaining any radio/TV exposure so the band turned to the land of the Rising Sun where The Walkers were, behind The Beatles and The Monkees, the hottest act in that far off land. This enabled them to issue two singles and an E.P. on Phillip's Japanese imprint :"Spooky"/"I Can't Stand To Lose You" Phillips SFL-1150, "The View"/"Thoughts Of An Old Man" Phillips SFL-1174 and an E.P. "Magazine Woman"/"Take A Look"/"The View"/"Spooky" Phillips SFL-3243. Soon an LP was deemed necessary. The forthcoming Japanese only "Album No.1" is one of the most expensive U.K. 60's vinyl LP's of all time. Copies fetch anywhere in the $2-3,000.00 mark with their lavish color sleeves. It was bootlegged on LP and then CD by some dodgy person who had the audacity to initially charge heavy prices for the bootleg LP. Fortunately it was reissued on CD in pristine from the masters glory in the U.K. this year.