Release Date: November 22-23, 1993 / June 1, 1994

Highest Chart Position: UK: 4 USA: 61

Liner Notes:

Stay (Faraway So Close) (Album Version): Words by Bono. Music by U2. Produced by Flood with Brian Eno and the Edge. Engineered by Flood and Robbie Adams. Mixed by Flood. I've Got You Under My Skin: Music and lyric by Cole Porter. Produced by Phil Ramone. Co-Produced by Mark Cattaneo. From the Frank Sinatra album Duets. Lemon (Bad Yard Club Edit): Words by Bono. Music by U2. Produced by Flood with Brian Eno and The Edge. Remix and Additional Production : David Morales for Dex Mix Productions. Engineer : David Sussman. Keyboard Programming : Satoshi Tonii for Dex Mix Productions. Percussion : David Morales. Slow Dancing: Words and Music: U2. Recorded by Flood. Mixed by Robbie Adams. Engineered by Robbie Adams. Bullet the Blue Sky (Live): Words by Bono. Music by U2. Recorded at the RDS, 28/08/93. Mixed and engineered by Mike Robinson and Robbie Adams. Radio Producer: Jeff Griffin. Love is Blindness (Live): Words by Bono. Music by U2. Recorded at Yankee Stadium, 30/08/92. Mixed and engineered by Robbie Adams. Design and Treatments by Work Associates (Dublin). Original Band photography by Anton Corbijn. Original SIEGESSAULE photography courtesy of THE TELEGRAPH Colour Library.

Media Review:

Review: Stay (Faraway So Close) [US]

3 stars (out of 5)

By JT Griffith, All Music Guide

This CD single is from U2's 1993 album Zooropa. This was the first and only single released from the album in most parts of the world. It was also the first U2 single since 1989's When Love Comes to Town to feature live tracks (common in the 1980s). The non-American releases were two CD sets entitled "Live Format" and "Swing Format" depending on the non-LP material. The US single combines the two formats into one CD single. It includes the album versions of "Stay (Faraway So Close)," the Frank Sinatra/Bono duet "I've Got You Under My Skin," and the b-side "Slow Dancing.". Additionally, it has two live songs and two remixes. The live songs are "Bullet The Blue Sky" from The Joshua Tree and "Love Is Blindness from Achtung Baby. Both are impressive and indicate that U2 needs to mine their live catelogue more. The remixes of Lemon" are the "Bad Yard Club Edit by David Morales and the "Perfecto Mix" by Paul Oakenfold. These are -- by far -- the two best versions of "Lemon" available. This is the best Stay single, because it offers material that elsewhere in the world was avalible on two singles. Stay reached #61 on the US charts but was #4 in the UK.

© AMG/Macrovision Corporation. All Rights Reserved.