For immediate release Jack Yan & Associates

Contacts:

Jack Yan, Publisher (Wellington)

Lucire

T 64 4 387-3213, F 64 4 387-3213

E jack.yan @ jyanet.com

Val Lott, Director

Miss Universe New Zealand

T 64 9 535-7782, C 64 27 476-7003

E lotts @ xtra.co.nz

Miss Universe New Zealand must represent the nation brand, says Jack Yan

Wellington and Auckland, March 19 (JY&A Media)Lucire publisher and marketing expert Jack Yan says the winner of Miss Universe New Zealand must express the 'nation brand' confidently, and will use his position as a judge to maximize the country's chances at Miss Universe 2007 in Mexico City.

Miss Universe New Zealand 2007 will take place at the Langham Hotel in Auckland on March 31, with Lucire its official fashion magazine. Mr Yan is a judge, alongside Hilary Timmins, Megan Alatini, Yvonne Brownlie (of the Look Good Feel Better charity) and Peter Fahey (former MD of YSL Beauté) at the event.

The winner will represent New Zealand at Miss Universe 2007 in Mexico City on May 28.

Mr Yan says that he expects to take a branding approach to selecting the winner. 'She must be able to communicate, symbolize and differentiate our nation. At the end of the day, Miss New Zealand is about exhibiting Kiwi values confidently, and showing that they surpass any that her rivals at Miss Universe have.'

He adds, 'Of course, she must also be stunning. This is a beauty pageant, after all.'

Mr Yan's involvement began in mid-January, when he was asked by Miss Universe New Zealand organizer Val Lott to judge the pageant.

In June, Lucire plans to profile the winner of the competition in both its print and online editions.

In 2003, Mr Yan had assisted in securing Miss Sweden for its current owner. The pageant, after some controversy from feminist groups, was revamped and returned in 2006. Last year, he met with Miss Universe sponsor, California-based fashion designer Tadashi Shoji and plans Lucire special features with him.

'It's nice to do something for the home team,' says Mr Yan, who travels to Auckland shortly for a judging event.

This year's Miss Universe New Zealand has an added feature. The public can text and vote for a winner using their cellphones. More information is at www.missuniversenz.co.nz.

In addition to publishing Lucire, Mr Yan co-authored Beyond Branding: How the New Values of Transparency and Integrity Are Changing the World of Brands (Kogan Page, London, 2004) and is a commentator on nation branding issues. He is a member of the Medinge Group branding think-tank in Sweden.

Images

Images for this release may be downloaded at <http://jya.net/070317pr0.htm>.

About Lucire

Lucire, the global fashion magazine (www.lucire.com), started on the web in 1997. In October 2004, it became the first magazine in its sector to extend its brand into a print magazine. By May 2005, it became the first web magazine to spawn two national print editions. Lucire became the first fashion industry partner of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP, www.unep.org). It is headquartered in Wellington, New Zealand and published by Lucire LLC. For print edition information, see <http://www.lucire.net>.

About Jack Yan

Jack Yan founded Jack Yan & Associates (http://jya.net), one of the world’s first virtual firms, in 1987. His company is based or represented in over a dozen countries worldwide. Among his company’s interests are business consulting, imaging, software and media, including the fashion magazine brand Lucire. He writes on topics, ranging from branding and business responsibility to fashion and typography, in numerous publications worldwide and is a regular international speaker. His personal site is at www.jackyan.com, and features a highly regarded blog.

About JY&A Consulting

JY&A Consulting (http://jya.net/consulting) is part of Jack Yan & Associates, an independent global communications company founded in 1987. With representation in Wellington, Christchurch, New York, San Francisco, London, Essex, Stockholm, Milano and Jerusalem, JY&A Consulting tailors solutions using researched business principles, based around the organization’s vision and identity. The company specializes in identity, branding, marketing strategy and global strategy. Its clients have included small businesses, non-profit organizations and Fortune 500 companies. JY&A Consulting staff and alumni regularly contribute to the house journal, CAP, published in print, and online at <http://jya.net/cap/>.

Notes to editors

Lucire is a registered trade mark of Jack Yan & Associates and subject to protection in certain jurisdictions. The Miss Universe logo is a registered trade mark of Miss Universe LP, LLLP. All other trade marks are the properties of their respective owners and are only used in a descriptive fashion without any intention to infringe.

###