Mrs. Dorothy M. Pickett

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Friday, July 26, 2024, 1:00pm - 7:00pm

Rosary: 6:00pm - 7:00pm

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Funeral Services: Saturday, July 27, 2024, 11:00am

Repose in Church: 10:00am

Location: St. Mary's Catholic Church/1512 Main Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Interment: Cedar Hill Cemetery/426 Lovers Lane, Vicksburg, MS.

Dorothy Mae Owens Pickett was born on February 15, 1935 in Bentonia, MS. Her mother Beatrice Ellis Owens, a skilled midwife, and father W.T. Owens, a well-known farmer, were the proud parents of three sons and two daughters. The Owens instilled in their children at an early age the importance of family and stellar work ethic.

Alongside her siblings, Dorothy applied her work ethic towards mastering many skills including farming, gardening, cooking, and sewing. Her natural born talent and ability to produce excellence heightened her interest in acquiring higher education --and that is where her life’s journey truly began. Dorothy Mae Owens, aka “Dot”, found a love for equipping others with tools of excellence. Her career path was apparent and becoming an educator was her dream. Acquiring her Bachelor’s degree from Alcorn State University in 1961 and a Masters in Education from Mississippi College in 1973, Dorothy’s career in education was in full throttle.

It was during her educational pursuit that she met the love of her life Mr. Robert Earl Pickett, an Alcorn Hall of Fame athlete and scholar. It would only be a matter of time before Robert asked for Dorothy’s hand in marriage and their beautiful life together began. The Picketts were a dynamic duo. Robert accepted an opportunity on the Mississippi Gulf coast, and in 1957 the couple welcomed their first daughter Deborah Denise. Five years later, the budding family welcomed Ritchie Elyot. It was during this time yet another golden opportunity arose, and the Picketts found their forever home in Vicksburg, MS.

Robert became a well-respected teacher, principal, and superintendent of schools, as well as president of the Hinds Community College Board of Trustees. Dorothy went on to become one of the district’s most popular educators, covering an array of disciplines from Home Economics to Science. During her tenure, Dorothy was proud to witness her beloved Robert be credited with transforming the Vicksburg Warren Public School District into one of the top school districts in the state of Mississippi -- something that Dorothy’s unwavering support made possible.

After completing 36 years of service in Education, Dorothy retired from the Vicksburg Warren Public School District, and her impact on thousands of students was apparent. Be it at Kroger, church, or across the country, one was sure to hear, “..that’s my teacher, Mrs. Pickett!” Her sweet, yet direct demeanor was recognized near and far and her beauty, class and sophistication was well-known, cementing her as a pillar in the community. Dorothy was the recipient of many awards and recognized across the state for her dedication and service in Education. She was a member of many civic and social clubs such as the Paramount Social Club, one of her favorites. More notably, she was a charter member of the Vicksburg Chapter of Links, Inc., an American social and service organization for prominent Black women in the United States. Members include prominent women such as Vice President Kamala Harris, Marian Wright Edelman, and the late Betty Shabazz.

In her later years, Dorothy was blessed to enjoy her retirement with Robert, and was elated to watch her beautiful family blossom. She was able to witness both of her children Deborah and Ritchie marry and have beautiful families of their own, gifting her with 5 grandchildren and 3 great grandchildren.

She joins her beloved husband the late Robert E. Pickett, an infant son John; brothers, Fred, McKinley, and John Owens, sister, Christine Shaffer, and parents W.T. Owens & Beatrice Ellis Owens.

She leaves behind her beloved children Deborah Sanders and Ritchie (Belinda) Pickett; grandchildren Melanie Sanders, Ryan (Ashlee) Pickett, Rashad (Bryanah) Sanders, Kiana Sanders, and Evan Pickett; great grandchildren Ava’Rose, Jade, and Layla; her younger siblings Ernest Carter, Hubert Carter, Ernestine Carter, and Vanessa Carter. In addition to a host of friends and extended family, she will always cherish her beloved caregiver Carolyn Barnes.

Dorothy Mae Owens Pickett was blessed to live an incredibly full and beautiful life. Dot enjoyed spending time with her family, gardening, interior design, sewing, cooking, and scrolling through her electronic tablet. She also enjoyed keeping up with friends and family on Facebook, and watching and discussing her favorite reality tv shows. Though she was the epitome of a Southern Belle - beautiful, educated, sophisticated, poised, well- traveled, and kind - she was fearless and unashamed of hard work and sacrifice. She found joy is caring for and loving her family more than anything. To be born into this world and to leave behind a beautiful legacy is undoubtedly the life of a phenomenal woman. Her humble beginnings, love and respect for others, and unwavering faith in God shaped her into the unforgettable icon she was.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mrs. Laura Ann Holden-Lewis

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Thursday, July 18, 2024, 1:00pm - 6:00pm

Family Present: 5:00pm - 6:00pm

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Funeral Services: Friday, July 19, 2024, 12:00noon

Repose in Church: 11:00am

Location: Trinity Temple Baptist Church/1063 Meadow Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Interment: Cedar Hill Cemetery/426 Lovers Lane, Vicksburg, MS.

Not Just a Small Town Girl

In the unincorporated community of Cayuga (Hinds County), Mississippi, on October 8, 1949, Joanna Holden and William Douglas welcomed their beautiful daughter to the world and named her Laura Ann Holden. Laura made her debut on a Saturday. Perhaps, her Saturday birth explains the “dancing fever” that seemed to penetrate her bones as she thoroughly enjoyed grooving and “livin’ for the weekend.”

Laura was named after her paternal aunt, Laura Douglas Washington. Yet, the midwife who assisted with the delivery listed Laura’s name as “Lorraine” on her birth certificate and refused to correct the error. Joanna insisted that her daughter be called “Laura” because the name represents a symbol of victory. Laura Ann would later transform into the famous moniker “LauRann.” (phonetically, LA-RANN)

In John 1:46, the disciple Nathanael asks another disciple, Philip, “Can anything good come out of Nazareth?” Nathanael’s question is in response to Philip’s proclamation about THE Messiah,

Jesus of Nazareth. How could something so amazing come from Nazareth, a little town with

little regard? Small towns are often viewed as boring, with nothing to offer. Well, the small town of Cayuga was instrumental in introducing one of God’s most endearing souls to the world.

When Tragedy Transforms Into Tenacity

Laura enjoyed her childhood and she especially loved being a big sister to her younger brother, Curtis Robert Holden. As time passed, Joanna became ill and her illness marked Laura’s earliest childhood memories. Joanna dedicated her time to teaching and nurturing her children. Laura

learned how to read, write her name, clean and cook rice all by the age of six. Joanna died. Joanna’s death completely transformed Laura’s life. This moment is also the origin story of how Laura became a powerful Prayer Warrior.

Laura and Curtis were cared for and reared by their grandparents, Beatrice Eatmon Holden (Momma Bea) and Henry Holden. It was Henry Holden who taught her the Lord’s Prayer. He instilled in Laura the importance of having a relationship with God. Laura and Curtis were also cared for and reared by their aunt and uncle, Lucy Holden Bingham and Jeremiah Bingham.

They were her “LuLu and Uncle Jeremiah.” It was Uncle Jeremiah introduced Laura to Bingham Memorial Baptist Church (currently Trinity Temple Baptist Church) and Laura served as an

active member.

Losing her mother at such a young age allowed Laura to cultivate an incredibly strong bond with Jesus, her Lord and Savior. Laura said God always found subtle, yet profound ways to comfort her and give her the strength to cope with such a tragic happening in her life. Laura once shared a story about one of those comforting moments that happened when she was still a small girl grieving her mother’s death.

Laura spoke about sitting on a bench, feeling very lonely. Out of nowhere, an elderly and kind gentleman carefully and slowly sat on the bench and asked her why she looked so sad. Laura told him that her mother died, and she did not want anyone else close to her to die. According to

Laura, the elderly gentleman had a warm glow on his face and a very welcoming smile. Laura

claims the gentleman told her that the people who were caring for her and her brother Curt would not leave the earth until she and Curt became adults. Laura says she never informed the elderly gentleman about her brother or the village of people that rallied to care for them. Laura said the gentleman was, indeed, an angel sent to her by God. And, ALL the members of their village lived to see Laura and Curt become adults.

Gone with the Wind to Michigan

Prior to beginning middle school, the family left the “country” and relocated to Vicksburg.

Laura’s teenage years were spent on Ken Karyl Avenue with Curt, Rose, Henry and Jackie. Laura enjoyed watching television and most of all DANCING! Laura especially loved her LuLu, who allowed her to stay up late and watch television. Laura loved the film Gone with the Wind and appreciated the toughness of Scarlett O’Hara.

Laura attended Rosa A. Temple High School, home of the Mighty Buccaneers. Laura played basketball and kept the stats for the teams. She made many acquaintances and established life- long friendships. Laura had wonderful mentors such as Mr. Eugene Jackson. Laura was a very industrious person and began after-school jobs at the age of 15. Her first job was working as a dishwasher at the Holiday Inn on Clay Street. Laura worked alongside some of Vicksburg’s finest, such as Robert (Vicksburg’s First Black Mayor, 1988) and Joseph Walker and her good friend, Shirley Diggs.

As already expressed, Laura loved to dance. There were numerous times when Laura left the house without permission to “spin a record” and “cut a rug” at places like the Kitchen and the Garden. The aftermath of Laura’s escapades incited a very upset Uncle Jeremiah navigating

through Marcus Bottom looking for her.

In May 1968, Laura graduated from Rosa A. Temple High School. According to Laura, she only made the cut because of the help from her good friend, Shirley Diggs (Dr. Shirley Hopkins Davis). After graduation, Laura executed a plan with Shirley to spend the Summer of 1968 adventuring to Michigan. While the exact details of their summer excursion remain “confidential,” it can easily be deduced that they had a “good time.” After their rendezvous, Shirley and Laura returned to Mississippi with Laura headed to Utica Jr. College (currently Hinds Community College) and Shirley attending Jackson State University.

You’ll Never Find Another Love…

After attending Utica Jr. College, Laura earned Associate of Arts (AA) degree in General

Education in 1970. Laura also attended Alcorn College (later Alcorn State University) for further studies. Later, she attended Vicksburg Community College where she received an AA degree in Secretarial Science around 1972. Laura always enjoyed partying and having a good time.

In addition to achieving higher education milestones, 1970 marked the year Laura would meet the guy who would change her life, forever. An avid fan of music, Lou Rawls and Barry White

were some of Laura’s favorite musical artists. One summer evening, while enjoying an outing at the Blue Room, Laura met Hardy James Lewis, Jr. Hardy was known around Vicksburg as “The Hardman.” Of course, Hardy fell hard for Laura’s gorgeous face and pretty smile. According to Laura, he was the most beautiful man she had ever seen in her life. And, the rest, as they say, “was history.”

Laura has always described Hardy as the love of her life. Laura and Hardy’s love story is one of television soap operas and romance novels. Hardy taught Laura how to drive. After getting her driver’s license, Laura worked at the military PX and purchased a custom-ordered, yellow Ford Torino.

Their relationship faced many challenges and overcame some very painful obstacles. Between 1972 to 1975, Laura and Hardy would lose two children, with one only living for nine days.

They named him Eric Jerrell Holden Lewis.

On Friday, April 16, 1976, Laura managed to fall head over heels in love with another guy in Vicksburg, Mississippi. Hardy and Laura welcomed James Leonard Holden Lewis. James stole both their hearts. James was the miracle Laura prayed for, a true blessing from God. The joy James brought to Laura’s life was unimaginable.

As life happens, things can tend to get a little messy. Laura spent a brief moment in California in 1978, with the hopes of finding a profitable career path. Around 1979, Laura would eventually

make her way back to Michigan. Laura decided to become a welder and completed all the required certifications. She also assisted her Uncles with their various business. Laura enjoyed her time in Michigan and made several life-long connections with Queen Connerly, the Wilson Family, the Johnson Family and many others.

Can’t Get Enough of Your Love, Babe

In 1983, Hardy set out to bring Laura and James back to Mississippi and he accomplished his goal. While their relationship was strained, it was NEVER broken. Laura and Hardy’s connection stood the test of time and distance.

They moved into a quaint apartment on Robinson Road. Laura worked as an office assistant for Dr. Earnest Rankin. Laura enjoyed being back in Mississippi. She resumed Christian fellowship at Bingham Memorial (Trinity Temple).

After deciding to make Jackson their permanent city of residence, Laura and Hardy purchased a home on the corner lot at 4102 Cedar Street in 1984.

Dancing Down Cedar Street

Laura enjoyed her family and their new home. In true “Laura” fashion, she continued to advance her career skills. Laura studied Business Administration at Hinds Community College and

received an AA degree in 1984. Upon establishing residence in Jackson, Laura became an affiliate member in 1985 under watch care at New Hope Baptist Church, Dr. Jerry Young, Pastor. From a sermon Pastor Young preached, she often repeated: “Pray and Praise.” She internalized and understood well the scripture from II Chronicles 7:14: If my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, and I will forgive their sin and will heal their land. (NIV)

On Thursday, September 5, 1985, Hardy and Laura FINALLY got married. Hardy’s father, Rev. Hardie, Sr. performed the service and Mrs. Malissa, Hardy’s mother, stood as their witness. In front of God and family, Laura and Hardy made a covenant before God to become man and wife.

Then, life became even more interesting for Laura. On Sunday, November 3, 1985, Hardy and Laura welcomed a baby girl to the world and named her Angie Malissa Lewis. Marriage, a new house AND a new baby… there was much to celebrate on Cedar Street.

In 2000, Laura received a Bachelor of Science degree from Mississippi College in Business Administration. Laura’s longest career was in Compliance at Allstate Insurance Company for 16 years. Other professions following Allstate included MS State Tax Commission, Trustmark Bank, and Chickasaw Nation Insurance (CNI – Medicare/Medicaid). From the latter job, she

retired.

At the recommendation of her Pastor, Laura began serving as a Deaconess at Trinity Temple, serving faithfully as a member for over 40 years. Laura’s spiritual gift is PRAYER. Laura could pray the paint off the walls. She encouraged other to “pray without ceasing.”

On July 5, 2024, Laura quietly and peacefully transitioned from this life and went to be with our Lord.

Laura was preceded in death by her husband, Hardy Lewis, Jr.; her son, Eric Jerrell Holden Lewis; her parents, Joanna Holden and William Douglas; her maternal grandparents, Henry Holden and

Beatrice Eatmon Holden; her sisters, Rose Bingham and Mattie Douglas Wilson; her brother, William Douglas, Jr.; maternal aunts, Annie Stewart White and Lucy Holden Bingham (and Lucy’s husband, Jeremiah Bingham, who raised and cared her Laura); maternal uncles, Leonard Stewart, Frank

Stewart and John Wesley Holden; paternal uncle, Robert Douglas; paternal aunts; Amanda Douglas Jackson and Laura Douglas Washington; and her grandson, Erik Hardy Lewis Hargro.

Tomorrow is Another Day!

Laura leaves to cherish her beautiful life:

Children:

James Leonard Holden Lewis (Maxine Golden) of Jackson, Mississippi

James’ Children

Jerry Fisher Green of Santa Ana, California

Jamelyn JoAnn Angelique Walker of Jackson, Mississippi

Jamelyn’s Children - JaSummer Shardavia Jackson and JaNoah Caleb Walker

Angie Malissa Lewis of Jackson, Mississippi

Angie’s Children

Reginald K. Smith, II

Beau Jameson Lewis Hargro

Brothers:

Curtis R. Holden (Pearl Gray) of Muskegon, Michigan

Henry L. Bingham (Cecelia) of Jackson, Mississippi

Roosevelt Douglas (Tina) of Los Angeles, California

Ernest Douglas of Vicksburg, Mississippi

Curtis Anderson of Vicksburg, Mississippi

Sisters:

Jackie Bingham Steward (James) of Vicksburg, Mississippi

Janie Douglas of Killeen, Texas

Hattie Douglas of Los Angelos, California

Lula Mae Butler (Albert) of Vicksburg, Mississippi

Uncle:

Willie Holden, Sr. (Verlene) of Muskegon, Michigan

Brother-in-Law:

Dr. Edward D. Wiggins, Sr. and wife Dr. Ruby L. Wiggins of Terry, Mississippi

Laura also leaves a host of nephews, nieces, cousins, family and friends to cherish his memory, including the Holden, Eatmon, Stewart, Bingham, McGriggs and Douglas Families.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Robert Hall

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Saturday, June 29 2024, 1:00pm - 6:00pm

Family Present: 5:00pm - 6:00pm

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Funeral Services: Sunday, June 30, 2024, 1:00pm

Repose in Auditorium: 12:00noon

Location: Ardis T. Williams, Sr. Auditorium/901 Monroe Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Interment: Cedar Hill Cemetery/426 Lovers Lane, Vicksburg, MS.

“To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heavens:

A time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted."

Ecclesiastes 3:1-2

Mr. Robert Lee Hall was born in Fayette, MS, on January 8, 1945, and resided in Vicksburg, MS. He was the son of the late Howard Hall and Lena Mae Smith. His mother passed away when he was an infant, and he was raised by his grandparents, the late Calvin and Mayr Tyler Smith. Being raised by his grandparents, his uncles were considered his brothers. They were James, Calvin Jr., Peter, Jesse, Richard, Alex, and George.

He received his early education in the Jefferson County School District and later attended Vicksburg Public Schools, including McIntyre and Rosa A. Temple High School, Class of 1965. He also attended the Mississippi Baptist Seminary.

Robert was a man of deep faith and loyal to his church, family, and friends, often testifying to God’s goodness. He accepted Christ as his savior in 1957 at Pilgrim Rest Baptist Church under the leadership of Reverend J.R. Bingham. He was a dedicated and faithful member of Bingham Memorial Baptist Church, now Trinty Temple Baptist Church, where he served in various capacities, including a Deacon, member of the Benevolent Ministry, male chorus, and Sunday school. He also served as chairman of the board of deacons, president of the Baptist Training Union (BTU), and was involved with the usher board. Additionally, he participated for many years in the Progressive State Convention.

He was united in holy matrimony to Mary Helen Burns, and to this union, two children were born. A loving husband, father and “Pa-Pa”, Robert worked tirelessly to provide for his family, ensuring his children and grandchildren received a great education.

Robert dedicated much of his time to caring for the elderly, visiting and ministering to nursing home residents, and was known for his ministry in song throughout Vicksburg. He supported his family, offering advice and bringing laughter to difficult situations. He cherished spending time with his family and was renowned for his exceptional barbecue ribs. He retired after 45 years of hard work and service with Interstate Brands, Inc. He was affectionately known as “The Bread Man.”

He was preceded in death by his parents, Howard Hall and Lena Mae Smith; grandparents, Calvin and Mary Tyler Smith; his bonus mother, Inez Hall; and sister, Renita Hall.

On Sunday, June 23, 2024, Robert peacefully entered eternal life surrounded by family.

He leaves cherished memories to his devoted wife of 60 years and 4 months, Mary Helen Hall; a daughter, Anitra Hall Nichols; and a son, Adrian Hall, all of Vicksburg, MS; his two darling granddaughters, Ashley (Terrence) James and Alyson Nichols, and two precious great-grandchildren, Ashton and Aubrey James, all of Vicksburg, MS. Fond memories are also left to two sisters, Ann McFarland of East St. Louis, IL, and Gwendolyn Summers of St. Louis, MO; two brothers, Jasper Hall of East St. Louis, IL, and George Smith of Denver, CO; an aunt, Heneretter Smith of Vicksburg, MS; sisters and brothers in love, Katie Caston, of Detroit, MI, Nellie Mosley and Delores Neal both of Chicago, IL, Savannah (James) Hill, of Monticello, MS, Richard (Lula) Burns of Springfield, IL, Willie Burns of Detroit, MI, and Joseph (Barbara) Burns of Vicksburg, MS; and a host of nieces, nephews, and cousins, including the Banks, Smith, Hall, Tyler, Burns and Parson families.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mrs. Sarah Lily Cosey

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Thursday, June 27 2024, 1:00pm - 6:00pm

Family Present: 5:00pm - 6:00pm

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Funeral Services: Friday, June 28, 2024, 12:00noon

Repose in Church: 11:00am

Location: Cedar Grove Baptist Church/3300 Grange Hall Rd., Vicksburg, MS.

Interment: Mt Givens Church Cemetery/Hwy 61 South, Vicksburg, MS.

Sarah Cosey – a committed educator, devoted wife, loving mother, doting grandmother, loyal sister and aunt, compassionate friend and neighbor, dedicated church member, Woman of God – departed this life Wednesday, June 19, 2024 and entered the arms of her Lord and Heavenly Father.

Born Sarah Lily Eastman, on June 21, 1940, to the late Robert, Sr. and Annie Lou Eastman, in the Yokena Community of Vicksburg, Mississippi, Sarah lived a rich, full life and was a beautiful soul. The oldest of eight children (with three brothers and four sisters), she was a model matriarch of the Eastman family. Sarah was known for her quiet, calm, peaceful demeanor and had a heart of gold. Her beautiful smile, welcoming spirit and warm hugs made everyone feel loved and special. Although Sarah wasn’t rich by the world’s standards, whatever was placed in her hands or care,

she always found a way to multiply it and make it better. Sarah’s quiet strength and determination led her to overcome many challenges and obstacles in life. That strength, determination and perseverance is the legacy that she leaves to her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. One thing is for certain, to know her was to love her.

Sarah spent her early years in the Yokena and LeTourneau communities. She received her early education at Cedars Elementary School and Bowman High School in Vicksburg, Mississippi. She would later go on to receive her associate’s degree in early childhood education from Holmes Community College. Sarah, along with several other educators in the community, believed greatly in the need for early education for young children of color (to level the playing field with their Caucasian counterparts). Thus, she worked as a volunteer for an entire year as a HeadStart teacher with Mississippi Action for Progress (MAP), before beginning a 37-year career with them as a Lead Teacher and Home Teacher. Sarah was loved by her students and parents, which often led to there being a waiting list for children being placed in her classroom. Her passion for education was undeniable.

Sarah confessed Christ and was baptized at an early age at Mt. Givens Missionary Baptist Church, where she has served in various capacities. She sang in the choir, was the Church Secretary, Adult Sunday School teacher, Sunday School Superintendent, and in her later years was a devoted Mother of the Church. Sarah loved Mt. Givens and the Mt. Givens family loved her. In addition to her service at Mt. Givens, she was a faithful member of Old Come and See Missionary Baptist Church, where she was loved immensely. She also regularly attended Providence Missionary Baptist Church and El Bethel Missionary Baptist Church. Her service to God and to the House of God was something she took great joy in doing.

Sarah was united in holy matrimony to the late Pastor Erwin S. Cosey, Sr. on October 4, 1957, in which they remained devoted to one another for 63 years. To this union was born eight children. However, Aunt Sarah and Uncle Lil Man’s house (as they were affectionately called) became the house for every niece and nephew in the neighborhood. Even the grandchildren would come to Granny’s and Paw Paw’s and never wanted to leave. Sarah created a home that was always filled with good food and snacks, lots of love, and tons of laughter.

Preceding her in death are her husband, Pastor Erwin S. Cosey, Sr.; her parents, Robert, Sr. and Annie Lou Eastman; one daughter, Annie Louise Cosey; brothers, Robert “Pipe” Eastman, II, William Eastman, Sr., and Johnny Eastman; sisters, Julia Mae Cosey, Emma (Sweetie) Walker, and Martha Lee Parker; and one son-in-law, Wilbour Washington.

Sarah leaves to cherish her memories seven children; four daughters, Terri (Walter) Cosey, Deborah Dianne Washington, Sarah Lynniese (Greg) Mayfield, and Ava (Eric) Cooley of Vicksburg, Mississippi; three sons Erwin (Thelma) Cosey, Jr. of Huntsville, Alabama, David (Laurice) Cosey of Bogue Chitto, Mississippi, and Richard Cosey of Vicksburg, Mississippi; one God-daughter, Mary Jo Freeman of Vicksburg, Mississippi and a God-son, Fabian Eastman of Gurnee, Illinois. In addition, she leaves 9 grandchildren – Delisha (Rufus) Armstrong, Erica R. Cosey, Adrian “AJ” (Lametrice) Freeman, Jeremy Freeman, Sean (Marcisha) Cosey, Sean Gregory Mayfield, Destiny Mayfield, Sarah Lauren Cooley, and Sydney Cooley, as well as 7 great grandchildren – Jaylen Armstrong, Adrian Freeman, II, Jaxson Cosey, Lincoln Cosey, Mark Erwin Cosey, Micah and Gavin Johnson.

She further leaves a sister, Catherine Robinson of Detroit, Michigan; two brothers-in-law, Earl Cosey, Sr. of Vicksburg, Mississippi and Robert “Bobby” (Annie) Cosey, Sr. of Natchez, Mississippi; six sisters-in-law, Rutha Maxine Eastman, Barbara Burkley, Debra Hawkins, Linda Cosey Garrett, Dorothy Avance, and Christine Cosey; and a host of nieces, nephews, cousins and others, including the descendants of the Eastman and Cosey families, as well as her Quinola Lane family.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mrs. Barbara Crockett Dease

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Sunday, June 16, 2024, 3:00pm - 6:00pm

Family Present: 3:00pm - 6:00pm

Location: Pearl Street AME Church/2519 Robinson Street, Jackson, MS.

Funeral Services: Monday, June 17, 2024, 11:00am

Repose in Church: 10:00am

Location: Pearl Street AME Church/2519 Robinson Street, Jackson, MS.

Interment: Garden Memorial Park Cemetery/8001 US 49, Jackson, MS.

Barbara Laverne Crockett Dease (Cricket), was born on September 16, 1937, in Raleigh, North Carolina to Manuel H. Crockett, Sr. and Myrtle Rose Creecy Crockett. She transitioned to her eternal home on Sunday, June 9, 2024, surrounded by family.

Barbara married William (Billy) King Dease, Sr. on April 2, 1960, and they were married 64 years. She accepted Christ at an early age and united with Pearl Street A.M.E. Church when she and Billy moved to Jackson, Mississippi in 1963. She was a faithful member until her death.

She was an early entrant into the Ford Program at Fisk College, attending college at 16 years old. While at Fisk, she was initiated into the Pi Chapter of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated on December 3, 1955. Shortly after she was initiated at Fisk, her father insisted she come home to Raleigh, North Carolina to attend North Carolina Central University where she received her Bachelor of Arts degree in French in 1958. She earned her Master’s Degree in French Education from Atlanta University in 1960. She later received her Ph.D. in Negritude and Black French Literature from The Florida State University in 1976.

Barbara worked in higher education for over 50 years, 45 of them in HBCUs, molding and shaping young minds, teaching French, English, and Freshman Experience courses. She taught at Clark College (1958-1962), Jackson State University (1963-1988), Spelman College (1988-1993), University of Southern Mississippi (1993-1997), Rust College (1997-1999) and Tougaloo College (2000-2010) throughout her career. She served as the Dean of Humanities at both Rust College and Tougaloo College. One of her crowning achievements was serving as a mentor to Dr. Jarvis C. McInnis, Tougaloo College’s first Truman Fellow and the first Truman Fellow from an HBCU in the state of Mississippi. She retired from Tougaloo College in 2010.

She served on many boards, but the one nearest to her heart was her tenure as a member of the Mississippi Humanities Council. She has been recognized for her professional achievements and as a member of many professional and civic organizations. Even as her health began to fail, she continued to be active in most of the civic organizations in which she had been a member all these years. At Pearl Street A.M.E. Church, she was a member of Stewardess Board #1, Unit 5 of the Laura Felts Women’s Missionary Society, and she served as a Vacation Bible School Teacher of the young adults.

She was a Charter Member of the Jackson (MS) Chapter of Jack and Jill of America, Incorporated, a member of Mary Church Terrell Literary Club, and a 68-year Pearl member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated, Beta Delta Omega Chapter.

Barbara loved Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated and followed in her mother’s footsteps when she became a member. She always wanted to be a beacon of light for the undergraduate members. She served as the Graduate Advisor for Alpha Pi Chapter at Clark College while teaching there. In that group of members, she initiated and mentored the 26th International President Linda Marie White. When she moved to Jackson, she transferred her membership to Beta Delta Omega Chapter, where she was active until her death. While working at JSU, she served as the Graduate Advisor of Gamma Rho Chapter at Jackson State University twice. Notably, she initiated and mentored another International Board Member, Berna Greer, who served as the International Treasurer of the sorority. Barbara served in several capacities in Beta Delta Omega Chapter as an officer, committee chair, and proudly, as a “behind the scenes” member who offered many ideas and initiatives. In April 2021, she received the inaugural Mitzi Dease Paige Pearl Soror of the Year Award at the virtual South Eastern Regional Conference. Most recently, she served as a member of the South Eastern Region History Book Committee, which published The History of the South Eastern Region: Pearls in Perpetuity: A Century of Sisterhood and Service! 1921-2021. Her daughter, three (3) of her seven (7) granddaughters, and a bonus granddaughter, are all proud and active members of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated. She also had six nieces and four other close family members in the sorority. She truly left a legacy of service through teaching and her community involvement.

She authored Through the Years 1867-1977 Light Out of Darkness: A History of the North Carolina School for the Negro Blind and the Deaf with her father, M.H. Crockett, Sr. She also wrote her personal chapter in Daughters of Dunn House 1953: Stories of Fisk Early Entrants, and she helped to proof and edit Iridescent Pearls: Reflections of Service and Sisterhood, a history book of Beta Delta Omega Chapter.

Barbara was preceded in death by her father, Manuel H. Crockett, Sr., and her mother, Myrtle Creecy Crockett, and her two brothers, Manuel H. Crockett, Jr. and William Charles Crockett.

She leaves to cherish her memory: her devoted husband of 64 years, William King Dease, Sr. of Jackson, MS; her daughter, Mitzi (James) Paige of Jackson, MS; her son, William (Trinette) King Dease, II of Jacksonville, FL; her seven grandgirls--Bria, Amber, Kellyn, Kamryn, Kayla, Kara and Kinley; and a host of nieces, nephews, cousins, other relatives, friends, colleagues, church, sorority and club members and former students.

And, of course, she was eternally grateful to her Lord and Savior for allowing her to continue to carry out most of her goals. Thanks be to God!

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Rodney D. Kemper

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Saturday, June 8, 2024, 1:00pm - 6:00pm

Family Present: 5:00pm - 6:00pm

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Funeral Services: Sunday, June 9, 2024, 1:30pm

Repose in Church: 12:30pm

Location: Calvary Baptist Church/4995 Indiana Avenue, Vicksburg, MS.

Interment: Cedar Hill Cemetery/426 Lovers Lane, Vicksburg, MS.

Rodney Deon Kemper was born on March 14, 1999, to Rosie Gray and Raymond Kemper in Vicksburg, Mississippi. Rodney professed his love for Christ at an early age at Calvary Baptist Church where he was a member and served as an Usher.

.

Rodney, an honor student, is a 2017 graduate of Vicksburg High School (VHS); thus, graduating in the top twenty of his class. He received many honors and accolades for his high scholastic and athletic achievements throughout his early years of education. In high school, Rodney continued to excel in academics and athletics. He was a member of the National Honor and Mu Alpha Theta Honor Societies, Key, Beta and Chess Clubs. Rodney was a member of the VHS Football and Power Lifting Teams. As a true statement to his character, Rodney received the Gator Award.

After high school, Rodney chose to further his education at the University of Mississippi (Ole Miss). He received his Bachelor of Science Degree in Civil Engineering with an Emphasis in Mathematics. At Ole Miss, Rodney continued to excel in academics, but found time for extracurricular activities by serving as a member of the Black Student Union and Men of Excellence Executive Board. He was a member of the Engineering Honor Society.

Upon completing his collegiate studies, Rodney relocated to Houston, Texas, pursuing his profession with the ENTRUST Solutions Group as a Design Engineer. He was a conscientious engineering graduate who was well versed in reviewing, writing, researching and implementing engineering procedures.

On Thursday, May 30, 2024, God dispatched His Angels to reclaim his child. Rodney was preceded in death by his grandmothers, Bessie Gray and Henrietta Jackson Kemper; grandfather, Huey Mace Sr.; his uncles, Rodney Gray and Walter Pitman; and an aunt, Shirley Lambert.

Cherished memories will be kept by his parents, Rosie Gray and Raymond Kemper; grandparents Otis (Rose) Kemper and Polly Gray; his siblings, Shaniyah Kemper and Ra’mone Kemper, all of Vicksburg, Mississippi; a loving fiancé , Blythe Seay of Houston, Texas; his aunts, Michelle Kemper of Clinton, Mississippi, Rosalyn Gray of Grand Prairie, Texas, Connie and Bessie Gray, Tena Mace, all of Vicksburg, Mississippi, Lynette(Elbert) O’Neal and Janice (Jerome) Carter of Edwards, Mississippi, Mary Edwardson of Ocean Springs, Mississippi, Glenda (Angelo)Taylor of Fort Worth, Texas, Angela Hampton of Port Gibson, Mississippi, Deborah (Gregory) Carmichael of Florida; his uncles, Rossie Gray, Robert (Betty) Mace, and Huey Mace Jr., all of Vicksburg, Mississippi; a special cousin, Kevia Davis; and a host of cousins, other relatives and friends.

For those who knew and loved Rodney, then you know he was a leader and well mannered; possessed a beautiful, warm and welcoming smile; loved his family and helping others; loved to work and wouldn’t shy away from any task (whether in Vicksburg, Oxford or Houston), and like his Dad he never wanted to take off from work; was a health enthusiast; was a gamer and loved animation; was a big-time joker and garnered a stash of jokes waiting for family and friends; had a tight group of friends who he cared for and dearly loved; loved to sleep; and got a high from eating Chick-Fil-A and waffle fries!

Rodney always carried a heavy heart after the loss of his Grandpa Huey Mace and his Grandma Henrietta Kemper. He always wanted to make his parents proud, constantly fussing with his Dad to take care of himself. Rodney always thought about his Mom and wanted the very best for her. He was faithfully pushing his brother and sister to work harder. Whenever Rodney, Shaniyah and Ra’Mone saw one another their faces would light up and they never wanted to part from each other. Rodney’s dimples were his special gift from his Grandma Henrietta!

Rodney’s legacy of love will live on through us, and his memory will be cherished in our hearts forever!

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mrs. Joan Winters Norwood

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation & Family Hour: Friday, May 17, 2024, 5:30pm - 7:00pm

Location: New Hope Baptist Church/5202 Watkins Drive, Jackson, MS. 39206

Funeral Services: Saturday, May 18, 2024, 12:00noon

Repose in Church: 11:00am

Location: New Hope Baptist Church/1555 Beasley Road, Jackson, MS. 39206

Interment: Garden Memorial Park/8001 US 49, Jackson, MS.

Joan Winters Norwood was born on March 12, 1959 in Scott, Mississippi. She grew up in a small community in Bolivar County 10 miles North of Greenville, MS called Lamont - better known as The Big LA. She was the fourteenth child of sixteen children- the last daughter to the late Lavern Winters, Sr., and Lillie W. Winters. Born into a family with strong Christian values, Joan was taught to be a God-fearing woman.

Growing up in the Winter’s Clan, Joan was always on the move. She loved to race, jump double dutch and hide and seek. She was the baby girl but did not like to be thought of as a baby. Joan wanted to be as old as the rest of the sisters. Joan loved to dress up in her mother’s heels, dresses and wear her mother’s lipstick while she was away shopping. Joan learned to drive at an early age and was a very safe driver. She took the leading role in driving the family to special activities and events. Joan was loved, respected, and spoiled by all her siblings.

Joan was affectionately called “Jo” by both parents and siblings, but her husband lovingly called her Joann. At 12-years-old, she accepted Christ and was baptized at St. Paul Baptist Church in Lamont, MS. She began her work in the church by singing in the youth choir and participating in Sunday School and Summer Vacation Bible School Outreach Ministry.

Joan began her educational journey at Nugent Center in Benoit, MS where she graduated with the class of 1977. While in high school, Joan excelled academically and participated in the following activities: Beta Club, Drama Club, and score keeper for the boys’ and girls’ basketball team. She was a prolific clarinet player for the Nugent Center High School Marching Band. Earning the title of first chair, Joan also competed and won the title of Miss Nugent Center in 1977.

After high school graduation, Joan entered Jackson State University and majored in Exceptional Education and later obtained her master’s degree. She continued her studies at Delta State University in Cleveland, MS. Her initial instructional role began at Northwest Rankin Middle and High School. Her instructional experience spanned a total of 39 years across four districts: Rankin County School District, Canton Public School District, Hinds County School District, and Jackson Public School District. She retired from the Jackson Public School District in May 2020.

In 1985, Joan married the love of her life Sollie B. Norwood. To this union, two children were born, Sollie B. Norwood, II and Ashley F. G. Norwood. The family joined Brown Hill Baptist Church under the pastoral direction of Rev. Willie Williams with her husband, but later decided to join a church that was closer to home. They joined New Hope Baptist Church under the pastoral leadership of Rev. Dr. Jerry Young.

With eagerness, Joan served faithfully on the Deaconess Ministry. She also served as a volunteer for Vacation Bible School Outreach Ministries. Joan’s love for God was unconditional. She knew that living in this world meant there would be trials and triumphs that would only serve to strengthen her faith in the Lord.

In addition to her church ministry, Joan took pride in community service. She was a dedicated member of the NAACP, Jackson State National and Local Alumni Association, Blue Bengal Athletic Association, Heroine of Jericho, and Hemingway Circle Neighborhood Association. She loved to lend a helping hand to important matters in the communities where she lived and to those who called upon her.

She was the “Queen of Beautification.” Joan loved to arrange, organize, and beautify. She was an interior and exterior designer, and a wedding coordinator and planner. Whatever she touched, it was blessed with beauty and love. She launched a business, Ashley’s Wedding and Floral Design, as an outward expression of her passion for design. Along with her sister Lilly Winters Adams, the two helped others create treasured memories.

Joan was a loving mother and devoted wife. She loved her family unconditionally. She consistently encouraged and motivated her children to strive for their greatest potential, and even her little two-year-old granddaughter Soleil Legacy Norwood, who remains the light of her life. Her life exemplified the love of Christ in her everyday walk. Her faith in God was unchanging and never-ending.

On Thursday May 9, 2024, God called Joan to her eternal resting place. Preceding Joan in death are her parents Lillie and Lavern Winters, Sr., four sisters: Jessie M. Winters, Rachel Winters Acron, Evangelist Dorothy Winters Armstrong, Deloris Winters Magee, and one brother Rev. Theautry Winters.

Joan’s legacy will live on by her husband, Senator Sollie B. Norwood, daughter Ashley F.G. Norwood both of Jackson, MS, son Sollie B. Norwood II (Joi), grandson Legend and granddaughter Soleil of Clinton, MS. She also leaves to cherish seven sisters: Lettie W. Coleman of San Fernando, CA; Minnie Jones (Alphonse) of Palmdale, CA; Julia W. Pope (Edward) of Greenville, MS; Lilly Winters Adams of Jackson, MS, Alice W. Burnett (Rufus) of Gulfport, MS; Margaret McGhee (Jerry) of Demopolis, AL; Dennice W. Magee of Palmdale, CA; and four brothers: Lavern Winters Jr. (Angela) of Moorehead, MS; Dennis Winters (Bunch) of Palmdale, CA; Kenny V. Winters (Audrey) of Greenville, MS; Charles J. Winters (Monica) of Slymar, CA; and five in-laws, Ellis Norwood, Jr. (Bernice) of Jackson, MS; Herman Norwood (Barbara), Christel Sayles, Cassandra Sampson, Bernice Fields of Florence, MS, one aunt; Evelyn Whitney of Los Angeles, CA; a goddaughter Cassandra Mckee along with a host of first cousins, nieces, nephews, colleagues and close friends.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Clarence Winters

Arrangements are as follows:

Interment: Friday, February 16, 2024, 11:00am

Location: Cedar Hill Cemetery/326 Lovers Lane, Vicksburg, MS.

Clarence Winters was born February 12, 1933, at home with a midwife to the late Henry and Gertrude "Gertie" Winters in Vicksburg, Mississippi. African Americans weren't allowed in hospitals, and as a result his paperwork was delayed, and his legal date of birth was recorded as March 12, 1933.

Clarence was raised on a farm. They had chickens, goats, and horses. He picked strawberries and cotton at a young age. His father passed away when he was three years old. He had to work and help mama with the bills. Clarence's formal education stopped at the 9th grade level. Clarence valued education and his desire was for all of his children to attend college.

Clarence's first job was maintaining the lawn at the Coca-Cola bottling company. When he got older, he worked inside and was responsible for pouring the Coca-Cola syrup into the soda. He also worked for Magnolia Trailers. Clarence loved baseball and played with a Negro baseball team in Vicksburg, Utica, Yazoo City, and Natchez, Mississippi.

Clarence met Janice at a dance in town. They wed on January 3, 1959. Together they had five children and later divorced in June of 1979. Clarence moved out west to Portland, Oregon in the 1960's in search of a better way of life. There were more opportunities for Black men to make more money working on the railroads and Black women to become nurse's aides and later nurses. He worked more than thirty years at ESCO, an electric steel foundry in Northwest Portland as a fitter. He also fathered three more children.

Clarence gave his life to Christ at an early age and his family church growing up was Travis Chapel AME. He later became a parishioner of Holy Redeemer Church in Portland, Oregan until his passing.

Anyone who knew Clarence knew he loved football and enjoyed watching a good football game (although baseball was his first love). His favorite college teams included Jackson State, Alcorn State, and Grambling University. He was entertained during the halftime shows watching the marching bands and the drum majors "get down" on the football field. Clarence had a sweet tooth. He loved a good 7up cake that Shirley would bake and mail him. You could often find him nibbling on chocolate chip cookies, Oreos, a Mr. Goodbar, a chocolate Hershey bar or chocolate covered pecans from Minsky Pecan Market out of Lake Providence, LA. Clarence kept an appetite for hot tamales paired with an ice- cold Dr. Pepper or a ginger ale. He could eat a half dozen by himself. He loved fresh, hot, fried catfish, tripe, lamb chops, collard greens, buttermilk, and goat milk. Music was a favorite for him, his genre was "The Blues." He enjoyed artists like Elmore James, Bobby "Blue" Bland and ZZ. Hill just to name a few.

Clarence transitioned peacefully in his home Monday, January 15, 2024. He was preceded in death by his parents Henry & Gertrude Winters, son Clarence "Lil Clarence" Winters Jr., grandson Taishawn "Bug" Millage, siblings Henry Winters Jr., Willie Winters, Volney Winters, Eddie Johnson, Lee Ester "Mu'Dea" Winters, Johnnie B. Taylor, and Walterine Wildee. Clarence leaves to cherish his loving memory and carry on his legacy children Carl Winters, Curtiss Winters (Sallie), Kevin Winters Sr., Karen "KK" Winters, William "Shorty" Gilliam (Jackson, MS), Shelby Winters (Portland, OR), and Shirell Winters (Atlanta, GA), a host of nieces, nephews, grandchildren "pistol", Chauncy, Curtiss (Plano, TX), Antoinette, Isaiah (Portland, OR), Rikaiyah, Jeremiah (Portland, OR), Wanayia (Portland, OR), and great grandchildren. The Winters, Franklin, Johnson, Scott and Taylor families.

_____________________________________________________________________________

Mr. Damon Donnell Stamps, Sr.

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Friday, June 9, 2023, 1:00pm - 6:00pm

Family Present: 5:00pm - 6:00pm

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS

Funeral Services: Saturday, June 10, 2023, 2:00pm

Repose in Church: 1:00pm

Location: House of Peace Worship Center/1301 Holly Street, Vicksburg, MS

Interment: Cedar Hill Cemetery/426 Lovers Lane, Vicksburg, MS.

Damon Donnell Stamps, Sr. was born on April 13, 1972, as the firstborn son of Brenda Stamps and the late Arthur Barnes in Vicksburg, Mississippi.

A native of Vicksburg, Mississippi, Damon was a member of Greater Mount Lebanon Baptist church and was baptized at an early age under the leadership of Pastor A.I. Nettles. He attended school in the Vicksburg-Warren School District and was a 1990 graduate of Vicksburg High School. Upon graduation, he attended aviation school in Kissimmee, Florida, earning his air traffic controller certification. However, after returning to Vicksburg, Damon began his 28-year career with the City of Vicksburg working in the Water and Gas Department, where he never met a stranger.

Damon, also known as "Grip:' truly enjoyed spending time with his family and will be remembered as a loving and caring individual. He loved all sports and developed a love for football as a young child. Damon never desired the spotlight but was always willing to cheer loved ones on from the stands and sidelines. No matter where Damon was, you could always find him cheering people on.

If you knew Grip, you know what he would say when he walked into an atmosphere ... "Whaddup Playa?!" He had his ways of checking on those he loved and held close. Damon was a realist and purposefully passionate. He neither wasted his time nor his words. He never overstayed his welcome anywhere and appreciated it when others did the same.

Damon was preceded in death by his father, his stepfather: James Beamon; and his grandfather: Charlie Stamps, Sr.

He loved his sons dearly and spent time teaching and guiding them into the young men they are today. Damon is survived by his wife: Dr. Clara Ross Stamps; two sons: Damon "DJ" Stamps, [r., of Houston, Texas, and Damonte Stamps, of Vicksburg, Mississippi; his mother: Brenda Beamon, of Vicksburg, Mississippi; his grandmothers: Roberta Stamps, of Vicksburg, Mississippi, and Annie Lee Barnes, of Aurora, Illinois; and a beloved aunt, Juanita T. Wells, of Aurora, Illinois. Damon is the cherished older brother to: Andrew (Kathy) Stamps, of Rancho Cucamonga, California; James (Aretha) Beamon, of Lake Charles, Louisiana; Tamika (Cassius) McRae, of Columbia, South Carolina; and Dr. Jocelyn (Rashad) Fisher of Frisco, Texas. He is the beloved brother-in-law to Karaya (Kwan) James Curry of Dallas, Texas; Charles L. Ross of Vicksburg, Mississippi; Leroy (Carla) Chatman of Houston, Texas; Jessie (Heather) James of Phoenix, Arizona; Timothy M. Ross of Vicksburg, Mississippi; Anthony James of Houston, Texas; and Noel L. Ross of Atlanta, Georgia. Damon is greatly loved by his in-laws: Verlean (Leroy) Chatman and Andrew (Sylvia) James all of Vicksburg, Mississippi; Patricia (Charles) Wright of Vicksburg, Mississippi; and Geneva Johnson of Vicksburg, Mississippi. He is highly respected by six uncles: Charlie, Charles (Lelia), Sylvester (Gale), Issac, Alvin (JoAnn), and Derrick (Frances) Stamps, and four aunts: Joyce Daniel, Edna (James) Jackson, Patricia, and Linda Stamps, all of Vicksburg, Mississippi. He is also loved by a host of other relatives and friends, including nephews, nieces, and cousins.

There are no words to describe the grief and loss of such a beloved individual. Damon's greatest joy in life was that of a son, husband, father, brother, and friend. May every soul who loved Damon remember him for the incredible person he was and the positive impact he had on their lives. He will live forever in our hearts.

_____________________________________________________________________________

Mr. Hardy J. Lewis, Jr.

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Thursday, April 13, 2023, 1:00pm - 6:00pm

Family Present: 5:00pm = 6:00pm

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS

Funeral Services: Friday, April 14, 2023, 1:00pm

Repose in Church: 12:00noon

Location: Trinity Temple Baptist Church/1063 Meadows Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Interment: Cedar Hill Cemetery/326 Lovers Lane, Vicksburg, MS.

On October 17, 1938, in Vicksburg Mississippi, the Lord blessed Rev. Hardie J. Lewis, Sr. and Mrs. Malissa Ann Williams Lewis with an incredibly healthy and very beautiful 11-pound baby boy. They named him Hardy James Lewis, Jr.

Hardie, Sr. and Malissa invested in their son's education. In 1942, at the age of four years old, Hardy was enrolled in St. Mary's Catholic School.

Hardy grew up on Crawford Street. He gained life-long friends while running and playing in a close-knit community where he enjoyed attending Vacation Bible School, drinking chocolate malts and watching westerns at the local movie theater. He accepted Christ and exercised his Christian faith at Jackson Street Baptist Church. While growing up in that small and loving community, Hardy met his closest and dearest friend, Basil Theophilus Cummings.

Throughout his formative years, Hardy was a studious scholar and an awesome athlete. Hardy excelled in the classroom and in basketball, baseball and football. In 1956, Hardy graduated from high school as the Salutatorian of his class at St. Mary's.

Upon completing high school, Hardy attended Jackson State College, now Jackson State University. Later, Hardy made the brave decision to serve his country and joined the U.S. Army. Hardy served in the Army from 1958 to 1961 and later joined the Army Reserve 1961 to 1962. Upon receiving an Honorable Discharge from the military, Hardy embarked on the next phase of his life.

In 1963, Hardy went to work for the Waterways Experiment Station (also known as U.S. Army Engineer Research and Development Center (ERDC)) in Vicksburg, MS. Upon his employment, Hardy became the FIRST Black firefighter to be employed there and during his tenure achieved the rank of Assistant Fire Chief.

Hardy was well-known in Vicksburg for his bold voice and his even bolder personality and physical exterior. A force to be reckoned with, his peer gave him the name, "The Hardman." Hardy was an expert dominos and card player. He loved nature and was an enthusiastic reader.

In September 1985, Hardy married Laura Ann Holden. Rev. Hardie, Sr. performed the service and Mrs. Malissa stood as their witness. They decided to settle down in Jackson, MS and have been there for more than 30 years.

Upon retiring from the Waterways Experiment Station with more than 25 years of service, Hardy pursued a career at the Isle of Capri / Diamond Jacks Casino. While there, he served as one of the lead security members for approximately 15 years.

For Hardy's 75th birthday in 2013, the Honorable George Flaggs, Jr., Mayor of the City of Vicksburg, issued a proclamation recognizing Hardy as the first Black firefighter at Waterways Experiment Station. In addition, the Jacqueline House African American Museum recognized Hardy's historical accomplishments by curating a display design specifically for him.

On the morning of April 4, 2023, Hardy quietly and peacefully transitioned from this life and went to be with our Lord.

Hardy was preceded in death by his parents, Rev. Hardie J. Lewis, Sr. and Mrs. Malissa Ann Williams Lewis; maternal grandparents John S. Williams and Mahalia Durman Williams; paternal grandparents Eddie and Lucinda Lewis; one son, Gus Fleming; maternal aunts Willie Bell Johnson, Blanche Buckley, Mamie Diggs, Helen January and Mable Evans; maternal uncle, Leslie Williams, Sr.; paternal aunts Laura Freeman Walker, Gertrude Walton, Virginia Havard, Catherine Nixon and paternal uncles, Lawrence Newman, Samuel Lewis, Tommy Lewis and Eddie Lewis, Jr. and, a special cousin, Janice "Baby Ray" Winters.

Hardy is survived by his loving family:

Wife, Laura Ann Holden-Lewis

Children:

Larry James Lewis and wife Rochella of Apple Valley, California and their son James Edward Lewis of Casa Grande, AZ

Linda Marie Lewis Griffith of Ft. Worth, TX. and her sons Angelo Taylor of Mesquite, TX.; Jeremy Cooper of Cincinnati, OH and Wesley McGee ofFt. Worth, TX. Jeremy's Children - Jacala Raquelle Cooper, Jamarion Ray-quanJames Wesley's Child - Samya Nevah McGee Larry and Linda are the children of Mrs. Judith P. Hodge

Anitra Fleming Glover and husband Mark Glover of Encinitas, CA and their children Zachary Glover and Jordan Nicole Glover.

The Children of Gus Fleming - Baylee Fleming, Saige Fleming and Bryce Fleming and Baylee's son, LiamBulger Mr. David and Mrs. Letitia Fleming are the parents of Anitra Glover and Gus Fleming.

Cynthia A. Lewis Parham and husband Harold D. Parham, II ofEl Paso, TX. and their sons Christopher Lewis and wife Roslyn ofMt. Holly, NC and Harold D. Parham, III of Gaithersboro, MD Harold, Ill's Children - Christina Danielle Parham and Harold D. Parham, IV

Deborah Denise Lewis Carter and husband James Michael Carter, Sr. of Charlotte, NC and their children Monica Carter Ekundina and husband Olanrewaju Ekundina of Las Vegas, NV and son James Michael Carter, II of Charlotte, NC Monica's Children - Madison Marie Anderson, Olayide Ekundina, Oluwakemi Ekundina and Olanrewaju Ekundina, Jr. James, II's Children - Aylah Carter and Hunter Rae Cobb

Hardy James Lewis, III and wife Felicia of Chapel Hill, NC and their children Hardy J. Lewis, IV, Koda N. Lewis and Noah X. Lewis

Jerry DeWayne Lewis and wife Ayana of Tacoma, WA and their children Jaylin Marie Lewis and Kendal DeWayne Lewis Cynthia, Deborah, Hardy, III and Jerry are the children of Mrs. Marie Cain Rolling.

James Leonard Lewis and Maxine Golden of Jackson, MS and children Jamelyn JoAnn Angelique Walker of Jackson, MS and Jerry Fisher Green of Santa Ana, CA

Jamelyn's Children - JaSummer ShardaviaJackson and JaNoah Caleb Walker Angie Malissa Lewis of Jackson, MS

and children Reginald K. Smith, II and. Beau Jameson Lewis Hargro James and Angie are the children of Mrs. Laura Ann Holden-Lewis.

A Brother:

Dr. Edward D. Wiggins, Sr. and wife Dr. Ruby L. Wiggins of Terry, MS and children Edward, Jr., Lachiah, and J amiel

A Very Close Friend:

Basil T. Cummings and Wife Versie of Las Vegas, NV

Those Hardy Loved as Sons:

Tyrone Hargro of Jackson, MS; Charles "Rocky" Jones, Jr. of Vicksburg, MS;James C. Archer and wife Lorann of Vicksburg, MS; Dwight Thompson of Jackson, MS; and Constine McCarthy of Birmingham, AL

Hardy also leaves a host of family and friends to cherish his memory, including the Bingham, Holden,

Stewart and White Families.

_____________________________________________________________________________

Mr. Kenneth Kynard Adams (Son of Willie Adams/Bettie Starling)

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Thursday, March 30, 2023, 11:00am - 12:00noon

Location: Greater St. John Missionary Baptist Church/101 N. Adams Street, South Bend, IN.

Funeral Services: Thursday, March 30, 2023, 12:00noon

Location: Greater St. John Missionary Baptist Church/101 N. Adams Street, South Bend, IN.

Interment: Private

Our Son, brother, uncle, cousin and friend, Kenneth Kynard Woods Adams was born to Ms. Bettie C. Woods Starling and Mr. Willie Adams March 6, 1973 in Oxford, Mississippi. Kenneth was affectionately known as “Red.” Great men and women are only born for the time that they are needed most, and surely his presence on this Earth has touched lives and transformed places around him.

In 1976, the family relocated to South Bend, Indiana while Kenneth was at the tender age of three.

Kenneth accepted and confessed his faith in Christ during his adolescent years. In obedience to God’s word, Kenneth was baptized at Bethlehem Missionary Baptist Church under the leadership of Pastor Reverend Hardy Petty.

Kenneth received his formal education in the South Bend Public School system. He received his high school diploma from LaSalle High School in 1991. Kenneth went on to attend Indiana State University with a concentration in Communications. While attending Indiana State University, he was initiated as a member of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Incorporated, the “Alpha Zeta” Chapter in the spring of 1993 K.S.4. Shades of Red.

Kenneth enlisted in the United States Army Reserves in 1991and served for several years. He proudly served as a Material Storage and Handling Specialist. As we all knew, he had the heart to serve, from the field to the community. During his military career he used his hard work ethic, education, and professionalism to gain his Ribbon of Recognition for his Army Service.

Kenneth took pride in caring for his loved ones, as well as himself. He worked many years as a talent acquisition. He adapted a skill set and passion in culinary arts. Everyone that knew Red was aware of his love for cooking and love for Kappa Alpha Psi, Incorporated. He took pride in his cooking abilities. His passion and vision for food service pursued him to launch his own catering business Kuisine by Ken. He had an eye for detail and took pride in his plating arrangements. Kenneth never turned down a challenge or an obstacle. Perhaps, his last challenge would be to answer God’s call into Glory. It seemed as if the last challenge would be impossible; a challenge that has shaken the very core of those left to remember him. Red accepted the challenge in which he DEFEATED HIS LAST EMEMY: DEATH. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. (I Corinthians 15:26KJV). All to life is to live and all the death is not to die, but a life without purpose has no hope and no end.

Kenneth departed his earthly home to rejoice in his heavenly home on Monday, March 20, 2023 at 10:30 p.m. surrounded by his loved ones, friends, and fraternity brothers. He was met at the heavenly gates by his grandparents: Cliff and Ruth-William Woods, Marion Roosevelt and Ruby Marzette Adams; his aunts and uncles, Johnnie Mae Woods, Stanley Woods, Willie and Bernice McEwen, Robert and Lula Ladmirault, James and Yvonne Adams, Mattie and Nathan Hodges, Inez and Jerry Nolls.

Kenneth leaves to cherish his fond and precious memories his mother, Bettie Woods Starling (Murray, preceded in death) South Bend, IN; his father, Willie Adams (Emma) Jackson, MS; his brothers, Michael Woods, (Savannah, GA); Kevin Adams (Houston, TX), and; Christopher (Mieko) Paige of Saint Johns, FL; and his special friend Charles Grant (Chicago, IL). He also leaves to cherish his memory his aunts and uncles; Bobby Woods, South Bend, IN; Clifton Woods, South Bend, IN; Ruthie (OC) Caston, Chicago, IL; Percy (Alasha) Woods, Las Vegas, NV; William(Vikki) Woods, Chicago, IL; Sam (Betty) Woods, Steubenville, OH., Roosevelt (Regina) Adams of Chicago, IL, Andrew (Princess) Adams of Mooresville, NC, Kynard (Beverly) Adams of Montgomery, AL, Mae Shelby (Tommie, preceded in death) of Oxford, MS, Ruth (Collidge) Ball of Oxford, MS, his nieces and nephews; Morgan, McKenize, Mason, and Noah Woods, Madison, Taylar and Christian Paige, and a host of cousins, relatives, fraternity brothers, loved ones, and friends.

Mrs. Nada Yvonne Sykes

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Friday, December 16, 2022, 1:00pm - 6:00pm

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Funeral Services: Saturday, December 17, 2022, 11:00am

Location: Word of Faith Christian Center/3525 Wisconsin Ave, Vicksburg, MS.

Nada Yvonne Gibson was born on September 2, 1954, to the late George and Ruby Gibson in Vicksburg, Mississippi. She accepted Christ at an early age and joined Yeager Street Church of God in Vicksburg.

While attending Vicksburg High School, Nada participated as a color guard in the VHS marching band and graduated in 1972. She went on to attend Albany State University in Albany, Georgia where she studied Education. While living in Georgia, she met the love of her life, Melvin C. Sykes of Madison, Arkansas. They later married on March 31, 1979 and settled down in Brunswick, Georgia. In 1981, they started their family with their first son Kyle Anthony and two years later Kevin Charles. After relocating to Vicksburg in 1984, their family was complete with the birth of their third son Matthew George. For 33 years, Nada was a devoted wife to Melvin until his death in 2012. She was a wonderful mother who adored her boys and was extremely proud of them.

Nada had over 40 years in retail service and management. She was a store manager of Shoe City and Corning Revere in the outlet mall. Towards the end of her career, she worked at Home Depot and Porter Paints in Vicksburg.

Nada loved life and enjoyed spending time with her grandchildren and family. She always had an open-door policy welcoming anyone who happened to stop by. For many years, her home served as a gathering place for all family celebrations. She had a wonderful sense of humor and knew how to have fun. Having a heart of gold, Nada believed in helping her family and friends…..no questions asked. She was incredibly thoughtful and made sure to remember everyone’s birthday.

She loved the Lord and was a faithful member of Word of Faith Christian Center until her health began to fail. Several Sundays throughout the year she served as a greeter, greeting people with her beautiful, dimpled smile as they entered the church. She also loved working with children and often volunteered in the church’s nursery as well. To better understand the bible, Nada participated in a two-year course in Laymen’s Bible Study offered by the church, eventually graduating in 2015.

During her illness, Nada’s faith never wavered. Every morning at 5:30 am, she along with her sisters had morning prayer. She made sure to send daily texts of the Daily Bread readings to her family and friends. Her favorite bible verse, “Let us hold tightly without wavering to the hope we affirm, for God can be trusted to keep His promise”, Hebrews 10:23.

On Saturday December 10, 2022, she made her transition surrounded by her sisters in Vicksburg, Mississippi. She is preceded in death by her parents, sister Rosa, brother Clarence, her husband Melvin, and mother-in-law, Charlene Sykes.

She leaves to celebrate her beautiful life: her three sons, Kyle (Mackee) Sykes of Pearl, MS, Kevin (Rhonda) Sykes of Calera, AL, and Matthew (Chavonn) Sykes of Vicksburg, MS: sisters, Arie Glenn (Wendell) Prejean of Spring, TX, Ruby Jeneen (Bobby) Williams, Jerre Sims of Vicksburg, MS and Renee Tillman of Jackson, MS; four brothers George (Marie) Gibson of Dallas, TX, Harold (Elaine) Gibson of Columbus, OH, Anthony (Marion) Gibson of Vicksburg, MS and Joseph (Valeria) Tillman of Jackson, MS; four in-laws: Ralph (Donna) Sykes of Los Angeles, CA, Sherrye Blakely, Shirley Ingram, and Iris Williams of Madison, AR; five grandchildren, Preston Isaiah, Kaden Charles, Carter Charles, Mikayla Yvonne and Bailey Grace as well as a host of nieces, nephews, cousins and friends.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mrs. Mary E. Griggs

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Friday, September 16, 2022, 1:00pm - 6:00pm

Family Present: 5:00pm - 6:00pm

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Funeral Services: Saturday, September 17, 2022, 11:00am

Repose in Church: 10:00am

Location: Travelers Rest Baptist Church/718 Bowmar Avenue, Vicksburg, MS.

Interment: Cedar Hill Cemetery/326 Lovers Lane, Vicksburg, MS.

In the heart of the Delta, Mary Elizabeth Griggs was born in Wilmot, Mississippi in August 1931. For over half of her life, Mary celebrated her birthday on August 12—the date she believed to be her birth date. Many years later, Mary obtained an official copy of her birth certificate to discover that her recorded birth date was August 31, 1931.

Mary proudly lived her entire life in the state of Mississippi. From a very early age, she lived a life of service and devotion to others. A theme she would carry throughout her entire life. At various times, Mary took on the role of caretaker for members of her family. In 1952, Mary took on the role of her life – giving birth to her only child, Johanna, whom she loved and cherished - caring for her as she always would until her untimely death in June 2022.

With a high school education, Mary achieved greatness! She eventually began a career with the Vicksburg Public Schools as a cafeteria line worker. In early years, she also worked as a domestic worker for two families who each grew to love her as if she were a part of their own families. During her tenure at Vicksburg Public Schools, Mary worked her way through the ranks in various positions until she achieved the role of Lead Baker. Everyone coming through the cafeteria—teachers and students alike – were happy to say they had a cake baked by “Ms. Mary.” She loved her position and loved serving the students and teachers who came through her line each day. As she did with many things in her life, she took great pride and dignity in her work.

Mary retired from the Vicksburg Public Schools as a cafeteria worker after an esteemed 40+ year career. Although she retired, Mary continued her love of cooking and serving others. One of her greatest joys was baking cakes for friends, family, and loved ones! For a time, if you ever came through the Mississippi Welcome Center, chances are you enjoyed a cookie that she baked. Mary was a long-time member of the Cedar Grove Homemaker’s Volunteer Club.

Mary accepted Christ at an early age. In the early years, she was a member of Shiloh Baptist Church. Later in life, she joined Travelers Rest Baptist Church and was a member there for more than 30+ years. She loved her church and her church family dearly. During her many years at the church, Mary sang in the choir and took part in countless church programs and festivities. Over the years, Mary relished in cooking nearly every Easter dinner for the late Pastor Thomas Bernard and his family. She was a faithful servant who steadfastly believed in God’s word until her last days.

Mary loved music, reading the Vicksburg Evening Post, bargain shopping, and, of course, baking from scratch and cooking delicious meals for others. She was a fiercely strong and independent woman. When she made up her mind about something, good luck convincing her otherwise. She carried her own luggage (despite multiple attempts to stop her) and mowed her own large yard well into her 80s. Most of all, Mary loved her family – especially her daughter Johanna, with whom she shared a very special bond. Mary left an everlasting impression on anyone she met. A caring, warm, spirit that offered kindness and love to all who knew and loved her. She leaves behind a legacy of grace, strength, inspiration, service, and love.

Mary was preceded in death by: her parents, Bessie Whitfield and Robert Griggs; her siblings – brothers, Robert Griggs, Willie Griggs, Shedrick Griggs, and Ernest Griggs, and her sister, Bessie Griggs Kennedy (George); and her beloved daughter, Johanna Griggs Sampson Jones (Delbert).

She leaves to cherish her memory and legacy: her two grandchildren, Angela Sampson Allen (Leslie) and Mark Anthony Jones; two great grandchildren, Grayson Allen and Brayden Jones; her brother, Charlie Griggs (Lorraine); her nieces, Frances Kennedy Cowan (Fred) and Arbria Tillman; a nephew, George Kennedy, Jr. (Doris); the Jones Family, whom she treated as her own, complete with bonus grandchildren and great grandchildren; long-time neighbors, Austin and Ann Butler; and a host of cherished extended family members.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. David Jones

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Sunday, August 28, 2022, 1:00pm - 2:00pm

Location: Vicksburg City Auditorium/901 Monroe Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Funeral Services: Sunday, August 28, 2022, 2:00pm

Location: Vicksburg City Auditorium/901 Monroe Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Interment: Cedar Hill Cemetery/326 Lovers Lane, Vicksburg, MS.

On May 12, 1951, inside the city limits of Vicksburg, Mississippi, on Halls Ferry Road, the Late Cornelius and Mary Jones welcomed a 10 pound 8 ounce son and they would name him…David Lee Jones. David was the youngest of seven children and grew up in a God fearing home. He accepted the Lord at an early age, and was baptized at Porter’s Chapel Missionary Baptist Church.

David graduated from Rosa A. Temple High School in 1969, which was one of the last all black classes before desegregation. He was active in school, singing majestically in the school choir and found favor among his friends being voted “neatest male” by his fellow classmates.

David served in the United States Navy. Upon his return, he married his high school sweetheart, Frances. In 1972, a few hours after their wedding, the two left Vicksburg and headed North to Aurora, Illinois, where they would reside for the next 50 years. In May of 1974 the two would give birth to their only child, Makeba Jones-Campbell.

David joined Gayles Memorial Missionary Baptist Church and participated in the choir. One of his noteworthy solos was “Jesus is love”. He was instrumental in changing the bylaws to allow youth to participate in the adult church choir. In later years David joined Main Street Baptist Church and served as an Usher.

David was an avid reader and loved to recite poetry. One of his favorite excerpts was “Black is” by the Last Poets. David was a graduate of Wabonsee Community College and held many super-visory positions. From making Garbage bags and Dial soap, to ice cream sandwich cakes to cool you on a hot summer day. He spoke fluent Spanish and for many years operated his own janitorial service called “Domestic Engineers”. One of David’s most notable job titles was that of bailiff. He loved to introduce the judges and commanded attention with his deep baritone voice when he would say “All Rise……Court is now in session.”

David loved to sing and his house was always filled with music. He had a plethora of albums ranging from Beethoven to James Brown. His love for music was strengthened as a DJ for a local radio station in Aurora. He often dreamt of doing voice over work for radio commercials and television.

David enjoyed sports cars (the smaller the better), playing golf, taking pictures, sailing, car races, watching current events, sports and talking on the phone for hours with his siblings and childhood friends.

David was a natural comedian and great story teller. He could imitate absolutely anyone, and tell jokes that would have you laughing for days. David loved nature and animals. He could train a dog better than any dog trainer and loved feeding birds and squirrels. He was an unofficial horticulturist and had an undeniable green thumb.

If say it loud I’m black and I’m proud was a person, it would look like David Lee. He would recite: “Black is the velvet of the midnight sky Black, is so beautiful it makes you cry. Black is short, Black is tall, let me just say that Black is all. And this is not all I have to find, I also found that black is mine.” He was an activist in his own right, participating in the million man march on Washington, and bringing awareness to the social injustices that so often plagued the black community.

David was loving and kind, but one thing was certain, you were NOT going to disrespect him. If by chance you thought you could, trust and believe you would feel it, hence the nickname “knockout”.

David loved his family and never missed an opportunity to tell them how much he loved them. He loved spending summers and holidays with his grandchildren, playing checkers, reading, and creating memories.

David loved his home town of Vicksburg and was anxiously awaiting his return home. On August 16th, 2022 at approximately 7:59 a.m., God’s angel took charge of the final chapter of his life. His loving wife and daughter were at his side as his daughter sang him into eternity. God moved in his mysterious way and brought David Lee Jones home to glory.

David was preceded in death by: his father and mother, Cornelius and Mary Jones; one sister, Rosetta Phillips Mitchell; three brothers, Darnell Jones, Curtis Jones, and Arthur Jones.

He leaves to cherish his memory: his loving wife, Frances Jones; his daughter, Makeba Jones-Campbell (Corby); his three beautiful grandchildren, Taelah Majee’ Campbell “Prettines”, Coyia Demetris Campbell “Chubbs” and Jaloni Devon Campbell “Knucklehead”; his sister, Beatrice Totten of Justice, Illinois; his brother Cornelius Jones Jr. (Gloria), of Aurora, Illinois; special brother-n-law, Percy Shorter “me-me”; and a host of nieces, nephews, god-children, family, friends and classmates.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ms. Cassandra D. Jones

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Friday, July 1, 2022, 1:00pm - 6:00pm

Family Present: 5:00pm - 6:00pm

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Funeral Services: Saturday, July 2, 2022, 1:00pm

Repose in Church: 12:00noon

Location: Cedar Grove Missionary Baptist Church/3300 Grange Hall Rd, Vicksburg, MS.

Interment: Cedar Hill Cemetery/326 Lovers Lane, Vicksburg, MS.

On February 23, 1974 a star was born to the late Hattie Mae Washington Wilson and Avery L. Harris. Cassandra, who was celebrity- status in her mind, was often referred to by her friends as ‘Hollywood San’. Although her family acknowledged her pseudo-celebrity status, we affectionately referred to her as just ‘Sanda’. She was baptized at the age of 12 at Saint John Missionary Baptist Church in Yokena, Mississippi. She later attended Family Life Cathedral before her departure from Mississippi.

Sanda was raised in Vicksburg, Mississippi by her grandparents and grew up alongside many of her aunts, uncles, and cousins. Because they were raised together, Sanda was more like a little sister to her aunts and uncles instead of a niece. She essentially took the spot as the baby of the family, getting all of the attention and being spoiled by her grandparents. That’s probably where her stardom mentality was born.

She graduated from Vicksburg High School where she was a trackstar and known for the 100-meter dash hurdles. She also played the clarinet in the VHS “Pride” Marching Band. She later attended Hinds Community College where she was a member of the Bulldogs Cheer Squad.

Sanda moved to New Orleans, Louisiana where she was a valued employee for The City of New Orleans First City Court Evictions Department. She proudly took her Oath of Office as Deputy Clerk. Her coworkers all loved her and described her as ‘always having a smile on her face.

One of Sanda’s greatest roles in the movie of her life was definitely ‘Mother’. Sanda loved her daughters Akila, Jaylan & Jania more than anything. Each one of the girls had a special bond with their mother. Sanda enjoyed Facetiming, shopping, and cooking for her daughters. On the weekends, they would have a “Chick-Fil-LALA Day” where Sanda would make homemade chicken sandwiches - mild and spicy - and yell out “come get your Chick-Fil-LALA”. Akila later gave Sanda one of her greatest gifts and the person she was willing to share her spotlight with, a grandson named Karson. Karson was Sanda’s little prince and she was his queen. She would often say “I look good for a grandmomma, don’t I?” Nobody had to toot her horn because she tooted it herself. Sanda may not have received her star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, but she was definitely a star to everyone in her life. Her Earthly light was dimmed on June 27, 2022.

In addition to her mother, Cassandra was preceded in death by her grandfather Little D. Petties, Sr., brother Derrick Funches, aunt Gladys Richards, grandparents Arthur and Pauline Harris.

She leaves to cherish her memories: her daughters, Akila Jenkins, Jania Blount and Jaylan Blount, all of Jackson, Mississippi; her father, Avery (Glory) Harris of Vicksburg, Mississippi; her grandmother, Mary Petties of Vicksburg, Mississippi; her grandson, Karson Quinn of Jackson, Mississippi; four sisters, Cheryl Wilson of Utica, Mississippi, Terrie Wilson of Jackson, Mississippi, Domenica Graham and Averianna Harris both of Vicksburg, Mississippi; three brothers, Billy Ray Wilson, Jr. of Edwards, Mississippi, Charlie Griffin and Terrence Harris both of Vicksburg, Mississippi; six aunts, Loriene Lyons of Vicksburg, Mississippi, Cleo (Larry) Thomas of Lewisville, Texas, Priscilla (Darryl) Smith of Natchez, Mississippi, Ramona (Glennard) Warren and Brenda (Lenny) Smith both of Vicksburg, Mississippi, and Tracey (Kenneth) Davis of Hockessin, Delaware; two uncles, Little D. Petties, Jr. and Otis Petties both of Vicksburg, Mississippi; two step-children, Madison Blount and Deondrea Burks both of Jackson, Mississippi, and a host of nieces, nephews, cousins and friends including Edward Petties, Anthony Petties, Jerry Blount, Howard Jenkins, the Brown, Harris, Petties,, Washington and Dee families.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mrs. Johanna Sampson Jones

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Thursday, June 23, 2022, 1:00pm - 6:00pm

Family Present: 5:00pm - 6:00pm

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Funeral Services: Friday, June 24, 2022, 11:00am

Repose in Church: 10:00am

Location: Triumphant Baptist Church (Kings Community)/224 RL Chase Circle, Vicksburg, MS

Interment: Cedar Hill Cemetery/326 Lovers Lane, Vicksburg, MS.

Johanna Griggs began life’s journey on September 11, 1952. She was born in Vicksburg, Mississippi to Mary Elizabeth Griggs and the late Joseph T. Bingham, Sr. Johanna was named after her great- grandmother, Johanna Whitfield, and would often take extra care to ensure her name was spelled and pronounced correctly. She grew up in Vicksburg and was a very proud member of the Rosa A. Temple High School Class of 1970. In high school, she was a conscientious student who excelled academically and participated in school activities like chorus and drama.

After high school, Johanna attended Southern University for three years, majoring in Psychology. While at Southern, she continued her history of academic excellence with an induction into the 1972 Psi Chi Chapter of the Psychology National Honor Society. During her time in college, she met and married Harold Loyd Sampson. To this union, a daughter was born – one she already knew she would name Angela, after one of her

favorite soap opera characters. For the next 13 years, Johanna set the bar high by demonstrating an example of a hard-working single parent to Angela – showing her daughter firsthand how to be a strong and independent woman of class.

In 1986, Johanna married her fellow high school classmate, Delbert (“Bubba”) Jones. To this union, a son, Mark Anthony Jones, was born. From the day he was born, she forever cherished Mark and spent many hours praying over the life of her “baby” boy. Johanna also became a “bonus” Mom to Maurice, Daphne, and Latrisha—showing them each a love that far exceeded the role of stepparent. She also became part of a large extended family legacy, gaining new sisters and brothers “in love.” Johanna and Delbert were married for 35 years until her passing. She was the yen to his yang. Often when asked any questions about the household, Delbert’s reply was simply “ask Johanna.” Through life’s ups and downs, Johanna remained a steadfast, loyal, and devoted wife to Delbert.

With love and devotion, Johanna raised her children with Delbert in Vicksburg until the family moved to Woodbridge, Virginia in 1989. She would remain in Virginia for 22 years before returning to Vicksburg. Johanna lived the remainder of her life in her beloved hometown, re-establishing special connections with friends and classmates. Connections that she truly cherished.

Johanna accepted Christ at an early age. She was an active member of Bingham Memorial Baptist Church (Mississippi) and later at Mt. Olive Baptist Church (Virginia). She was an active member of the church choir, with a voice that was able to sing both alto and tenor. At Mt. Olive, she was an active member of the Women’s Ministry and went on to become a deaconess. Throughout her life, she always believed in the power of God and trusted in His word and His power.

Johanna loved music, her Alexa, bargain shopping, and she had a strong knack for decorating. She collected black artwork and figurines and often decorated around the holidays, especially her favorite time of year, Christmas.

Early in her career, Johanna was a HeadStart Program teacher at Ken Caryl. She later moved into the field of real estate and property management where she remained for the majority of her professional career. She ultimately retired after a career in retail management.

Johanna was affectionately known as “Johanna”, “Joanne”, “Jo, “Mama”, “Mama Jo”, and “Nana” by those who loved her. She was the glue – the foundation and center of her family. Above all else she loved her family, especially her Mom, with whom she shared a cherished and unbreakable life- long bond. Johanna also had strong and lasting bonds unique to each of her children, with the gift of being able to offer each of them just what they needed. With her personality, spirit, and that rich powerful voice many loved to hear, she touched the hearts of those that she encountered throughout her life. It was easy to see and feel the shine of her beautiful light in this world.

Johanna was preceded in death by her father, Joseph T. Bingham Sr.

She leaves to cherish her life and precious memories: her husband, Delbert M. Jones of Vicksburg; her mother, Ms. Mary E. Griggs of Vicksburg; her daughter, Angela Sampson Allen (Leslie) of Sterling, Virginia; her son, Mark Anthony Jones of Woodbridge, Virginia; stepdaughter, Daphne Johnson (Jamaal) of Natchitoches, Louisiana; stepson, Delbert Maurice Jones of San Diego, California; stepdaughter, Latrisha Washington of Biloxi, Mississippi; seven grandchildren, Grayson Allen, Brayden Jones, Devin Jones, Jayden Johnson, Jada Johnson, Delarrius Deere Jr., and Jordyn Washington; her brother, Joseph (Carolyn) Bingham, Jr. of Vicksburg, Mississippi; her uncle Charlie (Lorraine) Griggs of Chicago, Illinois; brothers and sisters-in-law, Lula M. Jones, Tommie Sean (Neddie Rae) Winters, Sinatra A. Williams, Margaret (Willie) Rankins, Vanessa (Eddie Lee) Prentiss, Carla (Charles) Whitney, Smith Wayne (Julia) Reed, Alonzo (Hattie) Jones, Carlton (Sherry) Jones, Dexter (Deborah) Jones; her beloved first cousins, George (Doris) Kennedy, Jr., Frances Kennedy (Fred) Cowan, Arbria Tillman; two great-grandchildren; her many cousins, nieces, nephews, and a host of good friends that became like family to her.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mr. Bennie Gaines, Jr.

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Thursday, March 10, 2022, 1:00pm - 6:00pm

Family Present: 5:00pm - 6:00pm

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Funeral Services: Friday, March 11, 2022, 11:00am

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Interment: Cedar Hill Cemetery/326 Lovers Lane, Vicksburg, MS.

A Life Remembered

“I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith.”

2nd Timothy 4:7 KJV

A Time To Be Born

Bennie “Sonny” Gaines, Jr. was born October 1, 1944 in Warren County, Vicksburg, Mississippi to the late Bennie (Mike) Gaines, Sr. and Eylin (Lin) Mable Gaines.

A Time To Live

Bennie “Sonny” Gaines, Jr. confessed Christ as his Lord and Savior at an early age and was baptized at Mount Pilgrim Missionary Baptist Church under the leadership of Reverend W. C. Porter. He attended and graduated from Cedars Elementary School on Highway 61 South. He continued on to high school, graduating in the class of 1962 from A. Temple High School. He also attended Jackson State University for 2 years.

Bennie enlisted later in the United States Army, receiving numerous medals and company rank of 1st Sergeant, and was serving as Master Sergeant before retiring. He later married his high school sweetheart, Barbara Brown Bailey. Unto this union three children were born; Jeffrey Michael Gaines (died April 7, 1971), Sonya Yvette Gaines and Jonathan Allen Gaines.

Bennie received several Army Service Ribbons and numerous medals for his outstanding service in the military.

After 26 ½ years of military service, he retired in March 31, 1989. He returned to Vicksburg and restored his membership at Mount Pilgrim Missionary Baptist Church, where he sang in the choir, doing what he loved.

Bennie “Sonny” Gaines, Jr. became employed as a civilian employee with the United States Army Corp of Engineers, ERDC, (formerly Waterways Experiment Station). He served for 18 years and retired because of health reasons that would not allow him to work any longer.

A Time To Die

On March 1, 2022, afternoon, God knew that His son was tired, so He called him home. Even though Bennie “Sonny” had a battle going on inside his body, he never lost his faith. He was preceded in death by: his son, Jeffery Michael Gaines; his parents, Bennie “Mike” Gaines, Sr. and Eylin “Lin” Mabel Gaines; two sisters, Doris Gaines Wilson and Gloria Gaines Hodge; four nieces, Deleslin Rosberg, Felicia Hodge, Desire Wilson and Libby Kay Jenkins; nephew, William Hodge, Jr.

A Time To Mourn

Bennie, Jr. leaves to cherish his memories: his sons, Stanley Gleese (Roshelle), Savannah, Georgia and Jonathan Gaines, North Chicago, Illinois; a loving daughter, Sonya Yvette Gaines Douglas (LeChon); four sisters, Janice Gaines Jenkins, Deloris Gaines McGee, and Eileen Gaines, all of Vicksburg, Mississippi and Marva Gaines of Montgomery, Alabama; two brothers, Malcolm Gaines (Mary) and Harold W. Gaines, Sr. (Mattie); ten grandchildren; five great-grandchildren; one god brother, Joseph Burns (Barbara); and a host of nieces, nephews, cousins, and other relatives including the Smith, Fountain, Hooper, Hall, Slater, Slaughter and Johnson Families.

_____________________________________________________________________________

Mr. Wilbour Washington

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Wednesday, February 16, 2022, 1:00pm - 6:00pm

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Funeral Services: Thursday, February 17, 2022, 12:00noon

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home Chapel/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Interment: Cedar Hill Cemetery/326 Lovers Lane, Vicksburg, MS.

A Time To Be Born

Mr. Wilbour Washington was born in Vicksburg, Mississippi on August 14, 1953 to the late Mr. and Mrs. George and Fannie Washington.

A Time to Live

Wilbour confessed Christ and was baptized on March 18, 1985 at Morning Star Missionary Baptist Church under the pastorate of the late Reverend Erwin Cosey, Sr. There he served on the usher board as a faithful member through the pastorate of Reverend James Archer.

Wilbour was a graduate of Warren Central High School and later furthered his education at Utica Junior College. He completed a tool and dye apprenticeship and became a certified machinist.

During his life, Wilbour worked at Marathon Letourneau, Simpson Duravent, McGraw Edison and Anderson Tully. After 30 years of dutiful service to the company, he retired from Anderson Tully.

Skilled in many areas, he was an electrician, mechanic and carpenter. Wilbour was very industrious and used all of his talents to help his family whom he loved so dearly. He built his very own house and two houses for his sisters and remodeled two homes for other family members.

On February 7, 1976 he met the love of his life, the former Dianne Cosey. They later married and to this union one daughter was born, Delisha Washington.

A Time to Rest

“And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove!

For then would I fly away, and be at rest.” Psalms 55:6

On Thursday, February 10, 2022, Wilbour transitioned from this life to his heavenly home. He was preceded in death by his parents, five sisters: Willie B. Lyons, Georgia Lee Freeman, Emma Lee Gaskin, Catherine Adams, and Daisy Mae Smith and one brother, Eddie Washington.

A Time to Mourn

Wilbour leaves to cherish his memories, his loving and devoted wife of 45 years, Dianne Washington; three daughters, Delisha (Rufus) Armstrong and Chinikka Ferguson both of Vicksburg, Mississippi and Lateeta Carson of Houston, Texas; his dog, Zoey; five grandchildren, Jaylen Armstrong and Jakayla Boyd of Vicksburg, Mississippi and Brad Washington Jr., Shaniya Carson, Jayceon Carson of Houston, Texas; two god children, Mya and Charleston Eatmon of Hephzibah, Georgia; two sisters, Mary Helen Carson and Ethel White of Vicksburg, Mississippi; his mother-in-law, Mrs. Sarah Cosey; three sisters-in-law, Terri (Walter) Cosey, Lynniese (Greg) Mayfield and Ava (Eric) Cooley of Vicksburg, Mississippi; three brothers-in-law, Erwin (Thelma) Cosey, Jr. of Huntsville, Alabama, David (Laurice) Cosey of Brookhaven, Mississippi and Richard Cosey of Vicksburg, Mississippi; and a host of cousins, nieces, nephews and other relatives and friends.

_____________________________________________________________________________

Mr. James Ellis Gross

Arrangements are as follows:

Visitation: Thursday, January 20, 2022, 1:00pm - 6:00pm

Family Present: 5:00pm - 6:00pm

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Funeral Services: Friday, January 21, 2022, 10:00am

Location: Lakeview Memorial Funeral Home/2102 Clay Street, Vicksburg, MS.

Interment: Natchez National Cemetery/41 Cemetery Road, Natchez, MS.

James Ellis Gross was born to Harrison A. Gross and Julia Mary Gross in Port Gibson, MS on January 7, 1955. He professed his life to Christ at an early age at St. John Baptist Church in Vicksburg, MS. He later joined Morning Star Seventh - Day Adventist in August 1965 where he was baptized. James departed this life at his home on January 10th and was pronounced deceased by the coroner on January 12, 2022. James was educated in Vicksburg at Cedars Elementary School, Lucy C. Jefferson Junior High and went on to play football at Warren Central High School where he graduated with the Class of 1973. He attended Utica Junior College in Utica, MS., transferring to Alcorn State University furthering his education.

James was employed as a professional truck driver which he enjoyed immensely with several transportation companies and other jobs throughout his working years. He loved sitting up in his big trucks driving the highways. James was an avid reader. He would oftentimes be seen outside sitting in or on the tailgate of his truck reading. He had many books and reading them was his quiet and enjoyable time. His greatest love was the love of family and horses. He enjoyed working with and training his horses to obey him first of all and then to make them beautiful horses for everyone to admire.

James had one major fault; he was weak to the sight of a beautiful woman. He married Ms. Theresa Devine who he met while attending college in Utica. He would say, “she was truly divine”. To this union a beautiful daughter named Tiffany Denea was born. Once again, he spotted a beautiful woman while attending Alcorn. He married Ms. Nancy Johnson who captured his heart and she became his Kryptonite. To this union three gorgeous daughters were born Carolyn Denise, Jamie Elisa, Niaja Jene.

James joined the army on May 18, 1982 and was honorably discharged April 11, 1986. He started his active duties in Jackson, TN and served until he was honorably discharged in Fort Bliss, TX. He held the rank of E-4. He was a M16-Marksman, he received an Army Service Ribbon, Good Conduct Medal, Army achievement medal and First Oak Leaf Cluster.

He mourned the passing of those he loved: his parents, his two sisters Brenda J. Gross, Gertrude Nash, three brothers Thomas Gross, Sr., Harrison Gross, Jr., and Charles Gross, Sr., one niece, Brelyn S. Gross, two nephews, Thomas Gross, Jr. and Michael Gross; and a great-niece Tabitha Mallory.

He leaves to cherish his memory: his 4 daughters, Tiffany, Carolyn, Jaimie and Niaja all of Texas; two grandchildren, Zion McGee and Zanora Cody (Nicholas) both of TX; one brother, Benjamin Earl Turner of Chicago, IL; one brother/cousin, Ernie M. Jenkins (Annie) two sisters, Sandra Elaine Gross of Vicksburg, MS and Mary Alma (Clarence) Thomas of Gulf Port, MS; sisters-in-law, Alice Gross of Bovina, MS and Yvonne Gross of Gary, IN; aunts, Virginia D. Richardson of Calumet Park, IL, Willie B. Love of Calumet City, IL, Savannah Watts of Chicago, IL and Charlie Ruth Goods of New Orleans, LA; and his riding buddy, James Betts. He was loved by many of his nieces, nephews, cousins and friends that were very dear to his heart.

_____________________________________________________________________________