In 2016, the Norwegian health monitoring programme for wild salmonids conducted a real-time PCR-based screening for salmon gill poxvirus (SGPV) in anadromous Arctic char (Salvelinus alpinus L.), anadromous and non-anadromous Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.) and trout (Salmo trutta L.). SGPV was widely distributed in wild Atlantic salmon returning from marine migration. In addition, characteristic gill lesions, including apoptosis, were detected in this species. A low amount of SGPV DNA, as indicated by high Ct-values, was detected in anadromous trout, but only in fish cohabiting with SGPV-positive salmon. SGPV was not detected in trout and salmon from non-anadromous water courses, and thus seems to be primarily linked to the marine environment. This could indicate that trout are not a natural host for the virus. SGPV was not detected in Arctic char but, due to a low sample size, these results are inconclusive. The use of freshwater from anadromous water sources may constitute a risk of introducing SGPV to aquaculture facilities. Moreover, SGPV-infected Atlantic salmon farms will hold considerable potential for virus propagation and spillback to wild populations. This interaction should therefore be further investigated.

In 2019, the objective of the health-monitoring program was to investigate occurrence and co-infections of PMCV, PRV-1, PRV-3, SAV and ASCV in wild Atlantic salmon and seatrout captured in the sea. The prevalence of pathogens in wild salmonids before they enter freshwater is an important reference point in the investigation of disease interaction between wild and farmed salmonids. Invading pink salmon were included in the programme to increase the knowledge about their role in introduction and spread of fish pathogens in Norway.

Piscine orthoreoviruses (PRVs) are emerging pathogens causing circulatory disorders in salmonids. PRV‐1 is the etiological cause of heart and skeletal muscle inflammation (HSMI) in farmed Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar), characterized by epicarditis, inflammation and necrosis of the myocardium, myositis and necrosis of red skeletal muscle. In 2017, two German breeding farms for Atlantic salmon and rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss), respectively, experienced disease outbreaks with mortalities of 10% and 20%. The main clinical signs were exhaustion and lethargic behavior. During examinations, PRV‐1 in the salmon and the PRV‐3 in trout were detected for the first time in Germany. Further analyses also indicated the presence of Aeromonas salmonicida in internal tissues of both species. While PRV‐1 could be putatively linked with the disease in Atlantic salmon, most of the rainbow trout suffered from an infection with A. salmonicida and not with PRV‐3. Interestingly, the sequence analysis suggests that the German PRV‐3 isolate is more similar to a Chilean PRV‐3 isolate from Coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch) than to PRV‐3 from rainbow trout from Norway. This indicates a wide geographic distribution of this virus or dispersal by global trade. These findings indicate that infections with PRVs should be considered when investigating disease outbreaks in salmonids. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.