Sokrates

Asteroid 5450, Sokrates, was discovered on September 24, 1960 by C. J. van Houten and Ingrid van Houten-Groeneveld at Palomar Observatory near Pauma Valley, California. It has a period of 4 years, 263 days.

Sokrates was named after the Greek philosopher Sokrates (also spelled Socrates) (c. 470 BCE-399 BCE), who taught that one should always speak the truth. Trained as a stonecutter, he never worked at his trade, but roamed the streets of Athens, teaching through conversations (dialogues) with others. Sokrates was eventually convicted by the city-state of Athens of corrupting the youth of Athens and denying the state religion and sentenced to drink hemlock. As a good citizen, Sokrates drank the cup of poison in the presence of all his pupils, without protesting against the government. Since Sokrates never wrote anything down, everything we know about Sokrates is from his pupil Plato.

Sokrates

Astrologically, Sokrates seems to indicate itinerant, teaching, inspiring, considered to be subversive, criminal or inciting rebellion..

Legendary leftist revolutionary Ernesto "Ché" Guevara (born June 14, 1928 in Rosario, Argentina) had Sokrates conjunct Venus (values, art), semisquare Jupiter (philosophy), sextile Don Quixote (traveling, taking on the system), square Ceres (to nurture), trine Pallas (politics, conceptualization) and opposite Cruithne (a brand name).

Survivalist James "Bo" Gritz (born January 18, 1939 in Enid, Oklahoma) has Sokrates semisquare Juno (the underdog).

Martin Luther King, Jr. had Sokrates in the fifth house of self-expression, decile Pluto (transformative), sextile Mars (anger, assertion, energy), tredecile Chiron, trine Hidalgo (to assert, to defend, to promote) and the Ascendant (personal interests), and opposite Pallas.

Malcolm X had Sokrates in the tenth house of career, reputation and authority, on the Midheaven, semisquare Juno and Elatus (eloquent expression), sesquiquadrate Heracles (to struggle with), biquintile Uranus (rebellion, agitation) and opposite Pallas.

César Chavez had Sokrates in the seventh house of open enemies, conjunct Mercury (ideas, speaking), semisquare Chiron, tredecile Pallas, trine Pluto and Vesta (dedication), and contraparallel Juno.

Soviet-era Russian dissident physicist Andrei Sakharov (born May 21, 1921 in Moscow) had Sokrates tredecile Venus (values, indignation), trine Don Quixote and opposite Pluto.

Homeless religious fanatic street preacher, kidnapper and alleged rapist Brian Mitchell (born October 18, 1953) has Sokrates sextile Ceres, septile Mars (crime, rape, direct action), square Juno (relating, the disadvantaged), tredecile Uranus (different, bizarre, rebellious), trine Asbolus (counsel offered, bad experiences) and opposite Hylonome (an outcry, pathos).

David Koresh had Sokrates in the fourth house of home and the end of life, trine Venus and quincunx Heracles.

The glyph for Sokrates, recalling the philosopher Sokrates' poison cup, is mine.