Silicon Valley, located in Northern California, is home to iconic technology companies like Apple, Google, Meta, and Uber. This guide gives an overview of things to do in Silicon Valley and is intended for software engineers and programmers looking for geeky Silicon Valley points of interest. Every year, thousands of geeks visit the Silicon Valley destinations outlined in this guide.

The Silicon Valley Tour page provides more information for visitors that want a guided tour.

Follow us on Twitter and YouTube.

What to see

Silicon Valley covers a wide geographic area and points of interest are spread out among several cities. The following map highlights the attractions listed in this guide.

What to expect: Visitors are often surprised when they arrive in Silicon Valley. The area is mostly suburban, filled with office parks . Companies are geographically dispersed and the traffic is bad. Many companies are developing innovative technology, but the work is done in access-restricted office buildings, hidden from the public.

Geek Appeal: ★★★★ | 15 minutes

1 Hacker Way, Menlo Park, CA 94025

Facebook, the social media giant, is based in a 40,000-square-meter main campus designed by Frank Gehry.

The Good: Take a selfie next to the big thumb up sign and make it your Facebook profile picture.

The Bad: There isn't anything else to see unless you know a Facebook employee.

Fun fact: The back of the sign still has the old logo of Sun Microsystems, the previous tenant of the campus.

Tip: During warm seasons, the Facebook Farmers Market is hosted on the main parking lot.

Learn more: Facebook Menlo Park

Sandhill Road

Geek Appeal: ★ | 5 minutes

Sandhill Rd, Menlo Park, CA

Sandhill Road is home to the most powerful venture capital firms in Silicon Valley. Firms such as Andreessen Horowitz, Sequoia Capital, Accel, Benchmark Capital, Kleiner Perkins, and Greylock Partners are located here. Entrepreneurs come to this area to meet venture capitalists and raise money for their start-ups.

The Bad: There isn't anything to see here except for office buildings.

Fun Facts:

Sand Hill Road has the most expensive office space in the United States.

Cougar Night was a weekly dating event previously hosted at the five-star Rosewood Sand Hill hotel. Read more at Vanity Fair.

Read more: The VC Address of Choice: Sand Hill Road.

450 Serra Mall, Stanford, CA 94305

Geek Appeal: ★★★★ | 1 hour

Stanford University is where many of the biggest tech companies, like Google, Yahoo, and Cisco, were founded.

The Good: Beautiful campus. Very smart (and sometimes famous) students and faculty.

The Bad: Parking can be hard to find if you visit on a weekday during the school year.

Tip: Parking is easier to find on the weekend.

Learn more: YouTube

(Image CC from small-world.)

Geek Appeal: ★★★★ | 30 minutes

4180 El Camino Real, Palo Alto, CA 94306

Telsa's showrooms are open to the public. Browse and learn about their electric vehicles, even if you can't afford the cars!

Test drive: You can test drive cars for free if you are over 25 years old and have a valid US driver's license. This requires making an appointment ahead of time on the Tesla website.

The Good: Friendly staff. Sales people aren't pushy. Free test drives.

Tesla also has showrooms and stores in San Jose, Fremont, and Sunnyvale.

Geek Appeal: ★★ | 2 minutes

260 Sheridan Ave., Palo Alto, CA 94306

This statue of Nikola Tesla is also a free Wi-Fi access point and time capsule which will be opened in 2043. The statue was originally started as a Kickstarter project.

The Good: Tesla is relatively obscure compared to Edison, so it's nice to see him honored.

The Bad: It's just a statue.

Geek Appeal: ★★★★★ | 30 minutes

2000 N Shoreline Blvd, Mountain View, CA 94043

Google's headquarters, also known as the Googleplex, spans over 100 buildings in a sprawling campus in Mountain View and Sunnyvale. See this map for specific locations for taking your selfies!

The Google Visitor Center sells shirts, hats, cups, and other souvenirs with Google, YouTube, and Android branding. You can also buy the same goodies online.

Throughout the Google campus, you'll find quirky decorations such as physical Google Maps markers, Google Street View car, a volleyball court, and Stan the T-Rex. Colorful bikes are scattered across campus. Employees use these bikes to quickly travel between buildings on the massive campus.

The Good: Store is open during the weekdays.

The Bad: Visitor Center is relatively small.

Fun Fact: Google has nine conference bikes where teams can hold meetings while cycling.

Read more:

Googleplex (Wikipedia)

Google Visitor Center

Geek Appeal: ★★★★★ | 1 hour

1401 N. Shoreline Blvd., Mountain View, CA 94043

The Computer History Museum is adjacent to Google's headquarters. The museum has the world's largest collection of historical computing artifacts, spanning from ancient counting machines to autonomous vehicles.

The Good: World's largest collection of historical computing artifacts. Hosts a model Google self-driving car that you can sit inside.

Price: $17.50 (General Admission)

Tip: Groupon frequently has discounts for the Computer History Museum

(Image CC from brianjmatis on Flickr. See more.)

Geek Appeal: ★★★ | 30 minutes

Moffett Field, California 94035

The NASA Ames site has two parts. The first part is the NASA Exploration Center. This is a small exhibit that showcases the work done at NASA Ames. The second part is the Moffett Field Historical Museum. This contains history around the country's airships during the first half of the 20th century.

The Good: Gift shop has neat NASA gear.

The Bad: The Exploration Center and Moffett Field Historical Museum are small. Touring each will take about 30 minutes.

Apple Visitor Center

Geek Appeal: ★★★ | 30 minutes

10600 N Tantau Ave, Cupertino, CA 95014

Apple's headquarters are located in Cupertino. They have a company store that's open to the public. It's the only place in the world that sells Apple-branded t-shirts, caps, and accessories. The store is the only part of the campus that's open to the public.

The Good: View Apple's futuristic spaceship campus can be viewed from the terrace.

The Bad: The site is mostly a collection of office buildings and access is heavily restricted.

Read more: Wikipedia | Official Site

Geek Appeal: ★★★★ | 30 minutes

2200 Mission College Boulevard, Santa Clara, CA 95054

This corporate museum hosts the history the of the Intel Corporation. There is also a gift shop where you can by Intel schwag.

The Good: Free. This museum is unique because of its focus on semiconductors.

The Bad: Relatively small. Focuses exclusively on Intel technology.

3400 Broadway, Oakland, CA 94611

The Museum of Art and Digital Entertainment (The MADE) is a non-profit dedicated to the preservation of video game history and to educating the public as to how video games are created.

Price: $10 to play games all day

Pros: Comprehensive collection of video games and consoles.

Cons: Relatively small.