The latest reviews and mentions of Tachyon titles and authors from around the web.

Elizabeth Story, Ann & Jeff VanderMeer (photo: Richard Klienik/LA TIMES), Lauren Beukes, and Ellen Datlow

Tachyon Art Director extraordinaire Elizabeth Story finally showcases her wares online.

BOOK SCROLLING reveals The Best Steampunk

Books.

“What are the Best Steampunk Book?” We looked at 270 different titles, aggregating and ranking them so we could answer that question!

Take a break from operating your geared metallic dirigible and pick up one of the 270 different steampunk books we aggregated and ranked! The top 36 titles, all appearing on 4 or more lists, are ranked below with images, descriptions, and links. The remaining titles, as well as the sources we used, can be found at the bottom of the page.

8 .) STEAMPUNK by Ann and Jeff VanderMeer

Lists It Appears On:

The Best Sci Fi Books

Library Journal

Flashlight Worthy

The Ranting Dragon

Tor Books

Ypsilanti District Library

Wikipedia

Reader Pants

Goodreads

Steampunk Scholar

Author Matt Wesolowski at READER DAD reveals his influences.

Lauren Beukes and Yrsa Sigurðadottir were more of those revelatory writers that pushed at genre conventions; straddling the places between crime and the supernatural and gave me a galvanic push to try the same.

TOR.COM shares the Dave McKean cover and table of contents for Ellen Datlow’s forthcoming original anthology MAD HATTERS AND

MARCH HARES.

Mad Hatters and March Hares will features stories that are inspired by the strange events and characters that appear in Wonderland.

Table of Contents

“A Comfort, One Way” by Genevieve Valentine

“Alis” by Stephen Graham Jones

“All the King’s Men” by Jeffrey Ford

“Conjoined” by Jane Yolen

“Eating the Alice Cake” by Kaaron Warren

“Gentle Alice” by Kris Dikeman

“In Memory of a Summer’s Day” by Matthew Kressel

“Lily-White & The Thief of Lesser Night” by C.S.E. Cooney

“Mercury” by Priya Sharma

“Moon, Memory, Muchness” by Katherine Vaz

“My Own Invention” by Delia Sherman

“Run, Rabbit” by Angela Slatter

“Run, Rabbit, Run” by Jane Yolen

“Sentence Like a Saturday” by Seanan McGuire

“Some Kind of Wonderland” by Richard Bowes

“The Flame After the Candle” by Catherynne M. Valente

“The Queen of Hats” by Ysabeau Wilce

“Worrity, Worrity” by Andy Duncan

For more info on STEAMPUNK, visit the Tachyon page.

Cover by Ann Monn

For more information about SLIPPING: STORIES, ESSAYS, & OTHER WRITING, visit the Tachyon page.

Cover art by Clara Bacou