Dallas, Texas Historic Sites

P. Marlin 2016, 2018, and 2020

President John F. Kennedy, Lee Harvey Oswald and Bonnie & Clyde.

Dealey Plaza and John F. Kennedy Assassination

President John F. Kennedy leaves Palm Beach, Florida, a few days before flying to Dallas, Texas, in November 1963.

Then and now of the presidential motorcade heading down Elm Street in Dealey Plaza, November 22, 1963 and July 2016.

Sniper's Nest: the corner of the sixth floor of the book depository building where Lee Harvey Oswald shot President Kennedy.

The view of Elm Street and Dealey Plaza from the seventh floor of the book depository building. People are standing on the X that marks the spot where the third (and fatal) bullet hit John F. Kennedy.

Then and now of the assassination.

Lee Harvey Oswald sites

The Texas School Book Depository where Lee Harvey Oswald shot President John F. Kennedy from the 6th floor window. Overlay is after the President was shot on November 22, 1963 and 2018.

Original photo of 214 W. Neely Street in Dallas where Lee Harvey Oswald and his wife, Marina, lived with their small child after they returned from Russia. This is also where Marina Oswald took the famous photograph of the assassin with his new mail-order rifle in the back yard.

Today's photo of 214 W. Neely Street in Dallas. We took the dirt road on the right to try and get a glimpse of the back yard.

There was a gap in the fence.

It is pretty eerie looking at the spot an assassin once stood.

An original photo of Oswald with his gun.

Then and now.

Oswald was living at 1026 N. Beckley Avenue in Dallas when he shot the president on November 22. He was one of 17 boarders in the house. After shooting the president at the Book Depository building, Oswald was able to leave the building, walk several blocks to catch a city bus, and then hailed a taxi that took him to this boarding house. There he picked up a pistol and a coat and left the house. The black and white photo is a scene from the Oliver Stone movie, "JFK" where Oswald returns to the house after the shooting - this scene was filmed both inside and outside the original house.

After leaving the house, Oswald walked to 10th Street and Patton Avenue where Dallas policeman, J.D. Tippit, hailed him down. Angry words were exchanged, and as Tippit got out of his car, Oswald shot him dead. At least a dozen people witnessed Tippit’s murder.

After shooting the policeman, Oswald continued a few blocks to Jefferson Street and the Texas Theater. Discarding his coat, Oswald was going in and out of storefront doorways when a manager of a shoe store noticed his suspicious behavior and began following him. He saw Oswald duck into the Texas Theatre.

After seeing Oswald enter the theater, the shoe manager hailed a police officer, Nick McDonald, who entered the theater accompanied by another officer. The black-and-white movie War Is Hell was playing. Soon enough the movie was stopped, and the lights came up. As McDonald came up the aisle, the manager of the theater pointed out Oswald from the stage.

Inside the Texas Theater today. The theater was built in the 1930's and was once owned by Howard Hughes. Notice stairway in wall to the left.

The original theater stairway that has since been since covered up except for this small section on display.

Then and now depiction of Lee Harvey Oswald being captured at the Texas Theater, November 22, 1963 and July 2016. When the officers approached him in the theater, Oswald stood up and shouted, “This is it!” and pulled out his revolver. One of the officers leapt on him, getting his finger between the pistol’s hammer and the bullet, and the gun did not go off. Oswald punched one of the officers, and the officer punched him back, giving Oswald a black eye and a cut. In the Dallas police headquarters later, Oswald would claim police brutality. Outside the theater, word of Oswald’s arrest had spread through the neighborhood, and a crowd gathered. When Oswald was brought out, people shouted, “Kill him! Kill him!”

Capture at the theater - photo by James “Jim” MacCammon.

Clyde Barrow and Bonnie Parker in Dallas, Texas

The notorious Clyde Barrow and Bonnie Parker, notorious, bank robbers and cop killers. Recommended reading, "Go Down Together" by Jeff Guinn.

2016 Visit

The home of the Barrow family was once this abandoned building at 1221 Singleton Road in Dallas. Bought by Clyde Barrow's father Henry in 1930-31, the front part of the the building was turned into a gas station while the back part was living space for the family. In February 1932 Clyde was released from prison and returned to the family at this site. Sold by the family in the 1940's, the site has seen many changes over the years.

2020 Visit

The repainted Barrow Gas Station in November 2020.

The Lillian McBride house where Clyde Barrow shot and killed Tarrant County Deputy Sheriff Malcolm Davis 1933. Photo is an re-enactment.

The Lillian McBride house in November 2020. This house is not far from the Barrow Gas Station.

The Lillian McBride house in November 2020. This house is not far from the Barrow Gas Station.

The Bonnie Parker gravesite in Dallas, Texas. After being located in another cemetery in Dallas, Bonnie Parker was moved and is now buried next to her mother.

The Clyde Barrow gravesite. Clyde is buried next to his brother, Marvin "Buck" Barrow. Buck was killed by police a year before Clyde. The saying goes that Clyde's parents, anticipating Clyde's demise, decided to wait to buy a headstone for Buck's grave until after Clyde was killed. The "Gone but not Forgotten" was requested by Clyde before his death. Clyde and Buck are buried near their parents.

Western Heights Cemetery in Dallas, Texas where the Barrow family is buried. There is a well marked path to Clyde's grave.

Cement City High School where Bonnie Parker attended school.

Cement City High School where Bonnie Parker attended school in November 2020.