Description

SABATON The last stand EARBOOK. DELUXE EARBOOK EDITION

This special edition includes the an exclusive deluxe digibook CD featuring 3 bonus tracks, an exclusive live CD plus the 88-minute live DVD (Live in Nantes, France, 02/24/2016 ); an exclusive double-picture disc LP, a poster, photo card and three SABATON picks!!

The Last Stand is the eighth studio album by Swedish power metal band Sabaton. It was released on 19 August 2016. It was produced by Peter Tägtgren in Abyss Studios. Like Sabaton’s previous album Heroes, The Last Stand is a concept album and takes inspiration from “last stand” military battles. On 10 June 2016 the first single “The Lost Battalion” was released, followed by “Blood of Bannockburn” on 15 July and “Shiroyama” on 12 August.

SABATON The last stand EARBOOK

Sabaton is a Swedish power metal band from Falun. The band’s main lyrical themes are based on war, historical battles, and acts of heroism—the name is a reference to a sabaton, knight’s foot armor. The armor and battle theme is heard in the albums Primo Victoria, The Art of War, Coat of Arms, Carolus Rex, Heroes, and The Last Stand in which all of the songs contain these motifs, except final tracks which are tribute songs to influential heavy metal bands. Lyrical content drawn from World War I, World War II and other historical conflicts is prevalent and lyrics often recite stories of heroic deeds by men and armies.

SABATON The last stand EARBOOK

History

Early career and first albums

Sabaton was formed in December 1999. After the first songs were recorded in Peter Tägtgren’s studio, The Abyss, Sabaton was contacted by a couple of record labels. The band signed with the Italian label Underground Symphony, under which internationally released the promo CD Fist for Fight, a compilation consisting of material from two demotapes recorded between 1999 and 2000, with the intention to promote forthcoming releases. In 2002, a new album was recorded. Metalizer was supposed to be distributed by Underground Symphony as the band’s debut album, but after two years of waiting, during which the band held various performances across Sweden, the album was abandoned.

SABATON The last stand EARBOOK

The band returned for a second album titled Primo Victoria. They signed with Black Lodge, the metal division of the Sound Pollution record label. In early 2005, they recruited keyboardist Daniel Myhr to relieve Joakim Brodén. In early 2006, Sabaton toured in support of Edguy and DragonForce.[3] The band’s third album, Attero Dominatus, was released in Europe on 28 July 2006.[4] In March 2007, Sabaton released Metalizer as a double disc together with Fist for Fight, along with the previously unreleased song “Birds of War”.

As a follow up to Metalizer, in May 2008, Sabaton released its fourth album The Art of War an album inspired by the influential book by Sun Tzu.

The decision to base the album upon Sun Tzu’s book came from the idea that in the 2000 years since the book was written, the human race has achieved many things but apart from weapon advancements, operational art, strategy, and war itself have remained basically the same.[citation needed] The album contains the singles “Cliffs of Gallipoli” and “Ghost Division”. They toured Europe in 2009 as an opening act on the Hammerfall Tour. After their Bloodstock performance, the band again went on tour with DragonForce, towards the end of 2009, for 18 shows in the UK.