The fans in attendance cheer each name as the starting lineups are announced before the game. However, the loudest cheer is reserved for the manager — the former Boston Red Sox star.

That could describe the scene before a Worcester Tornadoes game at Hanover Insurance Park about manager Rich Gedman. However, the same thing happens at Holman Stadium before a Nashua Pride game with their manager, Butch Hobson.

“I’ve been treated very well here,” Hobson said. “The people of Nashua have adopted me and my family. I don’t look at it as being the face, but they say that’s what it is.”

Hobson is the third manager in Pride history, taking the reins in December 1999 and leading the team to its first playoff appearance and the 2000 Atlantic League title.

Sound familiar? Gedman, a former teammate of Hobson’s in Boston, also won a championship in his first year managing an independent team.

Hobson led the Pride to the playoffs in 2001 and 2003 and compiled a 275-242 record in his first four seasons. With the team’s recent ownership change, as well as a change from the Atlantic League to the Can-Am League, Hobson was at the end of his contract and his future was up in the air.

Hobson said he was offered a job with Bridgeport of the independent Atlantic League, but turned it down to be closer to his home in Nashua with his wife Krys and their four children. In the end, Hobson returned to historic Holman Stadium.

Prior to yesterday’s game, Hobson watched his 15-year-old son, K.C. Hobson, throw in a bullpen session. He remarked that something like that might not have been possible if Hobson took the Bridgeport job.

Hobson has lived in New England since 1999, and his wife, Krys, grew up in Connecticut.

The Pride are struggling in their first year in the Can-Am League, occupying last place heading into last night’s game. Because of its move from long-season ball in the Atlantic League, Nashua saw many of its players find opportunities elsewhere rather than play in the short-season Can-Am League.

“I like what we’re doing here,” Hobson said. “We have a lot of young guys and that’s been fun. It’s an adjustment. The Atlantic League is more of a veteran league, but (pitching coach) Jay (Yennaco) and I are having fun with this and we’re going to continue to have fun with it.”

After becoming a two-sport star at the University of Alabama, playing football under the legendary Bear Bryant, Hobson started for the Red Sox in 1975. He played five seasons in Boston, helping the 1977 team to the World Series with 30 home runs and 112 RBIs. He was dealt to California in 1981 and played for the Yankees in 1982 before going into coaching. He returned to manage Boston from 1992-94.

One of the things Hobson and his staff, which includes former Red Sox players Yennaco and Glenn Murray, had to adjust to was the level of play of the Can-Am League. While the Atlantic League was filled with former major leaguers, the Can-Am League boasts more minor leaguers trying to get back to affiliated ball.

“It is, in a lot of ways, a college ball league,” Hobson said. “Baseball is baseball. We’ve had to make some adjustments and look at some of the things that we have done and we’re going to figure out how we’re going to try to defense them a little bit.”

He has already noticed the difference when surrounded by hungry players rather than grizzled veterans.

“I see a lot more of the love of the game here than at the Atlantic League,” Hobson said. “I think in the Atlantic League, there are a lot of guys with a chip on their shoulder and they think they got screwed and you have to start over with them, show them that it’s a great game and show them how to play right.”

Nashua has already sent a few players back to affiliated baseball, and Hobson said making better players is right up there with winning ballgames.

“We’re struggling now, but we’ve been fortunate in the past to have players that want to come play here,” Hobson said. “We probably have an average of eight players that have gone on back to affiliated ball.”

Like his former Boston teammates, Hobson is trying to stress professionalism over ability.

“I don’t care what kind of player you are or what kind of talent you have, you have to approach things in a professional manner,” Hobson said. “I think if they learn those things in a professional manner, then the talent will show. There are a lot of ways to do that — the way you carry yourself on the field, your physical presence, your mound presence and your at-the-plate presence — and how you handle yourself in those situations is what we’re trying to teach.”

While the Tornadoes have been successful on the field, they are making just as big an impact off it.

The Tornadoes recently wrapped up the “Home Run Club” reading incentive program, in which third base coach Dave Smith, in conjunction with Worcester public schools, parents and school committee chairman John Monfredo, helped over 2,000 students achieve “Home Run” status.

The program lasted through the month of May and asked students from grades K-4 to read 16 books, while students in grades 5-8 were asked to read 400 pages. All students that completed the program earned membership in the “Home Run Club” and received two tickets to a Tornadoes game.

Smith and a few players also spent the offseason visiting schools, recently wrapping up their 138th visit with the Canterbury Street School.

During their visits to schools in the Worcester, Middlesex, Hampshire, Norfolk and Franklin counties, Smith and the players spoke about the importance of reading and being physically active. They also started a monthly essay contest in which the prizes were a pair of tickets, an autographed logo ball, and an autographed pennant.

As a result of the programs spearheaded by Smith, the Tornadoes visited 26,450 students and helped make a difference in their lives.

There was a flurry of activity last week among a few teams as they start to settle in for the season.

In addition to Brockton acquiring Leominster’s John Kelly from New Jersey, the Rox also obtained Francisco Lebron from Quebec for a player to be named. Lebron has struggled this season, hitting .177 with two homers and 10 RBIs.

Last season with the Grays, Lebron was named to the all-star team and finished the season hitting .320 with seven home runs and 35 RBIs.

The biggest move was New Jersey dealing Ricardo Cordova (.346, one HR, 16 RBIs) to Nashua for outfielder/pitcher Bryce Kartler (.375, RBIs in 12 games with the Pride; 0-0, 5.00 ERA in 10 games) and Raul Valdes (2-1, 5.09, four starts).

Cordova played for Nashua when the Pride were playing in the Atlantic League and is being looked at to provide a spark for a team desperately needing one.

Josh Beauregard’s recent hot streak was rewarded when the league named him the Batter of the Week. Beauregard batted .571 with four doubles, two triples, six RBIs and a .952 slugging percentage.

During that span, Beauregard brought his average up from around .240 to .304. Beauregard currently leads the league in triples (three) and is second in runs scored (22). It was the second such award for Beauregard, who was the only Worcester player honored last year as a Batter of the Week.

Jim Wilson can be reached by e-mail at jimwilson@telegram.com.