President Ma Ying-jeou on the morning of September 8 at the Presidential Office met with Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe Prime Minister Joaquim Rafael Branco. The president, on behalf of the government and people of the ROC, extended a cordial welcome and appreciation to Prime Minister Branco.

President Ma said that the two countries have maintained close ties in the 11 years since the establishment of formal diplomatic relations. Cooperation ranges from malaria prevention to electricity generation and medicine. He said that bilateral cooperation that is being carried out in a number of areas is progressing quite smoothly. The president expressed his appreciation to Sao Tome and Principe for working to solidify the alliance between the two countries and for its strong support for the ROC in participating in activities in the international community.

The president particularly mentioned that Sao Tome and Principe has provided considerable assistance to the ROC in its struggle to participate in the World Health Organization. President Ma said that Sao Tome and Principe's health minister has spoken on behalf of Taiwan on many occasions, adding that the government and people of the ROC will always be grateful for the efforts made.

President Ma furthermore said that Sao Tome and Principe President Fradique Bandeira Melo de Menezes has visited the ROC seven times, which demonstrates the solid alliance between the two countries. President Ma asked Prime Minister Branco to pass along his best wishes to President Menezes, who recently has been hospitalized due to an illness.

Prime Minister Branco said that President Ma already made outstanding contributions when he served as mayor of Taipei City. Since inaugurated as president, he said, President Ma has sought to stabilize Taiwan's position in the international community as well as the status of relations between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait. Prime Minister Branco said the accomplishments associated with bilateral cooperation over the past 11 years have left an indelible impression on the people of his nation. He said he looks forward to the continued strengthening of bilateral economic, agricultural, health and judicial exchanges based on the existing cooperative foundation between the two countries.

Prime Minister Branco was accompanied to the Presidential Office in the morning to meet with President Ma by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Andrew Li-Yan Hsia. Also in attendance was Deputy Secretary-General to the President Yeh Ching-chuan.