'Secret Angel' mission: Build home for paralyzed dad, family

MELBOURNE – About five years ago, Vivian Krupp was sitting in Mass when it became clear.

Fellow parishioner David Humes had broken his neck in a boating accident months before. The father of three young girls needed help, Father Eamon Tobin explained to his congregation at Ascension Catholic Church in Melbourne that day. Volunteers with experience in the medical field would be best.

"I turned to my daughter, and I said, 'Oh my God, he's talking to me,' " the retired registered nurse, 73, said with a chuckle. "So I called David."

Karen Mitchell, 57, of Melbourne, also heeded the call. She figured, sure, she didn't have medical expertise to offer — but she could still help with cooking and other household duties.

"But you just fall in love with the family," attests Mitchell, standing with David and his wife, Joanna, and their children in their small Melbourne home last month.

At about 1,100 square feet, it's a tight squeeze for five people. Especially for David, who must maneuver his motorized wheelchair through the retrofitted home, including his bedroom, a converted garage.

"This is not insulated well," Mitchell explains as she shows off David's digs, the walls marred with black scuff marks from the wheelchair eking its way through. "It's hard to keep him healthy in here."

RELATED: Student's concert goal: Drum up support for Alzheimer's

That's why she and a few others started secretangelproject.com. It's a online movement to build the Humes a home that's compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act. One where David, Joanna and their girls — Natasha, 19, Bella, 15, and Mia, 7 — can live a little more comfortably.

And more securely.

The family's current house is in foreclosure. They could be forced to leave at any time.

It's just another hurdle the faith-filled couple and their girls have faced. But those who are rallying to support them say the Humeses' faith and positive attitude are unwavering — and an inspiration.

"The first letter we got (about the foreclosure), I was crying every day, 'What are we gonna do, what are we gonna do, what are we gonna do?' " recalls Joanna, 44. "And then after that, I just pray about it. Now, it's in God's hands. Whatever he wants to happen, he'll have happen."

Terrible twist of fate

The Humeses sat down with FLORIDA TODAY right before Christmas. Aside from the holiday decor that lit up the family's cramped quarters, proof of their faith was evident throughout the house. Crosses, rosary beads, family photos and words of wisdom, faith and belief cling to the walls.

The house is small, with David's bedroom taking on the feel of a medical facility, anchored by the medical equipment — a hospital bed, suction machine, nebulizer and such — he depends on.

David, originally from Connecticut, and Joanna, who hails from Panama, met while living in California in the early 1990s. He was going to school to learn Spanish; she was doing the same to master English.

They were married in Las Vegas in 1994 and went on to have three daughters. David owned and operated a liquidation business that matched surplus computers to schools, churches and other nonprofit entities. The family relocated to Melbourne in July 2004 to be near David's father, who had terminal cancer. David started a similar business in Brevard.

But July 17, 2009, changed everything.

That weekend, David had taken the girls on a camping trip with another family to Moss State Park in Orlando while Joanna was out of town.

"Saturday morning, we went out on the boat, did some fishing," David recalls. "It got pretty hot, we went for a swim."

He dived in headfirst and struck solid ground. At first, his daughters thought he was playing "dead man's float," but soon realized something was gravely wrong.

"There was another couple on the boat," recalls daughter Natasha. "The wife jumped in, and she grabbed him like a baby and put him over her shoulder. And that's when he told her, 'I broke my neck. You have to call 9-1-1.' "

It took some time to summon help ("Park rangers couldn't find us, Natasha notes. "It took them probably a good hour."), but they did. A medical helicopter airlifted David to Orlando Regional Medical Center. Joanna was called to come home to an emergency, informed her husband was hurt but unaware of the severity.

But it was soon confirmed. David had broken his neck. He was paralyzed, unable to use his arms or legs.

Life changed immediately.

Initially on a ventilator, it was unclear if David would even be able to come home or would have to spend the rest of his life in an assisted-living facility.

Then, a new technology gave him a new chance.

He was the first at ORMC to have a diaphragmatic pacemaker, a then-new technology that allowed David to breathe on his own, implanted by Dr. Michael Cheatham. David was able to come home to his family.

It took six months for the government to declare him disabled. Being self-employed, his paychecks came to an immediate halt.

Joanna admits that prior to the accident, she wasn't involved in the household finances. So the learning curve after the accident was steep.

"The first six months, there were three times I came home, we had no light, no electricity," Joanna confesses. "David is a great provider and he was on time with all the bills, and I didn't know what to do."

Church members stepped in to help with financial needs. The whole family suddenly had to take on more chores, learning how to care for David and pick up the pieces that suddenly had fallen to them.

The family now gets by on government assistance and the generosity of the church community.

But Joanna and the girls — who are nothing but smiles and eager to chat with a reporter — are happy to have him home. Even though the years since the accident have been dotted with trips in and out of the hospital.

The youngest, Mia, was 2 when the accident happened. "My dad's in a wheelchair," Mia says. "He can't pick me up" like the other kids at dismissal.

The family continues to be in awe of the support that's come from fellow parishioners who come to cook, clean, care for David and more.

Father Tobin knew the family a little before the accident — and a lot more since.

"They are really an outstanding and loving family," Tobin said. "What I'm really impressed with was the generous support of this family, especially in the beginning years, when it was a huge adjustment for having a father, a husband and a father who needed care 24/7....(Joanna is) a wonderful example of loving your spouse in good times and bad, in sickness and in health, and the ups and downs of life."

Joanna notes her husband never complains or seems depressed about the dive that robbed him of his ability to walk, play with his kids or share a bedroom with his wife (she sleeps on the couch or in one of the girls' two bedrooms since he's in a hospital bed). "He is the rock," Joanna says. "He says he is happy to be here with us."

She admits she's gotten down at times about the family's hardships — such as when she herniated two discs in her back in recent months.

"When I got hurt I was so upset, I went to confession," Joanna admits of her frustrations. "I was mad. How much more can happen to us? One thing after another. One thing after another."

But she said she's found the strength to have a better outlook. "It's coming from a very powerful, divine, bigger-than-you-are" place, she explains of her strength. "We think there's other people out there that can be in worse situations."

Hoping to help

Enter the Secret Angel Project.

The website explains the purpose as trying to build the Humes "a simple, handicap-accessible place to live....We are now reaching out to find generous people (it's you: our secret angel) to share in this building mission so the type of home the Humes family needs will become real for them."

Mitchell is hoping even if people can't give money, the word will spread, prompting others who can to do so. The goal? Get the family in a home by December.

A half-acre lot sits in a cul-de-sac on Gentle Breeze Court off of Parkway in Melbourne. It's been purchased for the family by a relative. And $18,000 of $200,000 has been raised as of this week toward the construction of the home; some things have fallen through with a potential builder, though, so one is still being sought, Mitchell said. Those who want to help (note, it's not tax-deductible) can visit secretangelproject.com and gofundme.com/c3ji6w.

Father Tobin describes it as "a wonderful, creative way to try to provide a better home for them." He's hoping it'll be a success, noting, "it's obviously going to take time to get there."

The family remains upbeat, though. Those who spend time with them say they're always like that.

"I like coming here and I like working with David and his family," said volunteer Krupp, a mom of five grown children, as she and the family gather around his motorized wheelchair.

"They say that he is my sixth child, and that he is my favorite," she says matter-of-factly, as the family erupts in laughter.

There's some playfulness as the girls, Joanna, Krupp and Mitchell chat, teasing that David is surrounded by "all of us women." David doesn't miss a beat, joking that's "a lot of estrogen."

But turning serious, Krupp notes, "they're lovely people who deserve any help that they can get."

Regardless of what happens with their living arrangements, David (who is the family director for the local Knights of Columbus) has started a nonprofit called Surplus Clearance Inc. He plans to use his expertise to liquidate products for larger corporations "and then turn the revenue into equipment for individuals who don't have the means to acquire the equipment otherwise, whether it's lifts, whether it's chairs, whether it's hospital beds, nurses, therapists, whatever they might need," David explains.

The 501 (3)c is "in the midst of putting together a team" and is hoping that soon "we'll sign our first contract. Just a matter or getting the manpower and the trucks and the warehouse in place."

David continues to insist that out of a tragedy comes many blessings.

"The future certainly looks bright," David said, noting various research being done on spinal cord injuries. "Hopefully we can conquer this battle of curing paralysis in the very near future."

He's hoping for a cure in 5 to 7 years, to be exact. And there's one thing he really wants to do.

"I hope to walk sometime soon and be able to stand up and hug my wife," he said.

Contact Paulson at 321-242-3783 or spaulson@floridatoday.com

Want to help?

Visit The Secret Angel Project at secretangelproject.com.

Help fund the project at gofundme.com/c3ji6w. To get an "Angel" card, email HomeforHumes@gmail.com.

There's a "Travel for a cause" Oct. 9 Royal Caribbean 3-day Bahamas cruise planned through Humes family friends and independent travel agents Ray and Fran Lawrence. With each cabin booking comes a $50 donation to the Secret Angel Project. Call 321-751-3998 or email travelquest@outlook.com.