In the Country of the Blind

1990

/ Steampunk

In the nineteenth century, a small group of American idealists managed to actually build Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine and use it to develop Cliology, mathematical models that could chart the likely course of the future. Soon they were working ...

Firestar

May-1996

/ Science Fiction

It is the beginning of the twenty-first century and one woman is determined to bring America and the world back on track in the technological future. She has the strength, the intelligence, the money. It will be done. This is the story of the rebirth...

The Forest of Time and Other Stories

Apr-1997

/ General Fiction

A collection of short fiction includes the stories "The Forest of Time," "Great, Sweet Mother," and the novella "Melodies of the Heart," which centers on the relationship between a two-hundred-year-old woman and a nine-year-old girl who is dying...

Rogue Star

Apr-1998

/ Science Fiction

It is the early twenty-first century. There's a space station being built, and the first manned flight to the asteroids is in progress. The grand plan of Mariesa Van Huyten to give humanity a big push back into space, and in the process save the huma...

Lodestar

Mar-2000

/ Science Fiction

In the early years of the twenty-first century, humanity has progressed into space, having established a permanent presence with LEO (Low Earth Orbit) Station. Science and commerce in space are booming and humanity's future looks bright. But one man'...

Falling Stars

Jan-2001

/ Science Fiction

In the early years of the 21st century humanity has advanced step by slow step into space, but has discovered through constant monitoring of the heavens that certain asteroids have changed their orbits and are headed for horrifying impact with Earth....

Fallen Angels

Oct-2002

/ Science Fiction

IT ALL HAPPENED SO FAST One minute the two space Hab astronauts were scoop-diving the atmosphere, the next they'd been shot down over the North Dakota Glacier and were the object of a massive manhunt by the United States government. That govern...

The Wreck of the River of Stars

Apr-2003

/ Science Fiction

Michael Flynn has written the best SF in the tradition of Robert A. Heinlein of the last decade. His major work was the Firestar sequence, a four-book future history. "As Robert A. Heinlein did and all too few have done since, Michael Flynn writes ab...

Eifelheim

Oct-2006

/ Science Fiction

IT IS A TIME OF WONDERS IN THE SHADOW OF THE PLAGUE. Centuries ago, one small town in Germany disappeared and was never resettled. Tom, a historian, and his theoretical physicist girlfriend, Sharon, become interested. By all logic, the town should h...

The January Dancer

Sep-2008

/ Space Opera

Hugo Award finalist and Robert A. Heinlein Award -- winning SF writer Michael Flynn now turns to space opera with stunningly successful results. Full of rich echoes of space opera classics from Doc Smith to Cordwainer Smith, The January Dancer tells ...

Up Jim River

Apr-2010

/ Space Opera

The Hound Bridget ban has vanished and the Kennel (the mysterious superspy agency) has given up looking for her. But her daughter, the harper Mearana, has not, and she has convinced the scarred man, Donovan, to aid in her search. But Donovan's mind ...

Melodies of the Heart

Feb-2011

/ Science Fiction

A Romance of the Soul, of Melancholy Melodies and Long Faded Memories.“Melodies of the Heart” can be described as many things. It is is a heart-breaking story of a parent’s love for a child; of growing old; of helplessness; but most of all, of ...

The Iron Shirts

May-2011

/ Science Fiction

In a world in which horses survived to flourish in 13th-century America, the wars and rivalries of thirteenth-century Ireland have new players: the mysterious warriors from across the Western Sea, called by some the “ó Gonklins.” They and their ...

In the Lion's Mouth

Jan-2012

/ Science Fiction

It's a big Spiral Arm, and the scarred man, Donavan buigh, has gone missing in it, upsetting the harper Mearana's plans for a reconciliation between her parents. Bridget ban, a Hound of the League, doubts that reconciliation is possible or desirable;...

Captive Dreams

Sep-2012

/ General Fiction

'Mike Flynn's stories begin by intriguing your brain and end by piercing your heart. Few other writers can combine cutting-edge science and emotional situations with Flynn's skill and sensitivity. Read these stories, and you will never forget Mae Hol...

Mutasia

Jan-2013

/ Action Adventure

Figley always liked the idea of going on adventures in the wild and untamed Mutasian Jungle. However, when given the chance to join Zabetta and Chadwick on an expedition to one of the most dangerous places on the island, Figley has serious doubts. ...

On the Razor's Edge

Jul-2013

/ Science Fiction

The secret war among the Shadows of the Name is escalating, and there are hints that it is not so secret as the Shadows had thought. The scarred man, Donovan buigh, half honored guest and half prisoner, is carried deeper into the Confederation, all t...

Sad and Happy Days

Jun-2015

/ General Fiction

Sad and Happy Days is the first part of the autobiographical novel Sex, Drugs, Rock and Roach: Cedric's Story. As the title suggests, it's the story of a life buffeted by turbulence and dramatic change, this first part beginning in the drear fifties,...

Goodbye Duluth

Nov-2016

/ General Fiction

When star-struck young Martin Reilly leaves his hometown of Duluth, Minnesota, to follow his dreams in Hollywood, he ends up blowing any chance he ever had in the film industry. After doing some serious soul-searching, Martin launches into a diffe...