Today, FLETCHER shares the deluxe edition of her widely acclaimed full-length debut Girl Of My Dreams —click HERE to stream/download the album now. To celebrate the arrival of Girl Of My Dreams (Deluxe), FLETCHER is premiering one of the four new songs included in the 17-track expanded album: a harmony-laced update of her acclaimed single “Better Version,” featuring guest vocals from GRAMMY® Award nominated country star Kelsea Ballerini. Check out the full tracklist for Girl Of My Dreams (Deluxe) below, and listen to “Better Version” (feat. Kelsea Ballerini) HERE.

Arriving the same day that FLETCHER wraps up her sold-out Girl Of My Dreams Tour (a 25-date North American headlining run ending tonight at the Hollywood Palladium in L.A.), Girl Of My Dreams (Deluxe) expands on the original album’s up-close look at the most intimate of emotional experiences: desire and obsession, loss and trauma, the pain of personal growth and power of true self-acceptance. Known for her magnetic live show, FLETCHER has forged an intense connection with her global fanbase, and there’s a palpable sense of community at every live show. She has a dedicated live fanbase in the UK, and most recently sold out shows at Kentish Town Forum and Shepherds Bush Empire in the same touring run.

Released back in September, Girl Of My Dreams immediately earned massive praise from the likes of Clash and DORK with the latter saying, “This is a debut album that proves FLETCHER can do it all”. Gigwise in their 9/10 review stated, “FLETCHER really has accomplished pop-punk brilliancy in this exhilarating and hypnotising project” while The Line of Best Fit said, “Taylor Swift might have been dubbed the queen of break-up songs, but she’s got nothing on Cari Fletcher”.

The closing song to Girl Of My Dreams (Deluxe), “Better Version” (feat. Kelsea Ballerini) takes the form of a heart-on-sleeve duet, beautifully amplifying the unfettered feeling of the original number. With their voices blending to glorious effect, FLETCHER and Kelsea add new warmth and texture to the bittersweet track, a moody and ethereal piece of folk-pop. A nuanced exploration of post-breakup grief and growth, “Better Version” serves as the flip-side to FLETCHER’s smash single “Becky’s So Hot” — a standout cut from Girl Of My Dreams that reached #3 on the iTunes chart across all genres.

Along with “Better Version” (feat. Kelsea Ballerini), the new songs featured on Girl Of My Dreams (Deluxe) include FLETCHER’s recent single “Suckerpunch,” a euphoric and thrilling track named Hottest Track Of The Week by BBCR1 that finds FLETCHER vividly depicting a first date from back in 2016. Executive-produced by Malay (Frank Ocean, Lorde) — who helmed FLETCHER’s you ruined new york city for me and THE S(EX) TAPES, a 2020 EP that hit No. 1 on iTunes across all genres — Girl Of My Dreams also delivers FLETCHER’s hit singles “Her Body Is Bible,” “Sting,” and “Serial Heartbreaker.”

Tracklist for FLETCHER’s Girl Of My Dreams (Deluxe)

1. 20 Something

2. I Think I’m Growing?

3. Girl Of My Dreams

4. Healing

5. Suckerpunch

6. Birthday Girl

7. Better Version

8. Sting

9. Becky’s So Hot

10. Conversations

11. Guess We Lied…

12. Serial Heartbreaker

13. Holiday

14. Her Body Is Bible

15. I Love You, Bitch

16. For Cari

17. Better Version (feat. Kelsea Ballerini)

Follow FLETCHER online on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube, and TikTok.