This seems like an extraordinary deal! 4 albums plus a DVD for $22!

http://www.amazon.com/Pacific-Arts-Box-Michael-Nesmith/dp/B009D50B2K/ref=sr_1_4?s=aht&ie=UTF8&qid=1439919921&sr=8-4&keywords=michael nesmith

Here's what you get:

Disc 1 - FROM A RADIO ENGINE TO THE PHOTON WING (1977): If you were expecting this to be a return to form of his RCA country-rock albums, this would be a letdown. However, if you were ready for Nesmith to expand his sound, there are many treats here. My favorite track, of course, is the seven-minute "Rio," which became a No. 28 hit in the U.K. Other standout tracks are "Navajo Trail" (the only non-original)and "We Are Awake." The album was recorded in Nashville. Lonnie Mack is among the players. [Running Time - 40:56]

Disc 2 - INFINITE RIDER ON THE BIG DOGMA (1979): Ten Nesmith originals, and as he says in the booklet: "It was a conscious decision to abandon the country stylings." Indeed, Nesmith tries out several styles--sometimes in the same song. "Magic" is a 50's-style ballad. Then there's the boogie-woogie of "Tonite (The Television Song)." The irresistible funk of "Cruisin'." And the gritty rock of "Factions (The Daughter of Rock 'n' Roll)." However, my favorite track is the haunting "Light (The Electric Light)." Note: The original LP version of "Flying (Silks & Satins)" was 4:44; the long version included here is 6:54. [Running Time - 40:32]

Disc 3 - TROPICAL CAMPFIRES (1992): After an absence of more than a decade, Nesmith returned with one of the best albums of his career. His band featured John Jorgensen on lead guitar and mandolin (fresh from his stint with the Desert Rose Band), Joe Chemay, bass and John Hobbs, keyboards (who both played on INFINITE RIDER), and most importantly his longtime steel player Red Rhodes. The entire album is a joy and bears repeated listens, but if I had to pick a couple favorites they would be the Caribbean-styled "Laugh Kills Lonesome" and "I Am Not That." [Running Time - 58:19]

Disc 4 - LIVE AT THE BRITT FESTIVAL (1992): This is from the Britt Festival in Oregon and features the band from TROPICAL CAMPFIRES. This is quite simply an amazing set of live songs in support of Nesmith's then new album along with tracks dating back to the beginning of his solo career. Originally released as a 2-CD set with a running time of just over 84 minutes, some minor changes were made to fit this on one CD. First, the final track, "I Am Not That (Reprise)," was dropped. In addition, several tracks had extended applause edited out. Also worth noting is that this was the final tour for Red Rhodes. He died in 1995. [Running Time - 79:39]

DVD - PROMO VIDEOS: All of these videos are from the late-seventies. Innovative at the time, but mostly of interest now from a historical perspective. The first for videos are from INFINITE RIDER; "Rio" is from PHOTON WING. Note: "Rio" is edited down from seven minutes on the album to a six-minute video. [Running Time - approx. 20 minutes]

All four CDs are in cardboard slip covers that replicate the original album art. There is also a 20-page booklet with lots of notes on each album from Nesmith himself.

Yes, except if you buy them from the "New and Used" section then pick a "NEW" unopened selection it will cost you about $7 per two-fer including shipping for a grand total of around $21 for a savings of $13 or 2/3rds of the price of the $22 Pacific Arts Box that you will be able to pick up for a net expenditure of $8 for four more albums and a stinking DVD! Were talking 10 albums of sublime music for a total purchase price of well under $45 including a stinking DVD, and if you find a seller of the Two-Fers that will combine the shipping you may actually be getting all of this for around the $33 of the other set alone!

I just wish this "Pacific Arts Box" included "Live at the Palais"... I'd have picked that album over "Live at the Britt"... I know "LATP" isn't one of Nesmith's favorites, and it was briefly available thru VideoRanch, but it still should have been included on the "Pacific Arts Box" because it was an original Pacific Arts album, and there are those like me that like it (and weren't able to buy it the VideoRanch at the time it was out)...

Per Nez on FB when I asked about remastering of this set...

"I did a remaster of the RCA masters many years back -- and a digital transfer at the same time -- but the original multi tracks are lost as far as I know. Sony licensed the records to me in perpetuity non-exclusively and I issued a complete package of The First National Band recordings. I put out CD's of Tantamount and Hits and of course they are all available on various digital sites around, and are generally in the Internet wind, as it were. I have not heard this issue so I can't comment on whether it's good or not, and Sony has not contacted me about the release."