London (15th October 2008) – Square Enix Ltd., the publisher of Square Enix® interactive entertainment products in Europe and other PAL territories, today announces the TAITO® game EXIT™ DS, exclusively for the Nintendo DS™ handheld system, will be available across Europe on 7th November 2008.

As "Mr. ESC", a professional escapologist who can rescue people from just about any situation, EXIT players must negotiate numerous obstacles while rescuing victims from ever more dangerous situations. Players will undertake various actions, including running, jumping, climbing onto ledges and climbing down ropes on their way to becoming the ultimate escape artist!

John Yamamoto, president and chief executive officer of Square Enix Ltd. comments, "TAITO is following up the fantastic success of SPACE INVADERS EXTREME with another hugely entertaining game for the Nintendo DS. The combination of action with puzzle style gameplay and an innovative visual theme will keep regular gamers and casual gamers entertained for hours."

For more information about Exit please visit the official website at www.exit-ds.co.uk

EXIT DS features

Intense action puzzler: Players use decision-making skills and wits to escape various obstacles while rescuing people from more than 100 different emergencies Do whatever it takes to get everyone out in time: Rescue people and find the fastest way out while braving exploding factories, burning buildings and flooding subways. Players will climb ladders, move objects, slide down ropes and collect numerous rescue devices to assist them in their missions Turn victims into allies: Saved characters can be enlisted to help move heavy objects, master tricky obstacles and help each other Smooth, stylish character design and movement: Alongside the intense action puzzle gaming are some of the most stylish graphics and character animation to be seen on the Nintendo DS system Command Mr. Esc. and people in his party with easy to use Touch-Screen controls to experience the ultimate escape drama Show you are the fastest escape artist around: Upload your mission completion times via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection and compare yourself against other players About Square Enix Co., Ltd.

Square Enix Co., Ltd. (Square Enix) with headquarters in Tokyo, Japan, develops, publishes and distributes entertainment content including interactive entertainment software and publications in Asia, North America and Europe. Square Enix brings two of Japan's best-selling franchises – FINAL FANTASY®, which has sold over 85 million units worldwide, and DRAGON QUEST® which has sold over 46 million units worldwide – under one roof. Square Enix is one of the most influential providers of digital entertainment content in the world and continues to push the boundaries of creativity and innovation.

About Square Enix Ltd.

Located in London, Square Enix Ltd. handles operations in Europe and other PAL territories including sales, marketing and publishing of Square Enix titles. More information on Square Enix Ltd. can be found on the Internet at http://www.square-enix.com

DRAGON QUEST, FINAL FANTASY, SQUARE ENIX and the SQUARE ENIX logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Square Enix Co., Ltd. in United Kingdom and/or other countries. EXIT, SPACE INVADERS, SPACE INVADERS EXTREME and TAITO are trademarks or registered trademarks of TAITO Corp in the United Kingdom and/or other countries. NINTENDO DS IS A TRADEMARK OF NINTENDO. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

Square Enix Limited is a company registered in England & Wales under the number 3679704 whose registered office is Castle House, 37-45 Paul Street, London EC2A 4LS.