(BOSTON) – The Concussion Legacy Foundation will honor former NFL Player Chris Borland with the Impact Award at the 8th Annual Impact Awards Dinner on Wednesday, Nov. 4, at the Revere Hotel in Boston.

The Impact Award recognizes individuals and organizations for their commitment to solving the concussion crisis. Borland led the San Francisco 49ers in tackles as a rookie linebacker in 2014, but retired from the NFL in March at age 24 after independently researching the long-term effects of repetitive head trauma, and deciding continuing to play was not worth the risk.

“Since his retirement in March, Chris Borland has been tirelessly working to share his knowledge and experience to raise concussion awareness,” said Concussion Legacy Foundation Executive Director Chris Nowinski. “His advocacy will help athletes and parents throughout the country make more informed decisions for themselves and their children.”

In addition, Margy McHale and her partner Marnie Abramson will be recognized with the Legacy Award, which is given to family members of a Legacy Donor (brain donor) who have honored their loved one’s memory by supporting the mission of the Concussion Legacy Foundation. Margy is the sister of former NFL lineman Tom McHale, who died in 2008 at age 45 and whose brain was donated to the Foundation and Boston University, where he was diagnosed with CTE.

The 2015 Impact Awards will be hosted by WWE announcer Corey Graves, and will include a special guest appearance by HBO Real Sports correspondent Andrea Kremer. Proceeds will benefit the nonprofit Concussion Legacy Foundation’s advocacy, awareness, education and research programs. Last year, more than 225 supporters and distinguished guests from across the country attended the event and raised $300,000 to support Concussion Legacy Foundation programs.

Previous honorees include WWE, The Ivy League, the National Football League, neuropathologist Dr. Ann McKee, former soccer players Brandi Chastain and Cindy Parlow Cone, former NFL player Ted Johnson, former boxer Micky Ward, and former professional hockey player Keith Primeau.