Hi, it’s Anthony and I’m leading off 2019 with a trip back to 1985. We are visiting the land of Professional Wrestling, where “good guys” (‘faces’) and “bad guys” (‘heels’), dressed as a variety of characters, battle it out in the ring, every Saturday morning. An evil Russian nationalist might take on a fan-friendly Mexican, or a bad Iranian Shiek would go to battle with a good ol’ Country Boy.

Our journey takes to a particular corner of the wrestling world, the World Wrestling Federation (now, World Wrestling Entertainment – ‘WWE’), and a short-lived cartoon called “Hulk Hogan’s Rock ‘n Wrestling”. It centered around animated versions of the most popular WWF WWE wrestlers of the time, divided into faces and heels. Hulk Hogan, the main star, led the faces (The Junkyard Dog, Captain Lou Albano, Andre the Giant, Wendi Ritcher, Jimmy “Superfly” Snuka, Hillbilly Jim, and Tito Santana), while “Rowdy” Roddy Piper and his group of heels (The Iron Sheik, Nikolai Volkoff, The Fabulous Moolah, Big John Studd, and Mr. Fuji) tried to make their lives miserable.

The voices of the cartoon characters were from voice actors, not the actual wrestlers, due to WWE scheduling conflicts. It was an impressive voice actor list, including: Brad Garrett (Hulk Hogan), Charlie Adler (the voice of Buster Bunny in Tiny Toon Adventures; Rowdy Roddy Piper), Pat Fraley (voice of Krang and Baxter Stockman in the original Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles; Hillbilly Jim), and Neil Ross (“Mean Gene” Okerlund).

I am going to take a look at the 1st episode of the series: “Junkyard 500 & Junkenstein”. Each episode has a brief, live-action segment with some of the wrestlers. They either have one story (about 25 minutes long, counting commercials) or 2 shorter stories (about 12 minutes a piece). Sit back and enjoy!

Intro

Episodes usually start with a clip of real-life Hulk Hogan (World Champion at the time) going to the ring for a bout. The background music is his original theme – “Real American Hero” was not always his theme. An animated (drawn) Hulk – looking like a modern-day Viking – then hops into this…

… and drives away from a gym. Piper’s bad guys, peeping around the gym’s pillars (impressive, since there are some not-so-small dudes in his group), give chase in a souped-up car and truck. Hogan stops in the middle of the street (Why? No idea), Piper’s group surrounds him… only for Hogan’s group to pop up out of the back sea of his cart. This sends the bad guys scattering, leaving Piper jumping up and down in the middle of the road. A grinning shot of Animated Hogan’s face transitions to Real Hogan walking down a street, suddenly surrounded by running, adoring fans.

I normally wait until the end of the recap before making comments about animation, sound, and other areas. However, I must stop and note a few things.

First Note: the animation is bad. Not in a “the technology and drawing techniques were different” way. This is a “the drawings and animations suck” bad. I will give the animations a little credit: so far, the faces of the different characters hold some resemblance to their real-life counterparts.

Episode #1

We start with a ‘real’ segment. Bobby “The Brain” Heenan – known, at that time, as the manager of 5-8 heel wrestlers, collectively called “The Heenan Family” – is giving his tips on proper fitness technique. Since he “works out 5 or 6 times a week”, he’s going to show us viewers how to work out properly. It’s ‘classic’, goofy, Bobby Heenan comedic gold.

The animated portion begins in a junkyard, with the wrestler known as The Junkyard Dog (‘JYD’)… because who else would be in a junkyard? “Junkyard’s Junkyard” (….OY!!!) is doing decent business, it seems: a customer calls JYD for 2 bowling balls, which he conveniently has in a file cabinet. His partner, Tito Santana, is reading the newspaper and spots an ad/article, stating that $10,000 will go to the person that can bring the best vehicle to the shooting of a monster movie. They presumably leave for the movie set.

To show the quality of the animation, I did not know that Junkyard Dog’s partner was Tito Santana until someone called him out later.

JYD – shirtless, except for his giant, trademarked chain – and Santana arrive at the studio where the movie is being shot. In his excitement to get the money, JYD crashes through the security gate, knocking the guard aside, and through the wall of the movie set. While JYD is explaining to the irate movie director why he barreled into his set, the security gate, being repaired by the guard, gets smashed again, this time by a vehicle with Rowdy Roddy Piper behind the wheel and Big John Stud in the passenger seat.

The voice for Piper is borderline un-listen-to-able (that is now a word).

Piper is on the set, also trying to claim the $10,000 award, much to the “chagrin” of JYD. After a tug-of-war with the Director, the Director decided that Piper and JYD should settle the dispute via a race, with “winner takes all”.

At JYD’s junkyard, JYD, famed wrestling and music manager Captain Lou Albano, and Hulk Hogan (wearing his Championship belt) discuss the upcoming race, while Andre the Giant and Jimmy “Superfly” Snuka change the tires (Andre just grabs the front of the car and lifts it – something he might have been able to do in real life). Wendi Richter, Women’s Championship contender, and Hogan test out the windshield wipers (they spray Hogan), while Hillbilly Jim replaces either the front or back window (I’m assuming ‘front’, since the wipers just doused Hogan).

Second Note: I am sure it’s because I remember most of the real wrestlers’ voices, but some of the animated voices just don’t fit. Brad Garrett has a pretty decent Hulk Hogan voice; the voice of The Junkyard Dog isn’t bad, and Andre the Giant’s voice is decent. However, Wendi Ricther, from what I remember, did not have a Deep South accent (she was an ’80s Rocker Girl character), Tito Santana was not from New York, and Piper… *shudders*.

On the other side of town – “PARTS UNKNOWN!!!”, maybe? – Piper and his group are getting Piper’s ‘Hot Rod’ ready: Nikolai Volkoff and the Iron Sheik argue over a missed hammer strike; Mr. Fuji (in a voice that wasn’t as stereotypical as I had imagined) and the Women’s Champion, Fabulous Moolah (who might be the most accurately drawn/voiced, so far) work on an apparently oil-propelled-through-bagpipes engine (ultimately covering Moolah with oil). Iron Sheik shows off some rocket boosters, a secret weapon of sorts.

It’s time for the race, with most of the wrestlers watching on. Volkoff, Sheik, and the heels try some dastardly heel moves – like chaining JYD’s truck to the ground and leaving the starting line early – but most f them backfire. In a moment of poignancy, recently-deceased “Mean Gene” Okerlund is “calling” the race.

Big John Studd is driving Piper’s Hot Rod, with Piper in the passenger seat; JYD is driving his truck, with a better-voiced Santana in the passenger seat. Piper has all kinds of trickery built into his car, and he’s not afraid to use them; JYD and Santana counter most of it.

Tito Santana says “Arriba!” way too many times.

The race nears its finish, with the Junk Wagon comfortably ahead of the Hot Rod. Suddenly, a dog (… ironic) runs out in front of the Junk Wagon, bringing it to a stop. Piper, seeing this take place, uses the aforementioned Rocket Boosters to fly over the Junk Wagon, rocketing just ahead of the Junk Wagon to the finish.

Sad Faces have sad faces.

Piper, of course, gloats about his win (conveniently ignoring the fact that Big John Studd drove the car). He hands off the keys to a set worker, as the Director hands him a $10,000 bill. The Hot Rod is then pulled into place for the movie scene:

A metal monster breaks down the wall, stomps on the Hot Rod, and throws it at the group of wrestlers standing off-screen.

Hogan makes a wisecrack about flattened cars, just further infuriating Piper (as it should). The Director reminded Piper that he told both racers in the ad about the results of the contest. The radio from the Hot Rod, somehow still working, plays some rock song; Piper hates Rock (punching the radio), while Junkyard Dog ends the animated portion with a victory dance. Why he’s dancing, since he lost the race and money?

The 1st Part ends with a live segment: Hulk Hogan has “Mean Gene” Okerlund doing the ‘Hulkamania Workout’. Gene is on Leg Lift #1,002, while Hulk goes and preps a Protein Shake. When he returns, Gene is asleep on the workout bench. Hulk doesn’t seem too phased.

Part 2 begins with a live segment. A lady locked her keys in her car; her car appears to be sitting in a show room. In strolls Nikolai Volkoff, chuckling at her plight. He laughs at her “American” way of freeing her keys (which was the lady feebly pulling on the door handle). Instead, Volkoff shows her the “Russian” way: he just rips the entire door off, although he gently sat the door down. She, like all people, complained about the missing door; Nikolai puts the door back on the car, takes the lady’s keys, and proceeds to “unlock” the door that he just sat in place, laughing at the end! This was the strangest segment of the cartoon, so far – and maybe the most entertaining!

A stormy night sees the Junkyard Dog and Andre the Dog sitting at a table, with JYD reading “Frankenstein” to Andre. JYD still doesn’t have a shirt on.

Andre gets so spooked by the story that he falls backwards, falling out of his chair, into a cabinet, knocking most of the contents onto JYD. JYD sees the mess and gets this idea: “If Frankenstein can build a monster, then I ought to be able to build a helper to clean up this mess!”

“I don’t think that’s such a great idea”, says Andre.

Where do I begin? The fact that Andre the Giant is a ‘Voice Of Reason’ to The Junkyard Dog? The fact that JYD is reading to Andre? Or the fact that JYD might now be a mad scientist?

Back to JYD’s house(?)… which now has Tesla Coils and a adjustable operating table.

I can tell you with plenty of certainty that the Junkyard Dog wasn’t making enough in his wrestling career to turn part of his house into a Laboratory.

JYD and his bumbling assistant, Andre, hammer, tighten, flip switches, and zap with 40,00 volts the thing under the sheet on the bed. They raise the bed through the roof, lower the bed back down and wait, as the thing arises. It’s a robot. A ridiculous robot – “Junkenstein”:

The next morning, JYD and Andre take Junkenstein out for a test run. By popping a cassette into its mouth, JYD can apparently give Junkenstein commands, such as “clean up the junkyard”. The junkyard is now virtually spotless! JYD starts thinking ‘big picture’: robots for almost any job. All he has to do is program a handful of cassettes and he’s in business.

So, the Junkyard Dog is also a Programmer… in the 1980s… when Programming required a lot more hardware than today.

Andre grabs one of these cassettes and pops it in. It’s a Roddy Piper cassette! Why does JYD have a Piper cassette?!? Is he pulling a ‘Batman’, where has a ‘contingency’ for defeating every wrestler, in case they ‘go rogue’ and jump to the NWA? Regardless of the reasons, Junkenstein goes haywire: spraying the house – and the 2 wrestlers – with a water hose; destroying everything it just cleaned up; knocking the bumper off of the Junk Wagon, and even managing to throw the 7’4″, 520 pound Andre into a Volkswagen Beetle:

Andre and JYD take off after Junkenstein, still wearing the Beetle. They corner it in the middle of a street, where it was about to destroy a piano, dropped by 2 movers. Instead, it throws Andre and JYD onto the piano and launches then down the street, waaaay off into the distance, off of a dock, into a river.

Junkenstien terrorizes the town until Round 2 with JYD and Andre, this time in a restaurant. As Junkenstein goes in to finish off the duo, JYD gets the idea of playing music to stop him. He turns on a jukebox and lays…. Rock ‘n Roll. This short circuits Junkenstein, finally.

It’s raining again, and JYD is reading to Andre again. A calmer Junkenstein is also at the table. JYD is reading “Blacula” – yes, “Blacula”! – when he gets the idea of putting wings in Junkenstein. That’s enough for Andre, as he runs out of the house, headed to the safer Jimmy Snuka’s house. JYD yells for him to come back: “I was only kidding!” Junkenstein flashes a pair of fangs, ending the animated portion of the story.

“Mean Gene” is interviewing The Fabulous Moolah on the ‘real’ portion. Moolah is giving out Beauty Tips; the ‘Mud Pack’ is today’s tip. This thoroughly confuses Mean Gene, for some odd reason. Even odder is when Captain Lou Albano randomly shows up at the very end, calling Moolah “ravishing”.

I can sum up the overall episode as “painful”.

I was a little surprised that Hulk Hogan wasn’t shown much in the 1st half of the episode and not at all in the 2nd half. Beyond that, there were a few positives: like I mentioned, the voices for the characters weren’t too bad. The animated wrestlers resembled their real-life counterparts enough to I.D. who was who.

But man, does the ‘bad’ outweigh the good.

Roddy Piper’s voice was awful. The animation was wonky to the point that some of the characters’ mouths didn’t even move when they were talking. And neither plot of the episode made sense. Granted, I’m watching it for the first time in over 30 years but it should have more substance, especially “Junkenstein”.

I will probably watch another episode, only to see if things look better later in the season. My rose-colored childhood glasses were crunched by what was by far the worst cartoon I’ve reviewed for this feature. I need “Hulk Hogan’s Rock ‘N Wrestling” to redeem itself!