Used Range Golf Balls

These balls are just waiting to hop on a truck and head to YOU!

1454 balls (121 Dozen) in this lot!

Once sold these will be gone so hurry up!

Here you have a collection of SmartOne Yellow A/B Grade Used Golf Balls.

They are an even mix of A and B grade. Not sure who makes SmartOne balls but they are in great shape. These are used balls, and arrive to you cleaned and ready for use.

These ONE AND DONE collections get a lot of traffic and usually sell out in a HURRY so buy what you can while you can!

Yikes!

This is a ONE AND DONE PACKAGE One Bundle of 1454 Balls (121 Dozen)

Our prices are the lowest you will find AND our quality is the highest and service is king! Money back guarantee if you are not satisfied…but you will be.

Used golf balls arrive at our facility in Tennessee almost every day and in EVERY condition you can imagine. Some have only been hit once or twice or used on just couple of holes. Others have spent a month or so in a pond.

Once we get them we thoroughly scrub then sort them (by HAND). Sorting is a manual process. One ball at a time, by experienced members of our team.

Sorting is kind of complicated as we must get rid of bad balls, divide the good balls by grade and further divide by application (Driving Range/Practice vs Competition).

Here is how we sort and grade them:

Competition Golf Balls: MINT

This is the only gradation we sell for used competition golf balls. You play these balls...they are not meant for driving range practice. they are meant to save you money as they are priced WAY below retail.

Our Range / Practice golf balls are for practice on the driving range. These balls typically have stripes on them, logos, or the word PRACTICE stamped on them. We carry FOUR grades of these balls: A B C and D.

These golf balls are the highest quality used golf ball in the marketplace. They are like new and will feel and play as a new golf ball would. Its shading is excellent. This mix may HAVE corporate LOGOS* and player pen markings, but NO cuts or NO scuffs.

*Percentage varies anywhere from 0% to 100% logo balls depending on inventory.

Competition Golf Balls: REFURBISHED

We no longer offer our Refurbished products. Thank you to those who have been fans over the years.

Range/Practice Golf Balls

Range/Practice Golf Balls: A Grade:

Top of the line...these range balls still have a lot of life left. They have good shine and most of the stripes are still there.

Range/Practice Golf Balls: B Grade:

Good range balls. Stripes and shine are starting to wear down. You might notice cosmetic flaws wear. Still very playable, expect tanning on some golf balls of this grade. Logo will be on some golf balls depending on our inventory.

Range/Practice Golf Balls: C Grade:

Good For Winter Ranges. Less stripes and manufacturer markings than the B Grade. Some will have logos, tanning, scuffs and players' pen marks, etc.

Range/Practice Golf Balls: D Grade:

This is the last date these golf balls will go on. These babies are priced to MOVE so when you lose them, nobody is going to care. Great for hit-away situations or on ranges where ball retieval is difficult. Many of this D Grade are sold for knocking off the boat or pier and into the lake. These are NOT pretty...but we sell a LOT of them as they are a great value! We try to clean them but some may be a bit dirty. Don't be amazed if you can't tell who manufactured them!

1) Orders USUALLY ship next business day:

Our FedEx service picks up by noon EASTERN TIME. We need time to process each order so, unless your order is paid for by 9:00 AM Eastern Time, it will PROBABLY ship the next business day.

2) Taxes are ONLY applied to orders delivering to Tennessee Addresses:

We are headquartered in Maryville, Tennessee and only add taxes to orders shipping to Tennessee Zip Codes.

3) Our Prices Include Shipping:

No need to calculate shipping prices..they are included in the item pricing! This service is GROUND DELIVERY from Tennessee so if you are in the far reaches of the USA

4) Box Capacity and Weights:

Golf balls weigh a tad over 10 pounds per 100.

Maximum/normal orders are packed 600 balls to a case (62 Lbs total) and that case measures 19" x 14 3/4" x 9 5/8"

Orders in excess of 3600 balls (6 cases) need to consider aditional charges for lift gate access, arrangements for delivery signatures, off-loading labor, etc.

5) Quality and Condition:

All balls we sell are washed, clean, and hand sorted by REAL PEOPLE (not machines) at our facility. Scuffed, cut, bruised, and split balls are discarded. Unless otherwise noted, there is a good possibility the balls you order will have marker and/or logos on them. Also, since people make mistakes, some orders might have a few wrong ball in the box. It just happens.

6) Shipping Restrictions:

Unless previously arranged we ONLY ship via FedEx Ground and FedEx Freight. Unless previously arranged we ONLY ship to the Continental USA. We can not fill APO/FPO orders! We can only ship to physical street addresses: NO P.O Boxes!