The Qatar Olympic Committee (QOC) has announced that 14 male and female athletes will participate in the 33rd edition of the Paris 2024 Olympics, due to be held from July 26 to August 11.

During a press conference held on Sunday, QOC highlighted the Qatari participation in this event in the presence of Director of the QOC Sports Affairs Department, Mohammed Issa Al Fadala, and director of the Qatari administrative delegation to the tournament, Mohammed Saeed Al Misnad.

Al Fadala affirmed that Qatar's participation in the Paris 2024 Olympics is a great honor for all male and female athletes, since the games are the largest sporting event globally, lauding the incredible efforts made by the qualified Qatari federations and the set preparations plans to equip athletes in the best conceivable way. He emphasized that there are great ambitions to achieve outstanding results in this edition of the Paris 2024 Olympics.

He clarified that QOC harnessed all the potentials for all federations whether before or after qualifying for the Olympics, expressing confidence in the qualified players who possess the spirit of challenge and responsibility to perform well and honor Qatar's name at the Olympics.

Al Fadala pointed out that international federations have set ambitious standards for qualifying for the Olympic Games, whether through achieving qualifying numbers or through points, thus enabling more Qatari athletes to qualify for the Olympics.

For his part, Mohammed Saeed Al Misnad highlighted that 14 athletes from both genders will participate in this major event representing five federations, namely, Athletics, volleyball, shooting, weightlifting, and swimming, adding that the list includes Mutaz Essa Barsham, Abderrahman Samba, Abubaker Haydar, Bassem Humeida, Ismail Dawood, Ammar Ismail, Saif Mohammed, and Shahad Mohammed in athletics, along with Saeed Abu Sharab and Rashid Saleh Al Adhuba in shooting, and Fares Ibrahim Husouna in weightlifting, Sherif Younis and Ahmed Tejan in beach volleyball, in addition to Abdulaziz Al Obaidly in swimming.

Al Misnad pointed out that Mutaz Barsham and Shahad Mohammed have been chosen to hold Qatar's flag aloft in the inauguration ceremony, while the Qatari athletes will start to arrive in Paris on July 19. He stated that the preparations for the Paris 2024 Olympics commenced immediately after the Tokyo 2020 Olympics had been concluded, wishing success for the Qatari athletes to reap medals in this edition.

Additionally, Al Misnad highlighted that QOC will hold a reception ceremony on Aug.1 on the margins of the edition, as part of reinforcing ties and cooperation with the

International Olympic Committee, alongside the continental and national Olympic committees. He asserted that QOC always looks forward to the best, because ambitions are high in this edition since several of the qualified athletes have already participated in the competitions and internalized incredible expertise, something that prompts optimism to replicate the Tokyo 2020 Olympics, hoping that essential efforts will be made to ensure the safety of athletes away from traumas to remain in their best levels to achieve the intended results.

Qatar achieved an unprecedented accomplishment in the Tokyo 2020 Olympics by winning three medals, including two gold medals. The champions were Mutaz Barsham in the high jump event in athletics, and Fares Ibrahim in the 96kg weightlifting. Additionally, there was a bronze medal for the beach volleyball team consisting of Ahmed Tijan and Sherif Younis. Overall, Qatar's three medals placed the country first among Arab countries in this Olympics. (QNA)