Edia has revealed the method required to enable secret cheat codes for some of the titles included in the Nintendo Switch action game Valis: The Fantasm Solider Collection II, which is currently available in Japan.

Valis: The Fantasm Solider Collection II is a Nintendo Switch title that includes ports of four games from the 90s side-scrolling action series Valis: The Fantasm Solider. The collection includes the PC Engine version of Valis IV, the Mega Drive/Genesis version of Syd of Valis (titled SD Valis in Japan), and both the Mega Drive/Genesis and MSX versions of Valis: The Fantasm Soldier. In addition to the games, there are also new features including a rewind function, a sound mode, and a visual mode.

There are two cheat codes that were revealed by the developers: one lets you unlock Hard Mode in the PC Engine version of Valis IV, while the other lets you completely refill your HP and MP in the Mega Drive/Genesis version of Valis: The Fantasm Solider.

Cheat codes were a common inclusion in many games of that era, and the Valis series was well-known for having its fair share. It appears that the ports contained in Valis: The Fantasm Solider Collection II come with their cheat codes intact.

That being said, it’s quite unusual for the developers themselves to publicly reveal not only the existence of cheat codes, but also the method required to input them. Edia explained that it had received many inquiries from players asking about the codes. The developer at first wanted to refrain from publicly divulging the cheat codes, as they are meant to be secret by nature, but the hardware and input methods have changed since the original games, so they decided to provide an explanation for players.

Although Valis: The Fantasm Solider Collection II has yet to be released outside of Japan, the previously released collection, Valis: The Fantasm Solider Collection, is currently available on the Nintendo Switch worldwide. It includes the PC Engine versions of Valis: The Fantasm Solider, Valis II, and Valis III.