We present our red carpet interviews from the premiere of Mum’s List, held at the Washington Hotel in London’s Mayfair last night.

The film stars Rafe Spall, Emilia Fox and Elaine Cassidy, it was directed by Niall Johnson who adapted the book by St John Greene. Mum’s List tells the true story of the life and legacy of Kate Greene, whose terminal illness prompted her to document her thoughts, her memories, her hopes and wishes for her two young sons.

Director Niall Johnson talks about his personal connection to the film, and to the family. Johnson lives in Clevedon where Kate and the Greenes lived and his sons go to the same school as Reef and Finn Greene. He talked about the beginnings of the process, “I knew Kate in the last twelve months of her life, I witnessed the events, I saw the effect it had on the whole community.”

Johnson also talks about working with Kate’s husband as interest in the titular list grew in the press and with Penguin, and how his attachment grew to what would become this film. Summing up Mum’s List he says, “It’s a love story, it’s a love story between husband and wife, mother and children…it’s all about love.”

Rafe Spall, recently cast in Jurassic World 2, also commented on the emotional power of the story. “I found it to be one of the most moving things I’ve ever read. I found it devastating. It’s a big responsibility. It’s a pure honour. ”

We were privileged to speak to the entire cast and crew last night, and heard their own personal connections to a film which doesn’t have the media spotlight of the studio blockbusters, but one we’re very proud to be able to support.

Mum’s List is out in UK cinemas on the 25th of November. Read our review here.

Mum’s List Premiere Interviews

Mum’s List Synopsis

One of the most memorable, beautiful and heart-warming stories of recent years; ‘Mum’s List’ tells the real life story of Singe and Kate, a couple from North Somerset, whose lives were turned upside down when Kate was diagnosed with an incurable breast cancer. Over her last few months, she created her list: writing down her thoughts and memories to help the man she loved create the best life possible for him and their two sons, after she was gone.