When you eat, food travels from the mouth down the esophagus to the stomach. Then it moves through the small and large intestines, and eventually out through the anus as waste. The liver, pancreas, and gallbladder are also included in the digestive system. These organs produce chemicals that allow digestion to occur.

All of these organs work in harmony to make sure the body receives the nutrients it needs. Some of the organs are hollow, while others are solid. A series of muscle contractions moves food through the digestive system from the hollow organs to the solid organs. This important process is called peristalsis.

The hollow organs of the digestive system include the following:

Mouth

Digestion starts in the mouth. This is where the action of chewing begins to break down starchy foods into carbohydrates. Special glands inside the mouth release saliva. Saliva and the enzymes present in saliva also help accelerate the breakdown of starchy foods.

Esophagus

This organ pushes food from the mouth down to the next part of the digestive system, the stomach.

Stomach

Once food drops down the esophagus, the muscles at the top of the stomach relax to allow the food to enter. After the food goes into the stomach, the muscles at the bottom of the stomach begin to move. The movement combines the food with the acidic digestive juices produced by glands in the stomach. The acid primarily breaks down foods containing protein. Eventually, the contents of the stomach are emptied into the small intestine.

Small intestine

The muscles of the small intestine mix food with its own digestive juices, along with those from the pancreas and liver. As the small intestine pushes the food toward the large intestine, these digestive juices help to further break down the food into carbohydrates, fats, and proteins. The walls of the small intestine then absorb nutrients from the digested food and deliver them into the bloodstream. From there, the blood carries the nutrients to cells throughout the body.

Large intestine

Not all food is broken down by the digestive system. Waste, or undigested food and dead cells, is pushed down to the large intestine. The large intestine absorbs the water and remaining nutrients from the waste before transforming it into solid stool. Stool is stored at the end of the large intestine, called the rectum, until it’s expelled from the body during a bowel movement.

While the hollow organs play critical roles in the digestive process, the solid organs release various chemicals that allow the digestive process to actually work.

The solid organs of the digestive system include the following:

Pancreas

The pancreas is located in the upper part of the abdomen, behind the stomach. It produces digestive juices that help the small intestine break down food into carbohydrates, proteins, and fats. It also makes chemicals that help regulate blood sugar levels, which affect how much energy the body has available to use.

Liver

The liver is a very large organ located above the stomach in the upper abdomen. Among its many important functions, the liver creates bile, a digestive substance that’s stored in the gallbladder. During digestion, bile is sent into the small intestine to help break down foods that contain fats. Besides aiding in the digestive process, the liver also stores nutrients and helps remove toxins from the body.

Gallbladder

The gallbladder is a small pouch that stores the bile made in the liver. During digestion, the gallbladder releases bile into the top part of the small intestine to break down foods that contain fats.

Sometimes, one or more parts of the digestive system don’t work properly. This can cause anything from minor discomfort to serious health issues. Some common digestive system problems include:

Acid Reflux and GERD

Acid reflux occurs when stomach acid or bile flows back up into the esophagus, causing heartburn and other uncomfortable symptoms. Most people experience acid reflux from time to time, especially after eating spicy food or heavy meals. When acid reflux happens more than twice per week, however, the condition is considered gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). While acid reflux can cause some discomfort, GERD has the potential to cause serious health problems.

The symptoms of acid reflux and GERD include:

a burning sensation in the chest (heartburn) that sometimes moves up to the throat

a sour taste at the back of the mouth

trouble swallowing

dry cough

sore throat

nausea

burping

regurgitating food or sour liquid

feeling a lump in your throat

Gallstones

Gallstones are solidified chunks of digestive fluid that can form in the gallbladder. They can be as tiny as a grain of sand or as big as a golf ball. People may have one gallstone or several gallstones at the same time. Some people don’t need any treatment for their gallstones, while others may require surgery to remove their gallbladder.

There are two main types of gallstones: cholesterol gallstones and bilirubin gallstones. Cholesterol gallstones are yellow and made mostly of cholesterol. Bilirubin gallstones, on the other hand, are dark brown or black and contain bilirubin. Bilirubin is a chemical the body makes when it breaks down red blood cells.

A small gallstone may not cause any symptoms. A larger gallstone, however, often does cause symptoms. These symptoms may include:

pain in the upper right section of the abdomen that radiates to the right shoulder or shoulder blades

yellow tint in the skin or whites of the eyes (jaundice)

fever

nausea

vomiting

clay-colored stools

Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS)

IBS is a collection of symptoms that affect the large intestine, causing extreme abdominal discomfort and pain. It’s a chronic condition that must be managed with long-term treatment. Most people with IBS can control their symptoms by modifying their diets and changing their lifestyle habits. Some people, however, may experience severe symptoms and need medication and counseling.

Common IBS symptoms include:

abdominal pain or cramps

bloating

gas

diarrhea

constipation

mucous in the stool

Hemorrhoids

Hemorrhoids, also called piles, are swollen veins around the anus or in the lower rectum at the end of the large intestine. Hemorrhoids can be internal or external. Internal hemorrhoids are located inside the rectum, while external hemorrhoids are located under the skin around the anus.

Some common symptoms of hemorrhoids include:

bleeding during bowel movements

itching or irritation around the anus

pain or discomfort around the anus

swelling around the anus

a lump near the anus

leakage of stool

While hemorrhoids can cause some discomfort, they can typically be treated with over-the-counter ointments, creams, or suppositories. More severe hemorrhoids that don’t resolve with simple home treatments may need to be treated with surgery.

Schedule an appointment with your doctor if you experience symptoms of any of the digestive disorders described above. You should also contact your doctor right away if you have severe pain or bleeding, or bleeding that is accompanied by lightheadedness or dizziness.