Phone Swap (2012) is a quirky and entertaining Nigerian rom-com drama film. Directed by Kunle Afolayan, the storyline revolves around two strangers having an unplanned encounter, which leads to their phones being accidentally swapped and a string of chaotic events follow suit. The film was released on February 22, 2012 in theatres.

Here’s how you can watch and stream Phone Swap (2012) via streaming services such as Netflix.

Is Phone Swap (2012) available to watch via streaming?

Yes, Phone Swap (2012) is available to watch via streaming on Netflix.

Mary is a skilled and proficient fashion designer by profession, while Akin is an affluent businessman. One day, Mary and Akin accidentally bump into each other at the airport. This unplanned encounter ultimately results in their lives getting flipped upside down dues to their phones being unintentionally swapped. Will Akin and Mary’s journey in tackling each other’s ordeals, chaos, and situation be bumpy or smooth?

Phone Swap (2012) film stars Nse Ikpe Etim as Mary Oyenokwe and Wale Ojo as Akin Cole, among various others cast members.

Watch Phone Swap (2012) by streaming via Netflix

Phone Swap (2012) is available to watch on Netflix.

Netflix is the undefeated giant in the OTT segment with a vast array of romantic-comedy drama films in several languages for the die-hard rom-com film buffs under a single roof.

You can watch via Netflix by following these steps:

Visit netflix.com/signup

Choose a payment plan from the following:

$6.99 per month (standard with Ads)

$15.49 per month (Standard)

$22.99 per month (Premium)

Enter your email address and password to create an account

Enter your chosen payment method

The cheapest Netflix Standard with Ads Plan provides all but a few of its movies and TV shows. However, it will show ads before or during most of its content. You can watch in Full HD and on two supported devices at a time.

Its Standard Plan provides the same but is completely ad-free while also allowing users to download content on two supported devices with an additional option to add one extra member who doesn’t live in the same household.

The Premium Plan provides the same as above, though for four supported devices at a time, with content displaying in Ultra HD. Users get to download content on up to six supported devices at a time and have the option to add up to two extra members who don’t live in the same household. Netflix spatial audio is also supported.

The official synopsis of Phone Swap (2012) is as follows:

“Akin and Mary meet for the first time at an airport where they accidentally bump into each other and mistakenly swap their identical phones. This leads to a destination mix up after they receive one another’s text regarding a travel destination. Consequently, Akin ends up traveling to where Mary is supposed to go and vice versa. Neither knows about the swap until they have reached their opposite destinations and “the phone” stops ringing (In Mary’s case) and “Won’t stop ringing” (In Akins’s case). As a result of the phone swap, they agree to help carry out each other’s missions, armed with the information and data on each other’s phone. But it’s not as easy as they both think as new obstacles and complications rise at every turn as they both struggle to adapt to their alien environment and situation. Mary has to walk in Akins shoes and represent him in a company meeting while Akin has to represent Mary in her the family meeting. This they do with hilarious results.”

NOTE: The streaming services listed above are subject to change. The information provided was correct at the time of writing.

Unfrosted Interview: Writer Spike Feresten on Making a Funny ‘Biopic’

ComingSoon Editor-in-Chief Tyler Treese spoke with Unfrosted writer Spike Feresten about the comedy movie. He discussed working with Jerry Seinfeld over the years… Movies Spencer Legacy 10 hours ago

Turtles All the Way Down Brought Former Nickelodeon Stars Isabela Merced & Cree Closer

Former Nickelodeon stars Isabela Merced and Cree are closer than ever before after starring in the Max movie Turtles All… Movies Tyler Treese 12 hours ago

Alpha is the Next Film from Raw and Titane Filmmaker Julia Ducournau

Raw and Titane filmmaker Julia Ducournau’s next film is titled Alpha. She’ll direct and write the project. Alpha an Unknown… Movies Neil Bolt 17 hours ago

Screambox May 2024 Lineup Revealed for Horror Streaming Service

The Screambox May 2024 lineup features a selection of cult horror movies, old and new, including a premiere for Life… Movies Neil Bolt 18 hours ago