For his first production at the University of Wisconsin-Parkside, Fabrice Conte-Williamson found himself directing “two plays at once.”

That’s how the new theater professor describes “War of the Worlds: The Radio Play.”

“The audience sees ‘War of the Worlds’ and the people creating the soundscape of the show,” he explained.

For the show — made famous in 1938 by Kenosha native Orson Welles and his Mercury Theatre radio production — UW-Parkside’s Main Stage Theater has been transformed into a radio studio. Audience members are the studio audience.

“You get to see all the tricks they use to create the sound effects,” Conte-Williamson said.

Because “War of the Worlds,” adapted from a novel by H.G. Wells, focuses on a Martian invasion of Earth, those sounds include discovering “what does a spaceship sound like?” Conte-Williamson said. “We experimented in creating a symphony of metal objects, bells and tubes.” (He added that although he hasn’t ever heard an actual Martian spaceship (yet), he “was sure what it doesn’t sound like.”)

“The students had a lot of fun coming up with the sound effects,” he said. “It gives them ownership of the show.”

“War of the Worlds” is performed as if it’s a live news event that interrupts the radio station’s regularly scheduled programming that night, with “news bulletins” breaking in during a symphony concert, Conte-Williamson explained.

“Our audience will know it’s not real, but they will see, and hear, how the show created the feeling of it really happening,” he said. “It’s like our audience is ‘in’ on the secret of how they mimicked a live news event. You’re almost backstage.”

Conte-Williamson, who has read the novel and seen the movie adaptations, said the radio script “had to change the novel to fit into a tight time frame. It runs about an hour, with no intermission, so you’re in this world completely. It’s a quickly paced, wonderful script with all the focus on watching the actors create this world. You get sucked into the excitement of it.”

Family entertainment

UW-Parkside student Ben Compton narrates the action for the audience as Richard Pierson; the same role Welles had in 1938.

“He’s not portraying Orson Welles,” Conte-Williamson said, “but he did a lot of research on Orson Welles and the Mercury Theatre.”

Conte-Williamson calls “War of the Worlds” “great entertainment that is accessible for the entire family. You can think about war and the end of humanity ... or you can just enjoy watching how the actors make the funny sounds. It works on a pure entertainment level, and it’s short enough that young kids won’t get bored.”

Most importantly for Conte-Williamson, it passes the “mom test.”

“My mother doesn’t like intellectual theater; she just wants to be entertained. I ask myself ‘would my mom like this show”? The answer is yes.”

If you go

What: “War of the Worlds: The Radio Play,” a stage performance of the famous Mercury Theatre radio drama about a deadly Martian invasion of Earth

Where: The Main Stage Theatre at the University of Wisconsin-Parkside, 900 Wood Road

Performances: 7 p.m. Fridays (Oct. 12 and 19) and Saturdays (Oct. 13 and 20) and 2 p.m. Sundays (Oct. 14 and 21)

Tickets: $18 for adults, $14 for senior citizens and $10 for students; call the box office at 262-595-2564 or log on at www.uwp.edu

Love

0

Funny

0

Wow

0

Sad

0

Angry

0

Be the first to know

Get local news delivered to your inbox!

* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.

Liz Snyder

Features/GO Kenosha

Get email notifications on {{subject}} daily!

Your notification has been saved.

There was a problem saving your notification.

{{description}}

Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.

Followed notifications

Please log in to use this feature

Log In

Don't have an account? Sign Up Today