Description

Product Reviews

Description

TMNT - Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles DVD 2007 Tini Nindzsa Teknőcök / Directed by Kevin Munroe / Starring: James Arnold Taylor, Nolan North, Mikey Kelley , Mitchell Whitfield, Chris Evans, Sarah Michelle Gellar

UPC 5999544251991

MADE IN EU

REGION 2 PAL DVD

Audio: Hungarian 5.1, English 5.1

Subtitles: Hungarian

Runtime: 84 minutes

English Summary:

TMNT (also known as TMNT 2007 or Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 2007) is a 2007 American computer-animated martial arts superhero film written and directed by Kevin Munroe. Based on the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles comic book series, the film stars the voices of James Arnold Taylor, Nolan North, Mikey Kelley, Mitchell Whitfield, Chris Evans, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Mako, Kevin Smith, Patrick Stewart and Zhang Ziyi and is narrated by Laurence Fishburne.

3,000 years ago, warlord Yaotl opens a portal into a parallel universe and becomes immortal, but his 4 sibling generals are turned to stone. The portal also releases 13 immortal monsters that destroy his army and his enemies.

In the present, the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles have grown apart after defeating the Shredder; Master Splinter has sent Leonardo to Central America for training, where he protects a village from local bandits. Donatello works as an IT specialist, Michelangelo works as a birthday party entertainer called "Cowabunga Carl", and Raphael continues to fight crime at night as a vigilante known as "the Nightwatcher", which he keeps a secret from his family and friends. The Turtle's old friend April O'Neil now operates a company that locates and acquires relics for collectors, assisted by her boyfriend, Casey Jones.

Hungarian Summary:

Miután legyőzték legfőbb ősi ellenségüket, a teknőcök különválva élnek. Splinter mester igyekszik őket újra összeverbúválni, amikor New Yorkban aggodalomra is okot adó, furcsa dolgok készülődnek. Max Winters bepöccen, miután igazságtalanul elbocsájtják és szörnyhadsereg toborzásába kezd. Miután sikeresen bosszút áll korábbi munkaadójánál, nem áll meg, egyenesen a világuralomra szomjazik!

Voice cast / Hangok:

James Arnold Taylor as Leonardo: the oldest of the Turtles who is away training in Central America and is the leader of the group.

Nolan North as Raphael: the second oldest of the turtles, who has been operating as the "Nightwatcher" vigilante.

Mikey Kelley as Michelangelo: the youngest of the Turtles who has been operating as a birthday entertainer, "Ccowabunga Carl".

Mitchell Whitfield as Donatello: the third oldest of the Turtles who has been operating as an IT tech support

Chris Evans as Casey Jones: April's boyfriend who engages in crimefighting

Sarah Michelle Gellar as April O'Neil: a female friend of the Turtles who owns an antique shop.

Mako Iwamatsu and Greg Baldwin as Splinter: a mutant rat who is the Turtles' sensei and father.

Patrick Stewart as Max Winters: a businessman who turned out to be the immortal warlord Yaotl, who desires to be mortal again.

Zhang Ziyi as Karai: the Shredder's former second-in-command and new leader of the Foot Clan.

John DiMaggio as Colonel Santino: the leader of a group of South American bandits who has been extorting protection money from the local villagers.

Kevin Michael Richardson as General Aguila: the leader of Yaotl's four generals (his name is Spanish for "eagle").

Paula Mattioli as General Serpiente: one of Yaotl's four generals (her name is Spanish for "snake").

Fred Tatasciore as General Gato: one of Yaotl's four generals (his name is Spanish for "cat").

Frank Welker as General Mono: one of Yaotl's generals (his name is Spanish for "monkey").

Kevin Smith as an unnamed cook at a diner where Nightwatcher fights the Jersey Devil.[6]

Laurence Fishburne as the narrator.

Directed by Kevin Munroe Produced by

Thomas K. Gray

Galen Walker

Paul Wang

Written by Kevin Munroe Based on

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles

by

Kevin Eastman

Peter Laird

Starring

James Arnold Taylor

Nolan North

Mikey Kelley

Mitchell Whitfield

Chris Evans

Sarah Michelle Gellar

Mako

Kevin Smith

Patrick Stewart

Ziyi Zhang

Narrated by Laurence Fishburne Music by Klaus Badelt Cinematography Steve Lumley Edited by John Damien Ryan

Production

company

Imagi Animation Studios

Distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures (North America/Europe)

The Weinstein Company[1] (International)

Release date

March 17, 2007 (Grauman's Chinese Theatre)[2]

March 23, 2007 (United States)

Running time

84 minutes Country

United States

Hong Kong

Language English

Product Reviews

No reviews yet Write a Review