Rotterdam (Witte de With. Center for contemporary art) 1991; 71 pp.; limited edition: 1500 copies; exhibition catalogue with texts in Dutch and English by Lynne Cooke and Piet de Jonge and catalogue entries by Jan van Adrichem; with a loosely inserted supplement; wrappers; (keywords: Lynne Cooke , Lynne, Piet de Jonge, Piet, Jan van Adrichem, Jan, Philip Akkerman, Rob Birza, Paul Cox, Guido Geelen, Joep van Lieshout, Willem Oorebeek, Charly van Rest, Han Schuil, Roos Theuws); 27,5 x 22 cm; NEAR FINE COPY [Art / Dutch artist Exhibition ].

Hardback. Condition: Fine. First Edition. Hardback. No Dustjacket. 4to. Review copy with publisher's slip loosely inserted. Copiously illustrated in black and white throughout. ISBN: 1900829266 Pages: 165 This book is very heavy, and delivery costs may be a consideration especially outside Britain. Near fine.

Stapled Pictorial Wrappers. Condition: As New. First Edition. 48pp, profusely illustrated in color and b&w. Text in English. Designed by Trademark, Amsterdam. "Rotterdam-based artist Joep van Lieshout creates engaging but enigmatic containers; streamlined, curvilinear molds decorated with occasional dashes of paradoxical materials like fur and liqueur bottles - which mimic sterile architectural spaces like mobile homes, office units, deprivation chambers, washbasins, toilet bowls, and shelving units. This jewel-like book accompanied a 1996 traveling exhibition of Atelier Van Lieshout's work". A brand new, pristine example. Artist Monograph.

Pictorial Soft Cover. Condition: Very Good. Text is in Dutch. Hans Withoos, "Making Milky Waves" cover. Spine has a few very small chips and other light wear; top of p. 5 has a small red heart stamp; tight, text clean. 130 p., well illustrated [otob: 59] Size: Oversize.

Loose Pages in a Ringbinder. Condition: Fine. First Edition. 42 pages, full colour reproductions of the works in a ringbinder. cover red, as originally published. Atelier van Lieshout. Colour exampels, sizes and prices. "In the '80's van Lieshout makes, following Andy Warhols Brillo-dozen, sculptures of piled crates and paving stones. He looks for perfect proportions and fixed compositions. By arranging these standard sizes objects in different ways new forms come into being. The objects fit in the same measuring plan." Kitchen-units, bookcases, bath-units etc. The first catalogue on the oeuvre of the artist. In a very fine collectable condition. Size: 225 x 200 Mm.