Vyborgskaya storona (New Horizons in foreign distribution) is the 3rd part of the ‘Maksim Trilogy’ by Grigori Kozintsev and Leonid Trauberg. It depicts the times right after the October overturn, when the Bolsheviks took power in their hands, including their dealings with the State Bank and dispersal of the Constituent Assembly. As the story goes, an old-time activist of the party Maksim, who was previously engaged with forcible takeovers only, gets appointed the head of the state banking system, which effectively made him equal in rank to a minister. He uses his new position not only to recalibrate the financial affairs of the new-born state, but also to help those in need, while fighting off the attacks of the unfriendly forces at the same time.

This film is a perfect example of the sorrowful state the cinema as an art devolved into during the Stalin times. Although it is rather watchable from the technical point of view, for it was created by decent professionals of the craft with a view to the cinematic techniques available at the time, in general it’s a complete disgrace, because it misrepresents the actual historical events to suit communists’ mythological narrative.

The Bolsheviks are shown as pure-hearted people, who think only of the needs and woes of the common folk, never use force unnecessarily, and aim to establish a just system for all. Their enemies, on the other hand, are petty, despicable, cunning and cowardly. The events are distorted to leave out all the bad decisions of the new power, and to present its opponents as people unworthy and sordid, or, like in the case of Yevdokia Kozlova, as misguided victims.

To put it in a nutshell, this film lacks the most important qualities of true art – truthfulness and honesty – and therefore cannot be considered art at all. It is merely a piece of propaganda, a disgusting and appalling one. Still, it is also a display of the fact that even this kind of horrible servilism is not the end of the world for those creating such works – after all, later in life Grigori Kozintsev would indeed creat such amazing films as Hamlet and King Lear and Don Quixote.

I suppose, this could be read as an example of unfathomable inconsistency of human nature.