Dr. Herbert VanDyke Davis (Herb) died April 10, 2017 with family present. Herb was born September 7, 1917 in Ashland, Oregon where he was raised by his father, Frank, and stepmother, Annabel, his mother, Ruth, having died of complications in Herbert's childbirth. He attended Willamette University, the University of Oregon Medical School and came to Kansas University on an exchange internship before joining the United States Navy during World War II. He served in the Philippines, San Francisco and during the Korean War in Newport, Rhode Island. He achieved the rank of Lieutenant Commander. Herb married Julia Antoinette Omerzu (Nettie) on December 24, 1943 in San Francisco where they met while both were serving in the Navy. After their service they returned to Kansas City where Herb finished his pediatric residency. For 56 years Herb was a well respected pediatrician in Kansas City who served on many pediatric societies and on the staff of St Luke's Hospital and Children's Mercy Hospital. He was especially proud to have cared for multiple generations of many families. Herb and Nettie were very active members of St. Paul's Episcopal Church. Their involvement in multiple aspects of church life was a priority for them. They also enjoyed outdoor activities, especially fishing, golf and skiing. Herb was a dedicated sports fan, especially KU, the Royals (he was honored with the "Buck O'Neal award"), and the Chiefs. One of Herb's favorite pastimes was working in the yard creating beautiful flower gardens and he could grow roses like no other. He was also very proud of his antique collection many of which he restored himself. In 1989 Herb and Nettie started doing medical missions to Haiti and were instrumental in initiating the Haiti Mission program at St. Paul's. Through that program they did over 20 missions to rural Haiti providing medical relief and food programs. They also spearheaded the building of a school and a water purification system. Herb was preceded in death by his wife, Nettie. He is survived by his children Cheryl Graves (Mike) of Durango, Co., Paul Davis (Billie) of Crockett Ca., Nancy Bodinson (Larry) of Roeland Park, Ks. and Martha Davis (Pat) of Seattle, Wa.; his grandchildren Allison Jellison, Paul Graves, Scott Moore, Carrie Moore Woolam, Tyler Davis, Brooke Davis and 7 great grandchildren. A service will be held at St Paul's Episcopal Church, 11 E. 40th Street, KCMO 64111 on April 29, 2017 at 10:00 AM In lieu of flowers please send donations to the Haiti Fund at St. Paul's Church

SERVICES Memorial Service

Saturday, April 29, 2017 10:00 AM

St. Paul's Episcopal Church 11 E. 40th Street Kansas City, MO 64111