Cornerstone is Florida’s #1 tiny home builder. We are a licensed, full-service design/build contractor specializing in Florida Building Code Compliant tiny houses that can be placed on foundations or built as wheeled RVs. Based in Longwood, FL, just outside of Orlando, Cornerstone is a family-run business that creates beautiful, high-quality tiny homes for customers across Florida, the Southeast, and the United States. All our foundation homes are built to Florida Building Codes and our tiny homes on wheels can travel anywhere in the country.

With decades of experience in home construction and engineering, we ensure that your new small footprint home will be of the highest quality and structurally sound to provide a safe, comfortable living experience. Our tiny homes are constructed with top-of-the-line building products and materials, combined with the craftsmanship that Cornerstone has become known for.

Tiny home living is a growing phenomenon in Florida, across America and around the world. Some refer to it as a social movement. Custom tiny homes come in many different styles and sizes, traditionally starting with footprints around 400 square feet. They can be constructed on permanent foundations or on wheels / trailers for mobility.

Tiny houses and the tiny life philosophy is about many different things for different people. It might be about the freedom and adventure of living simply and affordably; reduced financial concerns with less “stuff” and more time to enjoy life. For some, it’s a chance for home ownership and building real equity instead of wasteful apartment rental payments every month. For others, tiny homes serve as ideal rental property investments (think Airbnb), Accessory Dwelling Units, home offices or mother-in-law suites. No matter your reason for desiring a tiny home, one thing is certain: they are anything but limiting!

Cornerstone Tiny Homes builds incredible custom tiny homes for a variety of uses ranging from primary residences to rental properties, backyard villas, home offices, studios, and more. We offer a wide collection of floor plans, ranging in size between 360 to 720+ square feet, that can be customized to suit your specific needs and design choices. All our foundation homes meet Florida’s strict building codes and are priced starting at $91,000. When you’re ready to go tiny, Cornerstone is here to help you select a floor plan and finishes.