KEVIN Negandhi has built an accomplished television journalism career.

Now, fans want to know more about the sports anchor and his wife, Monica Buchanan.

Who is Kevin Negandhi's wife, Monica Buchanan?

Kevin Negandhi is married to a woman named Monica Buchanan who has had experience in both the healthcare and journalism industries.

According to her LinkedIn profile, Buchanan is located in Avon, Connecticut, and has served as the senior director of strategic communications at Connecticut Children's since January 2021.

She previously worked as the hospital's director of communications from July 2016 to January 2021 and as the assistant director of media & public relations and corporate communications from August 2013 to January 2021.

Buchanan was an investigative reporter for NBC Connecticut - WVIT from September 2007 to August 2013 and a news reporter for ABC 7 WWSB-TV from September 2005 to September 2007.

She worked as a news reporter for WCTV from June 2004 to September 2005.

She earned her bachelor's degree in broadcast journalism from the University of Florida College of Journalism and Communications, where she studied from 2000 to 2004.

Who is Kevin Negandhi?

Negandhi was born in Phoenixville, Pennsylvania, on March 20, 1975, and has had a highly accomplished career.

The sports anchor has worked for ESPN since 2006 and hosts the network's SportsCenter program, as well as ESPN College football on ABC.

Per his ESPN Press Room Bio, he has also hosted the programs Baseball Tonight, College Football Live, NBA Live, NFL Live, Outside the Lines, and the women’s NCAA basketball Final Four.

Since 2015, Negandhi has hosted the Special Olympics World Games.

He previously worked as a sports director at WWSB-TV in Sarasota, Florida, and as a sports director for KTVO-TV in Kirksville, Missouri from 1998 to 1999.

In 1995, he started his career as a college sports stringer at USA Today, per his Bio.

Negandhi earned his bachelor's degree in communications from Temple University in 1997 and was inducted into Temple’s School of Media and Communications Hall of Fame.

He is the first Indian-American to serve on a national sports network and has won multiple awards, according to his Bio.

He received three Associated Press awards while working in Florida, including "Best Sports Cast" in 2004 and 2005 and "Best Breaking Sports News" in 2005.

Negandhi has repeatedly shared photos with his wife on his Instagram page, @kevinnegandhi.

On December 31, 2023, he posted a picture with Buchanan, along with the caption: "The Tournament of Roses President’s Ball w my hot date."

In honor of his wife's birthday, he posted multiple images of the couple on November 21, 2023, writing: "Celebrating this beautiful woman’s birthday in Times Square w incredible Thai @vallatable and Broadway @hadestown. I love you @snowwhite1117."

Is Kevin Negandhi still on ESPN?

Negandhi is still on ESPN.

On January 8, 2024, Deadline reported that the anchor has signed a new multi-year contract with the network in which he will continue to host weekday SportsCenter.

He will also keep his hosting position for the Special Olympics, as well as for ABC’s coverage of college football and the NBA draft.

"I’m excited and honored to continue my career at ESPN, working with so many talented individuals," Negandhi said, per the outlet.

"We’re very happy to have Kevin remaining with ESPN for years to come," said Executive Editor & Head of Event and Studio Production Norby Williamson.

"He has contributed to our success in so many areas –SportsCenter, college football, NBA Draft, and more – and he’s a consummate professional in everything he touches," Williamson continued.

"My commitment remains unwavering in bringing sports enthusiasts the most significant stories across various platforms, be it traditional television, streaming services, or any preferred mode of news consumption," said Negandhi.

"As the nation’s first Indian American on a national sports network, I take pride in championing ESPN’s rich culture of inclusiveness and belonging, ensuring that our coverage resonates with fans from all walks of life," he continued.