Kevin Buchanan Dan Gauthier as Kevin Buchanan One Life to Live Portrayed by Morgan K. Melis (1976-1980)

Chris Cunningham (1980-1981)

Jonathan Brandis (R.I.P.) (1981-1982)

Ryan Janis (1982-1990)

Matthew Vipond (1990; permanent temporary replacement recast)

Joey Thrower (1990-1991)

Kirk Geiger (1991-1994)

Jack Armstrong (1994-1995)

Ken Kenitzer (1995; pernament temporary replacement recast)

Kevin Stapleton (1996-1997)

Timothy Gibbs (1998-2000)

Dan Gauthier (2003-2006; 2007-2008; 2009-present) Duration 1979-1995, 1996-2000, 2003-2006, 2007-2008, 2009, 2010-present First appearance September 12, 1979 Last appearance Late 2012 Created by Gordon Russell and Sam Hall Profile Aliases Kevin Lord Riley

(birth name) Gender Male Born September 12, 1965 (1965-09-12) (age 58)[1] Occupation Buchanan Enterprises Board Member Residence Llanview, Pennsylvania

Relationships Parents Victoria Lord

(mother)

Joe Riley

(biological father; deceased)

Clint Buchanan

(adotpive father)

Sibling(s) Megan Gordon

(maternal half-sister; deceased) Megan Riley

(paternal half-sister; deceased)

Cord Roberts

(paternal half-brother; via adoption)

Joey Buchanan

(brother)

Jessica Buchanan

(maternal half-sister)

Natalie Buchanan

(maternal half-sister) Spouse(s) Cassie Callison

(1993-1999; annulled)

LeeAnn Demerest

(1992-1993; divorced)

Kelly Cramer

(2003-2004;divorced) Romances Stephanie Hobart

(1991)

Rachel Gannon

(1994)

Andy Harrison

(1994-1995)

Téa Delgado

(1997)

Barbara Graham

(1998)

Grace Davidson

(1999, deceased)

Blair Cramer (2003) Children Duke Buchanan

(son w/ LeeAnn; deceased)

Kevin Buchanan, Jr.

(son w/ Kelly; stillborn) Grandchildren Zane Buchanan

(grandson) Grandparents Victor & Eugenia Lord

(maternal grandparents; deceased)

Asa & Olympia Buchanan

(paternal grandparents; via adoption; deceased) Aunts and uncles Tony Lord

(maternal uncle; deceased)

Meredith Lord

(maternal aunt; deceased)

Tina Lord

(maternal aunt)

Todd Manning

(maternal uncle)

Eileen Riley

(paternal aunt)

Tom Dennison

(paternal uncle)

Bo Buchanan

(paternal uncle; via adotpion)

Ben Davidson

(paternal uncle; via adoption; deceased) Nieces and nephews Megan Buchanan

(deceased)

Bree Brennan

Chloe Brennan

(deceased) First cousins Brian Kendall

(deceased)

Danny Wolek

C. J. Roberts

Sarah Roberts

Starr Manning

Danielle Rayburn

Jack Manning

Sam Manning

Tim Siegel

(deceased)

Julie Siegel

Mary Lynn Dennison

Drew Buchanan

(adoptive; deceased)

Matthew Buchanan

(adoptive)

Kevin Buchanan (born Kevin Lord Riley) is a fictional character on the soap opera One Life to Live. The most recast character in the show's history, Kevin was last played by Dan Gauthier from June 2003 through November 2008. Gauthier and other former cast members returned in August 2009 for the series' 9,999th and 10,000th episodes,[2][3] and he made another brief appearance in October and November 2009.[4] Gauthier is set to reprise the role in March 2010, for a longer period of time, maybe even on contract status.

Character History[]

The early years[]

Kevin was born in 1976 to the late Joe and Viki Lord Riley, but was soon kidnapped by his late deceased uncle Tony Lord's wife, Cathy Craig Lord. Cathy had lost touch with reality after the death of her and Joe's own daughter Megan, who had been killed in an accident for which Cathy blamed Viki in the hospital before she died. When delusional Cathy was found, dead presumably, she had no memory of taking the infant Kevin or where she had left him. By 1978, the loss of their son had taken its toll on the late Joe Riley and Viki's marriage; but when Cathy finally remembered enough for Kevin to be found before Cathy died, Joe and Viki reconciled before Joe Riley's death happened too early.

Joe died of a brain tumor right in 1972 long before Kevin's brother, Joseph Lord Riley Jr., was born. When Viki later married Clint Buchanan in 1980, Clint adopted Kevin and Joey.

Love and loss[]

In 1990, teenaged Kevin's first real love is Stephanie Hobart, the niece of the hated Carlo Hesser by the Buchanans. Carlo ends the relationship because of his hatred for the Buchanans. Kevin starts a love affair with LeeAnn Demerest, but LeeAnn and Max Holden are also drawn to one another. When LeeAnn believes that Max has fallen for Luna Moody, she sleeps with Kevin and becomes pregnant. Kevin finds out in 1991, and they elope. Meanwhile, LeeAnn's blackmailing nemesis arrogant mother DuAnn Demerest is murdered that year, and Julia Medina ultimately confesses to the crime. Kevin and LeeAnn's marriage crumbles over her closeness with Jason Webb; they divorce, and LeeAnn leaves town for Texas with their son Duke in 1992.

Kevin grows close to Rachel Gannon, whose father Hank does not like their friendship at all. Kevin is charged with participating in the gang rape of fellow student Marty Saybrooke but is eventually exonerated. Later in 1994, Rachel and Kevin are set to move in together, but while Kevin is in Texas visiting his son, Rachel becomes romantically involved with Dr. Ben Price. Kevin ends his friendship with Rachel and she leaves town after and is not seen again on the show.

Kevin opts to pursue a career in journalism like his parents, and in 1994 begins dating Andy Harrison, half-sister of both Max Holden and Jake Harrison. Kevin goes to London on assignment in 1995 and ends their relationship in a letter.

The Cramer women[]

Cassie[]

Kevin came back to Llanview in 1996, and became an investigative reporter. That's where he met his rival reporter Cassie Carpenter. Cassie was married, but that really didn't matter to Kevin, he wanted a romance with her from the start. Cassie kept resisting him, and told him to get someone else. He soon did, Téa Delgado. That made Cassie very jealous seeing Téa with Kevin. Finally in 1998, Cassie couldn't resist anymore and they made love. Cassie left her husband Rev. Andrew Carpenter and married Kevin.

Later in 1998, Kevin and Cassie hired a nurse named Barbara Graham. She was supposed to take care of Cassie's father, David, who was very sick. She soon fell in love with Kevin. Kevin and Barbara were trapped together in a cellar when Todd was holding everyone hostage at the Buchanan lodge. They couldn't resist each other and they made love. Kevin regretted it so much. Cassie soon found out about it, and she was mad! One night Barbara tried to kill Cassie for interfering with her and Kevin. She tried to shoot Cassie, but accidentally shot and killed Kevin's cousin, Drew. Cassie was shot, too and she was paralyzed. Cassie started to go insane after that. She held Barbara hostage. Kevin soon found her. Cassie was shipped off to Switzerland and their marriage was annulled.

In 1999, a woman named Grace Monroe arrived in town. Now they call her Grace Davidson, it had to do with her being abducted as a child by the mob. She charmed her way into Kevin's life and they had a romance going, but then Rae Cummings came to town. Rae was looking for her husband, who had cheated on her with a younger woman. That woman was Grace. Rae wanted to ruin Grace's life for having an affair with Rae's husband, Daniel. Rae tried to talk to Kevin and convince him to stop seeing Grace, but had no success. Kevin and Grace grew closer covering the Lindsay Rappaport trial and eventually got engaged.

Kelly[]

In October 1999, Kevin was a royal mess when Grace drowned at Asa's summer house. Unable to cope, Kevin began heavily drinking. Joey and his girlfriend Kelly Cramer moved in with Kevin for a while to him cope with Grace's death. On New Year's Eve, Kevin and Kelly were drinking and nearly ended up making love. They both agreed to keep it a secret from Joey. When Kevin learned of Viki's breast cancer, he blew Kelly off when she suggested that they should work out their feelings for one another.

Joey found out about Kevin and Kelly when Kelly confessed her true love for Kevin. Unable to cope, Joey nearly strangled Kevin to death with a pool cue. When Kelly was in danger because she could identify the hit man who shot Ben Davidson, Kevin and Joey both moved in to protect her. Kevin was upset when he found out that Joey had been stalling his divorce from Kelly. After Kevin and Joey saved Kelly from the hitman, Joey moved away to London, leaving Kevin and Kelly to enjoy their relationship together. In March 2001, Kevin left town to go to Texas to care for his son, Duke and got a job for a local newspaper. Kelly moved down to Texas to live with Kevin a few months later.

Blair[]

In June 2003, Kevin returned to Llanview to launch a political career. Though now married to Kelly, Kevin's eye started roaming in the direction of her cousin, Blair. Later, Kevin confessed to Blair the reason behind the distance between him and Kelly — she'd had an affair in Texas. As the months went on, Kevin got closer to Blair and finally asked Kelly for a divorce. However, Kelly was desperate to hold on to her marriage when she got pregnant, Kevin decided to give the marriage another try, despite his one night stand with Blair. Months later, Kevin was overjoyed when Kelly presented him with their son.

And Kelly again[]

Unfortunately, their happiness couldn't last. Kelly and Kevin soon became involved in a messy divorce and an even messier custody battle, made all the messier because Kevin's newly arrived son Duke sided with Kelly. Kevin won custody, but when Kelly decided to return the baby to his birth mother, who had thought he died at birth, Kevin remained determined to get his son no matter what. But he couldn't stop the pull Kelly had on him, and the two began getting closer again. Kelly managed to convince Kevin to let his birth mother have him, and the two began a tentative relationship, made all the sweeter because of all the things that had happened between them. Kevin was also pleased when he and Duke finally began a father/son relationship with each other. Kevin and Kelly were looking forward to planning their future together when Kevin took ill. Kevin learned he was sterile just as Kelly, who had surgery to correct her own fertility problems, was looking forward to having a family.

Kevin and Kelly found themselves getting into more and more arguments, and inevitably broke up. On the day of Michael and Marcie's wedding, Kevin and Kelly had a vicious argument at St. Jude's rectory and Kevin walked out on Kelly, leaving her crying. Later Kevin learned that Duke had come upon Kelly in the rectory, and the two had made love before being buried in debris from a sudden tornado that swept through Llanview. When both Kelly and Duke were wheeled in for surgery, Kevin was forced to choose which one would get operated on first. Since Kelly was in worse shape he chose her, then was devastated when Duke died before he was operated on. Kevin initially blamed Kelly for Duke's death, and felt like his life was being ripped apart when he learned that Duke had left Kelly with the one thing he could never give her -- a child. Kevin finally came around later in Kelly's pregnancy, and was there for her after she went into early labor. After the birth of her son, Zane, Kevin asked her to come to London with him and raise the baby along with him.

Returns[]

Kevin returns on August 16 and August 17, 2007 to attend the funeral of his adopted grandfather, Asa Buchanan.[2][3] Kevin welcomes his cousin Matthew Buchanan to London when Matthew's parents Bo and Nora bring him there to attend boarding school.[4]