About Ibiza, Spain

Ibiza is an island located 49 miles off the coast of the city of Valencia. It is an autonomous community of Spain, and the third largest of the Balearic Islands. The summer climate of the island usually ranges between 70°F to 80°F, and it experiences snowfall once every ten years. Ibiza is widely considered as a popular tourist destination due to its bustling nightlife. Although Ibiza is known mainly for its party scene, its scenic attractions are equally alluring as large portions of the island are registered as World Heritage Sites by UNESCO.

Popular Destinations in Ibiza

Looking for activities once your private jet arrives in Ibiza? The island is regarded as a living legend by many party goers, especially because electronic music originated from Ibiza. It plays host to many awesome beach parties, and has amazing clubs and bars.

Amnesia, Ibiza: This club provides the ultimate Ibiza clubbing experience, and has long been the playground for the rich and famous. Like any other super clubs, the main dance floors of Amnesia can get very busy and are well known for the creation of the amazing communal moments when everyone put their hands in the air in unison. The club covers the best of dubstep, trance, house, techno, and live shows.

Sa Cova Winery: The island’s climate makes Ibiza an ideal location to grow quality grapes and its commercial wine industry is starting to emerge as a result. Sa Cova Winery a nine hectare vineyard visitors should visit to learn more about the fine Ibizan wines.

Ses Salines National Park: This national park plays host to a number of beautiful beaches, species of birds and plants that are native to Ibiza and Formentera. Because the park has a rich ecosystem of flora and fauna, it is included in UNESCO’s list of World Heritage Sites.

Privilege, Ibiza: Privilege is renowned for providing grandiose and spectacular vibes, and is dubbed as the World’s Biggest Club in the city, but even such a distinction is not going to prepare for visitors for the massive scale of what they are about to enjoy inside Privilege. The size of the main room is as big as an aircraft hangar and can probably fit the majority of other clubs in Ibiza. Privilege’s glass encased Vista Club is also a favorite with fans of house and techno raves.

Port of Ibiza: The Port of Ibiza provides a good change of atmosphere from the party scenes in Ibiza. There are many fishing boats, cruise ships and luxury yachts accessing this port, and there are many wonderful cafes and restaurants that are available near the port.

Luxury Lodging in Ibiza

Seeking luxury accommodations once your private jet has arrived in Ibiza? Ibiza is home to a large number of luxury hotels and resorts, and they include:

Aguas de Ibiza Lifestyle and Spa Hotel

Grand Palladium Palace Ibiza Resort

Hard Rock Hotel Ibiza

Hotel Argos

Hotel Ibiza Corso

Ibiza Gran Hotel

Ibiza Gran Hotel

Insotel Fenicia Prestige Thalasso

ME Ibiza

Mirador de Dalt Vila

Ushuaia Ibiza Beach Hotel

Restaurants in Ibiza

3 Michelin stars:

DiverXO:

Padre Damián 23, 28036 Madrid

2 Michelin stars:

La Terraza del Casino:

Alcalá 15-3°, 28014 Madrid

Ramón Freixa Madrid:

Claudio Coello 67, 28001 Madrid

Santceloni:

paseo de la Castellana 57, 28046 MADRID

1 Michelin star:

Álbora:

Jorge Juan 33, 28001 Madrid

Kabuki Wellington:

Velazquez 6, 28001 Madrid

Punto MX:

General Pardiñas 40, 28001 Madrid

Dstage:

Regueros 8, 28004 Madrid

La Cabra:

Francisco de Rojas 2, 28010 Madrid

Airports In or Nearby Ibiza For Private Jets

Interested in renting a private aircraft to Ibiza, Spain? There are many airports in Ibiza that serve private aircraft as Ibiza is one of the most popular destinations in the world for luxury travelers. Some of these include: