View waymark gallery

Eugene O’Neill - Boston, MA

Posted by: hykesj

N 42° 17.593 W 071° 06.722

19T E 325888 N 4684491

Grave of Eugene O’Neill, Pulitzer Prize winning playwright and Nobel laureate in literature.

Waymark Code: WM16VTV

Location: Massachusetts, United States

Published By: Alfouine

Views: 2

Eugene O’Neill is often described as ‘America’s greatest playwright’ and as the ‘Father of American Theater.’ Four of his plays have won Pulitzer Prizes for drama: “Beyond the Horizon,” “Anna Christie,” “Strange Interlude” and “Long Day’s Journey into Night.” He also won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1936. You could say he was destined for a stage career having been born on Broadway in a New York City hotel room.

O’Neill’s father, James O’Neill, was a prominent actor who traveled around a bit, which explains Eugene’s unusual birthplace. His father was also an alcoholic and a penny pincher. His mother, Mary, was a morphine addict and his older brother, James Jr., was an alcoholic and a womanizer. They spent their summers in a cottage in New London, CT. O’Neill’s most famous play, “Long Day’s Journey into Night,” is also about an aging, miserly actor named James, whose wife Mary is a morphine addict. It takes place on a single day at a summer cottage in Connecticut with the couple’s two sons, Jamie and Edmund, who is diagnosed with tuberculosis (Eugene O’Neill was diagnosed with TB in 1912). Wow, most of the names weren’t even changed - I guess that’s why they call the play autobiographical.

“Long Day’s Journey into Night” was published posthumously in 1956. Eugene O’Neill didn’t want the play produced until 25 years after he had died, but his wife authorized its production after just three years since all the ‘characters’ had already died. It was an immediate success, winning a Tony Award as well as the aforementioned Pulitzer. Besides those already mentioned, O’Neill’s other notable plays were “A Moon for the Misbegotten,” “Mourning Becomes Electra,” and “The Iceman Cometh.”

Eugene O’Neill died in 1953, ironically in a hotel room, in Boston. He is laid to rest in the Forest Hills Cemetery in Boston’s Jamaica Plain neighborhood. His third wife, the former actress Carlotta Monterey, is buried at this site also. Eugene was her fifth husband.

(Sources: wikipedia.org, biography.com.)

Description:

See Long Description above.Date of birth: 10/16/1888Date of death: 11/27/1953Area of notoriety: LiteratureMarker Type: HeadstoneSetting: OutdoorVisiting Hours/Restrictions: 8:00 am - 4:30 pmFee required?: NoWeb site: [Web Link]

Visit Instructions:

To post a visit log for waymarks in this category, you must have personally visited the waymark location. When logging your visit, please provide a note describing your visit experience, along with any additional information about the waymark or the surrounding area that you think others may find interesting.

We especially encourage you to include any pictures that you took during your visit to the waymark. However, only respectful photographs are allowed. Logs which include photographs representing any form of disrespectful behavior (including those showing personal items placed on or near the grave location) will be subject to deletion.

Search for...

Geocaching.com Google Map

Google Maps

MapQuest

Bing Maps

Nearest Waymarks

Nearest Grave of a Famous Person

Nearest Geocaches

Create a scavenger hunt using this waymark as the center point

Recent Visits/Logs:

There are no logs for this waymark yet.