Positive The Wall Street Journal Atmospheric ... Ms. Grames writes with a keen eye and a gift for earthy simile.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Full of well-timed surprises, strange rituals, dreadful deaths—and splendid entertainment from first to last.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Gripping ... Ms. Berry is a lyrical writer who can set scenes both explosive and domestic.

Rave The Wall Street Journal A jaw-dropping end section documents how much of this fiction is based on real people and facts. The pleasures of Mr. Moore’s tale extend all the way to its final footnotes.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Mosley’s seasoned protagonist perseveres in spite of the social and racial obstacles that continue to confront him into middle age.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Ms. Luna has produced a mesmerizing, shocking book that toggles between past and present to document the disintegration of multiple personalities.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Well-written, full of convincing characterizations and sharp insights. Ms. Jean’s novel is at its exciting best when forensics and other police techniques are at the fore. Less satisfying perhaps is an unexpected and melodramatic finale that includes and explains all manner of events in a manner undeniably comprehensive yet more than a little hard to credit.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Ms. Dean has created an especially disturbing character in Trent, whose seduction by the online \"truther\" community leads him to ever more unhinged actions in the real world. Day One, an emotional page-turner full of heart-pounding shocks and heart-wrenching insights, is an unforgettable book.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Many and wondrous are the charms of this witty, suspenseful and enchanting book ... One eagerly awaits whatever brainteasing concoction Ms. Jacobs comes up with next.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Packs a lot of coincidence into its roll-the-dice plot, but readers should accept it as a fair price of admission to this engaging and imaginative thriller.

Rave The Wall Street Journal French has specialized in books full of psychological acuity, bone-deep empathy and authentic colloquial speech. All of these aspects are on full display in The Hunter, a roughhewn comedy that before long becomes a tale of rough justice.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Compelling ... End of Story revels in references to classic mystery novels and works clever and unanticipated twists.

Rave The Wall Street Journal \"With Beirut Station, Mr. Vidich has written his most emotionally involving and suspenseful book yet.\

Rave The Wall Street Journal An intimate and ambitious spy novel with stylish prose and well-etched characters.

Rave The Wall Street Journal \"Ms. McDermid negotiates her ceaselessly exciting book’s twists like a master.\

Positive The Wall Street Journal Grisham delivers a breathtaking update on the McDeeres and the life they made ... The book becomes in part a moral thriller ... Mr. Grisham, in vintage form, ratchets up the suspense in this winning sequel to its well-known predecessor.

Rave The Wall Street Journal There may be other aged detectives in print and on television, but for wit, intelligence and humanity, the Thursday Murder Club outranks them all.

Rave The Wall Street Journal A special treat ... Mr. Herron’s narrative moves with ease between present and past, England and Germany, action and satire, propelled by prescient commentary on the passage of time ... Culminates in an astonishing denouement that should startle even the savviest spy-fiction fan.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Feverish ... Savagely satirical ... The amount of guilty pleasure to be had from The Enchanters depends on a reader’s tolerance for disparaging depictions of notable figures from the past. In any case, Mr. Ellroy dazzles with his detailed knowledge of the geography and denizens of the City of Fallen Angels, his brutal action sequences, his imaginative daring and his more sympathetic female characters.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mina’s evocation of time and place is noteworthy, and her Chandleresque one-liners provoke appropriate amusement ... Her book, with its vivid scene-setting and spot-on dialogue, is perhaps the most pleasing and affecting Marlowe pastiche yet.

Positive The Wall Street Journal As a narrator, [Corie] herself is a formidable raconteur, as generous with details as Proust, as full of anecdote as a suburban Scheherazade.

Positive The Wall Street Journal The Man in the Corduroy Suit reads like a classic spy story shaped by what Graham Greene called the \"human factor.\" It’s also a warning against losing one’s perspective in the intelligence world’s infinity of mirrors ... Whimsical, inventive and shape-shifting.

Rave The Wall Street Journal The timeline of Prom Mom toggles between the present and past as seen through different points of view. Readers’ sympathies shift from one character to another, as Ms. Lippman parcels out crucial information to induce gasps of surprise ... Ms. Lippman, long recognized as a master of plot and exposition, has been serving up psychologically rich slices of karma for years. Even her most demanding fans will be tempted to judge Prom Mom one of her best books yet.

Rave The Wall Street Journal A thrilling and poignant novel.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Prim’s twisted thoughts and nightmarish deeds are mind-reeling and stomach-turning ... Mr. Nesbø excels at manipulating this sort of ghoulish material. He can heighten suspense with a single word and wrong-foot the most attentive customer.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Titanium Noir nearly implodes under the weight of its retro tropes, but the book, like its Titans, reboots in time for a surprising and gratifying finale.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Sharply rendered characters flesh out the book ... Such varied types make the pages snap, crackle and pop. With sleight of hand and twist of plot, Mr. Ide takes time to render his cast in rich psychological detail.

Positive The Wall Street Journal It’s exciting to watch Jack do what she does best: inveigle her way into places she doesn’t belong, escape at the last moment in panic mixed with exhilaration. But her mission is jeopardized by her stubborn insistence to carry on despite dire injuries she refuses to get treated. Readers willing to follow tunnel-visioned Jack through near-suicidal lapses of common sense, though, will be rewarded with a satisfying and surprising denouement.

Positive The Wall Street Journal All the Sinners Bleed, with its nightmarish crimes...moves beyond standard police procedural territory and into the Southern Gothic realm.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Gripping ... Ms. Belkin craftily sustains suspense, even though readers already know her tale’s stark conclusion ... Sad and thought-provoking.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Takes romantic suspense to the far edge of melodrama ... Ms. Abbott’s storytelling talent is on fine display here. We’re gripped from the first page and soon in the spell of an enchantment ... Whether or not one is satisfied by the book’s bizarre denouement, Ms. Abbott has undeniably given us a story we’ll never forget.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Full of sharp social commentary and amorous intrigue ... Every character in this bracing novel is rendered with empathy. Chapter by chapter, Mr. Banville takes our breath away.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Harrowing ... Pochoda fuses elements of several subgenres—psychological thriller, procedural novel, hard-boiled crime saga, even magical-realism fable—to craft an imaginative chronicle of an apocalyptic season. Like the damaged souls that populate its pages, the book defies pigeonholing. Sing Her Down is unforgettable.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Written in a style that evokes the sense and sensibility of the early 19th century, rich with instructive aphorisms and thinly veiled insults, The Late Mrs. Willoughby transcends pastiche to achieve its own unique identity.

Positive The Wall Street Journal The book mixes the tropes and trappings of a noir novel with the tortured perceptions of a Poe protagonist and the cruel pleasures of the Marquis de Sade. \'A detective’s work happens on the edge of darkness,\' Togashi warns. Readers should brace for a long night’s journey into the muck before emerging into the bleak light of the morn.

Rave The Wall Street Journal An outstanding work, an uncanny tale of evils past and present, with some of the eerie feel of a story by Isak Dinesen.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Klingborg’s book has plenty of despair in store for its persevering hero. It also features an action-rich finale calculated to warm the heart of even the most vigilant avenger.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Gritty ... Brings readers into the mind of Coyne, a Vietnam vet and recovered heroin user who becomes a partial confidante to Mary Pat. His quest for personal salvation, if you will, is a welcome balance to her grief-driven descent.

Positive The Wall Street Journal The commissario’s company and sensibility keep a reader in thrall throughout this and every entry in Ms. Leon’s indispensable series.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Ms. Winspear ties her story elements together in a remarkably exciting manner.

Rave The Wall Street Journal All seems semi-comical with the hapless Henry. But alternating with the P.I.’s first-person chapters are third-person accounts of one, then two, then three other people whose paths cross Henry’s and each others’ in chilling fashion. The inventive Mr. Swanson never lets the willing reader down. With The Kind Worth Saving, he surpasses his own high standard.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Excitingly complex ... Birnam Wood features personalities from the relentlessly dogmatic to the pathologically amoral. The physical stage they occupy is seen in breathtaking detail via drone’s-eye view ... Hurtles toward its cliffhanger-ending in a frenzy.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Enthralling ... Ms. Makkai unfolds her flashback-laden story with a sure hand ... I Have Some Questions for You is rich in incident and alive with expressive imagery ... A coda, set in 2022, provides a bittersweet but illuminating resolution for all who have worked so long and hard to uncover the truth.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Winning... There’s lots of action, much of it violent.

Positive The Wall Street Journal The Sanctuary, translated into English by Tara Chace, has enough plot twists and personal revelations to keep Ms. Engberg’s growing throng of U.S. followers happy.

Rave The Wall Street Journal A non-chronological tour of key moments in the up and down life of an egotistical, superficial and \'aggressively ingratiating\' figure ... A hypnotically readable book...both typical and atypical of Mr. Mallon’s other period fictions centered on real people ... Mr. Mallon uses his new lead to bring an era to life with satiric specificity—and he allows his main character enough insight to perceive his own flaws without having the will to fix them ... His prose is imbued with the snark and sentiment of the showbiz world it describes—the legendary theaters, the hits and flops, the camaraderie, envy and ego ... A vivid portrait.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Hard-hitting ... Thanks to richly detailed chapters that switch between multiple points of view, readers are drawn into the lives and memories of several West Mills citizens.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Ms. Alsterdal weaves together her characters’ private and professional concerns in a manner reminiscent of such Swedish masters as Maj Sjöwall, Per Wahlöö and Henning Mankell. When Eira’s boss GG disappears without a trace, You Will Never Be Found, translated by Alice Menzies, kicks into higher gear and races with tremendous velocity toward a euphoric resolution.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Fiendishly elaborate plot ... A World of Curiosities is told in alternating past and present sections, as old crimes foreshadow current evils. Shocking events occur in quick succession. Chilling coincidences prove to be anything but chance. Eras blur and stories entwine ... This is a spooky and sometimes hair-raising book, perhaps Ms. Penny’s best. It offers a fine balance of humane values, spellbinding prose, Dickensian revelations and nail-biting suspense.

Rave Wall Street Journal Ms. McDermid, a skillful plotter, thus builds the framework for an even more elaborate story. Sharp characterizations and startling revelations mark this outstanding work, which is by turns a murder mystery and a chilling tale of historical retribution.

Rave Wall Street Journal The courtroom scenes in Suspect are rich with the character sketches and surprise revelations we’ve come to expect from a Scott Turow novel. Pinky’s own narrative presents a vivid portrait of an offbeat character ... The suspense and intrigue build as the chapters progress, culminating in a breathtaking finale.

Positive The Wall Street Journal A gleefully witty series.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Finally, all that stands between good and evil are one determined mom and her valiant son. Whatever the outcome, Mr. Davidson once more proves himself master of the art of horror writing.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... contains many evocative passages on Hollywood old and new—on the culture and personalities of a region whose mix of fact and contrivance creates a unique atmosphere. The book’s late-stage twists may tax a reader’s credulity, but its melodramatic conclusion should prove satisfying nonetheless.

Rave The Wall Street Journal ... hits on every front. Its quandaries stymie, its solutions thrill, its banter is worth reciting and its characters exemplify an admirable camaraderie. One can only hope that the Thursday Murder Club’s next outing appears before long.

Rave Wall Street Journal The most complex novel yet in a unique series by Robert Galbraith (a pseudonym for J.K. Rowling) ... Much of this massive work is pieced together via typographically reproduced tweets and messages sent over public and private channels, often with two or three conversations conducted at once. The author does a masterly job of keeping all plot elements in play and in balance, and the complications only add to the satisfaction of the mystery’s eventual solution. Sorting out the romantic dilemmas of Robin Ellacott and Cormoran Strike, however, will have to wait for a future volume.

Positive Wall Street Journal Orson Welles, that whirlwind showman from Kenosha, Wis., is already the subject of more than a dozen biographies...He has also proved an alluring figure for writers of fiction...Jerome Charyn is at least the third novelist to pay him such tribute, in the cinematic and bittersweet \'Big Red,\' which spans the years 1943 to 1958 and pivots on the marriage of flame-haired movie star Rita Hayworth and \'the boy wonder\' she nicknamed Orsie...Mr. Charyn, a veteran novelist, biographer and essayist, subtly evokes F. Scott Fitzgerald’s \'The Great Gatsby\' in telling his saga of star-crossed charismatics through the eyes of an all-seeing peripheral figure, an outsider-insider named Rusty Redburn.

Positive Wall Street Journal \'Do No Harm\' is Robert Pobi’s third book featuring New York-based Lucas Page: astrophysicist, professor, bestselling author, devoted husband, father to five adopted children, and an ex-FBI agent...Page’s unique intellectual abilities bring him occasional consultancy assignments from the bureau...In this new adventure, Page turns to his old colleagues for assistance in investigating the deaths of various doctors...The book’s most remarkable sequences are those of sustained action and suspense, including an attempt on the life of his wife, Erin, a pediatric orthopedic surgeon...Mr. Pobi does an excellent job of balancing theory with thrills...The grisly passages are countered by scenes with the Pages’ endearing extended family, and by dialogue that bristles with spiky wit.

Positive Wall Street Journal The Goldenacre features a dense cast of vivid characters, not least Tallis, a tortured pilgrim worthy of a Graham Greene tale...The book—which explores through prose the interplay between light and darkness in the physical and moral worlds—is an ambitious and wonderfully realized work.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Unexpected plot turns, crisp dialogue and an (at last) emboldened heroine enhance the appeal of this well-crafted domestic suspense thriller.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Full enjoyment of this book may depend on one’s tolerance for the supernatural element, mocked by hardcore mystery fans as \'the woo-woo factor.\' Nonetheless, Hokuloa Road is a finely written thriller—a compelling adventure story set in a vivid location.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Osborne turns those references upside-down, subverting expectations of characters’ behavior and story resolution. Genre purists may be disappointed by the novel’s somewhat open-ended nature, but those receptive to its elegant writing and intelligent pleasures will be richly rewarded.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Life itself is often perplexing for the varied cast of this inventively humanistic work, one with welcome instances of love, religious questioning (through a variety of faiths) and one terrifically effective episode of magical surrealism.

Rave Wall Street Journal One challenge with a then-and-now chronicle is making both halves equally interesting. Ms. Ware succeeds nobly at this ... Ms. Ware’s stories are often compared to Agatha Christie’s, but in mood she’s closer to Daphne du Maurier or Francis Iles ... Through careful descriptive scrutiny of Hannah’s emotional barometer, Ms. Ware makes even her heroine’s most misguided decisions seem plausible. The It Girl may well be her best book yet.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... finely paced and full of surprises. What places it above your average missing-spouse mystery is Mr. Barclay’s ability to make you not only believe in his characters but to care about them.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... stylishly penned, meteorologically moody and ever so slightly Gothic ... Mr. Spiegelman can mint a crisp image in a single sentence ... In Agent Myles the author has created a hero for all disjointed seasons: capable of thrashing a thug with his bare fists or soothing a distraught witness, even as he acknowledges the phantoms of his own traumatic youth, and mourns the recent loss of his working and romantic partner. Whether the book heralds the beginning of a new series or not, it’s a humdinger.

Mixed The Wall Street Journal ... a challenging work ... more insular than The Aosawa Murders ... The committed reader may admire this clinical demonstration of the workings of two mercurial personalities. A less indulgent customer may ask (as does Hiro, near the end of this demanding work), \'What did we resolve? And what didn’t we resolve? I can’t make sense of it any more.\'

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Keefe is himself a witness: entering the narrative discreetly, attending court proceedings, poring over research materials, interviewing sources. His glimpses of people under stress are keen and often poignant, and his own discoveries can be profound ... Each of these stories could make a book in itself, not to mention an engrossing feature or documentary film ... [Keefe] does pay his unique subjects the compliment of his world-class attention, in works of deadline prose that shock, inform and entertain.

Rave Wall Street Journal Ms. Woods has written an elegant novel of political and cultural suspense. The mystery element in The Lunar Housewife is light, but the Cold War intrigue it conjures is gripping, and Louise’s dilemmas and adventures will hold sympathetic readers in thrall.

Rave The Wall Street Journal It’s almost uncanny how well Mr. Horowitz summons Bond’s mindset on everything from women to motorcars. Yet this Bond also feels the winds of change ... A drop of retro pleasures, a pinch of things to come; shaken, not stirred.

Positive Wall Street Journal Clever and sharply written.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... a bleak and violent book, full of grisly details not for the squeamish, but also tenderness, poignance and hard-earned wisdom.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... holds one’s interest from its cheeky opening pages through its final scene.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Herron has a style flexible enough to encompass the poetic, the satiric, the horrific and the slapstick. The author’s rich descriptions of bureaucratic infighting call to mind Kingsley Amis and Evelyn Waugh. The heavy-hoofed antics of the slow horses are often as uproarious as a Laurel and Hardy routine. And the villainy on display in this complex entertainment can be shocking.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... alternates forward-moving scenes with flashback sequences, provoking retrospective insight and suspenseful foreshadowing ... Once all the puzzle pieces (including a modern-day epilogue) are in place, the result is an adventure story of satisfying unity, with enough surprises to still qualify as a mystery. Recurring allusions to Hemingway, who defined courage as \'grace under pressure,\' add additional literary flair.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... a book that achieves a fine mix of suspense, action, political intrigue and personal revelation.

Positive Wall Street Journal Who cares who killed George Wickham? Any reader with a taste for a well-done pastiche that balances menace with wit, recrimination with reconciliation, sin with redemption and justice with mercy.

Positive Wall Street Journal The prolific Ms. Perry is expert at summoning the looks and moods of her books’ chosen periods, and her characters, from working-class to upper-crust, are well-drawn and engaging ... If the solution to the mystery of Three Debts Paid feels a trifle farfetched, it does provide an undeniable jolt.

Rave Wall Street Journal Combustible ... City of Fire, with its large cast of memorable characters and low-key allusions to classical literature, maintains Mr. Winslow’s well-earned place in these ranks. The book displays earthy eroticism, rough ethnic humor and a cyclical worldview as old as Ecclesiastes.

Rave Wall Street Journal Propulsive ... One-Shot Harry crackles with authenticity, and its resilient hero seems resourceful and tough enough to propel any number of sequels.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Girl in Ice is a lot of things: a psychological suspense novel, a linguistic thriller and a scientific puzzle. The more Sigrid communicates, through words and drawings, the more perplexing her story. Can she in fact be a survivor from the distant past? Why hasn’t Wyatt—gravely ill and desperate to make a significant discovery in his remaining days—publicized her existence? And could any of this have something to do with the death of Val’s brother? Ms. Ferencik describes the Arctic topography with a poet’s awe, and some of her set-pieces—the procession of a huge herd of caribou, an Arctic dive gone badly awry—are breathtaking. But it’s the enchanting Sigrid, and her growing attachment to Val, whom she calls \'Bahl,\' who makes this book such a singular sensation. A reader may ignore any number of \'hey, wait a minute\' plot implausibilities for another burst of gleeful Sigrid-speak: \'Joy! Bahl, Sigrid, safe, night, magic, warm.\'

Rave The Wall Street Journal Literary antecedents to this story can be found in works by Muriel Spark and Agatha Christie. Mr. Swanson honors genre traditions by arousing expectations only to subvert them—and then subvert them again. Some of the surprises are so unexpected, readers may be doing mental backflips to keep up. The author of Nine Lives has surpassed his own high standards.

Rave Wall Street Journal Ms. Jonusas...traveled \'all over America\' to research these events: visiting historical-society archives, combing through boxes of government records, scrolling through century-and-a-half-old newspapers, examining the testimony of long-dead lawmen and outlaws. Her efforts bring the frontier setting into sharp focus ... The diligent Ms. Jonusas discovered several further leads in official archives and correspondence, enough to transform Hell’s Half-Acre, at this halfway point, from a gothic popular history into a Wild West chase full of extraordinary developments ... Susan Jonusas’s debut, rich in historical perspective and graced by novelistic touches, grips the reader from first to last ... With the appearance of Hell’s Half-Acre, we probably know as much about this murderous clan as we ever will.

Rave The Wall Street Journal ... a cleverly conceived and wonderfully executed ensemble piece: intriguing, frightening, witty and humane.

Rave The Wall Street Journal The laugh-out-loud dialogue, the vivid similes, the complicated story and the set-piece subplots are all vintage Chandler. The gripping flashbacks, the adrenaline-pumping action and the heart-piercing poignance show Mr. Ide at his best. The Goodbye Coast delivers the distilled essence of both authors for the price of one.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Nina de Gramont revisits the story with arguably more artistry and ingenuity than any previous novel ... It’s a necessity in such a two-pronged story that both plots are of equal interest. Ms. de Gramont proves up to the task, even as she weaves elements and devices from some of Christie’s best-known puzzles into her own elaborate conundrum. It’s a particular treat in this work, which sizzles from its first sentence, to be presented with an Agatha Christie who breaks free from societal restraints and runs into unpredictable adventure.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... a literary labyrinth of forking paths. Surgical memory erasure, subliminal messaging, sexual blackmail and suicide all feature in this bravura work, which evokes the feel of such diverse writers as Calvino, Highsmith, Kafka and Dick ... An intriguing solution to these crimes is all but guaranteed, though it may need to be politically corrected.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Wilson keeps his beguiling story moving at breakneck pace ... affords shockingly plausible views of the big-league art scene and zesty references to savvy L.A. celebrities like Brad Pitt and Steve Martin. The author plants and springs his plot surprises like a young master. The final twist in this inventive thriller comes in its ultimate sentence; the ramifications continue to ripple after the book is closed

Positive The Wall Street Journal A Thousand Steps is a unique thriller and also a coming-of-age story: the not-so-sentimental education of an impressionable teen. Mr. Parker has given us a well-designed flashback to a tie-dyed time that in some ways seems like the day before yesterday and in others feels like a century ago.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Lovesey excels at mixing character-driven humor with legitimate suspense. The early Diamond books presented the inspector as the last of the old-time detectives, impatient with (or flummoxed by) new policing techniques. But in more recent entries, and especially this one, Diamond demonstrates noticeable growth. He pays attention to colleagues’ feelings, gives brusque credit where it’s due.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Schulman approaches the story’s pivotal revelation in innovative and circuitous ways. Chapters alternate between the present account of the brothers’ return to the lake house and vignettes of their last summer there and other family history. While the past-tense segments are presented chronologically, the present-tense sections unspool in reverse. This wheel-within-a-wheel mechanism creates a perpetual tension that evokes the sensibility through which Benjamin views his life ... The Survivors, translated by Rachel Willson-Broyles, presents us with simply written, powerfully rendered scenes ... When the near-unbearable answers to Benjamin’s questions appear, this excruciatingly effective work reveals the ironic sting in its title.

Positive Wall Street Journal Le Mesurier’s death (and subsequent ones) are duly explained with the help of some key coincidences and a split-second timetable worthy of Agatha Christie. But there’s enough intrigue left regarding the mysterious Hawthorne to keep readers tantalized until the inevitable next entry in this addictive series.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Kotzwinkle has been concocting compelling fiction for decades. With Felonious Monk, he’s produced a whiplash adventure that tests the courage and character of its fallible protagonist.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Many characters are acquainted with one another in this novel thick with entanglements, and things only get more confused when a second victim is killed in the same manner as the first. \'Too much going on,\' a frustrated Venn complains. \'Too many connections. Too many motives.\' Not so many, though, as to prevent the conscientious Venn from sorting everything out, in this well-plotted novel of unremitting suspense.

Positive The Wall Street Journal The prose is rich with similes and the plot shocks with its violence, leavened by happier interludes and semi-comical incidents.

Positive The Wall Street Journal This chronicle chimes with authentic details of what it was like 40-some years ago for a young scribe. (Allie is inspired by the New Journalism of Tom Wolfe, while Danny admires the reportage of Woodward and Bernstein.) Ringing just as true are the treacherous newsroom turf wars, the sexist attempts to limit what Allie can write about, the Scottish laws against homosexuality that force Danny to keep his inclinations secret—and the drive to succeed that promises to see Allie through all manner of present and future difficulties.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Full of technological surprises and ethical dilemmas, this inventive thriller hums with the electric excitement of the best 1950s science fiction ... The book’s plot expands to encompass more characters, further twists and bigger issues, but it never loses its winning human spirit.

Rave The Wall Street Journal The club makes a triumphant return in Mr. Osman’s The Man Who Died Twice ... The Man Who Died Twice, like its series predecessor, is an unalloyed delight, full of sharp writing, sudden surprises, heart, comedy, sorrow and great banter.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Rizzio, a brief novel of historical treachery by the adventurous Scottish author Denise Mina, is set mostly in Edinburgh’s Holyrood Palace in early 1566 ... Given its basis in recorded fact, the plot of Rizzio is denied many of the opportunities for suspense afforded to stories made from whole cloth. (Who lives? Who dies? Who escapes?) But Ms. Mina creates other types of suspense: Who will be the next coup participant, for instance, to find out that he’s not in charge of the deeds he’s signed on to commit? ... In Rizzio, [Mina] has created a plus-sized novella with the passion of an opera, a tour de force of imaginative reconstruction.

Rave Wall Street Journal Tired of your stay-at-home psychological thriller, where all the suspense plays out in the mind of a suburban voyeur? Hungry for action, adventure and physical danger? Take a Jeep ride with 31-year-old Maine game warden Mike Bowditch, the narrator of Paul Doiron’s Dead by Dawn ... With a reader thus hooked, Dead by Dawn switches to flashback mode ... Doiron’s flashbacks and jump-forwards alternate until they merge, multiplying the suspense.

Rave The Wall Street Journal ... a greatly enjoyable and eye-opening memoir: a show-business chronicle which proves equal parts celebration and cautionary tale... an unexpected treat: a brave and revealing memoir with nary a dull passage.

Positive Wall Street Journal Suburban Dicks [is] well-paced and packed with memorable characters ... A witty survey of life in the ’burbs.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Robert J. Harris’s lively Sherlock Holmes pastiche...transports readers to a blacked-out London during World War II ... In two previous books, the author resurrected John Buchan’s World War I-era character Richard Hannay to good effect and with strong period flavor. A Study in Crimson achieves a similar mix of action-adventure, detective savvy and Holmesian surprise—not least Sherlock’s account here of how he came, years before, to deduce the true identity of Jack the Ripper.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Its far-ranging scenes are stuffed with memorable characters, from heroic public servants to habitual murderers to a zombie-like figure worthy of a Val Lewton horror movie. Ms. Redondo’s complex and ambitious book culminates in a mythological showdown, with Salazar in the eye of an epic storm.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Ms. Penny’s 17th entry in her intelligent and emotionally powerful series featuring Gamache. Once again, the author has produced a unique work twining moral issues and absorbing character studies into a challenging murder mystery ... at the very last moment, the chief inspector—in a manner worthy of Aesop, Solomon, Freud or Holmes—points the finger of guilt.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Billy Summers is an ambitious, controlled and compelling shapeshifter of a book: combat novel, platonic romance, noir caper, portrait of an artist coming of belated age. Its pleasures are numerous, and it touches the mind, heart and nervous system in equal measure.

Rave The Wall Street Journal The pace of The Cellist never slackens as its action volleys from Zurich to Tel Aviv to Paris and beyond. Mr. Silva tells his story with zest, wit and superb timing, and he engineers enough surprises to startle even the most attentive reader.

Positive Wall Street Journal M, King’s Bodyguard is an action-packed page-turner.

Rave The Wall Street Journal ... a blood-red horror story. Meantime, the Durants’ own family romance, recollected in the heat of current events, proves a grimmer fable than is usually recounted ... Ms. Abbott’s prose has never been more impressive than in this whirlpool of psychological suspense, shocking images, well-wrought metaphors—and one final twist that rattles like a serpent’s tail in Eden.

Rave The Wall Street Journal ... deeply absorbing ... Mr. Jobb constructs this Victorian-era chronicle with scrupulous authority, drawing on contemporary newspaper accounts, courtroom testimony, police files and museum archives ... Mr. Jobb has structured his book to maximize drama and suspense ... Mr. Jobb gives each of the dozens of characters involved—coppers, victims, doctors, judges—their due attention. The author ably parses social, legal and forensic matters while placing Cream’s biography in the context of its time. The Case of the Murderous Dr. Cream is an admirable piece of work, a model for its kind. One can only be grateful that Cream was caught before he added more victims to its pages.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Choose Me begins as an engrossing police procedural. But this is a seductive shapeshifter of a novel, full of flashbacks and revelations ... Ms. Gerritsen and Mr. Braver bring all their characters to believable life—from Frankie’s well-meaning partner Mac, who gives her dating tips, to Taryn, hellbent on becoming a worthy successor to her mythic inspirations.

Positive The Wall Street Journal The author specializes in humanizing the internecine turf battles between and within competing intelligence agencies. With The Cover Wife, he has produced another intelligent, tense and sharply written espionage thriller.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... a double-barreled action saga that brings to mind the mayhem of early Dashiell Hammett and the bedlam of vintage Sam Peckinpah. Leavening the violence is the salty banter of two bereaved fathers who turn out to be, for better and worse, much more alike than they suspected.

Positive The Wall Street Journal The gifted Ms. Lippman, in this tale of a talented cad who more or less gets what he deserves, shifts between passages hard-boiled and satirical. Dream Girl offers a healthy dose of suspense and wittily skewers literary life.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Another remarkable literary thriller ... Ms. Brundage, in this emotionally powerful work, leads us to an unforgettable truth, through scenes of searing intensity and luminous prose.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Padura’s grandiose novel of social and magical realism, translated from the Spanish by Anna Kushner, is thick with discursive episodes, including chapters following a custodian of the Black Madonna in the late-13th century and onward. The patient reader will see all threads tied up in a finale that nonetheless leaves Mario wondering whether all he’s endured has been \'real or merely a reflection . . . a trick of time.\'

Positive The Wall Street Journal Widespread Panic unfolds in shimmering Ellroyvision. In recounting his sinful past, Freewheeling Freddy mainlines the repetitive rhumba of his scandal sheet until it’s become the mother’s milk of his speech and psyche, and he bops to alliteration’s alluring algorithm. The surrealistic, sex’n’violence sequences featuring real people from the semi-recent past may be disconcerting for some readers. Is this posthumous sexploitation? A pornographic flipbook making unlicensed use of famous forms and faces? Or merely the tall-tale purgative of a frantic Purgatorian? Each door is left ajar.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Even at its highest pitch, Ms. Berry’s novel remains a human-centered story that closely examines the behavior of siblings, babies, mothers and friends. All the more shocking, then, when the curtain of domesticity is pushed aside to reveal the man in the black ski mask standing outside the window. Once the screws of suspense have been tightened, Northern Spy becomes a beguiling thriller that’s hard to put down.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Near the start of Mr. Barclay’s whirligig of a novel, the unmarried Miles is hit with life-changing information: He has a debilitating hereditary disease that will leave him physically helpless before killing him ... Mr. Barclay is known for keeping readers on the edge of their seats. In Find You First, he surpasses his own past successes with a multi-strand plot that bounces, in short, cliff-hanging chapters, from Springfield, Mass., to Fort Wayne, Ind., to Paris, France. As Miles travels far and wide, he begins to surmise that his fortune, and the question of who will inherit it, may be imperiling the lives of his offspring.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... a concise, harrowing work of social history ... Mr. Schechter does a worthy job with this dire saga, telling it in short, punchy chapters and placing it in a larger historical context.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Bohjalian does an admirable job of bringing his numerous players to life in all their complexity. Mary, so mistreated by her milieu, begins to wonder if she may indeed be possessed. Hour of the Witch—part courtroom thriller, part psychological suspense novel—holds a reader’s rapt attention all the way to its startling conclusion.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Ms. Jackson crafts a finely paced, shrewdly observed, multi-tiered story which moves with ease between past and present. Older events that prompt current actions are uncovered; pressing issues of class, race and sexual abuse are viscerally dramatized ... a thinking (and feeling) reader’s thriller, a literary beach read.

Positive The Wall Street Journal The book is a noir in Mr. Ames’s distinctive comic style, and if you enjoy his previous books, you’ll like this one. In the current moment, however, it may be hard to get past the grim overtones of the crime that kicks off this novel...That said, Doll is a unique addition to the Southern California crime-fiction scene, and Mr. Ames’s new series holds great promise.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Buoying them throughout this whirlwind quest is devotion to duty, their quick-witted banter and the thrill of the chase. When a stroke of good fortune forces Llewelyn to decide whether or not to continue working with Barker, there can be little doubt what his choice will be.

Positive Wall Street Journal To Cook a Bear, translated from the Swedish by Deborah Bragan-Turner, makes readers privy to the inner thoughts of the remarkable Laestadius, who can smell God in the faint aroma of a tiny flower while pondering the whereabouts of a killer ... Intriguing also are the perceptions of Jussi, who savors the natural world in a sensuous manner bordering on synesthesia and whose own altruistic convictions, learned from his adoptive father, he holds as Gospel.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Northern Heist’s deeds and details, then, seem as real as a smashed kneecap, while its stopwatch tension, heightened by present-tense voice, is reminiscent of such classic caper films as Rififi and The Asphalt Jungle. The whole shebang—full of double- and triple-crosses and not without a rough sort of humor—culminates in two criminal trials (one of them IRA-hosted), each of which provides a different answer to O’Hare’s exasperated question: \'What has happened to honour amongst thieves?\'

Positive The Wall Street Journal Chen Cao, the poetry-writing Shanghai police inspector in Qiu Xiaolong’s unique series, wants to do moral good in his public-service job, but his work is always subject to political correction ... Here, in flashbacks, is the heart of the book: Chen’s memories of previous puzzles (the longest of which involves the death of a well-to-do citizen) and the reader’s realization of how much humane justice Chen has insured throughout decades of political change ... Becoming Inspector Chen ends on an ambiguous note, in keeping with the detective’s tightrope-walk of a career, but there’s nothing uncertain about the Confucian resolve with which he confronts his duties.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Once again, Ms. Winspear brings a vanished era to life with clarity and insight. Maisie Dobbs—businesswoman, widow, single mother of an adopted little girl, lady-friend of a dashing American diplomat—continues to mature and impress in her admirable mission to balance the scales of justice.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... dramatic things are happening left and right ... Mr. Swanson...has a talent for gradually, disturbingly shifting his characters’ perception of what’s going on ... Mr. Swanson’s shape-shifting saga is reminiscent, by turns, of such foreboding films as Vertigo, Fatal Attraction and The Wicker Man. Ultimately, Every Vow You Break reveals itself to be a violent melodrama, one which the author sees surehandedly through to a satisfying conclusion.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Ms. Tursten’s novel commands attention from the start, even as it lays the groundwork for a series of startling revelations—and a prolonged action sequence that soaks the snow blood-red.

Positive The Wall Street Journal In the contemporary Sweden of Kjell Eriksson’s The Night of the Fire, certain citizens still tussle with existential riddles from the time of Kierkegaard ... The Night of the Fire, rendered into English by Paul Norlen, is rich with characters struggling to make sense of a hate-filled political and moral landscape quite different from the one they grew up in.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ...a tensely satisfying prequel to the main series ... Wedding Station takes the form of a journalistic procedural, as Russell follows whatever leads present themselves, in search of truths that may or may not ever see print ... Mr. Downing excels at dramatizing the anxiety and dread pervading a society whose civil liberties are being daily eroded. And his protagonist, mixed motives and all, displays the personal integrity of a man unwilling to save himself from evil beasts by becoming one.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Ide, always a generous plotter, weaves several other storylines into this kaleidoscopic chronicle ... Dozens of other wonderfully sketched minor characters—science-fair whiz kids, pimps and prostitutes, working-class heroes, vengeance-bent relatives, sorrowful junkies and idealistic strivers—flesh out this richly imagined and sharply written saga. \'Smoke,\' which concludes with a cliffhanging crisis, positively demands a follow-up, and fast.

Positive The Wall Street Journal As the plot thickens, the cast enlarges ... Ms. Bauer’s book achieves a delicate balance of humor and poignance, evil and good. And she saves one final bittersweet twist for her story as it sails into the sunset.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Berenson, a veteran storyteller, succeeds quickly in getting the reader to care about his main characters ... rife with crime-busting subplots and energized by a teenage captive determined not to be a victim, is one of the most unpredictable thrillers in years.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... edgy ... At first, The Mercenary seems an outstanding example of a familiar sort of spy saga. But there’s more to Alek Garin than most people know. Where did he learn to speak Russian? Why is his accent so odd? Family and professional secrets are revealed only gradually. We remain unsure how this conflicted character will fare in a Moscow full of political factions and Agency turncoats.

Rave The Wall Street Journal These 13 tales of crime and consequences feature vengeful spirits, warning apparitions, bloody visions and a taunting \'Night Hag\' rationalized as \'a dream for the waking, a malfunction of the brain.\' ... These stories have an uncanny power to convince. The best of Mr. Neville’s ghost tales can hold their own with those of the Anglo-Irish writer Elizabeth Bowen. But the ultimate prize-winner here, \'Coming in on Time,\' a heartbreaking vignette of domestic tragedy seen through the eyes of its youngest victim, hasn’t a trace of the supernatural—only the horror of innocence encountering evil.

Rave The Wall Street Journal ... an unanticipated but welcome series entry ... Few authors write action sequences, build suspense and spring surprises as well as Mr. Perry. And few readers will expect anyone who’s roused Schaeffer’s alarm to escape his fatal attentions.

Positive Wall Street Journal Murder by Milk Bottle flows at a swift pace ... The plot thickens some more as readers learn of other apparent connections between the killings and the Milk Girl’s past schooling ... Ms. Truss’s approach to crime fiction owes as much to English comedy classics like The Goon Show and Monty Python’s Flying Circus as to vintage British police-procedural series like Dixon of Dock Green or Fabian of the Yard. Her sharp-toothed whimsy may be an acquired taste, but it’s one well worth savoring.

Positive Wall Street Journal These four tales explore the satisfactions, frustrations, and base and noble emotions of those who devote their lives to a profession where saving face is a priority and ethical conundrums are a frequent challenge ... Mr. Yokoyama, a journalist-turned-author whose novel Six Four was published in America in 2017 to much acclaim, immerses us in an environment at once familiar and exotic; his stories’ mysteries are solved in a manner that surprises the mind and moves the heart.

Positive The Wall Street Journal The Law of Innocence takes place from October 2019 to March 2020, as the Covid-19 pandemic gradually makes its presence felt. As in his Bosch stories, Mr. Connelly keeps his L.A. references up-to-date: The Musso & Frank Grill on Hollywood Boulevard is still hanging on in its 101st year, but Du-Par’s diner in Studio City, co-counsel Maggie laments, \'isn’t there anymore.\' The book is full of knowing info about how jurors are researched (\'Sometimes you want the Mercedes on the jury. Sometimes you want the Prius.\') and how to seed doubt during testimony (\'It’ll be about the questions we ask, not the answers\') ... Mickey and his loyal crew fight every inch of the way towards the freedom he craves and the exoneration he demands.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Horowitz (like his creation Alan Conway) enlivens his pages with wordplay, anagrams and jokes that often double as clues. To borrow a make-believe blurb from Atticus Pünd Takes the Case: \'I love a whodunnit with a real sucker punch and, boy, this absolutely delivers.\'

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Connolly’s slam-bang thriller is studded with memorable characters and boasts cliffhangers within cliffhangers.

Rave The Wall Street Journal The Witch Hunter, the U.S. debut of Finnish author Max Seeck, begins like a traditional (if very creepy) procedural ... The Witch Hunter, translated with icy precision by Kristian London, is written in short, sharp, present-tense chapters, a technique which adds to its relentless tension. Flashbacks to earlier episodes in Jessica’s life suggest that the strangeness currently unfolding is tied to her personal history. Discovering the how and why of it brings a resolution as bleak as anything Poe might have conjured.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Rankin has been writing Rebus novels since 1987, and in this 23rd series entry, the author’s curmudgeonly hero proves as resolute as ever.

Positive The Wall Street Journal In Ann Cleeves\'s The Darkest Evening, Detective Inspector Vera Stanhope, who polices England’s Northumberland countryside, can’t help but fear the worst when she comes upon a car abandoned in the midst of a blizzard, with a snow-suited toddler strapped in the backseat ... \'This whole case,\' Vera comes to see, \'was about families, about what held them together and what ripped them apart.\'

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Morrow’s tale of an illicit craft conveys plenty of technical information, but it’s generally well-woven into the narrative. His sympathetic cast of characters—Henry aside—face difficult moral choices and try to prove the old cliché that there is honor indeed among (literary) thieves.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Ms. Perry ties her story-strands together in convincing fashion, in a work whose 20th-century setting seems to have brought out new psychological and descriptive nuances in an author better-known for her Victorian-era novels.

Rave The Wall Street Journal ... a sprawling and eventful saga in which the central cold case shares space with other investigations, along with dramatic incidents in the detectives’ private lives ... Balancing social comedy, surprising twists and Grand Guignol horror, this doorstopping volume proves a formidable entertainment from the first page to the last.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ...[a] suspenseful historical mystery ... Ms. Hart, the author of a trio of novels involving an exiled librarian in 18th-century China, proves adept at depicting this \'realm of the collectors . . . a shadowy place full of illusions, \'tainted by greed and fraud and now homicide.

Positive The Wall Street Journal The case of the Mad Butcher, with its unsatisfying non-finale, fits a bit awkwardly into Messrs. Collins and Schwartz’s wider narrative. In the latter stages of their book, the authors ably follow Ness through an unsuccessful foray into city politics and a disappointing business career. But given this work’s title and its subtitle—\'Hunting America’s Deadliest Unidentified Serial Killer at the Dawn of Modern Criminology\'—one sometimes gets the feeling of two different books uneasily hitched ... Messrs. Collins and Schwartz, in this, their second deeply researched book about Ness, don’t gloss over their subject’s failings and blind spots, but they do show that he tried harder than many to leave the world a better place.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Lovesey, a veteran master of mayhem and misdirection, laces ominous suspense with wit. The Finisher showcases his enduring abilities in this, his 50th year writing crime fiction.

Rave The Wall Street Journal ...[a] unique brainteaser of a mystery novel ... The tales are elegant equations, clever variations on classic \'Golden Age\' setups: the locked-room murder mystery; the case of the detective-as-killer ... Julia suspects the stories may also be, in hidden ways, autobiographical—even confessional. Why are there seeming errors in certain descriptive passages? Are these intentional clues, pointing to alternate interpretations and solutions? The editor starts imagining variations on the author’s stories. In time, there are enough forking paths in evidence to intrigue a reader of Borges ... Mr. Pavesi, himself a trained mathematician, has created something new under the sun: a book of clever mystery puzzles (with mordant noir endings), a challenging exercise in deconstruction—and one of the most innovative works in recent memory.

Mixed The Wall Street Journal Just as Margo tries the reader’s patience through her lack of street smarts, so her birth family fails to live up to her conventional expectations. But as “The Less Dead” progresses, Margo learns things she never expected, about the persistence of family traits and her own capacity for heroism.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... [a] raunchy noir fable ... The prolific Mr. Lansdale...draws on the spirit and themes of James M. Cain in this stand-alone book, which works clever variations on such Cain classics as The Postman Always Rings Twice and Double Indemnity ... no shortage of schemes. We read on, with dread, to see how it all works out.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Klass, an experienced screenwriter, incorporates shifting points of view and a score of diverse characters with well-developed back stories. His top-notch thriller builds toward a fateful showdown as Tom races to foil Green Man—even as the hands of that apocalyptic clock tick toward midnight.

Positive The Wall Street Journal You Again, combining psychological suspense and fantasy, is a family-life novel, an art-world chronicle and an examination of the mutability of reality ... Ms. Immergut provides several brain-teasing surprises—and ties up her theoretical loose ends in a manner that still allows readers the space to wonder.

Rave The Wall Street Journal At times Black Sun Rising displays the action of a vintage Richard Harding Davis adventure. Other passages exude the spookiness of an Edgar Allan Poe tale. The novel is thick with intrigue and incident, balanced by flashes of lyricism ... Mr. Carr well depicts an aging city at the outset of the 20th century—with the surrealistic architecture of Antoni Gaudí (himself a minor character in the novel), illuminated by glowing new electric lights. Most impressive perhaps is its flawed yet persistent hero: hobbled by fits of epilepsy but so devoted to his work and his new friends that \'he would not leave Barcelona until justice was done.\'

Rave The Wall Street Journal ...[an] impressive first novel ... a finely written case history of a crime of passion—not only a \'why-dunnit\' but a \'what really happened?\' ... A metaphoric lyricism ripples through this chronicle of an unknown past recovered only in part. \'This story of ours has so many sides that I doubt I will ever know the full extent of it,\' Sumiko thinks. Also in question for Sumiko is her own future: What will she do with what she has managed to discover? Ms. Scott answers her compelling book’s questions with the skill of a master.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... intrigue-filled ... The reader is privy to the action of the conspirators ... Mr. Pepper, who has quickly established himself as one of the best political-thriller writers on the scene, keeps surprising us to the final page.

Rave The Wall Street Journal ... exhilarating ... Mr. Hoffman, apparently a still-working private investigator based in Brooklyn, writes with a good ear, a fine eye and a sure hand; he has a wondrous ability to render the thoughts of his socially and morally diverse cast ... The book’s unpredictable sentences are full of such surprises, and its scenes build to unexpected revelations. With its crisp pace and superb timing, Clean Hands is a special treat to read.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... tricky ethical nooks and crannies in Malmö, Sweden ... Cheerful or melancholy, irritated or resigned, Detective Varg gives the reader more dry wit, inspired whimsy and comic pleasure than any other Swedish investigator in the business.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... told in alternating sections that move back and forth in time between 1997 and 30 years earlier, building tension to the snapping point ... emotionally wrenching.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ...[a] surprise-filled saga ... Mr. Panowich, as he did in his previous novels, depicts his Southern terrain well. He deftly sketches the tension between Dane, the rural lawman, and Roselita...

Positive The Wall Street Journal A Good Marriage has many intertwined story strands, first- and third-person points of view, one intermittently unreliable narrator, and some whopping coincidences to tie it all together. Readers who persist through this novel’s diversions and digressions may well feel greatly entertained.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Wright...has crafted a swift and all-too-convincing chronicle of science, espionage, action and speculation that moves from Indonesia to Saudi Arabia to the U.S. as it eerily evokes real-life current events. Deeply rooted in factual research, The End of October may well prove the most frightening novel of the year.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ...thought-provoking ... There’s certainly more than enough sharp writing and provocative content in this initial adventure to justify a sequel.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Ms. Fredericks’s tour of old New York—from a seedy Bowery dive to the gilded palace of a department store—is eye-opening, and her mystery well-spun. But what makes this book a stand-out is its affecting depictions of interactions that transcend race, creed, gender and generations.

Positive The Wall Street Journal In Ms. Gentill’s clever construction, both characters inhabit a world in which reality and make-believe blur and blend ... careens toward a fateful culmination as Maddie and Edward write each other into personal limbos that, it seems, will prevent them from saving one another. Readers are left to their own devices to escape from this infinity of mirrors.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... a circuitous first novel ... Ms. Sligar’s debut is by turns an art-world satire, an erotic romance and a descent into madness. Its gratifying conclusion proves well worth the digressive journey.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Ms. Black...excels at setting vivid scenes, creating lively characters and maintaining pulse-elevating suspense. Three Hours in Paris, with its timetable structure and its hunt for a covert operative, recalls such comparable works as Frederick Forsyth’s The Day of the Jackal and Ken Follett’s Eye of the Needle.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... an engrossing and accessible chronicle of Frances’s life and the early years of scientific detection ... Mr. Goldfarb tells a great deal about Magrath’s career and, along the way, conveys the primitive and unsatisfying state of forensics in the early 20th century ... \'I hope that I have done her justice,\' Mr. Goldfarb concludes. That he has.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ...slick and twisty ... The couple at the center of the story, for all the perils they face, are always good company, both likable and resourceful ... Mr. Dolan’s great gifts for storytelling, well displayed in his four previous books, are in even fuller evidence in The Good Killer, a story somewhat larger in scope, thus allowing for yet more tension, suspense and surprising resolutions.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... written through the alternate perspectives of a number of well-drawn characters ... The good and bad hunches of Alexis and her allies propel her closer to the truth, while her Holmesian devotion to \'pattern recognition\' never ceases deductive reasoning can take you only so far in a thriller as full of surprises as this one. Those who relished the sudden shocks and well-timed twists of Mr. Bohjalian’s 2018 work, The Flight Attendant, should be well-pleased by his latest book, whose unexpected revelations extend to the final sentence.

Rave The Wall Street Journal The early pages of the book, with their comforting trappings (the purring store cat, the endearingly eccentric employees), suggest a work on the cozier end of the spectrum. But things soon turn dark ... Eight Perfect Murders creates expectations it then subverts, presents suspects only to eliminate them, and in general has its own way with the tropes of the mystery thriller—including that genre mainstay, the unreliable narrator. \'All works of art,\' Malcolm tells us early on, \'seem like cries of help to me.\' Darned if he doesn’t make us see what he means.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Perry is an expert storyteller—employing flashbacks, shifting viewpoints and jaw-dropping twists. A Small Town unfolds like a 1950s film noir—crisp in execution and thrilling until the very end.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... terse and convincing ... The reader already knows \'what happened,\' thanks to a prologue that chronicles the grim episode in cinematic detail. But rather than dissipate suspense, this foreknowledge adds another level of interest as Gabriel seeks witnesses and documents to fill in the blanks about Wilson ... his stand-alone work reaches a new level of moral complexity and brings into stark relief the often contradictory nature of spycraft ... Mr. Vidich maintains the tension until the very last page—and then, in the book’s acknowledgments, gives his fiction a further twist by revealing its true-life origins in his own family history.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... a slim volume with the feel of a fable and the concision of a blues scale. Minor characters have marvelous names—Archibald Lawless, Dido Kazz, Mozelle Tot—and move with ageless grace. \'I felt a kinship to all of them,\' Leonid thinks. So do we.

Positive The Wall Street Journal \" Mr. Moore’s smartly constructed book examines the voracious nature of tabloid journalism, the elasticity of fact and the way the letter of the law conflicts with mercy, and its effective surprises continue even into its final chapter.\

Rave The Wall Street Journal ... moving ... Ms. Anappara, who was born in the southern Indian state of Kerala and won awards for her journalism before turning to fiction, brings Jai’s stressful world to life in all its camaraderie, prejudice and peril.

Mixed The Wall Street Journal ... well written, though it pushes the genre envelope a bit too far, and its combination of unreliable narrator and ambitious culmination may bode ill for readers who like loose ends tied.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... delightful ... Mr. Weinberger writes as his hero detects, at a measured and thoughtful pace. Most of the book’s violence takes place offstage, leaving the detective to ponder and ruminate in contemplative fashion. And Amos himself proves pleasant company: a gruff mensch whose avowed atheism is balanced by a humanism that sees him tenderly caring at home for his dementia-prone wife. \'Everybody matters,\' he says at one point, and as we follow his quest to find out what happened to Rabbi Ezra, we know he means it.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Ms. Little’s witty book deftly skewers the movie-making world and the types who inhabit it ... with its mix of satire and action, is funny, fast-paced and a pleasure to read.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Ide is a remarkable writer, inhabiting the personae and rendering the back stories of a diverse assortment of characters ... “Hi Five more than earns its triumphant title.

Positive The Wall Street Journal The year is 2034 in Steven Pressfield’s dystopian thriller...and the world is taking a beating from climate change. Devastating super-storms are common, nighttime temperatures are in triple digits, and experts are predicting \'the end of human life on Earth within a generation.\' Meanwhile, crime marches on ... Mr. Pressfield keeps the revelations coming at an apocalyptic pace in this page-turner, where the planet’s fate comes to hang by the thread of a single human life.

Rave The Wall Street Journal In her books featuring Scotland Yard Superintendent Richard Jury—the most recent of which is The Old Success...author Martha Grimes has created a type of mystery all her own. The stories have a cozy structure—but with windows into darker worlds ... The mechanics of three detectives (four, if we count Melrose Plant) working simultaneously on three murder puzzles...may at first seem convoluted. But the solution to these apparently separate mysteries proves much simpler than might be imagined—and who better to pave the way to that elusive truth than Ms. Grimes and Richard Jury, her brilliant creation?

Rave The Wall Street Journal We get all the way to page 53 of Japanese author Fuminori Nakamura\'s chilling existential thriller The Thief before we learn the name of its protagonist-narrator, a Tokyo pickpocket whose sense of purpose and pleasure in life comes mostly from the careful practice of his illicit craft. By then a reader may feel no special need to know what this nervy fellow is called, so well has Mr. Nakamura caused us to view the world through the thief\'s hyper-sensitive mind ... The Thief concludes with an either-or ending that robs readers of a clear-cut resolution—without making them feel in any way cheated.

Positive The Wall Street Journal The Accomplice is concerned with ethical quandaries and moral conundrums. Is Aaron serving the rule of law or simply seeking revenge? ... Such existential crises are countered by action sequences and plot twists that prove Aaron’s real-world mettle. When the chips are down, Aaron comes through like a veteran field op. \'Nice work, for a desk man,\' the Mossad agent compliments him at one point. But Aaron’s ultimate payoff proves bittersweet.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... is not unlike a vintage Ambler book, with its civilian hero suddenly pulled into a world of dangerous intrigue. But Mr. Furst is a much more romantic writer—lingering over Paris’s beauty, its resistance to oppression and its opportunities for \'love in time of war.\' Alan Furst’s books always satisfy; this one is a delight.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Haywood—this is his seventh and best novel yet to feature Gunner—is a gifted writer with a flair for description ... The two dissimilar cases confronting Gunner test the detective’s confidence to the fullest. He sees himself, at his most insecure, as \'a black pretend-cop working from the back of a Watts barbershop.\' But an abundance of tenacity, courage and resourcefulness proves a lot more valuable to Gunner and his fortunate clients than a fancy office.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... a worthy follow-up to her delightful 2018 novel A Shot in the Dark ... Ms. Truss plants references to real and fictional Brighton legends throughout her dark entertainment ... Her work’s madcap manner evokes other British artistic touchstones from Shakespeare to The Goon Show. And once Twitten begins to shed some of his moral scruples in pursuit of the truth, one looks forward with glee to the novel’s culmination—and to this quick-learning constable’s future adventures.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Superb writing, precise portraiture, clever tricks of tradecraft—all Mr. le Carré’s hallmarks are present in this swift, surprising, bittersweet story.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Paul, a veteran rancher as well as an author, writes fine action scenes, and his descriptions of nature and animals can seem just as thrilling.

Positive The Wall Street Journal With evocative flair Ms. Perry conjures the mixed emotions and misplaced optimism of a period when many Establishment figures were desperate to avoid another world war ... is reminiscent of works by Eric Ambler and Graham Greene. Cameo appearances by historical figures including Winston Churchill and Joseph Goebbels enhance this thrilling work whose heroine proves fully up to the sort of hair-raising challenges formerly met by her illustrious grandparent.

Rave The Wall Street Journal ... suspenseful and satirical ... Mr. Barclay’s books are distinguished by wit and startling twists. In Elevator Pitch, he surpasses himself with a premise suited for the big screen, a plot filled with stunning surprises—and an ending that leaves the reader greatly satisfied.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Johnson’s affecting story is a winning combination of suspense, situational comedy and cosmic awe. We greatly admire the author’s hero, who never wavers, even when faced with the seemingly implausible. As Longmire knows: \'Strange things happen on the mountain.\'

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Steiner brings this frightening period to life through well-drawn characters we come to care about. In documenting the theft of a nation’s soul, he tells a human story. The Good Cop is a humdinger.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... atmospheric ... Ms. Locke, a canny storyteller, ties up enough strands to satisfy readers, while leaving enough loose ends to make us eager for Ranger Mathews’s next adventure in the Lone Star State.

Positive The Wall Street Journal In David Lagercrantz ’s The Girl Who Lived Twice, Swedish IT wizard Lisbeth Salander is paired, as usual, in a mutually advantageous partnership with investigative journalist Mikael Blomkvist ... it’s a murder mystery inside an espionage conspiracy wrapped in an action thriller—a unique concoction that should leave Salander’s legion of followers clamoring for more.

Rave The Wall Street Journal ... ambitious, accomplished and remarkably compelling ... Ms. Cha is a terrific writer with a keen eye for social settings ... propelled by scenes that surprise but still ring true, and the book’s two-tiered time-frame is full of revelations concerning who knew what when and who did what and why ... Such are the queries posed by this impressive work, rich with incident and detail—a book with the courage to leave the answers to its most daunting questions up to the reader.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Crais unspools this tense and involving saga—which races all over the Los Angeles area, from the fading allure of the \'Miracle Mile\' to the sun-blasted San Fernando Valley to the shores of Malibu—with dashes of wit, lots of local color, many bursts of sudden action and some 300 pages of relentless suspense.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Over the past 14 years, Ms. Penny has written a saga in which both hero and author have grown in ability and assurance. A Better Man, with its mix of meteorological suspense, psychological insight and criminal pursuit, is arguably the best book yet in an outstanding, original oeuvre. We look forward to additional encounters with the dignified, inspirational Armand Gamache.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Play With Fire does a first-rate job of evoking its period, a time when generations seemed at war with one another ... we admire the detective’s clinging to his own moral principles.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Lovesey’s book seems like a combination of Romeo and Juliet and The Day of the Jackal ... Mr. Lovesey has been writing his Peter Diamond series for nearly three decades, and it’s a pleasure to note no discernible flagging of energy in author or detective. And how refreshing to hear the inimitable Diamond erupt in righteous expletive: \'F— forensics. . . . We’re detectives. . . . We investigate.\'

Positive The Wall Street Journal Though Mr. Coleman’s book sounds echoes of Raymond Chandler and Kem Nunn, The Churchgoer marks the debut of a strong and original voice in the California noir tradition.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Never Have I Ever becomes a tale of moral suspense in addition to a psychological thriller. Its several plot twists are surprising and effective, and there are gripping sequences involving Amy’s work as a deep-sea diver woven logically into the narrative. Many books claim to be the perfect beach read. This one doesn’t, but it certainly fits the bill.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Scott, as it happens, has been a federal agent with the Drug Enforcement Administration for more than 20 years, which surely contributes to the authenticity of this convincing saga ... Mr. Scott demonstrates the Texas-size writing talents to which his protagonist aspires.

Rave The Wall Street Journal ... arguably the best entry yet in the author’s outstanding series ... a number of memorable, well-drawn characters—the good, the bad and the ugly—go about their business in a well-engineered narrative that alternates between at least a dozen points of view ... The moral conundrums in Knife are Dostoevskian, the surprises are breathtaking, the one-liners are amusing and the suspense is unrelenting. This is that rare lengthy book that one wouldn’t want shortened by even a single page.

Rave The Wall Street Journal ... involving, sharply written ... Stella transforms the novel’s events, and then her mother, herself a lawyer, gives this surprise-filled saga its final turn. Mr. Edvardsson, whose Swedish is translated here by Rachel Willson-Broyles, is a fine stylist. A Nearly Normal Family, the author’s first book to be published in this country, is a compulsively readable tour de force.

Positive The Wall Street Journal There’s plenty of social commentary in Lori Roy’s gripping Gone Too Long ... Ms. Roy excels at depicting scenes of consummate tension involving a heroine whose courage has long lain dormant.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ... reminiscent of Agatha Christie, is a strange brew—one with a taste that certain adventurous readers may be well pleased to savor.

Positive The Wall Street Journal The author, writing under a pen name, relates ominous events and spooky developments with skill, adding an element of social commentary and a surprise twist ending—elevating this exercise in terror above the ordinary shocker.

Positive The Wall Street Journal There are violent turns of plot in this semi-gothic novel, and less exotic emotional crises too, as Dorothea—caught between the titled suitor her father wants her to marry and the penurious policeman she much prefers—begins to scrutinize her own life, and her own mother’s early death, in keener fashion ... [a] well-wrought chiller.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Lady in the Lake is a newspaper novel as well as a neo-noir thriller. Ms. Lippman, a reporter for 20 years before she turned to fiction full-time, writes with authority about the varied types found at a daily newspaper in decades past. She also evokes the condescension and obstruction Maddie encounters in pursuing her chosen calling ... Ms. Lippman’s book is revelatory, too, in showing the personal and professional costs to others—friends, loved ones, sources, witnesses—of Maddie’s single-minded quest for achievement and recognition.

Positive The Wall Street Journal In Scottish author Denise Mina’s Conviction...Anna McDonald of Glasgow has gone to great lengths to keep her shocking back story secret... Ms. Mina has long been an outstanding writer, but in Conviction she combines all her gifts—for suspense, humor, menace, sentiment—in spectacular fashion.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Rain is falling over Los Angeles throughout James Ellroy’s breathtakingly complex historical police procedural This Storm, a torrential saga of violence, corruption, lust, radical politics and greed ... beneath the conspiracies, double-crosses, killings, lies and alibis snakes an interlocking and comprehensible tale to be discerned—one either told in public or once more hushed up for the greater good ... Mr. Ellroy...extends his grand and grotesque yet idealistic vision even farther backward. The author has created an ongoing Balzacian jigsaw puzzle that will surely attract, repel, outrage and seduce readers for years to come.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Big Sky\'s large, colorful cast have lots of explaining to do: not just about homicide, it develops, but about other crimes, including child abuse and sex-trafficking. Such grimness is leavened by a text brimming with wit, unpredictable events and vivid characters. From the shocking to the comic to the poignant, Ms. Atkinson does it all with breathtaking panache.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ...[a] worthy sequel ... a book filled with unforgettable characters and a tension that heightens with every chapter.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. McCall Smith’s engaging book teeters between comedy and pathos as the squad tussles with bizarre activity.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Dow writes with authority about life on death row, where other inmates believe in Rafael’s innocence and offer emotional support ... Mr. Dow, a born writer if ever there was one, takes us where his narrator thinks he must go.

Rave The Wall Street Journal The author’s singular gifts for conveying the verbal, physical and moral textures of this vanished world are undiminished in Metropolis. The book offers similes worthy of Raymond Chandler. The cosmic ambivalence evoked by Philip Kerr can best be summed up in Gunther’s musing: \'Really there was just light and darkness and some life in between, and you made of it what you could.\'

Positive The Wall Street Journal A group character study that offers realistic suspense. Ms. Ellis is an able guide inside the psyches of her subjects, especially that of Crisp, as he learns new ways to view himself \'in the context of his environment...through the lens of race and socioeconomics.\'

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Swanson unfolds this creepy story with the assurance and economy of a master. Surprises follow one another with inevitability, until the final electrifying jolt.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Akunin’s idiosyncratic page-turner is stuffed with action and laced with humor. In certain ways, it is reminiscent of discursive Russian novels of the 19th century and the social-satirical suspense classics of Wilkie Collins. But comparisons cannot suffice for an author who is a virtuoso in his own right.

Rave The Wall Street Journal \"Mr. Winslow writes gripping action sequences and wields statistics like a crusading journalist. Grand in scope, audacious in its political portraits, convincing in its socio-economic arguments and humane to the core, The Border is not only a formidable thriller but an important and provocative work.\

Positive The Wall Street Journal \"Mr. Finder writes a tense and well-balanced novel that unfolds in the context of a suburban life full of other, more mundane challenges. The more we learn about Judge Brody and her family, the more we root for a merciful resolution to their travails.\

Positive The Wall Street Journal ...delightful ... The mysteries in Mr. Bradley’s books are engaging, but the real lure is Ms. de Luce, the irreverent youngster given to such pithy Flavia-isms as: \'Great music has much the same effect upon humans as cyanide. . . . It paralyzes the respiratory system.\'

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Jones’s action-packed book has echoes of Raymond Chandler’s banter and bursts of Dashiell Hammett’s violence, with a tip of the porkpie hat to Walter Mosley ... delivers a bracing amount of rough humor and a whole lot of heart.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Thrilling ... There’s a cinematic propulsion to No Exit that commands the reader’s attention, and Mr. Adams times his shocks with a sure hand. Narrative shifts reveal other characters’ histories, but Darby remains the principal player as she seeks an impossible-seeming resolution.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Perry, the author of more than 20 books, tells a story pulsing with suspense and dense with danger: a tale that escalates from a lone burglar to a criminal conspiracy full of double- and triple-crosses. The novel’s eponymous heroine rises to meet any challenge as she tries to make amends for the inadvertent harm she’s caused.

Positive The Wall Street Journal \"The Plotters, rendered in English by Sora Kim-Russell, is an unusual book: a violent action-thriller that could also be a parable, a fable of good and evil stitched together with poignant threads. What Reseng is really trying to discover is whether it’s possible for a lost soul like himself to find a way into heaven. That said, readers may have to write that ending for themselves.\

Positive The Wall Street Journal Revenge, not absolution, is the goal chased by Dana Diaz, the standup comic narrating Amy Gentry’s unpredictable second novel ... The writing here is sharp, with contemporary social issues and moral twists that turn on a dime. Last Woman Standing unfolds like a master class in improvisational tragedy.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Winters has won major awards in both the mystery and speculative-fiction genres. The brain-teasing Golden State exists in a space where those two forms coexist. As a consequence, a sympathetic reader’s imaginings may persist long after the book’s puzzles have been solved.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Somber ... Everywhere the bonds of civilization seem to be weakening. All the more reason for would-be protectors like Superintendent Serrailler and his extended family to work harder than ever to maintain the fleeting comforts of home.

Positive The Wall Street Journal A largely comic escapade whose tone evokes both the biting wit of Evelyn Waugh and the slapstickier shenanigans of P.G. Wodehouse. Bryant himself deems this country-house mystery \'rather like an Agatha Christie novel.\'

Positive The Wall Street Journal A tough-as-rusty-nails police procedural ... Each environment seems spookier than the last in a narrative driven by lyrical anxiety.

Positive The Wall Street Journal \"Ms. Truss has written a... comic mystery: one where criminal conspiracies lurk beneath life’s cozy surface and society’s most admired authority figures are clueless ... A Shot in the Dark couples suspense with dark hilarity in the manner of the 1955 British black comedy film The Ladykillers, thus delivering (just in time) the funniest crime novel of 2018.\

Rave The Wall Street Journal The Silent Ones a superior work with interlocking elements of courtroom drama, psychological study and corruption exposé, might best be called a moral thriller ... an unpredictable work, by turns shocking, poignant, enlightening and inspired.

Rave The Wall Street Journal Ms. Barbas paces her terrific story well, and the book ends with her cogent analysis of Confidential’s larger significance. The magazine, which shuttered in 1978, \'precipitated a historic shift in American life fostering the jadedness, skepticism, and loss of innocence that would increasingly define the world in the 1960s and beyond.\' \'You couldn’t put out a magazine like Confidential again,\' Harrison told young journalist Tom Wolfe as early as 1964. \'You know why? Because all the movie stars have started writing books about themselves! . . . They tell all! No magazine can compete with that.\' Perhaps. But as today’s #MeToo movement shows, the powerful in Hollywood (and elsewhere) still like to keep their secrets.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ...emotionally vivid ... All This I Will Give to You has much to reveal ... Ms. Redondo unfolds her lengthy saga at a steady pace, with an abundance of detail. The patient reader will be rewarded with revelations both dramatic and poignant.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Fascinating ... scant on dialogue, leaving room for the action sequences that have made Mr. Forsyth’s novels best sellers for decades. The author’s spooky scenarios are somehow soothing: How comforting to think that bad actors might be stopped by the teamwork of one \'anxious boy with spectacular gifts\' and \'an elderly Englishman who sat at the back and remained silent.\'

Positive The Wall Street Journal The surprises in The Accident on the A35...are droll and subtle ... the novel seems at first to be a familiar enough police-procedural, similar in style to Georges Simenon’s Inspector Maigret books. But police chief Georges Gorski—an ill-at-ease, heavy-drinking man with a fractured marriage...is no Maigret. He seems more like one of the put-upon characters in Simenon’s other works: an ordinary type susceptible to \'human nature,\' caught up in pathetic events ... The Accident on the A35 is wrapped between a foreword and afterword, each presenting the novel as a posthumously published manuscript by one \'Raymond Brunet,\' as translated and introduced by Mr. Burnet, the real-life author. The latter’s pocket-biography of Brunet suggests that the events of this work had roots in the fictional author’s own life—adding a layer of conceptual icing to this delectable pastiche.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Wrecked is full of violent action, hairbreadth escapes and poignant life lessons: an unpredictable book written by an author with wizard-like gifts.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Neatly constructed, interspersing podcast transcriptions among third-person chapters that describe various characters’ past and present actions. The podcast device induces a surprising intimacy, while the other sections are full of sharp detail. In other words, Ms. Macmillan is one heck of a good writer.

Rave The Wall Street Journal This inventive chronicle...can seem like solving a three-dimensional jigsaw puzzle in the mirror. But the challenge is a worthy one, and the finished product is immensely enjoyable ... Mr. Von Doviak finds the appropriate tone for every occasion in this unpredictable novel, whose moods range from hard-boiled to slapstick to gothic. Even the author’s afterword is entertaining, ending with the sentence: \'Please tell all your friends to buy this book.\' Consider it done.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ...unfolds with the urgency of a vintage black-and-white movie from Warner Bros ... Mr. Gross’s direct style is full of sentiment but never maudlin and well-suited to scenes of violent action ... Button Man has plenty of zip—and a lot of moxie, too.

Positive The Wall Street Journal ...Our hero is dispatched to Paris in 1940 on the brink of the city’s fall to Germany. His mission is to find an individual code-named Roland, who may have been captured by the Nazis. Hannay must track Roland down and spirit him back to London, along with certain information he possesses, upon which \'the whole future of the war could hang.\' ... The can-do spirit of Mr. Harris’s book evokes a time when it seemed the fate of the world might hinge on the acts of a handful of brave souls. The Thirty-One Kings is old-fashioned in many ways—which is what makes it such a reassuring pleasure to read.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Lethal White, the fourth Cormoran Strike mystery novel by Robert Galbraith—a pen name for J.K. Rowling—begins in the year 2012. England is making final preparations to host the Olympic Games, and the 37-year-old Strike, thanks to his recent capture of a killer known as \'the Shacklewell Ripper,\' is now \'the best-known private detective in London.\' ... Lethal White...amounts to a gripping thriller, which tussles not just with criminality but morality.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Christopher Marlowe Cobb, an American abroad in 1915, is the resourceful hero of Robert Olen Butler’s Paris in the Dark. The alienated son of a famous stage actress, Cobb plays several roles in his life. As \'Kit\' Cobb, he’s a foreign correspondent for a Chicago newspaper. But as Josef Wilhelm Jäger—and sometimes Joseph Hunter—he disguises himself as a writer for a syndicate of American German-language publications. Why the need to blur his identity? Because he’s also a secret agent working for the United States government ... One of the pleasures of Mr. Butler’s series lies in how the author brings an earlier era to such convincing life through details, attitudes and reactions at once realistic and surprising. Paris in the Dark, with its ironic twists.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Roland Ford is a compelling hero: financially comfortable but not emotionally complacent, empathetic and equipped with the training and inclination to vanquish wickedness. Mr. Parker’s devotees should be well-pleased.

Rave The Wall Street Journal \"Extraordinary...Mr. Solares depicts the milieu that Treviño re-enters with scenes informed by magic realism, spooky folklore and Greek epic poetry. Without losing sight of its central narrative, the book on occasion ascends into the realm of surrealism and the fever dream ... Don’t Send Flowers is full of odd twists and strange surprises. And despite the treacherous efforts of multiple foes—including former colleagues on the La Eternidad police—the battered Treviño persists in his quest to rescue the kidnapped daughter, motivated by an unbreakable sense of karma along the way.\

Positive The Wall Street Journal Naples in the early 1930s is the setting for Maurizio de Giovanni’s Nameless Serenade...(translated impressively from the Italian by Antony Shugaar) whose intense opening chapters approach the operatic ... Ricciardi’s life is also thick with operatic complications: Livia, a divorced adventuress, is in love with the Commissario. But he pines in silence for his young neighbor Enrica, who yearns to wed the discreet policeman but fears that she should instead marry the German military man courting her, even as that Nazi is being ensnared by the spying Livia. These romantic, suspenseful and political strains interweave and resolve in superbly artful fashion.

Positive The Wall Street Journal \"Questions of luck and social privilege, fate and free will, empathy and solipsism are woven throughout this discursive narrative whose detail-rich sequences lead to psychological insights and unexpected revelations.\

Rave The Wall Street Journal ...a revolutionary group called the Massive Brigade ... consists mostly of discontented young citizens with various social-issue agendas—all unified by feeling \'like aliens in their own country.\' Without warning or explanation, Bishop and his followers one day drop off the grid. Where have they gone? What are they planning? ... The Middleman, with its abundance of multidimensional characters and political viewpoints, is a thought-provoking novel that never ceases to excite as a thriller.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Ms. Holt’s mystery—ably translated from the Norwegian by Anne Bruce —offers more than a tricky plot. There is also fascination in seeing Ms. Holt enter the minds of characters troubled and admirable alike—and of seeing the admittedly conceited Hanne grow less self-centered and more generous in her treatment of Henrik, who himself comes more into his own and even discovers the fulcrum on which the two deaths turn. If In Dust and Ashes is indeed the last we’ll read of Hanne Wilhelmsen, maybe it will also mark the beginning of our deeper acquaintance with a more accomplished, self-confident Henrik Holme.

Rave The Wall Street Journal \"Ms. Arsenault, in her earlier books, displayed impressive abilities and great charm. With this new work—its diverse supporting cast and mix of wry wit and psychological dread—she vaults to an even higher plateau of achievement. Intertwining strands of police-procedural and personal-confessional details set the reader up for one of the most surprising plot twists in recent memory.\

Positive The Wall Street Journal At 37, Francine Day—the narrator of J.L. Butler’s well-crafted Mine, has a reputation as \'the best-value wig in London,\' a lawyer specializing in \'high-net-worth divorces.\' Fran knows well the codes of conduct governing her profession. Such rules go out the window, though, when she becomes romantically involved with her latest client, an investment banker whom she finds \'beautiful,\' with \'muscular and tanned forearms that were the very definition of manliness.\' ... But the client, Martin Joy, has a dark, aggressive side. And when his financially demanding wife goes missing amid the divorce proceedings, Martin becomes the police’s prime suspect. But Fran has her doubts and her efforts to assist him...jeopardize her career, her freedom and her life itself.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Set in 1988, Mr. Osborne’s absorbing work presents a 72-year-old Marlowe living in a house in Baja California ... The semi-exotic, lushly described Only to Sleep ends with a whimper, not a bang—which seems a fine way to leave an old fictional friend, taking at last a well-earned rest in the sun after having given readers decades of pleasure.

Positive The Wall Street Journal The first half of The Last Time I Lied is sleekly written and involving. The second part seems to meander, then erupts in an abundance of physical action. Readers who persist to the novel’s truth-or-lie ending will be rewarded, though, with a startling, film-noir turn of fate.

Positive The Wall Street Journal For Those Who Know the Ending takes place in the criminal underworld of Glasgow. Crime bosses run the show in this faction-ridden locale, where foot soldiers commit murders so that \'someone else could make money.\' ... Into this grim environment enters Martin Sivok, a 31-year-old Czech hood-for-hire with a shaved head and a case of culture shock. He quickly teams up with a young Glasgow-born Pakistani, Usman Kassar. Together, the two rob a bookmaker’s business used to store gang money, which puts them in the bad graces of the criminals they’ve stolen from ... Soon, against his better judgment, Sivok finds himself caught in a downward spiral: \'More money, more risk, more violence.\'

Rave The Wall Street Journal Ms. Thomas, an American who has studied in Turkey, does local color well and danger sequences even better. As Penny and Connor go off the grid and into the terrorist underground in search of Zach, Liar’s Candle blends the infinity-of-mirrors intrigue of an espionage page-turner with the thrills of an adventure movie. And who could resist the appeal of a determined heroine who, when challenged with \'The guards up there have semiautomatics. What have we got?\' answers: \'Nothing to lose.\'

Positive The Wall Street Journal Mr. Fesperman’s book is filled with intriguing twists and hairsbreadth escapes. And once past and present quests in Safe Houses are running in tandem, the book’s breakneck pace is exhilarating.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Bizarre coincidences and shocking revelations concerning former neighbors and Kate’s own family members, as well as the murder of the mother of another one of her patients, cause Kate to question her own hard-earned sanity. But she’ll need all her wits about her, and then some, to eventually do battle with one of the most memorable genre villains since Hannibal Lecter.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Satire supplements suspense in London Rules, Mick Herron’s latest volume in his amusing saga of Slough House ... Mr. Herron cleverly spins the templates of the spy thriller, and his style can bite with the wit of an Evelyn Waugh or Kingsley Amis.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Even after 17 books, Ms. Black has intriguing corners of Paris to reveal—from an enclave of ateliers once home to the likes of Gauguin and Rodin to a crime-ridden neighborhood where \'no one wanted to be witnessed witnessing.\' And her heroine remains an unpredictable work in progress herself: a daughter faithful to the memory of a father she nonetheless fears may have collaborated with the Hand; a doting but still unmarried mother; enough of an existentialist to answer the question \'Who are you?\' with, \'In the scheme of life? To be determined.\'

Rave The Wall Street Journal \"Ms. Hummel captures characters in a single stroke: the art dealer with the \'tan, metallic look\' of \'prosthetic limbs, things that are made to look natural but are creepy instead\'; the careerist’s wife, \'a predictably pale blonde with a talent for smiling without seeming friendly at all.\' Having herself worked in a museum, she speaks with authority of that sealed world: \'The artist-dealer-collector triad is . . . soaked in cash. Most . . . transactions happen behind closed doors.\' Still Lives is both savvy and lyrical—the perfect beach read for either coast.\

Rave The Wall Street Journal Mr. Horowitz continues his imaginative literary gamesmanship in his witty and suspenseful new work...an irresistible page turner in which he himself purports to be the narrator ... The Word Is Murder, with its dry tone and insider anecdotes about publishing and the movie business, is certainly one of the most entertaining mysteries of the year. It’s also one of the most stimulating, as it ponders such questions as: Which is of greater interest to the reader, the crime or the detective? And: Is the pencil truly mightier than the butcher knife?

Positive The Wall Street Journal The Good Son (who is anything but) is not so much a mystery story, then, as the case study of a psychopath, an unlikely thriller that we continue to read—thanks to Ms. Jeong’s controlled prose, as rendered into English by Chi-Young Kim —with a sickened sort of fascination. It’s a testament to the author’s skill and seriousness of purpose that she maintains suspense about her inhuman-seeming protagonist’s fate until the bitter end.

Positive The Wall Street Journal How these characters’ lives unpredictably intersect is told with drama and flair by Mr. John, a Londoner whose flexible style is equally at home describing a dictator’s luxury train or the psychic depths of an icy gulag. While CIA agent Jenna, with her seductive allure and her hand-to-hand combat skills, comes close at times to seeming like a female James Bond, Star of the North is saved from caricature by passages of the grimmest realism and welcome bursts of humanism and hope.

Positive The Wall Street Journal Customers go to Harriet \'Hal\' Westaway, a 21-year-old tarot-card reader with a booth on the Brighton Pier, in hopes of getting a peek into their futures. But it’s Hal’s own future that seems hexed: She’s in hock to a loan shark who has given her seven days to pay up—or else ... And at the end of Ms. Ware’s captivating and eerie page-turner, Hal finds herself saying \'the last thing she had intended. The truth.\'

Positive The Wall Street Journal \"...a hefty, sometimes lewd, sometimes metaphysical exploration of the meaning of life that is also a thriller about the terrorist conspiracies of a secretive, sex-obsessed religious group ... Cult X, translated into handsome, unadorned English by Kalau Almony, pushes the boundaries of the thriller genre to an extreme degree. Mr. Nakamura has written a daunting, challenging saga of good and evil on a Dostoevskian scale. Those who persevere to its finale may well feel the richer for it.\

Positive The Wall Street Journal To Die but Once is told on a human scale, as Dobbs works to unearth a scheme of coercion, bribery, black marketeering and government fraud—all of which paint the boy’s death in a more sinister light. The wartime details (sandbags in front of shop fronts, blackout curtains, ambulance-driving classes) transport us with ease to a milieu where danger is omnipresent but—thanks to the presence of steadfast figures like Dobbs and her like-spirited colleagues—so is hope

Positive The Wall Street Journal So it goes: an unending (it seems) struggle, Mr. Johnson writes, between \'humans bound across centuries by the faith-based belief that these birds were worth preserving\' and \'centuries of men and women who looted the skies and forests for wealth and status.\' Johnson has written a fascinating book about that struggle—the kind of intelligent reported account that alerts us to a threat and t