Fairfield

Larry Miller passed away Sunday September 17, 2023, at the Jefferson County Hospital.

Larry was born on August 16, 1944, in Kinross, Iowa to Emery F. Miller and Lillian Morris Miller.

He married Suzanne Sarby in 1967 and they have three sons, Lauren DeSarbe of Bentonsport, Nathan Miller (Lori) of Ottumwa and Eric Todd Miller (Angie) of Olympia, WA. They divorced in 1984 and Larry married Laura Gibson Calnon on May 26 of 1990. He acquired three stepsons, Daniel F. Calnon of Rockwall, Texas, Brian G. Calnon (Jennifer) of Apple Valley, MN, and Benjamin E. Calnon (Melissa) of Folsom, CA; and 10 grandchildren, Aiden, Cody, Morgan, Sylus, Kali, Rogan, Claire, Preston, Rylan and Madeline. He took on his new title of stepdad quickly and proved to be an easy-going, encouraging father figure.

Larry worked at Barker equipment in Keosauqua, Louden Machinery in Fairfield, and for the Jefferson County Secondary Road Department for 35 years. He retired from the road department in 2007 and began work for Leazer TV and appliance as a service technician. Though said to be retired, you would never know by his actions.

Larry was a tireless worker once said to have done more after his full-time job than most folks did during their workday. He was known for doing odd jobs in his spare time, mowing lawns, maintenance for Copperfield Chimney Supply and property repair and management for as many as 15 rental houses that he and his wife, Laura owned in the Fairfield and Birmingham areas. He was known by many for his appliance repair skills and was quick to help a friend, neighbor or animal in distress. He contributed to his wife’s love of plants by bringing home many plant “rescues.”

He was a supporter of the Fairfield VFW and Eagles Clubs and a friend of nature with a variety of animals in his backyard. He and his wife, Laura set aside 30 acres by their home on Gear Ave. as a wildlife easement and habitat.

A memorial service will be at 10:30am on Saturday September 23, 2023, at Cranston Family Funeral Home with Pastor Danny Cary officiating. A reception will follow the service at the VFW in Fairfield. Gifts to a memorial to be designated later by the family may be left at the funeral home or mailed to the family at 1956 Gear Avenue, Fairfield, IA 52556. Friends may leave online condolences at www.cranstonfamilyfuneralhome.com.