Jump to:

Overview / Stage Environment / War Zone Weather / Stage Affixes / Demotion, Defending, and Promotion / Weekly Participation / Mission Rewards

Overview

War Zone is a game mode that appears twice a week, running from Monday - Wednesday & Thursday - Sunday, 7:00 - 20:00 UTC. It is unlocked by clearing Normal Stage 3-12 of the Main Story and is part of the weekly missions that provide players with Black Cards. War Zone also provides the player with a game-mode exclusive currency called War Zone Influence, which players can use in the War Shop to obtain rare items such as 6★ Memory Resonance Material Pick, Leap Wafer Chip, and Uniframe Single Crystal. Obtaining Black Cards depend entirely on participation while obtaining War Zone Influence depends on scoring and rank.

In each run of War Zone, the player is given 2 unlocks that are refreshed daily. Two zones of the possible five will be available for players, with each zone containing 3 Areas. The first and second Areas have a maximum point score of 10000 and 20000 respectively, and can be autocleared if completed previously. The third Area has no maximum point score, but an in-game time limit of 2 minutes (not including Time Lag Calculation). Players compete to get the highest score possible in the third Area, obtaining rewards based on progress and ranking.

Stage Environment

Each zone in War Zone has their own Stage Environment, increasing damage dealt for a specific damage type. The zones change after each run of War Zone, meaning the player will fight in a total of 4 unique zones in a week, each with their own Stage Environment.

Stage Environment Image Effect Machine Factory Increase Physical DMG by 30% Cycle of Fire Increase Fire DMG by 30% Laser Alloy Increase Lightning DMG by 30% Shadow Forest Increase Dark DMG by 30% Crimson Increase Ice DMG by 30%

Full-Realm Support / War Zone Weather

In addition to the Stage Environment, players also have access to one Full-Realm Support (also known as War Zone Weather) per War Zone run. This buff usually caters around one character indicated in the buff's picture, but is applicable to any character that can satisfy the conditions. The first new War Zone after a S-Rank Omniframe release will cater to this new character.

Example Full-Realm Support

Full-Realm Support Image Effect

Thunderous Lightning Upon entering the battlefield, the character gains 50% Lightning DMG bonus for 3s and 30% Lightning DMG bonus for 5s after casting Signature Move.

Stage Affixes

Area 3 also comes with a special Stage Affix, affecting the enemy grouping the player faces against. In one War Zone run, there will always be one of either Crowd/Joint, and one of Duo/Elite, alternating after the next run.

Stage Affix Effect Crowd Battle Refresh 3 or 6 Normal enemies per wave Joint Operation Refresh multiple Normal and Elite enemies. Duo Challenge Refresh 2 Elite enemies per wave Elite Challenge Every wave spawns a single elite enemy. Every fourth wave spawns a Boss enemy.

Promotion, Defending, and Demotion

During the results phase of War Zone, players will either demote, retain (defend), or promote their rank. The cutoffs for these depend on the initial rank, with the cutoffs being more strict towards the higher ranks. Each rank and their cutoffs have their own rewards, rewarding those who score high in War Zone with more War Zone Influence currency and limited cosmetics such as Proof of a Hero and Legend Badge. Cosmetics obtained last for one week, meaning players must be able to consistently hit that rank once per week to keep it.

Weekly Participation

There are 14 War Zone related missions that refresh weekly on the Monday reset. These can be found in the Missions tab in the main menu, of which 12 correspond to participation and 2 correspond to score. These award Black Cards, making these missions high valuable and the main source of currency alongside Phantom Pain Cage.

Mission Rewards Clear War Zone for the first time Clear 2 War Zone for the first time Clear 3 War Zone for the first time Clear 4 War Zone for the first time Clear 5 War Zone for the first time Clear 6 War Zone for the first time Collect total 100000 Personal Pts Clear 7 War Zone for the first time Clear 8 War Zone for the first time Clear 9 War Zone for the first time Clear 10 War Zone for the first time Clear 11 War Zone for the first time Clear 12 War Zone for the first time Collect total 200000 Personal Pts

For those looking to complete these weekly mission as soon as possible, or for those who missed the first set of War Zone, the following strategy can be utilized.

Make sure the first War Zone Area (Area 1) or second War Zone Area (Area 2) is uncleared.

Form a party with just your single weakest character.

Start the battle and let the enemies defeat you. DO NOT defeat ANY enemies! Defeating enemies earns the user a score, but as this strategy will only work if the user does not earn a score, it is necessary that the user ensures that all of them remain alive.

Repeat for as many times needed

Each attempt counts as 1 clear for the weekly missions, allowing players to quickly obtain the Black Cards allocated for this week. Do note that there are two missions related to score, although the low threshold means playing the last area for one War Zone run is usually enough to clear these.

Mission Rewards

In addition to the Result Cutoff Rewards and Weekly Missions, there are also Mission Rewards, providing the player with a small stash of materials and currency based on score milestones and participation. These rewards reset per run of War Zone and vary based on rank, providing more currency in the higher ranks. These rewards are separate from the weekly War Zone missions which reward Black Cards on participation. This means that all players that participate will be given Black Cards regardless of score! Do note that the amount of War Zone Influence is based on ranking, which can be used respectively to upgrade Omniframes to SS and acquire Memory Resonance USBs and Leap/Uniframe materials.

War Shop

Every day, all memories sets (excluding Event Limited sets) will stock one piece in a random slot. These memories reset daily and may change slot positions from the reset.

6★ memories can be obtained for 500 War Zone Influence.

5★ memories can be obtained for 160 War Zone Influence.