In celebration of our 125th birthday, we’re looking back at some of the people and work that have made us who we are today –

On 19 May 1958 Harold Pinter’s first full-length play, The Birthday Party, opened at the Lyric Hammersmith Theatre. Eight performances later it had closed following almost entirely hostile reviews. The only positive review was by Harold Hobson in The Sunday Times but by the time it came out the play had closed. The Birthday Party is now considered one of the masterpieces of twentieth century drama and Harold Pinter is regarded as the world’s greatest living playwright. He was rewarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 2005. Fifty years later on 08 May 2008, directed by then Artistic Director David Farr, the Lyric presented an anniversary production to great critical acclaim.

Harold Hobson for the Sunday Times in 1958: ‘Now I am well aware that Pinter’s play received extremely bad notices last Tuesday morning. At the moment I write these lines it is uncertain whether the play will still be on the bill by the time they appear, though it is probable it will soon be seen elsewhere. Deliberately, I am willing to risk whatever reputation I have as a judge of plays by saying that The Birthday Party is not a fourth, not even a second, but a first; and that Pinter, on the evidence of his work, possesses the most original, disturbing and arresting talent in theatrical London.’

Michael Billington for the Guardian in 2008: ‘We may have learned much about Pinter in the 50 years since the play was first performed. But Farr gives the play the best possible birthday party by conveying the dislocating oddity that so disturbed its original critics.’

David Farr in 2020: ‘The Birthday Party was just a treat. 50 years anniversary of the play on the very same stage, and with a sick but defiant Pinter giving the thankyou speech on opening night. Unforgettable moments for me. I think Justin Salinger gave a defining performance of Stanley. Pinter said it had never been done better. I still have the letter he wrote to me afterwards on my desk. “What a Night!” he began. What a night indeed.’

Sheila Hancock shares her memory of watching in 1958 and performing in 2008 in The Birthday Party in this short film available here

1958 company:

Directed by Peter Wood / Design by Hutchinson Scott

Cast included Willoughby Gray, Beatrix Lehmann, Richard Pearson, Wendy Hutchinson, John Slater and John Stratton

2008 company:

Directed by David Farr / Design by Jon Bausor/Lighting design by Jon Clark/Sound Design by Nick Manning/Produced by Kate McGrath of Fuel

Cast included Sian Brooke, Sheila Hancock, Justin Salinger, Lloyd Hutchinson, Alan Williamson and Nicholas Woodeson