June 10, Judy Garland is born Frances Ethel Gumm in Grand Rapids, Minnesota, the third and youngest child of Frank and Ethel Gumm.

December 22, "Baby" makes her stage debut at age 2, singing "Jingle Bells" on her father's stage at the New Grand movie theater in Grand Rapids.

June 11, Makes her film debut performing "That's The Good Old Sunny South" with her sisters in the short film The Big Revue. She is seven.

February 1, Performs "(Dear Mr. Gable) You Made Me Love You" at Clark Gable's birthday party. Response to her performance is so enthusiastic MGM puts the song in Broadway Melody of 1938.

October, Premiere of For Me and My Gal; first grown-up role in films.

June 7, Files for divorce from David Rose. November, Premiere of Meet Me in St. Louis, MGM's greatest financial hit after Gone With the Wind.

March 12, Gives birth to Liza Minnelli. December 1, Returns to MGM after birth of Liza with a new contract for $300,000 per year.

Spring, Has major breakdown during production of The Pirate. July 16, First suicide attempt. Sent to Las Campanas sanitarium, then to Austin Riggs Center in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. Leaves after two weeks. Returns to MGM shortly after.

June 19, Attempts suicide. Press releases it to the nation. September 29, Released from her MGM contract.

April 9, Opens new show at the London Palladium, performing twice nightly. October 16, Legendary Palace Theater opening. Show runs 19 weeks and breaks all box office records. March, Divorces Vincente Minnelli.

September 29, A Star Is Born premieres. Garland later receives Academy Award Nomination for Best Actress. Wins Golden Globe Award for Best Actress.

March 29, Gives birth to son Joey. August, Begins 10 year association with Capitol Records. September 24, Makes her television debut on CBS in a version of her Palace act - largest TV audience to that date to view a special program. The program wins an Emmy Award.

July, Las Vegas debut as highest paid entertainer at that time in the desert town. September, Second Palace engagement, New York City - 17 weeks.

May, Becomes first popular singer to play the Metropolitan Opera House. November 18, Enters hospital in New York for treatment of hepatitis. Told she'll never work again as she will become a "semi-invalid."

February 25, "The Judy Garland Show" - CBS TV special; highest-rated entertainment program in network history. May, wins Grammy Award for Album of the Year and Best Solo Vocal Performance, Female. May, Begins filming what will be her final picture, I Could Go on Singing.

November 8, In concert with daughter Liza at the London Palladium. May 4, Judy's sister Mary Jane dies.