Local Fianna Fáil TD, Deputy Darragh O'Brien has welcomed the publication of the Constituency Commission report, which has recommended that no change be made the Dublin Fingal constituency which elects five representatives to Dáil Eireann.

He said: 'I welcome the publication of the Dáil Boundary Commission report and in particular, the fact that Dublin Fingal remains intact with no changes proposed. A number of months ago I made a strong written submission to the Boundary Commission outlining the importance of retaining the Dublin Fingal as one electoral area, and that no areas should be excluded as was done in 2011.'

Deputy O'Brien added: 'We have previously experienced changes to how our constituency was drawn. The decision to divide Swords and to exclude Portmarnock, Balgriffin and parts of Baskin from our constituency both proved hugely damaging.

'As this constituency review got under way, there was understandably growing concern among locals that our area may have been subject to change once again. I am very pleased that the people of Dublin Fingal will continue to have their national interests represented by locally based TDs.'

Swords-based Cllr Darragh Butler (FF), said: 'I welcome that there will be no change to the constituency of Dublin Fingal. Over recent weeks there had been all sorts of mad rumours that Swords would be moved into the constituency of Dublin West but thankfully this proved not to be the case. I would like to think that the campaign I orchestrated last December helped in this regard, which resulted in Dublin Fingal having the third highest number of submissions overall (45 submissions, or 10.8% of the total number of submissions), which called for all of Swords to remain united in the constituency of Dublin Fingal. I would like to thank everyone who took the time to make a submission and this is a good result for Dublin Fingal and democracy.'

The Constituency Commission recommends that the number of members of Dáil Éireann should be 160 and that there should be 39 constituencies.

The constituencies of Dublin Bay South (four seat), Dublin Fingal (five seat), Dublin South-Central (four seat), Dublin Mid-West (four seat), Dublin South-West (five seat) and Dublin West (four seat) are unchanged.

Adjustments should be made between Dublin Rathdown (three seat) and Dún Laoghaire (four seat), and between Dublin North-West (three seat), Dublin Bay North (five seat) and Dublin Central which should change from a three seat to a four seat constituency.