The Blues will change their radio home next season, moving from KMOX to WXOS 101.1 (101 ESPN). The agreement is for four seasons with an option for a fifth.

The team will remain on KMOX for the remainder of this season.

What the Blues will give up in KMOX's tremendous reach they think will be made up for in the potential to have more team-based programming on 101 ESPN. In announcing the move, the Blues said the change would allow them "to deliver the most content and programming in team history."

The Blues moved back to KMOX, which was their home for all but two of their first 33 seasons, from KTRS in 2007. The team had left KMOX in 2000 because they had grown weary of being bumped for Cardinals games. Then the Cardinals moved to KTRS, and the Blues were bumped again, so they moved back to KMOX. (The Blues were on KXOK in the '86-87 and '87-88 seasons.)

KMOX has since gotten the Cardinals back, which still sometimes bumps the Blues to another station during their spring and fall overlaps. Outside of games, an all-sports station obviously has more time for more hockey-themed programming than on KMOX, which does news and news talk much of the day.

“This partnership will allow us and 101 ESPN to reach new audiences and create numerous content opportunities that will help meet the demands of our loyal fan base,” Blues executive vice president and chief revenue officer Steve Chapman said. “We are excited to enter into a partnership with 101 ESPN to broadcast our games and to create exciting new Blues and hockey-related content for our fans.”

In addition to Blues games, KMOX has aired a weekly two-hour evening hockey show on Mondays and an hour-long show on Wednesdays. It also has its nightly Sports Open Line program, which covers all sports.

Since the Rams left for Los Angeles, the only local team to air on 101 ESPN has been St. Louis University.

Get local news delivered to your inbox!

Subscribe to our Daily Headlines newsletter.

* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.

Tom Timmermann

Soccer reporter

Get email notifications on {{subject}} daily!

Your notification has been saved.

There was a problem saving your notification.

{{description}}

Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.

Followed notifications

Please log in to use this feature

Log In

Don't have an account? Sign Up Today