1.6K

For a moment, stop what you are doing and think of a famous palace or fort in India. Chances are that 9 out of ten times, you would have thought about some palace or fort in Rajasthan!

That is about to change soon as a host of royal families in Gujarat are about to revive a host of their palaces and forts and make them accessible to the general public. Many of the erstwhile royal families are converting their ancestral palaces and castles into heritage hotels or making them tourist destinations to wean away visitors from neighbouring Rajasthan.

One of the quickest ones off the block is the royal family of Jasdan, situated close to Rajkot. Here is some more information about the Jasdan royal family and their family abode, the Jasdan Palace.

• The Jasdan family tree

Jasdan state was an independent princely state in British India. It signed the letter of accession with India in 1948. The Khumans of Kherdi were defeated by Vika Khachar in 1665 and founded the Jasdan dynasty making Jasdan his capital. In 1807, Jasdan state became a British protectorate when it signed a treaty with the British and with the Gaekwads of Baroda. Later it became part of the Bombay Presidency’s Kathiawar Agency in the 19th century. Since its inception, the Jasdan state has been blessed with 10 Darbar Sahebs’, the title of Jasdan’s ruler. The current Darbar Saheb, Shri. SatyajitKumar Shivraj Khachar is the 11th from his family to adorn that title.

• The Jasdan Palace

The history of the palace dates back atleast 300 years. Construction first began on the Jasdan Palace around 1860. But since then, a lot of things have been added by every generation. You can clearly see the changes in design ideology and architecture as you move from one part to another. Every generation has tried to contribute with the best available designs and ideas of their generation. These changes are not just visible inside the palace but are seen in the vast landscaped gardens surrounding the palace too. The family insists on retaining these different styles as a memory of their past generations. The rooms inside the palace have a mix of European and Indian architecture. The palace has a good collection of paintings by famous European artists like Arthur Wardle, Elizabeth Bruner, Frank Brooks, Frank Dixie, JW Godward and Indian artists like Raja Ravi Verma. The Palace also houses paintings done by the 10th Darbar Saheb Shri. Shivrajkumar Ala Khachar, who was a prolific painter himself!

Besides these, the Jasdan Palace houses a good collection of books in its royal library and Japanese hand-painted vases. The Jasdan Palace has been maintained in such a way that within no time one will be transformed to the days of its royal glory.

• The plan ahead

Since joining India in 1948, the Jasdan royal family has played an influential role in the development of the region. Infact, Darbar Saheb, Shri. SatyajitKumar Shivraj Khachar is the custodian of the family’s Gaushala (Cow Ranch) which houses over 110 cows. The speciality of these cows is that they belong to the purest breed of Gir cows and are famed for their A2 variety of milk. The milk and milk products of this Gaushala are in high demand in India as well as internationally. Infact, the Gaushala also has a milk processing plant attached which makes A2 milk powder, the only place in India to claim this feat! Besides this, the family is also restoring the Jasdan Palace to its former glory.

It is just a matter of before the Jasdan Palace will achieve its former glory. And when it does, Jasdan Palace might just emerge as one of the strongest competitors to the forts and palaces of Rajasthan! Now that is called a battle Royale in its true sense!