#2 Edited By AmazingGamer91

If you're talking about Spider-Man with the Uni-Power (AKA Captain Universe Spidey) then yes. Copying and pasting this from the Marvel Wiki, his new powers include:

Matter Control/Manipulation and Reconfiguration / Energy Emission and Absorption: Spider-Man has complete control of the four fundamental forces of the universe, reaching nearly any effect he desires. As a result, the Spider-Man can rearrange matter to create other configurations and can even transmute elements. Spider-Man can channel beams of energy through his hands with sufficient destructive force to destroy planets. Additional abilities include erecting force fields, phasing through solid matter, accelerating the evolution of lifeforms on a planet-wide scale seeing the past by peeling back the layers of time, time travel, cast illusions, trans dimensional travel, manipulation and discharging of any form of energy or radiation, bestowing limited cosmic powers to others, reading minds and influencing human emotion and sensation. Spider-Man also possesses the ability to suppress the powers of other mutants/beings making them temporarily or permanently out of use to them. He can heal living beings even if they are near-death. He cannot, however, raise the dead.

God-like Strength: Cosmic Spider-Man possesses almost limitless superhuman strength, though the exact magnitude remains vague. He can lift (press) far in excess of 100 tons effortlessly and can also use the Uni-Power to increase his strength to incalculable levels.

Unlimited Invulnerability: Spider-Man's"skin" after gaining the Uni-Power was designed to easily withstand the rigors of deep-space travel, and thus far, it has proven to be virtually indestructible. In fact, his entire body was made highly resistant to injury and he is thus invulnerable to almost all types of physical harm. Spider-Man can easily withstand the crushing pressures of a black hole. He is not bothered by the friction associated with atmospheric re-entry, and can withstand plunges into stars and even supernovas unharmed. He also routinely weathers the stresses associated with high-speed travel through space and hyperspace.

God-like Stamina: Spider-Man's highly enhanced musculature generates no fatigue toxins, nor body stress, or even sweat, granting him inexhaustible physical stamina, which allows him to fight other beings for prolonged periods of time before tiring, that is if he even gets tired.

Hyperspace Travel: By exceeding 99% of the speed of light (186,000 miles per second), Spider-Man can shift himself into hyperspace, a dimension in which velocity is not limited by the speed of light[1].

Cosmic Senses: Spider-Man has certain cosmic-energy enhanced perceptions which enable him through concentration to become aware of the patterns of energy anywhere in the world. These abilities allow him far-ranging vision (in space he can see people clearly over a light year away), the ability to see sub-atomic particles, superhuman hearing, the ability to detect fields, traces, and concentrations of pure forms of energy and discern their natures.

Cosmic Self-Sustenance: Spider-Man does not need to eat or breathe since he absorbs life-maintaining cosmic energy directly through his skin.

All in addition to his standard Spider-Man powers. And yes, he can beat the crap out of a Green Lantern Corp. member (in my opinion, of course). Included are a couple of panels where Spidey punches Hulk into orbit. Sorry I couldn't get any specific issue numbers (I'm too lazy :D )