CLEVELAND, Ohio -- Fabled electro-punk band Le Tigre made a long-awaited return to Cleveland on Monday, July 17, playing an electrifying show at the Agora that was the band’s first performance herein nearly two decades. With bandmates Kathleen Hanna, Johanna Fateman, and JD Samson back together after such a long absence, the atmosphere was charged with anticipation and excitement.

The last time Le Tigre visited Cleveland was back in 2005 when they lit up the now-extinct Peabody’s concert club (RIP) downtown during their “This Island” album tour. “There’s been good things that have happened, some bad things, too,” said JD Samson to the near-sold-out crowd.

Samson, a Clevelander with roots in Pepper Pike, has definitely been busy, having starred in and scored the music for the recent documentary “32 Sounds”. Hanna, the founder of Bikini Kill and rock’s ultimate riot grrrl, recently announced her memoir, and also recently finished an extensive Bikini Kill reunion tour. Fateman has been a columnist for The New Yorker, runs a high-end salon in the West Village, and regularly works on music projects, including one with Samson called MEN.

The long break has not diminished Le Tigre’s power, and fans at the Agora on Monday loved every minute of this reunion show. As the lights dimmed, the energy surged and the crowd erupted in cheers as Le Tigre launched into their feminist electro-punk anthems. Hits like “TKO,” “What’s Yr Take on Cassavetes,” “Hot Topic,” and “On the Verge” electrified the audience, who danced and scream-sang along.

Before launching into “Viz,” JD Samson, who identifies as genderqueer and gender non-conforming, passionately implored the audience to claim their space in the world. Samson revealed that “Viz” was born from a personal journey of self-discovery, from feeling invisible to finding strength and support in the presence of Fateman and Hanna.

Le Tigre’s signature blend of powerful vocals, pulsating rhythms, captivating visuals, and political messages not only brought a sense of nostalgia for longtime fans but also introduced a new generation to the infectious energy and powerful political messages that Le Tigre embodies.

The setlist reached its climax during the two-song encore, culminating with the crowd-favorite “Deceptacon.” As Hanna’s vocals soared with the contagious question, “Who took the bomp?”, the entire audience burst into a euphoric frenzy, turning the venue into a sweaty dance party.

It was a fitting finale for a long-awaited night to revel in the heart of Le Tigre’s unwavering message: to be unapologetically yourself, embrace your place in the world, and build action through community.

New York’s MAN ON MAN opened for Le Tigre and delivered a surprising and welcomed high-energy punk set with songs like “1983″, and “Piggy” that had the audience lined up at the merch table.