We wanted to look at some still images to get an understanding of the mise-en-scene which creates real tension and fear for the audience. So I analysed three film posters which are heavy in connotations in order to attract the target audience in consuming the film. We thought this would be a good way of looking at the codes and conventions that we could possibly incorporate into our opening sequence.

The ‘Da Vinci Code’ poster consists of colours red and black, this gives connotations of blood and death, allowing the audience to tell that the genre is thriller. The symbols of shapes and numbers shows us immediately that there will be a puzzle during the film that will need to be unveiled. There is use of triangles which are replacing the dots in the date. One is facing upwards, some believe that this is a symbolism of past, present and future or spirit, ,mind and body. In contrast, there is a triangle pointing down, this is symbolism for air and fire. The theme of triangles are also in the title, again two triangles in the A and V create an enigma code for the target audience to want to solve by consuming the product. These are clues the audience may not know or have to decode themselves. Triangles also represent the number 3, this is expressed through the number 3 obviously standing out from the rest of the numbers. The text of this poster is simple, yet it draws the audiences attention to what else is going on in the poster and highlights the more important and interesting parts.

Tom Hanks and Audrey Tatou a central to the poster and take up most of the space. This indicates to the target audience that they will play a big part in the film and there will be some connection between them. Two very big stars which are used as a marketing tool to engage the target audience. The low key lighting highlights their faces as they appear concerned, this gives the poster a mysterious atmosphere. However, the background is full of jumbled numbers. This is significant to the poster because the film's title is The DaVinci CODE. So although the mise-en-scene is quite simple in regards to props and costume, it is also very effective in marketing the film as a mystery solving narrative.

'Inception' Analysis

'Mama' Analysis

The typography of the poster is a plain white font over the top of the image. The white colouring could indicate a sense of innocence within the child but also a ghostly image which gives the poster and unsettling edge. The word 'love' in the tagline is juxtaposed with the main image in this poster as it seems there is no love between the two characters only fear. 'Jessica Chastain' written above the title is the only named printed on the front of the poster, this probably means that she's the main character within the film, but she is also a well known actress and this might engage the target audience to want to watch the film as she stars in it. The text at the top advertising that Guillermo del Toro is the director is another marketing strategy as the target audience will know what they will be getting from this particular director. There is even an example of one of his films, Pan's Labyrinth, suggesting that the film is more well know than the director so is used as a marketing tool.