Summary

Ford’s action movies are iconic, filled with compelling stories, excellent villains, and heart-pumping action.

The Devil’s Own

is a solid thriller, while

Cowboys & Aliens

offers a charming blend of Western and sci-fi elements.

With stellar performances,

Clear and Present Danger

and

The Fugitive

stand out as searing thrillers with intense action.

Harrison Ford is a very special kind of Hollywood actor with incredible longevity. While he has been acting since the mid-1960s, it was his breakthrough role as Han Solo in Star Wars (1977) that launched Ford to international stardom. Since this point, Ford has had a spectacular career in the industry, finding particular success in his numerous starring roles in action movies. In February 2025, Ford will star in yet another action movie, as President Thaddeus ‘Thunderbolt’ Ross in the MCU’s Captain America: Brave New World.

Ford’s action movies are some of the best and most iconic Hollywood has ever produced. The very best of these movies give Ford’s characters compelling stories, excellent villains, and, most importantly, plenty of heart-pumping action. From portraying the President of the United States, a legendary archaeologists, and a disgruntled police officer in a dystopian future, Ford’s greatest action movies are sure to have something for everyone.

.

10 The Devil’s Own (1997)

A Solid Political Action Thriller

Considering the fact that, according to Ford and his co-star Brad Pitt, The Devil’s Own began shooting its scenes without a fully completed screenplay, it is a remarkably impressive action movie (via Roger Ebert). The Devil’s Own‘s plot revolves around Frankie Maguire (under the alias Rory Devaney, played by Pitt), an agent for the provisional Irish Republican Army, as he goes undercover in New York City to purchase missiles for the group. He stays with Ford’s character, NYPD Sergeant Tom O’Meara, under the guise of being a construction worker.

While not as enthralling and action-packed as some of Ford’s other movies, The Devil’s Own certainly has a strong story to tell, and is bolstered by the excellent acting duo of Ford and Pitt. The Devil’s Own does an excellent job at producing a thriller with incredible action, especially considering the highly sensitive subject at hand. Pitt’s Irish accent may leave a lot to be desired, but this by no means detracts from the solid action scenes at hand, particularly the final shootout of the movie.

9 Cowboys & Aliens (2011)

A Charming Neo-Western

Despite this movie’s ridiculous title and equally ridiculous premise about an 1870s Southwestern US town being abducted by extraterrestrial life, Cowboys & Aliens is one of Ford’s more endearing action movies. Ford stars as wealthy cattleman Woodrow Dolarhyde alongside Daniel Craig, who plays outlaw Jake Lonergan. Together, they team up with mysterious traveler Ella Swenson (Olivia Wilde) and attempt to rescue their fellow townspeople who have been abducted by aliens.

No matter how absurd the premise of a movie is, placing the actors who played James Bond and Indiana Jones in starring roles is sure to produce a successful action movie. Its thematic elements can get quite murky at times, as Cowboys & Aliens clearly struggles to decide whether it wants to be a Western or a sci-fi adventure, yet its compelling story is sure to keep the audience enthralled. As well as this, Ford, notorious for acting nonchalant about his action roles, appears revitalized in Cowboys & Aliens, giving a particularly strong performance.

8 Six Days, Seven Nights (1998)

Strong, But Slightly Predictable

Ford would not be the first actor one thinks of when told to think of a staple of romantic comedies, but his performance as pilot Quinn alongside Anne Heche as Robin in Six Days, Seven Nights may prove this stereotype wrong. When their plane crashes on a desert island, Quinn and Robin face all sorts of obstacles, including a thunderstorm, pirates, and a cliff jump, as they try and get back home. The romantic sideplot that sees Quinn and Robin fall in love feels truly authentic, in large part due to Ford’s and Heche’s strong on-screen chemistry.

Yes, Six Days, Seven Nights is, at its core, a predictable action rom-com where the two protagonists fall in love by the end, but it is the unique setting of the desert island, and the various action set pieces on display, that truly give the movie its value. Providing entertainment is the primary goal of any action movie, and Six Days, Seven Nights certainly achieves this. While the storyline is slightly jumbled at times, and occasionally struggles with pacing, Six Days, Seven Nights remains an accessible, entertaining action movie that anyone can enjoy.

7 Clear And Present Danger (1994)

Searing Action

One of the most iconic political action thrillers of all time, Clear and Present Danger sees Ford reprise his role as Jack Ryan in the series adapted from Tom Clancy’s book series about the thrills of the CIA analyst. The plot revolves around Ryan being appointed as acting deputy director of the CIA as he slowly uncovers a conspiracy theory involving Colombian drug cartels, the murder of an American business executive on a yacht, and the President of the United States himself. Clear and Present Danger is an excellent movie full of cover-ups, action, and betrayal.

As always, Ford’s presence as Jack Ryan steals the show, which is no mean feat considering the impressive supporting cast that includes acting legends such as James Earl Jones and Willem Dafoe. While some of the supporting characters lack true depth, the intrigue and liveliness of the plot does an excellent job at keeping the audience’s attention. Critically and commercially successful, as far as Ford’s action movies go, Clear and Present Danger is one of the greats.

6 Patriot Games (1992)

The Movie That Proved Tom Clancy Wrong

During production on Patriot Games (Ford’s first appearance as Jack Ryan), Tom Clancy repeatedly stated his displeasure with the casting of Ford, believing him to be too old to play the character (via Slash Film). However, upon the film’s release, Clancy realized he had been proved wrong. Ford brought his action movie experience to the role, giving the movie a larger than life atmosphere as Ryan attempts to avoid being killed by a rogue IRA operative, Sean Miller (Sean Bean), whose brother he had killed when thwarting a terrorist attack.

While less-than-delicate on the topic of sectarianism in Northern Ireland, Patriot Games nevertheless provides an absorbing story full of action-packed set pieces, including a heart-pumping boat chase in the final act. The movie also balanced Ford’s seasoned career in the action genre while launching Bean to international recognition, and their scenes together in Patriot Games are full of tension. Ford’s ability to bring a new level of humanity to Ryan’s character and the overall storyline makes Patriot Games one of his greatest, and most rewatchable, action movies.

5 Blade Runner (1982)

Sci-Fi Action At Its Peak

While different from the book Blade Runner is based on, it is a seminal piece of movie making, not just for Ford, or for the action genre, but for the entire industry as a whole. The tale of former police officer Rick Deckard (Ford) as he attempts to track down and ‘retire’ four illegal replicants (bioengineered beings with superhuman strength used for free labor) in a dystopian future is one of the most iconic action movies in cinematic history. Initially panned by critics when it was released, Blade Runner eventually transformed into something more than a futuristic action movie. It became a benchmark for science fiction.

“All those moments will be lost in time, like tears in rain”

Ford’s performance as Deckard is solid throughout, acting as the cherry on top of a truly superb action movie. Blade Runner is full of wisdom, heart, and action, providing audiences with something new to discover about this dystopian universe upon every re-watch. Culturally significant and incredibly influential, Blade Runner is probably Ford’s most unique and thematically rich action movie.

4 Air Force One (1997)

Ford And Oldman Are Outstanding

In this staple of ’90s action movies, Ford portrays a fictionalized President of the United States, James Marshall. Following the capture and imprisonment of a genocidal world leader on Marshall’s orders, Air Force One (the plane used by the President) is hijacked by terrorists led by Egor Korshunov (Gary Oldman). President Marshall spends the movie attempting to retake the hijacked plane almost singlehandedly, providing audiences with a thrilling action movie full of daring stunts, political intrigue, fighter jets, and, of course, Harrison Ford doing what he does best.

Air Force One seamlessly blends Ford’s impressive acting chops with his incredible ability to transform into a man of action as he shoots, punches, and charges his way through the airplane. While some of the CGI may appear pretty dated to some, the movie more than makes up for it with its fast-paced, action-packed storyline and often evocative dialogue. Ford and Oldman’s antagonistic dynamic is searingly hot, with both of them stealing the show anytime they are on-screen. Ultimately, Air Force One is a must-watch for any fan of Harrison Ford, action movies or both.

3 The Fugitive (1993)

Gritty, Ruthless, And Tense

An action movie crossed with a nail-biting crime thriller, The Fugitive once again puts a Ford character up against unbelievable odds. After he is framed for his wife’s murder, Dr. Richard Kimble (Ford) manages to escape from custody and fights to clear his name. All the while, he is being ruthlessly hunted by a team of police officers and US Marshals led by Samuel Gerard. Gerard was portrayed by Tommy Lee Jones, who won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his part.

The Fugitive is almost universally acclaimed by critics and audiences alike, having a 96% critics score and 89% audience score on Rotten Tomatoes (via Rotten Tomatoes). Balancing an intricate plot about vindication and a race against the clock with Ford’s and Jones’ excellent performances, The Fugitive may be extravagant, but the movie pulls it off exceptionally well. Close-calls, non-stop action, and a murder mystery, The Fugitive truly has all the ingredients of one of the best action movies ever made.

2 Raiders Of The Lost Ark (1981)

The Birth Of A Legend

It is a close call between Indiana Jones and Han Solo as to who Ford’s most iconic character is, but the fact is that everybody knows who Indy is. The globetrotting archaeologist first appeared on our screens in Raiders Of The Lost Ark, pitting Indy against the Nazis, who wish to recover the Ark of the Covenant to strengthen their army. Raiders was a sensation at the box office, among critics, and at the Academy Awards, winning five (via The New York Times).

There is little to be said about how Raiders ranks in Ford’s action filmography that hasn’t been said already. It is a true icon of the genre, with incredible style, high stakes, and moments of comedy gold. The introduction of Indiana Jones in the opening scene alone is one of Raiders’ most iconic, providing just one small part of the movie’s incredible influence. Raiders is undeniably a must-watch for anybody who likes movies; it is a riveting tale of adventure, excitement, and action.

1 Indiana Jones And The Last Crusade (1989)

Mature, Funny, And Iconic

Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is Harrison Ford’s greatest ever action movie. Acting as the final movie in the original Indiana Jones trilogy, The Last Crusade sees Ford return as Indy as he embarks on a search for the Holy Grail. He is accompanied by his father, Dr. Henry Jones, played by the legendary Sean Connery. The dynamic between Henry and Indy is one of the best parts of the movie, providing moments of fantastic comedy along with some genuinely heartwarming ones.

The Last Crusade is not only a superb movie in its own right, but it was a necessary measure to get the Indiana Jones franchise back on its feet after the rather underwhelming Temple of Doom was released five years earlier. Despite being the third in the trilogy, The Last Crusade manages to be endearingly novel in its portrayal of the quest for the Holy Grail, and adds another layer of maturity to the franchise by introducing the relationship between Indy and his father. The Last Crusade is action movie dynamite, and certainly Harrison Ford‘s best.

Source: RogerEbert.com, SlashFilm, Rotten Tomatoes, The New York Times