When is Afterburner Music Festival?

Afterburner Music Festival takes place in the Fall, following Pacific Airshow each day.

Where is the venue?

Afterburner Music Festival is located at Huntington City Beach across from Hyatt Regency Huntington Beach, in between Twin Dolphin Dr. and Beach Blvd. on Pacific Coast Highway (PCH).

What time do doors open?

Gates for the Afterburner Music Festival will be announced as we get closer to the show.

Is Re-entry allowed?

No. Re-entry is not allowed at Afterburner Music Festival. We will have all food, drink and hospitality inside the venue to ensure a great experience for you and your guests!

Do I need to purchase a ticket for my child?

Children 3 years old and younger are free. You do not need to purchase a ticket for them beforehand.

Can I smoke at the venue?

No smoking is allowed inside the Afterburner Music Festival venue.

What kind of medical services are available in an emergency?

First aid stations will be set up for minor medical emergencies (cuts/bruises). There will also be Huntington Beach Fire Department paramedics present should advanced life support be needed.

Will there be food & drinks?

Yes! Food and beverages will be available for purchase at the festival venue. THE EVENT IS CASHLESS, so please bring your credit cards. We recommend that all attendees with food restrictions eat before the show. Photo ID will be required for guests wishing to purchase alcohol.

Where can I buy merchandise?

You can purchase our official merchandise at our designated merch booths inside the Afterburner Music Festival grounds. THE EVENT IS CASHLESS, so please bring your credit cards.

What about ADA Viewing?

Huntington Beach is one of the most accessible beaches in Southern California.

ADA viewing is available within the General Admission area at Afterburner Music Festival, and tickets are required. ADA viewing is also available in the VIP lounge (The Hangar) within the VIP area. Seating in the VIP lounge is available on a first-come, first-served basis. All guests must have a VIP ticket in order to enter this area.

Wheelchair access ramps are available throughout the event venue.

Please note: Transportation to/from your vehicle to/around the festival is not provided. This event is standing-room only (excluding a few seating areas throughout the venue), and attending the show can be physically demanding. Everyone should make sure they are prepared to safely attend a live music festival at the beach.

What do I need to bring?

Your printed out E-Ticket(s)

A valid photo ID

Credit card(s) to purchase food, drinks and festival swag (THE EVENT IS CASHLESS)

If you have a General Admission ticket, you are allowed to bring your own low-back chairs and blankets. Please note that these are only allowed at the back of the music venue in order to allow for ample space for our guests. If you’re in our VIP section, leave those items at home.

What are some helpful tips for attending?

Use this checklist of helpful tips to optimize you and your family’s festival experience:

Plan your arrival strategy. Be prepared for traffic delays. Utilize Uber, Lyft, carpooling, take the shuttle busses, walk or bike if possible.

Arrive early to reserve your space!

If you drive, please obey all posted parking signs. The last thing you want after a fun day at Pacific Airshow is a parking ticket or a towed vehicle.

Who’s performing this year?

Stay tuned for a performer announcements.

what are the set times?

Performances start with our opening DJ around 4:00PM each night, and conclude around 10:00PM each night. Set times for each performer will be announced closer to the event.

What are your Covid-19 Guidelines?

Afterburner Music Festival is complying with all mandated federal, state and local health requirements. For more information, please click HERE.

How can I attend?

You need to purchase tickets in order to attend the Afterburner Music Festival. To purchase tickets, visit our Tickets page.

What is your refund policy?

All tickets for Afterburner Music Festival are non-refundable and final sale.

What if it rains?

Afterburner Music Festival is a rain or shine event. If weather poses a risk to the safety of the public or performers, some performances may be modified, delayed or suspended. Tickets are non-refundable.

Can I bring my own seating?

If you purchased a General Admission ticket, you are able to bring your own seating (low-back chairs or blankets) ONLY within our designated areas at the back of the venue. BYO Seating is prohibited for VIP tickets.

Do you have a lost & found?

Yes. If you lose anything during Afterburner Music Festival, please visit our Customer Service booth inside the event venue near the main entrance.

Do you accept credit cards?

Yes! All bars, food booths and merchandise tents accept all major credit cards. THE EVENT IS CASHLESS.

Are pets allowed?

Pets are not allowed within the Afterburner Music Festival venue.

Where can I park?

Parking is available on a first-come, first-serve basis around the city of Huntington Beach. Given the crowds, parking close to the venue will be difficult to find.

Daily parking is available at Huntington State Beach parking lots on Pacific Coast Highway. Hourly parking is also available on the street on Pacific Coast Highway. Delays and queues are expected throughout the city due to the sheer volume of traffic anticipated.

Guests are advised to leave early and expect frequent delays or to seek alternative transportation to the event (walking, riding, carpooling or public transportation). We will have designated drop-off/pick-up locations for ride-share services like Uber and Lyft.

What items are prohibited?

All licensees, ticket holders, and guests are prohibited from bringing the following items into the Event: any weapons, including but not limited to, firearms, bombs, grenades, toys resembling firearms, ammunition, brass knuckles, loose batteries, wires, box cutters, mace, tear-gas, pepper spray, knives, fireworks, sparklers or incendiary materials of any kind; any noisemakers, including but not limited to, megaphones, air horns, sirens and whistles; helium balloons; kites; drones; laser pointers; any illegal substances, including but not limited to, any drugs, drug paraphernalia, or alcohol; and any item that would or could negatively impact public safety, aircraft safety and present a threat, real or perceived. All illegal or prohibited items will be seized.

Outside food & beverages are not allowed into the music venue. Large cameras are not allowed.

Please note that all bags and containers will be inspected upon entering the event venue. We do not have a clear bag policy.

The event is a NO DRONE ZONE. No aircraft, including any drone or unmanned aerial systems (UAS), may be operated within five nautical miles of the site.