Chelakkara is a small town in Thrissur district of Kerala state, south India. It is one of the constituencies in Thrissur district.

Contents

1 Geography

2 Religion

3 Education

4 Politics

5 References

Geography

Chelakara is located at [1]. It has an average elevation of 6 m (20 ft).

Religion

The town has many temples including Narasimhamurthy temple, and Anthimahakalan Temple. There is a small Car festival on Thiruvadira day. Navarathri is celebrated in a grand scale in this village. The other festival that is observed in a grand way is Vaikunta Ekadasi. Nearest villages are Killimangalam, Pangarappilli, Venganellur, & Thonoorkara.

Sree Moolam Thirunal Govt. Higher Secondary School(S.M.T.G.H.S.S) with kerala traditional architecture called 'naalu kettu' with a cave and secret rooms which yet not opened.

Anthimakalan kavu (Temple) Vela (festival) is celebrated in a grant manner with 5 superb fireworks which starts by midnight and end by early morning the next day. People from all over Kerala come to see the grand fireworks.

Kolathur Ayyappankavu sree Subhramanya Swami kshetram, one of the famous Muruka temple is located in Kolathur a village in Chelakkara. Thypooyamaholsavam is the main festival of this temple. The panchavaadyam of Chelakkara desam from this temple on Anthimahakaalan vela is famous. Kolathur also have a chozhi group, associated with the temple, which co-ordinate the chozhi on thiruvathirafestival.

Venganellur village is a beautiful village. At the centre of this village there are five temples including one Maha Siva temple, Lord Thiruveembilappa. This temple has a history of more than 300 years. At the early days, the temple and the surroundings are under the control of Tamil Brahmins. In the twentieth century more than 100 Brahmin houses, Madoms, were in this area. (Dr. C.S. Venkitaraman (1918–1994), an eminent mathematician, was born in one of these Madoms.) They started the famous festival of Ashtami Maholsavam in the temple. Nowadays it is the most celebrated festival of Chelakkara. The other temples are Vadasseri Sri Krishna temple, Edathara Krishna temple,Erupurath Narasimha Murthy Temple of Velanezhy Mana ,Thali siva temple,sreekandapuram mahavishu temple and sree dharma sastha temple kizakkumuri.

Chelakkara church festival (Pazhaya Palli Perunnal) is celebrated on December 3 and 4 of every Year. The Name of church is St George Church Chelakkara. The other churches in chelakkara are St Marys Forane church and St Gregorios church.

St Marys Forane church celebrates the birthday of the first Chaplain of Chelakara Rev Fr Antony Thachuparambil every year. Lot of dovotees from neibhouring places and districts visits the church and Holy remains of the Chaplain.

Local Dam near Venganallur gives a greenish scenery and wide variety of birds, fona and fora. It is worth to visit to enjoy a pleasant evening.

Chelakkara also has a dam controlled by Asokan Kottaram. The dam provides public good to people in chelakkara.

Chelakkara is also famous for old Nair families . Kolpurath, kaippulli , kodhanath are the reputed nair families from this village .The main financial source of chelakkara is these Nair families.

Education

Sree Moolam Thirunal Govt. Higher Secondary School(S.M.T.G.H.S.S)

Little Flower Girls School

Grace Central School Chelakkara

Chelakkara Central School

St: Joseph's HS & UPS Pangarappilly

GPTC chelakkara

GHS panjal

Govt.U.P.School thrikkanaya,Elanad.

CGEM School Mukharikkunnu

UP School Thonoorkkara

Politics

Chelakara assembly constituency (SC) is part of Alathoor (Lok Sabha constituency).[2] It is also the constituency of ex-Speaker of KERALA Assembly. Shri K.Radhakrishnan.

Chelakkara Panchayath President: Lissy Thomas

One of the great panchayath is Secular