‘General Hospital’ (GH) spoilers finds that a representative for ABC has confirmed that One Live to Live alum Kassie Depavia is returning to Port Charles as her OLTL character, Blair Cramer. Depavia started on One Life to Live in 1993, playing the role for the next 20 years.

Blair Cramer is the niece of Dorian Lord (Robin Strasser). The role of Blair was initially cast as having both Japanese and Caucasian descent. However, once Depavia took the part, the references to her Japanese background disappeared.

Blair was a bit of a troublemaker and homewrecker. She also married for money and faked not one but two pregnancies. Blair tended to go after what she wanted, no matter the cost. She was not one to care about the rules.

For playing the part of Blair Cramer, they named Depavia a Daytime Emmy nominee for Exceptional Lead Actress in a Drama Series.

‘General Hospital’ Spoilers: Blair Comes to Port Charles

The actress will reprise her role in September. Blair came to town in 2012 and became involved with Todd Manning (Roger Howarth), with whom she had coincidentally shared a relationship in Llanview.

Howarth is known to General Hospital fans as Franco Baldwin and Austin Gatlin-Holt. It would be delightful if Howarth and Depavia shared a little screen time together!

Depavia could have some flirtatious scenes with her ex. The two had a lot of chemistry on OLTL, and it has been a long time coming for the two infamous characters.

Rumor has it that Depavia is back in Port Charles to portray Martin Grey’s (Michael E. Knight) ex-wife. She will be the one who has been paying Martin $50,000 a month in alimony.

General Hospital is known to have some great soap crossovers, and Blair Cramer is undoubtedly one of them. Todd Manning, Blair Cramer, and their daughter, Starr Manning (Kristen Alderson), played the first Kiki Jerome).

Blair also has two other children. One is Jack Manning (Andrew Trishitta) and her adoptive child, Sam Manning (Patrick Gibbons Jr.). Neither was featured on General Hospital.

Years ago, when General Hospital had these crossover characters, Prospect Park, who was at the time the producer for new OLTL and AMC episodes that appeared online after both shows were canceled, was tough to work with.

‘General Hospital’ Spoilers: Crossover Characters

General Hospital had dropped the crossover characters until now. All My Children character Jackson Montgomery (Walt Willey) has resurfaced on General Hospital as Tracy Quartermaine’s (Jane Elliot) lawyer for the Deceptor case.

The storyline possibilities for these characters are endless. The first rumor circulated was that Susan Lucci might appear on General Hospital as her alter ego, Erica Kane.

However, that does not seem to be the case. She may still come onto the canvas as herself (the one and only!) However, rumors have not been confirmed (yet!)

Over the years, Depavia has been playing Even Donavon on Days of Our Lives on and off. Ironically, she had scenes with ‘General Hospital’s legendary Steve Burton (Jason Morgan).

It will be fun to watch as Blair comes onto General Hospital. Her interactions with the other ‘General Hospital’ characters will surely be interesting.

Watch General Hospital to discover what Port Charles has in store for Blair Cramer!