SANTA FE SPRINGS, Calif., May 17, 2004 (PRIMEZONE) -- AMC American Music Corp. (Pink Sheets:AMCT) hires Robert Guillerman as President of American Southwest Music Distribution. Guillerman, a 27-year record distribution veteran, is a prominent figure in the independent record distribution business. Robert Guillerman has been responsible for the first national independent distribution of many current multiple platinum selling record labels and artists, including Cash Money Records (Universal Records) and Lil'Flip (Sony Records), which brought these artists and labels to the attention of the major record companies and national consumers for the first time.

Robert Guillerman will bring American Southwest Music Distribution and AMC American Music Corporation key wholesale and retail accounts throughout the United States and Canada. More importantly, for American Southwest, Guillerman will soon sign distribution deals with several labels and artists, that he believes will have strong sales in the genres of Urban/Hip-Hop, Latin, Gospel, Country and Rock music.

Robert Guillerman will oversee the daily operations of American Southwest Music and will be responsible for securing distribution agreements with third-party record labels or production companies. Robert Guillerman will have the authority to sign deals with record labels that he selects in his professional discretion.

Through American Southwest, AMC will distribute prerecorded music and DVD's for various independent record companies and motion picture production companies seeking worldwide retail distribution. Through distribution contracts, American Southwest will become the worldwide exclusive distributor for various independent labels. American Southwest will sell products, throughout the United States and Canada, using its own sales force and sub-distributors, and will have the right to license products to foreign sub-distributors. AMC will seek the right, under each contract, to move any successful album or artist from American Southwest's distribution to distribution by AMC through Alternative Distribution Alliance, (ADA). ADA is a division of the Warner Music Group, a subsidiary of AOL/Time Warner.

About AMC American Music Corporation

AMC American Music Corporation was founded in 1995. The Company primarily sells its products to consumers through retail record stores and wholesale distribution, under the label names of Direct Music Group, AMC, and WWIII. Through its affiliate, Direct Music Group, AMC distributes its records through Alternative Distribution Alliance. AMC acquires the exclusive worldwide rights to commercially market, sell and distribute all copies of recordings produced by recording artists, producers, and third-party labels. AMC American Music will continue to develop, publish and market popular Rock, Hip Hop, Gospel and Latino Music, and distribute that music through a domestic distribution agreement with Direct Music Group, and Alternative Distribution Alliance, (ADA). ADA is a division of the Warner Music Group, a subsidiary of Time Warner Inc.

For more information please visit www.amcamericanmusiccorp.com.

Safe Harbor

The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 may provide a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements. Certain information included in this press release contains statements that are forward-looking, such as statements related to the future anticipated direction of the industry, plans for future expansion, various business development activities, planned capital expenditures, future funding sources, anticipated sales growth, and potential contracts. Such forward-looking information involves important risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect anticipated results in the future and, accordingly, such results may differ from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of the Company. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those relating to development and expansion activities, dependence on existing management, financing activities, and domestic and global economic conditions.