Neither DFAT nor its missions overseas can advise on other countries' specific requirements for Australians to get married overseas.

For details of the current marriage requirements for Indonesia please contact the nearest Indonesian Embassy/Consulate-General or the Indonesian Civil Registry Office (Catatan Sipil) in the area where the marriage will take place.

As a general guide only, the following information may be of assistance.

The parties to the marriage will need to make their own arrangements with the local religious minister and/or the civil registry celebrants and are advised to seek confirmation of the exact requirements in their particular circumstances. In addition, partners would be advised to discuss with their lawyer in Australia and/or Indonesia about any other steps which need to be taken, especially, but not only if, they intend to reside in a country other than Australia, or if they wish to hold property separately.

Getting Married under Indonesian Law

Generally, Indonesian nationals, and persons of any other nationality may marry in Indonesia provided they hold a religion recognised by the Indonesian Government (Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism or Christian). Under the Indonesian Marriage Law, marriages may be performed by Ministers of Religion, officers of the Civil Registry Office (Kantor Catatan Sipil) or the Office of Religious Affairs (Kantor Urusan Agama). For a marriage to be legal, it must be conducted according to the religion and conform to the laws of the countries of the parties involved.

In order for an Australian citizen to marry in Indonesia, it is necessary to make an application for a Certificate of No Impediment to Marriage (CNI) at the Australian Embassy in Jakarta or the Australian Consulate-Generals in Denpasar, Surabaya and Makassar. Application forms are available from the Consular counters at these offices or on the Smartraveller website at https://smartraveller.gov.au/services/legalising-documents/pages/overseas.aspx

To obtain a Certificate of No Impediment to Marriage you may contact us at [email protected]

Jurisdiction

The local Civil Registry Office or KUA normally require the CNI to be issued by the Australian diplomatic mission within the appropriate jurisdiction. Below is a guide on the jurisdiction allocations, however please check with the Civil Registry Office or KUA to confirm the mission you should attend.

Australian Embassy Jakarta: Jakarta, West Java, Yogyakarta, Sumatera, Riau, Kalimantan except South and East Kalimantan, Papua

Australian Consulate-General Makassar: Sulawesi, Maluku, West Papua, South and East Kalimantan

Australian Consulate-General Surabaya: East Java, Central Java

Australian Consulate-General Bali: Bali, NTB, NTT

Couples must be of the same religion

Under Indonesian Law No.1 of 1974 concerning marriage (the ‘Marriage Law’), both parties must hold the same religion, if not, one party must convert to the other religion. Anecdotal evidence suggests that the process of converting to Islam is not a lengthy one. To start the process, speak with the Imam at the local mosque.

Islamic Weddings

Muslim weddings are performed by the Office of Religious Affairs (Kantor Urusan Agama) and they will issue the Marriage Books (Buku Nikah) as evidence of the marriage. There is usually no requirement for people to register such a marriage with the Civil Registry Office (Kantor Catatan Sipil). However, it is recommended that you arrange for a Marriage Certificate from the Civil Registry Office, if you intend to relocate to another country.

Other Weddings

For non-Muslim marriages (Christian, Hindu, etc), couples have to lodge a Notice of Intention to Marry with the Civil Registry Office at least 10 days prior to the wedding. After the ceremony the marriage must be registered at the Civil Registry Office to be legal. Both applicants will need the originals and a photocopies of the documentation listed below. However as requirements can vary from province to province it would be prudent to check with Civil Registry Office in the area you will marry in first.

The Certificate of No Impediment from the Embassy or Consulate-General

Passports or KTP

Birth certificates

Marriage certificate

Proof of dissolution of previous marriage or death certificate of former partner (if applicable)

Four photos (4x6cm) of the couple.

It can be difficult for Australian and other foreign nationals without Indonesian language skills to liaise with the Civil Registry Office and religious celebrants. We suggest that you engage the services of a Wedding Organiser if you are unsure.

Recognition of Overseas Marriages in Australia

Follow the link to the Smartraveller for a guidance on the recognition of overseas marriages in Australia - https://smartraveller.gov.au/guide/all-travellers/birth-death-marriage/pages/getting-married-overseas.aspx#recognition-of-overseas-marriages

Frequently Asked Questions

Can I marry at the Embassy/Consulate-General?

No

How long does it take to issue a CNI?

Usually while you wait provided the documentation presented are correct and complete.

Is there an expiry date on the CNI?

We do not place an expiry date on the CNI, however the local Civil Registry Office do not normally accept CNIs that were issued more than 3 months prior.

Will my marriage be recognised in Australia?

Yes, since 1 January 1995 any legally performed marriage in an overseas country, which would have been legal had it been performed in Australia, is accepted as a legal marriage under Australian Law.

Do I need to register the marriage with the Embassy/Consulate-General?

No

Do I need to register the marriage in Australia?

No, you cannot register an overseas marriage in Australia.

Can I marry before my divorce decree absolute is issued?

No

While every care has been taken in preparing this information, neither the Australian Government nor its agents or employees, including any member of the Embassy's consular staff, can accept liability for any injury, loss or damage arising in respect of the information contained herein.