Kyle Donovan

Director

Following seven years in the banking and financial sector, Kyle joined Donovan Group in 2005 to lead operations and finance.

Together, Kyle and brother Brett Donovan have expanded Donovan Group to become one of the world’s leading innovators in construction technology. Building on the company’s advanced manufacturing roots, Kyle has focussed on developing Donovan Group’s engineering and software innovations into workable, commercial entities, driving business growth. In 2008, he helped to launch Coresteel Buildings, and in 2010, Donovan Group began developing uTecture – an architectural design platform that is revolutionising residential construction processes globally.

Today, Donovan Group has eight subsidiary brands, 50 franchises, and offices in New Zealand, Australia and the Philippines. In addition to his role as Director of Donovan Group, Kyle is a director of subsidiary companies Utecture, Coresteel Buildings, KiwiSpan, Design Station and Modern Building Products.

Kyle holds a business management degree from the University of Waikato and has a particular interest in construction technology, advanced manufacturing and software.

kyle@donovangroup.com

Brett Donovan

Director & Chief Strategy Officer

Brett joined Donovan Group as General Manager in 1992, was appointed Director in 2000, and has grown the company into a world-leading technology and advanced manufacturing business that is revolutionising construction processes and products.

Building on the company’s advanced manufacturing roots, Brett co-founded the Coresteel Buildings NZ franchise in 2008. This led to software innovations including Constructor, a B2B software solution that automates structural engineering design and hardware supply; Airbuildr, which provides cloud-based automated structural engineering solutions; and utecture, game-changing architectural design software for residential home builders.

Today, Brett leads vision and strategy across all eight Donovan Group subsidiaries, with offices in New Zealand, Australia and the Philippines. Donovan Group Australia opened in 2019, while utecture launched globally in 2020.

A qualified Electrical and Mechanical Engineer, Brett’s interests include business, automation, software and breaking down the technical divide that exists within the

construction industry.

brett@donovangroup.com

Tim Williams

Director

Tim spent 17 years in Japan where he co-founded ValueClick and later founded ValueCommerce. ValueClick was listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in 2000 and bought out in 2004. In 2005 ValueCommerce sold a 49% stake to Yahoo Japan and later listed the company on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Tim is invested in numerous sectors and is actively involved at the board level in four companies. These range from start-ups, grow companies, to a publicly listed company.

Tim holds a BSc(Hon 1) in molecular genetics from the University of Canterbury. He joined Donovan Group in 2015 as a shareholder and director.

tim@donovangroup.co.nz

Gavin Tonnet

Director

Regarded for his innovative leadership style, Gavin is a significant industry contributor, with degrees spanning science, architecture and business. During senior executive roles in Australia and Japan for property businesses Mirvac, Leighton, Stockland and Sekisui House, he established and grew operations from start-up to multi-billion-dollar pipelines.

A deep appreciation and understanding of design, customers and consumer trends has resulted in his enterprises being renown for product excellence, customer experience and consumer led innovation.

Gavin joined the Donovan Group Advisory Board in 2018 and commenced his position as CEO in 2019.

gavin@donovangroup.com

Paul Reeve

Investor Relations – Non-Executive Director

Paul joined Donovan Group’s board of directors in 2018. As head of Investor Relations, he is building long-term relationships with like-minded business partners, investors and innovators to accelerate Donovan Group’s expansion globally.

Paul is involved with Donovan Group’s partnership with Monash University in the successful Building 4.0 CRC R&D grant – an initiative to transform Australia’s building industry by leveraging technology, data science and AI. He is also involved in the global rollout of uTecture, an architectural design platform that is looking to revolutionise residential construction processes and products.

With deep experience in capital markets, Paul is a founder and managing partner of Sulla, a co-investment office with a diverse range of investments across asset classes and sectors. Whether recycling or real estate, technology or asset management, he seeks out people and businesses who are improving upon existing ways of doing things and trying to solve some of the problems we face today.

aul@donovangroup.com

Matt Woodley

CEO Donovan Group

With over 25 years in the construction industry, and with considerable international market development experience, Matt brings strength to the Donovan Group as it continues expansion through world leading construction technology. Matt joined Donovan Group in October 2021 as CEO.

Matt has Business degrees from Victoria University of Wellington and Otago University. He has lived in New Zealand and Australia and has worked across the globe in senior leadership roles building great teams and growing businesses for James Hardie, General Motors, and Framecad amongst others.

Matt joined Donovan Group from Framecad, where he was Chief Operating Officer for 9 years, and where he led Framecad System growth in New Zealand, Australia, Asia, the Middle East and Americas. His extensive global construction industry experience combined with a passion for innovation in construction technology is significant to Donovan Group’s mission of reimagining construction.

matt@donovangroup.com

Kent Hutchings

Chief Financial Officer

Kent Hutchings is an experienced and accomplished CFO with over 30 years of experience in finance and business operations, both in New Zealand and internationally. Kent has lived and worked in New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States of America.

A Chartered Accountant, Kent has worked across a wide range of industries including the big four consulting firms, retail, telecommunications, and manufacturing, where he has developed a strong reputation for strategic thinking and financial acumen.

Kent is responsible for overseeing Donovan Group financial operations, developing and implementing growth strategies, and providing strategic guidance to the executive team. He is adept at manage financial performance and providing operational and financial insights, as well as building strong relationships with customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders.

Throughout his career, Kent has demonstrated a deep commitment to excellence, both in his own work and in the work of his teams. He is a skilled communicator and collaborator who is able to build strong relationships with colleagues, partners, and stakeholders.

A seasoned CFO with a wealth of experience and a proven track record of success. Kent’s expertise in finance, company governance, business operations, and strategic planning are a valuable asset to Donovan Group.

kent.hutchings@donovangroup.com

Oliver Foote

Chief Commercial Officer

With over 15 years in the construction industry and 20+ years in international business. Oliver brings extensive experience in the development and implementation of commercial & product strategies throughout NZ, Australia, North USA & the rest of world. Oliver joined Donovan Group in November 2021 as Chief Commercial Officer.

Oliver studied in Auckland and the Netherlands during his Bachelor of Business. He has lived & worked in New Zealand, Australia, USA, Japan & Europe bringing extensive experience in international business.

Oliver leads the product and commercial strategies of Donovan Group working with both customers and R&D teams to drive international market growth. His expertise in international business helps ensure Donovan Group remains at the forefront of the construction industry and delivers the groups mission to reimagine construction.

oliver.foote@donovangroup.com