Learn Spanish and play tennis in Alicante, land of Valencia, Spain

All in all, Alicante is a Mediterranean city, with its beautiful beaches, its promenades, its restaurants, cafés and terraces, its nautical club... and a strong devotion to the tennis, with many tennis clubs in the city and in the province, and tennis tournaments all year round. Alicante is the land of David Ferrer or Juan Carlos Ferrero, just to name the most famous tennis players from Alicante.

A perfect destination for your Tennis Training Camp!

If you go up to the top of the hill of the Santa Barbara Castle, you will discover an unforgettable panoramic view of the most important monuments in Alicante: the church of Santa Maria, the Cathedral, the Town Hall façade, the monastery of Santa Faz, the San Fernando Castle and much more.

Seeing all these magnificent monuments from above will invite you to go down the hill and walk along them.

Along the streets, you will come across large and small palaces, as well as traditionally painted white, yellow and pink houses. Everything is illuminated by the blue light of the Mediterranean Sea and encourages you to continue walking around and discovering places.

The widest avenues, such as La Rambla or Doctor Gadea will lead you to Alfonso X el Sabio Street with the Luceros on one side and the Central Market on the other, just opposite the ZADOR Spanish School.

The majority of the host families are near the Spanish school, around 10 or 15 minutes walking. If students live more than 20 minutes walking, we provide them with bus tickets to go to the school. All the quarters of the city are connected to the centre by tram or urban buses running every 10-15 minutes.

The Residence-Dormitory is located in the North area of the city, in a quiet residential area just in front of the Alicante University.

Near the language school, students can take the tram to go to the Tennis Academy, located in the Northeast of Alicante, in the area of La Albufereta Beach, a quiet residential area.