NOTE: The below Blu-ray captures were taken directly from the Blu-ray disc.ADDITION: Indicator Blu-ray (May 2021): Indicator have transferred Ridley Scott's Someone to Watch Over Me to Blu-ray. It is cited as being from a "2K restoration". This was released on Blu-ray in the US, HERE, in 2019. I expect the image quality to be very similar. We have the less-effectual 80's stock that can look noisy at times, but is clunkier grain. This is probably very accurate to the way the film looked theatrically. This is on a dual-layered disc with a max'ed out bitrate. The film is fairly dark but contrast is carried well by the 1080P. It ran well in-motion.

NOTE: We have added 58 more large resolution Blu-ray captures (in lossless PNG format) for DVDBeaver Patrons HERE

On their Blu-ray, Indicator use a linear PCM 2.0 channel track (24-bit) in the original English language. There are typical crime-thriller effects - mostly guns and a score by Michael Kamen (The Dead Zone, Venom, Mona Lisa, Event Horizon, Road House, Company Business) exporting some appreciable depth. Of course the famous title theme is played; Gershwin's Someone to Watch Over Me sung and arranged by Sting, later in the film to be performed by Roberta Flack and also by Gene Ammons with Richard Wyands, Doug Watkins and James Charles Heard. There is also Ebben ? ne andro lontana from "La Wally" - the soundtrack from Diva (1981) plus classical pieces by Léo Delibes, Vivaldi and Bach. It sounds very clean and crisp enhancing the tension and film's moods. Indicator offer optional English (SDH) subtitles on their Region 'B' Blu-ray.

The Indicator Blu-ray

offers a new commentary by a new audio commentary with filmmaker and critic Jim Hemphill (author of The Art and Craft of TV Directing: Conversations with Episodic Television Directors). He discusses the topic of 'Class' as a subject and its theme in other Ridley Scott films, character as architecture, Ridley's extensive career, his design elements, Production Designer Jim Bissell (The Falcon and the Snowman), Costume Designer Colleen Atwood (Edward Scissorhands), he speaks of a number of essays found in The Culture and Philosophy of Ridley Scott, and much more. It's very thorough. The 10-minute Someone... to Write a Script - an interview with screenwriter Howard Franklin and 14-minute Someone... to Shoot a Movie - an interview with celebrated cinematographer Steven Poster - are both on the US Shout! Factory Blu-ray from 2019. There is an original theatrical trailer and another of Indicator's excellent Image galleries of promotional and publicity materials. The package contains a limited edition exclusive booklet with a new essay by Jamie Graham, extracts from an American Cinematographer article on the making of the film, a selection of interviews with key cast members, an overview of contemporary critical responses, and film credits.

Lesser revered in Ridley Scott's oeuvre

but Someone to Watch Over Me is an enjoyable film with some subtle touches that give it character than more vapid thrillers from the same era. It's not stale and can be thrown on every few years - while still maintaining the contrived 80's sexy superficialities that we can tend to appreciate, if not love. The Indicator Blu-ray is up to their usual very high a/v standards and the addition of the in-depth Hemphill commentary makes it worthy of the digital library. Recommended!