In the world of automotive stereo systems, Alpine is one of the Top Dogs, and with good reason….they make some of the best!

Alpine Electronics is a subsidiary of Japanese electronic component manufacturer Alps Electric, specializing in car audio and navigation systems. They are located in Iwaki, Japan, and they also have manufacturing plants in China, Mexico, Hungary, Thailand, and Brazil.

The company was originally established in 1967 as Alps-Motorola, and then became Alpine in 1978 when Alps bought out the American-owned Motorola company. They make amplifiers, speakers subwoofers, and signal processing equipment as well as a growing number of navigation systems for vehicles.

Their OEM products are used by some of the finest automobiles in the world, including:

BMW 5 Series Displays

BMW 5 Series Business Navigation and Display

Mini radio and navigation systems

Ram Power Wagon sound system

Dodge Viper Sound system

Mercedes S-Class Tuner and amplifier module and disk changers

Mercedes E-Class head units and disk changers

Mercedes M/R/GL Class head units, navigation systems, and disk changers

Jaguar Screens, tuner, DVD, amplifiers

Land Rover tuner, DVD, rear screen entertainment

Aston Martin amplifier, speakers, rear screen entertainment

Audi A8 display, DVD and CD changer

BMW all vehicle lines CD and DVD change

Not a bad list of clients at all.

The company logo is five stripes, and the five stripes stand for different aspects of Alpine’s philosophy which are Engineering Excellence, Manufacturing Excellence, Marketing Excellence, Service Excellence, and Partner Excellence.

So where do you go for an Alpine system? Well, you can go to your car dealership, or you can go to most auto stereo businesses. Either location will provide you with brand new stereo components and excellent audio quality.

Or you can do what smart shoppers to and go to your local salvage yard. Talk about great bargains! Find a newer auto at an auto salvage yard and pull the stereo equipment out of it. You will find yourself saving hundreds of dollars for the entire system, and they are so easy to install that you will be grinning from ear to ear when you are finished.