Eric Arthur Blair, best-known by his pen name George Orwell, was born in Motihari, Bengal (India), on June 25, 1903. His great grandfather, Charles Blair, was a plantation owner in Jamaica, and his grandfather, Thomas Richard Arthur Blair, was a clergyman working for the Anglican church. Orwell’s father, Richard Walmesley Blair, was an Opium Agent for the Indian Civil Service, and his mother, Ida Mabel Blair (Ida Mabel Limouzin), was French and brought up in Burma.

When he was barely one year old, Orwell and his five-year-old sister Marjorie returned to England, where they settled at Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire, with their mother. He attended a Roman Catholic convent school run by Ursuline nuns and later obtained a scholarship for St. Cyprian’s, a preparatory school in Eastbourne, East Sussex, in September 1911. Orwell did not like the school’s setting and soon realised that his family’s financial means were inferior to those of the other pupils. His experiences at the school are described in Such, Such Were the Joys, an essay published in 1953, where he also observed that "No one can look back on his schooldays and say with truth that they were altogether unhappy."

In May 1917, Orwell won a King’s Scholarship and moved to Eton College, but his academic performance was below par. Instead of studying, he gained valuable experience through co-editing The Election Times, a college magazine, contributing to the College Days and Bubble and Squeak publications, and meeting prominent academics such as Aldous Huxley and Steve Runciman.

Unable to obtain a scholarship to further his studies, Orwell applied for a position with the Indian Imperial Police and joined its Burma division in 1922. During the next five years, he accepted several posts, travelling extensively through the country. He mastered the local language, and by the end of his time there, he had collected enough material to write Burmese Days (1934), a novel about his experiences with the Burmese police and two essays, A Hanging (1931) and Shooting an Elephant (1936).

In the spring of 1927, Orwell contracted dengue fever and returned to Cornwall, England, on a medical certificate. Reconsidering his options that summer, he decided to resign from the Burma Police and commence a career as a writer. He moved to London, where he rented a room in Portobello Road and started exploring the poorer parts of London, occasionally living as a tramp, to gather material for his novel Down and Out in Paris and London (1933) and The Spike (1931), an essay about his experience staying overnight in a workhouse near London.

Between 1928 and 1929, Orwell briefly stayed in Paris, where he worked as a journalist, contributing articles on poverty and unemployment for Monde, a journal edited by Henri Barbusse (French author and member of the French Communist Party), G. K.’s Weekly (G. K. Chsterterton’s publication on political and socio-economic issues), and Le Progrès Civique, a revue founded by the left-wing government coalition Le Cartel des Gauches. When he fell seriously ill in February 1929, he was treated at the Hôpital Cochin and recorded his experience in the essay How the Poor Die (1946).

Following his recovery, Orwell returned to England and spent some time at his parents’ house in Southwold, Suffolk. He established his pen name as George Orwell, a combination of the name of the then monarch and river Orwell, and started teaching, first privately and then at the Hawthorns High School in Hayes, Hillingdon (West London) in 1932 and Frays College in Uxbridge, Middlesex in 1933. At the same time, he worked on A Clergyman’s Daughter (1935), a novel about a girl who suffers from a bout of amnesia, and contributed several articles to Adelphi (later New Adelphi), a literary journal founded by John Middleton Murry that featured works from authors including Katherine Mansfield, D. H. Lawrence, H. E. Bates and Dylan Thomas.

Orwell resigned from his teaching post after contracting pneumonia in January 1934 and took up a new job as a bookstore assistant at the Booklovers’ Corner in Hampstead, London. He worked in the afternoons and used his mornings to write Keep the Aspidistra Flying (1936), a social novel whose title combines Aspidistra (a plant widely used in closed spaces where the air quality was poor, which symbolises the staleness of the English middle class) and Flying (a reference to the flag through the expression "flying the colours"). He then travelled for three months through the North of England to experience first-hand the social conditions and working life in the coal mines of Yorkshire and Lancashire and started writing The Road to Wigan Pier (1936).

After marrying Eileen O’Shaughnessy in June 1936, Orwell prepared to travel to Spain to join the Republican Army in the Spanish Civil War. He met with John McNair of the Independent Labour Party in Barcelona, who recalls Orwell saying, "I’ve come to fight against Fascism, but if someone had asked me what I was fighting for, I should have answered ‘Common decency’." He fought on the Aragon Front, and when he was injured in the throat by a sniper’s bullet, he recovered but was declared unfit for service. Orwell returned to Barcelona, where "he believed in Socialism for the first time." His experiences in Spain were published as Homage to Catalonia (1938) and helped him develop a deeply-rooted hatred against totalitarian regimes, a theme that he would revisit in Animal Farm (1946) on account of the social experiment in Soviet Russia.

Upon returning to England, Orwell understood that diplomacy was failing and the Second World War was imminent. He worked hard to prevent it at first, but when the German-Soviet Non-Aggression Pact was signed in August 1939, he changed his mind, hoping that a new society with "a sense of Socialist purpose" would emerge after the war.

He published his first collection of essays, Inside the Whale (1939) and began collaborating with Fredric Warburg and Tosco Fyvel to publish Searchlight Books, a project of seventeen books on political issues. The first ten books, of which Orwell’s The Lion and the Unicorn: Socialism and the English Genius was the first, were published between 1941 and 1942, but the series was never completed because the offices of Seckel and Warburg were severely damaged by a bomb.

Unable to join the army, Orwell accepted in 1941 a job with the BBC’s Eastern Service, an assignment he kept until 1943 when a report confirmed that few Indians tuned into his broadcasts. Although the job did not fit his lifestyle and anti-conformist style, Orwell did get the opportunity to create cultural programs with contributions by successful authors such as T. S. Eliot, Dylan Thomas, and E. M. Forster.

Towards the end of the war, Orwell worked as an editor for the left-wing magazine Tribute and war correspondent for The Observer. He contributed articles on the newly liberated cities of Franca, Austria, and Germany, some of which were published in the Manchester Evening News. A couple of months later, his wife died during a routine medical intervention, and Orwell returned to England.