On November 22, 2013, the National Bank of Ukraine put into circulation the commemorative coin “Borys Hrinchenko”, which continues the "Outstanding personalities" coin series.

The Launching Ceremony of the commemorative coin “Borys Hrinchenko” took place at the capital’s Borys Hrinchenko museum. Ms Viktoriia Suzanska, Deputy Head of the Office for Numismatic Products and Marketing of the National Bank of Ukraine, Mr Viktor Ohnev'yuk, President of Borys Grinchenko Kyiv University, and Ms Nataliia Fandikova, coin designer, participated in this event.

Ms Viktoriia Suzanska, Deputy Head of the Office for Numismatic Products and Marketing, said that given Borys Hrinchenko's stature in Ukrainian culture, the National Bank of Ukraine had struck the coin devoted to the 150th anniversary of the birth of the great Enlightener of the Ukrainian people. She also noted that “the significant contribution made by Borys Hrinchenko to the development of Ukrainian creative writing, pedagogy, lexicography, study of literature, ethnography, history, opinion journalism, social and political activities of those days cannot be overestimated”.

“The issue related to the preservation of the spiritual values of the Ukrainian nation raised by Borys Hrinchenko a century ago remains relevant today. By issuing this commemorative coin, the National Bank of Ukraine pays tribute to the memory of Borys Hrinchenko, who was a fervent advocate of Ukrainian language and culture, and attempts to uphold the tradition of according respect to our native language and culture,” emphasized Ms Viktoriia Suzanska.

In addition, she said that the coin “Borys Hrinchenko” of 2 hryvnia face value is made of German silver. The mintage quantity is 20,000 pieces. The coin is priced at UAH 20.

Mr Viktor Ohnev'yuk, President of Borys Grinchenko Kyiv University, thanked the senior management team and staff of the National Bank of Ukraine for paying respect to the prominent figure in the history of Ukrainian culture: “His mission in life was to cultivate in the youth love towards the native land and Ukrainian language. Throughout his life and creative career, Borys Hrinchenko affirmed the importance of individual contributions to achieving a common goal. Therefore, the mission of Borys Grinchenko Kyiv University is to facilitate everyone to develop as well-rounded individuals and achieve leadership, as well as to serve people, community and society”.

Designer Nataliia Fandikova said that Borys Hrinchenko's literary works had given her inspiration and energy needed to create the draft designs of the coin. “While working on the draft designs of the coin, I recollected Borys Hrinchenko's literary works that I had read and came to realize that they had one thing in common − they were all filled with genuine love for Ukraine. So I used the writer's statement …Ukraine. In this word (there is) for me everything… as an epigraph to the coin,” said Ms Nataliia Fandikova.