Gary Kortkamp, Rockford, passed from the arms of his loving family at home into the hands of God. He was welcomed by his loved ones in heaven in the early morning hours of December 13, 2022, at the age of 84.

Gary was born on August 26, 1938, in Champaign, Illinois to Carl and Lillian Kortkamp. The eldest of seven, Gary was known to quip that he “turned out so well that they had six more!” His faith, steadfast values and love of family were shaped throughout his upbringing in Champaign. At the age of eight, Gary first met classmate Sandra (Sandy) Adams while attending Dr. Howard Grade School. They square danced together in 4th grade, not knowing that their childhood do-se-dos was but a foreshadow of a lifetime of love.

A 1956 graduate of Champaign High School, Gary attended the University of Illinois and graduated with a degree in Physical Education in 1961. He was accepted into Officer Candidate School and served proudly for five years in the United States Navy aboard the USS Rankin in Norfolk, Virginia and as an ROTC instructor at the University of Colorado at Boulder. Gary spent the balance of his professional career in plant management at Quaker Oats, Green Giant and the Pillsbury Company, retiring in 1999 as Plant Manager in Belvidere, IL.

Gary married Sandy on August 10, 1963, and they had four children – Christine, Michael, Becket and Andy. In what was truly “A Wonderful Life” Gary was an avid fan of the St. Louis Cardinals and Fighting Illini Sports. Perhaps his most treasured time was spent with Sandy, their children and grandchildren at the annual family vacation together on Hilton Head Island.

Gary was preceded in death by his parents and sister Karen and lives on in the hearts of his surviving family including: wife - Sandy; daughters - Christine Boerschel (Dave) of Beloit, WI and Becket George (Tony Trepasso) of Jacksonville, FL; sons - Michael (Karen) of Bloomington, IL and Andrew (Christina) of Maple Grove, MN; sisters - Patti, Mary and Cindy (Pat); brothers - Jack “Chip” (Sue Ann); Bill (Mindy); grandchildren - Carly Johnson (Garrett), Allie (Artur), Katie Kafer (Ben), Lauren, Sam, Ella and Jack.

A memorial service will take place at 11:00 A.M. on Tuesday, December 20, 2022, at Mt. Olive Lutheran Church, 2001 N. Alpine Rd., Rockford, IL. Visitation will be held from 10:00 A.M. until the time of service at the church. A luncheon will follow at the church. Arrangements by Fitzgerald Funeral Home and Crematory. Memorials may be made to Mt. Olive Lutheran Church or to MercyHealth Hospice, 4223 E. State St. Rockford, IL 61108. Share online condolences at www.fitzgeraldfh.com. An additional Celebration of Gary’s Life is being planned for early 2023, in Champaign, IL, along with final internment at Prairieview Cemetery in Savoy, IL. Details will be shared with family & friends when those plans are finalized.