Hannibal

theatrical poster

Country United States Directed by Ridley Scott Release Date 2001 Language English

Italian Studio Dino De Laurentiis Company

Scott Free Productions Distributor Universal Pictures

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer

Main Cast Character Actor Dr. Hannibal Lecter Anthony Hopkins Clarice Starling Julianne Moore Mason Verger Gary Oldman Paul Krendler Ray Liotta Nurse Barney Frankie Faison Insp. Rinaldo Pazzi Giancarlo Giannini Allegra Pazzi Francesca Neri Dr. Cordell Doemling Zeljko Ivanek FBI Agent Pearsall David Andrews

Hannibal is the 2001 sequel to The Silence of the Lambs and features the return of Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) and FBI Special Agent Clarice Starling (in this film portrayed by Julianne Moore). Adapted from the Thomas Harris novel, the film was directed by Ridley Scott, who also directed Black Hawk Down in the same year that Hannibal was released. Hopkins would reprise his Lecter role a third time in 2002's Red Dragon.

The following weapons were used in the film Hannibal:

WARNING! THIS PAGE CONTAINS SPOILERS!

Handguns

SIG-Sauer P226

FBI Special Agent Clarice Starling (Julianne Moore) uses a SIG-Sauer P226 as her duty firearm. It is predominately featured in the opening fish market shootout. At the time, the P226 was the standard issue sidearm for the FBI. DC Metro Detective Bolton (Terry Serpico) also carries one, and tips off the Drumgo gang in the fish market by drawing his weapon in view of the gang, despite Starling's orders to hold back.

In the novel, Special Agent Starling carried a Colt 1911 Government Model with a strip of skateboard grip-tape around the grip in a Yaqui holster on her hip, telling Detective Bolton that she carried it condition one every minute of the day. She kept the weapon for most of the book, even after a lawyer claimed she was not cleared to carry a M1911 variant on duty.

Glock 17

After her FBI-issued SIG-Sauer P226 is confiscated, Clarice Starling (Julianne Moore) uses her personal 3rd Generation Glock 17 throughout the rest of the film. She takes it out of her closet after she receives a message from Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins). She uses it to kill Verger's men who were trying to kill Lecter before she is wounded in shoulder. Lecter picks the gun up but never uses it, and he leaves it unloaded for her on a table in Paul Krendler's (Ray Liotta) vacation house. The .40 caliber variant of this pistol, the Glock 22, is currently standard issue with the FBI. Several members of Drumgo's gang also are armed with the Glock.

In the novel, after being dismissed from duty with the FBI, Agent Starling took a M1911A1 .45 and a custom compact 1911 that had been left to her by her friend and former Interservice Pistol Challenge instructor DEA Agent John Brigham after his death in the opening shootout.

Glock 26

Clarice carries a Glock 26 as her backup and it is seen when she hands it over after being suspended.

Beretta M1934

Inspector Rinaldo Pazzi (Giancarlo Giannini) carries a .380 Beretta M1934 pistol as his sidearm in the film.

Smith & Wesson Model 65

In the alternate ending of the movie, Clarice (Julianne Moore) runs outside with a 3" barreled Smith & Wesson Model 65 as the police converge upon the house. It was probably a gun that Paul Krendler (Ray Liotta) had in the house, but it's surprising that she obtained it, considering that Lecter had the foresight to leave her Glock unloaded.

Submachine Guns

Heckler & Koch MP5A3

FBI tactical agents are seen waiting in a van armed with Heckler & Koch MP5A3s fitted with scopes an Surefire weaponlight forends.

Cobray M11/9

Evelda Drumgo (Hazelle Goodman) uses a Cobray M11/9, which stands in for a MAC-10 as described in the novel, to fire at Clarice (Julianne Moore) during the fish market shootout. Clarice later identifies it as a MAC-10.

Intratec TEC-DC9

An Intratec TEC-DC9 is seen fired by Drumgo's guards during the opening shootout.

Shotgun

Mossberg 500 Cruiser

A Mossberg 500 Cruiser with shortened barrel is seen fired by Drumgo's guards during the opening shootout.

Less-than Lethal

M26 Taser