The Baltimore connection to Thomas Harris’ “Silence of the Lambs” series is being reprised as film crews have descended upon the region to shoot portions of the screen adaptation of Harris’ 1981 novel. “Red Dragon.”

LECTER: FILMING IN MD.

Filming for the movie, which depicts events that preceded those chronicled in the author’s later novels, “The Silence of the Lambs” (1988) and “Hannibal” (1999), began in Los Angeles on Jan. 7, with local filming beginning earlier this week, according to Guy Adan, publicist for the new movie. Universal Pictures is the distributor for “Red Dragon” and it’s being produced by Dino De Laurentis, Martha De Laurentis and Ridley Scott — the team that also brought “Hannibal” to the screen.Avid moviegoers will remember that Hannibal Lecter, the central character in the other two movies, is a Baltimore psychiatrist who goes on a gruesome killing spree and is consigned to a local ward for the criminally insane.While only about one-sixth of the movie will be shot in Maryland, local film industry experts say having a film of this caliber has the potential to raise the state’s profile as a film location and to generate significant economic impact.“From an economic standpoint, it’s terrific,” said Jed Dietz, head of the Maryland Film Festival and president of the Producers Club of Maryland. “They come in and use local vendors and hire a local crew and pay fees for various sites.“In addition to that, if the movie goes on to be a hit, everybody who has been involved and all of the pictures taken in that area will be sent around the world over and over again over the years,” Dietz added. “It’s a real win to have it here.”Karen Glenn, a spokeswoman for the Maryland Film Commission — part of the Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development — could not put a price tag on how much the film is expected to generate for the local film industry, but said the impact could be significant, depending on how long the crews remain in the state. At this point, she said, the crews are expecting to shoot at various state locations for three weeks to one month.“It’s a great thing for us,” said Glenn. “We always encourage this type of production.”According to Adan, the film crews will be shooting around Cockeysville and in Carroll County, but he declined to reveal specific locations. Maryland has begun to emerge as a destination for a variety of different films, according to Dietz. Last year, film production in Maryland generated more than $75 million in revenue.“In part, it’s because we’ve worked so hard,” Dietz said. “The basics are all here. We have a wonderful crew base and a great visual array in a very concentrated space.“Also, the Maryland Film Office, which really is the one to get these films, has recently been funded at a level where they could go out and pitch and, lo and behold, it has worked,” Dietz added.Jack Gerbes, head of the Maryland Film Commission, could not be reached for comment yesterday. Anthony Hopkins will once again star as Hannibal Lecter. He will be joined by Edward Norton, Ralph Fiennes and Harvey Keitel. Ted Tally, who won an Oscar for his screenplay for “The Silence of the Lambs,” has adapted the earlier novel for movie audiences with Brett Ratner directing the film.