Cynthia Aguilar Villar earned her degree in Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from the University of the Philippines, which recognized her as one of its Distinguished Alumni in 2004. She completed her Masters in Business Administration at the New York University.

She practiced as a financial analyst and college professor until she married Former House Speaker and Senate President Manny Villar in 1975. She then helped her husband in various entrepreneurial ventures, eventually making Vista Land the biggest homebuilder in the Philippines. She managed a private development bank from 1989 to 1998.

In 2001, Cynthia Villar won in a landslide victory as Representative of Las Piñas to the Philippine’s House of Representatives, where she completed three terms or nine years of service until 2010.

She was Chairman of Committee on Higher and Technical Education during the 13th and 14th congress.

She was President of the Lady Legislators during the 12th, 13th & 14th Congress initiating Legislation benefitting women, children and family.

Cynthia Villar’s social and civic concerns are wide and varied. Thus, in 1992, she founded and chaired the Villar Foundation, the programs of which programs include providing assistance to OFWs, environment protection and livelihood projects, which now have pilot centers in nearly 500 locations all over the country. She served as Managing Director of the foundation until 2012. She is also an Honorary Member of the Philippine Horticultural Society.

In the 2013 Midterm Elections, Cynthia Villar won as Senator of the country. Senator Villar is the chairperson of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Food as well as the Senate Committee on Government Corporations and Public Enterprises.

Amidst all her achievements and awards, she successfully raised three well-educated children: Paolo is the President of their public company Vista Land; Mark is a Congressman representing the lone district of Las Piñas; and Camille, a former TV host in Wowowillie, who has recently completed her Masters in Business Administration (MBA) at IESE Business School.