Above, Whit Bissell with 10th-billed, Louis Jean Heydt, portraying brother "Charles Ford".

The firm directing hand of Gordon Douglas was assigned to a science fiction motion picture planned to be shot in "Warner Color" and the "Third Dimension". Douglas had previously worked in the 3-D process for the 1953 western, "The Charge at Feather River". That experience in the "Third Dimension" and general action pictures, made his choice to direct an easy decision for Jack L. Warner, more later.

THEM! The movie opened for a limited engagement on April 26, 1954

The following is a revision of a section from my article:

"THEM!", "TARANTULA", "THE MONSTER FROM GREEN HELL", "THE DEADLY MANTIS", "THE BEGINNING OF THE END", "THE BLACK SCORPION" and "THE EARTH VS THE SPIDER": As the 1950's Insects that BUGGED America", get you cans of "Raid" out at:

http://www.bewaretheblog.com/2017/03/them-tarantula-monster-from-green-hell.html

Question:

How many times has my reader stepped on an ant? Now, imagine the reverse? How would the average American react to the idea of ant's that could step on them?

The above question was answered in the first of the giant insect motion pictures and definitely one of the finest Science Fiction films ever made.

The original story was by George Worthing Yates. Who would be the story and screenplay writer for several classic 1950's Science Fiction pictures including George Pal's, 1955, "The Conquest of Space" and Ray Harryhausen's, 1955, "It Came from Beneath the Sea" and 1956's, "Earth vs the Flying Saucers". Additionally he wrote the screenplays for 1957's, "The Amazing Colossal Man",and its 1958 sequel "The War of the Colossal Beast". Along with the English language version of Toho Studio's, 1962,"King Kong vs Godzilla", originally written by Stop Motion Animator Willis O'Brien. My article is "George Worthing Yates: Screenplays from 1927's LIGHTNING LARIATS to 1962's KING KONG VS GODZILLA" found at:

http://www.bewaretheblog.com/2021/01/george-worthing-yates-screenplays-from.html

What makes this George Worthing Yates's story so frightening and successful, was the real probability of how the giant ants came into existence and the overall intelligence of the screenplay by Ted Sherdeman and Russell Hughes.

Normally a watcher of 1950's science fiction motion pictures had to suspend reality to accept the film. Otherwise you could not watch and accept, a good husband and father being turned into 1956's, "The Werewolf". By two scientists attempting to figure out how to save the human race after the population of the world exceeds the production of food needed to feed it, or finding a Foreign Country were a scientist is attempting to turn young people into geniuses by exposure to Gamma radiation, in 1956's, "The Gamma People".

However, Yates's story starts out logically enough. The audience sees a plane being used as a spotter in conjunction with a two man New Mexico police car searching the desert on a report of a little girl walking through it. Finding the girl, who is in shock, leads to a camping trailer that appears to have been attacked, and the girl's parents are missing. Everything points to a robbery gone wrong, except that one side of the trailer appears to have been pulled out and not the expected cave inwards of a forced break in. Also found are some ant's in a pile of sugar and a strange print in the sand.

The girl is taken away by an ambulance, but not before the audience hears a high pitched sound, and the girl lying on a gurney, sits up, staring, as if in a trance until the sound ends. The sound is passed off as the freakish wind in the New Mexico desert.

The two police officers go to another location, a store, and find the owner dead. His shotgun has been bent out of shape, ants are in the sugar, and the walls of the store have been pulled out, not pushed in.

One of the officers remains and the audience hears the sound again. This causes the police officer to walk outside. We see him pull out his gun, start to fire at something, then there is his scream.

The discovery that the girl's father was with the FBI, brings in the local FBI agent. The coroner has found that the dead store owner had enough formic acid in his body to kill 20 men. With the approval of the Chief of Police, a plaster copy of the strange print is sent to the FBI Crime Lab in Washington, D.C. As a result, a father and daughter team of scientists from the Department of Agriculture arrives.

"THEM!" revolves around four well written characters, acted by four perfect actors for the roles.

Top billing went to actor James Whitmore portraying "New Mexico Police Officer, Sgt. Ben Peterson". Among Whitmore's previous work was the story of the siege of Bastogne, in 1949's "Battleground", John Huston's 1950 picture about a bank robbery that falls apart, "The Asphalt Jungle". Followed, in the same year, opposite the future Mrs. Ronald Reagan, Nancy Davis, in "The Next Voice You Hear". The George Summer Albee story of a typical American family that suddenly hears the voice of God coming over their radio and speaking to them.

Second billing was character actor Edmund Gwenn portraying "Dr. Harold Medford". Gwenn is still known today for portraying "Kris Kringle", attempting to prove to 9 year old Natalie Wood that he is the real Santa Claus, in 1947's, "Miracle on 34th Street". The actor had been in Alfred Hitchcock's, 1940, "Foreign Correspondent" and would be in Hitch's, 1955 "The Trouble With Harry". He was also in the 1952 film version of Victor Hugo's, "Les Miserables", starring Michael Rennie and Robert Newton.

Third billing went to Opera Singer turned actress Joan Weldon portrayingGwenn's character's daughter, "Dr. Pat Medford". Weldon would appear in several Westerns including 1954's "The Command" with Whitmore. Also in 1954 ,as a direct opposite to the Science Fiction of "THEM!". Joan Weldon appeared as herself, and actually sang opera, in the 1954, MGM Musical biography of Sigmund Romberg "Deep in My Heart".

The final lead went to actor James Arness portraying "FBI Agent Robert Graham". Arness was known to Science Fiction fans for playing the title role in the 1951, Howard Hawks produced, "The Thing from Another World". Although that was the actor's second Science Fiction film. His first was the forgotten 1951, "Two Lost Worlds", using the name James Aurness.

When the four leads first meet at an Army Air Force base. The father - daughter scientists request to see the little girl after they stop at a drug store. When formic acid is passed under the still in shock little girl's nose. She starts to scream out one word, "THEM!" This has become one of the most classic scenes in Science Fiction movies and still makes the audience jump a little.

The two scientists, next, ask to be taken to all the scenes of the previous attacks. However, the two will not give a direct answer to any inquiries made by either "Peterson" or "Graham". Finally, "Pat's" father reveals that he is not "being coy" with either law enforcement officer, but that the mounting evidence appears to be supporting a fantastic theory he has been developing. At this point, "Pat" wanders off as the freaky wind comes up, fiercely blowing the desert sands. Suddenly, the audience hears that sound once more, and above "Pat", the first view of a giant ant is seen.

After the one giant ant is killed and the four leads return to police headquarters. "Dr. Harold Medford" asks where was the very first Atomic Bomb test located? "FBI Agent Graham" shows him on a map indicating White Sands. "Dr. Medford" informs the two police officers and the audience that that was nine years previous to the movie's story, back in 1945. Which makes it genetically possible, because of the way ants reproduce, to create the giant mutations. Here we have well defined scientific theory to support the giant ants, that appears to make sense to the viewer.

As in Howard Hawks's, "The Thing from Another World". "THEM!" went against the 1950's stereo-typed-image of a woman, with Joan Weldon's, "Dr. Pat Medford". In Eisenhower's America, a woman's place was in the home raising the children, and making sure everything was just right for her man. In both of those motion pictures, the audience has a woman, who not only is highly educated, but can keep her own with the male characters. In "Dr. Pat Medford", that change in image is exceeded in the sequences related to entering and within the ant's nest, as she issues the orders to both "Sgt. Peterson" and "FBI Agent Graham", that they must follow.

As I first said, originally the picture was to be filmed in Warner Color, but the purple blue color of the ant's looked terrible, and the decision to shoot in black and white was made. Color footage can be found in the extras on the original DVD and Blu-ray releases of the movie.

The motion picture was shot in 3-D, but Jack L. Warner decided that the format was losing audiences in 1954, and it was released in 2-D. Look at the film with the knowledge of the 3-D shoot, and it is very easy to realize how almost every shot was set up by director Gordon Douglas with a definite foreground, middle ground and background for maximum 3-D effect.

In the still, just above, the ant hill is in the far background, and actors Weldon, Arness and Gwenn are arranged, so that in 3-D, the three come off the screen with depth of field. Looking at the office scene grouping still, farther above, and the 3-D set up by Douglas is also visible. The desk that Joan Weldon and Edmund Gwenn are sitting at is at an angle permitting the right corner to project itself over the audience. The placement of the two actors are offset slightly to each other to give them a depth of field. While James Arness is further back to the left and James Whitmore is even farther back than the other three actors.

Returning to the plot.

After determining that two queen ants have left the nest. A nationwide search begins, that brings "Pat Medford" and "Robert Graham", along with "Army Major Kibbee", portrayed by Sean McClory, to a hospital. A pilot reported seeing two flying saucers shaped like ants that forced his landing on a city street.

Another side: Jack L. Warner invited his friend and science fiction fan Walt Disney to a private screening of "THEM!". According to the story, Walt asked that the scene in the hospital be repeated for him several times, and then told Warner, that he had found his "Davy Crockett" in actor Fess Parker.

After the hospital scene, "Pat's" father is told that one of the queen ants found an open cargo hold on a merchant ship to make her nest in and it hatched. The ship was sunk at sea by a Navy destroyer, which will stay at sea, indefinitely, until the other queen is found.

Behind and next to the Warner Brother Studio's back lot is the Los Angeles river. Although it is seen by residents most of the year as a pretty dry concrete structure. It was here that the thrilling climax of the motion picture takes place in a search for a woman's two boys.

The story moves into the tunnels, as the army searches through the maze that exists in the Los Angeles city sewer system. The boys are located by "Sgt. Peterson", who saves them, but before help can reach him, "Peterson" is killed by one of the giant ants.

The new nest with two queens is located and destroyed and this excellent Science Fiction film ends with a warning from "Dr. Harold Medford":

When Man entered the Atomic Age, he opened the door to a new world. What we may eventually find in that new world, nobody can predict.

FRANCIS ALBERT SINATRA

Gordon Douglas would direct five motion pictures for Sinatra, four at his personal request as James Cagney at done with "Kiss Tomorrow, Goodbye".

YOUNG AT HEART released in December 1954

The picture was a remake of 1938's, "Four Daughter's", based upon a the 1937 story, "Sister Act", by Fannie Hurst. Who wrote, 1919's, "Humoresque", 1931's, "Back Street", and 1933's, "Imitation of Life", all turned into multiple feature films.

Doris Day portrayed "Laurie Tuttle". In 1953, she co-starred with Howard Keel as "Wild Bill Hickok", in the musical "Calamity Jane". Which contained the hit song, "Secret Love". This picture was followed by 1955's, "Love Me or Leave Me", co-starring James Cagney, in the "Hollywood" version of singer "Ruth Etting's" career.

Frank Sinatra portrayed "Barney Sloan". Sinatra had just been seen in 1954's, "Suddenly", as the leader of a group of men who plan to assassinate the "President of the United States". He followed this feature with director Stanley Kramer's, 1955, "Not as a Stranger".

Gig Young portrayed "Alex Burke". Young had not been seen, but his voice heard as "Jeff's editor", in director Alfred Hitchcock's, 1955, "Rear Window". He followed this feature with director William Wyler's, 1955, "The Desperate Hours", starring Humphrey Bogart and Fredric March. It should be noted that Gig Young was in the 1969, film version of, "They Shoot Horses, Don't They?"

The Basic Screenplay:

Leonore J. Coffee had adapted "Sister Act" for "Four Daughters", now she readapted the story minus one daughter. Julius J. Epstein had written the first screenplay and now wrote this one with Liam O'Brien.

The "Tuttle Family" are a musical family and when "Alex Burke", a composer, enters their lives, all three girls fall for him, but he seems to be a perfect match for "Laurie". However, when "Alex's" friend and arranger, "Barney Sloan" comes to the "Tuttle" home to do some musical arrangements, things begin to change, because of "Barney's" bleak outlook on life.

Both "Alex" and "Laurie" decide to change "Barney's" outlook. While, sister, "Fran", portrayed by Dorothy Malone, becomes engaged to "Bob Nearly", portrayed by Alan Hale, Jr, and sister, "Amy", portrayed by Elisabeth Fraser, has feelings for "Alex". Which only "Aunt Jessie" seems to be aware of.

Next, "Alex" proposes to "Laurie" and she accepts, but "Barney" is falling in love with her. When "Laurie" goes to ask "Barney" to attend her wedding, he confesses his love for her. "Laurie" doesn't believe "Barney", but when she goes home and finds "Amy" crying. What "Barney" has said, starts to sink in. At the altar, "Laurie" suddenly walks away, and elopes with the music arranger and cuts off her family.

However, "Laurie" and "Barney" come home for Christmas, and she tells "Amy" how much she loves him and that she hasn't told "Barney" that's she pregnant. Another change has happened, "Amy" has fallen in love with "Ernie Nichols", portrayed by Lonny Chapman.

"Alex", who has found great success as a composer, is also at the "Tuttle" home for Christmas. "Barney", still unaware he is about to become a father, feels that a black cloud of lost hope for "Laurie" and himself still exists over the two of them. Later that night, he drives "Alex" to the train station. After dropping "Alex" off, the depressed, "Barney Sloan", decides to kill himself to free "Laurie", believing she would go back to "Alex", who is a better provider for her.

The film's climax occurs, as "Barney" leaves the train station in the falling snow. He keeps the windshield wipers turned off and drives head long into on coming traffic.

However, it's Christmas, and "Barney" somehow survives, but with a change in his life's thinking. He writes the song he always wanted to write, and is now able to provide for his wife and child.

Fairytales can come true, it can happen to you, If you're Young at Heart

ROBIN AND THE 7 HOODS, OR WHO MAID MARIAN released on June 24, 1964

Take the "Robin Hood" legend and turn it into the story of a 1920's Chicago gangster with a heart. The legend becomes a good musical produced by Sinatra, directed by Gordon Douglas, and featuring members of "Sinatra's Rat Pack".

Frank Sinatra portrayed "Robbo". Sinatra had just been seen in director Robert Aldrich's, 1963, comedy-western, "4 For Texas". He followed this motion picture by starring and directing the Second World War motion picture, 1965's, "None But the Brave".

Dean Martin portrayed "Little John". He had just portrayed one of Shirley MacLaine's multiple husbands in the all-star comedy, 1964's, "What a Way to Go!" Martin followed this film with an appearance in an episode of televisions "Rawhide".

Sammy Davis, Jr. portrayed "Will Scarlet". He had just been in an episode of televisions "Burke's Law", and followed this motion picture with an episode of televisions "The Patty Duke Show".

Bing Crosby portrayed "Alan (Allen) A. Dale". At this time, Crosby was appearing on his television program, "The Bing Crosby Show", 1964 - 1965.

Peter Falk portrayed "Guy Gisborne". Falk had been one of the many comedians in director Stanley Kramer's, 1963, "It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World", and followed this musical with a 1964 made-for-television-movie entitled, "Ambassador at Large".

Barbara Rush portrayed "Marian Stevens". The co-star of the classic science fiction, 1953, "It Came from Outer Space", had just appeared in an episode of the television series, "The Outer Limits", and followed this picture by continuing to appear on different television programs as a guest-star.

The Basic Screenplay:

This is definitely not the Errol Flynn and Olivia de Havilland's, 1939, "The Adventures of Robin Hood", but it's pure entertainment.

Instead of "King Richard" being a prisoner during the Crusades, "Big Jim Stevens", Chicago's number one criminal boss is murdered by "Guy Gisborne" (Falk not Basil Rathbone), and "Gisborne" takes over. That news doesn't go over with "Jim's" friend, "Robbo" (Sinatra not Errol Flynn).

"Robbo" recruits a group of outcast gangsters to fight "Gisborne". Problem is "Sheriff Octvais Glick", portrayed by Robert Faulk, is on "Gisborne's" payroll. Both groups, decide to destroy the other's gambling joint on the same night and a musical-comical-gang-war begins.

Raised in the best European schools, "Marian Stevens" returns for her father's funeral and wants "Robbo" to murder the Sheriff, whom she believes is behind his murder.

"Robbo" refuses, but "Gisborne" takes care of the Sheriff and "Marian" assumes "Robbo" had a change of mind. She brings him a large amount of money for having taken care of "Sheriff Glick".

Next, she attempts to seduce him, as "Marian" wants to take control of all of Chicago. She picked the wrong gangster and goes to "Gisborne", who she wraps around her finger. While "Robbo" donates the money to a boys orphanage, resulting in "Alan A. Dale", who runs it, alerting the news papers and "Robbo" has a new image. He is now a gangster who takes from the rich and gives to the poor.

"Robbo's" joint is the spot to go, while, Gisborne's" joint remains empty. "Guy" gets a new sheriff, by promoting "Deputy Sherif Alvin Potts", portrayed by Victor Buono, and they immediately go to arrest "Robbo" for the murder of "Sheriff Glick". Alerted that they're coming, a few switches are pulled and when "Gisborne" and the new "Sheriff" arrive. They're looking at the "Reverend Alan A. Dale" giving a sermon in a church full of parishioners.

"Robbo" is arrested and put on trial, but is acquitted. He tells the crowds of people that:

CHICAGO IS MY KIND OF TOWN

Retuning to his gambling joint, "Robbo" finds it is now a front for a counterfeiting ring run by "Marian" and "Little John". He goes to "Marian's" mansion and finds "Little John" with her. She offers to keep "Robbo" on as a front for her counterfeiting ring, but he shows his contempt and walks out with "Little John" following.

"Marian" finds a willing partner in "Guy Gisborne", but she under estimates "Robbo". "Gisborne " is killed and "Robbo" tells "Marian" to get out of town. However, he in turn has under estimated her and "Marian" gets revenge by informing "The Women's League for Better Government" and this women's reform group put "Robbo" out of business.

The movie ends with "Robbo", "Little John", and "Will" as Christmas Santa's raising money for charity on street corners. About to pass the three, are "Marian" and her new business partner, "Alan A. Dale".

TONY ROMEreleased on November 10, 1967

A little back ground is in order for this Gordon Douglas directed film. I mentioned Douglas directing James Cagney in what film critics consider a film-noir entry, 1950's, "Kiss Tomorrow Goodbye". Well now he was directing Frank Sinatra and what was consider neo-noir, or the late 1960's, updating of the traditional hard-boiled detective thrillers of the 1940's, film-noir.

The screenplay was based upon the 1960 novel, "Miami Mayhem", by Marvin Albert, writing as Anthony Rome. Albert also wrote westerns. His 1956,, "The Law and Jake Wade", became a 1958 movie of the same title, starring Robert Taylor and Richard Widmark. Albert's, 1957, "Apache Rising", became 1966's, "Duel at Diablo", starring James Gardner and Sidney Poitier. While, 1958's, "Renegade Posse", became 1964's, "Bullet for a Bad Man", starring Audie Murphy and Darren McGavin.

Returning to Frank Sinatra's friend and "Rat Pack" member, Dean Martin. He co-starred with George Peppard and Jean Simmons, in the 1967 western movie, "Rough Night in Jericho", written by Marvin Albert as Al Conroy, in 1965, under the title, "The Man in Black".

Frank Sinatra portrayed Miami, Florida private detective, "Tony Rome".

Jill St. John portrayed "Ann Archer". St. John had just co-starred with Doug McClure and Guy Stockwell, in the 1967 swashbuckler, "The King's Pirate". She followed this movie co-starring with Robert Horton and Sebastian Cabot, in 1969's, "The Spy Killer".

Trivia: In the above background is the "Fontainebleau Miami Beach". During the day Frank Sinatra filmed scenes for "Tony Rome". During the night, he was appearing at the hotel.

Richard Conte portrayed "Miami Police Lieutenant Dave Santini". Conte had just been in writer, Arthur Hailey's, 1967, "Hotel". He followed this film with the spaghetti western, 1968's, "Death Sentence".

Gena Rowlands portrayed "Rita Kosterman". Rowlands was guest starring on television at the time. Just prior to this movie, she was in an episode of "The Girl from U.N.C.L.E." and followed this picture with an episode of the prime time soap opera, "Peyton Place".

Simon Oakland portrayed "Rudolph Kosterman". Oakland was also making the television rounds and had just been seen in two-episodes of televisions "Tarzan". He followed this feature film with an appearance on the television western, "Cimarron Strip".

Sue Lyon portrayed "Diana Pines". Lyon is probably best remembered for portraying the title role in director Stanley Kubrick's, 1962's, "Lolita", opposite James Mason and Shelley Winters. Just before this movie, the actress had appeared in the crime-comedy, 1967's, "The Flim-Flam Man". Sue Lyon next appeared in a 1969, television production of the play, "Arsenic and Old Lace".

The Basic Fast and Furious Screenplay Directed by Gordon Douglas:

"Tony Rome" is an ex-cop who lives on his boat in Miami and is now a private detective. His boat is named "Straight Pass", a reference to the fact that "Rome" is addicted to gambling. (The way Frank Sinatra portrays the character is considered, by many film critics, as an obvious homage to his close friend Humphrey Bogart. Who, with his wife, Lauren Bacall, formed the original "Rat Pack" of "A-List" entertainers, in the late 1940's and early 1950's. The "Rat Pack" met at their home in Holmby Hills.).

"Tony" has developed a friendship with a local beach tramp named "Ann Archer", and she has connections that will help him as the story develops.

"Rome" is approached by his ex-partner, "Ralph Turpin", portrayed by Robert J. Wilke, to take a young woman that was found unconscious in a hotel room to her home. She is "Diana Pines", the daughter of wealthy construction magnate, "Ralph Kosterman". Still unconscious, "Rome"delivers "Diana" to her father. Who hires him to find out why she has been acting so strangely.

Before "Rome" can leave the house, "Diana" has regained consciousness and realizes a valuable diamond pin she was wearing his missing. "Tony Rome" gets his second hiring from "Diana's" stepmother, "Rita Kosterman", to find the pin.

Almost immediately, "Tony Rome" is chloroformed by somebody, he wakes up in his office to find "Ralph Turpin" murdered. "Tony" calls his friend "Lieutenant Santini", who comes to investigate the murder.

Next, there's an attempt on the life of "Ralph Kosterman", and a jeweler is founded murdered. With "Ann's" help, "Tony" discovers that "Diana" has been selling her stepmother's jewels and giving the money to her biological mother, "Lorna Boyd", portrayed by Jeanne Cooper. Mail arrives at "Rome's" boat and in a package from "Ralph Turpin". "Tony" finds the missing pin, which "Ralph" tried to fence, but had discovered it was fake. "Tony" goes to find a man with a gimpy leg, called "Catleg", portrayed by stand-up comedian, Shecky Greene. "Catleg" gets the information for "Rome", that "Diana's" stepmother had sold all her real jewelry, to pay off her now dead, ex-husband's, blackmail demands on her.

"Tony" and "Ann" continue to see where the trail will finally lead them too. In this case, it is "Diana's" stepfather, an abortionist named "Adam Boyd", portrayed by Jeffrey Lynn, who has lost his license to practice medicine. He found documents that showed that "Rita's" current marriage is void, ordered "Ralph Kosterman" killed, believing that "Diana" would inherit "Kosterman's" entire estate and would be very generous to "Lorna" and by her to him. "Lieutenant Santini" arrests "Boyd" and the case is closed.

Anti-climatic, "Tony" asks "Ann" to go with him on a romantic getaway on his boat. However, "Ann" informs him that she's decided to go back to her husband.

THE DETECTIVE released May 28, 1968

This was the third film in sequence that Gordon Douglas directed for Frank Sinatra, and I will mention the last one next.

I direct my reader to the tag line on the above poster that simply reads:

An Adult Look at a Police Detective

The screenplay based on the novel by Roderick Thorp, was by Thorp and "Academy Award Winning Writer", Abby Mann, 1961's, "Judgement at Nuremberg".

This was one of the first "mainstream motion pictures" to tackle the subject of homosexuality. Breaking that taboo, shocked Frank Sinatra's fans and gave the critics fodder for pro and cons for even mentioning the subject.

Frank Sinatra portrayed "Detective Joe Leland".

Lee Remick portrayed his wife, "Karen Leland". Remick had just co-starred with Rod Steiger and George Segal, in 1968's, "No Way to Treat a Lady". She would follow this motion picture by co-starring with James Coburn in 1969's, "Hard Contact".

Jacqueline Bisset portrayed "Norma McIver". Bissett had just been seen in 1967's, "The Cape Town Affair", co-starring with James Brolin and Claire Trevor.

Trivia: Frank Sinatra wanted his then wife, Mia Farrow, to play the role of "Norma". However, she was filming 1968's, "Rosemary's Baby", and the picture was running over its scheduled filming ending time. That was the last straw in their less than two-years of marriage and Frank had the divorce papers delivered to Mia on the set in front of the cast and crew.

A Basic Overview of the Screenplay:

It opens with "Detective Joe Leland" being called to the home of a murder victim and the audience is thrown right into the taboo of the period. The murder victim has had his penis cut off, and there appears to be no clues as to what transpired, except, that the victims housemate is missing.

The other police officers are shown to either be making fun of the obvious sexuality of the murder victim, or disinterested in the case because of the victims sexuality. The exception is the no nonsense "Leland", who looks at this as just another murder case that must be solved and the perpetrator brought to justice. However, "Joe" is also dealing with a marriage that is following apart.

After the solid detective work, the murderer is identified as "Felix Tesla", portrayed by Tony Musante. Under interrogation, "Joe" makes the psychologically disturbed "Tesla" break down and confess. This leads to a lot of publicity on the case, a promotion for "Joe", but leaves him convinced that "Felix" is insane and should not get the electric chair that the judge has pronounced for him.

Working on his marriage, "Joe" remembers taking "Karen" to a "New York Giants" vs the "Green Bay Packards" football game, and their marriage proposal during it.

Returning to the reality of detective work, comes a report of a man jumping off the roof top of the "Garden State Park Racetrack", grandstand, to his death. There is nothing to this case and it goes almost unnoticed. Until the much younger wife of the man, "Norma Maclver", walks into "Joe Leland's" office, believing there is more to his death than an apparent suicide of "Colin Maclver", portrayed by William Windom.

Along with his partner, "Detective Dave Schoenstein", portrayed by Jack Klugman, "Joe Leland", begins an investigation that leads to psychiatrist "Dr. Wendell Roberts", portrayed by Lloyd Bochner. It is obvious that he knows more about "Colin Maclver" than he's telling the detectives. However, making matters are little more touchy for "Joe", is he's "Karen Leland's" psychiatrist. It is her infidelity that is putting pressure on her marriage with "Joe".

"Joe Leland" learns that "Colin Maclver" was at the center of a scheme to inflate the value of certain pieces of real estate and that certain powerful people want "Joe" to forget the case. The problem for them, is that "Detective Joe Leland" is an honest cop and even putting his life in danger, "Joe" presses on with his investigation.

"Leland" now discovers that "Colin Maclver" was connected to the murder that "Felix Tesla" was convicted of doing. In fact, "Maclver" was a homosexual himself, and was the real murderer. The victim was set to reveal "Maclver's" homosexuality, after seeing him frequently at homosexual night clubs.

Returning to "Dr. Roberts", "Detective Joe Leland" discovers that "Colin Maclver" made a taped confession for the psychiatrist. Who wants "Leland" not to reveal it, because of those powerful people that don't want that knowledge revealed. Adding, revealing the tape confession would hurt "Joe Leland's" reputation, but "Joe" does reveal it and feels somewhat unburdened by forcing a false confession out of the weak, "Felix Tesla", that led to his execution.

After a very tense and well made detective thriller, director Gordon Douglas and Frank Sinatra finished their work together by returning to a familiar character from writer Marvin Albert.

LADY IN CEMENT premiered in New York City on November 20, 1968

Frank Sinatra returned as "Tony Rome". Sinatra followed this picture with director Burt Kennedy's, comedy-western, 1970, "Dirty Dingus Magee".

Raquel Welch portrayed "Kit Forrest". Welch had just co-starred with James Stewart, Dean Martin, and George Kennedy, in director Andrew V. McLaglen's, 1968, western, "Bandolero!". She followed this picture co-starring with Jim Brown and Burt Reynolds, in 1969's, "100 Rifles", set in 1912 Mexico.

Don Blocker portrayed "Waldo Gronsky". Blocker was borrowed from the television series, "Bonanza", and in one scene, the movie audience sees a television set and hears the "Bonanza" theme song coming off it. Nice product placement and plug for borrowing him.

Richard Conte returned as "Miami Police Lieutenant Dave Santini". He followed this movie by co-starring and directing, the Second World War story, 1968's, "Operation Cross Eagles", filmed in Yugoslavia.

The Tame Screenplay:

"Tony Rome" is diving off the coast of Miami, looking for one of the fabled eleven sunken Spanish treasure galleons. Instead, he finds the body of a woman in cement, and reports the find to "Lieutenant Santini". "Tony" puts the find out of his mind, until "Waldo Gronsky" comes looking for the missing "Sandra Lomax". He has no money, but allows "Rome" to pawn his watch as his fee. "Gronsky" admits to "Tony" that he just got out of prison and it was "Sandra" who identified him as the person behind the crime, but she is also the person that can prove his innocence.

"Rome" starts looking for "Lomax" and this leads him to "Kit Forrest", whose party "Sandra Lomax" was supposed to have attended, before she disappeared.

The problem for "Tony" is "Kit" is apparently being protected by ex-racketeer, "Al Mungar", portrayed by Martin Gabel. Who, with some goons, warns "Rome" off the case.