Life

Saovabha was born as a Princess of Siam to King Mongkut (or Rama IV) and Princess Consort Piyamavadi (Piam Sucharitakul). She was the youngest sister of the future Queen Sunandha Kumariratana and Queen Savang Vadhana. Saovabha became the consort of her half brother King Chulalongkorn sometime in 1878. She gave him 9 children, 5 would survive to adulthood (one died in infancy), two would eventually become King of Siam.

In 1897, Queen Saovabha became the first female Regent of Siam, when her husband went on a tour of Europe. When he returned he bestowed upon her the title of "Somdet Phra Nang Chao Saowapha Phongsi Praborommarachininat" (RTGS) (Thai: สมเด็จพระนางเจ้าเสาวภาผ่องศรี พระบรมราชินีนาถ) (roughly equivalent to H.M. the Queen Regent). During her time as queen she took many interests especially in the issues concerning women. In 1904 she established one of the first schools for girls in Siam; the "Rajini School" or Queen's School in Bangkok.

When she died in 1919 at the age of 57, she was given a grand Royal Funeral, attended by all members of the Siamese Royal Family, and the ceremony was presided over by her son King Vajiravudh. She played a prominent posthumous role in the 1924 Palace Law of Succession, in which her son King Vajiravudh stipulated that her children would take precedence among all others over the line of succession. This guaranteed the accession of her youngest son Prince Prajadhipok to the throne in 1925, despite there being more senior and learned sons of Chulalongkorn. The Queen Saovabha Memorial Institute was named after her.

Children

She had 9 children with King Chulalongkorn:

In addition, the queen also adopted one of Savang Vadhana's daughters, Princess Valaya Alongkorn and raised as her own daughter.

Titles and styles

1864 – 1878: Her Royal Highness Princess Saovabha Phongsri

1878 – 1897: Her Royal Highness Princess Saovabha Phongsri, The Princess Consort

1897 – 1910: Her Majesty The Queen of Siam

1910 – 1919: Her Majesty Queen Sri Bajrindra, the Queen Mother

Royal Decorations

National Orders

The Most Illustrious Order of the Royal House of Chakri

The Ancient and Auspicious of Order of the Nine Gems

Dame Grand Cross (First Class) of The Most Illustrious Order of Chula Chom Klao

Dame Grand Cordon (Special Class) of The Most Noble Order of the Crown of Thailand

King Rama IV Royal Cypher Medal (Second Class)

King Rama V Royal Cypher Medal (First Class)

King Rama VI Royal Cypher Medal (First Class)

Foreign Orders

Dame of the Order of Queen Maria Luisa (Kingdom of Spain)