Who is Usher Raymond IV?

Usher, sometimes known as Usher Raymond IV, is an American dancer, singer, composer, and businessman.

He is an American musician who became a rhythm and blues celebrity in the late 1990s because of his mellow vocals and seductive ballads.

Quick Facts

Birth Name: Usher Raymond IV

Known as: Usher

Date of Birth:14 October 1978

Age: 44 Years Old

Birth Place: Dallas, Texas, the United States

Resides In: Chattanooga, Tennessee

Profession: Singer, Songwriter, Businessman, and Dancer

Famous Role: Sugar Ray Leonard in the Film Hands of Stone (2016)

Nationality: American

Religion: Christian

Ethnicity: African-American Descent

Hometown: Dallas, Texas

Zodiac Sign: Libra

High School: Haynes Bridge Middle School in Dallas, Texas, United States, North Springs Charter High School in Dallas, Texas, the United States

Net Worth: $180 Million

Years Active: 1993 – Present

Debut TV Series: Moesha (1997)

Music Video: Call Me a Mack (1993)

Film: The Faculty (1998)

Marital Status: Divorced

Girlfriend: Jenn Goicoechea

Children: 4

Usher Raymond Biography

On October 14, 1978, Usher Raymond IV was born in Dallas, Texas. Usher Raymond III and Jonetta Patton were his parents. He lived most of his formative years in Chattanooga, Tennessee. When Usher was a year old, his father abandoned the family.

James Lackey, Usher’s half-brother, and his mother were all in his childhood home, Usher joined the neighborhood church youth chorus in Chattanooga at age nine under his mother’s guidance.

His grandmother first heard him sing there, though she didn’t think he was good enough to perform professionally until Usher joined a group. Usher’s family relocated to Atlanta, Georgia, thinking that a more significant metropolis would offer more opportunities for him to showcase his skill and create a more hospitable setting for aspiring vocalists. He went to North Springs High School in Atlanta.

Usher Raymond Career

Usher Raymond is an American artist who became a rhythm-and-blues superstar in the late 1990s because of his soft vocals and seductive ballads.

At the age of 14, Usher signed a recording deal with the LaFace Records industry, and at the age of 15, he launched his album Can Uget Wif It in 1994.

The American Musician spent the following years working on My Way (1997), which helped him gain fame as a prominent R&B singer because the album was not a commercial success, Alos Usher is not only a Musician he is an Artist, he gained more fame by appearing on television programs after then his tracks “You Make Me Wanna” and “Nice & Slow” became significant R&B hits, He danced prowess onstage that was equally impressive as his smooth singing voice.

His first two Grammy Awards were from music from 8701, and it also gave him the two number-one pop hits “U Remind Me” and “U Got It Bad.” He ventured beyond ballads on his fourth album, Confessions (2004), working most notably with Atlanta rappers Lil Jon and Ludacris on the raucous, radio-dominating hit “Yeah!”

Usher won three Grammy Awards for Confessions, and it sold more than 10 million copies in the US alone. These awards were given for best contemporary R&B album, best R&B performance by a couple or group (for “My Boo,” a duet with Alicia Keys), and best rap/sung collaboration (for “Yeah!”).

Is Usher Raymond Married?

Usher is a divorced man. He currently has a romantic connection going with Jenn Goicoechea. He had a relationship with Rozonda Thomas before Jenn.

He wed Grace Miguel in the year 2015, but regrettably, they separated in the year 2018, before Grace, he wed Tameka Foster in 2007. Unfortunately, the marriage ended in divorce in 2009.

He has four kids in all. His daughter is Sovereign Bo Raymond, and he has three sons named Naviyd Ely Raymond, Usher Raymond V, and Sire Castrello Raymond.

Age

He was born on October 14, 1978, he is 44 years old and his Zodiac sign is Libra.

Net Worth

Usher’s net worth was $180 million as of 2022. He primarily makes money through his singing projects and several other commercial endeavors.

Height

Usher Raymond stands about 5 feet 8 inches tall and weighs about 75 kg. He has light black hair and stunning, fascinating eyes that are scorching black in hue.

Read More:

Alana Thompson’s Net Worth, Family, Biography, and Boyfriend

Constance Nunes Biography, Career, Net Worth