Interfraternity Council

An Interfraternity Council (IFC) exists where there are two or more North American Interfraternity Conference member (or non-member) fraternities on a campus. The Council’s purpose is to advance fraternity on campus and provide interfraternal leadership to the entire community. The WSU Interfraternity Council is not affiliated with the national IFC.

View active IFC organizations

Wayne State University IFC organizations:

The following organizations are chartered with WSU, but may or may not be active.

Alpha Epsilon Pi Fraternity

Alpha Sigma Phi Fraternity

Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity

Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity

Sigma Pi Fraternity

Tau Kappa Epsilon

Multicultural Greek Council

The Multicultural Greek Council (MGC) is an umbrella council for a coalition of multicultural Greek-letter organizations established in 1998. The purpose is to provide a forum that allows for the free exchange of ideas, programs and services between its constituent fraternities and sororities; to promote the awareness of multicultural diversity within collegiate institutions, their surrounding communities and the greater community-at-large, and to support and promote the works of its member organizations.

View active MGC organizations

Wayne State University MGC organizations:

The following organizations are chartered with WSU, but may or may not be active.

National Panhellenic Conference

The Wayne State University Panhellenic Association is the umbrella organization for the four National Panehllenic Conference (NPC) sororities chartered at Wayne State, and is responsible for organizing activities of mutual concern and interest to all of the sororities on campus. The National Panhellenic Conference, founded in 1902, is the encompassing organization for the 26 inter/national women's fraternities and sororities. Each member group is autonomous as a social, Greek-letter society of college women and alumnae. Members are represented on more than 600 college and university campuses in the United States and Canada and in more than 5,300 alumna associations, making up more than 3 million sorority women in the world.

View active NPC organizations

Wayne State University NPC organizations:

The following organizations are chartered with WSU, but may or may not be active.

Alpha Epsilon Phi Sorority

Alpha Gamma Delta Sorority

Delta Zeta Sorority

Kappa Delta Sorority

National Pan-Hellenic Council

The National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) is a collaborative organization of nine historically African American, international Greek lettered fraternities and sororities. The council promotes interaction through forums, meetings and other mediums for the exchange of information and engages in cooperative programming and initiatives through various activities and functions.

View active NPHC organizations

Wayne State University NPHC organizations:

The following organizations are chartered with WSU, but may or may not be active.

Professional and independent Greek-letter organizations

In addition to social fraternities and sororities on campus, WSU has many professional and independent Greek-letter organizations that do not fall under a governing council.