By Adam Ray Palmer

Arguably 1917 will be the war film of the year, and to be honest, it is certainly the best this decade so far…

Sam Mendes brings the world a military epic of seismic magnitude. The technical pieces, the acting and the soundtrack are just three of the outstanding components.

Let’s not waste time, I am writing this review in one single take (maybe three or four *hint hint) …

1917 tells the story of two fresh-faced, ordinary lance corporals who are sent on a desperate mission behind enemy lines by their General. Why so desperate I hear you ask yourself? Well, to prevent a massacre of British troops on the front line.

The two-hour runtime doesn’t dilly-dally getting into the speed of things as we see Lance Corporal Blake (Dean-Charles Chapman) and Schofield (George MacKay) summoned to their General’s tent. Within five minutes of the movie beginning, Colin Firth (General Erinmore) has given the lads a near-impossible task of saving thousands of British soldiers, including Blake’s brother (Richard Madden).

What ensues from here is an immersive cinematic experience that delivers plenty of edge-of-your-seat thrills. On the build-up to 1917’s release, there has been talk of Mendes’ one-take approach to making this film. I am going to say it, I think there is at least three cuts throughout. But taking nothing away from this production, it is a true achievement in filmmaking for such a difficult narrative to get over the line. It has elements of The Revenant throughout – lots of drawn-out silences, long-sweeping shots and more often than not, you’re following the protagonists every move as it is your own.

Whilst on the technical side of things, it is fair to say, what Mendes’ creates is a world that feels a lot more real than what we would expect. What I mean by this is, when you watch war epics of the past, it feels quite “Hollywood” and difficult to fully get engrained into – because let’s be honest – most of us have never experienced war. But what is achieved in 1917 is something I have rarely felt before: cinematic apprehension.