1.Mr. Shinzo Abe, Prime Minister of Japan, and Dr. Mahmoud Abbas, President of Palestine, had a meeting in Ramallah on January 20, 2015. They discussed the relationship between Japan and Palestine as well as the Middle East Peace Process.

2.Prime Minister Abe explained the position of Japan in contributing towards the peace in the Middle East through political dialogues with the parties concerned, promoting confidence-building between Israel and Palestine, and extending economic assistance to the Palestinians, which amounts to 1.5 billion US dollars in total since 1993. Prime Minister Abe also stated that Japan will provide additional assistance amounting to 100 million dollars, subject to the Diet approval, for Gaza reconstruction, economic and social development, finances, medical, health and other areas, which complete the pledge of 200 million dollars assistance made in March 2014. President Abbas expressed his appreciation for these assistances and extended his support towards Japan's active role in promoting peace and prosperity of the world under the banner of "proactive contribution to peace" based on the principle of the international corporation.

3.Prime Minister Abe, extending his sympathy for suffering of the Palestinians, expressed his intention to continue Japanese support for sustainable economic and social development of Palestine through the "Corridor for Peace and Prosperity" initiative launched by Japan in cooperation with Palestine, Jordan and Israel. Both leaders shared their recognition that the Jerico Agricultural Industrial Park (JAIP), a flagship project of the initiative, should start its operation as soon as possible. President Abbas committed that Palestine would make further effort to accelerate the operation of JAIP. Prime Minister Abe also addressed that the concept of "Corridor for Tourism" should be developed to promote tourism in the region.

4.Prime Minister Abe expressed that Japan would continue its support for Palestine in cooperation with East Asian countries through the "Conference on the Cooperation among East Asian countries for Palestinian Development (CEAPAD)". President Abbas highly appreciated the unique role of Japan in support for the Palestinians and expressed his gratitude for it.

5.Prime Minister Abe reaffirmed Japan's position that it supports a two-state solution whereby an independent Palestinian state and Israel live side by side in peace and security.

6.President Abbas, expressing the need to end the occupation, reiterated his commitment to a two-state solution and emphasized that the all settlement activities should be frozen. Both leaders recognized the need for early resumption of direct negotiations between Israel and Palestine.