Kerry Patton is a 14 year Veteran of the United States Air Force turned Actor, Stuntman, Writer, Producer, and Director. He attributes his new career in the entertainment world to his past military and contractual service. According to Patton, “Surviving in austere environments and cultures vastly different than the one you are used to takes a lot of acting.”

Patton performed stunts in the television series The Librarians playing the role of one of the Serpent Brotherhood members as well as played the role of a Taliban member in Legit. . He worked closely with James Franco in his short series titled Making a Scene With James Franco where he did stunt work playing the role of a Libyan terrorist. Patton performed stunts on Agent X , Banshee, and AMC’s The West.

Patton worked as an actor in movies such as Zulu Six, Blue Adrenaline, Jack County Demons, and 9 Line. Today, he is a co-star on WGN’s original programming series titled Outsiders (season 2/13 Episodes) where he plays the role of Trevor Farrel. Most recently, Patton performed in the hit television show The Blacklist, Gotham, and Blue Bloods.

As a true entertainer, Mr. Patton is also credited with writing two books based off his experiences abroad working as a contractor titled Contracted: America’s Secret Warriors and Contracted II: America’s Terror Trackers. He helped co-write the script for the movie Jack County Demons as well as created the story for the movie 9 Line. Today, he recently completed the movie Dark of Light which he created and directed.

Mr. Patton is a former trainer for the US Air Force Phoenix Raven Program where he taught their combatives program, ASP Baton, and Pressure Point Control Techniques along with small team tactics. He has a mixed martial arts background under Marco Perazzo (NJ MMA) and Phil Migliarese (Balance Studios). He is proficient in Muay Thai, Wrestling, Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, Krav Maga, and Boxing.

Through his years working in unique capacities for the US Government and as a national security contractor, Patton attended an array of schools which assist in his stunt and acting endeavors which include the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center’s Non-Emergency Vehicle Operations, Skid Control, and Emergency Pursuit Driving courses along with an array of weapon courses which include bladed weapons, pistol and rifle shooting (proficient in US Manufactured and Foreign weapon systems).