Kevin Costner is still adding people to the cast of his Western epic and Will Patton, who worked with Costner on Yellowstone, is the latest to jump on board.

Patton joins the previously cast Sienna Miller, Sam Worthington, Jamie Campbell Bower, Luke Wilson, Thomas Haden Church, Jena Malone, Michael Rooker, Alejandro Edda, and Tatanka Means.

Horizon chronicles “a multi-faceted, 15-year span of pre- and post-Civil War expansion and settlement of the American West. Experienced through the eyes of many, the epic journey is fraught with peril and intrigue from the constant onslaught of natural elements to the interactions with the Indigenous peoples who lived on the land and the determination and at many times ruthlessness of those who sought to settle it.”

Costner previously talked about the story, saying: “It’s a really beautiful story; it’s a hard story. It really involves a lot of women, to be honest. There are a lot of men in it, too, but the women are really strong in Horizon. It’s just them trying to get by every day in a world that was impossibly tough. They were often [dragged] out to these places because that’s where the men wanted to go; women were following their men. They didn’t ask to be in these territories that were unsettled and dangerous, and life wasn’t easy. I’ve chosen to make sure that was really obvious, that that wasn’t easy, and how vulnerable people were.”

Patton is a great actor and his 60-plus feature credits include Remember the Titans, Armageddon, The Mothman Prophecies, and the Oscar-winning Minari. In addition, he starred in Alexandre Rockwell’s Sweet Thing for which he received a 2022 Independent Spirit Award nomination for Best Actor, Boaz Yakin’s Boarding School, An Actor Prepares with Jeremy Irons, Megan Leavey with Kate Mara and Edie Falco, and American Honey the indie favorite and Cannes Festival prizewinner directed by Andrea Arnold. Other movies include Hammer, Blood on Her Name, Radioflash, The Scent of Rain & Lightning, The Girl, The November Man, Meeks Cutoff, Brooklyn’s Finest, A Mighty Heart, The Fourth Kind, Gone In 60 Seconds, After Hours, The Rapture, Inventing the Abbotts, The Client, In the Soup, and Desperately Seeking Susan. His most recent film was Halloween Ends.

Costner is currently shooting the film in Moab, Utah.