Nationalized French in the 1980s. During the second half of the XNUMXth century, he carried out an extraordinary process of unification of arithmetic, algebraic geometry and topology, giving great impetus to the development of these three fundamental branches of mathematics.

His father, Aleksandr Petrovich Shapiro or Sasha Shapiro (Novozíbkov, August 6, 1890 – Auschwitz, 1942?), was a Russian Jewish anarchist. He was sentenced to death by the tsarist regime in 1907, but his sentence was commuted to life imprisonment because of his youth. Freed by the revolution of 1917, he was sentenced to death by the communist regime; He emigrated clandestinely to Berlin, where he met the occasional journalist Hanka Grothendieck in anarchist circles. These events are narrated in his unpublished autobiographical novel A woman until the conception of the only child she had with Shapiro: Alexander Grothendieck.

Between 1934 and 1939, Grothendieck (1928-2014) lived in Hamburg with an adoptive family, while his parents were in France and participated in the Spanish civil war alongside the anarchists. In 1939, he joined her mother Hanka in France. In 1940, being German, he was interned in the Rieucros camp along with his mother, and studied at the nearby Mende Institute. Meanwhile, his father was interned in the Le Vernet camp and deported by the Nazis in 1942 to Auschwitz - he appears under the name of Alexandre Tanaroff on the list of Holocaust victims.

In 1942, Grothendieck was welcomed at La Guespy, a Swiss Relief children's home for refugees in Le Chambon-sur-Lignon, and finished high school at the Collège Cévénol.

Between 1945 and 1948, Alexander Grothendieck studied mathematics at the University of Montpellier and from there he went to Paris, where he attended Henri Cartan's seminar. Laurent Schwartz directed his doctoral thesis on functional analysis in Nancy. Upon meeting him, they gave their new student a list of fourteen problems that they considered a vast work program for several years, and asked him to choose one of them. A few months later, Alexander went to see his director having solved the fourteen problems: the legend had just begun. Later, Grothendieck became part of the Bourbaki group. In that group, he became interested in knowing what the natural concepts that serve as the basis for geometry should be. Between 1957 and 1962 he presented at the Bourbaki Seminar a total renewal of the foundations of algebraic geometry, and in 1958 he introduced K-theory. Within that work, he stated and proved the Riemann-Roch-Grothendieck theorem, a result that would give him worldwide fame as a mathematician. ​

Maturity works

In 1959, the Institute of Higher Scientific Studies (IHES) was created in Bures-sur-Yvette, near Paris, and he was offered a position in mathematics. There, he developed intense work until 1970, renewing algebraic geometry from cover to cover. Their Elements of algebraic geometry, of which he wrote four volumes of the 12 planned, and the series of seven Algebraic geometry seminars, carry out a synthesis with arithmetic and topology around the two crucial concepts of “schema” and “topos” (one of the most extensive works of foundations ever carried out in mathematics). The central inspiration of this stage were Weil's conjectures, which were largely demonstrated by his most brilliant student Pierre Deligne, completing his work. In 1966, at the International Mathematics Congress in Moscow, which he did not attend in rejection of the Soviet Union, he received the Fields Medal. In those years, he also unraveled (although he did not publish) the theory of motives, a fantastic vision of a more intimate union of arithmetic and geometry that still remains largely unproven, and he expounded in the so-called "standard conjectures" the principles that would allow the theory of motives to be developed.

Political positions and recent years

In November 1967, during the Vietnam War, he traveled to Hanoi to give lectures on category theory, in protest against the war.

In 1970, he left the IHES, because this institution accepted funds from military institutions, and moved in pacifist and environmentalist environments. Faced with the spiritual stagnation caused by his absorbing dedication to mathematics, he also abandoned all traditional mathematical activities.

In 1972, he became a professor at the University of Montpellier, in whose Faculty of Sciences he taught and continued his mathematical research outside the “official circuits.” In 1984, he applied for a position at the CNRS (National Center for Scientific Research), for which he wrote the memoir Esquisse d'un Programme, an outline of the mathematical topics he studied in recent years and a program to continue them in the future. At this time, she wrote thousands of pages with mathematical and non-mathematical meditations, among which stands out Praise (lost?), Récoltes et Semailles, where he reviews his life career in the mathematical world (published in 2022 by the Gallimard publishing house), and The Clef des Songes, where he explains his discovery of God (still unpublished).

In 1988, he retired and, together with his student Pierre Deligne, received the Crafoord Prize from the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. Despite his large financial endowment, he rejected it because “given the decline in scientific ethics, participating in the prize game means approving a spirit that seems unhealthy to me” and because “my pension is more than enough to meet my material needs.” and those who depend on me.”

In 1990, he moved his residence to the town of Lasserre (Ariège), next to the French Pyrenees, and accepted only direct human contact with his closest friends, neighbors and sporadic visitors, while he continued his reflections.

In January 2010, he sent a letter in which he clearly expressed his desire not to have his writings published or disseminated.15

He died on November 13, 2014, at the Ariège Couserans Hospital in Saint-Girons.

Anecdotes

When asked, for some reason, to offer a prime number at random, Grothendieck gave the answer 57, which is not a prime number, and since then this number has been known, jokingly, as “Grothendieck's prime.” ”.

Source: Wikipedia