“ Damien, you must always remember. Although you are weak, you must forge a will to live, a will to achieve, and a will to survive. No matter the circumstance and no matter the adversity, you must survive because if you survive and you fight, and you persevere through it all, one day you'll become someone that even the heavens must look up to. ”

― Damien's father's last words before disappearing,

Chapter 5

Damien Void is the protagonist of Void Evolution System. He is an extremely talented Space Practitioner and is the greatest genius of Grand Heavens Boundary. He was born with a mysterious constitution called the Void Physique and is the sole inheritor of an extremely powerful affinity.

Appearance[]

Before his first evolution, Damien had messy, medium length black hair and amethyst eyes that looked almost hollow. He was also very skinny however with his facial features, He was someone who could have been called 'extremely handsome' if not for his unkempt condition.

Evolved[]

After his first evolution, his eyes, which were always a deep amethyst color, were now mixed with blood-red in a yin-yang pattern. His hair grew to his neck and became marked with silver highlights. His canines sharpened as well, while his body became taller and he developed some muscularity. His physicality would increase gradually as he leveled up.[31] After devouring the Arachnid monster, golden flecks were added to his irises, and his pupils became cross-shaped.[32] Following his devouring of the Wyvern, he grew taller again, to about 1.9 meters, and he became even more muscular, though he was still lean. His muscles were described as "brimming with power".[33]

Universe Baptism[]

Following his Universe Baptism and ascension to fourth class, his appearance was refined further. His skin had always been milky-white, mirroring the finest jade, but this effect was even more exaggerated now. His smooth and unblemished skin made him seem like a sculpture carved out of the rarest minerals in existence. His hair, which had been uncut for many years, fell down his back like a midnight waterfall. However, unlike before, those streaks of silver were no longer present. His hair had reverted to its previous glossy black appearance. The blood-red and gold flecks disappeared from his eyes, which reverted to their amethyst color, except they were deeper and more vibrant than before. The only part of his old eyes that remained were his cross-shaped pupils.[34]

Cosmic Rebirth[]

There stood a single figure, tiny in comparison to the barrier, yet with a presence far surpassing it. His hair was long and black, flowing a quarter of the way down his back like an abyssal waterfall, devouring the light around it. His face was chiseled as if it had been sculpted by the Heavens themselves, and his body was worthy of being called nothing less than the perfect male physique. He wore robes like a scholar, black in color, and brushing lightly with the wind around him. A serene apperance, like a starry night sky, unbothered by all things. And... he was vague. They could sense all these things inherently. They could picture what he looked like in their minds. Yet, their perception could not see him at all. In their eyes, he was nothing more than a shadow. A shadow with deep, amethyst eyes that tightly grasped the souls of those who dared to look into them.

Disguised[]

After ascending and realizing the status of Void Palace, Damien altered his own appearance to avoid being linked to it. His new appearance is of an exceedingly handsome man with sharp features, short black hair and deep blue eyes similar to Dante's.

Personality[]

Damien craves freedom and can't stand being beneath another's thumb, possessing an overwhelming desire for power and to stand at the top of the universe. He enjoys banter and mockery with both his friends and enemies. His extensive time in a kill-or-be-killed environment, enduring frequent near-death experiences and pain beyond measure, has turned him into a cold, fearless, domineering conqueror who is extremely protective of his own, merciless to his enemies, and capable of staring certain death in the face without flinching. He takes a lot of risks and is very confident in his own abilities, but with the newfound intelligence he possessed following his Universe Baptism, he grew more calculated in his recklessness and frequently makes sure to check his own arrogance to make sure he doesn't become conceited.

Overall, what Damien wants is security. A level of power sufficient that he never has to bow to anyone and can live with the people he cares for without need to worry. He is frequently said to have an extremely rigid mentality unlike anyone else of his age due his multitude of experiences and access to trillions of years of memories.

Background[]

Damien was born as the first and sole inheritor of an extremely powerful affinity that should not exist in the Lower Universe. Damien was extremely sick, breaking apart from the inside because his body couldn't handle his own power, and at the same time, the Heavens tried to smite him as they were angered by his existence, causing natural disasters over the world on the day of his birth. They were hindered by Damien's father, a God hiding from his enemies in the Heavenly World, who used some of his Divinity to seal Damien's affinity inside his soul, where it took the form of a reddish-black seed.

This event is what alerted his enemies to his presence, forcing him to leave for the Heavenly World in order to avoid putting his family at risk. Damien would then grow up believing his father had abandoned him and left his mother to fend for herself, which would have a significant impact on his development. The damage he endured after his birth caused him to have a very weak body, a fact that his peers used as an excuse to viciously torment him for most of his childhood. Throughout this time his only friend was Elena Pierce, who developed affection for Damien due to his will in never submitting to or giving in to his tormenters.

After the world changed and awakened to mana, Damien awakened his spatial affinity along with the skill “short-distance teleportation”. At first, he was excited for the potential of his skill, but quickly came to the jarring realization that his pathetic physical stats made it impossible to use his ability effectively, draining his stamina after a few uses.

Disillusioned with his weakness, when Damien's mother fell into a coma from what was perceived as an inability to handle mana, he routinely risked his life in dungeons to make ends meet and look after his mother until one day, everything changed; Damien was betrayed, thrown into a gate and left to fend for himself in a labyrinth of beasts.

And so, the saga of the greatest genius in the Universe began...

Trivia[]

He has an irrational fear of spiders, so whenever he sees one he uses every means possible to kill it.[35]

He had a chunbiiyo phase.

During his time trapped in No Return Pass, Damien developed a hobby of creating drinks as well as blacksmithing.

On the day he was born, the Earth was wracked with natural disasters due to the anger of the Heavens.

He is the only person who has seen Saint Emperor's true personality.

Feats[]

Survived the First Dungeon, where every single monster held a trace of divine bloodline, but still survived and made it to the highest level.

Defeated Fourth Classes as a peak Third Class, a feat previously deemed impossible.

Survived a 5 minute barrage of Heavenly Lightning.

Held his own against an Extreme Peak Fourth Class as a Mid Fourth Class.

Created his own isolated Universe with its own Laws and fostered an entire civilization inside it.

Overpowered and helped kill a Primal Sovereign.

Subordinated the Ancient God Clan.

Purified a corrupted World Core.

Surpassed a Supreme on the basis of comprehension and defeated him on the same level.

Survived an attack from a Demigod while on the cusp of the 9 Revolutions.

Inherited the legacy of the Azure Dragon.

Subordinated one of the Primal Sovereigns.

Constructed a high-speed teleportation array across the entirety of the Universe in 2 years.

Held No Return Pass, the most dangerous frontier of Eien, by himself for five years. Because of him, No Return Pass was still standing when every other frontier of Eien had fallen.

Singlehandedly slayed over a trillion Nox beings total in No Return Pass[36].

Devoured several World Cores.

Comprehended more Universal Law than anyone else in the history aside from Eyrissea Luminus, which allowed him to set his own rules and laws upon his Mana, almost an impossible feat.

Gave himself an affinity for every single basic element, obtaining the Elemental affinity (never done before)[37].

Bound a Universe Core[38].

Increased his League as a Mortal (League is the level beyond Legend, the playing field of Demigods)[39].

The first non-Nox to find and get to Al'Katra[40].

Singlehandedly purged every single lesser Nox (8 quintillion) and destroyed the Demon Abyss, preventing more Nox from being born[41].

Became a wholly unique existence by transmuting his own soul with the power of the Void[42].

Resisted the Wheel of Samsara and brought himself back to life from literal True Death, an impossible feat[43].

Tethered Elemental to Samsara, causing his body to embody the concept of Life[44] and gaining control over the "material" aspect of existence[45].

Obtained a body capable of withstanding Divinity despite being a Mortal.

Assassinated 10 Demigods as a mortal[46].

Helped Iris kill Plague Lord[47] and then completely healed and purified her soul[48].

Killed and devoured 300 Demigods with Iris' help[48], 15 of which were on the same level as Plague Lord, including Void Lord.

Tethered Samsara to Spacetime[49], gaining the power to go against Demigods head on as a Supreme (impossible achievement).

Singlehandedly fought against an ambush from three of Inhuman Emperor's strongest subordinates, Bow Lord, Strength Lord, and Venom Lord, and killed them, as a Supreme.

Killed hundreds of powerful Nox Demigods by himself over a period of two years[50].

Created a Divinity one step below True Godhood.

Easily decimated two Emperor-level Demigods and erased 2000 Lords without lifting a finger, right after ascending[51].

Used an ability usually reserved for True Gods.

Became the most powerful being in the Lower Universe by far[52], before the age of 70.

Looked upon reality itself without his mind collapsing.

Killed a True God as a Low-Rank Demigod.

Gallery[]

Fanmade images using AI