Sector 3 is home to humans. Humans are remarked to not have any specific specialties or characteristics, but are known for their terrifying adaptability and versatility. Sector 3 sustained the most damage in the last war, which caused their strength and culture to regress behind other sectors somewhat, but it is understood that Sector 3 is home to a great many geniuses and is not to be underestimated.

The Cloud Plane is A higher world based off of ancient China and cultivation tropes. It was initially an uninhabited planet that became habited when Alaric Alfheim, an elf who was fighting with a Nox Demigod, fused with a tree that had reached the Demigod realm, and sealed the Nox in question. As Alaric grew in power, his mana nourished the planet and helped it along to the point of being able to support extensive life. He would later become known as the 'Primordial Undying Tree', and the planet would be called the Cloud Plane. It's greatest powers are the Jade Heavenly Palace and Celestial Star Palace, and is home to six Demigods. It is the second world to be bound by Damien.

Earth is Damien's homeworld. A small beginner planet, Earth initially became something of a proxy battleground between the Cloud Plane and the Nox-loyal forces of Niflheim. Following the latter's destruction at the hands of Damien Void, and being bound by him, Earth experienced rapid development in terms of magic engineering, though the strength of the inhabitants was lacking. The combatants of Earth developed a large degree of arrogance regarding their own strength, the most powerful calling themselves The 12 Gods, later renaming themselves the 12 Zodiacs at Damien's "request".

Aperion is the world connected to the dungeon that Damien was trapped in, and Rose's homeworld. Aperion is akin to "isekai" tropes, based off of medieval europe. Aperion is divided into several continents and nations that each have their own rulers: the Adelaire Empire and the Beast Domain are two of them.

The Unnamed Planet was the planet occupied by Niflheim. During the war, Asgard, which controlled the Unnamed planet, was significantly damaged, and the majority of its people fell to the temptation of the Nox. From then on, the dominant power on the planet was the organisation known as Niflheim, with Asgard existing as a mere rebellion It is later revealed that Asgard has become corrupt and is little more than a subsidiary of Niflheim, allowed to exist only as a source of false hope. Following the advent of Nox mana, a great portion of the planet was turned into an uninhabitable wasteland full of mutated monsters, known as the "Outer Wilds". Most of the populations are contained within technologically advanced "hubs". It is revealed that the Unnamed Planet is in fact not a planet at all. Huddled around the World Core since 500,000 years ago, before the planet was formed, was the Fifth Primal Sovereign, a colossal Space Beast who was hibernating there in waiting for the emergence of "the seed", also known as Damien Void.

Bloodland has a Demigod titled the Blood Emperor.

Hatia and Rihevan were destroyed during the last war.

Mirrorbloom has two Demigods, named the Illusive Fairy Goddess and the Wind Monarch.

Phiroah had a Demigod specializing in Poison, named the Deathmist Empress, who died at the hands of the 5th Primal Sovereign.