Derek Jeter

Yankees' Derek Jeter tips his cap to fans during a pregame ceremony in 2014. His No. 2 jersey will be permanently retired by the team on Sunday.

(AP Photo)

When the Yankees retire Derek Jeter's uniform No. 2 this Sunday, they will have achieved a unique form of baseball Bingo. All uniform numbers from 1-10 will no longer be available. Brett Gardner's No. 11 is the lowest still being used.

The Yanks weren't the first to wear uniform numbers (the Cleveland Indians beat them to it), but they've since retired more than any other team in sports, save the NBA's Boston Celtics.

These numbers are just as much a part of the mystique in the Bronx as the pinstripes or the facade. Here are a few fun Yankees uniform number facts:

1. Murderer's Row origins

When the Yankees adopted numbers in 1929, they were distributed in accordance with the batting order. Babe Ruth was assigned No. 3 and Lou Gehrig, at cleanup, was given No. 4. Eight of the famed 1927 "Murderer's Row" players were in that lineup, with the exception of Leo Durocher, who was given No. 7, and reserve catcher Bill Dickey, granted No. 10. Dickey eventually inherited No. 8, which was later co-retired in honor of Dickey's Hall of Fame career and that of his catching protege and successor, Yogi Berra.

2. Former Yankees stars to also wear No. 2

Frankie Crosetti set a Yankees record by wearing No. 2 from 1945-1968, first as a player then as a coach. Hall of Famer Joe Sewell wore No. 2 before Crosetti, and 10 others, including Sandy Alomar Sr., Bobby Murcer and Dale Berra, wore No. 2 after him. But when Derek Jeter first put it on in 1995, it became his for eternity.

3. Utility player gives up uniform number twice

Utility player Cliff Mapes holds an unusual spot in Yankees lore as the only man to wear two legendary numbers. Astoundingly, he was one of five men given No. 3 after Babe Ruth left the team. When the Yankees retired that number in 1948, Mapes switched to No. 7, until he gave that up to rookie Mickey Mantle in 1951.

4. A history of retired Yankees numbers

Lou Gehrig's No. 4 was not retired on the day of his famous "Luckiest Man" speech in 1939. The honor was given a year later, shortly before his death. Babe Ruth's No. 3 followed, then DiMaggio's No. 5 in 1952. It wasn't until 1969-1970 that two more numbers were gone, Mantle's No. 7 and Casey Stengel's No. 37. Just 10 were retired from the '70s to the '90s, and only one (Ron Guidry's No. 49) in the early 2000s, but this decade has already seen five such ceremonies.

5. Coaches to receive the honor

Joe McCarthy was a championship manager for the Yankees during the 1930s. Curiously, he never wore a number. Baseball is the only major sport where the coaches dress like the players, so the Yanks have retired three numbers for managers: Stengel's No. 37, Billy Martin's No. 1 and Joe Torre's No. 6.

6. The most popular uniform number

Lou Gehrig was the only Yankee to wear No. 4, but every other retired number was worn by several other players before it was pulled from circulation. Of all the available Yankees uniform numbers, 26 - currently sported by Tyler Austin - has been distributed the most, to 75 different players over 85 seasons.

7. Judge's special number

The Yankees didn't start giving out uniform numbers over 60 until the 1980s, and it took another 20 years for them to go above 70. Only five Yankees have ever worn a number greater than 80. Aaron Judge's No. 99 is the highest one ever granted (pitcher Brian Bruney wore it first, in 2009.) So far, none of the major sports have crossed the triple digit barrier on uniforms.

Enjoy these events while you can. With players moving from team to team, retiring numbers is becoming the exception, rather than the rule. If these "Baby Bombers" do join the legends, it will take years. Derek Jeter's ceremony might be the last we see in the Bronx for a long, long time.