"Thy Kingdom Come" Series Kingdom HospitalSeason 1, Episode 1 Air date March 3rd, 2004 Writers Stephen King Director Craig R. Baxley Producers Thomas H. Brodek; Mark Carliner; Richard Dooling; Bruce Dunn; Lisa Henson; Stephen King; Robert F. Phillips; Lars von Trier; Mary Anne Waterhouse; Janet Yang Starring Andrew McCarthy; Bruce Davison; Diane Ladd; Brandon Bauer; Jack Coleman; Jennifer Cunningham; Meagen Fay; Jodelle Micah Ferland; Lena Georgas; Jamie Harrold; Allison Hossack; Suki Kaiser; Sherry Miller; Del Pentecost; Julian Richings; Kett Turton; William Wise; Ed Begley, Jr. Episode guide Previous

— Next

"Death's Kingdom"

"Thy Kingdom Come" is the premiere episode of the supernatural drama series Kingdom Hospital. It was directed by Craig R. Baxley with a teleplay written by Stephen King, based upon a concept originally developed by Lars von Trier. It first aired on ABC on March 3rd, 2004.

Synopsis[]

Cast[]

Principal Cast[]

Actor Role Andrew McCarthy Doctor Hook Bruce Davison Doctor Stegman Diane Ladd Sally Druse Brandon Bauer Abel Lyon Jack Coleman Peter Rickman Jennifer Cunningham Christa Meagen Fay Doctor Brenda Abelson Jodelle Micah Ferland Mary Jensen Lena Georgas Nurse Carrie von Trier Jamie Harrold Doctor Elmer Traff Allison Hossack Doctor Christine Draper Suki Kaiser Natalie Rickman Sherry Miller Doctor Lona Massingale Del Pentecost Bobby Druse Julian Richings Otto Kett Turton Paul/Antubis William Wise Doctor Louis Traff Ed Begley, Jr. Doctor Jesse James

Guest Stars[]

Actor Role Mark Brandon Game show host Penelepe Corrin Julie Cameron Cowles Sid Beverley Elliott Nurse Brick Bannerman Lorena Gale MRI tech Allan Grant Game show guest Antony Holland Lenny Stillmach Bill Meilen Narrator Claudette Mink Celeste Daldry Ty Olsson Danny Benjamin Ratner Ollie Jerry Rector Crow Ryan Robbins Dave Hooman Tygh Runyan Idler #2 Zak Santiago Doctor Sonny Gupta Ron Selmour Firecracker man Peter Shinkoda Anesthesiologist Charles Martin Smith Earl Swinton Wanda Sturtevant Nurse Elsa Emily Tennant Mona Klingerman Don Thompson Soda Pop Janet Wright Liz Hinton Richard Zeman Trooper

Notes & Trivia[]

There are no notations or trivia available for this episode at this time. Be the first to add some! Just click on the edit tab under the section heading and start typing. This may include all out-of-universe as well as in-universe information relating to the episode. Acceptable notations may include:

The production code number for the episode.

Home video availability for the episode (VHS, DVD, Blu-ray, etc.), as well as which services provide digital download copies and/or streaming video services.

The rating for the episode (TV-14, TV-MA, etc.)

How many episodes in this series the director may have worked on.

How many episodes in this series the writer may have worked on.

Unique spelling or mis-spelling of selected cast and crew member, which may differ from how they are identified in other works.

Character appearances and other annotations.

Allusions[]

There are no allusions available for this episode at this time. Be the first to add some! Just click on the edit tab under the section heading and start typing. An allusion is an incidental reference made to a character, person, event or other miscellaneous piece of media that can be found somewhere in the episode itself. In most cases, this refers to characters or events from previous episodes.

Bloopers[]

There are no bloopers available for this episode at this time. Be the first to add some! Just click on the edit tab under the section heading and start typing. A blooper is any revealing mistake that can be found within the episode that the production crew may have missed during editing. This can range from inconsistent lines of dialogue to visible production equipment in the shot to mis-spoken lines of dialogue, or... dare we say it? A wardrobe malfunction.

Quotes[]

There are no quotes available for this episode at this time. Be the first to add some! Just click on the edit tab under the section heading and start typing. The preferred format for quotes is an asterisk, followed by the character's name (bold and hyper-linked), semi-colon then the quote itself (without quotation marks. Quotes should be separated by four elipses (....) unless multiple quotes are used between characters as part of a conversation.

See also[]

Kingdom Hospital

Kingdom Hospital media

Kingdom Hospital images

Kingdom Hospital episodes

Kingdom Hospital cast & crew

Kingdom Hospital miscellaneous

[]