Editor’s note: Vision and TV grabs available via Hightail following Questacon event

The AFP is helping launch National Science Week 2023 by taking over Questacon to showcase the agency’s world-class forensic capabilities to budding scientists young and old.

The sanctioned take over of the National Science and Technology Centre will be led by AFP Chief Scientist Dr Simon Walsh and the AFP Forensics team.

Dr Walsh will oversee the installation of AFP demonstrations at Questacon including facial identification, fingerprint matching, crime scene investigations and digital forensics.

AFP Forensics members will share their expertise at the demonstrations, which were inspired by the National Science Week theme of ‘Innovation: Powering Future Industries’.

Budding scientists visiting Questacon are encouraged to become AFP forensic recruits as part of the ‘special junior forensic investigator’ program and navigate their way across various activities.

AFP Chief Scientist Dr Simon Walsh said the National Science Week event was an important opportunity to educate, encourage and inspire young children to embrace their inner ‘forensic scientist’.

“National Science Week is an excellent opportunity for the AFP to not only celebrate the work we undertake in this space, but also to inspire a new generation of forensic and technology experts,” he said.

“Together with Questacon we have given aspiring mini scientists a hands-on experience and opportunity to see how law enforcement uses science and technology to investigate and combat crime.”

Details about some of the cutting-edge AFP capabilities include:

Facial identification: involves a variety of methods forensic scientists use to identify a person, including the use of forensic artists, facial recognition and facial image-comparison specialists. AFP Forensics members use facial identification images or ‘face-fits’, along with photo boards, image progressions and craniofacial reconstructions to assist with this process.

Fingerprint matching: used to establish the identity of a person and has been used since the early part of the 20th century. Forensics can use inked or digital fingerprints to confirm the identity of a person.

Crime scene forensics: involves the collection, examination and retrieval of physical evidence at the scene of an incident.

Digital forensics: assists investigators with the identification of digital evidence, along with locating information and data stored on devices.

National Science Week is an annual celebration of science and technology, held each August. This year it will feature more than 1000 events across Australia.

Media enquiries:

AFP Media: (02) 5126 9297