List of football clubs in Norway — Contents 1 Men 1.1 Premier League (Tippeligaen) 1.2 First Division (Adeccoligaen) … Wikipedia

List of football clubs in Lithuania — Legend LA L1 FT A Lyga 1 Lyga Farm team league L2S L2N L2E L2W 2 Lyga zone South zone North zone East zone West This is a list of football (soccer) clubs in Lithuania that played in A Lyga (the highest league), Lyga 1 (second tier league), or… … Wikipedia

List of football clubs in the Czech Republic — This is a list of teams in the Czech Republic Football Leagues. As of 2011/12 season. Contents 1 First level Gambrinus Liga 2 Second level Druhá liga 3 Third level 3.1 … Wikipedia

List of football clubs in the Netherlands — The Dutch Football League is organized by the Royal Dutch Football Association (KNVB, Koninklijke Nederlandse Voetbalbond).The most successful teams are Ajax (30), PSV (21) and Feyenoord (14). Important teams of the past are HVV (10 titles),… … Wikipedia

List of football clubs in Montenegro — The Montenegrin football clubs play in Montenegrin First League, Montenegrin Second League and Montenegrin Third League and other regional leagues. Contents 1 Montenegrin First League 2 Montenegrin Second League 3 Montenegrin Third League … Wikipedia

List of top-division football clubs in UEFA countries — This is a list of top division association football clubs in UEFA countries. UEFA, the European football confederation, includes all European countries except Monaco and Vatican City as members, but also includes the Middle Eastern country of… … Wikipedia

Football in Belgium — Football, a sport which has been played in Belgium since the end of the 19th century, is that country s most popular sport. The national association was founded in 1895 with the intention of bringing some order and organization to the sport. The… … Wikipedia

Football in Croatia — Founded 1912 FIFA affiliation 1941 The Croatian Football Federation President Vlatko Marković Football in Croatia, called nogomet, is the most popular team sport in the country and is led by the Croatian Foot … Wikipedia

Football in Denmark — Association football is the national sport of Denmark, with 342,955 players and 1,647 clubs registered (as of 2011)[1] under the Danish FA. Contents 1 League system 1.1 Lower divisions format 2 … Wikipedia