Boot Camp Clik have come back together to release a hard-hitting new track titled “Wotcha Call Strength,” which is their first in over 15 years.

The Brooklyn, New York rap supergroup are known for their street-centric bars and robust delivery and their latest effort is no different.

Produced by The Arcitype and released by their home label, Duck Down Records, “Wotcha Call Strength” is a testament to the group’s longevity and stature within the scope of rap music.

Members of Boot Camp Clik include Buckshot (of Black Moon), Tek and Steele (of Smif N Wessun), Rock and the late Sean Price of (of Heltah Skeltah), and Starang Wondah, Top Dogg and Louieville (of Originoo Gunn Clappaz).

New York artist Rustee Juxx is now a part of Boot Camp Clik as well.

Outside of their inner group projects, the larger collective itself has released four studio albums including 1997’s For the People, 2002’s The Chosen Few, 2006’s The Last Stand, and 2007’s Casualties of War.

They also dropped Basic Training: Boot Camp Clik’s Greatest Hits in 2000.

Check out the video for “Wotcha Call Strength” below and stream the single here:

Boot Camp Clik’s co-founder and Duck Down Records CEO Drew “Dru-Ha” Friedman said the supergroup’s motivation for releasing the single lies in the year-long celebration of Hip Hop’s 50th Anniversary.

“In honor and celebration of Hip Hop 50 we felt that the BCC’s catalog of work, contributions and legacy needed to be recognized properly,” Dru-Ha said in a statement. “It’s too easy to sit back and say the Hip Hop community should verify you and painstaking to go out and have to remind people with words, so we felt there was no better way to make a statement than to drop a new record with all the original members (RIP to Sean Price).”

He continued: “With a high-energy track provided by The Arcitype and a ferocious lead-off verse from Rustee Juxx, the guys were inspired to work together as a collective again. Although it’s been many years since they’ve recorded together, they all remain bonded by their shared experiences and legacies.”

“Once again, they truly demonstrated there’s power in numbers, showcased the unique chemistry they have with one another, and fittingly entitled the track ‘Wotcha Call Strength.'”

Dru-Ha also spoke on the group’s new merch drop — which arrived on Saturday (July 15) — and their upcoming performance at Rock The Bells Festival on August 5 in New York.

“Partnering with Rock The Bells was the icing on the cake, as not only did they provide resources, but the indirect endorsement from Hip Hop royalty in LL COOL J adds even more credibility to the single, and helped solidify the marketing campaign that will be capped with a full BCC performance at the Rock The Bells Festival,” he concluded.

LL COOL J first announced the return of the Rock The Bells Festival back in April. At the time, the Hip Hop pioneer jumped on Instagram Live to share the exciting news with fans.

“I wanted to tell you personally [that on] Saturday, August 5th, Rock The Bells Festival is back,” he said in the previous video, before joking: “Well, you can’t call it a comeback,” in reference to the opening bars on his 1990 smash hit “Mama Said Knock You Out.”