Lance Star: Sky Ranger Vol. 2 is now available as e-book

Lance Star: Sky Ranger Vol. 2 now available as e-book from the Airship 27 Hangar at a great price. Only $3. Visit the Hangar at http://homepage.mac.com/robmdavis/Airship27Hangar/index.html#lancestar2 for more information on this and other great Airship 27 e-books.

Get yours today!

About Lance Star: Sky Ranger Vol. 2:

Airship 27 Productions and Cornerstone Book Publishers are buckling up for high flying pulp thrills as they announce the release of LANCE STAR – SKY RANGER Vol. Two.

Five years ago, with Volume One, this long forgotten pulp hero returned with a bang in four action packed new stories.

Once again its time to strap in to your seat belts and rev up your props, as Lance Star – Sky Ranger returns with another heaping of all out action, adventure thrills and spills high up in the wild blue yonder. And this time he’s accompanied by a handful of pulpdom’s greatest aviation heroes to include, The Griffon, The Three Mosquitos, and the undisputed Commander of the Clouds, America’s # 1 action ace, Captain Midnight!

Writers Bobby Nash, Van Allen Plexico, Aaron Smith and David Walker pull out all the stops to bring you five pulse pounding tales of brave men and their flying machines as they fight our countries deadliest foes both at home and abroad. Here, for the first time, is the origin of Captain James Charles Albright and the mission from which he would become known forever as Captain Midnight. This volume contains a brief history of all these classic pulp fliers, interior illustrations by Rob Davis and a stunning cover by Shane Evans, Lance Star – Sky Ranger Vol.Two is the high diving collection pulp fans have waiting for.

Brought to you proudly by Airship 27 Productions, pulp fiction for a new generation!

ISBN: 1-934935-61-1

ISBN 13: 978-1-934935-61-3

Produced by Airship 27

Published by Cornerstone Book Publishers

Follow Lance Star’s adventures at www.lance-star.com

About Bobby:

From his secret lair in the wilds of Bethlehem, Georgia, Bobby Nash writes. A multitasker, Bobby's certain that he does not suffer from ADD, but instead he... ooh, shiny.

When he finally manages to put fingers to the keyboard, Bobby writes novels (Evil Ways, Fantastix), comic books (Fuzzy Bunnies From Hell, Demonslayer), short prose (A Fistful of Legends, Full Throttle Space Tales Vol. 2: Space Sirens, Green Hornet Case Files), novellas (Lance Star: Sky Ranger, Ravenwood: Stepson of Mystery), graphic novels (Yin Yang, I Am Googol: The Great Invasion), and even a little pulp fiction (Domino Lady, Secret Agent X) just for good measure. Despite what his brother says, Bobby is not addicted to buying DVD box sets and can quit anytime he wants to.