Wimbledon legend Martina Navratilova has a surprise second career as a reality TV star on the Real Housewives of Miami.

The seven-time Wimbledon champion has revelled in her celebrity status since retiring from tennis back in 2006 at the age of 49.

Navratilova featured on series eight of the UK’s ‘I’m a Celebrity…Get Me Out Here!’ in 2008 as she finished runner-up to King of the Jungle Joe Swash.

She was later named as a cast member on ABC’s Dancing with the Stars in 2012 where she partnered Tony Dovolani, but she didn’t fare as well with the US audience as they were the first couple voted off.

READ MORE: Wimbledon star can't believe it as opponent hits 'shot of the tournament' from the floor

But the 18-time Grand Slam champion's most recognisable appearance on TV came on the Real Housewives of Miami as she starred alongside her wife Julia Lemigova.

Czechoslovakia-born Navratilova entered into a relationship with the 1990 Miss USSR and former Miss Universe runner-up Lemigova after meeting at a dinner party in Paris where Lemigova was modelling, and the couple tied the knot in 2014.

Did you watch Navratilova on the Real Housewives of Miami? Let us know in the comments section below

The couple bought a Miami Beach property the same year and moved out three years later after they tore it down to rebuild a new house, which was one of their first involvements in the reality show in 2021, where they became the first open LGBT members to appear in the franchise’s history.

Despite her appearing on other TV shows, Navratilova admitted that her wife is more adept in front of the cameras when asked about how she feels featuring on the show, she said: “It’s fun for her! Me, I run away from cameras. You know me.”

Navratilova continued: “She gets paid, and I get nothing. I do my work, but ... she’s done so much work on that; it just mushroomed.”

But their appearance on the show was only brief as the 66-year-old tennis legend was diagnosed with breast and throat cancer, fortunately she received the all-clear in March 2023 and may well be set for another TV adventure soon.