Tennis legend Martina Navratilova stepped out for dinner with her model wife Julia Lemigova in Miami Beach amid health troubles with her cancer diagnosis.

The 66-year-old former athlete looked pensive as she headed into the restaurant on Sunday evening, donning a blue tropical printed shirt and holding onto her loved one.

Earlier this month, Martina, who has won 59 Grand Slam titles over the course of a 4-year career, announced that she has been diagnosed with stage one throat and breast cancer after noticing an enlarged lymph node in her neck in November.

Martina looked smart in her quirky shirt for the night and paired it with some dark blue jeans.

Going makeup-free for the occasion, Martina slipped her feet into a pair of Adidas trainers with some multi-coloured stripes featuring on the side.

Her blonde hair was worn in its natural straight style and she wore a sports watch as her accessory.

The sportsperson's wife Julia, 50, wore a matching brown velvet blazer and trouser set, with a black, orange and purple striped top underneath.

She opted for a high heel in a cheetah print, which matched her clutch bag for the night.

They went for Greek food on Sunday, and chose Estiatorio Milos not far from the Miami Beach Marina.

Czech-born American Navratilova said that she is going to 'fight with all I have got' after sharing the news of her diagnosis.

'I'm hoping for a favourable outcome,' she told fans earlier this month. 'It's going to stink for a while but I'll fight with all I have got.'

The former tennis world number one's diagnosis comes after she was given the all-clear from a non-invasive form of breast cancer in 2010 following radiation treatment.

Navratilova, who won 59 grand slam singles and doubles titles in her 40-year career, will not travel to this month's Australian Open, where she was intending to work as a TV pundit.

But a statement from her representative described the prognosis as 'good'.

'Martina Navratilova has been diagnosed with stage one throat cancer,' read the statement. 'The prognosis is good and Martina will start her treatment this month.'

'Both these cancers are in their early stages with great outcomes. Martina won't be covering the Australian Open for Tennis Channel from their studio but hopes to be able to join in from time to time by Zoom.'

Navratilova, who was born in Revnice, Czech Republic, and was one of the first openly gay sports figures, won a record nine Wimbledon singles titles between 1978 and 1990 in a career which saw her dominate tennis with 18 total Grand Slam titles.

Navratilova originally retired in 1994, after a record 167 singles titles and 331 weeks at No. 1 in the WTA rankings. She returned to the tour to play doubles in 2000 and occasionally competed in singles, too.

Navratilova was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 2000.

As she approached her 50th birthday in 2006, Navratilova decided to retire from professional tennis for good after her final Grand Slam - a mixed-doubles championship with Bob Bryan at the U.S. Open. She became the oldest player to ever win a Grand Slam title during that match.

Since her retirement, the former left-hander has become a prominent commentator in the sport, and has been a part of the BBC's coverage at Wimbledon.

Navratilova married her wife Lemigova in 2015 after nine years together. The couple met more than 20 years ago in a Parisian gay bar.