SAN FRANCISCO, March 25, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Symphony Advanced Media (SymphonyAM), the technology leader in passively captured cross-platform media measurement, is announcing today a new partnership with TiVo Research and Analytics, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of TiVo Inc. [NASDAQ: TIVO]), the pioneer in delivering insights from single-source matching of TV-viewing and advertising exposure with purchase information. Together, SymphonyAM and TiVo Research will be creating the largest single-source, cross-media panel of opt-in participants in the market, designed to enable deep insights into consumers' media consumption and social media engagement across screens, coupled with detailed demo- and psychographics, advancing understanding of the interplay between media and marketing beyond what is currently available.

(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20140325/NE89908LOGO )

TiVo Research will license SymphonyAM's mobile and online app technology which passively captures media usage across television, mobile phone, tablet, and PC, including detailed social networking and search activity. This multi-year deal, effective April 1, 2014, will marry the largest source of cross-media opt-in panel insights with data from TiVo TV set-top boxes to develop the most comprehensive view of media consumption and its impact on purchase behavior.

As part of the deal, TiVo Research and SymphonyAM will recruit TiVo panel customers to opt into SymphonyAM's and TiVo Research's single-source, cross-platform panel. Data gleaned from the expanded panel will be available to the broad marketplace including agencies, advertisers, media companies and research firms, which all rely on consumer behavioral data across media platforms.

"Understanding how cross-media exposure is impacting the behavior of our target consumers is more critical than ever for us," said Aaron Fetters, director Insights and Analytics Solutions Center at Kellogg Company. "The Symphony Advanced Media and TiVo Research collaboration offers us a potential path to greater levels of depth, accuracy and insights into cross media behavior."

"Mobile and social are transforming media consumption at an unprecedented pace, and the market is hungry for fresh insights into the ROI of cross media exposure," said Charles Buchwalter, president and CEO of SymphonyAM. "This partnership brings the best from both companies and will allow for a novel perspective on how cross-platform exposure influences consumers' path-to-purchase."

"TiVo Research has committed to assemble the best in breed partners to offer cross-media insights. This new partnership with Symphony Advanced Media will expand our value proposition of set-top box and purchase data to provide our clients with deep insights in cross-media consumption, information that is key to our clients' businesses today," said TiVo Research president Bob Meyers.

About Symphony Advanced Media

Symphony Advanced Media, the pioneer in single-source cross-media passive measurement, is a leading technology and data provider that measures integrated media consumption and resulting behaviors, enabling advertisers, agencies and publishers to optimize media strategies and maximize advertising performance. SymphonyAM provides unparalleled focus on individual, single-source, real-time cross-media measurement, a firm belief that passive measurement is better than stated measurement and deep commitment to reaching new levels of advertising effectiveness accuracy. To learn more about SymphonyAM, visit: http://www.symphonyam.com.

About TiVo Research

TiVo Research and Analytics, Inc. (TRA), a wholly-owned subsidiary of TiVo Inc. (NASDAQ: TIVO), is a leading media marketing analytics company that helps advertisers, agencies and television networks improve advertising targeting, accountability and return on media investment within the Automotive, Consumer Packaged Goods, and Pharmaceutical industries, as well as a growing number of client CRM engagements. TiVo Research's patented web-based Media TRAnalytics® and TV Health Ratings™ platforms match the TV and digital advertising households receive with the products the same households actually buy, enabling TiVo Research clients to find "The Right Audience®" while providing an unmatched level of transparency, measurement, media planning/selling and improved ROI. TiVo Research clients include Procter and Gamble, ION Media, Sunovion and Starcom MediaVest Group. More information at: www.TiVoResearch.com.

TiVo and the TiVo Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of TiVo Inc. or its subsidiaries worldwide. © 2014 TiVo Inc. All rights reserved. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to, among other things, to the future cross-media panel to be created by TiVo Research and Analytics, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of TiVo Inc.) and SymphonyAM and the associated products and services to be offered in connection with this collaboration. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as, "believe," "expect," "may," "will," "intend," "estimate," "continue," or similar expressions or the negative of those terms or expressions. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to vary materially from those expressed in or indicated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially include delays in development, competitive service offerings and lack of market acceptance, as well as the other potential factors described under "Risk Factors" in the Company's public reports filed with the Securities and Exchange, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014 and Current Reports on Form 8-K. The Company cautions you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect an analysis only and speak only as of the date hereof. TiVo disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.

Media Contact:

Laura Maas (InkHouse for Symphony Advanced Media)

781-966-4124

[email protected]

SOURCE Symphony Advanced Media