IRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Jun. 9, 2021-- Viant Technology Inc. (NASDAQ: DSP), a leading people-based advertising software company, today announced that Viant has entered into a license agreement with TiVo®, the company that brings entertainment together and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Xperi Holding Corporation (Nasdaq: XPER), integrating TiVo’s linear TV viewership data feed into Adelphic® advertising software. The real-time television tune-in and ad exposure data feed will enable improved audience activation, measurement, and attribution for millions of households across the US.

“We continue to focus on expanding our Linear TV and Connected TV portfolio of partners to provide marketers and their agencies with the best inventory, targeting and measurement options,” said Jon Schulz, Chief Marketing Officer, Viant. “The successful integration of TiVo’s TV viewership data feed into our Adelphic software offers our advertisers the diversity, flexibility, and real-time analysis needed to support their omnichannel campaigns at the household level.”

According to a recent report from eMarketer, among US TV-watching adults, daily time spent with TV increased by a robust 9.2% in 2020. Thanks to this boost, TV time among the whole adult population increased year-over-year in 2020 as a result of increased time consumers spent at home.

“We are pleased to provide Viant with granular, deterministic TV data for program tune-in and commercial viewership to expand the comprehensive TV capabilities provided through Adelphic,” said Fariba Zamaniyan, Vice President, Data and Monetization, TiVo. “The addition of TiVo TV viewership data will further expand Viant’s TV solutions to support the evolving needs of advertisers for precision targeting and attribution measurement aligned to their ad spend.”

TiVo’s TV viewership data provides high-quality linear data of Live and Time-Shifted usage across the US, and allows customers to measure their campaign activity, optimize data science solutions, and power omnichannel media planning and buying.

About Viant

Viant® is a leading people-based advertising software company that enables marketers and their agencies to centralize the planning, buying and measurement of their advertising investments across most channels. Viant’s self-service Demand Side Platform (DSP), Adelphic®, is an enterprise software platform enabling marketers to execute programmatic advertising campaigns across Connected TV, Linear TV, mobile, desktop, audio and digital out-of-home channels. Viant’s Identity Resolution capabilities have linked 115 million U.S. households to more than 1 billion connected devices and is combined with access to more than 280,000 audience attributes from more than 70 people-based data partners. Viant is an AdAge 2021 Best Places to Work award winner and the Adelphic DSP is featured on AdExchanger’s 2020 Programmatic Power Players list. To learn more, visit viantinc.com and adelphic.com or follow us on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn and YouTube.

About TiVo

TiVo brings entertainment together, making it easy to find, watch and enjoy. We serve up the best movies, shows and videos from across live TV, on-demand, streaming services and countless apps, helping people to watch on their terms. For studios, networks and advertisers, TiVo delivers a passionate group of watchers to increase viewership and engagement across all screens. In June 2020, TiVo became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Xperi Holding Corporation. Go to tivo.com and enjoy watching.

About Xperi Holding Corporation

Xperi invents, develops, and delivers technologies that enable extraordinary experiences. Xperi technologies, delivered via its brands (DTS, HD Radio, IMAX Enhanced, Invensas, TiVo), and by its startup, Perceive, make entertainment more entertaining, and smart devices smarter. Xperi technologies are integrated into billions of consumer devices, media platforms, and semiconductors worldwide, driving increased value for partners, customers and consumers.

Xperi, DTS, IMAX Enhanced, Invensas, HD Radio, Perceive, TiVo and their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of affiliated companies of Xperi Holding Corporation in the United States and other countries. All other company, brand and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies.

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20210609005534/en/

Media Contact:

Karen Castillo-Paff

kpaff@viantinc.com