Life as a House is a 2001 drama about a man who has been diagnosed with terminal cancer, that tries to reconnect with his troubled teenage son by tearing down his dilapidated house and building a new one with his son’s help.

Sam Monroe, played by Hayden Christensen, is an angry teenager who lives with his mother and only sees his father sporadically. his mother is remarried with two young sons and lives in a pristine white house that Sam’s very existence seems to tarnish. at one point his mother laments that she can’t stand to be around her own son, and his step-father not only happily jokes that it’s nicer when he’s not around but he also calls Sam a queer, which his younger brothers hear and repeat.

Sam is rebellious, with facial piercings and a blue streak in his hair, and is addicted to any mind numbing substance he can get his hands on. at one point he even agrees to pimp himself out for drug money, by agreeing to an arrangement made by his friend. the friend’s sage advice is to just close your eyes and think of anything or anybody else until it’s over. with friends like that, who needs enemies?

Sam’s father George, played by Kevin Kline, wants to try to right the wrongs he’s caused his son in the little time that he has left. he hasn’t told anyone that he’s dying of cancer, they credit his weight loss and changing skin pallor to his recent loss of job as a model builder for an architecture company (if you dream of how you would go out in a blaze of glory if you were ever fired from your job, George can give you some pointers!) George’s plan to not only reconnect with his son but also help get the boy back on the straight and narrow, is to tear down his crappy house that is currently sitting on a prime piece of real estate overlooking the pacific ocean, and build a brand new house with his son, that he will leave to him when he’s gone. Sam is not on board with this plan, of course, and throws an epic tantrum when his summer plans of living the high life at a friend’s Lake Tahoe vacation house are ruined by his deadbeat father. this leads to a powerful scene between Hayden and Kevin, as George forces Sam into a hug and then shakes him in frustration when he tries to pull away, laying down the law for what is and is not going to be acceptable during Sam’s stay.

Sam continues to fight his father at every turn until another epic tantrum is thrown, resulting in George recounting his own bitter memories of his father and promising Sam that he will never hit him like his father did to him. he also gives a meaningful speech about the possibilities change can bring, which starts to get through to Sam.

when they finally start tearing down the house together, George confesses that it’s freeing for him because his father is the one who left the falling down house to him, to which Sam replies ‘you’re not building a house, you’re just tearing down your father’. George doesn’t disagree, and says that Sam should try it. so Sam does, picking up the sledgehammer and letting out his hurt and anger by smashing the wooden walls down and jumping on the fallen frame.

a poignant theme of the story was the way it showed the impact Sam’s parent’s divorce had on his developing psyche. it’s something that goes without saying, that a child will be affected in lasting ways by a divorce, but you can really see it in Sam’s eyes as he witnesses his parents falling in love again through the building of the house. Sam’s mother Robin, played by Kristin Scott Thomas, visits him at his father’s house (they’re living in the garage) and brings them lunch each day as the work on the house gets underway. during the first visit, Sam leaves the table and sullenly sits a short distance away on a swing as his parents reminisce at the picnic table. Robin remarks that George looks surprisingly happy, which shocks her because he is spending time with Sam, after all. George admits that he is happy, for the first time in a long time. he then shares that the last time he remembers being happy is when Sam was 6 years old and the two of them were playing in the ocean together, George holding an excited Sam as the waves crashed into them. meanwhile, current Sam is well within hearing range of this story and realizes that his Dad hasn’t been happy in 10 years, which is something that he can relate to. Robin proceeds to come and help with the building of the house, sometimes bringing Sam’s little brothers with her. one evening George and Robin dance to a song that they used to sing to Sam as a lullaby when he was a baby. Sam watches and witnesses, maybe for the first time, that his parents did love each other once upon a time, and that maybe that love never fully died.

that scene really struck me emotionally, to think of how children of divorce struggle with their sense of self, knowing that although they may have come into being as a product of love, it didn’t last. and if that kind of love couldn’t last, whose to say any love could? including the love that a parent has for their child. Sam didn’t have the security of knowing that his parents loved him, his Dad basically abandoned him and his Mom moved on with someone else, creating a new family that he knew he wasn’t really part of. during an earlier scene at home with his mother, she warns Sam to behave and he says if he didn’t, would anyone even be there for the fall out? Sam has been sending out cries for help for years, but no one is listening. it breaks my heart.

The fruit of George’s labor starts to become visible in both the physical construction of the house and the changes in Sam, which are helped along by Sam’s classmate Alyssa, who lives next door to George. I love the character of Alyssa, played by Jena Malone, because she’s so forthright, nothing holds her back from what she wants to do. she flirts with Sam but he’s like a scared kitten when it comes to girls, which she attests to the mistaken assumption that he is gay, because his pimp friend told her that he was (they have a shower scene together that is awkward and cute, with humor to keep it light) their friendship deepens and Alyssa becomes someone Sam can depend on when things get tough.

As George’s condition comes to light, things happen fast, leaving his loved one’s very little time to prepare for what will inevitably happen (his death scene is so beautiful, it left me a sobbing mess!) he, on the other hand, was able to accomplish what he set out to do: he gave his son a house, with tools and teamwork they built it together; he gave his son a life, with the love and guidance they shared, he’s better equipped now to live it.

a little tidbit that I learned from the Life as a House Wikipedia page is that the actual house used in the movie was built off site, dismantled and rebuilt in pieces for filming. then, when the movie was finished, it was dismantled again and rebuilt in another location as a library for an elementary school. it’s a beautiful house to look at but knowing that it lived on as a library is a comforting thought.