Mean Girls star Lacey Chabert has joined the cast for A Merry Scottish Christmas, reuniting with Party of Five co-star Scott Wolf in the process.

The pair played siblings Claudia and Bailey Salinger, respectively, on the teen drama before its conclusion in 2000 and are now reuniting after 23 years for the Hallmark production.

The film, which is due to be released later this year, follows "estranged siblings named Lindsay (Chabert) and Brad (Wolf), who travel to Scotland to reunite with their mother to celebrate Christmas. However, when they arrive, a big family secret is revealed."

Related: Mean Girls musical adds The Office and Dawson's Creek stars

Chabert, who played Gretchen Wieners in Mean Girls, said of the reunion with Wolf (via PEOPLE): "Scott and I have talked for years about doing another project together. When we first read this story about these siblings at a crossroads, we both knew it was the perfect opportunity."

Wolf added: "Working with Lacey on Party of Five was one of my favourite experiences ever. Reuniting after all of these years to tell such a beautiful story together is a dream that I'm so glad is coming true."

Lisa Hamilton Daly, the Executive Vice President of Programming at Hallmark Media, said in a statement: "We are so excited to reunite Lacey and Scott and know our viewers will fall in love with this movie. The nostalgia of seeing Lacey and Scott together again on screen is going to be a special holiday treat for our viewers."

Related: Lindsay Lohan reveals she pitched a Mean Girls nod for new movie Falling for Christmas

Chabert, who has appeared in over 30 films for the Hallmark channel, also took to her social media profiles to announce A Merry Scottish Christmas, sharing a photo of her alongside Wolf for the new film.

"A dream come true! I'm so thrilled to be reuniting with one of my dearest friends @iamscottwolf for a very special @hallmarkchannel #CountdownToChristmas movie," she wrote in the caption.

"We are having so much fun filming #AMerryScottishChristmas and can't wait to share it with you this holiday season! 🎄❤️🎄❤️"