A month after the Walmart commercial dropped, which reunited almost all the main cast of Mean Girls, we finally know why Rachel McAdams wasn’t in it.

In a new interview, the Hollywood star explained her reason for not reprising her role as high school queen bee Regina George in the ad. The skit was for department store Walmart’s Black Friday deals. Rachel was the only Mean Girl not to return to her role. But her other co-stars, Cady (Lindsay Lohan), Karen (Amanda Seyfried), and Gretchen (Lacey Chabert) were involved in the project. The blockbuster’s writer Tina Fey and Jonathan Bennett also came back as Ms Norbury and Aaron respectively.

Rachel McAdams skipped the Mean Girls commercial

Talking to Variety, the 45-year-old said she “wasn’t that excited” about doing an advert. However, if she knew a lot of her castmates were going to star, she would have maybe reconsidered.

She said: “I don’t know; I guess I wasn’t that excited about doing a commercial if I’m being totally honest. A movie sounded awesome, but I’ve never done commercials, and it just didn’t feel like my bag.

“Also… I didn’t know that everyone was doing it. I would, of course, always love to be part of a ‘Mean Girls’ reunion and hang with my plastics, but yeah, I found that out later.”

MORE: Piers Brosnan’s love he has for his wife makes them the cutest couple in Hollywood

Fans react to Rachel’s confession

Taking to X (formerly Twitter) fans of the film had quite strong reactions and opinions on what Rachel McAdams had said about starring in the Mean Girls commercial.

Other people have referenced a moment in the movie that sees high school students tell the audience rumors that they’ve heard about Regina. It hilariously includes the line on Regina doing “car commercials … in Japan.”

“I hear she only does car commercials… in Japan. so this makes sense,” wrote one.

Another said: “Rachel McAdams isn’t in this because she was busy doing car commercials… in Japan.”

Rachel almost did reprise her role elsewhere

In January, Paramount Pictures will release the film adaptation of the stage musical. Although Rachel McAdams didn’t want to be in the Mean Girls commercial, she was open to a cameo on the big screen. Unfortunately, this didn’t come to be, but the celebrity said she is still “excited” to see it.

The Notebook star said: “Tina and I sort of dabbled with a few ideas, but it was tough to make it all work in the end. I was really down for whatever she wanted to do. I think the direction it went in will be fantastic and I cannot wait to see it.”

MORE: Bradley Cooper in fits of giggles over his High School Reunion