Just in time for Halloween, things are starting to get scary over at RiffTrax.

The stars of RiffTrax — Michael J. Nelson, Kevin Murphy and Bill Corbett — will take on director Herk Harvey’s 1962 cult classic “Carnival of Souls” 8 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 27, with an encore presentation set for 7:30 p.m. Monday, Oct. 31.

Nelson, Murphy and Corbett will crack jokes as the film plays at the Belcourt Theatre in Nashville, and the event will be broadcast to more than 600 cinemas across the country.

This marks the 22nd RiffTrax Live event since 2009, and technically speaking “Carnival of Souls” (screening in a colorized version) may be one of the best films they’ve taken on. The film was Harvey’s only narrative feature, but he spent crafting industrial and educational shorts, including the previous RiffTrax target “Shake Hands with Danger” (1980).

As a result, “Carnival of Souls” is soundly made — for example, it’s in focus and coherently edited — but its story of a young church organist living a haunted life is deeply, singularly strange.

“People ask us all the time, ‘What is the worst film ever made?’ And it’s like, well, the worst film ever made is a film that’s unwatchable because it’s out of focus and the guy (making it) didn’t know how to use microphones or do sync sound or do ADR,” Nelson told the Asbury Park Press’ “Fan Theory” podcast. “So that’s terrible, that’s the worst film ever made and no one wants to see it.

“Obviously you’re talking about a different strata of movies here and this one … just has a weird vibe to it and the stretches of silence and moodiness actually lend themselves to what we do.”

STILL SCARY: "Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer" returns to theaters

Nelson, Murphy and Corbett are all veterans of the fan favorite television series “Mystery Science Theater 3000,” which cracked wise on classic cinematic misfires like “Manos: The Hands of Fate” (1966) and “The Mole People” (1956).

But Nelson stressed that a film doesn’t have to be traditionally bad to find itself in their sights. “Carnival of Souls” has plenty of admirers, including David Lynch and George A. Romero, but it certainly still lends itself to the RiffTrax treatment.

“We keep going back to that thing where everyone, they kind of assume and rightly so from our ‘Mystery Science’ days, that everything we do is bad or we’re mocking it,” Nelson said. “And it’s not always mockery, it’s a funny commentary. That’s kind of part of the deal, and the mood of it does lend itself to what we do.”

FALL FRIGHTS: Visit the area's eight scariest attractions

Harvey’s film, after all, does contain plenty of what could be described as lengthy passages where not much happens, leaving plenty of room for jokes.

“To people who really adore it and defend it — which is fine, to each his own — (for) the long stretches of silence there is always the refuge of saying that it’s ‘moody and atmospheric,’” Nelson said. “So that’s what they can go to when they get to those long stretches of silence.”

RIFFTRAX LIVE: CARNIVAL OF SOULS

WHEN: 8 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 27, with an encore presentation 7:30 p.m. Monday, Oct. 31

WHERE: More than 600 theaters across the country