Want to don Frodo's hairy hobbit feet and infiltrate Mount Doom? Or strap on the armour of Aragorn and explore the Paths of the Dead? Or cleave orcs in two with Gimli's trusty axe? If it's in the film, it's in here. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King, the videogame, captures every memorable scene from the movie and turns it into a frenzy of action and adventure, with you in the title role.

The storyline of The Return of the King sees Frodo Baggins on his final journey to destroy the wicked One Ring in the fires of Mount Doom, with only his gardener Sam Gamgee for company. Meanwhile the remainder of the Fellowship of the Ring, led by Gandalf the wizard and Aragorn, the king-to-be, must distract the forces of Sauron long enough for Frodo to fulfil his mission.

The game features a clever three-path structure that puts you in the position of either Gandalf, the trio of Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas, or Frodo and Sam. You can choose to play through the entire game as one of these character groups, or switch characters in-between levels. The Nintendo GameCube version features more than 12 environments which authentically recreate the look of the movie. You'll travel from the city of Minas Tirith to the Paths of the Dead, then onto the Pelennor Fields where the final showdown takes place.

In a major change from last year's game of The Two Towers, the environments are totally interactive. You can now swing from ropes, kick rocks at opponents and let rip with giant catapults. The experience system has also been given an overhaul. Defeating enemies rewards you with points which can be spent on improving each character's moves. You can also choose to spread these points among the Fellowship and give everyone a boost. You can also link to the Game Boy Advance version of The Return of the King (using a Nintendo GameCube Game Boy Advance cable) and download experience points from the GBA to the GCN game.

Interspersed between levels are clips taken direct from the movie, plus a brand new voiceover provided by Ian (Gandalf) McKellen. The rest of the cast have also lent their voices to the characters, and the music has been provided by Howard Shore, the film's composer. And The Return of the King need not be a solo adventure. You can team up with a friend and play through the game in the new co-operative mode.

With secret characters to discover, hidden features to unlock and a game structure that demands to be replayed over and over again, The Return of the King will keep you hack-and-slash happy for a long time to come.

What you need to know

This content is sold by Nintendo of Europe SE. The payment will be made with Nintendo eShop funds usable through the Nintendo Account used to complete the purchase.

This content is sold by Nintendo of Europe SE, payable with Nintendo eShop funds usable through your Nintendo Account. The Nintendo Account Agreement applies to the purchase of this content.

This content may be purchased by users who have registered a Nintendo Account and accepted the respective legal terms. To be able to purchase content for Wii U or Nintendo 3DS family systems, a Nintendo Network ID is also required and your funds usable through the Nintendo Account must be merged with the funds tied to your Nintendo Network ID. If the funds have not yet been merged, you will have the option to do so during the purchase process. To start the purchasing process, it is necessary to sign in with the Nintendo Account and the Nintendo Network ID. After signing in it will be possible to review the details and complete the purchase.

To be able to purchase content for Wii U or Nintendo 3DS family systems, your funds usable through the Nintendo Account must be merged with the funds tied to your Nintendo Network ID. If the funds have not yet been merged, you will have the option to do so during the purchase process. You will be able to review the details and complete the purchase on the next screen.

The details of this offer apply to users who sign in using a Nintendo Account with the country setting corresponding to the country setting of this website. If the country setting of a Nintendo Account is different, the details of this offer may be adjusted (for example, the price will be displayed in the respective local currency).

After your payment has been processed, the content will be downloaded to the applicable system linked to your Nintendo Account. This system must be updated to the latest system software and connected to the internet with automatic downloads enabled, and it must have enough storage to complete the download. Depending on the hardware model you own and your use of it, an additional storage device may be required to download content from Nintendo eShop. Please visit our Support section for more information.

In the case of games that use cloud streaming technology, a free launcher application or demo can be downloaded.

Please make sure you have enough storage to complete the download.

After your payment has been processed, the content will be downloaded to the applicable system linked to your Nintendo Account. This system must be updated to the latest system software and connected to the internet with automatic downloads enabled, and it must have enough storage to complete the download. Depending on the hardware model you own and your use of it, an additional storage device may be required to download content from Nintendo eShop. Please visit our Support section for more information.

In the case of games that use cloud streaming technology, a free launcher application or demo can be downloaded.

Please make sure you have enough storage to complete the download.

The details of the offer are displayed based on the country settings of your Nintendo Account.

The Nintendo Account Agreement applies to the purchase of this content.

The use of an unauthorised device or software that enables technical modification of the Nintendo console or software may render this game unplayable.

This product contains technological protection measures.

Content not playable before the release date: . For pre-orders, payments will be taken automatically starting from 7 days before the release date. If you pre-order less than 7 days before the release date, payment will be taken immediately upon purchase.