With a network of 14 advanced engineering centres on five continents, Tenneco is at the leading edge of technology for the original equipment market. Tenneco meets the needs of customers – including Volkswagen, General Motors, Ford, Toyota, Chrysler, Daimler, BMW, PSA Peugeot Citroen, Nissan and Shanghai Automotive (SAIC) – expertly tuning the ride of any vehicle to the most exacting specifications.

Here’s a look at our cutting-edge technology for our ride control products including:

Shock absorbers and struts

Suspension systems/modules

CES – Computerized Electronic Suspension

Kinetic passive stability systems

Coil and leaf springs

Cab shock absorbers

Seat shock absorbers

Heavy duty truck & train shocks

Top mounts

Corner and full axle modules

As a next generation shock absorber, frequency dependent damping is environmentally friendly – it uses no oil. The shock absorber can be mounted in any position and has a more consistent damping performance over a wide range of temperatures.

Our Micro-Amplitude Damping (MAD) technology is a position sensitive hydraulic circuit designed to eliminate the energy transfer caused by tire imbalances. This circuit is engineered to directly react to the displacement of the shock absorber.

Tenneco’s Continuously Controlled Electronic Suspension (CES) provides next generation capabilities in vehicle handling and ride comfort. CES is a semi-active suspension system that continuously adjusts damping levels according to road and driving conditions. At the heart of CES is an advanced valve system, developed with Ohlins Racing. The valves are integrated with an electronic controller and chassis sensors and work together to deliver the most advanced damping characteristics.

Tenneco’s Continuously Controlled Electronic Suspension (CES) was first commercialised on the 2003 Volvo S60R and V70R performance vehicles, offering sport car handling with luxury sedan comfort.

Kinetic suspension systems use technology that improves vehicle stability, handling and ride comfort and helps reduce the risk of vehicle roll-over.

The kinetic suspension technology can be adapted to the CVS market. This cost-effective passive system enhances vehicle stability by reducing vehicle roll while maintaining a comfortable ride.

This technology combines the passive Kinetica H2 system with CES damper valves to provide continuously controlled damping and high roll stiffness with reduced articulation stiffness.

Designed for sports cars and high-end SUVs, this intelligent system allows for both comfort and handling, as well as offers all the advantages of a semi-active suspension.