I first became aware of the British pop-punk band the Flys by way of Superchunk’s 1990 cover of “Night Creatures.” Though obviously a stellar tune, it was many years before I actually heard the Flys. When I finally did, I discovered they had many other awesome songs. Recently, a collection consisting of their entire catalog, along with previously unavailable material, was put out. As this release is the definitive Flys compilation, it seemed like the right time to share some of my favorite tracks.

Up first is “Me and My Buddies,” taken from the Flys’ debut, A Bunch of Five, a DIY EP that came out in December 1977. The song is one of two numbers from the record that, surprisingly, didn’t appear elsewhere, as it’s got loads of punk energy and a super-poppy chorus. Another highlight of the EP, “Love and a Molotov Cocktail,” would be repurposed as the first Flys single for EMI Records in January 1978. Both songs were written and sung by Flys leader, Neil O’Connor.

“We Don’t Mind the Rave” opens their debut album for EMI, Waikiki Beach Refugees, out in October 1978. If Steve Harley and the Jam had ever collaborated, it probably would’ve sounded like this.

Though I had recognized the driving “Don’t Moonlight on Me” is catchy, I didn’t realize the song rose to the level of earworm status until I started waking up in the middle of the night with its chorus playing in my head.

“I Don’t Know” (the third track from Waikiki Beach Refugees here), with its “Be My Baby” intro and frenzied outro, is a snotty power pop song that captures the angst and attitude of many in their post-adolescent years: “I don’t know what I want, but I want it now.”

While I’ve so far passed over the Flys tracks that were their UK A-sides, I do like those songs, they just don’t currently excite me as much a some of their other tunes. Having said that, I really dig “Name Dropping,” which was released as a non-LP single in April 1979. Penned and sung by the band’s other front man, David Freeman, “Name Dropping” is said to have been inspired by a short romantic dalliance with Kate Bush.

From their new wave-inspired second LP, Own, released in October 1979, the euphoric “16 Down” is a fine fusing of their pop-punk predilections with synth sounds.

Even before I heard Own, it was likely “Night Creatures” would end up being my favorite song from the album, and this astonishingly great gothic-garage-punk number most certainly is. You try to swat it away!

In May 1980, a new Flys song was released, but after it failed to make an impact on the charts—just as all their previous singles had—Neil O’Connor decided it was time to pack it in.

Neil O’Connor.