Information on unpermitted goods

​If you send goods that are not permitted, the mail item may be stopped by PostNord or customs if it is being sent outside the EU.

You are not permitted to send items or substances classed as dangerous goods. With certain services, what is known as a limited amount of dangerous goods may be sent. Shipments sent by air may be subject to particular limitations.

The sender is responsible for ensuring that it is permitted to send the contents of a shipment.

What are dangerous goods?

Here are a few examples of goods that you are not permitted to send.

Cold and heat

Goods that need cold storage so as not to shorten their shelf life. Exceptions: Goods packed in dry ice as per IATA’s packing instructions

Dead or living animals

Read more about general exceptions and dead animals to be sent to SVA – the Swedish National Veterinary Institute and the Swedish Museum of Natural History.

General exceptions: Bees, leeches, silkworms, fruit flies of the Drosophilidae family, and parasites and destroyers of insect pests being sent between officially recognized institutions.

Exceptions – PostNord Parcel: Dead animals to be sent to SVA – the Swedish National Veterinary Institute and the Swedish Museum of Natural History. They should be packed as per the instructions on the respective website and sent using the PostNord Parcel. If approved packaging is not sent as per the instructions, the parcel is returned to the sender.

Instructions SVA

Instructions, Swedish Museum of Natural History

Valuables

Valuables include gold, silver, gemstones, coins, notes and securities.

Weapons and weapon components, and copies of these

Exception – Värde: Weapons and weapon components sent within Sweden using the Värde service.

Narcotics and drugs

You are not permitted to send items or substances classed as dangerous goods. With certain services, what is known as a limited amount of dangerous goods may be sent. You can get more information on dangerous goods from MSB - Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency.

Examples of contents classed as dangerous goods:

Explosives

Ammunition

pyrotechnic materials

lighters

fuses

blasting caps for toy guns

Compressed, condensed gases

Fire extinguishers that contain gases under pressure

Aerosol products/spray cans

Butane

Gas lighters

Flammable liquids

Gasoline

Solvents

Cleaning agents

Paint

White spirit

Perfume

Flammable solids

Spontaneously combustible substances and substances that emit gas on contact with water, e.g. matches

Nitrocellulose film

Material that becomes dangerous when wet

Oxidizing agents and organic peroxides

Substances easily ignited by oxygen

Hair and textile dyes

Some bleaching agents/powders

Some glues and binders

Poisons, medicines and toxins, including drugs

Toxic and infectious substances

Category A infectious substances, UN 2814 and UN 2900

Exceptions: UN 3373 Biological substances Category B may be sent provided they are packed in accordance with ICAO-TI and IATA-DGR packing instruction PI 650.

Radioactive substances

Medical samples or research samples that contain radioactive substances

Corrosive substances

Corrosive cleaning fluids

Corrosive rust prevention and removal agents

Instruments containing mercury or battery fluids

Miscellaneous hazardous materials

Materials that have soporific, harmful, toxic or other properties and that can cause major discomfort if they leak

Materials that are strongly magnetic

Mail items that contain batteries

Exceptions – International mail: Max. 2 lithium batteries or 4 lithium cells may be sent in international mail, and they must then be installed in the equipment and packed as per PI 967 or PI 970, section II in the ICAO regulations.