University of Louisville women's basketball coach Jeff Walz has added a commitment from a local star.

Sacred Heart Academy guard Reagan Bender, who helped the Valkyres to another state title last weekend, has committed to the Cardinals. Bender picked U of L over Western Kentucky.

Bender, who is the niece of Sacred Heart coach Donna Moir, has been on the radar of Walz and his staff for several years. She camped with the Cardinals and was one of the standouts during the camp after her freshman season and has continued to attend camps and games.

"I just wanted to continue to be a part of a winning culture," Bender told Cardidnal Authority. "I knew Louisville would be that for me., plus just seeing how the fan base is with women's basketball at Louisville. The fans come out and support the program and that was definitely a factor."

The 5-foot-10 Bender is the sixth commitment out of the high school ranks for the Cardinals in the Class of 2024. The other players in the class are forward Anaya Hardy, forward Mackenly Randolph, guard Izela Arenas, guard Tajianna Roberts, and post Isla Juffermans.

Bender has helped the Valkyries to a 128-20 record during her four seasons, winning a state title each season. She was a finalist for Miss Basketball.

After winning the state title on Saturday night, Bender said she called Walz on Sunday morning to give him the good news.

"I kind of waited and did this on my own time," she said. "I didn't want other people to pressure me about committing early or anything. So, I stayed focused on my season and once the season was over, I kind of knew exactly what I wanted to do."

In four seasons as a starter at Sacred Heart, Bender has scored 1,818 points and grabbed 477 rebounds. She has hit 212 three-pointers during her career.

As a freshman, Bender averaged 10.1 points and 4.2 rebounds a game, while she hit for 11.4 points and 3.2 rebounds as a sophomore. Last season, Sacred Heart finished 36-3 for a second straight season and Bender averaged 15.2 points and 3.1 rebounds. She shot 48.8 percent from the field, 33 percent from three-point range - 64 of 194 - and hit 75.5 percent from the free-throw line. She was a first-team All-State selection as a junior.

As a senior, Bender averaged 13.4 points, 3.0 rebounds, 2.9 assists and 1.9 steals a game. She averaged 13.4 points during her career.

In the state championship game on Saturday night, Bender had 18 points in the win over McCracken County.

Bender has connections to U of L. Her grandfather, Bob Bender Sr., graduated from the University of Louisville in 1957, where he lettered for four years in football as a defensive end and offensive lineman. He was inducted into the University of Louisville Hall of Fame in 1992.