The search tool shows:

levels of young participation (POLAR4, TUNDRA MSOA and TUNDRA LSOA)

higher education qualifications among adults (Adult HE 2011)

All measures classify areas into five groups (quintiles):

quintile one shows the lowest rates

quintile five shows the highest rates.

Geographic boundaries

Postcode pins are shown within geographic boundaries because we assign quintiles to boundaries rather than specific postcodes. This means all postcodes within the same geographic boundary will have the same quintile.

The measures are produced using different boundaries. Selecting the different measures on the detailed results page will change the outlined geographic boundary depending on which measure you are interested in:

POLAR4 and Adult HE 2011 were produced using Middle Layer Super Output Areas (MSOAs) in England and Wales, Intermediate Zones (IZs) in Scotland and Super Output Areas (SOAs) in Northern Ireland.

TUNDRA MSOA was produced using MSOAs as it covers England only.

TUNDRA LSOA was produced using Lower Layer Super Output Area (LSOAs) and covers England.

Find out more about our latest changes to the postcode look-up (September 2023).

Postcodes are subject to copyright. Find out more about postcode copyright on the Office for National Statistics website.

This look-up includes Northern Ireland postcodes from the Central Postcode Directory which are the intellectual property of Land & Property Services (Land & Property Services © Crown Copyright Licence No. DO 7390 - 2022). The Central Postcode Directory data incorporated in this web page has been extracted from Land & Property Services (LPS) Intellectual Property (IP) and includes PAF® data licensed from Royal Mail Group Limited. LPS IP is subject to Crown Copyright. The IP may not be further sub-licensed, sold, demonstrated, lent, or otherwise transferred or exploited without the prior written permission of LPS. LPS shall not be held liable for the IP not being fit for Your purpose or applications.