Tokyo, July 31, 2012

Fujitsu established the Japan-America Institute of Management Science (JAIMS) as a Hawaii-based nonprofit educational institution in 1972 in its efforts to contribute to the international community. In the 40 years since its founding, JAIMS has trained more than 23,000 graduates.

In light of the expansion of business in Asian countries in recent years, Fujitsu has decided to establish the Fujitsu-JAIMS Foundation (Fujitsu-JAIMS) in order to reorganize JAIMS as an educational institution that also emphasizes Asia. The headquarters functions of JAIMS, which have been in Hawaii up until now, will be transferred to Fujitsu-JAIMS in April 2013. Fujitsu plans to further strengthen the Fujitsu-JAIMS management structure by incorporating the practical knowledge, ICT know-how, and human resources it has gained through its business into the activities of Fujitsu-JAIMS. In addition, to foster the development of business leaders from Asia that will drive innovation in that region and transform the world, Fujitsu-JAIMS will hold a short-term international management program, "Global Leaders for Innovation and Knowledge," which in addition to Hawaii, will take place in Singapore, Thailand and Japan. Recruitment for the program will take place globally starting from today.

With the establishment of Fujitsu-JAIMS, Fujitsu strengthens its commitment to the continued development of business leaders in the Asia Pacific region, with Japan as a cornerstone.

The Global Leaders for Innovation and Knowledge Program

Knowledge Leadership Training

Based on Ikujiro Nonaka's theory of "Knowledge-Creation Management," the program will train students in the knowledge-creation process and proper leadership techniques from both theoretical and applied perspectives.

Multi-campus Network

By adding Singapore and Thailand as footholds for the implementation of educational programs, the program encompasses a multi-campus network (Japan, the United States (Hawaii), Singapore, and Thailand). Through a short-term program (around three and a half months in length) with a condensed curriculum of both theoretical and applied learning, the wide-ranging knowledge as well as self-confidence required by leaders who will promote global business will be cultivated.

Constructing a human network together with Asia

By studying diligently together with excellent participants from many countries centering primarily on East and Southeast Asia, and by interacting with lecturers from visiting counties, students develop more global viewpoints and cultural sensitivity, while also learning how to achieve synthesis amid diversity. Furthermore, students will construct human networks which will carry on long past graduation.

For more detailed information regarding Global Leaders for Innovation and Knowledge, as well as important points concerning recruitment, please visit the related web sites.

About Fujitsu-JAIMS