SHADE EMPIRE TO RELEASE ´POETRY OF THE ILL-MINDED´ IN JUNE PRE-ORDERS NOW AVAILABLE

Added: 2017-05-13

Candlelight Records have confirmed details of the fifth album by SHADE EMPIRE; Poetry of the Ill-Minded will be unleashed on June 30, 2017.

Pre-orders are available worldwide: Orders from Levykauppa Äx

Hailing from Kuopio, Finland, and already in their eighteenth year as a band, SHADE EMPIRE work unspeakably brutal guitar patterns, multi-layered and yet beautiful synth walls into ingenious arrangements. Throw in mind-bending electronics, devastating drum parts, complex bass assaults and the unique vocals, and you have something coming straight from the deep pits of hell!

The band have notched up various tours alongside the likes of Unleashed, Krisiun and One Man Army And The Undead Quartet.

SHADE EMPIRE's last album Omega Arcane was a heavily orchestrated concept album and took the band´s sound to a whole new level when it was released in 2014. The album went on to reach number 13 in the Finish album charts.

The follow up album, Poetry of the Ill-Minded is soon to be released by Candlelight/Spinefarm. Once again SHADE EMPIRE develop their sound even further. Poetry... looks set to be the band's most advanced and brutal opus to date.

Poetry of the Ill-Minded track list

1. Lecter (Welcome)

2. Wanderer

3. Drawn To Water - The Path

4. Thy Scent

5. Anti-Life Saviour

6. Map Of Scars

7. Treasure (In Liquid Dreams Of Mirror Universe)

New vocalist for Shade Empire

Added: 2017-04-12

We have released Mr. Juha Harju on vocal duties. He sang his parts to forthcoming album (release date TBC) but he won't be seen nor heard with Shade Empire from this day on.

Harju wants to thank fans for the past years.

After the decision was made we started to seek new front man even from the foreign countries. However, the right person could be found from our hometown, Kuopio. As a band we want professionalism, humble and loyal attitude towards Shade Empire and that's what we got. The new singer Henry Hämäläinen is talented young guy who has enough capabilities both musically and personally. This is a natural step in Shade Empire's evergoing progress. The band's sound will definitely take step to whole new level with Henry in front, so let's give him a warm welcome and see you at the gigs!

This is all band have to say about the matter and will not comment any further.

Confirmed gigs so far:

5.5. Lutakko, Jyväskylä

6.5. Henry's Pub Kuopio

12.5. Bar Rock Bear, Vantaa

13.5. Wartti Bar, Seinäjoki

26.5. Suisto, Hämeenlinna

3.6. Susiraja Metal Club, Ruttokäräjät, Joensuu

5.8.2017 SaariHelvetti, Tampere

Sinthetic Anniversary show!

Added: 2014-12-11

So, it has been over a decade since we released our first full length album, Sinthetic(2004). We know that many of you appraise this album very high among our works and we thought it would be suitable to celebrate this occasion by doing something special. So... we are going to play the whole Sinthetic album live! The first show is booked in Tampere Yo-talo 23.1.2015. Will there be another one in the near future, it remains to be seen. This might well be THE chance to experience Sinthetic live. Make sure to drag your ass in the venue! Facebook event

European tour

Added: 2014-01-08

Shade Empire confirms European tour with Borknagar, Manegarm and Ereb Altor. Check out the dates here.

More gigs announced

Added: 2013-10-25

Some gigs coming up in Finland next January/February with Wolfheart. Check 'em out