December 2008 Madeline M. Franchella Bernard Yashkus

Genevieve L. McDermott

Bertha B. Stella Amelia Carnevali November 2008 Joseph James Berecin Anthony (Ditda) Lavelle Sarah (Anne) Love Allan Francis Kenzakoski October 2008 Margaret A. Hooper “Jackie” Hazel E. Olsen William J. Kelly September 2008 Martha A. Rudda Tricia (Hannon) Wheland Joseph Carl Giebus, J.D. Michael Evanchick Grace E. Mishko David A. Czyczerski Joseph P. Rogan Adele C. Alexanderian Michael Dominick Morreale August 2008 Harry A. Zadora Mark E. Kasper Anthony J. Marlino Virginia R. McKeown Mary Bridget Alvator Mary E. Gustinucci July 2008 Peter G. Barna Frances C. Meehan Bernard Rampola Theresa M. Sokaloski Lee Vincent McNelis Ronald A. Leandri June 2008 Frank E. Brennan Julius (Bert) Berrettini James R. Stiner Joanne Marie Lupas Stephen M. Baloga John F. Mimnaugh Rose M. Kotar Mary Alice Cups Thomas J. (Turk) Merolla May 2008

Margaret (Peg) McKeown Josephine Franchella Mary (Angie) Gazda Krawetz Pearl M. Woloski April 2008 Elizabeth (Betty) Catani Robert F. Stark Regina (Jean) Kopcho Peter Paul Favata Edward Zuba Amosi Alexanderian Catherine R. Knutelski Catherine Ann (Lewis) Phillips

Madeline M. Franchella

December 26, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Madeline M. Franchella, 79 of Plains, Twp., died Friday evening at the home of her granddaughter, Michelle Magnus, in Lilburn, Georgia.

Born in Wilkes-Barre, she was the daughter of the late Walter and Mary Tlucek.

She was a graduate of James M. Coughlin High School, Wilkes-Barre, and was employed for B.F. Goodrich Tire Company, Exeter, until her retirement.

She was a member of Sacred Heart Church, Plains, and its Altar & Rosary Society.

She was preceded in death by her husband John R. Franchella, on February 21, 2004; Brothers Michael, Joseph, and John Tlucek; sisters Agnes Baidy and Helen Bogart.

Surviving are her sons John Franchella, and his wife Karen, Mooresburg, Tennessee, and David Franchella and his wife Billie Ann, Woodstock, Georgia; grandchildren John Franchella and his wife Larissa, Plains, Michelle Magnus and her husband Doug, Lilburn, Georgia, William Franchella and Maria Franchella, Woodstock, Georgia, and Jason Warneld, Atlanta, Georgia; great-grandchildren Alexandra and Emma Magnus; sisters Ann Long, Lake Ariel, and Alberta Nowicki, New Jersey; several nieces and nephews.

Funeral will be held Wednesday at 9:00 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street, Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in Sacred Heart Church, Plains. Interment will be in the Parish Cemetery, Plains.

Friends may call Tuesday from 5 to 8 pm.

Genevieve L. McDermott

December 11, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Genevieve L. McDermott, 83, of Hughestown died Thursday evening at United Methodist Homes, Wesley Village, Jenkins Twp.

Born in Hughestown, she was the daughter of the late Joseph and Anna Roche Hamlin.

Gen was a graduate of Hughestown High School, Class of 1943 and was employed as an Operator for Bell Telephone in New Jersey until her retirement.

She was a member of Blessed Sacrament Church, Hughestown.

She was preceded in death by her Sisters Madeline Hurrey and Anna Boos, Brother Joseph Hamlin.

Surviving are Sons William McDermott and wife Betty, Union, New Jersey, Joseph McDermott and wife Chris, Cedar Knolls, New Jersey, 7 Grandchildren, 5 Great Grandchildren, Sisters Mary Dougherty, Hughestown, Kathryn Ratchford, Duryea, Germaine McGuire, Dickson City, and Carol Hobbs, Jenkins Twp., Nieces and Nephews.

Funeral will be held Monday at 8:45 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street, Plains with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in Blessed Sacrament Church, Hughestown. Interment will be in St. John’s Cemetery, Pittston.

Friends may call Sunday from 4 to 7 pm.

Bernard Yashkus

December 12, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Bernard Yashkus, 62, of Plains, Twp., died Friday morning at Wilkes-Barre General Hospital after suffering a heart attack at home.

Born in Wilkes-Barre, he was the son of the late Lillian (Davis) Fell and grandson of the late Grace Bowers Davis Hodgen.

He was a Graduate James M. Coughlin High School, Wilkes-Barre, Class of 1965, and was a member of Rock N Kruisers Car Club.

He was employed by Evans King Floral, Forty Fort, for more than 40 Years.

Surviving are his wife the former Rosemarie Halter, son: Bernard A. Yashkus and his wife Candida, Pittston, Twp., daughter Sherri Brogan and her husband Richard, Nanticoke. He was “Pop-Pop” to the loves of his life, his grandchildren, Breanna and Bethany Yashkus, April, Tiffany and R.J. Brogan; sister Darlene Zaleski, Wilkes-Barre, brothers John Yashkus, Arizona, and Allan Fell, Shavertown.

Funeral services will be held Tuesday at 10 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street, Plains. Interment will be in St. Mary's Cemetery Hanover, Twp.

Friends may call Monday from 5 to 8 pm.

Amelia Carnevali

December 7, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Amelia Carnevali, 88, of Ebensburg, Pa and formerly of Wilkes-Barre died Sunday at home of her daughter.

Born in Perugia, Italy, she was the daughter of the late Attilio and Adele Gasparri Giovanelli.

She was a member of Sacred Heart Church, Plains and was employed as a seamstress in the area Garment Industry.

She was preceded in death by her husband Frank on April 17, 2002, Daughter Diane Miklos , Brothers Mario, Caesare, John and Joseph Giovanelli.

Surviving are her Son Dominic and his wife Linda, Sayreville, NJ, Daughter Adele Smithbower, Ebensburg, PA, 6 Grandchildren, 10 Great Grandchildren, 1 Great Great Grandchild, Sister Genevieve Yanchuk, Palmyra, PA, Nieces and Nephews.

Funeral will be held Thursday at 9:00 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street Plains, PA with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in Sacred Heart Church, Plains. Internment will be held in the Italian Independent Cemetery, West Wyoming.

Friends may call Wednesday from 2 to 4 and 7 to 9 pm.

Bertha B. Stella

December 5, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Bertha B. Stella, 94, of Plains Twp. Died Friday evening at United Methodist Homes, Wesley Village, Jenkins Twp.

Born in Wilkes-Barre, she was the daughter of the late John and Julia Mrozowski Baran.

She was educated in Plains Township schools and was employed as a Seamstress in the area Garment Industry. She was a member of the I.L.G.W.U.

She was a member of Ss. Peter and Paul Church, Plains, its Altar and Rosary Society and the Quilters Society.

She was preceded in death by her husband, Primo Stella on Feb. 26, 1966, Brothers Joseph, Adam, Stanley and Leon, Sisters Caroline, Pauline, Mary and Stella.

Surviving are her sons Robert Stella and Kenneth Stella and his wife Joanne Stella all of Laflin, Grandchildren Robert Stella, Donna Mariotti, Laura Rainey and Adam Stella, Great Grandchildren Maggie Rainey, Julia Stella, Allie Rainey, Dominic Stella, Olivia Mariotti and Marco Stella, several nieces and nephews.

Funeral will be held Monday at 9 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street Plains with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am from St. Maria Goretti Church Laflin with Rev. Michael Kirwin, PhD. Pastor, officiating. Interment will be in Sacred Heart Cemetery, Plains.

Friends may call Sunday from 5 to 8 pm.

The family would like to thank the staff of Wesley Village and Hospice of the Heartland for their compassionate care of Bertha.

Memorial donations, if desired, may be made to St. Maria Goretti Church, 42 Redwood Drive Laflin, Pa 18702.

Allan Francis Kenzakoski

November 30, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Allan Francis Kenzakoski, 63, of Wilkes-Barre passed away on Sunday afternoon.

He is preceded in death by his father Chester Kenzakoski and mother Cecilia Wanda Libertowski Kenzakoski.

Mr. Kenzakoski attended James M. Coughlin High School and was previously employed by Muskins Manufacturing.

He is survived by his brother Donald Kenzakoski, West Chester, Pa and numerous nieces and nephews.

Funeral will be held Thursday at 9:30 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains with a Mass of Christian Burial at 10:00 am in St. Joseph’s Church, Hudson. Interment will be in the parish cemetery, Hudson.

Friends may call Thursday morning from 8:30 to 9:30 am.

Sarah (Anne) Love

November 30, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Sarah (Anne) Love, 91, of Plains died Sunday afternoon at the Wilkes-Barre General Hospital.

Born in Wales, she was the daughter of the late Patrick and Margaret Jenkins Fitzgerald.

She was employed by Leslie Fay as a Presser for many years and was an avid Bowler.

Anne was a member of Sacred Heart Church, Plains.

She is preceded in death by her husband William Love in June 1964, Brothers John, David and Robert Fitzgerald, Sisters Ceinwen Evans and Nellie Mosley.

Surviving are Nieces and Nephews.

Funeral will be held Wednesday at 9 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street Plains with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in Sacred Heart Church, Plains. Interment will be is St. Francis of Assisi Cemetery, Nanticoke.

Friends may call Tuesday from 4 to 7 pm.

Memorial donations, if desired, may be made to Sacred Heart Church Plains or the Plains Volunteer Ambulance Association.

Anthony (Ditda) Lavelle

November 28, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Anthony (Ditda) Lavelle, 57, of the Parsons section of Wilkes-Barre, died Friday afternoon at Geisinger South Wilkes-Barre after suffering a Heart Attack.

Born in Plains, he was the son of the late Francis (Earle) Lavelle and Ann (Nancy) Murphy Lavelle.

He was a graduate of St. Nicholas High School class of 1969 and was an Air Force Veteran of the Vietnam War. Tony was employed for Verizon for the past 35 years. He was Past President of the Verizon Local 13000 unit 34 and a Member of Wilkes-Barre Labor Council; he was a member of the Wyoming Motor Cycle Club and a member of the Wyoming Valley Marine Corp. Detachment. He was a member of Sacred Heart Church, Plains.

He is survived by his Wife Mary (Sugar) Maher Lavelle; Daughter Danielle Lavelle, at home, Son Kyle Lavelle, at home; Grandson Chase Button; Sister Maryann Mulcahy and husband James, Wilkes-Barre; Aunts Agnes Murphy Zuber and Rosemary Murphy Brice; Nephews and Nieces.

Funeral will be held Tuesday at 9 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in Sacred Heart Church, Plains. Interment will be in the Parish Cemetery, Plains.

Friends may call Monday from 2 to 4 and 7 to 9 pm.

Memorial donations if desired may be made to the Wyoming Valley Motorcycle Club.

Joseph James Berecin

November 17, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Joseph James Berecin, 73 of Plains, Twp., died Monday morning in the inpatient unit of Hospice Community Care, Geisinger South, Wilkes-Barre.

Born in Plains, he was the son of the late Andrew and Mary (Timko) Berecin.

Joseph was a Navy Veteran of the Korean Conflict and was employed for Techneglas, Inc., Jenkins Twp., as an electrician, retiring in 1999.

He was a member of the Plains American Legion, Joseph E. Conlon Post 558, and the Catholic Community of North Wilkes-Barre.

He was preceded in death by his brothers Andrew and Michael Berecin.

Surviving are his wife of 48 years the former Ann C. Cheresko, children Dr. Maria Berecin-Rascon and her husband Armando, Arizona City, Arizona, Annette Yekel and her husband Harry, Fort Washington, PA, Joseph Berecin, Jr. and his wife Patricia, Shippensburg, PA, Carla Wychock and her husband Stanley, Mountaintop, and James Berecin and his wife Kelly, Forty Fort; grandchildren Stanley, Michael & Stephanie Wychock, Drew & Jack Yekel, and Melissa and Joe Berecin; sister Ann Hajala, Exeter, and brother George Berecin, Plains; several nieces and nephews.

Funeral with Military Services conducted by the Plains American Legion Honor Guard will be held Friday at 9:00 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in Sacred Heart Church, Wilkes-Barre. Internment will be in the parish cemetery, Dallas.

Friends may call Thursday from 7 to 9 pm.

Memorial donations may be made to Social Concerns of the Catholic Community of North Wilkes-Barre 666 North Main Street Wilkes-Barre, PA 18705.

William J. Kelly, Jr.

November 1, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

William J. Kelly, Jr. 56 of Mountaintop, died Saturday morning at the inpatient unit of Hospice Community Care, Geisinger South, Wilkes-Barre.

Born in Kingston, he was the son of the late William and Lottie (Miscavage) Kelly, Sr.

Bill attended Plains Memorial High School, and was employed by H.P.G. of Mountaintop.

Surviving are his wife the former Mary Ann Moncavage; son Michael, Mountaintop; daughter Kathy Lark, and her husband Bob, Dickson City; grandchildren Robert, Samantha, Heather, and Troy; sister Patricia Kelly and her husband Robert Sheaffer, Flower Mound, Texas; nephews Robert and Edward Golobek.

Funeral will be held Monday at 9:00 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street, Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in Sacred Heart Church, Plains. Internment will be held at the convenience of the family.

Friends may call Sunday from 5 to 8 pm.

Memorial donations may be made to Hospice Community Care 385 Wyoming Avenue Kingston, PA 18704 or the American Cancer Society 190 Welles Street Suite 118 Forty Fort, PA 18704.

“Jackie” Hazel E. Olsen

October 26, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

“Jackie” Hazel E. Olsen, 90, went home to be with the Lord on Sunday, following a short stay with the Hospice of the Sacred Heart at Heritage House, Wilkes-Barre.

She was born in Marksboro, New Jersey in 1918, the daughter of the late Arthur Walters and Cora Henry Stettler.

She was employed at DuPont, Gibbstown New Jersey for 4 years and Superior Generator Co., Scranton as an accountant for 11 years. She worked with her late husband, Alton F. Olsen, producing the radio programs for “Impact for Living”, a Bible-teaching ministry, for 20 years.

Surviving is her daughter, Sharon Bobeck-Rolland and her husband Bill, Kingston and 4 grandsons, John , Brian, Matthew and Stephen Bobeck, brother Stanley Walters, Orange, CA, Bob Stettler, Belvidere, NJ and nieces and nephews.

Funeral Services will be held Wednesday at 10 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street, Plains with Rev. Dwight Hodne, Pastor of Fellowship Evangelical Free Church, Dallas officiating. Interment will be in Oak Lawn Cemetery, Wilkes-Barre.

Friends may call Tuesday from 6 to 8 pm at the Corcoran Funeral Home.

In Lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to Feed the Children, P.O. Box 36, Oklahoma City, Ok 73101-9989.

Margaret A. Hooper

October 16, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Margaret A. Hooper, 84, of Wilkes-Barre, died Thursday evening at Valley Crest Nursing Center.

Born in Wilkes-Barre, she was the daughter of the late Charles and Margaret Finnigan Hooper.

Margaret was a graduate of Luzerne High School and was employed by Everhart pencil Factory of Mountaintop until her retirement. She was a member of Blessed Sacrament Church, Miners Mills.

Preceding her in death are her grandson Jason McNeill, brother, William Hooper, and Sister Doris Wilson.

Surviving are her son Rodney McNeill and his wife Shirley, Plains; grandson Randy McNeill and granddaughter Nicole, Plains; Great-Grandchildren Zachery and Gabrielle.

Funeral will be held Monday at 9:30 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street, Plains with a Mass of Christian Burial at 10:00am in Blessed Sacrament Church, Miners Mills.

Interment will be in Fern Knoll Cemetery, Dallas.

Friends may call Sunday from 2 to 4 pm.

Martha A. Rudda

October 6, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Martha A. Rudda of Wilkes-Barre, died Monday evening, October 6, 2008, at the Golden Living Center-Summit, Wilkes-Barre, following a brief illness.

Born in Wilkes-Barre, she was the daughter of the late Andrew and Catherine Konefal Gurdak.

She attended Wilkes-Barre Area schools and resided in the Wilkes-Barre Area all of her life. She was employed in the local silk mills in the Wyoming Valley for several years, and was a member of SS. Peter & Paul Church, Plains.

She was preceded in death by her husband Walter Rudda, daughter Frances Meehan; brothers John Gurdak, Joseph, Stanley, and Carl Buchola; sisters Frances LaBar, Mildred Stachnik, Susan Vance, Helen Horensky, Josephine Kokinda, and Ann Cichon.

Surviving are her children Walter Rudda, Jr., Jenkins Twp., Mildred Yencha, Wilkes-Barre, and David Rudda, Wilkes-Barre; 12 grandchildren; 10 great-grandchildren.

Funeral will be held Friday at 9:00 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street, Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in SS. Peter & Paul Church, Plains. Internment will be in St. Mary’s Cemetery, Hanover Twp.

Friends may call Thursday from 5 to 8 pm.

Memorial donations may be made to SS. Peter & Paul Church 13 Hudson Road Plains, PA 18705.

Joseph Carl Giebus, J.D.

October 10, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Joseph Carl Giebus, J.D. of Wilkes-Barre, and formerly of Plains Township, died Friday evening at the Wilkes-Barre General Hospital.

Born in Plains, he was the son of the late Joseph and Mary Patroncik Giebus.

Joseph was a graduate of Sacred Heart High School and King’s college and Temple Law School, Philadelphia.

He was former Solicitor for Pringle and Laflin Boro and Plains Township for 11 years and was a Public Defender and Assistant District Attorney for 17 years serving under five District Attorney’s.

Joseph is a member of St. Ignatius Church, Kingston and is employed for Luzerne County on aging as a Medical Appraisal Coordinator. He is a former member of the Army Reserve.

He is preceded in death by his Wife the former Annette L. Dooley who passed away on May 16, 1983 and Brother, Stanley.

Surviving are his Son Jay Giebus, Bristol, England; Daughter, Beth Giebus, Arizona, Grandchildren, Hannah, Connor and Ben; Brothers; Myron and William Giebus, Plains.

Funeral will be held Tuesday at 8:45 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in St. Ignatius Church, Kingston. Interment will be in Sacred Heart Church, Plains.

Friends may call Monday from 6 to 8 pm.

Memorial donations, if desired, may be made to St. Ignatius Church 339 N. Maple Ave. Kingston, Pa 18704.

Tricia (Hannon) Wheland

October 2, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Tricia (Hannon) Wheland, 39 of Kingston and formerly of Plains, Twp., died Thursday morning at the inpatient unit of Hospice Community Care, Geisinger South, Wilkes-Barre, after a courageous battle with cancer.

Born in the Miners Mills section of Wilkes-Barre, she was the daughter of John and Theresa (Brzycki) Hannon of Plains.

She was a graduate of Bishop Hoban High School, Class of 1987, and was employed for Penguin Putnam Publishing Co., Pittston, Twp.

Surviving in addition to her parents are her brother Thomas Hannon and his wife Anna, Wilkes-Barre, nephew Thomas John Hannon, and Aunt Lucille Hannon, Parsons.

A Blessing Service will be held Sunday evening at 8:00 pm at the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street Plains. Internment will be held in Fern Knoll Burial Park, Dallas, at the convenience of the family.

Friends may call Sunday evening from 6:00 pm until the time of service.

In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to the SPCA of Luzerne County, Fox Hill Road Plains, PA 18705.

Grace E. Mishko

September 30, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Grace E. Mishko, 80 of Plains Twp., and formerly of Paterson, New Jersey, died Tuesday morning at her home.

Born in Bronx, New York, she was the daughter of the late Arthur and Estelle (Niedergang) Leishman.

She was a graduate of Bronx High School, NY, and was a homemaker all of her life.

She was preceded in death by her husband Charles Mishko, son Nicholas Mishko, grandchildren Daniel Mishko, Jr. and Melissa Mishko, and brothers and sisters.

Surviving are her sons Robert Mishko, and his wife Linda, Plains, and Daniel Mishko and his wife Adele, Santa Rosa Beach, Florida; 6 grandchildren; 8 great-grandchildren; nieces and nephews.

A Memorial Service will be held Friday at 11:00 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street Plains. Friends may pay their respects at the Funeral Home Friday morning from 10:00 until the time of service.

Michael Evanchick

September 18, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Michael Evanchick, 86 of Plains died Thursday morning at Geisinger Wyoming Valley Medical Center, Plains Township.

Born in the East End section of Wilkes-Barre, he was the son of the late Onuphry and Anna Pahulicz Evanchick. He attended James M. Coughlin High School, Wilkes-Barre and was a Marine Corps Veteran serving in World War II. He was employed as a Brewmaster for Gibbons Brewery until his retirement. He was preceded in death by his wife the former Dolores Sabbatini, infant son Michael, Brothers Charles and John Evanchick, Sisters Anna Nardelli, Mary Ruddick, Helen Evanchick, Frances (Fay) Whitecavage, Sophie Klosowski and Catherine Gostkowski.

He is survived by his son Steven Evanchick, Mehoopany, Daughters Diane Wasmanski and her husband Donald, Plains, Marion Evans and her husband William, Tunkhannock and Anna Humanik and her husband Michael, Plains, Grandchildren Jason, Kevin and Stacey Wasmanski, Billy and Amanda Evans, Mick and Lindsey Humanik and Great Granddaughter Natalee, Brother Joseph Evanchick, Allentown, NJ, Nieces and Nephews.

Funeral will be held Saturday at 9:00 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street, Plains with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in Sacred Heart Church, Plains.

Interment will be at the convenience of the family.

Friends may call Friday from 6 to 8 pm.

Memorial Donations may be made to Sacred Heart Church 13 Hudson Road Plains, Pa 18705.

Joseph P. Rogan

September 13, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Joseph P. Rogan, 20 of Bear Creek Township died Saturday morning from injuries sustained in a motor vehicle accident.

Born in Bear Creek Township, he was the son of Thomas and Denise Garofalo Rogan. Joseph was a graduate of James M. Coughlin High School, class of 2007 and was a sophomore at King's College and a member of the Theatrical Stage Crew. He planned to major in Business and Marketing. Joseph was a wonderful and beautiful person. He greatly enjoyed weight training, quading, fishing and camping. He played many years with the Bear Creek Bobcats Soccer Team and Wilkes-Barre Wolfpack Ice Hockey Team. He was a loyal friend to many. He was preceded in death by his grandparents Helen Rogan, Carmine and Dolores Garofalo.

Surviving in addition to his parents, are his sister Caitlin and a brother Thomas, Grandfather Joseph P. Rogan. Joseph will be dearly missed by his family and many aunts, uncles, cousins and friends. His sense of humor and smile would fill your heart.

A Mass of Christian Burial will be held on Tuesday at 9:30am from St. Maria Goretti Church, 42 Redwood Drive Laflin.

Viewing will be held Monday from 6 to 9 pm in St. Maria Goretti Church, Laflin.

In Lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to the Luzerne Foundation 615 Baltimore Drive Wilkes-Barre, Pa 18705.

Arrangements by the Corcoran Funeral Home, Plains.

David A. Czyczerski

September 13, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

David A. Czyczerski, 44 of Larksville died Saturday morning unexpectedly at his home.

Born in Wilkes-Barre, he was the son of Dolores Madaya of Larksville and Alex Czyczerski of Sugar Notch. He was a 1982 graduate of James M. Coughlin High School and was formerly employed at Valley Crest Nursing Home. David was an avid Wyoming Valley West Sports fan and loved his dogs Scooter and Willy.

Surviving in addition to his parents are his sister Debra Wargo and her husband Gary, Laflin, niece Tara Garubba and her husband Richard, Pittston and nephew Kevin Vodzak.

Funeral will be held Wednesday at 9:15 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street, Plains with a Mass of Christian Burial at 10:00am at St. Aloysius Church, Wilkes-Barre.

Interment will be in Mount Olivet Cemetery, Carverton.

Friends may call Tuesday from 6 to 8 pm. Memorial donations, if desired, may be made to the Luzerne County SPCA Fox Hill Road Plains, Pa 18705.

Michael Dominick Morreale

September 8, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Michael Dominick Morreale infant son of Melissa Mulvey and Michael Morreale died Monday afternoon at Geisinger Medical Center, Danville.

Surviving in addition to his parents are his sister Zoe Brobst; Maternal Grandmother and Step-Grandfather, Lee Ann and Mark Murphy; Maternal Grandfather and Step Grandmother Michael and Lana Mulvey; Paternal Grandmother and Step Grandfather Grace and Walter Klepaski Jr.; Maternal Great-Grandparents; Ann Tanona, Mary Mulvey and Jean Best; Paternal Great Grandparents Melinda and Patrick Pirillo. Preceding Michael in death is Paternal Grandfather Michael Morreale.

Funeral Services for Michael will be held Wednesday at 9:30 am form the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains.

Interment will be held at St. Rocco’s Cemetery, Pittston.

Family and friends may call at the Funeral Home Wednesday morning from 8:30 am to 9:30 am.

Memorial donations if desired may be made to the Ronald McDonald House c/o P.O. Box 300 Danville, Pa. 17821.

Adele C. Alexanderian

September 7, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Adele C. Alexanderian, 72, of West Pittston, died Sunday Afternoon at her home. Born in Plains, she was the daughter Mary Bernardi Sindaco of Wesley Village and the late Joseph Sindaco.

Adele was a graduate of St. Ann’s Academy Wilkes-Barre and College Misericordia, Dallas. She was a former Teacher and formerly owned The Casual Man of Kingston. She was preceded in death by her Daughter Nancy Alexanderian; Brother Paul Sindaco.

Surviving in addition to her mother are her Husband Dr. Harry Alexanderian, West Pittston, Son Dr. David and Wife Dr. Alexa Alexanderian, Arlington, MA; Daughter; Misse Paulus and Husband Bill, Lebanon, New Jersey; Grandchildren; Katie & Emily Paulus and Charlotte and Heidi Alexanderian; Nephews and Nieces.

Funeral will be held Tuesday at 9 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains with a Mass of Christian burial at 9:30 am in Sacred Heart Church, Plains celebrated by Father Joseph Adonizio and Father and Father Paul McDonald.

Interment will be in Sacred Heart Cemetery, Plains.

Visiting Hours will be Monday evening 6 to 8 pm.

Memorial donations if desired may be made to Erwine Home Health and Hospice, 270 Pierce Street Kingston, PA 18704.

Harry A. Zadora

August 29, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Harry A. Zadora, 74, of Wilkes-Barre, died Friday evening at Geisinger South Hospital, Wilkes-Barre, after suffering a heart attack at home.

Born in Wilkes-Barre, he was the son of the late John and Aletha Kessler Zadora. He was an Air Force veteran of the Korean Conflict and was employed for Keystone Professional Pharmacy of Wilkes-Barre until his retirement. He was preceded in death by his Brothers; James, John, Paul and Donald; Sisters; Goldie Blackwell, Judy Dawson and Elizabeth Durbin; son in law Paul Smith.

Surviving are his Wife of 49 years the former Marie Misiura; Sons; Harry and his wife Debbie, Nanticoke; Robert and his wife Gail, Shickshinny; Trent and his wife Patty, Warrior Run; Daughters; Bonnie and Husband Bob Brown, Parsons; Elaine Smith, Wilkes-Barre and Joy and Husband Bernie Fox, Shavertown; 13 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.

Funeral services will be held Tuesday at 10 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains.

Interment will be held at the convenience of the family.

Friends may call at the Funeral home Monday 6 to 9 pm.

Mary E. Gustinucci

August 24, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Mary E. Gustinucci, 87 of Jenkins Twp., and formerly of Bear Creek, died Sunday evening at United Methodist Homes, Wesley Village Campus, Jenkins Twp.

Born in Midland, Arkansas, she was the daughter of the late Daniel and Mary (Balbiano) Materazzi.

She was a graduate of Plains Memorial High School and was employed in the area dress factories as a Floor Lady until her retirement.

She was a member of St. Maria Goretti Church, Laflin, and she with her husband Joseph, would have celebrated their 64th wedding anniversary, August 26, 2008.

She was preceded in death by her brothers Edward, Theodore and Joseph Materazzi, sisters Ann Materazzi, Delphine Rodeghiero and Rose White.

Surviving are her husband Joseph Gustinucci, sons Alan and his wife Michaeline and Eugene and his wife Ann, all of Plains, grandchildren Alan and his wife Kimberley, Eugene and his wife Tahnee, Jeffrey and his wife Shannon, Jason, and Janelle Ocampo and her husband James, Great-Grandchildren Joshua, Karlie and Gianna.

Funeral Service will be held Wednesday at 9:30am form the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with Father Michael Kirwin, PhD, Pastor of St. Maria Goretti Church, officiating. Entombment will be in Denison Cemetery, Swoyersville.

Friends may call Tuesday from 6 to 9pm.

Memorial donations may be made to the Alzheimer’s Association Of Northeastern PA, 63 North Franklin Street, Wilkes-Barre, PA 18702.

Mary Bridget Alvator

August 12, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Mary Bridget Alvator, 82 of Plains, Twp., passed away to the loving arms of Jesus on August 12, 2008 at her home surrounded by her loving family.

Born in Plains, PA she was the daughter of the late Joseph and Mary (Romanchick) Atkinson. Mary attended Sacred Heart grade school and graduated from Sacred Heart High School, Plains, Class of 1944. She went on to College Misericordia, Dallas, majoring in education and graduating in 1948. Mary married the love of her life Joseph and moved to New Jersey where she continued her passion for education. Mary taught for 30 years at Immaculate Conception School in Somerville, NJ. Mary touched the lives of over 900 children teaching, while raising her own children.

She was active with all school activities and the Altar and Rosary Society. Mary and Joe loved the shore and traveled several times to Europe. After her beloved husband Joe passed away on May 10, 2001, Mary returned to Plains to live with her daughter. Mary was also preceded in death by her sister Madeline Craig.

Surviving are her daughters Major Marilyn Alvator, U.S. Army, retired, and Betsy Malacheski and her husband Bob, all of Plains; the joys of her life, her grandchildren Jennifer Welch, Jesse Joe Malacheski, Jessica McGowan and her husband Tom, and great-granddaughter Jilian Eileen McGowan who brought so much happiness when visiting; sister Dolores Sartin and her husband Joseph, Bridgewater, NJ. The family wishes to thank her nurses Dee and Donna who lovingly cared for her everyday. She will be sadly missed by all who knew her.

Friends may call Thursday from 6 to 8 pm at the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street Plains.

Funeral Services for Mary will be held Saturday, August 16, 2008 at 9:45 am from the Cusick Funeral Home 80 Mountain Avenue Somerville, New Jersey 08876 with a Mass of Christian Burial at 10:00 am in Immaculate Conception Church, Somerville, New Jersey.

Internment will be in St. Bernard’s Cemetery, Raritan, New Jersey. Friends may call Saturday morning at the Cusick Funeral Home from 9:00 am until 9:45 am.

Memorial donations may be made to the American Cancer Society for Breast Cancer research.

Anthony J. Marlino

August 2, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Anthony J. Marlino, 97, passed away peacefully on Saturday in the Little Flower Manor/St Therese’s Residence in Wilkes Barre, where he has resided for the past three years.

Anthony was born in Miners Mills on January 25, 1911, the fourth of nine children of Felice and Maria Spagnuolo Marlino. He attended St. Mary’s High School and graduated from the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science in 1931. In 1934, he opened his own drugstore store on Main Street in Ashley.

A veteran of World War II, he served as a pharmacist with the 228th General Hospital in France in 1944. In February of 1946, Anthony was mustered out and returned to civilian life as a pharmacist at Herring’s Drugstore in Kingston. In 1949 he opened Marlino’s Pharmacy at 453 North Main St. in Wilkes-Barre, which he owned for over 40 years.

He was preceded in death by his parents and his sisters, Mary Panza, Anna Cortiglia, Pauline Navarra, Lena, and Frances, and great-grandson Aiden Spangenburg. He is survived by his beloved wife of 56 years, Esther McCaffrey Marlino; his brother Philip of Oak Ridge, Tennessee; brother Joseph and sister Betty Richards of Philadelphia; son, John Spangenburg and his wife Eileen of Wilkes-Barre; daughters Mary Marlino and her husband Greg Young of Boulder, Colorado; Angela Marlino and her husband Michael Schwartz also of Boulder; and daughter Sarah Marlino and her husband Lynn Saunders of Hillsboro, Oregon; ten grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.

Funeral services will be conducted at 9:00 am at the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main St, Plains, followed by a Mass of Christian Burial at St. Therese Church, 25 Old River Road, Wilkes-Barre, on Thursday, August 7 at 9:30 am, with the Monsignor Francis J. Callahan, Pastor, officiating. Internment will be in St. Mary’s Cemetery, Hanover Township. Family and friends may call Wednesday, 5 to 8 p.m., at Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 S. Main St., Plains.

In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to Little Flower Manor/St. Therese’s Residence, 200 S. Meade St., Wilkes-Barre, PA, 18702.

Mark E. Kasper

August 2, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Mark E. Kasper, 46 of Bear Creek Twp., died Saturday morning in Rice Twp., from injuries suffered in a motorcycle accident.

Born in Berwyn, Illinois, he was the son of Roberta (Sippy) Kasper Indelli and the late Adam Kasper. He was a graduate of Morton West High School, Berwyn, Ill. And was employed as a heavy equipment operator for Kresge Construction Company of Bear Creek. Mark was an avid softball player and was a member of Back Mountain Harvest Assembly, Trucksville, and was a cast member in the production of THE GIFT at Christmas time. Mark was an energetic, happy, and hard-working man. His infectious smile and fun loving nature endeared him to the many people he met in life. The bright and indomitable spirit that was Mark will be deeply missed by family and friends.

Surviving are his wife the former Kathleen S. Kresge, son Mark I. Kasper and daughter Lindsay N. Kasper, both at home, his mother and step-father Roberta and Daniel Indelli, Orland Park, Ill, brother Thomas Kasper, Galena Ill, sisters Deborah Krezminski, Oswego, Ill, and Cynthia Longhi, Orland Park, Ill.

Funeral services will be held Wednesday at 10:00 in the Back Mountain Harvest Assembly, Trucksville, with Rev. Daniel Miller, Pastor, officiating.

Internment will be in Oak Lawn Cemetery, Wilkes-Barre. Friends may call Tuesday from 5 to 8 pm.

Memorial donations may be made to The Gideon’s International P.O. Box 344 Wilkes-Barre, PA 18703 or His Resting Place Maternity Home 1067 Exeter Avenue Exeter, PA 18643.

Virginia R. McKeown

August 1, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Virginia R. McKeown, 84, of Laflin, died Friday Morning at Mary Elizabeth Nursing Center, Mystic, Connecticut.

Born in Laflin, she was the daughter of the late Carleton and Rachel Williams Hurtt. She was a graduate of West Pittston High School and attended Temple University. She was a homemaker all her life. She was a member of The First United Methodist Church, West Pittston. Virginia was preceded in death by her Husband James Sr. on September 11, 1997 and Son James Jr., on January 21, 1998; Brothers, Thomas and Carleton Hurtt Jr.

Surviving are her Sons; Charles and His Wife Rosemary McKeown of Drums and Sean and his wife Beth McKeown, Groton Connecticut; Daughter-in-law Mary Ann McKeown, Glen Lyon; 5 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren; Sister Ellen McGrady, Laflin; several nephews and nieces. Funeral Services will be conducted Monday at 10 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main St. Plains, with the Reverend Janet Tiebert, Pastor of The First United Methodist Church, West Pittston, officiating.

Funeral services will be held wednesday at 10:00 am.

Interment will be in Mount Greenwood Cemetery Trucksville.

Friends may call Sunday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.

Memorial donations, if desired, may be made to the Mary Elizabeth Nursing Center Recreation Dept. 28 Broadway, Mystic Ct. 06355.

Frances C. Meehan

July 29, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Frances C. Meehan of Wilkes-Barre died Tuesday evening at Hospice Care of the VNA, Heritage House, Wilkes-Barre.

Born in Wilkes-Barre, she was the daughter of Martha Gurdak Rudda and the late Walter Rudda. She was a graduate of James M. Coughlin High School, Wilkes-Barre and was employed for Metz Industries of Kingston. She was a member of SS. Peter and Paul Church, Plains. Her greatest joy was spending time with her granddaughters, family and friends. She was preceded in death by her husband Francis C. Meehan on May 26, 1992 and grandson Craig Meehan.

Surviving in addition to her mother are her children, Francis Meehan, Jr., Wilkes-Barre, Mark Meehan, Cockeysville, MD and Linda Krumsky, Bear Creek; Granddaughters Jillian Meehan, Tess Meehan and Meghan Krumsky; Sister Mildred Yencha, Wilkes-Barre, Brothers Walter Rudda, Jenkins Twp., and David Rudda, Wilkes-Barre.

Funeral will be held Friday at 10:30 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 11 am in SS. Peter and Paul Church, Plains.

Internment will be in St. Mary’s Cemetery, Hanover Twp.

Friends may call Thursday from 5 to 8 pm. Peter G. Barna

July 23, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Peter G. Barna, 59 of Kingston, died Wednesday afternoon at the inpatient unit of Hospice Community Care, Geisinger South, Wilkes-Barre.

Born in Wilkes-Barre, he was the son of the late Peter J. and Marcella C. (Toole) Barna. He was a graduate of Elmer L. Meyers High School, Wilkes-Barre, Class of 1967, and was a Marine Corps Veteran of the Vietnam War, serving from 1968 to 1970. In 1980, Peter again served his country by enlisting in the U.S. Army, serving until 1988.

He was employed for NABISCO as a machinist until his retirement. He was preceded in death by his wife Patricia Barna.

Surviving are his sisters Patricia Spagnuolo, Kingston, Theresa Saxon and her husband Gerald, Larksville, nieces Carisa Pinnacoli, and Alena Spagnuolo.

Funeral will be held Saturday at 9:00 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in St. Ignatius Church, Kingston.

Internment will be in St. Mary’s Cemetery, Hanover Twp.

Friends may call Saturday morning from 8:00 am to 9:00 am

Ronald A. Leandri

July 13, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Ronald A. Leandri, 73 of the Hilldale section of Plains Township, died Sunday afternoon at the Wilkes-Barre General Hospital after suffering a heart attack.

Born in Hilldale, he was the son of the late Anthony and Genevieve McCofski Leandri. He was a graduate of Plains Memorial High School and attended Wilkes College, Wilkes-Barre. He was employed as a Courier for Wilkes-Barre General Hospital until his retirement.

Ronnie was a former Pitcher with the St. Louis Cardinals farm team and was a member of the Plains Hall of Fame, the Itlo Club, Hilldale, Plains American Legion, Joseph E. Conlon Post 558, The Polish American Veterans, and the Hudson Serviceman’s Club. He was preceded in death by his son Ronald.

Surviving are his wife the former Patricia Langdon, sister Sylvia Gall and her husband Bill, California, Stepson Edward Rehrig, Wisconsin, Nieces Elissa and Tamara.

Family and friends are invited to a graveside service, which will be held at the Italian Independent Cemetery, West Wyoming, at a time to be announced.

There will be no calling hours.

Memorial donations, if desired, may be made to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Arrangements by the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street Plains.

Theresa M. Sokaloski

July 3, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Theresa M. Sokaloski, 71, of the Hudson section of Plains Township, died Thursday at the Wilkes-Barre General Hospital.

Born in Hilldale section of Plains, she was the daughter of the late Michael & FrancesYanko Mosko. Theresa was a homemaker and was a member of St. Joseph’s Church, Port Griffith, Pittston.

Preceding her in death are her Brother John Mosko and Sister Evelyn Szortyka.

Surviving are her Sons; John and his Wife Jacqueline, Grand Island, New York; Leonard, Memphis Tennessee; Thomas and his Wife Mary Ann, West Pittston and Glenn and his Wife Pauline, Bethlehem; Grandchildren; Samantha, Emma Grace and Abigail and a expected Grandson in July; Brother Thomas Mosko with whom she resided; Nephews and Nieces. Theresa was loved by all and will be missed very much by her Family and Friends.

Funeral will be held Tuesday at 8:45 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in St. John the Evangelist Church, Pittston. Interment will be in Mount Olivet Cemetery, Carverton.

Friends may call Monday 5 to 8 pm.

Memorial donations if desired may be made to St. John the Evangelist Church, Pittston.

Lee Vincent McNelis

July 2, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Lee Vincent McNelis passed away Wednesday evening at the Wilkes-Barre General Hospital following a brief illness.

Born in Luzerne, he was the son of the late Edward and Esther Hubbard McNelis. In addition to his parents, he was preceded in death by his brothers Donald and Jack, who was the pilot for Bull Halsey, and most recently his son-in-law and best buddy John Versari.

He was a graduate of Luzerne High School and Penn State University. He managed the Luzerne Press newspaper with his father and mastered the art of printing. He served as a gunner’s mate with the US Navy where he traveled the world during the Korean Conflict. He was employed as a Graphic Arts Instructor at the Dallas State Correctional Institute for over thirty years. He authored “Thirty and a Wake Up” which detailed the slang language of the inmate subculture. He was a member of St. Theresa’s Church, Shavertown, Kingston VFW, Kingston American Legion, Wilkes-Barre Donegal Society and the Disabled American Veterans. He will best be remembered for his love of Notre Dame football and his quick-witted sense of humor.

He is survived by his loving wife, the former Helen Pace originally of Pittston, daughters Sharon Versari, wife of the late John Versari, Shavertown, Cathy Witt, wife of Dr. Paul Witt, Dallas and Licia Guilday, wife of Dr. Rob Guilday, Wallingford, PA; Grandchildren Jordan and Keri Versari, Licia and Paul Witt Jr., Sean, Caili, Cassidy, Quinn C. and Robbie Guilday; Great Granddaughter Madison McEvoy, they all lit up his life as their McPop, numerous nieces and nephews.

Funeral will be held Monday at 9:15 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 10:00am in St. Therese Church, Shavertown.

Interment will be in Mount Olivet Cemetery, Carverton.

Friends may call Sunday from 5 to 8 PM. Memorial Donations, if desired, may be made to St. Jude’s Children’s Hospital of St. Therese Church, 64 Davis Street, Shavertown, PA 18708.

Bernard Rampola

July 2, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Bernard Rampola, 88 of the Miners Mills section of Wilkes-Barre, died Wednesday afternoon at Riverstreet Manor Nursing Home, Wilkes-Barre.

Born in Wilkes-Barre, he was the son of the late Thomas and Eleanor Grabowski Rampola. He was a graduate of James M. Coughlin High School, Wilkes-Barre, and was an Army Veteran of World War II. Bernard served honorably in the European Theater and was awarded the Bronze Star and Purple Heart while attaining the rank of Staff Sergeant.

.He was employed as a plumber for the Wilkes-Barre Area School District until his retirement. He was a member of Blessed Sacrament Church, Miners Mills, a Life Member and Past Commander of the Miners Mills American Legion, Post 741, the Plains American Legion, Joseph E. Conlon, Post 558, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Anthracite Post 283, Kingston, a Life Member and 4th Degree Knight of the Knights of Columbus, Wilkes-Barre Council 302, and a Life Member and Past Treasurer of the Miners Mills Triangle Club.

He was preceded in death by his granddaughter Shannon Krushnowski, sisters Sophie Martinski, Elizabeth Basarab, Celia Rossi, and brothers Frank and John Rampola.

Surviving are his wife of 28 years the former Catherine Swint, daughter Pam Pambianco and her husband John, Trucksville, step-daughters Roberta Krushnowski and her husband Stephen, Plains, and Roseanne Haefner, Wyoming, 5 grandchildren, 3 great-grandsons, sisters Eleanor Bolita, Plains, and Dorothy Kozloski, Miners Mills.

Military Funeral will be held Saturday at 10:30 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 11:00 am in Blessed Sacrament Church.

Internment will be in St. Francis Cemetery, Plains. Friends may call Saturday morning from 9:30 am until 10:30 am.

Memorial donations may be made to Hospice Community Care, 385 Wyoming Avenue Kingston, PA 18704.

Frank E. Brennan

June 29,2008

Send an Online Condolence

Frank E. Brennan, 69 of Wilkes-Barre, passed away peacefully Monday morning surrounded by his loving family at Hospice Care of the VNA, Heritage House, Wilkes-Barre.

He was born on February 14, 1939 in Scranton, PA, son of the late Frank and Marie (Meyer) Brennan. He graduated from West Side High School, Scranton, and was a Marine Corps Veteran, serving in Japan. He was employed by Luzerne Motors, Bear Ford, and Coccia Ford, and received a Master’s Ring for selling cars.

He was an active member of the Ancient Order of Hibernians, St. John Neuman Division, and a Fourth Degree Knight of the Knights of Columbus, Wilkes-Barre Council 302. In addition to his parents, he was preceded in death by his daughter Diane Brennan.

Surviving are his loving and devoted wife the former Ann Marie Toporek, daughters Tina Oakley, Fairmont, WV, Lisa Rozitski and her husband Michael, Mountaintop, and Marlene Prebish and her husband Richard, Pittston Twp.; grandchildren D.J. Brennan, Lindsey Capp, Michael Capp, Kelly and Joshua Cook, and great-grandson Cyrus Capp; brother Leo Brennan and his wife Sarie, Hilton Head Island, SC; numerous nieces, nephews, great-nieces and great-nephews.

Funeral will be held Thursday at 9:00 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in Sacred Heart/St. John’s Church, Wilkes-Barre.

Internment will be held at the convenience of the family. Friends may call Wednesday from 5 to 8 pm. Franks’ family would like to thank Frank Olshemski, M.D. and the staff of Hospice Care of the VNA for their compassionate care to Frank and his family.

In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to the American Cancer Society, 71 N. Franklin Street Wilkes-Barre, PA 18701.

James R. Stiner

June 24, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

James R. Stiner, 26, of Plains Township, died Tuesday evening at the Wilkes-Barre General Hospital after a brief illness.

Born in Wilkes-Barre, he was the son of Patricia Stiner of Plains and James Stiner, Williamsport. He was a graduate of James M. Coughlin High School class of 2000 and was a student at Penn State University State College, where he was a member of the Penn State Weight Lifting Club.

Jim was a N.Y. Giants fan, an avid fisherman, and loved spending time with his family and friends and smoking a good cigar. He was a member of St. Joseph’s Church, Hudson. Jim always care about others and was an organ donor with the Gift of Life Program. “Hero in Life and Hero in Death”.

Surviving in addition to his Mother and Father are his Brother David Stiner and wife Nichole, Forty Fort; Sisters; Lorraine Stiner at home and Patricia Dupak and Husband Joseph, Mountain Top; Nephew Seth Horst; Uncles, Aunts and Cousins.

Funeral will be held Monday at 8:45 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in St. Joseph’s Church, Plains.

Interment will be in Mount Olivet Cemetery, Carverton.

Friends may call Sunday 2 to 5.

Julius (Bert) Berrettini

June 25, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Julius (Bert) Berrettini, 83 of Plains died Wednesday afternoon after a lengthy illness.

Born in Plains, he was the son of the late Alfredo and Giulia Mannelli Berrettini. He was a graduate of Plains Memorial High School and The Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science.

He was a Navy veteran of the Korean Conflict and a 60-year member of the Plains American Legion, Joseph E. Conlon, Post 558. Julius worked as a Pharmaceutical Representative for Bristol-Myers for 27 years retiring in 1990. He also did relief work in several Pharmacies throughout the area. He was an avid hunter, fisherman, golfer and bowler. He was a member of the Luzerne County Pharmaceutical Association and the LCPA Bakers bowling team. He was preceded in death by his wife the wife Marie Stockinger on April 9, 2004, Brothers Albert and Dr. Achilles A. Berrettini, Sister Mary Fantozzi.

Surviving are his son Alfred at home daughter Mary Teresa DeStefano-Molino and husband Mark, Hazelton, grandchildren Steven and Katie DeStefano, Sisters Emma Aubrey, Plains, Irene Knox, York, Pa and Jean Powell, Pittsburgh, nephews and nieces.

Funeral will be held Saturday at 11:30 am form the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains with a Mass of Christian Burial at 12:00pm in Sacred Heart Church, Plains. Interment will be in St. Patrick’s Cemetery, White Haven.

Friends may call Friday from 6 to 8 pm.

Memorial Donations, if desired, may be made in Julius’ memory to University of the Sciences in Philadelphia, 600 South 43rd Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104-4495.

Stephen M. Baloga

June 17, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Stephen M. Baloga, 87, a well-known Funeral Director from Wilkes-Barre, died Tuesday afternoon at the Wilkes-Barre General Hospital.

Born in Wilkes Barre, he was the son of the late John and Mary Pribula Baloga Sr..

He attended Sacred Heart Slovak Elementary School and was a graduate of James M. Coughlin High School, Wilkes-Barre. Stephen was a Navy Veteran of World War II and upon returning he graduated from Eckels College of Embalming, Philadelphia, becoming a license funeral director on December 12, 1949 and joined the family business on North Main Street Wilkes-Barre.

He was a past member of the Luzerne County Funeral Directors Association, The National Funeral Directors Association, the North End Slovak Citizens Club and the Catholic Community of North End. He enjoyed sports most notably Horse Racing. Stephen’s legacy is his love of his family and church, friends and his Slovak Heritage, and as a Funeral Director his Professionalism, Compassion and Dedication to the families he served was unparalleled.

Stephen retired as a Funeral Director in 1990. He is preceded in death by his Wife the former Eleanor Stark; Brother John Baloga Jr, Sisters Dorothy and Marie Baloga and Theresa Fetch. Surviving are his Son Stephen Baloga and Wife Karen, Perry Hill, Maryland; Daughter, Maria Kasper and Dr. David Kasper, Shavertown; Grandchildren, Christopher and fiancé Marci Armetta; Heather and Kelly Baloga and Alison Kasper; Brother In law Jack Fetch, Warrington, Pa., Several nephews and nieces.

Funeral will be held Friday at 10:30 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian burial at 11 am in Sacred Heart Church, Wilkes-Barre. Interment will be in the Parish Cemetery, Dallas.

Friends may call Thursday 5 to 8 pm.

Memorial donations, if desired, may be made to Sacred Heart Wilkes-Barre Foundation, Inc 770 Lantern Hill Road Shavertown, Pennsylvania18708.

Rose M. Kotar

June 16, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Rose M. Kotar of Wilkes-Barre passed away with her daughter and son by her side on Monday June 16, 2008, at Hospice Care of the VNA, Heritage House, Wilkes-Barre.

She was born on November 6, 1921 in Wilkes-Barre, and was the daughter of the late Louis and Frances (O’Mahem) Gerchman.

She was employed as a seamstress in the area garment factories and was a member of St. John the Baptist Church, Miners Mills.

She was preceded in death by her husband of 49 years Lawrence Kotar on November 4, 1992, brother Francis Gerchman , sister Anna Miklich, and sister-in-law Rose Daugevelo.

Surviving are her daughter Beverly R. Mattick, Wilkes-Barre, with whom she resided with, son Lawrence E. Kotar, and his wife Barbara, Athens, PA; grandchildren Anthony B. Mattick IV and his wife Christine, Etters, PA, Maura L. Dudick, Wilkes-Barre, Jared M. Mattick and his fiancée Heather Pesotini, Crofton, MD, David Kotar, Williamsport, and Susan Barbosa and her husband Sam Bristol, PA; great-grandchildren Sarah L. Dudick and Anthony B. Mattick V; friend William Jacoby Schuylkill Haven, PA .

The family of Rose would like to extend many thanks for the care she received from the nurses and staff at Hospice Care of the VNA. We would like to extend a special thank you to Joann Jarmiolowski for her loving care for Rose while she was at home and to Dr. John Prater for his many years of care.

Funeral will be held Thursday at 8:30 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:00 am in Blessed Sacrament Church, Wilkes-Barre. Entombment will be in St. Mary’s Cemetery, Hanover Twp.

Friends may call Wednesday from 5 to 8 pm.

Thomas J. (Turk) Merolla

June 13,2008

Send an Online Condolence

Thomas J. (Turk) Merolla, Sr. 94 of Exeter and formerly of Miners Mills, died Thursday afternoon at the home of his daughter.

Born in Wilkes-Barre, he was the son of the late Nicholas and Stella (DeBiasi) Merolla.

He was a graduate of James M. Coughlin High School, Wilkes-Barre, and was a Marine Corps Veteran of World War II serving in the Pacific Theater. He was employed by Wilkes-Barre Publishing Co. as a newspaper reporter until his retirement.

He was a member of St. John the Baptist Church, Exeter, the Plains American Legion, Joseph E. Conlon, Post 558 for 58 years, The Knights of Columbus, Bear Creek Council 10571, the American Newspaper Guild, and the Triangle Club, Miners Mills.

He was preceded in death by his wife of 40 years Anne Marie (Finn) Merolla on June 14, 1985, brother Dominic Merolla, sisters Lena Merolla, Mary Watkins, and Angeline Murray.

Surviving are his daughter Nancy Niemenski, with who he resided, Exeter, sons Thomas Merolla, Jr. and his wife Janet, Wilkes-Barre, Christopher Merolla, Orange, Conn., Michael Merolla and Patrick Merolla, both of Wilkes-Barre; grandchildren Kellie Romanowski and her husband Michael, Nicholas Niemenski, Thomas, James, Micheline and Patrick Merolla; great-grandchildren Michael and Adam Romanowski, Brandon Niemenski, and Patrick and Ethan Merolla; sister Rose McNulty, several nieces and nephews, and his beloved cat Pugsly Anne.

Military Funeral Services will be held Monday at 9:00 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in St. John the Baptist Church, Exeter with Father Daniel Hitchko, Pastor, officiating. Internment will be at the convenience of the family.

Friends may call Sunday from 6 to 9 pm

In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to Hospice Community Care 601 Wyoming Avenue Kingston, PA 18704.

Joanne Marie Lupas

June 7, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Joanne Marie Lupas, 48, a resident of Plains and Laflin, died Saturday morning at her home.

Born in Plains she was the daughter of Attorney Anthony and Lillian Novitsky Lupas, of Laflin. Joanne was one of God’s special children who loved music and watching movies. She could touch your heart and always put a smile on everyone’s face. She loved summer and swimming in her pool and at Christmas became Mrs. Claus and would be in charge handing out presents.

She was a member of St. Maria Goretti Church Laflin. She attended St. Ann’s Academy and graduated from Luzerne Intermediate Unit Special Education Program. Joanne’s family wishes to thank all the members of the Visiting Nurses Association for all of their kindness and love.

Surviving in addition to her Parents are Brothers; A.J. Lupas and Wife Marlene, McLean, Virginia; Judge David Lupas and Wife Cheryl, Laflin; Sister, Best Friend and Co-care giver Dianne Black and Husband Raymond, Laflin; Nephews and Nieces; Jay & Josh Lupas; Ray and Shelley Black and Kyle, Jacob, Abby and Gwen Lupas.

A Mass of Christian Burial will be held at the convenience of the family in St. Maria Goretti Church, Laflin.

The family will hold private calling hours.

Memorial donations if desired may be made to ARC, 183 Market Street, Kingston or St. Maria Goretti Church, Laflin.

John F. Mimnaugh

June 3, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

John F. Mimnaugh, 75 of Laflin died Tuesday morning at the Gino Merli Veterans Center, Scranton.

Born in New Rochelle, New York, he was the son of the late William and Irene Kelly Mimnaugh.

He was a graduate of Iona Prep High School and attended Iona College, both in New Rochelle, NY. He was an Army Veteran and was employed as a Branch Manager of GMAC, Plains Township until his retirement.

Jack was a member of St. Maria Goretti Church, Laflin. He was an avid golfer and especially loved to Golf with his grandson Kevin.

He and his wife, the former Carol Ann McLoughlin would have celebrated their 50th Anniversary on November 8, 2008.

He was preceded in death by his son William, infant daughter Carol Ann and brother William.

Surviving in addition to his wife Carol Ann are his children Kathleen Stetler and her husband Mark, John Mimnaugh, Erin Quinn and her husband Dave, Sharon Poray and her husband Bill, Mary McNulty and her husband Brian, Daniel and his wife Lisa, and Pam Korneluk, Grandchildren Shanna, Brian, Eric, and John Mimnaugh, John and Jamie Lawrence, Danielle Stetler, Sean, Daniel, Jessica and Connor Quinn, Kelly, Kyle, William, and Molly Poray, Brian, Kevin, and Corey McNulty, Madison and Grace Mimnaugh, Sisters Elizabeth Berry, Rowayton, Conn and Jane Zaccagnino, New Rochelle, NY, several nieces and nephews.

Funeral will be held Saturday at 9 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in St. Maria Goretti Church, Laflin. Interment will be in Mount Olivet Cemetery, Carverton.

Friends may call Friday from 5 to 8 pm.

Mary Alice Cups

Sunday June 1, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Mary Alice Cups, 76 of the Parsons section of Wilkes-Barre, died Sunday morning at the Wilkes-Barre General Hospital after a brief illness.

Born in Wilkes-Barre, she was the daughter of the late Richard and Victoria Reinard.

She was a graduate of James M. Coughlin High School, Wilkes-Barre, Luzerne County Community College with an associate degree and graduated Magna Cum Ladue from King’s College with a Bachelors of Arts in English.

Mary Alice was a member of St. Dominic’s Church, Parsons, was a volunteer at the Osterhout Library, Wilkes-Barre, and loved her Friday night card games with her lady friends.

She was preceded in death by her husband Donald J. Cups on January 8, 1992; sister June Gallagher and brothers Richard and William Reinard.

Surviving are her daughters Barbara Coffay, Diane Wascavage and Karen McDermott, all of Wilkes-Barre; sons Richard Cups, Phoenix, AZ, Donald Cups, Mesa, AZ, and Michael Cups, Wilkes-Barre; 12 Grandchildren; 8 Great-Grandchildren.

Funeral will be Friday at 9:00 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in St. Dominic’s Church, Parsons. Internment will be in St. Mary’s Cemetery, Hanover Twp.

Friends may call Thursday from 5 to 8 pm.

Memorial donations may be made to the S.P.C.A. of Luzerne County, Fox Hill Road Wilkes-Barre, PA 18702 or the Osterhout Free Library 71 S. Franklin Street Wilkes-Barre, PA 18701.

Margaret (Peg) McKeown

Thursday May 22, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Margaret (Peg) McKeown, 84, of the East End section of Wilkes-Barre, died Thursday morning at the Wilkes-Barre General Hospital after a short illness, with her Loving family around her.

Born in Wilkes-Barre, she was the daughter of the late Meyer Levison & Ann Marie Watkins.

She was a graduate of St. Mary’s High School, Wilkes-Barre and completed special courses at Marywood College, Scranton.

She was employed by Wilkes-Barre Area School District as a Teacher’s Aide until her retirement.

Peg along with her husband John were co-founders of the Irish Teachers Program at King’s College which was started in 1974 and has brought over 900 teachers to King’s College for a Popular 3 week program. This is the only program of its kind in the United States.

She was a member of Holy Saviour Church, Wilkes-Barre, The Donegal Society of Wilkes-Barre and the Big Band Society of Northeastern Pennsylvania. Peg & John were involved together in many voluntary organizations in the community.

She is preceded in death by her Son Mark McKeown in October of 2005.

Surviving are her Husband of 65 years John C. McKeown; Sons John and his wife Rosemarie, Fredericksburg, Va.; Michael and his wife Cheryl, Ramsey, New Jersey; Daughters, Alice Szymczak, at home; Kathy Hummel and her husband Frank, Hanover Township; Mary Foose and her husband David, Warrior Run; 14 grandchildren, 6 grandchildren, several nephews and nieces.

Peg had said recently, She had a wonderful life with her wonderful family.

A Memorial Mass will be celebrated in Holy Saviour Church, East End, at a later date at the convenience of the family.

There will be no calling hours.

Memorial donations if desired may be made to King’s College, Holy Saviour’s Memorial Fund or the Passionist Nuns at Clarks Summit.

Arrangements are entrusted to the Corcoran Funeral Home, Plains.

Josephine Franchella

May 13, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Josephine Franchella, 84, of Plains Township, died Tuesday morning at her home.

Born in Wilkes-Barre, she was the daughter of the late John & Joseph Czubka Koval.

She was a graduate of Coughlin High School, Wilkes-Barre and was employed for B.F. Goodrich Tire Company, Exeter for 37 years until her retirement and was later employed for the Catholic Youth Center, Wilkes-Barre in the Cafeteria.

Josephine was a Foster Grand Parent for the Wilkes-Barre School District, Plains Solomon Elementary School until 2001. She was a member of Sacred Heart Church, Plains.

Josephine was the best Pastry Cook sharing always with her Family and friends and Love to help others.

She was preceded in death by her Husband Joseph on April 23, 2006; Brothers John Koval and Sisters Celia Terrace and Stella Krysk.

Surviving are her Son Joseph Franchella and Wife Barbara; Doylestown; Grandchildren; Nicole Lehman and husband Christopher and Michael Franchella; Great Grandchildren; Emma Kate and Rilyln Grace Lehman; Brother; Joseph Koval, Wilkes-Barre and Sister; Agnes Leskiw, Wilkes-Barre; Several Nephews and Nieces.

Funeral will be held Friday at 9am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in Sacred Heart Church Plains. Interment will be in the Italian Independent Cemetery West Wyoming.

Friends may call Thursday 7 to 9 pm.

Memorial donations if desire may be made to the Foster Care Program.

Mary (Angie) Gazda Krawetz

May 6, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Mary (Angie) Gazda Krawetz, 93 of Plains Township died Tuesday afternoon at Manor Care Nursing Center, Kingston.

Born in Plains, she was the daughter of the late Andrew and Anna (Gupko) Gazda.

She was employed for Consolidated Cigar of West Pittston as a Wrapper. Mary was a member of Sacred Heart Church, Plains, was an avid Bowler and was a member of the Red Hat Society of Plains.

She was preceded in death by her husband Michael Krawetz and daughter Regina Shubzda.

Surviving are her son Joseph Krawetz and his wife Theresa, Wilkes-Barre, 5 Grandchildren and 6 Great-Grandchildren.

Funeral will be held Friday at 10:30 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 11:00 am in Sacred Heart Church, Plains. Interment will be in Sacred Heart Slovak Cemetery, Dallas.

Friends may call Thursday from 6 to 8 pm.

Pearl M. Woloski

May 5, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Pearl M. Woloski, 78 of Plains, Twp., died Monday night.

Born in Plains, she was the daughter of the late Edward and Elizabeth (Scone) Glazenski, Sr.

She was employed for the Wilkes-Barre Area School District until her retirement and was a member of St. Joseph’s Church, Hudson section of Plains.

She was preceded in death by her husband John Woloski, Sr. on August 6, 2003; sisters Stella Piontek and Theresa Rinehimer; and brother Edward Glazenski, Jr.

Surviving are her daughter Mary Woloski, Son John Woloski, Jr. and his wife Cheryl, grandsons John Woloski III and Jason Woloski, all of Plains Twp., sisters Mary Mido, Wilkes-Barre, and Elizabeth Miskiewicz, Plains, brothers Stanley Glazenski, Nanticoke, Frank Glazenski, Plains, Joseph Glazenski, Pittston, John Glazenski, Wilkes-Barre, and Thomas Glazenski, Edwardsville; numerous nieces and nephews.

Funeral will be held Saturday at 9:00 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home, 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in St. Joseph’s Church, Hudson. Entombment will be in Mount Olivet Cemetery, Carverton.

Friends may call Friday from 2 to 4 and 7 to 9 pm. The Plains Lions Club will meet at 6:45 pm to pay their respects.

Memorial donations may be made to the Pearl Woloski/Plains-Solomon Elementary Student Award % PNC Bank or Cheryl Woloski, CPA.

Elizabeth (Betty) Catani

April 25, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Elizabeth (Betty) Catani, 92 of Plains Twp. died Friday afternoon at Golden Living Center, East Mountain Manor, Plains Twp.

Born in the Hudson section of Plains, she was the daughter of the late Otto and Elizabeth (Mattick) Binker.

She attended Sacred Heart High School, Plains and was employed as a wrapper for General Cigar, Wilkes-Barre, Plains Manufacturing and last for Victory Pig, Wyoming as a waitress until her retirement.

She was a member of Sacred Heart Church, Plains and was a member and past president of the Altar and Rosary Society. Betty was also a member of the Italian American Citizens Club Auxiliary, Hudson, The Bowling League at Lispi’s Lanes and the I.L.G.W.U.

She was preceded in death by her husband Leo Catani on September 14, 1977, infant sister Mary Binker, and brothers Frank and Joe Binker.

Surviving are her son Bob Catani and his wife Marilou, Houston, TX, daughter Betty Lipfert and her husband Harry, Wilkes-Barre, Grandchildren Liz Mullen, Dallas, Nicole Perrella, Wilkes-Barre, Gregg Catani and Jessica Catani, both of Houston, TX, Nikki Frederick, Dallas and Courtney Santa Maria, Charleston, SC, Great-Grandchildren Joshua, Blanca, Kirsten, Paige, Jordan, Alex and Brian, Brothers Otto Binker, New Cumberland, PA, Paul and John Binker, both of Hudson, Sisters Julia Berretta, Exeter, Dorothy DeAnthony and Mary Drew, both of Hudson, several nieces and nephews.

Funeral will be held Monday at 9 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in Sacred Heart Church, Plains. Interment will be held in the parish cemetery, Plains.

Friends may call Sunday from 5 to 8 pm.

Memorial Donations may be made in Betty’s memory to the donor’s choice.

Robert F. Stark

April 25,2008

Send an Online Condolence

Robert F. Stark, 48 of Harveys Lake died Friday afternoon from injuries sustained in a motorcycle accident.

Born in Plains he was the son of Shirley Delaney Stark of Plains and the late Donald P. Stark, Sr.

He was a graduate of Bishop Hoban High School, Wilkes-Barre and was employed as an Electrician. He was a devoted son, husband and father and was very dedicated and proud of his daughter and son’s academic and athletic achievements.

Bob was active in the Lake Lehman High School Wrestling program and was an avid hunter and enjoyed Biking and loved his dogs Coco and Kobi.

Surviving in addition to his mother are his wife the former Brigitte O’Donnell, Harveys Lake; Daughter Sierra, an honor student at Temple University, Philadelphia; Son Shane, an honor student at Lake Lehman High School; Brother Donald Jr., Jenkins Twp., Sisters Marion Redinski, Shavertown, Linda Hivish, Trucksville and Carol Salerno, New Jersey, Nephews and Nieces.

Funeral will be held Tuesday at 8:45 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in Sacred Heart Church, Plains. Interment will be in the parish cemetery.

Friends may call Monday from 5 to 8 pm.

Memorial Donations may be made at the Funeral Home.

Regina (Jean) Kopcho

April 22, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Regina (Jean) Kopcho, 82, of Plains Township, died Tuesday morning at the Inpatient Unit of Hospice Community Care, Geisinger South, Wilkes-Barre.

Born in Plains, she was the daughter of the late John and Mary Swoboda Haughney.

Jean was a graduate of Sacred Heart High School, Plains class of 1944 and was employed in the area garment industry until her retirement.

She was a member of St. Francis Church, Miners Mills.

She was preceded in death by her Husband, John on June 3, 1996.

Surviving are her Son John Kopcho and wife Christine, Laflin; Daughter Mary Louise Scouton, Wilkes-Barre; Granddaughters; Jonelle van Bastelaar and Husband Sean; Kelly Hopa and Husband Paul and Sarah Scouton; Great-Grandchildren Kassie, Paul and Alice; Nephews and Nieces.

Funeral will be held Friday at 9:30 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 10am in St. Francis Church. Interment will be in St. Mary’s Byzantine Cemetery, Dallas.

Friends may call Thursday 2 to 4 and 7 to 9.

In Lieu of flowers donations if desired may be made to Hospice Community Care 601 Wyoming Avenue, Kingston, Pa. 18704.

Peter Paul Favata

April 21, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Peter Paul Favata Sr., 76, of West Wyoming, died Monday morning at Hospice of the

Sacred Heart, Heritage House, Wilkes-Barre.

Born in Forty Fort, he was the son of the late Anthony and Bertha Mullay Favata.

He was a graduate of Forty Fort High School and was an Army Veteran of the Korean Conflict.

Peter was co-owner of F&M Plasters of West Wyoming for over 20 years .He was an avid hunter and fisherman and loved his garden.

He was a member of Our Lady Of Sorrows Church, West Wyoming.

He is preceded in death by infant children, Peter and Nadine; also Brothers; Carl and John Favata.

Surviving are his Wife of 43 years the former Patricia Niezgoda West Wyoming; Two Sons, Peter and David Favata, Wyoming; Brothers; Thomas Favata of Dunmore and Sam Favata of Forty Fort; Nephews, Nieces and Buddies; Champ, Bailey and Bentley.

Funeral will be held Thursday at 9:45 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 10:30 am in Our lady Of Sorrows Church, West Wyoming. Interment will be in Mount Olivet Cemetery, Carverton.

Friends may call Wednesday 5 to 7 pm.

Memorial donations if desired may be made to Hospice of the Sacred Heart c/o 600 Baltimore Drive, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 18705.

Catherine Ann (Lewis) Phillips

April 14, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Catherine Ann (Lewis) Phillips, 67 of Ormond Beach, Florida and formerly of Wilkes-Barre died Monday, April 14 at her home.

Born in Wilkes-Barre she was the daughter of Rita Crawley Lewis of Miners Mills and the late Blaine Lewis.

Catherine Ann was a graduate of James M. Coughlin High School, Class of 1958. She was a professional server and enjoyed crafts including quilting and crocheting. Catherine was a member of Prince of Peace Catholic Church, Ormond Beach.

She was preceded in death by her son Matthew Phillips.

Surviving in addition to her mother is her husband of 44 years, Jerry; son Mark Phillips and daughters Molly and Maureen Phillips all at home; and numerous friends and family members.

A Memorial Mass will be held at Friday at 10 am at Blessed Sacrament Church, Wilkes-Barre.

The family will receive relatives and friends Thursday from 5 to 7 pm. at the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains.

Memorial donations may be made to Halifax Humane Society, P.O. Box 9035, Daytona Beach, Florida 32120.

Edward Zuba

April 3, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Edward Zuba, 76, of the Hilldale section of Plains, died Thursday afternoon at the Wilkes-Barre General Hospital.

Born in Edwardsville, he was the son of the late George and Caroline Skrepeck Zuba. He attended Edwardsville Public Schools and was a Veteran of the Korean Conflict.

Edward was the owner of Zuba Construction for over 30 years. He was a member of SS. Peter & Paul Church, Plains. His greatest hobby was fishing and the trips he made to Canada with his friends fishing.

He was preceded in death by his brothers; Walter, Stanley and Victor; Sisters; Irene and Martha.

Surviving are his Wife of 55 years the former Eleanor Melnick; Sons, Richard, Dallas, Alan, West Chester and Robert at Home; Granddaughter Charlene Zuba; Brother Theodore, Edwardsville and Sister Eleanor Payer, Larksville; Nephews and Nieces.

Funeral will be held Monday at 9 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 am in SS. Peter & Paul Church, Plains. Entombment will be in Mount Olivet Cemetery, Carverton.

Friends may call Sunday 4 to 7.

In lieu of Flowers donations if desired may be made to SS. Peter & Paul Church, Plains.

Back To Top

Amosi Alexanderian

April 3, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Amosi Alexanderian, of West Pittston, died Thursday morning at the Wilkes-Barre General Hospital.

Born in Tehran Iran, he was the son of the late Setrak and Nanajon Konarki and was self-employed as a truck driver.

Surviving are his Wife of 60 years the former Balsan Konarki, West Pitston; Daughter, Karinh Gregos and Husband Michael, of Philadelphia; Brother, Dr. Harry Alexanderian and Wife Adele of West Pittston, Nephews and Nieces.

Funeral will be held Saturday at 8:45 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains with a Mass at 9:30 am in Immaculate Conception Church, West Pittston. Interment will be in Sacred Heart Cemetery, Plains.

Friends may call Friday evening 5 to 8 pm.

Back To Top

Catherine R. Knutelski

April 2, 2008

Send an Online Condolence

Catherine R. Knutelski, 98, of Inkerman, died Wednesday afternoon at Wesley Village, Jenkins Township.

Born in Forest City, she was the daughter of the late George and Anna Antonitis.

Catherine was self-employed as a Hairdresser and was a member of St. Mark’s Catholic Church, Inkerman. Catherine loved to garden.

She is preceded in death by her Husband, Joseph in 1954.

Surviving are her Daughter Elizabeth Ores, Inkerman; Son Joseph Knutelski, Morton, Pa., 3 Grandchildren, 3 Great-grandchild and 2 Great Great Grandchildren; Sister; Victoria Klotz, Philadelphia; Nephews and Nieces.

Funeral will be held Friday at 9:30 am from the Corcoran Funeral Home 20 South Main Street Plains, with a Mass of Christian Burial at 10:00 am in St. Marks Church, Inkerman. Interment will be in Sacred Heart Slovak Cemetery, Dallas.

Friends may call Friday Morning from 8:30 to 9:30.