Star Trek’s Jonathan Frakes to Unveil Arthur C. Clarke’s Venus Prime TV Series at San Diego Comic-Con International Panel Thursday, July 25 at 4:45PM in Room 6BCF

Director, Co-Showrunners And Executive Producers to Discuss The Upcoming TV Series Adaptation Based On Bestselling Book Franchise From Sci-Fi Legend Arthur C. Clarke & Paul Preuss

LOS ANGELES, CA (July 09, 2024) — Volume Global along with Navajo Entertainment, in association with Claxson Media, are proud to confirm that their previously announced TV series adaptation Arthur C. Clarke’s Venus Prime will be presented to fans attending Comic-Con International in San Diego.

The panel, entitled ‘Jonathan Frakes unveils ‘Arthur C. Clarke’s Venus Prime’ TV Series’ is scheduled to take place Thursday, July 25th, at 4:45—5:45pm PT in Room 6BCF at the San Diego Convention Center as part of Comic-Con International’s 2024 content line-up.

The panel will include appearances from director and Executive Producer Jonathan Frakes (Star Trek: First Contact, Star Trek: Strange New Worlds, The Librarians), co-showrunners David Cormican (Tokyo Trial, Northern Rescue, ShadowHunters) and Dwayne Hill (Northern Rescue, Peg + Cat, Mean Girls), along with Executive Producers Lucas Vivo Garcia Lagos (Franklin historia de un billete, Pacto de Sangre,Psiconautas), and Christopher Rush-Harrington (Hostile Takeover, King of Killers) of Volume Global. The panel will be moderated by Comic-Con mainstay, Gary Miereanu.

Fans of the bestselling book franchise will be treated to an in depth discussion to learn more about the upcoming tv series adaptation based on the books from sci-fi legend and Academy-Award® nominated screenwriter, Sir Arthur C. Clarke (2001: A Space Odyssey) and author Paul Preuss (also rumored to be in attendance), and will learn why the filmmakers have chosen to work in virtual production to make this ambitious scripted series a reality.

Attendance at the panel will be limited to the first 2,000 fans. Those lucky enough to secure a seat in the room will also receive a Comic-Con exclusive, limited edition, numbered series poster with artwork created by celebrated comic book cover artist, Raúl Allén.

During the panel the filmmakers will also reveal a sneak-peek tv series logo clip during the panel presentation, followed by an autograph signing session with the panelists in attendance along with the co-author of the underlying materials, Paul Preuss. Details for the autograph session are to be provided at a later date.

The bestselling Arthur C. Clarke’s Venus Prime novels were originally published almost 35 years ago with the publication of Breaking Strain, the first novel in the Arthur C. Clarke’s Venus Prime franchise. The six books were released between 1987 and 1991 and re-issued in 2021 with new cover artwork created by Vanessa Maynard.

# # #

ABOUT CLAXSON MEDIA

Claxson Media is a privately-held production company based in Latin America, and has produced, developed, and distributed multimedia content across Latin America, Iberia, and the United States, providing content within multiple channels including pay television and media streaming.

ABOUT VOLUME GLOBAL

Volume Global is a story house of filmmakers and technologists united by a shared passion for innovation and excellence. As both an owner and operator of an international network of the world’s largest modular designed virtual production stages and one-of-a-kind air-supported soundstages, Volume Global thrives on the frontline of the virtual production revolution as both an innovative technology company and a fiercely independent content studio with a slate of productions totaling over $250M since inception.

ABOUT RAÚL ALLÉN

Allén’s work has been selected and awarded by the Society of Illustrators of NY 49th Annual Exhibition, Illustration West 43, 3×3 Magazine of Contemporary Illustration, The National Drawing Award Gregorio Prieto, Expocomic, Jóvenes Creadores2006 Comunidad Madrid , Artis Gallery Drawing Award, Arte Joven of La Junta de Castilla y Leon, and La Diputación de Valladolid. Allén has worked on iconic comic characters such as Wonder Woman, Secret Avengers, Hawkeye, Immortal Iron Fist, and collaborated with writers such as Ed Brubaker, Matt Fraction, Warren Ellis, Matt Kindt, Jeff Lemire, Vita Ayala, Robert Venditti. His work has appeared in publications such as DC, Marvel, Valiant, Boom, Dynamite and Abrams Comics, as well as Playboy, TIME, The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal, Rolling Stone, Billboard Magazine, The LA Times and Las Vegas Weekly.