The Weekend Special - Children of Maximilian I Joseph of Bavaria - Princess Ludovika

Princess Ludovika of Bavaria was born on August 30th. 1808 in Munich. as a daughter of King Maximilian Joseph of Bavaria and his wife Karoline of Baden. Princess Ludovika - Source picture : Wikipedia Love & Marriage On September 9th. 1828, Princess Ludovika married Maximilian Joseph, Duke in Bavaria in Tegerensee. Duke Maximilian Joseph - Source picture: Wikipedia They had 10 children, including Empress Elisabeth (Sissi) of Austria . Own picture of Book They were the grandparents of Queen Elisabeth of Belgium . Queen Elisabeth of Belgium - Source: Wikipedia

The Weekend Special - Children of Maximilian I Joseph of Bavaria - Princess Sophie

Princess Sophie of Bavaria was born in 1805 in Munich. She was the identical twin sister of Princess Maria Anna, later Queen of Saxony. Princess Sophie - Source picture: Wikipedia She married Franz Karl, Archduke of Austria . Franz Karl - Source picture: Wikipedia During the Revolution of 1848, she persuaded her husband to give up his rights of the throne in favour of her son, Franz Joseph. At that time she was called 'the only man at court'. In the Sissi movies she is best remembered due to her bad relationship to Empress Elisabeth (Sissi). Normally I hate rumors but this one I don't want to hold back. Archduchess Sophie had a close relationship with Napoleon II. Yes! The son of Napoleon I, at that time emperor of France. Napoleon II lived at the Viennese Court with the title: Duke of Reichstadt. Hofburg Vienna own picture Schönbrunn Vienna own picture She never recovered from the death of her you

The Weekend Special - Children of Maximilian I Joseph of Bavaria - Princess Amalie Auguste & Princess Maria Anna

Amalie Auguste - Source picture: Wikipedia Princess Amalie Auguste was born in 1801 in Munich. She was the identical twin sister of Queen Elisabeth Ludovica of Prussia . She married John of Saxony. John of Saxony - Source picture: Wikipedia They had 9 children. Prince John of Saxony was the younger brother of Frederick Augustus II. Princess Maria Anna of Bavaria was born in 1805. She was the younger sister of Princess Amalie Auguste. Princess Maria Anna of Bavaria was the identical twin sister of Archduchess Sophie of Austria . Maria Anna - Source picture: Wikipedia She married Frederick Augustus II of Saxony . Frederick Augustus II - Source picture: Wikipedia He died during a journey in Austria.

The Weekend Special - Children of Maximilian I Joseph of Bavaria - Princess Elisabeth Ludovika

Own picture of a painting of Elisabeth Ludovika Princess Elisabeth Ludovika was born in 1801 in Munich. Her parents were King Maximilian I Joseph of Bavaria and his second wife Caroline of Baden. She was known in her family as Elise. She was the identical twin sister of Queen Amalie of Saxony. Elisabeth Ludovika of Bavaria married Frederick William IV of Prussia . She became Queen Consort of Prussia. Frederick William IV - Source picture: Wikipedia Elisabeth Ludovika was never involved in politics. So, she had no political influence. However due to her, there was a close friendship between Prussia and the Austrian Empire. One of her sisters was Archduchess Sophie (the mother of Emperor Franz Joseph of Austria - I will talk about her later in this Weekend Special). Elisabeth Ludovika died in 1873 in Dresden (during a visit to one of her other sisters). She's buried next to her husband at the Friedenskirsche in Potsdam.

The Weekend Special - Children of Maximilian I Joseph of Bavaria - Caroline Augusta

Source picture: Wikipedia Caroline Augusta was born in 1792 in Mannheim. Her first marriage was arranged by Napoleon I of France. She married William I of Württemberg . Source picture - Wikipedia This was a political arranged marriage. The couple lived separated in their palace. Later they divorced. Pope Pius VII dissolved the marriage, so they could remarry for the Catholic Church. Caroline Augusta remarried Francis II of Austria (in German Franz II see also the page: House of Habsburg on this blog). Source picture: Wikipedia After the death of her second husband, Carolina Augusta moved to Salzburg (Austria). Own picture of a rainy Salzburg Caroline Auguste was described as elegant, likeable, religious and intelligent. She was good friends with both her sister, Archduchess Sophie and her niece Empress Elisabeth of Austria (Sisi). Caroline Auguste died in 1873.

The Weekend Special - Children of Maximilian I Joseph of Bavaria - Augusta

Princess Augusta of Bavaria married Eugène de Bauharnais. Although this marriage was arranged by Napoleon I of France, it turned out to be a love match. Princess Augusta of Bavaria - Source: Wikipedia Eugène de Bauharnais - Source picture: Wikipedia Their eldest daughter Josephine married Oscar I, King of Sweden . Josephine - Source picture: Wikipedia Auguste , one of their sons, married Marie II of Portugal . Auguste - Source picture: Wikipedia Another daughter Amélie married Pedro II of Brazil . Amélie - Source picture: Wikipedia Their youngest son, Maximilian, married Grand Duchess Maria Nikolaievna of Russia (daughter of Tsar Nicholas I of Russia ). Maximilian - Source picture: Wikipedia