Legendary Hit Songwriter Re-Signs with Award-Winning Music Publisher

Warner/Chappell Music, the global music publishing arm of Warner Music Group, today announced that it has extended its partnership with superstar Barry Gibb. Under the agreement, Warner/Chappell will continue to administer the rights to Gibbs’ incredible catalog of songs, dating from 1967 to the present.

As a member of legendary Australian pop group, The Bee Gees, Gibb co-wrote worldwide hits including “How Deep Is Your Love,” “Stayin Alive,” “Words,” “Tragedy,” and “You Win Again,” as well as “Heartbreaker,” “Islands in the Stream,” and “Chain Reaction.” Over the course of their career, The Bee Gees won six Grammy awards, sold an estimated 220 million records and were inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame in both the US and Australia. The group shares the record—alongside The Beatles—for having written and performed six consecutive No. 1 singles. Their songs have been recorded by renowned acts such as Al Green, Janis Joplin, Roy Orbison, Elvis Presley, Kenny Rogers, Diana Ross, Take That, Elton John and Barbara Streisand, among others.

Barry Gibb said “I am very proud to be extending my relationship with Warner/Chappell. The people there are great and I look forward to a long and fruitful partnership with a view to maximizing the potential of The Bee Gees and my personal catalog.”

Jon Platt, President, Creative – North America, Warner/Chappell Music said, “Barry is undoubtedly one of the most influential and successful songwriters of all time—his extraordinary catalog is loved by each generation of artists and music fans. Everyone at Warner/Chappell is honored that he is extending our partnership and, as Barry is one of my favorite songwriters, I am personally thrilled by this rare opportunity to work with such an iconic talent. We look forward to using our global resources and wide-ranging expertise to promote Barry’s music in new and innovative ways.”

Cameron Strang, Chairman & CEO, Warner/Chappell Music said, “Barry is among pop music’s greatest artists, both as a hit-maker and as a performing star. WMG is delighted to provide a home for the Bee Gees’ legendary music and is proud that Barry entrusts Warner/Chappell with his stunning catalog of songs. We are excited to be building on our long and productive partnership.”

Gibb had at least one No. 1 song in each the 1960s, 70s, 80s, 90s and 2000s. In 1977, five of Gibb’s songs simultaneously reached the Top Ten of the Billboard Hot 100, and for one week, four were in the Top Five. In 2004, he received the CBE award (Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire) in Queen Elizabeth II’s annual honors list. In September 2012, he announced plans for a world tour this year, which will feature songs drawn from The Bee Gees’ anthology set Mythology.

About Warner/Chappell Music:

Warner/Chappell Music is WMG’s award-winning global music publishing company. The Warner/Chappell Music catalog includes standards such as “Happy Birthday To You,” “Rhapsody in Blue,” “Winter Wonderland,” the songs of Cole Porter and George and Ira Gershwin, as well as the music of Eric Clapton, Green Day, Katy Perry, Led Zeppelin, Lil Wayne, Kendrick Lamar, Madonna, Nickelback, Paramore, Red Hot Chili Peppers, T.I., Timbaland, fun. and others. Warner/Chappell Music is a leader in creating innovative strategies for marketing and promoting its songwriters and their music. The company’s extensive catalog makes it a natural first stop for A&R executives and record producers, feature film and television production companies, advertising agencies and brands, video game and new media companies, and others looking to record or license some of the world’s greatest music.

Source: Warner/Chappell Music