The Bee Gees Sing and Play 14 Barry Gibb Songs

Wikipedia:

Studio album by

the Bee Gees

Released November 1965

Recorded June 1963 – October 1965

Studio Festival Studio, Sydney

Genre Pop

Length 34:37

Label Leedon

Producer Bill Shepherd

Robert Iredale (other songs)

The Bee Gees Sing and Play 14 Barry Gibb Songs is the debut studio album by the English pop band the Bee Gees. (1967's Bee Gees' 1st was the international debut album.) It was released in November 1965 on the Australian Leedon label under the name "Barry Gibb & the Bee Gee's" [sic]. It is a compilation of most of the Gibb brothers' singles that had been released over the previous three years in Australia, which accounts for the many different styles of music on it.

Recording:

Only five new songs were recorded for the album: "I Was a Lover, a Leader of Men", "And the Children Laughing", "I Don't Think It's Funny", "How Love Was True" and "To Be or Not to Be". Barry had more than enough unrecorded songs for an all new-LP, but the rest of the album was instead made up of nine lesser-known singles. Bill Shepherd set the order of the songs.

Barry plays rhythm guitar, and Maurice probably plays the other guitars, like the leads in "I Was a Lover, a Leader of Men" and "How Love Was True", whether Maurice managed to play the acoustic lead guitar in "I Don't Think It's Funny" or the fast piano in "To Be or Not to Be" is less certain, the organ on "I Was a Lover, a Leader of Men" and "And the Children Laughing" is either Robin or Maurice. Though uncredited on the back of this album, it is confirmed that the Gibbs' friend Trevor Gordon played lead guitar on "Peace of Mind", "Wine and Women" and "Follow the Wind". Gordon later released several recordings under the name Trevor Gordon and the Bee Gees. Gordon went on to find success with Graham Bonnet in the UK-based duo the Marbles, who had a hit with "Only One Woman" written by the Bee Gees and produced by Barry and Maurice with Robert Stigwood.

Personnel:

Bee Gees

Barry Gibb – lead, harmony and backing vocals, rhythm guitar

Robin Gibb – lead, harmony and backing vocals, organ, melodica on "Claustrophobia" and "Could It Be"

Maurice Gibb – harmony and backing vocals, lead guitar, organ

Additional musicians and production

Bruce Davis – lead guitar on "Claustrophobia" and "Could It Be"

Leith Ryan – lead guitar on "Claustrophobia" and "Could It Be"

Bill Swindells – bass on "Claustrophobia" and "Could It Be"

Laurie Wardman – drums on "Claustrophobia" and "Could It Be"

Trevor Gordon – lead guitar on "Follow The Wind," "Wine & Women" and "Peace of Mind"

Uncredited musicians – bass, drums, violin, piano on "Timber!" and "Take Hold of That Star"

------------------------------------------------------------

Spinning this album again this week. One of my favorite Bee Gees albums. Barry wrote all fourteen songs but what I like is the different styles of music on this album.

Early Bee Gees music always fascinated me lyrically and musically. You hear a young band ready to take off super stardom. The Bee Gees would go on to make better albums with better production.

Don't get me wrong this isn't the best Gees album but an interesting one nonetheless.

Love the Bee Gees mid 1960's output it's interesting and this album is a fun listen.

------------------------------------------------------------

Bee Gees perform at Central Coast Leagues Club, Gosford NSW 20th February 1965

Left to right: Robin, Barry and Maurice Gibb

The Bee Gees Sing and Play 14 Barry Gibb Songs 1965 - YouTube