British novelist Rose Tremain is known for writing books that vary widely in time, place and perspective, often revolving around outsiders and cultural collisions. Her bestselling novels have been published in 30 countries and she won the Orange Prize for The Road Home, a novel that sees modern Britain through the eyes of an Eastern European immigrant. In 1995, her novel Restoration — a venture into decadent 17th century England — was made into a movie starring Robert Downey Jr. and Meg Ryan.

Tremain's latest is The Gustav Sonata, an exploration of political and personal neutrality in Switzerland, before and after the Second World War. Tremain spoke to Eleanor Wachtel from Norwich, England.

Switzerland's mystery

Switzerland is a country we know so little about. We've perceived it in a series of clichés — banks, clocks, chocolate, skiing. But we don't know it. I love going to places where the deep heart of the place is not known to the readership. I wanted to create a character who is a kind of embodiment of Switzerland, or at least he tries to be. I wanted to go rather deeply into the Swiss soul.

Switzerland's neutrality in WWII

I have always been fascinated by Switzerland, particularly during the Second World War. People outside the country have this idea that Switzerland was very serene about its neutrality during the war. And it wasn't at all. It was in perpetual anguish about the idea that the Germans might invade.

Fact inspiring fiction

The Swiss couldn't be neutral about the Jewish refugees who wanted to come to Switzerland when rumours of persecution started. They started off by being very welcoming. Then, in August 1938, they said that any Jews coming after that date would be sent back. Erich Perle, the father of the main character in The Gustav Sonata, is based on Paul Grüninger, a police chief in a little place where a lot of Jews were trying to come in from Austria and Germany. Grüninger was expected to obey the government dictates and not let any more Jews in. But if he sent them back, he was probably sending them to their deaths. He was so profoundly moved by this that he decided to falsify their papers.

My character, Erich Perle, is a decent guy. He doesn't think he's going to do anything especially heroic, but then of course he ends up doing something amazingly heroic. He knows that the consequences of altering these forms are likely going to be devastating, but he finds the courage to do it. He decides, in a matter of seconds, to do this very brave thing. I think it's just like that with ordinary people — they can find themselves doing something extraordinary.

Rose Tremain's comments have been edited and condensed.