The Road Home

by Rose Tremain

320pp, Chatto & Windus, £16.99

It became a truism some time in the 1990s that much of what was most vibrant and exciting in British literature was being written by Britons who were either immigrants themselves, or the children of immigrants. From VS Naipaul and Salman Rushdie to Hanif Kureishi and Monica Ali, these were writers giving a vivid, altered Britain back to British readers, describing a chaotic, multicultural, modern London, rather than the Blitz-depleted city of postwar English novelists.

It is an act of distinctive literary boldness on Rose Tremain's part to add her own (native, English) contribution to immigrant literature about London. Tremain has always taken the risk of following her imagination wherever it takes her, whether into the loneliness of the transgendered, the corridors of the past, the complications of other countries (Denmark, New Zealand, France); or some combination of the above. Her new novel, The Road Home, is set in contemporary London, but it is the story of Lev, a widower in his 40s who is just moving to England, seeing the place with the hope and bewilderment of the newly arrived.

Tremain makes the significant choice not to identify Lev's country of origin (perhaps he comes from the same nameless Eastern bloc country featured in Julian Barnes's 1992 novel, The Porcupine). It seems closest to Poland or Slovakia - some place that has recently joined the EU and is "a world slipping and sliding on a precipice between the dark rockface of Communism and the seductive, light-filled void of the liberal market." Tremain's decision frees her to sketch the village Auror that Lev has left behind with invented details of market life and the failing timber mill; perhaps more to the point, it allows her to avoid any discussion of actual historical events. For politics is not Tremain's primary concern here. The novel's subject is, rather, displacement: what it feels like not to belong.

In this sense, it is a classic work by the gifted Tremain, whose natural timbre is a wry melancholy, and who is, as she has said, primarily interested in the people outside the main event. She has often written of travellers, of the exiled and the banished, and so it seems apt that she should turn her attention to the waves of eastern Europeans seeking new fortunes in England. Early on, confronted with an unfriendly policeman near Victoria, Lev remembers what he was told before he left home: "Remember, you are legal, economic migrants, not 'asylum-seekers' as the British call those who have been dispossessed . . . You have the right to work in England. You must not let yourself be harassed."

And so, after a few rocky days of sleeping rough and earning a meagre wage leafleting for Ahmed's Kebabs, Lev slowly finds his way, guided as he often is by his good-hearted compatriot Lydia, his seatmate on the long trans-Europe bus-crossing with which the novel opens. Lydia has secured a post in London as a translator for the famous conductor from their country, Maestro Greszler, and with her help Lev finds a job as a dishwasher in a chic, upmarket restaurant, as well as a room lodging with divorced Irishman Christy Slane.

Much of what makes Lev's life, and the novel that contains it, so rich are these and other friendships. Over vodka (his nation's conversational aide) or tea, or cans of Guinness, Lev and Christy talk of the daughters they both miss - Lev's five-year-old, Maya, is living with his mother back in Auror, Christy's daughter is in the hands of his hostile ex-wife - and of work, of love, of art. And Lev pours out stories about his best friend Rudi, a character as vivid as any in the book, who scratches out a living back at home driving his beloved Chevrolet - known as the Tchevi - as a taxicab. Feisty, blustery Rudi is a lovely counterpart throughout to the quieter, more introverted Lev; but it will be Lev who returns to Rudi in the end, with a plan for the future.

The arc of the novel is essentially one of self-improvement; although Lev has various ventures in employment, there is no plot, per se. We are, rather, accompanying Lev on his journey, relishing his many encounters - with a sexy, spiky co-worker at the restaurant who becomes his girlfriend; with the imperious chef from whom Lev picks up tips on the restaurant trade; with an elderly Englishwoman at a home; with a recently arrived young countryman named Vitas who misses, more than anything else, his dog. In Suffolk, part of a crew picking asparagus, Lev meets a farmer who takes a liking to him, and two benevolent gay Chinese migrant workers. Tremain is at her luminous best in these odd moments of companionability; she has the art of finding the improbable graces in human connection. That these relations lead Lev gradually to the road home gives the story a gentle, pleasing form, if not any real dramatic denouement.

As in many novels about immigrants, two of the significant issues throughout are money and food. Lev soon makes the discovery common to any London visitor: that a person seems to haemorrhage money immediately on entering the city, and since he is sending £20 home weekly for his mother and Maya, he must watch himself carefully. Tremain clearly enjoys observing wealthy Londoners, their vapidity, their selfishness, through Lev's eyes - and also more cheerfully enjoys describing the busy workings of a kitchen in a high-end restaurant. She recounts in succulent detail several of the meals Lev produces as he begins to hone his own culinary skills. Strangely, it is not until near the end that we are given the dishes particular to Lev's country (rabbit with juniper berries, seaweed ravioli). By then the novel is working up to its poignant conclusion: that home as you once knew it may be transformed beyond recognition, but there will always be food and friendship for consolation.