WEST LINN Ore. (KPTV) - The City of West Linn released an independent investigation report into the West Linn Police Department’s (WLPD) adherence to internal policies and procedures regarding allegations of sexual misconduct by a doctor made by over 70 women and children.

The investigation into the adherence to policies was launched after attorneys representing the former patients of the accused doctor wrote a letter to Oregon Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum alleging incompetence and negligence in how the WLPD investigated their concerns.

The final report was delivered to the City’s law firm Jordan Ramis on Thursday evening. In an executive session on Friday, the West Linn City Council reviewed the report.

On Tuesday, the Council voted unanimously to release the report to the public.

“It is clear from this report that we did not always follow our policies,” the City wrote in a press release. “We could and should have done better. Although the report makes no conclusions regarding the sufficiency of the criminal case against Dr. Farley, the City is grateful for the opportunity to use this report to improve our internal processes.”

The report, written by an independent investigator hired by the City of West Linn, details the events that took place during the investigation conducted by Detective Tony Christensen of the accused doctor.

See Also: 3 minors arrested after woman assaulted, robbed at Gresham home

Investigator Jill Goldsmith, J.D., of Workplace Solutions NW, found that the officer in charge of the sexual assault and abuse investigations was not qualified for the investigation.

“Policy 615 states sexual assault and abuse investigations should be done by “qualified investigators,” Goldsmith wrote, “Christensen did not have the training described by WLPD policy 615.”

Goldsmith goes on to write in the conclusion, “Policy 615 provides that a Victim’s Advocate should be present. Based on the records, 17 of the 43 cases I reviewed were conducted without a Victim’s Advocate present, although in one of those interviews, the interviewer offered to reschedule for a time when the Victim’s Advocate could be present.”

The City stated in their release:

“We will move forward by providing our officers with specialized trauma-informed training that teaches subtleties of conduct and empathy in ways that prioritize the well-being of survivors of traumatic crimes.”

The full report can be found on the City’s website.