For some, generosity knows no bound: they give and give and then give some more. Then, when all is said and done, the world is a better place because a gift was selflessly given in support of a project that touches many lives.

So it is with Esri, a Redlands-based global market leader in geographic information system (GIS) software. The company recently provided a substantial and transformational gift in support of Vital, Redlands Community Hospital’s Emergency Department expansion and renovation project. With that gift the long-awaited project moved considerably closer to becoming a reality.

“We’re thrilled,” said Bill Hatfield, co-chair for the Vital capital campaign. “A project of this magnitude requires major support from the community, and Esri’s gift is indeed significant. Their giving touches us deeply, and as this project continues toward completion, the community we serve with emergency care will be touched deeply as well. This gift will enable us to ensure that cutting-edge emergency care will be available to those who need it when they need it for generations to come.”

Esri was founded in 1969 by Jack and Laura Dangermond, noted philanthropists. For nearly half a century the company has helped customers unlock the full potential of data in order to improve operational and business results. In fact, Esri engineers develop some of the most advanced solutions for digital transformation and location analytics to create the most authoritative maps in the world. Esri software solutions are deployed in more than 350,000 organizations, including the world’s largest cities, most national governments, three-quarters of Fortune 500 companies and more than 7,000 colleges and universities.

The Redlands Community Hospital Vital campaign began in January and since then more than $5 million has been raised. With Esri’s gift, the expanded Emergency Department will be named for the company whose founders have generously supported their city of residence for many years. Esri’s gift reflects the company’s and the Dangermond’s longstanding commitment to make our community a better place.

At Redlands Community Hospital, the vision for an expanded Emergency Department is unmistakably clear. Facing overcrowding, a need for updated technology and the necessity to add treatment and other rooms, the hospital embarked upon a bold project that enhances care, speeds workflow, maximizes patient throughput and minimizes the bustle and inconvenience that characterize many emergency departments. It’s an important undertaking and one that will positively impact the generations of patients the hospital serves.

Planned improvements include:

A modern emergency room environment with cutting-edge technology.

Easy patient entry, fast admission and speedy triage.

A dedicated walk-in entrance with increased parking separate from our ambulance entrance.

Doubling the department footprint to 20,000 square feet in a configuration that will enable faster care for patients.

Increasing bed capacity from 21 to 33 beds and annual treatment capacity from 54,000 to 70,000 patients.

Improved patient privacy.

“This project is long overdue” said Stan Weisser, a Vital co-chair. “Through Laura and Jack, Esri once again plays a vital role in insuring that our community continues to be a better place. Through their generosity, the patients we serve know that nothing is more sacrosanct than life-saving care. Esri clearly understands the great good that a state-of-the-art emergency department can do. We're extremely grateful for their commitment and generosity."