London is a place for everyone and a city unlike any other. Between drinking afternoon tea, sightseeing on double deckers, shopping, exploring hip East London and posing outside of phone booths all over the city, there’s just no time to think of Instagram captions. To make your life easier, here’s a list of the top Instagram captions for any shot taken in London.

1. Captions showing your love for London – to make your friends extra jealous

A bad day in London is still better than a good day anywhere else.

How bad of a day can one really have in this amazing city?

Keep calm and go to London

Keep calm and carry on? No, just go to London.

‘There’s nowhere else like London. Nothing at all, anywhere.’ – Vivienne Westwood

If Vivienne Westwood, the world famous fashion designers said it, it must be true.

2. Classic quotes about London

“By seeing London, I have seen as much of life as the world can show.” – Samuel Johnson

There are endless things to see and do, and it is unlikely you’ll ever get bored. Use the famous quote by the British novelist to show that you know what is so fascinating about the city.

“I’ve been walking about London for the last thirty years, and I find something fresh in it every day.”- Walter Besant

In this bustling city there’s always new things to discover. This quote by Walter Besants describes it best.

“London is the epitome of our times, and the Rome of today.” – Ralph Waldo Emerson

Epitome means “the greatest of our time”. As Rome was once the greatest empire, the equivalent of that today is London. Simply an extraordinary city.

“In London everyone is different, and that means anyone can fit in.” – Paddington Bear

Paddington the Bear (a fictional bear, just to be clear) has captured the hearts of millions of people across the globe. And he found this utterly adorable way to express his love for London.

3. Funny captions to show how hilarious you are

Look, a clock. We don’t have that in America. — Ron Swanson in Parks and Recreation

Big Ben, so what? What’s the big deal we all have clocks anyway?

Where has Big Bae been all my life?

As in Big Ben, Instead of making fun of the big clock, let’s make a pun out of it (bae means ‘before anyone else’ and is used to refer to a boyfriend or girlfriend.)

You are the fish to my chips

Is there a more appropriate way to tell someone in London that they complete you, then by referring to the all time favorite British dish, Fish and Chips? Perfect caption for a picture in the pub or at a traditional fish & chip shop, of course.

Sticks and scones may break my bones.

Not sticks and stones (that’s the real saying) – London is all about the scones.

I spy with my little eye

For your picture featuring the London Eye**.**

And lastly…

4. The 4 typical London pictures we know will be on your camera roll

London is calling, and I must go.

Short, sweet and witty. Perfect for your picture in the red phone booth.

It’s always tea time in London

You can’t go to London without having some afternoon tea. This one is for that cute picture with the tea cup and pastries.

When in London, walk the steps of the Beatles (Abbey Road)

You know the famous photo of the Beatles crossing Abbey Road? We are sure you will recreate it.

Studying abroad at Hogwarts (Platform 9 3/4)

No you’re not in London, you’re on your way to Hogwarts? Pose by the Harry Potter platform at King’s Cross and make this your caption.