The Shubert Organization is America’s oldest professional theatre company and the largest theatre owner on Broadway. Since the dawn of the 20th century, Shubert has operated hundreds of theatres in New York City and throughout the United States. Shubert currently owns and operates 17 Broadway theatres, six off-Broadway venues, and the Forrest Theatre in Philadelphia.

Under the leadership of Robert E. Wankel, Chairman and CEO, The Shubert Organization continues to be a leader in the theatre industry. Shubert also delivers innovative ticketing solutions via its Telecharge interface, API distribution, and private-label technology, offering unparalleled distribution and marketing to the theatre industry and beyond. Its consumer-facing brands—Telecharge for retail ticket sales and Broadway Inbound for group buyers, tour operators, and the travel industry—sell millions of tickets each year.

The Shubert Foundation, sole shareholder of The Shubert Organization, Inc., is dedicated to sustaining and advancing live performing arts in the United States. The Foundation provides general operating support to not-for-profit theatres and dance companies. Foundation grants in 2023 totaled $37.9 million to 635 grantees. The Shubert Archive, a project of The Shubert Foundation, documents, collects, and preserves the history of The Shubert Organization.

Over the course of its 120-year history, Shubert has produced and co-produced hundreds of plays and musicals, including Cats (original and revival), Hugh Jackman - Back on Broadway, Passing Strange, Amour, Dirty Blonde, Passion, The Grapes of Wrath, City of Angels, A Few Good Men, The Heidi Chronicles, Jerome Robbins’ Broadway, Sunday in the Park with George, The Real Thing, Dreamgirls, The Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby, Amadeus, Children of a Lesser God, Ain’t Misbehavin’, The Gin Game, Little Shop of Horrors (original Off-Broadway), School of Rock, Hedwig and the Angry Inch, Once, The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time, The Band’s Visit, Come From Away, and Dear Evan Hansen. Current productions include Here Lies Love, To Kill a Mockingbird national tour, The Outsiders, Stephen Sondheim’s final musical Here We Are, and Some Like It Hot, now playing at its flagship Shubert Theatre.

As required by the Health Care PRICE Transparency Act, UnitedHealthcare, UMR and HealthSCOPE Benefits creates and publishes the Machine-Readable Files on behalf of The Shubert Organization Inc. To link to the Machine-Readable Files, please click on the URL provided: transparency-in-coverage.uhc.com

Board of Directors

Robert E. Wankel, Chairman and CEO

Laura Forese

Wyche Fowler, Jr.

Pamela Newkirk

Diana Phillips

Richard J. Poccia

Lee J. Seidler

Stuart Subotnick

Shubert Organization Executives