If Liv Tyler’s boobs don’t attract box office attention, “One Night at McCool’s” all-star cast making absolute idiots of themselves certainly should.

In the first project from actor and producer Michael Douglas’ Furthur Films, “One Night at McCool’s” tells the story of three guys and the trials and tribulations they face. At the center of attention stands Jewel (Tyler) — sexy, conniving and scantily clad.

Randy, played by Matt Dillon, is a young bartender at McCool’s who, after a long night of drinking, finds himself in a compromising position with the seductively driven Jewel. A run-in with an angry boyfriend and a lustful stare from Jewel are all it takes to change Randy’s life forever.

Paul Reiser plays Randy’s cousin, Carl, a lawyer who is undeniably infatuated with Jewel. A married man with a wife and three kids, Carl thought he had his life under wraps until Jewel’s sex appeal opened him up to an alternative lifestyle hidden underneath a “family man” demeanor.

John Goodman portrays a detective named Dehling who is first introduced investigating a murder case involving both Randy and Jewel. Once again, Jewel’s provocative eyes (and body language for that matter) convince yet another man that she is the only one for him. Dehling confides in a priest to help him cope with emotional urges otherwise nonexistent until meeting her.

The film ends up as a question as to which dumbfounded man, sexually and emotionally whipped by Jewel, will end up by her side. One of the movie’s strengths is the talented cast that the film revolves around, but the story could have included a few more twists and turns. “One Night at McCool’s” follows a continuous, predictable pattern.

Nonetheless, “One Night at McCool’s” is unique in the fact that the story is told from three distinct points of view. Bloody physical violence and murder mixed with money, sex and humor give this movie some appeal.

However, let’s just say it won’t take a certified genius to follow the plot in this movie.

“One Night at McCool’s” is showing at theaters now. For those looking to drool over Liv Tyler’s every move and watch three prominent Hollywood actors come close but never quite get the cigar, a night at the movies might be just right.