The Japanese Prime Minister was evacuated after an explosion during a visit to a western port, with a man detained for throwing a suspected smoke bomb.

Fumio Kishida was visiting a port in the Wakayama province on Saturday to support his party’s candidate in a local election and was beginning his speech when a loud explosion was heard, according to local media.

Reports indicate that a pipe-like object, thought to be a smoke bomb, was hurled at the Prime Minister as crowds fled.

He appeared to be unharmed as security teams whisked him away from the scene and took him to a local police station. No other injuries have been reported.

Footage from the port showed a man being pressed to the ground by officers at the scene. Police later confirmed an arrest has been made, but the identity of the suspect has not yet been confirmed.

One eyewitness told Japanese news channel NHK that she saw an object in the air which “gave me a bad feeling, so we ran away unbelievably fast.

“Then we heard a really loud noise. It made my daughter cry,” she said.

Speaking on the campaign trail later in the day, Mr Kishida said: “Police are investigating the details of the loud explosive sound at the previous speech venue. I am sorry for causing many people to be concerned. We are in the middle of an important election for our country. We must carry this on together.”

Japan is set to elect members of the lower house of parliament this month, with byelections taking place in several provinces.

The incident comes less than a year after the assassination of former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Mr Abe, 67, was shot at close range with what appeared to be a homemade gun while delivering a speech during a campaign event at a train station in Nara in July.

The killing of Mr Abe, who was Japan’s longest-serving leader, rocked the country and led to the bolstering of security details for politicians.

Japan has seen a string of political assassinations throughout history.

The first prime minister, Ito Hirobumi, was shot by a Korean nationalist in 1909, and Korekiyo Takahashi, who led between 1921 and 1932, was assassinated by the army in 1936.

Takashi Hara, prime minister from 1918 to 1921, was stabbed to death by a right-wing extremist. Osachi Hamaguchi, who was in office from 1929 to 1931, was killed after an infection to a gunshot wound after being shot by an extremist. In 1932, Tsuyoshi Inukai was killed by a group of junior navy officers during a coup.

And in 2002, Koki Ishii, a deputy in parliament, was murdered by a member of the Yakuza, organised crime groups in Japan. Five years later, the mayor of Nagasaki, Iccho Itoh was also killed by Yakuza.