The Riddarholmen Church is the final resting place of the Swedish kings, and is Stockholm's only preserved mediaeval abbey. The church is open during the summer season, with an annual programme of concerts.

With the one exception of Queen Christina, all succeeding rulers of Sweden from Gustav II Adolf (d. 1632) to Gustaf V (d. 1950) are buried in the Riddarholmen Church. Kings from the middle ages are also buried here such as Magnus Ladulås and Karl Knutson Bonde (d. 1470).

The church is foremost a burial and memorial church, which is maintained by the Office of the Marshal of the Realm and the National Property Board (SFV).

The Riddarholmen Church - Kungliga slotten

The current church has three naves but originally had two, with the south side aisle having been added in the mid-15th century.

The Church Room - Kungliga slotten

The Bernadotte Chapel

In 1858–60 this chapel was built for the present royal dynasty of Sweden, the Bernadotte family.

The Bernadotte Chapel - Kungliga slotten

The Royal graves

The royal graves - Kungliga slotten

Seraphim Toll

The royal burial church at Riddarholmen also houses the Coats of arms of deceased Seraphim Knights. The deceased Knight is honoured with a Seraphim toll the same day as the funeral service takes place.

Seraphim Toll - Kungliga slotten

The grave of Christ

The Riddarholmen Church's newest addition is also one of the church's oldest objects: a wooden sculpture of Christ, dating from around the year 1400. During the Middle Ages, it was used in the Passion Play at Easter.

The grave of Christ - Kungliga slotten

Secret Swedish Rooms - Part 4 Riddarholmen Church. The guide at the video is Jonas Wallin, since 2010 the Chamberlain at Haga Palace.

The Riddarholmen Church was originally the church of the Franciscan monastery in Stockholm which survived until the Swedish Reformation when it was dissolved but the church was preserved.

On July 28th, 1835 disaster struck when the church spire was struck by lightning and the Spire and upper church caught fire but the interior of the church was saved.The bell tower with five bells which were donated by Queen Kristina were destroyed but the church was restored.