They regularly pout professionally for the cameras so it was no effort for models Nicole Trunfio and Jestina Campbell to smear on some rouge and pucker up for charity.

The internationally acclaimed model, 28, and former Miss Universe Australia, 23, struck professional poses with their fuchsia smiles in aid of the Bright Pink Lipstick cancer campaign on Friday.

They joined a host of Australians, including Lisa Wilkinson, Laura Csortan, Natalie Gruzlewski and Kyly Clarke, who clamoured to put their names to the social media campaign, which raises money for research into ovarian and breast cancer and encourages people to discuss their hereditary health.

It was Nicole's father Joe's battle with bowel cancer that spurred the supermodel to support the initiative.

And now she is speaking out for women suffering from breast and ovarian cancer, having taken on an ambassador role with the charity Pink Hope.

'My dad has cancer and it is a rare type so I am motivated to support cancer charities, Trunfio told Access All Areas.

The Italian-Australian told The Western Australia on Thursday: 'My dad has cancer and it is a rare type so I am motivated to support cancer charities.

'My whole family has watched my dad go through treatment and reoccurrence, so giving back where I can is very important to me.'

Meanwhile, Jestina's grandmother had a cervical cancer scare several years ago and was operated on the night of her Miss Universe Australia competition in June 2010, but has since made a healthy recovery.

On Friday Pink Hope called on women around the country to don bold lips for Bright Pink Lipstick Day, asking them to upload a snap of their broad beams to social media with the hashtag #brightpinklipstickday.

The success of Pink Hope's social media campaign saw hash tags of #PinkHope and #brightpinklipstickday trending on twitter all day.

Founder Krystal Barter (pictured right) told Daily Mail Australia that today symbolised everything her family stands for and the long journey of her success.

'Pink Hope is a guiding light to families like mine. It has changed my life forever, making it positive and giving me a purpose,' Ms Barter said.

Ms Barter, a staff coordinator and 20 other volunteers began answering calls and emails from women who have suffered or are suffering from hereditary illnesses at 5am on Friday at Shangri-La Hotel in Sydney's CBD.

'This was the third year in a row that we have launched this campaign and each year it is getting brighter, bigger and bolder.'

Ms Barter has been branded Australia's answer to Angelina Jolie.

Ms Barter carried the same faulty BRCA1 gene that prompted her to undergo a double mastectomy, but the 31-year-old has also proved she has the same star pulling power of the Hollywood A-lister.

The mother-of-three has signed on a number of high profile Australians, including Trunfio, Campbell, Victoria's Secret Model Jessica Hart and sister Ashley, the Prime Minister's wife Margie Abbott and the daughter of the country's richest woman Bianca Rinehart to sign on to her charity.

'I'd like to call us the trendiest charity in Australia,' Ms Barter laughed.

'We're very fortunate to have these women. It's a huge honour to have the Prime Minister's wife leading the charge.

'These women have become like my friends and it's pretty amazing,' she said.

Pink Hope, Australia's only hereditary health charity, is using Bright Pink Lipstick Day as an opportunity to encourage people to find about their hereditary health in a bid to prevent breast and ovarian cancers.

Ms Barter was 22 when she found out she carried the faulty BRCA1 gene.

She was just 25 when she had a double mastectomy - four years before Angelina Jolie famously revealed she underwent the procedure.

Ms Barter said she'll be wearing her pink lipstick in memory of her grandmother, who died just two months ago.

'I was in my hospital bed having surgery when my nan passed away,' she said.

'I went in about 8 weeks ago to have my fallopian tubes and an ovary removed. She wanted me to have my surgery so she didn't tell me she was sick.

'I've had a very sick mum for a long time and I've had all these women in my family who are now not here or not 100 percent (because of cancer)… I'm trying to use our family story to make a positive impact.'

Model Jessica designed a lipstick through her cosmetic brand LUMA especially for Pink Hope.

It will be sold exclusively through Priceline stores nationwide or online at www.pinkhope.org.au for RRP $19.95 with all proceeds going to the Pink Hope Charity.

Ms Barter said the future for Pink Hope is looking bright. In October she will be working with Michael Hill Jewellery who will donate $1.1 million over five years. The Australian brand has also launched a new collection, Emma & Roe, that was designed by Ms Barter herself.

'It is really exciting to see brands invest in our vision.

'The future is looking bright and I am so excited about what's to come.'