Afraid Of Heights is the fifth studio album by Canadian rock band Billy Talent, originally released in July 2016 via Warner Music Canada.

Billy Talent is a Canadian rock band from Mississauga, Ontario. They formed in 1993 with Benjamin Kowalewicz as the lead vocalist, Ian D'Sa on guitar, bassist Jon Gallant and drummer Aaron Solowoniuk. There have been no lineup changes, although Aaron is currently taking a hiatus from the band due to an MS relapse, Jordan Hastings from Alexisonfire, Cunter and Say Yes is currently filling in for him.

In the 13 years since their inception, Billy Talent sold well over one million albums in Canada alone and nearly 3 million albums internationally. The band has released six studio albums: Watoosh! (1998), Billy Talent (2003), Billy Talent II (2006), Billy Talent III (2009), Dead Silence (2012) and Afraid of Heights (2016).

Afraid of Heights is the band's first album in 4 years following 2012's Dead Silence.

It is also the band's first album recorded without drummer Aaron Solowoniuk who had suffered a multiple sclerosis relapse and had to take a hiatus from recording and performing to focus on his health. Jordan Hastings of Alexisonfire and Say Yes recorded the drums for the album and played on the subsequent supporting tour. The album sold approximately 53,000 units in its first week.

Of their new album, Afraid Of Heights the band say, “This record is about struggle, both within ourselves and within the society we live. It’s about asking questions. It’s about friendship and loyalty and it’s about choosing not accept things that don’t apply to us. That don't represent us. It’s about believing in the person that’s reflected in the mirror and taking responsibility. It’s about the pressures that society creates and how we’re all trying to figure out where we fit in. It’s about following your dreams and knowing that when you get knocked down you have to get back up. It’s about listening to our planet and learning to respect her. It’s about love and loss and life... but more importantly it’s about the power of ROCK ’N ROLL”

The album reached #1 on the Canadian Albums charts, #23 on the UK Albums charts and #26 on the Australian ARIA Albums charts.

Three singles were released from the album: “Afraid of Heights” and “Louder Than The DJ” and “Ghost Ship Of Cannibal Rats”.