This time, there was no bizarre equipment malfunction as befell Alexandra Orlando at the Pan American Games.

This time, when the Toronto rhythmic gymnast reached out for her stick or rope or hoop or club, they were all there - and so was a berth in the Beijing Olympics.

Orlando, 20 of Toronto qualified for her first Olympic Games with a ninth-place finish in the all-around final at the world rhythmic gymnastics championships at Patras, Greece, Friday.

Orlando, who carried Canada's flag in the closing ceremonies at both the Commonwealth Games in Melbourne and the Pan American Games in Ri de Janeiro, totalled 65.950 points, posting the sixth-best score on ribbon with a personal best 16.700, the eighth-best score on clubs and the 12th best on rope and hoop. . She needed a top-20 finish over all to earn her ticket to Beijing.

"I'm absolutely overwhelmed," said Orlando, who won a record six gold medals at the Commonwealth Games last year.

"I never would have thought I would have cracked the top-10. And going to the Olympics is something I've been working towards my whole life. There are no words to describe how I feel."

Anna Bessonova of Ukraine won the gold medal with 73.950 points placing first on three of the four apparatus. Vera Sessina of Russia was second at 73.900 and Olga Kapranova of Russia third at 70.700.

Orlando was seventh in the hoop final. She was the first Canadian to reach an event final at the worlds since 1985. She also qualified 11th for the all around final on Wednesday

A strong start in ribbon set the tone, a psychological boost after a bewildering episode in Rio, when she reached for her apparatus after a move and found that the ribbon had become detached from the stick. Judges punished her with a mark of zero, killing her event and her chances of getting in the Pan Am all-round final.

Four years ago, Orlando missed an Athens Olympics berth by one spot.

"I learned is it important to never give up on your dream," she said. Emily Livingstone of Toronto was the last Canadian Olympian in rhythmic gymnastics in 2000.

Olympic qualifying in the group competition goes on Saturday. Canadian entries are Kathryn de Cata, Monika Lechowicz, Suzanne Lendvay, all of Toronto, and Roxanne Porter, Brihana Mosienko and Alissa Hansen of Vancouver. They are aiming at a top-10 finish in order to secure an Olympic qualification for Canada.