PITTSBURGH - Former Duquesne swimmer Lexi Santer '18 (Wilmington, Del. / Charter School of Wilmington) was recently selected as one of eight team members to represent the United States Lifesaving Association at the 2019 International Surf Rescue Challenge (ISRC) in South Africa.

The international surf lifesaving invitational tournament consists of three days of surf lifesaving competition from Sept. 28 through Oct. 2 in North Beach Durban, South Africa. Each event tests skills surf lifesavers use every day to help protect and rescue swimmers on coastlines around the world.

The event lineup includes surf swims, board races, surf ski races, beach sprints and combinations of the aforementioned disciplines in Ocean-man and Ocean-woman individual and relay championships. In addition the Rescue Tube Rescue, Beach Flags, Board Relay and Surf Ski Relays will be conducted on each of the three days of competition. Teams are only allowed to use six male and six female athletes on each day.

Santer's teammates at the event are Kelsey Cummings (L.A. County, Calif.), Stephanie Eisenring (Deerfield Beach, Fla.), Casey Francis (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.), Hallie Petersohn (Palm Beach, Fla.), Emily Ruppert (Sussex, Del.) and Jenna Solberg (LA County, Calif.).

Santer capped an outstanding career following the 2017-18 season, helping the Dukes win their first Atlantic 10 Swimming & Diving Championship in program history. She graduated with six school records and won a total of 13 medals at the A-10 Championship over the span of four seasons.

In addition to her accomplishments in the pool, she was the recipient of the 2018 A-10 Postgraduate Scholarship for Duquesne, as well as a a three-time CSCAA Scholar All-American and a three-time A-10 All-Academic Team selection.

About the United States Lifesaving Association

The United States Lifesaving Association is America's nonprofit professional association of beach lifeguards and open water rescuers. The USLA works to reduce the incidence of death and injury in the aquatic environment through public education, national lifeguard standards, training programs, promotion of high levels of lifeguard readiness, and other means.