As pointed out in a lecture, the concept of evolution or the transformation of species was already formulated before Charles Darwin’s time. Herbert Spencer, Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, and notably Charles Darwin’s own grandfather, Erasmus Darwin, all had both publicly and prominently discussed the concept of transformation of species for some time prior, while many other scientists of the period proposed theories that suggested a struggle for survival as the driving force towards evolution . Thus, Darwin’s theory of evolution by natural selection and environmental pressures was not thought of in a vacuum. Instead, Darwin’s theory of evolution was a product of his time, as Darwin was heavily influenced by thinkers of both the Romantic and Enlightenment …show more content…

A counter argument often provided by those who argue that the Enlightenment had greater impact on Darwin’s later works is its clear anti-Creationist stance, as a major principle of the Enlightenment period was to look at science for answers and not necessarily within religious text. During the Enlightenment period, there was a divide between the Church and much of the scientific community. Thus, since Darwin did not align with the views of the Church, some would consider him to be of the latter and therefore might classify Darwin as an Enlightenment thinker. However, it should be noted that although Darwin’s theory of evolution was deemed as an improper reading by the Church, many scientists of the time dismissed Darwin’s theory of evolution, ironically the same community in which Darwin attempts to establish himself in. The Victorian scientific community of the time rejected Darwin’s theory of evolution on the basis of it lacking experimentation and scientific measurements , all important aspects of the Enlightenment style of reasoning and thus suggests the scientific community’s preference for an Enlightenment style of reasoning. According to them, Darwin’s work was merely grounded on empirical data. Much of the scientific community regarded Darwin as a gentlemen scientist, as Darwin was not a professor at a university nor a member of an esteemed learned society. Instead, Darwin was self-motivated, pursing his passion for science out of curiosity and regarded it as his role in public