Overview

The O&W Rail Trail follows the route of the old NY O&W Railroad (Kingston-Port Jervis Branch) right-of-way for 19.1 miles through Ulster County, NY, between Kingston and Ellenville.

The O&W Rail Trail should not be confused with the nearby Sullivan O&W Rail Trail.

About the Route

The northern endpoint of the O&W Rail Trail is located just west of the Washington Avenue and Taylor Street intersection and extends 0.5 mile before it peters out shortly after the I-87 underpass. Trail users can pick up the trail again a mile farther southwest at a well-marked trailhead with parking located off US 209, south of Esopus Creek in the town of Hurley. From here down to Marbletown, the trail is sometimes referred to as the Hurley Rail Trail; from Marbletown south, it’s sometimes called the Marbletown Rail Trail.

For 2 miles, the asphalt-surfaced trail runs adjacent to US 209. This portion is suitable for in-line skaters, road cyclists, and wheelchair users. It is particularly scenic as you continue south, as there is an Indigenous planting field and a railroad tunnel in Hurley.

Traveling toward the community of Cottekill, roughly halfway from the start of this segment, the area becomes heavily wooded and grassy. Heading south from Cottekill Road, trail users will encounter steep grades and rougher terrain featuring mostly dirt and cinder.

As the trail continues south to cross NY 213, consider turning east for a view of the High Falls dam and access to the historical High Falls. This charming town features many businesses, restaurants, and the D&H Canal Museum. Several miles after High Falls, the trail crosses Rest Plaus Road via an overpass that offers a great view of the surrounding countryside. Note that the overpass does not provide access to Rest Plaus Road itself.

As you approach the southern end of this segment, the trail crosses Kyserike Road. The trail jags west here and continues south to County Road 1/Lucas Turnpike, though there is no navigational signage. Here the area just north of the road traverses a private lumberyard. After the trail hits CR 1/Lucas Turnpike, there is a 1.5-mile gap to continue to the final trail segment. This gap is particularly difficult to navigate by bike, as it follows several heavily trafficked roads.

The following portion of the trail is a 3.5-mile stretch from Accord to Kerhonkson. This picturesque, wooded area follows Rondout Creek. The natural surface of the southern segment makes it perfect for horseback riding, walking, mountain biking, and winter sports.

A short stretch of trail located in Ellenville marks the southernmost section.

Trail History

The O&W Rail Trail provides a glimpse into the area’s history from the perspectives of both a historical canal and a railroad. The Delaware & Hudson (D&H) Canal carried coal from Honesdale, Pennsylvania, to Kingston, New York, for the New York City and Albany markets from 1828 to 1898. The canal was shut down in favor of the New York, Ontario and Western Railway, more commonly known as the O&W (and nicknamed the Old and Weary), which was in use until the mid-20th century. A major carrier of anthracite coal, the O&W was also an important carrier of milk and dairy products, as well as urban tourists seeking the fresh air of resorts and farmhouse boarding.

Parking and Trail Access

The O&W Rail Trail (Ulster County) runs between 487 Washington Ave (Kingston) and Edwards Pl (Ellenville), with parking at both ends.

Additional parking is available at:

8 Dejager Ln (Rochester)

20 Berme Rd (Ellenville)