A darling of the Sundance Film Festival and an Oscar winner dominated the nominations for the 24th annual Genie Awards announced in Toronto Tuesday.

Leading the pack for this year's Genies, which honour the best in Canadian film, Jean-François Pouliot's comedy La Grande séduction received 11 nods, including best picture, best actor and best director.

The Quebec box office success, called Seducing Dr. Lewis in English, tells the story of a remote fishing village's scheme to keep a Montreal doctor in its midst. It recently won seven Jutra Awards and, in January, the world-cinema dramatic audience award at the Sundance Film Festival.

Denys Arcand's Les Invasions barbares, or The Barbarian Invasions, followed with nine Genie nominations, including best film, best director ,and best male and female supporting actors.

Winner of best foreign language film at last month's Oscars, Arcand's dark comedy-drama about a group of Quebec intellectuals rallying around their dying friend was also a favourite at both the Cannes and Toronto Film Festivals last year.

Arcand's film is tied for number of nominations with Charles Martin Smith's recent release, The Snow Walker, an adaptation of a Farley Mowat story about a cocky bush pilot who crashes in the remote Arctic with an ailing Inuit woman.

Other leading nominees include Charles Binamé's Séraphin: Un homme et son péché, Robert Lepage's La Face cachée de la lune, Scott Smith's Falling Angels and Guy Maddin's The Saddest Music in the World.

Tuesday's nominations are the first following a series of major changes to the selection system. Under the revisions, a single review jury replaced the previous double jury system. Also, a system of open discussion and consensus replaced the previous secret ballot arrangement.

The changes follow complaints made by director David Cronenberg last year. He called the jury system flawed and said it discriminated against foreign actors.

The Academy of Canadian Cinema and Television said though it isn't going to reinstate separate categories, the current nominees include more foreign actors and actresses to better reflect the industry's increasing co-productions.

The 24th annual Genies will be broadcast May 1.