Private law school has struggled to attract students and is now facing having its accreditation pulled by the American Bar Association.

An Arizona Summit Law School official outlined a plan to state regulators on Thursday that would involve eventually closing the state's only private law school.

Details are still subject to approval by the American Bar Association, the school's accrediting body.

Arizona Summit President Peter Goplerud told members of the Arizona State Board for Private Postsecondary Education that the school is developing individualized plans for the 22 remaining students to finish their law degrees.

The "teach-out plan" would involve students taking classes at other law schools, beginning in January. Students would finish their degrees by December 2019 or as late as May 2020. During that time, Arizona Summit would remain accredited by the ABA, which would ensure that its graduates could sit for Bar exams in any state, he said.

Goplerud told state regulators that once the ABA approves the teach-out plan, the school would no longer pursue an appeal of the ABA's plans to revoke the school's accreditation.

Arizona Summit has proposed to the ABA that the school continue to be accredited while the teach-out plan is in place. But when the teach-out is over, "that would be the life of the school," he said.

His statements on Thursday indicate the downtown Phoenix school no longer intends to fight efforts to remove its accreditation and intends to shut its doors eventually.

The embattled Arizona Summit has been on probation by the ABA since March 2017 for being out of compliance with ABA admissions policies and academic standards and for failing to maintain a rigorous program.

School officials had taken steps to try to turn the school around. They raised admission standards and beefed up academic support. The school brought in counselors with backgrounds in writing and legal analysis. Preparation for the Bar exam also was emphasized much earlier.

The school's probationary status hurt recruitment, however, and by the summer of 2018, enrollment had dwindled to around 100 students. The ABA also announced that summer that it was starting the process to revoke the school's accreditation, which would have made it extremely difficult for the school to operate.

Graduating from an ABA-accredited law school is required to take the Bar exam in most states, including Arizona. And passing the exam is required to practice law in most states.

Its approach to the fall semester brought more problems for the school.

Arizona Summit officials announced in August, less than two weeks before classes were expected to begin, that they would not offer classes for the fall semester. Students were instead instructed to take classes as "visiting students" at other law schools, including Arizona Summit's sister school, the Florida Coastal School of Law, and Arizona State University's Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law.

The abrupt announcement frustrated and stressed students.

About two dozen students transferred to the University North Dakota School of Law for the fall semester.

Previously known as Phoenix School of Law, Arizona Summit had good results in its early years. The school's first graduating class, in July 2008, posted a 97 percent passage rate on the Arizona Bar Exam, the highest among the state's three law schools.

The school was also the only law school in the state to offer a part-time program, catering to working adults.

Its mission was aimed at diversifying the law profession, which is one of the least diverse professions in the United States. The school's most recent statistics showed a 41 percent diverse student body, the highest of the three law schools in Arizona.

But Arizona Summit has been in downward spiral the last two years after enrolling too many students with lower academic credentials. The result was dismal success rates on the state Bar exam, with only 31 percent of graduates passing the Arizona Bar Exam on the first try, according to the most recent exam results from February.

Goplerud told the state licensing board on Thursday that the July results, though not yet official, appear to be "significantly better" than in recent years with more than 50 percent of students passing the Bar exam on the first try.

Arizona Summit is one of two law schools operated by a for-profit company, InfiLaw. A third school, the Charlotte School of Law, closed in 2017 after being put on probation by the ABA and losing its federal student-loan funding.

Reach the reporter at 602-444-8072 or anne.ryman@arizonarepublic.com.

READ MORE: