Beyoglu is one of the most important districts located in İstanbul. First lasting settlement of Beyoğlu goes to 2600 years ago. Byzantine, Arabic and Ottoman signs can be found in the district of Beyoğlu, particularly in the regions of Pera and Galata. The district was the center of religion, politics, culture and entertainment. It still is the center for dining, entertainment and business. Beyoglu is the first destination for tourists from different countries. Istiklal Street and surrounding streets are not only the center of Beyoğlu, but also the center of Istanbul. Apart from Istiklal Street, Cumhuriyet, İnonu and Cihangir streets are also the center for trade and entertainment.

Location of Beyoğlu

Beyoğlu is one of the districts on the European side of Istanbul. Beyoğlu district is surrounded by Kağıthane from the northwest, Şişli from the north, Besiktas and Bosphorus from the east and Golden Horn from the south and west. Golden Horn separates Beyoğlu from the old city (historic peninsula of Constantinople).

Transportation in Beyoğlu

Beyoğlu is very accessible from other districts of İstanbul by subway, dolmush(collective taxi) and funiculars(Karakoy and Kabatas). Thanks to its central location, transportation to other parts of Istanbul is quite easy. Beyoğlu is connected to Eminönü district via Galata Bridge and Fatih district via Atatürk Bridge. Subway passes from under the district of Beyoğlu. Beyoglu is also connected to Asian side of Istanbul via city boats.

Places of Interest in Beyoğlu

Beyoğlu is where locals and tourists come for good cafe&restaurants, bars, live-music, nice hotels and boutiques as it is the center of eating, drinking and entertainment in the city of İstanbul. Located around the famous boulevard of İstiklal Street, it involves bohemian districts such as Cihangir and Çukurcuma, historically beautiful places such as Galata and Karaköy and entertainment places in Asmalımescit.

Religious buildings, art and culture places make Beyoğlu an important district. The district of Beyoğlu has 8 theaters, 2 cinemas, 12 art galleries, 10 cultural centers, an amusement park, hundreds of cafes, restaurants, night-clubs, taverns, discos, hotels, pensions, business buildings, mosques and hospitals. Foreign Embassies are also mostly located in Beyoğlu.

The regions of Galata, Cihangir, Istiklal Street, Taksim and Gümüşsuyu are the places where economic and commercial life is the most dynamic and they are also the centers of art, culture and entertainment. Particularly, İstiklal Street is the most prominent street of İstanbul for involving lots of people and many different social activities each day. The regions of Cihangir and Gümüşsuyu are the places where mostly the intellectual class hang out. Majority of people who live in these regions of Beyoğlu are writers, actors and journalists.

Some of the properties we offer in the district of Beyoğlu:

1- Hotel for sale