BARCELONA, Spain and ANN ARBOR, Mich., Feb. 21, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- Deepfield, a leading provider for operational intelligence software for service providers and enterprises, has announced the release of its service assurance application xSA. Following a year of successful trials, the xSA solution is now commercially deployed by four large North American carriers. The highly scalable xSA solution provides real-time video quality analytics across tens of millions of subscribers for service providers, ensuring the best quality of experience.

Deepfield xSA software replaces racks of expensive, legacy probe, and service assurance hardware in enterprise and carrier data centers. xSA helps eliminate unnecessary truck rolls, reduces customer care calls, and more efficiently remedies performance issues. xSA achieves these benefits through advanced KPI monitoring, base-lining, and anomaly detection.

"We built xSA because it was obvious most service assurance solutions were stuck in the failing model of throwing hardware at the problem. Our customers could no longer afford the complexity nor the cost of regular SA hardware upgrades; they were losing the fight against Moore's Law," said Jeffrey Bazar, Chief Strategy Officer at Deepfield. "xSA changes the game for mobile, fixed-line, and cable service providers with a highly scalable, cost-effective software solution comprised of modern analytics and advanced machine learning."

Deepfield Partners with Canonical to improve Service Assurance

Deepfield and Canonical are partnering to automate Service Assurance Orchestration to reduce operational costs. "Operators need to offer the best quality of experience for their services. If you can't measure it, then you can't improve it. Deepfield will make it easy for telecom operators to measure QoE," said Maarten Ectors, Vice President of IoT, NG-Networking and Proximity Cloud at Canonical, the company behind Ubuntu. "Canonical's Juju will enable telecom operators to deploy, integrate, and scale out the Deepfield solution easily."

Deepfield will showcase an end-to-end network view of QoE metrics at Mobile World Congress (MWC), Hall 3, Stand 3J30, Barcelona, Spain, February 22-25, 2016. To schedule a demonstration with Deepfield and Canonical, please contact Jeffrey Bazar at ([email protected]).

About Deepfield

Deepfield® is the leading platform for Network Operational Intelligence. Deepfield software searches, monitors, analyzes and visualizes machine-generated big data from applications, servers, networks and sensors. Over 85 percent of US cable, fixed-line, mobile, and enterprise organizations use Deepfield software to deepen business and customer understanding, mitigate DDOS attacks, improve service performance and reduce costs. Deepfield is a fast growing start-up—tripling revenue and doubling the number of employees in 2015. Visit www.deepfield.com to learn more.

Media Contacts

Leslie Cumming

Engage PR

D: +1 510 748 8200, x 206

M: +1 503 997 0994

[email protected]

SOURCE Deepfield

Related Links