The Goldsmiths' Company is home to 1,500+ members (known as Freemen and Liverymen) who collectively give hundreds of hours every year to support Company activity and each other through skills-based volunteering. Our members sit on the Board (known as the Court of Assistants) and our many committees, are active ambassadors for the trade and craft of jewellery and silversmithing, give talks to Goldsmiths’ Centre students, train apprentices, gift time, talent and treasure to the Goldsmiths’ Company Charity – and more.

Our members live and work across the UK and internationally and come from all walks of life, from jewellers, silversmiths and members of the allied trades, through to doctors, teachers, lawyers, journalists and creatives.

We welcome applications to join the membership from people who have an active interest in the work of the Company and its Charity and who can give their time, skills and expertise to support the future of the craft and trade in the UK and the evolution of the Company – building on the legacy of almost 30 generations of Goldsmiths since we received our first Royal Charter in 1327. We offer around 20-25 membership places per year.

Why become a member?

When an individual joins our Company they are offered the opportunity to give back by becoming part of a community that supports our craft, trade and charitable work.

This may be through giving time and skills to train an apprentice or those just starting out in business; or indirectly by supporting the work of The Goldsmiths’ Company Charity, which awards grants across four priority areas that include support for our trade & craft, and support for development of technical and vocational skills.

We encourage our members to contribute through donation to the 1327 Fund, by serving on committees and working groups, and by promoting the work of the Company, the Charity and of our trade and craft in their daily lives.

How to become a member

There is an open application process for those looking to join the Goldsmiths’ Company membership. Applicants should be interested in our work, and our craft and trade, and be willing to get actively involved in the Company. They may work in the industry (trade) or outside of it (non-trade).

There are three routes to becoming a member of the Goldsmiths’ Company – through service (on completing the Goldsmiths’ Company Apprenticeship Scheme), by redemption (a standard application), or by patrimony (through generational family members).

Typically, applicants apply to become a Freeman first before progressing to become a Liveryman. A Freeman is a tier of membership in Livery Companies. It is the largest grouping of members at the Goldsmiths’ Company. Freemen play an important part in the life of the Company.

A Liveryman is a tier of membership in Livery Companies with more responsibilities and benefits, such as voting in certain City elections, including that of the Lord Mayor.

All applicants need two sponsors/referees and are interviewed by a panel made up of members of our Membership Committee. A shortlist is presented to the Court of Assistants (Board-equivalent) for final approval. We typically offer around 20-25 places in the membership each year. Successful applicants are invited to attend a Freedom Ceremony at Goldsmiths’ Hall in the heart of the City of London, where they are formally inducted into the Company.

Successful applicants pay a one-off membership joining fee, which can be paid in instalments.

To express an interest in joining the Goldsmiths’ Company, please complete the contact form below.