The Livery Companies of the City of London are various historic trade associations almost all of which are known as the “Worshipful Company of…” their relevant trade, craft or profession. The medieval Companies originally developed as guilds and were responsible for the regulation of their trades, controlling, for instance, wages and labour conditions. Until the Protestant Reformation, they were closely associated with religious activities, notably in support of chantry chapels and churches and the observance of ceremonies, notably the mystery plays.

Some of the Livery Companies continue to have a professional role today: for example, the Scriveners’ Company admits senior members to that profession, the Apothecaries’ Company awards post-graduate qualifications in some medical specialties, and the Hackney Carriage Drivers’ Company comprises licensed London taxicab drivers who have learnt the “knowledge of London.” Other Companies have become purely charitable foundations, such as the Longbow Makers’ Company.

The active Companies, which currently number 108, play an important part in social life and networking in the City and have a long and proud history of cultural and education patronage. They retain voting rights for the City of London Corporation, the local authority with extensive local government powers.

After the Worshipful Company of Carmen was accepted in 1746, no new Companies were formed for over 100 years until the Master Mariners in 1926 (granted livery in 1932). Post-1926 Companies are often called modern Livery Companies.

Formed in 1999, the Security Professionals’ Company became the 108th Livery Company on 19 February 2008 when the Court of Aldermen approved their petition for livery. Two bodies, the Worshipful Company of Parish Clerks and the Company of Watermen and Lightermen, are recognised as City companies but without the grant of livery for historical reasons; three further guilds (the Company of Educators; Public Relations Practitioners; and, the Company of Arts Scholars) aim to obtain a grant of livery.

Governance

Livery Companies are governed by a Master (known in some Companies as the Prime Warden or Bailiff), a number of Wardens (who may be known as the Upper, Middle, Lower, or Renter Wardens), and a Court of Assistants, which elects the Master and Wardens. The chief operating officer of the Company is known as the Clerk.

Members generally fall into two categories: freemen and liverymen. One may become a freeman, or acquire the “freedom of the company,” upon fulfilling the Company’s criteria: traditionally, one may be admitted by “patrimony,” if either parent was a liveryman of the Company; by “servitude,” if one has served the requisite number of years as an apprentice to the Company; or by “redemption,” by paying a fee. The Company may also vote to admit individuals as honorary freemen. Freemen are generally entitled to advance to becoming liverymen by a vote of the court of the Company. Only liverymen can take part in the election of the Lord Mayor, the Sheriffs, and the other traditional officers of the City.

Livery Halls

Many Companies still operate a livery hall where members and their guests can be entertained and Company business transacted. Among the earliest Companies known to have had halls are the Merchant Taylors and Goldsmiths in the 14th Century, but neither theirs nor any other Companies’ original halls remain: the few that survived the Great Fire of London were destroyed in the Blitz of the Second World War.

Today, 39 out of the 108 livery companies have halls in London, in addition to that of the Watermen and Lightermen, which is not strictly a livery hall but in regular use. Most are commonly available for business and social functions, such as weddings, commercial and society meetings, luncheons and dinners. The oldest hall now extant is that of the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries, dating from 1672. Several companies that do not have their own hall share office premises within a hall of another company on a semi-permanent basis, and examples are the Spectacle Makers’ Company, which uses part of Apothecaries’ Hall, and the Shipwrights, which co-habit with the Ironmongers. Three Livery Companies (the Glaziers and Painters of Glass, Launderers, and Scientific Instrument Makers) share a hall in Southwark, just south of but outside of the City of London, while the Worshipful Company of Gunmakers is based at Proof House, in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets and the Master Mariners’ ‘hall’ is an historical ship, HQS Wellington, moored in the Thames and shared with the Scriveners Company. Companies without their own hall will customarily book use of another hall for their formal livery functions, thus giving their members the opportunity to visit and appreciate a large number of livery halls by rotation. Many Blue Plaques in the City of London indicate where a number of companies used to have halls. However, whilst several livery companies may aspire to eventually owning, or again owning, their own hall it is appreciated that any increase in the overall number of livery halls would inevitably lead to some dilution of use of the existing halls. There is also some attraction in belonging to a company which is peripatetic.

Precedence

In 1515, the Court of Aldermen of the City of London settled an order of precedence for the 48 Livery Companies then in existence, which was based on the Companies’ economic or political power. The first 12 Companies are known as the Great Twelve City Livery Companies. There are now 108 Companies, with modern Companies ranked by seniority.

The Merchant Taylors and the Skinners have always disputed their precedence, so once a year (at Easter) they exchange sixth and seventh place in the order. This alternation is one of the theories for the origin of the phrase “at sixes and sevens,” as the master of the Merchant Taylors has asserted a number of times, although the first use of the phrase may have been before the Taylors and the Skinners decided to alternate their position. The dispute is due to their both receiving their charters in 1327, but there is no proof as to which was the first.

List of Companies in Order of Precedence

The Worshipful Company of Gunmakers, which is positioned 73rd in the order of precedence, has been based at Proof House for over 300 years.

The Worshipful Company of Mercers (general merchants)

The Worshipful Company of Grocers

The Worshipful Company of Drapers (wool and cloth merchants)

The Worshipful Company of Fishmongers

The Worshipful Company of Goldsmiths

The Worshipful Company of Skinners* (fur traders)

The Worshipful Company of Merchant Taylors* (tailors)

The Worshipful Company of Haberdashers (traders of sewing articles)

The Worshipful Company of Salters (traders of salts and chemicals)

The Worshipful Company of Ironmongers

The Worshipful Company of Vintners (wine merchants)

The Worshipful Company of Clothworkers

The Worshipful Company of Dyers

The Worshipful Company of Brewers

The Worshipful Company of Leathersellers

The Worshipful Company of Pewterers

The Worshipful Company of Barbers (and surgeons and dentists)

The Worshipful Company of Cutlers (knife, sword and cutlery makers)

The Worshipful Company of Bakers

The Worshipful Company of Wax Chandlers (wax candle makers)

The Worshipful Company of Tallow Chandlers (tallow candle makers)

The Worshipful Company of Armourers and Brasiers (armour makers and brass workers)

The Worshipful Company of Girdlers (swordbelt and dressbelt makers)

The Worshipful Company of Butchers

The Worshipful Company of Saddlers

The Worshipful Company of Carpenters

The Worshipful Company of Cordwainers (fine leather workers)

The Worshipful Company of Painter-Stainers

The Worshipful Company of Curriers (tanned leather dressers)

The Worshipful Company of Masons

The Worshipful Company of Plumbers

The Worshipful Company of Innholders

The Worshipful Company of Founders (brass and bronze workers)

The Worshipful Company of Poulters

The Worshipful Company of Cooks

The Worshipful Company of Coopers (barrel makers)

The Worshipful Company of Tylers and Bricklayers

The Worshipful Company of Bowyers (long bow makers)

The Worshipful Company of Fletchers (arrow makers)

The Worshipful Company of Blacksmiths

The Worshipful Company of Joiners and Ceilers (wood craftsmen)

The Worshipful Company of Weavers, the most ancient Company

The Worshipful Company of Woolmen

The Worshipful Company of Scriveners (court document writers and notaries public)

The Worshipful Company of Fruiterers

The Worshipful Company of Plaisterers (plasterers)

The Worshipful Company of Stationers and Newspaper Makers

The Worshipful Company of Broderers (embroiderers)

The Worshipful Company of Upholders (upholsterers)

The Worshipful Company of Musicians

The Worshipful Company of Turners (lathe operators)

The Worshipful Company of Basketmakers

The Worshipful Company of Glaziers and Painters of Glass

The Worshipful Company of Horners (horn workers and plastic)

The Worshipful Company of Farriers (horseshoe makers and horse veterinarians)

The Worshipful Company of Paviors (road and highway pavers)

The Worshipful Company of Loriners (harness makers)

The Worshipful Society of Apothecaries (medical practitioners and pharmacists)

The Worshipful Company of Shipwrights

The Worshipful Company of Spectacle Makers

The Worshipful Company of Clockmakers

The Worshipful Company of Glovers

The Worshipful Company of Feltmakers (hat makers)

The Worshipful Company of Framework Knitters

The Worshipful Company of Needlemakers

The Worshipful Company of Gardeners

The Worshipful Company of Tin Plate Workers

The Worshipful Company of Wheelwrights

The Worshipful Company of Distillers

The Worshipful Company of Pattenmakers (wooden shoe makers)

The Worshipful Company of Glass Sellers

The Worshipful Company of Coachmakers and Coach Harness Makers

The Worshipful Company of Gunmakers

The Worshipful Company of Gold and Silver Wyre Drawers (makers of thread for uniforms)

The Worshipful Company of Makers of Playing Cards

The Worshipful Company of Fanmakers

The Worshipful Company of Carmen

The Honourable Company of Master Mariners, the first of the 20th-century Companies

The City of London Solicitors’ Company

The Worshipful Company of Farmers

The Guild of Air Pilots and Air Navigators

The Worshipful Company of Tobacco Pipe Makers and Tobacco Blenders

The Worshipful Company of Furniture Makers

The Worshipful Company of Scientific Instrument Makers

The Worshipful Company of Chartered Surveyors

The Worshipful Company of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales

The Worshipful Company of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators

The Worshipful Company of Builders Merchants

The Worshipful Company of Launderers

The Worshipful Company of Marketors

The Worshipful Company of Actuaries

The Worshipful Company of Insurers

The Worshipful Company of Arbitrators

The Worshipful Company of Engineers

The Worshipful Company of Fuellers

The Worshipful Company of Lightmongers

The Worshipful Company of Environmental Cleaners

The Worshipful Company of Chartered Architects

The Worshipful Company of Constructors

The Worshipful Company of Information Technologists

The Worshipful Company of World Traders

The Worshipful Company of Water Conservators

The Worshipful Company of Firefighters

The Worshipful Company of Hackney Carriage Drivers (licensed London taxicab drivers)

The Worshipful Company of Management Consultants

The Worshipful Company of International Bankers

The Worshipful Company of Tax Advisers

The Worshipful Company of Security Professionals

Note: *The Skinners’ and Merchant Taylors’ Companies alternate position once per year.

City Companies without Grant of Livery

The Worshipful Company of Parish Clerks

The Company of Watermen and Lightermen

Neither of these companies intends ever to apply for livery; this is a long-standing tradition. The Company of Watermen and Lightermen was established by Act of Parliament in 1555 to control the watermen on the River Thames responsible for the movement of goods and passengers and remains the only ancient City Guild to be formed and controlled by Act of Parliament.

A guild which is recognised by the Court of Aldermen as a ‘London Guild’ applies to the Court to become ‘A Company without Livery.’ After a term of years the company applies to the Court for livery status, at which point it adopts the name “Worshipful Company of … ”