The University of Warwick will award five honorary degrees this week at its winter degree ceremonies.

Those being honoured are former director of MI5, Dame Stella Rimington; children’s television creator and producer, Anne Wood; historian and author Professor Jill Lepore; mathematician Professor Dusa McDuff; and development expert, Mechai Viravaidya, named by TIME Magazine as an ‘Asian Hero’.

The honorary graduands will accept their honours at ceremonies running from Wednesday (18 January) until Friday (20 January) in the Butterworth Hall at Warwick Arts Centre.

Schedule and profiles:

Wednesday 18 January

Morning: Professor Jill Lepore – Hon DLitt (Honorary Doctor of Letters)

Jill Lepore is a prize-winning Professor of American History at Harvard University and regular contributor to The New Yorker.

Afternoon: Mechai Viravaidya – Hon LLD (Honorary Doctor of Laws)

Mechai Viravaidya has been creating and running innovative family planning and poverty reduction programs throughout Southeast Asia since 1974. His innovative methods of engagement have also been employed to tackle HIV/AIDS and the problem of rural poverty.

Thursday 19 January

Morning: Anne Wood – Hon DLitt (Honorary Doctor of Letters)

Anne Wood is the founder of Ragdoll Productions. The company’s work is loved by children around the world and includes the phenomenally successful, BAFTA winning Teletubbies; double BAFTA winning In the Night Garden; superhero Brum; ragdolls Rosie and Jim; BAFTA winning Dipdap, The Adventures of Abney & Teal, and Open a Door. Many of its shows have a close association with Warwickshire and the Midlands.

Friday 20 January

Morning: Professor Dusa McDuff – Hon DSc (Honorary Doctor of Science)

Dusa McDuff is a Professor of Mathematics at Barnard College. A former member of the teaching staff at the University of Warwick, Professor McDuff's service to the mathematical community has been extensive. She is particularly interested in issues connected with the position of women in mathematics.

Afternoon: Dame Stella Rimington – Hon LLD (Honorary Doctor of Laws)

Dame Stella Rimington started part time work for the Security Service (MI5) in 1967. She joined full time in 1969. During her career she was successively Director of Counter Subversion, Counter Espionage and Counter Terrorism before becoming Director General. She was the first woman to hold the post and the first DG to be publicly named on appointment.

Notes to editors:

Full biographies of the honorary graduands are available here.

For further information, or to organise an interview please contact the press office:

Tel: 02476 524668

Email press at warwick dot ac dot uk