A major player in the world’s aerospace sector is now a key sponsor for this year’s brand-new air show.

Spirit AeroSystems has been confirmed as a sponsor for the International Ayr Show – Festival of Flight, which takes to the Low Green this September.

Spirit AeroSystems, whose Scottish base is located at Prestwick Airport, is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of aero-structures for commercial airplanes, defence platforms, and business/regional jets.

The company employs just under 1000 people at their Prestwick site, and is dedicated to STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics), which aligns with the objectives of the festival.

Scott McLarty, SVP Airbus and Regional Business Jet Programs at Spirit, said sponsoring the event “demonstrates a commitment to both the local community and the aerospace industry.”

He added: “The air show is sure to be an exciting event that draws people of all ages to the local area, providing a boost to the economy and showcasing the wonders of aviation.

“There will also be a strong emphasis on STEM outreach throughout the event. This is an excellent opportunity to inspire and engage young minds in the field of aerospace, fostering a passion for these subjects and potentially sparking interest in future careers within the industry.

“Community projects like the International Ayr Show – Festival of Flight not only bring people together but also contribute to the growth and development of the region. Spirit’s involvement demonstrates our responsibility to the community and the desire to make a positive impact”.

The festival, which takes place at Ayr’s shorefront from Friday, September 8 to Sunday, September 10, is packed with thrilling aerial displays, family activities and attractions.

Councillor Alec Clark, the council’s spokesperson for tourism, said: “The company [Spirit] has bases all over the world and I’m sure their support will help put South Ayrshire on the map as host to the spectacular event we’re bringing to Ayr this September.

“The promotion of STEM is a key factor of the festival and Spirit is clearly dedicated to raising awareness of the benefits of studying for a future career in this field.”

Read next:

Scots whisky giants are given green light for new distillery operation in Ayrshire

Eyesore site next to Ayrshire houses to be turned into car wash facility

Name change and £500,000 makeover for popular bar after takeover

Timeline on new Ayrshire super school unveiled as pupils set for post-summer holiday entry

'Negotiations' ongoing as cinema chain eyes up Ayr Odeon following shock closure