Synopsis

Netflix is developing a television adaptation of the 1981 movie Four Seasons by Alan Alda. Tina Fey is the producer and co-creator of the series. Here's everything to know more

A television adaptation of the 1981 movie Four Seasons by Alan Alda is being developed by Netflix. It is produced, and co-created by and stars Tina Fey. Filming will be starting in the later part of this year.

Tracey Wigfield and Lang Fisher are the other writers and co-creators of the series. All three of them are listed as executive producers of the series. Jeff Richmond, Eric Gurian, and David Miner will be joining them. Marissa Bergman and Alan Alda are the producers of the series. Little Stranger, the own production house of Fey and Universal Television are the two production companies that are working on the series.

The Four Seasons: Plot

The Four Seasons is a series adaptation which is based on the 1981 movie of the same name, following three couples going on vacations together every season and the resulting changes in the dynamics of the group, at the time of one of the couples splitting up and the man bringing a much young woman on consecutive trips.

The Four Seasons: Cast

The only cast member who is confirmed is Tina Fey. The female comedian and actress has produced and starred in several projects on Netflix. She has earlier acted in Wine Country, the Netflix film, and shows which include Mulligan, Girls5eva, also making a guest appearance on My Next Guest Needs No Introduction with David Letterman.

She has produced and created the much-adored sitcom on Netflix – Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt. The upcoming role of Fey in The Four Seasons will be her first television role since 30 Rock.

The Four Seasons: Production status

Filming is predicted to start at some point in the later part of this year.

The Four Seasons: Number of episodes

The Four Seasons will have eight episodes in total. Each episode has an estimated run time of around 30 minutes. It was reported that each episode's budget will be within $2 million to $ 3 million.

FAQs:

Who is the co-creator and producer of The Four Seasons?

A television adaptation of the 1981 movie Four Seasons by Alan Alda is being developed by Netflix. It is produced, and co-created by and stars Tina Fey. Filming will be starting in the later part of this year.

What are the number of episodes of The Four Seasons?

The Four Seasons will have eight episodes in total. Each episode has an estimated run time of around 30 minutes. It was reported that each episode's budget will be within $2 million to $ 3 million.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

Disclaimer Statement: This content is authored by a 3rd party. The views expressed here are that of the respective authors/ entities and do not represent the views of Economic Times (ET). ET does not guarantee, vouch for or endorse any of its contents nor is responsible for them in any manner whatsoever. Please take all steps necessary to ascertain that any information and content provided is correct, updated, and verified. ET hereby disclaims any and all warranties, express or implied, relating to the report and any content therein.

(Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates.

...moreless

Not TCS. Not HDFC. 3 stocks that beat all benchmarks and peers in the last 20 years.

Did Google fall behind in the AI race because of WFH? Patent filings tell a different story.

The forces at play slicing India’s big family business conglomerates

Indian car buyers are holding their horses on EVs and buying this instead

Change of heart at RBI? Can banks look forward to new lines of business?

Mpox virus is back. Are India’s vaccine makers Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech ready?

1

2

3