Harold Joseph Sullivan died at his home in Salt Lake City on Sunday, March 22, 1998, while with his loved ones. He was 77 years old when he succumbed to cancer.

Harold was born on Dec. 23, 1920 in Eureka, Utah, to Katherine Lucille Troester, and Michael Patrick Sullivan. While Harold was still young, his mother divorced and later married Donald L. Youngdell. Financial struggles required family moves to West Jordan, Vernon in Rush Valley; Seigle, Nevada; Bear Lake; Irish Mountain, Nev., and Salt Lake City. Harold attended high school at Jordan High. Despite tough early years mining and dry farming, Harold's optimism was sustained by his loving family and his great dream - to soar the skies!He realized his dream at 18 years old when he enlisted as a private with the Army Air Corps and flew P-47 Thunderbolts as a fighter pilot in World War II over France and Germany. After 107 missions, Harold was shot down, injured by small-arms fire, captured and then escaped from German troops. Harold eventually returned home to Utah. There he met Bonnie Lou Keller, whom he later married. Through this union, Harold and Bonnie had three rambunctious boys, Patrick Joseph Sullivan, Kelly James (Kathy) Sullivan, and Kevin Corey (Melanie) Sullivan.

The demands of Air Force service required many moves of Harold and his family, including two tours of duty in Japan. During the Viet-Nam War, Harold, as a Squadron Commander, flew 145 missions in EC-47 aircraft low over the Vietnamese countryside in intelligence gathering missions. After he reunited with his family, and serving for about two more years with the Air Force, and 30 total years of honorable service, Lt. Col. Sullivan retired to live in his beloved Utah.

After Harold and Bonnie found a home in the Cottonwood area, Harold developed his artistic skills working for Skaggs Company. But while his hands drew, his eyes continued to roam the skies, and he eventually began work as a commercial pilot and aircraft systems trainer for KeyAir at the Salt Lake City Airport.

In 1980, Bonnie preceded Harold in death. Ten years later Harold met and married Vergie Wright McClachlan, who survives him. Harold retired and Vergie and Harold found great enjoyment in dancing, traveling, visiting friends and playing music. During the last year of Harold's life and his battle with cancer, Vergie unselfishly devoted herself to caring for Harold.

In addition to his sons and Vergie, Harold is survived by his three sisters and their husbands, Michael (Harold deceased) Johnson, Patricia (Joe) McCollin, and Kathleen (Don) Ellefson; grandchildren, Rebecca, Rachel, Andy, Nick, Christina, Anna, Casey, Shannon, Michael, Traci, Corie Jo; his stepchildren and their spouses, Lynn (Don) Stevens, Steve (Judy) McClachlan, and Mike (Gayle) McClachlan, and their children and grandchildren. Harold is preceded in death by his wife, Bonnie; his parents; and a grandson, Joseph James Sullivan.

Services will be held Thursday, 26 March, 1998, at 2 p.m. at Memorial Estates, 6500 South Redwood Road, SLC, where friends and family may call Wednesday evening, 6 to 8 p.m. and Thursday, 1 to 2 p.m. prior to services.

T 3/24 N 3/24