Founded in 2002, the Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman (Tunku Abdul Rahman University) is a non-profit private higher education institution located in the urban setting of the medium city of Kajang (population range of 250,000-499,999 inhabitants), Selangor. This institution also has a branch campus in Kampar. Officially recognized by the Kementerian Pendidikan Tinggi (Ministry of Higher Education of Malaysia), Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman (UTAR) is a large-sized (uniRank enrollment range: 15,000-19,999 students) coeducational Malaysian higher education institution. Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman (UTAR) offers courses and programs leading to officially recognized higher education degrees in several areas of study. See the uniRank degree levels and areas of study table below for further details. This 21-year-old Malaysian higher-education institution has a selective admission policy based on students' past academic records and grades. The acceptance rate range is 80-89% making this Malaysian higher education organization a least selective institution. International students are welcome to apply for enrollment. UTAR also provides several academic and non-academic facilities and services to students including a library, housing, sports facilities, financial aids and/or scholarships, study abroad and exchange programs, as well as administrative services.

Financial Aid

This institution offers one or more of the following financial aid for eligible students: scholarships, grants, loans, tuition waivers, emergency financial aid etc.

Study Abroad

This institution offers study abroad and exchange program opportunities for its students.

Distance Learning

Not reported

Academic Counseling

This institution offers students academic guidance and support to assist them in their academic pursuits.

Career Services

This institution offers career counseling, career assessments, job and internship postings, career events, alumni networking or other career-related services to assist students transition successfully from academic life to professional life.