Find Your Fit With Lens Types, Materials,

and More at Your Local Eyemart Express

Eyemart Express is an expert in prescription eyewear, providing several types of lenses for an extensive variety of frame options. This range of choices allows our customers to find the glasses of their dreams, matching their prescription, budget, and preferences.

Understanding Different Lens Types and Their Applications

Eyeglass lenses are customizable beyond the prescription. You can add varying magnification levels, clarity options, and lens coatings to aid your eyesight in every circumstance.

Guide to Eyeglass and Lenses and Materials

Follow this quick guide below for an overview of what lens may best suit your needs:

Single vision: Single vision glasses contain one correction that spans the lens from top to bottom — no additional magnifications are necessary. This style is the initial approach for correcting nearsightedness or farsightedness.

Lined bifocals and trifocals: Bifocals correct both near and far vision, separated by a horizontal line in the lens. Trifocals are split into three sections — near, intermediate, and far — each separated by a horizontal line for the transition.

No-line progressives: No-line progressive lenses are similar to trifocals with no visible line separating the different sections. This advancement creates a smoother, less noticeable transition between each distance.

High-definition: High-definition lenses provide superior clarity up to 10 times higher than the traditional single vision option. It also can provide 30% more sharpness and a 35% wider view for the wearer.

A Detailed Comparison of Bifocal and Multifocal Lenses

In bifocal lenses, the top half is your usual prescription, typically correcting distance vision. Separated by a distinct line, the bottom half is magnified, allowing the wearer to see up close and helping your eyes when reading books or texts on your phone.

In addition to near and far, multifocal lenses contain an intermediate focus. The progressive nature of these lenses allows for a smooth transition between the different focuses with no distinct line separating them.