Military Eyeglass Discounts at Eyemart Express

You’ve dedicated your life to bravely serving our country, and we would like to extend our heartfelt thanks. Get your everyday military discount at any Eyemart Express. All military personnel and family members are welcome to enjoy an exclusive 20% discount. Just show us any valid military ID at check out in store.

Who Qualifies for Military Discount Eyewear?

Any individual who is currently or previously affiliated with the military qualifies for our military discount — specifically if you fall under any of these categories:

Active members

Non-active members

Retirees

Veterans

Dependents

To apply your discount for yourself or your family members, you must present a valid military ID in an Eyemart Express at the time of purchase. Valid IDs include your military, DD214 or state-issued card. For dependents, the individual with the military ID you are using must be present at the time of your purchase.

Military Discount Eyeglasses and Sunglasses

With your military eyeglass discount, you have 20% off any optical eyewear and sunglasses. The best part is that it never expires — this military discount is able to be used at any visit as often as you wish with eligible items.

Eligible items include:

Optical eyewear: Eyemart Express offers a variety of eyeglass frame options for every personality, style and need. We carry the best options from the best brands. Because our selection is so vast, you can narrow your search online based on frame material, shape, style, color and gender. If you are having trouble deciding, visit a storefront to try them on!

Sunglasses: We may be biased, but sunglasses are one of our favorite inventions. Eyemart Express offers a wide collection of customizable sunglasses with your choice of tints, including polarized or mirrored lens finishes. Our sunglasses can also be made with prescription lenses, so you don't have to sacrifice clear eyesight for sun protection — or fashion!

We Salute VFW Members With Savings!

VFW members, we salute you! Eyemart Express is proud to be the exclusive eyewear provider for the Veterans of Foreign Wars organization. We provide exclusive discounts to members and support the Unmet Needs program. To date, we have supported over 15 families in need. To learn more about your benefits and our partnership, please visit vfw.org.

Use Your Military Discount In-Store Today

Eyemart Express values our military customers. Your service and sacrifice for our country are much appreciated, and we want to serve you in return. Find a store near you to browse our extensive collection — and utilize your discount!

FAQs