Company

The company was founded in 2009 and started to develop casual games in 2010. We are partners with a well-known casual gaming company Big Fish Games (Seattle, USA). We port our games to many different platforms, and our customers all over the world get to play games that are designed with skill, imagination and creativity. There are currently more than 50 titles published in DominiGames portfolio. And there are even more to come! Since 2018, we started to port our games on iOS and Android platforms, most of our games are available in the AppStore, GooglePlay and Amazon.

Games

For now we have released over 50 games which are distributed through both online and offline channels all over the world. These are Hidden Object Games and different Puzzles, including Match 3, Brain Teasers, Acrade and Action, etc. Our games have a lot of fans who often leave positive reviews. Almost all our products hit the top spot in Big Fish Games ratings. We release games of different series connected to one particular topic. It may be a romance theme in the Dark Romance series, where you have to fight for love, or you may as well become a detective in the Mystery Tales series, ready to solve the most complicated and arcane cases. You can even travel between whole worlds and realms, playing as a character from the Labyrinths of the World series! And that’s not all. We release holiday-themed games like The Christmas Spirit and Halloween Chronicles, and constantly work on discovering new brands and ideas like we did when we created brand new Spirit Legends, Fairy Godmother Stories, Fatal Evidence game series. We’re working hard on developing new interesting and exciting games which we hope you’ll love!

Goals

Our main goal is to create video games for everyone who enjoys spending their time in a relaxed way. There are no boundaries like age, gender, language and cultural background for us! We always wanted to share our passion with as many people as possible. We believe that everybody should be able to experience the thrill of playing. We want our fantasy worlds to welcome every single player and enrich their minds and elevate their spirits.

We really love intriguing mysteries, interesting stories and exciting puzzles, and we made it our company’s mission to create amazing worlds that everyone can plunge into. Let it be even just for a while, just a way of passing time. Our games are made to provide a beautiful distraction and fun retreat. We feel pretty good with what we’ve accomplished so far, but we believe that the best is yet to come.

Mission

We know that all people have their own inner worlds, and we find it is our purpose to stimulate their worlds with a fresh breath of life and adventure in a digital medium. It may be found not only in great things, changes and expectations, but also in little pecularities of life. For example, we can find it in the joyful blink of your ally, in the supporting smile of your companion and in the spiteful frown of your enemy. We try to filter these moments in order to create authentic and true gaming experiences that will reflect you inner worlds and get rid of boundaries between gaming and life. We want you to share your dreams with us, and we want to share our dreams with you.

Contacts

We’re always open to new distribution opportunities for our games across all media, including online, box retail, as well as mobile, handheld and console platforms. Feel free to email us if you have any questions to ask!