Longtime Los Angeles Lakers power forward/center Pau Gasol has one of the best NBA resumes in the history international players, period. He won two NBA titles with LA as one of its two best players, he's a six-time All-Star and four-time All-NBA honoree, he played for 18 seasons in the league, and he also won two silver medals at the Olympics against the behemoth that was the US Men's team in 2008 and 2012 (and bronze in 2016).

The 7'1" big man posted career regular season averages of 17 points on .507/.368/.753 shooting splits, 9.2 rebounds, 3.2 assists, and 1.6 blocks a night.

His jersey was retired on Tuesday night, when the Lakers defeated the team that drafted him, the Memphis Grizzlies, in a narrow 112-103 victory.

After a mid-game ceremony, Gasol spoke with reporters about how his play has influenced the international game.

"I like to think that I've contributed to the growth of international players and [the international] game and hopefully inspired some younger players to play the game, just like I was inspired to play the game by older players. And that's the beauty of life, that's that cycle and ripple effect," Gasol noted.

There was a point in time where international players, European mainly, were considered or labeled soft no matter what. And I think with some high performances and some statements, that label is not used anymore. And now you've got three of the best players in the league, if not the three best [Milwaukee Bucks forward Giannis Antetokounmpo, Denver Nuggets center Nikola Jokic and Dallas Mavericks guard Luka Doncic], being international, being European. And that's something to be proud of. I'm proud of it, to see that."

"Because that also inspires not just Europeans but kids from all over the world. This is a global game. If you work hard enough, if you put everything on the line, you have a chance."

LA has a few international players on its current roster: Japanese-born Rui Hachimura, Sudanese-born Wenyen Gabriel, and German-born Dennis Schröder.