The Barber Sisters

Though Drucilla and Olivia loved each other, the disparity in their upbringings, (Olivia was favored by their parents, Walter and Lillie Bell), took them down different paths in life. One thing they had in common, however, was an attraction for the same men, which had them at odds more than once.

Nathan Hastings Sr.

Nathan Hastings took the illiterate Drucilla under his wing when she arrived in Genoa City, and although she developed a crush on him, he married Olivia, and they had a son, Nate, together. Nathan worked as a P.I. alongside Paul Williams, but his fortunes changed after going on the run with his young son while on the outs with Liv over an affair. His life ended when he was hit by a car and killed.

Lily and Malcolm

In one particularly scandalous storyline, it was revealed that Malcolm was actually Lily’s biological father. It turned out he and Drucilla had made love one night when she was hopped up on cough syrup and mistook him for Neil. Though Dru and Malcolm had kept the secret over the years, there was drama galore when Lily and Neil found out.

Neil, Sofia and Moses

Sofia Dupre’s pregnancy was fraught with tension given that she didn’t know if Neil or his brother Malcolm was the father of her unborn child. Once Moses was brought into the world, it was revealed that Neil was indeed the father. Neil and Sofia married for a short time but she eventually left for New York with the boy when it didn’t work out.

Charlie and Mattie

Charlie and Mattie Ashby were rapidly aged to teens and went through a lot of drama in a short time. Charlie beefed with Reed Hellstrom, the son of Victoria Newman, and Mattie fell for the troubled teen. Their mother, Lily, was sentenced to a year in prison, and their parents later split up. Now off at college, the twins are mentioned from time to time.

Devon and Hilary

It wasn’t an easy road to love for Devon and Hilary, in fact she was married to Neil as well at one point and seeing Devon behind his father’s back. After several tries and some setbacks that could only happen on a soap, they finally seemed to be headed toward their happily ever after — and the Winters family was set to grow again — when Hilary was involved i a car wreck with Lily at the wheel. Devon married her on her deathbed as she, and their unborn child, were both lost to him.

Lucinda and Neil

It was an emotional time when Neil came face-to-face with the mother who had walked out on him. Lucinda Winters explained she left the family because of her alcoholism. Neil, who had also battled the bottle, reconciled the angry feelings he had toward her and they shared a tender moment before she passed away.

Nate Hastings Jr.

Dr. Nate Hastings Jr arrived in Genoa City after the death of his love, Caroline. After a couple of unsuccessful attempts at romance, Nate found himself embroiled in a love triangle with none other than his cousin, Devon, after falling for his live-in love, Elena Dawson, and having sex with her. Devon injured Nate’s operating hand in the aftermath and their relationship was fractured, although the arrival of Moses forced them to set aside their differences. But it wasn’t long before they were back at it. Nate decided to join the family business and shocked everyone by attempting to stab Devon and Lily in the back. This propelled him into a new feud and a job at Newman, where he became romantically involved with his co-conspirator, Victoria Newman. Her parents never quite trusted him, however, and that mistrust proved to be the beginning of the end of his career there. Happily, Mamie came home at just the right time and helped him make amends with his cousins, with whom he now works again.

The Newest Winters

Dominic Phillip Abbott Newman Winters Chancellor (deep breath) became the newest member of the Winters family after Devon offered to be the sperm donor for newlyweds Abby and Chance to conceive a child. After delivering the boy, and taking care of him while Abby left town to search for her presumed-dead husband, Devon fell in love with the child and the connection became more than biological. Devon moved to get shared custody, which Abby and Chance agreed to as it was “the right thing to do” and a court battle was looming. But things got even more complicated — or perhaps simpler — when Abby and Devon grew closer and got caught cheating on Chance and Amanda. Dom’s biological parents wound up together and living in the Chancellor mansion, leaving Chance with visitation rights only.