Page/Link:

Page URL: HTML link: Citations:

MLA style: "I live in a castle and wear the kilt ... of course I'm Scottish; Robert Redford on the dad who shaped his life.." The Free Library. 1998 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday 17 Aug. 2024 https://www.thefreelibrary.com/I+live+in+a+castle+and+wear+the+kilt+...+of+course+I%27m+Scottish%3b...-a060562557

Chicago style: The Free Library. S.v. I live in a castle and wear the kilt ... of course I'm Scottish; Robert Redford on the dad who shaped his life.." Retrieved Aug 17 2024 from https://www.thefreelibrary.com/I+live+in+a+castle+and+wear+the+kilt+...+of+course+I%27m+Scottish%3b...-a060562557

APA style: I live in a castle and wear the kilt ... of course I'm Scottish; Robert Redford on the dad who shaped his life.. (n.d.) >The Free Library. (2014). Retrieved Aug 17 2024 from https://www.thefreelibrary.com/I+live+in+a+castle+and+wear+the+kilt+...+of+course+I%27m+Scottish%3b...-a060562557

Robert Redford looks every inch an all-American Hollywood golden boy. But he admits he cannot escape his tartan roots.

He joked: "I live in a castle and wear a kilt all the time. As everyone knows, I'm half Irish and half Scottish."

With his blond hair and blue eyes he's always been seen as a typically Californian glamour boy.

But yesterday Robert, 60, revealed that his dad Charles, like Sean Connery, had been a Scottish milkman.

Charles Redford moved to California in 1936 when he realised he would never make enough money to support a family in the Depression. He followed several Scottish friends out to Santa Monica and set up his own milk delivery business.

It was there that his son, Charles Robert Redford Jnr, was born a year later.

Redford said: "I've been to Scotland and my family history has told me a lot about the country. My tartan is Stewart."

But life was just as tough in California and his dad and mum, Martha, struggled to bring up sons Robert and William in what was then a tough, Spanish- speaking town on the outskirts of Los Angeles.

The boys rarely saw their father because he was always working.

Redford said: "He was gone in the morning when I went to school and in the afternoon when I came home, so I felt like I never saw him."

His mother, Martha, was the light of his life - he described her as a "joyous person" - and pandered to his every whim. It took him years to get over her death when he was just 18.

The Redford family fortunes improved after the Second World War when Charles landed a job as an accountant at Standard Oil and the family moved to Van Nuys, an industrial town just outside LA.

But it was here that the young Robert fell in with a gang called the Barrons who broke into Hollywood millionaires' homes for kicks

His dad dubbed him "an irresponsible mummy's boy". Years later, recalling how he had collected his wayward son from police stations, he said: "I remember one night being called to the local police station to bail him out after he'd been caught on the roof of a convent school for girls.

"It was another one of his breaking-in pranks that had gone wrong."

Exasperated, Charles got Robert a summer job working at Standard Oil's shipping yard. By this time Charles was a highly- respected executive and the foreman was happy to oblige.

Robert repaid his father by constantly crawling into crates and catching up on his sleep. He was sacked after several warnings.

Charles said: "The yard manager, who fired Bob, told him: `Son, you'll never make it with Standard Oil - in fact, you'll never make it anywhere.'

"The yard manager never lived down that remark. But I must say that, at that time, I would have agreed with him.

"Bob was very much a mother's boy when he was growing up. He and his mother were inseparable.

"I was concerned that Bob would grow up irresponsible and I always tried to impress the work ethic on him. He could never keep a job.

"His mother would defend him saying: `Oh, there's plenty of time for that. Let him enjoy being young.'"

Robert had just enrolled at the University of Colorado to study baseball when his beloved mother died.

He dropped out shortly afterwards and went to Europe, where he eked out a living doing pavement paintings for tourists.

Meanwhile his father remarried. His new bride, Helen, was the mother of Robert's best friend, Bill Corder.

Father and son were finally reconciled after Robert decided to become an actor and proved he, too, had the tough Scottish work ethic to make it big.

He now has one of the best reputations in Hollywood as a director and an actor who has given fine performances in movies like Butch Cassidy And The Sundance Kid, All The President's Men and The Sting.

Later, he turned to directing and won a Best Director Oscar in 1981 for Ordinary People.

He also set up the Sundance Film Festival for young directors and scriptwriters, named after his 7000- acre ski resort ranch.

Last year he began to give some of his unique experience back to Scotland. He gave the go- ahead for Moonstone, the first European version of Sundance which uses directing and screenwriting labs for young moviemakers.

Andrew Byatt, of the Scottish Actor's Studio, visited Robert at the Sundance Festival and proposed the screenwriting labs in Scotland.

He said: "Robert knows and loves Scotland very much. He told me that, when he was younger he cycled around Scotland."

His love of his dad's homeland has drawn Redford to projects that could bring him closer to his dream of making a movie in Scotland.

Redford is notoriously choosy about his films. Like The Horse Whisperer - which premieres at the Edinburgh Film Festival - he has to feel it to be right.

That is why, in 1993, he chose A River Runs Through It. For him, the script worked because of the Scottish connection.

The film, which starred Redford lookalike Brad Pitt, is about a Scottish minister's family and their passion for fly- fishing.

Redford said: "The Scots are a very particular people. They have humour and are wonderful story-tellers -yet they have enormous difficulty in expressing feelings and emotions."

Records on Charles Robert Redford have vanished into history, but he could have been employed by co- operative giants St Cuthberts, of Fountainbridge, Edinburgh.

Their Bread Street depot was the first workplace of the city's most famous screen hero, a certain Mr Sean Connery.

The stars and their tartan ties

Everyone in Hollywood, it seems, wants to be a Scot - no matter how flimsy their claims to Caledonian heritage.

Comic actress Whoopi Goldberg - real name Johnstone - even said she should be declared a Glaswegian after a visit to the city's Mayfest.

She said: "I'm sure I have Scottish blood in me. Johnstone is a real Scots name, and with everything that goes on in my body, it would be no surprise to find a Scotsman in there."

Goldberg's former boyfriend Ted Danson also sought out his roots when filming Loch Ness four years ago.

He discovered his mum, Jessica, was born a MacMaster and his great-grandfather was a labourer in Angus.

Batman star Michael Keaton's real name is Douglas and he lays claim to a distinguished lineage.

He said: "I'm half-Scots and honoured to be related to the Black Douglas, loyal friend to Robert The Bruce

"I'd love to visit Scotland and find out more about him."

Mel Gibson, of course, played another Scots hero, William Wallace, in Braveheart.

He said: "I've got a very Scottish family name, so I may well have Scottish blood."

But one Hollywood star with closer links to Wallace is Ben Affleck, who won an Oscar for Good Will Hunting.

He reckons he can trace his family back to clansmen who fought with Wallace.

He said: "My great-great grandfather was an Affleck who came over to America in the late 1800s.

"The Affleck family was originally called Auchinleck and people are always reminding me of my Scottishness."

Veteran star Mickey Rooney, 77, was born Joe Yuille in Brooklyn after his family left Glasgow to emigrate across the Atlantic.

On a trip to Scotland two years ago, Rooney said: "I'm so thrilled to be in my homeland. I'm going to see my roots."

Other film stars with tartan links include Charlton Heston, Steve Martin, Robert Duvall, David Duchovny, Donald Sutherland, Carmen Ejogo and Neve Campbell.