Description

The Requeijão Serra da Estrela PDO is a fresh cheese made by heating the whey remaining from the production of Queijo Serra da Estrela PDO cheese which causes the protein content to coagulate. Raw sheep's milk from the Bordaleira and Churra Mondegueira breeds of sheep, water and in some cases Serrana breed goats' milk, can be added.

Production Area

Requeijão Serra da Estrela PDO is made in many municipal areas in the districts of Viseu, Coimbra, Guarda and Castelo Branco.

Production Method

To the whey, obtained from the separation and filtering of the curd, 10% to 20% water is added, if the cheese is being made by salting the milk, to sweeten the flavour of this fresh cheese. It is then heated very slowly and stirred always in the same direction until it reaches 82°C. At this stage many cheese makers add sheep's milk in a proportion of no more than 18%, while less frequently there are some producers who add a small proportion of Serrana goats' milk. In this case specific permission is needed from the governing authority and the cheese will be appropriately labelled. Once the whey has been mixed and has reached a temperature of 96°C soft granules are formed which are collected with a special utensil or a spoon and placed in a recipient of an inert material. After draining the cheese is wrapped immediately in plant fibre paper.

Appearance and Flavour

Requeijão Serra da Estrela PDO is a slightly granular and creamy, soft and uniform, white coloured fresh cheese. It takes on the shape of the container it is made in, usually cylindrical and fairly thin. It weighs between 150 gr and 400 gr. It is well bound, uniformly creamy and smooth to cut. The flavour and aroma are very pleasant.

History

The history of Requeijão Serra da Estrela PDO cheese is well documented. The traditional way in which it was originally wrapped is also well known: the granules were placed in little wicker baskets called açafates and wrapped in cabbage leaves and mulberry leaves. For many centuries, because of the difficulty of keeping this cheese, it was essentially a local product and it was only with the opening of the railways in Beira that this cheese conquered the markets of Lisbon and Porto. The economy and the value of using the whey that was produced in the making of other cheeses was recognised as well as its nutritional value. In fact, whey in a soup of corn bread had been the basic diet, particularly for the children, for the poorest inhabitants of the Beira region who lived on their flocks.

Gastronomy

Requeijão Serra da Estrela PDO must be stored at a low temperature, in the fridge only for the time indicated on the label. This cheese is very well known and is enjoyed as a basic ingredient in the regional cakes and pastries, such as the puddings or the famous bolo de requeijão (cake), or to be eaten with many traditional dishes, eaten fresh with a little salt and pepper. It is also eaten with an aperitif or as a dessert, mixed with honey, coffee, with hazelnuts, walnuts or almonds or the traditional pumpkin dessert, doce de abóbora.

Marketing

This cheese is sold as Requeijão Serra da Estrela PDO. It is sold wrapped in suitable inert material (vegetable fibre paper).

Distinctive Features

Requeijão Serra da Estrela PDO cheese is very appreciated for its high protein content and low fat content and its production is considered part of the patrimonial wealth of the area where it is made and is immediately recognisable by the local inhabitants and those who eat it habitually.