Jigidi

Jigsaw Puzzle Categories

Art

Ethnic Ukrainians in National Costumes and Traditional Ukrainian Setting, George Narbut, 1907

Ethnic Ukrainians in National Costumes and Traditional Ukrainian Setting, George Narbut, 1907

Bookmarked Bookmark Solve this jigsaw puzzle later

ShareShare with your friends

ReportReport as inappropriate

70

67

Solve puzzle

70 pieces

67 solves

Solve puzzle

Social Media

E-mail

Embed

Pinterest

Recipient's email address Your name Your email address

Write a nice message

The information you provide will be used solely to send your invitation. Please refer to our Privacy Policy for more details.

Send e-mail

Your email has been sent

Send to another recipient

Server error

Large

Square

Small

Include title

Thanks for sharing. Here is your html-code:

Why are you reporting this puzzle?

It's inappropriate (see guidelines) Infringes my rights

Use this form if you’re holding the copyright to the image or representing an artist who does. Please note that the information provided may be forwarded to the person responsible for the allegedly infringement.

Artist name: *

Please fill out this field

Artist website: Other relevant information that can help us verify ownership of the image: Your email: *

Please make sure your email is correct

It's advertising a product or service It has missing or leftover pieces

Hold on! All the pieces are there. Look for the dots along the edge of the screen to find missing jigsaw pieces. If there are leftover pieces, try to change the background color to make the holes easier to spot!

I’ve read the guides and done as suggested but still cannot find them.

Please fill out this field

Other reason

Please note that we usually do not reply to reports. If you experience technical issues, have questions, or feel unfairly treated, please contact us through support instead.

Thanks for reporting!

Ethnic Ukrainians in National Costumes and Traditional Ukrainian Setting

George Narbut (1886 - 1920), Ukrainian painter

1907

Drawing by George Narbut (Heorhiy Narbut), Ukrainian painter born in 1886 in Narbutivka, Hlukhiv district, Sumy region of eastern Ukraine.

Source: Antique cards collection

This work is in the public domain in its country of origin and other countries and areas where the copyright term is the author's life plus 70 years or fewer.

From Wikipedia:

Heorhiy Narbut (also known as Georgy Narbut and George Narbut, … was the most important Ukrainian graphic designer of the twentieth century.[1] He is known for designing the Coat of arms of Ukraine, banknotes, postage stamps, charters, and his many illustrations in books and magazines. …. He was a brother of a noted … poet Vladimir Narbut.

… At about age 20, Narbut settled in Saint Petersburg from 1906 to 1917. There he studied with painters Ivan Bilibin and Mstislav Dobuzhinsky. In 1909, Narbut continued some of his studies in Munich, in the school of Simon Hollósy. After his return to Saint Petersburg he joined the organization Mir iskusstva. In 1910-1912 Narbut was an illustrator of the fairy tales of Hans Christian Andersen, the fables of Ivan Krylov, and folk tales.

In March 1917, Narbut moved to Kyiv. In September 1917, he became professor and rector of the Ukrainian Academy of Arts. During this time he created his Ukrainian banknotes, postage stamps and charters for the newly created Ukrainian National Republic. Narbut also worked on the Ukrainian magazines: Nashe Mynule (Our past), Zori (Stars), and Sontse Truda (The Sun of Work) among others. He died of typhus in 1920. …"

From https://en.birmiss.com/george-narbut-biography-and-creativity/

"The artist was born in 1886 in the territory of the modern Sumy region in Ukraine. His father was a … servant, although he belonged to a Lithuanian noble family. [His] Mother was the daughter of a priest. In addition to George, there were eight other children in the family.

George Narbut was fond of painting since childhood, in particular he was fascinated by ornaments. Artistic skills, he began to form himself, without anyone's help. When money was not enough for the paint, the young Narbut cut out patterns and silhouettes of colored paper, putting them all over the house.… He was constantly copying frames, fonts, letters of old books, repeating sketches from I. Bilibin's books.

… George Narbut was married twice. …with Vera Kiryakova … they had two children. Daughter Marina Berezovskaya became a choreographer and performer of classical dance. Son Daniil became a famous artist. In 1918, Narbut married Natalia Modzalevskaya. …In 1920, George Narbut died after an operation to remove kidney stones. …”

Leaderboard

Janiner13:26

Tzez4:48

sableriver425:08

montuos5:13

kigiin5:52

rozguillen6:02

carolsmc6:25

eleanor_de6:26

Nephelle6:31

Daylight46:38