Country music fans can rejoice because it looks like “Twitty City” will live to see another day.

It was reported earlier this month that the estate, the former home of country music legend Conway Twitty, could get a taste of the wrecking ball after a tornado touched down and did significant damage there back on Dec. 9.

Twitty built the homes on the property in Hendersonville, Tennessee for his family, and they became a tourist stop in the 80s known as “Twitty City,” according to WTVF 5 in Nashville.

Twitty died in 1993 at the age of 59, and “Twitty City” closed to the public a short time after and was used by Christian TV network, Trinity Broadcasting, in the years after, according to WTVF 5.

Frank Amedia, who WTVF said spoke on behalf of TBN, said the network was “highly under-insured on that site.”

Country music legend retiring from touring due to health shares heartwarming memory with bandmate

Country music star lands major gig with Pro Football Hall of Fame

Elle King makes first move after ‘hammered’ show that forced Grand Old Opry apology

Country music star, up for artist of the year, dating former Steelers fan favorite

Country Music Hall of Famer warns of scammers impersonating him days after heartbreaking health news

Because of that, the old structures could be torn down instead of renovated and new buildings could eventually replace them.

That did not sit well with Twitty’s family.

“There’s no question,” his daughter, Joni Riels, told WTVF. “We would rather drive by and see it standing because Dad worked so hard to build this place and make it a special place for fans to come and enjoy and for our family to live.

“It breaks our hearts, but they own the property now,” Riels added. “There’s not much we can do to stop it. I think it’s probably been in the plan a lot longer than the tornado because you don’t just come up with that plan. They weren’t using the property at all.”

Country music star called the ‘Uber Driver of Nashville’ after helping fans with rides home

Country music star’s belligerent performance has fans fuming, Grand Ole Opry apologizing

Grammy winning country music star ‘died on stage after a successful encore’

Country music’s richest singers: Can you guess which active star has earned the most?

Country music losing two more legendary acts as rough 2024 continues

And now, per reports, TBN has worked with the city to pull the buildings back from the brink.

“We heard the sentiment of the city very well,” Amedia reportedly said. “We prayed about it. We met with some people … and we just felt that this was the right thing to do. It’s going to cost us more money but that wasn’t the issue. The issue is what the heart of the city was.”

So, for now, it looks like Twitty’s family, and the town, will have the landmark for years to come.