About the Author

Leonard Susskind is the Felix Bloch Professor in Theoretical Physics at Stanford University. He is the author of Quantum Mechanics (with Art Friedman) and The Theoretical Minimum (with George Hrabovsky), among other books. He lives in Palo Alto, California.

Art Friedman is a data consultant and the author of Quantum Mechanics (with Leonard Susskind). A lifelong student of physics, he lives in Murphys, California.

Praise for Special Relativity and Classical Field Theory: The Theoretical Minimum

"Susskind

is meticulous in explaining each step of applying the equations to the physical

phenomena he describes, and he excels in explaining why the math works the way

it does.... If you're intrepid enough...you'll emerge with a much deeper appreciation

for the true meaning of Einstein's relativity, Maxwell's equations and many

other aspects of fundamental physics."—ScienceNews

"Thrilling...Susskind's approach is to subject the novice to a historical mathematical boot camp to make the path seem natural, and ultimately easier...At once witty and insightful."—Nature

"Susskind and Friedman follow their collaboration on Quantum Mechanics by probing the mathematical nitty-gritty of field theory and Einstein's theory of special relativity in the third installment of the Theoretical Minimum series...Enthusiastic discussion is seasoned with wry humor....Well paced.... Clear and concise." —Publishers Weekly

"Relativity and field theory are absolutely central to modern physics. Here they are explained masterfully, with insight and wit. This is physics the way it's really done, in all its glory, nothing swept under the rug." —Sean Carroll, author of The Big Picture: On the Origins of Life, Meaning, and the Universe Itself

"A true masterpiece that will stand the test of time. I only wish this book was around when I was learning classical physics. Special Relativity and Classical Field Theory was joyful to read, filled with insights and secrets that will prepare you for research."--- Stephon Alexander—Stephon Alexander,, cosmologist at Brown University and author of The Jazz of Physics