KUWAIT: Adding to its line of achievements in quality development in the region, ALARGAN International Real Estate Company received two new recognitions in Oman, awarded to both its associate ALARGAN TOWELL Investment Company and its subsidiary Telal Al-Qurm Real Estate Company for the development of Al-Waha and Telal Al-Qurm developments, respectively.

ALARGAN TOWELL Investment was awarded the "Affordable Housing Project of the Year" for 2016 by the Oman Real Estate Association for the Al-Waha project, a mixed-use development located west of Barka in Oman, and comprising residential units, community facilities and services, as well as mosques, a school, parks, and green landscapes. The project covers 683,859 square meters. The first phase of the project is completed, seeing great sales in its residential units. The second phase of the development was launched recently.

On the other hand, Telal Al-Qurm Real Estate received the "Affordable Luxury Living of the Year" award by Signature magazine's "The Luxury 100" list for its Telal Al-Qurm community development. "The Luxury 100" is a prominent recognition, marking Oman and the region's only list of iconic luxury products of the year. Telal Al-Qurm is a residential and commercial district consisting of 164,900 square meters of land located on the edge of the highly-in-demand Qurm area of Muscat. The company had recently revealed the demo townhouse as part of the fourth component of the development.

Khaled Al-Meshaan, CEO and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of ALARGAN International Real Estate Company, said: "We are very proud of the achievements that our teams continue to make in Kuwait, Oman and Bahrain. Our developments are recognized for the quality living, affordability and sustainability features that add value for the benefit of our society as we follow our motto 'Life ... As You Love It', through which we develop real estate solutions to enhance our customers' enjoyment of life.

"As an internationally-recognized developer with a focus on developing middle income level residential housing, we have a responsibility to develop buildings that support an economically and socially viable urban environment. We are developing residential and community projects to last, in an aim that they remain an integral part of the larger urban development process in the countries where we operate."

ALARGAN has received several awards over the past two years, most prominently the "Best International Retail Developer" award presented by London's "International Property Awards" for ALARGAN's mixed-use development in Bahrain, the ARGAN Village.

ALARGAN International Real Estate Company is a leading real estate company based in Kuwait and focused on the development of affordable and middle income housing in the GCC. The company strives to integrate its motto, 'Life... As You Love It', across its projects by creating "live, work, play and savor" environments that present a unique lifestyle experience. The company also endeavors to pass on its sustainability values to the community by including green and energy efficient initiatives in its projects.