The Federal Communications Commission announced that around 1,000 television stations nationwide that will be transitioning to new frequencies.

Several of those television stations are in the Charlotte area.

The FCC said that viewers who use an antenna to watch local channels will need to re-scan their TV.

The reason why television stations are changing frequencies is to make room for new 5G and other mobile broadband services.

Nationwide, millions of U.S. households watch TV exclusively over-the-air with an antenna on local channels affiliated with the major networks and hundreds of independently owned-and-operated television stations. Cable and satellite subscribers aren’t affected by these changes.

Listen now and subscribe: Apple Podcasts | Google Podcasts | Spotify | RSS Feed | SoundStack | All Of Our Podcasts

“As an over-the-air TV viewer myself, I know that consumers sometimes need extra help re-scanning televisions when broadcast stations add channels or change frequencies," said FCC Incentive Auction Task Force chair Jean Kiddoo. "That’s why it’s so important to make both online information and telephone assistance like the consumer help line available to viewers during the ongoing broadcast transition.”

In the Charlotte area, there are 11 TV stations that will be transitioning to new frequencies by September 6:

WSOC-TV (ABC/Telemundo9)

WCNC-TV (NBC36)

WNSC-TV (PBS30)

WUNG-TV (PBS58)

WJZY-TV (Fox46)

WAXN-TV (Ch64)

WCCB-TV (Ch18)

WHKY-TV (Ch14)

W21CK-D (Ch21)

WUNE-TV (Ch17)

WGTB-TV (Ch28)

Here are instructions and tips From the FCC to help TV viewers re-scan their TVs:

Most viewers don’t need any new devices, equipment or services to re-scan their TV.

The FCC has posted an instructional video showing viewers how to re-scan their TV and information for consumers and the press about the re-scan process.

To re-scan, viewers will need their TV remote control or analog TV converter box, then choose “Channel Scan,” “Channel Tuning,” or “Auto Search” in the “Setup” or “Channel” menu. Once you find either the “Channel Scan” or “Channel Tuning” buttons, choose the automatic option to re-scan.

By re-scanning, viewers who watch TV for free using an antenna will keep their existing channels, and may even discover new channels in their broadcast area.

TV stations are changing frequencies on a rolling basis, so consumers will likely need to re-scan their television more than once.

For further assistance, TV viewers can visit www.fcc.gov/TVrescan or call the consumer help line at 1-888-CALLFCC (1-888-225-5322) and press “6” to speak with a dedicated help desk representative, seven days a week, from 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. (EST). The call center is available in English and Spanish and the information on the website is available in English, Spanish, Chinese, Vietnamese, Korean and Tagalog.

Be the first to know

Get local news delivered to your inbox!

* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.