For young Altınordu FK players the day starts with farming before football. At the Academy where Çağlar Söyüncü forged his “warrior spirit” they pride themselves on producing rounded citizens as well as some of the biggest prospects in European football.

While English youngsters learn their trade cleaning boots, at the Metin Oktay grounds in İzmir, on the west coast of Turkey, there is a hencoop, sheep, a goat and two cows.

“They learn that Avocado is not an Italian footballer,” says agent Ömer Uzun, who worked on Söyüncü’s deal to SC Frieberg from Altınordu. “It is not only a football club, when the kids wake up they all have duties like getting the eggs or milking the cow. They are teaching them life.

“It is compulsory and they are being taught to be a human being, a good person and a good footballer. If you don’t become a footballer, they teach life.”

Söyüncü has stood out since arriving at Leicester at the start of last season. And it is not just the long hair and fearless dribbling, sometimes in his own penalty area, that sets him apart. His upbringing is like no other player in the Premier League either.

The 23 year-old has Wembley in his sights on Wednesday night when he faces Aston Villa. Playing in big cup finals was his dream growing up as part of a project that is reaping rewards now.

Söyüncü made his old club money when he moved to the Premier League but if he had not made it to the top, the project would have pushed him to succeed elsewhere.

Altınordu’s academy was a way out for Söyüncü after growing up in Menemen, 25 miles north of İzmir. Arriving at 15 from his local team, his transformation into a centre-back was a stroke of luck.

“He joined our academy as a striker,” said Altınordu president Seyit Mehmet Özkan. “Our Under-15 team had a good striker and we needed a defensive, midfielder centre in that team.

“The coaches saw that his capabilities were suitable to play in that position. In that year, he improved his tackles, clearances and passing.

“One year later, our Under-16 team needed a central defender. Çağlar was the most appropriate player for this position. We saw that his physical strength, stamina and concentration were at a high level. He always had a warrior spirit, from our academy to the senior team.”

Brendan Rodgers has joked that “Cags” - his name sounds more like “Charla” in his native tongue - does not listen when it comes to dribbling the ball out of defence. But there have been bumps on his journey to the King Power Stadium that forced Söyüncü to learn quickly on the job.

At 17 he was sent off for the reserves in an important game in the Turkish Amateur League, receiving a straight red card for a reckless tackle.

“We talked with him about his aggression on the field,” said Özkan. “He had to stay in the field for 90 minutes and control his passion in the field. He listened to us and applied what our coaches said to him. I still tell this story because he was a teenager who always listened to his coaches and tried to make the correct thing.

“When he was 18 he played for the senior team and one of his first games was Fenerbahçe away in the Turkish Cup. He stuck to Emmanuel Emenike, who was top-scorer in Turkey that season. Emenike couldn’t get any possession. He really shone in Turkey from that game.”

His team-mates called him “big brother” in the first team and while his aggression was curbed, he was encouraged to keep playing the ball out of defence rather than playing it safe.

“We always trusted him even if he made mistakes during the game,” said Altınordu head coach Hüseyin Eroğlu, who is still in charge at the club.

“We always told him, ‘even if you make a mistake, continue to set up the attack in defence by making short passes. Don’t make long passes without thinking’. We tried to adapt this philosophy to him.”

“Freiburg’s technical coordinator had watched him and decided on him,” said Özkan.

“In that time many youth talents in Turkey tried to make their transfers to Galatasaray, Fenerbahçe and Beşiktaş which means they stayed in domestic level.

“But Altınordu FK has an important principle that we would like to sell our home-grown academy players to the top leagues of Europe.

“We want that they will become international star players. Çağlar Söyüncü promised us about applying our club’s principle and go to a European club. He kept his promise and didn’t forget our club’s values. He followed our plan about his career and became an international ambassador of our club.”

They host an annual tournament and it is no surprise that Premier League clubs send teams to compete and see what talent Altınordu are producing. The next crop is being grown at the farm.