Team South Korea celebrates after turning the game around in the ninth inning of their semifinal game against Japan at the Premier12 world baseball tournament at Tokyo Dome in Tokyo, Thursday. South Korea beat Japan 4-3 and advance to the final. / AP-Yonhap

By Nam Hyun-woo

Korea advanced to the final of the Premier 12 international baseball tournament, after a spectacular 4-3 come-from-behind victory against Japan which local media described as "the most thrilling battle of Tokyo," Thursday.

At the Tokyo Dome, dubbed "Japan's baseball cathedral," the Koreans avenged their 0-5 loss in the tournament's opener with Lee Dae-ho's ninth inning two-RBI clutch hit. The hit gave Korea a comeback victory from 0-3 and provided its bitter rival Japan its sole loss in the tournament, which restricted them to the third-place match.

At the same stadium on Saturday, 7 p.m., Korea will take on the winner of the other semifinal between the U.S. and Mexico.

As expected, Japan's flamethrower Shohei Otani was nearly perfect through seven innings, allowing only one single while striking out 11. After allowing three runs in the fourth, the chance for the Koreans to turn around the three-run gap within two innings seemed slim and it got worse when Takahiro Norimoto, who took the mound from Otani, quickly retired three batters in the eighth.

However, the situation turned around quickly in the ninth. Pinch hitters Oh Jae-won and Son Ah-seop each singled to set the stage and Jeong Keun-woo launched a double to bring home the first run.

Then, Lee Yong-kyu was hit by Norimoto's pitch with fully loaded bases and Yuki Matsui, who replaced Norimoto, allowed a run after walking Kim Hyun-soo.

Hirotoshi Masui took the mound from Matsui, but Lee Dae-ho, the reigning MVP of the Japan Series for the Fukuoka Softbank Hawks, singled to deep left on Masui's 136 kilometer-per-hour forkball to complete the great turnaround.

"I was waiting for a forkball," Lee told Yonhap News after the game. "I thought Masui would toss a forkball in his first pitch and I waited for another."

"It was a team victory," he stressed. "Teammates did not give up even though we were trailing 0-3. Our team's grit and fighting spirit sent us to the final. I will do my best to win the tournament."

Yogi Berra's famous saying, "It ain't over till it's over," certainly applied to this game and the never-say-quit attitude of the team. Korea manager Kim In-sik expressed his satisfaction with the win.

"When you don't give up, this kind of result comes," Kim told the JoongAng Ilbo newspaper. "Nobody knows the result until the last batter of the last inning. It was a good game," adding that sending in the pinch hitters was effective.

For Kim, the victory is sweet. Kim took the helm of the Koreans twice at the 2006 and 2009 World Baseball Classics, but was haunted by the Japanese in critical moments. In the 2006 event, Kim's side suffered a 0-6 loss in the semifinals and 3-5 loss in the final of the 2009 event.

On Thursday, Otani could just have easily won and Kim complimented the Japanese pitcher calling him "amazing."

"Overwhelmed by him, we barely had a chance to score," he said.

The Japanese media described the game as a "bullpen meltdown spoiling a brilliant outing by Otani," and blamed manager Hiroki Kokubo for pulling out the impressive starter after his 85th pitch. Otani, who compiled 21K in his two Premier 12 outings, told Nikkan Sports that "it would have been better if I had thrown until the end." He then paid respect to the winners, saying "they were strong and united as a team."

Kokubo told reporters after the game that he thought it was sufficient for Otani to throw until the seventh. To the question that it was a tactic to rest the pitcher for the final, the manager said "I didn't take the Saturday game into consideration."