Renče–Vogrsko Municipality Earthquake Statistics

Renče–Vogrsko Municipality in , Slovenia has experienced a total of 4643 since the 1950's.

Number of Earthquakes per Year in Renče–Vogrsko Municipality 1950-2024

Earthquake Magnitude Distribution

When was the last earthquake in Renče–Vogrsko Municipality, Slovenia?

The last earthquake in Renče–Vogrsko Municipality was 3 months ago and struck 184 km (114 mi) → E of the city. The earthquake had a magnitude 4.30 on the richter scale and a depth of 15.585 km.

What was the strongest earthquake near Renče–Vogrsko Municipality, Slovenia?

The strongest earthquake recorded near Renče–Vogrsko Municipality was a 6.50 magnitude earthquake with a depth of 9.0 kilometers. It struck 3 km SW of Prato, Italy or 59 km (37 mi) ↖ NW from the center of Renče–Vogrsko Municipality, 48 years ago.

How often do earthquakes occur near Renče–Vogrsko Municipality, Slovenia?

In 2024, Renče–Vogrsko Municipality has experienced 4 earthquakes, which is lower than the yearly average of X. Based on the data dating back to 1950 we can asume that Renče–Vogrsko Municipality is struck by an earthquake every x months.

In 2024, Renče–Vogrsko Municipality has experienced 4 earthquakes with a magnitude of 2 or higher. That is lower than the average of 61.91 earthquakes per year in the region. Based on the data dating back to 1950 we can asume that Renče–Vogrsko Municipality is struck by an earthquake with a magnitude of 2 or higher every 5.16 months.

Earthquakes Near Cities in Renče–Vogrsko Municipality, Slovenia

Earthquakes in Renče

Earthquakes in Volčja Draga

Data Information

Information found on this page is a derivative set, based on sources mentioned below.

Data Sources

We aggregate and combine data from USGS (United States Geographical Survey) and the EMSC (European-Mediterranean Seismological Centre). This allow us to get near real-time and historical earthquake data dating back to the year 1950.

Disclaimer

Information or data found on this page should not be used for, or as an early warning system. It is intended as an historical reference or near real-time complementary information to offical and governmental sources. In an event of an emergency it is important closely monitor and follow advice from national, state and local authorities.