Innovation has been at the core of the PAMP brand since the introduction of its very first bullion bar. In 2015, we launched VERISCAN™, a revolutionary and proprietary system aimed at facilitating the authentication of PAMP bullion products. Scans via VERISCAN™ are free, enabling every user to authenticate their PAMP products safely and reliably.

VERISCAN™ enables the instant, secure and confidential authentication of any PAMP precious metals product bearing the VERISCAN™ logo on its CertiPAMP™ assay card packaging or product certificate.

VERISCAN™ operates on the fact that, just as in nature, even man-made products possess microscopic ‘surface profiles’ as individual and distinctive as a fingerprint. Its advanced scanning technology identifies and compares the surface profile of PAMP products with the digital record captured at the production stage to verify its authenticity.

1. Download the free VERISCAN™ app from the App Store (Compatibility: iPhone 7 and newer models running iOS 12 and above)

2. Open the VERISCAN™ app, sign in and view the auto-play tutorial video.

3. Select the ‘Automatic Scan’ option and follow the on-screen instructions:

4. Scan the QR code located on your product’s CertiPAMP™ assay card packaging or certificate. The QR code must be scanned within the VERISCAN™ app and not beforehand via your iPhone’s QR code reader or camera.

5. Determine if the product is packaged (CertiPAMP™ assay card) or unpackaged (None) and select the product’s side to authenticate (Front / Back).

6. Position the phone camera over the product, aligning with the screen overlay as guided. Ensure a flat camera angle by keeping the digital leveling guide centered.

7. View the result (Pass or No Result Available).

VERISCAN™ can authenticate any registered PAMP product within or without its sealed CertiPAMP™ assay card packaging. Larger products can be verified on all six sides for enhanced authentication. Intuitive and entirely secure, the VERISCAN™ authentication process leaves the product completely intact.

For additional questions regarding VERISCAN™, please visit our dedicated FAQ section below. For support, email us at: veriscan.support@mkspamp.com

Innovation has been at the core of the PAMP brand since the introduction of its very first bullion bar. In 2015, we launched VERISCAN™, a revolutionary and proprietary system aimed at facilitating the authentication of PAMP bullion products. Scans via VERISCAN™ are free, enabling every user to authenticate their PAMP products safely and reliably.

VERISCAN™ enables the instant, secure and confidential authentication of any PAMP precious metals product bearing the VERISCAN™ logo on its CertiPAMP™ assay card packaging or product certificate.

VERISCAN™ operates on the fact that, just as in nature, even man-made products possess microscopic ‘surface profiles’ as individual and distinctive as a fingerprint. Its advanced scanning technology identifies and compares the surface profile of PAMP products with the digital record captured at the production stage to verify its authenticity.