Translator’s Introduction

Claudia Masin’s poems are often love poems. By this I mean that they’re concerned with damage: with how every person, every body on earth, undergoes experiences of profound emotional and often physical pain — and then how that person, that body, goes on living, desiring, and experiencing what love it can. Her work is interested in healing, and in what can’t be healed; in how loss both forces and invites us to be transformed; in love as an improbable, unparalleled gift of recognition between human beings.

The poems published here are excerpted from her collection Lo intacto (Hilos Editora, 2018), which I’ve translated as Intact. Claudia wrote the entire book (as well as the two collections that preceded and followed it, respectively) in response to different films, and their titles reference those “original” works. That said, the poems are meant to stand alone; they can be read without any familiarity with the films behind them.

When I first started reading Claudia’s poems, I felt an immediate urge to translate them. Thematically, I was drawn to her sinuous to-and-fro between inner life and the natural world, and to her sensitive, often wrenching explorations of emotional landscapes. Before any of that, though, I was most viscerally struck by her use of the line: long, graceful, sweeping, controlled. A continual unspooling. A ribbon streaming down a flight of stairs.

Claudia was born in Resistencia, in the province of Chaco, Argentina, in 1972. She moved to Buenos Aires as a teenager and trained as a psychoanalyst, a profession she practiced until not long ago. She now lives in the city of Córdoba. Last year, she published her twelfth book of poetry, El cuerpo, the last in her trilogy of film-centered collections. We’ve never met in person, but we have a sporadic correspondence I treasure, and her poems — probing, empathic, unwilling to look away from hurt where hurt is felt, fixing the world with an ardent attention that is in itself a form of love — give me a sense of solace and accompaniment whenever I return to them.

—Robin Myers

The Silent Touch

It’s not the soul. It’s not an immaterial being, a gust

that fills the body: the mystery is the body in itself,

its complex myriad of veins,

the blood that rushes forth to feed the organs,

hidden like prehistoric animals in caverns so secluded

that only illnesses can find them there.

Contact with others is what heals,

what sickens, the sun

encircled by the lonely planet

of ourselves, caught in the orbit

of the light or shadow as they draw

their heat toward us or away, as if we were

the dust kicked up by some other existence, the wake

churned at the source, the indissoluble bond we were supposed

to renounce

but which awoke again each time we loved

another body. You hoped I’d write the words

that can do what music does:

step through the silence without harming it, be

part of it, and of the things that can’t be said,

the things we can’t even approach without

them darting away from us. I told you there’s nothing

like music but touch

and being touched, the particles

that meet and fuse and sometimes scrape against each other and

cause pain, and pull away, and sometimes one explodes

inside the other, because there’s neither surface

nor interior: the inside is the same as out. Inside,

the love we share or cruelty we inflict plunge down into a well

and can’t climb out again. We were gifted this fall

so that we would collide, one dashed against another,

so that we’d have

to mark each other.

And once we’ve got our mark, we’ll never be alone; we couldn’t

be unbroken even if we wanted to.

Estuaries

Once, humans hunted the animals of the estuaries

in the siesta’s radiant calm.

The steel of the sun and the weapons sank

into still water. Now

people let them live: a kind concession, a gift

the mighty grant their servants. The alligators

can emerge, like us,

and sprawl for hours in the heat, tired

old lizards placidly abiding

the birds who settle on their hides to rest before

they fly away. The piranhas,

like all good furtive, implacable creatures,

throng close around the shoals and patiently await

their prey. The lives of foxes and roe deer

are spared; it’s now forbidden

to delight in their terror, their desperate,

doomed attempt to blend into the brush. You and I

were wild once, but we weren’t so lucky:

only when no one else was watching

could we roam free without an ambush, without some sudden

teeth wrenching the joy

out of our flesh. But we weren’t scared.

We snatched the sustenance we’d been refused,

and we ran riot,

fleeing the time that gained on us,

the time when we’d be sundered by the law

declaring that the only possible passions between two boys —

or men —

are cruelty, rage, and violence. So how did we escape,

how did the hunter overlook us,

how did a love survive inside our chests,

deadeye as the stone that could

have felled us with a single throw?

I don’t know how we stay

alive, those of us

who were never fated to exist. Maybe it’s

the strength sparked when we join together,

the boundless force that means we cease to be

a pair of solitary beasts, each one the only sample of its kind, born ready

for extinction.

Origins

In the limbo between life and death,

say certain holy books, comes liberation:

at last, you understand. Is understanding freedom, then?

Understanding as stones do, stripped of souls,

light in their roughness, delivered

into the passion that the elements

unleash upon them: the hail’s assault,

the wind’s sensual brush, the savagery

of the sun, which sears and turns them

into smoldering embers

until the rain blows in and licks them clean

as the lioness bathes her cubs

when they’re born. At last, you understand (so say the books)

that death doesn’t exist, or at least

death as point

of no return. You always return.

Would I recognize you if you came back

as the little girl selling flowers

on the streets of Mumbai, or as the agile, grim-faced buck

the hunter tracks at dawn,

or the monk who tends his garden

in the mountains where nobody

can see it, or the guerrilla fighter with a shield

of explosives strapped to himself in a busy market, or the tree

contorting at the cliff’s edge,

lengthening its limbs in search of a little sun,

deformed by the strain, by the lust

for staying alive? I just don’t know

if I’d be able to recognize you

without the face, the matter

so familiar to my eyes and hands. But I do know

that as soon as I found you,

the fragile ice would crack

beneath my feet again, and the fierce blow

of frozen water would jolt me awake, as the body awakes

once it’s dead and then absorbs

the electric lurch that shocks it back to life.

4:44

Sometimes life, unmediated

by death, just ends. Sure, it starts over again,

but it’s not the same: it’s like you’ve sunk

an axe into a tree trunk. That’s

where everything fragile about it

will gather from now on. A single blow

in that soft place will be enough to fell it. I’d keep watch

day and night so that force wouldn’t catch you

by surprise and do you harm. You’d tell me, I’m not a tree,

I don’t have roots, that means I can survive

any disaster: it’s firm and solid bodies

that risk being broken.

I’m more like

a vine that grows in midair. And yet I know, we know,

that perfect storms exist, and those

spare no one. It doesn’t matter: that’s your faith,

and the faith of those who don’t realize they believe

is the strongest kind of all, the only one

that can work miracles. What else would you call the fact

that an unloved body

keeps breathing, if everything we have depends on others,

on their capacity to hold us up, to give us breath?

What else, if not the most ferocious will to live,

would keep a person on their feet

who’d been offered only indifference from the start,

or sheer violence, uncontrollable and deadly? It’s the world’s

last morning before it shatters, and even now

we’re all caught up in little things—that our house,

for example, seems like a house. No matter what you say,

hope keeps laboring on the body, even

when the body gave up long ago and stopped

its wanting. There is an impulse greater

than itself, than you and I, than everything

that will be lost. It’s kindled by a fire

that has no origin, no flinting spark, no future, desperate

to incarnate any matter that will let it

keep on burning. An inextinguishable

ember that becomes a lesion

on the body. The grace and passion that belonged to us

will smolder in that wound

after the body is snuffed out: the will-

o’-the-wisp.

Nazareno Cruz and the Wolf

Once, seated around a fire, we told each other

the stories we loved. The ones we’ve repeated

so many times we’ve come

to believe them. They’re neither true nor false, and in the end

it wouldn’t matter: who isn’t made of made-up

stories. Without them, our bodies would blur

into erasure, light and flimsy

as ash disintegrating in the air. Unlike trees

or animals, we humans have to gather

to be real. When we’re together, we look

like more than shadows, we look true, we look like we could last

much longer than the fleeting lapse we really do. How

can such fragile, needy beings cause

such harm? I’ve often been

the wolf who plucks its prey’s heart out and carries it away,

clenched in its jaws; I’ve roused intolerable pain

where there was only calm,

and not even the flayed animal’s howl could halt

the hunting rage in me, the sprinting,

reveled blood, kindled by someone

else’s hurt. And what became

of what I loved? My teeth

entrapped it, too. Because

how can a lover ever keep brutality at bay,

how can the beloved ever elude violence,

if violence is a bolt that roams the world

and searches for a target, for the magnet that will lure it close,

oblivious to the fire

and hardship it’s inviting in? If only the wolf

of us could ever be sated, if thirst

had an end, or a beginning, if we could join

the pack, recover from the craze, the boundless

appetite, the torment of our claws and fangs,

if there were any hope, any at all, that we could stop

damaging others and ourselves, I’d leave it at your feet,

so that you could do with it — my hope —

whatever you wanted: take it into your hands,

toss it aside, let it grow tall

or wilt away. The curse of someone who can’t love

is being alone, and someone who’s alone can only act

like wolves: attacking and destroying what she can,

fearing destruction and attacks. And who

can love, who’s not alone, if we’ve been raised

as predators, if all we know is how to claim

our territory? There has to be a way. We have to tell

a story that can save us. The promise,

when disaster strikes, that someone

will always come to rescue us, won’t let

us lap the venom from the wound, the poisoned blood that spoils

with hate and spurs revenge. There has to be

a cure. So we won’t gash each other’s flesh

out of clumsiness or negligence each time

we try to touch again, hoping to give each other

something different than

what we’ve received, something

that can’t destroy or be destroyed.

Wouldn’t it be beautiful

if we could let go

of these mangled bodies

that see others and the world as rivals

in an arduous, interminable trial — to have

a chest that breathes, a mouth that swallows. In other words,

to survive for no one, for nothing.

Cherry Blossoms

In the blue night

frost haze, the sky glows

with the moon

pine tree tops

bend snow-blue, fade

into sky, frost, starlight.

The creak of boots.

Rabbit tracks, deer tracks,

what do we know.

Gary Snyder

I wake and think: it’s like a tree could

wake up in the middle of the night. What do we know?

Locked in our bodies, isolated

from the wondrous things that happen,

unfit to see or feel or even really trust

that they exist at all. What do we know? Maybe the plants rest

too, maybe they have their days or nights of wakefulness, a certain kind

of grief or anguish we will never fully understand,

some touch — the sun, the rain, the wind? — that soothes them.

But let’s imagine what an ache must mean to substance

that can’t move. Material condemned

to stay right where it is, that has no way

to run or hide. What if the lightning bolt,

the axe, the avalanche, the flood, were not

the only risks to plague it? Let’s look

out at the cherry tree, lovely and unparticipating in

the final night of winter. Beyond

the parasitic plants and pests that stifle it, what if

there were some powerful desire that crept along the root

and climbed the battered trunk,

emerging from the leaves and branches, howling

into a silence still impossible to break? What if there were

something that wanted out, that longed to burst into the world,

out there, but doesn’t move, stays still and quiet, trapped inside?

Haven’t you ever felt like that, immobilized, frozen in place,

utterly shattered by another body crushing yours

before it vanishes?

I bear the scars,

the marks of your existence. They will fade.

Your voice, your way of uttering even the simplest word

as if it were a song that leaves a wake of beauty once

it’s gone, a trail unreachable, is nowhere

now; it lasts only as long

as words do. I’m going to live my life

inside the very air your voice echoed into and left that wake.

I’m going to live my life just like the tree

that offers you its blossoms once a year, the sole

display of its devotion and its anguish at the world

beyond, at what it lost and can’t

recover. Whatever beauty I can manage,

however small and poor, however little it resembles

the white and perfect flowering of the cherry tree, will be for you.

I’ll always be what I am now: a branch that works

to bring a bud to blossom, even if it’s only one,

to give you one last glimpse of it

before the winter comes, before

it’s dried of sap and strength. That

will be my life: the ardor of

the effort. I know you’ll never see

what I can offer you. But here

I’ll stay, until, relenting, I turn into you at last,

until my body brings you back, until my body is

exactly like your own: the mud, the parted trunk, the stripped

dry branch, the petals spent and scattered.