Ulay

Ulay was born on 30 November 1943. He was German national and known as Artist, Photographer, University teacher.

Born: 30 November 1943 German

Franz Liszt

Franz Liszt was a famous Hungarian composer and pianist. Check out this biography to know about his childhood, family life, achievements and other facts related to his life.

Born: 22 October 1811 German

Richard Dedekind

Richard Dedekind was a German mathematician famous for his contributions to abstract algebra. Check out this biography to know about his childhood, family life, achievements and other facts about his life.

Born: 06 October 1831 German

Carl Friedrich Gauss

Carl Friedrich Gauss was born on 30 April 1777. He was German national and known as Mathematician, Geophysicist, Astronomer, Science.

Born: 30 April 1777 German

Felix Christian Klein

Felix Christian Klein was a German Mathematician known for his important works in non-Euclidean geometry. Read on to learn more about Felix Christian Klein’s profile, childhood, life and timeline.

Born: 25 April 1849 German

Hermann Klaus Hugo Weyl

Mathematician and Theoretical Physicist

Hermann K. H. Weyl was a renowned German mathematician. Check out this biography to know about his childhood, family life, achievements and other facts related to his life.

Born: 09 November 1885 German

Gottfried W. Leibniz

Gottfried W. Leibniz was a noted German mathematician and philosopher. Check out this biography to know about his childhood, family life, achievements and interesting facts about him.

Born: 01 July 1646 German

Carl F. Gauss

Carl F. Gauss was a German mathematician and astronomer who is ranked as one of history's most influential mathematicians. This biography of Carl F. Gauss provides detailed information about his childhood, life, achievements, works & timeline.

Born: 30 April 1777 German

Carl Ludwig Siegel

Carl Ludwig Siegel is considered to be one of the greatest mathematicians of the 20th century. Check out this biography to know about his childhood, family life, achievements and fun facts about him.

Born: 31 December 1896 German

Peter Gustav Lejeune Dirichlet

Peter Gustav Lejeune Dirichlet was a German mathematician known for his invaluable contributions to number theory.

Born: 13 February 1805 German

Johannes Kepler

Johannes Kepler was a famous German astronomer, mathematician and astrologer. Read on to learn more about Johannes Kepler’s profile, childhood, life and timeline in this biography.

Born: 27 December 1571 German

Karl Weierstrass

Karl Weierstrass was a German mathematician, who is often regarded as –the father of modern analysis.“ Check out this biography to know about his childhood, family life, achievements and other facts related to his life.

Born: 31 October 1815 German

Carl Gustav Jacob Jacobi

Carl Gustav Jacob Jacobi was a German mathematician who co-founded the theory of elliptic functions. Read on to know about his life and works.

Born: 10 December 1804 German

Georg Ohm

George Ohm is founder of the concept known as Ohm’s law. Explore this biography to get details about his life and works.

Born: 16 March 1789 German

Bernhard Riemann

Bernhard Riemann was a German mathematician, known for his contribution to differential geometry, number theory and complex analysis. Check out this biography to know about his childhood, family life, achievements and other facts about his life.

Born: 17 September 1826 German

Emmy Noether

Emmy Noether was a German mathematician known for her contributions in the fields of physics and algebra. Read on to learn more about Emmy Noether’s profile, childhood, life and timeline.

Born: 23 March 1882 German

Georg Cantor

George Cantor was an established mathematician who defined the cardinal and the ordinal numbers. Read on to know more about George Cantor’s profile, childhood, life and timeline in this biography.

Born: 03 March 1845 German

Johann Pachelbel

Johann Pachelbel was a famous Baroque composer and organist. Check out this biography to know about his childhood, family life, achievements and other facts related to his life.

Born: 01 September 1653 German