Sanaya Irani shares how Mohit Sehgal motivated her to ask for equal pay on the sets of Miley Jab Hum Tum; discusses about pay parity

etimes.in / Aug 06, 2024, 19:07 (IST)

Sanaya Irani, renowned for her role in Miley Jab Hum Tum, revealed that she initially earned less than her co-star Mohit Sehgal. After Mohit encouraged her to request equal pay, Sanaya approached the producers, who agreed to her demands. She also highlighted the ongoing issue of pay disparity in the industry, particularly for female actresses.

Mile Jab Hum Tum's Sanaya Irani recalls a renowned director demanding her to wear a bikini, being body-shamed and more

etimes.in / Aug 06, 2024, 15:53 (IST)

Sanaya Irani shared her experiences with Bollywood and South film industries, revealing an instance where a director pressured her to wear a bikini and another event of subtle body-shaming. Irani recounted her hesitation in joining 'Fanaa' but eventually accepted due to her admiration for Aamir Khan and Kajol. She has also appeared in several popular TV shows and reality series.

Mom-to-be Drashti Dhami shares her cute weekend plans with BFF Sanaya Irani; watch

etimes.in / Jul 19, 2024, 19:50 (IST)

Drashti Dhami and Sanaya Irani share a cozy video ending in pajamas and snacks. Drashti, expecting a baby in October with husband Niraj Khemka, has been married since 2015. Renowned for roles in 'Dill Mill Gayye,' 'Geet,' and a win in 'Jhalak Dikhhla Jaa 6,' she starred in 'The Empire' and 'Duranga.'

Sanaya Irani shares best moments from Iss Pyaar Ko Kya Naam Doon co-star Abhaas Mehta's wedding; says 'It took you guys more than a decade to do this, but the wait was totally worth it'

etimes.in / Oct 06, 2023, 22:49 (IST)

Abhaas Mehta, known for his role in "Iss Pyaar Ko Kya Naam Doon," recently got married to his longtime girlfriend Zeenia Wadia. The couple, who had been in a relationship for 10 years, had an intimate ceremony on October 1st. The wedding was attended by the team of the show, including Sanaya Irani, who shared a video of the celebrations.

Arjun Bijlani shares fun birthday picture with BFFs Mouni Roy, Nia Sharma and others, writes “My Ladies”

etimes.in / Nov 03, 2023, 19:28 (IST)

Arjun Bijlani, known for his appearance on Khatron Ke Khiladi, celebrated his 40th birthday in style with his loved ones. He shared a picture on Instagram, surrounded by glamorous ladies including his wife Neha Swami, Mouni Roy, Sanaya Irani, and Nia Sharma. The birthday bash was star-studded, with celebrities like Mouni Roy, Rajiv Adatia, Chetna Pande, and Sana Makbul showering him with love and birthday wishes. On the professional front, Arjun Bijlani will be hosting the upcoming season of Splitsvilla with Sunny Leone.

Miley Jab Hum Tum stars Arjun Bijlani, Sanaya Irani, Mohit Sehgal reunite at the former's wife Neha's birthday

etimes.in / Oct 12, 2023, 23:13 (IST)

Miley Jab Hum Tum stars Arjun Bijlani, Sanaya Irani, and Mohit Sehgal, who were leads in the popular teen drama, reunited after over a decade. Arjun celebrated his wife Neha's birthday with a heartwarming video, showcasing their cherished moments, receiving warm wishes from friends and co-stars in the industry, as he celebrates her birthday.

Miley Jab Hum Tum completes 15 years: Gautam Hegde celebrates with Mohit Sehgal and Sanaya Irani; writes "Samrat and Gunjan are having hulchul dil mein"

etimes.in / Sep 23, 2023, 13:42 (IST)

Gautam Hegde, who played Chironji Jajotia in Miley Jab Hum Tum, celebrated the show's 15-year anniversary by sharing a special post on Instagram. He posted a picture from a video call with Mohit Sehgal and Sanaya Irani, who played Samrat and Gunjan. Fans expressed nostalgia and called for a second season of the show.

Sanaya Irani wishes her Iss Pyaar Ko Kya Naam Doon co-star Barun Sobti on his birthday; shares pictures from the celebration

etimes.in / Aug 22, 2023, 02:48 (IST)

Barun Sobti celebrated his 39th birthday on August 21. The actor was flooded with wishes from numerous celebrities, including former co-star Sanaya Irani, who posted heartfelt messages and pictures on Instagram. This birthday is particularly special for Sobti as he was recently blessed with his second child, a boy named Meer, with wife Pashmeen Manchanda in April 2023. Barun is known for his roles in TV shows, films, and web series, notably "Iss Pyaar Ko Kya Naam Doon".

Sanaya Irani, Barun Sobti’s TV show Iss Pyaar Ko Kya Naam doon completes 12 years; the former says “It’s been 12 years of eternal love and unshakeable support”

etimes.in / Jun 06, 2023, 20:07 (IST)

Sanaya Irani gets nostalgic and emotional as her famous show Iss Pyaar Ko Kya Naam Doon with Barun Sobti completes 12 long years. Sanaya shares that she still can't believe about getting so much love and support from her fans for her character and the lead pair Arnav and Khushi.

Odisha Train Tragedy: Rupali Ganguly, Renuka Shahane and other TV celebs express their grief and shock

etimes.in / Jun 03, 2023, 13:57 (IST)

At least 238 and more people have lost their lives and 900 were injured in the tragic three-train crash in Odisha's Balasore. Here's how the TV celebs expressed their grief and shock.

Dalljiet Kaur to leave for Kenya on March 25

TNN / Mar 22, 2023, 10:00 (IST)

The actress, who was earlier married to Shalin Bhanot, met Nikhil Patel in the end of 2021. They started dating a few months later and got engaged on January 3, 2023. Dalljiet and Nikhil tied the knot on March 18.

Exclusive - Adhyayan Suman approached to be a part of Rohit Shetty's Khatron Ke Khiladi 13?

etimes.in / Mar 18, 2023, 13:53 (IST)

With Khatron Ke Khiladi coming up, Adhyayan Suman's name has cropped up as one of the contestants. ETimes TV has learnt that Adhyayan has been approached for the stunt-based reality show.

Dalljiet Kaur does a surprise dance for her sangeet with her bridesmaids Karishma Tanna, Sanaya Irani and Ridhi Dogra; groom Nikhil Patel dances to Gallan Gudiya with his squad

etimes.in / Mar 17, 2023, 20:37 (IST)

Dalljiet Kaur was seen enjoying all her pre-wedding functions as she danced along with her bridesmaids. Dalljiet danced to a few romantic songs as she dedicated them to her soon-to-be-husband Nikhil Patel. Even her bridesmaids Karishma Tanna, Sanaya Irani and Ridhi Dogra were seen accompanying Dalljiet in the song as they all shake their legs. Dalljiet looked beautiful in her white outfit for Sangeet.

Exclusive - Iss Pyaar Ko Kya Naam Doon fame Sanaya Irani reveals why she is staying away from the small screen and daily soaps

etimes.in / May 25, 2022, 17:49 (IST)

In an exclusive chat with ETimes TV, the actress shared that she is not open to long format shows on TV as it restricts an actor's growth and the job becomes robotic.

'Khatron Ke Khiladi 12' contestant Mohit Malik wishes to see his son as daredevil

IANS / May 24, 2022, 19:30 (IST)

Actor Mohit Malik is all set to unleash his adventurous side with the next instalment of 'Khatron Ke Khiladi 12'. The actor will be flying to Cape Town in June to start filming for the show. While Mohit is all set to be part of an action-based reality show, his wish for his baby boy Ekbir is that he grows up to not fear anything.