Kangana Ranaut was all excited and geared up for the release of her film Tejas that opened in cinemas on October 27. However, it has turned out to be a huge disappointment at the box-office. The approximate collections are around Rs 4.25 crore against a staggering budget of around Rs 70 crore.

Advertisement

Kangana ’s video for fans

A few days back, the actress shared a video on X (formerly known as Twitter) inviting her fans to watch Tejas and wrote, “Even before covid theatrical footfalls were dipping drastically post covid it has become seriously rapid. Many theatres are shutting down and even after free tickets and many reasonable offers drastic footfall decline is continuing. Requesting people to watch films in theatres and enjoy with family and friends or else they (theatres) won’t be able to survive. Thanks.”

She said in Hindi, “Friends, my film Tejas released in theatres yesterday. Whoever has seen this film, has been giving us a lot of appreciation and blessings. But friends, after Covid 19, our Hindi film industry has not been able to recover totally. 99% films are not even given a chance by the audience. I know that in today’s age, everyone has a mobile phone, and TV at home. But community viewing, in theatres which is an important part of our civilization from the very beginning. Dance, arts… every type of dance, folklores… are all essential. So, it is my earnest request to the Hindi film audience and specially the multiplex ones… if you liked Uri, Mary Kom and Neerja, you will also like Tejas.”

Advertisement

Special screening for Yogi Adityanath

Kangana held a special screening of the Air Force drama for Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.

The actress shared pictures on her social media account where she could be seen hosting the UP CM for a special screening of her film. She wrote- “Today hosted a screening of #tejas a film based on a soldier / Martyr’s life for honourable Chief Minister @myogiadityanath ji. As you can see in the first picture Maharaj ji couldn’t hold back his tears in the last monologue of Tejas.”

Advertisement