Saif Ali Khan's Kaalakaandi was one of the most interesting releases of last week, however, the film has failed to make a mark at the box office. The movie started off decently, but it could not see a tremendous growth over the weekend. After collecting average amounts on the first two days, Saif Ali Khan's film added another Rs 1.40 crore on day 3 (first Sunday), to take its overall box office tally to Rs 3.85 crore. Talking about the detailed box office collection, trade analyst Taran Adarsh revealed on Twitter, "#Kaalakaandi Fri Rs 1.25 crore, Sat Rs 1.20 crore, Sun Rs 1.40 crore. Total: Rs 3.85 crore. India biz."

Saif Ali Khan's Kaalakaandi has got mixed reviews. While many critics as well as people have slammed the film, some have loved it too. Our film critic - Rajat Tripathi mentioned in his review, "While the film is funny in parts, watch it only if you possess a keen eye to find art in the places where others can’t. If you are a regular movie-goer who just wants to be entertained, sit this one out." The film even clashed with Zareen Khan's 1921 and Anurag Kashyap's Mukkabaaz, hence, Kaalakaandi's box office run would have been affected. In fact, Salman Khan's Tiger Zinda Hai performed better than all three films even in its fourth weekend. (ALSO READ - Kaalakaandi movie review: Saif Ali Khan and a whole bunch of other characters go on pointless adventures)

Made on a budget of Rs 20 crore (cost of production + cost of print and advertising), Kaalakaandi might not be able to make its money. In fact, the film might just be able to cross the Rs 10 crore mark in its lifetime run, not more, which is disastrous to say the least. It might recover its money through the sale of satellite rights, music rights and digital rights, however the trade might face a loss. Anyway, what do you guys have to say about Kaalakaandi? Share with us your reviews in the comments section below! Also stay tuned to BollywoodLife as we get you all the dope and updates about Kaalakaandi right here.

Stay tuned to BollywoodLife for the latest scoops and updates from Bollywood, Hollywood, South, TV and Web-Series.