trespass, encroach, infringe, invade mean to make inroads upon the property, territory, or rights of another.

trespass implies an unwarranted or unlawful intrusion.

hunters trespassing on farmland

encroach suggests gradual or stealthy entrance upon another's territory or usurpation of another's rights or possessions.

the encroaching settlers displacing the native peoples

infringe implies an encroachment clearly violating a right or prerogative.

infringing a copyright

invade implies a hostile and injurious entry into the territory or sphere of another.

accused of invading their privacy

Recent Examples on the Web

Verb

Another man was also arrested for trespassing twice in one day at the independent candidate’s Los Angeles home in October. —Angel Saunders, Peoplemag, 16 July 2024 Mind you, Nashawaty has neither the time nor the inclination to trespass into the art house. —Anthony Lane, The New Yorker, 15 July 2024

Noun

The 11-year-old has been charged with involuntary manslaughter, simple battery, concealing the death of another and criminal trespass, while the 10-year is charged with concealing the death of another and criminal trespass. —Daniella Silva, NBC News, 19 July 2024 Brown ruled that the link between the fossil fuel companies’ deceptive marketing and the harms to city property were too weak for trespass law to be applied, under state law. —Christine Condon, Baltimore Sun, 11 July 2024 See all Example Sentences for trespass

These examples are programmatically compiled from various online sources to illustrate current usage of the word 'trespass.' Any opinions expressed in the examples do not represent those of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback about these examples.

Etymology

Verb

Middle English, from Anglo-French trespasser to overtake, exceed, wrong, from tres to a high degree (from Latin trans beyond) + passer to pass — more at through, pass

Noun

Middle English trespas, from Anglo-French, passage, overstepping, misdeed, from trespasser