I just came across "forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us".

Is the first instance of "trespass" a noun and thus pronounced so as to rhyme with "bus" and the second a verb and thus pronounced so as to rhyme with "pass"?

I'm talking about American English pronunciation.

And what way might that be?

If he/she pronounces both instances of it in "forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us", you can rest assured he/she pronounces them both to rhyme with "bypass" or "underpass".

Nobody would ever pronounce both of them to rhyme with "rebus", though I am sure there are many who would pronounce the first instance to rhyme with "rebus".

I have heard Americans rhyme the second syllable of the verb with mass, but the second syllable of the noun with bus.

That's how I pronounce them in that prayer: -busses for the noun and -mass for the verb. In a secular context, I say trespass, trespasser, trespasses (third person singular of the verb), trespassing all with the second syllable rhyming with mass. I don't think I've ever said trespasses as a noun other than in that prayer.

(I know the original question was about American English, but this BrE speaker pronounces noun and verb identically, with stress on the first syllable and schwa in the second syllable.)

I think that's the general BrE pronunciation: /ˈtres.pəs/ for both noun and verb. Here, you might hear a fuller second vowel /ˈtres.pɑːs/.

You might hear the noun in a police drama when someone is charged with criminal trespass, but that's not usually plural. I don't remember anyone being charged with "tress pus" but then I'm not really listening for that sort of difference.

Given the immense popularity of the Lord's Prayer in American culture, I’m surprised more Americans don’t pronounce the noun trespass to rhyme with bus.

What has the popularity of the Lord's Prayer got to do with the pronunciation of trespass with a schwa?

I agree.

The only observation I would make, though, is that anywhere the Lord's Prayer is commonly spoken it is spoken with a great deal of familiarity and so often spoken quite quickly. As such, I would expect the second syllable of "trespasses" to be less of a schwa and more as if there isn't a vowel at all (as in the "psst" that tries to get someone's attention but without the trailing "t") - sounding more like "tresspssiz". It also doesn't help that since it is a prayer each person speaking it is likely to be saying it quietly - almost to themselves, although not necessarily a whisper - and so the pronunciation is further blurred.

As regards 'trespassing' in orindary English, I've never heard anyone talk about a 'no trespussing' sign. The second syllable is 'pass.' Some people blur the vowel in the second syllable in the Lord's Prayer because, as @Majorbloodnok says, it's recited, and it's usually recited quickly, not spoken as though one were trying to communicate to the person in front of them.

As something spoken in a religious context, the words in the Lord's Prayer don't have the same influence over spoken English the way a line in a hit movie does. People say "make him an offer he can't refuse" because the original line and the movie context in which it was spoken were and are part of everyday popular culture. That's different from prayers; people who recite the Lord's Prayer don't say 'thou art' and 'thy name' in ordinary English, even if they do say and hear them in a prayer.