The weekend of rugby kicks off a new Six Nations campaign for the senior side and also for the Ireland Under20s which will feature up and coming star Brian Gleeson who has made huge progress in the rugby world after learning his trade in Thurles and at Rockwell College.

The Loughmore-Castleiney native, who already has nine senior Munster caps, will line out once more wearing the coveted number 8 jersey for the side that are targeting a third successive Grand Slam and will be looking to build on his performances that led Ireland to a Grand Slam victory last year with a team full of outstanding underage international players.

Richie Murphy’s Irish side - with five players from last years team - begin their spring campaign on Saturday evening at 8.10pm in Aix-en-Provence, and will have it all to do against France who beat Ireland last summer in the World Junior Championship final played in South Africa.

A great atmosphere is guaranteed at the Stade Maurice David - a 6,000-capacity stadium - as Ireland look to begin the new campaign on a high note.

There is plenty of regional players in the squad as Limerick native Evan O’Connell in the second row is a nephew of former Irish rugby star Paul O'Connell and Evan captains the team that also features former Cork U20 hurling All-Ireland winner Ben O’Connor who starts at full-back.

Ireland U20s to play France:

15. Ben O’Connor (UCC RFC/Munster)

14. Finn Treacy (Galwegians RFC/Connacht)

13. Wilhelm de Klerk (UCD RFC/Leinster)

12. Hugh Gavin (Galwegians RFC/Connacht)

11. Hugo McLaughlin (Lansdowne FC/Leinster)

10. Jack Murphy (Clontarf FC/Leinster)

9. Oliver Coffey (Blackrock College RFC/Leinster)

1. Alex Usanov (Clontarf FC/Leinster)

2. Danny Sheahan (Cork Constitution FC/Munster)

3. Andrew Sparrow (UCD RFC/Leinster)

4. Alan Spicer (UCD RFC/Leinster)

5. Evan O’Connell (UL Bohemian RFC/Munster) (capt)

6. Joe Hopes (Queen’s University Belfast RFC/Ulster)

7. Bryn Ward (Ballynahinch RFC/Ulster)

8. Brian Gleeson (Garryowen FC/Munster)

Replacements: