Former Hillsdale basketball head coach John Tharp instructing the team during a time out.

Former men’s basketball head coach John Tharp was appointed Hillsdale College Director of Athletics on Tuesday.

Tharp had been in his position with the basketball team since 2007, and will replace Don Brubacher, who has served as director of athletics since 2008.

Tharp said he is excited for the opportunity and thankful for College President Larry Arnn and the selection committee’s trust.

“It was one of those things where I love Hillsdale College, I love Dr. Arnn, I love what this place stands for,” Tharp said. “It was an opportunity to lead in a different way, to play a different role in serving our college, serving our coaches, and serving all of our student athletes.”

Brubacher announced in November he would be retiring at the end of the school year. He will leave a 15-year legacy where, according to Arnn, he set a high standard for the department.

“He is transparent, thorough, high-minded,” Arnn said. “He has been an excellent counselor constantly on athletics, and on every big question the college faces. He will be greatly missed. I personally have learned a great deal from him. I will be grateful to him abidingly.”

The search for a replacement for Brubacher consisted of more than 100 applicants, 15 of whom were closely vetted, according to Sports Information Director James Gensterblum. Arnn said he made the final decision about the candidates, and called Tharp a splendid man who brings head and heart to the position.

Arnn said Tharp’s enthusiasm and energy showed his ambition for the college and made him stand out among the candidates.

“He wants those programs to contribute to the mission of the college in every way,” Arnn said.

Tharp finishes his career coaching at the college level with 501 wins. He holds the program record for wins as a head coach at both Hillsdale and his previous head-coaching position, Lawrence University.

Under Tharp, the team made five of its eight NCAA Division II Tournament appearances and took home three conference titles. In two of his last three years coaching the Chargers, they made their first NCAA Sweet 16 and Elite Eight appearances in program history.

He was named National Association of Basketball Coaches Division II Regional Coach of the Year for the 2020-21 season, and G-MAC Coach of the Year twice, for the 2019-20 and 2020-21 seasons.

“My legacy are the guys that played for me,” Tharp said. “More than any one win, any season, or any championship, are the 16 years of players at Hillsdale College that have been such a big part of my life and will always be a big part of my life.”

Gensterblum said he likes the decision, and although there wouldn’t have been any opposition to an external hire, the college and its teams are unique and special.

“John Tharp is someone who has shown in 16 years that he understands this place,” Gensterblum said. “He understands how to win and have success at this place, while living up to the ideals, goals, and mission that are espoused here. It does mean a lot to have someone in that position who knows what it’s like to run a program at Hillsdale and everything that entails.”

During Brubacher’s tenure leading the department, each of the college’s 14 athletic teams either won a conference title or made it to an NCAA tournament or final. The college won 45 total conference titles, and produced 182 NCAA Division II all-Americans, according to an athletic department press release.

“I think that’s one of his biggest legacies, is that he’s run a program where our biggest teams are obviously successful, but everybody had the support to push to excellence,” Gensterblum said. “The expectations were high, the support was high, and the ambition was high in everything, that’s a testament to him and what he was able to do.”

Brubacher will hold the position through June, according to an athletic department press release, at which point Tharp will assume the position. Tharp said the process reminded him of how many people across campus care about students, both in the athletic department and across campus.

“I’ve been emotional because the basketball program’s meant so much to me,” Tharp said. “These players and these kids have meant so much to me. I look at it as a blessing that I’ve had a chance to do that here for 16 years, and I look at it a