INA-Industrija nafte, Plc. is a medium-sized European oil company headquartered in Zagreb, Croatia. Established in 1964, INA Group has a leading role in Croatian oil business and a strong local position in the oil and gas business today. INA Group is comprised of several companies completely or partially owned by INA, Plc.

Plinacro is in charge of supervision, maintenance, development and construction of the entire gas transmission system, and of other activities necessary for the technical functioning of the system.

STSI – Integrirani tehnički servisi, Ltd. is the largest company in the Republic of Croatia for maintenance operations that provides a complete maintenance service including all the engineering (mechanical, electro-instrumental, construction).

CROSCO Integrated Drilling & Well Services Co., Ltd. is an onshore and offshore drilling and well services contractor. It has established a leading presence in the company’s three regions of focus, which span Northern Africa, the Middle East and Mediterranean Europe.

The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia is the ministry in the Government of Croatia which is in charge of the nation’s military. The ministry was established in 1990.

The Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Croatia is the ministry in the Government of Croatia which is in charge of state security among other roles. Croatian Police is a public service of the Ministry of the Interior.

Croatian Motorways, Ltd, a limited liability company for operation, construction and maintenance of motorways, was registered and started its business activity on April 11, 2001, as one of two legal successors of Hrvatske uprave za ceste. The company is 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia.

Autocesta Rijeka – Zagreb, Plc is a Croatian state-owned joint-stock company founded pursuant to decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of December 11, 1997, to facilitate construction and subsequent management of a motorway between Rijeka and Zagreb. All company stocks are owned by the Republic of Croatia.

Croatian Radiotelevision (HRT) is a Croatian public broadcasting company. It operates several radio and television channels, over a domestic transmitter network as well as satellite. First air date: 15 May 1926 (radio); 15 May 1956 (television).

RTL Televizija, Ltd. is a Croatian commercial broadcaster with national availability that has been broadcasting since 30 April 2004. RTL Televizija is owned by the RTL Group Germany. It was launched as the second commercial television network with national concession in Croatia.

OT-Optima Telekom, Plc. (OT) is one of the leading telecommunications operator in the Croatian telecommunications market. After the establishment in 2004 and after making the first commercial call in its own network in 2005, OT used the liberalization of the telecommunications market as an opportunity to become the leader of changes in a short notice.

IN2, Ltd. is a privately owned company established in 1992, which designs and develops information systems based on advanced information technologies. As of 2013, it was the largest Croatian IT company.

The University of Zagreb (1669) is the oldest and biggest university in South-Eastern Europe. As a comprehensive public Central European university, University of Zagreb offers education and research and in all scientific fields (arts, biomedicine, biotechnology, engineering, humanities, natural sciences and social sciences) and a broad spectrum of courses at all study levels, from undergraduate to postgraduate.

University Hospital Centre Zagreb is the largest health institution in the Republic of Croatia, considering the number and diversity of health services it provides.

The status of the Central National Hospital awarded to the University Hospital Centre Zagreb by the Ministry of Health is a tremendous acknowledgement, but also a guideline for future activities in order to maintain and improve the quality of services.