Arsenal’s devastating defeat to Newcastle United on Monday night was their 13th of the season, equalling their record for losses in a Premier League season of this length.

The Gunners were abject at St James’ Park in a game they needed to win – or at least avoid defeat – to keep their top four hopes realistically alive.

However, they tamely fell to a 2-0 loss thanks to a Ben White own goal and a strike from former transfer target Bruno Guimaraes.

This leaves Mikel Arteta’s side fifth, two points behind Tottenham in fourth with one game to play and with a significantly (15) worse goal difference.

Spurs now just need a draw against Norwich on the final day of the season to secure a Champions League spot, which is about as easy a task as could be asked of them.

Since the Premier League trimmed to 20 teams for the 1995-96 season, Arsenal have never lost more than 13 games, a tally they have reached again this season and will look to avoid breaking the record when they face Everton on the last game of the campaign.

Twice before in a 38-game Premier League season have Arsenal lost 13 matches: Arsene Wenger’s last campaign in charge in 2017-18 and last season under Arteta when they finished eighth.

Arteta’s side have also drawn just three matches all season, the fewest draws over a campaign since 1906-07 when they managed four.

While defeats home and away against Manchester City and Liverpool are understandable, as is a loss to Chelsea, the rest will be stinging the Gunners as they look set to miss out on the top tier of European football.

Their other defeats have come against Brentford, Manchester United, Everton, Crystal Palace, Brighton, Southampton, Tottenham and, on Monday night, Newcastle.

This will be the fifth consecutive season Arsenal have lost 10 or more games, when they had gone from 1995-96 to 2016-17 only reaching double-digit defeat twice.

MORE : Mikel Arteta refuses to defend Arsenal players after Newcastle United defeat

MORE : Gary Neville calls Granit Xhaka a ‘disgrace’ for slamming Arsenal teammates after Newcastle United defeat

For more stories like this, check our sport page.