The Campion School coach Michael McDarby praised his unbeaten side today after they secured victory in this season’s Deutsche Bank Schools Six Nations tournament.

The Hornchurch outfit won all seven of their matches throughout the two days of action to run out deserved winners, beating Rydal Penrhos of Wales in the Deutsche Bank Schools Cup final, 19-7.

McDarby said: “The boys work hard and deserve to pick up some silverware.

“As soon as the sun came out this afternoon, we got better.

“We have got quite a lot of pace and it’s a case of trying to play to our strengths.

“We are not the biggest side. We are fit and quick and we like to move the ball around.

“Yesterday against Fettes was a tough match but we then had two easier games which helped on day two as the lads were fairly fresh.

“They are all pretty shattered now and it was a great effort to go unbeaten.”

He added: “I would like to thank London Scottish and Deutsche Bank for the invite and for putting on a great show.

“It was a fantastic tournament and we really enjoyed it.

“It was our first time here and hopefully we will be back to defend our title next year.”

Deutsche Bank’s Colin Grassie, who presented the Deutsche Bank Schools Six Nations Cup to the winning captain said: “It was a great occasion and well done to our winners The Campion School.

“I would like to thank everyone who helped make this tournament a success and hopefully we can enjoy such nice weather next year!”

In the Plate final, last year’s Deutsche Bank Schools Six Nations Cup winner St Paul’s got their hands on more silverware, beating Downside School 22-5.

Iain Young of tournament sponsor Morton Fraser presented St Paul’s with their trophy.

Richard Roberts of Rydal Penrhos picked up the John Scott Sportsmanship Award which was presented to him by London Scottish President Rod Lynch.

Deutsche Bank Schools Six Nations Cup

Round Two results:

The Campion School 20 Eastbourne College 5

Rydal Penrhos 12 Fettes College 10

Fettes College 0 The Campion School 24

Rydal Penrhos 19 Eastbourne College 12

The Campion School 24 Rydal Penrhos 7

Fettes College 12 Eastbourne 38

Deutsche Bank Schools Six Nations Cup final:

The Campion School 19 Rydal Penrhos 7

Deutsche Bank Schools Six Nations Plate

Round Two results:

St Paul's 17 London Scottish 10

Lycee Comte de Foix 0 Downside School 50

Downside School 0 St Paul's 14

Lycee Comte de Foix 0 London Scottish 45

St Paul's 52 Lycee Comte de Foix 0

Downside School 14 London Scottish 7

Deutsche Bank Schools Six Nation Plate Final:

St Paul's 22 Downside School 5