Balka Suman (born 18 October 1983) is an Indian politician. He is a former Member of Parliament in the 16th Lok Sabha from Peddapalli, Telangana. He won the 2014 Indian general election being a Telangana Rashtra Samithi candidate.[1] He has been elected as an MLA from Chennur constituency in 2018 Telangana Legislative Assembly election.

Early life and education[edit]

Suman was born on 18 October 1983 in Regunta village of Karimnagar district of Telangana (erstwhile Andhra Pradesh) to Balka Suresh and Muttamma. His father Balka Suresh has been a strong TRS party supporter and Metpally TRS party president during Telangana movement; presently he is the Metpally Market Committee Chairman; his mother Muttamma is a housewife. Suman has two siblings, a younger brother and sister. He is married to Rani Alekhya, a TV journalist, in 2013 and the couple has two children – Suhan and Sushan.

Suman completed primary education from Class 1 to 4 at Metpally. From Class 5 to 9, he studied at APSWR (TWSR) School for boys at Pembatla in Jagitial district. From SSC to Intermediate, he studied at APSWR (TSWRJC) at Rukmapur, Choppadandi in Karimnagar district.

After junior college, Balka Suman graduated with B.A. (HEP) Degree from Government Degree College, Korutla, Jagityal district. The year 2003 is significant in Suman's life as it marked his entry to Osmania University to do Master's in English at Secunderabad PG College. Suman joined M.Phil. in Linguistics in 2004 but dropped out of it as he was busy with student politics and separate Telangana movement. In 2008, he registered for Ph.D. in English at Arts College, Osmania University. His area of research is Native American Literature

Political career[edit]

Suman entered politics in 2001 by joining the Telangana Rashtra Samithi, and was a key driving force at Osmania University. He actively participated in Telangana agitation.

He served as O.U campus' student wing (TRSV) president for Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in 2007 and was made the student wing (TRSV) State President of TRS party in 2010. He is currently the MLA from Chennur constituency.

Between 2009 and 2014, he played an important role in the Telangana movement, supporting the demands of Telangana people.

Member of Legislative Asse