Built in 1891, the Paris Hotel building is an elegant, red brick, Victorian structure. Originally the Paris Hotel, named for Paris Hargis, the proprietor, the building is the work of architect Richard Phillips, with construction accomplished by Hallack and Howard builders. In 1935, the building was renovated with 17 lofts on the upper floors and five office/retail spaces on the main level. Located in what we believe was once the lobby of this historic hotel, The Lobby has kept some of the original Victorian feel while infusing modern comfort with Denver character. Original exposed brick work, a stained glass back-lit ceiling, and hardwood floors blend beautifully with modern amenities. The Lobby’s large patio sits in a European-style garden courtyard that was built out in the 1980s.

An oasis in the city since 2009, The Lobby is, at heart, a neighborhood restaurant and bar dishing up Southern-inspired, creative fare that revolves around our mantra: PLAYFUL EATS. SERIOUS DRINKS. In fact, you might notice a bit of a theme running through our menu. We’re serious about having a good time, and seeing that our guests do too—things get rockin’ pretty good in here once the bottomless mimosas start flowing. With 15+ craft beers on draft, our aforementioned famous bottomless mimosas, a seasonal cocktail list that will blow your mind, and a historic building that features the unique and beautiful Courtyard Patio, we’re here for you to gather, feast and imbibe.

We’re proud to be a family-owned business and support other Colorado owned businesses whenever we can. We are an all-scratch kitchen, using fresh, often local, ingredients including from our neighbors at Happy Leaf Kombucha, Great Divide Brewing Company, Hi*Rise Bakery, Lombardi Bros. Meats, and Blue Point Bakery. We are avid supporters of Colorado breweries and distilleries, featuring a constantly rotating and growing selection that compliments the seasons, and our menu.

Please, enjoy your time at The Lobby, tell all of your friends, and let us know what you think!

The Paris Hotel building is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and is conveniently located in the heart of Denver’s famous Ballpark District. Thank you for dining with us!