In a recent interview with the 700 Club, wrestling legend Hulk Hogan shared how his baptism last December marked a “major pivot” in his life. Hogan, whose real name is Terry Gene Bollea, stressed he’s “all in” with God. Believing in Jesus Christ, he said, “Just seems like such an easy choice for everyone, if you’ll just surrender and accept him as your Savior.”

He shared what Christ brings to him in comparison to what he offers himself, Church Leaders reported.

“That's God's presence in us, you know, that still small voice. What Terry brings to the table is a meat suit…a meat suit filled with the Spirit of Christ, and it’s a testing ground for me.”

Despite becoming a Christian at 14 years old, Hogan admitted, “I derailed.”

“[Christ] has given me the opportunity to prove that I’m faithful, and I’ll never make those same mistakes again,” Hogan said. “Going back to my faith, the momentum was overwhelming. There was nothing stopping me.”

As Crosswalk Headlines previously reported, Hogan and his wife, Sky Daily Hogan, were baptized at the Indian Rocks Baptist Church in Largo, Florida, last December.

This is the way that Christians go public in their faith, and he felt it important to do what Christians do,” Pastor Aaron Filippone, the church’s lead pastor, said.

He also reposted a video of Hogan’s testimony on the 700 Club, saying, “Proud of Terry. Excited about what God is doing in his life. Honored to be his pastor.”

During the interview, Hogan addressed the challenge of being involved in the “crazy genre” of wrestling, such as playing a character.

“The moment I walk out the front door,” he said, “the world doesn’t want Terry,” just the Hulk.

In comparison to the Christian life, he said, “It’s almost like people [who] say they’re a Christian and they know of our Lord and Savior, but they really don’t know him. Everybody I meet’s a wrestler talking about wrestling, but there’s a huge difference when you actually get in that ring.”

Hogan also shared about the late “Rowdy” Roddy Piper, a former wrestling rival who passed away in 2015.

“He was really trying hard to…surrender and try to get his life straight,” Hogan explained.

Even though both men “couldn’t stand each other” for 25 years as wrestlers, they started texting each other “every single day” following retirement.

“We basically had some conversations, and…he started asking me about my spirituality,” Hogan continued. “[Piper] really didn’t connect, but he was very curious. He wouldn’t surrender, and all of a sudden, he passes away.”

Two days later, Hogan shared he received a text-to-voice message from Piper, who told him, “I’m just loving you, my brother. I’m just walking with Jesus. Walking with Jesus and loving you, my brother.”

“It’s amazing how things work,” said Hogan, who got emotional, adding that Piper would have never said that while he was alive.

Photo Credit: ©Getty Images/Frazer Harrison/Staff