WWE icon Hulk Hogan has been taking time out during the coronavirus pandemic to focus on his spiritual side. The 6’7″ professional wrestler has been sharing faith-based posts with his millions of followers on social media. The Hulkster is a proud Christian. And he believes that Jesus is more important than any vaccine which, as you can imagine, triggered those in the mainstream media.

Hulk Hogan Promotes Christianity On Social Media

Terry Gene Bollea, better known as Hulk Hogan, is posting from the Bible on social media. The famed wrestler has had at least two biblical posts in the past week alone.

This pandemic is forcing many people to reevaluate their lives and many are turning towards God.

66-year-old Hogan has embraced that. Late last week, the WWE superstar shared a picture from his Bible.

“This is one of the most powerful gifts to our human race, it’s as powerful as it gets here on earth,thank you God. Only love HH 2 Chronicles 7:13&14,” Hulk wrote to his followers.

RELATED: These Stars Defy Hollywood Norm To Issue Palm Sunday Blessings

Hulk Hogan sees this pandemic as a call for us to pray.

He followed up his biblical quote with another post on Monday across his social media accounts. But this second post is getting a lot more attention.

In his 4/6 post, the wrestler points out that we worship celebrities and athletes and money. Right now, we can’t enjoy any of those things as we are all in a worldwide crisis and sheltering in our homes.

RELATED: Tim Tebow’s Twitter Feed Full Of Prayer And Puppies Is What We All Need Right Now

Hulk Hogan: “Maybe We Don’t Need A Vaccine”

The most recognized wrestling star in the world says we should worship God rather than things of this earth.

Taking it a step further, Hogan suggests that we don’t need a vaccine because a relationship with Jesus is all that matters.

A humble Hogan shared this message along with a picture of himself praying.

“In three short months, just like He did with the plagues of Egypt, God has taken away everything we worship. God said, “you want to worship athletes, I will shut down the stadiums. You want to worship musicians, I will shut down Civic Centers. You want to worship actors, I will shut down theaters. You want to worship money, I will shut down the economy and collapse the stock market. You don’t want to go to church and worship Me, I will make it where you can’t go to church”

“If my people who are called by my name will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land.”

Maybe we don’t need a vaccine, Maybe we need to take this time of isolation from the distractions of the world and have a personal revival where we focus on the ONLY thing in the world that really matters. Jesus.”

Mainstream Media Attacks

Of course, Hulk’s public profession of faith is drawing ire from some in the mainstream media.

The Sun and other publications attempted to skewer him for making light of a pandemic that is taking lives across the globe.

As a result, The Sun decided to dredge up Hulk Hogan’s alleged shortcomings and personal battles. But the wrestler’s message isn’t anti-vaxx, it’s about faith and focusing on something we can all do right now.

What the media fails to understand is that we always find forgiveness in Jesus so their smears mean nothing.

But they only have need of the flamboyant wrestler. They have no use for a Christian Hulk Hogan.

This WWE legend, proud father, and follower of Christ is unlikely to care what they think as he continues his faith journey.