Share via:

Famed wrestler Hulk Hogan is opening up about his walk with Jesus Christ since publicly announcing his baptism last December. In a recent interview, the 70-year-old invited his followers to turn to Jesus saying, “Knowing of Jesus and knowing Him are two different things.”

Hogan is one of the most recognizable faces in the entertainment industry, but he told TBN in an interview that attaining fame and fortune did not fulfill him.

Get your FREE CHARISMA NEWSLETTERS today! Stay up-to-date with current issues, Holy Spirit news, Christian teachings, Charisma videos & more!

“I was always a believer, but I didn’t completely surrender,” Hogan began. “I thought I could drive better than He could. I thought I could make the decisions better than He could. And now He takes His hands off the wheel and says, ‘Okay. You think you can do it better, go ahead and do it.’ So, like I said, I got tired of crashing and burning, and at this point, with a 40-year career behind me, in that whole platform, I understand now that it was just a temporary situation to set me up for this next run.”

He added, “And now that that run is over, I’m getting ready to this new run. Now I realize why I’m here and why all that happened.”

As CBN News reported, Hogan and his wife, Sky Daily Hogan, were recently baptized at the Indian Rocks Baptist Church in Florida.

Breaking News. Spirit-Filled Stories. Subscribe to Charisma on YouTube now!

Hogan shared a video to Instagram of him and his wife being submerged in a pool of water and coming up smiling.

They both wore white shirts and Hogan wore his signature headband and a gold cross necklace.

“Total surrender and dedication to Jesus is the greatest day of my life,” he captioned the post.

To read the full story, visit our content partners at CBN News.

Reprinted with permission from cbn.com. Copyright © 2024 The Christian Broadcasting Network Inc. All rights reserved.

Join Charisma Magazine Online to follow everything the Holy Spirit is doing around the world!