WWE star Hulk Hogan and his wife, Sky Daily Hogan, publicly profess their faith in Jesus by undergoing water baptism.

WWE star Hulk Hogan

Hogan and Sky tied the knot in October of the previous year. Beyond their commitment to each other, the couple also demonstrated their dedication to the Lord and Savior by undergoing water baptism at the Indiana Rocks Baptist Church in Florida. Senior Pastor Aaron Filippone orchestrated the ceremony, immersing the retired wrestler first before submerging both Hogan and Sky under the water.

The 70-year-old former wrestling champion regarded this occasion as the “greatest day of his life” and shared the memorable moment on his Instagram account.

“Total surrender and dedication to Jesus is the greatest day of my life. No worries, no hate, no judgment… only love!”

Hogan, born Terry Eugene Bollea, stated that he had known and accepted Jesus as his Lord and Savior at the age of 14. However, he did not consistently live out his faith as a Christian until later on. Nevertheless, when Hogan experienced a renewed encounter with God’s love, he began utilizing his fame as a platform to share Jesus with others.

During an interview, he boldly declared that Jesus is the sole entity of significance in this world. He said, “You know, I realized that as long as I made the right choice and followed my faith more than what people are saying in the tabloids and newspapers, none of that stuff was real. The only thing that is really real is the stuff that’s gonna last forever – your faith and your belief in God.”

He added, “Maybe we need to take this time of isolation from the distractions of the world and have a personal revival where we focus on the ONLY thing in the world that really matters – Jesus.”

WWE legend, Hulk Hogan, has been vocal about his faith and belief in God. In a recent interview, he declared that Jesus is the only thing that’s real in the world.

Hulk Hogan

Terry Eugene Bollea is famously known by his ring name, Hulk Hogan. According to IGN, the retired wrestler is the most recognized wrestling star worldwide and the most popular wrestler in the 1980s. But today, he is using his fame to share his faith in Jesus.

Hogan claimed he received Christ when he was still 14. However, he did not follow the path of being a Christian seriously. But by the grace of God, he re-encountered the love of Christ and since then, he has been proclaiming Jesus.

Jesus is the only One who matters

Hulk Hogan talks about Jesus

He said in an interview that Jesus is the only real thing in the passing world. “Well, you know, when things were tough, I realized that this too shall pass. This was just a temporary situation.”

He added, “You know, I realized that as long as I made the right choice and followed my faith more than what people are saying in the tabloids and newspapers, none of that stuff was real. The only thing that is really real is the stuff that’s gonna last forever – your faith and your belief in God.”

“Once you’re a Christian, you’ve accepted Christ as your Savior. You’re not gonna perish but you’re gonna have everlasting life. That belief is pretty much the only thing that is real to me.”

The 67-years-old proved his point during the pandemic wherein he continually encouraged his fans and followers to reevaluate their lives and turn back to God.

He said, “Maybe we need to take this time of isolation from the distractions of the world and have a personal revival where we focus on the ONLY thing in the world that really matters – Jesus.”

ALSO READ:

Pro Athletes Boldly Testify About Jesus LIVE On TV

Terry Bollea, popularly know as Hulk Hogan is an American retired professional wrestler. He is regarded by many as one of the greatest professional wrestlers of all time and its great to see how open he is about his faith in Jesus Christ.

In the interview video below, Hulk Hogan states that eternal treasures are much more important than anything else. “The only thing that is really real is the stuff that’s gonna last forever – your faith and belief in God,” he says.

Hearing a statement like this from a man who has known worldwide acclaim is encouraging. Especially as many people who are in the limelight often forget to acknowledge God and His goodness. But what Hulk Hogan proves is that if Christ is in you, you can’t stop sharing His love and grace.

“Knowing that once you’ve accepted Christ as your savior, you gonna have everlasting life and that belief is pretty much the only thing that is real” he said.

Indeed, Jesus Christ alone can give us the satisfaction we need. His gift of eternal life is the most wonderful gift anyone could ever receive.

Watch the video from Jesus Daily and be inspired:

Although he gave his life to God at 14, Terry Bolea’s life as Hulk Hogan has not been without controversy, lawsuits and heartache. At one time he was ousted by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) but has since been reinstated to their hall of fame. He went through a very difficult time during a divorce and considered committing suicide. However his faith brought him through.

“I’ve leaned on my religion. I was saved when I was 14. I accepted Christ as my savior. He died on the Cross and paid for my sins,” he says. “I could have went the wrong way. I could have self-destructed, but I took the high road”.

“But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God,the benefit you reap leads to holiness, and the result is eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.” (Romans 6:22-23)