From: www.hoopsworld.com

View source article here.

By Nikola Olic

Carlos Delfino was always more than just an excellent basketball player -- he was usually also the youngest basketball player. He was the youngest member of the Argentine national team which won the Olympic gold in Athens and is currently one of the youngest players on the Detroit Pistons roster. He is an explosive guard with both his shots and his movement: he can punish weak screen defense with thunderous reverse dunks or quickly explode for 18 points, as he did late last season against the Bucks. His journey to play in Milwaukee or any other NBA city was similar to that of his countryman Manu Ginobili: start in Argentina, pass through Italy, and finish in the world's strongest league.

When did you first get noticed by the NBA?

"It was when I was on the national team. I was the youngest guy on our under-21 team and with the success with had the scouts started coming up and talking to me. They wanted me to do tryouts and to come and do pre-draft camp. I was at first thinking that I would spend another three years there, getting more experience and getting better. I wanted to get more confidence."

What are the reasons international players are sometimes hesitant to join the NBA?

"You don't have to be scared of the NBA. International basketball is very different and it's very important to adapt. You have to be very strong in your head to make it in this league. Some great players came and they never made it in the NBA. Some players adapt very easy, like Ginobili or Nocioni. You have to come to the league at the right time for you, you have to be strong and you shouldn't be afraid. "

Argentine players adjust very well to the NBA. What are the reasons for that?

"We are what Serbia used to be ten years ago. Everybody wanted to have a Serbian guy on their team. They were strong mentally and very hungry for more. I think we are there now. We are trying to get together a great national team, to build our confidence, to bring more Argentines in the NBA. I think many of our players are more relaxed now, many of our players are already here and they spent some time in the NBA. Serbia is now going through a change in generations, we will do that in three of four years. Its a cycle, its a natural part of basketball."

How does the success you had with your national team compare to the success with the Detroit Pistons?

"I am lucky to play on two great teams. Our national team is trying to keep a good team together as much as possible. Some players are getting older and we have to get new players on the team. I am one of the youngest guys on the team, and I am 24 years old. We came very close to being in the finals at the World championships this summer in Japan. If you look back at where our basketball was 15 years ago, we are doing great. We are working hard to make the change of generations easier."

Detroit has been very successful with you coming off the bench. How would things be different if you were a starter?

"Every player wants to start games. I love the responsibility and having the ball in my hand. But I am not the best guy on the team to handle the ball. We have a great team, I just have to work hard and earn more minutes, I am still young. This is a winning team so I always have opportunities to show my skills."

Delfino is entering just his third year as an NBA player and days of playing for Argentina's Olímpia de Venado Tuerto are still just a few years behind. As Delfino and his national teammates help define Argentine basketball through their recent successful international showings, they are also helping define South America as a new international basketball hotbed. Recent Pistons' visit to Dallas offered Carlos no Argentine fan support, but a pair of Colombian and Guatemalan fans reminded him of how much he has done for South American basketball in general.

"I am very proud of Argentine basketball and South American basketball altogether. We came so close to the world championship finals, next time I hope we go all the way."