Are you ready to be entertained by the finest classic rock powerhouse?! Well, we’re here to tell you that Neil Young from the famed folk icon Buffalo Springfield is here to traverse North America with his longtime band, Crazy Horse! Enjoy smashing hits from the Love Earth Tour, like “I’m the Ocean” “My Heart,” as well as brand new hits like “Love Earth” as Young delivers his incredible career-spanning hits to numerous major cities! On Monday, 8th July 2024, the music legend will make a coveted pitstop in Ontario, Toronto! Fans can look forward to an exhilarating performance, groundbreaking production, and excellent musical prowess as Neil Young and Crazy Horse light up the Budweiser Stage! The show is guaranteed to be power-packed with hits, sensational covers, and many more surprises! Young is known for performing songs from his bands, Buffalo Springfield and Crosby, Stills, Nash, & Young! So expect a diverse and brilliant setlist for his Toronto show! Hurry and buy your tickets now before you miss out!

It’s not every day that a music legend comes to grace your city with numerous rock hits from his solo project, as well as his incredible bands! Can you imagine experiencing the hits of Young, Buffalo Springfield, and Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Young in one night? This is your opportunity to witness this thrilling rock extravaganza! Lucky for fans in Toronto, Neil Young has included a coveted stop in Ontario for his highly awaited Love Earth Tour! Neil Young and his backup band Crazy Horse are set to conquer the Budweiser Stage with a fully packed setlist. Enjoy top-tier hits performed by excellent musicians. Neil Young and Crazy Horse are guaranteed to bring the house down as they perform Young’s career-spanning hits and a few sensational covers. The show on Monday, 8th July 2024, is guaranteed to be an extremely memorable event!

Neil Young rose to prominence as a singer for the legendary rock band Buffalo Springfield. Together with the band, he released iconic hits, such as “For What It’s Worth,” “Bluebird,” “Rock and Roll Woman,” and more. Although their career as a band spanned a collective four years, their music still made an incredible impact on the music scene. Hence, the band and Young were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Two years later, Young was inducted once again into the Rock Hall for his outstanding solo work. After the hiatus of Buffalo Springfield, Young joined his bandmate Stephen Still to create the supergroup Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young.

Since 1968, Young has released countless highly acclaimed efforts. The prolific singer-songwriter has collaborated with many figures, including Promise of the Real, Pearl Jam, and The Bluenotes. But most of his efforts featured the Los Angeles-based rock band Crazy Horse. Young has released a total of 15 albums, including their latest collaboration, World Record. Young named this 2024 tour “Love Earth” after the highly acclaimed single off their latest album.

Hurry and secure your tickets now to catch Neil Young & Crazy Horse light up the Budweiser Stage on Monday, 8th July 2024! Tickets are now available through the Get Tickets link!