Quick Facts:

Span (length): 80ft

Material: Wood

Constructed: 1892, Restored 1987

Crossing the San Lorenzo River, and one of the few remaining covered bridges left in America, the Felton bridge is considered America's tallest covered bridge.

Registered as a Historic California Landmark and National Historic Place, the Felton Covered Bridge was constructed using a wooden truss system. Though the bridge had to be restored in 1987 following 1982 storm damage, the Felton is now used for pedestrians only, though, at one time, the bridge was the main entry point for Felton, CA for over 45 years. Imagine showing up to the town in that period, the narrow view through this frame a portal into civic life.

The Felton bridge is still a cool piece of historical architectural and civil engineering history. I love the mazework of trussing and framing from inside these old wooden bridges. It's one of those places my father, a Civil engineer, took my brother here when we were younger, describing the physics of bridge loading and how wood handles compression forces.

Bixby Creek Bridge (Big Sur)

Quick Facts:

Span (length): 714ft

Height: 280ft

Material: Concrete

Constructed: 1932

If you've driven the PCH or been to Big Sur, you've almost certainly driven across the Bixby Bridge. Built originally to connect the Big Sur residents with the rest of the coast, especially during winter months when roads to Big Sur were impassable. Bixby is one of the longest single span concrete bridges in the world. Consider this bridge was constructed during the Great Depression, the construction effort led to hundreds of well paying jobs, especially due to the cost-savings concrete bridge designs afford. Interestingly, the vertical buttresses on either side of the arch center-point are functionally unnecessary and aren't included in modern arch bridge design.

Harbor Drive Pedestrian Bridge (San Diego)

Quick Facts:

Span (length): 700ft

Height: 26ft

Material: Steel

Constructed: 2004

Yes, the bridge is a functioning gnomon based sundial, with its cantilever tower set at a 42 degree angle. Spanning the beautiful Sacramento River, the iconic design was furnished by famed Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava and incorporates a cantilever spar cable-stayed design. If you think this and the Harbor Blvd. designs look too similar, I commend your observation. The cantilever spar cable-stayed design is a more modern approach to the cable-stayed bridge design. This bridge design has the spar angled away from the bridge, to reduce overturning at the foot. The result is a beautifully modern and sleek bridge for pedestrian and bicycle access.

The sundial bridge is also positioned above the Sacramento river, permitting unblocked access for the salmon spawning grounds beneath the bridge.

Coronado Bridge (San Diego)

Quick Facts:

Span (length): 11,179ft

Height: 200ft

Material: Prestressed concrete & steel

Constructed: 1967 - 1969

Currently getting outfitted with an all new totally-badass energy efficient programmable LED lighting, which is slated to be completed in 2019 (the bridge's 50th anniversary). The lighting will be incorporated in an energy neutral manner - the power being supplied by a series of wind turbines.

Sadly, this is one of several noted "suicide bridges." Over 200 people have claimed their lives from the bridge between 1972-2000. The Coronado is the third most popular suicide bridge behind the Golden Gate (2nd place) and the Aurora Bridge in Seattle. Though anyone who has driven in San Diego knows the defining infrastructure personality on the water. This bridge swoops in a giant, sleek curve that, especially in windy days, feels like you are driving in the sky.

Cold Spring Canyon Arch Bridge (Santa Ynez / Santa Barbara)

Quick Facts:

Span (length): 36,960ft (7 miles)

Height at Highest Point: 134.5ft

Material: Steel and concrete

Constructed: 1967

The longest bridge in California and the 25th longest in the world, which makes you wonder what the longest bridge in the world is: I'll save you the Google trip--the Danyang-Kunshan Grand Bridge at a staggering 540,700ft (102.4 miles) most of which looks like this. The San Mateo bridge is a trestle design for the majority of the length and an orthotropic element to accommodate the higher section. Trestle designs are the simplest bridge design and are typical for extremely long bridges.

Colorado Street Bridge (Pasadena)

Quick Facts:

Span (length): 29,040ft (5.5 miles)

Height at Highest Point: 185ft

Material: Steel

Constructed: 1956

A double decked steel cantilever bridge, the original design reflected a steel suspension bridge similar to the Golden Gate, but was later book-shelved for a more economical design. Considered by many designers (including Frank Lloyd Wright) and the general public to be one of the most hideous bridges in the State, many wanted to bridge to be demolished and replaced.

I find there's something interesting about having different kinds of structures in proximity with each other, variety is welcomed. The above image makes the San Mateo bridge appear like a industrial serpent, weaving the sky like a paper dragon, this is thanks to the vertical undulation used to allow ships to pass underneath the cantilever spans. To this day, the bridge is criticized for its brutal industrial presence and marks a lesson learned on the history of bridge design and reflecting aesthetic attitudes of the accompanying environment.

Goat Canyon Trestle Bridge

Quick Facts:

Span (length): 750ft

Height at Highest Point: 200ft

Material: Redwood

Constructed: 1919

Located in the brutal Anza-Borrego Desert State Park, a mere fifteen miles from the Mexico border stands the world's largest wood trestle bridge. I haven't done the hike yet, but I have colleagues who caution the brutality. Be warned, you'll need a four-wheel drive vehicle to get to the trailhead, then you're in store for a ton of class III rock scrambling through treacherous canyon talice. Almost nobody visits the trestle and there's a good chance if you decide to make the trip, you'll be the only ones out there. Bring tons of water and know how to use your GPS unit.

This history of the trestle, it was originally part of the Southern Pacific railroad, linking San Diego with El Centro. The line incidentally ran for decades until the mid-1970s, when a torrential storm came through damaging adjacent bridges, tunnels and essentially pushing the Southern Pacific to abandon the line altogether. Now all that remains is a mostly intact, well designed and mightily impressive testament to civil engineering and timber construction. See it before it retires into the epilogue of entropy.