While there are some super talented stars who are making the rounds in Hollywood, there are also some lesser known but important ones. Among them is Larenz Tate, who has been active in the industry for over two decades. He starred in several successful films including the 1990 series titled Family Matters. Learn more about his bio, age, net worth, brother, wife and kids below.

Who is Larenz Tate?

Larenz Tate is a brilliant American actor best known for his roles in movies and TV series including Dead Presidents, Why Do Fools Fall In Love, Save Me and Family Matters just to mention a few. He gained a lot of fame after his excellent acting prowess. He is also married to Tomasina Parrott and they both have three children.

Larenz Tate Age, Organic

Tate was born in Chicago, Illinois on September 8, 1975. He was raised by middle class parents – Larry and Peggy Tate – along with his two older brothers. Tate and his brothers were enrolled in drama classes at the Inner City Cultural Center. While they didn’t take their lessons seriously, their childhood friend, Jamal Warner, shot to fame after appearing on The Cosby Show. This served as motivation for the brothers who then started getting minor roles in movies. Larenz graduated from Palmdale High School in 1993.

Acting career

Larenz Tate made his film debut when he appeared in the 1985 film titled The New Twilight Zone. Later, he starred in 21 Jump Street as well as The Golden Years. He also had his first major role in the family comedy series titled Family Affairs in 1989; after which he starred as Curtis Royal in the Eddie Murphy film The Royal Family. The CBS series which included other stars such as Della Reese and Naya Rivera came to an abrupt end in May 1992 following the death of lead characters Redd Foxx.

Larenz’s outstanding performances allowed him to win bigger roles in the future. He starred in the 1992 Albert and Allen Hughes film titled Menace Society II as well as South Central and The Inkwell. In 1995 he appeared in Dead Presidents and in 1997 he was an actor in the romantic drama titled Love Jones. Larenz then starred opposite Laurence Fishburne in Biker Boyz, after which he followed with A Man Apart the same year. Her other movies include Crash, Ray, Deep Waist, 187 Ride or Die, Girly Ride, Power, and Beta Test .. Other TV series include Love Monkey, House of LIes, Waterfront, Hell’s Kitchen. Tate also featured in Ashanti’s music video titled ‘Rain on Me’.

Net worth: How much does Larenz Tate cost?

Larenz Tate has been active in the American entertainment industry for over two decades and has become very wealthy. He currently leads a decent life with a net worth of $4.5 million. Tate derives his net worth from TV shows, movies, and his other endeavors.

Family: brother, wife and children

As we mentioned earlier, Tate is the last of three siblings born to his parents Larry and Peggy Tate. His older brothers are no strangers to entertainment. Just like Larenz, they are also successful in their respective careers. Larron Tate is an actor-producer, best known for his appearance in the film titled Sans passe and Across the tracks. Lahmard Tate, on the other hand, is also an actor and writer, best known for his brilliant performances in films such as X-Cell and Barber Shop. The three siblings teamed up to form a production company called Tate Men Entertainment

Taking a glimpse of his personal life, Tate is a married man with three children. He married an American actress and choreographer, Tomasina Parrott. Parrott is best known for her appearance in the 2004 series of romantic comedies titled Along Came Molly. She has featured in several films such as Miss Congeniality 2: Armed and Fabulous, Starsky, and Clapier.

Tate and Parrott met a long time ago and after a few years of successful relationship, the duo got engaged in January 2005. They sealed their love with a nuptial bond on November 30, 2006. The wedding brought together close friends and family members. Together they have three sons – Miles Xavier, born July 29, 2006; Zander born on June 27, 2008 and Zion Tate born in 2013.

Larenz Tate and his wife, Parrott, have lived a happy married life. They’ve been married for over a decade and there’s no sign of a breakup yet.