NEW YORK, Sept. 7, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- BET Networks announced today that it will begin production on a new original movie for television, GUN HILL, in New York City. The film, which stars seasoned actors Larenz Tate, Tawny Cypress and Aisha Hinds, is a fast-paced, gritty cop drama which brings a fresh spin to the Cain and Abel saga set in New York City. Identical twins with little in common – one is a cop, the other a con – change in an instant as their lives become intertwined one fateful night when the cop is killed and the con assumes his identity.

(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20070716/BETNETWORKSLOGO )

Acting veteran Tate lends his talents to star in a dual role in GUN HILL. Tate's acting background boasts credits from films such as "Ray," "Crash," "Love Jones," "Why Do Fools Fall In Love," "Menace II Society" and most recently "Rescue Me." Tawny Cypress ("Heroes," "Rescue Me," "Third Watch") and Aisha Hinds ("True Blood," "Hawthorne," "Detroit 1-8-7") also star in the film. GUN HILL is written, directed and executive produced by Reggie "Rock" Bythewood ("New York Undercover," "Notorious") and Don Kurt ("Justified," "New York Undercover," "Biker Boyz") is the executive producer.

About BET Networks

BET Networks, a subsidiary of Viacom Inc. (NYSE: VIA, VIA.B), is the nation's leading provider of quality entertainment, music, news and public affairs television programming for the African-American audience. The primary BET channel reaches more than 90 million households and can be seen in the United States, Canada, the Caribbean, the United Kingdom and sub-Saharan Africa. BET is the dominant African-American consumer brand with a diverse group of business extensions: BET.com, a leading Internet destination for Black entertainment, music, culture, and news; CENTRIC, a 24-hour entertainment network targeting the 25- to 54-year-old African-American audience; BET Digital Networks - BET Gospel and BET Hip Hop, attractive alternatives for cutting-edge entertainment tastes; BET Home Entertainment, a collection of BET-branded offerings for the home environment including DVDs and video-on-demand; BET Event Productions, a full-scale event management and production company with festivals and live events spanning the globe; BET Mobile, which provides ringtones, games and video content for wireless devices; and BET International, which operates BET in the United Kingdom and oversees the extension of BET network programming for global distribution.

SOURCE BET Networks