In this post, we will demonstrate how to install kubectl, set up auto-completion, and set an alias for kubectl in your Linux Bash Shell, Zsh, and PowerShell.

What we will cover:

What is kubectl autocomplete?

Benefits of using kubectl autocomplete

How to set up kubectl autocomplete in a Linux Bash Shell

How to set up kubectl autocomplete in Mac Zsh

How to set up kubectl autocomplete in PowerShell

Kubectl autocomplete in action – example

Why is kubectl autocomplete not working?

Kubectl autocompletion is a feature that lets you set up an alias for kubectl on the command line (commonly as k ). Auto-completion can be very useful to avoid having to reference a cheat sheet constantly when using kubectl commands to interact with your Kubernetes cluster. It also helps save a lot of time when managing your cluster, and is recommended for the CKA administrator exam as it is very time limited.

There are many benefits to using any autocomplete tool, but when it comes to Kubernetes, this is even more helpful, as kubectl commands can take a very long time. Let’s explore some of the benefits:

Efficiency – reduce the amount of typing required, especially in very long commands

Minimize errors – by suggesting command completions, you minimize the chances for mistyping, thus reducing overall frustration

Enhanced learning – this is beneficial, especially for people just starting out with K8s, as auto-completion can serve as an education tool by showing available commands and options users may not be familiar with

Increased productivity – streamline workflows by allowing users to execute commands more quickly and accurately

First, let’s set up kubectl autocomplete for a Linux Bash Shell

1) Install Kubectl on Linux

Open your bash shell. Type kubectl. If you see the message ‘kubectl: command not found’, follow these steps to install kubectl. If it is installed, skip to 2) Set up Auto-completion.

To use the kubectl autocomplete, you just need to start typing a command you want to use, and by pressing tab, you will get suggestions for how to autocomplete.

Enabling auto-completion for kubectl and setting an alias will save you time!

Additionally, Spacelift can help you manage the complexities and compliance challenges of using Kubernetes. Anything that can be run via kubectl can be run within a Spacelift stack. Read about how Spacelift works with Kubernetes. If you want to learn more, create a free account today or book a demo with one of our engineers.

Cheers!