ST. LOUIS - The Saint Louis University women's basketball team opens the 2011-12 season Friday, Nov. 11, at the University of Memphis. The game will be played at the FedEx Forum, and tip-off is slated for 5 p.m.

The Billikens play the first of 15 home contests Sunday, Nov. 13, when Southeast Missouri State comes calling. Game time at Chaifetz Arena is 2:30 p.m.

All Billiken home games this season will be video streamed live on the Internet at www.SLUBillikens.com. Subscriptions are available for $79.95 annually or $9.95 a month. Live statistics also will be offered free of charge for all home games. In addition, subscription video streaming and free live stats are available for the Memphis game. Go to the home page of www.SLUBillikens.com and find the Upcoming Events entries, located just below Top Stories, to access these features.

Memphis has four starters back from last year's 21-13 team that earned a WNIT bid. Senior guard Brittany Carter (13.8 ppg, 51 steals in 2010-11) and senior center Jasmine Lee (12.4 ppg, 8.2 rpg) are the Tigers' top two returnees. Junior forward Nicole Dickson (9.9 ppg) and senior guard Ramses Lonlack (9.6 ppg) also return from last season's starting five.

Southeast Missouri State is led by first-year head coach Ty Margenthaler, who spent the past five years as an assistant at Wisconsin. The Redhawks have all five starters back from last year's 8-21 team, including junior forward Brittany Harriel and junior guard Katie Norman, who tied for the team scoring lead (8.9 ppg). Harriel led SEMO with a 6.7 rebounding average, and junior forward Bailie Roberts contributed 7.6 points per game.

The Billikens welcome back four starters and three additional letter winners from their 2010-11 squad, plus two players who were with the program but did not see action. Three freshmen and a junior college transfer round out the roster.

Seventh-year head coach Shimmy Gray-Miller and her team are eager to rid themselves of the bitter taste of last season's 7-22 record. Based on what she has witnessed so far, Gray-Miller is optimistic that a turnaround will occur.

"The off-season had a much different feel to it than any other I've had at Saint Louis," Gray-Miller said. "Without exception, the players were committed to putting in the required work to improve. These young ladies worked exceptionally hard on the court and in the classroom from the moment we began spring conditioning, and they haven't let up. Every returning player stayed for both summer sessions, and as a result, we have the best-conditioned team and the best team chemistry we've had during my tenure.

"Every member of this program felt disappointment and embarrassment about last season's results, and everyone used that as motivation to improve," Gray-Miller said. "Sometimes you have to take a step backward to move ahead. I am faithful that our fans will see Billiken women's basketball take great strides forward in 2011-12.

"We are more athletic and faster than we were last year, which means we should be a more successful offensive team," Gray-Miller said. "I like our players' work ethic, and I like their commitment to one another and to the goals of this program. This has been a fun group to coach, and we should be in for an equally fun ride this season."

Point guard Janisha "Pooh" Gearlds is the Billikens' lone senior. Gearlds, who begins the season ninth in school history with 248 assists, has 82 career starts under her belt. She averaged 7.4 points and 4.6 rebounds a year ago while ranking second on the team in assists (74) and steals (36).

"The area in which Pooh has improved the most is her overall maturity and poise," Gray-Miller said. "She carries herself with more confidence off the court, and this has had a positive impact on her game. Our system is the same one she has run for three years, so she is spending more time being a coach on the court in practice and making sure our younger players are on board. This year we have more help for Pooh at point guard, so her minutes will go down, but this isn't a reflection of her skill level. The fact that she won't have to play 30 minutes per game will help her."

Junior guard Jacy Bradley is the Bills' leading returning scorer (9.2 ppg). Bradley started the final seven games last season and was SLU's scoring leader during that stretch, averaging 13.1 points. She led the team in 3-point field goals (42) and assists (78).

"Jacy has made the biggest strides of anyone on our team," Gray-Miller said. "Her attitude, work ethic, demeanor and coping skills have done a total 180 since she arrived in St. Louis. She is more mature and shows glimpses of leadership on the floor. She is a much more confident scorer and knows that she is one of our two go-to players at guard.

"Jacy ended her sophomore year on a great run, and that gave her a great deal of confidence in what she can do at this level. She's very crafty and has improved exponentially on the defensive end. I'm excited for her. She's put in the work and it's paying off."

Redshirt junior guard Courtney Webb is ready to contribute after sitting out last season following her transfer from DePaul. Gray-Miller is counting on Webb to jump-start the Billiken offense.

"Courtney has done exactly what we thought she would do, and that is score," Gray-Miller said. "She led us in scoring through the first month of practice and proved to be a pretty good rebounder as well. I'm not sure how she will handle the adjustment early because it has been awhile since she's been counted on as a key player. But I know what she is capable of doing, and I'm optimistic that she will come through for us."

Sophomore Halee Castleman and redshirt freshman Desirae Ball also figure significantly in the backcourt plans. Castleman played in 17 games last year, while Ball missed the season due to injury.

"Desirae and Halee are bigger guards who bring different strengths to the team," Gray-Miller said. "Both are solid perimeter defenders, especially on the ball, and both spent countless hours in the off-season working hard on their shooting with (assistant) coach (Glenn) Box, which has paid dividends. Both are reliable mid-range shooters. That's where the similarities end.

"Halee is an athletic slasher who finds a way to get to the basket, particularly in transition. Des is more methodical in how she gets shots up, and she does an excellent job of reading the defense and using screens. Their consistency and hard work early on have impressed me. Both will play a lot of minutes this season."

Sophomore Abby Willis played in 14 games as a freshman and hit five 3-pointers.

"Coaches are not supposed to have favorites, but it's hard for me not to root for Abby," Gray-Miller said. "Abby has a scrappiness that endears her to me. It'll be tough for her to find minutes at that loaded off-guard spot, but because she is one of our better long-distance shooters, she always has a fighting chance to earn some playing time. In the meantime, she will continue to help this team improve on a daily basis in practice and with her basketball IQ."

Freshman guards Jamesia Price, Morgan Johnson and Erika Cook will attempt to contribute right away.

"Mesi is a backup point guard," Gray-Miller said. "She is good in the open court and makes us a better transition team. Morgan is the best pure shooter I've ever coached. She has deep, deep range, and she will open up driving lanes for our more athletic guards because she has to be defended wherever she is on the court. Erika is a big, strong guard who can play the perimeter as well as the four spot. All three need to get up to speed defensively, but that's no different than any other freshman in the country at this point."

The Billikens have four post players competing for playing time. Junior Mallory Eggert and sophomores Lorreal Jones and Jenna Mueller return from the 2010-11 squad, while junior Kim Bee arrived on the scene following two seasons at Schoolcraft (Mich.) Community College.

"The battles among our post players in practice are intense, and I am loving every minute of it," said Gray-Miller, who considers Jones to be the leader of the quartet. Jones averaged 6.8 points and a team-high 7.3 rebounds while starting every game a year ago, and she was third in the Atlantic 10 Conference in offensive rebounding (3.6 orpg).

"Lorreal has taken her game to another level," Gray-Miller said. "She has always been one of our hardest workers, and as a freshman she willed her way to points and rebounds. Now add some skill and a few offensive moves, as well as a better understanding of our defensive system, and you have an explosive small forward who can step out on the perimeter and knock down 15-foot jumpers or take you off the dribble. I'm proud of the player Lorreal is becoming."

Eggert started 24 games and averaged 5.7 points and 6.8 boards last season. She joined Jones to form one of the A-10's best offensive rebounding tandems and placed 11th in the league with 2.6 offensive caroms per game. Bee averaged 14.8 points, 15.9 rebounds and 4.4 blocks last season en route to earning junior college All-America honors.

"Mallory and Kim are competing for the starting spot at the five position," Gray-Miller said. "Both are great rebounders, and both can score around the basket.

"Kim has the explosiveness to block shots. She has proven to be an excellent late signing for us, and I think before the season is up she could be an impact player at this level. Mal has a toughness and grit you can't teach. She has improved greatly on her touch around the basket, and her shooting percentage has benefited from it."

Mueller played in 27 games as a rookie. Twenty of her 57 rebounds came on the offensive glass.

"Jenna came along down the stretch last year," Gray-Miller said. "Unfortunately, she sprained her knee early this preseason and was hampered a bit, but she is a fighter. Jenna is very coachable and genuinely wants to play and contribute, so she will make things interesting as we figure out our frontcourt rotation."