Large villa in the heart of San Teodoro, a few minutes from La Cinta beach.

This villa welcomes guests with a garden that surrounds it and that boasts three relaxation areas with canopy, one with sun loungers, one with a dining table and one with an L-shaped sofa and a coffee table.

The entrance leads to the living area, which includes a living room with an L-shaped sofa, a coffee table and a cabinet with TV, and the fully-equipped kitchen with an oven, a dishwasher, a microwave, a kettle, an espresso coffee machine and a dining table.

The sleeping area consists of 5 bedrooms. The first one, with access from the kitchen, features a French bed, a closet and ensuite bathroom with shower; the second one, located upstairs, is accessible via a staircase from the living room and includes a queen-size bed, a closet and an ensuite bathroom with shower. The other three, each with a queen-size bed and a closet, can be reached from the living room. The layout is completed by a bathroom with a double sink and a bathtub and another one with a shower.

At guests' disposal amenities such as washing machine, iron, air conditioning and heating.

*Upon arrival or a few days before arrival it may be required to pay a tourist tax, which varies according to local regulations. You will find your reservation details within the Guest Area of Wonderful Italy.

*Guests will collect the keys at the Welcome Point in Corso Umberto I n° 148, Olbia 07026.

We also offer to our guests truly authentic experiences to live like a local. If interested, contact us and we will be more than happy to help you out designing an unforgettable holiday to discover Italian beauties.

Renowned tourist center, particularly loved by young people for its summer nightlife, San Teodoro also boasts unmissable coastal pearls such as La Cinta, Cala Brandinchi, Lu Impostu, Cala Girgolu and Capo Coda Cavallo. The spectacle of the coast of San Teodoro is completed by its lagoon, a stopping point for pink flamingos during migratory periods and an ideal place for walks and birdwatching. Known in Gallura as “Santu Diàdoru”, it also hosts events not to be missed such as the festival of its patron and the one called “Lu Fuculoni”, during which the population gathers around the bonfires in honor of Sant'Antonio Abate.

In addition, this area offers a network of nature trails rich in biodiversity, with various degrees of difficulty for all types of hikers, which offer breathtaking views.

Finally, you can’t miss the traditional food and wine in the many bars and restaurants and during the festivals. Some goat marinated in myrtle liqueur and some Gallura soup for a meat dinner, sea urchins, bottarga, mussels and oysters if you’d rather taste the local seafood. To accompany your meal, a good Vermentino di Gallura DOCG, and to end it, a delicious seada with honey and a glass of homemade myrtle liqueur.

Olbia Costa Smeralda airport is a 25-minute drive from the accommodation.

Show more Show less