ATLANTA - The recommended name for the merger of two Augusta universities is drawing objections from a Virginia school with a similar name.

The Board of Regents that oversees the University System of Georgia is set to consider names for the combination of Georgia Health Sciences University and Augusta State University during Tuesday's monthly meeting. A committee of staff, faculty, students, alumni and community leaders proposed three names with the recommendation to select Georgia Regents University.

Officials from Regent University in Virginia sent a letter to the board Saturday requesting a different name.

"We are concerned that there could be some confusion and dilute our brand," Regent University President Carlos Campo said Monday.

Regent University enrolls 60 percent of its students online, many from Georgia.

"That really is our niche," he said.

If the Georgia school also offers online courses, the public could become confounded, even though the institutions are hundreds of miles away from one another. The proposed name makes it sound like it's a branch of the 6,000-student Virginia school, Campo said.

He said Monday morning that he is trying to reach his Georgia counterparts by phone to discuss the matter in a friendly way so that the letter his lawyer emailed isn't the only communication.

Regent University, founded in 1978 by the Rev. Pat Robertson as CBN University, changed its name in 1990 and now holds a trademark to the name. Campo said he doesn't want a court fight but that his attorney felt confident the school using the name longer would prevail.

"As you will see, since at least as early as January 1990, Regent University has used the Regent University trademark in the United States in connection with educational services, namely, providing courses of study at the university level," wrote attorney Ronald DiCerbo, who listed the trademark numbers and added that they had "achieved incontestable status."

When the Virginia school changed its name, it sought permission from the 600-student Regent College in Vancouver, British Columbia, which raised no objection because they were in different countries.

Georgia also officials may want to avoid confusion as well since a state school has a different mission from a faith-based university. The Canadian school is also faith-based.

Campo noted the reaction from readers of The Augusta Chronicle who are interested in having the name of their city featured in the university's new name.

walter.jones@morris.com, (404) 589-8424