Regent offers a wide range of generous benefits including health, life and disability insurance; flexible spending accounts; tuition incentives; fully vested retirement plans; life and disability insurance options, paid parental leave, and more.

All regular faculty and staff serving at Regent and working a minimum of 30 hours per week will receive an attractive benefits package.

Live

Residents flourish in Regent’s caring community, coastal climate and collegial academic atmosphere. Just a short drive from our campus, the Virginia Beach waterfront stretches 25 miles from Chesapeake Bay beaches to the oceanfront resort area and the border of North Carolina. The city is part of the larger metropolitan areas where you’ll discover a wealth of attractions and activities. Enjoy the diversity of quiet parks and vibrant downtowns, as well as cultural offerings from opera and art shows to festivals and concerts.

Learn

Regular Lunch & Learns offer a convenient opportunity for faculty and staff to relax, connect and gain information on subjects such as investments and financial planning, health and fitness, home buying, personal development, and innovation. Our Center for Teaching & Learning gives faculty robust opportunities for professional development and custom training. This team also provides assistance and tools for teaching successfully with technology. Regent offers tuition remission to benefited employees, spouses and dependents. Regent also offers an Educational Assistance Program and a Tuition Exchange Program through the Council of Christian Colleges and Universities (CCCU).

Work

Regent consistently ranks among the top higher education institutions for job satisfaction, as evidenced by Great Colleges to Work For. We emphasize the entrepreneurial spirit, and we seek employees who value collaboration, contribute inventive possibilities and embrace change. Our diversity is another of our greatest strengths, with students, faculty and staff coming from many cultural and denominational backgrounds. We ranked #3 for safety according to NICHE 2016 and place great emphasis on campus security.

At Regent, you’ll find a place to grow your faith alongside your career. Weekly university chapel, as well as regular visits from renowned speakers, provides instruction and encouragement. Ultimately, Regent employees work as servant leaders whose primary mission is to increase our global impact and help our students pursue their calling to be Christian leaders.