Wondering what academic life at Regent will be like? In addition to the degrees and majors, as well as the faculty composition at Regent this section includes detailed information on freshman retention rates, reasons students did not graduate, and an analysis of full-time and tenured faculty vs. adjunct teaching staff.

All About Academics

What's the point of going to college without academics? Find out more about the faculty and staff, what majors and fields of study are offered at this college, and information on online classes if offered. Here are some of the things you'll learn in this section.

The student to faculty (instructor) ratio.

The Majors offered at this college.

What online and distance learning options are available.

Faculty Resources

The total number of instructional staff teaching the 4,353 undergraduate students at Regent University is 189 . When this is adjusted to account for those with part-time status, the result is the "full-time equivalent" (FTE) count. Using the FTE count for students and staff results in a "student to instructor" ratio of 47 to 1 which places Regent University among the worst concerning instructional attention.

For every instructor (FTE) at Regent University , there are 47 undergraduate students (FTE). This ratio is among the worst regrading instructional attention.The majority of the instructors (76.0% ) are full-time.The vast majority of instructors (100.0% ) are "faculty" rather than "lecturers".

The majority of the faculty (76.0% ) are full-time.A slim percentage of the faculty (37.0% ) are adjuncts (not in the tenure system).

Learn how the faculty structure at Regent University compares to the national average

The Most Popular Majors Students Choose

Regent University offers 44 distinct undergraduate degrees, concentrated into 38 majors within 19 broad fields of study. Across all fields of study, Regent University awarded 703 undergraduate degrees in 2019 - 2020 .

Most Popular MajorsAssociates GraduationsBachelors GraduationsAll GraduationsGeneral Psychology58388Communication & Media Studies08686Business Administration & Management47276Biblical Studies05656General English Literature04040

Find out what Regent University's top fields of study and majors are

Additional Questions to Ask