Job description

Guri Skeie is Professor in Nutrition at the Department for Community Medicine. She is member in the research group Systems Epidemiology, and her research is mainly on the associations between diet and cancer, mostly doing epidemiological analyses in the Norwegian Women and Cancer (NOWAC) study, but also in other studies. She is the Norwegian principal investigator for the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC), and a member of the leader team of the NOWAC-study. Skeie is the UiT representative in the steering board of NutriNOR, the national research school in Nutrition. From 2024 she is the deputy leader of the National Council for Nutrition. Skeie was deeply involved in the setting up of the bachelor programme in nutrition and the master programme in clinical nutrition at UiT and teaches in most years in these programmes.

Research interests

My research has mainly focussed on nordic diet, particularly in relation to cancer, but also other endpoints. Many of my projects have been based on the Norwegian Women and Cancer (NOWAC) study and various collaborative projects based on this study. The aim is to contribute to evidence based dietary recommendations and preventive/health promotive work centered on a healthy diet. Through the NOWAC study, I participate in the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition, a large network trying to find causes of cancer and contribute to cancer prevention.

In addition to this, I am interested in weight, weight development and dieting, both among children/youth and adults. I have also done som methodological work on dietary assessment methods and food composition databases.

Teaching

I mainly teach on the bachelor programme in nutrition and the master programme in clinical nutrition. Additionally, I have some teaching for medical and dentistry students, and the master programme in public health.

I am responsable for the course Master thesis in clinical nutrition (ERN-3950). I also teach in these courses:

ERN-1000 Nutriton, individual og society

ERN-1001 Food science and food safety

ERN-2001 Basic epidemiology, statistics and dietary assessment methods

ERN-3001 Epidemiology, statistics and research methods