Nickelback and Ryan Reynolds: A Brief History of Their Mutal Love

Nickelback and Ryan Reynolds are two of Canada’s most successful exports, with the rock band hailing from Hanna, Alberta and the actor growing up in Vancouver, British Columbia. As a result, both Nickelback and Reynolds have supported each other in very public ways. Here’s a brief history of their mutual love.

Once Upon A Deadpool

In 2018, the video below advertising Once Upon A Deadpool took the internet by storm. The premise of the ad is a send-up on The Princess Bride, and it even has an adult Fred Savage reprising his role as “The Grandson.” Reynolds as Deadpool replaces the late Peter Falk’s “The Grandfather.”

The video has Savage being…well…savage about how Deadpool really isn’t a Marvel character but “Marvel licensed by Fox.” He then goes on to say, “It’s like if the Beatles were produced by Nickelback. It’s music, but it sucks.”

Deadpool is none too pleased by these comments, who then proceeds to run down the band’s many accomplishments: “50 million albums [sold] worldwide; 11th best-selling musical act of all time; Billboard’s most successful rock group in the last decade; Six Grammy nominations; 12 Juno Awards, those count; Six Billboard Music Awards; Two American Music Awards; One People’s Choice Award Canadian; And a partridge in a f—ing pear tree.”

Savage is immediately remorseful over his comments, which leads him to start singing “How You Remind Me.” He and Deadpool then join hands and sing the massive hit together.

Nickelback Returns the Favor

Six years later, during the promotion cycle for Deadpool & Wolverine, Nickelback surprised Reynolds during an event with CTV’s Etalk.

In a video message, frontman Chad Kroeger introduces himself and Nickelback, whom he refers to as “experts in navigating irrational hate in the face of tremendous success.” He added, “We have an important preemptive message for anyone even thinking of criticizing the film ‘Deadpool & Wolverine’ or Ryan Reynolds.”

Kroeger and Co. continue, “Here’s the facts: The first two ‘Deadpool’ movies have grossed over $1.5 billion in the box office, making it one of the most successful series in the genre, period; Two Critics Choice Awards; Four MTV Movie Awards; One GLADD Award; One People’s Choice Award; Two Teen Choice Awards, including Best Hissy Fit; Two Golden Globe nominations; and people were talking about ‘Deadpool’ getting an Oscar. It didn’t happen, but people were talking about it!”

They conclude, “And as for Mr. Ryan Reynolds, well, just look at this photograph. That is a beautiful Canadian man, right there. So, yeah…let’s f—ing go!”

We can all hope that one day we all have a support system this strong.

Erica Banas is a news blogger who's been covering the rock/classic rock world since 2014. The coolest event she's ever covered in person was the 2021 Rock & Roll Hall of Fame induction ceremony. (Sir Paul McCartney inducting Foo Fighters? C'mon now!) She's also well-versed in etiquette and extraordinarily nice. #TransRightsAreHumanRights