Quick Info→

Age: 56 Years

Wife: Ankita Konwar

Height: 5' 11"

Bio/Wiki Full NameMilind Usha Soman Nickname(s)Ironman, Marathon Man of Bollywood Profession(s)Actor, Model, Producer, Fitness Promoter, Businessman Physical Stats & More Height (approx.)in centimeters- 180 cm

in meters- 1.80 m

in feet inches- 5’ 11” Weight (approx.)in kilograms- 75 kg

in pounds- 165 lbs Body Measurements (approx.)- Chest: 40 inches

- Waist: 32 inches

- Biceps: 14 inches Eye ColourBrown Hair ColourSalt & Pepper Personal Life Date of Birth4 November 1965 Age (as of 2021)56 Years BirthplaceScotland, United Kingdom Zodiac signScorpio Signature/Autograph NationalityIndian HometownMumbai, Maharashtra, India SchoolDr. Antonio Da Silva High School, Mumbai CollegeSaboo Siddik Engineering College, Mumbai Educational QualificationDiploma in Electrical Engineering DebutBollywood: Tarkieb (2000)

Marathi Film: Gandha: Smell (2009)

Swedish/English: Agent Hamilton: But Not If It Concerns Your Daughter (2012)

English TV: A Mouthful of Sky (1995)

Hindi TV: Margarita (1997)

Film Production: Rules: Pyaar Ka Superhit Formula (2003)

TV Production: Margarita (1997) ReligionHinduism CasteBrahmin Food HabitNon-vegetarian Address91 Dwaarkanath, Dadar, Mumbai HobbiesSwimming, Running, Travelling, Kickboxing Award1975- Silver Medal at the National Swimming Championship Controversies• In 1995, Milind and his then-girlfriend Madhu Sapre posed nude with a python wrapped in a print advertisement for Tuff Shoes. The advertisement faced a lot of criticism from women's as well as animal rights' groups. As a result, the advertisement was withdrawn, and a case of obscenity was filed against both Soman and Sapre, but in 2009, both were acquitted after the witnesses turned hostile.

• Ever since the news came out about his relationship with Ankita Konwar, a girl half his age, he has been constantly trolled on social media for their age difference.

Girls, Affairs, and More Marital StatusMarried Affairs/Girlfriends• Madhu Sapre (Model)

• Dipannita Sharma (Model/Actress)

• Gul Panag (Actress)

• Shahana Goswami (Actress)

• Ankita Konwar (Air hostess) Marriage Date• July 2006 (with Mylene Jampanoi)

• 21 April 2018 (with Ankita Konwar) Marriage Place(s)• Goa (with Mylene Jampanoi)

• Alibaug, Raigad district, Maharashtra (with Ankita Konwar)

Family Wife/Spouse(s)First Wife- Mylene Jampanoi (m. 2006-div. 2009)

Second Wife- Ankita Konwar (m. 2018-present)

ChildrenNone ParentsFather- Late Prabhakar Soman (Scientist)

Mother- Usha Soman (Teacher)

SiblingsBrother- None

Sister(s)- Anupama Soman (Younger), Netra Soman (Elder), Medha Soman (Elder)

Favourites FoodStarbucks's Red Velvet Cake, Sushi, Sashimi, Belgian Chocolate FilmBollywood- Sholay

Hollywood- Kung Fu Panda, On Golden Pond, The Godfather AuthorBill Bryson Restaurant(s)Indigo, Wasabi, Mumbai; Oh! Calcutta!, Mumbai Fashion Designer(s)Rohit Bal, Suneet Verma, Manish Arora, Sabyasachi Mukherjee Destination(s)Goa, Europe, Africa Money Factor Net Worth (approx.)$20 million (as in 2018)

Some Lesser Known Facts About Milind Soman

Does Milind Soman smoke?: No (Quit)

Does Milind Soman drink alcohol?: Yes

Milind was born into a middle-class Marathi family of scholars, as his grandparents were doctors, his father was a scientist with BARC, and mother, a biochemistry teacher.

He was born in Scotland and lived in London until the age of 7, after which his family returned to Mumbai, India.

He had his first crush on his Scottish classmate, Ann.

Milind aspired to be a swimmer, and at the age of just 10, he started swimming.

He even represented Maharashtra in the National Swimming Championship, winning the national championship for five consecutive years (1984-1988) in the “breaststroke” category.

It was heartbroken for him when he came to know that he couldn’t represent India in the 1986 Asian Games; because the national federation didn’t send any swimmer in this category.

Milind Soman started modelling by chance and faced rejection in his 1st modelling assignment with ‘Graviera Suitings;’ because he was considered too young to wear a suit.

His modelling breakthrough came up in 1989 with ‘Thackersey fabrics’ for which he was given a whopping amount of ₹50,000.

He is considered to be the first male supermodel of India.

Milind was the first choice for Deepak Tijori‘s role as “Shekhar Malhotra” in Aamir Khan starrer ‘Jo Jeeta Wohi Sikander,’ but he walked out of the film after doing few scenes as he was getting a lot of modelling offers.

In the 1990s, he was in a live-in relationship with model ‘Madhu Sapre.’

In 1995, he rocked the nation with his shirtless appearance in Alisha Chinai’s hit song “Made in India.”

Milind ruled the hearts of kids with his role as superhero “Captain Vyom” in the science fiction TV show ‘Captain Vyom’ (1998).

In 2004, he took part in Mumbai’s first marathon, after which he was bitten by the running bug.

He participated in the stunt/dare reality show ‘Fear Factor: Khatron Ke Khiladi 3’ (2010) but was shockingly the first to get eliminated.

Milind Soman is called the “Ironman” after he successfully completed the ‘Ironman Triathlon’ (3.8 km swim, 180.2 km run, 42.2 km cycle ride) of 2015 in Zurich, at the age of 49.

He has his name in the ‘Limca Book Record’ for running 1500 km in a 30-day long Greenathon in 2012.

There was a time in his life when he used to smoke 30 cigarettes a day. Later, he realized that he was addicted, so, he quit smoking.

Milind used to drink 20 cups of tea every day with an excessive amount of sugar, and now, he doesn’t consume refined sugar at all.

He has quit wearing shoes while running.

Producer, Arunima Roy, is his best friend.

He is a wildlife lover and his pets include – snakes, lizards, cats, dogs, rats, rabbits, and pigeon.

Milind is the co-founder of ‘Pinkathon’, India’s Biggest Women’s Run.

He has a dream to organize the world’s biggest triathlon.

He, along with Rahul Dev, co-owns a fitness club in Delhi called ‘Breathe.’

Milind also owns an event company and a TV production house.

In 2017, he, along with Malaika Arora, judged the third season of ‘India’s Next Top Model.’

He has always rejected the offer to model for the companies of liquor and tobacco.

Milind has done campaigning for the first made in India ‘Jeep Compass.’

Milind’s love affair with Ankita Konwar, who is around 26 years younger than him made headlines on social media. For a detailed love story of Milind Soman and Ankita Konwar, click here: The Amazing Love Story of Milind & Ankita

In July 2022, ahead of his Marathon in Delhi called Lifelong Fight Lazy Run, he talked about his fitness regimen and said that he had never gone to the gym and used equipment to workout. He said,

I only exercise for 10-15 minutes everyday. Most people do not know this about me, I have never gone to the gym to have a workout routine. I don’t use equipment. I don’t even do 10-15 minutes in one time.”