DEERFIELD, Ill., Oct. 12, 2020 – Walgreens Boots Alliance (Nasdaq: WBA) is delighted to announce that Co-Chief Operating Officer Ornella Barra was highly commended for her sustainability leadership at the Responsible Business Awards 2020, recognizing her innovation and her passionate commitment to promoting community health.

Ms. Barra chairs WBA’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee and leads the company’s CSR strategy and partnerships with multiple organizations to have a tangible positive impact.

The Reuters Events Responsible Business Awards 2020 were announced on Friday at a virtual ceremony. The Business Leader Award category celebrates an outstanding business leader who has demonstrated pioneering, inspiring, motivational and passionate leadership, clear commitment to long-term impacts and a commitment to a sustainable future.

“Ornella is clearly someone that understands the importance of putting sustainability at the heart of the business. It’s clear where her passion lies and where she's been most influential,” the Responsible Business Awards judges said in recognizing Ms. Barra.

Click here to see a video featuring highlights of Ms. Barra’s sustainability leadership.

“I am so honored to receive this recognition, which is possible due to the incredible engagement of WBA’s dedicated people around the world. The global pandemic has made this a challenging year for everyone, but the health crisis has only reinforced our commitment to building healthy communities and operating sustainably. I’ve been so inspired to see how our businesses and colleagues continue to care about making a difference, protecting the planet for the future and building an ethical, diverse and inclusive company,” Ms. Barra said.

Since the formation of WBA in December 2014, Ms. Barra has been personally committed to ensuring the WBA CSR strategy is aligned with the company’s purpose of helping people around the world lead healthier and happier lives. This healthcare centered strategy includes a focus on engaging with communities to improve societal health and well-being, protecting the planet, doing business fairly and with integrity and fostering a safe and inclusive workplace. Her focus on sustainability extends back more than 26 years during her leadership at Alliance Boots and Alliance Unichem.

Among her and the company’s recent achievements are the following:

WBA received a Global Leadership Award by the United Nations Foundation (UNF) in 2016. The WBA CSR strategy is aligned to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

Walgreens was number 13 on the Fortune Magazine Change the World 2019 list for its Balance Rewards for Healthy Choices healthcare innovation platform.

Boots UK won the Business in the Community Responsible Business of the Year 2019-20 for supporting people with cancer through a long-term partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support.

Walgreens has funded over 50 million vaccines through the Get a Shot. Give a Shot. program and its six-year partnership with the United Nations Foundation, and committed to an additional 50 million vaccines.

Walgreens has helped provide life-changing vitamins to more than 250 million children and women through partnership with Vitamin Angels.

Over £12.7 million has been raised for BBC Children in Need over a 15-year partnership with Boots UK and Boots Opticians, helping change the lives of disadvantaged children and young people.

WBA has worked to decrease its carbon emissions through investment in energy efficiency.

“I feel a great responsibility to both my organization and the global community. Working to achieve the WBA mission from my role overseeing business operations and our CSR program provides me with insight into the strengths and intersections of these two functions. I personally believe that now, more than ever, this is the role of a business leader in the 21st century,” Ms. Barra said.

ENDS

Notes to Editors:

About Walgreens Boots Alliance

Walgreens Boots Alliance (Nasdaq: WBA) is a global leader in retail and wholesale pharmacy, touching millions of lives every day through dispensing and distributing medicines, and through its convenient retail locations, digital platforms and health and beauty products. The company has more than 100 years of trusted health care heritage and innovation in community pharmacy and pharmaceutical wholesaling.

Including equity method investments, WBA has a presence in more than 25 countries, employs more than 450,000 people and has more than 21,000 stores.

WBA’s purpose is to help people across the world lead healthier and happier lives. The company is proud of its contributions to healthy communities, a healthy planet, an inclusive workplace and a sustainable marketplace. WBA is a participant of the United Nations Global Compact and adheres to its principles-based approach to responsible business.

More company information is available at www.walgreensbootsalliance.com.

(WBA-GEN)

Media Relations

Contact

USA / Morry Smulevitz

+1 847 315 0517

International

+44 (0)20 7980 8585

Investor Relations

Contact

Gerald Gradwell and Jay Spitzer

+1 847 315 2922

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements: All statements in this release and related conference call and webcast that are not historical are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, assumptions and uncertainties, including those described in Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2019, our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2020 and in other documents that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake, and expressly disclaim, any duty or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement after the date of this release, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.