"A Man Is Literally What He Thinks, His Character Being The Complete Sum Of All His Thoughts."

James Allen’s was an English writer and philosopher who lived from 1864 to 1912. James Allen’s Quotes best known for his inspirational and thought-provoking books, particularly "As a Man Thinketh," which has become a classic of self-help literature.

Through his writing, Allen explored the power of the human mind and the impact of our thoughts on our lives.

He believed that our thoughts shape our beliefs, attitudes, and actions, and that we have the ability to control our thoughts and, therefore, our destiny.

Allen's writing is characterized by its simplicity, clarity, and depth.

He used allegories, parables, and poetic language to convey his message, making his ideas accessible and memorable to his readers.

In "As a Man Thinketh," he wrote: "A man is literally what he thinks, his character being the complete sum of all his thoughts."

This idea became one of Allen's most famous quotes and continues to inspire people around the world.

In addition to "As a Man Thinketh," Allen wrote several other books on similar themes, including "The Path of Prosperity," "The Mastery of Destiny," and "Byways to Blessedness."

In these works, he offered practical advice and guidance on how to cultivate positive thoughts, overcome obstacles, and achieve success and happiness.

He encouraged his readers to develop a growth mindset and to focus on their potential for self-improvement, rather than dwelling on their limitations.

Allen's ideas have been widely influential and continue to be relevant today.

His writing has inspired countless people to adopt a more positive and proactive outlook on life and to take control of their thoughts and emotions.

He has been credited with paving the way for the self-help and personal development movements of the 20th century and beyond.

In conclusion, James Allen was a visionary thinker and writer who had a profound impact on the way people view the world and themselves.

His famous quotes, such as "As a man thinketh, so is he," are a testament to his wisdom and the timelessness of his ideas.

Through his writing, he continues to inspire and guide people on the path to self-discovery and personal growth.

If you too wish to be swept up by the inspiring words of James Allen, make sure to check out the following collection of his most famous quotes.

From The Book “As A Man Thinketh”

1. "The “divinity that shapes our ends” is in ourselves."

2. "The outer conditions of a person’s life will always be found to be harmoniously related to his inner state…Men do not attract that which they want, but that which they are."

3. "He who would accomplish little need sacrifice little; he who would achieve much must sacrifice much. He who would attain highly must sacrifice greatly."

4. "When a man makes his thoughts pure, he no longer desires impure food."

5. "Man is made or unmade by himself; in the armoury of thought he forges the weapons by which he destroys himself; he also fashions the tools with which he builds for himself heavenly mansions of joy and strength and peace."

6. "Let a man radically alter his thoughts, and he will be astonished at the rapid transformation it will effect in the material conditions of his life."

RELATED: 96 Of Jerry & Esther Hicks’ Most Influential & Inspiring Quotes

7. "The strength of character gained will be the measure of his true success, and this will form a new starting-point for future power and triumph."

8. "For you will always gravitate toward that which you, secretly, most love."

9. "Men are anxious to improve their circumstances, but are unwilling to improve themselves."

10. "As the physically weak man can make himself strong by careful and patient training, so the man of weak thoughts can make them strong by exercising himself in right thinking."

11. "The oak sleeps in the acorn; the bird waits in the egg; and in the highest vision of the soul a waking angel stirs. Dreams are the seedlings of realities."

12. "Act is the blossom of thought; and joy and suffering are its fruits; thus does a man garner in the sweet and biter fruitage of his own husbandry."

13. "A man is literally what he thinks, his character being the complete sum of all his thoughts."

14. "The soul attracts that which it secretly harbours; that which it loves, and also that which it fears."

15. "As he thinks, so he is; as he continues to think, so he remains."

16. "Into your hands will be placed the exact results of your own thoughts; you will receive that which you earn; no more, no less."

RELATED: 177 Inspiring Quotes About Self-Care To Prioritize Your Well-Being

17. "Man is buffeted by circumstances so long as he believes himself to be the creature of outside conditions, but when he realizes that he is a creative power, and that he may command the hidden soil and seeds of his being out of which circumstances grow, he then becomes the rightful master of himself."

18. "A man’s mind may be likened to a garden, which may be intelligently cultivated or allowed to run wild; but whether cultivated or neglected, it must, and will, bring forth. If no useful seeds are put into it, then an abundance of useless weed seeds will fall therein, and will continue to produce their kind."

19 "He who has conquered weakness, and has put away all selfish thoughts, belongs neither to oppressor nor oppressed. He is free."

20. "A strong man cannot help a weaker unless the weaker is willing to be helped, and even then the weak man must become strong of himself; he must, by his own efforts, develop the strength which he admires in another. None but himself can alter his condition."

21. “The thoughtless, the ignorant, and indolent, seeing only the apparent effects of things and not the things themselves, talk of law, of fortune, and chance. Seeing a man grow rich, they say, “How lucky he is!” Observing another become intellectual they exclaim, “How highly favored he is!” And noting the saintly character and wide influence of another, they remark, “How chance aids him at every turn!” They don’t see the trials and failures and the struggles which these men have voluntarily encountered in order to gain their experience; have no knowledge of the sacrifices they have made, of the undaunted efforts they have put forth, of the faith they have exercised, that they might overcome the apparently insurmountable, and realize the vision of their heart. They do not know the darkness and the heart aches; they only see the light and the Joy, and they call it “luck”; do not see the longing arduous journey, but only behold the pleasant goal, and call it “good fortune”; do not understand the process, but only perceive the result, and call it “chance”.”

22. “Composer, sculptor, painter, poet, prophet, sage, these are the makers of the after-world, the architects of heaven. The world is beautiful because they have lived; without them, laboring humanity would perish.”

23. “Good thoughts and actions can never produce bad results; bad thoughts and actions can never produce good results … We understand this law in the natural world, and work with it; but few understand it in the mental and moral world—although its operation there is just as simple and undeviating— and they, therefore, do not cooperate with it.”

24. “A man only begins to be a man when he ceases to whine and revile, and commences to search for the hidden justice which regulates his life. And he adapts his mind to that regulating factor, he ceases to accuse others as the cause of his condition, and builds himself up in strong and noble thoughts; ceases to kick against circumstances, but begins to use them as aids to his more rapid progress, and as a means of the hidden powers and possibilities within himself.”

25. “All that a man achieves and all that he fails to achieve is the direct result of his own thoughts.”

26. “The dreamers are the saviors of the world. As the visible world is sustained by the invisible, so men, through all their trials and sins and sordid vocations, are nourished by the beautiful visions of their solitary dreamers.”

27. “Men do not attract that which they want, but that which they are.”

28. “To Desire is to Obtain to Aspire is to Achieve”

29. “Cherish your visions. Cherish your ideals. Cherish the music that stirs in your heart, the beauty that forms in your mind, the loveliness that drapes your purest thoughts. For out of them will grow all delightful conditions, all heavenly environment, of these, if you but remain true to them, your world will at last be built."

RELATED: 95 Of Don Miguel Ruiz’s Best Quotes

Motivation Quotes By James Allen About Life

30. “The man who thinks hateful thoughts brings hatred upon himself. The man who thinks loving thoughts is loved.”

31. “There can be no progress, no achievement without sacrifice.”

32. “The dreamers are the saviors of the world.”

33. “As a man thinketh in his heart, so shall he be.”

34. “The outer conditions of a person’s life will always be found to reflect their inner beliefs.”

35. “The greatest achievement was at first and for a time a dream. The oak sleeps in the acorn, the bird waits in the egg, and in the highest vision of the soul a waking angel stirs. Dreams are the seedlings of realities.”

36. “In all human affairs there are efforts, and there are results, and the strength of the effort is the measure of the result.”

37. “Self-control is strength. Right thought is mastery. Calmness is power.

38. “The vision that you glorify in your mind, the Ideal that you enthrone in your heart – this you will build your life by, this you will become.”

39. “You are today where your thoughts have brought you; you will be tomorrow where your thoughts take you.

40. “Every action and feeling is preceded by a thought.”

41. “No man is hindered by another; he is only hindered by himself. No man suffers because of another; he suffers only because of himself.”

42. “A man can only rise, conquer, and achieve by lifting up his thoughts.”

43. “The circumstances which a man encounters with suffering are the result of his own mental inharmony.”

44. “A person is limited only by the thoughts that he chooses."

45. "A noble and God-like character is not a thing of favor or chance, but is the natural result of continued effort in right thinking, the effect of long-cherished association with God-like thoughts."

46. "The key to happiness is having dreams; the key to success is making them come true."

RELATED: 188 Powerful I Am Affirmations To Cultivate A Positive Mindset

47. "Suffering is always the effect of wrong thought in some direction. It is an indication that the individual is out of harmony with himself, with the Law of his being."

48. "As the plant springs from, and could not be without, the seed, so every act of man springs from the hidden seeds of thought, and could not have appeared without them."

49. "Man, as a spiritual being, cannot be maintained in strength, uprightness, and peace except if he periodically withdraws himself from the outer world of perishable things and reaches inwardly towards the abiding and imperishable realities."

50. "He who cherishes a beautiful vision, a lofty ideal in his heart, will one day realize it."

51. "When mental energy is allowed to follow the line of least resistance and to fall into easy channels, it is called weakness."

52. "He thinks in secret, and it comes to pass: environment is but his looking glass."

53. "Think lovingly, speak lovingly, act lovingly, and every need shall be supplied."

54. "The will to do springs from the knowledge that we can do."

55. "Man is made or unmade by himself. In the armory of thought he forges the weapons by which he destroys himself. He also fashions the tools with which he builds for himself heavenly mansions of joy and strength and peace."

56. "Thought is the fountain of action, life and manifestation; make the fountain pure, and all will be pure."

57. "Spiritual meditation is the pathway to Divinity. It is a mystic ladder which reaches from earth to heaven, from error to Truth, from pain to peace."

RELATED: 135 Positive Affirmations For When You’re Feeling Anxious

58. "The body is the servant of the mind. It obeys the operations of the mind, whether they be deliberately chosen or automatically expressed."

59. "The soul attracts that which it secretly harbors; that which it loves, and also that which it fears. It reaches the height of its cherished aspirations. It falls to the level of its unchastened desires – and circumstances are the means by which the soul receives its own."

Further Quotes From James Allen

60. “Work joyfully and peacefully, knowing that right thoughts and right efforts inevitably bring about right results.”

61. “Do not dwell upon the sins and mistakes of yesterday so exclusively as to have no energy and mind left for living rightly today, and do not think that the sins of yesterday can prevent you from living purely today.”

62. “The more tranquil a man becomes, the greater is his success, his influence, his power for good. Calmness of mind is one of the beautiful jewels of wisdom.”

63. “The man who sows wrong thoughts and deeds and prays that God will bless him is in the position of a farmer who, having sown tares, asks God to bring forth for him a harvest of wheat.”

64. “A man remains ignorant because he loves ignorance, and chooses ignorant thoughts; a man becomes wise because he loves wisdom and chooses wise thoughts.”

RELATED: 194 Stirring “You Deserve Better” Quotes To Inspire Greatness

65. “Circumstances do not make the man, they reveal him.”

66. “Whatever you can do, or dream you can, begin it – Boldness has genius, power, and magic in it. – Goethe.”

67. “The more intense the nature of a man, the more readily will he find meditation, and the more successfully will he practice it.”

68. “Man's mind may be likened to a garden, which may be intelligently cultivated or allowed to run wild.”

69. “You will become as small as your controlling desire; as great as you dominant aspiration.”

70. “Our life is what our thoughts make it. A man will find that as he alters his thoughts toward things and other people, things and other people will alter towards him.”

71. “Cease to be a disobedient child in the school of experience, and begin to learn, with humility and patience, the lessons that are set for your ultimate perfection.”

72. “Calmness of mind is one of the beautiful jewels of wisdom. It is the result of long and patient effort in self-control. Its presence is an indication of ripened experience, and of a more than ordinary knowledge of the laws and operations of thought.”

73. “Act is the blossom of thought; and joy and suffering are its fruits; thus does a man garner in the sweet and biter fruitage of his own husbandry”

RELATED: 85 Strength Quotes To Find Your Inner Power

74. “Harmony is one phase of the law whose spiritual expression is love.”

75. “The man who cannot endure to have his errors and shortcomings brought to the surface and made known, but tries to hide them, is unfit to walk the highway of truth.”

76. “He who would accomplish little must sacrifice little; he who would achieve much must sacrifice much; he who would attain highly must sacrifice greatly.”

77. “He is poor who is dissatisfied; he is rich who is contented with what he has, and he is richer who is generous with what he has.”

78. “Happiness is mental harmony; unhappiness is mental inharmony.”

79. “Self-seeking is self-destruction.”

80. “The law of harvest is to reap more than you sow. Sow an act, and you reap a habit. Sow a habit and you reap a character. Sow a character and you reap a destiny.”

81. “Let there be nothing within thee that is not very beautiful and very gentle, and there will be nothing without thee that is not beautiful and softened by the spell of thy presence.”

82. “Another hidden sacrifice, one of great spiritual beauty and of powerful efficacy in the healing of human sorrows, is the.”

RELATED: 167 Exciting Focus Goals Quotes To Help You Achieve Your Desires

83. “As in the rankest soil the most beautiful flowers are grown, so in the dark soil of poverty the choicest flowers of humanity have developed and bloomed.”

84. “To desire is to obtain; to aspire is to achieve.”

85. “But do you really mean to say that outward circumstances do not affect our minds?” I do not say that, but I say this, and know it to be an infallible truth, that circumstances can only affect you in so far as you allow them to do so.”

86. “A man has to learn that he cannot command things, but that he can command himself; that he cannot coerce the wills of others, but that he can mold and master his own will: and things serve him who serves Truth; people seek guidance of him who is master of himself.”

87. “It is a process of diverting one's scattered forces into one powerful channel.”

88. “The outer conditions of a person's life will always be found to be harmoniously related to his inner state…Men do not attract that which they want, but that which they are.”

89. “For true success ask yourself these four questions: Why? Why not? Why not me? Why not now?”

90. “A teacher is a sower of seed, a spiritual agriculturist, while he who teaches himself is the wise farmer of his own mental plot.”

91. “No temptation can gravitate to a man unless there is that is his heart which is capable of responding to it.”

How Quotes Can Help You

Quotes can help you in several ways:

Inspiration: Quotes can provide motivation and inspiration, especially when you are feeling down or facing challenges.

Perspective: Quotes can offer a new perspective on life and help you see things from a different angle.

Reflection: Quotes can encourage self-reflection and introspection, helping you to understand your thoughts and emotions better.

Wisdom: Quotes often contain wisdom and insights that have been passed down through generations, providing valuable advice and guidance.

Memory Aid: Quotes can also be used as memory aids, helping you to remember important concepts or messages

Overall, quotes can be a powerful tool for personal growth and development, and can help you to find meaning, direction, and purpose in life.

How James Allen Quotes Can Help You

James Allen was a British philosophical writer, known for his influential works in the area of self-help and personal development. His quotes can help you in several ways:

Mindset: James Allen emphasized the power of our thoughts and beliefs in shaping our lives. His quotes can help you develop a positive and empowered mindset.

Inner Peace: Allen was a proponent of the idea that peace and happiness come from within, and his quotes can inspire you to cultivate inner peace and serenity.

Personal Growth: James Allen's works focus on personal growth and development, and his quotes can help you to set and achieve your goals, and become the best version of yourself.

Spirituality: Allen's writings often touch on spiritual themes, and his quotes can help you to explore and deepen your spiritual understanding.

Overall, James Allen's quotes can help you to live a more fulfilling life, by guiding you toward a greater understanding of yourself, others, and the world around you.

Next Steps

Now that you’ve read the quotes and understand their value, this is how you can implement them into your life in order to create real change:

Choose quotes that resonate with you and align with your values and goals

Write the quotes down and display them in a prominent place where you can see them regularly

Reflect on the meaning and relevance of the quotes to your life

Incorporate the messages of the quotes into your daily thoughts, actions, and decisions

Use a coffee mug, water bottle, or tote bag with a positive message to start your day on a positive note and spread positivity to others.

Use the quotes as a source of motivation and encouragement when facing challenges

Regularly evaluate and adjust the quotes you use to ensure they continue to inspire and motivate you

Share your favorite quotes with others to spread positivity and inspire others as well

Wear a wristband or bracelet with a positive quote or mantra as a daily reminder of your goals and aspirations.

Use a manifestation journal or planner with positive quotes to write down your thoughts and reflect on your day with a positive outlook

Frequently Asked Questions

Who Is James Allen And What Is He Known For?

James Allen was a British philosophical writer, best known for his works in the area of self-help and personal development.

He is particularly famous for his book "As a Man Thinketh," which explores the connection between our thoughts, beliefs, and actions, and the impact they have on our lives.

What Is The Main Message In James Allen's Quotes?

The main message in James Allen's quotes is that we have the power to shape our lives and experiences through our thoughts and beliefs.

He emphasized the importance of developing a positive mindset, cultivating inner peace, and taking responsibility for our lives and our actions.

What Makes James Allen's Quotes So Popular And Relevant Today?

James Allen's quotes are popular and relevant today because they address timeless themes that are still relevant to people's lives.

His works offer practical advice and guidance on how to live a fulfilling life, and his quotes are often inspiring, thought-provoking, and memorable.

Additionally, his focus on personal growth and development, and his emphasis on the power of the mind, resonate with people in our fast-paced, constantly changing world.