GERMAN FIGHTER PILOTS

This group of elite German fighter aces and General Adolph Galland signs this envelope commemorating the Battle of Britain

Commemorative Envelope Signed: “Dietrich Hrabak”, “Fredrich Korner”, “Rolf Pingel”, “Karl Heinz-Bendert” and “Adolph Galland” 6½x4¼. Fighters were involved in invasions of Hilland and Crete. Royal Air Force cover with color cachet honoring the 30th anniversary of the Battle of Britain, September 19, 1970, Royal Air Force, Coltishall. Postmarked British Forces Postal Service, one British stamp affixed. Color illustration of a hawker hurricane mk.1 cacheted on left side of envelope. DIETRICH HRABAK (1914-1995) was a German fighter pilot. He served in the Luftwaffe during World War II. He is crediting with shooting down 125 enemy aircraft in more than 1000 combat missions that he flew. FREDRICH KORNER (1921-1998) flew for Germany during the Second World War as a member of the Luffwaffe. He was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross. In the more than 250 missions he flew, Korner achieved 36 victories. ROLF PINGEL (1913-2000) is a fighter ace who flew in the Luffwaffe, the German aerial fighting force, during World War II. He received the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross in recognition of his bravery during battle. KARL HEINZ-BENDERT (1914-1983) served as a German fighter pilot. He recorded 55 victories in the 610 missions that he flew. Heinz-Bendert was award the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross for his valiant service. The career of ADOLPH GALLAND (1912-1996) in the German air force in World War II ranged from flying biplanes to the world's first jet fighters. He was credited with 104 "kills" of Allied aircraft and also was famous for his ground-support operations for German infantry in Poland as well as on the Russian and Western fronts. He became Commander of the Fighter Arm in November of 1941, and was given the task of organizing the defense of Europe. Galland took the side of the pilots in demanding better equipment, leading to frequent arguments with Hitler. He was eventually dismissed in January of 1945, but given command of an elite jet-fighter squadron. Galland was shot down on April 26, 1945, captured and taken to England for debriefing. Lightly toned. Staining at lower right-hand corner from sticker that has fallen off (included as part of piece). Otherwise, fine condition.

This website image may contain our company watermark. The actual item does not contain this watermark

See more listings from these signers

Following offer submission users will be contacted at their account email address within 48 hours. Our response will be to accept your offer, decline your offer or send you a final counteroffer. All offers can be viewed from within the "Offer Review" area of your HistoryForSale account. Please review the Make Offer Terms prior to making an offer.

If you have not received an offer acceptance or counter-offer email within 24-hours please check your spam/junk email folder.