Product details

-- THIS IS A SECOND-HAND BOOK--

Boxing Book

by Thomas Hauser

Muhammed Ali's life

Full account of his life

Great read

Muhammed Ali His Life and Times Description

An unexpurgated biography of an American legend draws on the words of more than two hundred of the great boxer's associates, opponents, friends, enemies, and Ali himself. Using extraordinary and revealing interviews with Ali, his family, ring opponents, and others, Pulitzer Prize-nominee Thomas Hauser shows what an amazing effect this deeply religious man had on sports fans and millions of people around the the world. Leifer has photographed for Sports Illustrated, Time, and Life for almost 30 years. 175 illustrations, 125 in color. Photographs trace the career of the former world heavyweight boxing champion and are accompanied by brief reminiscences of people who followed and were influenced by his career.

'On the Back' of Muhammed Ali His Life and Times

'A monumental achievement, a carefully orchestrated account through the words of a vast and varied range of people whose lives were touched by Ali. It documents every facet of his extraordinary life THE DAILY TELEGRAPH

'We now have the definitive biography of Muhammad Ali, who transcended sports as no other athlete ever has. NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

'The most significant boxing book ever written.’ RING MAGAZINE

Float like a butterfly, sting like a bee. His hands can't hit what his eyes can't see.

All I really wanted was someday to buy my mother and father a house and own a nice big car for myself...' One of the most recognised, admired and inspirational men on earth, Muhammad Ali is the world's most famous boxing hero. A number one bestseller in hardback, this is the authoritative, award-winning and highly acclaimed biography - written with Muhammad Ali's full co-operation - against which all other biographies of the great man are measured. In the words of over two hundred of Ali's family members, associates, opponents, friends and enemies, this unique portrait relates his legendary sporting accomplishments as well as the high drama of his life outside the boxing ring. Charismatic and dedicated, Ali brought speed and grace to the sport, and gravitas to his chosen causes. This is the biography to match his achievements.

Thomas Hauser is a New York City attorney, Pulitzer Prize nominee and the author of thirty books including Missing, which became an Academy Award-winning film. His nine boxing titles include The Black Lights: Inside the World of Professional Boxing, Brutal Artistry and Mark Twain Remembers.

Shipping Muhammed Ali His Life and Times

We have a few different options for posting your items at Enso Martial Arts Shop. Prices vary depending on the overall order, weight, size etc. The checkout page will automatically workout the possible options for you.

We can send your item(s) in the following ways:

Courier Tracked - Order before 1pm, we can pack and post the same day to be with you the next working day, this is not a weekend service. It is fully tracked and we will send you the tracking number when we process your order.

Evri - In our experience an extremely slow service, we cannot guarantee it will arrive. It isn't an option on the website for good reason, so if you want this pitiful service and your parcel thrown into a random hedge near your house, if you're lucky, just to save about £2 then simply call us on 0117 942 5832 and we can process your order over the phone.

Fedex Worldwide - For anywhere outside the UK, we can post the same day but delivery times are dependent on the destination. Approximate delivery times are as follows: