Bawden, Edward, illustrator

Sir Thomas Malory's Chronicles of King Arthur. 3 vols. Revised with an Introduction by Sue Bradbury. Foreword by Kevin Crossley-Holland. Lino-cuts by Edward Bawdon. London: The Folio Society, 1982.

Beard, Dan, illustrator

Twain, Mark. A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court. New York: Charles L. Webster, 1889.

Beardsley, Aubrey, illustrator

Malory, Thomas. The Birth Life and Acts of King Arthur of His Noble Knights of the Round Table Their Marvellous Enquests and Adventures The Achieving of the San Greal and in the End le Morte DArthur with the Dolorous Death and Departing out of This World of Them All. The Text as Written by Sir Thomas Malory and Imprinted by William Caxton at Westminster the Year MCCCCLXXXV and Now Spelled in Modern Style. With an intro. by Prof. John Rhys and a note on Aubrey Beardsley by Aymer Vallance. London: J. M. Dent, 1893. 2 vols. 1st ed. (Limited to 1500 copies; there were also 300 copies on Dutch hand-made paper, as well as the first issue, 12 parts in wrappers.)

Malory, Thomas. The Birth Life and Acts of King Arthur of His Noble Knights of the Round Table Their Marvellous Enquests and Adventures The Achieving of the San Greal and in the End le Morte DArthur with the Dolorous Death and Departing out of This World of Them All. The Text as Written by Sir Thomas Malory and Imprinted by William Caxton at Westminster the Year MCCCCLXXXV and Now Spelled in Modern Style. With an intro. by Prof. John Rhys and embellished with many original drawings by Aubrey Beardsley. 2d ed. London: Dent, 1909. (Limited to 1000 copies for the United Kingdom and 500 for America.)

Malory, Thomas. The Birth Life and Acts of King Arthur of His Noble Knights of the Round Table Their Marvelous Enquests and Adventures The Achieving of the San Greal and in the End le Morte DArthur with the Dolorous Death and Departing out of This World of Them All. The Text as Written by Sir Thomas Malory and Imprinted by William Caxton at Westminster the Year MCCCCLXXXV and Now Spelled in Modern Style. With an intro. by Prof. John Rhys and a note on Aubrey Beardsley by Aymer Vallance. New York: E. P. Dutton, 1927. (3d ed., ltd. to 1600 copies.)

Morte Darthur Portfolio: Reproductions of Eleven Designs Omitted from the First Edition of Le Morte Darthur Illustrated by Aubrey Beardsley and Published in MDCCCXCIII Also Those Made for the Covers of the Issue in Parts and a Facsimile Print of the Merlin Drawing. With a Foreward by Aymer Vallance and a Note on the Omitted Designs by Rainforth Armitage Walker. London: J. M. Dent and Sons Limited, 1927. (Limited to 300 copies.)

Birmingham School of Printing

Malory, Sir Thomas. The Book of the Holy Grail from the Morte D’Arthur by Sir Thomas Malory together with William Caxton’s Prologue. Birmingham, England: Birmingham School of Printing, 1934.

Braby, Dorothea, illustrator