BLESS THE CHILD —* 1/2 — Kim Basinger, Jimmy Smits, Holliston Coleman, Rufus Sewell, Ian Holm, Christina Ricci, Angela Bettis, Lumi Cavazos; rated R (violence, profanity, gore, drug use); Carmike 12, Plaza 5400 and Ritz 15 Theaters; Century Theatres 16; Cinemark Jordan Landing Theaters; Gateway 8 Cinemas; Loews Cineplex Broadway Centre and Holladay Center Cinemas; Megaplex 17 at Jordan Commons; Redwood Drive-in (with "What Lies Beneath").

A movie about a 6-year-old girl being abducted by Satan worshippers is certainly going to be dark, but must the makers of "Bless the Child" bang us over the head with symbolism?

Scowling gargoyles, burning candles and ominous chants dominate the imagery throughout the 110-minute movie. And after only a few minutes, it's too much.

Try to follow the premise without laughing: Kim Basinger plays Maggie O'Connor, a New York nurse whose estranged and heroin-addicted sister Jenna (Angela Bettis) shows up on Christmas Eve (what better night?) with a newborn girl. Then Jenna leaves the baby with Maggie and disappears.

Doctors say little Cody (Holliston Coleman) is autistic. But Maggie knows there's something special about the girl.

By the time Cody turns 6 (and Maggie apparently hasn't aged a day), the child is targeted by Satan's followers in town. Cody is a deeply religious girl with extraordinary powers, and the bad guys want to take her and convert her for their own dastardly purposes.

One of these evil people happens to be Jenna, who has come back for her daughter with her new husband, a former child actor named Eric Stark (Rufus Sewell) who runs a foundation that's a front for the Satanic crew.

Thus we have the obligatory battle between good and evil, with warriors including an FBI agent (Jimmy Smits) who once studied to be a priest but now focuses on occult killings. And all this far-fetched madness culminates on Easter eve, complete with a burning church, angels and computer-generated flying imps.

The film features a strong supporting cast, including Christina Ricci, Ian Holm and Lumi Cavazos, who was so good in the lead role of Tita in "Like Water for Chocolate." But these actors' skills are put to waste.

They have nothing to work with in the script. Holm plays a religious expert who says ominous things like, "All of us are chosen by God and all of us can stand in darkness against the light." That's fine, but everyone in the movie talks this way, and it's just too heavy.

There's also a problem with Stark's motive. We never find out why he turned to Satan. Sure, he was a child TV star who abused drugs and got clean, but so were Todd Bridges and Danny Bonaduce, and they never became devil worshippers.

Director Chuck Russell ("The Mask") said he's always been fascinated with movies like "The Exorcist" and "The Omen," which also focused on children with supernatural powers. But what made those films so compelling was the element of surprise. You never knew what was going to happen next, which made the children's descent into darkness so much scarier.

Here, it's impossible to believe the evil people will take over the girl. You know that, with the help of some bad dialogue and over-the-top religious symbolism, Basinger and Smits will save her in the end.

"Bless the Child" is rated R for gory violence, profanity and drug use. Running time: 110 minutes.