John’s organisational work which was taking up the majority of his time was in conjunction with Eamon De Valera who was Brigade Adjutant and Commandant of the 3rd Battalion at the time. On Good Friday, 1916, John received the order to clear out Headquarters of all medical supplies and get all of the Battalions to take their own supplies. All did except for the Fingal Battalion, the supplies of which John had stored in Fairview Park.

Easter Sunday brought disappointment and confusion with the publishing of the countermanding order. John gathered with the 2nd Battalion HQ Staff in Fairview park for a parade, which was subsequently dismissed. The men were ordered to ‘stand to’ at home, that is, to be ready for further orders.

The following morning, John was awoken by a despatch ordering him to mobilise at 10:30am at Stephen’s Green. John primary responsibility at first was to ensure the medical supplies reached the green, however, to do this needed a lorry. He asked his orderly, Tom Mason to go find one who could deliver the goods. He returned with the news that there was a man with a lorry on North Circular Road, but he was refusing to transport the supplies. John’s solution was to travel to Stephen’s Green, get four men and commander, or steal, this lorry. The supplies were collected and distributed to the different garrisons across the city.

They were returning the truck, passing over Summerhill Bridge when there was a sudden burst of machine gun fire. It was coming from the wasteland beside Fairview Park. The fire was coming from soldiers who were making their way into the city. They had been training on Dollymount strand, which the British Army had taken over at the outbreak of war in 1914 and used it for trench warfare training. John ordered his men into the corner house on Portland Row and instructed them to barricade it. Meanwhile, other Volunteer men attacked the machine gun position, putting it out of order.

With no officer in charge, John Doyle assumed command. He soon had about 50 or 60 men under his control as they trickled in from areas that had been demobilised. Orders came through to hold tight until further notice. They waited for an hour but avoiding any other fighting. New orders from the GPO came through, and John led his men away, marching them down Summerhill road and up Gardiner and Abbey Street to the GPO.

At the GPO, John was met by Pearse. Afterexplaining the Fairview incident to him, Pearse informed him that he was needed in the GPO and must stay, despite being under the command of Thomas McDonagh who was fighting in Jacob’s Biscuit Factory. It was 5 o’clock on the first day of the Rising and one man inside the GPO was already suffering from wounds from a grenade blast.

The disorder and inexperience of the Volunteers soon became apparent. Just after John Doyle and his men arrived another party came up O’Connell Street. The Volunteers who had occupied Clery’s saw this group and opened fire. Luckily all but one escaped injury. Most of the injuries during the week inside the GPO were actually as a result of the Volunteers’ own actions rather than by the enemy fire.

Connolly was wounded on the Thursday while inspecting the barricades, hit by a round in the upper arm. John treated him and Connolly requested the men not be told about it. After the wound was dressed, Connolly once again left the inner confines of the GPO. Again he was shot, this time he was not as lucky as to need a mere bandaging. The bullet was a dum dum round, which exploded on impact, causing intense damage to his leg. He needed an operation to stop the bleeding and was put under general anaesthetic. He was put on the only bed in the GPO to recover. However once the anaesthetic had worn off Connolly’s bed was moved to the front of the GPO, where his position had been previously.

Around this time, shells started reign down on the GPO garrison, and the machine gun fire increase . John Doyle returned to Connolly to give a report on the increasing number of wounded. He was then instructed to make a retreat through the Colosseum with the wounded and the Cumann na mBan personnel. This was the first group to evacuate the GPO, but already the building was on fire.

John ran up to the roof in order to treat as many of the wounded Volunteers as he could, most suffering from shrapnel wounds. He ordered his deputies to carry as many dressings and materials as possible and orders others to go get food to bring with them on the escape. Connolly refused to come with them into the Colosseum and was instead was carried out down Henry Street.

The fire from the GPO soon spread and the Colosseum was no longer a usable base. The decision was made to evacuate the wounded to Jervis Street Hospital. This party was led by Father O’Flanagan who waved a Red Cross flag. The women and wounded were kept at the hospital while the healthy men were told to fall in by a British sodier. John Doyle was handed the Red Cross flag and instructed to go back through the barricades with his men. The British officer shouted an order to his men that no of the returning Volunteers were to be shot at until they have gone out of sight. None of the soldiers fired.