The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) is a famously selective school. No fewer than 97 Nobel Laureates feature among the prestigious group of MIT notable alumni, and its business school, MIT Sloan School of Management, is just as prestigious.

The Sloan Fellowship, an accelerated MBA-like program, has welcomed the likes of Nobel Peace Prize winner Kofi Annan, executive chairman of Ford Motor Company William Clay Ford Jr, and former CEO of Hewlett-Packard Carly Fiorina—the first woman to lead a Fortune top-20 company—and the graduates of the MIT MBA are just as impressive.

With a program ranked among the best MBAs in the USA, the average MIT Sloan MBA more than doubles their salary post-graduation, and many go on to be leaders in their fields.

Here are 10 of the most successful MBA grads from MIT Sloan:

MIT Sloan Notable Alumni

Check out our other lists of notable alumni

Stanford University Notable Alumni

Wharton School Notable Alumni

Harvard Business School Notable Alumni

Indian School of Business Notable Alumni

1. John W Thompson

MBA Class of 1983

Chairman of Microsoft since 2014

Thompson got his start at IBM, moving up the ranks over a nearly 30-year career at the corporation. It was during this time that he undertook the MBA at Sloan, before leaving to become CEO of Symantec in 1999.

He succeeded Bill Gates as chairman of Microsoft in 2014, a position he still holds today, and is widely recognised as one of the pioneering businessmen of Silicon Valley.

2. Robin Chase

(© International Transport Forum, used under this license)

MBA Class of 1986

Co-founder and former CEO of Zipcar

Robin Chase met her Zipcar co-founder Antje Danielson in the late 1990s when their children attended the same kindergarten.

Though their working relationship swiftly soured, with Danielson leaving the company in 2001 and Chase being replaced as CEO in 2003, founding the company was the start of what has proven to be a long and successful entrepreneurial career.

As well as Zipcar, Chase has also founded Buzzcar, a peer-to-peer car sharing service, as well as vehicle network communications company Veniam, for which she is still executive chairman. She was named one of Time magazine’s 100 most influential people in 2009.

3. Shuman Ghosemajumder

(© TeachAids, used under this license)

MBA Class of 2002

Canadian technologist, entrepreneur, and author

Ghosemajumder is probably best known for his stint at Google from 2003 to 2010. During this time he led the effort to protect their annual pay per click revenue from click fraud, was one of the early product managers for AdSense, and served as part of the team that launched Gmail.

After his MBA at Sloan he decided to leave Google in 2010 to grow his nonprofit TeachAIDS, an Edtech company using technology to aid HIV prevention. He is also the current global head of artificial intelligence at F5.

4. Brian Halligan

MBA Class of 2005

CEO and co-founder of HubSpot

Halligan co-founded inbound marketing company HubSpot in 2006, a year after graduating from MIT Sloan.

By 2016, the company reported $271 million in total revenue, and Halligan is now a senior lecturer at MIT, teaching technical innovation, entrepreneurship, and strategic management.

(© HubSpot, used under this license)

5. Randal D Pinkett

MBA Class of 1998

Winner of season four of The Apprentice

Pinkett rose to fame as a contestant on The Apprentice in 2005. He was the first African American contestant to win the competition, hosted by future President of the United States Donald Trump.

After winning, he undertook the prized year-long apprenticeship with Trump Entertainment Resorts, overseeing the $110 million renovation of several hotels and casinos, before returning to his own consulting startup, BCT Partners.

Pinkett has also dabbled in politics, for instance serving as co-chairman of New Jersey Mayor Cory Booker’s transition team.

(© Dr. Randal Pinkett, used under this license)

6. Jamie McCourt

(© Commander, U.S. Naval Forces Europe-Africa/U.S. 6th Fleet, used under this license)

MBA Class of 1978

Former CEO of the LA Dodgers and former US Ambassador to the French Republic and Principality of Monaco

McCourt purchased the LA Dodgers in 2004 and joined the organization’s executive team. She broke records in this role as the highest-ranking woman in Major League Baseball, first as vice chairman in 2004, then as president in 2005, and finally as CEO in 2009.

From 2016 McCourt was involved in the Trump campaign and transition team, before taking up a role as Ambassador to the French Republic and Principality of Monaco in 2017.

7. Daryl Morey

(© 451 Research, used under this license)

MBA Class of 2000

President of Basketball Operations for the Philadelphia 76ers for the National Basketball Association (NBA)

Prior to joining the executive team for the Philadelphia 76ers, Morey worked with the Boston Celtics and the Houston Rockets.

In the latter role, he made history as the first such general manager to be hired by an NBA team. Under Morey’s leadership, the Rockets advanced to the playoffs nine times.

Morey is still involved with his old alma mater, serving as the cofounder and co-chair of the annual MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference.

8. Keiji Tachikawa

© NASA/Kim Shiflett

MBA 1978

President of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA)

Hailing from the same MBA graduating class as Jamie McCourt, Tachikawa was brought in to restructure the Japanese space agency after a 2003 H-IIA rocket launch failure, after which the company promised to resume launches in 2005.

9. Bill Taylor

(© Paul Gillin, used under this license)

MBA class of 1987

Co-founder and former editor of Fast Company Magazine

Fast Company is a monthly business magazine launched in 1995 by Taylor and his co-founders Alan Webber and Mortimer Zuckerman.

Prior to founding the magazine,Taylor had been an editor at the Harvard Business Review, and took an active editorial role in Fast Company for many years.

The magazine was sold in 2000 to Gruner + Jahr, just before the burst of the dot-com bubble, which led to significant losses for the magazine. Taylor ultimately left two years later, and now makes a living as an author and corporate educator.

10. Rafael del Pino Calvo-Sotelo

(© Ferrovial, used under this license)

MBA Class of 1986

Multibillionaire and executive chairman of Ferrovial

A fellow member of Robin Chase’s MBA class, Calvo-Sotelo put his MBA from MIT to work in his father’s business, serving as CEO of Grupo Ferrovial from 1992 to 1999, before taking over as executive chairman.

He is still heavily involved in business education, for instance as a member of the MIT Corporation, as well as sitting on advisory boards at other business schools around the world.