From Dusk Till Dawn - Already Been Bitten

A beastly surprise attack in the bar leaves the Fuller family backed against a wall. In this scene: Seth (George Clooney), Kate (Juliette Lewis), Jacob (Harvey Keitel), Scott (Ernest Liu)

From Dusk Till Dawn - Come on in, Lovers

The Gecko brothers and their hostages arrive at their chosen meeting spot, a larger-than-life bar just across the Mexican border. In this scene: Seth (George Clooney), Richard (Quentin Tarantino), Kate (Juliette Lewis), Jacob (Harvey Keitel), Scott (Ernest Liu), Chet Pussy (Cheech Marin)

From Dusk Till Dawn - I Don't Believe in Vampires

The surviving humans rally to form a plan for fighting off their vampire attackers. In this scene: Seth (George Clooney), Kate (Juliette Lewis), Jacob (Harvey Keitel), Scott (Ernest Liu)

From Dusk Till Dawn - Ice Bucket

Shortly after the Fullers check into their motel, they meet their "friendly" neighbors from room 11. In this scene: Seth (George Clooney), Richard (Quentin Tarantino), Kate (Juliette Lewis), Jacob (Harvey Keitel), Scott (Ernest Liu)

From Dusk Till Dawn - Is This My Fault?

When Seth discovers that the woman they've been holding hostage is missing, he also discovers that Richard has a disturbing character flaw. In this scene: Seth (George Clooney), Richard (Quentin Tarantino)

From Dusk Till Dawn - The Art Of Seduction

When Santanico Pandemonium takes the stage for her snake dance, all eyes are on her and her hypnotic curves. In this scene: Santanico Pandemonium (Salma Hayek), Razor Charlie (Danny Trejo), Richard Gecko (Quentin Tarantino), Seth Gecko (George Clooney), Kate Fuller (Juliette Lewis), Jacob Fuller (Harvey Keitel)

From Dusk Till Dawn - To Your Family

An angry Seth starts hitting the bottle and forces the Fuller family, young and old, to start drinking with him. In this scene: Seth (George Clooney), Richard (Quentin Tarantino), Kate (Juliette Lewis), Jacob (Harvey Keitel), Scott (Ernest Liu)

From Dusk Till Dawn - Welcome To Slavery

The true...and gruesome...nature of the bar's patrons is revealed. In this scene: Seth (George Clooney), Kate (Juliette Lewis), Jacob (Harvey Keitel), Scott (Ernest Liu), Santanico (Selma Hayek)

From Dusk Till Dawn 20th Anniversary - Fathom Events Trailer + Tarantino / Rodriguez Intro

The Gecko brothers return to theaters nationwide November 6 and 9 with From Dusk Till Dawn 20th Anniversary! This two-night event includes an exclusive Q&A with Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino.

Pulp Fiction - 20 Great Moments

A compilation video of the 20 best moments in Pulp Fiction.

Pulp Fiction - 20 Second Recap

A recap of Pulp Fiction in 20 seconds.

Pulp Fiction - A Miracle

Nearly escaping death, Jules believes it to be divine intervention from the Lord himself. In this scene: Vincent Vega (John Travolta), Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson), Man # 4 (Alexis Arquette)

Pulp Fiction - A Needle To The Heart

To save Mia, it's going to take a real adrenaline rush. In this scene: Lance (Eric Stoltz), Mia Wallace (Uma Thurman), Vincent Vega (John Travolta)

Pulp Fiction - BMF Wallet

As Jules and Vincent find themselves in a standoff with Ringo and Yolanda, Jules suggests an alternative to bloodshed. In this scene: Vincent Vega (John Travolta), Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson), Ringo (Tim Roth), Honey Bunny/Yolanda (Amanda Plummer)

Pulp Fiction - Big Kahuna Burger

Jules and Brett share a friendly breakfast of Big Kahuna Burgers In this scene: Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson), Vincent Vega (John Travolta), Brett (Frank Whaley)

Pulp Fiction - Burnt to a Crisp

Vince and Mia slide into their booth at Jack Rabbit Slim's and order the Douglas Sirk steak, a Vanilla Coke, the Durward Kirby burger and a $5 shake. In this scene: Vincent (John Travolta), Mia (Uma Thurman), Buddy Holly (Steve Buscemi)

Pulp Fiction - Dorks

An unfortunate sequence of events leads to a naked Jules and Vincent getting hosed down by their boss in the middle of Jimmie Dimmick's backyard. In this scene: Vincent Vega (John Travolta), Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson), The Wolf (Harvey Keitel), Jimmie Dimmick (Quentin Tarantino)

Pulp Fiction - I Want To Dance

When Mia gets back from the bathroom, her conversation with Vincent takes a twist. In this scene: Mia Wallace (Uma Thurman), Vincent Vega (John Travolta)

Pulp Fiction - Make Spoons

Hiding out in a hotel, Fabienne expresses her desire for a pot belly. In this scene: Fabienne (Maria de Medeiros), Butch Coolidge (Bruce Willis)

Pulp Fiction - Marvin

Jules makes a profound decision regarding his future which soon becomes an afterthought thanks to a simple mishap. In this scene: Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson), Vincent Vega (John Travolta), Marvin (Phil LaMarr)

Pulp Fiction - Nobody Ever Robs Restaurants (Opening Scene)

Over coffee, Pumpkin and Honey Bunny devise a new plan of attack. In this scene: Ringo/Pumpkin (Tim Roth), Yolanda/Honey Bunny (Amanda Plummer)

Pulp Fiction - Official Trailer (HD)

Jules Winnfield and Vincent Vega are two hitmen out to retrieve a suitcase stolen from their employer, mob boss Marsellus Wallace. Wallace has also asked Vincent to take his wife Mia out a few days later when Wallace himself will be out of town. Butch Coolidge is an aging boxer who is paid by Wallace to lose his next fight. Honey Bunny and Pumpkin are a couple of young lovers and small time thieves who decide they need a change of venue. The lives of these seemingly unrelated people are woven together in a wildly entertaining and exhilarating motion picture adventure that both thrills and amuses. Starring, in alphabetical order: Amanda Plummer, Bruce Willis, Christopher Walken, Eric Stoltz, Harvey Keitel, John Travolta, Quentin Tarantino, Samuel L. Jackson, Tim Roth, Uma Thurman, Ving Rhames

Pulp Fiction - Overdose

Desperate to save Mia, Vincent turns to the only man who can help. In this scene: Vincent Vega (John Travolta), Mia Wallace (Uma Thurman), Lance (Eric Stoltz)

Pulp Fiction - Pop Tarts

Retrieving his watch, Butch finds a surprise in his kitchen. In this scene: Butch Coolidge (Bruce Willis), Vincent Vega (John Travolta)

Pulp Fiction - Pretty Far From Ok

Zed and Maynard are in for a surprise when Butch returns to exact his revenge. In this scene: Butch Coolidge (Bruce Willis), Marsellus Wallace (Ving Rhames), Zed (Peter Greene), Maynard (Duane Whitaker)

Pulp Fiction - Royale With Cheese

Vincent discusses the differences between Europe and the US. In this scene: Vincent Vega (John Travolta), Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson)

Pulp Fiction - Say What Again

Jules teaches Brett a lesson straight from Ezekiel. In this scene: Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson), Vincent Vega (John Travolta), Brett (Frank Whaley)

Pulp Fiction - Taxi Ride

Esmeralda is curious to know what it feels like to kill a man - so Butch tells her. In this scene: Butch (Bruce Willis), Esmeralda Villalobos (Angela Jones)

Pulp Fiction - The $5 Milkshake

Vincent needs to know what a $5 shake tastes like. In this scene: Vincent Vega (John Travolta), Mia Wallace (Uma Thurman)

Pulp Fiction - The Bonnie Situation

With a dead body in his garage, Jimmie warns Vincent and Jules about an even greater danger, Bonnie. In this scene: Vincent Vega (John Travolta), Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson), Jimmie Dimmick (Quentin Tarantino)

Pulp Fiction - Time Is A Factor

"The Wolf" arrives to resolve The Bonnie Situation, gives a nod to Jimmie's coffee and tough talk to Vincent and Jules. In this scene: Jimmie (Quentin Tarantino), The Wolf (Harvey Keitel), Vincent Vega (John Travolta), Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson)

Pulp Fiction - Zed's Dead

Before Marsellus changes his mind, Butch races to get the hell out of dodge. In this scene: Butch Coolidge (Bruce Willis), Fabienne (Maria de Medeiros)

Sin City - Fair Trade

Hartigan goes to great lengths to ensure young Nancy's safety. In this scene: Hartigan (Bruce Willis)

Sin City - Hitmen

Marv hits up his favorite local bar, only to end up getting hit up himself. In this scene: Nancy Callahan (Jessica Alba), Marv (Mickey Rourke), Shellie (Brittany Murphy), Dwight (Clive Owen)

Sin City - Pieces

Goldie may be gone...but now it seems Marv's found the next best (and beautiful) thing. In this scene: Marv (Mickey Rourke), Wendy (Jaime King), Gail (Rosario Dawson), Becky (Alexis Bledel)