Tour Norway with Phillip Odden and Else Bigton

Email: nww@norskwoodworks.com

Phone: 715 468 2780 (please leave a message).

Else Bigton, a native of Ålesund Norway, and Phillip Odden from Barronett Wisconsin first met at the Hjerleid wood carving school in Norway in 1977. They were married in 1978 and returned to Wisconsin in 1979 to establish Norsk Wood Works, a woodcarving and furniture business. For 45 years they have made their sole living as artist-craftsmen in the Norwegian folk-art tradition. Over the past twenty seven years they established a herd of Norwegian Fjord horses on their 80-acre farm. The couple raise, train and show Fjord horses in the upper midwest in pleasure driving competitions and combined driving events during summer months. During winter months they train and compete horses in Florida. Else and Phil continue to enjoy working as artist craftsmen on their farm in rural Wisconsin and in Florida. Their rich connections with Scandinavian folk art and horses provide the basis and background to offer and lead interesting tours to Norway and Sweden.

Odden’s Rural Life Tours is in its 14th year of offering tours to Scandinavia focused on rural life, folk arts and learning how people live in modern Norway as well as how people lived at the time of immigration to North America. The scenery is spectacular, the people warm and interesting and the modern day Scandinavian food is delightful. Else and Phil will be your guides as you experience Scandinavia with your fellow travelers.

Odden’s Rural Life Tour: Folk-art, Fjords, Fun and Friends will leave the US August 9th and begin in Norway from the Oslo Gardermoen Airport on August 10th. The tour ends in Bergen, Norway on August 20th, 2025.

We have reserved tickets with Iceland Air for this tour but you are welcome to arrange your own air transportation or use our tickets and then adjust the arrival or departure dates to extend your stay. We are willing to consult with you regarding private travel arrangements occurring before or after our tour.

Folk-Art, Fjords, Friends and Fun Tour

The August 2025 tour will focus on rural life in Norway. This will be an educational tour visiting Phil and Else’s favorite places and people in Norway while traveling through some of northern Europe’s most spectacular mountain scenery. We will become familiar with folk art, music and food traditions from different regions of the country. Phil and Else will explain these traditions in the cultural and historical context of Norway. Often we will have local guest guides. These are people Phil and Else have come to know over many years and they will offer insights that would not be possible to hear or see otherwise.

This tour will be comfortable for those who are in reasonable shape and are able to keep up with a diverse group of travelers. Minimum age for children traveling with parents or grandparents is 12 years. Norway is a hilly and mountainous country so you can expect to encounter some inclines as we walk. For those who are uncomfortable with walking inclines there will be a place to rest while the group moves along.

Our modern motor coach is very comfortable and we try to provide opportunities to rest each day. While reading through our itinerary you will notice several extra activities for those who are in good physical shape such as hikes, horse rides and mountain bike rides on mountain trails.

August 9th through August 20th, 2025

These travel plans may change a little due to some new and unexpected opportunities, but our plans are pretty firm now.

Itinerary