YouTube TV is now the exclusive home of NFL Sunday Ticket. Watch every out-of-market Sunday game* on your TV and supported devices.

Watch cable-free live TV. Download to watch & record live TV from 100+ networks, including local sports & news, as part of your monthly membership. Cancel anytime.

+Cable-free live TV. No cable box required.

+Stream major broadcast and cable networks, including ABC, CBS, FOX, NBC, NFL Network, ESPN, HGTV, TNT, AMC, Univision and more, including your local sports & news channels.

+Watch on your smartphone, tablet, computer, and TV

+Cloud DVR without DVR storage space limits. Each recording will be stored for 9 months.

+6 YouTube TV accounts per household. Everyone gets their own login, recommendations and DVR.

+Monthly pay-as-you-go membership; cancel anytime.

Over 100 networks are available in YouTube TV:

BROADCAST

ABC, CBS, FOX, NBC, NFL Network, PBS, and more

SPORTS

CBS Sports Network, NBC Sports RSN (regional), NFL Network, ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNews, ESPNU, Galavisión, Golf Channel, NBA TV, SEC Network, Univision, UniMás, and more

ENTERTAINMENT & LIFESTYLE

AMC, Animal Planet, BBC America, BET, Bravo, Cheddar, CMT, Comedy Central, Comet, Cozi TV, Decades, Discovery, E!, Food Network, Freeform, FX, FXM, FXX, Galavisión, IFC, Investigation Discovery, HGTV, MotorTrend, MTV, Nat Geo, Nat Geo Wild, Oxygen, Paramount Network, Pop, Smithsonian Channel, SundanceTV, SyFy, TBS, TCM, TLC, TNT, Travel Channel, TruTV, TV Land, Univision, UniMás, USA, VH1, WE tv, YouTube Originals, and more

NEWS

BBC World News, Cheddar Big News, CNBC, CNN, Galavisión, HLN, MSNBC, Univision, UniMás and more

KIDS

Cartoon Network, Disney Channel, Disney Junior, Disney XD, Nickelodeon, PBS Kids, Universal Kids

SPANISH LANGUAGE

Galavisión Telemundo, Universo, Univision, UniMás and more

Availability:

YouTube TV is available nationwide in the United States.

For more information, please visit our Help Center.

Your membership will automatically continue for as long as you choose to remain a member. Your membership is a month-to-month subscription that begins at sign up. You can easily cancel anytime, online, 24 hours a day. There are no long-term contracts or cancellation fees.

Subscriptions automatically renew unless auto-renew is turned off at least 24-hours before the end of the current period. Account will be charged for renewal within 24-hours prior to the end of the current period.

Subscriptions may be managed by the user and auto-renewal may be turned off by going to the user's Account Settings on the device.

Terms of service: tv.youtube.com/tv/terms

Paid terms of service: tv.youtube.com/tv/paidterms

Privacy policy: tv.youtube.com/tv/privacy

Enjoy cable-free live tv now!

*Commercial use excluded. Locally broadcast Fox and CBS games, Sunday Night Football on NBC, select digital-only games and international games excluded from NFL Sunday Ticket.

Fireguy36 ,

Needs tuning

Tried it out and liked it. Wasn’t sure how it would be going from a satellite tv system to You Tube but I don’t notice any big differences except a lower monthly bill and not having to call constantly with problems. Not real happy with the volume blowing me out of the room when commercials come on. Wish they would fix that. I like watching some of the VODs but have noticed that when a commercial comes on it frequently goes in the streaming circle mode and won’t resume my program. Can’t wait for some other channels to get on board, we’ll see. Overall happy with my choice to switch over to You Tube TV😃

Still waiting for more channels. Not a lot more just a few more. Really I don’t know how much longer I can take the high jump in volume when the ads come on. I get it, you want me to know there is an ad on. Ugh😫

plgtfvjg ,

Worst streaming tv app ever

The design of the app is just plain stupid. Number one you can’t delete a show you have recorded. No other streaming app is like that. Why do you make users put up with the clutter of months n months worth of shows? It says shows remain until they expire. Yet the disappear at random. I have shows only a month old that just vanish yet another has sat there for 9 months now. If you set it to record a show it sets it to record it on every channel that show is on. That’s stupid. I set it yo record a football game and every game with that team records. I’m get recordings of the Dallas cowboys that are months and ever years old. I don’t want those. You can set it to record only new shows. That’s stupid. It records dozens and dozens of old shows and you cant delete them either. I could go on and on. No thought at all was put into this app. It’s clumsy. Takes lots of steps to get anything done and it’s design makes no sense. It’s almost as it they sat down and said. Just how stupid and backwards can we make it. It that was the goal mission accomplished.

4starlite55 ,

Add features

Two features needs to be added. Delete and profile tabs

Delete button is necessary to have when you no longer want a program to be in your library. Even though it is cool to be able to keep a recording for nine months before it drops out it is also necessary to add a delete button to delete shows or program you only want to see once and not sit there for a long time before it drops out. Being able to delete programs what you want to watch one time is a must have as the nine months thing should only apply to the program you want to keep that long. Please make that change and add a celete button to delete programs you want to watch only once.

Profile button should be added so that instead of sending invitation to family members and make it hard to be added doing that, adding a profile button is a better choice that way you can click on add profile and just enter the name of that person that way they can start using it. It is that simple. The way it is is too complicated.