As if “Another Stoney Evening” and the recentC.S.N.Y. tour weren’t proof enough, here comes another reminder that David Crosby and Graham Nash are formidable performers in their own right.

Originally released in 1977, this reissue of “Crosby-Nash Live” captures the duo during some veryhot nights. They were accompanied by their band known as the Mighty Jitters. The Jitters featured superb musicianship from players who’ve graced countless albums during the past three decades.

Danny Kortchmar and David Lindley burn on guitars, while Russ Kunkel, Tim Drummond and Craig Doerge provide flawless support on drums, bass, and keyboards. Lindley, a master of all things stringed, also adds colorful flourishes on violin.

While Crosby and Nash are in fine form, there is a rawness to their vocals that adds to the intensity of the performances. The set neatly illustrates their ability to combine the political and the personal.

Crosby waxes philosophically on the pretty “Page 43”. Life goes by much too quickly, so we should drink it in, and revel in it. Nash connects with a trio of songs that rock with an intensity that brings to mind Neil Young. “Fieldworker” is a stinging indictment of the exploitation of farm workers. Graham went to the fields, and created a piece that captures their desperation, “Came across your border/just to work for you/give you all I got to give/what more can I do?” “Mama Lion” conveys a longing for spiritual relief: “There’s a hole in my destiny/and I’m out on the brink.” Like the previous tunes, “Immigration Man” is highlighted by Lindley’s piercing slide guitar. Considering the ongoing debates, the song’s subject is more timely than ever. Nash delivers a passionate plea for tolerance and acceptance.

The dreamscape of Crosby’s “Lee Shore” features an artful interplay of rhythm and melody. The idyll is tempered by restlessness, “Women are calling me to hear my tale/…perhaps I’ll see you/the next quiet place I furl my sail.” The set concludes with a stunning version of “Deja Vu”.

David and Graham have made their mark more than once. Their talents are considerable. Unconvinced? Buy this, then you’ll know.

Bill Lopez

GALACTIC

Late For the Future

Capricorn Records

Â Â Â This is the third offering from the New Orleans funksters Galactic and they are more forceful in their love of grove than ever. Starting off the disc with a new arrangement of “Black Eyed Pea”, a band standard, and ending with the understated “Action Speaks Louder Than Words” the constant drive of bass and drums coupled with strong guitar accents and the rich, gritty sound of Theryl “Houseman” de Clouet’s vocals make this CD one psychedelic trip through funkytown. However, Galactic is not just a funk jazz band. Their style harkens back to that excellent time in pop rock when bands like Sly and the Family Stone and War were breaking the charts. Even the lyrics seem to come from a time before music became about misogyny and riots. Galactic is, indeed, late for the future, but as someone once said, “The early bird gets the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.”

The disc is produced, for people who notice these things, by Nick Sansano who has also worked with Sonic Youth and the Manic Street Preachers and he seems to have given Galactic a more open and playful sound on this production. A track of special note is “Vilified” which teams Houseman along with singer Theresa Andersson which yields some great duet work and their voices play off of each other like vodka and vermouth. Full of fabulous horn sections, strong guitar riffs and some true jazz experimentation, LATE FOR THE FUTURE is a good choice for any and of funk looking to expand their minds and their disc collection.

Jane Hinde

DUAL REVIEW

JOHN PRINE

Inspite of Ourselves

Oh-Boy! Records

THE ROBERT CRAY BAND

Heavy Picks

Mercury Records