Tori Spelling admitted she felt 'free' when her ex husband Dean McDermott publicized their split last year.

The Beverly Hills, 90210 star, 51 — who recently said she is considering joining OnlyFans — opened up on Monday about feeling relieved that he made the Instagram announcement, while on her podcast misSPELLING.

In the since deleted post, the Canadian actor, 57, explained that he and the blonde beauty were going 'separate ways' and plan to 'start a new journey' apart.

Recalling the events, she explained in her podcast that he 'apologized' for the post and deleted it — bringing up that it was shared amid his alcoholic 'spiral.'

'He was reacting emotionally, and he was still drinking and, you know, he was in that spiral,' she shared. 'But I gotta say, when I saw that post — inside, I was like, "Oh, thank god."'

'Because I don't know if I could have done it. I want to do it. I want it to be strong enough,' she said.

The Los Angeles native called it quits with her husband of 18 years on March 29, citing irreconcilable differences. Court documents list their separation date as June 17, 2023, the same day McDermott posted the news on social media.

She petitioned for sole physical custody of their five children, Liam Aaron McDermott, 17, Stella Doreen, 16, Hattie Margaret, 12, Finn Davey, 11 and Beau Dean, seven.

Tori also asked for joint legal custody of her kids. McDermott's visitation rights have yet to be finalized by a judge.

In an April episode of her misSPELLING podcast she explained that the My Fake Boyfriend star wanted to divorce, leading to the since deleted announcement post that was shared without her consent.

'I looked at [his post] and I'm not kidding you guys, I felt like this giant rock had been lifted off my chest,' she shared.

'I could breathe deeply, and I was like, "Oh my God. He said it. He said it, so now I'm free,"' the actress admitted.

And according to Tori, the father of her children had threatened to file for divorce '1 million times.'

'I don't think I've ever threatened that, like, ever. And there were times where I desperately wanted it,' she said. 'But, like, I would never throw that in someone's face if I didn't actually mean it.

'I didn't have the balls to leave,' she admitted while recalling the post. 'I couldn't do it and he did it. [I thought] "Now I can move on. He's put it out there. Let's go. Yes! I needed this," you know? Like, I couldn't do it myself.'

Spelling and McDermott tied the knot back in May of 2006 in Fiji. Their nuptials were documented on the couple's cancelled reality show Tori & Dean: Home Sweet Hollywood, which was on air from 2007 to 2012.