As The Automatic prepare their third album, they tell Gavin Allen: ‘Everything depends on it’

THE Automatic are squirming like embarrassed schoolboys.

I don’t blame them either. I’ve got that same awkward feeling in my stomach and don’t know how to react.

The Cowbridge four are sitting in pairs opposite each other on two black sofas in the office at Warwick Hall studios in Cardiff. I’m perched on a chair at the head of the sofas.

We are all a little too close for comfort but the banter had been flying until the atmosphere took a nosedive when guitarist James Frost pressed play on the hi-fi to unveil three new songs from their upcoming third album, Tear The Signs Down.

For them, it’s the musical equivalent of someone reading their diary over their shoulder. Paul Mullen flips open a laptop and busies himself typing. Rob Hawkins is suddenly buried in a novel-esque text message. Iwan Griffiths shifts in his seat. James Frost picks studiously at his fingernails.

I’m aware my reaction to the music is being monitored, surreptitiously, for signs of good or ill opinion. Do I tap my foot? Get up and dance?

We all squirm together.

Fortunately, the four tracks are excellent and the unease is quickly broken by a crack from Hawkins, the most flippant of the four.

“At least we know we won’t get dropped after this album,” he quips.

It’s a pertinent joke.

The band have been through a very testing two years. After the monstrous hit-making of their debut album Not Accepted Anywhere, The Automatic experienced internal strife with keys player Alex Pennie jumping ship.

When Mullen was recruited as fourth man, spirits were raised again, only for their second album, This Is A, Fix to create so little impact they are considering re-releasing it – if they can work out who owns it.

The little indie label that discovered them, B-Unique, came to the end of an agreement with major label Polydor/Universal and as a result the band’s album got lost in the promotion scrum.

It wasn’t just The Automatic in that fix either, as The Kaiser Chiefs will attest.

“I’ll give you the facts,” says co-vocalist Mullen.

“The last record label didn’t manage to release the single, Steve McQueen, or the album on time. The single didn’t come out on iTunes until the Wednesday afternoon, which lost 80% of the first week sales, and the album didn’t come out until Wednesday or Thursday, by which time we had passed caring.

“We knew we had to get out of that situation.”

So they did, and the band decided to place their career in the only hands they trust implicitly – their own.

It’s why their new single, Interstate, which is released today, bears the logo of Armoured Records, their own newly-minted record label.

“It just speeds everything up,” says Frost of the band’s new way of working.

“It’s the same team behind the record but without a major label slowing it down. Now the decisions are made in this room instead of us being shuffled around departments at a big building in London.

“It’s a quicker process than record labels make out. You don’t have to spend weeks filming a video, or spend £20k on a photoshoot...”

Rob chips in: “... and throw huge amounts of money in the wrong direction on strange marketing ploys.”

He lists some of those strange marketing ploys, such as their videos being placed on dance TV channels rather than rock stations, or posters on billboards situated down alleyways.

The bitterness at the way they perceive they were treated remains – “We could keep moaning... and we will,” deadpans Mullen – but the focus has now shifted to reclaiming themselves with their third album, Tear The Signs Down.

The title comes from a lyric on the song Interstate – “Tear the signs down, put up your own” – which has become a mission statement as they take charge of their own affairs.

Interstate is an FM-friendly slice of mesmeric pop. It’s also credible rock. It will be interesting to measure its chart performance next Sunday because a lot depends on their upcoming third album, due in February.

The financial implications can’t be overlooked, though. The band need a hit if they want to continue down the path of the great rock and roll swindle because, as Griffiths says, people don’t realise how hard they were hit by the commercial failure of their second album.

“Perception-wise,” the drummer says carefully, “people see us as more successful than we actually are because of how massive (the song) Monster was.”

There’s a brief quiet in a full room.

“We are taking a massive gamble on this with everything we have left,” says Frost.

“But this is the only thing we want to do with the money.”

Interstate is out on Armoured Records today