Wabash College Athletics Hall of Fame

Choose a Hall Of Fame Member:

Remington A. Johnston III

Class

1955

Induction

1997

Sport(s)

Special Inductee

Remington A. Johnston III came to Wabash in the footsteps of his father and grandfather. Born in Ossian, Indiana, you graduated from P.A. Allen High School in Bluffton and came to Wabash in the fall of 1951. At Wabash, you majored in political science and minored in economics, and were (and continue to be) a proud member of Sigma Chi. Upon graduation from Wabash, you earned a printing degree from Carnegie Mellon and then spent eight years with Harris-Seybold Printing Machinery Company in Dallas, before returning to Bluffton in 1964 to assist your father in the running of the Rem Johnston Printing Company. It was then that you became active in Wabash athletics and earned the affectionate nickname "The Big Cookie" for the huge cookies you'd give to Wabash athletes on overnight trips or when entertaining recruits. Indeed, when it comes to supporting the Wabash athletic program, "The Big Cookie" is without peer. You arranged motel rooms and meals on more than 100 Wabash football road trips. You traveled extensively in the spring with Coach Rob Johnson's track teams. And recently, as your interest in golf has turned to obsession, you now serve as volunteer assistant coach to the golf team, helping it on its annual trip to Alabama and Florida.

You have befriended, dined with, and entertained many thousands of Wabash athletes over the years, but you'll best be known for your outrageous and frighteningly predictable bumper stickers. Among the best stickers, which always open with, "The Big Cookie says:," are "No Hope For Hope," "Flush The Johnnies," and "A Funny Thing Happened to the Dannies on Their Way to the Playoffs."

For your efforts in recruiting and in promoting the athletic program, you were honored in 1971 with the Alumni Award of Merit, becoming the youngest alumnus ever to receive the award. You were also elected to the NAWM Board. From 1970 until 1995, you attended every Wabash football game, home and away, except for a single game in 1970 when your father passed away. Most recently, you were elected by the alumni of the College to serve on the Board of Trustees, a term which ended in 1995. The National Association of Wabash Men is proud to induct Remington A. “Rem” Johnston III into the Wabash College Athletic Hall of Fame.