Smugglers Cove 6 is a spectacular 4 bedroom modern and luxurious apartment on the world-famous West Coast of Barbados. Stay at this first floor, 3 bedroom beautifully decorated apartment for your Barbados holiday.

The luxury apartment offers incredible sea views and direct access to a Paynes Bay Beach, one of the islands top beaches. The well appointed, air conditioned bedrooms are en suite and the spacious covered terrace offers a comfortable lounge, perfect for catching spectacular sunsets with a sundowner. The meticulous design of Smugglers Cove features Classic Caribbean Architecture in conjunction with bold dramatic pieces and every modern convenience provides...

Smugglers Cove 6 is a spectacular 4 bedroom modern and luxurious apartment on the world-famous West Coast of Barbados. Stay at this first floor, 3 bedroom beautifully decorated apartment for your Barbados holiday.

The luxury apartment offers incredible sea views and direct access to a Paynes Bay Beach, one of the islands top beaches. The well appointed, air conditioned bedrooms are en suite and the spacious covered terrace offers a comfortable lounge, perfect for catching spectacular sunsets with a sundowner. The meticulous design of Smugglers Cove features Classic Caribbean Architecture in conjunction with bold dramatic pieces and every modern convenience provides the best of both worlds.

Each en suite bedroom is fully air-conditioned with a walk-in closet. The master bedroom with King sized bed and floor to ceiling doors overlooks the sea and view beyond. The remaining three guest bedrooms have King sized beds and one Twin. The marble bathrooms are the last word in luxury with oversized showers and a huge bath in the master bathroom.

Extra perks include personal loungers set up by Smuggler Cove beach butlers daily as well as a lovely cook/housekeeper to look after your every need and to prepare breakfast as well as a light lunch during your stay. Smugglers Cove provides 24 hours security and a communal pool as well as sun deck in the gardens. Restaurants, nightlife, shops, spas and golf on the Platinum coast of the island are also nearby.