The ORT has a public online portal that allows residential landlords and tenants to login using their business or individual Saskatchewan Account to create notices; submit applications, evidence, photos and other documents; and make payments 24 hours a day. By using the online portal, you will have immediate access to and know the current status of your submission(s). The portal also provides access to notices and applications approved by the ORT Director.

Rent Arrears and Monetary Claims

A landlord may claim any outstanding rent or utility arrears at the time of a possession hearing for rent and/or utility arrears, along with the filing fee.

Amendments to the Residential Tenancies Act and Regulations: On September 15, 2021, The Residential Tenancies Amendment Act, 2021 and The Residential Tenancies Amendment Regulations, 2021 came into force.

Clinics

The ORT runs two virtual information clinics for the public. One provides general information on the ORT and the legal rights and obligations of landlords and tenants. The second is a focused virtual information clinic on the online portal.

If you would like to attend an information clinic, send an email using the link below and indicate which information session you would like to attend. You may also book group virtual sessions if that is preferred. For group virtual sessions, we are able to accommodate clinics in English, French, Korean, and Yoruba. If a cultural association would like a presentation in their language, the ORT would be happy to co-facilitate the clinic with a translator from that association.

Email us to sign up

Non-Compliant List

If you have an outstanding order against a landlord or tenant and the 30-day appeal period has expired, you can contact the ORT by email with the necessary details, and the ORT may place the party on the non-compliance list as per The Residential Tenancies Act, 2006:

70(14) The director may refuse to issue a written notice of hearing to, and a hearing officer may decline to make an order respecting, a landlord who: (a) is in contravention of an order made pursuant to this Act; or (b) has failed to forward a security deposit and any accrued interest to the director pursuant to section 33.

70(14.1) The director may refuse to issue a written notice of hearing to, and a hearing officer may decline to make an order respecting, a tenant who is in contravention of an order that was previously made pursuant to this Act and that is currently in force.