Look back at the highs and lows of Lleyton Hewitt's 18-year professional tennis career.

Lleyton Hewitt burst onto the tennis scene as an Adelaide teenager who won his first ATP tour event before quitting school and turning pro.

Over the years, Hewitt repeatedly made the headlines - for good reasons and bad - but the one constant was his incredible determination and self-belief that led fans to keep watching in hopes of a trademark comeback.

Twenty years on, his career comes to a close after two majors, two Davis Cups, 80 weeks at number one and a host of memories.

Youngster qualifies for home major

1997

The Adelaide teenager made history, becoming the youngest player ever (at 15 years 11 months) to qualify for the Australian Open.

Hewitt beat English player Mark Petchey 6-1, 6-4 to seal his place in the men's draw, before losing 6-3, 6-4, 6-3 in the first round to Spain's dual French Open winner Sergi Bruguera.

Hewitt makes a splash in Adelaide

1998

Hewitt broke through for his first ever ATP title, winning his hometown tournament, the Adelaide International.

On the way to the final the world number 550-ranked player defeated former world number one Andre Agassi, then beat fellow Australian Jason Stoltenberg to take the title and become the second-youngest player to win an ATP Tour event.

He soon afterwards left his high school, Immanuel College in Adelaide, and turned professional, prior to his 17th birthday.

At the end of 1998, he switched coaches, from his junior mentor Peter Smith to former Australian tour pro Darren Cahill.

Davis Cup triumph in year of consolidation

1999

Hewitt consolidated his spot on the tour, winning the ATP Delray Beach hardcourt tournament in Florida.

He defeated Belgium's Xavier Malisse in three sets.

In December, Hewitt was part of the Australian team that won the Davis Cup for the 22nd time, beating France 3-2 in the final.

Hewitt lost both singles rubbers but Mark Philippoussis sealed victory with a four-set win over Cedric Pioline.

Anger at crowd as Hewitt courts controversy

2000

Hewitt started the year in winning form, taking out his home tournament, the Adelaide International.

However he generated controversy along the way, when he got angry that the crowd was cheering for fellow Australian Dejan Petrovic - after his 6-0, 6-2 win, Hewitt referred to the "stupidity of the Australian public", saying they "always knock the better players".

At Wimbledon, Hewitt made it to his first ever final at a grand slam event, partnering his then-girlfriend, Kim Clijsters in the mixed doubles.

Hewitt and Clijsters lost in the final to American pair Kimberley Po and Donald Johnson.

Later that year, Hewitt made the semi-finals of the US Open and claimed his first grand slam doubles title in New York, pairing with Belarussian Max Mirnyi to defeat South Africa's Ellis Ferreira and American Rick Leach in the final at Flushing Meadows.

Hewitt was part of the Australian team that made the Davis Cup final for the second year running, only to lose to Spain in Barcelona.

He won four titles for the year - Adelaide, the Sydney International, Queen's Club in London and Scottsdale, Arizona - and at the age of 19 Hewitt finished the 2000 season as the top-ranked Australian player, at number seven in the world.

Linesman bust-ups, Flushing Meadows triumph

2001

It was a year of ups and downs for Hewitt.

At the French Open, the Australian caused a storm of controversy, by referring to Swiss umpire Andreas Egli as a "spastic". He apologised the following day.

Later in the season at the US Open, Hewitt's mouth got him in trouble again, as he blamed an African-American linesman for foot-faulting him in a match against James Blake, saying: "look at him (the linesman) and tell me what the similarity is (gesturing towards Blake)."

Despite these on-court issues, however, Hewitt went on to win his first singles major title at Flushing Meadows, beating American Pete Sampras 7-6 (7-4), 6-1, 6-1 in a one-sided US Open final.

In November, he passed Brazil's Gustavo Kuerten to become the world number one. Hewitt finished off a big season by beating Frenchman Sebastien Grosjean in the finals of the season-ending Tennis Masters Cup in Sydney.

His sixth title of 2001 ensured he was the youngest player (aged 20), and the first Australian, to end the year as the world number one on the ATP rankings.

Hewitt and Australia qualified for a third straight Davis Cup final, but Australia lost the fifth and final rubber to lose to France 3-2 at Melbourne Park.

At the end of the year Hewitt hired Jason Stoltenberg - the man he had beaten to win his first ever tour title in 1998 - as his coach.

Rusty wins Wimbledon

2002

Hewitt registered another career highlight at Wimbledon in 2002.

He came into the tournament off the back of a title win at Queen's Club, and continued his hot form at SW19.

Hewitt lost only two sets for the fortnight on the way to beating Argentina's David Nalbandian on Centre Court for the men's singles title.

The Australian also won at Indian Wells and San Jose, then he successfully defended his title at the season finale Tennis Masters Cup in Shanghai, beating Juan Carlos Ferrero in the final.

The South Australian finished the year as world number one for the second straight year.

Tough year sees Hewitt dumped in Wimbledon first round

2003

Hewitt made history for the wrong reasons at Wimbledon where he became the first defending men's singles champion in the open era to lose in the first round, ousted by qualifier Ivo Karlovic.

He won two tournaments for the year, at Scottsdale and Indian Wells, but his year was disrupted by injury.

His 75-week reign as world number one was ended by Andre Agassi in April, and although he regained top spot briefly the following month, he would end the year ranked 17 in the world.

Prior to Wimbledon, Hewitt took on Roger Rasheed as his new coach.

It may have been a tough year for Hewitt individually, but he added another honour to his collection in November when he was part of the Australian team that won the Davis Cup.

Hewitt had come back from two sets to love down to beat Switzerland's Roger Federer in the semi-final, before beating Juan Carlos Ferrero in Australia's 3-1 win over Spain in the final.

Rise up the rankings as Hewitt wins four titles

2004

Faced with fewer injury problems, Hewitt rose back up the rankings to number three in the world behind the new number one, Roger Federer.

He had a successful 2004, with tournament wins in Sydney, Rotterdam, Washington and Long Island.

But Federer proved to be Hewitt's nemesis all year, beating him at the Australian Open (fourth round), Wimbledon (QF), in the final at the US Open - and, for good measure, in the final of the Tennis Masters Cup.

Hewitt ended the year ranked number three.

Anguish as Hewitt misses out on Australian Open

2005

He started the year in good form with a win in the Sydney International, beating Czech Republic's Ivo Minar in the final.

Hewitt then had his best ever run at the 2005 Australian Open.

He reached the final after a draining series of matches - he played a total of 14 sets against Rafael Nadal, David Nalbandian and Andy Roddick to get from the round of 16 to the decider.

But Hewitt failed to become the first Australian to win the men's singles since Mark Edmondson in 1976 - he won the first set but went down in four sets to Russian Marat Safin.

He went on to make the semi-finals at Wimbledon and the US Open, but missed the French Open due to injury.

He reached number two in the rankings early in 2005 but finished the year at number five.

Off the court, Hewitt married Bec Cartwright in July.

Hewitt wins again at Queens

2006

Hewitt reached the third round at the Australian Open, the fourth round at Roland Garros, and made the quarter-finals at Wimbledon and the US Open.

He had one tournament win for the season, his fourth triumph - an equal record - at Queen's Club.

His year-ending ranking dropped to number 20 in the world.

Coach changes in year of transition

2007

The year started with a change, as Roger Rasheed quit as Hewitt's coach just prior to the Australian Open.

Hewitt used Scott Draper as his temporary coach, then in the middle of 2007 he announced the hire of Australian Tony Roche - the 14-time grand slam title winner (one singles, 13 doubles) and one-time world number two - as his coach.

In March, Hewitt won his only title of the year, in Las Vegas, beating Austria's Jurgen Melzer in the final.

His best result in a grand slam event was the fourth round at the French Open and Wimbledon.

Bleary-eyed Hewitt beats Baghdatis

2008

At the Australian Open, Hewitt pushed the definition of "late finish", when he and Marcos Baghdatis produced an epic third round clash.

The match started just before midnight, and when Hewitt sealed a five-set win with a down-the-line forehand winner, the clock had reached 4.34am local time in Melbourne.

Hewitt lost in the fourth round to eventual winner, Novak Djokovic.

At the Beijing Olympics, Hewitt beat Jonas Bjorkman before losing in the second round of the men's singles to Rafael Nadal. He also partnered Chris Guccione in the men's doubles - they lost in the quarter-finals to Bob and Mike Bryan of the United States.

Hewitt struggled all year with a hip injury. He eventually withdrew from the US Open to have season-ending surgery, and finished the year at number 67 in the world rankings.

Hewitt unseeded, wins in Houston

2009

For the first time since 2000, Hewitt was unseeded at the Australian Open - he lost to Fernando Gonzalez in the first round.

Hewitt won one title for the year, at the US Men's Hardcourt Championships in Houston.

He reached the quarter-finals of Wimbledon - his first such result at a major since 2006 - before losing a five-set thriller against Andy Roddick.

In August, Hewitt took on Nathan Healey as his coach, replacing Tony Roche. His end-of-year ranking was back to 22 in the world.

Injury problems shorten season

2010

Hewitt reached the fourth round of the Australian Open before losing to Roger Federer.

More hip problems - this time on his right hip - soon forced the Australian to have an operation, which resulted in him missing three months of the season.

He won on grass at Halle in Germany before a fourth round loss to Novak Djokovic at Wimbledon.

Hewitt lost in the first round at Flushing Meadows, and his year-end ranking fell to 54.

In November 2010, Tony Roche rejoined Hewitt as his coach.

Nalbandian the nemesis as foot injury takes toll

2011

Hewitt lost in the first round of the Australian Open to David Nalbandian, after failing to take two match points in the final set.

More injury problems - this time with his left foot - led to surgery and another three-month absence from the tour.

He made a second-round exit at Wimbledon, then was forced to miss the US Open with a foot injury, which ended his season.

His ranking tumbled to 187.

Run at Australian Open before Olympic tilt

2012

Hewitt had a solid run at the Australian Open, reaching the fourth round - after wins over 15th seed Andy Roddick (retirement) and 23rd seed Milos Raonic before losing to Novak Djokovic.

First-round losses at the French Open and Wimbledon followed, before Hewitt went to the London Olympics.

He lost in the third round of the men's singles to Novak Djokovic. Hewitt also teamed with Samantha Stosur in the mixed doubles, where the Australian pair made the quarter-finals before losing to Britain's Andy Murray and Laura Robson.

His year-end ranking rose to 83.

Return to top 100 after US Open streak

2013

Hewitt partnered fellow Australian Marinko Matosevic in doubles at the San Jose Open - their run to the semi-finals meant Hewitt passed the 100-win mark in doubles for his career.

He turned back the clock with a solid showing at the US Open where he made the fourth round, his best finish in New York since 2006.

He returned to the world's top 100 - with a year-end ranking of 60 - and won the John Newcombe Medal for the most outstanding Australian tennis player of 2013.

Hewitt tops Federer at Brisbane International

2014

Hewitt began the year at the Brisbane International - as an unseeded player he beat countryman Thanasi Kokkinakis, Feliciano Lopez, Marius Copil and Kei Nishikori on the way to the final, where he faced Roger Federer.

To the delight of the home crowd, Hewitt triumphed in three sets, getting a famous win over the 17-time major title winner and earning his first tournament victory in four years. However he could not keep the run going and lost in the first round of the Australian Open.

Later in the year Hewitt won the Newport ATP tournament for his 30th career singles title, and he won the doubles at the same tournament with Chris Guccione.

He finished the year ranked number 50 in the world.

Hewitt sets retirement date

2015

Hewitt lost in the first round of the Brisbane International, and went out in the second round of the Australian Open to Benjamin Becker.

After the loss at Melbourne Park, Hewitt revealed that he wanted to bow out from tennis in 12 months' time after his 20th Australian Open.

In June, Hewitt farewelled Wimbledon with a five-set loss to Jarkko Nieminen in the first round, receiving a standing ovation from the crowd.

Hewitt was part of one last Davis Cup campaign as a player, as Australia made it to the semi-finals before losing to eventual winners Britain.

He played his last match at Flushing Meadows, losing in the US Open second round to Bernard Tomic.

In October, he was confirmed as Australia's new Davis Cup coach.

Calling it a day

2016

In January, Hewitt began his final summer of tennis as a professional, as part of the Australian Gold team at the Hopman Cup in Perth.

Partnering Jarmila Wolfe, Hewitt lost 3-0 to the Czech Republic before he thrilled the home crowd by beating American Jack Sock in a game highlighted by Sock's top display of sportsmanship, on the way to a 3-0 win over the United States.

A 2-1 loss to Ukraine ended the team's participation in the tournament.

Hewitt then headed home to Adelaide for a final appearance at Memorial Drive in the World Tennis Challenge exhibition tournament.

He began with a straight sets win over a fellow former top-10 player in Spain's Fernando Verdasco, before making an appropriately epic farewell, losing to Croatia's Marin Cilic 6-7 (7/5), 7-6 (13/11), 6-7 (8/6).

Hewitt then returned to Melbourne Park for his 20th and final Australian Open campaign.

Drawn to meet fellow Australian James Duckworth in the first round, Hewitt showed no signs of nerves as he cruised to a straight-sets win.

In what would turn out to be his last-ever professional game, he put in a typically dogged performance in losing to Spaniard David Ferrer 6-2, 6-4, 6-4 in the second round to bow out of the tournament.

After the match, the crowd on Rod Laver Arena stood as one to pay tribute to a brilliant career, as Hewitt bade farewell to the Open and to professional tennis as a player.