Catherine Hardwicke (Twilight) is set to direct and executive produce the first two episodes of USA Network‘s 10-episode straight-to-series drama Eyewitness. Tyler Young has been cast as one of the two young leads in the project, an adaptation of the Norwegian crime thriller Øyevitne. Additionally, Scott Peters (V) has joined as an executive producer and will direct multiple episodes of the Universal Cable Prods. series, from Shades Of Blue creator Adi Hasak, who wrote it and will serve as executive producer/showrunner. The original series’ creator Jarl Emsell Larsen will executive produce.

Eyewitness, in the popular Nordic noir genre, explores a grisly crime from the point of view of the eyewitnesses. In it, two innocent teenage boys secretly meet up in the forest where they bear witness to a shooting and barely escape with their lives. Desperate to keep their relationship a secret and in fear of being found by the perpetrator, they remain silent but soon learn that what has been seen cannot be unseen and when you witness a horrible event it changes everything, forever.

Young will play one of the two teenagers, Philip O’Brien. A sensitive yet tough boy from the projects who’s seen more pain than anyone ever should, he gets a shot to start over with his foster mother, Helen, in an idyllic small town. There, Philip’s on the verge of falling in love with a boy from school, Lukas, when they witness a quadruple murder.

The series will begin production in Canada later this year and is set to premiere in 2016 on USA.

Hardwicke delved in the teen psyche with her breakout feature debut, Thirteen. She most recently directed Miss You Already, starring Drew Barrymore and Toni Collette, which premiered at the 2015 Toronto Film Festival. Her TV credits include Hell On Wheels, Low Winter Sun, and the pilot of Reckless. She is repped by CAA and Manage-ment.

Peters, who most recently directed USA’s freshman drama Colony, is repped by Rothman Brecher, Andrea Simon Entertainment and attorney Neil Meyer.

Young, who has appeared on Empire and Chicago Fire, is repped by Authentic Talent Management and Gray Talent Group.