What are these records?

These records in series WO 98 are the registers of the Victoria Cross between 1856 and 1944.

The Victoria Cross (VC) is the highest award available to the armed forces for gallantry in action with the enemy. It was originally made from the bronze cannon captured during the Crimean War (1854-1856). At first it was awarded only to British Army and Royal Navy personnel, but it was subsequently given to members of the other armed forces.

What information do the records contain?

The Victoria Cross registers may contain information about:

when the award was made

by whom and to whom the award was made

if it was a posthumous award

The registers are heavily annotated. They were used when organising the 100th anniversary celebrations of the creation of the Victoria Cross, when many more recipients were still alive.

How do I search the records?

You can search and download (£) the records in Discovery, our catalogue, by filling in the form below.

You do not need to fill out every field to search these records.

Alternatively you can download free of charge a list of the recipients of the Victoria Cross from 1856 up to 1946 (CAB 106/320). This list was produced in 1953 and includes two awards made during the Korean War (1950-1953) and so provides a more complete picture.

What do the records look like?

The examples below illustrate what an entry on the Victoria Cross registers look like. The rank, name and corps of the inidividual are listed, as are the actions for which they are recommended. Hand-written notes can also be seen, providing further details on the individuals awarded the Victoria Cross.

Sidney Godley was the first private to be awarded the Victoria Cross during the First World War. Lieutenant G Bromhead was the basis for Michael Caine’s character in the film Zulu.

Record showing Private Sidney Godley (PDF, 0.82MB)

Record showing Lieutenant G Bromhead (PDF, 0.30MB)

Why can’t I find what I’m looking for?

Of the more than 1,350 awards made, including three bars, only 1,236 people have been recorded in the registers.

Information not contained in the registers

The following table lists those recipients of the Victoria Cross whose names do not appear in the registers. These volumes include all awards gazetted to 1 September 1944.