This is quite an important monument though it is rarely visited or mentioned in guide books, probably due to it's location and the relative difficulty in accessing it. Hosh al-Basha is an Arabic name meaning, ‘Funerary Courtyard of the Pasha’, which was given to the Royal family graveyards and more specifically, the (many) descendants of Mohammed Ali’s family.

The tomb complex was built in 1854 and in it are buried Mohammed Ali’s wives, children, the close and devoted servants, distinguished statesmen and counsellors. The tomb complex was first built for the burial of Mohammed Ali's sons, the adopted Ibrahim Pasha (or Ibrahim Paşa, 1789-1848) and the eldest Tusun Pasha (or Tosun Paşa, 1794-1816) who died in their father's lifetime.

The six-domed complex still shows much of its original luxurious and rich state. The portal entrance leads to a large open courtyard which is now abandoned and dusty, but was once a lush garden with several water basins. The entrance leads one through a roofed axial corridor with columns on both sides from where you can also step down into the courtyard.

From each corner of the courtyard, one can get a different but fascinating view of the ribbed domes overlapping the courtyard. The façades are all carefully decorated with gypsum window openings that all reflect marvellous shades of light through the coloured glass in the interior chambers, creating rainbows of diffused and subtle lighting.

Mohammed Ali (r. 1805-1848) was to known to be very attentive to his family and in particular the education of his children. The glory and power he enjoyed did not prevent him from personally attending the examinations of his sons and grandsons in order to reassure himself of their skills in science and art and their dedication to their nation and their commitment to its love and defense.

Ibrahim Pasha, the eldest (adopted) son was born in 1789 in the village of Nasrtali, a village near Cavalla, currently located in the East Macedonia and Thrace periphery of Greece. This town was also native to his adoptive father. He came to Egypt in 1805 and took up residence in the Citadel when his father assumed the position of Ottoman Viceroy of Egypt. When Mohammed Ali went to Arabia to prosecute the war against the Wahhabis in 1813, Ibrahim was left in command of Upper Egypt. He continued the war with the broken power of the Mamluks, whom he suppressed. Ibrahim advocated the use of means of Western civilization into Egypt.

Tusun Pasha was Mohamed Ali's eldest son (second only to the adopted Ibrahim Pasha). He commanded the campaign against the Wahabis at the age of 16 and achieved several victories. After the Wahabis sued for a truce, Tusun returned to Egypt. His father then sent him to Berinbal near Rashid on a military mission; however, on the way he was stricken with a plague and died in 1815. His body was brought back to Cairo for burial.

Following the death of his brother Tusun Pasha, Ibrahim was appointed commander of the Egyptian forces in the Hijaz campaign. He died on 10 November 1848.

The third son, Ismail Kamel Pasha was born in Nasrtali and was Egypt's ambassador to the Ottoman Court. After his return from Istanbul where he was accorded a grand reception, Mohamed Ali appointed him governor of the area of Boulaq, then general commander of the Sudanese campaign. In Sudan, King Nimr succeeded in luring the young general into a trap sent him to Cairo burning in fire.

Abbas I (1813 -1854) was a son of Tusunn Pasha and grandson of Mohammed Ali. As a young man, Abbas fought in Syria under Ibrahim Pasha. The death of Ibrahim made Abbas regent of Egypt. The following August of 1849, on the death of Mohammed Ali, Abbas succeeded to the pashalik, becoming the Pasha.

In July 1854 he was murdered in Benha Palace by two of his slaves, and was later succeeded by his uncle, Said Pasha.

Mohamed Said Pasha was the only son of Mohammed Ali who completed his studies and attained higher educational certificates. Mohamed Said joined the navy in which he rose to admiral of the Egyptian fleet.

He had a very strict upbringing. His father often scolded him for his obesity and punished him for his extravagance. When, one day, Mohamed Ali learned that Said had borrowed a considerable sum of money, he personally went and sold his son's furniture in order to pay off his debts. Following the peace treaty between Mohamed Ali and the sultan, Mohamed Said traveled to Istanbul where he was granted the ranks of admiral and pasha.

Mohamed Abdel-Halim Pasha was born in 1831 and educated by Ottoman and foreign instructors. He did not participate in the Egyptian revival. Rather, he traveled to Paris with Prince Mustafa Fadel and the Khedive Ismail to complete his studies.

Mohamed Ali junior was born in 1833 and died in 1861. He was the youngest of Mohammed Ali's sons. Mohamed Ali displayed a special affection for this son and enjoyed displaying his intelligence before foreign guests.