MOULTRIE, Ga. -- Olin Bridges, 93, of Moultrie, Ga., died Sunday, October 15, 2017 at Colquitt Regional Medical Center. Graveside rites, with military honors, will be held at 2:00PM Tuesday, October 17, 2017 at Hopewell Cemetery with the Rev. Saunders Pinckard officiating. Born July 18, 1924 in Colquitt County, he was the son of the late Noah Williamson Bridges and Ella Estelle Sasser Bridges. Mr. Bridges was an Army veteran, a farmer and a member of Evelyn United Methodist Church. His family remembers how he was loved by all his family and his favorite saying was "I love you more." In addition to his parents, he was preceded in death by his son, Jerry Olin Bridges; three brothers, Willie D. Bridges, Douglas Bridges and Royce Bridges; two sisters, Annie Lee Goldsmith and Pauline Bridges. Survivors include his wife of 70 years, Avis Mae Austin Bridges of Moultrie, Ga.; three children, Peggy Bridges Rowley and John, Glenda Bridges Allegood and Jimmy, all of Moultrie, Ga., Dale Bridges Metcalfe and Curt of Smyrna, Ga.; four grandchildren, Mandy Galphin and Mark, John Bradley Rowley and Carrie, Will Rowley and Sarah, Jo Beth Rowley; six great-grandchildren, Abbie Galphin, Katie Galphin, Anna Brooke Rowley, Allie Grace Rowley, Ella Rowley and Owen Rowley; brother, Ezra Bridges and Rosa of Charlottesville, Va. Cobb Funeral Chapel has been entrusted with arrangements. Please sign the online guestbook at .

Published on October 16, 2017

Plant a Living Memorial

In Memory of OlinHow does it work?

Send Flowers: When Is the Ordering Deadline?

Next-Day Delivery

ANY DAY OF THE WEEK

Order any time up till the day before

Same-Day Delivery

MON-FRI Order by 2:00PM

SAT & SUN Order by noon

Morning Delivery

TUES-SAT Order by 3:00PM

The day before

SAT & SUN Order by Saturday

Note: These are general guidelines; some florists may not be able to operate within these timelines. During peak periods such as Valentine’s Day, Memorial Day and most holidays, florists are not always able to keep up to demand. Tribute will contact you if there are any issues.

Plant a tree: How does it work

When your purchase is complete, a post will be made on the tribute wall of the deceased signifying the planting of a memorial tree.

An official certificate recognizing your purchase will be included with your email receipt. You can then forward the email to the family or print it and give it to them personally.

After an order is placed, our forestry partners will plant the tree in the area of greatest need (nearest the funeral home), according to the planting schedule for the year.

Due to seasonal conditions, the tree planting takes place during the spring and summer.

Tree Planting Timeline

Orders placed in:

January - May

Planting will take place in Spring or Summer of the same year.

June - December

Planting will take place in Spring of the following year.

Hide Detail

In Memory of Olin

Plant a tree How it Works Plant a tree