Sam Stosur has been keeping a very special secret, and what a secret-keeper she is.

The Australian tennis star is a new mum, after her partner Liz gave birth to the couple's first child, a daughter last month.

She shared the news on Instagram on Monday night along with a photo showing her smiling widely next to Liz, who is cradling their baby who they named Genevieve.

Stosur shared the photo along with the caption: "Life in lockdown during coronavirus has been challenging in many ways but personally it's been one of the most exciting and happy times of my life.

"On the 16th of June, my partner Liz gave birth to our beautiful little girl, Genevieve. It has been a whirlwind time but we could not imagine life without her now.

"We are absolutely in love with this little bundle and rolling with the happy chaos. We can't wait for what's to come and to watch little Evie grow up … Although not too quickly we hope!"

Among the first to congratulate the couple was Tennis Australia who said: "Congratulations Sam and Liz on the safe arrival of beautiful Evie, with love from the tennis family."

Asic Tennis commented: "Congratulations Sam!"

Next up it was the Australian Open's official Instagram account sharing their congratulations with the post: "Major congrats! Welcome to the world, Genevieve."

RELATED: Sam Stosur deserves so much more than to be an Australian Open punchline

Former star tennis player Todd Woodbridge also send the couple his best, saying: "Such brilliant news, congrats Sam and Liz and welcome to the world Evie."

Stosur was born in Brisbane and has been playing tennis since the age of eight when she was given a racquet for Christmas.

She travelled overseas to the World Youth Cup in Indonesia at the age of 13 and at 14 joined the Queensland Academy of sport before moving to the Australian Institute of Sport in 2001.

Since then she has forged a stellar career made up of incredible peaks and troughs.

Stosur, who still plays professionally and has done since 1999, has won three doubles major titles and has been ranked number one in doubles.

The US Open champion also reached a World Tennis Association ranking of fourth in 2011 but has since fallen to 97th.

She most recently lost in the first round of the Australian Open in January 2020.