The Los Angeles Lakers have been tipped to consider JJ Redick as their next head coach following the departure of Darvin Ham after a disappointing postseason that saw them eliminated by the Denver Nuggets.

Ham was shown the door despite leading the Lakers to the Western Conference Finals last season, where they were beaten by the eventual champion Nuggets, and bounced back to win the inaugural in-season tournament back in December.

However, his two-year stint with the team came to an abrupt end when they were outplayed in the first round of this year's playoffs, losing to the Nuggets, for a second successive season, in just five games.

With the Lakers now on the hunt for a new leader to guide stars like LeBron James and Anthony Davis, former Laker Matt Barnes has thrown JJ Redick's name into the mix.

READ MORE: Anthony Edwards is the emerging NBA superstar who faces ultimate test against champions

READ MORE: New York Knicks' unaired LeBron James pitch video featuring 'final Sopranos scene' leaks

Despite acknowledging the intense pressure and scrutiny that comes with the role, Barnes highlighted Redick's sharp basketball intellect and suggested he's up for the challenge.

"JJ's a great mind, he definitely deserves a shot," Barnes expressed to TMZ. "That Lakers seat is always going to be a hot seat, and it's always going to be a fall seat. So whoever takes it better be ready. Gotta have tough skin."

Redick's potential candidacy is further bolstered by his strong rapport with LeBron James, with whom he co-hosts the podcast "Mind the Game", a collaboration between James' Uninterrupted and Redick's ThreeFourTwo Productions, reports the Mirror US.

In their video series, James and Redick delve deep into the intricacies of basketball, providing fans with an exceptional understanding of the game. They share personal experiences and expertise to guide viewers through the sport's various elements, such as plays, actions, and jargon.

For all the latest on news, politics, sports, and showbiz from the USA, go to The Mirror US .

The Lakers are lining up interviews with potential candidates like Redick, who has gained significant attention due to his successful transition into a key voice in basketball media. His podcast "The Old Man and the Three" has featured interviews with some of the biggest names in the game, such as Kevin Durant and Victor Wembanyama.

Redick was considered for coaching positions with the Toronto Raptors last year and the Charlotte Hornets recently. Although there were whispers about him joining the Boston Celtics' coaching staff in 2022, he ultimately declined.

This week, ex-NBA champ Byron Scott proposed that LeBron James should take on the role of player-coach for the Lakers. Known for his readiness to switch coaches during challenging times, Scott suggested that the 39 year old superstar might as well coach the team himself.

"Make LeBron the coach," Scott declared on Undisputed, facing off with Skip Bayless. "I got nothing but love and respect for LeBron. I love him and I think he's one of the greatest players that ever played this game. But it's obvious to me that he's making a lot of decisions that is going on in this [Lakers] organization from a coaches and players standpoint."

"So if you're going to allow him to make those decisions, sit on the bench and make those decisions as well. Be the head coach."