Get More at Your Sevierville Rent-A-Center on Dolly Parton Pkwy

Are you ready to upgrade your home with better furniture, appliances, computers, smartphones, and electronics? Have you had your eye on a new TV, video game console, or computer, but are worried about the cost? What about appliances for your home, such as a dishwasher or a stove? At Rent-A-Center, you don't have to worry about the stress of a long-term commitment to your furniture, appliances, smartphones, computers, or electronics. Get flexible payment options and no long-term commitment!** Maybe you're in need of new furniture in your home office, dining room, or den. Whatever you need, we can help you find it. Thanks to our Worry-Free Guarantee, you can enjoy a great number of benefits when renting the best furniture, smartphones, appliances, computers, and electronics brands from us. In addition to taking care of delivery and setup of your items, we repair broken items at no additional cost.** We even provide you with a loaner, if needed, while we complete the work!** Furthermore, there are so many methods of payment to choose from that you can easily find your perfect plan. Pay cash, purchase early, or make fixed payments that never change—whatever you need!

Stop by your local Rent-A-Center at 817 Dolly Parton Pkwy to check out our worry-free payment plans, plus try out all of our great rent-to-own furniture, smartphones, appliances, computers, and electronics. With a variety of trusted brands like Whirlpool and LG, we carry a variety of appliances to fit your needs. From basic televisions to state-of-the-art smart TVs, to the top computers and gaming consoles—they're all available at your local store. We even have furniture and decor from all kinds of major brands to give you the top selection for your home. With Rent-A-Center, owning your own furniture, appliances, computers, smartphones, and electronics is easier than ever. Just browse our inventory online, call our store, or visit us at 817 Dolly Parton Pkwy ! See how products from your local Rent-A-Center can change the way you look at your home!