Approaches

A model: Peiresc

Mersenne, the mid-century and instrumentation

11The empirical world of Mersenne and the savants of mid-17th century France whom he wished to see work together, was filled with measurements—of bricks and metals before and after heating, or of human bodies alive and dead to see if the latter gained in weight; of observations of the behaviour of magnets, the movements of the heavenly bodies, (the positions of which could also be measured), of the behaviour of mercury in tubes, or the crystalline structure of snowflakes. Bizzarities in the form of monstrous births or outlandish medical conditions were regularly recorded and some systematic programmes of investigative research, such as those into the figuring of lenses, were undertaken. If they were not all particularly fruitful, they nonetheless had the common aim of dispelling popular error. This was a primary objective.

12Measurement, observation, recording however were not simple, nor inexpensive, activities. All required instruments and apparatus. Empirical investigation of the natural world at anything beyond the most superficial level involved the acquisition, development, understanding and use of a wide range of instruments. It therefore implied, and required, the services of several different craft skills at a high level of competence. It was here in the artisan world of production, of mechanics and technicians that the new empiricism of natural philosophers met, and fused, with the old-established activity of practical mathematics.

15Philippe Danfrie was an outstanding maker and would have been at any period. In the variety of his activities however he was entirely typical of his age. The men who serviced the mathematical practitioners of the 16th and 17th centuries were seldom yet the specialists they would become in the 18th century. Rather they were general ‘mechanicians’ building up a range of competences on the basis of training in one particular activity. Many of them were primarily horologists, others general metalworkers, founders or engravers, still others specialists in ivory, tortoiseshell or precious woods, others again were enamellers or glass-workers. Whatever the case, it is the variety of skills and the adaptability of their possessors, which was of importance to Peiresc, Mersenne and the members of their circles, the increasing number of amateurs of nature, of mathematical practitioners, of investigators and inventors in Paris and the regions. Capable artisans in precision technology would be called upon to respond both to new needs for instruments and apparatus stemming from savants and natural philosophers, and to the development of inventions, tools, and machines requisite for an expanding society intent upon improvement.

Hartlib and his Paris correspondents

18This was to interpret Mersenne as if he was framed in Hartlib’s mould rather than his own. Hartlib, haunted by a sense of man’s fallen state and dependence upon God’s providence could never have the same confidence in rational philosophy as Descartes, Mersenne or Gassendi. In his Ephemerides for 1639, immediately after notes which derive from the letters recently received by Haak from Mersenne, Hartlib comments.

44 Ephemerides 1639 30/4/26B.

The greatest philosophers should address themselves more to God in prayers and in holy life and so they should finde out more the secrets of Nature then ever they have done.

Eg we see it in Cartes glosses though his demonstrations bee never so punctual yet it will not doe the reason is because God is so little regarded in the matter as if human wit were able to accomplish all.

And it may be an obvious small matter is wanting which God hides of purpose from his and other exp<eriment>s .

Pell, Mersenne, Haak and magnetism

48 Ephemerides 29/313A

Gelebrands variation of the needle a Rare Experilent if 2. Or 3. More (one not knowing of the other) had lighted by the same rules or <calculations> observations upon the same Experiment. Wats’ .

28One of the phenomena that particularly intrigued Mersenne was the difference in the attractive power displayed by the same magnet when it was capped and when it was uncapped. These differences Mersenne wanted to assess in relation with the weight of the stone itself, and he eventually decided to base judgement of the quality of a lodestone purely on its attractive power when unarmed.

66 To Haak 28 November 1640, C. de Waardet al (eds), Correspondance du P. Marin Mersenne, op. cit., i (...)

If you can see the lodestone [of Samual Ward], that draws twenty-three pounds capped, uncapped and bare, let me know how much it weighs and how much iron it attracts. I have the weakest of the said late Ward, but I was told that it attracted ten pounds of iron capped, and I find that it only draws seven, and that with difficulty… It is a strange business that uncapped it lifts no more than an ounce of iron, and capped it lifts 112 ounces. You see that the caps deceive us marvellously, and that it essential to see how much it carries completely bare to know whether they are good; that is why we prefer a natural stone, not shaped and naked, than one that is armed. And it will be good if it lifts as much as its own weight, especially if it a bit large: for example if it weighs one of several pounds, or at least half a pound and that it lifts more or less as much. I tell you this so that you will know how to choose .

Daniel Chorez

Jean Le Maire

35Many of the inventions reported to Hartlib were of little importance. They were ideas still to be worked out, curiosities with little or no application, devices so specific to a particular context that they could only with great difficulty, if at all, be adapted for use elsewhere. Most are mentioned once and then heard of no more. A few however provoked strong interestand a sustained enquiry. By way of example the numerous projects associated with Jean Le Maire may briefly be examined.

For I have seen the Man long since, and was (with Honourable Countess of Claire) to see his Musicall instrument which is Harmonious, he hath many things jn his head, butt is not befriended by the best Professors of sciences and knowledge jn these parts, which want none that are excellent; he is a Narcissus of him selfe, and heady on his Inventions; he hath jnvented new names to the Notes of Musick, as iff you should say Ra, instead of Ré, which passeth for idle among the Musicians.

Differences and Influences

40What seemed incomprehensible to Haak, Hartlib and others of their circle dedicated to the publicising of new inventions and the free circulation of ideas, was perfectly evident to the inventors themselves. Inventions were made in the hope of gain. Privileges such as Le Maire obtained were needed to protect them; patronage and support were required to execute them. Lack of such things could inhibit discovery. This was exactly one of the reasons Oldenburg adduced in explaining to Hartlib why

98 2 July 1659, The Correspondence of Henry Oldenburg, i, op. cit., 278.

I doubt very much, whether ye French will produce any great matter in point of Tubes, or chymistry, or any mechaniques; They have not yt required steddiness; and besides, they complaine of want of encouragement by men of power and means; witness they say, Monsr Chorez, who had the same invention, yt Mr Dymocks hath, but for want of assuring him of a recompence for putting it into practise and for discovering it to others, he took it wth him into his grave .