INDIANAPOLIS--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (NAS: RJET) today announced that it has reached a tentative agreement (TA) on a new five-year contract with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT) Local 135 Flight Attendants. Local 135 represents over 2,000 Flight Attendants for Chautauqua Airlines, Republic Airlines and Shuttle America.

The proposed contract includes increases in pay, improvements in quality of life and more flexibility in scheduling. The TA still must be presented to union members for review and a ratification vote, which is expected to be held in July.

"We are very pleased to have reached an agreement that reflects the many contributions our Flight Attendants make on a daily basis in providing a safe and exceptional onboard experience. It not only provides the economics that allow the Company to remain competitive as we pursue additional business opportunities but also recognizes the vital role our Flight Attendants have made in making our Company's successful," said Republic Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Wayne Heller.

"This TA reflects the dedication and hard work of the Local and Company's negotiating committees," said Heller. "We thank the representatives of Local 135 for their professionalism and commitment in obtaining an agreement on behalf of their members."

Republic Airways Holdings, based in Indianapolis, Indiana, is an airline holding company that owns Chautauqua Airlines, Frontier Airlines, Republic Airlines and Shuttle America, collectively "the airlines." The airlines operate a combined fleet of more than 285 aircraft and offer scheduled passenger service on nearly 1,500 flights daily to over 146 cities in the U.S. as well as to the Bahamas, Canada, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Mexico and Turks and Caicos Islands under branded operations at Frontier, and through fixed-fee flights operated under airline partner brands, including AmericanConnection, Delta Connection, United Express, and US Airways Express. The airlines currently employ approximately 10,000 aviation professionals. For more information on Republic Airways, please visit our website at www.rjet.com.

Republic Airways Holdings

Peter Kowalchuk, 317-471-2470

KEYWORDS: United States North America Indiana

INDUSTRY KEYWORDS:

The article Republic Airways, IBT Local 135 Flight Attendants Reach Tentative Contract Agreement originally appeared on Fool.com.

Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.