Michael F. Glass has starred in 3 movies. The 5 most recent movies Michael F. Glass was in are listed below.

Next is the list of 66 actors/actresses that Michael F. Glass has worked with spread over 4 pages. The list is sorted by the people Michael F. Glass has worked most frequently with. When you find the person you are looking for, click on the link to view a list of movies they have worked in together.

If you decide instead to click on a movie with Michael F. Glass, it will display the top billed cast. If the cast members have starred together in other movies; beneath the cast member a list will display.

Michael F. Glass's Filmography

Ding Dong

(1995)

as Policeman

Lovedolls Superstar

(1986)

as Matt Dylan

Desperate Teenage Lovedolls

(1984)

as Matt

See full filmography

Annette Zilinskas and Michael F. Glass

Annette Zilinskas and Michael F. Glass have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Annette Zilinskas and Michael F. Glass starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Janet Housden and Michael F. Glass

Janet Housden and Michael F. Glass have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Janet Housden and Michael F. Glass starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Tracy Marshak-Nash and Michael F. Glass

Tracy Marshak-Nash and Michael F. Glass have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Tracy Marshak-Nash and Michael F. Glass starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

David Markey and Michael F. Glass

David Markey and Michael F. Glass have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that David Markey and Michael F. Glass starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Victoria Peterson and Michael F. Glass

Victoria Peterson and Michael F. Glass have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Victoria Peterson and Michael F. Glass starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Jeffrey McDonald and Michael F. Glass

Jeffrey McDonald and Michael F. Glass have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Jeffrey McDonald and Michael F. Glass starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Kim Pilkington and Michael F. Glass

Kim Pilkington and Michael F. Glass have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Kim Pilkington and Michael F. Glass starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Steve McDonald and Michael F. Glass

Steve McDonald and Michael F. Glass have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Steve McDonald and Michael F. Glass starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Hilary Rubens and Michael F. Glass

Hilary Rubens and Michael F. Glass have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Hilary Rubens and Michael F. Glass starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Sky Saxon and Michael F. Glass

Sky Saxon and Michael F. Glass have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Sky Saxon and Michael F. Glass starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Jennifer Schwartz and Michael F. Glass

Jennifer Schwartz and Michael F. Glass have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Jennifer Schwartz and Michael F. Glass starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Jordan Schwartz and Michael F. Glass

Jordan Schwartz and Michael F. Glass have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Jordan Schwartz and Michael F. Glass starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Sandra Kinder and Michael F. Glass

Sandra Kinder and Michael F. Glass have starred in 1 movie together. Their first film was Ding Dong in 1995.

John Boskovich and Michael F. Glass

John Boskovich and Michael F. Glass have starred in 1 movie together. Their first film was Ding Dong in 1995.

Laura Ludwig and Michael F. Glass

Laura Ludwig and Michael F. Glass have starred in 1 movie together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984.

Carmel Moran and Michael F. Glass

Carmel Moran and Michael F. Glass have starred in 1 movie together. Their first film was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986.

Lisa Beezley and Michael F. Glass

Lisa Beezley and Michael F. Glass have starred in 1 movie together. Their first film was Ding Dong in 1995.

Victor Makauskas and Michael F. Glass

Victor Makauskas and Michael F. Glass have starred in 1 movie together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984.

Robert Hecker and Michael F. Glass

Robert Hecker and Michael F. Glass have starred in 1 movie together. Their first film was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986.

David Glass and Michael F. Glass

David Glass and Michael F. Glass have starred in 1 movie together. Their first film was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986.

1 | 2 | 3 | 4