Jordan Schwartz has starred in 3 movies. The 5 most recent movies Jordan Schwartz was in are listed below.

Next is the list of 56 actors/actresses that Jordan Schwartz has worked with spread over 3 pages. The list is sorted by the people Jordan Schwartz has worked most frequently with. When you find the person you are looking for, click on the link to view a list of movies they have worked in together.

If you decide instead to click on a movie with Jordan Schwartz, it will display the top billed cast. If the cast members have starred together in other movies; beneath the cast member a list will display.

Jordan Schwartz's Filmography

Citizen Tania

(1989)

as Barry Swindelberg

Lovedolls Superstar

(1986)

as Brews Springstien

Desperate Teenage Lovedolls

(1984)

as Doctor, Mom

See full filmography

David Markey and Jordan Schwartz

David Markey and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 3 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that David Markey and Jordan Schwartz starred together was Citizen Tania in 1989

Jennifer Schwartz and Jordan Schwartz

Jennifer Schwartz and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 3 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Jennifer Schwartz and Jordan Schwartz starred together was Citizen Tania in 1989

Victoria Peterson and Jordan Schwartz

Victoria Peterson and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Victoria Peterson and Jordan Schwartz starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Steve McDonald and Jordan Schwartz

Steve McDonald and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Steve McDonald and Jordan Schwartz starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Kim Pilkington and Jordan Schwartz

Kim Pilkington and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Kim Pilkington and Jordan Schwartz starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Sky Saxon and Jordan Schwartz

Sky Saxon and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Sky Saxon and Jordan Schwartz starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Hilary Rubens and Jordan Schwartz

Hilary Rubens and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Hilary Rubens and Jordan Schwartz starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Robert Hecker and Jordan Schwartz

Robert Hecker and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986. The most recent movie that Robert Hecker and Jordan Schwartz starred together was Citizen Tania in 1989

Annette Zilinskas and Jordan Schwartz

Annette Zilinskas and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Annette Zilinskas and Jordan Schwartz starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Dez Cadena and Jordan Schwartz

Dez Cadena and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Dez Cadena and Jordan Schwartz starred together was Citizen Tania in 1989

Janet Housden and Jordan Schwartz

Janet Housden and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Janet Housden and Jordan Schwartz starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Michael F. Glass and Jordan Schwartz

Michael F. Glass and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Michael F. Glass and Jordan Schwartz starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Tracy Marshak-Nash and Jordan Schwartz

Tracy Marshak-Nash and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Tracy Marshak-Nash and Jordan Schwartz starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Jeffrey McDonald and Jordan Schwartz

Jeffrey McDonald and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 2 movies together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984. The most recent movie that Jeffrey McDonald and Jordan Schwartz starred together was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986

Shannon Smith and Jordan Schwartz

Shannon Smith and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 1 movie together. Their first film was Citizen Tania in 1989.

Herb Lienau and Jordan Schwartz

Herb Lienau and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 1 movie together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984.

Modi Frank and Jordan Schwartz

Modi Frank and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 1 movie together. Their first film was Lovedolls Superstar in 1986.

Nelson Tarpenny and Jordan Schwartz

Nelson Tarpenny and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 1 movie together. Their first film was Citizen Tania in 1989.

Mark Hendershot and Jordan Schwartz

Mark Hendershot and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 1 movie together. Their first film was Citizen Tania in 1989.

Stephanie Shaw and Jordan Schwartz

Stephanie Shaw and Jordan Schwartz have starred in 1 movie together. Their first film was Desperate Teenage Lovedolls in 1984.

1 | 2 | 3