According to the National Association of Independent Schools, over the last ten years, the average tuition at independent day schools has risen 54%. During the same time period, the U.S. Census Bureau indicates median household incomes have risen only 38%. The disconnect between rising tuition rates and family income correlates with college education increases and has made private schools increasingly beyond reach for most families. While financial aid budgets have also increased notably during this time, in many cases they have not kept pace with the increasing disparities. With the reVision Tuition Plan, Nashoba Brooks is one of the first independent schools in New England to think innovatively about the traditional financial model in order to reduce tuition costs.

The reVision TuitionPlan is the result of careful analysis and discussion on the part of the Board of Trustees to implement the School’s Strategic Directions launched in 2014. Over the past several years, we have committed to assessing our financial model with a focus on creating Inspired Education through innovation, inclusivity, and impact. As one of the key strategic imperatives of this plan, Nashoba Brooks School is committed to building a more diverse, equitable, and inclusive community by expanding our outreach and making the School more accessible and affordable for families who are a strong fit for our program.

Starting in the fall of 2021, the new tuition plan provides three years of visibility into annual tuition costs for Nashoba Brooks families. Over a three-year time frame, Nashoba Brooks is reducing tuition by an average of 5% each year for an average total reduction of 15%. The chart below shows the previous tuition trajectory in red and the new model in blue:

The net impact of these changes is that the average tuition amount in 2023-2024 will be almost $9500 less than it would have been if the School retained its previous financial model and executed typical annual tuition increases of approximately 3.5%.

This plan is a culmination of years of research and conversations that reflect Nashoba Brooks School’s mission. We have factored the evolving economic environment into our decisions, and decided that now, more than ever, is a critical moment to implement this new financial model. We have a healthy endowment, strong campus development, and, of course, an incredible community of dedicated employees, parents, and students.