Our financial aid program is need-based, and is designed to make Brooks School accessible to qualified students.

We accomplish this goal by bridging the gap between what a family can afford and the actual cost of a Brooks education. Although we are unable to fund all families interested in Brooks, we understand the difficulty in financing an independent school education, and will do all that we can to help make this educational opportunity possible.

We are proud to award $6 million+ in financial aid to students each year. (Currently, 35 percent of Brooks School students receive financial aid).

The average financial aid award = $51,000Because we cannot provide aid to all of our qualified applicants, Brooks will wait-list an applicant who qualifies for financial aid if we do not have both financial aid and a place available. Once an applicant who qualifies for financial aid has been wait-listed, both a place and financial aid must become available before that applicant will be taken off the wait-list.

Those applicants interested in applying for financial aid should check the appropriate box on the inquiry form and application.

Brooks School uses the Clarity Application to determine a family’s level of financial need based on the information that families share in the application which includes assets, income, expenses, and debts.

To get started, please go to the Clarity Application and create an account. The application typically takes less than 30 minutes to complete. The application is also mobile-friendly so you can complete it from anywhere. You are able to save your progress and return at any time. At the end of the application, there is a $60 fee to submit.

The deadline for completing the financial aid application including relevant supplemental documents is December 31, 2024 for returning families and January 15, 2025 for new applicants. Applications received after the applicant date are considered as long as funds remain available. Decisions on financial aid awards accompany acceptances and enrollment contracts.

If you do not believe that you can afford the cost of a Brooks education, then you should apply for financial aid. If you do not qualify for need-based financial aid, we may call and ask if you want your child to be considered for admission without aid.