Metal Sludge — The Bret Michaels Band has just announced exclusively to Metal Sludge that their newest touring member will be ‘Stormin’ Norman Voss.

Voss will replace the band’s bassist Eric Brittingham (Cinderella) who is taking a leave of absence for what is perceived to be the rest of 2021.

The band’s long-time guitarist and music director Pete Evick, has reached out to Metal Sludge directly with their official announcement.

Brittingham has been playing with Bret Michaels Band since May of 2016.

Evick has been a staple in the Poison singer’s solo band for nearly 2 decades.

See the full statement below.

——————————————–

For Immediate Release August 28th 2021

Long time friend and permanent member of Bret Michaels Band ERIC BRITTINGHAM, who is best known as a founding member of the iconic 80’s rock band Cinderella will be staying of the road for what will be probably be the rest of 2021.

Due to the current situation with the pandemic Eric has made this personal choice with the complete support of Rock Icon / Reality TV Star Bret Michaels and His Guitarist / Music Director of the last 17 years Pete Evick.

Filling in for Eric will be Pete’s long time friend Stormin Norman Voss. Normal has performed and recorded with Pete countless times over the years and was an obvious choice for this last minute decision. Norman brings an incredible amount of energy to the mix with an undeniable positive attitude. Norman not only had the Songs but the set and show down within a matter of hours.

Bret flew his jet into Manassas Virginia for a quick rehearsal prior to Saturday’s sold out show in Oregon. The Poison Frontman who is part of the sold out “The Stadium Tour” along with Motley Crue and Def Leppard in 2022 connected with Norman instantly and within the hour was excited to welcome Voss to the family.

“We wish Eric the best and can’t wait till his return but until then Norman is gonna be an awesome addition.”

Check out the all new Bret Michaels Behind the music special now streaming on paramount plus!

Bret Michaels @ WebSite – Facebook – Twitter – Instagram – Tour – Store –