Just off the Santa Monica freeway, tucked away on an industrial side street, proud home to TSP. Cleaner, America’s Finest Products Corporation and the local animal shelter, is James Newton Howard Inc., unmarked and steel-doored. Buzzed inside on a recent blustery afternoon, one is met by a be-jeaned secretary and a gleaming, moderne interior of brushed woods and sleek furnishings, an oasis amid urban grime.

James Newton Howard, the film composer, strolls down the hallway to greet a visitor. He is a tall and slender man with close-cropped gray hair, round tortoise-shell eyeglasses and a friendly manner. After offering a cup of fresh coffee from the kitchen (just behind the secretary’s desk), he takes his guest into one of the composing rooms. It’s a hushed, restfully lit place, dominated by the wide arch of a desk anchored by a MIDI keyboard and topped with a quartet of computer screens. From behind it Howard can gaze at another screen on the wall that shows the films he’s scoring. A bust of Beethoven, with a ball cap perched on top of it, sits to the left of the movie screen. A pair of candles flicker on the right side of the desk.

“Actually, John Williams was here yesterday, mixing something and we were talking,” Howard said. “And he was (here Howard does his best Williams imitation), ‘James I’m so impressed, it’s so amazing what you’ve got going on here, and how you’ve built all this up, and it’s so comfortable and it’s incredible.'”

Nominated for an Academy Award for his “Defiance” film score, a recent winner of a Grammy for his work with Hans Zimmer on “The Dark Knight,” Howard is nevertheless out of his comfort zone these days. He has just finished composing and delivering his first piece of symphonic music, slated for a world premiere by the Pacific Symphony in Costa Mesa on Feb. 26. Dubbed “I Would Plant a Tree,” the 19-minute piece for large orchestra took him eight months to compose.

“I felt a little bit lost in the wilderness,” Howard said of composing the piece. Also, “nervous” and “anxious” and “intimidated.”

“I know that the classical world has resisted film composers throwing their hat into the classical concert music ring,” he said. “And you know I don’t think that’s totally without justification. I think sometimes it seems to me there is a built in automatic prejudice against the whole idea of it. And it’s very difficult to overcome that stigma.”

GIVING FILM COMPOSERS THEIR DUE

That stigma is the subtext of this year’s American Composers Festival. The Pacific Symphony’s annual event will be focused on “Hollywood’s Golden Age” and features, along with Howard’s piece, the music of legendary film composers Bernard Herrmann, Erich Wolfgang Korngold and Miklós Rósza. While all three composers enjoyed hugely successful careers in film, they craved recognition on the concert stage as serious classical composers, but were mainly spurned. The ACF aims to address the prejudices these composers faced by performing their film and concert pieces side by side.

We’ll hear a suite from Herrmann’s score to Alfred Hitchcock’s “Vertigo” alongside his radio melodrama “The City of Brass,” for orchestra and narrator, based on a Kipling poem. We’ll hear Korngold’s Theme and Variations from “Kings Row” (a film that starred Ronald Reagan, among others) together with the scherzo from his Symphony in F-sharp. We’ll also hear Rósza’s “Parade of the Charioteers” from “Ben-Hur” juxtaposed to his Theme and Variations for Violin, Cello and Orchestra, Op. 29a.

“I think every classically trained film composer feels to some extent, maybe on some level, that they took the low road,” Howard said, “that they could have maybe pursued a career in the concert music world, and perhaps been involved in a higher quality of music.”

The irony is, of course, that film composers, while not exactly welcome in the exclusive classical club, are much better paid that their strictly classical counterparts.

Howard himself, though once a keyboardist and arranger for Elton John, is a classically trained pianist who attended the Music Academy of the West and USC. He has long wanted to write a classical piece, and turned down more lucrative movie work when the Pacific Symphony gave him the opportunity to do so.

“As a film composer I deal with short bursts of musical ideas that are defined to a large extent by what’s happening on the screen, by not only narrative and action, but staying out of the way of dialogue, sound effects,” Howard said.

“So there are many considerations. In a way it’s a very elaborate structure within which I work. That can also be very comforting, because one is not so vulnerable and you’re merely supporting the film. I don’t mean merely supporting the film – that’s a big job, and that’s a very difficult job. But you are in collaboration with another medium.”

In a concert piece, conversely, there’s nowhere for a composer to hide. He must sustain interest by himself, develop musical ideas and design structure, and forge a complete art work in and of itself.

“I found that among other things one of the first issues I had to confront was learning to be more patient with my musical ideas, because I didn’t have to stop,” Howard said. “In other words, I could start an idea and then there wasn’t a car driving into frame or somebody getting shot. So I was able to stay with an idea much longer. That proved to be liberating, but also very challenging.”

A FAST START, A SUDDEN STOP

At first, the musical ideas for his first concert piece came rushing to him.

“I got off to a roaring start, and I remember writing about that first seven or eight minutes.” But then, he says, he hit a wall. Without even so much as a title for the piece, Howard couldn’t find his way forward. Then, he found it, or it found him.

“I came across this quote, I think it was in an interview with Werner Herzog that I first heard it, and he was talking about that Martin Luther, who, when asked what he would do if he knew the world were ending tomorrow, said, ‘Even if I knew that tomorrow the world would go to pieces I would still plant my apple tree.'”

Struck by the “positivity” of that statement, Howard now had a story line for his piece. Though “I Would Plant a Tree” follows no explicit narrative, it traces an arc from “birth and beginnings” through “torturous complexity” to arrive at “someplace of a sanguine sort of calm,” reconnected with the effortlessness of childhood.

Howard describes “I Would Plant a Tree” as tonal and melodic, with touches of minimalism, Romanticism and jazz. The “tortuous complexity” is created through the use of dense contrapuntal and polyrhythmic writing. “I wanted to feel a sense of ordered chaos,” he said.

The piece uses a mostly standard orchestra without electronics (electronics are a hallmark of his film scores), but includes parts for nine trumpets, five clarinets and plastic chairs, which create a particular thump when hit, the idea of Howard’s co-orchestrator Conrad Pope.

Howard also had a little help from Pacific Symphony conductor Carl St.Clair, who sent the composer some notes after hearing a demo of the piece.

“He had some incredible notes for me. It was just an idea and I liked what he said so much and it touched on a couple of things that I was feeling unsure about. And so, as is my wont – the only way to deal with these issues is just to completely erase everything at a certain point and just kind of do it again, which I was happy to do. And now that part, the ending, the last four minutes of the piece, I think there’s a good payoff now.”

Howard won’t be able to make the first rehearsal of “I Would Plant a Tree.” He’ll be attending the Oscars ceremony. But he thinks it’s just as well that he’s out of the way. He’s a little jumpy at this point.

He is satisfied with “I Would Plant Tree,” however, and would like to write more symphonic music.

“I do like the piece,” he says, smiling. “I think it’s a good piece.”

Now all he has to do is stop worrying about what anybody else thinks.

“Yeah,” he says, “I’ll try and get there.”