The stock deal is expected to give Lucent the expertise in Internet-style communications technology it needs to better compete.

Lucent Technologies Inc. is buying Ascend Communications Inc. in an $18.7-billion stock deal that reflects the growing influence of the Internet on the telecommunications industry.

As the lines blur between telephone, cable and the Internet, the companies that make equipment for these industries are quickly pairing up.

The deal, which had been widely expected, was announced Wednesday and followed Lucent's $1.5-billion agreement this week to purchase Kenan Systems Corp., which makes software for billing and customer service.

Lucent is the world's No. 1 phone equipmentmaker. Ascend is a major supplier of computer networking gear, and is expected to provide the expertise in Internet-style communications technology Lucent needs to better compete.

"The real thing that's happened is the emergence of the Internet and data transmission," said John Zahurancik, vice president of international telecommunications for Strategis, a consulting firm in Washington. The Lucent-Ascend deal signals "how important data networking is to the world of telecommunications."

Underscoring that point, Canada's Northern Telecom Ltd., the world's second-largest maker of phone equipment, announced Wednesday that it would eliminate 8,000 jobs and sell plants over the next three years to focus its business on the Internet.

While most U.S. consumers take for granted that they can pick up a phone and easily call anywhere in the world, soon it will be just as effortless for a business to send e-mail, files or video.

The market is lucrative and growing.

The $400-billion networking communications industry is expected to expand to $650-billion by 2001, said Rich McGinn, Lucent's chairman and chief executive.

Buying Ascend fills gaps in Lucent's product line with the addition of Ascend's equipment designed to help telecommuters hook up to their headquarters, and to assist businesses in creating their own computer and telephone networks.

Lucent and Ascend also are working on equipment that allows consumers and businesses to make local and long-distance phone calls over the Internet.

"It's a very strategic fit," said Liza Henderson, director of consulting for TeliChoice Inc., a telecommunications consulting firm in Boston.

The risk, however, as with many mergers, is that Ascend's employees will defect to competitors or start their own firms. Ascend, which is based in Alameda, Calif., had its own problem with fleet-footed employees when it bought Cascade Communications Corp. in 1997.

"There's a war for talent around the world," said Dan Stanzione, chief operating officer of Lucent. But, he said, "We're getting our fair share and then some. . . . They want to work for market leaders."

Mory Ejabat, 48, Ascend's president and chief executive, will stay on for a six- to 12- month transition period, and then leave the company. The acquisition is expected to close in May.

Lucent plans to create a new Broadband Networks Group, which will include Ascend's operations, Kenan Systems, as well as Lucent's data, optical and communications software groups.

Reports of Lucent's acquisition of Ascend had been circulating for several days, but top-level negotiations started in June.

Under the deal announced Wednesday, each share of Ascend will be exchanged for 0.825 shares of Lucent.

Lucent's stock fell $3.62{ to $104.25 on the New York Stock Exchange in a market that was unsettled by Brazil's financial turmoil.

That values each Ascend share at $86, or 14.8 percent more than Ascend's closing price of $74.93} a share Tuesday, before the deal was announced. Ascend's shares rose $5.37{ Wednesday to $80.31\ on the Nasdaq Stock Market.