Generations of football heroes paid tribute to the life of Sir Alex Ferguson's wife Lady Cathy at her funeral in Glasgow on Monday.

The 84-year-old passed away at the start of October following battles with her health in the weeks leading up to her death, with many paying tribute to her role as a 'tower of strength' for the heavily-decorated former Manchester United manager.

Among the mourners who gathered at St Andrew's Cathedral in the Scottish city were players who starred for Ferguson during his time at Old Trafford, including former United captain Steve Bruce.

The ex-Newcastle manager - who won the Premier League three times for his former head coach - looked downcast as he gathered with fellow attendees following the service for Lady Cathy.

Bruce was joined by another of Ferguson's players in the form of Bryan Robson, the longest-serving captain in Man United's history.

Your browser does not support iframes.

Robson - who made 345 appearances for United - was named by Ferguson as his greatest captain throughout managerial career, and the two men continue to share a strong bond.

Liverpool legend Sir Kenny Dalglish was one of Ferguson's greatest adversaries in a competitive rivalry first forged when they came up against one another in the reserves' Old Firm derby in the late 1960s

But the pair shared a deep respect for one another, and Dalglish's attendance on Monday was a testament to their mutual admiration and support.

Alongside the older generation were appearances from former players who have stayed close to the groundbreaking manager, including David Beckham, Gary Neville, Nicky Butt, Park Ji-sung, Darren Fletcher, and Michael Carrick.

Former Leicester and Celtic manager Brendan Rodgers was also in attendance, and was seen greeting Beckham warmly after the end of the service.

On an emotional day, Ferguson's son Jason gave the eulogy for his late mother, sharing that the family had welcomed her great granddaughter just days after her death.

'Last Saturday, two days after my mum passed, there was a little girl born in Aberdeen, my granddaughter, my mum and dad's great granddaughter,' he said.

'And that little girl is called Isla Cathleen, and that's a tribute, the perfect tribute. And believe it or not, just before we walked in here today, my son's wife went into labour. You couldn't make it up.

'That is what my mum was all about, she was all about family, you know. I used to ask myself a question about my mum and dad, are they really simple, basic people, or are they actually really complicated people.

'I think the answer is they are both the same. They are complicated people who are underpinned by simple basic values.

'As a family, we are obviously devastated but right now standing here I am happy, I'm happy she got the send off my dad wanted.

'I'm happy she got the send off she deserves and I am happy she is at peace.

'My dad said to me the other day, which that I thought sums it up - that "the Gorbals girl has come home". God bless you mum.'

Due to preparations ahead of Monday's service, Ferguson was unable to attend his annual charity gala dinner at the Hilton Hotel on Friday evening.

But the 81-year-old prepared a speech to be read out in his absence to the hundreds of guests present, who described it as 'very emotional'.

Sir Alex has been raising money for the NHS through the annual gala dinner since surgeons at the Salford Royal neurological unit saved his life following a brain haemorrhage in 2018.

Both Manchester United teams paid tribute to Lady Cathy's death after it was confirmed on October 6, with the men's team wearing black armbands during their last Premier League clash before the international break against Brentford.

The women's side also sported black armbands for their WSL fixture against Arsenal.

Lady Cathy's presence alongside her husband has frequently seen her described as the 'bedrock' that made his spectacular managerial success possible.

When he announced his retirement as United manager in 2013 after an unprecedented period of success for the Red Devils, Sir Alex said: 'My wife Cathy has been the key figure throughout my career, providing a bedrock of both stability and encouragement.

'Words are not enough to express what this has meant to me.'

In 2002, Lady Cathy had been instrumental in convincing Ferguson to reverse his decision to retire at that point, going on to manage the club for a further 11 years before eventually calling time after the death of Cathy's sister.

Recalling the conversation they had when he first tried to retire, Sir Alex said: 'One, your health is good. Two, I'm not having you in the house. And three, you're too young anyway.'