A widely known and successful lawyer of Amherst is W. Frederick Donkin, whose earlier years were devoted to mercantile pursuits. Being energetic, a man of progressive ideas and honorable impulses he has succeeded in both business and professional lines and is one of the influential citizens of northern Nova Scotia.

Mr. Donkin was born at Amherst, June 25, 1854, and is a son of Charles G. and Susan M. (Fuller) Donkin. The father was also a native of Amherst, born in 1812, was one of the oldest residents of this place at the time of his death in 1894. The mother of our subject was born at Horton, Kings County, this Province, in 1827 and died in 1909. William Donkin, our subject’s grandfather, was also a native of Amherst, his parents being among the early pioneers of this section of Nova Scotia, in fact, there were but four houses in Amherst at the time of William Donkin’s birth, in 1785. He died in 1875. The progenitors of the Donkin family came from Yorkshire, England.

W. Frederick Donkin received his education in the schools of Amherst and in Mount Allison University at Sackville. Returning home after his college days he began his active life as a merchant, but later began reading law under Charles R. Smith, K. C., also the late Judge Rigby, then a member of the firm of McDonald, Rigby & Tupper, the latter being Sir Charles Hibbert Tupper. Our subject was admitted to the bar December 19, 1881. Soon thereafter he began the practice of his profession in Amherst and has remained here to the present time, enjoying a large clientage and ranking very high among his professional brethren in the Maritime Provinces.

Mr. Donkin was married September 17, 1891, to Lizzie T. Avard, a daughter of John and Nancy (Dobson) Avard, of Great Shemogue, New Brunswick. To this union one child has been born – Charles A. Donkin, whose birth occurred in September, 1892; he has been given excellent educational advantages, and was graduated from Mount Allison University with the degree of Bachelor of Arts. He is at home with his parents.

Politically, Mr. Donkin is a Liberal. He was appointed town clerk and treasurer of Amherst on January 12, 1890, and has served in these offices continuously ever since. He is also deputy stipendiary magistrate of the town. He has discharged the duties of these positions in a faithful and acceptable manner. Religiously, he is a Methodist. Fraternally, he belongs to the Masonic Order, including the Ancient Arabic Order of Nobles of the Mystic Shrine, and has held the office of deputy grand master of the Grand Lodge of Nova Scotia.