Oscar-nominated actor Chris Sarandon joins The Art of Kindness with Robert Peterpaul for a holiday special! The star discusses working on Tim Burton's The Nightmare Before Christmas, acts of kindness he received throughout his illustrious acting career and much more.

Chris Sarandon was born and raised in West Virginia to restaurateurs Chris and Cliffie Sarandon. He eventually earned a degree in speech at West Virginia University and then a master's degree in theater from The Catholic University of America. In 1968, Sarandon settled in New York City, where he obtained his first television credit on the series The Guiding Light, which led to some TV movie roles before he made his acclaimed turn in Dog Day Afternoon in 1975. The performance earned him nominations for Best New Male Star of the Year at the Golden Globes and even the coveted Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.

Some of his other screen roles over the years include: the long-running series ER, co-starring with Dennis Hopper in the 1983 movie The Osterman Weekend, starring opposite Goldie Hawn in Protocol, and the cult classic horror film Fright Night. Of course, Chris is forever remembered for his endearing turn in The Princess Bride, leading the film Child’s Play and then voicing the main character of Jack Skellington for one of the most beloved holiday films of all time: Tim Burton’s The Nightmare Before Christmas. Since it’s the Broadway Podcast Network, we also have to note that Sarandon has appeared on Broadway many times, including: The Rothschilds, The Two Gentlemen of Verona, and The Light in the Piazza.

Check out Chris' new podcast Cooking By Heart and find out more at www.chrissarandon.com.

Got kindness tips or stories? Please email us:

artofkindnesspodcast@gmail.com

Follow Chris

@theofficialchrissarandon

Follow us

@artofkindnesspod / @robpeterpaul

Support the show!

(https://www.buymeacoffee.com/theaok)

Music:

"Awake" by Ricky Alvarez, "The Nightmare Before Christmas" suite by Danny Elfman/Munich Radio Orchestra & "Sunshine" by Lemon Music Studio.

We are supported by the Broadway Podcast Network.