Barbra Streisand is a name synonymous with unmatched talent, extraordinary achievements, and timeless artistry.

With a career spanning over six decades, Barbra – thanks to her powerful voice, iconic performances, and countless accolades – has conquered the realms of music, film, theatre, and activism, leaving an indelible mark on the entertainment industry.

But now, Barbra’s set to conquer the literary world. Wondering, does Barbra Streisand have a memoir?

Yes. Barbra Streisand’s memoir, My Name is Barbra, was released on November 7, 2023. You can order it now at Booktopia.

The EGOT winner has released a memoir that promises to provide an intimate glimpse into her remarkable journey, from her early days in Brooklyn to her meteoric rise to stardom and her ongoing impact on culture.

Read on to find out everything you need to know about Barbra Streisand’s memoir, My Name is Barbra.

Did Barbra Streisand write her autobiography?

It looks like Barbra wrote My Name is Barbra herself, without the help of a ghostwriter; a rarity in celebrity memoirs these days…

How long is Barbra Streisand’s memoir?

The hardcover edition of My Name is Barbra is 992 pages long.

The memoir covers Barbra’s recollections of multiple facets of her life including – but not limited to – her upbringing in Brooklyn, her breakout performance in Funny Girl, her political advocacy, the making of Yentl, her friendships with notable figures such as Marlon Brando and Madeleine Albright, and her marriage to James Brolin.

Barbra also recalls meeting Princess Diana in My Name is Barbra. Apparently, in 1992 during the London premiere of The Prince of Tides, the late Princess of Wales helped Barbra avoid a wardrobe malfunction.

“The zipper on my skirt had come down a bit as I was sitting, and she noticed and quickly started to zip it up for me as I got to my feet… When I finally sat down, Diana turned to me and asked, ‘Do you know how wonderful you are?’”

“I thought Diana was wonderful. I wonder if she knew how wonderful she was,” Barbra continued.