Back in 1994 the BBC finally bowed to pressure from persistent ‘The Day Today’ sports reporter Alan Partridge and gave him his own chat show, ‘Knowing Me, Knowing You’ on BBC Two.

Twenty years on, the character portrayed by Manchester’s Steve Coogan, is known all round the world for his awkward presenting style and his interesting TV show ideas.

After impressing the BBC bosses with his sports reporting including some informative horse racing analysis as well as an expert preview of the 1994 World Cup, Alan was given the prime time slot on BBC Two.

However, things didn’t go well for Alan in his first episode as star guest Roger Moore failed to show up after getting stuck in traffic on his way from Heathrow Airport and things weren’t helped when a horse had a large accident on the studio floor.

Despite Knowing Me, Knowing You being cancelled after only one series Alan wasn’t finished in broadcasting as he returned back home to Norfolk to host his early morning radio show on Radio Norwich.

Still presenting now on North Norfolk Digital, Alan has provided some excellent moments for viewers in those twenty years.

So here are five classic Partridge I have selected.

DAN – I’m Alan Partridge Series Two Episode Three – Brave Alan

Alan’s awkward nature around people has meant he struggles to make many permanent friends, so when he bonds with Kitchen Planet owner Dan over a shared love of Lexi (Plural for Lexus cars) he thinks he found a new best friend.

In this episode of ‘I’m Alan Partridge’, Dan asks Alan to present at the Norfolk bravery awards.

The clip which everyone remembers is when Alan spots Dan in the car park before the event and tries to grab his attention.

Despite his best efforts Dan is unable to hear Alan’s loud screaming of his name in a sketch which has been replicated time and time again.

As for Dan and Alan’s friendship, it ended when Alan discovered Dan and his wife were in fact swingers who wanted to lure him into the bed after finding his feature ‘Alan’s deep bath’ particularly arousing.

Smell My Cheese – I’m Alan Partridge Series One Episode One – A Room with an Alan

Alan is in serious trouble; he’s living in Linton Travel Tavern after separating from his wife Carol and has been called to a crisis meeting with BBC head of programmes Tony Hayers.

The meeting is to discuss whether ‘Knowing Me, Knowing You’ will get a second series and in order to impress Tony, he has thought of some new ideas for TV shows to prove he’s versatile.

However, Tony isn’t impressed with Alan’s idea’s which include: ‘Arm Wrestling with Chas and Dav’, ‘Youth Hostelling with Chris Eubank’ and the most well-known, ‘Monkey Tennis’.

The head of programme then tells Alan that he won’t be getting a second series of his chat show due to poor ratings.

Alan doesn’t take the news well and ruins his chances with the BBC as he attacks Tony with a large lump of cheese in the BBC restaurant.

Crash bang wallop what a video – I’m Alan Partridge Series Two Episode One – The Talented Mr Alan

Having been dismissed from the BBC and his marriage with Carol falling to pieces, Alan seeks comfort in Swiss chocolate Toblerone.

Unfortunately for Alan it culminates in him gaining a vast amount of weight as he becomes addicted and only ends when he over indulges during a drive to Dundee in his bare feet where he is rescued by loyal assistant Lynn Benfield.

Alan though bounces back as he gets an improved slot on Radio Norwich presenting ‘Norfolk Nights’ as well hosting military based game show ‘Skirmish’ on UK Conquest.

Eager to show off Alan persuades his former teacher to let him speak to the children at his old secondary school.

He shows them a clip of ‘Crash Bang Wallop what a Video’ a car crash tape which unfortunately highlights Alan’s vast weight gain.

A Partridge in Paris – Knowing Me, Knowing You Series One Episode Four

To celebrate the opening of the Channel Tunnel it is decided that ‘Knowing Me, Knowing You’ should be presented live from Paris.

Alan eager to show off his knowledge of French culture invites a famous chef and a fashion designer onto the show.

To impress the fashion designer he comes up with a range of clothes which he describes as ‘sports casual’.

He showcases these in a feature called ‘A Partridge in Paris’ where Alan models the ‘sports casual’ look against the backdrop of Paris’ most famous landmarks.

The Spy Who Loved Me – I’m Alan Partridge Series Two Episode Four – Never Say Alan Again

Bank holiday weekend and Alan has the perfect way to spend it, watching all the James Bond movies with his Geordie friend Michael and Ukrainian girlfriend Sonja.

But disaster strikes when Lynn still on a high after celebrating her pay rise trips over spilling two jugs of Sunny Delight on Alan’s James Bonds videos destroying them.

Fortunately for Alan his favourite Bond film, ‘The Spy Who Loved Me’, was with Michael and therefore still in tack.

Or so it seemed as when Alan get the video back from Michael he finds that it has been tapped over with an episode of ‘America’s Strongest Man’.

A distraught Alan getting frustrated with his friends’ knowledge of the Roger Moore film decides he can’t take anymore so he decides to recreate the opening of the movie to much amusement.

If you have your own favourite Partridge moment which isn’t in our top five feel free to comment and post a clip of it below.