Knowing Me, Knowing You with Alan Partridge – the comedy chat show first broadcast in 1994 – is perhaps best remembered for Alan’s “A-ha!” catchphrase (indeed, it’s dogged both Partridge and alter-ego Steve Coogan ever since: see Coogan shouting “A-ha!” into the northern wilderness in The Trip).

But it was Alan’s other catchphrase which best surmised the show. “And on that bombshell,” Alan would always say in the closing moments, exuding Clarkson-esque vigour, as the show befell some new disaster of Alan’s own making.

The six-part series ended with a literal killer bombshell: Alan shooting one of his guests on live TV – the belligerent restaurant critic Forbes McAllister – with an antique pistol. “I’ll have to speak to the police, they’re here now,” said a panic-stricken Alan (though not too panic stricken to remind viewers he was opening a Texas Homecare the following month). “On that fatal bombshell… A-ha!”

It wasn’t shooting a guest that killed Alan’s chance of a second series – the pursuit of which fuelled the next 25 years of comedy misadventures – it was the unfestive carnage of his Christmas special, Knowing Me, Knowing Yule. That Alan was commissioned a Christmas special after committing manslaughter on live television was a joke itself. “That’s sort of unmentioned,” laughs Knowing Me, Knowing You co-writer Patrick Marber. “I think he probably got off on a minor charge or misdemeanour.”

Knowing Me, Knowing Yule is a sometimes-overlooked sidebar in the Partridge canon but – gag-for-gag, meltdown-for-meltdown – could be Alan’s finest hour (well, 45 minutes) on television. It's as sharp and tragic as anything Alan has ever done. Broadcast on December 29, 1995 – “live” from a studio mock-up of Alan’s actual home – it’s a pivotal moment in the career of Alan Gordon Partridge.

Alan was created for the Radio 4's 1991 news spoof On the Hour, which later transferred to BBC Two as The Day Today. Originally, Alan was cast as a John Motson-like sports presenter. It was Patrick Marber's idea to give Alan his own chat show. Knowing Me, Knowing You debuted on Radio 4 in December 1992 and moved to BBC Two in September 1994.

Knowing Me, Knowing You drew inspiration from what David Schneider calls “comfy cardigan chat” – a burgeoning trend in the early Nineties. “Just as The Day Today was preying on news, Knowing Me, Knowing You was preying on chat shows and morning TV,” says Schneider. “It was contemporary in that way – morning TV was really just exploding. I think that was Steve’s great talent – to swallow all these different people, whether it was Alan Titchmarsh or Richard Madeley or John Motson, and come up with this amalgam that you immediately recognised.”

The set-up is simpler than Alan’s Geordie pal Michael: a chat show host who’s inherently terrible with people. “That’s the fundamental of it,” says Patrick Marber. “A man unqualified to be a chat show host, being a chat show host. It’s not a complicated joke but it’s a good one. He doesn’t even like people in Knowing Me, Knowing You, I don’t think. The guests are a sort of impediment. A lot of them have been imposed on him. There’s a lot of resentment.”

On the Hour/The Day Today alumni Rebecca Front, David Schneider, Doon Mackichan, and Patrick Marber played most of the guests – all doomed to fall out with Alan in some way. Largely, they were too talented, successful, or smart for Alan to handle – or somehow assaulted his Little Englander worldview.

Among the best (or worst) guests were zany TV personality Keith Hunt (Marber), who quickly falls out with Alan; Daniella Forest (Minnie Driver), a sex expert who Alan fancies – until he discovers she’s trans (a prejudice that would see Alan cancelled in 2020); Tony Le Mesmer (David Schneider), a magician who hypnotises Alan into thinking he’s a “little scary monster”; Terry Norton (Alan Ford), an East End gangster; and Shona McGough (Doon Mackichan), a raucous punk rocker.

“We were always trying to think of characters that suited the actors we had, but also would get on Alan’s tits,” says Marber. “Some of the funniest ones are when the character hates Alan and Alan hates the character, but the other type is when Alan thinks he’s going to love a guest and then turns out to hate them.”

The fallings-out were always down to Alan’s ham-fisted approach: interfering with Keith Hunt’s custody rights; staging a dramatic reconstruction of a murder, which gets him on the wrong side of prime suspect Terry Norton (“You wanna get sucked in?” Terry warns Alan with Krays-like menace. “I’ll suck you in so far you’ll get blown out the other side”); or sacking his band leader, Glenn Ponder (Steve Brown), for not inviting him to a party.

“There’s terrible cruelty in Alan,” says Marber. “He’s an appallingly irresponsible chat show host.”

The pleasure of the follow-up sitcom series, I’m Alan Partridge, was seeing Alan at his lowest ebb – comeuppance for his social inadequacies and cynical ambition. But the pleasure of Knowing Me, Knowing You is seeing Alan in his career pomp, atop the proverbial ladder, and wielding a modicum of power. Much like his later mistreatment of downtrodden PA Lynn Benfield (Felicity Montagu), it’s an alarming insight into the man – or more specifically, the ego – behind the badge and blazer combo.

These days, there’s more empathy in Alan – he’s reached near-national treasure status. But in the mid-Nineties, much less so. “I thought he was a monster,” says Patrick Marber about early Alan. “The funny thing was, he represented monstrous middle England, and a particular emerging post-Thatcherite little man. He was like a lot of Tory MPs of that period. I loved him but I never liked him.”

Twenty-five years on, Patrick Marber doesn’t recall how the idea for Knowing Me, Knowing Yule began – other than being spurred on by the festive, pun-tastic title.

“I think we made it because the title was so good,” laughs Marber. “But Christmas is very much Alan territory. It’s a festival of naff and vulgarity. You knew immediately that he’d have a great sweater and that he’d want a Christmas special. It would be very important to him. It’s a status thing in the BBC light ents world.”

Speaking on the DVD commentary, producer and co-writer Armando Iannucci recalled that the idea of Alan’s mock-up home was inspired by an old Russell Harty Christmas show. It is, like the rest of the special, a revealing glimpse into the real Alan Partridge: his paid-for party guests, a dodgy portrait of himself in the study, and his prized possession – a genuine 18th Century Queen Anne wardrobe (“Hollowed out to include a 36-inch television and companion video!”)

Interviewees include Christian bell-ringer Mary (Rebecca Front), who, despite being a peripheral guest – Alan’s words, not mine – uses her brief airtime to complain about declining moral standards at the BBC and child pornography. Alan quickly talks her down. “Have you seen Noel’s House Party?” he says. “That’s the kind of show this is. Keep it light.”

Also, Fanny Thomas (Kevin Eldon), a drag act-cum-celebrity chef whose relentless sexual innuendo goes up Alan the wrong way (“Ooh, pardon!”); paralysed golfer Gordon Heron and irritating wife Liz (Patrick Marber and Doon Mackichan); the actual Mick Hucknall; and Tony Hayers (David Schneider), the Chief Commissioning Editor of the BBC. Tony Hayers had been introduced on the radio series and made his TV debut here – perfect foil for Alan’s impending Christmas crack-up.

As David Schneider recalls it, Hayers embodied a trend of “pen pushers rather than creative people” in management roles at the BBC. “There were definitely a couple of appointments that didn’t really have a TV background,” says Schneider. “Young swashbuckling types out of business management school. Not that anyone cares, it’s just whether it’s funny or not. But there was a truth to that. The fact you had Tony Hayers there brings that desperation. You really feel like there’s a lot at stake for Partridge.”

Alan convinces himself that if the Christmas special goes well (it won’t) Tony Hayers will give him a second series. Consequently, Alan teeters on the precipice of a career high – just one awkward clanger away from ruinous freefall. He quickly stumbles into tactless topics that include his own career (“Please boss, tell me I’ve got a second series!”) and Tony Hayers being Jewish (“Knowing you, Tony Hayers, Jew – knowing me, Alan Partridge, Jew liker”).

“It felt cringey but you’re sort of on his side,” says Schneider. “That’s when Partridge is at his best. We’ve all been in a Partridge-y situation. We’ve all said slightly the wrong thing to someone we want to impress, or to someone who has a bit of power over us. That was crystalised nicely in that situation.”

Interviewing both Tony Hayers and Mary the bell-ringer on the sofa, Alan displays the full gamut of his personality foibles, from cringe-inducing brown-nosery to condescending contempt. But Alan’s comedic reflexes are as fast as ever, and his barbs just as pointed. When puritan Mary protests about the “pornographic” BBC and its apparent depiction of masturbation, Alan asks: “Look luv, what’s your problem with it?” “I don’t like it.” “Well don’t do it.”

In another moment of back-of-the-net brilliance, Alan takes viewers on a tour of Norwich: running around the cathedral cloisters in small shorts and his “digital headset telecom communicator”; giving out shop-soiled toys to sick kids who have never heard of him (“It’s very rude to say that, actually”); and enjoying an afterhours trip to Tandy, where he checks out the action – very nice action – on the new-fangled CD players. It’s a precision-perfect study of Alan in his natural habitat. “It’s at times like these, simply browsing among electrical goods at Tandy, that I know who I truly am,” he says. “I’m Alan Partridge.”

As expected, Knowing Me, Knowing Yule turns into an escalation of disasters: gone-off mince pies; product placement of the new Rover Vitesse Fastback (“The best executive car I’ve ever had”); a failed attempt to pull the world’s biggest cracker; a 12 Days of Christmas dance number that’s abandoned after four calling birds; and a cock-up with Fanny Thomas (“Ohh, pardon”).

“The show’s still going well, and I believe that,” says Partridge amid the chaos, failing to convince even himself, never mind Tony Hayers.

In the final meltdown, Alan, with some half-stuffed poultry stuck to his hand, punches out the wheelchair-confined Gordon Heron. “We knew we wanted him to hit a man in a wheelchair with a turkey at one point,” says Patrick Marber. “One of the starting premises was ‘on that bombshell’ and you sort of worked backwards from there. You’d say, ‘What’s a great festive bombshell? What’s something that he shouldn’t do? Oh yeah, he could do that…’”

The real bombshell, though, comes when Alan admits his wife left him on Christmas Eve. “I spent Christmas Day all on my own here,” he pleads. “Well, not here, this is a mock-up.” It’s the moment that really peels back the layers – the smarm, spite, and Pringle sweaters – to reveal the tragedy of Alan Partridge underneath. “I’ll get help!” Alan pleads to Tony Hayers. “Please don’t take my chat away from me!” When Tony Hayers threatens that Alan will never work in television again, Alan wallops the Chief Commissioning Editor with a turkey-assisted right hook.

“I’ll never work in broadcasting again... and on that bombshell,” whimpers Alan, before letting out a slightly more deranged and mad-eyed “A-ha!” than usual. Needless to say, it’s Mick Hucknall has the last laugh – singing Ding Dong Merrily on High as he side-eyes Alan’s meltdown.

Looking back, Patrick Marber thinks Alan’s desire for a second series tapped into what was happening behind the camera – the comedy success of the On the Hour crew.

“I love seeing Alan in all his glory,” says Marber, “but beneath it there’s a terrible desperation – that it might not go to a second series, that it might be a disaster but no one’s telling him. But I guess that played into how we were all feeling. There was truth in it. Suddenly we had the keys to this little kingdom. You immediately fear that you’ll have a flop and the circus will leave town.”

On either side of reality, there was little chance of Alan landing a second series of the chat show. “Armando’s opinion, as the producer, was paramount,” says Marber. “He felt we’d done it. If we did it again it would just be more of the same. It made sense that Alan should go on a different journey. Wouldn’t it be more fun to plunge him down into the depths? I think that was a good call from Armando.”

Though Knowing Me, Knowing Yule marked the end of Alan’s career as TV presenter for many years, it captures the very best of Alan Partridge. It's the slickest material from his chat show format (“It’s a shame this is the last of the chat shows,” said Armando Iannucci on the DVD. “It’s got into its swing… Alan would have been quite pleased with this one”) but also the transition to the next evolution, not revolution, of Alan.

“With Knowing Me, Knowing Yule you see how the writers want to go further,” says David Schneider. “You see the excitement of us going from 'this is a funny show' to 'the really interesting thing is Partridge’s life'. It’s really the bridge into I’m Alan Partridge.”

Indeed, it’s all there: Alan’s nemesis Tony Hayers, soon to be the recipient of Alan’s worst pitches – “Monkey tennis?” – and a block of cheese to the face (“Smell my cheese, you mother!”); the concept of that ever-elusive second series; and the crumbling of both his personal and professional life, which ultimately leads Alan to the Linton Travel Tavern and his graveyard shift on Radio Norwich.

Peeling back the layers on Alan is a process that’s continued, making Alan richer and strangely more likeable over the years. There's a nice irony – “lovely stuff”, if you like – to the evolution of Alan. Originally, he was a man out of time, and desperately off-trend, but with each new format – through chat show, sitcom, webcam, film, documentary, books, and more recently, a podcast (and new writers, of course, including Peter Baynham, and now Rob and Neil Gibbons) – Alan has moved with the times. (In his podcast, From the Oasthouse, Alan revealed he’s voluntarily spent the last seven out of 11 Christmases alone – an emotional hangover from Knowing Me, Knowing Yule, perhaps.)

That modern times – the age of Brexit Britain, culture wars, and blundering incompetence – meant Alan finally got a second series in 2019, as co-presenter of This Time, could be the biggest bombshell of all. Even Tony Hayers was pleased for him. “I wanted to say well done, Alan,” laughs David Schneider. “The times have caught up with Partridge. Originally, the joke was that everything was PC and Partridge didn’t fit in. But he’s been around for so long – 25 years – you can see how things have changed and come round. That’s why he got his series again in a way – it’s Partridge’s time again. Partridge wins.”