Oliver Rathkolb’s biography of Baldur von Schirach, Schirach: Eine Generation zwischen Goethe und Hitler, describes the rise and fall of one of Hitler’s prodigies. Schirach, who had served as leader of the Hitler Youth, in 1940 was demoted by Hitler, who then appointed him as the Gauleiter of Vienna, a city then on the periphery of the Nazis’ Greater Germany. From 1940 to 1945, Schirach was responsible for the deportation of Vienna’s Jewish population in 1942. He also made key decisions in the cultural life of the city.

When Schirach arrived in Vienna, he replaced Josef Bürckel as Gauleiter. Bürckel had been ruthless against Vienna’s Jewish population, but Austrian Nazis disliked him because he was German and brought German staff with him to Vienna. The Austrian Nazis did not feel like they were profiting enough from the Anschluss; it was these gripes that Schirach was supposed to appease. The Anschluss to Nazi Germany had been a cultural demotion for the former capital of the Habsburg Monarchy, on which topic Bürckel had been deemed insensitive by Berlin. Schirach was supposed to remedy this but instead used his position in Vienna to promote events that were not in line with the expectations of Goebbels and Hitler. He founded a European Youth Association, which was supposed to serve as an umbrella organization for all Fascist youth movements of Europe, inviting delegations from various Fascist countries to attend games in Vienna. This kind of parallel foreign diplomacy, which implied a Europe of national fatherlands, was not appreciated in Berlin, which considered the German nation to be superior to all.

Culturally, Vienna experienced a variety of transformations. The Parliament was rededicated as the “Gauhaus,” a place for conventions. Under [End Page 191] Schirach’s leadership the remaining sixty thousand Jews in Vienna were deported to their deaths. However, at the Nuremberg trials Schirach escaped the death penalty, instead serving only twenty years in prison, after which he returned to civilian life in the mid-1960s, giving interviews and writing a book. Schirach’s partial American background, descending from Arthur Middleton, a signatory of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, and Schirach’s fluency in English likely contributed to him escaping a harsher sentence at the Nuremberg Trials.

One of the most fascinating chapters of the book for Austrianists is entitled “Verwienert,” which deals with Schirach’s spiteful cultural activities in Vienna that promoted a distinctive local culture that ran parallel to the Nazis’ desire for a unified conception of German culture. Rathkolb supplies several fascinating examples of these activities. In January 1941, Schirach celebrated a “Grillparzer Woche” (195) in honor of the writer’s 150th birthday. This was followed later that year by a “Mozart Woche.” In November 1942, Schirach invited Gerhart Hauptmann and Richard Strauss to the premiere of Florian Geyer at Vienna’s Burgtheater and celebrated Hauptmann’s birthday, at a time when Hauptmann was no longer favored by the regime. In April 1943, Hitler invited Schirach to Berchtesgaden and informed him of his displeasure over his activities in Vienna, much as he hadn’t appreciated Schirach’s self-directed activities with the Fascist Youth movements. The Nazis ultimately failed at suppressing Vienna’s distinct cultural heritage, and Schirach contributed to continued celebrations of Viennese culture, even if the offical rhetoric insisted that Vienna was part of a Greater Germany. When Austria was reconstituted in 1945, it was not difficult to find this distinct Viennese cultural identity, which would lay the foundation for the cultural heritage of the Second Republic.