EMIL THEODORE HLADISH

Emil T. Hladish, 94, Township of Harmony-Phillips, died on Wednesday, January 6, 2016, at the Aspirus Pleasant View Nursing Home, Phillips.

He was born on September 2, 1921, to proud Czech parents Anton and Frances (Kuchera) Hladish on the family farm in the Township of Harmony. He attended the Lake Ten Grade School. At the age of 14 he became a logger and a milk hauler then went into business with his brother Louis doing bulldozing, logging, and farming.. He was married to Beulah Gayle Hainy on May 13, 1944, in Phillips. He then continued his working career as a logger, farmer, and bulldozer operator as well as became a bus driver for the Phillips School District for 27 years prior to his retirement. Following his retirement he graded roads for the Township of Harmony. In his free time he was an avid baseball fan and especially enjoyed spending time with his family and friends. His wife Beulah Gayle preceded him in death on March 12, 1996.

He is survived by 1 daughter: Lynnette (Robert) McFadyen, Eau Claire, Wi., by 1 son Robert (Special friend Jean Hill),Catawba, Wi. by 5 grandchildren: Katie McFadyen, Eau Claire, Wi., Heidi McFadyen, St.Louis Park, Minn., Kelly Hladish –Haubert (Michael) Merrill, Wi. Lindsey (Fiance John Korbel) Hladish, Hudson, Wi., Bradley Hladish, Eau Claire, Wi., by 4 great grandchildren: Savannah Strasburg, Eau Claire, Wi., Myles, Jerzy, and Suttyn Haubert, all of Merrill, Wi.

He was preceded in death by his parents, by his wife Beulah Gayle, by 1 brother Louis, and by 2 sisters: Josephine Golz and Lydia Tennessen Perger.

A memorial service will be held at 11:00 A.M. on Saturday, January 16, 2016, at St.. Therese of Lisieux Catholic Church, with Pastor Dennis Perger officiating. Inurnment will take place at the Harmony Cemetery, Township of Harmony in the spring.

Friends may call after 9:30 A.M. on Saturday, Jan. 16, 2016, at St. Therese of Lisieux Catholic Church until the time of the service.

The Heindl Funeral Home, Phillips is in charge of the arrangements.

Online condolences may be expressed at www.heindlfuneralhome.com