The Combatribes (ザ・コンバットライブス, Za Konbattoraibusu?) is a 1990 beat 'em up game released for the arcades by Technōs Japan Corp. The game centers on three vigilantes who must fight against numerous street gangs in futuristic New York City. A home version for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System was released in 1992. The SNES version was released for the Wii Virtual Console in North America on November 30, 2009.

The game shares some similarities with two previous Technōs' games: Renegade and Double Dragon; emulating the former's gameplay style where the player must defeat a gauntlet of enemies in a closed arena, as well as visual similarities and choreographic moves often seen in the latter.

The game has been considered by some to be an spiritual successor of the Double Dragon series.

Gameplay[]

The player takes control of one of three strongmen, the titular "Combatribes":

Berserker: A blond-haired man in a blue outfit who is endowed with a balance of speed and strength.

Bullova: A man in a yellow outfit who is the strongest of the trio, but also the slowest.

Blitz: A long-haired man in a red outfit who has the most agile attacks, but lacks the strength of the other two characters.

The heroes boast a variety of unique techniques in addition to the standard punch and kick combos. They can also pick up certain large-sized objects and toss them over enemies.

The game is composed of six different stages set in unique locations, each featuring a themed gang. The majority of the stages are composed of a single playing field where the player must take on a set number of underlings before facing the gang's leader, similar to Renegade.

The final stage is a boss rush against all the previous gangs while chasing a big crime boss at the harbor. After the gangs are defeated once again, the crime boss is killed by a female cyborg named Martha Splatterhead. Martha then engages the player in a final battle.

Stages[]

Act Name Boss Music 1 The Motorcycle Nuclear Warheads in Times Square Fats "The Motorcycle Nuclear Warheads" 2 The Demon Clowns in Coney Island Salamander "Amusement Park Nightmare" 3 The Slash Skate Screamers at the Lexington Disco Trash "The Slash Skate Screamers" 4 The Stadium Barbarians in Harlem Wind-Walker "Place of S.O.D." 5 The Slaughter Troops at Ground Zero Headquarters Swastika "The Slaughter Troops" 6 The Final Battle Martha Splatterhead "The Final Battle (Martha Splatterhead)"

Credits[]

Arcade credits[]

Directed by: Atsushi Tanimoto (as A.Tanimoto) and Noriyuki Tomiyama (as N.Tomiyama)

Software: Naritaka Nishimura (as N.Nishimura), Takayuki Saito (as T.Saito), and Isamu Kanakubo (as I.Kanakubo)

Hardware: Kenji Nishikawa (as K.Nishikawa)

Character Design: Koji Ogata (as K.Ogata), H. Shibata (as H.Shibata), Tsutomu Andō (as T.Ando), and Toshiyuki Ōsumi (as T.Ohshumi)

BG Design: Shinichi Saitō (as S.Saito), Masamichi Katagiri (as M.Katagiri), Takehisa Izumiyama (as T.Izumiyama), and H. Sakamoto (as H.Sakamoto)

Music: Kazunaka Yamane (as K.Yamane)

Sound Effects: Kenichi Mori (as K.Mori)

Music Software: Michiya Hirasawa (as M.Hirasawa)

Special Thanks to: H. Sato, Shinichi Mori, A. Donnaloia , K. Iwamoto, M. Uchida, and Robert C. Ashworth (as R.Ashworth)

© 1990 Technōs Japan Corp.

SNES credits[]

Director: Yoshihisa Kishimoto

Producer: Noriyuki Tomiyama

Story: Atsushi Tanimoto

Software: Michiya Hirasawa and Seitarō Minayoshi (S. Minayoshi)

Character Designer: Tsutomu Andō, S. Inoue, and Takashige Shichijyo

Background Designer: Hidetoshi Fujioka, A. Hirasawa, and Yasuo Wakatsuki

Music: Kazunaka Yamane

Sound: Michiya Hirasawa and Tsukushi Sasaki

SE: Kenichi Mori

Production Designer: Tsutomu Andō and Kumiko Mukai

Special Thanks: Greg T. Rice, Atsuyuki Nishizawa (Nishizawa), Hiroyuki Sekimoto (Sekimoto), Naritaka Nishimura (Nishimura), Tanimoto, Kenji Nishikawa (Nishikawa), Hanya, Muneki Ebinuma (Ebinuma), Masakazu Yoshida (Yoshida), Suyama, Shinya Takeuchi (Takeuchi), Norihiro Sawada (Sawada), Naoki Kashiwabara (Kasiwabara), Hideki Hoshiya (Hoshiya), Katsuhiro Nakamura (Nakamura), Takayuki Ozawa (Ozawa), Manabu Taniguchi (Taniguchi), Yasuhiro Matsumoto (Matsumoto), Shimazu, Hayakawa, Suzuki, Miyashita, and Goto

Reception[]

Somewhere in May 1990, The Combatribes earned a high test market performance in the United States.[1] On their August 1, 1990 issue, Japanese publication Game Machine cited the game as the second most successful table arcade unit within the month of June.[2] In his January 30, 2005 retrospective review of The Combatribes, Matt Paprocki of Digital Press gave the arcade version 8 out of 10 points. He wrote, "The games stages are relatively short as is the game as a whole, but that's no reason NOT to play this one. It may not be as revered as say, Double Dragon, but this is still one of the better arcade games from the early 90's. It's not exactly Street Fighter II, it's just light years ahead of the countless knock off's that would come later."[3]

The SNES version of The Combatribes received mostly subpar reviews from critics, with Ação Games being one of the few to give it a perfect score of 4 out of 4. The magazine called the port similar to the arcade in terms of movements, graphics and soundtrack.[4] Joystick, a French publication, gave the SNES game 68%, criticizing it for its limited combat technique and only using two buttons on the controller for attacks.[5] U.K. magazine Computer and Video Games rated the title 51%, writing it off as "a horizontally scrolling beat-'em-up, in the vein of everything released since Renegade, with no new touches whatsoever."[6] The staff at N-Force scored it 43%, citing its lack of inspiration in gameplay, character designs, and sound. They declared it, "A below average beat-'em-up to stay well clear of."[7]

Soundtrack[]

Main article: Double Dragon 3/The Combatribes

A soundtrack album released by Pony Canyon (under their Scitron imprint) on June 21, 1991 called Double Dragon 3/The Combatribes. As the name implies, it features the soundtracks from Double Dragon 3: The Rosetta Stone and The Combatribes.

Gallery[]

Packaging artwork[]

Screenshots[]

Promotional artwork[]

Artworks and sprites[]

Trivia[]

A billboard advertising The Combatribes can be seen in the background during Shinji's boss fight in Shin Nekketsu Kōha: Kunio-tachi no Banka.

Berserker, Bullova and Blitz appear as assist characters in Code Shifter.

Trash, the area boss of Stage 3, appears as a common enemy in River City Girls.

Martha Splatterhead, the final boss in The Combatribes, can also be fought as a common enemy in River City Girls.

Berserker and Bullova make cameo appearances as store clerks in River City Girls and River City Girls 2.

References[]

[]

The Combatribes at Moby Games

The Combatribes at GameFAQs

The Combatribes manual at Internet Archive

The Combatribes at Hardcore Gaming 101

The Combatribes at Killer List of Video Games

The Combatribes at The Cutting Room Floor