PERFORMANCE

The Pinnacle Of Gaming

Game or create on the cutting edge with up to an AMD Ryzen™ 9 7945HX processor and up to an NVIDIA®GeForce RTX™ 4090 Laptop GPU. The Ryzen™ 9 7945HX CPU offers incredible gaming and multitasking performance, letting you stream and render even the most intensive projects, while the powerful RTX™ 4090 Laptop GPU guarantees incredible in-game framerates and content creation acceleration. A 1080p IR webcam offers seamless video capture and security with Windows Hello support. With up to 4TB of blazing fast PCIe®4.0 SSD storage in RAID 0 and 64GB of 4800MHz DDR5 RAM, the 2023 Zephyrus Duo 16 is a multitasking monster and offers rapid load times for all your games and applications.

High Power Processing

When you need to render large video files or perform other intensive tasks, you can rely on the latest AMD Ryzen™ 9 7945HX processor. This flagship CPU offers exceptional multithreaded performance, while also maintaining best-in-class gaming ability. With more than double the performance in Cinebench R23 compared to the previous generation, AMD’s Dragon Range architecture combined with ROG’s overclocking expertise delivers incredible power.

Supercharged Graphics

Powered by NVIDIA’s ultra-efficient Ada Lovelace architecture, the NVIDIA®GeForce RTX™ 4090 is the most powerful GPU we’ve put into a laptop. Access near-desktop class gaming and content creation performance on this truly next generation GPU. With a maximum TGP of 175W and access to the latest technology like DLSS 3, ray tracing, and Max-Q Technologies, the RTX™ 4090 can deliver both high resolution and high frame rates in the latest AAA games.

*175W only available on Manual mode with Dynamic Boost

DISPLAY

Mini LED. Maximum Vibrance.

Whether you’re gaming, catching up on your favorite content, or just browsing the web, the 16-inch 16:10 main display is absolutely gorgeous. For fast paced gaming, the QHD 240Hz panel with 3ms response time is the perfect blend of high refresh and high resolution for crisp and detailed images. Mini LED allows for deeper contrast and higher brightness than traditional LED displays, allowing for an image that pops off the screen with VESA DisplayHDR™ 1000 certification. The panel is also certified by TÜV Rheinland for low blue light, keeping your eyes comfortable all day. Prepare to be dazzled by vivid colors with 100% DCI-P3 coverage, 1100 nits peak brightness, and 1024 dimming zones.

*Pantone® Validated colors only available in SDR mode.

The Zephyrus Duo 16’s iconic second screen has also been improved, with the brand new Corning® Gorilla Glass DXC, paired with a new anti-fingerprint coating. Gorilla Glass DXC reduces surface reflections while increasing hardness by over 40% for better scratch resistance. Less reflections mean you can set the brightness lower, even when used in outdoor and bright environments.

ROG INTELLIGENT COOLING

Upgraded Conductonaut Extreme Liquid Metal

Powerful components like the CPU need a thermal interface material to transfer their heat to the cooling system. Thermal Grizzly’s Conductonaut Extreme improves upon standard thermal pastes with 17X higher thermal conductivity, resulting in up to 15°C cooler CPU temperatures. Used exclusively by ROG, this indium and galium compound offers the highest thermal transfer available on a laptop. And unlike typical pastes, liquid metal will also never dry out, improving long term stability.

0dB Ambient Cooling, Zero Distractions

Enjoy truly silent cooling under light workloads with 0dB Ambient Cooling. In the Silent operating mode, the cooling system switches off all fans during everyday tasks to dissipate heat passively. This lets you concentrate on your work and immerse yourself in movies with less distraction. If CPU or GPU temperatures increase, the fans automatically switch on again.

DESIGN

Sleek Style

From the inside out, the Zephyrus Duo 16 is designed to emphasize the perfect blend of power and refined style. For those who need a gaming flagship that can blend in anywhere, the Duo 16 is the ideal machine.

PORTABILITY

Dual Displays. One Device.

The Zephyrus Duo 16 really shows its versatility when you take it on the go. The built-in secondary display means that you always have a second screen available, while the 90Wh battery and USB Type-C™ charging can keep you powering through work all day long. An IR camera with Windows Hello support makes unlocking the machine a breeze.

AUDIO

Studio Quality Audio

Enjoy studio quality audio from the six speaker soundstage with dual force-canceling woofers. With Dolby Atmos® support, the system can recreate a virtual 5.1.2 channel surround soundstage for incredibly immersive content. Three microphones give you incredible flexibility when joining calls or recording audio, bolstered by Two-Way AI Noise Cancelation that filters incoming and outgoing audio. Enjoy crystal clear voice chat even in noisy environments.

KEYBOARD

The Key To Victory

The Zephyrus Duo 16 sacrifices nothing. Utilizing NumberPad technology, the trackpad doubles as a full number pad to maximize space on the keyboard deck. N-key rollover ensures that each keypress is independently registered, giving you flexibility in game for complicated combos or accuracy for quick typing. A long 1.7mm key travel makes the Zephyrus Duo 16 very comfortable to type on, minimizing accidental keypresses as well. Per-key RGB and Aura Sync integration allows for robust preset and custom lighting patterns via Armoury Crate.

UPGRADEABILITY

Replace. Refit. Rearm.

Upgradeability is key to keeping your machine running well for years to come—and the Zephyrus Duo allows you to upgrade both the RAM and storage to extend its lifespan. A special pop-open screw pushes the bottom of the chassis away from the laptop as it’s loosened. The hooks holding those edges together are smaller and stronger than before to make lifting off the panel easy. The Zephyrus Duo has dual SO-DIMMs and allows for future RAM upgrades. Both M.2 SSD slots are also accessible and expandable.

IO PORT

Endless Connectivity

Connect to all of your devices with a robust selection of I/O. A pair of USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-C™ ports offer DisplayPort™ 1.4a, with power delivery support on one and G-Sync on the other. Two additional USB 3.2 Gen 2 round out connectivity for your peripherals. Enjoy HDMI 2.1 support for an external display, as well as a 2.5G ethernet port, dedicated microSD card reader, and an audio combo jack. Dongles begone!