Bill Blechingberg (Diplomat)

Bill has been acting in multiple Theatres all over New York for many years, including Repertorio Español, founding member of Teatro Latea and Rasgos, Pregones, Teatro Círculo, Teatro SEA, The Duke Theater, New Perspectives Theater, The Medicine Show and recently with Teatro Thalia. Awards: Nominated Best Actor ACE Award – Monserrat, Isabel Three Sailing Ships and a Con Artist; Best Actor ACE and HOLA awards La lechuga. Skeletons, Zanahorias. Film credits include: Bushwick, La vida inesperada, Ice Age, and The Undead. He has directed opera, musicals, and plays: Nominated Best Director for Hay que apagar el fuego. He is very excited to come full circle and be back with Teatro Círculo to work with an amazing cast in Carmen’s fascinating play, and first time with Cándido.

Fernando Contreras* (Don Paco Escribano)

Is mostly a life enthusiast, but also an actor, dancer, singer, whistler, and sleeper. Dominican Republic born, Jersey raised, and now living in Queens. He is a founding ensemble member of Pipeline Theatre Company and recently starred as Bruise in Pipeline’s NYT Critic’s Pick, Bruise & Thorn. He is a company member of Shiz: Broadway Meets Sketch Comedy and The Dance Cartel. Other credits: Love to Love You Baby: The Story of Dolores Verano (Teatro Círculo), Los Nutcrackers (BAAD!), Playing Hot (Pipeline, Off-Bway), Ghost, the Musical (1st US National & Asia Tours), ¡Mamita, llegó el obispo!,

Love to FBI, family and friends.

Instagram: @omgitzfern & Twitter: @omgitzfern

*Appears through the courtesy of Actors’ Equity Association

Iván Goris (Johnny Abbes)

Mr. Goris is grateful to Teatro Círculo, Cándido Tirado and Carmen Rivera. Thank you! Iván is a well-seasoned talent shining as bright as he can in this fast-paced industry. Iván is Dominican American actor and writer/producer born and raised in Manhattan’s Lower East Side with a strong connection to his Latino community. Iván has graced the stages all over NYC. His film and television credits include, HBO’s Vinyl, Tim Blake Nelson’s Anesthesia, Netflix’s She’s Gotta Have It and CBS Madam Secretary. Iván is also a Co-founder of B.I.P (Barrio Independent Productions).

Instagram: @Ivan_Goris537_

Amneris Morales (Doña María Trujillo)

A respected actress in the Puerto Rican theater, television, and film scene with vast experience as an actress, producer, director, and writer. She is a Magna Cum Laude graduate of film production and direction with studies in psychology and acting. Her career includes many performances in plays, TV shows, soap operas and films in Puerto Rico and Argentina, among other Latin American countries. In the United States she has appeared in television shows and on New York stages, receiving ACE, HOLA ATI, and LATA Awards for Best Actress (Theater) and The Official Latino Film Festival, Best Comedy Actress. Some of her recent works are the feature film, Venus de Macho, and the plays Dominique, and La casa de Bernarda Alba. She is the Co-founder and CEO of Barrio Independent Productions.

Instagram: @amnerismorales1

Altagracia Nova (Lover of Trujillo)

‘Anova Nova’ is a proud Dominican American established actress, singer & songwriter. Her accolades also include being an accomplished graduate of the highly esteemed Boston College in Boston, MA, where she earned degrees in Theatre Arts, Business Management and Communications, which successfully prepared her for the entertainment industry. Within the music industry alone she has proven to be a relentless force of nature apart from being a noted actress with an impressive acting career spanning over 10 years. Her latest works also include the role of Lola, in La breve y maravillosa vida de Oscar Wao currently running at Repertorio Español. One can also add the role of director and producer to her repertoire. She’s been known for directing and producing her own music videos amongst other productions currently in the works.

anovaofficial.com

Instagram: @IAm_ANova & Twitter: @IAm_ANova

Facebook: @altagracia.nova.9

José Cheo Oliveras (Rafael Leonidas Trujillo)

Holds a BA in Theatre and Public Communications from the University of Puerto Rico and ABD at CUNY Graduate Center where he studied Spanish and Luso‐Brazilian Literatures. He has worked as an actor and director at most of the established Latino theatre companies in New York City including Repertorio Español, Puerto Rican Traveling Theatre and Thalia Spanish Theatre, among others. Cheo has received multiple ACE, HOLA, LATA, and ATI awards for his work as an actor and director and several awards from BORIMIX and “Comité Noviembre” for his contribution to the Latino Arts in NYC.

Johary Ramos* (Dr. Jesús de Galíndez, Soldier, Senator, Porfirio Rubirosa, June 14th Soldier)

University of Puerto Rico and The Actors Center graduate. Credits with Teatro Círculo: La caída de Rafael Trujillo (2014 & 2015), Los titingós de Juan Bobo (ACE Best Actor Award), Puerto Rico ¡Fua!; with The Puerto Rican Traveling Theater: Women in Piquant Farse (ACE Best New Actor); with Pregones Theatre and IATI Theatre: Blanco (HOLA Best Ensemble Award), The Blackout, and Medea’s Last Rosary (ACE Best Ensemble); with Wings Theatre: Tango masculino (OOBR Award for Excellence). Dance credits with Ballet Concierto, Ballets de San Juan, Fosse, Radio City Christmas Spectacular, and New York City Opera. SAG-AFTRA/AEA

“Dedico estas funciones a Hilda Seguinot Fuentes, mi alma gemela, confidente, apoyadora #1; y el más dulce y valiente ser humano que he conocido.”

www.joharyramos.com

Instagram: @joharyramosseguinot

Twitter: @joharyramos & Facebook Page: @joharyramos

*Appears through the courtesy of Actors’ Equity Association

Carmen Rivera (Playwright)

Holds an MA in Playwriting and Latin American Theatre from New York University. She is very excited that Teatro Círculo has brought La caída de Rafael Trujillo (The Downfall of Rafael Trujillo) back to the stage. It was first produced in 2014, winning the ATI Award for Best Production. It is also published by NoPassport Press. Her play, La gringa, was part of the OBIE Award Winning Series New Voices in 1996 and this year, celebrated its 27th year anniversary in repertory at Repertorio Español. It is now the longest running Spanish-language play in Off-Broadway history. It was published in both English and Spanish by Concord Theatrical Productions (Formerly Samuel French.)

Off-Broadway productions include Celia: The Life and Music of Celia Cruz (Co-written with Cándido Tirado) – (HOLA Award, Outstanding Achievement in Playwriting); La Lupe: My Life, My Destiny (ACE Award – Best Production); Julia de Burgos: Child of Water; To Catch the Lightning (Nomination ACE Award – Best Production.) Carmen was the subject of a doctoral dissertation written by theatre scholar Dr. Jason Ramirez – Latinidad: The Theatre of Carmen Rivera. Her work can also be found on the online archive, ProQuest. Carmen has been the recipient of grants from the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), ATT On-Stage and New York State Council of the Arts (NYSCA). She is a mentor playwright for the Latinx Playwrights Circle. Carmen is also a Teaching Artist with Manhattan Theatre Club.

www.carmenrivera-writer.com

Omayra Garriga Casiano (Lighting Designer)

NYC based theater maker. Born and raised in Juana Diaz, Puerto Rico. Holds a BA in Theater Education from the University of Puerto Rico and an MFA in Theater Design from Brooklyn College. Production design of Teatro Círculo’s CALLBACKseries 2023 and DANCEseries2023. Associate artist with Boundless Theatre Company. Lighting design: La Carta-Danza (2021). Set Design: Mercado Libre (2022) El Barrio Raíces (2018- 2021). Credits in lighting design: Teatro Círculo’s CALLBACKseries (2016-2021), The One Festival (2017-2021), La celestina (2019). Credits in set design: Teatro Círculo’s CALLBACKseries (2015 & 2022). El barbero de Sevilla (2019), The Lesson (2018), The Waters of Friendship (2018), Nanas (2018). Holds a BA in Theater Education from the University of Puerto Rico and an MFA in Theater Design from Brooklyn College. Omayra has taken classes with international groups like Theater of the Oppressed (Brazil), Malayerba (Ecuador) and Yuyachkani (Peru).