Happy Birthday Will

Born November 4, 1879 William Penn Adair “Will” Rogers was our most famous American during the 1920’s and 30’s. As a humorist, columnist, social commentator and American Cowboy, Rogers expressed the views of the “common” man from a non-partisan viewpoint. He became a friend of presidents and confident of the great. He downplayed academic credentials, noting, “Everybody is ignorant, only on different subjects.” [click images to enlarge]

Born on a ranch in Cherokee Indian territory and being a quarter Cherokee he would quip, “that his ancestors did not come over on the Mayflower, but they met the boat.”

Amazing that as a 10th grade dropout he wrote seven books, a regular newspaper column (he wrote more than 4,000 nationally syndicated newspaper columns), thousands of newspaper articles, magazine articles and short commentaries called “daily telegrams”. He also made 48 silent movies, and 21 feature films including the first talking version of Mark Twain’s A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthurs Court.

By the mid 1930’s Rogers had become a world famous figure, adored by the American people, the leading political wit of his times, and was a top payed Hollywood movie star to boot.

Rogers was a staunch Democrat, but he also supported Republican Calvin Coolidge. Democrat Franklin D. Roosevelt was his favorite and though he supported Roosevelt’s New Deal, he could just as easily joke about it:

Lord, the money we do spend on Government and it’s not one bit better than the government we got for one-third the money twenty years ago.

Always the wit, he called the Supreme Court justices, “those nine old gentlemen in kimonos”, when they struck down the New Deal legislation.

He relentlessly ridiculed Prohibition, warned American they were living beyond their means in 1920, just before the Great Depression, and predicted Germany re-emergence as a world threat.

Not being one to just sit by, he became pissed at Washington’s ineffectiveness in feeding people during the Great Depression, embarking on a cross country fundraising tour for the Red Cross.

Rogers, who loved to fly, was a friend to Charles Lindbergh and became an advocate for the aviation industry. On August 15, 1935 he and famous pilot Wiley Post were planning to fly from Fairbanks to Point Barrow Alaska, the northern most point in Alaska. They weren’t far from Point Borrow when, not being sure of where they were, landed in a lagoon to ask directions. When they took off the motor failed and at such a low altitude with no room for error, they crashed into the lagoon ripping off the right wing and ending up inverted in the shallow water. Both men died instantly.

When I die, my epitaph, or whatever you call those signs on gravestones, is going to read: “I joked about every prominent man of my time, but I never met a man I dident [sic] like.” I am so proud of that, I can hardly wait to die so it can be carved. ~ Will Rogers

In his own words:

There are three kinds of men. The one that learns by reading. The few who learn by observation. The rest of them have to pee on the electric fence for themselves.

Even if you’re on the right track, you’ll get run over if you just sit there.

Be thankful we’re not getting all the government we’re paying for.

Everything is funny, as long as it’s happening to somebody else.

The only difference between death and taxes is that death doesn’t get worse every time Congress meets.

Why don’t they pass a constitutional amendment prohibiting anybody from learning anything? If it works as well as prohibition did, in five years Americans would be the smartest race of people on Earth.

We will never have true civilization until we have learned to recognize the rights of others.

You’ve got to go out on a limb sometimes because that’s where the fruit is.

People’s minds are changed through observation and not through argument.

Good judgment comes from experience, and a lot of that comes from bad judgment.

Prohibition is better than no liquor at all.

You can’t say civilization don’t advance… in every war they kill you in a new way.

Let advertisers spend the same amount of money improving their product that they do on advertising and they wouldn’t have to advertise it.

When the Oakies left Oklahoma and moved to California, it raised the I.Q. of both states.

It’s a good thing we don’t get all the government we pay for.

I don’t make jokes. I just watch the government and report the facts.

Diplomacy is the art of saying ‘Nice doggie’ until you can find a rock.

The man with the best job in the country is the vice-president. All he has to do is get up every morning and say, ‘How is the president?’

The income tax has made liars out of more Americans than golf.

Politics has become so expensive that it takes a lot of money even to be defeated.

Things in our country run in spite of government, not by aid of it.

This is funny: