October 5th will mark the hundredth anniversary of the birth of one of the great comic geniuses, and one of the most inspired literary minds, of the twentieth century. He was born Brian O’Nolan in 1911, but is now most widely remembered as Flann O’Brien, the pseudonym under which he published “At Swim-Two-Birds” and “The Third Policeman,” two uniquely strange and formally inventive novels. Edna O’Brien (no relation, obviously) once wrote that “along with Joyce and Beckett, Flann O’Brien constitutes our trinity of great Irish writers,” and even if there’s something glib about that notion, there’s something attractive about it too. It’s tempting to picture Joyce as the inscrutable and dominant Father of Irish authors, Beckett as the suffering, ascetic, visionary Son, and Flann O’Brien as the shape-shifting Holy Comic Spirit.

[#image: /photos/590953d31c7a8e33fb38aec6]Like the third person of the Christian Trinity, he has until recently tended to be overshadowed by his more celebrated colleagues (when, after all, was the last time you heard anyone give a shout-out to the Holy Spirit at the MTV Awards?). In the past few years, though, he has started to emerge from their shadow to become recognized as a pivotal figure in literary postmodernism. It’s not for nothing that the reading list Donald Barthelme used to hand out to his students at the University of Houston begins with O’Brien’s two masterpieces. His influence—both direct and passed down through Barthelme, Italo Calvino, and John Barth—is there to be seen in the work of writers as diverse as Nicholson Baker, Dave Eggers, David Foster Wallace, Tom McCarthy, and Paul Auster.

“At Swim-Two-Birds,” his first novel, is one of the craziest, most ruthlessly funny books I’ve ever read. To the extent that it is recountable at all, its story deals with a shiftless university student who is attempting to write a book about an author whose characters contrive to drug him so that they can wrest control of their lives by rewriting his novel. The book could be due a major resurgence in popularity now that Brendan Gleeson is directing an adaptation featuring pretty much every Irish actor you’ve ever heard of (Michael Fassbender, Colin Farrell, Cillian Murphy, and Gabriel Byrne have all signed on).

Wayward genius (and incorrigible boozehound) that he was, his oeuvre is undeniably somewhat patchy. “At Swim” and “The Third Policeman” are essential reading for anyone interested in the comic and literary possibilities of formal experimentation. “The Poor Mouth” is a tremendously funny parody of the popular Irish peasant novel (the narrator’s wife is described at one point as “skilled in potato-boiling”). “The Dalkey Archive,” from which the independent publisher took its name, is a wildly uneven self-cannibalization of the far superior “The Third Policeman,” which remained unpublished in the author’s lifetime. It’s worth reading, though, if only for the fact that it features Joyce as a hotel barman trying to get himself accepted into the Jesuit priesthood, and denying all responsibility for having written “Ulysses” and “Finnegans Wake.” The less said about “The Hard Life,” though, the better.