Louise of France (4 April 1681 - 24 May 1705) was a French princess. She became Crown Princess of Brunant and Duchess of Middleton upon her marriage with Crown Prince Marten in 1700. She was a daughter of Louis, Le Grand Dauphin and Duchess Maria Anna of Bavaria, but died four years before her husband became King of Brunant.

Biography[]

Early life and family[]

Louise was born at the Palace of Versailles near Paris, France, the only daughter of the Prince Louis, Le Grand Dauphin and heir of Louis XIV of France, and his wife Maria Anna Victoria, a Bavarian princess. She grew up at Versailles with her three brothers under the supervision of the royal governess Louise de Prie.

The princess was an aunt of the future Louis XV, who was the son of her brother, Louis, Duke of Burgundy. Louise's other brothers were Philip, Duke of Anjou, who became Philip V of Spain in 1700, and Charles, Duke of Berry.

Marriage[]

In November 1700, Louise was engaged and married to Crown Prince Marten of Brunant, a move arranged by the pro-Spanish advisers of King Karl to seek ties with France and the new Spanish Bourbons. Louise's brother was named Philip V of Spain in November following the will of Charles II of Spain.

Louise was Marten's second wife; her husband's first wife Alexandra of Brandenburg died in 1697 after prolonged sicknesses. The marriage was not a happy one, as most of the court held animosity with France and the Bourbons. She was deemed unfashionable and was rather sickly. The pair had two children:

Prince Pieter (1701-1787), the future King Pieter I

Princess Catherine (1704-1778), mother of the future King Adrian II

With the Brunanter' heir apparent marrying a Bourbon princess and sister of the new Spanish monarch, Brunant entered the War of the Spanish Succession, which lasted from 1701-1714, on the side of the Bourbon-led French and Spanish kingdoms. Filips Donis-Reys was reappointed Chief Minister in 1701 to handle foreign affairs with Brunant's allies during the war. A staunch ally of the Bourbons, he was one of the few people at the royal court in Grijzestad to admire Crown Princess Louis's presence.

Death[]