This one was a lot of fun.

Today we’re looking at another item in the William Gates Papers at BYU that whose language is listed as undetermined. Someone, presumably before the materials were donated wrote a note in pencil on the back suggesting that the language was K’iche’. This single page is actually in four languages: Latin, Spanish, Chinantec, and Zapotec.

Y’all may have noticed a trend of me going to the Williams Gates Papers a lot recently. I want to make it clear that I’m not trying to pick on them. It’s better to say “undetermined” rather than uncritically apply a label that could be wrong–no way this document is in K’iche’–and there were a lot of documents in a lot of languages in this collection. We all reach our limits when processing and describing documents at scale. Furthermore, they went through the work of digitizing these documents and their digital repository allows for a search for materials labeled as “undetermined language” (actually in the ISO 639-3: und), so it’s very easy to find all the docs needing language identification.

My transcription of the document, with paragraph numbers added.

Laus tibi Christi

Declaraçion del Articulos de la Humanidad

Laus deo gloria sanctis

Za fhua huami

fhuelimuiean fhuira – Dios cagua cave cuacho iea ellan eñin

Quilizifhuini Dios: lagati laguicha laguiyaa llacanhiyitta hulla huñi. Sancto Euangelio e culacañi Ani ña mui inçi Diciembre 5 1741.

Este libro es de San Jacinto yabelosog

Nahatza Marti gayo gobitza yoho beo Diçienbre ysa quiani cuva Don Antonio deroble quiñoni — lani Justicia Ale Josph. cardosa Regidor miguel cano lani Juandia Domingo peres Mayor Josph. sanches fhiscales escribano miguel marco guixaga Juan Sanches Joseph de chaue — año 1741.

Paragraphs 1 and 3 are in Latin, and paragraphs 2 and 7 are in Spanish. I am certain that paragraph 8 is in a Zapotec language that is or is closely related to Choapan Zapotec (ISO 639-3: zpc), even though I can only partially translate the text. I am reasonably certain that paragraphs 4-6 are in a Chinantec language, most likely Lealao Chinantec (ISO 639-3: cle), or a language closely related to it.

I think the town identified in the document <San Jacinto yabelosog> is probably San Jacinto Yaveloxi, which is close to Santiago Choápam, in a Northern-Zapotec-speaking part of Oaxaca, right on the southeastern frontier of the Chinantec-speaking region.

The Zapotec portion

Transcription of paragraph 8 with Zapotec words in bold:

Nahatza Marti gayo gobitza yoho beo Diçienbre ysa quiani cuva Don Antonio deroble quiñoni — lani Justicia Ale Josph. cardosa Regidor miguel cano lani Juandia Domingo peres Mayor Josph. sanches fhiscales escribano miguel marco guixaga Juan Sanches Joseph de chaue — año 1741.

Today, Tuesday December 5 in the year … Don Antonio de Roble … with justicia alcalde José Cardoso, regidor Miguel Cano and Juan Díaz Domingo Pérez senior [and] José Sánchez, fiscales scribe Miguel Marco topil Juan Sánchez [and] José de Chávez — year 1741.

The Chinantec portion

Paragraphs 4-6 with the Chinantec words in bold.

Za fhua huami fhuelimuiean fhuira – Dios cagua cave cuacho iea ellan eñin Quilizifhuini Dios: lagati laguicha laguiyaa llacanhiyitta hulla huñi. Sancto Euangelio e culacañi Ani ña mui inçi Diciembre 5 1741.

[The people of the town of Arroyo Tomate?] … God .. God … . The Holy Gospel that .. today the fifth day of the month of December, 1741.

Chinantecan languages have complex phonologies with many sounds that are not found in Spanish, so a Spanish-literate (and while we’re at it Latin-literate) scribe may be inclined to underrepresent the phonology in writing. These underrepresentations include:

All tonal melodies

Stress (the “ballistic” versus “controlled” distinction)

Vowel nasalization

Glottal stop

Glottal fricative

Voiceless sonorants

If I’m right about some of these words, it also appears that the scribe varied in the representation of the high central unrounded vowel, mostly writing it as <i> but sometimes as <ui>, and maybe even <ua>. Despite being unable to interpret most of the text in these paragraphs, my decipherment of the day and month in Lealao Chinantec gives me high confidence that these paragraphs are indeed written in some Chinantec language.

San Jacinto Yaveloshi is called Máh3jú1 (roughly /maʔhu/) in Lealao Chinantec, but this doesn’t seem to appear in the text. Instead the text may possibly be from Arroyo Tomate, Guá3jmɨh2 /gwam̥ɨʔ/ if <za fhua huami> does indeed mean ‘the people of the town of Arroyo Tomate’ (/dza fɨ: gwam̥ɨʔ/). This town is located closer to San Juan Lalana, and thus Lalana Chinantec (ISO 639-3: cnl), than San Juan Lealao. I have not found any materials on Lalana Chinantec that have been suitable for testing that hypothesis.

Conclusion

So I believe I have identified all of the languages in this document: Latin, Spanish, Choapan Zapotec (or a closely related language), and a Chinantecan language, most likely Lealao Chinantec or a closely related language. Experts in the relevant Zapotec and Chinantec languages will certainly be able to refine my interpretations and provenances. But the question still remains, what is this thing?

The “artículos de la humanidad” most likely is a doctrinal text describing the human qualities of Jesus, which were accompanied by “artículos de la divinidad” describing his divine traits, as in these two images from a 16th century doctrinal dialogue in Purépecha (Gilberti 1559).

References

Gilberti, Maturino. 1559. Diálogo de Doctrina Cristiana en la lengua de Mechuacan. http://www.cervantesvirtual.com/obra-visor/dialogo-de-doctrina-cristiana-en-la-lengua-de-mechuacan–0/html/00f1ff48-82b2-11df-acc7-002185ce6064.htm

Lyman Boulden, Hilario and Sixto Martínez Raymundo. 2021. Diccionario zapoteco de San Juan Comaltepec, Choapan, Oaxaca. SIL Mexico. https://www.sil.org/resources/archives/89011