CHARLOTTE, NC (Rick Bonnell/The Charlotte Observer) - Win or lose Tuesday night in Milwaukee, it looks like the Charlotte Hornets will roll into Christmas on a merry run.

Playing with smooth ball movement and fine shooting, they thumped the Denver Nuggets 110-82 Monday at Time Warner Cable Arena.

The Hornets controlled this game so decisively that all five starters could sit out the fourth quarter. That just doesn't happen this season.

Center Al Jefferson led the Hornets with 22 points in 26 minutes. Point guard d Walker added 18 points and nine assists in 30 minutes. Ty Lawson scored 18 for the Nuggets, who fell to 12-16.

This was the first three-game winning streak of the season for the Hornets, who improved to 9-19. The previous two victories were over the Philadelphia 76ers and Utah Jazz.

It was also just their third victory of the season against Western Conference teams. They have lost 11 games to the West.

The Hornets pushed an 18-point halftime lead to 27 to begin the fourth quarter. They held the Nuggets to 17 third-quarter points on 7-of-19 shooting from the field. Through three quarters point guard Lawson was the only Denver player to have scored in double figures.

The only problem the Hornets encountered in the third quarter was foul trouble for starting power forward Cody Zeller. He picked up his fourth foul with just over four minutes left in the third quarter on a play before the ball had crossed midcourt.

With 8 ½ minutes left, the Hornets led by 28 points with every starter on the bench.

The Hornets led by as many as 23 in the first half before settling into a 58-40 edge at halftime.

Jefferson and Walker controlled the game, combining for 32 points on 10-of-16 shooting. Those two got to the foul line eight time before halftime.

Nuggets centers Timofey Mosgov and Jusuf Nurkic seemed to be baffled by Jefferson's post moves. Even while playing with a groin strain, Jefferson made eight of his 10 first-half shots for 18 points and added five first-half rebounds. Walker generated 14 first-half points off six shots. He was 2 of 3 from 3-point range and made all four of his free throws.

The Hornets played their third straight game without shooting guard Lance Stephenson, who suffered a pelvic sprain in the loss to the Phoenix Suns. He is expected to also miss Tuesday's road game against the Milwaukee Bucks before a two-day break for Christmas.

This game was very physical early; Mosgov left the game bleeding heavily from his face and needed several stitches after it appeared he took an elbow from Hornets reserve center Bismack Biyombo.

The only Nugget who played well in the first half was former North Carolina star Lawson, a 5-foot-11 point guard. He missed morning shootaround with a sore back, but finished the first half with 13 points on 6-of-10 shooting, but no assists.