Quiz Answer Key and Fun Facts

1. What was the name of Adam's first wife?

Answer: Althea

Adam had been married prior to his arrival in Pine Valley back in 1983. His wife's name was revealed to be Althea. Despite her being the first Mrs. Adam Chandler, she never came to Pine Valley during Adam's initial years.

2. Adam's second spouse, and the first one who he married while in town, was Erica Kane. While she lived at Chandler Mansion as Mrs. Adam Chandler, who did she hear in the west wing?

Answer: Stuart Chandler

Adam met Erica when he came to town as a movie producer who took an interest in adapting her autobiography, "Raising Kane", for the big screen. The two eventually got married. One day, Erica heard a distressing noise in the west wing of the mansion and could not believe her eyes when she saw it was Adam's twin brother, Stuart, causing the ruckus.

3. Adam was married to Brooke English for some time. This made him the stepfather to Brooke's daughter, Laura. Who was Laura's biological father?

Answer: Tom Cudahy

Brooke exchanged vows with Adam in the mid to late 1980s and is considered by many fans to be the first woman he married out of love. Through this marriage came a stepdaughter for Adam since Brooke had a young girl, Laura Cudahy. Tom was Laura's biological father when Brooke gave birth to her in the early 1980s.

4. Adam tied the knot with Dixie in order to produce a male heir to the Chandler fortune. Where did Adam and Dixie conceive their son, JR Chandler?

Answer: Chandler boathouse

Brooke had fertility issues at the time Adam wanted a son to inherit his riches so he dumped her in favor of the woman he employed as a nanny, Dixie Cooney. The two married and shortly afterwards made love at the Chandler boathouse. This resulted in Dixie becoming pregnant with JR.

5. Adam had a short lived union with Natalie Marlowe. Did he marry her before his nemesis, Palmer, married her?

Answer: No

Adam and Palmer had been enemies, but even they shared one thing in common: certain wives. One wife Adam had was Natalie, but she had married Palmer first. After Adam attempted to swindle her out of her fortune, Natalie divorced him.

6. Adam married Gloria Marsh in 1993. She had just broken up with which person at the time she and Adam became husband and wife?

Answer: Stuart Chandler

Gloria had been in a pretty serious relationship with Adam's twin brother, Stuart. However, she had strong feelings for Adam as well. Gloria broke things off with Stuart to marry Adam on a luxurious yacht. Despite the hurt Stuart endured, he and Adam still remained on good terms.

7. Liza Colby became the first woman who Adam married three times. Their first marriage came about after they clashed due to working at which place?

Answer: WRCW

Beginning midway through 1996, Adam and Liza had a unique banter with one another as they worked at WRCW with Liza being the station manager whereas Adam owned the television studio. Both of them reached an agreement to try and make their ex lovers, Tad and Brooke, jealous by marrying.

There was a catch to this: Liza would not say "I Do" to Adam. Much to Adam's surprise, Liza told the minister at their first wedding she would be his wife and then they were announced as husband and wife. Even though they started out hating each other, the two fell in love and are still a very popular couple with "AMC" fans.

They married for the second time in 1999 and then a third time in 2001.

8. Adam has also been married to Arlene Vaughn. She was the first wife with whom he had a child, Hayley, although they conceived Hayley before their marriage.

Answer: True

Adam married Arlene in June of 2000 but the two shared a relationship years prior to their exchanging vows. In 1991, Hayley blabbed to the press that Adam was her father but was shocked to hear that was indeed the actual truth since Arlene always told Hayley her dad was Harry Vaughn.

This makes her the oldest child who Adam had sired. At first, Skye was Adam's eldest daughter until it was revealed she was not his child on "General Hospital" (Adam never even adopted Skye).

9. Adam got hitched with Krystal in the Fall of 2005. However, their marriage took a turn for the worse when he refused to help her after she went into labor in the Spring of 2007. Who helped deliver Krystal's baby?

Answer: Colby Chandler

Adam and Krystal married while drunk in Crow Hollow but Krystal refused to divorce him. They soon fell in love and were excited to welcome a child into the world. However, Adam was distraught after Krystal confessed that the baby she was carrying was Tad's. Adam walked away from Krystal as she went into labor so Colby saw this and delivered Krystal's daughter, Jenny Martin.

10. Adam married Annie Novak in November of 2008. He divorced her during the Spring of 2010, after he left town with Brooke, because he saw Annie in bed with whom?

Answer: JR Chandler

Adam was grateful to Annie since she helped him out on the evening when Stuart wound up dead. He married her and the two had many months together as husband and wife. Unfortunately, this all came to an end when Adam caught Annie making love to his son, JR. Adam and Brooke hightailed it out of Pine Valley.

Source: Author CAGuy0206

This quiz was reviewed by FunTrivia editor Gamemaster1967 before going online.

Any errors found in FunTrivia content are routinely corrected through our feedback system.