Here is a poem from Joan Maragall in which he goes in for extreme nature-loving, transporting himself into physical raptures of pleasure upon finding a yellow broom tree (ginesta) while hiking up a hill. The yellow broom is considered a nationalist symbol by Catalan nationaists, so this probably goes a long way towards explaining the poet’s unbridled enthusiasm for the tree. Let’s assume so at any rate, rather than any one of the more bizarre possible explanations…

LA GINESTA

Joan Maragall

La ginesta altre vegada,

la ginesta amb tanta olor,

és la meva enamorada

que ve al temps de la calor.

Per a fer-li una abraçada

he pujat dalt del serrat:

de la primera besada

m’ha deixat tot perfumat.

Feia un vent que enarborava,

feia un sol molt resplendent:

la ginesta es regirava

furiosa al sol rient.

Jo la prenc per la cintura:

la tisora va en renou

desflorant tanta hermosura

fins que el cor me n’ha dit prou.

Amb un vimet que creixia

innocent a vora seu

he lligat la dolça aimia

ben estreta en un pom breu.

Quan l’he tinguda lligada

m’he girat de cara al mar…

M’he girat al mar de cara,

que brillava com cristall;

he aixecat el pom enlaire

i he arrencat a córrer avall.

From <http://lletra.uoc.edu/especials/folch/maragall.htm>

Bu whatever the motivation, the poem describes the poet climbing a hill to meet his lover, enjoying her scent, putting his arms around her and kissing her, tying a bouquet of the yellow flowers with a piece of ivy, turning to look at a view of the sea, and then lifting it in the air to run back down the hill. And the lover is not a girl, it is the broom tree and its yellow flowers.

Nature can indeed have truly inspirational powers.

The Poetry Dude

A poem for this Sunday or any Sunday by Joan Maragall, the great Catalan poet from the turn of the 20th century. Sunday being the day when you can take a deep breath and appreciate the beauty of the world, realise your happiness and throw off the cares of the working week.

“DIUMENGE”

de Joan Maragall

Qui no tinga a la finestra

dos testos de flors germans,

un aucell dins d’una gàbia,

i un cor enamorat,

no sap lo que és benaurança

ni podrà saber-ho mai.

I a fe us dic que es bella cosa

el diumenge, al desvetlla’s

veure en les flors la rosada,

sentir l’aucell refilar

i per gaudir-lo amb l’aimia,

un jorn de festa al davant:

Amb l’aimia que us espera

abocada al finestral

amb el vestit dels diumenges

que es aquell de colors clars.

Joan Maragall

From <http://elglobosblog.blogspot.com/2011/03/diumenge.html&gt;

This is a poem which celebrates the simple pleasures of awaking on a Sunday with flowers by the window, a bird singing in the gables and a heart full of love. This is indeed enough to bestow happiness, at least for the day when cares can be set aside. The first stanza sets out this scenario as a kind of theoretical set of conditions for happiness, saying that whoever can’t experience this must not be happy.

In the second stanza a very similar scenario is played out but this time the poet is at the center of the action – he is talking from personal experience and he adds more details – the waking, the dew on the flowers, the bird singing, and his lover alongside him leaning against the window – and they are wearing their bright Sunday best clothes, ready to take their happiness out into the world.

A poem of contentment and optimism indeed.

The Poetry Dude

Here is a poem of place by Joan Maragall, and it certainly makes the reader want to visit it. La Fageda d’En Jorda is a site of outstanding natural beauty, a beech forest growing out of an old volcanic lava flow, in an area of long-standing volcanic activity in the Catalan province of Girona, 100 or so miles north-east of Barcelona. Since the poem was written well over 100 years ago, it must have had even more of an unspoilt charm when visited by Maragall.

LA FAGEDA D’EN JORDÀ

Saps on és la fageda d’en Jordà ?

Si vas pels volts d’Olot, amunt del pla,

trobaràs un indret verd i pregon

com mai més n’hagis trobat al món:

un verd com d’aigua endins, pregon i clar;

el verd de la fageda d’en Jordà.

El caminant, quan entra en aquest lloc,

comença a caminar-hi poc a poc;

compta els seus passos en la gran quietud

s’atura, i no sent res, i està perdut.

Li agafa un dolç oblit de tot el món

en el silenci d’aquell lloc pregon,

i no pensa en sortir o hi pensa en va:

és pres de la fageda d’en Jordà,

presoner del silenci i la verdor.

Oh companyia! Oh deslliurant presó!

From <http://lletra.uoc.edu/especials/folch/maragall.htm&gt;

The poem starts with a question, “Do you know where id the Fageda d’en Jorda”, perhaps not altogether a rhetorical question. But it also gives a natural lead-in to the poem’s description of the place, first situating it on the plain above the city of Olot. The poet then describes it as a green and attractive place, like nowhere else in the world. A place of greenery, but also with clear water.

The poet then describes how the place draws in the visitor, inciting to walk about and explore, but so caught up in the beauty and the atmosphere that he will soon get lost. But it doesn’t matter, because the visitor is soothed by the silence and calm of the place, such that he may never consider leaving. In fact the visitor can easily become a prisoner of the silence and greenery of this enchanting place. A sweet prison indeed.

Put this on the list for your next visit to Catalunya (I missed it when I lived there some years ago).

The Poetry Dude

Here is a poem in Catalan from Joan Maragall, which captures a moment of great beauty and tenderness as the poet gives flowers to his lover. The delicate language, the capturing of subtle interactions between the lovers around the flowers and their reaction to them, make this poem a striking and captivating expression of a moment of love. However, if I have interpreted it correctly, there is a sting in the tail in the final line, which might change the whole interpretation of what goes before. This surprise adds another dimension and additional depth to the poem as a whole.

Sending flowers, by Joan Maragall…. Enjoy

ENVIANT FLORS

Veig flors, i penso en tu. Faré portar-les

a tu pel dolç camí de cada dia;

que omplin d’aromes davant meu la via,

després a vora teu vindré a olorar-les.

Grat ens serà tenir-les davant nostre,

a l’hora de parlar de l’amor meu:

vers el gerro florit baixaré el rostre,

tot alçant els meus ulls al somrís teu.

Tu triaràs una poncella encesa,

al damunt del teu pit la clavaràs,

i, amb moviment de cígnia bellesa,

arquejant el teu coll l’oloraràs.

Al sentir l’alè tebi amb què la mulles,

al frec constant del teu bell rostre ardent,

la rosa adreçarà totes ses fulles

i es badarà desesperadament.

I encara em mig riuràs; mes quan me veges

de tu a la flor, mentres jugueu aixís,

moure l’esguard, guspirejant d’enveges,

fugirà en sec ton confiat somrís.

From <http://perso.wanadoo.es/lipmic/Poecat/maragall.htm#Enviant flors>

The poem dives into its subject and its creation of mood in the first few words – I see flowers and think of you. And there follows an accumulating collection of association between the flowers, their attributes and the poet’s lover. The scents and colours of the flowers fill the poets senses and make every moment heady with love and passion, all his everyday experiences become expressions of love, “pel dolc cami de cada dia;” And then when he meets her and presents her with the flowers, the poem describes a kind of courtship dance, with first he, and then she lowering their face, raising their eyes, smelling the flowers and each other, totally lost in the moment and in each other.

And then there is the kick in the tail, when the poet’s lover seems to wake up, to become aware that he is totally besotted with her and is using the flowers to draw her in – and in the final line the magic moment of harmony and togetherness disappears, as her smile fades away and she becomes dry and stiff.

With one line the whole mood of what has gone before is altered. Finally, the flowers have not served their purpose.

The Poetry Dude

Here is a rather stoically pessimistic poem from Catalan poet Joan Maragall on the nature of love. I hope it does not reflect his real experience.

The poem is topped and tailed by the same two lines repeated, which gives a nice symmetry to the overall piece, but also seems to disqualify the possibility of evolution towards a more positive view of love. It is as if the poet is stuck with the experience of nourishing his love with absence, suffering, sighs, tears, and adoration from afar. He seems to be creating an ideal vision of his loved one which would be doomed to disappointment if he was physically with his lover.

Nodreix l’amor

(Joan Maragall )

Nodreix l’amor de pensaments i absència,

i així traurà meravellosa flor;

menysprea el pas de tota complacència

que no et vinga per via del dolor.

No esperis altre do que el de tes llàgrimes

ni vulles més consol que els teus sospirs:

la paraula millor la tens a l’ànima,

i el bes més dolç te’l daren els zèfirs.

Mai seria l’aimada en sa presència

com és ara en la teva adoració.

Nodreix l’amor de pensaments i absència,

i així traurà meravellosa flor.

From <http://www.cancioneros.com/nc/8849/0/nodreix-l-amor-joan-maragall-guillermina-motta&gt;

I suppose this is somewhat in the tradition of mediaeval courtly romance, where the knight could only express his love by absenting himself from his lover for long periods in order to seek adventures and perform unlikely acts of heroism or foolhardiness. Like Don Quijote…

The Poetry Dude

Today, let’s try another poem in Catalan from Joan Maragall, writing in the early years of the 20th century as part of the Catalan nationalist revival using language and culture as an expression of identity. The poem is an example of art commenting on art, as it was written after attending a performance by a child prodigy pianist of music by Beethoven, presumably in one of Barcelona’s leading concert-halls. It captures both the inspiration from the music itself and also the wonder of it being played by someone very young.

“HAVENT SENTIT BEETHOVEN”

PER MIECIO HORZOWZKY, INFANT

Has tornat a ensenyar-me la puresa.

Del tot jo no l’havia desapresa

(no del tot, criatura, no del tot);

però ara, als meus anys, la saviesa

de tornar a ésser nin, amb la riquesa

de tot lo món a dintre, jo l’he entesa

per tes mans, criatura, per ton cor.

Amb aquella innocència que el tenien

tes mans de nin, el cor d’aquell gegant!

El gros aucell, en mans de xic infant,

debatia ses ales poderoses:

somreies retenint-lo entre tes mans…

Ha volat; i abaixant el front, commoses,

totes les dones s’han tornat formoses

i tots els homes s’han tornat germans.

Joan Maragall

From <http://elglobosblog.blogspot.com/2011/07/havent-sentit-beethoven-de-joan.html&gt;

The poem is addressed directly to the young pianist, both in the title and in the content of the two stanzas; it contrasts the age and experience of the poet with the youth and purity of the musician, and shows how the poet can learn from the young man to appreciate the beauty of the world through the hands of the young musician. The concepts of child, baby, innocence recur throughout the poem, reawakening the poet’s appreciation of life and beauty.

The second stanza introduces the metaphor of Beethoven himself as the great bird flapping its wings, but held under control by the small hands of the child – even a child can master the mighty force of Beethoven’s music.

The final image in the last two lines sums up the impact a great performance can have on an audience – all the women have become beautiful and all the men have become brothers. In other words this great performance by a remarkable young pianist has united the people listening to it in a feeling of harmony and solidarity.

The Poetry Dude

Today’s poem is in Catalan, so I hope it will be accessible to many followers of this blog. Having once lived in Barcelona, I can read and understand the Catalan language fairly well, so I thought I would like to include some poetry from this region. The poem is by Joan Maragall, writing at the end of the nineteenth century and it is a poem about what it means to be a poet and write poetry, so very relevant to every entry on this blog. The tilte is “L’Oda Infinita”, the Infinite Ode.

L’Oda Infinita

Tinc una oda començada

que no puc acabar mai:

dia i nit me l’ha dictada

tot quant canta en la ventada,

tot quant brilla per l’espai.

Va entonar-la ma infantesa

entre ensomnis d’amor pur;

decaiguda i mig malmesa,

joventut me l’ha represa

amb compàs molt més segur.

De seguida amb veu més forta

m’han sigut dictats nous cants;

pro cada any que el temps s’emporta

veig una altra esparsa morta

i perduts els consonants.

Ja no sé com començava

ni sé com acabarà,

perquè tinc la pensa esclava

d’una força que s’esbrava

dictant-me-la sens parar.

I aixís sempre a la ventura,

sens saber si lliga o no,

va enllaçant la mà insegura

crits de goig, planys d’amargura,

himnes d’alta adoració.

Sols desitjo per ma glòria

que, si algú aquesta oda sap,

al moment en què jo mòria,

me la digui de memòria

mot per mot, de cap a cap.

Me la digui a cau d’orella,

esbrinant-me, fil per fil,

de la ignota meravella

que a la vida ens aparella

el teixit ferm i subtil.

I sabré si en lo que penses

—oh poeta extasiat!—

hi ha un ressò de les cadences

de l’ocell d’ales immenses

que nia en l’eternitat.

From <http://joanmaragalligorina.weebly.com/loda-infinita.html&gt;

The idea of this poem is that the poet’s whole life is devoted to producing a never-ending ode; an ode that can never be finished. The ode will convey all the sensations and experiences of life, everything blown in on the wind, or shining out in the poet’s view.

This began in the poet’s infancy and continued in his youth and will go on as long as the poet lives. The poet here is not a creator, he is a transcriber of a force of poetry which comes from outside, which is everywhere in nature and life. The poet merely acts as a channel to capture and set down the poetry of the world, the poet is almost a slave to this force coming from outside of him.

The poems have cries of joy, bitter pain and hymns of adoration but these are expressed through the poet’s hand without conscious thought or craftsmanship. Poetry is an expression of the force of life and eternity with the poet just the humble intermediary. When the poet dies he hopes the whole poem of life will be revealed to him and whether it will continue into eternity.

The Poetry Dude