Here's one you never heard. Othello Robertson only made one record, a rare 45 on Detroit's Baby Luv label in 1966. "It goes for one minute, 57 seconds," Vince Peach notes in his bone-dry Liverpool accent as he lowers the needle on So In Luv. "So I s'pose I paid about 10 bucks a second for it…"

The drums roll in like the party's already been going a while. Pushy bass and punchy horns slide like socks on a polished floor before a young girl's voice cuts the echo with the pleading ecstasy unique to classic soul music. "Whenever I'm sad and lonely, whenever I'm sad and blue…"

"I'll have to play this a few times before they know it at Cherry," the DJ says, raising his voice over the heart-stopping octave leap of the last verse. "Then I'll be so fed up with it I'll put it away and never play it again."

Never mind. There are 5000 similarly seductive 45s lining the shelves that surround us in his west Melbourne flat. And plenty more on his want list that will push the same buttons - and possibly the $1000 price tag - when he finds the right deal on eBay.

Soul in the Basement has been making the inner city's fabled Cherry Bar sweat every Thursday night for 15 years. In that time, Peach reckons he's missed no more than four nights a year — although at 66, he's happy to let his soul brother Pierre Baroni take the late shift.

Their radio gig on PBS-FM, Soul Time, is more established still. Peach started the show in September 1984, soon after arriving in Australia with a much smaller but no less precious collection of records unlikely, at the time, to get a spin anywhere else in Melbourne.

"When I came, the only band I can remember doing soul music was Grand Wazoo," he says. "They had people like Kate Ceberano singing with them back in them days."

They're still around. But with the likes of Cookin' On 3 Burners, Hiatus Kaiyote, Saskwatch,Clairy Browne, Kylie Auldist and Deep Street Soul stirring a thriving Melbourne soul scene, "it's come good," the DJ observes with a hint of ironic understatement.

Lance Ferguson of the Bamboos, maybe the most accomplished of the new breed, has no hesitation in crediting Peach with fanning the flames of his passion as a fledgling player.

"It was standing around the decks and pestering guys like Vince back in the early days that really opened my ears to all of those records that you won't find on any '60s soul 'greatest hits' compilation," the guitarist and songwriter says.

"Hearing tunes from his collection … created a sonic blueprint in my mind for where the music of the Bamboos could go: away from strictly funk and into the colourful spectrum of out-and-out soul - which is just great pop music, after all."

That's what it was, for sure, when those world-changing cover versions by the Beatles and the Rolling Stones opened the ears of kids like Peach in the early '60s. Within a few years, he was pestering a DJ named Billy Butler at the Cavern — "quite a well-known club," he notes drily - until the guy told him to go check out Friday's soul nights at The Twisted Wheel in Manchester.

"That weekend, off we went," he says. "And that was it. We went every weekend until they closed the place [in 1971]. We'd go out Friday night and come back Sunday night.

"It was just the best music for dancing to," he shrugs in explanation. "You just have this incredible beat. And dancing is the best way to get girls. That's the age-old motivation for anything."

There was also a class-based affinity, he reckons, between his northern council estate upbringing and the roots of the black American artists he saw at The Twisted Wheel in the late '60s, including Ike and Tuna Turner, Lee Dorsey and Junior Walker. Hence the British Mod and Northern Soul scenes that followed.

By the time Vince Peach's records start spinning on a Thursday night in Melbourne's ACDC Lane, however, there's none of the regional ownership or fashion codes that stamp most pop movements. The church of soul, as it turns out, is an incredibly broad one.

Cherry starts filling up just after 9pm. By the second 45, a lone male is busting practised slides on the empty dancefloor as regulars from their 20s to their 50s take places around the glowing red glass of the well-scratched bar.

The DJ leans over it and beckons. "Bet you can't guess who this is." It's a smooth, commercial soul record in the upbeat style of the Four Tops. "George Clinton," he grins. "Detroit, '67. Amazing, isn't it?" He shuffles back to cue up the next surprise.

Thursday nights at Cherry have been a magnet for end-of-tour parties for a huge variety of rock bands, reputedly including Pearl Jam, Oasis, the Stones, the Eagles, Arctic Monkeys, Blondie and the Black Keys - who even brought their own box of 45s.

Peach has heard those stories too. "Always someone I'm supposed to know," he shrugs. He only looks around with the first brassy blast of this week's band – a young and hot soul ensemble called Fulton Street who were probably in primary school when this night kicked off in 2000.

And it's not to socialise with visiting celebrities. "I don't know how you can listen to this music and not dance," he says. "I really don't. I can't help it."

Vince Peach and Pierre Baroni's Soul in the Basement turns 15 at Cherry Bar in ACDC Lane on Thursday, July 9.