On October 31, 1967 by the Decree of the Presidium of the Soviet Supreme of the USSR, on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Great October socialist revolution of 1917, the Order of the October Revolution was established. It took the second place in the table of ranks of the Soviet decoration system (after the Order of Lenin).

The author of the Order’s project was the painter V.P. Zaitsev.

The Order of the October Revolution was awarded to the citizens of the USSR and foreign citizens, soviet enterprises, establishments, organizations and other groups of workers, the military units and formations, as well as republics, krais, regions, cities and towns. The Order of the October Revolution was awarded for the revolutionary activity, a major contribution to the formation and consolidation of the Soviet rule, outstanding services in the building of socialism and communism, for a particular courage demonstrated during the struggle with the enemies of the Soviet state, outstanding merits in the strengthening of the country’s defense system, for the active development and intensification of the friendly relationships between the Soviet Union nations and other states, for the peace consolidation between the nations.

The first decrees of the Presidium of the Soviet Supreme of the USSR on awarding the Order of the October Revolution were signed on November 4, 1967. The Order N1 was given to Leningrad and the Order N 2 – to Moscow.

The last holder of the Order of the October Revolution in the history of the USSR was Atmagambet Oinarbaev, the chief of the “Construction materials”, the Kazakh mountain-geological expedition of the State industry joint-stock concern of Kazakhstan republic. He was conferred on this award by the Decree of the President of the USSR of December 21, 1991.

The re-awarding of the Order of the October Revolution was quite rare. Only a few people had been conferred on this order twice: the General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union L.I. Brezhnev, the president of the Central Committee of the Ukrainian Communist Party V.V. Shcherbitsky, the academician A.B. Severniy.

In total there had been over 100 thousand holders of the Order of the October Revolution.

Lit.: Колесников Г. А., Рожков А. М. Ордена и Медали СССР. М., 1983; Куценко А. Н. Ордена СССР. Донецк, 1994; Шишков С. С., Музалевский М. В. Ордена и медали СССР. Владивосток, 1996.

Based on the Presidential Library’s materials: