www.marklogic.com

For more than a decade, MarkLogic has delivered a powerful, agile and trusted Enterprise NoSQL database platform that enables organizations to turn all data into valuable and actionable information. Organizations around the world rely on MarkLogic’s enterprise-grade technology to power the new generation of information applications. MarkLogic is headquartered in Silicon Valley with offices in Boston, Chicago, Frankfurt, London, Manila, Munich, New York, Paris, Singapore, Stockholm, Sydney, Tokyo, Utrecht, and Washington D.C. For more information, please visit www.marklogic.com.

www.orchestranetworks.com

Orchestra Networks is a pure-play, independent master and reference data management software provider with operations in Europe, North America and Asia-Pacific.

Since its founding in 2000, nearly 100 customers have met their data management needs with EBX5, Orchestra Networks’ comprehensive, business focused-MDM software. While its customers span multiple industries, within financial services EBX5’s multidomain capabilities enables it to satisfy the needs of a wide range of customers in: retail, commercial and investment banking; custody, asset management, brokerage, trading, and insurance; and a wide range of use cases in: customer, product and reference data management, counterparty management/LEI, finance and tax hierarchies, risk management, HR and governance, and compliance.

www.compactbi.com

Compact Solutions provides innovative software and services for integrated metadata management, ETL testing automation and NoSQL data analytics solutions for Big Data environments. Metadata integration solution, MetaDexTM, provides seamless metadata integration between disparate platforms. Leading Insurers, Bio Technology and global interactive entertainment software companies have used MetaDex to understand complex business rules, transformation logic and reduce time to conduct impact analysis up to 70%. Batch testing automation solution, TestDriveTM, automates ETL testing tasks, dramatically reducing testing time. Compared to mostly manual testing, this can significantly reduce time, cost, and errors in your ETL applications and help to deliver trusted information to your end users.

www.dag.com

Data Advantage Group, Inc. is a leading provider of enterprise information asset management software. Data Advantage Group's award-winning MetaCenter® Platform is considered the gold standard in meta data management solutions. It enables organizations to easily find, organize, and catalog information assets and to bridge the gap between business and IT communities. The MetaCenter Platform is used by leading companies around the world to deliver easy to use data governance, regulatory compliance, and metadata management solutions.

www.delphix.com

Delphix is the market leader in Data as a Service, which helps enterprises accelerate application projects by 50%, including ERP rollouts, custom development, and migrations to private and public clouds. Delphix provides its DaaS Platform as on-premises or cloud software that automatically delivers the right data to the right team at the right time, instead of relying on complex processes and multiple IT teams to manually move unsecured data across systems. Over 20% of the Fortune 100 use Delphix to deliver data 99% faster across development, testing, and reporting environments, driving dramatic increases in productivity while improving data security.

www.globalids.com

Global IDs, based in Princeton, NJ, provides software for enterprise information management (EIM). Over the last 10 years, Global IDs has provided Data Management Software products to the world’s largest companies. Our core product, the Global IDs Master Data Governance Suite, addresses the core functional areas for managing enterprise information portfolios. Our software has been used in multiple industries including Financial Services, Healthcare, Pharmaceuticals, Telecom and Retail and leading analyst organizations including Gartner, Forrester and Bloor have recognized our unique capabilities.

www.prolifics.com

Prolifics, an IBM Premier Business Partner, creates competitive advantage for organizations around the world by implementing customized, end-to-end IT solutions that achieve business success. With the acquisition of Stream Integration in 2015, Prolifics has become a leading provider of solutions across the entire Data spectrum, including Data Integration, Governance, Master Data Management and Big Data. We are proud to serve forward-thinking enterprises that rely on our breadth of knowledge, skilled consultants, proven experience and technology accelerators to implement their IT vision. It’s this level of commitment that has earned our team numerous industry awards over our 35-year history.

www.waterlinedata.com

Waterline Data was founded in 2013, backed by Menlo Ventures and Sigma West. The inspiration for the name “Waterline” came from the metaphor of the data lake where data is hidden below the waterline. The mission of Waterline Data is to deliver a governed data lake to the business, and help data engineers and data scientists find the best suited and most trusted data without coding and manual exploration – in other words they should be able to “Hadoop above the waterline.” Waterline Data was developed to leverage the power and scalability of Hadoop to automate the cataloging and governance of the data lake, and enable secure self-service to find and understand the right data assets for data discovery.

www.adaptive.com

Adaptive has been in the market for more than a decade providing comprehensive, extensible, scalable metadata repository products and services. These support a range of data management initiatives including data governance and stewardship, business glossary, model management, enterprise architecture and improving the quality of business intelligence solutions. Adaptive leverages industry standards to integrate the broadest set of metadata sources, and its powerful query and viewing capabilities provide quick and visual understanding of technology- and vendor-independent data lineage and impacts of change. Our customers benefit from increased common understanding between business and IT, confidence in business information, along with improved productivity.

www.cmmiinstitute.com

CMMI® Institute is the home of Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI)®, a process improvement framework that guides organizations in high-performance operations. The Institute is working to build upon CMMI’s success, advance the state of the practice, accelerate the adoption of best practices, and provide new and evolved solutions to meet the emerging needs of small and large organizations in a variety of industries. Continuing in this tradition, the Institute has launched the Data Management Maturity (DMM)SM model, to support organizations seeking to strengthen their data management practices. Learn more at CMMIInstitute.com.

www.data3sixty.com

Data3Sixty’s Data Collaboration Suite™ introduces a new platform to empower the business through “Active Data Governance”™.

Our unique approach is grounded in years’ of experience in the financial services industry owning the data challenges while servicing the business information needs. The result of which is a product that is as equally powerful providing governance as it is simple to use. In Data3Sixty, your business can get a full 360° view and understanding of their data while also efficiently linking and collaborating with the responsible people and experts around it. The end result is an informed workforce which is able to make radically better business decisions.

www.element-22.com

Element22 is a boutique technology and advisory firm focused on data management within capital markets. Element22 empowers institutions to achieve more with data through unique products, expertise and ingenuity that measure data capabilities and deliver quantifiable improvements. Element22 also provides a cloud based service called Pellustro that is used for baselining and benchmarking data governance and management programs within financial institutions using industry standard models and criteria.

icedq.com

iCEDQ (Torana, Inc.) is the leading Data Auditing and Reconciliation Rules Engine platform for data governance. It’s used by financial services firms for complying with regulations such as BCBS 239, SOX, Solvency II and FINRA. iCEDQ establishes processes and controls around data assets for risk and financial reporting by testing and monitoring data-centric systems in development and production environments.

www.numericjobs.com

Numeric has 15 years’ experience providing expert staffing solutions in all aspects of data governance including: data quality, model validation, regulatory risk & compliance, Basel, CCAR and DFAST regulatory reporting.

Working with banks and financial service companies we have supplied staffing resources in: Strategy & Policy Development, Credit Analysis, Auditing, Fraud Prevention, Regulatory Monitoring and Reporting, Quality Compliance Review, AML, Lending Compliance and others.

Our senior level candidates have with in-depth expertise in developing Enterprise Data Strategy as well as the hands-on knowledge of how to implement strategy.

www.techxtend.com

TechXtend is a leading value-added provider of software, systems and solutions for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions across the United States and Canada. TechXtend has a 30 year history of delivering Easy access to the Right IT Products and Solutions that help your business achieve lower total cost of IT ownership and solve your identified and not yet identified business challenges.

www.erwin.com

Come see what’s new with CA ERwin® Modeling r9.6, including our new CA ERwin® Web Portal Data Governance Edition. Learn how the Data Governance Edition of our end-user portal includes web based authoring, change management, configuration and analysis of data governance constructs across your data architecture – placing CA ERwin at the Center of Data Management. As a bonus, learn how TechXtend is helping their customers build a successful Data Governance strategy.

www.topquadrant.com

TopQuadrant’s standards-based solutions enable organizations to evolve their information infrastructure into a semantic ecosystem, the foundation for intelligent business capabilities and integrated big data. As a result, data can be organized, shared and exchanged regardless of its structure, origin or location. TopBraid Enterprise Vocabulary Net™ supports collaborative management of enterprise metadata, models, business glossaries and taxonomies used in search, content navigation and data integration. TopBraid Reference Data Manager™ supports the governance and provisioning of reference data, including the enrichment of reference datasets (code lists) with comprehensive metadata. TopBraid Insight™ is a semantic virtual data warehouse that enables federated querying of data across diverse data sources as if they were in one place. TopQuadrant customers include many government agencies and Fortune 1000 companies in numerous industries including pharmaceutical, financial services, energy and digital media.

www.dama.org

DAMA, the Data Management Association International is a not-for-profit, vendor independent association of technical and business professionals dedicated to advancing the concepts and practices of information and data management. The primary purpose of DAMA International is to promote the understanding, development, and practice of managing data and information to support business strategies. DAMA International has chapters and members throughout the world.

www.dama-ny.com

The Data Administration Management Association of New York, DAMA-NY, explores the role of information management in today's competitive global market place. DAMA-NY events bring together the best and the brightest to present and discuss the new strategies which are changing the way business is done in the information age.

DAMA-NY is the organization for business executives with information needs, for information managers who must be aware of emerging management techniques, and for information management professionals who wish to acquire the latest skills.

www.datablueprint.com

Data Blueprint is a Data Management consulting firm that enables organizations to leverage data for operational efficiency and competitive advantage. The company conducts engagements with a wide array of commercial, non-profit and government organizations to improve internal capabilities & processes, design and implement data platforms, and optimize data handling. The company’s unique approach begins with business goals or objectives, identifies the data required to achieve those goals, then designs and applies a comprehensive data solution utilizing its core competencies in both foundational and technical data management practices. Learn more at www.datablueprint.com - See more at: http://edw2015.dataversity.net/sponsors.cfm#sthash.vFeMKuuq.dpuf

www.dgpo.org

The Data Governance Professionals Organization (DGPO) is an international non-profit, vendor neutral, association of business, IT and data professionals dedicated to advancing the discipline of data governance.

The DGPO provides a forum that fosters discussion and networking for members and seeks to encourage, develop and advance the skills of members working in the data governance discipline.

www.edmcouncil.org

The Enterprise Data Management Council (EDM Council) is a neutral business forum founded by the financial industry to elevate the practice of data management as mandate for efficient business operations. The Council was established in 2005 as a 501(c)(6) non-profit trade association to create and implement standards for effective data management; to develop best practice recommendations for EDM implementation; to conduct data management-related research; and to provide a network for all segments of the data management industry to use for the development of business relationships.

The prime directive of the Council is to ensure that all consumers have trust and confidence that the data they rely on for decision-making, analysis, trading, clearing, settlement, modeling, business development, valuation, risk assessment, compliance, etc. is precisely what they expect it to be (i.e. fit-for-purpose) without the need for manual reconciliation or multiple data transformations. The Council is a mutual organization of members and governed by an elected Board of Directors.

www.referencedatadigest.com

Reference Data Digest is a monthly newsletter that provides data managers with updates on changes to commonly held reference data tables (code tables). This means that data managers have a single source for information about reference data changes. Additionally, important announcements from reference data standards bodies are summarized, and expert commentary on the reference data space is provided by Malcolm Chisholm. More information is available at www.referencedatadigest.com.