CHICAGO--The Academy of General Dentistry has announced its bestowment of honorary membership to Congressman Michael Simpson (R-ID) and considers him a member of the organization.

Congressman Simpson was scheduled to be presented July 30 with a plaque in his D.C. office by AGD's immediate past president, Vincent C. Mayher, DMD, MAGD.

The AGD grants honorary memberships to those individuals who exhibit outstanding service to the dental profession and exemplify a commitment to the profession of dentistry through his or her activity.

A person must also support and promote dentistry to the public, or represent the vision, principles, and goals of the AGD and has made exceptional efforts in promoting these ideals.

Congressman Simpson is one of two dentists in Congress (the other is Congressman John Linder (R-GA), and has made strides toward filling the shoes of the late Congressman (Dr.) Charlie Norwood, who had been a champion for organized dentistry and oral health care.

Congressman Simpson has been a general dentist in private practice for more than 20 years and sponsoring legislation advancing the importance of preventative oral health care and beneficial to organized dentistry.

"The Academy of General Dentistry is thrilled to make Congressman Simpson an Honorary AGD member," said AGD President, Vincent Mayher, DMD, MAGD. "We look forward to having him on board with us and for him to be able to use the AGD as a dental resource as well as serve as an advocate for our cause."

Congressman Simpson was also awarded AGD's Legislator of the Year Award at the 2008 AGD advocacy conference, A Great Dentist Goes to Washington.

Congressman Simpson graduated from Utah State University, as well as Washington University School of Dental Medicine in St. Louis, Mo. Upon graduation, he joined his uncle and father at the Simpson Family Dental Practice in Blackfoot, Idaho.

For more information about the AGD, visit Academy of General Dentistry.

To read more about the Academy of General Dentistry, go to Academy of General Dentistry.