Background

Tweet

Michael K. Simpson was first elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1998. He’s been there ever since, and was elected to his eight term on Nov. 6, 2012. Simpson represents Idaho’s 2nd district, which is the south-eastern portion of the Gem State.

Simpson was born in 1950 in Burley, Idaho and raised in Blackfoot, Idaho. Simpson graduated with a degree in Pre-Dentistry from Utah State University in 1972. He then went on to receive his DDS from the Washington University School of Dental Medicine in St. Louis, Missouri in 1977. After graduation, he joined his father and uncle at the Simpson Family Dental Practice in Blackfoot.

Simpson started his political career in 1980, when he was elected to the Blackfoot City Council. In 1984 he was elected to the Idaho Legislature where he served until 1998.

In Congress, Simpson serves on four committees including the House Appropriations Committee, Budget Committee, Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies, and the Subcommittee on Interior, Environment and Related Agencies.

According to Project Vote Smart, Simpson has said he supports decreasing capital gains taxes, corporate taxes, alcohol taxes and income taxes. Simpson said he would support increased federal spending on military salaries, while he’d like to see a decrease on environmental, international aid, and welfare spending.

When asked whether he’d support government money used in an effort stimulate the economy, Simpson wrote this:

“I did not support any of the stimulus packages passed by Congress but could have supported a smaller stimulus bill focused on infrastructure projects like roads, bridges, and water infrastructure. These projects actually stimulate the economy, create real jobs, and leave a lasting benefit for taxpayers and communities. Republicans supported a stimulus package based on these types of projects, but Democrats instead focused only a small amount of stimulus dollars on infrastructure and instead spent the money on new programs and growing government.”

Simpson is an avid golfer and enjoys painting. He has been married to his wife Kathy for more than 40 years and they live in Idaho Falls.