The First National Government of the United Kingdom, also known as the Chamberlain Ministry was formed and de facto dissolved on the 20th December 1925. Following the collapse of the Labour Government the prior year, another hung parliament was produced with the Conservatives still unable to secure a majority. The news of the election sparked a naval mutiny at the Chatham Dockyards in Kent and investors began to lose confidence in the British economy. The King and the incumbent cabinet were warned a run on the Pound was imminent due to the lack of a stable government, causing the King to summon all three parties to the palace and proposal the formation of a "government of the whole nation" to deal with the ongoing economic crisis. Despite suspicions within his party, Chamberlain agreed and invited the major parties in parliament, and some minor parties, to join. As a tariff reformer, the Liberals were inherently suspicious of Chamberlain but agreed to join after assurances were given that he would not pursue a policy of reversing prior commitments to free trade without consultation with the coalition members - and possibly even an election - first. Despite being invited, Ramsay MacDonald announced Labour would decline to join. A minor rift emerged in which members of Labour that were sympathetic to the National Government intended to form a breakaway "National Labour" party under Philip Snowden. The plan was abandoned when Snowden was informed of various conditions, deemed intolerable, and Snowden's own suspicions that Chamberlain would attempt to implement a program of tariff reform anyway. MacDonald would only briefly serve as Leader of the Opposition before being assassinated and replaced by the new Labour leader, the republican, George Lansbury.

In a return to the Law years, the National Government oversaw a period of immense financial austerity and largely reversed many of the reforms undertaken by the prior Labour Government. The so-called "Geddy's Axe" - named after Eric Geddes, President of the Committee for National Expenditure - was brought out in full force and a major programme of financial restructuring, tax raises and public service cuts were instituted. Defence spending dramatically fell (particularly on wages for armed forces members and pensions for ex-personnel, war widows and orphans) and the Dreadnought Race was brought to an end leading to a sharp increase in unemployment. Likewise, industrial action returned in full force as a response to new wage cuts, the end of industrial subsidies and ever scaling unemployment. The government returned to the use of the Emergency Act to curtail strike action and the Unionist backbencher, F. A. Macquisten, put forward a proposal that would ban the ability for trade unions to mandate a compulsory political levy. This antagonism and austerity culminated in the mythologised Mutiny on the Hood and the outbreak of the 1924 General Strike. The dramatic events of the latter - and its mishandling by the government - culminated in the outbreak of civil war and ultimately the British Revolution.

The National Government became more draconian following the outbreak of civil hostilities and experienced dramatic splits during the course of the war. Most notably, much of the Liberal Party removed themselves from the government to sit in Opposition with the party splitting in two as those Liberals that still wished to support the government regrouped under the leadership of John Simon. Despite its attempts to quell the unrest and crush the socialist revolt, the government lacked the popular support and internal stability to do so, being forced to de facto dissolve on the 20th December when it began evacuation proceedings and sought to reorganise abroad. Chamberlain would lead a brief interim ministry, often referred to as the Second National Government to oversee the transition process and adaption of Parliamentary procedure to the new situation before Chamberlain resigned as Prime Minister and dissolved the government. He was succeeded by his Home Secretary, William Joynson-Hicks.

Cabinet[]

Key[]

= Member of the Conservative Party

= Member of the Liberal Party

= Member of the Constitutionalists (de facto Liberal)

= Member of the National Party

3rd January 1924 - 20th December 1925[]

Austen Chamberlain – Prime Minister and Leader of the House of Commons

The Viscount Cave - Lord High Chancellor of Great Britain

H. H. Asquith - Lord President of the Council

The Earl of Balfour - Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal

The Marquess of Crewe - Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster

Reginald McKenna - Chancellor of the Exchequer

The Marquess Curzon of Kedleston - Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and Leader of the House of Lords

John Simon - Secretary of State for the Home Department

Winston Churchill - Secretary of State for the Colonies

The Earl of Birkenhead - Secretary of State for India

Donald Maclean - Secretary of State for Scotland

Robert Horne - President of the Board of Trade

Herbert Samuel - President of the Board of Education

Edward Wood - Minister for Agriculture & Fisheries

Neville Chamberlain - Minister of Health

Anderson Montague-Barlow - Minister of Labour

Henry Page Croft - First Commissioner of Works

Leo Amery - First Lord of the Admiralty

Samuel Hoare - Secretary of State for Air

The Earl of Derby - Secretary of State for War

List of Ministers[]