A worker removes ice and snow from a roof in winter

Melted snow on old greenhouse roof with hanging icicles formed during freeze and thaw cycles. Glasshouse building with dangerous ice formation on rooftop. Change of seasons from winter to spring

May 26, 2019 Spencer Dam Nebraska after the dam broke Boyd County and Holt County by 281 highway near Spencer Nebraska . High quality photo

CLOSE UP: Intense blizzard punishing idyllic house in the cold rural part of America. Brown building with white wooden windows getting covered in fresh snow during a snowstorm. Dangerous ice dam.

May 26, 2019 Spencer Dam Nebraska after the dam broke Boyd County and Holt County by 281 highway near Spencer Nebraska . High quality photo

A close up of a crack on a brick wall near the roof without a roof gutter with icicles hanging. Repairing brick wall cracks.

A close-up of the icicles hanging of asbestos roof without a roof gutter. Ice dams on the roof.

A close-up of icicles hanging hanging from the edge of the roof without a roof gutter as a sign of an ice dam.

Spillway of a small dam in winter with ice and snow on the concrete walls

Nature scene on Kurobe dam between mountains with green turqouise lake, part of Tateyama Kurobe Alpine route

Ice skating on a frozen lake. Purified surface of the frozen water for the rink. The track for skaters on the lake.

Icicles hang from the roof of the house on a background of gray wall. Rooftop snow.

The lake and the resort of Tignes in french alps

An artificial lake in the italian alps in a winter day

Icicles hang from the roof of the house on a background of gray wall. Rooftop snow.

Hydraulic structures are covered with a thick layer of frost on a winter day.

Broken cracked Ice hummocks. footprints from fishermen on the snow. winter fishing. snow dunes. Dangerous. Nice pattern background. Aerial view from top down. drone view. Flying over.

Beautiful texture of frozen waves on the river. Can be used as background, texture or wallpaper. Banner.

Water flowing down the rapids behind the dam at Yellow Creek Park in Pennsylvania

The reservoir Lago di Zoccolo with its dam in the Ulten Valley in South Tyrol. The lake is part of the hydropower production in the valley.

Spring in the forest, the grass withered, the last snow, warm spring day, desktop wallpapers. This photo good design solution. The beavers built a dam

Winter threats, the threat of falling icicles from the roofs of buildings

Spring in the forest, the grass withered, the last snow, warm spring day, desktop wallpapers. This photo good design solution. The beavers built a dam

A landscape view of a frozen Abraham lake in Alberta with gas bubbles formed in the ice.

Nature scene on Kurobe dam between mountains with green turqouise lake, part of Tateyama Kurobe Alpine route

Glass wall of old greenhouse or orangery with different green plants inside during wintertime. Winter botanical garden. Outdoor photo of icicles hanging off of glasshouse eaves on frosty day

Beautiful panoramic aerial drone view to the Czorsztyn Lake with a reservoir and dam, Tatra Mountains (Tatras, Tatra) - mountain range between Slovakia and Poland, PL

The girl photographs the winter landscape on the phone.

Strong alcoholic drink in dammed glasses with ice on a black reflective background. Splashes on a blue background.

Dam along the road to the Voitsky Padun waterfall on the Lower Vyg River.

Winter at the shores of Lake Morii on Bucharest, Romania .

Dam on the Jeziorka river and moving water at winter, Poland

Equipment for draining water from the lakes frozen in ice, south Bohemia, Czech Republic