[jwplayer Wz7z4weP-z6KDnl0B]

The rumors surrounding the Los Angeles Lakers potentially reuniting with 16-year-big man Dwight Howard are heating up, with whispers coming from Howard’s camp that he’s ready and willing to embrace the dirty work the two Lakers superstars Anthony Davis and LeBron James would rather avoid during the grueling 82-game season.

According to Shams Charania of The Athletic, Howard and his camp are sending all the necessary signals to the Lakers that Howard is willing to do “whatever it takes” to make the team a championship contender.

Christian Rivas at Silver Screen and Roll reported:

By all accounts, Dwight Howard is motivated right now and he wants to be a part of a potential Lakers team and I’m told he’s excited about the prospect of joining LeBron James, Anthony Davis, and really doing whatever is asked of him: rebounding, blocking shots, defending—whatever it takes for him to be a part of a championship contender and essentially capping off his career with a title and redeeming himself from that one season he spent in L.A.

While Anthony Davis is the player who would likely benefit most from adding a true center in Howard, the LeBron factor is likely the most important at play here. Howard, at this stage of his career, fits the type of player that LeBron’s teams have gravitated to over the years: once-great players looking to finish their careers on a high-note. Some players who’ve filled this role on LeBron-led teams are Ray Allen, Deron Williams, Derrick Rose and current Laker Rajon Rondo.

While the personality questions that have followed Howard throughout his career will remain unanswered until the Lakers decide whether to throw him in the mix, a somewhat risky move for Howard makes more sense than bringing in someone like Carmelo Anthony, who wouldn’t fulfill the Lakers’ glaring need the way Howard could.

Howard is currently under contract with the Memphis Grizzlies. However, he is unlikely to start the season with the team as they already have two young centers (Jaren Jackson Jr. and Jonas Valanciunas) slated to play in front of him.