John C. Scott

john.scott@unt.edu

John Scott, Professor Emeritus of Clarinet at the University of North Texas, has performed with many orchestras and bands, and appeared as a recitalist and clinician throughout the United States and beyond. His performances include the Victoria Bach Festival in Texas, the New York University Contemporary Music Festival, and at conferences, workshops and recitals in places including Denver, Tempe, Lubbock, Salt Lake City, Victoria BC, Mexico City, San Juan (PR), Ostend, Stockholm, London, Madrid, Ho Chi Minh City, Saigon and Paris as well as in recitals throughout Taiwan and Japan. He performs regularly with Chamber Music International (Dallas). Recordings include Birdsongs: Romantic Chamber Music of Arthur Bird, Equipoise and Wild Exotic Dances. He performed and taught in music festivals in Taiwan, Japan and numerous other countries.

He was a member of the University of North Texas College of Music faculty from 1981 until 2018. In addition to teaching and chamber music coaching responsibilities, he served as Chair of the Division of Instrumental Studies for 10 years, and Associate Dean for Admission for 15 years before returning to full time teaching in 2015.

Prior to joining the UNT faculty he taught at Susquehanna University (PA) and Augusta University (GA). He earned the Bachelor of Science in Music Education from Frostburg State University (MD), and both the Master of Music and Doctor of Music in performance woodwinds and music literature from Indiana University (Bloomington), where he was a clarinet student of Henry Gulick.

His former students hold positions in numerous orchestras, bands, schools, colleges and universities throughout the United States, in premier military bands in Washington, D.C. as well as in regional bands. Several have been winners, semi-finalists and prizewinners in the International Clarinet Association’s Young Artist Competition and Orchestral Competition. Many have successful careers in music education, and others have established successful careers in medicine, law, technology, management, and sales. Musicians all.

He served as Music Review Editor and Advertising Manager for The Clarinet, journal of the International Clarinet Association. He is an artist-clinician for Buffet-Crampon and D’Addario and Company.