The soundtrack to the film Einer gegen das Imperium (1983), contains music by brothers Guido De Angelis, Maurizio De Angelis and, separately, John Scott. Although John Scott was hired to compose music for the US version, most of his music was replaced by additional music composed by Guido De Angelis and Maurizio De Angelis. Accordingly, the score was nominated for a Razzie Award, "Worst Musical Score." Regrettably, John's name remained as composer of the film. An Australian CD release features only John Scott's work.

In 2023, APM Music published a list of "The Top Ten Historic Production Music Tracks" from their catalog. #5 was John Scott's "Gathering Crowds". The theme to This Week in Baseball (1977), was composed for the stock music library. Despite its undisputed connection to the national pastime, "Gathering Crowds" was not even written with baseball in mind. It wasn't even written in America! "I've never actually been to a baseball match," says Mr. Scott, who wrote the piece in England in 1974. The soundtrack of summer for legions of baseball fans in the '70s, '80s and '90s, is widely regarded as one of, if not, the best sports-related theme of all time.

"You've Got To Hide Your Love Away" was the first The Beatles song to feature an outside musician (apart from "Love Me Do", the group's first EMI recording, in which producer George Martin had engaged a session drummer to substitute for the then-untried Ringo Starr). The basic rhythm track was recorded first, followed by George Harrison's guitar and some extra percussion. John Scott recorded a tenor flute in the spaces in Lennon's vocal track and an additional alto flute part, in harmony with the first, on the last available track of the four-track machine."-Bob Spitz, The Beatles: The Biography.

Virtually unknown outside U.S. Naval Ranks, there is something known as "breakaway music." Breakaway music is a modern U.S. Naval tradition used to motivate sailors upon the conclusion of underway replenishment (UNREP). When the two ships involved in the UNREP conclude their transfer of fuels and stores, and commence their breakaway, a song, usually selected by the Captain, is played over the 1MC, the "all hands" circuit that talks to the entire ship. Breakaway music may sometimes be related to the name of the ship, such as the "Theme from Star Trek (2009)" (USS Enterprise), "Theme from Rocky (1976)" (USS Boxer) and the "Theme from Bad Company - Die Welt ist in guten Händen (2002)" (USS Forrestal). The present day breakaway music for the USS Nimitz upon completion of UNREP can only be the music uniquely written for the ship - John Scott's "Theme from Der letzte Countdown (1980)".

In 1957, John Scott was a musician performing under the direction of Malcolm Arnold, and recording his score for Die Brücke am Kwai (1957). The musicians had finished the morning session, and the orchestra broke for lunch. John was prevented from leaving by Eric Boyd-Perkins, who had been the film editor on John's score for Antonius und Cleopatra (1972), and was now the sound editor on Die Brücke am Kwai (1957). He had been having trouble recording a group of people he had rounded up to do some whistling. He asked if John had a piccolo, and would he mind lending a hand? John told him it would be a pleasure, and remained, while Eric ran the footage in the film where men are marching and whistling the famous "Colonel Bogey March." Malcolm had composed a theme which was a counter melody to "Colonel Bogey," and the collective whistlers present needed something to follow. John obliged by leading them, and keeping them in time with his piccolo playing. And, that is how the famous "whistling main title" was produced, and that is how John came to miss his lunch that day. They carried on recording the score for the film after the lunch break.

In the early 60s, Aberdeen, Scotland, was a hotbed for singers and groups performing live at The Capitol, The Palace and The Beach Ballroom. The Rolling Stones performed where the ticket price ranged from five to 15 shilling, and the programme cost a pound six shilling. People listened to big name bands such as Manfred Mann at The Palace, and The Beatles performing at The Beach Ballroom. Tickets for an event on January 5, 1963, cost three shilling, and it was billed as "The Johnny Scott Band Show, featuring The Beatles," as this was just before the group became famous.

George Martin called on John Scott to play flute with The Beatles on their classic song, "You've Got to Hide Your Love Away." For that job, John worked two hours, and made about six pounds ($16.80 in 1965). Flash forward to many years later, and John knew a fellow musician who was playing with Paul McCartney. The musician told him about John, and how much he'd made on that session. According to John, McCartney pulled out a ten-dollar bill, and signed it, "To John - this is your second payment." John had it framed.