There are different styles of photography that can capture the beauty of life around us. Long exposure photography is one such style that is widely known for producing beautiful and captivating photographs. In this collection, we share with you some truly gorgeous long exposure photos as well as some tutorials on how to take long exposure photos yourself.

A Short Introduction to Long Exposure Photography

Long exposure photography refers to long shutter speeds. Longer shutter speeds mean that more light can get into the lens of a camera. Thus, long exposures are typically used at night, when there isn’t a lot of natural lighting around.

However, photographers soon realized that extremely long exposures produced some unexpected—albeit interesting—results. Thus, the popularity of this technique soon ensued. In terms of traditional cameras that still use film, shutter speed represents the length of time the camera shutter remains open to expose the film.

In DSLR cameras—the weapon of choice for most modern professional photographers—you will see numbers like: 1/8000, 1/4000, and 1/100. These numbers represent seconds or fractions of a second the shutter stays open. A fast shutter speed can catch fast movements and freeze them (which is why this is the ideal setting for sports photography) and a slow speed can blur your image. Consider the following side-by-side comparison of a fast shutter speed versus a slow shutter speed: If you wanted to capture light trails or flows of a stream, long exposure will give you great results because it keeps your shutter open longer to capture and blur the movements together.

Enough theory, let’s dive into some long exposure photographs example now.

Great Examples of Long Exposure Photography

Dark Days

Forever Dreaming

Pacman

Long Exposure Lighthouse.

Wreck of the Sygna

Tranquility Flows

With many Rivers Ahead

Dead Zone in the Sky

Bay Bridge

u

Ocean Desert

Kola Peninsula Russia

Hyperdrive

Shores of Time – Big Sur, California

The Chicago Fire

Long Exposure Light Art

Blackfriars Bridge

Ghosts Walk Among Us

Vivid Tung Chung

Skinny Tripping

Nòria del Tibidabo

Apocalypse

Apples in a Spotlight

Train Track Light Trails

Road Trip

More Long Exposure

Sheep

Swish

Holy Long Exposure

Long Exposure 2

Tutorials on Creating Long Exposure Photos

Now that you have seen some wonderful examples of long exposure photography, maybe you want to try this technique. Here are some tutorials that will help you get started:

Long Exposure Basics

Different Techniques of Long Exposure

Long Exposure Night Photography – Step By Step Guide

Tips For Long Exposure Waterfall Photography

8 Tips for Long Exposure Photography

How to Shoot Light Trails

How to: take Long Exposure Photos

Long Exposure Shots

Long Exposure Tutorial – Video

Related Content