While he might not be a household name like J.K. Rowling or William Shakespeare, Harry Turtledove has produced some masterful works of fiction. He has been dubbed, “The Master of Alternate History,” and his works in the genre have pulled it out of the backwoods of science fiction and into the mainstream of contemporary American literature.

Harry Norman Turtledove was born on June 14, 1949, in Los Angeles, California. He is a historian with a PhD in Byzantine History, and his first foray into the realm of fiction occurred in 1979, when he published his first two novels, Wereblood and Werenight. Since then he has written an impressive 107 books, and his non-fiction work analyzing the history of post-classical Mediterranean civilization have won him academic fame.

When he was first starting out, his publisher told him that he should use a penname because no one would believe that Turtledove was his actual last name. So in addition to writing under his real name, he has used a wide variety of pennames: Dan Chernenko, Eric G. Iverson, Mark Gordian, H.N. Turtetaube (German for Turtledove).

His style of writing is both coherent in its form and dramatic in its scope of characters. Using several “viewpoint” characters, he tells the story of a major world event. His alternate history style is taking the history of one area of the world and supplanting it on another. For example in his Timeline 191 series, he uses European history as the basis for a WWI and WWII where the Confederate States of America won the Civil War, drawing stark parallels between the defeat of Germany and the subsequent rise of fascism and genocide of Jews, to the defeat of the South in WWI and Jake Featherston’s fascist regime and systematic slaughter of millions of Negros. His writing style also has a strong militaristic flavor, and his plots often revolve around a war or wars and feature detailed combat scenes.

His books are not for young readers; he frequently uses sexual content and racial slurs to explore different themes of human interaction, but he possesses the unique ability to use Alternate history to span the depth of human emotions: resilience, hatred, love, grief, and of course the classic theme of adventure.

So the next time you take a trip to the bookstore, check out my favorite author, Harry Turtledove.