Augusta, Georgia (February 14, 2018): Beasley Media Group, LLC, a subsidiary of Beasley Broadcast Group, Inc. announces John Patrick has joined Steve Smith and Mary Liz Nolan as a co-anchor of the morning show from 5:30-9am on WGAC (95.1FM/AM 580) in Augusta, Georgia. He began his new position on February 13, 2018 (John will begin on air February 19th).

Patrick most recently served as the Host of the Buzz on Buzz at WRDW-AM in Augusta.

The radio veteran, who is currently celebrating his 41st year in broadcasting, began his radio career in Martinsville, Virginia doing afternoons of WFIC-AM. After another working in Wilmington, North Carolina, Patrick arrived in Augusta in April of 1984. For the next decade, he worked as the Morning Show Co-Host, Midday personality and Program Director at SUNNY 105 (WZNY-FM). In 1994, he became the morning show host on WBBQ-FM. In 2000, Patrick was named Program Director and Operations Manager for the seven-station cluster.

In 2008, Patrick created “The Augusta Golf Show with John Patrick”, which will now be airing on WGAC-FM on Saturday afternoons.

Since 2004, he has been the Master of Ceremonies for the annual Mayor’s MASTERS reception, which through the years has honored Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player, Raymond Floyd and Ben Crenshaw, among others. 2018 will mark his 34th MASTERS golf tournament.

Patrick received the Lifetime Achievement Silver Medal award from the Augusta Advertising Federation for his more than thirty years of broadcasting and Community Service.

“To have a guy like John with 40 plus years in radio leading the way on the WGAC morning show is quite an honor,” said Kent Dunn, vice president and market manager. “We look forward what John brings to WGAC and The Beasley Media Group of Augusta.”

“I am very excited about this wonderful opportunity,” said Patrick. “I can’t say enough about the management and staff of The Beasley Media Group of Augusta. Thank you to Brian Beasley, Kent Dunn, Chris O’Kelley, & Tee Gentry for believing in me!”

About Beasley Media Group: