Founded in 1848, the Geneva College is a non-profit private higher education institution located in the suburban setting of the large town of Beaver Falls (population range of 10,000-49,999 inhabitants), Pennsylvania. Officially accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education, Geneva College (GC) is a very small-sized (uniRank enrollment range: 1,000-1,999 students) coeducational US higher education institution formally affiliated with the Christian-Presbyterian religion. Geneva College (GC) offers courses and programs leading to officially recognized higher education degrees such as pre-bachelor's degrees (i.e. certificates, diplomas, associate or foundation), bachelor's degrees, master's degrees and doctorate degrees in several areas of study. See the uniRank degree levels and areas of study table below for further details. This 176-year-old US higher-education institution has a selective admission policy based on entrance examinations and students' past academic records and grades. The acceptance rate range is 70-79% making this US higher education organization a moderately selective institution. International students are welcome to apply for enrollment. GC also provides several academic and non-academic facilities and services to students including a library, housing, sports facilities, financial aids and/or scholarships, study abroad and exchange programs, online courses and distance learning opportunities, as well as administrative services.

Gender Admission

This institution admits Men and Women (coed).

Admission Selection

Has Geneva College a selective admission policy? Yes, based on entrance examinations and students' past academic records and grades.

Admission Rate

Geneva College's acceptance rate range is 70-79% making this institution a moderately selective higher education institution.

Student Enrollment

Geneva College has an enrollment range of 1,000-1,999 students making it a very small-sized institution.

Academic Staff

This institution has a range of 50-99 academic employees (Faculty).

Control Type

Geneva College is a private higher education institution.

Entity Type

Geneva College is a non-profit higher education institution.

Campus Setting

This institution's main campus is located in a Suburban setting.

Academic Calendar

This institution adopts a Semesters type of academic calendar.

Disabled Students %

This institution has a high percentage of disabled students making it particularly disability-friendly.

Religious Affiliation

Geneva College has a Christian-Presbyterian affiliation (Reformed Presbyterian Church of North America - www.reformedpresbyterian.org).

Financial Aid

This institution offers one or more of the following financial aid for eligible students: scholarships, grants, loans, tuition waivers, emergency financial aid etc.

Study Abroad

This institution offers study abroad and exchange program opportunities for its students.

Distance Learning

This institution provides a distance learning mode for certain programs or courses.

In particular, this institution offers some programs fully via distance education at the undergraduate level and at the graduate level. Source: IPDES.