The Trust showcased the benefits of its Analytic Command Centre to hundreds of industry thought-leaders, data and analytical experts and leaders from a wide range of industry sectors at the Qlik Data Revolution Tour in Stockholm on Wednesday 6 November.

The Command Centre – a series of screens which show live information about a patient before they enter the Trust’s hospitals, during their stay and when they are discharged home – was created at University Hospitals of Morecambe Bay NHS Foundation Trust (UHMBT’s) Royal Lancaster Infirmary site. It is part of a different set of activities that have been implemented in the emergency setting to help staff to improve patient management, care and experience.

Rob O’Neill, Head of Information at UHMBT, presented at the one-day event where he also talked about the Trust’s success in using data to underpin care delivery and service transformation.

He also showcased the command centre at Big Data London on Wednesday 13 November which was attended by 3,000 people. There he talked about the benefits of staff being able to see live information which include:

Which patients are due for discharge and themes of why there may be delays

The performance in the Emergency Departments which allows staff to see the status of ambulances, the number of walk-ins and if there has been a surge in patients

The number of admissions to hospital through outpatient appointments and departments such as the Ambulatory Care Unit

The current bed state across the Trust which helps teams to manage the demand for beds across the hospital and ease the number of patients in ED.

Rob said: “This was a fantastic opportunity to showcase how we have transformed healthcare through data analytics. It was encouraging to have received recognition from industry professionals for our achievements through the Analytic Command Centre and electronic patient record.”

The Trust holds patient flow meetings every two hours in the Analytic Command Centre which helps teams to better analyse the emergency care setting and patient flow in and out of the hospital.

The command centre has been designed to work in a similar way to airport Air Traffic Control and displays live and predictive information about patients throughout their hospital stay, from incoming patients travelling via ambulance to patients waiting for discharge home.

Qlik is a software company founded in 1993 in Lund, Sweden. You can find out more about Qlik at https://www.qlik.com/us