The Onondaga Historical Association is honored to present a Book Talk with Dan Abrams & David Fisher at the Onondaga County Courthouse on August 13th from 4 – 5:30 pm, to discuss their newest best-selling book, Theodore Roosevelt for the Defense: The Courtroom Battle to Save His Legacy. Hosted in the courtroom in which the trial took place, Abrams & Fisher will discuss topics and themes from their book. The authors are not guaranteed to have time to sign books following the talk.

Prior to the book talk, there will be a VIP Meet & Greet at 317 @ Montgomery Street from 2:30 – 3:45 pm. Enjoy heavy hors d’oeuvres while mingling and speaking with both Abrams and Fisher. This is also the only guaranteed time to get your book signed by both authors. Purchasing tickets prior to the event is required as there is a 40 person max for the VIP Meet & Greet.

Books will be available for purchase on-site at both locations. Tickets for this event can be purchased below.

Admission:

VIP Meet & Greet (includes Book Talk): $70(members, call for 10% off)

Book Talk: $20 (members, call for 10% off)

Members, call 315-428-1864 for the discount code

Thank you to the NDNY – Federal Court Bar Association

for their support of this event.

About the authors: Dan Abrams is the Chief Legal Affairs Correspondent for ABC News and is also the host of top-rated Live PD on A&E Network. A graduate of Columbia University Law School, he is the author of the Washington Post bestseller Man Down and has written for the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, Newsweek and Yale Law & Policy Review, among many others. Abrams was previously co-anchor of ABC’s Nightline, host of “The Abrams Report,” “Verdict with Dan Abrams” on MSNBC as well as the Chief Legal Correspondent for NBC News.

David Fisher, a Syracuse University Newhouse School alumnus, is the author of more than 20 New York Times bestsellers and together with Dan Abrams, they are the authors of the New York Times bestseller Lincoln’s Last Trial & Theodore Roosevelt for the Defense.

About the Book: The instant New York Times bestselling authors of Lincoln’s Last Trial, Dan Abrams and David Fisher returns with Theodore Roosevelt for the Defense, to tell the largely forgotten story of the 1915 trial where the former president was sued for libel. Theodore “Teddy” Roosevelt, the boisterous and mostly beloved legendary American hero, accused his former friend and ally, turned rival, Republican Party leader William Barnes of political corruption. The furious Barnes responded by suing Roosevelt for an enormous sum that could have financially devastated him.

The spectacle of Teddy Roosevelt, defending his legacy captured the imagination of the nation. “No more dramatic courtroom scene has ever been enacted,” reported the Syracuse Herald on May 22, 1915 as it covered “the greatest libel suit in history.”