PHOTOS: (1) This year is the 100th anniversary of Oscar Micheaux’s first films as America’s first black film-maker. (2) Oscar Micheaux was one of the first black homesteaders in South Dakota and wrote his first novel—largely autobiographical—about homesteading in the frontier, called “The Conquest.” (3) Micheaux’s third novel, “The Homesteader,” was very successful and attracted the nation’s first all-black, but short-lived, film producer, the Lincoln Motion Picture Co. But Micheaux decided to write, direct and produce the film himself. It was a great success and launched his career as a filmmaker. (4) Oscar MIcheaux behind the camera directing.(5) MIcheaux’s second film, Within Our Gates, produced in 1920, portrayed contemporary racial issues of the time, Jim Crow, Ku Klux Klan, the black migration to the North and Midwest, and the “New Negro” of the 1900s. (6) Micheaux adapted famous black novelist, Charles Chestnutt’s 1899, “The Conjure Woman,” which featured black dialect and the antebellum South and well as the postwar years and subverted the common literary stereotype of black’s as subservient to their old masters. (7) The Virgin of Seminole featured a beautiful young black actress named Shingzie Howard, who starred in several of Micheaux’s films. The Virgin of Seminole focused on a young black man who joins the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and becomes a hero by rescuing a captive mixed-race woman (Howard) from a hostile American Indian tribe.[1] The young man later purchases a ranch that becomes the foundation for great financial wealth. (8) Micheaux’s “The Wilderness,” better known as Symbol of the Unconquerored, was produced in 1920, about a white-skinned African-American woman who goes west from Alabama to the Northwest and settles there as a white woman. But she falls in love with a black man and must reveal her past. (9) Micheaux’s ground-breaking success lead to other films being produced for a black audience. Westerns the Westerns Harlem on the Prairie (1937), Harlem Rides the Range (1939), and The Bronze Buckaroo (1939) were directed by white XXX but written by black pioneering writer and actor Flourney Eakin Miller. He wrote The Colored Aristocrats, a silent film in 1909. Micheaux’s would write the The Veiled Aristocrats much later, in 1932. (10) The 1924 silent film, “Birthright,” featured both a black and white cast and was based on the white Southern, Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist, Thomas Stribling, first serious novel about a mixed-race man who returned home to the South after completing his education at Harvard but gains no respect in the Jim Crow South and moves north. The 1924 silent movie footage was largely lost but MIcheaux reproduced the film again in 1939. (11) The 1931 film The Exile, was Micheaux’s first talkie and the nation’s FIRST African-American talkie. (12) The 1932 “Girl from Chicago,” featured an all-black cast and deals with the growing popularity of gangster films. The concerns a black Federal agent who falls in love while on assignment in Mississippi. He helps his lover escape a local gangster, and the film follows them to Harlem where they become involved in the assassination of a Cuban racketeer, played by Juano Hernández. As with many Micheaux films, several musical numbers were interspersed throughout the action, providing a glimpse of the popular African-American music and dancing of the time.