Alexandra McDougald

Producer (Distribution & Fundraising)

Alexandra McDougald is the Distribution phase producer of ALIVE INSIDE. Prior to ALIVE INSIDE, Alex concentrated her efforts in publicity and distribution, serving as the lead on campaigns for Image Entertainment and Anchor Bay Entertainment, among others. Most recently, she managed U.S. distribution for Teza – the latest dramatic feature from celebrated Ethiopian filmmaker Haile Gerima – and led publicity for the home entertainment release of Spike Lee’s Red Hook Summer.

Shachar Langlev

Director of Photography

ALIVE INSIDE is Shachar Langlev’s feature film debut as Director of Photography. Israeli-born and Brooklyn-based, he’s been gaining recognition in his field, garnering awards such as the Eastman Kodak Award for Excellence in Cinematography. Shachar works extensively with musicians in the hip-hop community and New York’s jazz scene and has shot music videos and live shows for MTV, VH1 and BET. He is currently in pre-production for his first narrative feature as well as for a documentary feature in collaboration with Elie Wiesel.

Manuel Tsingaris

Editor

An editor for twenty years, some of Manuel Tsingaris’ recent projects include: The Storm that Swept Mexico, a documentary that aired on PBS in 2011, telling the story of the 1910 Mexican revolution and A Dream In Doubt, which follows a Sikh man's journey to find peace and justice after his brother is killed shortly after 9/11. Manuel was also a contributing editor on the critically acclaimed mini documentary series, “Life 360” – a co-venture between ABC/Nightline and PBS.

Barry Cole

Music Supervisor

Barry Cole, Music Supervisor, started the Music Department for New York based film studio, The Shooting Gallery. Since that time, Cole has given music supervision to over 80 media projects. In 2013, he earned a Grammy nomination for producing the soundtrack album to the feature documentary Marley. As a Transmedia Producer for film and television, Cole employs new and emerging technologies to increase audience engagement and overall user experience.

Dan Cogan

EXECUTIVE PRODUCER

Dan Cogan is the Executive Director and Co-Founder of Impact Partners, a fund and advisory service for investors and philanthropists who seek to promote social change through film. Since its inception in 2007, Impact Partners has been involved in the financing of over 50 films, including: The Cove, which won the 2010 Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature; The Garden, which was nominated for an Academy Award for Documentary Feature in 2009; Hell and Back Again, which won the Documentary Grand Jury Prize and Cinematography Award at the 2011 Sundance Film Festival, and was nominated for an Academy Award for Documentary Feature in 2012; and How To Survive A Plague, which was nominated for an Academy Award for Documentary Feature in 2013. Cogan co-founded Gamechanger Films, which launched in September 2013. Gamechanger Films is the first for-profit film fund dedicated exclusively to financing narrative features directed by women.

Eric J. Bertrand, Limore Shur, & Ben Spivak

Executive Producers

Founded by Chief Creative Officer Limore Shur, the brother of Alive Inside filmmaker Michael Rossato-Bennett, eyeball is a creative strategic design agency that shapes brands through powerful storytelling, stunning design, and insightful problem solving. By embracing client collaboration, its award-winning collective of thinkers, writers, artists and musicians efficiently translate brand ethos into engaging narratives and meaningful consumer dialogue, consistently generating quantifiable and powerful results. With twenty years of broadcast and ad agency experience, eyeball executes across a media spectrum that includes film, live action, design, animation, audio and experiential production.

Regina K. Scully

Producer, Executive Producer

Regina K. Scully is an Academy Award-nominated executive producer, most recently for the 2013 powerful documentary called the Invisible War, a film about the epidemic rapes of women and men in the military. The Invisible War won the 2012 Sundance Audience Award. Scully also executive produced Miss Representation, a compelling documentary exposing the gender bias that still exists in our country based on the limited portrayals of women and young girls in our Media, Politics and Entertainment. Scully is also involved in the films, Fed Up, a compelling documentary that deals with the growing epidemic of obesity and diabetes in America; ALIVE INSIDE, a recent Audience Award winner at 2014 Sundance film festival; and Anita: Truth to Power, about the 20 year anniversary of the Anita Hill hearings. Scully is the Founder and CEO of Artemis Rising Foundation and is the Founding Sponsor of the Athena Film Festival in NYC.

Mark Demolar

EDITOR

Mark Demolar is an editor and filmmaker, based in Brooklyn, New York. For the last five years, in addition to working in film, he has toured the country with his band Woodsman. A lover of art, he is known for his work in music video and video installation. ALIVE INSIDE marks Demolar’s first endeavor as a feature editor. His experience on this project sparked what is now a deep desire to discover new perspectives through the art of documentary narrative.

Nan Li

Asst. EDITOR

Nan Li is a Beijing native, he studied Integrated Media Arts at Hunter College and is working with Michael Rossoto-Bennett on several other films.

Itaal Shur

COMPOSER

Itaal Shur is best known for co-writing the Santana hit “Smooth” with Matchbox 20’s Rob Thomas. “Smooth” earned Shur a Grammy Award® for Song of the Year in 2000. Itaal was also a founding member of the group Groove Collective. He co-wrote the song “Ascension (Don’t Ever Wonder)” with Maxwell for his debut album, “Maxwell’s Urban Hang Suite.”

In addition to writing and recording, Shur has created an artist-development and production company. He also produces music for broadcast and computer animation. Shur is brother to Alive Inside filmmaker Michael-Rossato-Bennett.

Geralyn Dreyfous

EXECUTIVE PRODUCER

Geralyn Dreyfous has a wide, distinguished background in the arts and participates on numerous boards and initiatives. She is the founder of the Utah Film Center and co-founder of Impact Partners Film Fund with Dan Cogan. In 2013, Geralyn co-founded Gamechanger Films, a film fund dedicated to women directors.

Her independent producing credits include the Academy Award winning Born Into Brothels; Emmy nominated The Day My God Died; Academy Award nominated The Square, Academy Award nominated The Invisible War and multiple film festival winners. Geralyn was honored with the IDA’s 2013 Amicus Award for her significant contribution to documentary filmmaking.

Daniel E. Catullo III

Executive Producer

Daniel E. Catullo III was in charge of the distribution of the film and kept all the funds collected. We are now suing him. He resides in Laguna Beach, CA with his wife Madelyn and his two children Isabella and Dylan.