The 2024 Gordon Parks Foundation Gala took place Tuesday (May 21) at New York City’s Cipriani 42nd Street, where Alicia Keys and Swizz Beatz, Colin Kaepernick, artist Mickalene Thomas, former chair of the NAACP Myrlie Evers-Williams, and actor Richard Roundtree, posthumously, were honored.

“We’re privileged to be in this room together. We all have a privilege; we’re doing well for ourselves,” said Kaepernick while receiving his award. It was also presented by Spike Lee, with whom the athlete is working on a documentary.

“Nights like this also make me think about all the people who aren’t here. All the doors, all the barriers that we still have to kick down so everybody else can come through,” he added, as per WWD. “So when we leave here today, ask for one thing: That all of us walk in that power. Kick those doors down. Open those windows up. Break those walls down.”

The Deans, who’ve co-chaired the gala for over 10 years, were honored by the foundation as Patrons of the Arts. The couple most recently shared their private art collection with the masses of NYC via an exhibit at the Brooklyn Museum. They also own the largest private collection of works by Parks, the legendary photographer for whom the foundation is named.

“One never knows where they can go. And one might be told that they can’t go where others go,” said Keys of Parks’ legacy. “And it’s up to those like Gordon, those like us in this room, to remind each other and those that come after us that there is nowhere that we don’t belong.”

Swizz added, “Shout-out to all the giants in the room, which are all the creatives and all the people that support the creative arts in all formats.”

Attendees included Usher and wife Jennifer Goicoechea, Gayle King, Clive Davis, Lena Waithe, Valarie Simpson, and D-Nice on the 1s and 2s. Check out snaps from the soiree below.

More from VIBE.com

Usher Bringing 20th Anniversary Performance Of 'Confessions' To 2024 ESSENCE Fest

Usher Feels 'Confessions' Brought Accountability To Infidelity

Craig David Reflects On 2002 'VIBE' Cover And Planned "Reunion" With Usher For Lovers & Friends

Best of VIBE.com