HBO is best known for its prestigious television shows like Succession, The White Lotus and The Last of Us. But its streamer Max — the result of the merge between HBO Max and Discovery+ on May 23, 2023 — is also home to a massive library of movies, from colorful classics to modern box office hits.

With all of the options out there, it can be a little overwhelming to choose the perfect selection for your next movie night — so we've rounded up the best movies that Max has to offer at this moment.

Whether you're looking for Oscar-winning movies like The Zone of Interest and Barbie, rib-tickling comedies like Spy or Dicks: The Musical or iconic franchises like Harry Potter and The Lord of the Rings, the streaming platform has something for every film lover.

Here are the best movies available to stream on Max right now.

Beetlejuice

It's showtime! In this 1988 fantasy horror comedy, a recently deceased couple — Adam (Alec Baldwin) and Barbara Maitland (Geena Davis) — finds the afterlife more than a little haunting, especially when their home gets snagged by the Deetzes (Catherine O'Hara, Jeffrey Jones) and their "strange and unusual" daughter, Lydia (Winona Ryder). Determined to spook the new tenants away, the Maitlands pull out all the ghostly stops, but when things get tricky, they're forced to summon eccentric bio-exorcist Beetlejuice (Michael Keaton), hoping he'll "turn on the juice and see what shakes loose." And what better time to watch this classic than before the long-awaited sequel hits screens on Sept. 6?

Watch Beetlejuice on Max

Lady Bird

A five-time Oscar nominee and two-time Golden Globe winner, Greta Gerwig's 2017 coming-of-age dramedy stars Saoirse Ronan as a creative and rebellious teenager in the early 2000s, navigating a complicated relationship with her mother (Laurie Metcalf), the social caste system of high school and her academic future.

Watch Lady Bird on Max

Love Lies Bleeding

Set in 1989 New Mexico, Rose Glass' 2024 neo-noir romantic thriller stars Kristen Stewart as Lou, a withdrawn gym manager raised by a local crime lord and gunrunner. However, when Lou develops a hefty infatuation with Jackie (Katy O'Brian) — a go-getting bodybuilder making a pitstop before competing in Las Vegas — she must shield her from her father's grid of corruption and violence.

Watch Love Lies Bleeding on Max

Problemista

Known for his Saturday Night Live sketches and HBO's Los Espookys, writer, actor and debut director Julio Torres presents a semi-autobiographical tale that encapsulates the absurdities and nuances of the U.S. immigrant experience. Here, Alejandro (Torres) struggles to make it in the Big Apple as a toy maker with a limited visa. His fortunes take a turn when he lands a job assisting an eccentric art critic (Tilda Swinton), who becomes his sole lifeline to staying in the Land of Opportunity.

Watch Problemista on Max

Dune: Part Two

Adapting the second half of Frank Herbert's 1965 sci-fi tome, Denis Villeneuve's Dune: Part Two resumes on planet Arrakis as Paul Atreides (Timothée Chalamet) rallies Chani (Zendaya), Stilgar (Javier Bardem) and the Fremen against the Harkonnens, the household who wrecked Paul's family and murdered his father in the first film. With the fate of the known universe at stake, Paul has to choose between love and the prevention of a dire future. The film also features a star-studded ensemble, including Josh Brolin, Austin Butler, Christopher Walken and Florence Pugh.

Watch Dune: Part Two on Max

The Great Lillian Hall

Academy Award, Tony and Emmy winner Jessica Lange steps into the shoes of fictional iconic Broadway star Lillian Hall, who wrestles with her passion for the stage amid a dementia diagnosis. Directed by Michael Cristofer, this HBO Original film boasts a stellar cast including Kathy Bates, Lily Rabe, Jesse Williams and Pierce Brosnan.

Watch The Great Lillian Hall on Max

Am I OK?

At 32, anxious and awkward Lucy (Dakota Johnson) knows little about dating or what truly brings her joy. But when she begins to explore her attraction to women — with the support of her lifelong best friend, Jane (Sonoya Mizuno) — Lucy discovers more about herself in ways she never imagined.

Watch Am I OK? on Max

The Iron Claw

A24's 2023 sports drama chronicles the real-life saga of the Von Erich brothers, who body-slammed their way into professional wrestling esteem in the 1980s while shouldering multiple family tragedies and the burden of their father's (Holt McCallany) towering legacy in the ring. Helmed by Sean Durkin, The Iron Claw features a star-studded ensemble, including Zac Efron, Jeremy Allen White, Harris Dickinson, Stanley Simons, Lily James and more.

Watch The Iron Claw on Max

Turtles All the Way Down

Based on John Green's eponymous 2017 novel, Turtles All the Way Down finds its story in Aza Holmes (Isabela Merced), a 16-year-old girl living with obsessive-compulsive disorder. When she reconnects with her childhood crush, Davis (Felix Mallard), Aza begins to ponder her capacity for love, friendship and various other aspects of life.

Watch Turtles All the Way Down on Max

The Zone of Interest

Jonathan Glazer's unsettling historical drama masterfully employs sound — which earned it an Oscar in 2024 — and what remains unseen to depict the horrors of the Holocaust. The Zone of Interest delves into the lives of Auschwitz commandant Rudolf Höss (Christian Friedel), his wife Hedwig (Sandra Hüller) and their children as they enjoy domestic paradise directly next to the concentration camp.

Watch The Zone of Interest on Max

Dream Scenario

Have you ever found yourself meeting Nicolas Cage in your dreams? Well, in this 2023 fantasy comedy, he's popping up in everyone's. Dream Scenario features Cage as biology professor Paul Matthews, who unexpectedly becomes a viral sensation when his likeness starts showing up in people's subconscious.

Watch Dream Scenario on Max

The Social Network

In David Fincher's 2010 biopic, we learn the story of how Harvard student Mark Zuckerberg (Jesse Eisenberg) transformed his idea of a social media network into a worldwide phenomenon known as Facebook — and how this lead to both legal and interpersonal complications. Winning three Oscars, The Social Network boasts a stellar ensemble, including Andrew Garfield, Justin Timberlake, Armie Hammer and more.

Watch The Social Network on Max

Zola

Based on Aziah "Zola" King's viral Twitter thread in 2015 and the tell-all Rolling Stone article that soon followed, Zola chronicles the journey of the part-time stripper (Taylour Paige) persuaded by her new companion Stefani (Riley Keough) to embark on a road trip to Tampa, Fla., in pursuit of extra cash. However, as they travel with Stefani's enigmatic roommate (Colman Domingo) and clueless boyfriend (Nicholas Braun) ... things quickly hit the fan.

Watch Zola on Max

The Harry Potter franchise

Raise your wands, everyone, because it's time to tap those bricks outside of the Leaky Cauldron and head back to the magical world. In this iconic series, you'll follow the journey of Harry Potter (Daniel Radcliffe) through adolescence as he discovers he's a wizard, makes friends with Ron (Rupert Grint) and Hermione (Emma Watson) and works to defeat the evil Voldemort (Ralph Fiennes). And, once you're done, you can even stream the Harry Potter 20th Anniversary: Return to Hogwarts reunion special and catch up with your favorite witches and wizards.

Watch the Harry Potter franchise on Max

Scott Pilgrim vs. the World

Based on the Scott Pilgrim graphic novels, this 2010 action comedy knows how to pack a punch. After falling for Manic Pixie Dream Girl Ramona (Mary Elizabeth Winstead), musician Scott Pilgrim (Michael Cera) has to defeat all her seven evil exes through arcade-style fight sequences. The critically acclaimed film also features an ensemble cast including Kieran Culkin, Chris Evans, Brie Larson, Anna Kendrick, Aubrey Plaza and more.

Watch Scott Pilgrim vs. the World on Max

Wonka

Craving a sweet escape? In his first-ever musical role — though we already knew he had some moves — Timothée Chalamet slips into the comically large top hat of the titular chocolatier first introduced in Roald Dahl's 1964 novel, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. With the help of unexpected allies, a mix of ambition and a sprinkle of genius (and giraffe milk?), the young Wonka wields his "pure imagination" to carve his place in the confectionary world.

Watch Wonka on Max

The Color Purple

Almost two decades after her stint on American Idol — and reprising a role she played on Broadway — Fantasia Barrino makes her feature film debut as Celie Harris: a compassionate Black woman navigating through a lifetime of harrowing challenges in the early-1900s U.S. South. Based on the stage musical (itself inspired by Alice Walker's seminal 1982 novel), The Color Purple boasts stellar performances from an ensemble cast including Taraji P. Henson, Danielle Brooks, Colman Domingo, Corey Hawkins, H.E.R., Halle Bailey and Phylicia Pearl Mpasi, among others.

Watch The Color Purple on Max

Priscilla

In contrast to Baz Luhrmann's acclaimed 2022 Elvis biopic — which focused on the rise and fall of the legend's career — the following year offered another side of his story through a different perspective. Drawing from Priscilla Presley's 1985 memoir Elvis and Me, Sofia Coppola delves into the lesser-known, more uncomfortable facets of Priscilla's (Cailee Spaney) sensationalized relationship with the King of Rock and Roll (Jacob Elordi). Despite its lack of recognition at the Oscars, the film dazzles with its evocative cinematography, detailed costumes and a soundtrack devoid of Presley's hits.

Watch Priscilla on Max

The Bling Ring

DJ, cue up "212" by Azealia Banks. Inspired by the notorious Bling Ring — featured in Nancy Jo Sales's sensational 2010 Vanity Fair article — Sofia Coppola's 2013 heist drama peers into the misdeeds of gaudy, fame-obsessed privileged teens who used the internet to stalk celebrities and rob their homes. With cameos from Paris Hilton (a real-life Bling Ring victim) and Kirsten Dunst, The Bling Ring stars Emma Watson, Israel Broussard, Katie Chang, Taissa Farmiga, Claire Julien, Georgia Rock and Leslie Mann.

Watch The Bling Ring on Max

Dicks: The Musical

Based on their off-Broadway musical, Josh Sharp and Aaron Jackson star in this oddball musical comedy as two "identical" twins separated at birth who work up a Parent Trap-style plan to reunite their estranged parents (Megan Mullally, Nathan Lane), with a few cheeky musical numbers along the way. From sewer boy mutants to Megan Thee Stallion's girl-boss anthem and Bowen Yang's Gay God, there's no denying that Dicks: The Musical — whether adored or loathed — struts proudly in its own one-of-a-kind lane.

Watch Dicks: The Musical on Max

Trainwreck

Making her film debut, Amy Schumer (who also wrote the screenplay) takes the lead in this 2015 romantic dramedy as Amy Townsend, a carefree, hedonistic magazine writer who has embraced the notion that monogamy is unrealistic. Yet, when tasked with profiling esteemed orthopedic surgeon Aaron Conners (Bill Hader), Amy discovers herself on the brink of her first meaningful relationship while also dealing with her own family drama.

Watch Trainwreck on Max

Now You See Me

In Louis Leterrier's 2013 heist film, hypnotic magician Atlas (Jesse Eisenberg) runs a collective of skilled illusionists — a.k.a. the Four Horsemen — who dazzle audiences by draining ill-gotten profits from the corrupt and redistributing it among unsuspecting crowds. However, as a federal agent (Mark Ruffalo) and an Interpol detective (Mélanie Laurent) set out to thwart their next act, the Four Horsemen seek help from the renowned magic exposer Thaddeus (Morgan Freeman).

Watch Now You See Me on Max

Her

With AI infiltrating more and more aspects of daily life, this 2013 sci-fi romantic drama — which won the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay — seemed to be quite on the mark with its predictions of how it could serve as a substitute for human connection. Meet Theodore Twombly (Joaquin Phoenix): a fragile divorcée who purchases an operation device featuring a virtual assistant named Samantha (voiced by Scarlett Johansson). As Theodore's relationship with the AI system snowballs into a romantic fantasy, Samantha matures into a human-like entity with a mind of her own.

Watch Her on Max

Barbie

Hi Barbie! In this $1.4 billion-earning fantasy adventure from Greta Gerwig, Margot Robbie steps into the high heels of Stereotypical Barbie, who travels to the Real World to find her owner and prevent their existential musings from rubbing off on her. Oh, and Ken (Ryan Gosling) is there, too — getting a crash course on the patriarchy. Join the fun in Barbie Land, where Barbies and Kens (and Michael Cera's Allan) are played by stars like Issa Rae, Kate McKinnon, Simu Liu, Ncuti Gatwa, Dua Lipa and more.

Watch Barbie on Max

Legally Blonde

Whoever said orange is the new pink was seriously disturbed! In this 2001 rom-com, Delta Nu sorority sister Elle (Reese Witherspoon) enrolls in Harvard Law School to win back her ex (Matthew Davis). But among a sea of skeptics eyeing her flamboyant ensembles and sidekick chihuahua Bruiser, she remains determined to show everyone how valuable Elle Woods can be — even if it's in heels.

Watch Legally Blonde on Max

Mad Max: Fury Road

In a postapocalyptic desert wasteland, Mad Max: Fury Road revolves around the alliance between drifter Max Rockatansky (Tom Hardy) and warrior Imperator Furiosa (Charlize Theron) — leader of the Vuvalini, an all-female clan of prisoners known as the Many Mothers — as they rebel against the tyrannical leader Immortan Joe (Hugh Keays-Byrne) and his army in a deadly, relentless road battle. Directed by George Miller, this 2015 dystopian action flick also stars Nicholas Hoult, Rosie Huntington-Whiteley, Riley Keough and Zoë Kravitz, among others.

Watch Mad Max: Fury Road on Max

The King's Speech

Ascending to the throne while encumbered by his stutter, King George VI (Colin Firth) develops a friendship with an unorthodox speech therapist (Geoffrey Rush) dedicated to helping the monarch orate steadily. Directed by Tom Hopper, this 2010 historical drama also stars Helena Bonham Carter, Guy Pearce, Derek Jacobi and Robert Portal, among others.

Watch The King's Speech on Max

Uptown Girls

In this charming dramedy from the early-2000s, Molly Gunn (Brittany Murphy) goes from a pampered, immature heiress to an unexpected babysitter for 8-year-old Lorraine "Ray" (Dakota Fanning), who's wise beyond her years and overly concerned about her health. As their unique friendship blossoms, Molly matures into an adult while Ray rediscovers the joys of being a child.

Watch Uptown Girls on Max

The Devil Wears Prada

The Devil Wears Prada on Max? Groundbreaking. The quintessential 2000s gem stars Anne Hathaway as aspiring writer Andy Sachs, whose fashion sense is on the back burner when she scores the coveted co-assistant gig to the formidable Miranda Priestly (Meryl Streep), the editorial empress of Runway magazine. From uncomfortable heels to seemingly ludicrous tasks, Andy's career survival hinges on a fashion-forward hustle that'll have anyone rethinking their shades of blue.

Watch The Devil Wears Prada on Max

Spy

Buckle up for some side-splitting espionage in Paul Feig's Spy (2015), in which Melissa McCarthy stars as Susan Cooper, a CIA analyst–turned–secret agent who trades her desk job for high-stakes undercover work against the formidable arms dealer Rayna Boyanov (Rose Byrne), all while aiming to prevent a global catastrophe. McCarthy's comedic prowess and ingenious ad-libbed insults add a delightful spin to the spy genre, making it a must-watch for anyone seeking an uproarious adventure.

Watch Spy on Max

Avatar: The Way of Water

With audiences itching to revisit the sensational world of Pandora, it's no surprise why James Cameron's 2022 sci-fi epic was such a massive box-office knockout. Running over three hours and featuring aquatic CGI effects, thrilling action sequences and soul-stirring performances, Avatar: The Way of Water follows Jake Sully (Sam Worthington), Neytiri (Zoe Saldaña) and their family as they leave behind their human-invaded home and seek refuge with the oceanic clan of Metkayina, learning to harmonize with the sea and its ever-flowing gifts.

Watch Avatar: The Way of Water on Max

Reality

Based on a true story, HBO's 2023 indie drama sees Euphoria star Sydney Sweeney enter an unexpected role as former United States Air Force member and NSA translator Reality Winner, who is notoriously known for leaking top-secret government documents to the public. Adapted from the real transcripts of the whistleblower's FBI interrogation, Tina Satter's directorial debut not only features gripping performances from Sweeney, but also from Marchánt Davis and Josh Hamilton as detectives.

Watch Reality on Max

I, Tonya

Shot in mockumentary style, this 2017 biographical black comedy tells the real-life story of renowned figure skater Tonya Harding (Margot Robbie) and how her ex-husband was involved with the attack on her rival, Nancy Kerrigan (Caitlin Carver), who was struck at the knee several weeks prior to the 1994 Olympic Winter Games. In addition to its riveting narrative, gritty performances from Robbie, Allison Janney (who won a Best Supporting Actress Oscar) and Sebastian Stan help reframe the sports scandal that ended Harding's skating career.

Watch I, Tonya on Max

Parasite

Making history as the first non-English language movie to win the Oscar for Best Picture, Parasite is deserving of all its acclaim. Bong Joon Ho's South Korean social thriller centers on the Kims, who live in poverty and lie about their qualifications to work in (and ultimately infiltrate) the Park family's opulent home.

Watch Parasite on Max

Dune

Based on Frank Herbert's 1965 epic science fiction novel, Denis Villeneuve's 2021 adaptation is sprawling. With a star-studded cast that includes Timothée Chalamet, Zendaya, Oscar Isaac, Jason Momoa and more, Dune follows Paul (Chalamet), the heir of House Atreides, as he's thrust into a war over a life-extending drug, "the spice." But Paul has trouble focusing on politics when he begins to have powerful visions of his own.

Watch Dune on Max

In the Heights

Get ready to sing along to this 2021 adaptation of Lin-Manuel Miranda's Tony-winning musical. Bodega owner Usnavi de la Vega (Anthony Ramos) narrates the story of a group of dreamers born and raised in New York City's Washington Heights neighborhood. Be sure to watch it for catchy numbers, complex choreography and more than one swoon-worthy romance.

Watch In the Heights on Max

The Lord of the Rings trilogy

Settle in for a movie marathon with The Lord of the Rings trilogy (and it will be a marathon — in total, the three films span over 11 hours). J.R.R. Tolkien's classic tales of Middle-earth follow hobbit Frodo Baggins (Elijah Wood) and the Fellowship of the Ring as they embark on a quest to destroy the One Ring. Featuring performances from Orlando Bloom, Sir Ian McKellen and Cate Blanchett, the Lord of the Rings trilogy is a necessary binge for any fantasy lover.

Watch The Lord of the Rings trilogy on Max

Joker

Joaquin Phoenix's harrowing take on the classic DC villain not only nabbed him an Academy Award for Best Actor, but also began a franchise that'll include Lady Gaga as Harley Quinn in the 2024 musical sequel. Joker tracks Arthur Fleck, a feeble clown and struggling stand-up comedian, as he descends into madness and slowly becomes the famed criminal mastermind.

Watch Joker on Max

King Richard

This 2021 biographical sports drama examines the man behind two tennis legends. Will Smith plays Richard Williams, father and coach of Serena and Venus Williams, as he turns his daughters into professional tennis players. The role won Smith an Academy Award for Best Actor.

Watch King Richard on Max

2001: A Space Odyssey

Stanley Kubrick's trippy 2001: A Space Odyssey explores the meaning of humanity itself. Known for its pioneering special effects and scientifically accurate depictions of space flight, the 1968 epic science fiction film zeroes in on a group of astronauts (Keir Dullea, Gary Lockwood and William Sylvester) and the sentient supercomputer named HAL (voiced by Douglas Rain) as they investigate an alien monolith on Jupiter.

Watch 2001: A Space Odyssey on Max

Singin' in the Rain

In one of the greatest musical films of all time, Gene Kelly, Debbie Reynolds and Donald O'Connor star as three silent film stars working on their first "talkie" to keep up with the industry's transition to sound. With iconic numbers like "Make 'Em Laugh," "Broadway Melody" and, of course, "Singin' in the Rain," the film is sure to put a smile on your face.