Noomi Rapace is one of the well-known Swedish actresses who earned international fame appearing in the Millennium series which includes The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, The Girl Who Played with Fire and The Girl Who Kicked the Hornets’ Nest. Since then the actress has been appearing in many Hollywood movies and achieved international fame.

Noomi Rapace was born in 1979 in Hudiksvall, Gävleborg, Sweden. She celebrates her birthday on 28th December, which makes her age 43. She holds Swedish nationality and comes of Romani descent.

Quick Wikis

Real Name Noomi Rapace Birthday December 28, 1979 Birthplace Hudiksvall, Sweden Nationality Swedish Ethnicity Romani Married/Husband Ola Rapace (Ex-Husband) Net Worth $20 million Parents Rogelio Duran and Nina Noren Siblings Særún Norén

Noomi Rapace Net Worth and Salary

Noomi earned her first role at the age of seven, a non-speaking role in the Icelandic film In the Shadow of the Raven. It inspired her to pursue an acting career and later enrolled in a theatre school at seven. The actress made her TV debut in 1996, playing Lucinda Gonzales in the soap series Tre kronor. Appearing in Swedish movies, the actress bagged two film awards in Denmark for Best Actress. The actress had her international breakthrough by appearing in the six-part miniseries, Millennium.

The actress secured her first English-speaking role in Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows in 2011. Later, she appeared in other popular movies such as Passion, Dead Man Down, Rupture, Alien: Covenant, Stockholm, Angel of Mine and others. Her recent appearance was in movies such as Lamb, You Won’t Be Alone, and Price. As of 2023, Noomi Rapace holds a net worth of $20 million.

Dating her Boyfriend, Victor Thell; Husband?

Naomi Rapace’s dating life has often made headlines as many of her fans are curious to know if the actress is dating anyone. Naomi seems to be in a relationship with the musician Victor Thell from Smith and Thell. While it’s not sure when the duo actually started dating, the pair have made multiple red carpet appearances and also shared a kiss publicly during a red carpet event in Spain.

Before dating Victor, Noomi was married to Ola Rapace from 2001 to 2011. The pair also share a son named Lev, whom the actress features on her social media.

Besides, she had also publicly dated the Swedish kickboxer Sanny Dahlbeck in 2015.

Family, Parents, and Siblings

Noomi was born to her father, Rogelio Duran and mother, Nina Noren. Her mother is also an actress while her father was a Spanish flamenco singer. Besides, her family also includes her sister, Særún Norén, who is a photographer.

Noomi Rapace Height and Weight

Noomi stands at a height of 5 feet 4 inches. Likewise, the actress has a stunning body that weighs around 53 kg and measures 32-25-34 inches. Her facial features include her dark brown hair and eye color.

Noomi Rapace FAQs

What ethnicity is Noomi Rapace?

She holds Swedish nationality and comes of Romani descent.

Where is Noomi Rapace from?

Noomi Rapace was born in Hudiksvall, Sweden. She was born to her parents Rogelio Duran and Nina Noren.

Who is Noomi Rapace married to?

Rapace was married to Swedish actor Ola Norell. Currently, she is single.