Lev Rapace, born in 2003, is the Swedish actress Noomi Rapace‘s son and her only child. Lev was born to Noomi’s ex-husband, Ola Rapace. The couple had tied the knot in 2001, before divorcing in 2001. Both Noomi and Ola remain unmarried at the moment.

Lev’s father Ola Rapace also has a daughter, Line Rapace, born to his other ex-wife, Malin Morgan. Line, born in 1999, is Lev’s elder half-sister. As of now, the teenage Lev lives with his parents in Stockholm, Sweden.

Noomi Rapace’s Son Lev Rapace Is A Dashing Teenager

It looks like Noomi Rapace and Ola Rapace have passed their good looks to their teenager son, Lev. He looks every bit like his mom and dad combined. Undoubtedly, he has got the looks and probably a talent for acting. As mentioned earlier, Lev Rapace’s parents, Noomi an Ola, are famous actors in Sweden.

However, Lev’s studies come before his professional career. He likely goes to high school at the moment and wants to focus on his academic subjects. In the future, fans in Sweden certainly wish to see Lev playing in numerous movies and TV series. After all, he is the son of a famous actress mother. Noomi’s acting qualities might have rubbed off on her only son.

Lev Rapace Attends Movie Screenings With His Mother Noomi

The mother-son duo of Noomi Rapace and Lev Rapace bond well and maintain a warm relationship. When Lev is on his school holidays, his mother takes him out to lavish parties and showbiz events. It seems Noomi wants to give her son as much media exposure as possible. She believes in making her child feel comfortable in front of the camera.

After Noomi’s divorce with her ex-husband Ola, she seems to be raising her son by herself. Lev’s father Ola Rapace probably hangs out with his son every once in a while. Line Rapace, Ola’s daughter from his other marriage, is also likely fond of her half-brother, Lev.

Lev Rapace: Name Meaning

The name Lev is of Slavic origin, which means “lion.”

For latest updates on Entertainment, Celebrity Babies follow eCelebrityMirror.