Ola Rapace is a Swedish actor who made headlines for appearing as Patrice on the action thriller film, Skyfall. His other notable credits are Crimes of Passion and Anna Pihl. He previously dated Swedish actress Noomi Rapace. The two share two children together.

Early Life and Parents

Born as Pär Ola Norell on December 3, 1971, in Tyresö, Stockholm County, Sweden, Ola Rapace was raised in Vallentuna.

He was one year old when his parents Nina Norén and Rogelio Durán parted ways. After their divorce, his father raised him in Vallentuna.

He grew up playing football and he also loves listening to heavy metal. He has graduated with a philosophy degree from the University of Montpellier in France.

Acting Career

Ola Rapace first appeared in the romantic drama film, Together, in 2000. The film received the Philadelphia Film Festival Jury Award and Paris Film Festival Special Jury Prize. He was then seen in in Tusenbröder and Wallander.

He had his breakthrough role as Daniel Nordström in the Danish police television show, Anna Pihl, which aired on TV 2.

His first English-language film was Rancid which was released in 2004. Later in 2012, he notably portrayed Patrice in the James Bond film Skyfall.

He has since appeared in Section Zéro, Ares, Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets. Her has also appeared in The Last Kingdom alongside Thea Sofie Loch Naess. He is set to appear in Divertimento in late 2020.

Holds a Net Worth of $2 Million

According to multiple online sources, Ola Rapace has a total net worth of $2 million, as of 2020. So, there is no doubt that he makes a decent amount of money from his film and television career.

He earns a handsome amount of salary from his acting career. His 2012 film, Skyfall, grossed $1.109 billion against the budget of $200 million, according to the Box Office Mojo website.

Marriage, Divorce and Children With Ex-Wife Noomi Rapace

Ola Rapace was previously married to Noomi Rapace, a popular Swedish actress best known for appearing in the Swedish film adaptations of the Millennium series.

The couple exchanged wedding vows in a private ceremony in 2001 and the nuptials was attended by close friends and family members. Unfortunately, the two got a divorce after a decade of their marriage in 2011.