The entirety ofA Philly Special Christmas Special — this year’s new holiday album featuring Eagles offensive linemen Jason Kelce, Jordan Mailata, and Lane Johnson — has finally been released.

That’s right, sports and music fans: All 11 songs by the singers and musicians now calling themselves the Philly Specials are now available.The project benefits Children’s Crisis Treatment Center and Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia and its special guests include Patti LaBelle and Travis Kelce. More info about the album can be found at phillyspecialchristmas.com.

I’ve been reviewing one song per week they’ve been released. Those are included here, with the addition of seven songs that are out Dec. 1 on Vera Y Records.

Here they are, starting with the opening chestnut “The Christmas Song.”

‘The Christmas Song:’ Three Birds (and Amos Lee) take on Nat King Cole

The first single to be released from Philly Special album was the most popular holiday song of the 21st century (though it was recorded only in 1994): Mariah Carey’s “All I Want for Christmas is You.”

The song that actually opens the double LP is a Christmas standard of an older vintage, dating back to 1945, written by Mel Torme and Robert Wells, and first recorded by Nat King Cole the next year.

The three Birds treat the classic respectfully and deliver it in style. Lane Johnson comes in first with the iconic “Chestnuts roasting on an open fire” lyric that often gets mistaken for the song’s title. Jason Kelce and Jordan Mailata follow in turn, and special guest Lee joins them harmonizing on the chorus.

‘Dominick the Donkey:’ Jason Kelce‘s bizarre beast of burden

Lou Monte’s 1963 novelty song about “the Italian Christmas donkey” who helps Santa pulls his sled over the steep mountains of Italy, has become as time honored of a tradition as the Feast of Seven Fishes among many South Philly families.

“Dominick the Donkey” is where the Philly Specials get weird. Jason Kelce — “the King of South Philly,” according to his brother Travis — loves the Monte original about the beast of burden that announces himself with jingle bells on his feet “when Santa visits his paisans.”

With Kelce bellowing the song’s “Chingedy ching … Hee haw!” hook, producer Charlie Hall says: “We turned it into this lysergic fever dream. It’s one of these things where the song is so bizarre anyway, why not lean into it and make the most wild and strange version of it imaginable. I hope people like it.”

‘Santa’s Night:’ A new holiday standard from the Birds’ All-Pro center and … songwriter?

The fifth Philly Special single, and one of Jason Kelce’s big showcases, is this self-penned song, sung from the perspective of Ol’ St. Nick as he does the grueling work of making millions of house-to-house deliveries.

Kelce sounds rugged and world-weary alright, making you wonder whether working in the O-line trenches and fending off 300-plus-pound rushers might be good preparation for shouldering Santa’s load. Carrying a sack instead of preventing sacks: that could be Kelce’s calling when retirement comes. Turn his beard white and it’s typecasting.

Kelce’s writing is wry: “My sack is near empty and my blisters are torn,” he sings at one point. “All this ‘cause some Virgin’s son was born.” But in the end, Santa’s workday frustrations give way to joy, and even non-Eagles fans might feel tears welling up. “As the wrappings rip open,” Santa Kelce sings, “I am healed with delight.” Footage of the recording session for the song will be released in the coming weeks.

‘Christmas Time is Here:’ It’s a Philly Special Christmas, Charlie Brown

All the Philly Special Christmas artwork drawn by Hannah Westerman is based on Charles Schulz’s Peanuts cartoons, with permission of the Schulz estate. So it’s only fitting that the project would get around to recording the peaceful, quietly stirring meditation written by Vince Guaraldi and Lee Mendelson for A Charlie Brown Christmas in 1965.

The chorus is made up of children of Eagles players and employees. The band that plays with such subtlety and delicacy is the ace quartet that also anchors “The Christmas Song” and “This Christmas”: Kevin Hanson on guitar, Anthony Tidd on bass, Justin Faulkner on drums, and Luke Carlos O’Reilly on piano.

‘The Dreidel Song’ with a Bo Diddley beat (and Howie Roseman)

The children’s Hanukkah song written by Samuel Grossman and Samuel Goldfarb gets syncopated on this inventive version that goes “thump, thump, thump … pause … thump thump” in the style of Bo Diddley, the great rock and roll pioneer born Elias McDaniel.

It’s the rhythm behind “Hey! Bo Diddley” and “Bo Diddley’s a Gunslinger,” not to mention Buddy Holly’s “Not Fade Away” and Bruce Springsteen’s “She’s the One.” It’s cleverly employed here, with a bluesy slide guitar and Jay Davidson on harmonica, with the Philly Specials — joined by Eagles executive vice president and general manager Howie Roseman — singing in unison. Unexpected fun.

‘Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas:’ Here comes the Eagles D-line

You can tell that the Eagles’ singing linemen are soulful, serious dudes because they cover many of the most melancholy holiday classics. Toward the top of that list goes this Hugh Martin and Ralph Blane composition originally recorded by Judy Garland in 1943 for the movie Meet Me in St. Louis, and later recorded by Frank Sinatra and many others.

The Birds don’t do the most bummed-out version. Instead, they opt out of the original “Till then, we’ll just have to muddle through somehow” lyric in favor of the brighter “Hang a shining star upon the highest bough.”

But the sadness of the lonely-letter-home in song comes through, nowhere more so than when the newest singing Eagle, fleet-footed 330-pound defensive tackle Jordan Davis, steps in to delicately sing “Here we are as in olden days, happy golden days of yore,” in the song’s heartrending bridge.

“That might be my favorite moment of many incredible moments on the whole record,” said producer Charlie Hall via email from New Zealand, where he’s touring with the War on Drugs. Sounds like the Philly Specials have just gained a new member.

‘Auld Lang Syne’: Gratitude overflowing

The final A Philly Special Christmas Special track is a showcase for the Silver Ages Choir, the indie rock chorus led by Hall and featuring members of the War on Drugs and many other Philly bands.

But the real reason for taking on Robert Burns’ 1788 New Year’s poem is for its spoken word element, in which ringleader Jason Kelce greets fellow Eagles — identified as the Peanut Gallery — to exchange thanks, season’s greeting, and Super Bowl aspirations. And to be quizzed on what, and who, they’re thankful for.

Among those who turn up to chat are Jalen Hurts, Brandon Graham, Landon Dickerson, Nakobe Dean, and offense line coach Jeff Stoutland.

Along with their families and the Philly fans, the list of those they’re thankful for includes just about everybody on the Eagles operational staff, from equipment managers to groundskeepers to cooks and cafeteria workers. Everybody gets a shout-out.

With the Silver Ages singing of “a cup of kindness,” it’s a sweet way to finish off this Philly Special and look ahead to the hopeful prospect of a post-season parade down Broad Street.

This week’s Eagles Christmas song isn’t likely to cause as much of a fuss as last week’s. Nobody on this duet is dating a world-famous pop superstar. (Though come to think of it, Katie Crutchfield, the former Philadelphian who performs as Waxahatchee, is in a relationship with fellow indie songwriter Kevin Morby, and Taylor Swift fans might like them both if they gave him a listen.)

Crutchfield is a featured guest on “Pretty Paper,” but the song is a showcase for Lane Johnson, the Eagles All-Pro right tackle who’s the least appreciated member of the Philly Specials, considering Jordan Mailata’s obvious musicality and Jason Kelce’s charismatic personality.

Crutchfield’s background vocals are lovely, but it’s up to Johnson to carry the song, which he does with ease. Never overplaying the song’s sentiment, he leans into his burly Texas baritone, which is echoed by ace Philly steel guitar player Mike “Slo-Mo” Brenner, who also stands out on this Philly Special take on a bittersweet country classic.

Johnson’s take on Nelson’s holiday tune is understated, hitting its emotional target dead on. It’s a holiday heart-tugger if there ever was one: Nelson wrote it in 1963 about a Fort Worth street vendor with atrophied legs who sold pencils and wrapping paper outside a department store. “Crowded street, busy feet, hustle by him, downtown shoppers, Christmas is nigh / There he sits, all alone on the sidewalk, hoping that you won’t pass him by.”

The song was a hit for Roy Orbison before Nelson recorded it himself, followed by many others.

‘Fairytale of Philadelphia’: Kelce bros go toe-to-toe

The timing couldn’t be better for the release of a duet between Jason Kelce and his brother Travis. The third song from the new A Philly Special Christmas Special arrived just as the Eagles got ready to face the Chiefs on Nov. 20.

The brothers get together on a Philly-ized rewrite of “Fairytale of New York,” the Pogues’ 1987 tale of an Irish immigrant spending Christmas Eve sleeping off a bender in the drunk tank.

When A Philly Special producer Charlie Hall and engineer Nick Krill headed to Kansas City in August to record the Chiefs tight end, it was still B.T.S. in Kelce time. That is, Before Taylor Swift.

The “Fairytale of Philadelphia” Kelce bros duet is a considerably buzzier event now than it would have been before Don Argott and Sheena Joyce’s documentary Kelce became a runaway hit on Amazon Prime. And before both Jason and Travis were featured in People magazine’s Sexiest Man Alive issue.

So now all ears are upon the New Heights podcast stars’ version of the Christmas classic, penned by Shane MacGowan and sung by MacGowan with Kirsty MacColl, there are two questions. Is it any good? And how have they taken the New York out of the song and turned it into a Philadelphia fairytale?

First answer: Yes. It’s tricky to transform a song about a romantic couple insulting one another into one about sibling rivalry that gives way to a celebration of Brotherly Love.

The Kelces pull it off in part because, it turns out, Travis can sing in a more dulcet tone and higher register than his gruff-voiced older brother. Their blood harmony vocals blend naturally, and the new lyrics ― credited to “a collaborative effort by the Philly Specials” ― have been written with South Philly wit.

“Fairytale” is a modern Christmas classic, but the folk ballad has been criticized for its use of a homophobic slur and Shane MacGowan calling his fictional paramour “an old slut on junk.”

The Kelces get creative in trashing one another in ways less likely to offend. Before they start squabbling, Jason bellows “I love you brother,” and Travis calls his bro “the King of South Philly.”

Eric Bazilian of the Hooters plays a solo on recorder, and Jason goes in on Travis: “You’se a lush, you’re a crumb bum, you smell like some old scum, washing up from the Schuylkill and rotting away.” The Chiefs tight end replies: “You dirtbag, you phoney, you lousy jabroni / Happy Christmas, you ass, I pray God it’s our last.”

The song does get sweet and sentimentally satisfying in the final verse, just like all Christmas fairy tales should.

“You took my dreams from me, when Mom first had you,” Jason sings, evoking their now celebrity mother Donna Kelce. “I kept them with me Jayce, I put them with my own, can’t make it all alone,” his three-years-younger brother replies before they team up in the holiday spirit with: “I’ve built my dreams around you.”

‘This Christmas’: Patti LaBelle joins the Birds

Donny Hathaway’s “This Christmas” s the second single from A Philly Special Christmas Special. It teams up the Eagles’ Jordan Mailata with Philadelphia’s Queen Diva, Patti LaBelle. And in its own way, it presents just as daunting of a challenge for the as Mariah Carey’s “All I Want For Christmas Iis You,” which kicked off the project off last week.

That’s because the song — which will be released on Friday — written by Hathaway and Nadine McKinnor is a cherished, soulful holiday standard that inspired a 2007 holiday movie starring Idris Elba and Regina King and has been recorded so frequently it’s become known as “the Black Christmas anthem,” as Emily Lordi put it in the New Yorker.

Since Hathaway first recorded it in 1970, artists who have covered it include Mary J. Blige, John Legend, Destiny’s Child, Diana Ross, Chris Brown, the Whispers, Pink Sweat$, Fantasia, and Hathaway’s daughter Lalah Hathaway.

And LaBelle, who has her own “This Christmas” history. It’s the title song of her 1990 holiday album. And her 1996 performance of the song at a White House Christmas tree lighting ceremony has lived on in internet infamy due to a cue card failure and missing backup singers. It could have been an unmitigated disaster but instead turned into an ad-libbed triumph.

Thankfully, the Philly Special duet version goes much more smoothly. Mailata is such a self-confident vocalist that he easily could have carried the song himself. He cruises though the first verses and chorus before being joined by LaBelle. She of course supplies welcome star power. But the singer who will headline her own holiday show at the Met Philly on Dec. 9 — also trades off lines with Mailata like a true team player as they joyfully get cozy as “the fireplace is burning bright / And we’re caroling through the night.”

“This Christmas” also showcases the band of ace Philly musicians assembled by producer Charlie Hall. Mailata’s scat singing riff is followed by the four-member horn section of Jay Davidson, Matt Cappy, Nasir Dickerson, and Dan Blacksberg. And there’s a real sense of camaraderie in the studio when Mailata calls out, “Show some love: Let’s hear Luke!” and keyboard player Luke Carlos O’Reilly lets loose with a candy cane-flavored electric piano solo.

How confident are the Eagles in the quality of their Christmas music game? So confident that for the lead single of their second annual holiday album, they’re unafraid to take on Mariah Carey’s “All I Want for Christmas is You,” the most universally omnipresent of modern Christmas songs.

And why not? Christmas season is Eagles football season is Mariah season: Carey’s “Merry Christmas One and All!” tour plays the Wells Fargo Center on Dec. 13.

Mailata, the 6-foot-8 lineman who is the Birds’ most agile vocalist, is an ardent Carey fan. “Covering ‘All I Want for Christmas’ with the guys was challenging but so much fun trying to put our own spin on the Queen of Christmas’ hit. I think everyone will love it,” he said in a statement.

The decision to include “All I Want,” which Carey wrote with Walter Afanasieff for her 1994 holiday album, Merry Christmas, came late in the A Philly Special recording sessions this past spring.

“It’s such an indelible song,” said Charlie Hall, the drummer for the War on Drugs who produced A Philly Special. “It’s kind of perfect the way it is.” Speaking of the high-energy sugar rush that Carey’s original delivers, he says with a laugh: “I don’t know what cocaine is like, but that’s what I imagine it’s like.”

Making radical changes to the song seemed like a bad idea so the producer “took it at around that same tempo and tried to give it a little bit of a different feel while honoring all the things that make the song what it is.”

“And then,” he said, “Jordan just sang the daylights out of it.”

Mailata doesn’t try to scale the Himalayan heights that come so naturally to Carey, but the Birds’ version still conveys a surplus of holiday cheer.

He takes the lead in a slightly lower register, while Kelce and Johnson support him on backup vocals like loyal Santa’s helpers, backed by an all-star band of Philly musicians. The Christmas music magic trick of singing about how — even in holiday shopping season — human connection triumphs over material things is pulled off once again.

And A Philly Special Christmas Special is off and running.

How to buy the album