Preston Campbell is a former Australian professional rugby league footballer who played as a five-eighth or fullback in the National Rugby League (NRL) for the Cronulla-Sutherland Sharks, the Penrith Panthers (with whom he won the 2003 NRL premiership) and the Gold Coast Titans. He was also a New South Wales Country, Dreamtime Team and Indigenous All Stars representative.

Preston started playing junior league for the Inverell Hawks in his early teens where he quickly developed a passion and talent for the game. After only a few short junior league seasons, Preston debuted with the Gold Coast Chargers in 1998, propelling his 14-year professional football career.

Playing across four successful sides, Gold Coast Charges, Cronulla Sharks, Penrith Panthers and Gold Coast Titans, Preston was part of the Panther’s winning Telstra Premiership side in 2003, and throughout his career scored an impressive 84 tries in 267 games.

Preston was awarded the Daly M Player of the Year and the Ken Stephen Medal, an annual award presented to a NRL player who has contributed most significantly to the community.

After retiring in 2011, Preston now focuses on his community work with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, creating the Preston Campbell Foundation and serving as an ambassador for Deadly Choices. Preston is also a partner of the Titans Community team.

Preston believes in supporting grassroots football and is inspired by working with others who contribute so much towards the game. He has seen firsthand the difference rugby league can make to people’s lives, developing champions no matter where they come from. To him, rugby league is a vehicle for change and to inspire, whether you play or support the game.

More about Preston Campbell

Preston has become one of Australia’s most influential sporting ambassadors, working tirelessly in the community with a focus on supporting individuals, families and communities across a wide range of fields.

Established in 2015, the Campbell Foundation is the genesis of the endeavour and passion of Preston Campbell and the team he inspires. The foundation supports Preston’s vision of developing programs and opportunities which inspire and mentor participants to achieve their aspirations and dreams by connecting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples with their culture, sense of place and well-being. Prestion shares his journey with individuals, families and communities through a variety of learning forums to inspire us to live above the line.

What Preston Speakes About

Assist in the overall wellbeing of individuals and communities across urban, rural and remote regions of Australia