Tag "Abraham Kuyper"

How an Old Dutch Prime Minister Can Help American Christians Today

In this episode of the Tyrannus Hall videocast, Bill Dejong interviews me about the life and relevance of Dutch theologian and politician Abraham Kuyper. As with all revered leaders, Kuyper was a flawed man, but a great leader nonetheless, a Christian statesman from whom we American Christians can learn. To watch the video, click here.

Fifteen Exemplary Conservatives

Recently, I undertook a rereading of The Essential Russell Kirk. Among the many treasures I rediscovered was his essay, “Ten Exemplary Conservatives,” a sketch of ten conservatives Kirk admired. By “conservative,” he did not mean committed to some ideology but rather persons who exhibited a “longing for order and permanence, in the person and in [ Read More ]

These 12 Books Will Make You a Better Public Theologian

Abraham Kuyper (1837–1920) is one of the most extraordinary public theologians in modern Christian history. A prolific theologian and public intellectual, he wrote books for scholars and for everyday Christians, founded the Free University in Amsterdam, taught theology, started a national newspaper, served as a member of Parliament and as the Prime Minister of the [ Read More ]

An Abrahamic Alternative to the Benedict Option

In 2006, sociologist Philip Rieff (1922-2006) published My Life among the Deathworks, the first volume of his monumental Sacred Order / Social Order trilogy. In it, he argued that the West in general and the United States in particular is in the midst of an unprecedented attempt to desacralize the social order. [Note: This article [ Read More ]

12 Resources for Understanding Abraham Kuyper’s Public Theology

For Christians wishing to rise above the circumambient imbecility of American public discourse in order to make a constructive contribution to American politics and public life, Abraham Kuyper is an especially helpful guide (especially if his framework of thought is complemented and enhanced by the contributions of other public theologians such as Lesslie Newbigin and [ Read More ]

Why Abraham Kuyper is Relevant to American Public Life (An Interview with Craig Bartholomew)

Please allow me to serve advance notice of a major event: Craig Bartholomew’s Contours of the Kuyperian Tradition: A Systematic Introduction will be published by IVP Academic on April 24, 2017. I’ve read the rough draft manuscript in its entirety; it is a fine systematic introduction to Kuyper’s thought that draws upon the rich archive [ Read More ]

8 Writers Whose Books Have Shaped Me Spiritually

Over the course of the past two years, I have had occasion to reflect on the various ways the Lord has discipled me and disciplined me since I came to saving faith during high school. The catalyst for those reflections was my 40th birthday and the recognition that, although God has graciously worked in my [ Read More ]

4 Essential Guidelines for Mixing Christianity and Politics

I learned more about politics during my two years in Russia than I’ve learned in the nearly two decades since. During those two years, I worked as an adjunctive professor at several universities in the city of Kazan. Most of my students were deeply skeptical about whether God existed, whether life had any meaning, and whether there were any moral absolutes. Russia’s cultural institutions—including its government, businesses, marriages, and schools—reflected this deep sense of loss.

For that reason, I felt compelled during those years to think through the relationship of Christianity and politics, and the best guide I found was a dead Dutch theologian and politician named Abraham Kuyper. Here are four of Kuyper’s essential guidelines for mixing Christianity and politics, guidelines that will help us as we navigate our own political involvement.

[ Read More ]