On the Church by Abraham Kuyper

Dutch politician and Christian activist Abraham Kuyper was deeply invested in debates over the influence Christianity should have on his nation. As a pastor and theologian, he was just as concerned about the ailing Dutch church. In On the Church, the Acton Institute and the Abraham Kuyper Translation Society have partnered with Lexham Press to publish seven brand-new translations of Kuyper's most influential essays and speeches on the relationship between Christianity and the world. Kuyper believed that Christians must neither hide from the world behind the walls of physical church buildings nor engage the world solely through earthly institutions

Common Grace by Abraham Kuyper

In Common Grace Abraham Kuyper presents to the church a vision for cultural engagement rooted in the humanity Christians share with the rest of the world. Kuyper fills a gap in the development of Reformed teaching on divine grace, and he articulates a Reformed understanding of God's gifts that are common to all people after the fall into sin. This first volume contains Kuyper's demonstration of the biblical basis for common grace and how it works. This new translation of Common Grace, created in partnership with the Kuyper Translation Society and the Acton Institute, is part of a major series of new translations of Kuyper's most important writings

Our Program: a Christian political manifesto by Abraham Kuyper

What are the political and social implications of the gospel? In Our Program, Abraham Kuyper presents a Christian alternative to the secular politics of his day. At that time, the church and state were closely tied, with one usually controlling the other. But Kuyper's political framework showed how the church and state could engage with each other while remaining separate. His insights, though specific to his time and place, remain highly relevant to Christians involved in the political sphere today. This new translation of Our Program, created in partnership with the Kuyper Translation Society and the Acton Institute, is part of a major series of new translations of Kuyper's most important writings. The Abraham Kuyper Collected Works in Public Theology marks a historic moment in Kuyper studies, aimed at deepening and enriching the church's development of public theology.

Pro Rege by Abraham Kuyper

How do Christians bridge the divide between our lives inside and outside the church? Abraham Kuyper believed that a healthy view of Jesus' kingship was essential to closing that gap. In this first volume of Pro Rege, Kuyper discusses how Satan's kingdom opposes, undermines, and obscures Christ's kingship. He then lays out the kingship of Christ according to Scripture. From his vantage point at the dawn of the 20th century, Kuyper explains the scope of Christ's dominion over all of life in his own culture--yet does so in a way that also strikingly impacts the 21st-century reader.

Wisdom and Wonder: common grace in science & art by Abraham Kuyper

How will evangelicals respond to contemporary cultural shifts? What they believe influences how they respond and this will have significant ramifications for the future of a free society and its business, economic, and public sectors. Sometimes the way forward is found by looking back. Abraham Kuyper, a Dutch theologian and prime minister of Holland (1901-1905), elaborated on the doctrine of common grace, a theology of public service, and cultural engagement of Christians' shared humanity with the rest of the world.