Drew Sidora Character Paige Season(s) 1 Birthplace Chicago, Illinois, U.S. Date OF Birth May 1, 1985 (age 29) IMDb profile

Actress, Singer and Dancer Drew Sidora Jordan plays the role of Paige on VH1's Hindsight.

Personal Life[]

Drew studied music and theater since the age of 2. She also gave birth to her 1st child at age 25, a son Josiah on March 21, 2011. The child's father is her unnamed ex-boyfriend.

Acting Career[]

Sidora is known for her recurring role as Chantel in the Disney Channel Original Series That's So Raven, also as Lucy Avila in the 2006 movie Step Up and starred as Tionne Watkins in the VH1 TLC biographical film CrazySexyCool: The TLC Story. She is also known for portraying a fictionalized version of herself on the BET comedy-drama television series The Game.

She completed numerous industrial films and was the youngest member of the "Hook Players Theater Ensemble" in Hollywood, California, with residence at the Richard Pryor Theater. At age 9, she appeared in the Fox TV movie Divas, acting alongside Khalil Kain, Lisa Nicole Carson, and Nicole Ari Parker.

Besides her roles in That's So Raven and Step Up 1, "Blessed & Cursed", Sidora has also guest starred in Girlfriendsin 2006,as a High School Girl Group recruiter in which Lynn auditioned for. , Without a Trace, The Game, and What I Like About You. She has also appeared in the feature films White Chicks and Never Die Alone. Sidora made a cameo appearance in GLC's single "Honor Me."

In 2011, Sidora introduced the character Cynthia Walker in the GMC gospel play She's Not My Sister. The success of that film led to a limited-run TV Series, She’s Still Not Our Sister, which began airing in June. In 2013, she was cast as Tionne Watkins, the lead singer of the girl group TLC, in the biopic based on the group that aired on VH1. Sidora is currently starring as Genesis Genny Winters in the 2014 BounceTV original, One Love.

Music Career[]

In December 2008, Sidora signed a record deal with Slip-n-Slide Records. In 2010, the first single from the album, titled "Juke It", was released. She played the lover of Trey Songz in his video for "Last Time" off the album Trey Day. She also appears in Yung Berg's "Sexy Lady" video as his girlfriend.