Founded in 1640, New Castle is among the oldest cities in America. As the capital of the region and of colonial Delaware, New Castle played a pivotal role in the formative era of the United States. Located on the Delaware River just six miles south of Wilmington, the city serves as the northern gateway to the Delaware Bayshore Byway.

A stroll through the historic district will transport you back to the 1700s when the seeds of a new country were taking root. Learn about the life of settlers and colonists with a walking tour or visits to the historic homes, churches and government buildings that now serve as museums of the era.

At the New Castle Court House Museum you can learn about the Underground Railroad and the trials of abolitionists Thomas Garrett and John Hunn, who helped over 2,500 slaves find safe passage to freedom in the mid-1800s.

After visiting the museums, shops and restaurants of the historic district, you can enjoy the fresh air with a walk along the Delaware River or through Battery Park. Or, for a longer adventure, you can hike or cycle along the Jack A. Markell Trail which connects historic New Castle with the Wilmington Riverwalk.

For nature enthusiasts, there’s also the Broad Dyke Wetlands Nature Area to explore. It provides habitat for a variety of species and is a wonderful place to observe wildlife.

For those whose interests can lie on the water, the Kalmar Nyckel, Tall Ship of Delaware docks in Historic New Castle, throughout the year on its route up the coast.

With so many places to see and so much to learn, you’ll want to stop by the New Castle Visitor Center at The Arsenal for guides, maps and brochures. They’re open Friday through Sunday.

For those looking to explore more of Delaware’s history, the Byway, as it travels through Historic New Castle is also a section of the Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad Byway, with pivotal events occurring like the trials mentioned above in the Courthouse, and many others along its 98 miles through Delaware.