The meaning of Patton

English, northern Irish, and Scottish: from the Middle English and Older Scottish personal name Patun, Paton, an Old French diminutive of Pat(e), a pet form of Patrick. Compare Patrick and Pattinson. History: The American general George Patton (1885–1945) was born in San Gabriel, CA, into a family with a long military tradition. His earliest American ancestor, Robert Patton, had emigrated from Scotland to VA c.1770.

Dictionary of American Family Names, 2nd edition, © Oxford University Press, 2022.

What do people with the surname Patton have in common?

Spoiler alert: it's complicated. People with the same last name are usually no more genetically similar than a randomly sampled group of people from the same population. That said, people with the same surname are more likely to have similar ancestries than randomly sampled individuals. The reason is the tendency of people with similar cultural or geographical backgrounds to preferentially mate with one another. That's why people who share a surname may be more likely to share traits and tendencies in common than people within the general population. Check out the percentages below to see the prevalences of tastes, habits, and traits of people with your surname compared with prevalences among 23andMe users.

Are health conditions linked to the last name Patton?

The short answer is that, if there is an association between surname and health, it's usually more about your ancestry than your name. Individuals with a given surname are no more genetically similar than the general population but often have similar ancestries. The populations of people associated with those shared ancestries often have sets of genetic variations, also known as alleles, in common. Some of those alleles are associated with a greater likelihood of developing certain diseases.

Disease variant frequency by ancestry

Disease allele frequencies in populations associated with the surname Patton are shown below. Important Note: not everyone with a disease allele will develop these health condition