Duane L. Carter, 92 of Devils Lake, ND passed away on Wednesday, July 25, 2018 at Eventide Heartland Care Center, Devils Lake.

Funeral Services for Duane will be held on Tuesday, July 31, 2018 at 10:30 a.m. at St. Olaf Lutheran Church, Devils Lake with Reverend Reuben Schnaidt officiating. Military Honors will be accorded by the Neathery-Simensen Post #756, Devils Lake Veterans of Foreign Wars and the North Dakota Military Funeral Honors Team-Navy.

Visitation will be held at the Gilbertson Funeral Home, Devils Lake on Monday, July 30th from 3:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. and will continue at the church one hour prior to the funeral service on Tuesday.

Duane Leroy Carter was born on February 3, 1926 in Devils Lake, ND the son of Frank and Agnes (Peterson) Carter Jr. After high school he enlisted in the United States Navy and proudly and honorably served his country during World War II. He entered the Navy on January 7, 1944 and served aboard the USS Windham Bay which was an aircraft carrier. After his discharge on May 4, 1946 he returned to Devils Lake.

Duane was united in marriage to Irma Hatten on October 27, 1946 at St. Olaf Lutheran Church in Devils Lake. They established their home here and Duane worked for S & L Company and Gamble Robinson Company. In 1959, Duane began a long career with Ottertail Power Company. His career began in Devils Lake where they still used coal to generate the electricity. After the Devils Lake plant closed, he was transferred to the Ortonville, Minnesota plant and worked there until retiring in 1987. The family then returned to Devils Lake and called it home.

Duane was a proud WWII Veteran and was very involved in the local VFW, served with the Color Guard for many years, member of the Cooties and was instrumental in the success of the annual Bull Session and the historic Maritime Museum. He was an active faithful member of St. Olaf Lutheran Church, Faith and Care and the Men’s Club. He also served on the Heritage Center Board. Duane was a Scout Master for many years, mentoring young Scouts and also as a mentor to young boys of the church and community. He always was supportive and encouraging to those under his leadership.

Duane had many talents and interests including restoring old cars, which there were many, woodworking, giving his many beautiful and unique creations to children, grandchildren and friends. Duane was the greatest fan to his children and grandchildren as he watched them participate in their many sports and activities. He was the devoted husband to Irma for over 70 years, caring for her with such love and kindness during the last years of her life.

We are so thankful for the many years we shared with Dad and Grandpa and we will do our best to caring on your legacy of service to country, community and family.

Duane loving family include his twins Brenda and her husband Dennis Crawford of Minot, ND and Brent Carter of Rugby, ND; daughter-in-law Sharon Carter, Bottineau, ND; grandchildren Nicole and Cory Crawford, Stephanie (Wade) McDougal, Jessica (Steve) Iverson and Steven (Kimberly) Carter, Samantha (David) Richards, Melissa (Louie) Mangahus, Mariam Krohnfeldt and Sara Miessan; great grandchildren Gabe, Anna, Scott, Tori, Kiana, Carson, Paige, Vaughn, Jacob, Ana, Milo, Anakin, Selene, Natalee, Aydan, Mariah, Franck, Saraphina and one great great grandchild soon to be born; in-law Larry and Elda Hatton; many nieces, nephews and cousin Evelyn Greene.

He was preceded in death by his parents; wife Irma on February 4, 2017; sons Craig Carter and Sam Carter; grandchildren Jessica Carter and Jacob Carter; sister-in-law and brother-in-law Eileen and Gordon Fugle.

Casket Bearers for Duane will be former Boy Scouts Darrell Nilep, Dennis Olson, Bruce Ringstrom, Bob Ringstrom, Duane Tabert, Evan Heustis, Ed Dosch, Ed Forde and Rich Lybeck.

Memorials may be directed to the Maritime Museum and St. Olaf Lutheran Church in Devils Lake.