Wibu-Systems, a security technology leader in the global software licensing market, has implemented a secure and flexible licensing solution for Desoutter Industrial Tools of Nantes, France, that enables the company to monetize its software while delivering products with greater flexibility to meet the dynamic market needs driven by Industry 4.0. The integration of Wibu-Systems' flagship CodeMeter licensing, protection, and security technology provides Desoutter with a versatile mechanism for its customers to deploy and re-deploy the software-driven features of their industrial tools as needed and quickly refocus their operations while protecting Desoutter's intellectual property.

Gearing up for the highly competitive Industry 4.0 economy, Desoutter sought a solution that would enable a high degree of flexibility in how its customers could use their products. The company implemented an innovative concept that lets its customers dynamically draw from credits (in the form of Unit Values - UVs) to access only the products' features and services they need at any time. If they no longer require certain services, they can recover the UVs and convert them into a different service or even redeploy them on another tool. The approach gives their customers a way to immediately reconfigure a workstation, for instance, for another purpose using their available UVs.

One critical aspect of the process was license security: It was essential that UVs could be purchased electronically but be protected against hacking or counterfeiting to ensure the appropriate monetization of Desoutter's software. The integration of Wibu-Systems' CodeMeter security and licensing technology provides protection for the UVs and the flexible enough controls to efficiently create and deliver the UVs. As a result, Desoutter's customers can use an online configurator to select the features they want on a specific tool and then order the UVs they need via an e-wallet in the form of a CodeMeter USB dongle. The customer activates the service by simply connecting the dongle to a controller.

Laurent Macquet, Line Manager Software & Embedded Systems at Desoutter, commented: "For us, it's important that we can offer our customers the adaptability they need in Industry 4.0. It's not so much about selling as many licenses as possible, but rather providing a solution that meets the peak versatility our customers demand. How do we do that? We have taken a new look at each tool's features and made them more flexible for our users. Together with Wibu-Systems, we have built a solution to free us from the constraints of traditional software licensing."

Marcel Hartgerink, General Manager of WIBU-SYSTEMS SARL, added: "The combined power of Desoutter UVs and the tough Wibu-Systems protection mechanisms ensures that customers can invest only in the features they specifically require. And by providing such a high level of flexibility, Desoutter is strengthening relationships with their customers. Thanks to our partnership, Desoutter has succeeded not only in serving the market in a more flexible way, but the company itself has fully embraced the spirit of the digital transformation necessitated by Industry 4.0."