Thirupugazh is a rich treasure which contains beautiful poems penned by the famous Saint and Muruga Devotee, Sri Arunagirinathar during the 15th-century AD, and this text tastes like a sweet honey. This holy text is considered as one of the famous poems in the Tamil literature, and it was highly praised by the great kings, queens, and by the common public.

Some of the wonderful songs from the holy text Thirupugazh are as follows:-

You are the holy consort of MaValli andDevasena, and their wonderful divine smile and teeth look like precious pearls. Oh My Dear Muruga, you are also called as Saravana, Shanmuga, Kanda, Kadamba and Karthikeya, who holds the divine spear on one of your hands, and you are the root cause for attaining salvation.You have preached the meaning for the PranavaMantra(‘OM’) to your father Lord Shiva himself, and in this regard, you are to be considered as the most greatest god than that of Lord Brahma and Lord Vishnu.

You have taken the form of Lord Rama and killed the dreaded demon Ravana. You took the form of Lord Vishnu and helped the Devas to churn the divine ocean, Parkadal, in order to get the divine nectar from that. You have taken the form of Lord Krishna, and once you changed the day into night for the welfare of Pandavas.

You have drove chariot for Arjuna by taking the form of Lord Krishna, and in that form, you have also gave valuable teachings to the mankind through your Bhagavat Gita.

You only took the form of Lord Shiva and danced and danced for the welfare of the universe.

You act as the protection gods by taking the forms of Bhairava, Veerabhadra and Muneeswara. You are also called as “PERUMAL”, another name for Lord Vishnu, and you contain superior powers enough to protect the entire universe.You are the mighty Parasurama, who has removed the ego of the Kshatriya kings by defeating them in the war.You have taken the forms of the great Prahalada and Dhruva in order to establish the “BHAKTI” amongst the people. You are the form of the four headed Brahma who does his creation work wonderfully.

You are the forms of the nine planets, who does their jobs wonderfully. You are the form of the divine Bird Garuda, who acts as a Holy Vehicle of Lord Vishnu.

You are the form of Lord Nandikeswara, who acts as a divine attendant and divine vehicle to your father Lord Shiva. You are the form of the righteous death god Yama Dev, who discharges his duties properly only through your grace.

You are the one, who has killed the dreaded demon Surapadma, from the holy spear, which was given to you, by your holy mother Ma Shakti Devi. You acts as a warrior god in the battle field, acts as a affectionate child to your parent, acts as a lovely brother to Lord Vinayaka, acts as a powerful god to your devotees.