Thirukkovaiyar is one of the ancient Shaivite Holy Texts composed by the great Shaivite Saint Sri Manikkavacakar. This work was supposedly written during the 9th century AD, and this text was praised by the then kings, scholars and even by the great Lord Shiva himself!This text is considered to be one of the PRECIOUS DIAMOND GEMS in the ancient Tamil Literature, for its simplicity.During the last century, this text was translated into English language by some foreigners.

Some of the hymns from the wonderful text Thirukkovaiyar are as follows:-

Oh My Dear Shiva, you only correctly knows what is required for us and what we require, you are ready to grant the necessities to us, you are greater than Lord Brahma and Vishnu and apart from keeping staunch devotion on you, I didn’t require anything in this material world.

Oh Lord Shiva, you are the consort of the beautiful goddess Ma Uma Devi, you are our master, Oh Lord Shiva, please, let me come out from this human body made out of flesh and bones, and let my soul dwells on you.

Oh Lord Shiva, the beloved consort of Ma Parvati, you have given spiritual enlightenment even to me, since I am considering myself as a dog, now please show mercy on me, and grant salvation to your faithful servant.

Oh Lord Shiva, I don’t want to suffer any more in this materialistic world, please take me to your divine abode, the Kailasha, in order to sing beautiful songs on you at your holy abode!

Oh Lord Shiva, you are only making us to do both good as well as bad deeds. Please make me to do only good deeds in this earth, in order to reach your holy feet during my next birth.

Oh Lord Shiva, you know very well, that I pay great respect on you, I am able to talk, able to see, able to hear and able to walk only because of you, you are the most benevolent god who has granted sufficient things to me.

Oh Lord Shiva, please save me from the troubles and turmoil in this difficult Kali Yuga. People commits sins very easily due to the influence of Kali Purusha, hence, let you show mercy on me, in order to get rid from the clutches of Kali Purusha.

Oh Lord Shiva, after accepting you as my beloved god, I am finding great happiness on my life, I am finding your image on all the things present in the earth. Oh Maheswara, please give me the spiritual bliss forever in my life.

Oh Lord Shiva, you are very fond of doing dance in your divine abode Kailasha. Please show me your divine dance performance before my naked eyes, so that, I would be keep on thinking about that wonderful incident throughout my life time.

Oh Lord Shiva, Please make me as one of your divine attendant, since I want to always stand in front of you, in order to enjoy the divine beauty of you as well as your consort Ma Parvati again and again, again and again.