Brazilian model, Lais Ribeiro Net Worth is estimated to be $8 Million. Lais Ribeiro is a very famous and successful Brazilian model, who has done exceptional work in her career so far. She is a very beautiful woman, who has been working as a model for the last decade or so and has achieved some serious acclaim for her works as one.

She is prominent for her work as a Victoria’s Secret Angel, and she has done modeling for some of the biggest brands in the world. Before moving to model, she was pursuing to be a nurse, and she was in training as well. However, she changed her course after giving birth to her first child in 2008.

One of her friends advised her to start modeling, and later in 2009, she walked for many brands such as Chanel, Louis Vuitton, Gucci, Dolce and Gabbana, Versace, Dior, and many more. In just two years, she became one of the most booked models in Brazil, and she reached the pinnacle of success. See Bruna Marquezine Net Worth.

In this article:

Lais Ribeiro Net Worth

Brazilian model, Lais Ribeiro’s net worth is around $8 Million as of 2024. She earns an estimated salary of $0.6 Million per year. Lais Ribeiro is a very famous and successful Brazilian model and celebrity, who has done amazing work in her career and has achieved some serious acclaim. She is one of the most prominent celebrities in Brazil and one of the most successful models in the world.

Lais is known worldwide as being part of Victoria’s Secret Angel and has done some outrageous work for it. She has also worked for various other brands and has featured in numerous catwalks and photoshoots. As far as her fortune is concerned, it’s not clear exactly. She has not shared her exact wealth, although her estimated net worth is around $8 million. Also, check Dominic Sherwood’s Net Worth.

Lais Ribeiro Assets

Home – Lais Ribeiro is a Brazilian celebrity, who has been modeling since the last decade or so, and has delivered some of the most iconic and memorable scenes. She has been the most successful model in Brazil in the coming recent years. She currently lives in Rio de Janeiro and owns a very beautiful house there. Although she often moves to America as well, she also owns a house.

Car collection – Lais Ribeiro has many cars in her collection, and she is not known as a car enthusiast of such a level. She currently owns a Range Rover, Audi, and a BMW.

Lais Ribeiro Net Worth Growth

According to various online resources (Wikipedia, Forbes, Bloomberg), the most popular Brazilian model Lais Ribeiro’sestimated net worth is around $8 Million.

Lais Ribeiro Biography

Lais Pereira de Oliveira, who is known all around the world by her professional name of Lais Ribeiro, is a very famous and successful celebrity in Brazil, who has done amazing work in her career so far as a model. She was born in Miguel Alves, Piaui, Brazil, on 5 October 1989. She was raised in her hometown of Miguel Alves, where she used to spend most of her time with her family. Though, most of her early life has been kept away from the limelight and media attention.

She initially wanted to be a nurse, and she also started training for it. However, later in 2008, she changed her mind and moved to modelling. Her exceptional skills in modeling shone brighter and brighter, and she became one of the most critical faces in the modeling industry.

As far as her personal life is concerned, she is currently married to Joakim Noah in 2022. They began dating in 2018 after she broke up with her former relationship Jared Homan, with whom she had been living since 2014. She also has a son born in 2008, although with whom she has her first child is unclear. Must read Emma Appleton’s Net Worth.

Lais Ribeiro: Career and Awards

Lais Ribeiro began her career way back in 2009, when she moved to modelling after the birth of her first child in 2008. She got the advice to enter into modeling from one of her friends. She later started working as a model in her native hometown in Brazil. Although, in late 2009, she walked the major international catwalks for some of the biggest names such as Chanel, Louis Vuitton, Gucci, Dolce and Gabbana, Versace, DKNY, Dior, Moschino, Balmain, Jean Paul Gaultier, and many more big names.

She gained worldwide recognition for her work there, and later she became a full-time model. In the 2011 Fashion Week of Brazil for the spring summer collection, she became the most booked runway model with about 27 and 26 shows during the Sao Paulo and Rio Fashion Week, respectively. She has been on the cover of various magazines such as American, German, Brazilian, and Italian Vogue, as well as appearing in ads for Ralph Lauren, Christian Dior, American Eagle, etc.

Her work with Victoria’s Secret is not hidden, as she has appeared in its 2010, 2011, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018 Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show. In 2015, she became Victoria’s Secret Angel. In 2017, she wore a bra worth $2 million, which was named Champagne Nights Fantasy Bra. Must read Beverly Peele’s Net Worth.

Lais Ribeiro Social media Accounts

Lais Ribeiro Relationship and More

Education

Lais Ribeiro has done her education in her hometown. Although, she has not shared any details about her education, and has kept most of her education profile empty. She has done training to become a nurse, although she later moved to modelling, and became a very successful model.

Conclusion

Lais Ribeiro is a very successful model in Brazil. She is a great celebrity, who has achieved some serious acclaim in her career and is among one of the finest of all. She has featured in numerous runway shows and has modeled for many brands. Lais has been featured in various magazines and has also been a Victoria’s Secret Angel, which is a huge acclamation. She is heavily followed on social media as well, and her popularity is immense.

FAQs