The Nobel committee today awarded the 2003 peace prize to Iranian writer, lawyer and human rights activist Shirin Ebadi.

"As a lawyer, judge, lecturer, writer and activist, she has spoken out clearly and strongly in her country, Iran, far beyond its borders," the Norwegian Nobel committee said in its citation.

The committee praised her courage, and said she had never heeded threats to her own safety.

"Her principal arena is the struggle for basic human rights, and no society deserves to be labelled civilised unless the rights of women and children are respected. In an era of violence, she has consistently supported non-violence," the committee said.

Ms Ebadi, 56, is only the 11th woman - and the first Iranian - to have won the peace prize since it was first awarded in 1901. This year's prize is worth $1.3m (£780,000).

"I'm a Muslim, so you can be a Muslim and support democracy," she said after winning the prize. "It's very good for human rights in Iran, especially for children's rights in Iran. I hope I can be useful."

The committee said Ms Ebadi represents reformed Islam, and lauded her for arguing for a new interpretation of Islamic law which is in harmony with vital human rights such as democracy and equality before the law.

The secretive five-member awards committee, which is appointed by but does not answer to Norway's parliament, gives no hints about its choice beforehand. It also keeps the names of candidates, a record 165 this year, secret for 50 years, although those who make nominations often reveal them.

The announcements of this year's Nobel awards started last week with the literature prize going to JM Coetzee of South Africa. On Monday, American Paul C Lauterbur and Briton Sir Peter Mansfield were selected for the Nobel prize in physiology or medicine, for their discoveries leading to a technique that reveals images of the body's inner organs.

The physics prize on Tuesday went to Alexei A Abrikosov, Anthony J Leggett, and Vitaly L Ginzburg, for their work concerning two phenomena called superconductivity and superfluidity.

On Wednesday, Americans Peter Agre and Roderick MacKinnon won the chemistry prize for studies of tiny transportation tunnels in cell walls, work that illuminates diseases of the heart, kidneys and nervous system.

American Robert F. Engle and Briton Clive W.J. Granger shared the Nobel prize in economics for developing statistical tools that have improved the forecasting of economic growth, interest rates and stock prices.