JACKSON, Tenn. (March 22, 2021) – Lane College breaks into a number one spot in America’s Best Colleges as winner of “Best HBCU in Tennessee” according to Intelligent.com.

Intelligent.com, a trusted resource for rankings and higher education planning, has announced the 2021 top colleges. Each institution is evaluated based on curriculum quality, graduation rate, reputation, and post-graduate employment.

“March Madness is always a fun time for rankings and Lane College is delighted to break into the number one spot and to be named the Best HBCU in Tennessee. We are especially humbled to be named the 2021 best because Tennessee has more than a half dozen outstanding HBCU colleges and universities.,” said President Logan Hampton.

Over the past year, as America has faced dual pandemics of the COVID-19 virus and racial inequality, Lane College has launched aggressive new initiatives and programs to respond to each.

Lane, traditionally a residential campus, pivoted the curriculum to online during the pandemic and dramatically upgraded the campus technology infrastructure to provide a best-in-class virtual learning environment. In total, the College has launched over 100 institutional upgrades and strategic projects to assist students during the pandemic – including projects to ensure continuous housing to international students and others with housing insecurities. In addition, through the CARES Act, institutional grants, and strong alumni donations, the College dispersed cash relief payments to every student.

Lane continues to be an advocate for social justice and racial equality. In addition to strong programs in the sciences, criminal justice and sociology, the college offers several unique programs and initiatives to address social justice reform, health disparities and educate culturally aware leaders.

“The past several months have marked a sea of change for the global education landscape – from Pre-K to PhD,” said the Reverend Daryll Coleman, Vice President of Academic Affairs. “I am celebrate the outstanding faculty at Lane College. They are continuing to adapt to the rapid changes of the past year while upholding Lane’s high academic standards, our unwavering commitment to our students, and for delivering on our values to transform lives, liberate minds souls, and celebrate excellence in Christ.”

About Intelligent.com