Mohammad Hassanis , Kiazai /Mamasanis(ممسني ،محمدحسنی ) is an ancient tribe with various clans that live in Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan and north of Iraq. They speak Persian, Urdu, Brahui, Baluchi, Sistani and Kurdi according to their homelands. Muhammad hassani tribe and Kiazai tribe both are same tribes and these are known as one tribe.

Their national hero is Rostam son of Zal and believe him as their ancestor. Surena Parthian commander is another hero of this tribe. They were a branch of Parthian and migrated to Sistan and Fars when parthian established a kingdom in Iran after Seleucid Empire. They are important in Iran , Pakistan and Afghanistan now. The sardar live in Jebri, Balochistan.

Languages

Balochi Brahui Persian

Muhammad Hassani or Kiazai (ممسني ،محمدحسنی;کیازئی also Muhammad Hassani Kiazai or Mamasanis) are the largest Baloch tribe. They reside in the following districts of Pakistan: Chagai, Kharan, Dalbandin, Washuk, Kalat, Awaran, Khuzdar, Quetta, Nushki, Mastung, Panjgur, Makran and other. Muhammad Hasni is an ancient tribe with various clans that live in Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, and some other countries.

They speak Persian, Urdu, Brahui, Baluchi, Sistani and Kurdi according to their homelands.

Their national hero is Rostam son of Zal and believe him as their ancestor. Surena Parthian commander is another hero of this tribe. They were a branch of Parthian and migrated to Sistan and Fars when parthian established a kingdom in Iran after Seleucid Empire. They are important in Iran , Pakistan and Afghanistan now.

Contents

1 History

2 Tribe in Pakistan

3 Ethnic and tribal status

4 References

5 External links

6 Notable people

History

Muhammad Hasni's original home land is Iran. In Persian language its original pronunciation is Mamasani. There is a city in Iran with this name called Mamasani County. Muhammad Hasni's are the oldest senior citizens in Iran. They also had a war with the forces of Alexander the Great .

Oliver St John, an administrator in British India, who surveyed the Perso-Kelat frontier in the 1870s, describes interactions with the Muhammad Hasni (he refers to them as Mamasanis). Evidently, they were subjected to the rule of the Khan of Kalat; St John also records an instance of a blood feud between Mamasanis and Nushirwanis.[1]

There are various Muhammad Hasni clans in Iran, like Lar Muhammad Hasni, Sistani Muhammad Hasni, Baloch Muhammad Hasni, Kurd Muhammad Hasni and Brahui Muhammad Hasni. There are also sub tribes in these clans. Sir Bandi, Sherki, Jur, Bazi, Jahan, Tegh, Bamadi, Noori, Perri and Najfi are the sub tribes of Sistani Muhammad Hasni. Baloch and Brahui Muhammad Hasni speak Balochi and Brahui both. They live in Pakistan and south of Afghanistan.

Tribe in Pakistan

Muhammad Hasni tribe's current home is Washuk district (located in Balochistan near Pak-Iran border), earlier this district was one part of Kharan. In 2006 it was separated from Kharan as a separate district.

Muhammad Hasni tribe is the largest Baloch tribe. They reside in the following districts of Balochistan: Chagai, Kharan, Dalbandin, Washuk, Kalat, Awaran, Khuzdar, Quetta, Nushki, Mastung, Panjgur and other.

Sardar Fateh Muhammad Kiazai muhammad Hassani is the chief of the tribe in Pakistan.

Mir Arif Jan Muhammad Hasni, Mir Ali Haider Muhammad Hasni and Mir Dost Muhammad Muhammad Hasni are some other respected leaders of the tribe in Pakistan

Sub tribes and clans in Pakistan:

Kiazai

Mazarzee

Ehdozai

Allahyarzai

Ahdina

Harooni

Mardranshai

Shiek Hussani

Hussani

Hassani

Shadadzai

Kadahe

Manozai

Durakzai

Nandozai

Sahyezai

Zahgyani

Zarkani

Yagezai

Liverzai

Somali

Bangulzai

Karam Ali Zai

Baharzai

Bijarzai

Chakarzai

Balozai

Chanorwani

Dilshadzai

Gahjazai

Ghazi Khan Zai

Gulzarzai

Halazai

Hussainzai

Hasabi

Essazai

Shahozai

Shazai

Nandwani

Jamalzai

Jarozai

Qamarzai

Kehara-ee

Kulkzai

Korakzai

Lashkarizai

Mahmoodzai

Mehrabzai

Merhanzai

Muhammed Alizai

Zangizai

Narohai

Nazarzai

Pahdi

Peerozai

Rodinizai

Roshanzai

Shayakzai

Sherozai

Wakzai

Yar Muhammed Zai

Sahlani

Hali

Ali Zarzai

Peerdadzai

Bahdrozai

Badarzai

Dildarzai

Deerwani

Dohi

Hafizhati

Hajayzai

Kamalzai

Gozozai

Shabozai

Shadadhani

Sahanbayzai

Shamsherzai

Zarozai

Umerzai

Gorgizai

Mamasani sub-clans in Iran

Fars province

1-Javid 2-Bakesh 3-Rustam 4-Doshmanziari

Sistan and Baluchistan province

1-Sarabandi 2-Shahraki 3-jor 4-Bazi 5-Jahan tigh 6-nakhai 7-Bamadi 8-Nuri 10-Shah Bakhsh 11-hashim zahi 12-Brahui( contains all sub clans of Mohammad hasani as in Pakistan)

Afghanistan

1-Mamasani/Mohammad hasani Brahui Sub clans 2-Sarabandi 3-shahraki

Irak

1-Mamasani kurds

Syria and Lebanon

1-Mahmasani 2-Jor 3-Bazi

Russia ( Ossetia republic)

1-Mamison/Mamisoni descendant of ancient Mamasanis a branch of Alani Saka

Ethnic and tribal status

While the Muhammad Hasni call themselves a Baloch people, they are considered one of the more important sub-tribes of the Brahui. Their exact ethnic status, however, is a matter of contention.[2] They are sometimes considered a Jhalawan tribe.[3]

References

Baloch Nationalism, Its Origin and Development

(QAYYUM MOHAMMAD HASSANI PANJGURI)...Muhammed Hasni (also Mohammad Hasni, Muhammad Hassani or Mamasanis) is the largest Baloch tribe in Balochistan. Their population is estimated at about 5000000 in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iran. They reside in the following districts of Pakistan: Chagai, Kharan, Washuk, Nushki, Kalat, Awaran, Khuzdar, Quetta, Mastung and panjgur. Mohammad Hassanis/Mamasanis(????? ????????? ) is an ancient tribe with various clans that live in Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan and north of Iraq. They speak Persian, Urdu, Brahui, Baluchi, Sistani and Kurdi according to their homelands. Their national hero is Rostam son of Zal and believe him as their ancestor. Surena Parthian commander is another hero of this tribe. They were a branch of Parthian and migrated to Sistan and Fars when parthian established a kingdom in Iran after Seleucid Empire. They are important in Iran , Pakistan and Afghanistan now. The sardar live in Jebri, Balochistan. It is the bigest Baloch tribe. Mamasani Claim the connection with mamasani LURS who are described in lord curzon`s persia as Accupying the country still knows as Shulistan, and extending as far east and south east at fars and the plain of Kazerum. This tribe claim to come from Sistan and be directly descended from Rustum. they have been even more ce...according to books this tribe is presion as i studied it but with little eloberation about it and its sub-branchs.some people says they are the follower of hussain and their forefather was muhammad they came from arab region.and some says they came with hashmat roomi with 44 tribe and entre keck and markharn then settle in.

Notable people

Per WP:NLIST notability needs to be demonstrated. As it isn't. I moved the entire section here. Feel free to move back persons that have an article.