Harran - A view of the grand mosque, built in Umayyad period over the ruins of the ancient temple of Sin, with the tower of the Astrologers in the background - (Photo by Author) Harran - A giant arch is almost all that remains of the grand prayer hall built by Umayyad caliphs on the site of the Grand Mosque of Harran, a building comparable to the Mosque of the Umayyads in Damascus. One frequently finds broken fragments of columns, stelae and reliefs clearly belonging to more ancient temples dating as far as the Babylonian period - (Photo by Author) Harran - Amidst the vast crater of ruins, the tower of the Astrologers stands as high as 50 meters over the deserted plain, visible from many miles away. The tower was certainly used for astronomical observations and is the sole remain of the once fabulous temple of the Moon-god Sin - (Photo by Author) Harran - The ruins of the great castle date back to the early Byzantine period. It was later rebuilt by the Crusaders of Edessa and then again by Saladin. The beautiful octagonal towers have nothing of the severe and austere style of medieval military architecture: they are probably the remnants of some ancient temple of the Sabians - (Photo by Author) Sanliurfa (ancient Edessa) - The two ancient columns that overlook the ancient citadel of Urfa from the top of the acropolis are known by locals as the "Throne of Nimrod", since Nimrod had according to legend his palace on the hill of Urfa. The columns actually date to the 2nd or 3rd Century AD: a Syriac inscription reads "I am Eftuha, son of the Sun, I had these columns rebuilt for me and my Queen...". Recent excavations close to Abraham's pool at the bottom of the acropolis have revealed remains of civilization more than 11,500 years old - (photo by Author) Midas City - The intricate facade of Midas monument is elaborately carved into a square and crosses pattern. The entire structure is now covered in a 7-storey high scaffolding as the monuments is threatened by rain and wind erosion - (Photo by Author) Midas City - A rock honey-comb with ancient chambers and passageways located at the entrance of the City of Midas. Thousands of years of wind and erosion have concealed any ancient carvings and structures - (Photo by Author) The Roman bridge on the Cendere river gorge - The road upon the bridge is still in use after exactly 1,800 years. One can see the pair of columns at the entrance of the bridge, which were once surmounted by statues of the Emperor and family - (Photo by Author) Karakus Tumulus - On each side of the Tumulus a pair of columns surmounted by statues was erected to celebrate the royal dynasty of Commagene. The most notable depictions include an Eagle (or black bird), a Deixiosis of Antiochus with Herakles and a Bull - (Photo by Author) Mount Nemrut, as seen from just below the Western Terrace - (Photo by Author). Its local Turkish name, Nemrut Dag, means "Nemrud's Head", likely a reference to the colossal heads fallen to the ground on top of the mountain. Nemrut is just another name for Nimrod, the mythical king who was revered as the builder of the tower of Babel. Mount Nemrut - Western Terrace - (Photo by Author) - On top of the Western Terrace, one finds the colossal heads of the statues which once crowned the platform. The large head in the foreground, wearing a priestly headdress, allegedly portrays Antiochus identified with Hermes-Mercury. The other large head in the background belongs to a statue of Fortuna Commagene - the protecting goddess of the Kingdom of Commagene Mount Nemrut - Eastern Terrace (Photo by Author) - The Eastern terrace has 5 statues still standing on the top of the platform. Each of the statues stood originally 9 meters high. The testament of Antiochus is inscribed on the back of the thrones. The statue of Fortuna Commagene was the only one to retain its head until 1960, when it too was struck by lightning. Other deities included the Lion and the double-headed Eagle.