The Hungry Horse Dam Visitor Center is opening to the public starting May 7.

Visitors can arrive at 8:30 a.m. until 4 p.m. to see exhibits on the dam's impact on Flathead County and how hydroelectric generation occurs in the Columbia River System.

The history of the Hungry Horse Dam and its role in the Columbia River System are included in exhibits as well.

To sign up for tours, visit the visitor center front desk. Guided outdoor walking tours are available up to four times a day, daily depending on staff. Reservations for the 9 a.m. tour are available, however, all other tours are on a first-come, first-serve basis.

For more information visit the or to make a reservation for the 9 a.m. tour, call 406-387-5241, extension 361.

The following is a press release by theBureau of Reclamation:

The Hungry Horse Dam Visitor Center is open daily from 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. MDT, beginning May 7.

The Hungry Horse Dam’s Visitor Center exhibits highlight the dam’s role in flood control and recreation in Flathead County, and hydroelectric generation in the Columbia River System. Exhibits about the history of Hungry Horse Dam and its importance to the system are featured.

Outdoor, guided walking tours will resume May 7. Tours are available up to four times daily, depending on staff availability. New this year is the ability to make a reservation for a 9 a.m. MDT tour. Visitors may stop by in advance or call ahead to make a reservation for the 9 a.m. MDT tour. All the other tours are available on a first-come, first-served basis.

Sign up for tours at the visitor center front desk. Tours are limited to a maximum of 12 attendees per tour, subject to change, and can be canceled without notice. For accessible accommodations or to make reservations for the 9 a.m. MDT tour, call 406-387-5241, extension 361.

Reclamation will continue to follow the recommended guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For updated information on the visitor center or the outdoor, guided walking tours, visit our website at .

Hungry Horse Dam is located off U.S. Highway 2 in Hungry Horse, Montana. Directional signs located on Highway 2 indicate the road leading to the visitor center. From Highway 2 travel about 4.5 miles to the visitor center at the north end of the dam.