SAGINAW, MI -- The Golden State Warriors will honor one of their own and one of Saginaw's own during Tuesday's game against the Los Angeles Lakers.

Jason Richardson, 34, who was drafted and began his career with Golden State, will be honored by the Warriors between the first and second quarters of its nationally televised (TNT) game at 10:30 p.m. Tuesday.

The former Saginaw Arthur Hill star will receive a framed Warriors jersey from Adonal Foyle, a former Golden State teammate.

"My first reaction was: 'Why?'" Richardson told Rusty Simmons of the San Francisco Chronicle. "I was at a loss for words that a franchise that had just won a championship wanted to honor me -- a guy who didn't do anything for them, except go out and do my job.

"I didn't win a championship. I didn't go to an All-Star Game. I wasn't All-NBA, All-Defense or All-Anything. But this organization has a love for me, despite all of that."

Richardson was the fifth overall pick in the 2001 NBA Draft and became one of Golden State's most popular players, leading the Warriors to a first-round upset of the No. 1 seed Dallas Mavericks in 2007.

Richadson was traded a month later to the Charlotte Bobcats. He followed with stops in Phoenix, Orlando and, finally, in Philadelphia.

Richardson, who made the NBA Rookie first team, also won two Slam Dunk titles in 2002 and 2003.

He led Arthur Hill to a runner-up finish in Class A in 1999 and was named Mr. Basketball that season. Richardson was part of the 2000 Michigan State national championship team, then helped lead the Spartans back to the Final Four in 2001.

The 6-foot-6 played at Golden State from 2001 through 2007.

He retired from the NBA on Wednesday, Sept. 23, after signing a free agent contract with the Atlanta Hawks.

In his 14-year career, Richardson averaged 17.1 points, 5.0 rebounds and 2.7 assists per game.

Another Saginaw native and former Michigan State star, Draymond Green, is currently on the Golden State team and, like Richardson, is one of the most popular players for the Warriors.