List of New York City Literary Agents | Literary Agencies NYC

Literary Agencies NYC – How many literary agencies are in New York City? Which book agencies are best in New York City? And, what’s the best way to find New York City publishing agencies looking for new writers and clients? Use the free List of Literary Agents below to find all NYC literary agencies. For example, authors have used our literary agent database to get offers of representation with New York City publishing agents including: Jennifer DeChiara with Jennifer DeChiara Literary Agency, Donald Maass with Donald Maass Literary Agency, and Jennifer Lyons with Jennifer Lyons with Jennifer Lyons Literary Agency. The official Directory of Literary Agents™ has bios and contact information for all New York City book agencies, including the Best Literary Agents at the Top Literary Agencies in NYC.

In addition to New York City literary agencies, you can use our literary agency database for all other Literary Agents Near Me searches. For example: NYC Literary Agents, Los Angeles Literary Agents, and DC Literary Agents. Our Literary Agent Database and Directory has profiles for all writer representatives in the USA, not just New York City. Our list is comprehensive and includes both established and new author representatives. It also includes writer representatives with independent book agents working at Boutique Literary Agencies, as well as large book agencies. Scroll below to find all NYC literary agencies and literary agents. You’ll also find important facts and statistics about New York City book agencies and author representatives.

Are Literary Agencies in NYC the Best?

Most successful literary agencies are located in New York City, but not all of them. Why are most of the best agents in NYC? Because most of the large traditional, mainstream, or secular publishers are located in NYC. Since the main function of literary agents is to sell authors’ books to publishers, it makes sense for serious literary agents to live in New York City. If you want to fish–and get paid to fish–it makes sense to put your boat afloat where there are lots of fish.

If you’re a literary agent and your agency isn’t in NYC, it’s that much harder to: familiarize yourself with the affinities and proclivities of the editors working at the publishing houses that buy books. And it’s that much harder to develop relationships with those acquiring editors. Agents outside Manhattan can make trips to NYC to meet editors at their offices, meet them at publishing industry events like Book Expo America, and make contact or stay in touch with editors via email and phone–but it isn’t the same.

You know the expression: Out of sight, out of mind.

The bottom line is literary agents in NYC have three important advantages, simply because of their proximity to editors and publishers.

They often get more time for their pitches

They often get more feedback on their pitches

They often get better terms for their authors

However, before you decide you’re only going to query NYC literary agencies, consider the following:

There are many successful literary agencies in the areas surrounding NYC such as New Jersey, etc.

Some successful literary agencies and literary agents used to live in NYC, then moved for personal reasons, such as to take care of their ailing mother, etc. They’re significantly better than those who’ve only been to New York occasionally–or never at all.

Many successful literary agencies that have one foot in the book business and the other in the rest of the entertainment world such as television and feature film are headquartered elsewhere. See Literary Agencies in California.

Most faith-based publishers (barring those that are simply “imprints” of the major secular publishers, and, therefore, literary agencies are not located in New York. They’re in Tennessee, and elsewhere.

List of NYC Literary Agencies – Finding a Literary Agent

3 Arts Entertainment

A Literary Agency for Children’s Books

A+B Works

Abrams Artists Agency

Aevitas Creative Management

AGI Vigliano Literary, LLC

Anderson Literary Management

Ann Elmo Agency

Ann Rittenberg Literary Agency

Anne Edelstein Literary Agency

Aragi Agency

Avenue A Literary

Ayesha Pande Literary

Bankoff Collaborative

Barbara Braun Associates

Barbara Hogenson Agency

Barbara Kouts Literary Agency

Baror International

Barry Goldblatt Literary (BG Literary)

Beth Vesel Literary Agency

Blanche C. Gregory

Blauner Books Literary Agency

Bleecker Street Associates

Bob Mecoy Literary Agency

Brands-to-Books Literary Agency

Brandt & Hochman Literary Agents

Bresnick Weil Literary Agency

Brockman Literary Agency

Brower Literary & Management

Canton Smith Agency

Carnicelli Literary Management

Carol Mann Agency

Cathy Hemming Literary Agency

Chalberg & Sussman Literary Agency

Charlotte Sheedy Literary Agency

Chase Literary Agency

Chris Calhoun Agency

Compass Talent

Connor Literary Agency

Corvisiero Literary Agency

Creative Artists Agency

Creative Media Agency, Inc.

Cullen Stanley International Agency

Curtis Brown Literary Agency

Darhansoff & Verrill Literary Agents

Davey Literary & Media Management

David Black Agency

Dee Mura Literary Agency

DeFiore and Company

Denise Shannon Literary Agency

DH Literary

Diana Finch Literary Agency

Dominick Abel Literary Agency

Don Congdon Associates

Donald Maass Literary Agency

Dunham Literary

Dunow, Carlson & Lerner Literary Agency

Dystel, Goderich & Bourret, LLC

Eden Street Literary Agency

Edmison/Harper Literary Scouting

Edythea Ginis Selman Agency

Einstein Literary Management

Elaine Koster Literary Agency

Elyse Cheney Literary Associates

Emilie Stewart Literary Agency

Emma Sweeney Agency

Empire Literary

Ethan Ellenberg Literary Agency

Fairbank Literary Representation

Faith Childs Literary Agency

FinePrint Literary Management

Firebrand Literary

Fletcher & Company

Folio Literary Management

Foundry Literary + Media

Fox Literary

Frances Goldin Literary Agency

Fraser-Bub Literary

Fredrica S. Friedman & Co.

G Agency

Gandolfo Helin & Fountain Literary Management

Gelfman Schneider/ICM

Georges Borchardt Literary Agency

Gina Maccoby Literary Agency

Glass Literary Management

Global Literary Management

Goodman Associates

Hannigan Salky Getzler Agency

Hansen Literary Agency

Harold Ober Associates

Harold Schmidt Literary Agency

Harvey Klinger

Helen Pratt Literary Agency

Hopkins Literary Associates

Howard Morhaim Literary Agency

Indent Literary Agency

Inko Inc.

InkWell Management

International Creative Management

Irene Goodman Literary Agency

Irene Skolnick Agency

Jabberwocky Literary Agency

James Fitzgerald Agency

Jane Rotrosen Agency

Janis Donnaud and Associates

Janis Vallely Literary Agency

Janklow & Nesbit Associates

Jason Yarn Literary Agency

Jean Naggar Literary Agency

Jennifer DeChiara Literary Agency

Jennifer Lyons Literary Agency

Jill Grinberg Literary Management

Jill Grosjean Literary Agency

Joanna Pulcini Literary Management

John Campbell Agency, LLC

John Hawkins & Associates

Jud Laghi Agency

Judith Ehrlich Literary Management

Judith Riven Literary Agency

Julia Lord Literary Management

Karen Gantz Zahler Literary Agency

Karpfinger Agency

Kathi Paton Literary Agency

Kathryn Green Literary Agency

Kirsten Manges Literary

L. Perkins Agency (Lori Perkins Agency)

Larry Weissman Literary

Laura Dail Literary Agency

Laura Langlie Agency

Leigh Feldman Literary

Levine Greenberg Rostan Literary Agency

Linda Chester Literary Agency

Linda Konner Literary Agency

Linnan Literary Management

Literary Artists Representatives

Literary Counsel

Liza Dawson Associates

Liza Royce Agency

LKG Agency

Loretta Barrett Books

Louise Ketz Agency

Lowenstein Associates

Lucinda Literary

Lukeman Literary Management

Lynn Franklin Associates

Lynne Rabinoff Associates

MacKenzie Wolf Literary Agency

Malaga Baldi Literary Agency

Mansion Street Literary Management

Marcia Amsterdam Agency

Marcil-O’Farrell Literary, LLC

Maria Carvainis Agency

Marianne Strong Literary Agency

Marie Brown Associates

Marly Rusoff & Associates

Martha Kaplan Agency

Mary Anne Thompson Associates

Mary Evans Literary Agency

Massie & McQuilkin

Maura Teitelbaum Literary & Consulting

Maxine Groffsky Literary Agency

McCarthy Creative Services

McCormick Literary

McGinniss Associates Literary Agency

McIntosh & Otis Literary Agency

McKinnon McIntyre

Melanie Jackson Agency

Mendel Media Group

Menza-Barron Literary Agency

Meredith Bernstein Literary Agency

Miller Bowers Griffin Literary Management

Mitch Douglas Literary Agency

Movable Type Management

Mullane Literary

Myers Literary Management

Nancy Yost Literary Agency

New Leaf Literary & Media, Inc.

Orchard Literary

Painted Words

Paradigm Literary and Talent Agency

Patricia van der Leun Literary Agency

Pen and Ink Literary

Peter Lampack Agency

Philip Spitzer Literary Agency

Pinder Lane & Garon-Brooke Associates

Pippin Properties

Publication Riot Group

Queen Literary Agency

Quill Shift Literary Agency

Raines & Raines

Regal Hoffmann & Associates

Regina Ryan Publishing Enterprises

Richard Curtis Associates

Richard Henshaw Group

Rita Rosenkranz Literary Agency

RLR Associates

Robin Straus Agency

Root Literary

Sanford J. Greenburger Associates

Sarah Jane Freymann Literary Agency

Sarah Lazin Books

Schiavone Literary Agency

Scott Meredith Agency

Scott Treimel New York Agency

Scovil Galen Ghosh Literary Agency

Sean McCarthy Literary Agency

Serendipity Literary Agency

Sheldon Fogelman Agency

Signature Literary Agency

Sobel Weber Associates

Spartan LA

Spectrum Literary Agency

Steele-Perkins Literary Agency

Sterling Lord Literistic

Stonesong Literary Agency

Straus Literary

Stuart Krichevsky Literary Agency

Susan Schulman Literary Agency

Susanna Lea Associates

Talbot Fortune Agency

The Aaron M. Priest Literary Agency

The Axelrod Agency

The Bent Agency

The Betsy Nolan Literary Agency

The Blumer Literary Agency

The Book Group

The Cea

The Chudney Agency

The Clegg Agency

The Cynthia Cannell Literary Agency

The Damaris Rowland Agency

The Elizabeth Kaplan Literary Agency

The Fischer-Harbage Agency

The Friedrich Agency

The Gernert Company

The Guma Agency

The Herman Agency

The Joy Harris Literary Agency

The Leshne Agency

The Loewenthal Company

The Lotts Agency

The Martell Agency

The McVeigh Agency

The Ned Leavitt Agency

The Park Literary Group

The Reiter Agency

The Robbins Office

The Rohm Literary Agency

The Roman Group

The Seymour Agency

The Spieler Agency

The Strothman Agency

The Stuart Agency

The Susan Rabiner Literary Agency

The Tessler Literary Agency

The Tomasino Agency

The Unter Agency

The Williams Company

The Wylie Agency

The Zoe Pagnamenta Agency

Thompson Literary Agency

Tracy Brown Literary Agency

Trident Media Group

Union Literary

United Talent Agency (UTA)

Upstart Crow Literary

Valerie Smith Literary Agency

Veritas Media

Vicky Bijur Literary Agency

Victoria Sanders & Associates

Watkins Loomis Agency

Waxman Literary Agency

Weingel-Fidel Agency

Wendy Schmalz Agency

Wendy Sherman Associates

Wernick & Pratt Agency

Whimsy Literary Agency

William Morris Endeavor Entertainment

Wm Clark Associates

Wolfson Literary Agency

Writers House

Writers’ Representatives

Top NYC Literary Agencies – Finding the Best Book Agents

See the top NYC literary agencies below:

Aaron Priest Literary Agency (New York, NY)

Abrams Artists Agency (New York, NY)

Aevitas Creative Management (New York, NY)

AGI Vigliano Literary (New York, NY)

Anderson Literary Management (New York, NY)

Barry Goldblatt Literary (Brooklyn, NY)

Brockman Literary Agency (New York, NY)

Carol Mann Agency (New York, NY)

Curtis Brown Literary Agency (New York, NY)

David Black Literary Agency (Brooklyn, NY)

DeFiore and Company (New York, NY)

Donald Maass Literary Agency (New York, NY)

Dunow, Carlson & Lerner (New York, NY)

Dystel & Goderich Literary Management (New York, NY)

Elyse Cheney Agency (New York, NY)

Fletcher & Company (New York, NY)

Folio Literary Management (New York, NY)

Foundry Literary + Media (New York, NY)

Fredrica S. Friedman and Company (New York, NY)

Gelfman Schneider/ICM (New York, NY)

Harvey Klinger (New York, NY)

Howard Morhaim Literary Agency (Brooklyn, NY)

ICM – International Creative Management (New York, NY)

Inkwell Management (New York, NY)

Irene Goodman Agency (New York, NY)

Jane Rotrosen Agency (New York, NY)

Janis A. Donnaud & Associates (New York, NY)

Janklow & Nesbit Associates (New York, NY)

Jean V. Naggar Literary Agency (New York, NY)

Jill Grinberg Literary Management (Brooklyn, NY)

Larry Weissman Literary (Brooklyn, NY)

Laura Dail Literary Agency (New York, NY)

Linda Chester Literary Agency (New York, NY)

Liza Dawson Associates (New York, NY)

Marly Rusoff & Associates (Bronxville, NY)

Mendel Media Group (New York, NY)

Nancy Yost Literary Agency (New York, NY)

New Leaf Literary & Media (New York, NY)

Paradigm Literary and Talent (New York, NY)

Pippin Properties (New York, NY)

Sanford J. Greenburger Associates (New York, NY)

Scovil Galen Ghosh Literary Agency (New York, NY)

Sterling Lord Literistic (New York, NY)

Stonesong Literary Agency (New York, NY)

Susan Rabiner Literary Agency (New York, NY)

The Bent Agency (New York, NY)

The Gernert Company (New York, NY)

The Strothman Agency (New York, NY)

The Stuart Agency (New York, NY)

Thompson Literary Agency (New York, NY)

Trident Media Group (New York, NY)

UTA – United Talent Agency (New York, NY)

Waxman Literary Agency (New York, NY)

Wendy Sherman Associates (New York, NY)

William Morris Endeavor (New York, NY)

Writers House (New York, NY)

Zoe Pagnamenta Agency (Brooklyn, NY)

* * *

GET A LITERARY AGENT

Get free access to the Directory of Literary Agents with detailed agent listings to get a traditional publisher

Your Information will never be shared with any third party.

* * *

NYC Literary Agency Facts and Statistics

Finding accurate information about NYC literary agencies and New York City literary agents is easy using our free publishing agents directory. Here are some of the important facts and statistics you’ll find inside:

288 of the 600+ literary agencies in the USA (more than 1/3) are in NYC or New York

834 of the 1,300+ individual book agents in the U.S. (2/3) are in NYC or New York

The 102 author representatives in New York but NOT in Manhattan are located in: Brooklyn (43), Riverdale (8), Canton (5), Hudson (4), Massapequa Park (3), Stone Ridge (3), Bronx (2), Bronxville (2), Chatham (2), Dobbs Ferry (2), East Hampton (2), Medusa (2), Armonk (1), Bellport (1), Billings (1), Briarcliff Manor (1), Bridgehampton (1), Canandaigua (1), Chappaqua (1), Forest Hills (1), Hastings (1), Larchmont (1), Mamaroneck (1), Manhasset, Modena, Nyack (1), Ossining (1), Rhinebeck (1), Rochester (1), Sag Harbor (1), Scarsdale (1), and Thornwood (1)

754 of the book agents with literary agencies NYC accept queries for adult fiction

723 of the publishing agents with literary agencies NYC accept queries for nonfiction books

512 of the literary agents with literary agencies NYC accept queries for children’s books

262 of the 834 book agents at literary agencies NYC are members of the AAR

18 of the publishing agents with literary agencies NYC only accept submissions by referral

696 of the writer representatives with literary agencies NYC accept email queries

304 of the book agents with literary agencies NYC accept postal mail queries

108 of the publishing agents with literary agencies NYC accept queries via online forms on their websites

226 of the 288 literary agencies NYC have websites

560 of the book agents with literary agencies NYC are on LinkedIn

552 of the publishing agents with literary agencies NYC are on Twitter

122 of the book agents with literary agencies NYC are on Facebook

NYC Literary Agencies Near Me – Find a Literary Agent

The most common literary agencies near me searches for NY are:

NYC Book Agents (see link above)

Albany Literary Agents

Buffalo Literary Agents

Rochester Literary Agents

Submit Your Book to NYC Literary Agencies and Literary Agents

Categorize your book for NYC book agents in the best way using our free Guide to Book Genres.

Prepare your query letter for NYC publishing agents using our How to Write a Query Letter Guide.

Find literary agencies in NYC using our comprehensive, up-to-date, and easy-to-use Literary Agency Directory and Database to make sure your queries are received and to have the best chance of getting a book agent. Other print and online literary agent lists, directories, and databases with information about NYC literary agencies are often incomplete and outdated.

Scroll below for free, instant access.

Enter the Free Book Agents Directory – Find NYC Literary Agents

Use our literary agencies directory and database to find book agents by all locations including NYC. You can also use our list of publishing agents to find author representative by book genre, AAR status, and more. Enter your first name and email address below for free, instant access to the following:

1,000+ listings of all author representatives including those in NYC

Detailed literary agent bios for all NYC writer representatives

List of book genres that each NYC book agent is seeking

AAR membership status for all NYC writer representatives

Preferred query method(s) such as email, online form, postal mail

Query email addresses for all NYC author representatives

Postal mail addresses for all NYC writer representatives

Photos of all NYC author representatives

Links to all literary agencies NYC websites

Links to all social media accounts for all NYC book agents

Maps to the offices of all NYC author representatives

Search

See more results...

Generic selectors

Exact matches only

Search in title

Search in content

Post Type Selectors

Get free access to the Directory of Literary Agents with detailed agent profiles. You’ll also get access to our article and audio library with information to help you get a top agent, publisher, and book deal. You can unsubscribe easily at any time – we don’t spam.

Directory Features

1,000+ agent profiles and bios

Searchable by book genre/category

Preferred query method(s)

AAR membership status

Personal email addresses

Mailing addresses

Agent photos

Links to agency websites

Maps to agency offices

Interviews/Tips from Successful Authors

Fiction/General – J. Jago

Fiction/Mystery – B. Harper

Fiction/Mainstream – K. Cox

Fiction/Christian – K. Sargent

Nonfiction/Business – D. Hamme

Nonfiction/Self-Help – A. Goddard

Nonfiction/Environment – J. Biemer

Nonfiction/Diversity – S. Peer

Narrative Nonfiction – D. Cohen

Memoir/Women – L. Lehr

Memoir/Christian – S. LeRette

Memoir/Family/Identity – S. Foti

Memoir/Multicultural – N. Aronheim

Memoir/Inspirational – L. Subramani

Memoir/Mainstream – E. Armstrong

Children’s/Pic Book – M. Leshem-Pelly

Children’s/Chapter Book – J. Agee

Children’s/YA – C. Plum-Ucci

Children’s/YA – D. Bester

Children’s/YA – L. Moe

How to Get a Literary Agent

What Is a Literary Agent?

When Should You Get An Agent?

Odds of Getting a Book Agent

How Long to Get An Agent?

How Much Does An Agent Cost?

How Much Do Authors Make?

How to Find a Book Agent

Book Agent Submissions

How to Get a Fiction Agent

How to Get a Nonfiction Agent

Get a Kids’ Book Agent

Get An Agent After Self-Publishing

Offer of Representation

After You Get A Book Agent

About Mark Malatesta

MARK MALATESTA is a former literary agent turned author coach. Mark now helps authors of all genres (fiction, nonfiction, and children's books) get top literary agents, publishers, and book deals through his company Literary Agent Undercover and The Bestselling Author. Mark's authors have gotten six-figure book deals, been on the NYT bestseller list, and published with houses such as Random House, Scholastic, and Thomas Nelson. Click here to learn more about Mark Malatesta and click here for Reviews of Mark Malatesta.