After a three-year wait since his last movie, Christopher Nolan’s highly anticipated Oppenheimer is set to hit the theatres this week. The movie, based on the 2005 biography called American Prometheus by Kai Bird and Martin J. Sherwin, charts the life of J. Robert Oppenheimer–a theoretical physicist, also known as the Father of the Atomic Bomb.

If you remember your history lessons, Oppenheimer was a pivotal figure in history in developing the first nuclear weapons as a part of the Manhattan Project–a research that was underway during the course of World War II.

Known for his captivating storytelling, Christopher Nolan has often pushed boundaries when it comes to making movies in the most engaging way possible, all of which require a substantial sum of cash.

Although his larger-than-life stories are often translated on-screen in a spectacular way, this is the first biopic Christopher Nolan adds to his directorial resume. And in true Nolan style, this movie too promises to tell the intriguing story of the man with an incredible cast that includes Cillian Murphy, Florence Pugh, Robert Downey Jr., Emily Blunt, Matt Damon, and otherspremiere.

Christopher Nolan’s most expensive movies

It was earlier reported that his newest magnum opus cost around $100 million USD, making it the director’s fourth most expensive film. But during a recent media interaction at the London premiere of the movie, the director revealed that the actual production budget of the film exceeded way beyond $100 million (Rs 820+ Crore), rocketing it to a whopping $180 million USD (Rs 1476+ Crore). This is more than twice the amount spent on the making of Adipurush, the most-expensive Indian film so far.

This isn’t the first time Nolan has played with a movie that is larger-than-life and has an even larger budget. Nolan had spent around $250 million in making The Dark Knight Rises–his highest-budgeted movie, followed closely by Tenet at $200 and The Dark Knight Rises at $185.

His 2005 feature Batman Begins tails closely behind Oppenheimer with a budget of $150 million, while Interstellar was created with a cash flow of $165 million.

High budget, high competition

With such a high budget, comes higher expectations. The movie now faces the pressure of doing well at the box office enough to cover all costs and earn a minimum of $200 million USD. To achieve that, according to a report by Screen Rant, the film would require a worldwide haul of $250 million while reaching three times the budget to necessitate a global box office collection of $300 million for this biopic.

The movie also faces stiff competition from Barbie, which is also slated to release on the same day. With the Barbieheimer Friday fever high this weekend, which movie are you rooting for?