Addiction. No Shame. Gabor Maté, Glenn Close and Mila Kunis' new film Four Good Days, and more.

I am so excited and honored to have a meaningful conversation about trauma and addiction with Amanda Wendler, Libby Alexander, Eli Saslow, Gabor Maté and surprise guests!

As a recovering addict of 36 years I have been through a lot, seen a lot and learned a lot. And so, the conversation keeps evolving and that’s how it should be. The minute I think I know it all is the minute I am in trouble. So I remain teachable while continuing to share my personal experience, strength and hope. I believe connection is the opposite of trauma and addiction. We look forward to connecting with you as we share our truth in a safe space of love, understanding, compassion and curiosity.

We also look forward to including some of your questions and experiences too!

All love, Michelle

Addiction. No Shame.

Ep. 7: A conversation inspired by the new film

Four Good Days starring Glenn Close and Mila Kunis,

based on the true story of Amanda Wendler and

her mother Libby Alexander.

Wednesday, June 23rd at 2pm PT/5pm ET

with special guests

Amanda Wendler and Libby Alexander

Dr. Gabor Maté, Author of In the Realm of Hungry Ghosts: Close Encounters with Addiction

Eli Saslow, Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist, Washington Post

Can't make the live event? All registrants will receive a recording within one week.

About the film Four Good Days

“Superbly acted, this film addresses the painful issue of addiction

with compassion and rare open-mindedness.”

— Dr. Gabor Maté

Impact Overview:

Four Good Days explores the trauma of addiction from two perspectives: an individual with opioid use disorder and their family. Both struggle to overcome shame, anger, and trauma. But Deb and Molly’s story is also one of hope. By supporting each other, they begin to heal.

The story portrayed in Four Good Days is the true story of Amanda Wendler and her mother, Libby Alexander. While this story is unique to them, the film reveals some universal truths, contradictions, and dilemmas about addiction, treatment, recovery, and the impact on families. It is our hope that our film not only honors the experience of families going through this, but also raises awareness about the opioid crisis and provides resources for anyone in need of help.

Synopsis:

In an emotional journey based on a true story by Pulitzer Prize-winning Washington Post writer Eli Saslow (joining us for Ep. 7 as a featured guest), 31-year-old Molly begs her estranged mother Deb for help fighting a fierce battle against the demons that have derailed her life. Despite all she has learned over a decade of disappointment, grief and rage, Deb throws herself into one last attempt to save her beloved daughter from the deadly and merciless grip of heroin addiction. Powerhouse performances from Glenn Close and Mila Kunis anchor director Rodrigo García’s poignant and unpredictable chronicle of mother and daughter fighting to regain the love and trust that once held them together.

Theme Song Somehow You Do

“I was honored to be asked to sing the theme song for the new Glenn Close and Mila Kunis 'moving and powerfu' movie, Four Good Days. It was written by the amazing Diane Warren who also wrote my songs I'll Be and What If. I’m so proud to be associated with these three very powerful women!" #SomehowYouDo #FourGoo dDays

— Reba McEntire

For anyone struggling and looking for help, there are many resources available:

For immediate support, call:

SAMHSA national helpline:

1-800-622-HELP

National Suicide Prevention Lifeline:

1-800-273-TALK (8255)

Crisis Text Line:

Text HOME to 741741

For family members seeking help:

Al-Anon

Reducing Risk of Opioid Overdose click here and here

12 Step Programs for addicts seeking help:

Narcotics Anonymous

Alcoholics Anonymous

More support:

Opioid Addiction Treatment

Find substance use disorder treatment in your area