Evelina London Children’s Hospital, one of only two specialist children’s hospitals in London, is a world-leading centre providing life-changing care and comprehensive medical and surgical services from before birth to later in life. We are honoured to have the Princess of Wales as our Patron.

As part of Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust, one of the world’s most prestigious teaching centres, Evelina London draws on the expertise of multidisciplinary teams to offer high quality care and clinical excellence.

Evelina London is located adjacent to St Thomas’ Hospital in central London. This means that children and their families can access multiple clinical services, extensive expertise and the latest treatments at one site.

US Newsweek, the American weekly news magazine, has ranked Evelina London as one

of the world’s best children’s hospitals.

Leading innovation

We have a long and proud history of pioneering innovation, developing cutting-edge technology and making advancements to transform patient care.

World’s first MRI-guided children’s heart valve procedure

Europe’s longest established and the UK’s largest fetal cardiology unit

First paediatric renal transplantation in England

Our expertise ranges from complex medical specialties, such as our metabolic service and neuroscience department, one of the largest in Europe, to leading the way in complex surgery and advanced diagnostics.

Children’s cardiology and cardiac surgery

Evelina London is at the forefront of pioneering treatments for babies and children with complex heart disease. Our innovations include world-firsts in fetal cardiac intervention, and MRI-guided children’s heart valve intervention.

We have pioneered new techniques in advanced cardiac imaging, with a world-leading fetal cardiac MRI programme to identify cardiovascular problems before birth. We continue to lead in clinical 3D echo, virtual reality imaging and artificial intelligence in clinical decision-making.

We offer extensive congenital cardiac surgery, including newer techniques for highly complex corrective cardiac surgery, all with excellent outcomes. Procedures include complex neonatal cardiac surgery, for both single ventricle palliation such as hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) and complex biventricular corrective surgery (Nikaidoh operation).

We pioneered the hybrid approach for borderline neonatal cases, where cardiologists and cardiac surgeons operate together to bridge small infants through to larger surgery after a period of stabilisation and growth. We are world leaders in personalised external aortic root support surgery to treat patients with a dilated aorta including those with aortic valve disease or Marfan syndrome.

Our latest developments include our new cardiac and critical care unit, which boasts the latest technology, private bays and a modern, welcoming environment. We have one of the largest paediatric critical care units and 46-cot neonatal unit. Our critical care units have some of the best survival rates for critically ill children in the UK.

We also offer specialist intensive care retrieval from UK and international locations.

Renal services and transplantation

We specialise in all aspects of renal disease, including blood group incompatible kidney transplants, complex nephrotic syndrome, reno-vascular patients and transplant urology for adolescents. Our paediatric transplant surgical programme is the largest in Europe and we also specialise in treating post-transplant patients with complications such as disease recurrence, as well as urological complications.

Our multidisciplinary team includes transplant surgeons, urologists, and nephrologists, supported by specialist teams. Together, they can call on multiple resources, including intensive care, diagnostic and interventional radiology and

microbiological expertise.

Gastrointestinal surgery

We have extensive experience of minimally invasive techniques including thora coscopic lung resections and laparoscopic or thoracoscopic repair of diaphragmatic hernias. Our expertise also includes long-term management of oesophageal atresia, including dealing with complications of previous surgery.

Our multidisciplinary teams are well established across many specialties, from gastroenterology to interventional radiology for oesophageal conditions, including manometry and stenting, ENT and respiratory medicine for airway and lung conditions.

Our lower GI surgery offers comprehensive care from birth to adult transition for children born with congenital conditions such as anorectal malformations and Hirschsprung’s disease.

Experts in paediatric neurosurgery, radiology and urology for children born with anorectal malformations support our multidisciplinary teams. We also specialise in paediatric inflammatory bowel disease and have extensive experience in minimal access surgery including laser treatment.

Urology service

Our urology service treats children with routine and complex, kidney, bladder, urethra, testis, penis and foreskin abnormalities. From urinary tract infections to specialist surgery, we offer comprehensive treatments and life-changing operations.

We have several multi-disciplinary services providing care for complex urological problems such as disorder of sex differentiation (DSD), complex bladder pathologies, urological problems in children with anorectal anomalies, posterior urethral valve and urological problems in trans- plant patients.

One example is the Mitrofanoff procedure and bladder augmentation for patients with conditions that cause high bladder pressure, urinary leakage or frequent urinary infections. Our expert team at Evelina London is one of the few in the UK that can perform this complex procedure, and we can smoothly manage the transition to adult care at our adjoining St Thomas’ Hospital providing ongoing care for life.

ENT, complex airway management and hearing implant surgery

Our children’s ENT service is one of the largest specialist teams in the UK, offering life-enhancing care in complex airway management, covering upper airway problems of the nose, throat, larynx and trachea.

We treat children from pre-term babies in our intensive care unit to adolescents with long-standing problems. Our specialist skills also include our head and neck surgery for children with all types of swelling and tumours in the head and neck region, including vascular anomalies.

We also provide access to our internationally renowned hearing implant centre looking after babies and children of all ages, with ear disease and hearing loss requiring hearing implant including cochlear implants.

Our multidisciplinary team approach means that children who present with associated heart, lung or airway problems have full support from experts in radiology, cardiology, genetics and respiratory to provide the best outcomes.

Contact us to find out more about our specialist services