Street View Panorama Photos

Introduction to Xi’an Railway Vocational and Technical Institute

Xi’an Railway Vocational and Technical Institute (西安铁路职业技术学院, website) is a full-time general vocational college hosted by the People’s Government of Xi’an. It is a model vocational college in Shaanxi Province, a national high-quality vocational college construction unit, and a top-ranking vocational college in Shaanxi province. unit. The school was founded in 1956 and was formed by the merger of the Xi’an Railway Transport School and the Xi’an Railway Transport Workers’ University, which belonged to the former Ministry of Railways. The college is located in the Xi’an International Port Area. It has three campuses, namely the Port Affairs campus (headquarters), the Ziqiang campus and the Lintong campus.

Xi’an Railway Vocational and Technical Institute has made use of the 60-year track record of running the rail transit industry to form a professional and professional group covering the two major industries of railway transportation and urban rail transportation, focusing on power technology, civil engineering, Professional groups supplemented by related majors such as equipment manufacturing and electronic information. The school passed the Ministry of Education’s talent training evaluation in 2009, and in 2014 became an outstanding model vocational college in Shaanxi Province.

The school recruits students nationwide, with more than 12,000 full-time students. Currently, the School of Transportation, the School of Electronic Information, the School of Electrical Engineering, the School of Traction and Power Engineering, the School of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, the School of Civil Engineering, as well as the Ministry of Basic Affairs, the Ministry of Ideology, Politics and Education, and the International Institute of Transportation Jiaotong University has launched 10 international colleges and universities including Continuing Education College and 37 further vocational colleges, including 6 provincial professional comprehensive reform and construction projects, 9 provincial key majors, and provincial demonstration projects. There are 4 training bases; 2 training bases supported by the central finance, and 1 central financial support project to improve the capacity of professional service industry development.

Xi’an Railway Vocational and Technical Institute has more than 680 faculty members, including 202 full-time teachers with a master’s and doctoral degree, more than 170 professors and associate professors, and more than 270 dual-teacher teachers. At present, there are one outstanding contribution expert enjoying the special allowance of the State Council government, one outstanding teacher in the country, four teaching teachers in ordinary universities in Shaanxi Province, and eleven deputy directors or members of the National Banking Directive. In addition, there are more than 200 front-line professional and technical personnel hired by Xi’an Railway Bureau and other enterprises as part-time teachers.

The school closely follows the rail transportation industry, and takes the school-enterprise cooperation and the combination of work and study as the starting point. It implements a talent training model of “2 + 1” (2 years of basic theoretical study + 1 year of internship) for order training and engineering-learning alternation. Practical teaching system with characteristics of transportation. There are 105 on-campus training bases such as urban railroads and rolling stock, and 98 off-campus practice bases have been set up in enterprises such as Xi’an Railway Bureau and Xi’an Metro Company. The college is one of the earliest institutions in the country to implement the vocational qualification certificate system, and the rate of obtaining “double certificates” for graduates is more than 80%. Students participated in various professional skills competitions at all levels, including the National Vocational College Skills Competition, and won more than 200 provincial and ministerial awards.

Xi’an Railway Vocational and Technical Institute is Xi’an Urban Rail Transit Talent Training Base, Xi’an Vocational Education Electronic Technology Public Training Base, Ministry of Railway Locomotive Driver Training Base, National Railway Talent Training Base and Xi’an Cadre Training and Education Base In cooperation with dozens of rail transit enterprises, it led the formation of Xi’an Rail Transit Vocational Education Group. The school actively plays the role of the above-mentioned “one group, five bases”, and trains more than 4,000 person-times of various types of employees for society, government departments, and industry enterprises. It has established long-term cooperative relationships with more than 70 railway units and large enterprises across the country. It is a co-constructed unit of Xi’an Railway Bureau, Zhengzhou Railway Bureau, Xi’an Metro Corporation, and a talent training base for Xi’an Metro Corporation, forming a smooth employment channel. Graduates are welcomed by enterprises, and order training has become the employment norm. The initial employment rate has remained above 95% for 10 consecutive years, and more than 85% of graduates have been employed in state-owned enterprises such as railways and subways. They are advanced units in employment in Shaanxi Province. China Education News has twice reported on the employment of the college.

In recent years, the school has taken the opportunity to deepen school-enterprise cooperation, promote the cooperation between industry, university and research, improve the professional ability of teachers, and have formed a number of influential scientific research results. The Ministry of Railways ’independent research and development project“ Electric Vehicle Reducer ”has obtained new product certificates issued by the Ministry of Science and Technology and other 5 ministries and commissions. It is widely used in railway marshalling stations such as Xinxiang South Station and Tangshan North Station. Technical research projects such as “Optimization Research on the Transport Organization of Huangling Mining Group’s Special Railway Lines” and “Treatment Technology for Track Bed Subgrade Pulp and Mud Treatment” have passed the enterprise identification and put into use; the Ministry of Railways’ “Station Watchman” and other project developments have been approved by experts of the Ministry of Railways. As a national question bank, it is used for the occupational skills appraisal of employees in the national railway transportation system, and won the second prize of teaching achievements in Shaanxi Province.

The school has won the “National Advanced Unit of Vocational and Technical Education” awarded by the five national ministries and commissions, the “National Railway Advanced Unit of Vocational and Technical Education” awarded by the Ministry of Railways, and the “Advanced Collective for Graduate Employment in Shaanxi Universities” and “Shaanxi Education Informationization Work” “Advanced Collective”, “Shaanxi Provincial Communist Youth League Work Outstanding Unit”, “Huang Yanpei Outstanding School Award” and other honorary titles have been named “Civilized Campus” and “Safe Campus” by the Shaanxi Provincial Party Committee and the Provincial Government. In the past three years, he has won 4 Shaanxi Provincial Teaching Achievement Awards and one third prize of the 7th National Outstanding Achievement in Campus Culture Construction.

The school is a standing director unit of the Chinese Vocational Education Association, a deputy director unit of the Rail Transit Committee of the Chinese Vocational and Technical Education Association, a deputy director unit of the Shaanxi Railway Association, and a secretary-general unit of the National Institute of Higher Education for Railway Workers.

In the new stage of historical development, the college will take the construction of a modern vocational education system as a guide, accelerate the pace of education and teaching reform, improve the personnel training system, and continuously improve the level of school running, and move towards the construction of “bright features, demonstration within the province, industry-leading, and domestic first-class” Of the higher vocational colleges.

Teaching Program

ISAC Teach in China Program

ISAC University Teaching Program

Job Vacancy