On this day in 1409 the birth of Rene of Anjou at Angers Castle in Anjou. Rene was a French noble of the family of Valois and Anjou. Known as Good King Rene simply because he inherited the crowns of Naples, Sicily and Jerusalem, he controlled large areas of land, he was therefore, an important figure during the last years of Hundred Years War.

Rene was the father of Margaret of Anjou Queen of Henry VI. Rene played his part in the negotiations with the English at Tours in 1444 and the marriage of Margaret to Henry - the fall out of which (the loss of French territories of Maine and Anjou, that had formed part of the marriage contract) as you will know, was far-reaching.

A wonderful description of Rene is given by Conn Iggulden in his book Stormbird, the first of his Wars of the Roses series (read it if you haven't already, its a must) The description comes from the mouth of the teenage Margaret.

"He was just a great white slug of a man. His face was unnaturally pale, perhaps from his years languishing in prison. His eyes were grey and cold, half hidden by heavy, unwrinkied lower lids, so that he always seemed to be peering over them. He had clearly not starved in prison."

I would not be surprised if Conn Iggulden took his inspiration from the Matheron Diptych that it is pictured here. The painting, by French artist Nicolas Froment was given to Jean Matheron, statesman and later a French ambassador, by Rene himself. He is depicted with his second wife Jeanne de Laval it is held in the Louvre in Paris.

The Tomb of Alice de la Pole

This magnificent transi tomb at St Mary's Church, Ewelme in the county of Oxfordshire, belongs to Alice de la Pole.

In two parts, the top section is solid and entirely made of alabaster, it is thought to be unique. Lying on top of the tomb, whose decorated sides are covered with angels holding emblazoned shields, is the life like image of the duchess, whose long face is beautifully carved, her coronated head lies under an ornate canopy. The cushion on which her head lies is supported by tiny angels who are placed there to aid Alice's soul to heaven.

After the Black Death in 1348 and its four recurrences between 1361 and 1393, people came to realise that death took what it wanted when it wanted, rich or poor, young or old. In recognition of this people of Alice's class took steps to remind others of transiency of life and therefore she is saying 'as I am now so will you be.' Alice's emaciated body is hidden and difficult to see, unlike her grand clothing in life, she is partially wrapped in a loose shroud.

​There are many tombs such as these around the country, one of the first is at Lincoln Cathedral. Alice's however, is the only intact effigy of a woman carved in alabaster in the country. Alice was a Chaucer by birth, the granddaughter of Geoffrey Chaucer and wife of William de la Pole.

William de la Pole was an English commander and is remembered and blamed for the loss of French territories of Maine and Anjou, these lands formed part of the marriage contract of Henry VI to Margaret of Anjou that Pole had arranged. Pole was blamed for much, a scapegoat, who was exiled and murdered on route to Calais.

Surviving the aftermath of the death of her husband, Alice was certainly a force to be reckoned with, she proved more than capable of taking care of herself and the interests of her son John de la Pole.

Alice is thought to have died on the 20th May in 1475, however it is suggested that it may have been in the June of that year.