The Department of Health (DOH) holds the over-all technical authority on health, as it is a national health policy-maker and regulatory institution.

The DOH has three major roles in the health sector: (1) leadership in health; (2) enabler and capacity builder; and (3) administrator of specific services. Its mandate is to develop national plans, technical standards, and guidelines on health. Aside from being the regulator of all health services and products, the DOH is the provider of special tertiary healthcare services and technical assistance to health providers and stakeholders.

While pursuing its vision, the DOH adheres to the highest values of work, which are:

Integrity – The Department believes in upholding truth and pursuing honesty, accountability, and consistency in performing its functions.

Excellence – The DOH continuously strive for the best by fostering innovation, effectiveness and efficiency, pro-action, dynamism, and openness to change.

Compassion and respect for human dignity – Whilst DOH upholds the quality of life, respect for human dignity is encouraged by working with sympathy and benevolence for the people in need.

Commitment – With all our hearts and minds, the Department commits to achieve its vision for the health and development of future generations.

Professionalism – The DOH performs its functions in accordance with the highest ethical standards, principles of accountability, and full responsibility.

Teamwork – The DOH employees work together with a result-oriented mindset.

Stewardship of the health of the people – Being stewards of health for the people, the Department shall pursue sustainable development and care for the environment since it impinges on the health of the Filipinos.

Together with its attached agencies, the DOH—constituted of various central bureaus and services in the Central Office, Centers for Health Development (CHD) in every region, and DOH-retained hospitals—performs its roles to continuously improve the country’s health care system.

http://www.doh.gov.ph/

Address:

San Lazaro Compound, Tayuman, Sta. Cruz, Manila

Philippines 1003

Telephone:

(632) 743-8301 to 23