One of Iraq's leading Shia politicians, Ibrahim al-Jaafari, was today appointed as Iraq's next interim prime minister by the country's new presidential council.

Mr Jaafari, a 58-year-old former London GP, said he would form a new government within one or two weeks. Officials said the previous interim prime minister, Ayad Allawi, had formally resigned.

The new prime minister was appointed by the new interim president, Jalal Talabani, a Kurdish leader, and his two vice presidents, shortly after they were sworn in during a ceremony in the new national assembly in Baghdad.

But the event did not go smoothly. After his inaugural speech, Mr Talabani, a Kurdish leader, walked off the stage, returning after most television feeds of the event were cut off to say he had forgotten to name the new prime minister.

Some Shia officials were angered by the action, but Mr Jaafari was diplomatic. "This day represents a democratic process and a step forward," he said.

His new government will be Iraq's first democratically elected administration for some 50 years. Adel Abdul-Mahdi, a Shia, and the outgoing interim president, Ghazi al-Yawer, a Sunni Arab, were elected vice-presidents.

Today's development is likely to be cautiously welcomed by many Iraqis, who have expressed exasperation at the delay in creating a new government after the January 30 election, the first national poll since the US-led coalition toppled Saddam Hussein in April 2003.

Despite the political horse trading, it has been clear for some time that Mr Jaafari would emerge as the new prime minister, even though Mr Allawi had tried to keep his job.

Mr Jaafari, a conservative Shia with strong religious beliefs, leads the Islamic Dawa party, Iraq's first Shia Islamic political party, which is a major player in the dominant United Iraqi Alliance. The UIA holds more than half of the new national assembly's 275 seats.

Mr Jaafari has powerful friends and is close to Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, Iraq's most influential Shia leader. Mr Jaafari's wife is a distant relative of the cleric.

Mr Jaafari's rise reflects power shifts in Iraq, where both the Shia Arab majority and the Kurdish minority have new influence after decades of brutal oppression under Saddam's Sunni-dominated regime.

The Shia have a majority of seats in the national assembly, which is located in the fortified green zone, while Kurds form the second largest bloc; Sunni Arabs have disproportionately few seats, largely because many boycotted the elections or stayed at home for fear of attacks at the polls.

Iraq's new prime minister spent more than two decades in exile, mostly in Britain and Iran, helping to lead anti-Saddam opposition forces in his party. The new administration will be the second interim government since the US-led invasion in March 2003. Once a cabinet is finalised, Mr Jaafari's government will begin working on drafting a permanent constitution. This is supposed to be finished by August 15, before new elections.

Headlines in Iraq's newspapers this morning predicted Mr Jaafari's appointment today but some Iraqis, jaded by two years of conflict, showed little excitement.

"We, as Iraqis, are demanding security first," said Kadim Jassib, a 32-year-old Shia vendor. "This is a very important point, and the other problems will resolve themselves automatically. Then we can ask the coalition troops to withdraw from Iraq."

Like Mr Jaafari, Mr Talabani was a long-time opponent of Saddam. He spent some 40 years opposing the dictator and successive governments in Baghdad, and is the first Kurd to be Iraq's president.

His role will be more ceremonial than the prime minister's, but Mr Talabani, who wants a federal Iraq with Kurds running their own region, will have another platform from which to advance his aims. He leads the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK), which controls the eastern part of the Kurds' self-rule area. After he was named as president yesterday, Mr Talabani urged Iraqi insurgents, who are believed to be mostly Sunni Arabs, to begin talks.

Saddam and 11 of his top aides were given the chance to watch a tape of yesterday's national assembly session in their prison. All chose to do so, according to Bakhtiar Amin, human rights minister in the outgoing interim government.

The minister said Saddam watched by himself while the others viewed it as a group.

"I imagine [Saddam] was upset," Mr Amin said. "He must have realised that the era of his government was over and that there was no way he was returning to office."

Meanwhile today, south of Baghdad, a member of Mr Allawi's coalition in parliament said he survived an assassination attempt after the assembly meeting yesterday. Skeikh Maad Jasim Mizhir al-Samarmad said he was attacked 20 miles south of the capital. Elsewhere, a Shia shrine was destroyed by assailants who planted explosives in the structure in the Latifiya area, 35 miles south of Baghdad, according to police.