Teen gets scholarship to marine biology program

By Laurel L. Scott

San Angelo Central High School

Time: 8 p.m. Saturday.

Place: San Angelo Stadium.

Speaker: Bill Waters

San Angelo Lake View High School

Time: 5 p.m. Saturday.

Place: San Angelo Coliseum.

Speaker: Alvin New.

Texas Leadership Charter Academy

Time: 6 p.m. Saturday.

Place: TLCA gymnasium, 125 S. Jackson St.

Speaker: Dr. Walt Landers.

If life is an obstacle course, then Keifer Fallin has been through Marine boot camp.

Like the best Marines, the 17-year-old Lake View High School senior has let nothing stop him.

"I'm not the kind of person who would just sit down and give up. I get the feeling if I ever did that, then I'd become one of those people who just give up," Keifer said.

As an eighth-grader, he decided he wanted to be a marine biologist. In August, he'll move into his dorm room and attend freshman orientation at the University of Miami, one of five schools known for its marine biology program he applied to for admission.

All five accepted him.

"They had the bigger scholarship," said his mother, Jennifer Fallin.

The University of Miami awarded him a one-time $16,000 Dean's Scholarship. Then his ACT score came in and they upgraded it to the $24,000 University Scholarship, which is renewable for up to four years if he keeps his college grade point average at 3.2 or above.

He already has a proven track record of drive and commitment.

"Keifer's had a rough two years," his mother said, citing surgeries he had to have on both feet to alleviate a painful, congenital condition called fibrocartilaginous coalition.

"When we found out about his feet, we had to decide when to do the surgeries," she said.

Keifer was unwilling to interrupt another of his commitments to have the surgeries or to miss any school, so the right foot was operated on during Christmas break and the left foot during spring break of his junior year.

In between, his paternal grandfather, Kenneth Fallin, died, not long after his great-grandmother also had died.

"He went through a lot and instead of giving up, Keifer dug in. He did not let this time in his life bring him down," Fallin said.

He had shown that same commitment in the face of adversity as an incoming freshman. He loved playing football, but two days before the start of the season, his shoulder was injured during a scrimmage.

Randall "Doc" Parker, the head athletic trainer at Lake View, invited Keifer to be part of his program.

He accepted the challenge and stayed with it throughout high school, putting in sometimes 12-hour days, especially during football season, and earning a Texas State Athletic Trainers' Associates Certificate of Achievement.

"It's really a special thing for kids to stay in the athletic trainer program for four years and continue.

"I can't say enough about how hard he works," Parker said.

That commitment as an athletic trainer was one of the reasons for scheduling the surgeries around the 2008 football season.

Fallin said Keifer's grandfather died the day the Chiefs found out the team was to play a bidistrict playoff game in Lubbock for the first time in four years.

"Their grandpa was a huge impact in their life," Fallin said. "They buried his grandpa in Lubbock. Keifer wanted to go to the game after the funeral and they won that game. He felt that Grandpa was there. He felt better surrounded by his team."

Just showing up as an athletic trainer was difficult as he had to wear an orthotic boot during rehabilitation after the surgeries.

"Being a sports trainer, they're on their feet a lot. The group would get him a stool to help him finish out what he started," Fallin said. "He'd go early in the morning to do therapy, then be standing in that hot sun in that big boot.

"We looked at it like this: He loved being a trainer and wanted to finish what he started," she said.

Events also led to Keifer's commitment to marine biology.

While at Lincoln Middle School, he took the ACT college entrance exam as part of Duke University's Seventh Grade Talent Search and was invited to attend a summer education program offered by the North Carolina university.

"That first year, we didn't have the money, but I made sure he could go after that," Fallin said.

A single mother for more than 15 years, Fallin worked two jobs, she said, full time for Paragon Investigative Services as a security contractor at Goodyear Proving Grounds, and a second part-time job at Jackson Hewitt Tax Service.

"I told my kids, without an education you don't have anything. You can never lose an education," Fallin said.

In 2006, Keifer spent three weeks at Duke University's marine science lab, an island off the North Carolina coast.

"When Keifer was small, he and I used to debate all the time and he said he wanted to be a lawyer. He wanted to go to Appalachian State University, but they said because of his science scores he should go to a science program," Fallin said. "I wanted him to go and do more but at the same time I was apprehensive because it was so far away and he was so young. But when he came back his eyes were so bright."

He returned determined to study marine biology.

"I saw the ocean for the first time," Keifer said.

The next two summers, he returned to North Carolina, studying at beaches, in island woods, at a salt marsh.

"We set up our own little aquarium," he said, adding that instructors came from all over.

"One of the things that caught my attention was how much I didn't know and it inspired me to want to learn more," he said.

His mother knew this was not going to be an easy achievement.

"Keifer and I sat down when he said he wanted to go into marine biology and we set a goal. He was going to have to take AP classes, pre-AP classes, dual credit classes and keep his GPA above 90.

"I told him, ?If you want to go to a school for marine biology without transferring, you're going to have to do it with academic scholarships.' "

Fallin said she has firsthand knowledge of what not to do.

"The first eight years of his life we did not have a stable home. Mom wasn't the healthiest of people," she said.

She moved to San Angelo in 1999 at the invitation of former in-laws with her two children, Keifer and Austin, who is now 15 and attends Lake View.

"We bought this little house and I turned my life around, tried to make a stable home for my kids," Fallin said. "We've had to pull together to make it through."

Parker, meanwhile, has no doubt Keifer will succeed at the University of Miami.

"Ever since I've known him he's always wanted to do marine biology," the head trainer said. "He's been focused for a long time about doing this. For a kid to stay on course for such a long period of time is just unbelievable."