Birth Name: Alexandra N. Chando

Place of Birth: Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, U.S.

Date of Birth: July 28, 1986

Ethnicity: Italian (maternal grandfather), Rusyn, Slovak, Polish, Ukrainian

Alexandra Chando is an American actress.

Alexandra’s paternal grandfather was Stephen Chando, Sr. (the son of Joseph Chando/József Csanda and Anna Antolick). Stephen was born in New Jersey. Joseph was born in Malý Lipník, Slovakia, the son of Wasil Chando/Vazul Csanda and Carol Gladis/Karolin Gladis, who likely were of Rusyn background. Anna was born in Pennsylvania, the daughter of Andrew “Toby” Antolick/Antolik and Katherine/Catherine Uerda/Urda, who were also from Malý Lipník, Slovakia.

Alexandra’s paternal grandmother was Mary Bandurich (the daughter of Michael Bandurich and Susan “Susie” Billetz). Mary was born in Pennsylvania. Michael was born in Czechoslovakia. Susan was born in Pennsylvania, to parents from Czechoslovakia, who likely were of Slovak descent.

Alexandra’s maternal grandfather was named Arthur C. “Art” Troiani (the son of Joseph P. Troiani and Anna). Arthur was born in Pennsylvania. Joseph was born in Italy. Anna was born in Pennsylvania, to parents from Italy.

Alexandra’s maternal grandmother was Sylvia H. Pluski (the daughter of John Pluski and Helen Paskevich). John was born in Pennsylvania, to Polish parents. Helen was also born in Pennsylvania, the daughter of John Paskevich, who was of Ukrainian or Rusyn descent, and of Mary, who was Polish.

Sources: Obituary of Alexandra’s paternal grandfather, Stephen Chando, Sr. – http://www.legacy.com

Obituary of Alexandra’s paternal great-grandfather, Joseph Chando/József Csanda – http://findagrave.com

Obituary of Alexandra’s paternal great-grandmother, Anna (Antolick) Chando – http://www.findagrave.com

Alexandra’s paternal grandmother, Mary Bandurich, on the 1930 U.S. Census – http://www.familysearch.org

Obituary of Alexandra’s paternal grandmother, Mary (Bandurich) Chando – http://www.legacy.com

Alexandra’s maternal grandfather, Arthur C. “Art” Troiani, on the 1930 U.S. Census – http://www.familysearch.org

Obituary of Alexandra’s maternal great-aunt (grandmother’s sister) – http://www.myeasternshoremd.com

Alexandra’s maternal great-grandfather, John Pluski, on the 1940 U.S. Census – http://www.familysearch.org