Captain Shane Strangfield has served with the Clackamas County Sheriff's Office since 1996, holding various positions including Corrections Deputy, Patrol Deputy, Use of Force Instructor, Field Training Officer, Patrol Sergeant, Defensive Tactics Unit Supervisor, Watch Commander, Search and Rescue Program Manager, Cadet Program Manager, Professional Standards Unit Manager, Estacada contract city Police Chief, Damascus contract city Police Chief, the contract city Police Chief for the city of Happy Valley and the Patrol Division Commander. Captain Strangfield is currently serving as the Division Commander for Training, Risk and Wellness. In 1999, he was assigned to the agency's Honor Guard Team, currently serving as team commander. Captain Strangfield is a founding member of the Oregon Fallen Badge Foundation.

Officer Eric Bunday started his police career with the St. Helens Police Department in 2001. He also worked for the Columbia County Sheriff's Office before joining the Hillsboro Police Department in 2007. A classically trained baritone, Officer Bunday has been the vocalist for the Hillsboro Police Department Honor Guard since 2008. Eric Bunday is a founding member of the Oregon Fallen Badge Foundation.

Lieutenant Scott Rector has served with Oregon State Police (OSP) since 1999. During his time with OSP, Lieutenant Rector has been assigned to The Dalles Patrol Office, Portland Patrol Office and General Headquarters in Salem. Lieutenant Rector held various positions including, Field Training Officer, Technical Crash Investigator, Narcotics Canine Handler, Detective, and a member of the OSP Honor Guard. Lieutenant Rector is a surviving son of Sergeant James Rector of the Oregon State Police, who was killed in the line of duty on September 2, 1997.

Lieutenant David Natt (Retired) worked for the Eugene Police Department from 2002-2023, holding various positions including patrol officer, Field Training Officer, Major Collisions Investigator, Internal Affairs Investigator, Patrol Sergeant and Watch Commander. In 2004, he was assigned to the Eugene Police Department Honor Guard Team, where he took over as the team's supervisor in 2008 and in 2014 became the department Honor Guard commander. Lieutenant Natt is a founding member of the Oregon Fallen Badge Foundation.

Ashley Korslien is the Communications Manager for the Clark County Sheriff's Office in Southwest Washington. Prior to her work in law enforcement communications, she spent nearly 15 years as a television news anchor and investigative reporter. She spent 11 years at KGW-TV in Portland, OR, and previously worked at news stations in Washington and Montana. Ashley volunteers with several nonprofits and helped create a non-profit that assists military veterans in Montana. Ashley grew up in a law enforcement family and is also married to a police officer.

Daniel Thenell is a member of the board and the Foundation's attorney. A former Washington County Deputy District Attorney, he is a Shareholder at Thenell Law Group. Dan specializes in the prosecution of large-scale identity theft and fraud crimes, and co-drafted Senate Bill 464, creating a new crime of Aggravated Identity Theft. He's also trained law enforcement officers in report writing, search and seizure and domestic violence. Daniel Thennel is a founding member of the Oregon Fallen Badge Foundation.

Kirsten Curtis is an attorney with Thenell Law Group, located in Bend, OR. She assisted the Foundation in obtaining its 501(c)(3) status, and provides legal assistance to the Board. Ms. Curtis represents Fraternal Order of Police members in OR and WA, represents insurance companies during special investigations, and serves as a court-appointed arbitrator.

Crystal Mai Purdy is the location manager of Lincoln Memorial Park & Funeral Home in Portland. She is a licensed funeral director and embalmer and has worked in the industry since 2005. Crystal spent most of her childhood and adolescence in Japan, moving back to Oregon to finish high school and attend the University of Portland. She worked as an EMT for four years before returning to college and receiving her degree in Funeral Service Education. When she is not working, Crystal spends most of her time volunteering with various veteran groups. She is the Athletic Director of the Portland Chapter of Team RWB (Red White and Blue), a veteran organization that brings combat veterans together through physical and social activities. She enjoys being active in her gym, running organized races and simply engaging in any physically-challenging activity. Crystal has a passion for giving back, paying forward and serving those who have served.

Assistant Chief Amanda McMillan has served with the Portland Police Bureau (PPB) since 2001, holding a variety of positions including patrol officer, patrol sergeant, internal affairs sergeant, youth services lieutenant, drugs & vice lieutenant, investigations lieutenant, internal affairs captain, and professional standards division commander. Assistant Chief McMillan has served as a member of PPB’s Employee Assistance Program since 2008 and the PPB Honor Guard since 2014. Assistant Chief McMillan is an FBI National Academy graduate and holds a master’s degree in organizational leadership. She also serves on the board of directors for the Portland Police Historical Society.

Lieutenant Darryl Wrisley is from Portland Oregon and after graduating High School went directly into the United States Marine Corp. After nearly ten years in the military he began a law enforcement career in January of 1989 and is currently a lieutenant with the Lake Oswego Police Department. He has served in many positions to include the Tactical Negotiations Team, Patrol, Narcotics, K-9 handler/trainer, firearms instructor, Detective, and Honor Guard Commander.

Lieutenant Nick Troxel began his law enforcement career volunteering as a Corvallis Police Cadet. He was hired by the Oregon State Police as a Fish and Wildlife Cadet. He was hired part time as a Crime Prevention Specialist with the City of Corvallis Police Department. Later he was hired full time as a Patrol Officer at the Corvallis Police Department. He later moved to the City of Tillamook and began work for the Tillamook Police Department in 2003. He also serves on the Board of Directors for Helping Hands Re-Entry, Current member and past President of the Rotary Club of Tillamook, and past President, founding board member for Auggie’s Hope, past member of the Tillamook School District Board of Directors, Member of the Oregon Fallen Badge Foundation’s Board of Directors and the Line of Duty Death Response Team. When not at work or volunteering Nick enjoys spending time with his beautiful wife and their two boys. His family keeps him busy and he absolutely loves it.

Sergeant DaNeshia Barrett started her career in law enforcement at the age of 16, as a volunteer Police Explorer. She has been employed with the Beaverton Police Department since 2010. During that time, she has been assigned to patrol, community services, and the traffic division. She has held positions a DT instructor, Cadet Coordinator, and Honor Guard Member. Sergeant Barrett also holds positions on the Police Policy Committee, Public Safety Memorial Fund Board, and the Board on Public Safety Standards and Training. When not working you can find her in the gym, walking her dogs, and hiking mountains with her family.