Speaking of protestploitation, one of the most exciting pieces of geek news this month is the announced J. Lee Thompson “director’s cut” of CONQUEST OF THE PLANT OF THE APES (1972), the first and only Ape film I saw in the theater. I was very young and found the movie profoundly scary and apocalyptic, showing how the enslaved domesticated apes rose up against their human oppressors in a futuristic Los Angeles circa 1991. I was entranced by the dystopic tone of dread that builds through the film until its explosive final battle between Ape and Man. I think you know who wins.

This is my favorite film in the series, with a sleek unique 70’s sci-fi atmosphere and a stalwart cast. Along with Ricardo Montalban as the sympathetic human protecting the only talking ape, Roddy McDowall gets the chance to shine as we see him go from docile ape to raging guerilla. It’s a cool, subtle, pantomimic performance and his transformation from Cornelius into Caesar by the film’s violent climax is wholly realized. His fiery speech to the mobilized primate army is a career high point for McDowall. That and the verbal duet between him and an empathetic government aide (well played by Hari Rhodes) are also delicious. No surprise since the script was penned by Paul Dehn, who contributed much of the wit to the Bond series. The awesome Severn Darden is a cruel joy as the chief bureaucratic torturer, although the scenes of him shocking the monkeys are still disturbing.

In fact, the original cut of the film was far too bloody and frightening for preview audiences and the rating board, so nine minutes were removed and the dark ending altered to make it appear Ceasar spares the life of the film’s villain, Governor Breck (Don Murray in a juicy performance and a great black turtleneck). I’ve always longed to see that censored footage and amazingly, that day is now with the November release of yet another box set but on Blu-Ray this time. This is very cool news and I can’t wait to see the original apocalyptic cut of this intense and fascinating film. I’m telling you, I was freaked by the end of CONQUEST OF THE PLANET OF THE APES; I also decided it was smarter to be on the side of the revolutionarys taking over rather than the ones oppressing them. Go Ape!

UPDATE: Now that I’ve seen the Director’s Cut, you can go ape here for more monkey business.