Company History

Silicon Valley Shakespeare was formed in 1999 by Sara Betts, Dinna Myers, and Jeff Day as Shady Shakespeare Theatre Company. The company was dedicated to providing more opportunities for artists to perform and audiences to experience Shakespeare and other classic works.

The company started with an annual budget of $1,100 and the dedication of our dynamic leaders and core volunteers. Now, it has expanded to include an entire season of four theatrical offerings in three venues, and a vibrant education program for youth and teens, with an annual budget of over $300,000. Learn more about our past productions and landmark moments, below, and about our mission and vision.

Landmark Moments

2022

Wilson Alexander Aguilar succeeds Laura Domingo as marketing director.

2021

Annalisa Tkacheff succeeds Doug Brook as executive director. SVS hires Laura Domingo as the first full-time marketing director.

2020

SVS responds to the COVID-19 pandemic with a rapid shift to offering varied online programming. Introduces ShakesPod, a new series of online audio podcasts.

2019

SVS joins Buck Hill Productions in co-producing ShakesBEERience, bringing several one-night-only performances to Cafe Stritch in San José. A Midsummer Night’s Dream is named a “TBA Recommended” production by Theatre Bay Area. Silicon Valley Shakespeare produces a second summer camp and a one-night-only encore of A Midsummer Night’s Dream at Montalvo Arts Center. Macbeth and The White Snake are simultaneously named “TBA Recommended” productions by Theatre Bay Area. Drew Benjamin Jones and Sara Renée Morris (for Macbeth) and Evelyn Huynh (for The White Snake) are finalists for TBA Awards in the acting categories. Evelyn Huynh (Greenie in The White Snake) wins Best Actress in a Play for the Theatre Bay Area Awards. SVS hires Melissa Jones as its first full-time development manager.

2018

Produces the World Premiere of The Hood of Sherwood at Sanborn Park. Much Ado About Nothing and The Hood of Sherwood are simultaneously named “TBA Recommended” productions by Theatre Bay Area. Larry Barrott, resident fight director and artistic director emeritus, is named a finalist for a TBA Award for his fight choreography for the world premiere of The Hood of Sherwood.

2017

San José City Council presents a special commendation to Silicon Valley Shakespeare for its years of bringing the arts to the community and, in particular, to its youth. SVS hires first full-time staff position as managing director.

2016

Education Program offers its first recurring, in-school after-school program. Produces its first touring production, remounting the free Shakespeare in the Park production at Central Park in San Mateo. Julius Caesar and The Three Musketeers are named “TBA Recommended” productions by Theatre Bay Area.

2015

Shady Shakespeare Theatre Company becomes Silicon Valley Shakespeare. Doug Brook succeeds Dinna Myers as executive director. The Comedy of Errors is recognized as a finalist for four TBA Awards including Doll Piccotto, Lucinda Dobinson, and Melissa Jones in the acting categories, and Lisa Claybaugh for costume design.

2014

Launches internship program for high school and college students to gain hands-on acting or technical experience. Forms a cooperative partnership with the Department of Film and Theatre at San José State University. Angie Higgins succeeds Vera Sloan as artistic director.

2013

Shakespeare San José in Willow Street Park is launched and Vera Sloan succeeds Larry Barrott as artistic director.

2012

Education program launches in-school educational outreach program Takin’ It to the Schools. King Lear, directed by Angie Higgins, wins Silicon Valley Small Theatre Award for Standout Classical Production from Wave Magazine.

2011

The Imaginary Invalid, directed by Shawn Andrei, wins Silicon Valley Small Venue Theatre Award for Costume Design by Rosie Ricca from Wave Magazine.

2010

Expands to offering a third production in an indoor venue. Education program is formed, launching a Shakespeare Camp for youth and teens.

2007

Larry Barrott succeeds Sara Betts as artistic director.

2006

The Taming of the Shrew, directed by Angie Higgins, wins Silicon Valley Theatre Award for Standout Classical Production from Wave Magazine.

2005

Expands to a two-show repertory season. Awarded Runner-Up for Best Local Theatre Company by Metro Readers Best in Arts and Culture.