Perhaps the weirdest and smartest comedy to come out of 1980 (that was once also a staple of early cable movie channels) has almost become completely forgotten: Simon, the directorial debut of Woody Allen's writing partner Marshall Brickman (Sleeper, Annie Hall, Manhattan) which stars Alan Arkin as an orphaned psychology professor who is brainwashed by a think tank of amoral geniuses into believing he's an alien from another planet.

The movie plays on America's growing interest in conspiracy theories and the perceived downward spiral of the culture in general. What if all those terrible things about modern times like watered-down elevator music and deranged presidents and abysmal television shows were the result of manipulation by an elite group of twisted…

What an odd, odd, odd, odd, odd, odd, odd, odd, odd movie this is. A group of asshole scientists played by Austin Pendleton, Wallace Shawn, and Madeline Khan brainwash a klutsy college prof played by Alan Arkin into thinking he's an alien from outer space. There's some very funny stray moments and one liners here. ("You want me to save the planet? I can't even open a checking account") ("This is proof there is a God" "This is proof there isn't a God" "This is proof there is a God but that he doesn't know what the hell he's doing!") ("So you're from out of space now?" "Outer Space...Out of space doesn't mean anything and yes, tho i didn't just…

Located in New York State is the Institute for Advanced Concepts where a team of eccentric, sociopathic, egomaniac scientists receive government tax payer dollars to perform elaborate mass pranking on the American public. The government doesn't even realize what they are doing, but they feel such power in making the stupid American consumer buy things or think things by staging or creating products or events.

When they realize that a large segment of the public believes in aliens from outer space, they concoct a plan to brainwash a NYC college philosophy professor Simon Mendelssohn and make him think he is an alien and then make the media and public believe he is real.

An underrated little seen gem of comedy…

Given its pedigree in front of and behind the camera I always expect to like SIMON more than I do. It has so much going for it and the dark edges of its satire feel way ahead of its time. But it either goes too far or not far enough. The fact that it's so easy to compare to similarly themed bonafide classics doesn't help its case either. Still, this is a truly bizarre curiosity that I simply can't dismiss. This is third time I've watched it and will probably come back to it a fourth time in a few years, just to try yet again to wrap my brain around it. At least the cast is enough to keep…