Alternate realities have long since been a genre (or theme) in books, as well as finding “the end.” It could be a death, the end of society or...

Alternate realities have long since been a genre (or theme) in books, as well as finding “the end.” It could be a death, the end of society or the extinction of an animal. I sat down with Phil LaMarche, a SUNY Canton professor and published author, to discuss dystopian and apocalyptic societies in literature for a lively conversation about books, recommendations and reality.

We heard from some young readers at Canton Central School, and Peggy Kerfien, the Director of the Ogdensburg Free Library in Ogdensburg, NY. So many people emailed recommendations, and we had some great suggestions on the phone, too.

The next episode of North Country Bookmarks will be Friday, February 7 at noon, and I’ll be joined by Meg McGovern, a former English Teacher from Canton Central School, where we will discuss what we read growing up, and how it still resonates. As always, feel free to email your submissions in advance to me (jessica@ncpr.org). Thank you for listening!

Jessica LawrenceDystopian and apocalyptic worlds edition

Recommended Books

Host Jessica Lawrence

The Power, Naomi Alderman. Alderman was mentored by famed author Margaret Atwood, and in this novel, instead of men having the power, it is women who do. Women develop the ability to send jolts from their fingers, which in turns make them extremely powerful- and the dominant gender. The novel follows several characters, many female, who ultimately become high ranking in society across the world. The shift is dynamic, the story is captivating, and it really does showcase how things would be vastly different in this alternate reality.

The Water Cure, Sophie Mackintosh. This post-apocalyptic story follows three sisters and their parents who reside on a tiny island after a catastrophe turns the main land into a toxic place. The girls are lead to believe that emotions are toxic and they shouldn’t have them. They are only save with each other. After their father (known as “King”) goes missing, three men are found on the shore of their island. The feelings they go through, as well as the rituals to keep themselves “pure” are shocking. It was one that stuck with me after closing the book.

Phil LaMarche, SUNY Canton

The Handmaids Tale, Margaret Atwood

The Testaments, Margaret Atwood

The Heartbeat of Wounded Knee, David Troyer

The Sixth Extinction: An Unnatural History, Elizabeth Kolbert

A listener in Norfolk, NY

The Greatest Man in the World, James Thurber

Mitch Edelstein, Raquette Lake, via email

Alas, Babylon, Pat Frank

Lucifers Hammer, Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle

A Canticle for Leibowitz, Walter Miller Jr.

One Second After, William Forstchen

Heather Shively, Canton, NY via email

Wheel of Time, Robert Jordan

Selection, Kiera Cass

Mary Thill, Keene, NY via email

The End of the Dream, Phillip Wylie

Judy Ross, via email

Broken Earth(series), N.K. Jemison

Jerry, via phone

Winter World, Albert G. Riddle

ANY by Steven King

Pam Frank, via email

1984, George Orwell

Michael of Potsdam, NY, via phone

Imperium, Robert Harris

Mr. Wakiki, via email

Short History of Nearly Everything, Bill Bryson

Dueling Neurosurgeons, Sam Kean

Pam, Beaver Falls, NY via email

The Book Woman of Troublesome Creek, Kim Michele Richardson

Mike Parwana, via email

World Made by Hand, James Howard Kunstler

Zach Ives, Ogdensburg, NY via phone

The Road, Cormac McCarthy

Leila Shahbender, Raquette Lake, NY via email

A Gentleman from Moscow, Armor Towles

Sandy First, Shelburne, VT, via email

Ranger in Time(series), Kate Messner

Scott Ferris, via email

North by Nuuk: Greenland After Rockwell Kent by Denis Defilbaugh

Cindy Popeck, Hudson Falls, NY via email

World Made By Hand, James Howard Kunstlwer

The Stand, Stephen King

On the Beach, Nevil Shute

Rebecca Donnelly, via email

The Marrow Thieves by Cherie Dimaline

Fernando Narro, via email

Border Wars: Inside Trump’s Assault on Immigration, Julie Davis and Michael Shear

NCPR is supported by: