South Carolina Department of Archives and History

National Register Properties in South Carolina

Woodburn, Anderson County (Woodburn Rd., Pendleton vicinity)

Facade Right Oblique Right Elevation Rear Porch Detail

(Frank Place) Woodburn is significant historically, architecturally and culturally. It is an excellent example of an early nineteenth century plantation house. The house was believed to be built circa 1830 by Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, son of Andrew Pinckney, an early SC Governor, statesman, and agriculturalist. Charles Cotesworth Pinckney graduated from Harvard University, studied law, but became a large planter, cultivating over 2,000 acres of rice on several plantations. He became SC Lieutenant Governor in 1833. The house reflects both the architecture of “Charleston type” houses constructed in the upcountry and Early Classical or Greek Revival stylistic influences. Many planters built summer homes in Pendleton to take advantage of open space and summer breezes. Woodburn, with its large rooms, extremely high ceilings, and central hallways, is typical of the Charleston influence that is part of Pendleton’s character. The house is four stories with two huge front porches, one directly above the other. Two double French doors open from both front drawing rooms. There are wide window and door moldings outside, deeply fluted with Greek key designs; the interior contains similar moldings containing the Federal star. There are nine fireplaces. On the second level a large porch extends across the back of the house, with a stair leading to a herringbone brick terrace below. Woodburn is situated on a promontory with a view of the countryside and mountains. The property also contains several outbuildings. The Reverend Dr. John B. Adger, a son of wealthy Charleston parents, enlarged Woodburn in the 1850s. Augustine Smyth, another early owner, created a model livestock farm, specializing in race horses and purebred cattle. Listed in the National Register May 6, 1971.

View the complete text of the nomination form for this National Register Property.

Most National Register properties are privately owned and are not open to the public. The privacy of owners should be respected. Not all properties retain the same integrity as when originally documented and listed in the National Register due to changes and modifications over time.

Images and texts on these pages are intended for research or educational use. Please read our statement on use and reproduction for further information on how to obtain a photocopy or how to cite an item.

Images provided by the