Appendix: A Filmography of Spanish Vampire Films, 1964–1985

A subsidiary aim of this chapter is to provide the most thorough list of Spanish vampire films from the golden age of Spanish horror to date. Inspired by Michael Guarneri’s own forensic analysis of Italian vampire cinema (2020, 8–11) and born out of many hours of horror viewing, the table below is presented as a first step toward an exhaustive filmography on this significant but still underresearched topic, and an invitation to future scholars to continue combing Spanish films for this creature’s appearances. Any synthesis of a topic demands a number of guiding parameters, and any process of selection involves necessary exclusion. What follows are a few notes that clarify my methodology.

The titles of horror films during this period, especially those of Euro Horror, were unstable and prone to dramatic and salacious renamings. I have kept original Spanish titles, or where initially released in a different language, their most common Spanish title. I have included only the most popular of the English titles, which were often the ones through which given films circulated in the US and the UK. If no English title was ever released, a direct translation is provided in brackets. I have included films like La maldición de los Karnstein and La notte dei diavoli (Night of the Devils, 1972) because they had some Spanish involvement, but I want to acknowledge that these are predominantly Italian films and are rightfully treated as such by critics like Roberto Curti (2015, 128–35; 2017, 74–7). Similarly, Vampyres, although directed by the Spanish director José Ramón Larraz, has also been considered a British film (Fenton and Flint 2001, 222–4), and La hija de Drácula (Dracula’s Daughter, 1972), as typical of Jesús Franco’s career, is an international co-production, in this case between France and Portugal. I have included all these films but pointed out their national origins, as well as, to the best of my knowledge, where they first premiered.

All studies of “vampiric” representations must wrestle with the capaciousness of this flexible category. I have included the blood-drinking plant in La isla de la muerte because it operates as, and is called, a “vampire,” as well as El secreto de la momia egipcia (Lips of Blood/Love Brides of the Blood Mummy, 1973), since its mummy is to all extents and purposes a vampire (it can hypnotize others, drinks blood, and leaves neck marks). Despite not fitting most of the contextual coordinates of other vampire films of the time, I have added Iván Zulueta’s Arrebato (Rapture, 1979) because it utilizes vampiric tropes to build its complex allegories of cinema and addiction. I have been rather conservative in other respects. I have not included Amando de Ossorio’s Blind Dead (they are more clearly reanimated skeletons and usually described as zombies) or Alaric de Marnac/Gilles de Lancré (he is a revenant). Neither have I included Mario Bava’s Italian-Spanish co-production Terrore nello spazio (Planet of the Vampires, 1965), Carlos Aured’s El retorno de Walpurgis (Curse of the Devil, 1973), Miguel Iglesias’s La maldición de la bestia (The Werewolf and the Yeti/Night of the Howling Beast, 1975), José Ramón Larraz’s Polvos magicos or Jacinto Molina’s La bestia y la espada mágica (The Beast and the Magic Sword, 1983). Despite its international title, Terrore nello spazio (literally, “Terror in Space”) does not actually feature any vampires; the film is a science-fiction horror film about alien body snatchers. El retorno de Walpurgis is set in motion by a curse placed on the Daninsky dynasty by Countess Elizabeth Báthory, but blood is only used in the black magic rites, rather than consumed. Sulfurina (Carmen Villani), in Polvos mógicos, may need sacrificial human blood to stay young forever, but is a Satanic witch. Both La maldición de la bestia and La noche de los brujos feature actors wearing vampire fangs, but their monsters are not vampires: the women in the former are described as “demonios” (demons) and, given that they eat raw human flesh and their bite infects Waldemar Daninsky with lycanthropy, might best be understood as werewolves; those in the latter are voodooesque leopard women. Lastly, the prologue of La bestia y la espada mágica calls the Hungarian enemy “vampires,” but these do not display any supernatural or vampiric traits. Vampire bats appear minimally in films like Sebastián d’Arbó’s Viaje al mas allá (Journey to the Beyond, 1980) and Ignacio F. Iquino’s Secta siniestra (Bloody Sect, 1982) but not as supernatural beings.

NB. To save space, the columns “Premiere” and “Country” in the table use a number of abbreviations. These are: “A” (Argentina), “F” (France), “I” (Italy), “L” (Liechtenstein), “P” (Portugal), “S” (Spain), “UK” (United Kingdom), “US” (United States) and “WG” (West Germany).

Cross-References