Maps of Paggai

Maphill is a collection of map images. This image combines a satellite map with the globe centered on Paggai. Use the buttons under the image to switch to different map types.

See Paggai from a different perspective.

Each map type has its advantages. No map style is the best. The best is that Maphill lets you look at each place from many different angles.

Sure, this satellite location map is nice. But there is good chance you will like other map styles even more. Select another style in the above table. See Paggai and Xizang Zizhiqu (Tibet) from a different view.

What to do when you like this map?

If you like this Paggai, Bomi, Xizang Zizhiqu (Tibet), China map, please don't keep it to yourself. Give your friends a chance to see how the world converted to images looks like.

Share this location map.

Use the buttons for Facebook, Twitter or Google+ to share a link to this satellite map of Paggai. Maphill is the largest map gallery on the web. The number of maps is, however, not the only reason to visit Maphill.

Get location map of Paggai for free.

You can embed, print or download the map just like any other image. All Paggai and Xizang Zizhiqu (Tibet) maps are available in a common image format. Free images are available under Free map link located above the map.

Is there anything more than this map?

Sure, there is. It has been said that Maphill maps are worth a thousand words. No doubt about that. But you can experience much more when you visit Paggai.

Be inspired.

Xizang Zizhiqu (Tibet) has a lot to offer. Each place is different. Each place is worth a visit. It will never be possible to capture all the beauty in the map.

Paggai hotel deals.

If any of Maphill's maps inspire you to come to Paggai, we would like to offer you access to wide selection of nearby hotels at low prices and with great customer service.

Thanks to our partnership with Booking.com you can take advantage of up to 50% discounts for hotels in many locations in the area of Xizang Zizhiqu (Tibet). Book hotels online and save money.

Paggai hotels

See the full list of hotels in or close to Paggai, the list of destinations in Bomi, browse destinations in Xizang Zizhiqu (Tibet), China, Asia or choose from the below listed cities.

Paggai hotels »

Hotels in Bomi »

Hotels in Xizang Zizhiqu (Tibet) »

Hotels in China »

Hotels in Asia »

Hotels in popular destinations in Bomi

Dungro hotels »

Sotang hotels »

Tangmai hotels »

Gangga hotels »

Mêdogdêng hotels »

Yi'ong Nongchang hotels »

Yi'ong hotels »

Sumzom hotels »

Yaiba hotels »

Parlung Zangbo hotels »

Zhamo hotels »

Baimai hotels »

Dêrtang hotels »

Talu hotels »

Lingza hotels »

Learn more about the map styles

Each map type offers different information and each map style is designed for a different purpose. Read about the styles and map projection used in the above map (Satellite Location Map of Paggai).

Satellite map

Satellite map shows the Earth's surface as it really looks like. The above map is based on satellite images taken on July 2004. This satellite map of Paggai is meant for illustration purposes only. For more detailed maps based on newer satellite and aerial images switch to a detailed map view.

Hillshading is used to create a three-dimensional effect that provides a sense of land relief. Shadows drawn on a map simulate the effects of sunlight falling across the surface of the landscape.

Map projection of the location map

The location map of Paggai combines two projections: the orthographic azimuthal projection for the globe and the simple geographic projection for the rectangular part of the map. Geographic projection has straight meridians and parallels, each degree of latitude and longitude is the same size over the entire world map.

The orthographic azimuthal projection is a perspective projection from infinite distance. It was already known to the Egyptians and Greeks more than 2,000 years ago. It gives the appearance of the Earth viewed from outer space. Only one hemisphere can be viewed at a time. The globe centered on Paggai appears more realistic than almost any other projection.

Technology

We unlock the value hidden in the geographic data. Thanks to automating the complex process of turning data into map graphics, we are able to create maps in higher quality, faster and cheaper than was possible before.

Forever free

We created Maphill to make the web a more beautiful place. Without you having to pay for it. Maphill maps are and will always be available for free.

Real Earth data

Do you think the maps are too beautiful not to be painted? No, this is not art. All location maps of Paggai are created based on real Earth data. This is how the world looks like.

Easy to use

This map is available in a common image format. You can copy, print or embed the map very easily. Just like any other image.

Different perspectives

The value of Maphill lies in the possibility to look at the same area from several perspectives. Maphill presents the map of Paggai in a wide variety of map types and styles.

Vector quality

We build each location map individually with regard to the characteristics of the map area and the chosen graphic style. Maps are assembled and kept in a high resolution vector format throughout the entire process of their creation.

Experience of discovering

Maphill maps will never be as detailed as Google maps or as precise as designed by professional cartographers. Our goal is different. We want to redefine the experience of discovering the world through the maps.

Fast anywhere

Maps are served from a large number of servers spread all over the world. Globally distributed map delivery network ensures low latency and fast loading times, no matter where on Earth you happen to be.

Spread the beauty

Embed the above satellite location map of Paggai into your website. Enrich your blog with quality map graphics. Make the web a more beautiful place.