The thirty sixth death anniversary of Pracyavidyarnava Krishna Kanta Handiqui was observed in solemn function organised at the Aniruddha Dev Bhawan of the University. The function began with a floral tributes and lightning of lamps in front of the statue of Krishna Kanta Handiqui by Professor Alak K Buragohain, Vice Chancellor, Professor Nagen Saikia, former Rasaraj Laxminath Bezbaroa Chair Professor, Dibrugarh University, Professor Malinee Goswami of Gauhati University, Professor Naba Kumar Handique, Dean, School of Humanities, Social Sciences and Law and a host of faculty members, invited guests, officers, research scholars and students of the University. An oration on Life and Work of Krishna Kanta Handiqui was presented Professor Malinee Goswami. In her address Professor Goswami highlighted upon the extraordinary talent and invaluable contribution of the great scholar. She also made special mention of Handiqui in the realm of higher education of Assam in particular and India in general.

A book on Krishna Kanta Handiqui Life and Works, authored by Malinee Goswami which is published by the Publication Division of Dibrugarh University was also released on the occasion by Professor Nagen Saikia. Two other books published by Dibrugarh University Publication Division - Nareebad by Professor Aparna Mahanta, former Professor of the Department of English, DU and Brahmaputra by Professor Jogendra Nath Sarma, former Professor DU were also released in the function. Professor Nagen Saikia in his address reminisced his association with Krishna Kanta Handiqui and paid rich tributes to the great scholar.

Professor Alak K Buragohain, Vice Chancellor while paying glowing tribute to Pracyavidyarnava Krishna Kanta Handiqui expressed his happiness at the publication of the book on Handiqui. Professor Buragohain mentioned about his long cherished desire to get this work done in line with the work of Nirad C Choudhari (A Scholar Extraordinary) on the Life and Work of the renowned Sanskrit translator and philologist Frederich Max Muller.

Earlier Professor Ananda Bomudoi, Director, Publication Division, Dibrugarh University extended a warm welcome to the gathering. The meeting with a Vote of Thanks offered by Sri Prakalpa Ranjan Bhagawati, Publication Officer, Dibrugarh University.