Handiqui’s first Alma Mater was Jorhat Govt High school and then Cotton College in Guwahati. In 1917, at the age of 19 he joined the Calcutta Sanskrit College and secured a First Class in B.A. Honours in Sanskrit and won the Prasanna Kummar Sarbadhikari gold medal. In 1919 Handiqui got a First Class in M.A. in Sanskrit from Calcutta University with special papers on Vedic literature. In 1920 he joined Oxford University where he did M.A. in Modern History.

Krishna Kanta Handiqui was a Sanskrit scholar, an Indologist and philanthropist. He was a linguist too, who mastered many languages like Latin, Greek, French, German, Russian, Italian and Spanish as well as several Indian languages. His thirst for knowledge remained unquenchable till the end. Handiqui was recognised as a scholar of international fame at the age of thirty six for his three great literary work, ‘ Naisadhacarita’,Yasatilaka’ and ‘Setubandhana’. Scholars of the All India Oriental Conference acknowledged his work and in 1951 he was elected as the President of the next Classical Sanskrit Session. In 1937 at the age of thirty nine he became the President of Assam Sahitya Sabha. He was posthumously awarded the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1985.

Handiqui was an educationist with uncommon ability and vision. He was given completely to profound study. He had a strong sense of social and moral obligation. From 1930 to 1948, Krishna Kanta Handiqui served as the founder Principal of Jorhat Jagannath Baruah College and from 1948 to 1957 he was the founder Vice-Chancellor of Guwahati University, the oldest University of the entire North East. Under his strong leadership, the University grew from strength to strength. In the early sixties, he felt a strong need for an English-medium school in Jorhat and thus in 1962 he established Hemalata Handiqui Memorial Institute in Jorhat in loving memory of his wife Hemalata.

Krishna Kanta Handiqui never bothered about popularity and fame. He stands for all the good and great qualities of a saintly person.

Among his many accolades, he was also the recipient of the Padmashri, Padma Bhushan and the Sahitya Akademi award.

This legendary figure breathed his last on 7 June 1982 at the age of 83 in Dibrugarh, Assam.

The literary world will always remain indebted to K.K. Handiqui for his invaluable contributions in the field of literature and academics.