Infobox soap character

name = Jamie Martin

series = All My Children

portrayer = Justin Bruening

first = 1991

last = August 22 2007 (and later again on August 31 2007)

cause = Medical assistance

creator = Agnes Nixon

caption1 = Justin Bruening as Jamie Martin

caption2 =

caption3 =

nickname = Jamie

alias = James Edward English

gender = Male

born =

death =

age = 23

occupation = Medical student

title =

residence =

parents = Tad Martin (father)

Brooke English (mother)

Krystal Carey Martin (step-mother)

siblings = Laura Cudahy (maternal half-sister, deceased)

Laura Kirk English (maternal adopted half-sister)

Kathleen "Kathy" Mershon (paternal half-sister)

Jennifer "Jenny" Martin (paternal half-sister)

Arabella "Babe" Carey (step-sister)

spouse =

romances = Joni Stafford (dated)

Laurie Lewis (dated)

Arabella "Babe" Carey (one-night stand)

Mary Margaret "Maggie" Stone (lovers)

Arabella "Babe" Carey (dated/engaged)

Amanda Dillon (lovers)

Julia Santos (lovers, deceased)

children =

grandchildren =

grandparents = Ray Gardner (paternal biological grandfather, deceased)

Opal (paternal biological grandmother)

Joseph "Joe" Martin Sr. (paternal adoptive grandfather)

Ruth Parker Martin (paternal adoptive grandmother)

aunts/uncles = Adrian Sword (paternal biological uncle)

Jennifer "Jenny" Gardner (paternal biological aunt, deceased)

Peter "Petey" Cortlandt (paternal biological uncle)

Jeffrey "Jeff" Martin (paternal adoptive uncle)

Tara Martin (paternal adoptive aunt)

Phillip "Phil" Brent (paternal adoptive uncle, deceased)

Joseph "Jake" Martin Jr. (paternal adoptive uncle)

cousins = Josh Madden (paternal adoptive cousin)

Charles "Charlie" Brent (paternal adoptive cousin)

Kelsey Jefferson (paternal adoptive cousin)

relatives =

color = #C80815

Dr. James "Jamie" Edward Martin, M.D. (né English) is a fictional character on the daytime soap opera "All My Children". He has been currently portrayed by Justin Bruening since September 9 2003 to August 22 2007 (and later again on August 31 2007 for a farewell video on the birthday of the character's father).

Character history

James "Jamie" Edward Martin was the product of an ill-fated relationship between Tad Martin and Brooke English. Prior to his birth, Jamie's father Tad was presumed dead as a result of a struggle with nemesis, Billy Clyde Tuggle. Brooke kept the paternity of Jamie a secret and claimed he was fathered by an anonymous articial donor. Brooke named him "James Edward English". In 1993, two years after Jamie's birth, it was revealed that Jamie's father, Tad, had not died but was in fact alive and living in California. After Tad returned to Pine Valley, Brooke told Tad about his child and gave him partial custody. The child was renamed "James Edward Martin". His childhood was relatively uneventful, as he was shipped between Brooke and Tad's homes and spent most of his time playing with young Amanda Dillon and J.R. Chandler (who was raised as his brother since Tad was married to J.R.'s mother, Dixie).

As he hit his teen years, Jamie was so traumatized after being accosted by town psychotic Vanessa Bennett that he briefly lost the power of speech. This led to Brooke's wedding to Edmund Grey being postponed. By the time they married, his presumed-dead wife returned to town, and Edmund dropped Brooke. Brooke drifted into an affair with her ex-husband, Adam Chandler Sr., who had made Tad's life hell on several occasions. Jamie was disgusted with his mother for such tacky behavior, and even moved in with Tad at one point. He got drunk at a Chandler mansion costume party and spilled their secret to the crowd. This upset his religious girlfriend, "Joni Stafford", and especially her ultra-conservative parents. Ultimately, Jamie couldn't deal with her moral lectures or rampant self-righteousness, and broke up with her. His interest swung to Laurie Lewis, his brother's girlfriend. J.R. and Laurie's relationship was over, but when Joni told him that she'd seen Jamie and Laurie kissing, he was crushed and fled town. Jamie stepped in to try to fill J.R.'s shoes. He falsely confessed that he had hit Laurie's alcoholic father (she'd knocked Doug out because she thought he was going to hit her), and although Laurie was grateful, she felt guilty about J.R. and didn't want to rush into a new relationship. Jamie turned to a young hooker he met in BJ's restaurant, but Brooke walked in on their making out on the living room couch. A few months later, Jamie ran into Laurie again. She was more receptive than she'd been the last time around, but their plans were cut off because she suddenly moved to Minnesota to enter her father in a rehab program. Dejected, Jamie decided to take after the "Tad the Cad" aspect of his father and began shamelessly flirting with older women.

By late 2003, a now college-aged Jamie had become somewhat of a ladies man, yet was still a virgin. Then, at a beach party, he met a beautiful blonde named Arabella "Babe" Carey Chandler and had a one-night stand with her, resulting in the loss of his virginity. So, to his surprise, his newly-returned stepbrother J.R. introduced the family to Babe, as his own wife. Jamie was stunned, to say the least, and even more so when Babe learned she was pregnant. And although was disappointed in early 2004 to learn that the baby that Babe was carrying wasn't his, he still stuck by her. This was true after Babe gave birth to what she thought was a girl (it was actually a boy, but Babe's ex husband, Paul Cramer, switched her baby with Bianca Montgomery's) and realized she gave birth to a boy, now thought to have been dead. Jamie started to see that J.R., distraught over Babe lying about her marriage to Paul, wanted revenge by making seem an unfit mother. When Babe finally realized this, Jamie, along with Bianca, helped her trick J.R. into telling the truth, leading to their divorce.

Jamie was unable to forget Babe, even though she was married to his brother. This pitted the two brothers against each other, as Jamie soon became convinced that J.R. had it in for Babe. Babe went on to have a baby with J.R., and Jamie eventually realized that Bess was really Bianca Montgomery's daughter and that Babe and J.R.'s real son was alive and well in Llanview. Together, Babe and Jamie kidnapped the baby and went on the run, but it wasn't long before they were tracked down by J.R. Jamie ended up being forced out of school thanks to J.R. and he got a job as a mechanic while Babe got a job tending bar so that the two could support themselves. Jamie was devastated when his beloved great-aunt Phoebe died, and her will not only revealed that Jamie wanted to be a doctor, but offered to pay for everything -- if he would dump Babe. Jamie refused to do it, though, but Babe took matters into her own hands and climbed into bed with Josh, determined to get Jamie to dump her so he could build a career.

Jamie did dump Babe, and began a relationship with Amanda Dillon. It was a no-strings attached kind of deal, but Amanda really wanted strings -- and a piece of Phoebe's fortune. Babe helped Jamie to see through Amanda and clued him in to Amanda's plan to drug him and marry him and he walked away from Amanda, focusing on his plans to become a doctor. He soon found himself intrigued by Julia Santos, and tried to encourage her not to let their age difference come between them. The two have recently called it quits. While helping her study for her upcoming GED test, Jamie and Babe have reformed a friendship.

After leaving Pine Valley in August 2007, he joined his Uncle Jake in Africa.

Actor history

*Unnamed actors [#1] (1991-1992)

*Jamal and Jamil Azizi [#2] (1993-1994)

*Sean Marquette [#3] (1994-1998)

*Zachary Kady [#4] (1998-2001)

*Todd Harrison [#5] (2001-2002)

*Micah Alberti [#6] (08/2002-08/2003)

*Justin Bruening [#7] (09/2003-08/22/2007)

External links