US-based Angel City FC, Los Angeles’ newest National Women’s Soccer League’s (NWSL’s) expansion franchise, has much to cheer about with the fledgling team to play its first home game at the Banc of California Stadium (US) when the team debuts for the NWSL in Spring 2022.

Angel City will become the league’s 12th team when it begins play in 2022.

The team boasts many high-profile owners, including the American-Israeli actor Natalie Portman, American actor Eva Longoria, and the American soccer player Mia Hamm.

The star-studded owners group of the Angel City Football Club, yet to announce the names of the players or coach, recently revealed that the Banc of California Stadium would be the home arena of Angel City FC.

Banc of California Stadium is a soccer-specific stadium in the Exposition Park neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. It is the home of Major League Soccer’s Los Angeles FC. Opened on April 18, 2018, it was the first open-air stadium built in the City of Los Angeles since 1962.

The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) is a professional women’s soccer league owned by the teams, and under a management contract with the United States Soccer Federation. At the top of the United States league system, it represents the sport’s highest level in the United States.

The announcement that the Banc of California Stadium would serve as the residence of Angel City FC was made recently by the club Founder and President Julie Uhrman.

“Announcing our venue partner is a major milestone for Angel City, and we could not be more excited than to play in this spectacular venue right here in the heart of Los Angeles,” said Uhrman.

Uhrman added, “We are building a club for all Los Angelenos, united in their support of women’s soccer and the magic that L.A. brings to its fans, players, and teams.”

Los Angeles Football Club (LAFC) Co-President Larry Freedman commented, “From the beginning, we set out to build a club where everyone was welcome – a club that would strive to unite the world’s City through the world’s game. We are thrilled to welcome our new partners, Angel City FC, to our family, to our home, and to their new home. We look forward to standing shoulder-to-shoulder with Angel City FC to create great experiences here in the heart of Los Angeles.”

The celebrations included a gift card drive to benefit the Boys and Girls Club of Hollywood with which Angel City FC will be partnering.

The California-based Boys and Girls Club of Hollywood is a community of students aged between 6 to 17 years, which helps mostly underprivileged students achieve success and a range of other programs including empowerment of girls. The club’s programs are supported by strong partnerships in the Hollywood community.

Uhrman remarked, “Making a positive impact on the community is a core tenant of Angel City FC, and we are grateful to partner with the Boys & Girls Club of Hollywood today and give our fans the opportunity to give back in a safe, socially-distanced way at our drive through. Sport brings people together and builds community, so to see evidence of this today, especially in these difficult times, reinforces our purpose and the commitment our team and community have to make an impact.”

Mel Culpepper, CEO, Boys & Girls Club of Hollywood, commented, “The Boys & Girls Club of Hollywood has impacted the lives of children for over 80+ years. Education is our focus, and equal access to quality education is our mission. We are excited to partner with Angel City FC, as our beliefs are aligned as we promote education, equality, and ensure that all children have the essentials for success!”

Angel City FC is the only women’s top flight women’s soccer club in Southern California. Angel City is planning to build or purchase its own training complex which can also serve as a community center as and when required.

Continue to follow Coliseum for latest updates on venues business news. Coliseum is dedicated towards building the best global community of sports and entertainment venue executives and professionals creating better and more profitable venues.

Become a member of the only Global Sports Venue Alliance and connect with stadiums, arenas and experts from around the world. Apply for membership at coliseum-online.com/alliance and make use of the 365Coliseum Business.

« Previous News: Hayward Field ready for athletics showpiece

» Next News: