The Dual XGPS160 SkyPro brings GPS capability to your Apple iPad/iPod touch/iPhone, Android phones and tablets, Blackberry phones, Windows devices and laptops running Windows, OS X or Linux. If you have several phones/tablets/laptops in your household, and you’re looking for one GPS to work with them all, the XGPS160 is an excellent choice. The Dual XGPS160 works with popular electronic flight bag apps including EFB, ForeFlight, WingX Pro, and many others.

The Dual XGPS160 is very easy to use. Once you have paired via Bluetooth, the Dual GPS Receiver will automatically connect to the device it was last paired with and you will be able to use it with hundreds of apps that require GPS location information. The XGPS160 also comes with a useful GPS Status Tool app that is available free on the iTunes store and will show your location, the number of satellites you are connected to, the battery level, and more.

The XGPS160 includes a non-slip pad for use in your airplane, car or boat.

My iPad / iPhone already has a GPS - why do I need this?

The iPhone and the 3G models of the iPad include an internal GPS, however the internal GPS is made for use on the ground and is not very reliable in the air. You will find that you experience intermittent outages from the internal GPS while flying. The Dual XGPS160 is a WAAS-enabled, GLONASS capable, super reliable and accurate, GPS receiver that you can count on both on the ground and in the air.

The Dual Bluetooth XGPS160 features:

Completely portable

Wirelessly connects to devices via Bluetooth to up to 5 devices at once

High-sensitivity GPS receiver works with most apps that require GPS

WAAS GPS Receiver

Simultaneous GPS and GLONASS reception

Up to 10 position samples per second

Automatic route recording

Works with Apple, Android and Windows devices

Built in rechargeable 1400 mAh battery. The battery powers the GPS for up to 10 hours of continuous use and recharges in about 3 hours.

Works with a huge number of apps

Turns your iPod touch, iPad, iPhone, or other device into a global navigation device

Provides location anywhere in the world

Dramatically reduces the battery drain on your phone or other device

Small - only .87" x 2.2" x 2.75", 2.6 ounces.

Your Dual XGPS160 Includes:

12-28V Cigarette Lighter Adapter

Mini USB to USB charging cable

Non-slip pad

Status Tool App (free download from the iTunes App Store)

Owner’s manual with warranty information

Technical Highlights: