Synopsis

The elevation of Pandit as CEO of the Citigroup has cast the spotlight on foreign-born head honchos in the American corporate world. Global CEOs of Indian origin

WASHINGTON: The elevation of Nagpur-born Vikram Pandit as CEO of the world's largest financial institution has cast the spotlight on foreign-born head honchos in the American corporate world, with the conspicuous realization here that 15 of the Fortune 100 companies are run by foreign-born executives.

Even more striking is that three of the 15 are of Indian-origin, with perhaps an equal number in the larger Fortune 500.

Pandit now heads the list as CEO of Citigroup, which is ranked 8th in the Fortune100, followed by Indra Nooyi at Pepsico, which is ranked 63rd. Ramani Ayer is CEO of Hartford Financial Services, which is 82 in the Fortune 100.

All three were born in India and took the familiar route to the United States to study -- Pandit to Columbia University, Nooyi to Yale, and Ayer to Drexel University.

The shift towards appointing foreign-born CEOs reflects, in part, the focus that companies place on foreign markets for growth, the New York Times observed in a side-story on Pandit on Wednesday. Ironically, it even quoted a business school academic of Indian-origin reflecting on the trend.

"It's just a numbers game," S. P. Kothari, deputy dean of the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology told the paper. "It's absolutely nothing wrong with the United States, but our population here is only 300 million. Imagine two billion people from the outside start getting a decent education and going through the pipeline. Well, we are going to encounter more of them who rise to the top."

Pandit, Nooyi and Ramani further the pioneering road taken by Vinod Khosla, Kanwal Rekhi and other Silicon Valley Indians who became the first CEOs of Indian-origin in the 1980s.

Most India-born executives readily acknowledge their debt of gratitude to a society that emphasizes industry and hard work and honed their survival skills if nothing else.

"I've benefited from my Indian background," says Ayer. "Growing up in a very simple family with a real passion for hard work. In other words, you never stopped working. You just worked. Work was liberating and work was part of what defined who you were."

In contrast to the US corporations' worldwide search of the best executive talent, with the suggestion that immigrants may have decisively broken the glass ceiling, Indian companies, many of them closely held, are still leery of hiring foreign CEOs.

Some of the more prominent examples of bucking the tradition is the hiring by Jet Airways of the Austrian Wolfgang Prock-Schauer as CEO. Another breakthrough is the Hawaiian Raymond Bickson, CEO of Indian Hotels Ltd, who has successfully expanded the Taj Hospitality business worldwide, including in the United States.

Meantime, Pandit is the toast of the Indian community, whose presence in the US financial world, especially Wall Street, is significant. What's even more striking is that Pandit is from Nagpur, which, while being the geographical center of India, is not the ground zero of the corporate or academic world.

"This is great news," exulted Dinesh Keskar, senior vice-president at Boeing, and like Pandit, a Nagpur original.

Courtesy: www.timesofindia.com

(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2024 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.

Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price

...moreless

(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2024 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.

Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price

...moreless

15 Atmanirbhar stocks to include in your portfolio this Independence Day

Five reasons why India’s Economic Survey mentioned Apple five times

The Ola Electric story: What makes Bhavish Aggarwal India's most impatient man?

Why Akasa’s losses are mounting when IndiGo is posting record profits

Your EV is 40% Chinese, and will remain so if this jigsaw is not solved

Why success of Blackstone’s repeat IT bet depends on these ifs and buts

1

2

3