BELPRE -With decades of experience in radio and television broadcasting, Belpre resident Sherman Grimm has many fond memories – and many tangible reminders – of his early days as a radio broadcaster and disc jockey.

In the home he shares with wife Sonia, Sherman has 1,200 albums of music and other recordings from the 1940s through the present day, lining shelves in his basement “man cave,” as Sonia describes it.

Along with those albums – 78s, 33 1/3s and 45s – he has eight-track and cassette tapes and even modern CDs. Some of the vinyl records can no longer be played by Sherman because he doesn’t have the proper turntable or equipment to play them.

A Belpre resident for the past 30 years, Sherman, 88, was born in Parkersburg and graduated from Parkersburg High School in 1943.

Soon after graduating, he went to work for WPAR, a Parkersburg radio station broadcasting at 1450 AM on the radio dial, under the professional name Bill Sherman. He did a nightly show called “Sessions with Sherman” and would go out about once a week to DJ shows and parties in Parkersburg.

He picked up other responsibilities at the radio station, including as program director and general manager.

“I was in radio work for quite awhile, although the DJ work was parttime because I was program director and so on,” he said.

When he started in the mid-1940s, Sherman said radio was a big part of the community and the entertainment people enjoyed.

The shows and parties where he performed were popular and well-attended.

The “teen-age hops” and other remote broadcasts were held at the Parkersburg YMCA, at Dils Motor Co. and at the Parkersburg Coliseum at the corner of Seventh and Green streets, he said.

Sherman saw many changes musical styles and tastes during his radio days, including the birth of rock and roll. His own personal tastes leaned more toward big band music and Frank Sinatra, but he would play what was popular at the time regardless if he didn’t like it.

Elvis Presley and the Beatles were not among the favorites, he said.

Sherman said he liked both aspects of his job in those early years, from broadcasting his show from the radio station to getting out and playing music for local teens. He later became involved in doing commercial voiceovers for local businesses as well.

Sonia said WPAR was where the couple met in the late 1940s, although it would be 1957 before they married. Sherman’s “Session with Sherman” broadcast was popular at the time she graduated from high school, but she wasn’t familiar with it, she said.

“I didn’t know there was a local disc jockey show that I could call in and request music for a guy or a gal or a parent, or whatever,” she said, adding they believe he was the first DJ in the Parkersburg area.

Sonia applied for a position writing commercials at the radio station and was interviewed by Sherman, who was program director at that time. She later went on to do commercial writing for television in Charleston before returning to Parkersburg.

After leaving the radio business, the Grimms moved to Florida for a few years and returned when Sherman joined WTAP where he worked in sales and as station manager.

The Grimms are considering what they want to do with the record collection, with one of their main ideas donating it to a college or university.

Sonia said there are interesting pieces in the collection, beyond the music albums. A few large discs include recordings of sounds and music to use as background for broadcasts, such as the sound of a storm.

Historical recordings are in the collection, including a scratchy recording of President Harry Truman announcing the end of World War II with the unconditional surrender of Japan.

The older vinyl albums should be restored or transcribed to save their contents, she said.

“It’s a legacy of history going way back,” Sonia said.