The Year 10 program at Viewbank College is structured in a way that begins to transition students into the Senior School, preparing them to achieve excellence in their Senior Secondary Education. There are a wide variety of people available for support in selecting a course of study for Year 10. It is important to seek a wide variety of perspectives on the various options so that each students is making a fully informed choice that meets their own goals, aspirations and interests.

Domain Leaders

For a more general discussion on what each subject involves and where the subjects within a learning area link together, the Domain Leader is the best person to seek assistance from. The Domain Leaders are:

House Leaders & Heads of House

The House Leader monitors each student’s progress, both academically and personally. The House Leader should be approached if there are any personal problems, school problems, and problems with the work and can refer students to counselling support. The House Leader is the contact point in the school for parents with questions or concerns. They are a great resource for students to gain assistance from in selecting a suitable course for their Year 10-12 studies given their knowledge of each student.

Heads of House are able to provide students looking at alternate pathways with support and guidance in this area.

The Careers Team

For students who are seeking future pathways support or would like to receive some careers counselling, then they should make an appointment to meet with Sandra Vaina our Careers Counsellor.

For students who are interested in undertaking a VET subject, Bronwyn Haines is the main point of contact for all queries including available courses, enrolments and withdrawal from VET. Viewbank College provides the opportunity for students to undertake VET through external providers.

The careers team suggest the following links to assist with subject selection and career exploration:

Career Crush

Creating or Logging into their account on the careers page - and completing the careers quizzes - https://www.viewbankcollegecareers.com/

Contact Details:

Sandra Vaina (Careers Counsellor) - sandra.vaina@education.vic.gov.au