Title: Hide Beside Me (Chapter 29)

Author: DiNovia

Fandom: Guiding Light

Pairing: Olivia/Natalia

Rating: Chapter=PG-13/Overall=NC-17

Archival: P&P, Kimly, and AUSXIP of course. Everyone else, please ask.

Spoilers: None

Summary: Phillip Spaulding has returned to Springfield with a vengeance. Olivia Spencer, afraid that Phillip will take their daughter Emma from her again, flees Springfield with the help of her assistant, Natalia Rivera. Can they stay one step ahead of Phillip? Will they ever be safe again?

Content Disclaimer: This is an AU story--based on a drabble I posted in February--that splits off from the "I can trust you with my life!" scene on 2/16/09. All canon after that does not exist in this story. Also, the Phillip Spaulding that returns in this story is still bat-shit crazy and evil. Graphic depictions of love between two consenting adult women are contained within, but not in this chapter. Boo.

Source Disclaimer: I do not own Guiding Light or the characters therein depicted. I do not seek to profit from this story.

A/N: I tried to remain as close to character as humanly possible but as I have only seen YouTube clips of Otalia and no full episodes, I cannot guarantee the results.

Style Note: As some of you have noticed, I am switching POVs for every chapter. Natalia, Olivia and Emma will tell their stories in their own words, first-person present tense. Any other exposition needed will happen in third-person past tense. This will cover the urgency I need and will also allow for omniscience for exposition with multiple characters. I am very interested in knowing whether this style works how I have intended it, so let me know.

Thank You: To mightbefound and bldy_destini and fewthistle for beta-ing this story. A very special THANK YOU also to Tiff for helping me to figure out the major plot problems I'd been having and for being on call when I forget them and need to review. You didn't let me get away with crap this chapter. Thanks! ;) Thank you to djshiva for your comments and general enthusiasm for this story.

( Wear your love like heaven....Collapse )

Comments are love!

DiNovia</div>