MARITAL STATUS

Professions Composer , Actor , Screenwriter more

Birth name Lucien Ginsburg

Nationality French

Birth April 2, 1928 (Paris, France)

Death March 2, 1991

BIOGRAPHY

It was after seeing his face on the cover of his first record, Le poinçonneur des lilas , that Jacques Poitrenaud , assistant to director Michel Boisrond , whispered the name of Serge Gainsbourg to play the role of a master- singer in Will You Dance With Me? , the musician’s first appearance on screen in 1959. With Jane Birkin , whom he met on the set of Slogan in 1968, he played in films like The Roads of Katmandou or Serious as Pleasure . A fan of deceitful roles, he appeared in some 60s peplums and in films for which he composed the music, such as Le Pacha , and I love you by Claude Berri .

In 1975, he moved on to direct with Je t’aime, moi non plus , a daring love story between an androgynous woman (Birkin) and a homosexual ( Dallesandro ) in a public dump. The film disconcerted critics and the public, but acquired the status of a cult work over the years. A failed painter, Gainsbourg makes cinema as an esthete, as evidenced by the very elaborate long shots of Equateur , his second film, presented – and whistled at – at Cannes in 1983. He will not have more success with the troubled Charlotte for ever in 1986. In Stan the Flasher , the fourth and final film, he made Claude Berri, who plays an exhibitionist confronted with a Lolita played by the young Elodie Bouchez , say aphorisms .

“It’s the accomplishment of all the disciplines that I have tackled ,” Gainsbourg declared to the magazine Positif about cinema, an art that he also approached a lot as a composer. From 1959, and L’Eau a la bouche , he continued to be sought after by filmmakers. He notably wrote the music of Les Bronzés (with the hit Sea, sex and sun ), Tenue de soir , and Madame Claude . Let us add that Serge Gainsbourg will have a number of French actresses sing, from Brigitte Bardot to Isabelle Adjani via Catherine Deneuve , Jane Birkin, Valérie Lagrange and Mireille Darc .