Overview: Calling Paul Temple is a 1948 British crime film directed by Maclean Rogers and starring John Bentley, Dinah Sheridan and Margaretta Scott. It was the second in a series of four Paul Temple films dist ...

Overview: Paul Temple Returns is a 1952 British crime film directed by Maclean Rogers and starring John Bentley, Patricia Dainton and Peter Gawthorne. Known in the U.S. as Bombay Waterfront, it was the fourth and ...

Overview: Hammer the Toff is a 1952 British crime film directed by Maclean Rogers and starring John Bentley and Patricia Dainton. The film was based on the 1947 novel of the same name by John Creasey, the 17th ...

Overview: Not Wanted on Voyage is a 1957 British comedy film directed by Maclean Rogers and starring Ronald Shiner, Brian Rix and Catherine Boyle. The film was made at British National Studios. It is based on a ...

Overview: Down Among the Z Men is a 1952 black-and-white British comedy film starring the Goons: Spike Milligan, Peter Sellers, Michael Bentine and Harry Secombe.

Release date: 1 October 1952

Genre: Comedy

Director: Maclean Rogers

The cast of the popular radio program "The Goon Show" perform some of their favourite routines.

Overview: You Pay Your Money is a 1957 British crime drama film directed by Maclean Rogers and starring Hugh McDermott, Jane Hylton and Honor Blackman. The thriller was one of the Butcher's Film Service's 1950s ...

Release date: 1 February 1957

Genre: Mystery, Crime, Thriller

Director: Maclean Rogers

A rogue smuggler enters the world of intrigue and deception, when he finds that his wife has been kidnapped his world changes.

Overview: A Clean Sweep is a 1958 British comedy film directed by Maclean Rogers and starring Thora Hird, Eric Barker and Vera Day.

Genre: Short, Comedy

Director: Maclean Rogers

Vera Watson struggles to keep her family of gamblers and spendthrifts on the straight and narrow.

Overview: I'll Walk Beside You is a 1943 British drama film directed by Maclean Rogers and starring Richard Bird, Lesley Brook and Percy Marmont.

Release date: 16 August 1943

Genre: Drama, Romance

Director: Maclean Rogers

John (Bird) & Anne (Brook) meet through music but are separated by war.

Overview: Assignment Redhead (released in the US as Million Dollar Manhunt) is a 1956 British crime thriller film written and directed by Maclean Rogers. It is based on the novel Requiem for a Redhead by Lindsay ...

Release date: 1 October 1956

Genre: Drama, Crime

Director: Maclean Rogers

Murderous master criminal Dumetrius flies to London from post-war Berlin plying his trade in counterfeit money and false travel documents...

Overview: Paul Temple's Triumph is a 1950 British crime film directed by Maclean Rogers and starring John Bentley, Dinah Sheridan and Jack Livesey. It was the third in the series of four Paul Temple films made at ...

Overview: Woman to Woman is a 1947 British drama film directed by Maclean Rogers and starring Douglass Montgomery, Joyce Howard and Adele Dixon. It is based on the 1921 play Woman to Woman by Michael Morton which ...

Release date: 22 October 1946

Genre: Romance, Drama

Director: Maclean Rogers

An amnesiac lands up adopting his forgotten daughter from a previous girlfriend, a dancer, when his wife is unable to have children.