How To Know When It’s Time To Visit The Doctor For Stomach Pain

Most children who suffer from stomach pains experience it on an episodic basis. If that’s the case, visiting a doctor may not be necessary. The only exception is if the symptoms are severe and cause non-stop crying or pain for 8 hours. A visit to a professional Germantown pediatrician should take place as soon as possible if that happens to your child.

Many tummy aches come from eating too much, being anxious, or constipation. However, you should always ask your child for more information in case the pain indicates something else.

Read the information below to know when to visit the doctor if your kid is having a stomach ache.

What Should I Ask My Child?

If your child is having abdominal pain, ask them the following questions to get a better idea of what might be causing this issue:

When did the stomach ache start?

What were you doing before the pain started?

Where is your tummy hurting?

On a scale of 1-5, with 5 being the worst, how bad is the pain?

Did it happen after your last meal?

When was the last time you pooped?

If your kid complains many times a day or for many days, stay alert. Notice how often the kid complains and when. This information is crucial to know if you need to call the doctor.

In many cases, a trip to the bathroom is enough. Other times, you may need to watch and wait to see how everything goes before calling the Damascus pediatric doctor. If your child doesn’t complain again after going to the bathroom, the problem might have passed. If they have pain, but they continue their usual activities, the problem may not be serious.

What Could Be Causing The Pain In The Stomach?

Stomach aches can be a signal of many problems. Some cases show up with diarrhea, nausea, gas, dizziness, and vomiting. It can also come with viral illnesses. The best you can do to identify the problem is to ask your child about the pain and consider the following:

If the pain is in the upper abdomen, it could be::

Indigestion or heartburn

Gallstones

Ulcers

Pancreatitis

If the pain is in the mid-abdomen, it could be:

Stress or anxiety

Constipation

Urinary tract infection

Kidney stones

If the pain is in the lower abdomen, it could be:

Gastroenteritis

Constipation

Pelvic pain

Menstrual cramps

Urinary tract infection

Appendicitis (if it is on the right side of the body)

As you can see from this list, you can treat some conditions at home, but others are more serious and require medical attention. Other less common causes can cause stomach pain, and they are not listed above.

When Should I Contact a Germantown Pediatrician?

It’s always better to call the pediatrician if you are in doubt. You should also contact the doctor if you notice the following:

The pain is strong and it appeared in the lower right part of the stomach. It hasn’t disappeared since it started.

The pain doesn’t go away and you have no idea what is causing it.

Your child vomited blood.

Your kid’s belly looks swollen.

Your child complains if you touch their belly.

Your child has other severe symptoms along with stomach pain.

Your child had belly surgery in the past and you want to ensure everything is OK.

Your child has many medical problems and you are worried about it.

If possible, contact the pediatrician before going straight to the emergency room. If you cannot contact the doctor because he or she is unavailable, leave a message and seek immediate treatment while waiting.

Stay alert if the pain is in the lower right part of the stomach. In that case, you can take your child to the emergency room as it can be a sign of appendicitis.

How Can I Know If It’s Appendicitis & Not Gastroenteritis?

Many parents worry about their child having appendicitis when they take the child to the Gaithersburg pediatric doctor. Fortunately, appendicitis is not that common in kids compared to other issues like stomach viruses or constipation.

Gastroenteritis is indeed a more common issue. It is called “the stomach flu”, and it has the following symptoms:

Low-grade fever

Loss of appetite

Vomiting, gas, and nausea

Diarrhea

Abdominal pain

Gastroenteritis usually improves on its own, while appendicitis starts in the mid belly but it settles in the lower right side of the belly after 24 hours. Plus, appendicitis doesn’t go away with anything, and the pain can become more severe after a few hours.

Contact a Germantown Pediatrician For More Help

Tummy stomach pain can be tricky. If you’re not sure what’s upsetting your child’s stomach, you should call a pediatrician. At Maryland Pediatric Care, we provide the highest quality of medical care and counseling for your child. We offer accurate diagnostics for many chronic and acute conditions, including stomach flu, ear infections, flu, and more. Contact us now through our website to schedule a visit.

Maryland Pediatric Care

19525 Doctors Drive,

Germantown, MD 20874

Phone: 301-424-2400

Email: [email protected]