Tell us how you really feel, Joy Behar!

The “View” co-host, 81, went in on Bill Belichick’s new romance with a woman nearly five decades his junior during Friday’s episode of the talk show.

“This week, the legendary football coach Bill Belichick was seen in public with his new girlfriend, Jordan Hudson,” Behar began the show’s Hot Topics segment.

“Normally, a day out with your new squeeze wouldn’t raise any eyebrows — except for the fact that Belichick is 72, and his girlfriend is 48 years younger.”

Page Six has verified that Hudson is actually 23, not 24.

“You heard that right,” Behar went on. “This girl is hearing wedding bells, but the question is: Can he hear them?”

She joked that when the former New England Patriots head coach asked Hudson how old she was, the brunette beauty “said, ‘This many [while holding up her fingers]!'”

When Sara Haines predicted that Belichick “takes [Hudson] places that she wouldn’t be going on her own,” Behar chimed in, “Not in the bedroom, he’s not! There’s only so much Viagra in the world, OK?”

Behar later asked her co-hosts to not romanticize the relationship, as — in her mind — “it’s about the cash.”

Belichick — who parted ways with the Patriots in January after winning six Super Bowls with the team — has a reported net worth of $70 million.

Meanwhile, Hudson is a cheerleader who attended Bridgewater State University in Massachusetts from 2019 to 2022.

The pair reportedly met on a flight in 2021 while bonding over a philosophy project the then-college student was working on.

Belichick even signed Hudson’s textbook at the time, writing, “Jordon, Thanks for giving me a course in logic! Safe travels!”

They exchanged numbers and, although their relationship was friendly at first, things allegedly turned romantic only after the sports analyst split from his girlfriend of 10 years, Linda Holliday.

However, Belichick and Hudson were first spotted together as early as January 2023, seven months before Page Six broke the news of his awkward breakup with Holliday.

After Belichick and Hudson’s romance first made headlines last week, it was reported that his shirtless walk of shame from November 2023 took place outside her home following a rendezvous.