On 20–22 April, JSC Olainfarm representatives will take part at the international pharmaceutical exhibition “CPhI Japan 2016” in Tokyo, the capital of Japan. The exhibit presentation will include the product portfolio and co-operation offer not only of JSC Olainfarm, but also of its subsidiaries — the Latvian green pharmaceutical company Silvanols, manufacturer of organic cosmetics Kiwi Cosmetics and the pharmaceutical retail chain Latvijas aptieka. The stand of JSC Olainfarm Q-35 will be located at the great CPhI hall.

JSC Olainfarm will be placing emphasis on the research, manufacturing, and development offer of active pharmaceutical ingredients and optically active chemical products, as in the recent years this region has seen particular interest in attracting social partners in the development of new products, technologies and services. Representatives of the company will also meet with existing and new co-operation partners regarding the procurement of manufacturing inputs.

Last year, JSC Olainfarm developed an innovative adamantane group chemical compound especially for the Japanese market; the compound has already been successfully used at an industrial scale by the Japanese partners. Deliveries of this product are planned to the Japanese market also in the future.

JSC Olainfarm will be participating in “CPhI Japan” for the fifth time around. More than 465 participants from 27 countries and regions have registered for “CPhI Japan 2016”; it is expected to draw more than 16,000 professionals of the pharmaceutical industry. 48% of the exhibition visitors are looking for new suppliers, inputs, and services.

JSC Olainfarm is one of the biggest pharmaceutical companies in Latvia with more than 40 years of experience in production of medication and chemical and pharmaceutical products. A basic principle of company’s operations is to produce reliable and effective top quality products for Latvia and the rest of the world. Products made by the Group are being exported to more than 35 countries of the world, including the Baltics, Russia, other CIS, Europe, Asia, North America and Australia.

Further information: