US Helicopter Corporation (“US Helicopter”) (OTC Bulletin Board:USHP) and Continental Airlines (NYSE: CAL) today announced a partnership to provide eight-minute shuttle service between Manhattan and Newark Liberty International Airport beginning Dec. 18.

“Time is money,” remarks US Helicopter’s Chief Executive Officer and President Jerry Murphy. “With US Helicopter’s Eight-Minute Airport Shuttle, Newark now becomes a fast and easy option for time-sensitive business travelers coming in and out of Manhattan.”

Departing Manhattan, US Helicopter customers traveling on Continental Airlines flights will be able to conveniently check in, receive boarding passes for US Helicopter and Continental Airlines and complete security screening at the Downtown Manhattan Heliport near Wall Street. Bags checked at the heliport will be through-checked to the Continental Airlines passenger’s final travel destination.

After the eight-minute flight to Newark Liberty, customers will arrive at a dedicated US Helicopter parking location on the secure side of Terminal C where they will be able to proceed directly to the departure gate for their Continental Airlines flight.

Continental customers arriving at Newark Liberty Airport and traveling on US Helicopter’s service to Manhattan will proceed to US Helicopter’s departure gate 71 at Terminal C. Baggage will be automatically transferred via US Helicopter flight to the heliport in Manhattan.

In addition to commuting between Newark Liberty Airport and Manhattan, US Helicopter’s new service will also allow customers to travel to Connecticut’s Bridgeport Sikorsky Memorial Airport in 37 minutes, serving Fairfield and New Haven Counties and John F. Kennedy Airport in 53 minutes, avoiding known traffic delays on I-95 in Connecticut and the Belt Parkway to JFK.

“This is a premium service for premium flyers wanting to save valuable time,” said Mark Erwin, Continental’s Senior Vice President Asia/Pacific and Corporate Development. “In just eight minutes, customers will be able to travel between Wall Street and Continental’s New York hub at Newark Liberty International Airport, which has convenient flight connections to 180 nonstop destinations throughout the world.”

A one-way ticket aboard US Helicopter costs $159, plus applicable security fees and can be purchased by visiting www.flyush.com. A link to US Helicopter’s Web site will also be available at continental.com. US Helicopter’s scheduled hourly flights between Newark and Manhattan will operate from 6:40 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.

ABOUT US HELICOPTER

US Helicopter is the first scheduled helicopter service to and from Manhattan to JFK in more than two decades. With the addition of Newark Airport US Helicopter will increase its weekly flights to 240 departures. Providing the same scheduled, reliable and speedy service between Bridgeport Connecticut, Manhattan and JFK, the new US Helicopter service to Newark Airport is designed to meet the needs of time-sensitive business travelers.

Founded in 2003, US Helicopter provides scheduled, reliable, fast and affordable helicopter transportation between Manhattan and the three principal airports serving New York. All flights utilize state-of-the-art Sikorsky S-76 helicopters configured for eight passengers and staffed with two pilots. US Helicopter Scheduled Airline Service is designed for business travelers “because you’re too important to wait.”