ABOUT EWR

Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR) is jointly owned by the cities of Elizabeth and Newark, and leased and operated by the Port Authorities of New York and New Jersey. EWR was the first major airport in the New York metropolitan area, and is now the area's busiest hub for air travel. The airport ushered over 46 million passengers—the most in its history—through its terminals in 2019 alone.

Opened on October 1, 1928 on 68 acres of reclaimed land along the Passaic River, EWR was the first major airport serving passengers in the New York metro area. Today, the airport covers 2,027 acres (820 ha) and has three runways and one helipad. A modern control tower was built in 2002 and opened in 2003. It is the fourth and tallest tower in the airport's history, standing 325 feet over the main parking lot. A monorail system, AirTrain Newark, connects the terminals with Newark Liberty International Airport Station.

Newark serves 35 carriers, and is United Airlines’ third largest hub. Other airlines serving EWR include Aer Lingus, Air Canada, Air Canada Express, Air China, Air India, Alaska Airlines, Allegiant Air, American Airlines, American Eagle, Austrain Airlines, Avianca El Salvador, British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Delta Air Lines, Delta Connection, El Al, Elite Airways, Emirates, Ethiopian Airlines, French Bee, Frontier Airlines, Icelandair, JetBlue, La Compagnie, Level, LOT Polish Airlines, Lufthansa, Norwegian Air Shuttle, Porter Airlines, Scandinavian Airlines, Singapore Airlines, Spirit Airlines, Sun Country Airlines, Swiss International Air Lines, TAP Air Portugal, Turkish Airlines, United Express, and VivaAerobus.

AIRPORT DINING AND AMENITIES

EWR features several shopping and dining options that offer both local fare and global culinary treats. Find a full list of all leisure amenities on the EWR website.

Nursing stations for parents are available in Terminal A, near gates A10-18 and A30-39. They are also available post security near gates A1-A3. In Terminal B, nursing stations are located near Gates B1, B2, B3, B47, and B66. In Terminal C, they are near gates C1, C2, C3, C90, C104, C107, and C123.

NEWARK AIRPORT PARKING

Parking near EWR with The Parking Spot helps travelers find the best, most convenient, and most cost-effective parking option so their car-to-air transfer is as seamless as possible. On average, parking with The Parking Spot is approximately 40% less expensive than parking at the airport. Lots are located within minutes from EWR, and include complimentary door-to-door shuttle service to and from the airport.

Access to the lowest rates via reservation and pre-pay on The Parking Spot app or TheParkingSpot.com

24/7 on-call shuttle service

Shuttle tracking through The Parking Spot app

Luggage assistance

Free bottled water at TPS Haynes location.

Short and long-term parking options

Open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year

Express check-in and check-out through The Parking Spot app

Valet parking is optional

HOTELS NEAR EWR

Whether you are planning an overnight trip near EWR, or staying nearby due to unexpected circumstances, there are plenty of great hotel options close to the airport. Options include:

Hilton Newark Airport

1170 Spring St., Elizabeth, NJ, 07201

Ph.: +1.908.351.3900

Newark Liberty International Airport Marriott

1 Hotel Road, Newark, NJ, 07114

Ph.:+1.973.623.0006

Courtyard by Marriott Newark Liberty International

600 US 1 & 9, Newark, NJ, 07114

Ph.: +1.973.645.8500

ATTRACTIONS NEAR EWR

Newark Museum (49 Washington Street, Newark, NJ 07102) - The Newark Museum has amazing modern and ancient collections for art lovers of all ages. (4.3 miles from EWR)

GRAMMY Museum Experience at the Prudential Center (165 Mulberry St, Newark, NJ 07102) - This immersive, interactive museum is a hit for music lovers young and old. (4.7 miles from EWR)

Red Bull Arena (600 Cape May St, Harrison, NJ 07029) - You’ll shoot, you’ll score! You might even catch the New York Red Bulls shoot a winning goal at the Red Bull Arena. (5.6 miles from EWR)

Branch Brook Park (North Ward, Newark, NJ 07104) - This scenic, cherry blossom filled park covers 360 acres. Located in Newark’s North Ward, this is the nation’s first county park. (7.1 miles from EWR)

EWR Newark Airport FAQs

Q. Is there a smoking area inside EWR?

A. Smoking is not allowed inside EWR. There are smoking areas outside of the terminal.

Q. Is there a kid-friendly area at EWR?

A. Unfortunately, there is no specified kid-friendly area inside of EWR.

Q. Is vaping allowed inside EWR?

A. Vaping is not allowed inside of EWR. There are designated smoking areas outside of the terminal.

Q. How far is EWR from Times Square?

A. EWR is about 16 miles away from Times Square. Public transportation is available via Terminal B that can take you to NYC destinations and beyond.

Q. Is EWR an international airport?

A. EWR is an international airport that serves as a port of arrival and destination for both domestic and global flights.

Q. How many runways does EWR have?

A. EWR has three runways. Two are asphalt and one is an asphalt/concrete mix.

Q. Does EWR have free wifi?

A. EWR has free WiFi throughout the entire airport.

Q. Can pets fly at EWR?

A. Pets can fly at EWR, but they must be inside of their crate or carrier at all times, except when going through security or using the relief area.

Q. Is there a pet relief area at EWR?

A. There are pet relief areas both inside and outside the airport. Find more information here.