From a press release:

Renowned stand-up comedian, actor, director, producer, and writer Martin Lawrence, whose latest stand-up special, “Doin’ Time: Uncut,” premieres this Friday, Sept. 9 at 9 p.m. on Showtime, will perform at the Sands Bethlehem Event Center on Sunday, Nov. 20 at 7 p.m.

Tickets, which are $65, $85, and $125, go on sale Friday, Sept. 9 at 10 a.m. and can be purchased at sandseventcenter.com, the Event Center box office (77 Sands Blvd., Bethlehem), ticketmaster.com, all Ticketmaster outlets, or by phone at 800-745-3000.

Martin Fitzgerald Lawrence, born April 16, 1965, came to fame during the 1990s. He quickly established himself as a leading actor, most notably in the hit television series “Martin,” for which he created such beloved characters as “Sheneneh Jenkins,” “Edna (Mama) Payne,” “Otis,” and “Jerome.” For his dynamic performance, he earned two NAACP Image Awards for “Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series” two years in a row, 1995 and 1996.

Lawrence’s box office-topping credits include “Bad Boys” and its sequel, “Bad Boys II,” opposite Will Smith and the three-film “Big Momma’s House” franchise. Additional film credits include “House Party,” “Boomerang,” “A Thin Line Between Love & Hate,” “Nothing to Lose,” “Blue Streak,” “Life,” “Wild Hogs,” and “Welcome Home, Roscoe Jenkins.”

On the heels of a sold-out national tour, Lawrence hits the stage in his long-awaited stand-up special “Doin’ Time: Uncut” on Sept. 9 on Showtime on-air, on demand, and over the Internet. Filmed live at the Orpheum Theatre in Los Angeles, “Doin’ Time: Uncut” showcases Lawrence’s impeccable comedic skills, physicality, and engaging wit. Delivering an unforgettable night of impressions and insights, he touches on everything from sex and relationships to President Obama, Bill Cosby, Hollywood, and more. Lawrence is back in a big way and will leave viewers in hysterics from start to finish.

“I look forward to having my third concert film premiere on Showtime,” Lawrence said. “14 years is a long time between concert specials, and I am excited to know that my TV audience will be able to enjoy this show as if they came to see me live.”

Directed by David Raynr, “Doin’ Time: Uncut” is executive produced by Lawrence and Studio71’s Gary Binkow and Michael Green. Producers include Barry Ehrmann, Robert Lawrence, Rae Proctor, Sean Lampkin, and Michael Hubbard with production company You So Crazy and Studio71.