Westfield Aquatics (formerly Viper Aquatics) is Westfield, Indiana’s swim club affiliated with the national USA Swimming sanctioning body. Started in 2008, Westfield Aquatics offers opportunities for all levels of swimmers, from the novice to national-level. Each year, we have swimmers compete at local, state, and national competitions representing their state and club.

Our program begins at the lesson level for children learning how to swim. These lessons are a great introduction to the water, and offer great instructor-to-student ratios and are offered through our partners at the Westfield YMCA. For our younger swimmers moving into the competitive swimming program (age 6 up to middle school), practice is during the week at various times. Practice times can range from 1-2 hours, depending on group placement. For the upper groups in middle school and high school, practices are held Monday-Friday in the evening and Saturday morning. The High School age athletes also have some morning workouts during the school year and summer.

We run two "seasons" each year--our winter/fall season goes from September to March, and our summer season starts in April and continues into late July. Each season culminates in Championship meets at the Divisional or State level, while some swimmers go on to swim at regional or national meets. For our younger athletes these seasons are broken up into 6 week "blocks" with short breaks between each block.

All practices are held at Westfield Washington Schools Aquatic Center, 851 E. 181st Street, Westfield, please enter through door 2.

Our training fees are competitive with other local clubs. At the beginning of each swim year, swimmers pay a registration fee that includes their USA Swimming registration and Westfield Washington Schools facility usage fees. Training fees can be paid monthly or at a discounted one-time payment. For athletes participating in practice groups with "blocks" your "block" fee pays for all registration requirements. We typically host one to two meets each season, which requires the participation and volunteer effort of our membership to make successful. Meets and parent involvement in club management help keep our rates competitive with other local swim clubs.

If you have questions regarding membership in Westfield Aquatics, please email [email protected] or call (317) 660-2409.