Detroit Auto Show Revamps Web Site, Offers 100th Anniversary Screen Saver

TROY ? The marketing drum beat has begun for the 2007 North American International Auto Show, which turns 100 in January. A new web site and a 100th anniversary commemorative screensaver have been developed by the show's sponsor, the Detroit Auto Dealers Association. DADA said the revamped web site is geared to assist NAIAS enthusiasts,

Torreano, Linkner, Crary Win Automation Alley Awards

TROY ? Gail Torreano of AT&T, Josh Linkner of ePrize and John Crary of Lear headlined the winners of the Sixth Annual Automation Alley Awards handed out Friday night at the General Motors Heritage Center in Sterling Heights. Torreano was named Legend CEO, Linkner CEO of the Year and John Crary CIO (Chief Information Officer)

Eastern Michigan University Presents Forensics Fundamentals

YPSILANTI ? Eastern Michigan University's Center for Regional and National Security is hosting a course in October that provides an understanding of computer crime and discusses current challenges faced by Forensic Examiners. Students will outline search and seizure issues and the ideal handling of electronic evidence. Fundamentals core skills are also introduced - including: Hard

Michigan InfraGard Searches For Security Experts To Work With Public

DEARBORN ? Defense in Depth is the new mantra for InfraGard, an FBI-founded public/private partnership that also works closely with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to help protect America from the bad guys ? whether they attack over the Internet or against physical facilities. The National Infrastructure Protection Plan (NIPP) was just codified this

21 More Highly Recommended Proposals To Get 21st Century Jobs Funding

LANSING ? Twenty-one highly recommended projects submitted to the Michigan Economic Development Corp. that didn't make the first round of funding announced this month will still divvy up $35 million from the 21st Century Jobs Fund, MEDC President James Epolito said at a meeting of the Great Lakes Angels. Those 21 proposals were among 82

Developing The Business Case For Software Assurance

DETROIT - Software assurance is a national security priority. That is because a computer enabled national infrastructure is as reliable as the code that underlies it. Thus, common sense alone ought to dictate that any valid way to increase confidence in the security and reliability of America's software ought to be on the top of

Apple: Macs Vulnerable To Wi-Fi Hijacks

CUPERTINO - A trio of security flaws in Apple Computer software that runs wireless-networking hardware could allow Macs to be hijacked over Wi-Fi, Apple said Thursday. The company released security updates to repair the problems, which together affect the AirPort wireless driver in Mac OS X 10 Panther version 10.3.9 and Mac OS X Tiger

Dell, Symantec Team On e-Mail Security

AUSTIN - Dell and Symantec are teaming up to deliver protection for Microsoft Exchange-based e-mail systems, the companies announced Wednesday. The PC and software vendor are combining their products in an offering dubbed Secure Exchange, CNET News.Com reported. The product is designed to take time and complexity out of running a secure, reliable Microsoft Exchange

Target To Acquire X-Rite’s Grandville Site

GRANDVILLE - X-Rite has agreed to sell its Grandville headquarters site near the sprawling Rivertown Crossing Shopping Center on Grand Rapids? southwest side to Target Corp. X-Rite will move to its new facility to nearby suburb Kentwood in the first quarter of 2007. Final closing on the sale will be based on completion of the