Kevin Buchanan and Lee Ann Demerest

First Got Together: 1991

Kevin began seeing Lee Ann right after breaking up with his first real girlfriend — Carlo Hesser’s niece, Stephanie. However, Max Holden was also in love with Lee Ann. When it appeared that Max had moved on with Luna, Lee Ann and Kevin slept together; they eloped when they learned she was carrying his child. Soon after, though, Lee Ann cheated on Kevin with Jason Webb. She and Kevin divorced, and she moved to Texas with their son, Duke. An adult Duke recently returned to town.

Joey Buchanan and Dorian Lord

First Got Together: 1994

Dorian originally seduced — and deflowered — the younger Joey so she

could stick it to his mother, her long-time rival, Viki. Revenge

eventually turned into romance, however, as the duo discovered that they

had genuine feelings for one another. Their affair came to an end when

Viki (under the influence of her alternate personalities) imprisoned

Dorian and blackmailed her into dumping Joe.

Jessica Buchanan and Cristian Vega

First Got Together: 1995

Jessica and Cristian’s relationship definitely had its ups and downs.

When a then-high school-age Jessica and Cristian began seeing each

other, her father, Clint, and Cris’s mother, Carlotta, disapproved.

Still, they continued to sneak around. They were forbidden to see each

other after they were caught heading for Viki’s cabin in the woods, but

were permitted to go to the prom. However, at the event, Jess got drunk

after seeing Cristian dance with her friend; she then dumped him. The

pair eventually reconciled, but Jessica was wary of his relationship

with childhood friend Roseanne. Jessica also befriended her new

stepbrother, Will, and ended up getting pregnant with — and then losing

— his baby. Things got more complicated for the couple when Roseanne and

Will worked together to keep the pair apart, and Roseanne tricked Cris

into marrying her. Eventually, Cris and Roseanne had their marriage

annulled and he got engaged to Jessica. Their relationship fizzled,

though, when he lied to Jess about a letter from Will.

Kelly Cramer and Joey Buchanan

First Got Together: 1996

When Dorian’s niece, Kelly, came to town, she had her first serious

relationship with Joey. He soon left for Paris, though, and sent her a

“Dear Jane” letter to break up with her; a distraught Kelly went for a

drive and ended up in a car accident with her pregnant cousin, Blair,

killing Blair’s unborn child. Joey returned the next year, and he and

Kelly rekindled their relationship. They got engaged, but by then, Kelly

had developed feelings for Kevin. In 2000, she and Joey eloped, but her

interest in Kevin was too strong to ignore; she admitted everything to

Joey and they divorced in 2001.