Zohar Badeshe is surrounded by vineyards and forests in Dalia, between the valleys and Mount Carmel. It offers a swimming pool and plenty of common areas for events.

Rooms are air conditioned and come with cable TV, free Wi-Fi and a fridge. They are located in wooden huts set around the grounds of the Kibbutz, which is a traditional Israeli collective community.

Guests at Zohar Badeshe have a bike rental service, plus discounts at local restaurants and attractions. The on-site restaurant serves rustic meals and Israeli specialties. Breakfast is buffet style.

The property is near Ramot Menashe Park and Cyclamen Hill. The town of Zichron Ya’acov, overlooking the Mediterranean Sea, is just 15 minutes’ drive away.

Secret Tel Aviv Certified…

This hotel is included in the following Guides:

Best Kibbutz Hotels in Israel

Best Kibbutz Hotels in the North of Israel

Best Hotels in North Israel

Best Budget Hotels in the North of Israel

Best Hotels in the Carmel

Are you travelling around Israel? Secret Tel Aviv has lovingly compiled the following hotel guides: Best Hotels in Israel, Best Hotels in Tel Aviv, Best Hotels in Jerusalem, Best Hotels in the Dead Sea, Best Hotels in Eilat, Best Boutique Hotels in Israel, Best Boutique Hotels in Tel Aviv, Best Hostels in Israel, and Best Hostels in Tel Aviv.

Hotel bookings can be made through the Secret Tel Aviv website via our partnership with Booking.com, or through direct partnerships with hotels. We only work with good companies and always strive to get discounts for our community – you can see our official partners here.

Tours…

Want to book some tours for your trip? Secret Tel Aviv offers unique tours around Tel Aviv, Jerusalem and the Dead Sea, Bethlehem and the West Bank, and even to Petra in Jordan.

Tours are operated through iBookIsrael and Abrahams Tours. Both are excellent tour companies: iBookIsrael are a bit more expensive but come with a knowledgeable tour guide and comfortable transport, for Abrahams Tours you get given loads of reading material and cool people to take on your adventure. Get 5% discount on Abraham Tours when you use the Secret Password ‘SECRETTLV’ on the online booking.

Join the Community…