Quiz Answer Key and Fun Facts

1. Which of the following actors had not played the role of Todd Manning?

Answer: Bernard Grant

Bernard Grant played Steve Burke in the 1970s. Mr. Grant passed away in 2004.

2. Who is Todd's full blooded sister?

Answer: Tina Clayton Lord Roberts

Tina is his full blooded sister. Their mother is Irene Manning Clayton and father Victor Lord.

3. What name did Victor and Irene think about calling him (Victor)?

Answer: Victor Lord Jr.

This was after Victor was found to be alive after having been assumed dead for many years. This was the only time Todd saw his father.

4. Todd was not accused of rape by whom?

Answer: Rebecca Lewis

Rebecca was kidnapped by Todd when he escaped from prison. All of the rest accused Todd.

5. Who showed up in Llanview claiming he was Victor Lord's lost son (and really was Todd)?

Answer: David Vickers

David tried to collect the heir's inheritance but was found out by Tina Roberts. Max had been pretending to be Asa and Renee's son. Richard Abbott is Todd's cousin and Todd had blown up Guy Armitage's yacht, killing Armitage.

6. What was the first major thing Todd bought with his inheritance?

Answer: "The Intruder"

"The Intruder" was Dorian Lord's newspaper, and Todd turned it into "The Sun".

7. What were the birth names of Todd and Blair's first two children?

Answer: John and Starr

Todd and Blair's first two children are John 'Jack' Cramer Manning, born 2001, and Starr Manning, born 1996.

8. Todd was adopted by whom?

Answer: Peter and Bitsy Manning

Peter was Todd's uncle and Bitsy left them before Todd went to university.

9. Todd gave Blair's son up for adoption. At that time, who did Todd believe the boy's father was?

Answer: Max Holden

Blair came out of St. Anne's after shooting Max. Todd found them together in bed after Max had drugged. This made Todd think Jack was not his son.

10. Which of the following characters is not blood related to Todd Manning?

Answer: Cord Roberts

Cord Roberts is Clint Buchanan's son and was married to Todd's sister Tina. Tina and Cord's two children are Sarah and CJ, making them both his niece and nephew. Jessica is the daughter of Victoria Lord, making her Todd's niece.

Source: Author fastdave17

This quiz was reviewed by FunTrivia editor ladymacb29 before going online.

Any errors found in FunTrivia content are routinely corrected through our feedback system.