KENNESAW, Ga.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Industry expert Nico Potgieter has joined OSC, the Kennesaw-based risk management services provider, as senior director of implementation. Potgieter brings diverse technology and management experience to OSC, part of Breckenridge Insurance Group, where he will oversee implementation and launch of the next-generation IrisX (Informed Risk eXchange) suite of tracking and compliance solutions for financial services clients nationwide.

“With experience in all aspects of the industry — from technical expertise to project management and leadership — Nico truly understands the complex and evolving regulatory environment in which our clients operate, particularly those operating in the lender-placed insurance sector,” said John Dangoia, executive vice president and chief operating officer of OSC. “Under Nico’s leadership, OSC will continue to deliver the cutting-edge technology resources that have made us a trusted partner of our clients for decades.”

As senior director of implementation at OSC, Potgieter will oversee the client rollout of the next-generation, cloud-based IrisX software suite, a key piece of the company’s strategic focus on — and increased investment in — its benchmark compliance and multi-collateral tracking products. Potgieter will collaborate with OSC’s industry partners and clients through all stages of the transition to ensure full and seamless integration.

Before joining OSC, Potgieter, a certified Project Management Professional, was manager of professional services at insurance software provider Vertafore and senior project manager at ImageRight, an insurance content management system. Earlier in his career, Potgieter co-founded Broadleaf Services and THINQ Learning Solutions, an e-learning and human resources management company acquired by Saba Software.

A native of South Africa, Potgieter served as an airline transport pilot and in the South African Air Force. He is a graduate of the University of Washington Bothell/Vertafore Technical Leadership Development Program in Business Management and Leadership.

About OSC