I found this article on The Free/Bad Company Fan Web site run by Lucy Piller http://www.allrightnow.com/

http://www.island50.com/ Artist Page

ISLAND 50th ANNIVERSARY

ISLAND 50th ANNIVERSARY TO BE MARKED BY FESTIVAL ORGANISED WITH ISLAND FOUNDER CHRIS BLACKWELL

2009 is the 50th anniversary of the founding of Island Records, arguably the most prestigious record label in the history of British music. To mark this milestone the label is collaborating with Island founder Chris Blackwell to arrange the Island 50 festival.

Chris Blackwell founded the Island label in Kingston, Jamaica in 1959 with capital of just £1000. Relocating to London in the early 60s Blackwell built the most diverse and enviable back catalogue of any independent record label in history. From Island’s early Jamaican roots in ska and rock-steady, through the label’s expansion to become the cutting edge of progressive rock in the late 60s, and then on to the signing of such international superstars as Bob Marley and U2, Blackwell brought to Island a unique vision and passion which still informs the label’s approach to this day.

Blackwell has agreed to oversee a festival planned for May 2009 of live music, cinema, photography and memorabilia involving Island artists past and present.

Says Blackwell: “When I recorded ‘Lance Hayward at the Half Moon’ in 1959 at Federal Records Studio in Kingston, Jamaica, I had no inkling what path this had set me on. It has been an honour and a privilege to work with some of the greatest musical artists of all time. It was always my intention at Island to make records that stood the test of time, and I’m proud that Island is still a potent force in music 50 years since that first release. I’m very excited to be collaborating with the label to organise a number of events to celebrate Island’s 50th birthday in 2009.”

Says Island Co-President Darcus Beese: “When I first started at Island in Promotions in ‘88 Chris was still running things and I was in awe of him because the artists he signed soundtracked my life. I can’t say that I’ve got over being in awe of him, but I can say that I’m immensely proud and humbled to be attempting to build on the incredible legacy that he created and it is a pleasure to be working with the great man to mark Island’s fiftieth birthday.”

The Island 50 festival is planned for May 2009 and various associated events will happen throughout the year. The following elements are being planned:

1. Island 50 Live – a week-long festival of live shows by Island artists past and present at The Shepherds Bush Empire. All proceeds from the shows will be donated to Amnesty International and The Oracabessa Foundation in Jamaica.

2.TV/Radio Documentaries – the BBC/PBS to make a 90 minute film about the label

3. Island 50 book edited by Chris Salewicz (author of recent Joe Strummer biog Redemption Song, Mick and Keith, Reggae Explosion: the Story of Jamaican Music, Punk: the Illustrated History of a Music Revolution, Jimi Hendrix: The Ultimate Experience, Bob Marley, Songs of Freedom and many others).

4. The history of Island Records is included in the national curriculum for Music/Music Business students during 2008/09, at over 50 UK Universities and Colleges

5. Exhibition of Photos, Artwork, Memorabilia. The exhibition will travel around the country through the year.

6. Island 50 Film Festival - Island related films such as ‘The Harder They Come’, ‘Bob Marley Live At The Lyceum’, ‘Rockers’, ‘Countryman’ - art cinema tour.

7. Island 50 music – Classic Album Re-issues, new compilations, deluxe boxsets, digital bundles.

8. Island 50 merchandise

The Island label has been responsible for the careers of some of the biggest stars in music including U2, Bob Marley, Cat Stevens, Traffic, Free, Fairport Convention, Nick Drake, Sandy Denny, Toots & The Maytals, John Martyn, Marianne Faithful, Aswad, Tom Waits, King Sunny Ade, Third World, Roxy Music, Robert Palmer, the B52s, Sly & Robbie, Melissa Etheridge, The Slits, Steel Pulse, Grace Jones, Tom Tom Club, Pulp, Tricky, Talvin Singh, and latterly Amy Winehouse, PJ Harvey, DJ Shadow, Sugababes, Keane, The Fratellis, Scott Matthews, Paul Weller, The Feeling and Portishead.

Attached Files:

1224703462.jpg

File size:

27.7 KB

Views:

0

Maybe a separate thread should be started for "What are the best vinyl versions of Free - Fire And Water. Maybe there has been one in the past. I'll run a search.

The original June, 1970 LP of Fire And Water release included the pink Island U.K., pink Island West Germany, red Polydor Canada, brown'tan A&M U.S., and pink Island Japan. Then for reissues I'm familiar with the Island Life 25 years Germany LP, Island Japan 2007 - 200 gram, Simply Vinyl and the recent Island 50th Anniversary - 180 gram. Have never heard any of the reissues. There may also be a Back To Black version. Although the Back To Black and 50th Anniversary might be one in the same. If so, it's probably one to avoid.

I have an original red Polydor Canada LP purchased used back in the day. I also have a used 1st edition pink Island Germany copy, but it's pretty crackly. Wouldn't mind upgrading to something with good sound and something that won't break the bank. Original U.K. and Japan pink Island copies are very expensive on eBay.

http://cgi.ebay.ca/Free-Fire-and-wa...2194795?pt=Music_on_Vinyl&hash=item2eb56b29eb

http://cgi.ebay.ca/FREE-JAPAN-1ST-O...7212904?pt=Music_on_Vinyl&hash=item58874ed668