Khariton Scientific Readings - International Conference. The Readings, held annually, starting from 1999, are the tribute to the memory of an outstanding scientist Yuly Borisovitch Khariton, who used to be the unchallenged leader of RFNC-VNIIEF, academician of the Russian Academy of Sciences, thrice the Hero of Socialist Labor, laureate of Lenin and Stalin State Awards, the honorary freeman of Sarov city. The first topical Readings, arranged in 1999, addressed the field "Supercomputing and mathematical simulations".

The XIV Khariton's Topical Scientific Readings "High- Power Pulsed Electrophysics" were held on March 12-16, 2012.

Khariton Juvenile Readings - International Conference. The series of these Conferences was established to memorize the outstanding scientist of the XX century, the unchallenged leader of RFNC-VNIIEF, academician of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Yuly Borisovitch Khariton (1904-1996). The first Conference was arranged on 1 - 4 March, 1996.

The International Conference "XII Juvenile Khariton Readings" took place on March 1-4, 2012 in Sarov.

Super-Computation and Computer Simulation - International Conference. The Workshop is held annually since 1998 by the Institute of Theoretical and Mathematical Physics (ITMF) constituent of RFNC-VNIIEF. The Workshop is the source of valuable information used for comparative analysis of the scientific-level activities, performed at the Russian and foreign scientific centers in supercomputing field and those, addressing operational reliability of multi-processor computing systems.

The XIV International Supercomputing and Mathematical Modeling Workshop hosted by FSUE RFNC-VNIIEF will be held at Sarov on October 1-5, 2012.

The Human and the Electromagnetic Fields - International Conference. The Conference addresses the recent experimental and theoretical studies of the effects of low and ultralow magnetic fields, electromagnetic and ionizing radiations on biological objects, their environmental and medical aspects included.

Fundamental Properties of Plutonium - International Workshop. Holding international meetings on this topic was initiated by Professor Siegfried Hecker (USA), an eminent scientist honored with many scientific awards in his country and in 2003 elected a foreign member of the Russian Academy of Sciences.

International Conference “Interaction between hydrogen isotopes and structural materials". Conference subjects: kinetics and thermodynamics of interaction between hydrogen and solids, effect of hydrogen isotopes on properties of structural materials, hydrides and hydride transformations, methods and equipment.

International Conference “Problems of Nuclear Spectroscopy and Nuclear Structure”. International conference on nuclear spectroscopy is held since 1950. Currently, this is the only conference on nuclear science conducted on the territory of the Russian Federation on a regular basis. Traditionally, the conference addresses a wide range of urgent issues of contemporary nuclear physics.