1

1880-1885 | Portrait of Abraham Kuyper

The painted portrait of Abraham Kuyper dates from 1907, but is the most fitting opening of this series. Kuyper was the chief founding father of Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam and in 1880 became its first Rector Magnificus. He was to leave his mark on the university’s course in the first decades of its existence. How does the current Rector Magnificus, Vinod Subramaniam, feel about Kuyper and his portrait?

Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam was established on 20 October 1880 as a private university at the behest of Abraham Kuyper. Vrij or ‘Free’ from government influence, and independent from the Dutch (mainstream) Reformed Church, the university was grounded firmly in society thanks to the connection with its Reformed benefactors; it sought to link science and scholarship to the Christian faith.

Abraham Kuyper (1837-1920) was a polymath with a vision. He started off as a Reformed minister, founded his own newspaper in 1872 (De Standaard [The Standard]), was elected a Member of Parliament in 1874, and in 1879 founded the first political party of the Netherlands (the Anti-Revolutionaire Partij [AntiRevolutionary Party], ARP). Furthermore, he founded a university in 1880. He led a schism from the Dutch Reformed Church in 1886, which prompted the formation of the Reformed Churches in the Netherlands. This led to a Reformed subculture (or pillar) with its own church, weekly and daily papers, university, and political party. Kuyper served as VU Amsterdam’s first Rector and was made a Professor of Theology, also lecturing on Dutch and teaching some other courses in the Faculty of Arts. He ceased his daily involvement in his university when he was appointed Prime Minister in 1901.

This painted portrait displays a thoughtful and almost monumental Kuyper in his study. It was presented to him for his 70th birthday by a delegation from the Vereeniging van Christelijke Onderwijzers en Onderwijzeressen in Nederland en Overzeesche Bezittingen [Association of Christian School Teachers in the Netherlands and Overseas Territories] as a token of gratitude for his efforts and achievements for private (denominational) education. The artist is Hendrik Haverman (1857-1928), who was an accomplished painter of portraits in a style rather more traditional than the impressionist Hague School that was popular at the time. It is particularly remarkable how Kuyper’s face lights up from the dark background. The portrait adorned Kuyper’s own study until his death. His heirs presented it to VU Amsterdam in 1921, making it the first painting in the collection of professorial portraits, which now comprises nearly 120 objects. The portrait used to adorn the Senate Hall in the University Building at Keizersgracht for a long time. It was first included in the Aula’s portrait gallery following the relocation to De Boelelaan, after which it ended up in the Forum Hall.

Kuyper and his portrait: an impression

Vinod Subramaniam

My illustrious predecessor cuts an imposing, if somewhat forbidding, figure in this portrait, befitting his stature as visionary founder of a number of institutions: a newspaper, political party, church, university. That last has grown into the Vrije Universiteit of today, an institution that we can be proud of. I only hope that the current rector looks a wee bit more approachable to his colleagues and students, if not as ‘monumental’.

Vinod Subramaniam, Rector Magnificus 2015-2021