This show has been canceled.

The New Orleans Jazz Museum and Jazz Foundation of America present a performance featuring the Seva Venet’s Fly Away Brass Band on Wednesday, January 4th at 2:00 PM CST.

This program takes place inside our third-floor Performance Center, listening room. Admission is free and open to the public, seating is limited and offered first come, first serve.

Enjoy jazz music from home with the New Orleans Jazz Museum! Join the Jazz Museum online for our daily Live-Stream Concert Series, in which jazz musicians perform live from the Jazz Museum! Tune in at 2 pm on facebook.com/nolajazzmuseum/live to watch for free.

Seva Venet

Seva Venet was introduced to the New Orleans traditional jazz style while playing several years in a band in Los Angeles with Mike McClelland, a George Lewis style Albert system clarinetist. In New Orleans, Seva found his teachers of New Orleans jazz in Tuba Fats and his Chosen Few band. Seva’s next apprenticeship in New Orleans music began in 2006 working with Benny Jones and Uncle Lionel Batiste in the Treme Brass Band. Seva has also gained much professional development working with Lionel Ferbos’ bands from 2007-2013. Over the course of 6 years with Lionel Ferbos’ Louisiana Shakers and the Palm Court Jazz Band, Seva got the invaluable experiences of playing with several veteran musicians including Lionel Ferbos, Peter Badie, Wendell Eugene, as well as Ernie Elly and Lars Edegran. Seva has also worked on four tours playing banjo and guitar, three tours with mentor Shannon Powell and his All-Stars, and one with an All-Star band including Juanita Brooks, Lars Edegran, and Wendell Brunious. Some of Seva’s current mentors include Dr. Michael White for whom he holds down the banjo chair in his various bands. Greg Stafford also uses Seva for his Jazz Hounds gigs.

Seva’s dedication to traditional New Orleans Jazz, especially through teaching, concerts, and presentations of New Orleans string bands, the banjo in New Orleans and the music and legacy of Danny Barker has become what he is known and appreciated for the most. Also, since its inception in 2016, Seva has been part of the Danny Barker Guitar and Banjo Festival as a performer and workshop presenter in public schools and colleges including the New Orleans Center for Creative Arts (NOCCA) and the University of New Orleans (UNO). Seva’s string bands have played many concerts and venues including concerts at the Ogden Museum of Southern Art, Preservation Hall, the Palm Court Jazz Cafe, Snug Harbor Jazz Bistro, Satchmo Festival, French Quarter Festival, and the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival. Seva has taught music to hundreds of school children. Many of his students have performed at the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival. Also, he has conducted many educational workshops on traditional New Orleans jazz for groups visiting New Orleans from around the globe.