Google co-founder Larry Page is taking charge of the maturing internet giant in a move seen as recapturing youthful roots in the face of competition from hip upstart startups like Facebook.

The California firm isn't waiting for Page to formally take the chief executive chair being emptied by Eric Schmidt in April. It is tapping into the energy of nimble entrepreneurs bought with Google's ample war chest.

"Any engagement that Google can have with the start-up community, with entrepreneurs, we learn and we are inspired," said David Krane of Google Ventures, an arm of the firm that invests in new ideas and young companies.

"We need to be close to the people who are moving quickly and chasing big dreams at the early stage, he said in a Friday interview with AFP.

"Because that can influence and shape the way that we run as we try to fight off some of the natural side effects that come as a company gets larger."

Google has grown to a global powerhouse with 25,000 employees in far-flung locations since it was started by fellow Stanford University students Sergey Brin and Page in 1998.

Acquisitions of start-ups have brought technology and talent to Google, with entrepreneurs helping to keep in-house engineers in tune with front line innovations.

"I feel it is more that we are having an impact on Google versus Google changing us," said Jonathan Sposato, the founder of two start-ups bought by the ruler of the internet search market.

"That is a good strategy for bigger companies to stay on the edge and inoculate the organisation with fresh thinking and different perspectives."

Sposato became head of photo products at Google after it bought his online picture editing start-up Picnik in 2010.

The first company he sold to Google became "gadgets" tools that let people make mini-programs for web pages.

"You see this really respectful way Google treats the incoming companies," Sposato said. "Things don't get broken apart."

Sposato works at Google offices in the Washington State city of Seattle where Picnik began, occasionally commuting to the headquarters in Mountain View, California.

"Google is learning a lot from the team and at the same time we are learning a lot," Sposato said. "There is benefit to bringing in the acquired company's culture."

Early last year, Google bought DocVerse for a price pegged at $US25 million or more and put founder Shan Sinha to work on a Cloud Connect service that lets people collaborate online on Microsoft Office documents.