Is it warm enough to swim in Newcastle in July? Average water temperature in Newcastle in July is 18.3°C and therefore is not suitable for comfortable swimming. The warmest sea in Newcastle in July is 20°C, and the coldest is 16.2°C. Average high air temperature in Newcastle in July is 17°C, and average low temperature is 8°C. To find out the sea temperature today and in the coming days, go to Current sea temperature in Newcastle

Changes water temperature in Newcastle in July 2024, 2023

To get an accurate forecast for the water temperature in Newcastle for any chosen month, compare two years within a 10 year range using the chart below. In addition to the sea water temperature in Newcastle, the selected years in the table also show the values of the maximum and minimum temperatures on each of the days of July.

Average water temperature in Newcastle in July over a decade

Weather and climate in Newcastle in July

This data display average monthly climate indicators in Newcastle in July based on our historical weather readings over a period of ten years. In addition to temperature, we include data on the number of rainy and sunny days so you can have all the information about your destination before your trip

Newcastle water temperature during other months:

You can also view information about water temperature for other months by clicking on the month button below

Where is the warm sea water in July?

Want to know where the water temperature in July is good for swimming? Select the continent of interest, the day of the month and the required water temperature

Region Date (day and month) Water temperature: min 16°C Average temperature Maximum temperature

Temperature in neighboring cities

The nearest locations with the average water temperature in July. In addition, the maximum and minimum water temperatures for that month, recorded over the last decade, are shown

AvrMinMaxMerewether18.1°C16.2°C19.9°CRedhead Beach18.1°C16.2°C20°CEleebana18°C16.2°C19.9°CBelmont18.1°C16.2°C20°CRathmines18°C16.2°C19.8°CBlacksmiths Beach18°C16.2°C19.8°CCaves Beach18°C16.2°C19.8°CCatherine Hill Bay18°C16.1°C19.9°CAnna Bay18.4°C16.4°C20°COne Mile Beach18.5°C16.4°C20.1°C

Newcastle photo gallery

If you have interesting photos of this place, you can upload them here. Photos will be available to all users after verification by the moderator.

Vote for New South Wales best beach

Current rating: (0 votes cast)

If you know this place (Newcastle) and want to leave your comment or rate it, then fill out the following form.

Your rating for this place:

Does this place have a "Blue Flag" award [1], are there rip currents and what type of beach is it, sand or pebble:

Your comments for this place (water quality, crowds, facilities, activities, lifeguards, service etc.):

[1] - The "Blue Flag" is awarded to beaches which fulfill a number of criteria, including: the quality of the bathing water, which must be in accordance with the relevant European Union Directive environmental education and information and beach area management and safety.

Get widget or API for your website

Our report for Newcastle is compiled using satellite data together with in-situ observations to get the most reliable daily data of sea surface temperatures, surf forecasts, current temperatures and weather forecasts.