Career

Prior to joining ET Now as a Markets Anchor, she has worked as an Anchor & Research Analyst at Consumer News and Business Channel TV18 she has worked as a reporter and producer with the British Broadcasting Corporation World Service and Music Television India. At ET Now, Ayesha anchors the flagship morning shows, The Market and First Trades and afternoon shows, Markets Lunch, Riding The Bulletin and The F&O Show. Her job description includes analysing macro/micro market related trends, company fundamentals, investigative and sector based reports, general financial news, present summary capsules, liaisons with traders, bankers, economists for inputs.

Ayesha has also hosted events like the prestigious India Economic Conclave, Investor Camp, ET Now"s Market Summit, Chartbusters, Market Sense and Closing Trades.

Ayesha joined ET Now in May 2010. Prior to joining ET Now, Ayesha was an Anchor & Research Analyst at Consumer News and Business Channel-TV18 and hosted different shows like Power Breakfast, Your Stocks, Bulletin’s Eye, Bazaar, India Market Wrap, Midcap Radar in the 7am – 4.30pm market band slot on Consumer News and Business Channel TV18.

At Consumer News and Business Channel, Ayesha also anchored a plethora of feature, lifestyle shows including Consumer News and Business Channel’s longest running daily segment Get A Life, Business With Pleasure, Showtime India, Storyboard and Consumer News and Business Channel award ceremonies namely, Mutual Fund Awards, Chief Financial Officer Awards, Trade Awards, Consumer News and Business Channel FE Best Banks Awards. Ayesha began her career in 2003 with British Broadcasting Corporation World Service as a Reporter where she reported and anchored British Broadcasting Corporation’s weekly half-hr show British Broadcasting Corporation Extra.

Formulated, conceptualized and executed scripts, editing and show structures for British Broadcasting Corporation. She recently ( May 2010) joined ET Now.

,

At ET Now she hosts daily market shows like "The Market", "First Trades", "Markets At Lunch", "Riding The Bulletin" and "Closing Trades"

She also anchors ET Now"s weekly market series "Your TradesThe Week Ahead"

She hosts ET Now"s "India Economic Conclave".