A drug addict has been jailed for life for bludgeoning a 92-year-old war veteran to death at his home.

William Davis was found with head injuries at his house in Hobley Street, Willenhall, on 1 April.

Charlotte Frazier-Doody, from Hobley Street, was convicted of murder and sentenced at Wolverhampton Crown Court.

A judge described the killing as a savage, ferocious and harrowing attack on a frail and vulnerable victim.

Frazier-Doody, a 36-year-old mother of three who was addicted to heroin and crack cocaine, will spend at least 20 years behind bars.

Jurors heard that she used a heavy weapon, possibly a saucepan, to kill Mr Davis, who served in the Royal Navy throughout World War II.

Forensic evidence showed he had taken a clump of hair from his attacker as he tried to defend himself.

Passing sentence, Judge John Warner said the great-grandfather had been "savagely beaten to death" in his home just days after his birthday.

Judge Warner told Frazier-Doody the motive for the attack "remains a mystery".

He said: "There are no signs that any of the easily available money was taken.

"Only two people know the true circumstances of what happened on that day - one of them is no longer with us and you have not provided any information."

Mr Davis was described by his son Thomas as "a well respected and likeable man".

Thomas Davis said: "His war record began in the Royal Navy in 1939 and he was involved in many campaigns.

"He was a hero who deserved a lot better end to his life.

"The death of my father has had a massive impact on all the family, not least his sister Dolly.

Det Sgt Rob Bastin, the senior investigating officer for West Midlands Police, said: "Charlotte Frazier-Doody was addicted to Class A drugs at the time of Bill's murder, and was his neighbour and purported to be his friend.

"She always protested her innocence and tried to say she visited Bill on the day of the murder as a 'good neighbour' and provided him with a dinner.

"Instead she betrayed Bill's trust in the most awful way and beat him to death whilst he lay defenceless in his living room.

"It's difficult to find the words to describe how evil and calculated this woman has been and to this day I am not completely sure exactly what her motive was, however I feel you don't have to look far from her addiction and desperation for money to pay for her drugs.

"It's clear from the verdict today that the jury saw through her web of lies and saw her for the person she really is."