Certainly, during the 70s, I--and many of my friends--regarded Pink Floyd as belonging to the same broad musical category as, for instance, Genesis, ELP, King Crimson, Gentle Giant, and Jethro Tull. In retrospect, I can see why some people might want to exempt Pink Floyd from the "progressive" category. But I believe that, historically, they were very much a part of the emergence of progressive rock as a musical phenomenon. Artists with profoundly different styles can still be part of the same artistic tendency. In literary history, for instance, both Blake and Wordsworth, despite their many differences, clearly play crucial roles in the emergence of Romanticism as a literary phenomenon. (It is true, however, that many of the critics who hated "prog" in general were inclined to make an exception in the case of Pink Floyd. But I do not recall anyone treating them as a rock band in the conventional sense--until the release of The Wall.)

Those of you from Chicago may remember WXRT touting itself a progressive rock station as others did too and all played PF.

I think they could be like Webb Wilder, one foot in country the other in rock and roll, only they have one foot in prog and the other in psych.

or as in the Blues Brothers, they play both kinds of music, country and western.

Gilmour plays too slow to be considered a virtuoso by many folks. But he can take you to ecstasy better than a hundred virtuosos, IMO. A flurry of notes means nothing to me. He has a different kind of virtuosity - he can bend the notes just a certain way and make the instrument sing and cry like nobody else. Plus, he can switch from power chords and driving rhythm to soaring leads back and forth with ease and at will.

The Floyd were prog, IMO. They pushed the envelope way beyond the traditional r'n'r formula. (Space rock? Not since 'Set the Controls...'.) On the other hand there are definitely great differences between the Floyd and, say, ELP and Yes; mainly that they don't exhibit the extreme virtousity of the latters. In my musical universe that puts them in the art rock category, together with Camel, Manfred Mann's Earth Band, etc. But then again, art rock and prog are quite synonymous, aren't they... (and so forth, and back, and forth again... until the mind is just as blurred as the borders between the genres...('Let's roll another one...'))

Art rock, definitely (that's the perfect label actually); IMHO, as they developed they went through several phases, starting with psychedelia, then technically proficient theme based acid rock and finally mainstream contemporary rock from DSoTM on.

When I think of prog-rock, I keep coming back to a number of unique musical characteristics, not all of which may be present in each progressive group, but usually more than one of these elements are strongly represented:

1) aspirations to composition (long pieces comprised of multiple sections and themes)

2) the importance of keyboard, piano, melotron and/or synthesizer over guitar and instruments in general over vocals

3) focus on romantic, fantasy, science fiction and/or religious elements as opposed to the blatant sexuality of party hearty music.

4) orchestral stylization (the fundemental style of the music which may in fact lend itself to orchestral participation)

There are always exceptions to any stereotype: The Who's Tommy & Quadraphenia rock-operas, Deep Purple's serious symphonic efforts and Metallica's orchestral curiosity, Styx ambitious operatic theme and Yes's middle period pop sensitivites, Led Zeppelin's Tolkein-esque fantasies that gradually replaced the blues based sexism prevelent on their first two albums, etc.

When determining what can be considered progressive rock these elements are worth consideration, even when trying to gauge the classifying of proto-prog groups that developed during the mid-to-late 60's such as Procol Harum and Moody Blues (in my mind both could easily qualify as prog rock because of their keyboard & instrument dominated, orchestral themes while the Beatles were fundementally pop, albeit closer to art rock a'la Pink Floyd because of their willingness to experiment with studio effects & take chances musically).

Cat