QATAR PRIX DE L'ARC DE TRIOMPHE

LONGCHAMPS (PARIS), 3.05, BBC2

Workforce can bounce back to his brilliant best to give Sir Michael Stoute an elusive first Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe.

The runaway Derby winner, who smashed the track record at Epsom on only his third career start, has to redeem his reputation after flopping in the King George VI and Queen Elizabeth Diamond Stakes.

But the fact that Stoute and owner Prince Khalid Abdulla have given the colt the go-ahead after weeks of agonising is a big hint he's recovered and primed to beat France's finest and fancied Irish raider Fame And Glory.

Workforce finished his last crucial piece of work at Newmarket on Thursday.

That suggests strongly that he has continued to thrive since impressing Stoute and jockey Ryan Moore in a 'makeor-break' racecourse gallop at Sandown 13 days ago.

Abdulla's racing manager Teddy Grimthorpe told me last week that a decision was being left until the last minute as they were reluctant to send him over unless they were sure he was in tip-top shape.

Grimthorpe said: "It's the obvious race for him - the only one left this year - but we've got his reputation to take care of and we want to give him every chance to show his true form again. We still don't know what went wrong at Ascot. His work beforehand was good and we expected another huge run. But for some reason he just didn't fire on the day.

"We carried out all the tests, but nothing came out. Perhaps he had a harder race in the Derby than it appeared and needed more time to recover."

While it's true that Stoute is desperate to win the Arc - the only major blank in his CV - the easy option would have been to rest Workforce and bring him back next year.

A big colt with a few miles on the clock, he has scope to be even better as a four-yearold.

So it's surely significant he goes abroad for the first time to take on the cream of Europe's middle-distance horses.

The opposition is headed by Behkabad, a proven mudlark and the most likely winner should Workforce flounder in the forecast soft ground.