Tonight, Moorestown Friends School is honoring some of its outstanding alumni with special awards.

One of those people is Judy Greenfield Faulkner, class of 1961, who is slated to receive the Alumni Association Alice Paul Merit Award for her outstanding success as a pioneer in the field of health information technology. Faulkner is the founder, president and chief executive officer of Epic Systems, which was started in 1979 in Madison, W.I.

- Advertisement -

Faulkner has grown Epic from a startup with six partners into an industry leader with a 500-acre, 420,000-square-foot, $150 million campus in Verona, Wisconsin, with over 4,000 employees, an estimated annual revenue of over $600 million and company value of well over $1 billion with a singular focus on healthcare software.

The company also has a European headquarters in the Netherlands. Its prestigious client base includes the Kaiser Permanente health system, the Cleveland Clinic, Northwestern Community Hospital, Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, and Johns Hopkins. Epic products are perennial award winners for innovation and ease of use.

Faulkner is a member of the federal committee on Health Information Technology Policy which was created as part of stimulus legislation early in the Obama administration. She is the sole representative of information technology vendors.

After graduating from MFS in 1961, Faulkner graduated cum laude from Dickinson College. Faulkner earned an M.S. from the University of Wisconsin. She was teaching there when she and a handful of colleagues started Epic Systems in the basement of a Madison apartment building.

Faulkner and her husband Dr. Gordon Faulkner are generous philanthropists. Their interests have included the Wisconsin South Central Library Foundation, Wisconsin Public Radio and Public TV, Doctors Without Borders, Planned Parenthood, the American Red Cross, the University of Wisconsin and they are leadership donors at Moorestown Friends School.

The MFS Alice Paul Merit Award is presented to an alumnus or alumna of MFS who exhibits one or more of the following criteria: an individual who exemplifies the best qualities of MFS, including honesty, integrity, fairness, a commitment to serve others, and a dedication to equality and justice; one who uses their education from MFS or affiliation with MFS and gives of themselves to make the world a better place; one who has achieved a standard of excellence in one’s chosen endeavor or field; or one who has made significant contributions to his or her community, whether it is Moorestown or the community in which they live.