Jutta (Bonne) of Luxemburg (May 20, 1315 – September 11, 1349), was born Jutta (Judith), the second daughter of King John of Bohemia, and his first wife, Elisabeth of Bohemia, daughter of King Wenceslaus II of Bohemia and Judith of Habsburg, the youngest daughter of King Rudolph I of the Romans/Germany and Gertrude of Hohenberg.

John the Blind or John of Luxembourg was the Count of Luxembourg from 1313 and King of Bohemia from 1310 and titular King of Poland. He is well known for having died while fighting in the Battle of Crécy at age 50, after having been blind for a decade. In his home country of Luxembourg he is considered a national hero.

Comparatively, in the Czech Republic (the Kingdom of Bohemia), is often recognized for his role as the father of Charles IV, Holy Roman Emperor, one of the more significant Kings of Bohemia and one of the leading Holy Roman Emperors.

In June or July 1315, Jutta was betrothed to the future King Casimir the Great of Poland, son of Władysław Łokietek., but he married Aldona of Lithuania in 1325 instead.

In 1326, Jutta was next betrothed to Henri of Bar. This arrangement was broken, however, and she stayed at the abbey of Saint-Esprit until her marriage to Jean, Duke of Normandy and future King Jean II of France.

She was 17 years old, and the future king was 13. Her name Jutta (or Guta), translatable into English as Good (in the feminine case), was changed by the time of her marriage to Bonne (French) or Bona (Latin). Upon marriage, Bonne was the wife of the heir to the French throne, becoming Duchess of Normandy and Countess of Anjou and Maine.

The wedding was celebrated in the presence of six thousand guests. The festivities were prolonged by a further two months when the young groom was finally knighted at the cathedral of Notre-Dame in Paris. John was solemnly granted the arms of a knight in front of a prestigious audience bringing together the kings of Bohemia and Navarre, and the dukes of Burgundy, Lorraine and the Brabant.

Bonne was a patron of the arts, the composer Guillaume de Machaut being one of her favorites.

She died on September 11, 1349 of the bubonic plague in Maubuisson, France at the age of thirty-four. She was buried in the Abbey of Maubuisson. however, as she died a year prior to his accession, she was never a French queen.

Among her children were King Charles V of France, Philippe II, Duke of Burgundy, and Joan, Queen of Navarre as the wife of King Charles II of Navarre.