By

To the casual observer, nothing about Jeffrey Durr indicated he was retired.

On a fold-up chair on the lower floor of the Rufus King International High School gymnasium, Durr enjoyed an unobstructed, VIP view of the varsity drum line he launched more than a decade ago and mentored as the school's music director.

Saturday was the first time that Durr was merely a spectator at the Milwaukee Public Schools' Drum Line Festival, a competition now in its 10th year.

But he still played a part. Stopwatch in one hand, pen in the other, he scribbled notes on the students' performance while timing the Generals as they marched into the final battle round for first place against Riverside University High School.

Both schools had skillfully attacked complex arrangements in the previous round, but King had dazzled the crowd with an assortment of difficult stick tricks - tossing them to one another from one end of the drum line to the other without missing a beat.

Durr stood up for the blue and gold troupe as screams and whistles erupted from the crowd during its introduction for the final round - and then sat back down on the very edge of his seat. The Generals were reigning champions at the festival. In fact, since Durr began bringing Rufus King there eight years ago, the group had won every time.

But he had confidence in his replacement, Ben Zabor. Durr taught a number of accomplished young musicians who came up under Zabor, the former music director at Lincoln Middle School, and said he trusts him with the future of the music program he presided over for 33 years.

"Music groups are very delicate," Durr said. "If you don't get the right director, it can die very quickly."

During the final round, Durr got up to inspect the percussionists from different angles. He said the judges look for a wide range of criteria in evaluating drum lines, from the difficulty of music played to uniformity of stick height as players collectively strike. Elements of the performance and general effect categories are tallied up at the end to produce a total score. In the preliminary round, Riverside had recorded a score of 73 points to Rufus King's 80.4.

As Durr walked across the gymnasium to discuss the group's performance with Zabor before the final results were announced, people extended handshakes and offered hugs.

"(Zabor) has big shoes to fill, because it's not my band or drum line - it's ours," Durr said. "It's the kids'. They work for this and want something to be proud of."

Cameron Anglin, a senior on Rufus King's varsity drum line, said he had been nervous about learning from Durr when he first started, because he'd heard the teacher was so strict.

"Later, I learned he was tough because he's not afraid to put his foot down and get things done," Anglin said. "I respect him."

Cheers drowned out the emcee as he announced King's ninth consecutive victory. The incumbent champions beat Riverside's 69.1-point total with a score of 76.4. Durr enthusiastically pumped his fist in the air as grinning Rufus King drum line members hoisted the first-place award that would return to their trophy room.

Their now-retired coach was happy to be there.

"You're with them for so long - for four years, when they're up and down," Durr said. "You owe it to them to come back."

In the Moment

In the Moment is a feature of the Journal Sentinel devoted to the people, places and character of our communities.