Please join us for a timely discussion on the Republic of Korea’s membership in the United Nations Security Council for the 2024-2025 term, featuring the ROK Permanent Representative to the United Nations Ambassador Joonkook HWANG, in conversation with Korea Society President and CEO Thomas Byrne. The Republic of Korea, which has a special history and bond with the United Nations, aims to actively contribute to world peace and security and fulfill the expectations of the international community during its tenure as a non-permanent member of the Security Council. This event will offer a valuable opportunity for the audience to gain insights into Ambassador Hwang’s perspective on the ROK’s vision for its Security Council activities, highlighting its interests and priorities among more than 60 regional and thematic agenda items on the Council. Moreover, Ambassador Hwang is anticipated to address the current status and future prospects of the Korean Peninsula, including recent changes and implications of North Korea’s nuclear and inter-Korean policies. This event will also serve as a platform for shedding light on new Security Council dynamics in recent years amidst ongoing global geopolitical changes, in particular the enhanced roles of non-permanent Council members, referred to as the Elected 10.

This event is co-hosted by the National Committee on American Foreign Policy (NCAFP) and features introductory remarks by Chairman of the Board of Trustees Jeffrey R. Shafer.

*Please note that the opening remarks from Ambassador Hwang will be livestreamed and On the Record. The following Q&A will not be livestreamed and will be Off the Record.

**Please note that in-person attendance at this program is By Invitation Only. Online registration for the livestream is open to all.

The Republic of Korea and the UN Security Council

with ROK Permanent Representative to the United Nations

Ambassador Joonkook HWANG

Friday, March 15, 2024 | 4:30 PM (EDT)

The Korea Society

350 Madison Avenue, 24th Floor

New York, NY 10017