UJ3RK5 were a band from Vancouver and their name is pronounced You Jerks. The band started out in 1977 and played their first gig in March 1978. They played with bands like DOA and Gang of Four. Quintessence released this self-titled ep back in 1980. They had a couple of songs on the "Vancouver Complication" release and this ep and that's all I know of. The songs on this ep are:

1. The Anglican

2. The Locator

3. Eisenhower and the Hippies

4. Booty Dread

5. Naum Gabo

6. UJ3RK5 Work for Police

This was the Government's first studio release. The recording is described as garagey and demonstrated Paterson's deadpan delivery and scathing social satire, here skewering the disco scene - or perhaps even the disco-hating knuckleheads of the day ("Disco music is for boys with limp wrists / I'm only interested in men with two fists"). Neither song captures the eerie intensity that would follow, especially after the band reached for the synthesizers on the brilliant 'Zippers of Fire'. Still, this would inspire bands with an edgier sound like Fifth Column, Kinetic Ideals, and Rent Boys Inc. The songs on here are:

1. Hemingway (Hated Disco)

2. I Only Drive My Car At Night

The Government was a punk group from Toronto that was part of the art side also associated with the OCA scene. The band featured Andrew James Paterson (guitar, vocals), Robert Stewart (bass, steel drums, vocals), Edward Boyd (drums), Jeremiah Chechik (scratch guitar/percussion) and Billy Bryans (drums; replaced Boyd 1981). The band played the Crash 'n Burn, The Edge, Larry's Hideaway, the Beverley Tavern and the Music Gallery. The songs that appear on this LP are:

Rude Norton were a joke punk band from Vancouver between 1980-1981 and featured a revolving lineup of members of the Subhumans, the Pointed Sticks and DOA. This ep was released on Rogelletti Records in 1980. Rude Norton would appear on the Vancouver Complication comp and woudl be credited for "Tits on the Beach" on the DOA release.

This was the band's third recording and was produced by Bob Bryden of Star Records. The line up for this recording was the band's second line up and featured Mickey DeSadist on vocals, Alan "Al McCombo" Smolak on guitat, Chris "Pogo Au Go Go" Houston on bass, and Larry Electrician on drums. In 1996, Star Records re-issued this on a CD. The songs on here are:

1. Bomb the Boats feed the Fish

2. I Think of Her

3. In Love with the System

4. The Punks are Alright

5. Rich and Bored

6. Time to Run

7. Fuck Me Dead

8. No Beatles Reunion

9. You're a Rebel Too

10. I left my heart in Iran

11. Elvis is Dead

12. Bones in the Hallway