Edited Text

A l^-pound Freshman

Orientation Kit and the

first letter from home

Welcome to

Cam p

Swarthm ore

“My biggest piece of advice is to have fun

this week and make the most of this

tremendous opportunity before classes start.”

This advice from Sophomore Bob Kuske was

the first of many pieces of friendly advice

Katherine Harper ’77 was to hear on her first

day at Swarthmore. Kathie’s first day as a

freshman began shortly after midnight when

she boarded the plane to Philadelphia from

her hometown of Tempe, Arizona. It was

more than 24 hours later before Kathie got to

bed in her new home in Wharton.

In those 24-plus hours Kathie began the

four-day process of getting oriented to her

new life. A 77-man freshman orientation

committee, composed mostly of sophomores, 1

had been working since last spring to plan

activities that would give Kathie and her

342 classmates (the largest freshman class in |

the College’s history) a helpful introduction |

to the campus and to each other.

They met them at the airport and train I

station and manned the registration tables ini

Parrish, where freshmen picked up a packet I

literature they had assembled and their room

key. They directed freshmen to their

dormitories and helped them with luggage.

They gave a tea for freshmen and their

parents so they would have a chance to meet

President Friend, also beginning his freshm

year. Later President Friend addressed the

freshman class in the Meeting House and th

freshmen returned to their dorms for hall

meetings with the upperclass resident

assistants. The day ended with roving dorm

parties which finally converged on Commonsj

at 11 P.M. for beer and dancing and

conversation.

The next days were even fuller: advanced1

placement tests in languages, English

literature, chemistry and biology; a swimmi

test, conferences with faculty advisers,

meetings with the deans, a game of Capture

the Flag played with 300 squirt guns, a

barbecue with faculty, a bonfire in the Cruffij'

a square dance, a late night swim. Camp

Swarthmore, as people have dubbed Fresh

Orientation, was in full swing and the Class

’77 was prepped for the first day of classes. I

On her first day, Kathie found her mailbox, unpacked,

made friends, and looked up Admissions Officer

Barbara Pearson Lange ’31, who was instrumental

m setting up the new Rocky Mountain

Scholarship which Kathie won.

Photographs by James Purring

Camp Swarthmore

Kathie listens attentively to President Friend, whom she’d met at the

Freshman tea, address the Class of ’77 in the Meeting House.

On Sharpies patio she and roommates sort out the day’s advice,

including “Down East Smoggy Air and Dirty Crum Creek Blues a pseudo­

subversive alternative to your freshman orientation handbook,

published by The Committee to make Togetherness Omnipresent (CoTomato).

2

S W A R T H M O R E A LU M N l*r 0 B E R

Kathie and two of her three roommates hear Residen

Assistant Cabot Christianson ’75 tell freshmen in his

coed section of Wharton to lock their doors, be

careful with candles, don’t put their beds on the floor,

be sensitive to those around them, and to knock

on his door any time with any problems. At freshmar

dorm party, Kathie has fun and forgets her worry

that she “ won’t be able to cut the academics.”

H | glfil

WbSLjl.'* JH

; -H

sssi

1M

ft l

-m

The Swarthmore College

Bulletin, of which this

publication is Volume LXXI,

No. 2, is published in

September, October, March,

May, July, and twice in

December and January

by Swarthmore College,

Swarthmore, Pennsylvania 19081

¡Qjlff’OBER, 1973

Camp Swarthmore

Football players have

their own special orientation

For Louis Lupin ’77, a McCabe Delmarva

Scholar from Claymont, Delaware, Freshman

Orientation was different. Lou arrived on

campus the day after Labor Day to play

football. By the time his classmates arrived,

Lou said, “I more or less felt I was already

oriented.” The only event he went to the first

day of orientation was the Parrish party and

only then because another football player

dragged him. He went home early. There was

little time for Lou, an enthusiastic jazz

musician, to keep up with his routine of daily

bass practice and his lessons had to be postponed

until classes started.

“I was too tired. Pre-season practice was

pretty tough in terms of conditioning and the

double sessions were exhausting, even though I

had been in good shape from lifting weights all

summer and running two miles a day since

August 1.”

Coach Millard Robinson conducted his own

form of orientation over the summer with all his

players, writing to the men and getting in touch

with many returning lettermen personally. “I

really liked all the football mailings,” says Lou.

“It was cheering to know he cared that much.”

Ü,

m

WÊÊ

K

f

?

êÊBm

1

1

I*

I

â

After a full day sharpening his skills as defensive

linebacker, Lou Lupin relaxes with another

football player and classmate, Mike Ehrhardt.

S W A R T H M O R E A L U M N I W CTa S

How an “I” battled a faceless “they” to rid

the Potomac of the CIA’s unique form of industrial waste

BY JOHN SEABURY THOMSON ’43

I canoe to work.

experiences of life in Washington: the

Each morning, except when the Sycamore Island Canoe Club, the

Potomac is ice-bound or in flood, Canoe Cruisers Association, and all

either alone or with one or two friends, the pleasures of white water canoeing.

I park my car on MacArthur Boule­ It also provided the foundation for the

vard, hike across two footbridges and Top Secret Slurry Caper.

down a zig-zag path to the river bank,

“Pulp Run” is a small year-round

take the rope-drawn ferry to Sycamore streamlet, unnamed on local maps,

Island, launch my canoe on the quiet which winds through the northern Vir­

aters of the Potomac and paddle ginia countryside and across the old

cross to the Virginia shore. Once Leiter estate to enter the Potomac

[there, I chain the canoe to a tree, hide River between Turkey Run and Little

he paddles, and hike up through the Falls Rapids. The ruin of an old sum­

SjSwoods, along the George Washington mer cottage—a fine old stone chimney

'^■Memorial Parkway and into the north —stands on its western shore and the

I

jgate of the Central Intelligence now-abandoned National Capital Park

l Agency’s grounds. In the evening I re- Trails # 1 and # 2 cross its mouth. In

J^erse the pattern.

the 1930’s the water from this stream,

All year around, canoeing is far and the spring at its source, was so

Superior to all other means of com­ pure that Sycamore Islanders used to

uting—there are no problems of paddle or row across the river to bring

kidding in the snow storms and in back with them jugs full for their

[times of high water we merely use the drinking water.

eddies and backwaters behind Ruperts

Modernization, progress, the popu­

sland to make our way up

tream before heading out and

errying across the flood to the

irginia shore. We often woner what the traffic helicopters

bverhead think of us—but find

the wildlife, birds and flowers

far more interesting and attrac­

tive. Unpredicted windstorms

—and high waves on the Po­

tomac—have given us pause,

3ut nothing can undercut the

satisfaction the canoe pool has

provided.

Canoeing to work has opened

^P the way to some of the best

I igpCTOBER, 1 9 7 3

lation explosion and big government

have overtaken the area, and Pulp

Run’s drainage basin has been vastly

changed, although the Potomac Pali­

sades through which it cuts remain

largely untouched. It is second-growth

woodland: sycamore, hickory, persim­

mon and pawpaw, together with the

fallen hulks of old chestnut scattered

along its slopes. The Leiter mansion

is gone, destroyed by fire, and the

George Washington Memorial Park­

way runs along the crest of the pali­

sade, bridging Pulp Run with a cul­

vert. Back farther from the river, the

massive Central Intelligence Agency

headquarters building sits firmly

astride the Pulp Run valley and, once

again, Pulp Run follows its natural

course some thirty to fifty feet below

the new ground level. As has always

been the case, Pulp Run carries the

runoff from the rains and serves as the

local storm sewer. The reshaping of

the land contours and the

large-scale paving operations

which accompanied the build­

ing process sharply changed the

run-off patterns, bringing heav­

ier water flows after each storm

and increased erosion but, byand-large, the visual quality of

the water was remarkably un­

changed. It remained cool, fresh

and transparent—a lovely nat­

ural stream of water.

Apparent catastrophe struck

Pulp Rim in the 1960’s, when,

in a move which reduced air

pollution and allowed for the

5

“I canoe to work. Each morning with

one or two friends, I park my car on

MacArthur Boulevard, hike across two

footbridges and down a zig-zag path to

the river bank, take the rope-drawn

ferry to Sycamore Island, launch my

canoe on the quiet waters of the

Potomac, and paddle across to the

Virginia shore. Once there, I chain the

canoe to a tree, hide the paddles, and

hike up through the woods, along the

George Washington Memorial Parkway,

and into the north gate of the Central

Intelligence Agency’s grounds. In the

evening I reverse the pattern.”

Photographs by Walter Behr.

6

¡recycling of paper products, the CIA

switched from burning its classified

|vaste to reducing it to pulp through

I chemical process. The General Serv­

ices Administration now takes this

pulp, solidifies it, introduces seeds and

fertilizer, and spreads it over the strip

pine area of West Virginia. Periodially, however, (and it frequently ap­

peared to be a daily event) the pulping

nks have had to be washed out. Quite

naturally, this washing water was al­

lowed to flow into the established drain

the basement floor; and this basepent drain, designed to carry off the

loff from rain storms and normal

rater spillages, connected into the

Itorm sewer. The water and its slurry

of pulp thus disappeared deep under)pound in the Agency’s basement. Al­

though it was not observed by the

Hypers—Pulp Run emerges only after

_t leaves the Agency grounds, out be­

yond the fence deep in the woods—

¡he stream was turned periodically

to a discolored sewer. In the momgs, as a rule, the water ran clear and

yean. In the afternoons, however, it

became thick with a slurry of paper

larticles. The CIA was putting into

lie Potomac its own unique industrial

.aste of Top Secret Pulp.

All this went unnoticed for about

le years—it was a small thing in the

|e of the Potomac—except when an

Kasional canoeist or walker stumbled

jito the stream by mistake. Then in

pril, 1971, we three Agency officers

bo had been canoeing to work (for

lasure and exercise) shifted our

fading place to the mouth of Pulp

inn.

¡Indignant at first, like other canoe|s before us, we soon turned to ex■

©ration and ultimately to the con­

fusion that our Agency was guilty of

lllution. I, who have always enjoyed

ping battle with windmills—with the

fadeless, faceless “they,” “them,” and

ft” of large bureaucracies, launched a

junpaign to clean up this small but

■itating addition to the Potomac’s

i'oblems.

lit was predictable that the faceless

jireaucrats quickly disappeared to be

placed by individuals just as conjjrned and disturbed about the probfus as I was. Each in his own way,

PTOBER, 1973

however, was struggling with the pro­

cedural problems of a large organiza­

tion—with the further problems of

dealing with other large organizations:

The General Services Administration,

the Environmental Protection Agency,

and the Fairfax County Authorities.

As a matter of record, all of these

organizations have shown a real and

constructive concern for the reduction

of environmental pollution.

I was greeted with skepticism, cool

reserve, and what I sensed as a degree

of hostility on my first, and only,

meeting with the officers charged with

handling the Pulp Run Problem. Who

was this nut, they seemed to be ask­

ing, who was stirring up trouble over

such a minor thing as this storm

sewer? I pointed out the exact location

of the problem on an Agency map—

and this was duly recorded with a red

grease pencil on an acetate overlay.

I volunteered to report regularly on

the state of the stream, since I planned

to observe it each morning and eve­

ning, and left the problem in the

hands of the bureaucracy.

The next morning all the coolness,

skepticism and hostility evaporated.

I was told I was absolutely right. WTe

were polluting the stream. Top Secret

Pulp was the cause. I was urged to

have patience. The problem was far

more complex than, on the surface, it

might seem. Paper pulp has the char­

acteristic of clogging up sewer lines

and turning rock-hard. The bureau­

cratic process is, at best, slow and in­

volved. Nonetheless, something would

be done. Indeed, I remained patient—

what else could be done?—but chose

to provide the information I had

promised on the on-going state of the

stream and its pulp content in written

reports and occasional phone calls.

Frustration and irritation sometimes

surfaced in the eight letters I filed be­

tween May 10 and December 13. Prog­

ress seemed almost nonexistent after

a first flurry of activity which resulted

in filters being placed in the pulping

plant’s storm sewer. I learned indi­

rectly, however, that my letters were

having an effect even though they

brought no replies. They were being

used as ammunition in the negotia­

tions with the county authorities. I

regained the degree of patience needed.

Patience was rewarded. On Decem­

ber 29 my phone rang. “John, you will

be pleased to know that as of Decem­

ber 22 the overflow from the pulping

process has been diverted from the

storm sewer into the Fairfax County

sewer system.” Since then Pulp Run

has been running clear.

Although I had begun to fear that

action would never come, I am im­

pressed, after the fact, that seven

months is a surprisingly short period

in which to have budged a large

bureaucracy. I found later that the

actual cash outlay for the hookup into

the sewer system was about $2,000—a

small price to pay—and that the de­

lay, if it can be so designated, was

only a wait for official authorization to

arrive from the county for the con­

nection.

My correspondence on this Pulp

Run Issue follows. It tells the story.

I would be fascinated to know what

other communication, inhouse and

interagency, went into the Top Secret

Slurry Caper.

May 10, 1971

Mr. Charles S.

Office of Logistics and Supply

Dear Mr. S.

I thought I’d give you a progress re­

port on the state of the stream and the

flow of the Top Secret Pulp into the

Potomac River. I recognize that there

has not been the time to install the

filter designed to keep the pulp from

the river, but I thought you’d be inter­

ested in one week’s observation.

On Monday mornings, last week and

today, the stream runs clear and seems

to remain in that state through to

sometime Tueday. From Wednesday

through Friday, especially in the after­

noons, the stream gets progressively

heavier with pulp—to the point where

it makes a very distinct color change

in the water at the mouth of the stream

and out into the river. It soon is so di­

luted and mixed, however, that it is

lost in the general flow of the river.

Despite the variations in the color

of the water through the week, the

sedimentary deposits of pulp on the

banks and in the stream bottom and

out into the river are quite permanent

7

—and thoroughly unpleasant to the

touch. It will take quite a time of

natural flushing through heavy rains

to clear the area up.

I am very glad that steps are being

taken to stop this element of pollution

from going into the river. Two points

puzzle me still. First, how did it hap­

pen that the washings from our pulp­

ing process were ever allowed to flow,

untreated, into a natural stream? Sec­

ond, will the filtering of the pulp out

of the wash return adequately pure

water to the stream or are we still

adding possibly dangerous wastes to

the river, now in a clear form?

Finally, I must admit that I find it

delightful that, like the mines which

add acids to the river, the farms with

their excessive nitrates, and the subur­

ban homes with their phosphates,

CIA’s unique form of industrial waste

should be Top Secret Pulp.

Sincerely,

John Seabury Thomson

copy to J.Q.R.

May 21, 1971

Mr. Charles S.

Office of Logistics and Supply

Dear Mr. S.

Herewith my second report on the

state of the Agency pollution on the

stream running into the Potomac.

It is my impression that conditions

have improved, although the stream

water is not yet clear in the after­

noons. At the moment there appears

to be little or none of the Top Secret

Pulp flowing down into the river. I

trust this means that the filter you re­

ferred to has been installed. Whether

from this filter or from the excessive

rainfall of the past few days, the ef­

fluent coming down the stream is now

only a pale milky color.

I am delighted with the apparent

improvement, but the question still re­

mains to bother me. How is it that we

are putting untreated, though filtered,

waste into the Potomac? If the water

is the rinse from the pulping tanks,

isn’t it still filled with chemicals? And,

if so, aren’t we still engaged in an im­

proper use of the natural stream and

river?

8

Some of the attractions of commuting by

canoe—geese, ducks, and occasionally a

blue heron flying heavily along the shore.

I have moved, on assignment.

Though this complicates and lengthens

my commuting time, I intend to con­

tinue my canoeing to and from work

and will thus be able to keep you in­

formed on the state of the stream

through the summer.

Sincerely,

John Seabury Thomson

copy to J.Q.R.

May 28, 1971

Mr. Charles S.

Office of Logistics and Supply

Dear Mr. S.

My report to you last Friday on the

pollution problem in the stream flow­

ing into the Potomac was overly opti­

mistic. To my regret, I can say only

that I see little change from the situ­

ation before I drew the problem to

your attention almost a month ago. If

a filter has in fact been installed, it

has made little or no improvement.

Friday afternoon, May 21, the stream

was as white with pulp as it has been

any time since I started observing it.

As I was canoeing this section of the

river on Saturday, I checked it again

—and still the stream ran white. Mon­

day the water was largely clear but

the stream bed, washed relatively

clean by the earlier rains, was starting

to fill with the Slime I noted earlier. I

missed on Tuesday since I came to the

office by car, but on Wednesday in the

morning the stream was turning milky

again. In the afternoon it was as thick

as it had been the preceding Friday.

Thursday morning and evening the

water in the stream was relativel;jasg j

clear but at noon, observed from thgts_,

George Washington Memorial Part^^,

way, the stream was filled with t^nn_

whiteness of the pulp.

-aking

I cannot urge too strongly effectÙNounf

action to stop this unnecessary and iiiear «=

responsible pollution of the stream bnac ,

the Agency. Aside from the endange^e v

ing of the water supply, which I mui)eautj

assume to exist, this action is boun^j-Q^

to bring undesirable publicity to %£jeg

Agency. The state of the stream ca-gg^g

be observed from the highway itse To

and, beyond this, more and moi^

walkers, strolling along the shore froihat $

Turkey Rim Picnic Area, are going

be upset by the appearance of >porac

shore line where the pulp flows innate

the Potomac.

fou a]

* Sincerely,

:lear,

John Seabury ThomsOjy eV(

copy to J.Q.R.

;he ar

is bac

June 19, l^his

Mr. Charles S.

houg]

Office of Logistics and Supply

>nly

This i

Dear Mr. S.

The story in the Post this morni%ater

“City Warned: Keep Out of Rive Thi

Creek” stirred me to further action Oepres

this issue of pollution in the Potoma3rote(

I’m attaching a copy of the notes froihe qu

two separate phone calls I made, bol’H be

because I think you’ll be interestfaidini

and in order to show that, if I’m a n

on the issue of pollution, I’m a be

anced nut. I object to exaggeration topy 1

the dangers as much as I do to addii

anything to our problems. I’m excee

ingly anxious that we tackle the prMr. C

lems of pollution in such a way tWffice

the whole area will benefit throupear .

improved water conditions, and n Firs

through the closing of recreational fhe ge

cilities.

Pver i

Obviously my concerns are mueport

more deep-seated than mere personunnir

irritation over the looks of the littccasi

stream at the landing place on tkilpir

Virginia shores. I’m in or on the rivpe de

most of my free time and spend a govater

deal of time introducing more peopmpo

to its pleasures. This past weekeiwnen

for example, I was the instructor inue w

I

S W A R T H M O R E A L U M N I ISSl'CTOB

lve'dass for beginning white-water canoe1 ¡sts—we had some seventy Grumman

^arWnoes in the program at Old Angler’s

1 %in—and then spent Sunday morning

aking members of the Montgomery

lC county Council on a tour of facilities

1(* ]iear Seneca—and down the old Patawm yiac Canal on the Virginia Shores.

n^eiThe whole of the river valley is too

mUi)eautiful to be tampered with either

'through carelessness about small quan3 %ties of waste or excessive officious

1 Regulation of its use.

itse To bring you up to date on the state

m01»f the small stream, I’m convinced

fr°lhat there has been a marked improven8 nent. Nonetheless, there is still a

^ Sporadic failure of the filter system, or

1 ^whatever. Wednesday of last week, as

mu already know, the water was quite

:lear, although it was markedly cloudy

'ms0>y evening. Thursday in the evening

he amount of gunk in the stream was

is bad as I’ve seen it since the start of

191his “campaign” of mine. On Friday,

hough, the water was quite good and

>nly mildly cloudy in the evening.

This morning, for what it is worth, the

‘ni%ater was clear again.

Rive Thanks for letting me know that the

on Representative of the Environmental

oma^rotection Agency was checking on

>fr<®ie quality of our waste in the stream.

, bot’H be most interested in hearing his

resfondings.

a 111

Sincerely,

a b

John Seabury Thomson

iontopy to J.Q.R.

ddii

scee

September 22, 1971

proHr. Charles S.

V thOffice of Logistics and Supply

iroupear Mr. S.

d n First, let me congratulate you on

ial fhe general condition of “Pulp Run.”

j)ver the past three months since I last

rruieported to you, the stream has been

rsoiwnning clear most of the time. On the

s littccasions when it is evident that the

>n gulping tanks have been washed down,

3 ri^be degree of pollution is such that the

a govater has only turned a milky white

peopmporarily. We have not had the reekeiWrrence of the thick white pulp resi>r iiue which was common back in April

ISStCTOBER, 1973

before I drew this to your attention.

The environmental conditions within

the run are not perfect, naturally, but

we have come a long way toward re­

storing the natural situation.

You would probably be interested to

know that back in the thirties and

early forties Pulp Run was so pure

that Sycamore Islanders used to row

across the river to draw their drinking

water from the stream. Naturally—

and sadly—we now rely on our own

well and a chlorinating system instead.

My silence over these past weeks

has been caused by a number of differ­

ent factors. The most important of

these has been my sense that every

time I plan to write a congratulatory

note to you the stream turns up par-

ticularly messy as I pass it on the way

home! In addition, however, the canoe

pool has been disrupted by a number

of things. One member, Joe M., retired

and all of us have had breaks for va­

cation time. Most serious, though, was

the fact that my canoe was stolen

(Complaint #19,922 to the U.S. Park

Police!) in the middle of July.

I am back in business again with a

new canoe—and will be reporting to

you at odd intervals when there is

something to note. In the meantime,

my thanks to you for the interest and

concern you have shown for this prob­

lem of pollution.

Sincerely,

John Seabury Thomson

copy to J.Q.R.

October 1, 1971

Mr. Charles S.

Office of Logistics and Supply

Dear Mr. S.

My reluctance to write you a note

last week—for fear that it would upset

the nice balance and start a flow of

washings from the pulping tank down

through the small stream—was justi­

fied. Starting Thursday, September 23,

the stream has been going from bad to

worse. Herewith my account:

Thursday, September 23:

Friday, September 24:

Saturday and Sunday

Monday, September 27:

Tuesday, September 28:

Wednesday, September 29:

Thursday, September 30:

Friday, October 10:

Stream clear at 7:45, milky at 5:45 p.m.

Clear in the morning, increasingly milky in the

afternoon.

No observation.

Clear both morning and afternoon.

(This is the only day, apparently, when the tanks

have not been washed.)

Clear in the morning, milky in the afternoon.

Slight discoloration in the morning, heavier milky

substance in the afternoon.

Almost clear in the morning, but the amount of

white pulp in the afternoon was the thickest since

last May. A yellowish fungus-like deposit reap­

peared in the stream bed. Earlier such deposits

had been flushed by the heavy rains this summer.

The stream ran white in the morning for the first

time in months. The deposit in the stream bed is

deeper, and foam floats in the pools. The water

into the river was extensively discolored.

I fear that there has been a rather

serious slippage on the part of the

pulpers from the standards you set. I

trust you can get them back on the

track—because it is a lovely little

stream when it is clear.

I’ll keep my reports flowing to you

through the winter—unless you’d pre­

fer I sent them to someone else.

Sincerely,

John Seabury Thomson

copy to J.Q.R.

9

December 13,19

mwfc.fl

f' '

Canoeing to work introduced John Thomson 43 to the Top Secret Slurry Caper.

or those times when I’ve had to have

the car at the office. A pattern emerges,

Mr. Charles S.

or appears to. It seems to me that the

Office of Logistics and Supply

filters start out quite effective, and

Dear Mr. S.

I am most pleased to have chatted then become progressively more un­

with you on the state of the stream— satisfactory. Finally, it would seem, we

to learn that efforts continue to clear almost get back to conditions predat­

up our contribution to the Potomac’s ing the installations of the filters. And

pollution and to learn that my notes then, once they have been cleaned,

may have been of some use to the things are relatively good again. Even

engineers. I’m attaching a more-or-less so, I must add that I continue to ob­

day-by-day account of the stream since ject to the washings when the stream

the first of the month. The days with­ is no more discolored than a very

out observation are either weekends heavily watered skimmed milk.

October 21, 1971

Date

Morning

Afternoon

Friday Oct. 1

Saturday Oct. 2

Sunday Oct. 3

Monday Oct. 4

Tuesday Oct. 5

Wednesday Oct. 6

Thursday Oct. 7

Friday Oct. 8

Saturday thru Tuesday

Wednesday Oct. 13

Thursday Oct. 14

Friday thru Sunday

Monday Oct. 18

Tuesday Oct. 19

thick milky (1)

not observed

not observed

clear

clear

clear

not observed

clear

not observed

clear

clear

not observed

clear

clear

stream clearing up

not observed

not observed

slightly milky effect

thin milky effect

white and foamy

not observed

thick white state

Sincerely,

John Seabury Thomson

copy to J.Q.R.

10

thin milky

thin milky

thick milky state

thin milky

Mr. Charles S.

(

Office of Logistics and Supply

office

Dear Mr. S.

Dear

My silence of the past six weeks i j d

dicates neither declining interest in flAK

state of Pulp Run nor satisfaction wi^ ht£

the progress which has been made

ward elimination of the waste from

stream. To the contrary, my conceA

remains high, and I expect that |9 ijH |

the next few weeks I shall be obseigQ-^j

ing the stream’s statemore close F

again.

I have been pleased, indeed, to here ,

reverberations from my letter-writ^^

campaign. Tony Z., with whom I ppl

20 days of a seminar, tells me that y ,

area is the end user of my letters; “the 2;

they become ammunition in

sions with county officials. A y o i ^ 2

officer tells of hearing that “the cant^ ,

ists” are bringing pressure for po|hing

tion control. I do hope that all tiwater

will lead to the actual elimination)^^

the overflow.

jramsl

My recent observations of the strea^ ^

have been more irregular than H h o r t

but the pattern remains consisteimore

The mornings are good—the wat y 0

clear. The afternoons are bad withe a

varying amounts of pulp and whiter;_w

water flowing into the river. Hiand

water and heavy rainfall has helpj^

but the flow down through the woGflowe]

is not sufficient to flush out the settig£rea]

paper pulp—although the erosion ^arjy

this small stream has been consid^^ v

able over the past year.

fruitIt has now been about seven moniperg-]

since I first started reporting on oour p

Agency pollution problem and, !0j?a ^

you know, I’ve been most pleased % a

the efforts which have been made»Serve

abate the flow into the stream. I kncQf ra,

of course, that the wheels of burea^n d

racy, like the mills of the gods, g^padd]

slowly. I do hope, though, that we W€

ultimately find the way to tie into ^ ai

public sewer system instead of jnclm

river.

geese

Sincerely,

small

John Seabury Thor%auj

copy to J.Q.R.

along

Ou

lutioi

that f

S W A R T H M O R E A L U M N I ISSDCTO]

’^

December 30, 1971

Mr. Charles S.

Office of Logistics and Supply

Dear Charles:

. s * I don’t know when I have received a

m ¡phone call which has pleased and deIW

1lighted me so much as yours of yesterde 'day. My warmest thanks and heartiest

m congratulations to you and to all our

)nce*Agency people who have put their

^ ovthought and effort into diverting the

kseiS0MAT slurry from Pulp Run into

j os^the Fairfax sewer system.

My paddling has been somewhat ir0 . 'regular recently, but I thought things

^ V ere changing. On the 21st the old

^pattern of clear-water mornings and

ia^ milky afternoons seemed to hold. On

%he 23rd I wasn’t sure, but I thought it

^isclmight be improving, and on Tuesday,

^°\he 28th (the next day I could padcan!dle) I was certain that, indeed, someP^thing had changed the quality of the

water remarkably. It was beautifully

J0 iclear this morning. It will take a heavy

rainstorm or two to wash out the re3^W ining sediment, but that will come

us\hortly. I shall now have to think up a

¡more fitting name for our little stream.

w You may be interested in some of

r| uie attractions of commuting by canoe

IItPll •

••

.

#

—m addition to the physical exercise

and the environmental improvement

ie^campaign which I enjoy. The spring

woflowers along the river bank and the

sedstream bed are lovely in April and

uonjgariy May. In the late summer and

ns%all we’ve found an abundance of wild

fruit—raspberries, pawpaws, and wild

monpersimmons—and hickory nuts. Along

on (our path up the hill we’ve had the nest

nd’ of a Carolina wren hidden in the roots

3d of a large tree and were able to obiadeserve it from the first egg to a nest full

I k^of ravenous young birds. Flood waters

ureaon the river knocked us out of our

’> ^paddling routine for about two weeks

we so we never saw the young birds take

^^bff and fly. Bird life on the river has

°* included mergansers and Canada

geese, several varieties of duck and

smaller water fowl, gulls and two

hor%eautiful blue heron that fly heavily

along the river shore.

Our concern for the problems of pol­

lution should not blind us to the fact

that fishing in this area of the Potomac

■J

I ISSbCTOBER, 19 7 3

is quite good and that wildlife is re­

turning. Ten years ago, when three of

us first started canoeing to work, we

once saw a deer along the shore.

Racoon and muskrat are plentiful and,

I guess, always have been. Recent re­

turnees include both beaver and otter.

The number of trees felled by beaver

on the river islands and the Maryland

shore, and most recently on the Vir­

ginia shore is almost alarming. Finally,

this morning I saw my first beaver

swimming upstream, in the middle of

the Potomac. As I approached him in

my canoe, he dove for safety, giving a

sharp smack to the surface of the

water with his tail. It was about six

weeks ago that I saw my first otter,

also swimming upstream. He, too, dove

to get away from me, making a sleek

arc of brown as he went under.

Along with these specific attractions,

the never-ending changes in the at­

mosphere and the weather are a con­

tinuous pleasure—and sometimes a

challenge. (We drive to work if it is

raining in the morning but, if it rains

in the afternoon, I always try to get

the canoe back to the safety of Syca­

more Island. Even in broad daylight

I had one canoe stolen from the Vir­

ginia shore where it had been chained

to a tree.) A few days ago when we

had a particularly heavy fog on the

river we very nearly paddled in a com­

plete circle—and ultimately made our

way to the proper shore and our

stream-mouth landing by relying on

the sound of Little Falls Rapids to

guide us. We kept the roar of the

water to our left as we paddled.

Once again, my deepest thanks and

warmest congratulations to you, and to

our Agency, for responding so well to

this minor aspect of the truly import­

ant problem of protecting and improv­

ing our environment. It has given me

a great deal of faith in our sensitivity

and our willingness to take corrective

actions.

A happy new year to you. Come

down and visit our stream in 1972. It

is a lovely sight and will now be even

more beautiful.

Very Sincerely,

John Seabury Thomson

copy to J.Q.R.

TOP TEN

The Swarthmore College

Bulletin was named a Top Ten

Alumni Magazine in national

competition sponsored by the

American Alumni Council last

June. It was the sixth year the

magazine has been so honored.

The May, 1972, special issue on

poetry was cited for special

excellence, and The Chronicle of

Higher Education cited the

magazine for “superior reporting

of the institutional issues and

internal problems of higher

education.” The other Top Ten

alumni periodicals are from

Brown, Cornell (Alumni News

and Engineering: Cornell

Quarterly), Harvard, University

of Massachusetts at Amherst,

University of Missouri, Notre

Dame, University of Pennsyl­

vania, and Pomona.

The College also won a direct

mail award for its annual giving

mailing “Swarthmore still risks

eating its own tail.”

11

A

HUNDRED

YEAR

RECKONING

Do the aims for Swarthmore

set forth by the founding Quakers

still ring true ?

12

DOTO]

S W A R T H M O R E A L U M N I ISS

In recent years we have marked a

number of centennial anniversaries

connected with the beginnings of

Swarthmore College. In 1964 we cele­

brated the centennial of the granting

of the College charter. In the fall of

1969, when the present seniors came

as freshmen, President Cross pointed

out that the actual opening of the

College occurred one hundred years

before, in the fall of 1869. The first

graduating class was the Class of 1873.

and the first degrees were conferred

in that year. In 1973, it is appropriate

for us to observe that we have come

to the centennial of that occasion.

The Class of 1873 had 26 members

when they entered as freshmen, but

^ by the time they were seniors there

jwere only six. The Class of 1973

numbered 330 as freshmen, and 294

^received degrees at Commencement in

^ June. It is obvious that far fewer perSS^Jlisted until graduation in the early

^Sftrears and that attrition was much

^higher. Was it easier to flunk out in

j l h e old days and harder to remain for

jjpSthe full four years? Have we made the

Bjkrequirements for graduation less strinfeent so that many more can remain

(and receive degrees?

Let’s go back even more than one

undred years and look briefly at the

■»«reasons why the College was estabished and at the aims and objectives

f those who established it. To do so

e must go back to the 1850’s when a

oup of Quakers in Baltimore began

o hold meetings to consider the imgjjprovement of educational opportuni­

t i e s in the Society of Friends. They

ecided that the chief need was for a

^Jboarding school where young people

ould obtain an education beyond the

‘common branches,” and for a college

here teachers might be trained for

riends schools. Quakers were beginmg to feel the need for secondary

Jid higher education and very few

chools which seemed satisfactory

ere available to them. The few that

existed were essentially local and

drew their students from a limited

area. There was a clear need for an

institution of the sort proposed by the

Baltimore Friends, but it soon became

evident that the plan would require

wider support. They enlisted the help,

I IS!

OCTOBER, 1973

therefore, of similarly minded Friends

in Philadelphia and New York.

A meeting of Friends from the three

Yearly Meetings was held in Balti­

more on October 2, 1860, which re­

sulted in an organization called the

Friends Educational Association and

a document called an “Address of

some Members of the Religious So­

ciety of Friends to their fellow mem­

bers proposing the establishment of a

Boarding School for Friends children,

and for the education of teachers.”

It was signed by 77 Friends from

Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New

York. They acted as individuals, and

not as official representatives, and it

was clear from the beginning that they

did not intend that the proposed in­

stitution be directly controlled by the

Yearly Meetings.

Among the 77 signers were a num­

ber of distinguished persons: In the

Baltimore group were Martha E.

Tyson, who had originated the pro­

posal several years before; Benjamin

Hallowell, whose scientific interests

helped to give shape to the proposed

institution; and Samuel M. Janney,

an educator and the author of schol­

arly books on Quaker history. The

Philadelphia group included Lucretia

Mott, the abolitionist and advocate of

women’s rights, and Edward Parrish,

who later became the first president.

The New York group included Samuel

Willets, who later became president of

the Board and whose generous con­

tributions enabled the building fund

to reach its goal. It is perhaps invidi­

ous to name these and not others, for

one recognizes in the list the names

of many families who have supported

the College faithfully through several

generations.

The selection of a site for the new

institution provoked some controversy

between advocates of a city location

and those who favored the country. A

solution was soon reached, however,

and a farm was purchased some 11

miles southwest of Philadelphia. A

charter was applied for and granted by

the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania

BY JOHN M. MOORE

Professor Emeritus of

Philosophy and Religion

on May 4, 1864. The charter made it

clear that what was intended was no

mere boarding school but an institu­

tion authorized to provide instruction

in the arts and sciences and to grant

the usual degrees. The name Swarth­

more College was chosen to com­

memorate Swarthmoor Hall in the

north of England where George Fox

established a center of Quaker activity

and found a wife.

Plans were laid and committees ap­

pointed to raise the necessary funds.

The method adopted was the offering

of shares, but it was made clear from

the start that no profits were to be

expected. The subscribers or stock­

holders formed the corporation which

elected officers and a Board of Mana­

gers. The Board had responsibility for

overseeing the operation of the Col­

lege and made annual reports to the

Corporation.

One of the first actions of the Board

was the naming of Edward Parrish, a

pharmaceutical scientist, as the first

president. The new president took

leave from his business and profes­

sional interests in Philadelphia and

immediately went to work raising

money. An architectural firm was en­

gaged, and plans were drawn for a

building to house the new institution.

The principal architect was Addison

Hutton, a Philadelphia Friend who

later designed buildings both for Haverford and Bryn Mawr and for Westtown and George School.

The cornerstone of the building we

know as Parrish Hall was laid on May

10, 1866, and two important and re­

vealing addresses were delivered: one

by President Parrish and one by Dr.

Joseph Thomas, an editor and author

of Philadelphia. These addresses con­

tain the clearest statements I have

found of the aims and ideas in the

minds of the persons who established

Swarthmore College.

In his address President Parrish set

forth four aims for the new College:

(1) coeducation, (2) academic stand­

ards equal to those of the best col­

leges, (3) a liberal, balanced curricu­

lum, and (4) a “guarded education”

which placed moral values in the high­

est position. It will be instructive to

see what has happened to these aims

13

“What we Americans have

most to fear is a dead level

of mediocrity in . . . education”

over the course of a century and

whether they are relevant to the Col­

lege of today.

First, President Parrish said, “We

aim to educate the sexes together.”

This may not sound revolutionary to­

day, but it certainly seemed so at the

time. Swarthmore was not the first co­

educational college in the United

States—this honor belongs to Oberlin

—but it was one of the pioneers in

this field. The idea of coeducation

seemed far more radical in the con­

servative East than in the Middle

West of that day. It was called “an

impracticable fancy, born in the rev­

erie of some speculative mind, wellmeaning perhaps but utterly ahead of

sober sense and prudent wisdom . . .

anomalous, absurd.” In recent years

we have seen a remarkable change of

attitude toward coeducation and a

sudden crumbling of traditional preju­

dices. Institutions such as Princeton

and Yale, long regarded as citadels

of male exclusiveness, have suddenly

opened their doors to women, and

some of the women’s colleges have an­

nounced their intention to become co­

educational. One cannot help wonder­

ing whether what is intended is a

full equality of the sexes or only a

token representation. But perhaps we

should look about us in our own

house before we cast too many stones

in the direction of others. Have we

achieved a full equality of the sexes

when only a small number of our fac­

ulty are women, or when most offices

in student organizations are regularly

held by men?

The second aim was stated by Presi­

dent Parrish in these words: “We shall

propose a high grade of intellectual

attainment for those who seek our

diploma.” He quoted with approval

the declaration made in the original

Address that what was sought was “an

institution in which an education

could be obtained equal to that fur­

nished by the best colleges in the

land.” The faculty must have agreed

14

Martha Tyson, original proposer

with the President, for when the in­

stitution opened its doors in the fall

of 1869, the incoming students were

required to take a series of entrance

examinations, and on the basis of

these examinations they were assigned

to their respective classes. Only 26

were classified as freshmen and none

was given advanced standing. The

other 173 were assigned to the pre­

paratory department. For seventeen

years the enrolment in the preparatory

department exceeded that of the col­

lege. As the qualifications of incoming

students improved, the more elemen­

tary courses were dropped, but it was

not until 1894 that the preparatory de­

partment was finally discontinued.

This was one of the most important

policy decisions in the history of

Swarthmore College.

The second speaker at the laying of

the cornerstone in 1866 was Dr.

Joseph Thomas, an editor and author

connected with J. B. Lippincott and

Co., the Philadelphia publishers, who

later became professor of English at

Swarthmore. Dr. Thomas strongly

supported President Parrish’s demand

for high academic standards. “In my

opinion,” he said, “what we Americans

have most to fear, is a dead level of

mediocrity in the education of oiiuniti<

people. . . . Many persons seem to tydvan

lieve that a moderate education, These

joined with good common sense, Iquali

sufficient for all the purposes of liinust:

It may be all that is needed for ordequir

nary occasions, but not for the highership

objects of our existence.”

riandi

These words might easily have beefonal

taken as a text by Frank Aydelottrder

the seventh president, whose adminh a (

tration from 1921 to 1940 saw Swartipecia

more develop fully into an institutinore

of the highest standards and standiiyell-n

Dr. Aydelotte’s greatest monument hese

the Honors Program which was d Sur<

veloped under his leadership and wiiolleg

strong faculty support. It is interestiibera]

to note that the first graduates in tit the

Honors Program received their drho b

grees just fifty years ago, in 192iotiv;

Hence as we celebrate the completiim si

of a full century of the history tiing

Swarthmore College as a degree granemoc

ing institution, we are also celebratiisrve

a half-century of the Honors Program hea

Both the academic curriculum and tbader

athletic program were completeratia

transformed under Dr. Aydelotte’hey

leadership, the relationship betwefith t

students and faculty was greatly Pt tl

tered, and a marked change took plaeek t

in the nature of student interests aims

activities. Swarthmore College thenPmpe

tained the position of academic excfays.

lence toward which it had betake

pointed from its beginning.

^ le

We must remind ourselves, hofill b<

ever, that academic excellence in inict]

institution is as difficult to maintain dead

it is to attain in the first place. Th«*wart]

are insistent pressures in various (mg £

rections which must be withstood The

standards are to be kept at a hi|arris

level and relevant to changing coniSe s]

tions. It is often said that the gre^th e

educational task of the present dayartm

to provide better education for evePces,

body in a democratic society, and face

one would deny the necessity of tF10^

task. It is also said that we must p aced

vide compensatory educational op]*1086

S W A R T H M O R E A L U M N I ISSPT 0 B -

“It is a false idea of

education which . . . degrades it

to a mere utilitarian basis”

f oiunities for those who have been disto Advantaged and discriminated against,

m, These demands for more genuine

se, ¡quality of educational opportunity

f libust indeed be met, and to do so will

ordequire political and educational leadighership of a high order. Ever more denanding and varied forms of profesi beefonal competence will be needed in

slottrder to provide the necessary services

ninh a complex society. It remains the

vartipecial task of institutions like Swarthtutinore to assist carefully selected and

ndiivell-motivated young people to meet

enthese exacting demands,

is d Surely this means that Swarthmore

I wiCollege should continue to provide

estiiberal and pre-professional education

in tit the highest possible level for those

ir drho have the necessary capacity and

192iotivation. If it is said that such an

>letiim smacks of elitism and that any>ry tiing of the sort is out of place in a

graiemocratrc society, one can only obiratferve that a democratic society which

>gran healthy and functional must have

nd traders. These leaders must be demofleteratically chosen and responsible,

slotte’hey must be not merely well-trained

itwefith technical and professional skills

tly Ut they must be persons who will

t plaeek to understand the complex probts aPnis of applying their professional

len pmpetence in socially constructive

exdays. Any society which does not

bedake adequate provision for developig leaders and servants of this sort

hofiH be sowing the seeds of its own de­

in fruction. It will condemn itself to that

tain dead level of mediocrity” which

'Th^warthmore College from the begin)us

set out to overcome,

nod The third aim set forth by President

a hfarrish in 1866 was that the new colconiSe should have a liberal curriculum

? grdth a balance between the main dedayartments of knowledge. “The scieverlces,” he said, “will have here a

and face not yet conceded to them in

of tP10^] colleges.” President Parrish

Lst piaced his influence firmly behind

opp(lose who wished the new college to

I ISSPTOBER, 1973

Edward Parrish, first president

have a “modem” curriculum rather

than a traditional one. In this he was

undoubtedly following his own scien­

tific and practical bent, for he was a

scientist, a professor in the Philadel­

phia College of Pharmacy, and one

who had taught that subject to medi­

cal students in the University. He was

also expressing the views of intellec­

tual leaders among the Quaker found­

ers of the College, such as Benjamin

Hallowell and Lucretia Mott. He did

not, however, go on to advocate a

primarily practical curriculum, as

some elements in the Quaker com­

munity doubtless hoped he would do.

The practical elements were recog­

nized in the provisions made for lab­

oratory work in the sciences, in the

early establishment of a department

of engineering, and in the emphasis

given to the training of teachers. But

those who wanted the College to go

much further in the direction of prac­

tical training for business and me­

chanical trades were firmly put down.

“It is a false idea of education which

limits it to any one class of studies

or degrades it to a mere utilitarian

basis . . .” the President declared. “We

claim a higher mission for Swarth­

more College than that of fitting men

and women for business—it should fit

them for life with all its possibilities.”

President Parrish expressed the hope

“that those who shall hereafter guide

its destinies shall be inspired with

a love of learning for its own sake,”

and added “may they never cease to

couple in their systems of training the

highest intellectual culture with the

development of the moral and reli­

gious elements of character.” But it is

apparent today that the founders of

the College had certain blind spots:

They did not see the need of system­

atic instruction in what we call the

social sciences or in social problems.

The other blind spot is disclosed by

their almost total neglect of the arts.

The fourth and last of the aims or

objectives for Swarthmore College out­

lined by President Parrish in 1866

was a “guarded education,” to use the

terminology preferred by the Quakers

at that time. It is perhaps unfortunate

that he used an expression which to

us may appear wholly negative. A

guarded education seems to us to be a

moral equivalent of the ivory tower,

and the viewpoint of the Quaker

founders undoubtedly had many nega­

tive and restrictive features. In the

18th century Quakers had built a pro­

tective hedge about their sect in an

effort to keep themselves unspotted

from the world. Similarly the Quakers

of the 19th century believed that edu­

cation should be carried on in a care­

fully guarded environment. The school

was to be “a garden enclosed” into

which the evils of the world were not

to be permitted to penetrate. This was

why the founders located the College

in the country far removed from the

evils and temptations of city life. This

is why they tried to recreate in the

college community the value-laden at­

mosphere of a well-regulated family.

That there were many regulations is

obvious, and many of them seem ab­

surdly restrictive today. Yet we should

remember that they were dealing at

first with a very youthful group, some

15

of whom were only twelve or thirteen

and few of whom were over twenty.

They were beginning a daring experi­

ment in coeducation, and they were

willing to go to great lengths to make

it succeed. In their zeal for a guarded

education they even attempted for a

time to keep books of fiction out of the

library and pianos out of the parlors.

But these extreme restrictions did not

last very long.

Under the dynamic and popular

leadership of President Swain, the

value system of the College was very

greatly changed. The old ideal of a

guarded education was quietly dropped

or transformed into an ideal which

combined service to society with edu­

cation for successful living. The Col­

lege was still predominantly Quaker,

but the Quaker community itself was

rapidly losing its sectarian separate­

ness and breaking down the hedge

which had kept it apart from the

world. So President Swain led the

College into a new era of comparative

prosperity and confidence. The stu­

dents were permitted to develop extra­

curricular activities on an unprece­

dented scale, and if it seems to us

today that they went overboard in

their enthusiasm for fraternities and

football, we must remember that they

believed themselves to be escaping

from the trammels of an outmoded

past and enjoying the freedom of a

new era.

It should also be remembered that

the old concept of a guarded education

has its positive as well as its negative

aspects. President Parrish explained it

thus: “It is our desire to give its

proper place to that feature of moral

training. . . . which rests upon the

recognition of the intuitive sense of

right and wrong implanted by the

Creator in every rational soul. . . .

that free agency which is the high pre­

rogative of our nature.” It is apparent

that the first president, speaking no

doubt for an influential and liberal

segment of the Quaker community,

thought of the moral purpose of the

College as something far beyond mere

sectarian interests. He appealed rather

to a general idealism which he be­

lieved would command wide support.

16

“The Friends are not propagan­

dists,” he said. “They have not aimed

to proselyte. They seek here to set up

an institution. . . . in which the incon­

sistency of war with pure Christianity

shall be made a matter of conscien­

tious examination. . . . in which truth

and duty shall be set far above mere

expediency, and obedience to law be

taught as limited only by the para­

mount obligations of conscience. . . .

in which the Christian democracy of

the early Friends shall be maintained.”

It is clear, therefore, that the found­

ers established Swarthmore College on

the basis of a philosophy which recog­

nized that certain moral values and

commitments underlie the educational

process. They knew what their values

were and they made their commit­

ments openly. They invited others who

shared similar interests and values to

take part with them in an educational

enterprise in which these values might

be sought and their applications

worked out in an atmosphere of con­

scientious and responsible freedom.

Most of us would agree that the

founders of this College were right in

their conviction that the aims of edu­

cation are moral as well as intellec­

tual. We too believe that intellectual

facility without moral integrity is dan­

gerous both to the individual and to

society. If our moral insights and

commitments take forms different from

those of a century ago, this should

not be surprising. We have long been

aware that

New occasions teach new duties,

Time makes ancient good uncouth.

A good many of the moral attitudes

and judgments which were unques­

tioned a century ago seem quaint or

abhorrent today, and the rules and

regulations by which they were ex­

pressed seem not merely repressive

but absurd. This distinction is signifi­

cant because it shows that the rejec­

tion of certain beliefs and attitudes

goes much deeper than just rebellion

—some rebelliousness is to be ex­

pected in any society, especially

among the young. A real change in

the moral climate has taken place.

It would be quite wrong, however,

to think that here at Swarthmore, at

any rate, there has been any weakei

ing of the moral sense or any chani

in the basic conviction that moi

values are central to a community!

a society. I am convinced that the

is a clear line of continuity in tli

respect from the early days of tl

College to the present. Indeed the

has been abundant evidence in rece

years that the strength of moral at

tudes and commitments has be

growing rather than diminishing, 'll

present generation of students mai

fests increasing sensitivity to a wit

range of issues and values some

which were overlooked or ignored evi

a short time ago.

College life has taken on a m

seriousness in recent years, and 1 1

convinced that this seriousness is!

moral phenomenon of great impi

tance. I am not, of course, saying th

“there is no sin £t old Swarthmorf

what I am saying is that the moi

sense of the present generation is cle

and keen and that while the spec!

forms of moral concern have shift!

the capacity for concern is still presei

We are very conscious of soci

problems nowadays, and we are i

creasingly aware that the moral co

ponent is of fundamental importai

in all of them. The extreme compli

ity of the problems that confront

is well understood here at Swat

more. We are devoted to intellect!

analysis and we are rightly suspicio

of oversimplified answers. But we (

also, I believe, sensitive to the ethii

dimension of these problems and

would insist that no public policy

acceptable which does not take i

count of this dimension.

So much for the present; what

the future? What direction will |

College take in the next period of

life? These questions will doubt!

prove to be difficult and as challengi

as any that have been faced in the p

But we shall go forward in confide!

that our historic objectives are si

valid and that we can safely build

the foundations that have been

and truly laid.

This article was adapted from Prof&

Moore’s baccalaureate address on

3, 1973.

S W A R T H M O R E A L U M N I lSi'C T0 B

Can TVP Replace Saturday night steaks? Cracked

sake

;haii|

moi

lity i

the

wheat and apricot casserole rates four stars.

tl

n

of tl

the

rece

il at

be

g. 1

mai

i wit

►me

"

IV

a m

impi

lg tl

morf

moi

is cle

spec!

jhiftf

■resei

sod

ire i

tl CO!

irtai

mplf

ont

Jwari

ilecti

picio

we i

ethii

in d

)licy

ike i

/hat

dll f

1 of

►ubtl

lengi

le p

fidet

re d

uiia

’rof&

m Jl

I iSifCTOBER, 19 73

The

College

Holy Cow! Swarthmore students re­

turned to campus in early September

to find their traditional Saturday night

steak dinner had fallen victim to the

beef shortage. Instead of beefing, how­

ever, they recognized they had a stake

in the matter so they corralled Ed

Miller, Sharpies Food Service Direc­

tor, who promised to bring those

steaks back home on the range in midOctober. In the meantime, they would

get roast beef—not a bad substitute.

SAGA, the Swarthmore dining serv­

ice, made the front page of the Phoe­

nix in two successive issues as the food

situation was explained and future

plans to cope with it were announced

by Ed Miller. There will be shortages

—the most severe expected in break­

fast meat, beef, mayonnaise, butter,

oleo, perhaps milk and grain products.

This seems to leave Superbean, as

Time refers to it, as the hoped-forsaviour of the gourmet set. Or, as

SAGA put it in the news release to

the Phoenix, there will be “high pro­

tein grain additives to select menu

items,” and the “introduction of nu­

tritionally equivalent menu entrees

where substitution by necessity is re­

quired.”

The once lowly U.S. soybean has

indeed become Superbean, and not

only at Swarthmore. It is the nation’s

No. 1 cash crop, most valuable farm

export (sales abroad exceeded $2 bil­

lion last year), and most volatile and

controversial commodity. Soybean oil

is the major ingredient in salad and

cooking oils and margarine. Ground

up, the bean is used as an “extender”

that stretches out hamburger, ravioli,

and soup. More protein-packed than

fresh red meat, some admirers even

allege that roasted soybeans will in­

crease sexual vigor.

The soybean additive that SAGA

proposes as a food supplement is TVP,

a textured vegetable protein which con­

sists of soybeans which are defatted

and dehydrated to give a product with

up to 90 per cent protein and the tex­

ture of meat.

The Swarthmore menu can expect

to offer more other vegetables than in

the past, too, with a possible reduc­

tion in the variety of condiments and

sizes of servings. SAGA has a policy

of unlimited servings of entrees, salads,

desserts, and beverages, with the ex­

ception of Saturday nights when stu­

dents are limited to single servings

of steak, Rock Cornish game hens,

shrimp basket, or other such specials.

The popularity of vegetarian meals

has been mixed and only those which

have been well received will be con­

tinued.

Says Ed Miller: “We are serving

more fish, eggs, and dishes like cheese

and brown rice casseroles, mushroom

stroganoff over brown rice, and soy­

bean pot pie. Cheese fondues are very

popular and we’ve increased the fre­

quency of yogurt, fresh raw fruits and

vegetables, and we’re serving much

more skim milk than usual.”

The current health-food inclination

of young people helps them accept the

new regimen, and SAGA opened a

Food Information Center this fall in

Sharpies Dining Hall to offer fact

sheets and bulletins on its problems.

A SAGA manager is sometimes on

hand to answer questions and accept

suggestions for improvement of the

food and service.

Consensus among students is that

SAGA is really trying hard to produce

tasteful and satisfying meals. Joann

Bodurtha ’74 says, “Some of their in­

novations are really great. The alterna­

tive to a salami and cheese sandwich

at lunch today was a cracked wheat

and apricot casserole. Really excel­

lent.”

SAGA’s college division (one of

five divisions) is nationwide. Locally

(continued on page 49)

17

1

come BACK

To the campus for Alumni Day, 1973

18

“It feels so good to con

back,” said Ann Freidingi

Siegle ’48 halfway throuj

her 25th reunion weekeif

last June. Ann was one of more ths

one thousand alumni who returned t

the campus to celebrate Alumni

on June 2. Reunion ’73 was the MpSI

miliar mix of renewing friendship ¿ 1

attending a faculty lecture, rem in|^l|

cing, and catching up with the n r o l

buildings on campus.

It was also a few events special

itself: a balloon ascension from

front campus, a box lunch on ref

checked tablecloths under the tri

outside Sharpies Dining Hall, a tri

ute to Vice-President Edward

Cratsley who was just finishing up

third stint as interim president, mui

by Danny Goldwater ’43 and

Crum Creek Ramblers, and an alu

baseball game witli a lineup dive:

enough to include at times Dick Hj

’53 on the mound, Amy Roosevelt 1

in left field, and Sam Carpenter in fj

manager’s box.

On the serious side, the A1

Council ended the distinction of

vice president for men and a vH

president for women and went on ri

ord as disallowing any assumptij

that the presidency of the Alumni h

sociation was reserved for men.

New officers for the Alumni As

ciation were announced as folio'

Alden S. Bennett ’40, president; R

Wilcox Mahler ’49, vice presidej

Jed S. Rakoff ’64, vice president;

Sarita Smith Berry ’55, secretary.

Three classes announced spec]

gifts to the College to mark their

unions. The Class of 1923, under

leadership of A. Prescott Willis

Walter H. Keighton, Jr., colle

$16,750 for its Special Library B

Fund.

The Class of 1937 culminated a fi’

year fund-raising effort under Sami

Kalkstein with a gift of $33,000 fori

endowed scholarship honoring Even

L. Hunt, dean and professor emeri

The 25th class reunion gift

$7,852 from 1948 was presented

President Philip K. Evans to set

an endowed fund for faculty-stud

joint research projects.

S W A R T H M O R E A L U M N I ISS

Some one thousand came back for a

fried chicken box lunch outside Sharpies

Dining Hall on Alumni Day, 1973,

including about 50 children of alumni

for whom special events had been

planned by Tom Elverson ’75 and a

staff of other young people. After lunch

Vice-President Edward K. Cratsley

and his wife Jane thanked the

Swarthmore Alumni Association for

voting them honorary members while

Stephen G. Lax ’41, president of the

Board, looked on. W. Marshall Schmidt

’47 association president, passed the

office on to Alden S. Bennett ’40

and Ruth Wilcox Mahler ’49 became

a vice president.

GOIHG BACK

Dean Emeritus Everett L. Hunt came back to the campus to be

honored with an endowed scholarship created and named

for him by the Class of ’37. Sam Kalkstein, at his left, led the

five-year money-raising effort for his class that resulted

in $33,000. Music lovers had the varied fare that included

Senior Edward Polochick in concert in the amphitheater and

Danny Goldwater’s Crum Creek Ramblers.

An eager and diverse roster of old-timers seized the

opportunity to bat against Dick Hall ’53, former

major league pitcher, in the afternoon’s baseball gan

Johnny Abrams ’34 and Phil Evans ’48 discussed

strategy with Amy Roosevelt ’48, before Amy

took her turn at bat. More off-field activity engaged

Snitz Schneider ’23, Dick Hall ’53, and Bill Stauffer

Sideline action: Bill Stetson ’33 and

Sam Gary ’49 standing; Howard Sipler ’33

Bob Bergner ’46, and Henry McCone ’46.

GOlflG BACK

As the band played “Anchors

Aweigh” and then “Nearer

My God to Thee,” Anthony

Fairbanks ’28 piloted his

balloon with his one

passenger, classmate Ellis

Bishop, up, up, and away

from the front campus. A

flaccid wind shortened the

flight to 45 minutes. On

opposite page Veteran Pilot

Fairbanks directs the exacting

operation of inflating the

nylon balloon with propane

gas to its 60-foot height.

Photographs by Walter Holt

^ J w a r th m o r e s moral equivalent of endowment truly

exists in those alumni, parents, friends, and organizations

who made and pledged to the College 6,942 gifts totaling

$2,344,021.82 during the academic year ju st past. Their

names are gratefully listed on the follow ing pages.

People who volunteer their financial support to the

College and who urge others to do so express a com­

m itm ent th at is, year in and year out, a crucial part o f

Swarthm ore’s current budget and future strength. Just

fo r example, gifts this year are directly responsible fo r

the new Lang Music Building, fo r the new Center fo r

Social and Policy Studies, fo r scholarships, fo r a 5*A%

increase in salaries, fo r the autumn crocuses that

brightened Magill Walk, and fo r the optim ism with which

President Friend begins to plan fo r the balance o f this

decade.

The generous presence o f those who gave all this

to Swarthmore is an inspiration to all who work a t the

College and urges us to paraphrase William James and

his quest fo r a “moral equivalent o f war. ” The list that

follow s truly represents Swarthm ore’s moral equivalent

o f endowment — the m ost im portant endow m ent the

College can have.

Kendall Landis

Vice President - Alumni,

D evelopm ent, Public Relations

1912

' Class F

$2,344,021.82

Swarthmore’s Total Annual Support

Unrestricted

Restricted —current

W ILLI.

409,407..57

i Numbt

264,557.,38

I Total <

Partici)

Alumn

Eugei

Elisat

‘Carol

•Chari

•Helen

‘Amy

♦Willia

♦Helen

♦Phebe

‘Anne

•Ruth

‘Elean

•Anstii

‘Laure

•Mary

•Chari

In hoi

♦Edith

Evaly

,058,640..17

1,058,640.17

Endowment ..................................................

606,114..98

Research Grants

5,301,.72

Building

Number of Gifts

5548

A lu m n i................• • ..................... , $ 431,470.88

850

Parents ........................................ •

63,312.40

215

Industry and Foundations...........

929,464.89

308

F rien d s............................... .... . . .

19,628.90

8

Federal and State Governments ..

606,114.98

B eq uests............................... .. • -

294,029.77

13 .

1913

Class R

DA VIC

' Numbe

i Partici/:

: Alumni

! TotalC

$2,344,021.82

6942

Swarthmore College Development Prograi

July 1,1972 to June 30,1973

.

ALUMNI CONTRIBUTORS

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d :

Total G ifts:

4

20.0

$5,869.47

$168,877.70

Estate of James E. Verree ’83

Sarah Bancroft Clark ’97 (Deceased)

‘ Arthur H. Jenkins ’01

In memory of J. Warner E. Love ’01

Estate of Elizabeth N. Baker ’02

Hilda Gansman Rosin ’02

In memory of Hallie Hulburt

Douglas ’03

Estate of Howard S. Evans ’03

Estate of Norman S. Passmore ’03

•Asa P. Way ’03 (Deceased)

‘ Nora Stabler Worth ’03

Class Representative:

ELM A LE W IS H A R P ER

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d:

Total G ifts:

In the class statistics, number of donors and percentage of participation reflect the

proportion of alumni who made a gift to Swarthmore, regardless of its designated pul «Hei"n°

| *Elizab<

* Asterisks indicate a continuous giving record for the past five years.

^‘Letitia

Class Representative:

E L IZ A B E T H R . LIPP IN C O TT

Class Representative:

Class Representative:

K EN D A LL LA N D IS

5

50.0

$310.00

$310.00

‘ Anna Smedley Bar tram

‘ Elrna Lewis Harper

‘ Anna Wolff Miller

‘ Louise Fahnestock Poole

In honor of Louise Fahnestock Poole

*William West Wilson

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d :

Total G ifts:

2

22.2

$335.00

$335.00

‘Edith Wilson Hyslop

‘ Lynne L. Merritt

In memory of Louis N. Robinson

‘ Helen Carre Turner (Deceased)

In memory of Helen Carre Turner

1906

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d :

Total G ifts:

6

46.2

$105.00

$105.00

Mary North Chenoweth

‘ Pauline M. DurnaU

‘ Clementine Hulburt Gibson

‘Elizabeth R. Lippincott

‘ Edith Gibbs Reeder

Beatrice Victory Sautter

1908

Class Representative:

K A T H A R IN E G R IE S T

Class Representative:

S . B L A IR L U C K IE , JR .

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d :

Total G ifts:

In hoi

♦W.Ma

‘Mary 1

•Tacy 1

‘Philip

•Roswi

•Juanit

‘David

Estate

‘Kathr

*Iva A{

‘Margu

•Ruth (

‘Alden

•Charle

•Ethel ]

•James

•Grace

Earl A

•Josepl

Mary I

‘Marior

‘Dorotl

Inmer

Elizabi

*J. RUS!

•Newto

15

83 .3

$785.00

$1,285.00

‘ Gertrude Bricker Baker (Deceased)

‘ Marie Sabsovich BarreU

♦William B. Cocks

‘ Jane R. Harper

‘ Emilie Hill (Deceased)

‘ Rachel Robinson Jones (Deceased)

‘ Roberts Leinau, Jr.

‘ Emilia Schoenemann Leroy

*S. Blair Luckie, Jr.

‘ Esther Eisenhower Palmer

‘ Elizabeth Johnson Pyle

Florence Monaghan Thatcher

In memory of Richard C. Thatcher

‘ Mabel Vernon

Caroline Washburn Wells

‘ Barclay White

‘ Edith Lewis White

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d :

Total G ifts:

11

100.0

$421.00

$421.00

In memory of Samuel Francis Butler

‘Davis R. Garretson (Deceased)

In memory of Davis R. Garretson

‘Katharine Griest

♦Mary Yamall Kent

‘ Florence Stapler Lippincott

‘ Henry T. Moore

‘ Elisabeth James Norton

Edith Mather Page

‘Susanna H. Parry

‘ Frances Richardson

‘Dorothy L ista Simons

‘ Berenice C. Skidelsky

‘Elizabeth G. Wilgus (Deceased)

Estate of Elizabeth G. Wilgus

‘ Mildred Bentley Wilson

‘Katharine Wolff

1909

Class Representative:

E S T H E R F . BA LD W IN

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d:

Total G ifts:

15

6Z5

$2,016.97

$2,041.97

‘ Caroline Atkinson Alford

‘Esther E. Baldwin

In memory of Edward H. Cavin

Edith B. Eachus

Marian Leedom Hoskins

‘ Helen DiUistin Johnson

‘ M. Louis Johnson

In memory of Walter Krider

‘ Helen Boardman Lough lin

*E. Carleton MacDowell

‘ Alice Timmons Montgomery

‘ Edith Taylor Muir

Frank B. Ridgway

‘ Jean Williamson Roberts

Edith Taylor Smith

Thomas Jay Sproul

Mary Truman Welsh

1910

Class Representative:

E L L IE SIM O N S B A S S E T T

Number o f D onors:

13

Participation:

50.0

A lum ni F u n d :

$1,460.00

Total G ifts:

$1,470.00

‘ Ellie Simons Bassett

‘ Adelaide McGinnis Davis

‘ Anna Griscom Elkinton

Beulah R. Green

•William L. Jenkins

‘Virginia D. Keeney

‘Ethel Albertson Post

Marie SeUers

‘ Philip T. Sharpies

‘Esther Barnes Shepherd

‘Irvana Wood Tyson

‘ Margery Cornell Wintringer

‘ Marguerite Rose Wollerton

; Class Re

VICTOF

INumber

IAlumni i

[ Participi

l Total Gi

Class Representative:

EDW ARD B . L U C K IE

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d :

Total G ifts:

Beulah

17 •Consta

54.S ‘Elliot 1

$2,699.50 •Edith S

$2,724.50 Paul N.

Adele Hammond Bowers

Emma Marshall Clausen

In memory of Raymond K.

Denworth

‘ Helen Herr Hartle

‘Edith Baker Hunt

Edward B. Luckie

Edna Passmore Lukens

•Elizabeth White McCarthy

‘ Mabelle Whitehead Moore

‘ Susannah Gregg Oblinger

‘ Louisa Harvey Poley

‘ Ruth Verlenden Poley

‘ Margaret Broomell Pritchard

In memory of Elizabeth Price

Robinson

Gladys K. Smith

In memory o f Attnabelle Boyle

Sproul

‘ Angeline Power Thatcher

In honor of Angeline Power

Thatcher

Florence Smedley Vernon

•Joseph H. WilHts

‘ Therese Spackman Willits

‘Elizabeth Cadwallader Wood

Estate i

•Raymo

•Laura I

Mary S

•Louise

•May Hr

•Kathari

Marion

•John H

Harold

Eleanoi

Ethel K

•Marjori

John J.

Rachel

•Walter 1

Mary E:

•Claude

•Sara Wi

Victor»

•Florenc

•Ruth M

•Carolini

•Edith V\

‘Verna V

•William

In hone

Swarthmore Alum ni l^*¡ Octob«

' Class Representative:

Class Representative:

NORM AN S H ER R E R D

W ILLIAM K . H O YT. S R .

i Number o f D onors:

Participation:

Alumni Fun d:

[ Total G ifts:

18

43.9

$2,605.00

$3,305.00

f Eugene E. Ayres, Jr. (Deceased)

I Elisabeth H. Bartlett (Deceased)

{ ‘Carolyn Smedley Colburn

| ‘Charles A. Collins

f ‘Helen Marr Cook

| ‘Amy Baker Ferguson

I "William K. Hoyt

I ‘Helen Blanton Levy

, I *Phebe Lukens Miller

| ‘Anne Haslett Price

I ‘Ruth Ayers Rinek

} ‘Eleanor A. Rittenhouse

I ‘Austin A. Scott

f ‘Laurence Price Sharpies

I ‘Mary Osgood Taylor

I ‘Charles G. Thatcher

I In honor of Charles G. Thatcher

1 ‘Edith F. Tracey

I Evalynn H. Walker

I 1913

| Class Representative:

DAVID T. DUNNING

f Number o f D onors:

t Participation:

1 Alumni Fun d :

[ Total G ifts:

27

50.9

$2,818.00

$2 ?,993 .05

In honor of the Class of 1913

*W. Mark Bittle

‘Mary F. Blackburn (Deceased)

•Tacy Hough Brownback

•Phihp J. Carpenter

‘Roswitha Kudlich Davis

‘Juanita May Downes

‘David T. Dunning

Estate of Kenneth V. Farmer

‘Kathryn Fell Gideon

*Iva Appleby Goehring

‘Marguerite Hallowell

•Ruth Carlile Hinkel

‘Alden B. Jones

‘Charles R. McConner (Deceased)

‘Ethel Bates Mitchell

•James Monaghan

•Grace Greene Müsset

Earl A. Oakley

„

•Josephine Foster Pastorino

Mary Elizabeth Pidgeon

‘Marion Coles Roberts

•Dorothy Phillips Robinson

In memory of James J. Schock

Elizabeth Jackson Shaffner

he I *J. Russell Snyder

•Newton E. Tarble

dpui •Helen Tatman

‘Elizabeth Phillips Turner

‘Letitia McHose Wolverton

*a

j Class Representative:

I VICTORIA L E S L E Y S T EIG E LM A N

I Number o f D onors:

Participation:

t Alumni Fund:

I Total G ifts:

29

55.8

$3,466.27

$3,581.27

I Beulah Elliott Atkinson

n | "Constance Lincoln Ball

54.8 [ ‘Elliot M. Barnard

99.50 E‘Edith S. Blackburn

24.50 j Paul N. Blessing

f Estate of Howard M. Buckman

| ‘Raymond T. Bye

S*Laura Parry Cadwallader

[ Mary Smith Clappison

| ‘Louise K. Clement

‘May Haines Cope

i ‘Katharine M. Denworth

Marion Hallowell Evans

I ‘John H. Githens .

Harold A. Jackson (Deceased)

Eleanore A. Lewis

[ Ethel Keech Logan

‘Marjorie Gideon Maguire

John J, Matthews

Rachel Shoemaker Matthews

' "alter H. Mohr

Mary Emma Schmidt

: *Claude C. Smith

‘Sara Webster Smith

Victoria Lesley Steigelman

Florence Miller Tinney

8 w ^ ars^la^ Trimble

^Caroline Shoemaker Waters

Edith Williams Way

Verna Way Wood

‘William A. Worth

In honor of William A. Worth

¡Içuij October, 1973

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d:

Total G ifts:

34

61.8

$2,548.00

$5,750.50

Jessica Granville-Smith Abt

‘ Sarah Sheppard Beckett

In memory of William M. Beury

‘ Jane Henry Boedker

‘ Sara Darlington

‘ Bertha E. Delaplaine

‘ Lilian Pile Dressier (Deceased)

‘James R. Frorer

Isabel Pugh Fussell

‘Ethel Shoemaker Green '

‘ Dorothy Powell Greer

‘Margaret Milne Gunner

‘Helen Evans Hayday

‘Jean Yerkes Henry

*Reba Camp Hodge

‘ Sara Appleby Hutchins

‘ Mabel Craft Killey

‘ Margaret McIntosh Linton

‘Mary Swisher Loucks

‘Thomas B. McCabe

‘John Mason, Jr.

‘William W. Matson

‘Frank C. Oren

‘ Martha L. Pancoast

‘ Marian V. Philips

John W. Pratt

‘ Helen Farley Price

Elisabeth Williams Roberts

‘ Vera Walton Schrader

Norman Sherrerd

‘ Anna Miller Smith

‘ Helen Bernshouse Smith

‘Carleton M. Thomas

*H. Earle Twining (Deceased)

In memory of H. Earle Twining

‘ L, Eloise Vest

Ida Belle Downey Zink

Scott Paper Company Foundation

1916

Class Representative:

L H YA TTEBY

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fund:

Total G ifts:

26

49.1

$2,033.00

$2,198.00

*T. Lees Bartleson

‘Isabel Jenkins Booth

‘Susan B. Booth

‘ Florence Snyder Broadbent

‘ Hazel H. Brown

Herbert L. Brown

‘ Mary Harvey Burn

‘ Ruth Stephenson Clegg

‘ Dorothy Super Conahey (Deceased)

‘Ellsworth F. Curtin

Fred C. Dennis

Henry W. Dunn

*L. Hyatt Eby

‘David P. Harry, Jr.

‘ Sewell W. Hodge

Alice Van Horn Hunter

Elizabeth Kurtz Hutchison

’Sarah Rose Hutchison

In memory of James J. Jackson

‘ Ruth Lumis LaBaw

James B. Melick

*J. Siddons Neville

In memory of John E. Orchard

P. Carl Shrode

Lewis L. Tanguy

Edith Satterth waite Thom

‘Eliza Ulrich Ullman

*D. Herbert Way

‘ Marie S. Weeks

In memory of Earl H. Weltz

1917

Class Representative:

W A LTER £ SM ITH

Number o f Donors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d:

Total G ifts:

37

55.2

$2,745.00

$5,159.50

‘Frances Maxwell Atkinson

Boyd T. Barnard

‘ Helen Ickes Bartleson

‘Esther Pattison Beckett

‘John W. Bell

‘ Minnie Gould Beury

‘ Helen Daniels Bloomsburg

‘Isaac Carpenter, Jr.

Marian Firmin Cline

Florence Kennedy Corse

‘ Helen Inglis Cramp

‘Esther Helen Culver

Clark W. Davis

In memory of Hilda Lang Denworth

‘ Harriet Keen Dunlap

‘ Ruth Craighead Gawthrop

‘Paul F. Gemmill

‘ Louis M. Click

Charla G. Hull

‘ Marion F. Jackson

Franees Stokes Janney (Deceased)

‘ Florence Tice Knauss

‘Walter B. Lang

‘ Rhoda A. Lippincott

*J. Tenney Mason

‘ Margaret Allen Morgan

‘Julia Young Murray

‘Clarence G. Myers

*R. Marguerite Neely

In memory of Theoa Hamilton

Rutherford

‘Norman G. Shidle

‘Clementine Smith Smith

‘Walter E. Smith

‘ Elizabeth Worth Spackman

‘Sarah L. Strong

t ‘ Anna E. Sullivan

‘William W. Tomlinson

Frances Baker Walton

‘ Helen Coles Wood

1920

1918

Class Representative:

JE S S E G. JOHNSON

Class Representative:

W ILLIA M J . R E IL L Y

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d:

Total G ifts:

Elizabeth Atherholt Kemp

William P. Kemp

John W. Klopp

Ruth Woodward Klopp

‘Elizabeth Knabe

George H. Kolb

Charles P. Larkin, Jr.

Marjorie Kistler Larkin

Charles W. Lukens

‘ Grace Wilson Miller

‘Juliet Mace Miller

Grace E. Moore

Donald S. Morgan

Dorothy Kinsley Moylan

‘PaulW. Neuenschwander

‘ Paula Pagelow

‘ Caroline N. Philips

Roberta Gilmore Poland

‘ Lorna Christie Reed

Helen E. Samuel

‘May Frescoln Sangree

Frances Miller Scott

‘Elizabeth Justice Shortlidge

Adele Siemons Sommerfeld

•Helen Knight Warren

‘ Edith Evans Wiese

*J. Frederic Wiese

‘ Hannah Eavenson Wood

1922

37

54.4

$8,232.50

$14,106.25

‘ Frances L. Baird

‘ Robert S. Blau

‘Eleanor Stabler Clarke

‘ Margaretta Cope Curtin

‘Catharine Wright Donnelly

‘Emily Buckman Dowdell

‘Blanche King Dreizler

‘ Mary Thatcher Fitts

‘ Virginia A. Glenn

Louise Waygood Goodman

‘ Esther Nichols Hall

‘Jess Halsted

‘ George P. Hayes

‘ Helen Rebmann Ingersoll

Herbert W. Jackson

In memory of Elizabeth Andrews Jenks

Florence Shoemaker Keay

‘ Mary Virginia Kingsbury

In memory of Ruth Kistler

‘ Florence Cook Litvackoff

‘ Mary L. Lukens

‘Elizabeth Miller Major

In memory of C. Paul Nay

Samuel Ogden

‘Katherine Price Olin

Dorothy Johnson Orchard

‘ Helen Darlington Patton

‘Carl D. Pratt

‘ Virginia Postlethwaite Pratt

‘ William J. Reilly

Esther Snyder Shelly

Mary Markle Skipper

•Opal Robinson Solenberger

‘Emily L. Vanloon

‘ Abigail Ellsworth Warnick

‘ Clare Richardson Weltz

‘ Beatrice Newcomer White

‘ Helen Gawthrop Worth

Ralph M. Wright

‘ Esther Philips Zerega

1919

Class Representative:

A N D REW SIM PSO N

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d:

Total G ifts:

‘ Marian Stokes Pedraza

•Charles F. Philips (Deceased)

‘ Allin H. Pierce

Helene Scott Price

‘ Esther Hayes Reed

‘Eleanor Runk Reppert

‘ Mary Vernam Rice

‘ Mary Wilson Ridpath

‘William*!.. Ridpath, Jr.

‘ Dorothy Thomas Schell

‘ Phyllis Komori Sellers

Melanie Dolman Seymour

Andrew Simpson

‘Eleanor Atkinson Smith

Ruth Breuninger Stickle

‘ Elizabeth Stotsenburg

Franklin P. Stow

‘Elinor Stout Sundt

‘ Helen C. Toerring

‘ Marian Ware Waikling

‘Josephine Griffiths Weber

Harold S. Webster

‘ Margaret Wilson Wheelock

Charles H. Yardley

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d:

Total G ifts:

38

55.9

$2,081.00

$3,075.50

Letitia McNeel Arant

In memory of C. Biddle Atlee

‘ Elizabeth Jones Barnard

Ann Williams Brandt

Julia Bope Brock

Edwin M. Bush

Ida Meigs Bush

In memory of Helen Sigler Carpenter

‘ Alfred J. Chalmers

In memory of George Conahey

‘Marvin H. Coombs

M. Genevieve Tarby Douchet

Lena Clark Eagan

‘ David B. Fell

Doris Hays Fenton

‘Frank W. Fetter

In memory of A. Tench Francis

Mildred Williard Fry

‘Sara Mayhew Gayner

Virginia Wilcox Gilbert

Clifford R. Gillam

Cornelia Stabler Gillam

‘Charlotte Bunting Green

Gertrude McCabe Harvey

Paul M. Hess

Dorothy Coffin Hickey

Elizabeth Jones Holden

‘ Beatrice Whiteside Hood

Henry I. Hoot

‘ Jessie G. Johnson

Charlotte Goette McCurdy

‘ Lucy Penrose Owings

•Mary Tyler Powell

‘Ellen Swartz Pratt

Norris J. Reynolds

‘ Hope Richardson Roberts

Isabel Jacobs Ruth

•Charlotte Moore Sitterly

In memory of Henrietta A. Smith

‘ Mary Donovan Stuart

‘ Marguerite Drew Vedeler

Harriet Renshaw Widing

‘Ruth Rodenboh Wright

‘Clarence H. Yoder

1921

49

62 .0

$1,550.00

$1,592.50

‘ Margaret Powell Aitken

Helen Young Ayton

*H. Fenimore Baker, Jr.

‘Norris C. Barnard

♦Ruth Cross Barnard

•Catharine R. Belville

Ardis Baldwin Blackburn

‘ Frances Williams Browin

Janet M. Brown

Ruth Williams Carter

In memory of William L. Cornog

*Mary I. Crosley

‘ Elizabeth Frorer Dew

‘ Marc P. Dowdell

‘John P. Ferris

‘ Elizabeth Watson Gardy

‘Jane Brown Gemmill

Dorothea Darlington Hendrixson

‘ Madeleine Krauskopf Hillman

In memory of Charles M. Howell

Dorothy F. Lucas

‘ Mildred Tily MacFarlane

‘ Dorothy J. MacKenzie

Katherine Fahnestock Miller

‘Sarah Goff Mowen

‘Isabel Briggs Myers

‘ Jacob Nevyas

‘ Edgar Z. Palmer

Class Representative:

E L IZ A B E T H K N A B E

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d :

Total G ifts:

51

41.1

$1,663.50

$1,708.50

‘ Claire Strawn Albertson

‘Margaret Embery Allen

‘ Elizabeth F. Barth

‘William M. Blaisdell

‘Boyd J. Brown

‘George L. Burnett

Paul W. Chandler

Virginia L. Coleman

In memory of Charlesanna B. Coles

In memory of Leon H. Collins, Jr.

‘ David M. Dennison

Walter H. Dickinson

Elizabeth Schellinger Douglass

‘ Eleanore Butler Dreibelbies

‘ Dorothy Koller Dunlap

‘Lucy Rainier Dunn

Miriam Jenkins Elsbree

Wayland H. Elsbree

Miriam Baily Gilpin

W. Minton Harvey

‘ Ella R. Hoyt

William R. Huey

‘George B. Jackson

‘Edwin M. Joseph

‘ Eleanor Paxson Keighton

Class Representative:

G EO R G E W. ST EW A R T

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fund:

Total G ifts:

41

36 .6

$1,290.00

$1,367.16

‘ Margaret Culin Adams

In memory of Dorothy Anderson

Bowler

‘William B. Brosius

Edward L. Campbell

‘Winnie Weihenmayer Campbell

William P. Carter

‘Charlotte S. Chrisman

Allen G. Clark

‘Jeannette Dell Clark

‘Josephine Moorhead Clarke

Meta Yarnall Fow

In memory of Carl J. Geiges

‘Helen Thorne Griscom (Deceased)

‘ Benjamin E. Groff

Frank Hoke

‘ Henrietta Keller Howell

Edith Cugley Huey

‘ Frank H. Jackson

‘Elsa Palmer Jenkins

♦Elizabeth Walter Jones (Deceased)

In memory of F. Norton Landon

‘Anne Gault Lewis

‘ Marion Warner Lippincott

Dorothy J. Little

♦John G Longstreth

‘William P. Lowden

•Robin Breuninger Lukens

•Frank H. Marks

Hannah Kirk Mathews

Mary Baumgartner Miller

•Dorothy P. Nassau

‘ Ruth Newton

R.

Spotswood Pollard

‘ Jean Knowles Reymond

‘ Morrisa Williams Sangston

‘ Harry M. Sellers

‘ Eleanor A. Shinn

‘Carol Gibbs Smith

Elizabeth Miller Stabler

‘John L. Stainton

‘George W. Stewart

Gladys Haldeman Tasman

‘Elsie Smith Thompson

‘ Hannah Darlington Trescott

‘William P. Ware

Travelers Insurance Companies

1923

Class Representative:

A L B E R T W. PRESTO N

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d :

Total G ifts:

68

65.4

$4,451.25

$21,136.25

*J. Garner Anthony

W. Hamilton Aulenbach

‘Albert E. Baker

Edwin S. Baker

‘ Dorothy Clendenning Benner

Jean Bond Bowers

‘Evelyn Arnold Braun

‘ Anna Roberts Brosius

‘Howard B. Brunner (Deceased)

Cornelia Coy Clark

Paul L. Clark

*J. Edward Clyde

James A. Cochrane

Nancy Bancroft Coles

♦Ruth Watters Colton

Margaret Stafford Coxe

Elwood S. Deakyne

Frances Gillespie Drake

*Katharine Hayes Durand

♦Isabelle Fussell Ewing

Mary Short Fisher

John C. Fretz

Samuel B. Gaumer

Helen Rigby Harvey

♦Katherine Taylor Hodgkinson

♦Frank H. Jackson

Elizabeth Anderson Katzenbach

♦Walter B. Keighton

Susannah Beury Keller

Mary Elizabeth Kemp

♦Susan Mason Kendall

Lawrence B. Lewis

♦William A. Limberger

♦Wallace R. Linton

♦Alice Hoagland MacNair

John R. McCain

Helen Osier McKendree (Deceased)

M. Blanche McMullen

♦Gertrude Malz

Henrietta Turner Mason

♦Elizabeth Lanning Massie

H. Davis Merion

Tacy Walton Merion

♦Lillian Perkins Metcalf

Ann Johnson Moore

Ruth Tanguy Oliver

♦Elizabeth C. Palmer

♦Mary D. Palmer

♦William H. Paxson

♦Kathryn Pflaum

G Gayton Postlethwaite

♦Albert W. Preston

♦Walter C. Pusey, Jr.

♦Margaret Byrd Rawson

Henry D. Rentschler

♦Sara Bitler Reynolds

♦Andrew B. Ritter

Elsie Brown Roberts

♦Alban E. Rogers

♦Edward J. Rutter

Vincent B. Schneider

Rena Sprague Sharpies

♦Kathryn Cleckner Skinkle

*C. Norman Stabler

♦Martha Lippincott Stevens

Louise Firmin Thomas

♦Boyd M. Trescott

♦H. Chandlee Turner (Deceased)

In memory of H. Chandlee Turner

Estate of H. Chandlee Turner

♦Juanita Brunenmiller Weaver

A. Prescott Willis (Deceased) •

♦Roselynd Atherholt Wood

Margaret C. Young

Hercules Incorporated

Travelers Insurance-Companies

Turner Construction Company

1924

Class Representative:

H. M E R L E M U LLO Y

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fu n d :

Total G ifts:

57

47.1

$2,230.50

$3,914.25

C.

Clifford Barnes

♦Isabel Fritts Ban

♦Alice Schrack Batteiger

Robert P. Bodine

Ruth Bonner

♦Virginia Smith Brill

Maurice J. Brinton, Jr.

Riddell Young Brown

In memory of Marjorie Goetze

Campbell

♦Herbert E. Cliff

♦Anne Hunt Coe

S. Louis Cornish

Mary Walter Dickinson

♦Esther Fisher Duryee

• ‘Dorothea Rushmore Egan

Esther Hicks Emory

Florence Green Ewing

♦Alice Blackburn Flitcraft

♦Eleanor Carmichael Gallagher

♦Mary Jones Gilbert

Edward A. Green

♦Janet Krall Groff

♦Elizabeth Hamilton Heazlett

In memory of Thomas Hertzberg

♦Mahlon C. Hinebaugh, Jr.

Gertrude Hollingsworth

Margaret Jessen

Luther L. Linderman

Robert H. Lloyd

♦Helen Beach McCarty

In memory of K. Payne Martin

♦Mary Moore Miller

In memory of Richmond P. Miller

♦Herbert C. Mode

Phillips L. Morrison

H. Merle Mulloy

♦Frederick A. Musselman

Josephine Zartman Nichols

♦Barbara Ruth Olinger

T. Sumner Oliver

Joseph H. Penrose

Dorothy Sniffen Pinkstone

♦Margaret Levering Puhl

F. Elizabeth Rogers

4

♦Bertha Ogden Rozenberg

In memory of Roger Russell

♦Adele Weiler Sargent

♦porothy Evans Seltzer

♦M. Elizabeth Shinn

♦Esther Briegel Stehle

♦Mary Swartzlander

♦Thomas -T. Taylor

C. Margaret Kennady Thompson

*

James C. Tily

Peter E. Told

Gladys Cisney Trismen

Eliza Fischer Tull

In memory of Thomas H. Urdahl

♦Donald L. Velde

♦Albert J. Williams, Jr.

♦Mildred F. Wilson

In memory of Catherine Fitzhugh

Wood

♦Elizabeth Bean Wood

E. Lawrence Worstall

Catharine Wilson Wright

In memory of Gertrude W. Yarnall

Merck Company Foundation

1925

Class Representative:

ANNA PO W ELL PO O LE

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d :

Total G ifts:

49

45.8

$2,859.00

$16,540.00

H. Dickson Ash

♦Elizabeth Biddle Ayars (Deceased)

♦Alan J. Blau

♦Jean Marsh Brownfield

♦Robert H. Burdsall

♦Anna T. Burr

Alice Reddie Callaghan

♦Anna Louise Campion

George K. Chandler

S. Robinson Coale

Howard L. Davis, Jr.

♦Margaret Hopkins de Veer

Elizabeth Lukens Elliott

Agnes Go wing Ferrell

Elizabeth Pollard Fetter

♦Elizabeth Murray Gaffney

♦David K. Hemmerly

*W. Carlton Henderson

Lydia T. Hicks

♦Helen Yarnall Jackson

♦Dorothy Burt Kistler

Lester S. Knapp

Irvin C. Kreemer

♦Jean C. Lawrence

Marjorie Lapham Lewis

Charles H. Limberger

♦J. Willard Lippincott (Deceased)

♦Margaret Walton Mayall

♦Beatrice Clugston Moore

♦Helen G. Moore

♦Dorothy Liberton Nash

♦Mary Virginia Parkhurst

♦Helen Lippincott Parrish

♦Margaret Way Pickett

♦George Plowman

♦Anna Powell Poole

♦Mary Lees Reifschneider

Myra Gesner Robinson

♦Alice M. Rogers

♦Inez Coulter Russell

♦Joseph B. Shane

♦Homer L. Shantz, Jr.

♦M. Josephine Smith

. ‘ Katherine Cornell Stainton

Alfred K. Stidham

♦Anne Engle Taylor

♦Eleanor Bonner Webb

♦Margaret Pusey Williams

Walter K. Woolman, Jr.

Marjorie Voelker Worstall

1926

Class Representative:

E L IZ A B E T H S H A R P LE S P U SEY

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d :

Total G ifts:

53

43.4

$5,677.43

$5,947.43

Audrey Bond Alciatore

♦Hazen V. Baird

♦Elizabeth Bartleson Booth

♦Carol Paxson Brainerd

♦Lucille J. Buchanan

♦George B. Clothier

♦William C. Coles, Jr.

♦Wilmer D. Coles

♦Frances Pace Crosby

♦Emilie Spear Dutton

♦Marjorie Macadam Ellis

Robert W. Graham

♦Virginia Brown Greer

♦Dorothy Merrill Gulick

♦Dorothy Bowers Hallowell

♦Leonard M. Hanan

♦Hanson H. Hodge

♦Estelle Hickey Jarden

♦Louise Merritt Kennedy

.♦Marretta P. King

♦Sherman J. Kreuzburg

♦Eleanore Leech

♦Elizabeth Burton Levering

♦Harry L. Lundy

Herbert F. McCord

♦Harold E. Mertz

♦Orrick Metcalfe

David C. Meyer

Lucius D. Mills

♦J. Clinton Molitor

William F. Ogden

♦Rogers Palmer

♦E. Dillwyn Parrish

♦Katharine Turner Parsons

♦Frances Spence Plate

♦William B. Plate

♦Elizabeth Sharpies Pusey

Florence Meade Puzon

♦Eunice Jones Russell

♦Ruth Ennis Sawyer

♦Elizabeth Stamford Sharpless

F. Maxwell Shuster

George W. Spangler

♦Grace V. Thoenen

♦Richard F. Thompson

Marjorie Mode Tily

♦Frederick S. Townley

♦Jean Prosser Webster

♦Mae Krell Weisfelder

Katharine Carl Whitney

Anne Gaumer Wieand

♦Neil H. Wilson

Dorothy Troy Young

INA Foundation

Pitney-Bowes, Inc.

1927

Class Representative:

R O B E R T B . C LO T H IER

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d :

Total G ifts:

83

58.5

$3,480.50

$6,930.50

♦Esther Howard Allen

John U. Ayres

♦Rebecca Marsh Baker

*W. Herman Barcus

Elizabeth Winchester Barnhardt

Jean Mayer Batten

♦Leroy G. Baum

Edith Steinlein Berg

♦George M. Booth

♦Sarah Pratt Brock

♦Cicely C. Browne

Elizabeth Viskniskki Butler

*G. Lewis Campbell'

♦Robert B. Clothier

♦Ruth McCauley Clyde

Marcia Perry Cook

♦Ruth E. Cornell

Dorothea Kern Devereux

Johanna Zuydhoek Dickie

Edmund U. Fairbanks

Lillian Pace Fielder

♦Marjorie Fish

Elizabeth Miller Folwell

Jessie Hoffman Gilmore

♦Carolyn Buckwell Glaser

♦Margaret Jameson Gowdy

S. Warren Hall, III

♦Roger W. Hallowell

Fredrika Dement Hilliard

♦Mary J. Hornaday

Edward C. Jenkins

♦A. Sidney Johnson, Jr.

Margaret Witsil Johnson

♦Robert E.L. Johnson

♦Nolan L. Kaltreider

Louise Parkhurst Krug

♦Robert W. Lafore

♦Edward F. Lang

Leah Shreiner Leeds

Robert L. Lindahl

♦John H. Lippincott, Jr.

♦May Brown Lloyd

♦Harriet Gore Looney

♦Elizabeth Huey MacNutt

♦George W. McKeag

♦Helen Woodward Manges

Katherine Reed Mears

♦Anna R. Meloney

♦Mylon Merriam

♦Anna Williams Metcalfe

Edwin L. Palmer, Jr.

♦S. Copeland Palmer, Jr.

♦J. Roland Pennock

Helen Fletcher Putney

Samuel R.M. Reynolds

♦Charles E. Rickards

♦Alice Jenkinson Ripley

♦W. John Rust

♦Katharine Snyder Sasse

Ayres C. Seaman

♦Walter O. Simon

♦Robert M. Stabler

Valeska Urdahl Stieren

♦Erma Goldsmith Strauss

♦Walter S. Studdiford

♦Theodore Sucklow

Herbert K. Taylor, Jr.

♦Elizabeth McCabe Thieme

♦Jack B. Thompson

♦Lois Thompson Thompson

♦Mary Meyer Tolman

Joseph J. Tomlin

♦Rebecca Hathaway Torreson

♦Virginia Melick Turner

♦Catharine Cocks Vail

♦Robert A. Ward

♦Frances McCafferty White

♦Carolyn Heame Williams

Elmer D. Wilt

♦Norman H. Winde

Ruth Longacre Wright

♦Esther Thomson Yeagley

Esther White Yoh

1928

Class Representative:

N EW LIN R . SM ITH

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fun d:

Total G ifts:

85

66.9

$10,722.40

$11,007.40

Anonymous

♦Arthur G. Baker

♦Florence Sellers Baker

♦Olive Deane Baker

Harold S. Berry

♦Ellis G. Bishop

♦Anne Philips Blake

Avery Blake

Mary Elizabeth Bull

♦Marian Pratt Burdick

♦Gertrude Bowers Burdsall

Margaret Corse Burr

In memory of Elizabeth Van Brakle

Coffin

♦John J. Coughlin

♦Ducksilla Baffin Dimming

Elisabeth Jenkins Dresser .

♦Dorothy R. Dunnells

♦John W. Dutton

♦Emma P. Engle

Anthony M. Fairbanks

♦Henry C. Ford

♦Caroline Lippincott Forman

♦Thomas H.L. Foster

Eilene Slack Galloway

Ruth Shellman Hart

George A. Hay

Emlyn M. Hodge

♦Edna Griffiths Holmstrom

♦Margaret DeLaney Johnston

♦Serena B. Kearns

Albert D. Keller

♦Jeannette Poore Kelly

♦Ruth E. Kern

♦Ruth A. Kerwin

♦Gertrude Gilmore Lafore

Mary Frances Langford

♦Katherine Rittenhouse Long

Marguerite Lukens

Olga Rubinow Lurie

Alexander MacDougall

Holbrook M. MacNeille (Deceased)

♦Margaret Somerville Mclnerney

♦Caroline Biddle Malin

Esther Felter Mallonee

Charles E. Mears

Ruey Sieger Messenger

Frances Fogg Meyers

♦Thomas Moore, Jr.

*L. Donald Moyer

♦Evelyn Haworth Nicholson

Elizabeth Moffitt O’Brien

♦Douglass W. Orr

Joseph E. Pappano

♦Mary Sullivan Patterson

♦Alice E. Folwell Pratt

Ruth Smith Prinz

Anne Kennedy Rapport

♦Winifred Rumble Reynolds

Mary Wright Richie

♦Dorothy Brown Rickards

♦Mary L. Robison

Hilah Rounds

♦Anna Sundberg Sadi

♦Robert L. Silber

♦Frances Dowdy Simon

Josephine Bornet Smith

♦Newlin R. Smith

♦Anne Willis Stein

Mary Jackson Strenge

George B. Taylor, Jr.

♦Nell Rubins Thompson

Charles E. Tilton

♦Raymond A. Townley

♦Selden Y. Trimble, IV

♦Elizabeth Hopper Tucker

♦Paul M. Van Wegen

Ora Lewis Wheatley

Robert K. Whitten

♦Esther Wilson Widing

♦Theodore Widing

♦Albert F. Wiessler

♦Margaret B. Williams

♦Gertrude Jolls Winde

♦Alice Jemison Wood

♦Frances Ramsey Worth

Charlotte Salmon Wright

1929

Class Representative:

P H IL IP E . CO LEM AN

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

Alum ni Fund:

Total G ifts:

63

51.2

$3,892.50

$4,040.00

♦Bradley C. Algeo, Jr.

Alice Hutchinson Ayres

Anna Hull Baker

In memory of Curtis L. Barnes

♦Caroline Robison Bishop

♦Alice Entrekin Brown

Jane Griest Browne

♦Joseph Calhoun

♦Mary Roberts Calhoun

Mary Anders Cassel

♦Marion Harris Churchill

♦Myer Cohen

Philip E. Coleman

♦O. Hammond Coles

Robert G. Dawes

♦H. Mortimer Drake

♦James D. Egleson

Elinor Brecht Enterline

♦Constance S. Gaskill

*H. Thomas Hallowell, Jr.

Roberta Norton Hood

t

♦Sylvia Windle Humphrey

♦Paul M. James

♦Livingston S. Jennings

♦Margaret Walton Jensen

Isabel Morgan Lauder

♦William E. Lednum, Jr.

Morris M. Lee, Jr.

♦Amy Chase Loftin

Elizabeth Clack McCaul

♦Dorothy Shoemaker McDiarmid

♦Horace B. McGuire

♦Elizabeth Ogden McLain

♦Will McLain, III

♦Eleanor Burch Martin

Mary Magruder Mayer

Theodore R. Miller

Elisabeth Hoopes Moore

♦

♦Catharine Emhardt Morgan

♦Walter A. Muir

Mary Anderson O’Brien

Anne Wain Ody

Linda Chandler Paton

♦Bertha Hull Paxson

Elizabeth Palmenberg Pugh

William M. Rice

♦Gertrude Paxson Seibert

♦Victor R. Selover

♦Thomas P. Sharpies

♦Daniel F. Smith

Grace Heritage Smith

♦Marion Bonner Smith

♦^iarion Collins Smith

♦Harold Edward Snyder

♦Harold Elam Snyder

Donovan B. Spangler

Martha J. Stauffer

♦Shaler Stidham

♦Elizabeth Thompson VanHart

♦Louise Eaton Walker

Roberta Boak Wasser

♦Frederick G. Weigand (Deceased)

*F, Fisher White

♦Howard J. Wood

1930

Class Representatives:

H ARO LD F . C A R T E R and

R U TH C L E A V E R C A R T E R

Number o f D onors:

Participation:

A lum ni Fu n d :

Total G ifts:

65

53.7

$10,375.59

$49,480.09

♦Francis C. Alden

♦Jean Fahringer Biddle (Deceased)

In memory of Jean Fahringer Biddle

Dorothy Wolf Bikle

Mary McKenzie Bliss

♦Ruth Jackson Boone

♦William A. Boone

Robert L. Booth

♦Selina Turner Bradley

Louis S. Bringhurst

♦Barton Calvert

♦Harold F. Carter

♦Ruth Deaver Carter

♦Julien Cornell

♦Virginia Stratton Cornell

♦Franklin C. Eden

In memory of Edgar Emerson

♦Haines B. Felter

♦Eleanor Flexner

♦Warn« W. Gardner

♦Dorothy Differ Gondos

♦Josephine Tremain Gould

R. Lisle Gould

♦Margaret Gurney

♦C. Bertram Hammell

Alice Casey Hay

Virginia Fell Hey sham

Eldredge M. Hiller

♦Louise Yerkes Kain

Swarthmore Alum ni Issue

[ ‘Richard M. Rain

I ‘Ada Fuller Keefer

[ ‘Frances Eaton Kraaymes

| ‘Helen Headley Krist

[ ‘Edward M. Lapham, Jr.

1 Rebecca Hadley Larson

[ ‘Malcolm R. Longshore

I Hugh McDiarmid

{' ‘Mary B. Newman

| ‘Marian Hamming Nicely

[ »Thomas S. Nicely

[ Dorothy Ackart Nichols

[ »Catharine Hatfield Olmsted

I ‘Henry L. Parrish

[ Mary Ogden Parrish

[ ‘Eleanor Janney Parsons

[ ‘Edward M. Passmore

I ‘Nancy Deane Passmore

I »William Poole

| ‘Francis M. Radford

f In memory of Robert Redman

I Anna Biddle Russell

[ Martha Bantom Samuel

[ •Theodora Abbott Schreiber

| ‘Anna Rickards Sensenig

[ ‘Marion Staley Sharpies

I »Katherine Smedley

I ‘Helen Bessemer Stollnitz

I ‘Margaret Spencer Stradley

[ Paul T. Strong

i ‘Henry G. Swain

f ‘Ferris Thomsen

I Harold B. Thomson

I ‘Ralph W. Tipping

[ H. Haines Turner

[ ‘Elizabeth Harbold Westkott

f ‘Stanley I. Winde

| ‘JohnS. Worth

I ‘Merida Grey Worth

I Ralph W. Yoder

|: ‘Eleanor Jenkins Zendt

■ Aetna Life and Casualty

I Hershey Fund

¡ 1931

I Class Representative:

W ILLIAM J . CRESSO N , JR .

[ Number o f D onors:

I Participation:

l Alumni Fund:

| Total G ifts:

j

|

I

i

(

I

[

I

[

I

[

|

I

I

[

I

f

I

[

[

|

[

I

I

I

[

[

I

[

82

54.3

$10.265.68

$10,630.68

»Kathryn Kerlin Albertson

Joseph L, Atkinson

Arthur F. Baldwin

‘Mariana Chapman Barmettler

*WiIliam 1. Battin, Jr.

Marguerite E. Baur

‘Cement M. Biddle

‘Jean Harvey Bodman

‘Richard C. Bond

‘Janet Walton Burke

•Irwin G. Burton

Amanda Hurlock Chaffee

‘Martha Wood Christian

‘Ralph L. Connor

‘John M. Cookenbach

‘John D. Corbit, Jr. (Deceased)

*William J. Cresson, Jr.

Paul D. Crowl

‘Margaret Orr Curtis

*Carl K. Dellmuth

‘Hyman Diamond

Robert Hulburt Douglas

Price D