View waymark gallery

Baron Sir Ferdinand Jakob Heinrich von Mueller—Perth, Australia

in Citizen Memorials

Posted by: Ianatlarge

S 31° 56.694 E 115° 50.022

50J E 389767 N 6465078

A plaque honouring a prominent 19th century Australian scientist.

Waymark Code: WMGCDV

Location: Western Australia, Australia

Published By: saopaulo1

Views: 6

This plaque is embedded in a rock in Mueller Park in the suburb of Subiaco in the city of Perth. According to the information on the plaque, it was established to honour the memory of Baron Sir Ferdinand Jakob Heinrich von Mueller, a prominent scientist and botanist of the 19th century, who explored and identified a great number of Australian flora.

Park website:

(visit link)

From wikipedia (abridged):

Mueller Park is a park in Subiaco, Western Australia, situated between Perth Modern School and Subiaco Oval. The park is named after German botanist Ferdinand von Mueller who described several hundred species of Australian flora and who participated in and promoted the exploration of Australia in the mid-nineteenth century.

In December 1916 the park was renamed Kitchener Park in response to war-time sensitivities. Present day Roberts Road and Winthrop Avenue (Nedlands) were renamed from Mueller Road and Ferdinand Street respectively at the same time. The park currently comprises 4.3 hectares (11 acres).

In 1981 the park was renamed back to its original name when the two-tier stand redevelopment of Subiaco Oval was completed.

Text of plaque:

This Park is named to honour the memory of Baron Sir Ferdinand Jakob Heinrich von Mueller a botanist of renown. He was born 30th June 1825, in Rostock,

Germany. Having migrated to South Australia in 1847, he became a

naturalised British subject shortly afterwards. He undertook

journeys of exploration over large areas of Australia including

Western Australia, and contributed greately to the botanical knowledge

of this country. He received awards and recognition throughout his

life. He was created a K.C.M.G. by Queen Victoria, appointed a Baron

by the King of Wurttemburg and was elected a Fellow of the Royal

Society. In his time he was probably the most famous scientist

in the southern hemisphere. The Australian Association for the

Advancement of Science created an award, the Mueller Medal, in his

honour. He died on 10th October 1896 at South Yarra, Melbourne.

This memorial was erected by the Subiaco City Council.

Website with more information on either the memorial or the person(s) it is dedicated to: [Web Link]Location: Mueller Park

Visit Instructions:

Add another photo of the memorial. You and/or your GPS can be in the photo, but this isn't necessary.

Search for...

Geocaching.com Google Map

Google Maps

MapQuest

Bing Maps

Nearest Waymarks

Nearest Citizen Memorials

Nearest Geocaches

Create a scavenger hunt using this waymark as the center point

Recent Visits/Logs: