The city of Barcelona is the capital of Catalonia, without diminishing in any way the other historical, economic and artistic cities of Catalonia: Lérida, Gerona, Tarragona, Vic, Manresa, Tortosa, Reus…

Barcelona is the second most populous city in Spain, and the sixth of the European Union. Barcelona is considered to be a model in many aspects. A modern and cultural city, it has been chosen on many occasions for the accomplishment of major world events, such as the Olympic Games of ’92 or the Universal Forum of Cultures 2004, being recognized as a “Global city ” for its great cultural, historical and architectural richness and as a financial, commercial and tourist city.

Thanks to the excellent geographical situation of Barcelona, ​​located on the shores of the Mediterranean Sea, we enjoy a warm and pleasant climate throughout the year. The smell of the sea and the gentle breeze, accompanying us during long walks around the city. The official language in Barcelona, as well as in the rest of Catalonia, is Catalan. However, it coexists with Spanish, being used equally.

One of the most emblematic characteristics of the city is its structure, copied by different cities over the years due to the simplicity and brilliance in the design of the streets. Following the city scheme, Barcelona is divided into different neighborhoods (quarters), each one with its own history and own culture: Ciutat Vella, Eixample, Raval, Sants-Montjuïc, Horta-Guinardó, Les Corts, Gracia, Sarria – St. Gervasi, and others.

In the Raval and the Gotico, we fall in love with the narrow streets and dark stone. Moving down a little further, we get to Barceloneta, the beach par excellence of Barcelona.

But if we want to know more about Ciutat Vella we cannot miss: Plaza Catalunya / Portaferrissa Street / Portal de l’Àngel / Pelayo Street / Plaza Reial / Park of the Ciutadella / Cathedral of Barcelona / Church of Santa Maria del Mar / Church of Santa Maria del Pí / Palace Güell / Liceu / Forat de la Vergonya / Palace of the Catalan Music / Museum of Contemporary Art of Barcelona (MACBA) / Center of Art Santa Monica / Barceloneta Beach / Palace of the Autonomous government of Catalonia / Town hall of Barcelona / Picasso Museum / Monument to Colon / Port of Barcelona / Barcelona Zoo.

L´Eixample is the central quarter of the city and close to all amenities. In the Eixample we find numerous attractions and points of tourism, both architectural and commercial. Paseo de Gracia, the Basilica of the Sagrada Familia, Casa Milà, Casa Batlló, the National Theatre of Catalonia, the Barcelona Auditorium, Plaza de toros Monumental, Casa de les Punxes and numerous cinemas, theaters, restaurants, hotels…

In the district of Sants-Montjuic one finds the Sants train station, one of the main ones in the city, with long distance trains and suburban trains that connect Barcelona with other cities in Catalonia and the rest of Spain. Furthermore, in the Sants-Montjuic neighborhood, we find the fascinating Plaza España and Montjuic, the Olympic zone, museums and theaters and it is the neighborhood where you can get one of the best views of the city.

We continue our tour of the city to the district of Les Corts. Thanks to the mixture of ancient and modern buildings, this neighborhood is full of character, highlighted by the design of its buildings, its pedestrian zones and for being where FC Barcelona is located.

Sarrià- Sant Gervasi, is characterized by a residential area with restaurants and small quality food shops, as well as for having its main commercial hub pedestrianized to be able to walk and shop without problems.

In the district of Gracia we find Park Güell, undoubtedly Gaudí’s work of art mtourist attractive. With the streets full of bars, restaurants, shops … make this neighborhood the liveliest and most animated in the city.

The district of Horta-Guinardó is determined by its varied topography. Being near the Collserola, the valley of Hebron or Horta, have determined the structure of this distinctive neighborhood. Together with Sant Andreu and Sant Martí, they are considered to be the most industrial districts.