Rekaejao is an East Indian delight prepared during Christmas. A sweet that is rarely made these days, unheard of by many and slowly disappearing. It derives its name from the Portuguese word “Requeijão” meaning “cream cheese”. Requeijão has been made since Brazil was colonized by the Portuguese. They found a solution to use milk before it went sour. The East Indian variation is also prepared with curdled milk, which is enriched with ground almonds and stiffly beaten egg whites that provides stability and structure. Sweetened with sugar and flavoured with rose water, this treat is incredibly delicious.

​

Simple and easy to prepare with milk that is curdled with a souring agent. The curds are separated from the whey that are drained well, smoothened and then cooked on medium-low heat with other ingredients as listed above. Within 15 minutes, the mixture comes together at the centre of the pan. Transferred onto a greased surface and when partially dry, cut into diamond shapes. This sweet is unique and makes a great addition to the Christmas platter.

All content & images are subject to copyright © - 2015

To read click here: Copyright & Privacy Policy

​

​Rekaejao (East Indian Christmas Sweet)

(Yields 45 pieces - 450 grams)

Ingredients:

1 litre full-fat milk

1 and 1/2 cups almond flour

2 eggs white (stiffly beaten)

1 cup white granulated sugar

2 tablespoons vinegar or lime juice

1 teaspoon rose water

(1 cup measure used is 250 ml)

Method:

In a thick-bottomed pan, bring the milk to boil. Stir constantly so that the bottom does not burn. When boiling, add the vinegar or lime juice and stir. Leave it on the fire for another 30 seconds and continue stirring. The milk will start to curdle.

Place a sieve with a cheesecloth or mesh bag over a bowl and strain the curds. Then, wash them under the tap with fresh water to get rid of any sourness. Set the sieve with the cheesecloth or mesh bag and curds over a bowl to drain well. Use a mortar pestle to press down the curds.

Lightly grease a cutting board and set aside.

Once curds are well-drained, run them in a blender to grind them fine and smoothen. Transfer into a clean thick-bottomed pan with almond flour, sugar and stiffly beaten egg whites. Stir on medium-low heat to combine well and thicken. Within 15 minutes, the mixture will come to the centre of the pan. Add rose water and mix well. Cook for another minute or two. Transfer onto the prepared greased surface. Roll and spread the mixture. When partially dry, cut into diamonds. Leaving the pieces overnight in a plate will harden and dry them further.

Store in an airtight container at room temperature for a week and then, refrigerate.

Note:

Almond flour is made with blanched almonds ground into a flour.