Skitchin' is an action game developed by Electronic Arts. It was originally released in 1994. Electronic Arts published the game. Most rawgers rated the game as "Exceptional". You can play Skitchin' on Genesis. Stanley Chow produced the game. It was scored by Jeff van Dyck.

Little Red Riding Hood's Zombie BBQ is a game. It came out on 21-10-2008. It was published by Destineer. Most rawgers rated the game as "Recommended". You can play Little Red Riding Hood's Zombie BBQ on Nintendo DS. You can purchase the game on Nintendo eShop. It was produced by Jose M. Iñiguez.

Gradius ReBirth is a game. It came out on 09-03-2009. Konami published the game. Gradius ReBirth is available on Wii. You can purchase the game on Nintendo eShop. It was directed by Masato Misaki. Manabu Namiki scored the game.

Android Assault: The Revenge of Bari-Arm is a shooter game developed by Human Entertainment. It was originally released in 1993. Big Fun Games published the game. Android Assault: The Revenge of Bari-Arm is available on SEGA CD. It was directed by Keisuke Ōuchi. It was scored by Nobuhiro Makino.

Etrian Odyssey Nexus is a RPG game developed by Atlus. It came out on 05-02-2019. SEGA published the game. Etrian Odyssey Nexus has a Metascore of 81, based on professional reviews. Most rawgers rated the game as "Recommended". Etrian Odyssey Nexus is available on Nintendo 3DS. You can purchase the game on Nintendo eShop.

Naruto: Clash of Ninja is a RPG-fighting game developed by Eighting. It came out on 01-01-2003. Bandai Namco Entertainment published the game. Most rawgers rated the game as "Meh". Naruto: Clash of Ninja is available on GameCube. It was scored by Shinji Hosoe.

Eternal Champions: Challenge from the Dark Side is a fighting game developed by SEGA. It was originally released in 1995. It was published by SEGA. The game is rated as "Exceptional" on RAWG. You can play Eternal Champions: Challenge from the Dark Side on SEGA CD. It was produced by John C. Brandstetter and Michael Latham. Michael Terlecki directed the game. It was scored by Tristan des Prés.

Asterix and the Power of the Gods is a platformer game developed by Core Design. It came out on 01-01-1995. It was published by SEGA. The game is rated as "Exceptional" on RAWG. Asterix and the Power of the Gods is available on Genesis. Nathan McCree scored the game.

Advance Guardian Heroes is a game developed by Treasure. It came out on 14-09-2004. Ubisoft Entertainment published the game. Most rawgers rated the game as "Recommended". You can play Advance Guardian Heroes on Game Boy Advance. Norio Hanzawa scored the game.

ePig Dive Treasure Hunter is an action-adventure game developed by ePig Games Spa. It came out on 30-05-2011. ePig Games Spa published the game. You can play ePig Dive Treasure Hunter on iOS. The game is sold via App Store.

Jack Lumber is an indie, action, strategy and arcade game developed by Owlchemy Labs. It was originally released in 2012. It was published by Owlchemy Labs. Most rawgers rated the game as "Skip". You can play Jack Lumber on macOS, iOS, Android and PC. You can purchase the game on App Store, Steam and Google Play.