Benedictine’s Jakeen Harris established himself as one of the best defensive football players in Georgia early on in his career with the Cadets. As a sophomore, the strong safety had a team-high 9.5 tackles as the Cadets beat Fitzgerald 49-26 in the GHSA Class 2A state championship game at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta.

He said that game was the highlight of his Cadet career, with one play standing out in particular.

“I remember JD King broke away for what looked like going to be an 80-yard touchdown, but I was able to run him down and make a tackle,” said Harris, who has signed with North Carolina State.

As a senior, his role with the Cadets expanded. He anchored the BC defense and was also a key player as a running back and as a return man on special teams.

Harris had 74 tackles, including four tackles for loss, three interceptions and seven pass breakups. He caused a pair of fumbles and recovered four more.

On offense, he rushed for 461 yards on 56 carries (8.3 ypc) with 14 touchdowns. He had 13 receptions for 198 yards and a pair of scores.

Harris is the Savannah Morning News Football Player of the Year.

“Jakeen deserves the award because of his versatility,” BC coach Danny Britt said. “He’s just great at everything he does. He’s tremendous on defense with the ability to be a cover guy, while being a physical player and tackling specialist. He has vision and speed running the ball and is a great blocker and receiver. He is an excellent return man, and can cover punts, too. He’s also a leader. He’s everything you want in a player.”

Harris comes from a football family. His brother Chris Harris Jr. was a standout at linebacker as a sophomore this season with Georgia Southern University. His cousin Damozzio Harris rushed for more than 1,000 yards this season as a sophomore at Windsor Forest. His father, Chis Harris Sr., was as standout in his playing days for Savannah High. Jakeen’s great uncle, Leroy Harris, also a Savannah High alum, had a five-year career in the NFL with the Dolphins and Eagles from 1977-82. The physical running back rushed for 1,800 yards and 14 scores in his career, earning membership in the Greater Savannah Athletic Hall of Fame.

So Jakeen is carrying on the family tradition. He was selected the Region 3-3A player of the year and also won the Finocchiaro Award as the top player in Chatham County, as voted on by area coaches and media members.

Harris said his most memorable moment this season came in the second round of the playoffs when the Cadets beat Westside Macon 43-36. He rushed for 127 of his career-high 146 yards in the second half and scored three fourth-quarter touchdowns.

Benedictine was the perfect program to help him develop as a player and a person, Harris said.

“The coaches are always pushing you to be your best, and we went hard in practice every day,” Harris said. “You had to be prepared for when your time comes. It was great being around my guys and my coaches every day.”

Now Harris is focused on the next chapter of his career at North Carolina State.

“I’m going to try to get on the field in any way I can as a freshman,” the 5-foot-11, 185-pound Harris said. “I’ll play special teams or anywhere they want me. I hope to become a starter soon, and down the road I hope to play in the NFL.”

Players of the year

The 2018-19 players and coaches of the year and first-team selections will be honored at the annual Savannah Morning News/savannahnow.com Best of Preps banquet in the spring.

Monday: Softball, Kastin Belogorska, South Effingham

Tuesday: Volleyball, Basia Peragine, Calvary Day

Wednesday: Girls cross country, Kayla Gholar, Richmond Hill

Thursday: Boys cross country, Jalen Murray, Richmond Hill

Friday: Football, defense, Kalen DeLoach, Islands

Saturday: Football, offense, Rico Powers, Benedictine

Today: Football Player of the Year, Jakeen Harris, Benedictine

6419259007