Biography

Princess Bejaratana was born on 24 November 1925 in the Royal Grand Palace, Bangkok, the only child of King Vajiravudh (Rama VI) and Princess Suvadhana. Having seen his daughter only one time, the King died the following day. Her uncle, who became King Prajadhipok (Rama VII), performed the naming ceremony for the princess on 30 December.

Princess Bejaratana and her mother moved to Suan Hongsa Villa in Dusit Palace, where she received her education from a private tutor. They moved in with Queen Sri Savarindira (the Queen Dowager) during World War II, and the princess attended Rajani School until she was 12. She and her mother then moved to England, where she continued her education and took medication for her poor health. She first stayed at Fairhill Villa in Surrey, before settling in Brighton.

In November 1957, Princess Bejaratana returned to Thailand. They bought land on Sukhumvit Road Soi 38, and build Ruenruedi Villa Palace. The princess proceeded to undertake her duties of representing the Royal Family. Her special interests were in education, public health, Buddhism, the soldiers and police stationed at Thailand's borders, and general public's welfare.

Princess Bejaratana was known privately to be very gifted, especially with numbers. She could calculate the day of the week for any dates presented to her without any hesitation, and remembered the birthdays of all individuals who were presented to her.

Near the end of her life she had cut down on her Royal duties because of her age, but occasionally still did work relating to her royal father.

Princess Bejaratana died on 27 July 2011 at 4.37 pm at Siriraj Hospital, Bangkok aged 85.

Titles and styles

30 December 1925 – 10 July 1935 : Her Royal Highness Princess Bejaratana Rajasuda.

10 July 1935 – 27 July 2011 : Her Royal Highness Princess Bejaratana Rajasuda, the Princess Cousin.

The Princess's style and title in full: Somdet Phrachao Bhakhinithoe Chaofa Bejaratana Rajasuda Sirisobhabannavadi (Thai: สมเด็จพระเจ้าภคินีเธอ เจ้าฟ้าเพชรรัตนราชสุดา สิริโสภาพัณณวดี) The word "Bhakhini" (Thai: ภคินี) is meaning Cousin.

Thai royal decorations

The Most Illustrious Order of the Royal House of Chakri

Dame Grand Cross (First Class) of The Most Illustrious Order of Chula Chom Klao

Dame of the Ratana Varabhorn Order of Merit

Dame Grand Cordon (Special Class) of The Most Exalted Order of the White Elephant

Dame Grand Cordon (Special Class) of The Most Noble Order of the Crown of Thailand

Dame Grand Cross (First Class) of The Most Admirable Order of the Direkgunabhorn

The Order of Symbolic Propitiousness Ramkeerati (Special Class) - Boy Scout Citation Medal

King Rama VI Royal Cypher Medal (First Class)

King Rama VII Royal Cypher Medal (First Class)

King Rama IX Royal Cypher Medal (First Class)

The Red Cross Commendation Medal