Fireman Sam: The Movie 4: A New Era For The Fire Brigade[]

Runtime[]

7 minutes episode

Released[]

17 January 2023 (first part)

Fireman Sam A New Era For The Fire Brigade is a 2023 film featuring five stories. It was made specially for Disney's 100th Anniversary. The film was released as Part 1 on January 2023, The whole film was filmed by 4 Xing Xing (Part of Channel 4 Pingu), at the comfort of his own Ministudio. It features Mickey Minnie & Their friends as the Pontypandy Fire Brigade's new firefighters & Fireman Sam going on a road trip with Elvis & Minnie. The film also marked the begining of the second series of the Fireman Sam Spin-off series. The show also has subtitles worldwide with its writer and director for the film.

Plot Summary[]

Part 1[]

The episode starts with Sam (Voiced by Steven Kynman) sleeping but he has a nightmare. In his nightmare he sees Funny (Voiced by Harvey Guillen) (Fakely) Abducting Mickey (does not speak in part 1), Minnie (Voiced by Kaitlyn Robrock), Daisy (Voiced by Debra Wilson), Donald (does not speak in Part 1), Goofy (does not speak in Part 1) & Pluto (does not speak in Part 1). & in response he says "No", Then Mickey & Minnie swap voices. & the worst part of Sam's nightmare was Daisy said "Are We Asleep or Awake" meaning they don''t feel like they are awake. In response Sam gets a fright & wakes up panicking, then he realises it was just a dream. He also realises that his Alarm clock has stopped working again. Elvis (Voiced by Steven Kynman) & Steele (Voiced by David Carling) were talking about Sam at the fire station, & Sam leaves his house & pops down to Dilys' shop on Trevor's bus (Both Dilys & Trevor are voiced by John Alderton). Then Jupiter arrives to pick Sam up with Station Officer Steele & Chief Fire Officer Boyce. Then Quoodles (Voiced by Joanna Ruiz) & Sam talked about his nightmare, so he decides to check on them. Then Norman (Voiced by Steven Kynman) was seen in a basket. Then Jupiter & Venus heads off to Pontypandy Park where Ravani (Voice by Sasha Behar) was waiting on them with Kilo. Elvis doesn't find Mickey but Sam trips of Mickey's shoe on a rock. then they head back to the station as Sam has transfered the search to Tom Thomas (Voiced by John Sparkes) & Penny (does not speak in part 1) & Ellie (Voiced by Alexandra Mardell from Part 2 onwards). Then they spot Minnie. turns out that the rescue team finding Mickey & friends was a dream. turns out that it was all a training Exercise where Mickey & friends pretended to be unconsiouss but Minnie fell asleep & it looked like she twisted her ankle. Then Tom calls in & Tells Sam to call off the search as he found Mickey & friends. The Minnie tells Sam that she knows that today wasn't his day, she then asks him to promote her, Mickey and their friends to something. Sam agrees & makes it a surprise. The next day Sam went on his way to the fire station but stops to say a happy 100th anniversary to Disney.

Part 2[]

A few weeks later, Sam and Quoodles are in Sam's shed, looking through a telescope & notice a rock that Norman has left & He skateboards away from a very annoyed Sam. Then the bell rang & Quoodles explains to Sam that the racers have fallen alseep at bedroom zoom. After Sam done the rescue

Part 3[]

On November 5, the crew are preparing for Bonfire Night whilst Norman is dressed up as a tree and pinches Bella's and Dilys' bottoms, making them argue with each other. His plan is foiled by some railings in which he ends up getting stuck. After the crew rescue him from the railings, Norman introduces his pet hedgehog, which he calls Brian. However, Brian scampers into the bonfire and Norman panics to get it out. The crew setup the "Guy" and light the bonfire. but Norman, who is searching for Brian, is in danger of being killed. After he’s rescued, it’s revealed that Brian was a female hedgehog and had just had babies. Norman lets them off into their natural habitat, and Bonfire Night is a success.

Part 4[]

A few weeks later, Sam and Quoodles are in Sam's shed, looking through a telescope & notice a rock that Norman has left & He skateboards away from a very annoyed Sam. Then the bell rang & Quoodles explains to Sam that the racers have fallen alseep at bedroom zoom. After Sam done the rescue

Part 5[]

On November 5, the crew are preparing for Bonfire Night whilst Norman is dressed up as a tree and pinches Bella's and Dilys' bottoms, making them argue with each other. His plan is foiled by some railings in which he ends up getting stuck. After the crew rescue him from the railings, Norman introduces his pet hedgehog, which he calls Brian. However, Brian scampers into the bonfire and Norman panics to get it out. The crew setup the "Guy" and light the bonfire. but Norman, who is searching for Brian, is in danger of being killed. After he’s rescued, it’s revealed that Brian was a female hedgehog and had just had babies. Norman lets them off into their natural habitat, and Bonfire Night is a success.

Cast[]

Steven Kynman as Sam, Elvis, Norman, James and Charlie

David Carling as Station Officer Steele, Tom and Mike

Joe Vera as Trevor Evans

Victoria Edwards as Penny Morris

Mark Frederick as Elvis Cridlington

Karen Briffett as Norman Price

Sarah Carleton as Dilys Price

Emma Watt as Sarah

Kelly East as James

Sarah Dyall as Bella Lasagne & Bentley the Robot

Trivia[]

Mickeydoes not speak throughout the whole of Part 1. The begining of the episode does not count as Sam was dreaming in his sleep & Mickey spoke in his dream but in Minnie's voice. Mickey speaking in Minnie's voice also does not count.

Dilys' Attic Fire was partially based on the episode Rich and Famous.

Pontypandy Fireworks Party was partialy based on the episode Safe with Sam

In the series, Dilys' shop and Bella's café are situated across the road from each other, whereas in this play, they are much closer together.

In the TV series, Jupiter (J999) had a large red radiator grille with its number plate on a bumper, and was based on a 1974 Bedford TK. It was also wider and had three seats. In this stage production, it is narrower and has a slightly different design. The radiator grille is grey and much smaller, and the number plate is below the windscreen, with no front bumper.

In the TV series, Venus (V666) had a winch on its front (as seen in the episode Lost in the Fog) and was based on a six-wheeled 1982 Range Rover. In this stage production, the winch was on the back, and the side doors and third axle were removed.

Goofs[]

In Dilys’ Attic Fire, when Bella gets in her café to phone the fire brigade when Dilys' attic burns, the fire brigade arrive immediately as if they'd already known.

Whenever Dilys Price’s shop and Bella Lasagne’s café are on screen, the fire station can be seen right behind them.

Soundtrack[]

Fireman Sam Theme

Gently Bentley

Elvis Cooks the Lunch

By Jupiter, By Jupiter

The Person In Charge Is Officer Steele

Naughty Norman Price

Remember, Remember, the Fifth of November