Understanding Marriage in Indonesia

“Marriage is valid if it is carried out according to the religious laws of each party concerned.”, according to Law Number 1 of 1974 on Marriage in Indonesia Article 2 (1).

In Indonesia, religion is a big part of the law and the way of life of the people. Unlike many other countries, the law states that if you and your partner intend to marry in Indonesia, you must practice the same religion and these religions have to be among those recognized by the Indonesian Government, such as Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism and Islam. Because of this, you are required to declare your religion at the Kantor Catatan Sipil (Civil Registry Office) when registering for marriage to prove that you practise the same religion as your partner and to determine the type of marriage ceremony that will be adopted as well as the applicable legal processes.

Neither you nor your partner are allowed to declare atheism or agnosticism in Indonesia, and if you practise different religions, one person has to convert to the other by signing a declaration of change of religion for your marriage to take place. Your wedding can be officiated by Ministers of Religion, officers of the Kantor Catatan Sipil or the Kantor Urusan Agama (Office of Religious Affairs).

Legal Requirements for Marriage in Indonesia

In Indonesia, marriage is considered legal only if it has been solemnized and then registered at the relevant institution. Marriage ceremonies are conducted according to the religions of the spouses, for instance, Muslims will be married according to the Sharia law. To become legally married, you and your spouse must meet the following Indonesian marriage requirements:

You and your spouse must be at least 19 years old to be legally married in Indonesia.

You must have your Proof or Certificate of Singlehood from the Civil Registry Office if you have never been married before. If you have been previously married, you must have a divorce certificate.

If you are a foreigner, you need to have a Certificate of No Impediment to Marriage from your home country. It is a legal document that certifies a person's freedom to marry or enter into a civil partnership.

Your foreign spouse must have the right visa to enter Indonesia.

You and your spouse may decide to sign a prenuptial agreement before the wedding as it has become quite common among Indonesian couples. This agreement is meant to protect the interests, rights and assets of both you and your spouse in the event of a divorce.

You and your partner must be heterosexual. Same-sex marriage is illegal in Indonesia.

You must have a Wali (marriage guardian). This is usually the bride’s father, grandfather or brother. The bride’s mother or any other female relative is also allowed to be the Wali in Indonesia.

You must have two marriage witnesses who are at least 19 years old. For Muslim marriages, women are not allowed to be witnesses.

Note that every foreign document you or your spouse provides needs to be accurately translated into Bahasa Indonesia by a certified translator. This is so that it can be considered a legal document in Indonesia. Translayte is a trustworthy certified translation service that understands the requirements of Indonesian Authorities. Our professional translators can provide certified, sworn, notarised and legalised translations that are acceptable all over Indonesia. In just a few easy steps, you can have the most accurate and affordable translations for your documents in your hands. Request a quote to get started.

The Indonesian Marriage Process

Islamic Marriages

Muslim weddings are officiated by the Kantor Urusan Agama. After the ceremony, the couple is issued the Buku Nikah (Marriage Books) as proof of the marriage. You are usually not required to register a muslim marriage with the Kantor Catatan Sipil although it is a good idea if you intend to move to another country.

Some Muslims get married through the Nikah Siri, which is the Muslim traditional marriage. Although it is acceptable within Indonesia, it is not accepted as a legal marriage by foreign governments. This means that if you intend to get a spouse visa to visit your spouse in another country, you will not be considered married, and will not be granted the spouse visa.

For Christians, Hindus and Buddhists

For Christian, Hindu and Buddhist couples, you have to have two kinds of marriage ceremonies. You will have your religious ceremony first at either your church or temple. This will be officiated by your religious leader then, you will have a civil ceremony. You will receive two marriage certificates presented at the end of the ceremony and you will submit one at the Kantor Catatan Sipil. Many countries outside Indonesia don't recognize the church-issued marriage certificate as legal.

You also have to submit a Notice of Intention to Marry with the Kantor Catatan Sipil at least 10 days before your wedding. This is so that the registry can release a marriage intention notice to the public to see if anyone objects to your marriage. After your wedding ceremonies, you must register the marriage at the Kantor Catatan Sipil for it to be considered legal. To do this, you and your spouse will need to submit the originals and photocopies of some documentation. This documentation varies from province to province and it is advised that you confirm from the civil registry office in that province while making your marriage preparations.

General Documentation for Marriage Registration in Indonesia

For all marriage registrations in Indonesia such as the Notice of Intention to Marry or the post-marriage registration at the Civil Registry Office, you need to submit the following documents. You will have to submit photocopies only, but you also have to bring the originals to show them. The documents include:

Your Certificate of No Impediment from the Embassy or Consulate (for your foreign spouse).

Your Kartu Keluarga (family card) and Kartu Tanda Penduduk (Indonesian ID).

Your International Passports.

Your certified, legalized and translated birth certificates, (including for all your legal children, if any).

Your church or temple-issued marriage certificate.

Divorce Certificate or death certificate of former partner (if applicable).

Tax receipt or proof of settled tax (for foreigners who work in Indonesia).

Four coloured passport photographs, 4x6, against a red background.

A copy of your temporary residence permit or visa (if applicable).

Citizenship letter and Endorsement Letter by Police (if you live in Indonesia).

Police Reports from the home country of your foreign spouse.

Your Certificates of Religion.

Declaration of Change of Religion, if your spouse has converted to your religion.

The Marriage Process

Step One: Make sure you are eligible

Go through all the legal requirements and make sure you both meet them.

Step Two: Get a Certificate of No Impediment (CNI)

If you are a foreigner, get a Certificate of No Impediment from the embassy or consulate in your home country. The Certificate of No Impediment certifies that your marriage has no legal obstacles.

Step Three: Legalize Your Certificate of No Impediment

Have the Certificate of No Impediment legalized by the Indonesian Ministry of Foreign Affairs so that Indonesian authorities will recognize it.

Step Four: Declare Your Religion

Declare your religion at the local Civil Registry Office. This declaration will help you determine the type of ceremony and applicable legal procedures.

Step Five: Translate and Submit Your Documents

Translate all necessary documents, such as your CNI and any other relevant foreign certificates, into Bahasa Indonesia with Translayte.

Step Six: Submit Your Documents to the Civil Registry

Submit all required documents to the local Civil Registry Office where you plan to get married and give the Notice of Intention to Marry.

Step Seven: Wait a Few Days

You will have to wait at least 10 days after submitting your documents and giving the notice of marriage for any objections to be brought forward.

Step Eight: Attend Your Wedding Ceremony

Attend your marriage ceremony at the Civil Registry or religious office. The ceremony may include the exchange of vows and the signing of the marriage certificate.

Step Nine: Collect Your Marriage Certificate

After the ceremony, collect your official marriage certificate from the Civil Registry or the religious office where the marriage was conducted.

Step Ten: Register Your Marriage

After you have collected your marriage certificate, make sure that your marriage is officially registered with the local Civil Registry. This step is needed for the legal recognition of your marriage.

FAQs

How Long Does it Take to Issue a CNI?

The time it takes to obtain a Certificate of No Impediment can vary depending on the country and its specific processes. It could take anywhere between a few weeks to a few months.

Is There an Expiry Date on the CNI?

No, there isn’t an expiry date on a Certificate of No Impediment.

Do I Need to Register the Marriage With the Embassy/Consulate-General?

You only need to register your foreign marriage at the consular office only if you were married abroad.

Can I Marry Before my Divorce Decree Absolute is Issued?

No, you cannot marry before your divorce decree absolute is issued.

Related Posts

How To Get Married In Germany As A Foreigner

How To Get Married To A Spanish Citizen As A Foreigner In Spain