New York, NY (May 15, 2013)

Two cinema series on two unique, unconventional figures — the American film actor and producer Crispin Glover and the British raconteur Quentin Crisp—will play at MAD this summer. On June 7 and 8, It Is Crispin Hellion Glover will present the feature films and live dramatic narration of this vital and singular talent of American cinema. Glover will be present at the screenings of his works. A week later, from June 14 through September 6, Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr. Quentin Crisp will honor the legacy and influence of this flamboyant 20th century dandy with cinema screenings, panel discussions, and live acts of style. The series makes use of cinema not only as method of documentation, but also as a force for the archiving, contextualization, and presentation of the unique art form known as the act of being.

“The cinema program at MAD seeks to challenge traditional notions of the medium through the presentation of diverse works by provocateurs and gentlemen alike,” says Jake Yuzna, Manager of Public Programs. “We are thrilled to be able to open up MAD this summer to two innovators who have used cinema to push the boundaries of decorum and conformity in exploring and presenting alternative voices, and sharing very personal stories.”

From George McFly in Back to the Future and Layne in River’s Edge to Andy Warhol in The Doors, and Willard Stiles, a social outcast who befriends a rat, in the remake of the cult classic Willard, Crispin Hellion Glover is known to most as an actor who often plays eccentric characters onscreen. Glover first entered into the film industry as a child actor at the age of 13 in sitcoms including Family Ties and Happy Days. Since then, Glover has emerged as a pioneer within the cult cinema for his character actor roles in Hollywood blockbusters. More recently, Glover transitioned from acting to independently producing and directing his own series of feature films, which explore alternative perspectives on contemporary life from the vantage point of those with down syndrome (the surrealist What Is It? released in 2005) and cerebral palsy (It Is Fine! Everything Is Fine, 2007). Glover rejects the common distribution channels of DVD, TV, and VOD for personal presentations of his works—theatrically in 35mm—that allow for greater context and framing of the complex subjects he explores.

Flamboyant, effeminate, outlandish, legendary storyteller and persona. Quentin Crisp led quite an unusual life—from his days as a rent-boy in London’s SoHo in the 1930s to his three-decade long career as a professional life model for London art schools. All of which are detailed in his 1968 autobiography The Naked Civil Servant. During the time of its release, the book was in some sense revolutionary, paving the way for open public discourse about homosexuality, androgyny, and personal style during the dawn of the gay-rights movement. But it was that book’s subsequent BBC adaptation in 1975 (Crisp is played by John Hurt) that launched Crisp into stardom. Thus began his career as a raconteur, touring a one-man show around first in the UK, then bringing it later it to New York. In these part-monologue and part Q & A session performances, Crisp used himself as material that broke boundaries of social norms in his pursuit of personal expression and persona as art form. Through these performances, as well as additional writings and media appearances, Crisp crafted a new approach to style and being as personal art form.

ABOUT THE CINEMA SERIES

It Is Crispin Hellion Glover and Ladies and Gentleman, Mr. Quentin Crisp are organized by Jake Yuzna, Manager of Public Programs.

It Is Crispin Hellion Glover

June 2013

Crispin Hellion Glover's Big Slide Show Part 2 and It is Fine! EVERYTHING IS FINE.

Friday, June 7th, 7:00pm

$15 General, $10 MAD Members and Students with Valid ID

Crispin Hellion Glover's Big Slide Show Part 1 and What Is It?

Saturday, June 8th, 7:00pm

$15 General, $7 MAD Members and Students with Valid ID

Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr. Quentin Crisp

June – September 2013

From the Estate of Quentin Crisp

Fridays June 14th, 21st, and 28th, July 12th, 19th, 26th, August 2nd, 9th, 16th, and September 6th, 2013, 6:00 pm – 9:00 pm

Free with Pay-What-You-Wish Admission

Remembering Quentin Crisp

Saturday, June 22nd, 2013, 3:00 pm

Free

The Second Coming of Quentin Crisp

Saturday, June 27th, 2013, 1:00 pm

Free with Admission, Always Free for Members

An Evening with Penny Arcade and Quentin Crisp

Thursday, August 15th, 2013, 7:00 pm

Free with Pay-What-You-Wish-Admission

ABOUT THE MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN

MAD explores the intersection of art, craft, and design today, through exhibitions and programs focusing on contemporary creation, materials and processes, from handmade to digital. A dynamic roster of public programs engages visitors in the creative process, including open studios, workshops, tours, and master classes. Lectures, films, performances, and symposia related to the Museum's collection and current topics in the world of contemporary art, craft, and design are held in MAD's 144-seat auditorium.

###

For high-resolution images, visit our press image archive: