Article content

Crispin Glover presents: It Is Fine! Everything Is Fine

When: Friday, Jan. 27

Where: The Mayfair Theatre, 1074 Bank St., 8 p.m.

Crispin Glvoer presents What Is It?

When: Saturday, Jan. 28

Where: The Mayfair Theatre, 1074 Bank St., 8 p.m.

When you're as big a star as Crispin Glover is, youre supposed to play by Hollywoods rules.

But Glover, the star of horror classics Rivers Edge and Willard isnt interested in playing by Hollywoods commandments. In fact, the 47-year-old actor says that conservative Hollywood hasnt kept up with the times, and rarely if ever connects in a meaningful way with adults anymore.

So if they think that Glovers a wacko, so beit, Glover says. At least it gives him the freedom to make the kind of films he thinks people want to watch, films that will challenge the viewer to think.

With money earned from big-budget paydays, Glover wrote and produced his first feature film What Is It? on a budget of $150,000 in 2005.

Its a raw, and sometimes shocking 75-minute-long film filled with politically-incorrect images and actors with Downs Syndrome.

Its not a film about Downs Syndrome but my psychological reaction to the corporate restraints that have happened in the last 20 to 30 years in film making, says Glover in an e-mail.

The very moment an audience member thinks, What am I watching? Should the filmmaker have made this?, you know that the film is going into areas its not normally allowed to. I want people to think for themselves.

Glover made his second film, the more ambitious It Is Fine! Everything Is Fine in 2007 with $250,000 he made from starring in Charlies Angels.

Ive been able to divorce myself from the content of the films that I act in and look at acting as a craft that I am helping other filmmakers to accomplish what it is they want to do.

These films are so unconventional, the only way Glover can get them shown is by presenting them himself in person in a vaudevillian sideshow he calls the Crispin Hellion Glovers Big Slide Show.

Its coming to the Mayfair Theatre on Jan. 26 and 27. For two nights, the actor will introduce his films with a slide show of the eight illustrated books he makes, a Q&A session, the film screening and finally, a book signing that often takes Glover into the next morning.

I consider what I am doing to be following in the steps of vaudeville performers. Vaudeville was the main form of entertainment for most of the history of the U.S. It has only relatively recently stopped being the main source of entertainment but that does not mean this live element mixed with other media is no longer viable. In fact, it is apparent that it is sorely missed.

As soon as he wraps shooting the big-screen version of Elmore Leonards Freaky Deaky, Glover will start writing the third chapter in his film trilogy It Is Mine, which will star Glover and his father, actor Bruce Glover.

I am very proud of these films. Everything is Fine will probably be the best film I will have anything to do with in my entire career.