LPBank dismissed 2 Deputy General Directors

Lien Viet Post Commercial Joint Stock Bank (LPBank – HoSE: LPB) has just announced the Resolution of the Board of Directors on the dismissal of the position of Deputy General Director and termination of labor contracts for Ms. Le Thi Thanh Nga and Ms. Mr. Nguyen Thanh Tung from June 1, 6 according to personal wishes.

Before being dismissed, Ms. Le Thi Thanh Nga was Deputy General Director and Director of the Personal Customer Division of LPBank. Ms. Nga was born in 1980, has a master's degree in Business Administration, and was appointed Deputy General Director of LPBank from January 6, 1.

She has 22 years of experience in the field of finance and banking, including more than 15 years at LPBank. Before joining the Board of Management, she held the roles of Head of Internal Audit Department, Director of Internal Audit Division and Head of the Bank's Supervisory Board.

Mr. Nguyen Thanh Tung is Deputy General Director in charge and Head of representative office in the Southwest region, Director of Ho Chi Minh region (individual customer segment). Mr. Tung was born in 1973, holds a Master's degree in Finance and Banking.

He was appointed Deputy General Director of LPBank on December 2, 12. He has more than 2013 years of experience at large banks, including 30 years at LPBank.

According to information on the bank's website, after the decision to dismiss 2 Deputy General Directors, LPBank's Board of General Directors currently has 9 members with General Director being Mr. Ho Nam Tien and 8 Deputy General Directors, including Mr. Vu Quoc. Khanh is the permanent Deputy General Director.

In the latest developments, LPBank expected Organize an extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders (AGM) this coming August with the purpose of electing additional members of the Board of Directors for term IV (8 - 2023).

The last registration date for shareholders and groups of shareholders to exercise the right to nominate, nominate and attend the 2024 Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of LPBank is July 1, 7.

Previously, on May 28, the bank announced the Board of Directors Resolution to elect Mr. Le Minh Tam - an independent member of the Board of Directors to hold the position of Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors..

Sources: https://www.nguoiduatin.vn/lpbank-mien-nhiem-2-pho-tong-giam-doc-a666434.html

Same topic

LPBank was honored as the Bank "Fastest in deploying the Kondor Treasury system in Asia - Pacific"

On August 14, 8, in Hanoi, within the framework of the Treasury Executive Summit 2024 event, Finastra - the world's leading provider of financial software applications and trading markets honored Loc Phat Commercial Joint Stock Bank. Vietnam (LPBank) is the Bank "Fastest in deploying the Kondor Treasury system in Asia - Pacific". Kondor Treasury Front to Back is one of the modern trading systems, allowing...

LPBank deployed the Kondor Treasury system the fastest in Asia - Pacific

Kondor Treasury Front to Back is one of the modern trading systems, allowing banks to transact quickly and accurately with large volumes of capital activities. At the same time, thanks to its flexibility, the system can support trading of derivative products and transactions with more complex structures. The Kondor Treasury Front to Back system will be deployed by LPBank from December 12,...

"Sweet fruit" from the digital transformation strategy, LPBank received a major award

Kondor Treasury Front to Back is one of the modern trading systems, allowing banks to transact quickly and accurately with large volumes of capital activities; At the same time, thanks to its flexibility, the system can support trading of derivative products and more complex structured transactions. The Kondor Treasury Front to Back system will be deployed by LPBank from December 12, ...

Dismissed the position of Chairman of Hai Duong Provincial People's Committee

On August 12.8, the 24th Hai Duong Provincial People's Council opened its 24th session; passed resolutions confirming the dismissal of the Chairman of the Provincial People's Committee. Mr. Trieu The Hung resigned as Chairman of Hai Duong Provincial People's Committee. Photo: Hai Duong province's e-portal. The 5th meeting of the People's Council of Hai Duong province considered many important contents including: Proposal for allocation of public investment plan capital from the 2021-year local budget 2025-XNUMX...

Dismissed Chairman of Hai Duong Provincial People's Committee due to job transfer

At the meeting, the Provincial People's Council passed a Resolution to dismiss the Chairman of the Provincial People's Committee, term XVII, term 2021 - 2026, and relieve Mr. Trieu The Hung, Deputy Deputy Commissioner of the Provincial People's Council, term XVII, term 2021-2026. Secretary of the Provincial Party Committee, Chairman of the People's Committee of Hai Duong province due to transfer. Previously, the National Assembly Standing Committee had a Resolution approving Deputy Secretary of the Provincial Party Committee, Chairman of the People's Committee...