Emil Bartos, 95, of Eldorado died on October 25, 2013 after a lengthy illness. He was born on June 6, 1918 in Dayton, Ohio to Andrew and Pauline (Kissa) Bartos . Emil was a 1936 graduate of Roosevelt High School in Dayton. He worked at Dayton Tire and Rubber. Emil was a community artist and painted for several organizations throughout the country. After Emil's heart surgery at the age of 75 he became interested again in his pastel fine art through art classes at the Preble County Art Center in Eaton, Ohio. He created many house portraits in the community and across the United States along with personal portraits and landscapes. His life was focused on his work in the churches he attended as a Bible study teacher and serving on council. Emil taught the Bethel Bible Study at Trinity Lutheran Church in Lewisburg for 25 years. He was commissioned to paint the 20th lesson on Revelation for the Bethel Series in Madison, Wisconsin. These works are at the Trinity Lutheran Church in Lewisburg.

In addition to his parents, Emil was preceded in death by his first wife, Etta Faye (Fox) of 35 years; brothers, Joseph Bartos, Andrew Bartos, Vlado Bartos, Rev. Dr. John Bartos as well as four infant brothers; sisters, Anna Arnold, Pauline Williams, and Helen Kovacik and a daughter, Pina Bartos.

Emil is survived by his wife of 34 years, Ruby (Lachey-Muth) Bartos; son, Rev. Emil Bartos of Branson, Missouri; daughter and son-in-laws Martha and George Skidmore of New Madison and Rebecca and William Hodgin of Lewisburg; step children, Anna Muth-Post and husband David Lewis of Greenville, Heidi Muth-Post and husband Daniel Linebaugh of Union City and Andrew and Theresa (Cron) Muth of Hebron, Kentucky; grandchildren, Bradley and Heather Skidmore of Parma, Ohio, Sgt. First class Matthew and Celeste Skidmore of Fort Dix, New Jersey, Emily (Skidmore) and husband Russell Cheesman of Middletown, Mary (Skidmore) and husband Joshua Gabriel of Branson, Missouri, Tia (Bartos) and husband Andrew Williams of Washington and Mim Bartos of Denver, Colorado; step grandchildren, Tyrena (Post) and August Anderson of Miamisburg, Tyrell Post of Miamisburg, Logan Post of Greenville, Lacy Post of Muncie, Indiana, Heather (Post) and Bradley Bergman of Palestine, Heinrick and Jessica Post of Greenville, Holly (Post) and Kevin Wuebker of Fort Recovery; great grandchildren, Jaxon, Madex and Bronx Skidmore of New Jersey, Dylan and Elizabeth Skidmore of Parma, Ohio and Corbin Cheesman of Middletown, Ohio; step-great grandchildren, Levi, Grace, Lane, Gabrielle and Wesley Bergman of Palestine, Alyssa Anderson of Miamisburg, Korbin Wuebker of Fort Recovery and Ethan Post of Greenville; sisters in law, Chervyl Bartos of Miamisburg, Ruth Bartos of California, Jean Reese of Gallion, Ohio, Deloris Lachey of New Carlisle and Betty Lachey of Illinois; many of nephews and nieces, great nephew and nieces and many friends throughout the United States and extended cousins in Czechoslovakia. A celebration of life will be held on Friday, November 1, 2013, at 11:00 AM at Grace Lutheran Church in Eaton with Pastor Warren Reichert officiating. Friends and family may visit the family on Thursday, Octobe 31st from 4-8 PM at Braund Pope Funeral Home in New Madison and 1 hour prior to service on Friday at the Grace Lutheran Church. The family request memorial contributions be given to State of the Heart Hospice, Bethel Bible Program of Wisconsin, Grace Lutheran Church in Eaton, North Central Rescue Unit, St. Paul Lutheran Church in Greenville or Preble County Arts Center with donations being accepted at the services. Online condolences may be sent to the family at www.braundpope.com. Services entrusted to Braund Pope Funeral Home in New Madison.