LA LUPE: MY LIFE, MY DESTINY

At Theatre Four, 424 W. 55th St. Performed in English Tuesday and Wednesday; in Spanish Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday.

———

AN atom bomb did come from Cuba in the 1960s – and it was called La Lupe. The salsa singer formally called Victoria Guadalupe Yoli began singing in Cuba but reached stardom in the United States with bandleader Tito Puente.

La Lupe was a phenomenon. Imagine the soul of Judy Garland wed to the power of Ethel Merman and the whole thing packaged in the body of Charo. No, imagine . . . oh, you had to be there.

Until now. “La Lupe: My Life, My Destiny” is a musical tribute written by Carmen Rivera that tries to sum up Lupe’s life. It sandwiches snippets of her life (some revealing, some generic, some puzzlingly incomplete) between the performance of 15 of her most popular hits.

And a terrific, insinuating performer has been found for Lupe: She is Sully Diaz, a skilled Puerto Rican actress who makes us feel the fire and the passion and the poetry and (let us not forget) the sex that informed each breath of the ticking bombshell.

Diaz is good in the biographical fragments, but she is sensational when it comes to performing the songs.

Diaz shows Lupe as a romantic artist, whose life and feelings became her art. Her sketched-in life – Dad wants her to become a teacher; stepmother says success is impossible for a negrita; a santeria priestess delivers veiled warnings; Lupe nevertheless conquers Santiago and Havana and New York; Tito Puente at first gets along with her, then warns her about her tantrums, then drops her – is really just background for her ecstatic performing. Diaz shows how music that craved an exciting artist met its match in Lupe’s great days.

At each show, she gave away all her jewelry and all of herself: It was a naked (so to speak) display that was bound to crash. Diaz sings, in Cuba, Chico O’Farill’s “El Carbonero” and “El Cascabel”; in New York she does Isaac Irizarry’s “Oye Este Guaguanco.” Rafael Davila’s “Bomba Na’ Ma’ ” and Tite Curet Alonso’s “Fijense” come at the height of her career, as does “Fever.”

The songs are the highlight of the show. Diaz acts them dementedly, beautifully, sexually – making up with her disturbing presence what is occasionally lacking in a voice that can be thin and screechy. The surrounding script is irritating and unsatisfying: too much for a concert, too skimpy and clichéd for a real investigation of the life.

But the spirit of the creative woman – her devouring appetite for life – is all there, in the sinuous presence of Sully Diaz.