BennyK said:

I'm the drummer. I lay down the beat - " Here it is guys, follow me !" If I'm 2 and 4-ing on the snare ,it has to be emphatic,in a dynamic range to stand out not only from the music happening around me,but from the rest of the kit as well . Hitting the middle of the drum puts in it a ball park very similar to my toms and I happen to believe the groove is weakened and becomes spongey,iffy and anemic because of it .

A paragraph without any punctuation or capitalization OF LeTTeRS can lose its meaning real quick .

Over the last decade, there are people who makes statements ending with an inferred question.To me this implies a lack of confidence and certainty in the guise of being non aggressive and assertive . As if I need to agree with them so they can agree with themselves . B**lls*it !!!

HIT that drum !!!!! , then ,over time learn to control the dynamic level . The snare drum is a fascinating instrument. After 35 years I feel that I'm just scratching the surface of its potential.

I see drummers spending vast amounts of money on snare drums looking for a " sound" and I suspect that sound isn't in the drum at all - it's inside just waiting to be discovered .

Great post! Interesting that Dave C posted a clip with Oz Noy and Weckl - Oz regularly plays a small club in my neighborhood and every drummer that plays with him uses rimshot backbeats - despite the small venue. They know how to control their dynamics, but that rims shot is always there.

David Garibaldi had me play rim shot backbeats (between two lugs) and I still remember Mike Clark telling me years ago to put a rimshot in a shuffle. “Put some bacon fat on it!” he would say...

The rimshot is not a toy, it should be played with care - I do see a lot of rimshot players hitting harder than they probably need too. But that’s not the rimshot’s fault...

I differ from most here as my involvement in music over the past twenty years or so has been in producing live events. As such I see hundreds of pro drummers a year up close and personal. These are artists of various skill levels playing venues from 800 people to stadiums. I get the opportunity to see how they play live, how they handle sound checks, tuning, etc. I can tell you without a doubt that it is few and far between the drummer that does NOT play rimshot back beats. Pretty much everyone I see whether playing rock, blues, funk, country, gospel or almost anything else is playing rim shots. I have watched high end studio cats in sessions play rim shots that were scarily consistent. If they had not, I would garuntee that the producer would say something about it.

So to Dcrigger's comment that any young drummer on this site needs to understand what is part and parcel of contemporary drumming I would completely agree. Certainly everyone develops their own style, but if these guys want to work, it would behoove them to have this skill in their back pocket just like playing a variety of styles authentically or playing to a click track.

Carry on gentlemen.

Seb77 said:

Rimshots are great but not the end-all. To pick up my post above, what about the low snare drum sounds? The low 70s/80s sound seems to have had a comeback in recent years. A lot of Indie Pop, Disco-Punk etc. lives off of a less cracking, more mellow or tonal snare sound. It is indeed more similar to toms, but less energetic? (as stated in another post) I wouldn't say so.

A center rim shot mutes/chokes the fundamental tone, like a slap tone on a conga does. If you want a deep sound, RS is counterproductive.

I’m not really sure that has to be the case. Sure if you dead stroke on the head it will choke the fundamental - but I don't see how "catching" the rim along with the head changes what the head produces at all - it just adds the sound of the rim. At least, that's how it sounds to me.

As for the 70/80's - I probably did more recording during that era than any other time of my career - and in my experience, nothing about a tuned down, low pitch snare, muffled to taste (in the 70's, we weren't using the 80’s flap" technique yet - so pretty standard fare was a folded tissue or paper towel held in place by a piece of gaffers tape) precludes playing rim shots.

I know, because I did it a lot of the time...

Seb77 said:

Ok, I'm learning. Work on the amount of rim in the shot and the fundamntal tone might not get muffled as much (or is it different with different drums(hoops?)

Saw a very good band at a festival where the drummer had that low sound going, but the mixer took some time to find the low fundamental of the snare: great impact once the eq was right. Def. no rimshot, on a big festival (30k).

I think this is crucial ... the amount of rim vs the strength of the hit on the head. When I first tried to learn how to play a rimshot backbeat, I was either accidentally doing the off center accent that is very pingy and high pitched or worrying too much about nailing the rim and ending up with a weak stroke on the head itself. I believe what we are talking about here is a solid hit on the head but adding the rim. If you add the rim into the equation you get that cracking transient, as well as more of the shell tone and even the snares are more fully activated. If your stroke hits the rim but subtracts some of the power from the strike on the head, then I think you get that weaker fundamental tone. A lot of guys who are doing it "right" are not necessarily driving the stick through the rim into the floor; sometimes it's so subtle I think you can observe a rimshot backbeat in an uptempo setting and not even see the rim being struck unless you are watching very carefully.

stickchopper said:

Rimshots for me. I'm a skinny weakling, so gives me a bit more heft. Also more authority - more attitude- like " here it is follow me." - there's no doubt.

As stated, many different variations for different volume levels. For me I somehow do them without causing stress to my hand. Along with my attempts to simplify my playing people I play with tell me I'm "solid" - I think the rimshots help a lot.

Strength has nothing to do with the loudness of any strike. It's technique. If you've got proper technique, your hand s should provide plenty of power for a good loud strike. Learned that many years ago in my first year of marching band in high school under the tutelage of Kurt Wagner, who is now the Band Director and Kansas State University.

drumstuff66 said:

Rimshots 100% of the time if it's in front of 1000 people at the Hynes Convention Center in Boston.

Solid snare sound 100% of the time if it's in front 10 people at a little Irish pub tucked away in Cambridge.

Tough for me to say, "Always rimshots/snare sound no matter what". Venue size, my volume in the overall mix and the mic' situation are usually the deciding factors.

Why would you need to rim shot in front of a 1000 people? Aren't you mic'ed????

we've been through this before. recently in fact. with a thread started by me.

we're not doing it for volume. we're doing it for sound and feel. cool if it's not your thing, but I really think you're in the minority on this in 2015.

Nice backhand.

I took lessons for almost twenty years. Like I said, part of the time was by the now band director of Kansas State. Another was with a locally well known jazz drummer. Rim shots were meant as accents, not backbeats. Somewhere this got lost. Or run of the mill guys decided it was an all the time thing. How's my backhand?

nobody is questioning your skills, your ability, or lineage, or your dietary choices. All some of us are saying is that we like the sound and feel of rimshot backbeats. As do a very large majority of current and former pop. rock, blues, soul, country, and fusion drummers. If you don't like the sound or want to play that way, that's totally cool.

in the end it doesnt matter. If the band likes the way you play, if the audience is responding, if it sounds good, and it feels good then what's not to like ?

You both make a good point here. I would think you'd only use a rimshot in a big band setting for accents in swing tunes. I think for big band funk rimshot on the back beat should be home base. I don't play big band so I'm not an authority.

I think the rimshot really works for rock, funk and blues. It also provides a great contrast for ghost notes. jigga jigga POP, guh jig-ga jigga POP POP! If you know what I mean

If I was in low volume setting like a dinner set. I'd probably stay away from the rimshot on the back beat, but I've gotten pretty good at doing those relatively low volume so it depends on the vibe in the room. If it's background music, it really probably doesn't matter. People are eating and talking.

I have listened to a lot of James Brown and I hear that stuff as rimshot and ghost notes so that's a pretty common approach for me, but I'm not writing rules for the Percussive Arts Society here. Just MHO.