EMBL / BNXTTransfers

J.J. Mann leaves Aalst

After 1 season with Aalst ,J. J. Mann will leave the team to sign in Germany with Bayer Giants Leverkusen. In 2019-2020, J.J. Mann averaged 8.1 points, 2.8 rebounds and 1.6 assists.

TIB

No basketball in Belgium until August 30

Basketball Belgium, AWBB and Basketbal Vlaanderen decided to suspend all games until Sunday August 30. All the tournaments and friendly games are not allowed during this period. Trainings are subject to authorization from local authorities. All the competitions will start on the weekend of October 2-4 at the earliest, to allow 4 weeks of preparation…

TIB

Leo De Rycke leaves Bamberg

After Roel Moors, Thomas Crab and Paris Lee, Bamberg decided to part ways with Sport Director Leo De Rycke. He had a contract for the next 2 years. De Rycke came from Antwerp in 2019 alongside Moors, Crab and Lee.

Belgian Players Abroad

For the first time, 2 Belgians started in the same game in WNBA. The win for Meesseman (VIDEOS)

We talked about it yesterday, this game between the Washington Mystics and the Indiana Fever will stay in the Belgian basketball history books. For the first time ever, 2 Belgians started in the same game in the WNBA ! The Mystics with Emma Meesseman won pretty easily 101-76. For her first game in the WNBA,…

Belgian Players Abroad

WNBA starts today, Emma Meesseman will face Julie Allemand tonight

WNBA starts today with 3 games. All the games will be played at the IMG Academy in Florida. But today can be a historic day for Belgian Basketball. When Meesseman and the Washington Mystics will play against Allemand and the Indiana Fever it will be the 3rd time in WNBA that 2 Belgians players will…

Transfers

Luka Rupnik leaves Antwerp

After only 1 season with Antwerp, Luka Rupnik will leave Christophe Beghin’s team. The point guard decided to sign a contract with Nymburk. The team from Czech Republic will play in BCL next season, Antwerp will play in Eurocup. Last season in EMBL, he averaged 9.6 points, 6 assists and 3.8 rebounds.

Belgian Players Abroad

Maxime De Zeeuw leaves Obradoiro

After 2 seasons with Obradoiro, Maxime De Zeeuw will leave the Spanish team. Despite some injuries in his first year and a shortened season for the second year (Obradoiro wasn’t in the top 12 so they didn’t participate in the tournament to finish the season), De Zeeuw played 42 games for Obradoiro.

Belgian Players Abroad

Thomas De Thaey signs with Oliveirense

After 1 season in Spain with Breogan, Thomas De Thaey will sign with Oliveirense for the 2020-2021 season. De Thaey already played with the Portuguese team during the 2018-2019 season, he averaged 15 points and 7.8 rebounds. With Oliveirense, De Thaey won the championship and the cup. He was named MVP of the cup final…

Transfers

Retin Obasohan leaves Bamberg, Tyler Larson signs with the German team

Retin Obasohan will not stay with Bamberg next season. The German team is changing almost the entire roster and the coaching staff. Roel Moors and Thomas Crab signed with Göttingen and Paris Lee signed with Orléans. Tyler Larson played only a few months in Belgium for Liege during the 2017-2018 season before leaving for Varese….