Everyone knows about the fantastic TV show, The Simpsons, the show with 28 seasons and been airing since 1989. Bart, the bad boy, and Lisa, the good girl, are the definition of brother-sister goals.

Season 3, Episode 50, “Homer Alone”

In this episode, Bart and Lisa are stuck with their Aunt Selma and Aunt Patty-a horror-but like always, the two of them seem to be together with Bart telling Lisa how he was scared and Lisa, being the sarcastic girl we know and love, retorted with an even better response causing Bart to look at her in horror.

2. Season 10, Episode 206, “Bart the Mother”

Here is an example of Lisa and Bart being a bit silly with each other. The two siblings seemed to want to be together even though Bart looks a bit sad as he asked Lisa what she got back even though he had the chance to push Lisa out of his room any second.

3. Season 8, Episode 178, “The Secret War of Lisa Simpson”

“But the point is, you’re gonna make it, Lise, and I’ll stick by you.”

Even though Bart had started to fit in at the military school, he was still incredibly worried about Lisa, who was being an outcast by the boys for being a girl. He even ended up cheering for Lisa, who was starting to struggle on the rope much to the dismay to the other boys, helping her get across.

4. Season 7, Episode 137, “Sideshow Bob’s Last Gleaming”

This episode is just one example of how many times that the two siblings had gotten into a scuffle with Sideshow Bob. Ironically, Sideshow Bob seems to only want to go after Bart yet Lisa still helps out her brother even though she’s putting herself in danger.

5. Season 7, Episode 148, “Bart on the Road”

“I’m counting on you, Lise.”

Even though that Lisa had knew that something was fishy when Bart was called to a National Grammar Rodeo in Canada but she still helped him out when he called her, telling her that he needed help. Bart had also had the chance to call a number of his own friends that were sure to help him but instead he called Lisa even though there was a chance that Lisa could tell their parents.

6. Season 6, Episode 111, “Lisa on Ice”

“Great game, Lis.”

“Great game, Bart.”

This episode shows that true love between the two siblings even in a time where they are against each other in a hockey game. The two siblings remember a series of good times before Homer pits them against each other. In the end, they tie the game and stroll around on the ice, arm in arm, while a riot begins in the stands.

7. Season 23, Episode 495, “Holidays of Future Passed”

“Should I’ve married Nelson? “Cause we still talk on the phone.”

“Nelson calls you?”

“Well, someone calls someone.”

And to end it all out, we have older Lisa and Bart sitting in a tree getting drunk off wine and talking to each other about their mishaps in parenting with Lisa even confessing she still talks to Nelson.