MARQUETTE, Mich. (WLUC) - In the 109th State House District, voters casting ballots on the Democratic Party side of the Aug. 6 primary will find three candidates.

Incumbent Rep. Jenn Hill, D-Marquette, is facing a primary challenge from Margaret Brumm and Randy Girard.

TV6′s Don Ryan sat down with all three candidates. You can watch their entire interviews below.

All three candidates said they are hearing concerns from district voters about housing.

“It’s affordable housing across the board,” said Brumm. “We are in a greed environment where every business person who comes before the (Marquette City) Commission, and I’ve listened to all of them talk about affordable housing, they get approved and the next thing you know, it’s half a million dollar condos.”

Girard cited the high cost of living in our state as a major struggle facing the district.

“It’s very expensive to live, not just here in the U.P., but in Michigan in general,” said Girard. “We’re 37th on the list out of the states in terms of cost. We’re way down on the list. Regulations are high. Taxes are high. We’re remote so a lot of things are difficult.”

Hill says if re-elected to a second term, she will push for more support for Upper Michigan.

“Housing, we hear over and over and over again, is the absolute #1 issue,” said Hill. “And then there’s the question of how we’re going to continue to invest in the Upper Peninsula, which I’m going to keep fighting to keep that funding coming.”

Each candidate explained why they believe they are the best candidate.

“You have a good choice of candidates, and I think people realize that everybody brings something to the table,” said Brumm. “I believe I’m the best candidate for the position based on the fact that I’ve had a chance to observe our current representative and the other people running. And like I said, everybody has something to offer going forward. I think our representative needs first, last and always to put the people of the Upper Peninsula first, and I can do that.”

Girard encourages everyone to vote and says he is the best-qualified candidate.

“People need to go to the polls even if you only vote for one issue,” he said. “I don’t care if it’s a millage question or whether you’re a Democrat or Republican or independent, whatever. You need to get out and vote. Exercise your authority. Don’t let somebody else decide for you.”

Hill explained why voters should advance her to the November general election again.

“I’m really proud of what we’ve been doing to again ensure peoples’ rights, that people have a life with dignity, that all of us are respected,” she said. “And that yes, it’s been 19 months since I’ve been in office. So some things, you know, we want to move, keep moving on housing, keep moving on fixing the roads and keep moving on, basically making a better quality of life for our seniors and every generation in the Upper Peninsula.”

Interviews with the Republican 109th State House District Candidates are available here.