Dallas entered the list of cities with skyscrapers in 1909 with the construction of the 190 ft. high Praetorian Building, at a time when buildings with 10-20 floors were considered as skyscrapers. Since then construction in Dallas has been rapid as it displays some of the finest structures of the postmodernist and modernist era. The city consists of 33 high rise buildings which include 19 skyscrapers. 4 more towers, currently under construction, are expected to join this list by 2021. The list of towers given below in descending order of their heights defines the glorious Dallas skyline and constitutes the tallest buildings in the city.

1. Bank of America Plaza

The tallest building in Dallas since its completion 1985, Bank of America Plaza located on the Main Street District, is the 32nd tallest skyscraper in the United States at 921ft and is a LEED Gold certified structure. The late modernist styled tower was designed by JPJ Architects and consists of 72 floors that accommodate 19,00,000 sq ft. of office space, 8 unique dining spaces, retail areas, gyms, and lounges for their tenants. This elegant glass tower was often called “The Pickle” due to the green led light that accentuates its silhouette at night.

2. Renaissance Tower

Located at the adjacent Elm Street from the Bank of America Plaza, is The Renaissance Tower. Designed by HOK, the skyscraper stood at a height 710 ft. in 1974 and was originally the tallest building in Dallas, before the opening of the Bank of America Plaza and a few other towers that would surpass it after their completion. To reclaim some reputation, it was renovated in 1986 by Skidmore, Owings and Merrill and was brought to a height of 886ft. These 56 storeyed towersis known for its rooftop spires and unique double “X” lighting.

3. Comerica Bank Tower

Designed and completed by Philip Johnson and John Burgee on the Main Street District of Dallas in 1987, the 787 ft. tall and 60 storeyed Comerica Bank Tower is a postmodern structure with a modernized barrel vault facade that gives it an Art Deco feel. It would dethrone the Renaissance Tower as the second tallest skyscraper in Dallas if the spire and antenna lengths were not considered in the overall height. Originally designed as a banking building, the structure was made to look intimidating with its lack of interactive retail spaces, block walls of polished granite and darkened glazing, but now offers 1.5 million sqft of office space.

4. JP Morgan Chase Tower

The fourth-tallest building of Dallas is located at Ross Avenue, in the City Centre District. It is a 55 storeyed postmodern skyscraper, 738ft in height and would be third tallest in the city if the spire and antenna lengths were excluded. Designed and completed by Richard Keating in 1987, the structure is also known as the “Keyhole Building” due to its curved top with a 6 storey hole in the centre.

5. Fountain Place

The Fountain Place, named after the assortment of 172 fountains located at its base was designed by multiple architects, including I.M Pei, Henry Cobb, Harry Weese Associates and WZMH Architects. This 720 ft., 60 storeyed late modernist tower resembling a large prism is located in downtown Dallas. The initial proposal of twin towers at right angles remained incomplete but a 45 storeyed AMLI Fountain Place being constructed on the adjacent plot is set to accompany it soon.

6. Trammels Crow Center

T708 ft. high, 50 storeyed postmodern towers designed by Skidmore, Owings and Merrill is located at Ross Avenue of downtown Dallas. Originally built as an office Headquarters, the massive renovations in 2017 transformed it into a mixed-use facility with 45,000 sqft of retail space, 400 luxury apartments, and a 250-room hotel. The facade is made up of elegant flamed and polished Autumn Brown Granite and glass Pyramids at the centre of each face.

7. 1700 Pacific Avenue

1700 Pacific Avenue, an office building, located in the city centre district was the second tallest tower in Dallas at its time of completion in 1983, with a height of 655 ft. and 49 floors. Designed by WZMH Architects, this stepped skyscraper sits on a site obtained by combining 2 adjacent triangular plots over a pedestrian tunnel system.

8. Thanksgiving Tower

Designed by HKS Architects, the Thanksgiving tower stands on the site of the historical Palace theatre at Elm Street, adjacent to the Thanksgiving square in downtown Dallas. This glass skyscraper is connected to the Bullington Truck Terminal and the Dallas Pedestrian Network. At 646 ft. with 50 floors, it preceded the 1700 Pacific Avenue as the second tallest building in the city after its completion in 1982. Reid Architects were responsible for renovating and redesigning its lobbies, plazas and cores in 2015.

9. Energy Plaza

The ARCO Tower, renamed as the Energy Plaza is a LEED Gold certified skyscraper designed by I.M Pei and partners. Situated in the City Centre District, it rises up to 630ft with 49 floors and was designed as compilations of 3 triangular masses of grey granite and glass.

10. The First National Bank Tower

The First National Bank Tower renamed as The National is known for currently undergoing a 450-million-dollar renovation project, the costliest redevelopment project of downtown Dallas. The 627 ft. high skyscraper has 52 floors and is located on the Main Street District of Dallas. It was shut in January 2010 due to low Tenant occupancy but is set to open soon as a mixed-use facility with office, retail, hospitality and residential spaces for high profile clients.

11. Republic Center Tower 1

Also known as the Gables Republic tower, this 602 ft. high, 36 storey tower was the tallest building in the 1950s. Located in the Republic Center complex in downtown Dallas, it was built as the headquarters for the Republic National Bank.

12. Republic Center 2

Image Sources:

Republic Center 2@ Skyscraper Center

Republic Center 2 @ Skyscraper Center

Republic Center 2 @ Skyscraper Center

Standing adjacent to The Gables tower, the Republic center 2 is 598ft high with 53 floors and would surpass its neighbour as the 11th tallest if the former structure’s spire height was excluded. Architects Harrell and Hamilton were hired to design this structure that would be the tallest in the city but was unsuccessful due to height restrictions.

13. One AT&T Plaza

One AT&T Plaza also known as the Whitacre Towers is the headquarters of American multinational company AT&T and named after its former chairman Edward Whitacre Jr. This skyscraper of glass and white stone was built in 1984 and is located in downtown Dallas. It is 580 ft. high and has 37 floors which include 10, 00,000 sqft of office space.

14. Ross Tower

Originally known as the Lincoln Plaza, this skyscraper of granite and glass is 45 floors and 579 ft. high and was completed in 1982 in downtown Dallas. The building’s unique serrated facade provides 16 corner offices per floor with breath-taking views of Klyde Warren Park and Uptown districts.

15. City place Center

Designed by Cossutta and Associates, the Tower at City place is 42 storeyed, 560 ft. high structure located at North Haskell Avenue in the City place District of Uptown Dallas. It is the tallest building in the city that is outside Downtown. $ 300 million spent in construction costs, makes it the most expensive office building to be made in Dallas. The facade is made up of Brazilian red Granite and the interiors were lavish with white and pink marble flooring, decorative tiles, cut mirrors, brass and imported polish wood panelling.