The Gallery Director will report to the Dean of the Herron School of Art and Design and will work closely with faculty to develop programming for the Herron Galleries that supports academic curricula, advances scholarship, and expands research opportunities. The Gallery Director will be charged with bringing notable contemporary artists, designers, and scholars to the galleries and promoting the programs to the university and community. The Gallery Director works with the Exhibition and Visiting Artist Committee, the Dean, the Director of Development, External Affairs staff, and external volunteers to support gallery exhibitions, lectures, educational components and community engagement activities. The Gallery Director coordinates and administers all aspects of the Herron School of Art and Design art galleries to include the following: implementation of programming policy; curates and organizes exhibitions to include selection of artists and designers as well as publicity materials; solicitation of guest curators and traveling exhibitions; coordination with other exhibition venues; maintenance and inventory of permanent collection; and supervision of the assistant, and student workers. The Gallery Director will also work with appropriate staff to develop relations with donors, cultural organizations, and media contacts. The Director will oversee gallery and exhibition budgets and all financial considerations, especially the

development of funding sources including grant writing and philanthropic engagement (local, national and international sources), to be coordinated with the Dean and Development Director.

Applicants should hold a terminal degree in a visual arts discipline and three years relevant career experience. Abilities preferred are those of a curator/director who has a demonstrated record of success in the planning, coordination and execution of all related programs/exhibits and events, as well as day-to day operations. They

should demonstrate significant experience with the planning and implementation of interdisciplinary, curricular and/or community based educational programming. The applicant should show evidence of expertise in curatorial projects that are innovative and of high repute in the arts community. The applicant should show evidence of successful writing skills in proposals and reporting. The Gallery Director should have knowledge and experience of the physical aspects of gallery preparation, installation, and maintenance.