Former Philippines President Corazon Aquino has died at the age of 76.

She had been suffering from colon cancer for more than a year and recently announced she was refusing further treatment.

Mrs Aquino became president when the 1986 "people power" uprising deposed former dictator Ferdinand Marcos.

BBC website readers have been e-mailing with their reaction to her death.

Below are some of your comments:

A really sad day for my country. I went to school with Corazon back in the 1940s and we were in touch while she was ruling and afterwards. She never forgot people. She was such a nice person and a visionary.

Ibino Umanuvel, Manila, Philippines

She fought for the will of the people and against the tyranny and corruption of the Philippine government. She will be greatly missed.

Irene Roe, Santa Fe, NM, USA

She brought so much hope to the Filipino people and she worked hard to bring the Philippines back on its feet

I am a US immigrant from the Philippines. I remember when Tita Cory came to power (she was everyon'es Tita - meaning auntie) - I had this overwhelming pride that we (being part of the People Power) ousted a dictator and elected the first woman president of the Philippines. She brought so much hope to the Filipino people and she worked hard to bring the Philippines back on its feet.

Edora Dadia, Vallejo, California, USA

I do remember growing up and seeing her rise up and fight not just against Ferdinand Marcos, but his regime, the corruption, and what the regime stood for. She was a great leader not just for the boldness she exhibited, but also because she stirred the public at large for something greater, far-reaching, and far-seeing, which was democracy for all, what it meant, and what it should mean moving forward. She was the opposite of the late Suharto in that regard. A big and a sad loss of a visionary leader.

David Hollingsworth, Washington, DC

Filipinos all over the world will forever owe President Aguino a debt of gratitude. She made possible the return of democracy in the Philippines.

Arthur Santos, San Francisco CA USA

Corazon Aquino was an inspirational figure when she was still alive, and she will continue to inspire Filipinos even after her death. Her courage in the face of seemingly insurmountable odds is something that we can all learn from.

Kit Undug, Jakarta, Indonesia

She has always been someone I looked up to. She made every single Filipino proud when she led the "the bloodless revolution" which is first of the history. She was the first woman president of our country. She was role-model and a very religious person.

Angelou Conag, Cebu, Philippines

She has been a source of inspiration and healing

We have lost a staunch, democratic, elegant and quiet hero. It's a sad day but also a day of renewal for the Filipino people to really work on what matters. I was only in grade school when she became the president and it clearly showed that anyone in my country can do anything. She has been a source of inspiration and healing. May she rest in peace.

Gretchen, New York

She was the icon of democracy in Asia! Power rests on the masses. The people's power phenomenon that catapulted her to the presidency was uniquely unprecedented.

Rudy Guacena, Geneva, Switzerland

Today, we lost our beloved mother who freed us from military dictatorship and shielded us against military adventurism. With Corazon Aquino, we courageously took EDSA street in 1986 and faced the muzzle of the guns. We love you, Cory. Your soul may rest in peace and our prayers are with you.

Dodong, Surigao City, Philippines

A leader, a mother! she is an advocate of democracy! she held the spirit of us Filipinos together during the difficult times where we were about to falter. I remember her as the lady who always wears yellow clothes and who wasn't afraid to face danger. It is sad to hear she passed away and may she rest in peace. My thoughts are with her family.

James Rivera, Tagum City Philippines now in London UK

I admired her not just being a mother and a wife but a leader who seeks equality and justice to the abused and the oppressed. She loves the Filipinos and her being so religious captivated the Catholics worldwide.

Betty Lim, Mindanao, Philippines

I was very surprised and saddened to learn about this tragic loss of one of the most influential and inspirational leaders of my home country, the Philippines. I remember when I was in the Philippines she was always helping people who were impoverished which is very common in my homeland. She also promoted equality and respect to all individuals. She is a legend and I will always remember her as a remarkable and passionate Filipina. Mabuhay!

Romnick Villanueva, Toronto, Canada

She will forever live in the hearts of the Filipino people. I am not an avid fan of Mrs. Aquino, but I salute her in the fight of preserving democracy in our country. May she rest in peace!

Rouil, Bukidnon, Philippines

Mrs Corazon Aquino was a true legend to the people of the Philippines. I was only a child when she was president, but her commitment and her influence back then to the people of the Philippines made nothing but a great impact to all us Filipinos no matter how old you were. RIP President Aquino, you will be sadly missed but indeed never forgotten.

Amy Mamawag, London

Though the first female President in Asia, she's considered to be one of the most responsible and God loving leader of the country. RIP Tita Cory..

Jen Munoz, Philippines

I was only 10 when Mrs. Aquino came to power. Even as a kid, I have always been an admirer of her dignity, her credibility and her faith. I join my fellow Filipinos around the world in praying for her eternal repose. Her legacy lives forever. God bless you Tita Cory.

Nathaniel Sisma, Barcelona, Spain

I grew up in the Philippines, I moved to Sweden 5 years ago. I was 10 during the People Power Revolution, a die-hard Cory supporter, we braved the streets campaigning against Marcos during that election, which was a grand feeling after years of repression. I can recall vividly those events day to day.

Cory was a meek and graceful yet powerful figure, it's hard to explain, you may need many years of repression to get that feeling...the whole country was lined in yellow in her support. We should learn from her, she was always on the "good side." We Filipinos tend to forget that. Oh I'm pining for my country, if we learn from her we can just get things right.

Mark Ticao, Uddevalla, Sweden

People from all walks of life were mobilised, almost as if the wool of deception had been taken of from their eyes

I meet Cory when she was at the University of the Philippines where I studied, to address the students of the impending presidential election. I also remember the yellow confetti, cut out from yellow pages by supporters, that came flying out of the high building in Makati business district every time Cory's campaign motorcade went pass.

People from all walks of life were mobilised, almost as if the wool of deception had been taken of from their eyes. My sister volunteered for vote-watch during the election and the days following were very tense.

I was one of the first one who went to EDSA that Sunday when the now EDSA revolution was started by a coup de tat. We were in front of the tanks...I was at the mass protest outside Channel 4 - the government channel broadcasting Marcos propaganda when Cory was sworn in as President at Club Filipino. It was a very exciting time, full of hope for the future of my country. Ninoy once said that the next president after Marcos would have the toughest time. Cory made us proud again, to be Filipinos. Eternal peace grant unto her, Oh Lord.

Zelda Booth, Sydney, Australia

She was popularly associated with the colour of yellow, which she used during her presidential campaign and eventually following throughout her life. Accordingly, it symbolises peace. True enough because she was soft-spoken and non-aversive. She was female equivalent of Mahatma Gandhi. She is truly the most celebrated and charismatic leader of the Philippines. She was mother, a leader, and inspiration-a well lived life.

KC Lim, Catbalogan, Samar Philippines

Our whole country mourns. Her term as president disappointed many who expected that she would solve the problems of our country that had existed for generations, inequality of land distribution, separatist movement in the Islamic south, but she literally led the people from dictatorship to a working democracy. If not for her, what generation of marcos or military dictator would be lording over us now? She is well loved by the poor and the rich, from the south to the north.

Edgardo M.Oreta, Manila, Philippines

She is widely recognised as one of the Philippine presidents not tainted with corruption and injustice

When her husband Ninoy Aquino was assassinated back in the early 80's I was among those who was fortunate enough to make a beeline just to take a last glimpse of the man many acknowledge as the modern day hero of the Philippines. In their home in Quezon City in a street aptly called Bayanihan St, (It was re-named Bayaninoy at the time) I saw her standing silently in front of her husband's casket... not knowing that in a matter of months she would take the yoke her husband left behind and carry it on her own shoulder but would make everyone proud of the legacy she would later leave behind.

Up until her husband's death, she had no political background nor interest in it. But the call of the nation was too much to ignore so she took the risk and now she is widely recognised as one of the Philippine presidents not tainted with corruption and injustice. She is truly one of the few who ran for the presidency with the sincere intention of serving without taking. She is looked upon by the nation as the paragon of honesty and integrity. While the saying that, 'everyone had great intentions... until they enter politics' is true for most politicians, Cory remained untainted by corruption up until her last days in office.

The country is still in dire need of leaders like her, but she already sacrificed and dedicated much of her life to the service of the Filipino people. Now that she is finally at rest, she will be with her husband once again. And in the next life, I can imagine she would greet him with a smile knowing she did good.

Nelson, Long Beach USA

It is a heartbreaking morning news, that Tita Cory left us at dawn. There's so much to say about her and yet I can only think of one thing; I will miss her. Her strength, her faith, her love for the Filipino people, her very presence. God bless you President Corazon Cojuangco-Aquino. Thank you for all the love that you have shown us through the years. May you rest in peace.

Bernadette, Alabang, Muntinlupa, Philippines

President Cory Aquino showed us Filipinos that in her brief life, we should all continue to fight and protect for our rights and freedom from again being tainted. That we are to carry on what she and her husband Ninoy started - for children and for our country's future.

Manfred U. Ramos, Quezon City, Philippines

Cory Aquino was a symbol of democracy and love of country even before I understood what they meant. I cannot even begin to imagine a Philippines without Cory. She gave so much to this nation, may she rest in peace.

Vanessa , Brussels, Belgium

I haven't cried for any politician who passed away but reading this news really brought me to tears. I was in high school, when I saw her walking at our street back home (Unida, Baclaran, Phils) with her daughter Kris Aquino. They were all in yellow and she was campaigning for her candidacy. The world will not be the same without you Tita Cory. I love you...

Catherine G. Sunga, Dubai, United Arab Emirates

The late Corazon Aquino was an exemplary woman. She was first and foremost a woman of faith before any of her accomplishments as the first woman president in our country; wife, mother, speech writer for her husband and home-maker. She was magnanimous towards the toppled dictator Marcos when she was catapulted to power during the bloodless Philippine Revolution of 1986. She never went down to the level of her political rivals when she was campaigning to be president; the kind of rivals who called her 'ordinary housewife - what can she do?'. Her quiet demeanour hid a brilliant mind which enabled her to hold her own against the prominent leaders of the world. Newsweek recognised this and made her 'Woman of the Year' in 1986. She had been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. Despite the accolades, she remained a very simple person like she had always been. Truly, she will be sadly missed but proudly remembered. I'm proud to be a woman and a Filipino because of her.

Elizabeth Cajiuat-Parker, Fleet, Hants UK

I rarely follow Philippine politics anymore, but I was deeply saddened by the news of Corazon Aquino's departure from this life. As the first female president of the Philippines and as the leader who led the overthrow of Ferdinand Marcos, Aquino was the first politician that I admired and looked up to. She was the embodiment of the Filipino thirst for democracy.

Lourdes Suazo, Born and raised in the Philippines; relocated to Washington, DC

We are deeply saddened at the loss of a moral compass, a witness and reminder of our hard fought democracy , now with her Creator. I remember Cory, a simple and well intentioned housewife facing the might of the Marcos dictatorship, I remember her valiant and courageous actions in the face of coup plotters and I am encouraged to continue my commitment to make democracy work in my own sphere of influence.

Let Cory Aquino remind us that all on earth passes but what remains is the memory of goodness and courage for which we now all enjoy its fruits. Let's not fail this memory and remain vigilant and active in the promotion of life, liberty and justice.

Bro. Kenneth Martinez, FSC, Philippines

I was one of the millions in 1986 with her in EDSA, and I was privileged enough to really be there with her as I was close to the Cojuangco's. Many people today forget what brought us together as a nation then and what her example and leadership have been able to give us what we have today...yet we do her no respect and justice because we have regressed with what we have today...let us gather strength once again from her passing and not let her life and what she stood up for be wasted in our future.

Jose Ricardo Moran, Metro Manila, Philippines

I smile as I remember Tita Cory (as we fondly called her then)asking around who the hairstylist of Helen Vela (was a radio-tv personality) was, for she also wants the same hairstyle. I met her once and she was very, very nice. She was down-to-earth. She was a sincere person. She was like your favourite auntie...very approachable.

Bernadette Punzalan, Pasig City, Philippines

I was only eight when People Power happened, but I feel indebted to Cory Aquino. As a leader, she is flawed - there are many what if's, many things that could have been done - but she is an icon of national unity. She symbolised our 'yes we can' moment, a dream bigger than Cory herself, and now she is gone. Maraming salamat, Tita Cory, at Paalam.

Jonas Bagas, Quezon City, Philippines

President Aquino taught all of us who thought we knew what democracy was what it takes to truly be free. By standing down and defeating a vile dictator, she helped start the democracy wave that led to Tiananmen Square, the overthrow of the Ceausescus, and the fall of the Soviet Union. She is the quintessential example of doing not because it was popular, or advantageous, but simply because it was right.

David, Austin, Texas