Honeywell has announced it will have selling rights to KE2 Therm Solutions, including industry-leading smart controllers for the refrigeration industry, in the grocery vertical.

The combined expertise of Honeywell, the inventor of the retail multi-site energy management industry, and KE2 Therm will help grocers, convenience stores and restaurants lower energy costs, reduce spoilage and meet regulatory guidelines.

According to the US Department of Energy, grocery stores are responsible for approximately nine per cent of the total energy consumed by commercial buildings in the United States, of which more than 50 per cent is from refrigeration.

With the agreement, KE2 Therm will also sell Honeywell Multisite technologies including its Novar building controls systems, E-MON electrical meters, and Manning refrigerant leak detection sensors.

Honeywell Multisite general manager, Matt Call, said the company is the only building automation manufacturer that provides full-service energy management support to the retail industry so owners can focus on other critical parts of their operations.

"By combining our enterprise-level capabilities with KE2 Therm's smart edge level controls, we will deliver bottom line savings to any grocer, retailer or restaurant chain using refrigeration,” Call said.

President and CEO of KE2 Therm, Patrick Holdmeyer, said KE2 Therm is specified by a wide range of end users, consultants and major OEM manufacturers of evaporators, and walk-in freezers and coolers.

"Top U.S. and global restaurant and supermarket chains recognize the benefits of KE2 Therm controls and specify them for both new install and retrofit applications. We are excited to work with Honeywell to serve an even larger customer base,” he said.

Honeywell Multisite, formerly known as Novar, is a leader in retail multi-site energy management and provides building management systems for many of the world's largest retailers and supermarket chains.

Honeywell Multisite offers full-service building management including design, engineering, programming, software and hardware production, delivery and installation, and 24/7 centralized monitoring, control and reporting.

For more information, visit www.honeywell.com or www.ke2therm.com.