Actress Manisha Koirala, who made her acting debut with Pheri Bhetaula (1989), plays the pivotal role of Mallikajaan in Sanjay Leela Bhansali's epic period drama, Heeramandi, which is currently streaming on Netflix. Despite the series receiving mixed reviews, Koirala's performance managed to garner a lot of appreciation from the audience. A well-known name in the entertainment industry, Koirala has worked predominantly in Hindi and Tamil cinema, and also featured in Bengali, Malayalam, Kannada, and Nepali movies. Her illustrious career spanning over three decades is a testament to her skills and versatility as a performer. In this article, we take a look at Manisha Koirala's net worth, luxurious lifestyle, and more.

Check out Heeramandi actress Manisha Koirala's impressive net worth, luxurious home in Nepal, fees per project and more

Political connections

Manisha Koirala comes from an affluent political family. She is the granddaughter of Bishweshwar Prasad Koirala, who served as the Prime Minister of Nepal. Her father, Prakash Koirala, is a well-known political figure, who was a former member of Nepal's House of Representatives and a Cabinet Minister.

A luxurious home

The versatile actress owns a beautiful and opulent house in Nepal. The house is located away from all the limelight, making it an ideal destination for Koirala to spend some quality time with her family and enjoy a normal life away from all the hustle and bustle of the maximum city (Mumbai).

The interior of the house has a white-coloured theme and the decor includes comfortable furniture, wooden flooring, beautiful art pieces, and family portraits. A glance through Manisha Koirala's official Instagram handle will give you a glimpse of her luxurious home.

According to a Firstpost report, Manisha Koirala took home a pay cheque of Rs 1 crore for her role of Mallikajaan in Sanjay Leela Bhansali's period drama Heeramandi. According to an ABP Live report, she charged the same amount to essay the role of Yashoda Jindal in her last theatrical release Shehzada (2023), which featured Kartik Aaryan and Kriti Sanon in lead roles.

Jet-setting around the globe

In her free time, Manisha Koirala loves to travel. She enjoys going on adventurous trips and exploring exotic destinations. A quick browse through her social media (Instagram) will give you a glimpse of her passion for travelling.