Baščaršija

We will start with today's bathing area Bentbaša, which was once known as medieval village of Brodac. The founder of Sarajevo, Isa beg Isaković thought this location was just perfect for establishing the city. In Baščaršija, he builds Kolobara Han (Kolobara Inn), a hotel in modern terms, which was soon surrounded by a multitude of shops creating the economic basis for the development of the city.

Bistrik

Behind Careva džamija stretches one of the largest neighborhoods of Sarajevo – Bistrik, the home of two national monuments of Bosnia and Herzegovina: Konak and crkva sv. Ante (Church of St Anthony).

Džidžikovac

Above the Big park there was an almost unihabitated area dotted with flowering bushes and orchards, which was soon known as "Džidžikovac", from the word "džidži" (tur. güzel - pretty, decorated). Perched on the top of Džidžikovac is the Kulin hadži-Bali Mosque (Kulin Hadji Bali) which was erected by the scholar Hadji-Bali towards the end of the 16th century.

Koševo

Koševo Street is one of the busiest and most eventful streets in Sarajevo, apart from the central city streets. Walking along Koševo Street, you can experience Sarajevo outside tourist locations.

Novo Sarajevo

Place where first two victims lost their lives during the forthcoming three year long siege of Sarajevo. This Sarajevo neighborhood became famous again in 2006, when Bosnian-Herzegovinian director Jasmila Žbanić won the Golden Bear for her film “Grbavica”.

Alifakovac

Above Šeher-Čekajina Ćuprija is Alifakovac, today perhaps the best preserved part of the old ways of residential construction in Sarajevo, with steep alleys dotted with houses in a way that each has a great view and nobody blocks each other.

Drvenija

Drvenija Bridge, place with which almost all Sarajevans have a special connection. It was the inevitable place for all romantic meetings because on one side was high school for girls, and on the other side was boy's high school, today's Prva gimnazija (First Gymnasium), famous for it's Nobel Prize winning pupils Ivo Andrić and Vladimir Prelog.

Mejtaš

“Mejtaš is a square above the city” wrote the famous Sarajevo author Miljenko Jergović. True, Mejtaš is one of the most presentable Sarajevo neighborhoods located on a hill just above the city center.

Marijin Dvor

In 1899 August Braun, the owner of the building materials factory, erects a building and names it after his wife Mary (Germ. Marienhof), which is how this part of the city became known as Marijin Dvor (Mary’s Castle). Before he met his wife, August Braun produces bricks with embedded initials.

Novi grad

Novi grad (New City) is both youngest and largest of all local municipalities. It is located at the southern entrance into the city, also location of Sarajevo Airport.

Vratnik

It is easy to get to Vratnik. From Baščaršija, we go up the road and through Kovači neighborhood after which we can immediately see the two towers: Širokac and Ploča, which are now an integral part of the Alija Izetbegović Museum. This is where Vratnik begins. Fortified walls and gates around the city – along Vratnik, were built in 1697, after Eugene of Savoy burned the city.

Center

Journey through the central part of the city starts with Čobanija Bridge. Way back in 1557, Čoban-Hasan neighborhood was established on the left bank of Miljacka. Here also, was a wooden bridge, later replaced by steel one. It was built in 1888 and is famous for having many names: Čobanija, Masarikov most (Masarik’s Bridge),

Skenderija

There are two bridges, side by side, and they are both called Skenderija. Legend says that the old Skenderija, a pedestrian bridge, was built with the same materials as the Eiffel Tower in Paris, and to this day, some people refer to it as the “Eiffel Bridge”.

Kampus

Next to Sarajevo’s business and political center is a string of cultural and educational institutions. Just next to the Faculty of Philosophy is the largest and most significant museum institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina – The National Museum of BiH. The museum complex, with neo-Renaissance style features consists of four pavilions connected by an accessible terrace and a botanical garden occupying the central space.

Ilidža

There are several landmark buildings from the Austro-Hungarian period: the old railway station, residential villas along the Avenue leading to Vrelo Bosne (spring of the river Bosna) built in alpine style, the old Hotel Igman building (now town hall), Hippodrome Butmir, as well as hotels “Hungarija”, “Bosna” and “Austria”, where Austro-Hungarian Crown Prince Ferdinand and his wife Sofia stayed on the eve of Sarajevo Assassination. It is still remembered that the first Fiacre (horse drawn carriage) came to Sarajevo with the Archduke Ferdinand in 1895, while today fiacres are a famous recognizable symbol of Ilidža, and for the last 105 years have been transporting visitors down Velika aleja (The Great Avenue) to Vrelo Bosne.