Greg Jukes

Greg Jukes is a narrator and percussionist whose work focuses on blending music, acting, and dance in hybrid arts performances. Greg has performed across the country with his hybrid arts ensemble, The Fourth Wall and has been a part of large-scale performances around Boston as a member of Kadence Arts. www.TheFourthWallEnsemble.com

Rose Friedman

Rose has been working in theater since she was a young child. She studied at the Moscow Art Theater and New School University. She was a performer and workshop leader with Bread and Puppet Theater for over a decade, and holds a teaching license in early childhood education. Rose is a founding member of Modern Times Theater and Vermont Vaudeville, and continues to work as a teaching artist for all ages. She sings and plays the ukulele. www.moderntimestheater.com

Justin Lander

Justin Lander is a comedian, puppeteer, musician, and auctioneer. He has toured puppet shows nationally and internationally since 2002 and has been a Professor of Mr. Punch since 2006. He is a Co-founder of Modern Times Theater and the emcee of Vermont Vaudeville. Justin teaches workshops for kids and adults in puppetry, junk music and improv comedy, and is an alum of the Bread and Puppet. He also plays the musical bicycle pump.

www. moderntimestheater.com

Brent McCoy

Brent has performed around the world since 2005. He has appeared numerous International Busking, Fringe, Clown and Vaudeville Festivals as well as Colleges, schools, and special events throughout the US. Brent is a founding member of Vermont Vaudeville. www.brentmccoy.com

Maya McCoy

Maya has performed since she was in Kindergarten. She studied theater at The New School in NYC, with Bread and Puppet Theater, and at the Celebration Barn Theater in Maine. She is a juggler, clown and physical comedian. Maya is a founding member of Vermont Vaudeville and is on the Board of Directors for Celebration Barn and The Hardwick Town House. www.secretcircusshow.com

Otto Muller

Otto Muller got his start at age 16 playing jazz piano under an assumed name at casinos, bars, restaurants, and mafia Christmas parties in upstate New York. Prior to coming to Vermont Vaudeville, he has worked as an accompanist at Improv Olympic and ComedySports in Chicago and for Rhoda Levine’s courses in improvised opera, and has collaborated with the Titanic Players in Evanston, IL, the Real-Dream Cabaret in Buffalo, NY, Grafted Cede Theatre Company in London. Outside of the vaudeville, Muller is a composer of delicately uncomfortable avant- garde chamber music and a faculty member at Goddard College.