Hello,

I own an original 1967 stereo pressing of Moby Grapes S/T debut. It's in nice shape. At my record store they also have a copy of this album on the "San Fransico Sound" label which I was thinking of picking up just because I absolutely love this record. Does anybody have any more information on the pressing? Such as: is it in mono or stereo, how does it sound, etc. Any information would be greatly appericated.

Stay Groovy,

Cody

Matthew Katz released it through his created SFS label on CD and later on vinyl. They have a very poor reputation for quality and sonics. My advice is to get the mono pressing: either original or the shortlived Sundazed reissue.

Thank you for sharing that information. I really need to get a mono as well to go along with my stereo. Hoping to come across one with a poster one day.

I used to have a copy of the San Francisco Sounds CD of Wow/Grape Jam. It was a needle drop. It sounded reasonably good for a needle drop (aside from all the unnecessary edits in the jams). I've never heard the SFS version of the first Moby Grape album, but I have no doubt it's a needle drop also, because certainly Sony would not allow Katz to have access to any tape source. Besides the ethical reasons for not buying SFS product, there's certainly no reason to buy a needle drop of it if you already have an original pressing of the LP.

i had the san francisco sound pressing on vinyl, one of the worst sounding records i ever heard, stay well clear

Reprise of It's A Beautiful Day and their infamous rip off at his hands. DO NOT SUPPORT KATZ OR SFS. They're bad news for the artists they "purport" to represent, and bad news for anyone with as much as a modicum of ethics.

Bump ...

Hi Guys, I'm new to the forum and am looking for a copy of this great Moby Grape LP and am a little overwhelmed by the number of pressings out there. The mono versions include the Columbia (with and w/o finger) and re-issues by Edsel and Sun-dazed. Then there is the Columbia stereo version and the to-be-avoided SF Sound version. The poster and the finger are nice from a collectibility standpoint, but for simple listening pleasure are all of the mono versions a good bet ? What about the Columbia stereo version ? Thanks , love the forum and all the great knowledge being shared.

I got the first Moby Grape album CD as a gift for Christmas 1993. I was naive at the time about the dealings for this band. I learned about it later. The SFS CD sounds good if it is a needle drop. I remember a shootout poll that someone did comparing this with the Sundazed issue and maybe one other and the SFS got more positive votes. I also have Vintage Grape for the first album as well.

Packed away somewhere I have a news journal magazine that my Mom bought back in approx. 1992-93 and it had a story about Skip Spence and some photos of him as well. One photo showed him sitting in front of a Courthouse panhandling. The other showed his face and he looked awful and downtrodden with rotting teeth due to homelessness. Does anyone remember what magazine that was? I would like to read that story again since my copy is not handy if it's online to read. Was it Time, Life or Newsweek, or some other similar mag? So long ago, I can't remember.

Unfortunately, most MG or IABD fans did not know of these problems until years later and purchased those SFS copies just to have the music. Katz tried to do the same to the Jefferson Airplane, but they were able to escape his clutches. I don't think there is a more evil character in the history of the music business. However, there may have been worse but I just don't know of them.

As others had already said, try to find a nice copy(mono or stereo) of the original. I still see them from time to time. The Sundazed copy is good, but I only think that is a mono pressing.