Who are Ostersunds?

Ostersunds were formed back in October 1996 (the same year Arsene Wenger took over at Arsenal) when three local clubs (Ope IF, IFK Ostersund and Torvalla FF) combined forces in hope of creating a club that would one day sustain itself in the Swedish top flight.

In just 2011, they were playing in the fourth tier of Swedish football, but gained back-to-back promotions before finally making their Allsvenskan bow in 2016.

The club's first major trophy came in 2017 when they beat IFK Norrkoping 4-1 to win the Svenska Cupen, earning qualification for the 2017-2018 Europa League.

Ostersunds still had work to do before reaching the group stages, and against all odds beat Turkish giants Galatasaray 3-1 on aggregate to progress to the final qualification round.

The Swedes edged past Greek side PAOK on away goals (3-3) following a 3-1 defeat and 2-0 victory to qualify for the group stages at the first time of asking.

Many predicted them to come unstuck, after being drawn in with Athletic Bilbao, Hertha Berlin and Zorya but Ostersunds earned a second-place finish having only lost once, to earn the reward of a round-of-32 tie with Arsenal.

Who is the Ostersunds manager?

Ostersunds' manager is an Englishman named Graham Potter. Director of football Daniel Kindberg decided to take a chance on the former Stoke, Southampton and West Brom left-back in 2010 from the advice of a friend, Graeme Jones who at the time was assistant manager to Roberto Martinez at Swansea City.

Potter's only previous coaching experience had come with University of Hull and Leeds Met, where he spent time studying for a degree.

Which players should Arsenal be wary of?

Forwards Alhaji Gero and Saman Ghoddos pose a threat for Arsenal, having been the club's two most prolific scorers domestically and in Europe this season.

Ghoddos' red-hot form has seen him earn international caps for both Iran and Sweden in 2017 and it's likely that the striker will feature at the 2018 World Cup for the former next summer.

The club also have English players Curtis Edwards and Jamie Hopcutt among their ranks. Edwards was playing for non-league side Spennymoor Town in 2014 now he's living the dream in Sweden having scored a memorable strike against Athletic Bilbao in the group stages.

Arsenal draw Swedish side Ostersunds in Europa League last 32

How many people watch them?

Ostersunds play at the Jamtkraft Arena on an artificial pitch.

The stadium opened back in July 2007 and holds 8,466, in comparison with the Emirates Stadium's 60,000.

How have they already mocked Arsenal on Twitter?

Ostersunds may only have 7,500 Twitter followers, but that didn't stop them already mocking Arsenal on Twitter.

Invalid email

We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read our Privacy Policy

The Gunners sent a tweet to the Swedish club following the Europa League draw, to which they replied:

‘See you at Jamtkraft Arena in February!’

‘Please make sure that Wenger has fixed his jacket before traveling, it’s going to be cold in ostersund.’

Wenger will definitely need his coat as Ostersund is renowned for sub-zero temperatures.