Rocker Jack White's '$62k A MONTH income revealed' as divorce from Karen Elson is finalised

Jack White has officially divorced his wife Karen Elson.

The former White Stripes rocker married the model in 2005 but they split in 2011 after Karen filed for divorce.

Court records have revealed a judge finalised proceedings on November 26 after months of bitter spats, according to Billboard.

The pair reached an agreement naming Karen as the primary residential parent for the couple's two children, Scarlett Teresa, seven, and Henry Lee, six, while Jack has been granted around 150 days per year to spend with them.

The agreement also states that Jack, 38, has been granted permission to keep the rights to his musical businesses - which include his bands The White Stripes, The Raconteurs, Dead Weather and his record label, Third Man Records.

TMZ reports the 38-year-old musician makes roughly $62,000 per month, but according to his divorce agreement, he's paying $3,200 in monthly child support.

The two were married in a canoe in the middle of the Amazon river in 2005.

Back in the day: The couple, pictured here at the Royal World Premiere of Quantum of Solace in London in 2008, threw a divorce party to celebrate the end of their union, though Karen later filed for a restraining order

His separation from 34-year-old Karen was amicable in the beginning and they even threw a 'divorce party' to celebrate the end of their union - but the situation escalated into a series of shocking accusations.

Karen filed a restraining order on July 17, claiming Jack made attempts to contact her lawyers 'in an inappropriate aggressive manner' in addition to making derogatory remarks and allegedly flying into a violent rage, which he denied.

The filing reportedly stated: 'Wife fears for her and the children's safety as a result of this harassment.

'This pattern of husband bullying wife into submission was a contributing factor in the demise of their marriage.'

Rock star: Jack White, pictured here performing at the 55th annual Grammy awards at the Staples Center in Los Angeles in February has been granted around 150 days per year to spend with the couple's kids