This slice of sublime pop from John Lennon’s Walls and Bridges album features background vocals by May Pang, John and Yoko’s Chinese-American personal assistant who became his lover in 1974.

It could be assumed that it was Yoko Ono who provided the whispered vocal on ‘#9 Dream’. After all it was Yoko who put together a video for the song in 2005, and included footage of her lip-syncing to May’s vocal overdubs, adding to the confusion. It was however Lennon’s 22-year old companion May Pang who added the sultry “John” overdubs at the Record Plant East in New York City in August 1974.

Inception: Coinciding with his split from Yoko, May Pang went from assistant to lover of the ex-Beatle genius during his ‘lost weekend’ phase in America in the mid-70s. During this time, Lennon had recorded with Mick Jagger, Elton John, David Bowie, and Harry Nilsson, and had amassed some compositions during the aborted Rock and Roll sessions, an oldies project overseen by crazed producer Phil Spector.

What followed was one of Lennon’s most satisfying solo projects, WALLS AND BRIDGES (1974) ★★★★. Released on Apple Records, it included a lot of strong material, particularly the melodically diverse career highlight, and second single, ‘#9 Dream’.

American recording engineer Jimmy Iovine was involved in the session. The core musicians included Jim Keltner on drums, Klaus Voormann on bass guitar, Jesse Ed Davis on guitar, Arthur Jenkins on percussion, Nicky Hopkins on electric piano, with Lennon’s Martin acoustic guitar way up in the mix.

Lennon liked the string arrangement he wrote for Harry Nilsson’s rendition of “Many Rivers to Cross“, originally by Jimmy Cliff from the album Pussy Cats (1974), so much that he decided to incorporate it into the song he had famously said, ‘came to me in a dream.’

Recording: The Record Plant East was one of the most state-of-the-art recording studios in New York at that point, and Lennon’s vocal overdubs were done with an old stage microphone they had found. Iovine said that “it was an old beat up one … so it was dull in a way, but John’s voice was so bright, that it sounded incredible on it. It turned out to be great vocal sound on ‘#9 Dream’.

For the overdub session, May was called with the message that “John needs you.” She walked into a blacked-out studio with a spot lit mic and headset, not unlike the atmosphere when Phil Spector used to record Ronnie’s vocal takes. Then Lennon said: I want you to whisper ‘John’ in a sexy voice, as he played the backing track.

It was his idea to have her sing it, and she did. Later in the song her voice was tracked backwards. May also sings backing vocals on the song’s refrain, Ah! Bowakawa, pousse pousse, lulling the listener into a dream.

Aftermath: During their whirlwind, 18-month relationship, May Pang helped to reunite Lennon with his long-estranged son Julian, introduced him to beef jerky, and reconnected the former Beatle to his love for rock & roll. The album included the US No.1 hit single, ‘Whatever Gets You Through the Night’, commercially reinvigorating one of the greatest figures in music.

The smooth and richly textured ‘#9 Dream’ was released as the single in January 1975, charting at number 23 in the UK, and aptly peaking at number 9 on the US charts. The album went to number 1 in the US.

Lennon would separate from May Pang and famously reunite with Yoko shortly after his last ever live appearance at Madison Square Garden with Elton John in 1975, but she was more just a passing fling. They would stay in touch right up until his death. Lennon also wrote the very good album track, ‘Surprise, Surprise (Sweet Bird of Paradox)’, for her, featuring Elton on harmony vocal.

The forthcoming movie The Lost Weekend: A Love Story exploring the 18-month romantic relationship between Lennon and Pang, is out in US cinemas on 13 April with a UK date to be announced, while an exhibit of May’s photos has already hit the road across the US. Here’s where to track the latest on May’s photo exhibit and the film: https://www.maypang.com/

Further Listening: