A popular bus service has been rescued days before it was due to be scrapped.

The Red Express/X41 service, which is used by people living in Ramsbottom and East Lancashire travelling into Manchester, was set to end on Sunday after its operator claimed it was 'no longer sustainable'.

Transdev said low passenger numbers meant the service, as well as the Red 4 service which links Ramsbottom to Bury , were making a combined annual loss of £300,000.

The decision incensed bus users, thousands of whom backed a campaign amid fears it would leave communities 'cut off'.

But Transdev have now performed a U-turn, announcing today that the service has been saved with a revised timetable, including faster buses at rush-hour.

It is understood that the government has stepped in to help fund the service following pressure from newly-elected MPs.

Bury North MP James Daly and his Hyndburn counterpart Sara Britcliffe had campaigned to save the Red Express, and met with Transdev chief executive Alex Hornby last week to discuss the decision.

The Red Express currently travels from Accrington via Haslingden, Helmshore, Edenfield and Ramsbottom before joining the M66 and heading towards the city centre via Prestwich.

Under the new changes, it will no longer stop between the M66 and the city centre.

The previous decision to scrap the service meant bus users in Ramsbottom faced needing to catch a bus into Bury and change for the Metrolink, or driving into the city centre.

According to Transdev, passengers travelling from Accrington to Manchester would need to use the 464 to Rawtenstall and then transfer to the X43 Witch Way service from Burnley to the city.

After the decision to axe the service was announced last month, more than 4,500 people signed a petition calling for it to be saved.

But in a statement published on its website today, Transdev said: "Together with newly elected MPs and our local authority partners, we have launched a rescue package for Red Express to keep fast, direct buses between Accrington, Haslingden, Ramsbottom and Manchester.

"Red Express has faced an uncertain future and many of you will know that we had made the difficult decision to replace it with a revised network to help us cover our ongoing costs of operation.

"However, behind the scenes, we have been busy and in the last couple of weeks we’ve had constructive discussions with local and national politicians, alongside colleagues from our local authorities.

"We have worked together to find a way forward which is a slightly revised timetable that includes fast buses at rush hours which will see 15 minutes shaved from journeys to make commuting much more attractive for people."

The Red Express was only rerouted to stop in Ramsbottom in April 2018 after bus users in the town were left without a direct service into Manchester when the X35 was cancelled a year ealier.

But bosses said the service had not proved as popular as they had hoped.

They claimed that 'unpredictable congestion' in Manchester was also making it unreliable.

The Red 4 service, which links Ramsbottom and Bury, will still be cut. Transdev says it has taken the decision because the line is already served by another bus company.

They were due to introduce a new service - the 482 - linking Bury, Ramsbottom and Rawtenstall, Helmshore, Haslingden and Accrington. That decision has now been scrapped.

Speaking following today's announcement, Mr Daly, who was only elected last month, said: "This is hugely important. This service is the only direct public transport link from Ramsbottom into the city centre.

"As part of our plan for Greater Manchester, we should be looking to get people out of cars and on to public transport.

"How is that going to happen if there is no public transport?"

Mary Naylor moved to Ramsbottom with her partner last year. The fact there was a bus from the town travelling directly into the city centre, where they both work, was a key factor in the decision.

"I have no idea what I would do without it," she said. "It is cheap, a nice bus and quiet. Most importantly, it is just a straight route into Manchester."

Meanwhile, Sarah Karim, from Accrington, relies on the bus to get to her workplace off Oxford Road, in the city centre.

She sometimes starts work in her role as a housing officer at 7.30am so needs to catch the bus before 6am.

"We need this service," she said.

"If you come from a small town then you need to have access to public transport.

"I get this bus knowing it will get me to work on time."

Edenfield resident Paula Skelton stressed that it was not just commuters who relied on the service.

"There are lots of older people who use the service to get around and see friends," she said.

"Losing this bus would isolate them."

Follow us on Twitter and Facebook for the latest news. We are also on Instagram .

If you are on the go, the M.E.N. app helps bring you closer to the latest news where you live. Available on iPhone and Android , the app can be tailor-made to bring you the latest on what matters to you.

Breaking news, the latest on your football club, the pick of the week’s events and the latest travel - you can tailor the app to suit you. Our push notifications help highlight the biggest stories to you first.