Again, for now, I’m posting some of the randomly-picked questions from Chapter 2 of the book of Concepts of Programming Language in Review and Problemset part.

So, here’s what I think about the problems given and my answers. It consists of 17 out of 69 Review problems, and 8 out of 25 Problemset problems. May contain some uncertainties, but I hope some of these Q & A can help.

Name: Jennifer Santoso

NIM: 1601258663

Lecturer: Tri Djoko Wahjono, Ir., M.Sc. (D0206)

Assignment: Concepts of Programming Language – Chapter 2

Review

3. What does Plankalkul mean?

Plankalkul means program calculus.

7.Who developed Speedcoding system for the IBM 701?

It was developed by John Backus in 1954.

8. Who developed Short Code? Why is Short Code called automatic programming?

Short Code was developed by John Mauchly in 1949 fro the BINAC Computer. Short code is called automatic programming because Short Code was implemented with a pure interpreter, not translated to machine code.

11. What control flow statements were added to Fortran IV to get Fortran 77?

To get Fortran 77, character string handling, logical loop control statements and an if with an optional else clause were added to Fortran IV.

13. Which version of Fortran was the first to have character string handling?

It was Fortran 77, which was the upgrade of Fortran IV with additional of character string handling.

18. What two professional organizations together designed ALGOL 60?

The two professional organizations are Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and GAMM

21. What language was designed to describe the syntax for ALGOL 60?

The language was Backus Naur Form (BNF), which was Backus’s new notation for describing syntax of programming languages.

23. In what year did the COBOL design process begin?

COBOL design process began in 1959.

27. Why was BASIC an important language in early 1980s?

BASIC was very popular, especially BASIC was easy for science-oriented beginners to learn, and BASIC has smaller dialects that can be implemented on computers with very small memories.

30. What features of SIMULA 67 are now important parts of some object-oriented languages?

They are coroutines, combined with the class construct, which gave a concept of data abstraction. This data abstraction provides the foundation for object-oriented programming.

33. What language introduced the case statement?

The case statement was introduced by the language of ALGOL-W, an alternative version of ALGOL 60, and later is intoduced to Pascal.

35. What are the two characteristics of C that make it less safe than Pascal?

The two characteristics are lack of complete type checking and high degree of expressiveness.

36. Why is Prolog called a nonprocedural language?

Prolog is called a nonprocedural language because it is in logic programming languages, which aren’t even procedural and don’t state exactly how the result is to be computed, but rather describe the necessary form and/or the characteristics of the result.

46. What is the primary application for Objective-C?

The primary application for Objective-C is NeXT computer system software and MAC OS X.

59. What characteristics of Ruby’s arithmetic operators makes them unique among those of other languages?

Ruby’s arithmetic operators are done via method calls and thus they can be redefined.

61. Is Lua normally compiled, purely interpreted, or impurely interpreted?

Lua is translated into an intermediate code and interpreted, which means Lua is impurely interpreted.

65. What are the inputs to an XSLT processor?

The inputs to an XSLT processor are XML data document and XSLT document which is also in the form of an XML document.

Problemset

1.What features of Fortran IV do you think would have had the greatest influence on Java if the Java designers had been familiar with Fortran?

I believe Fortran’s capability of passing subprograms as parameters to other subprograms would make the greatest influence to Java, since it’s extremely hard in Java to code standalone subprograms, which makes connecting one subprograms to another much more difficult.

2. Determine the capabilities of Short Code, and compare them with those of a contemporary programmable hand calculator.

Short Code has no multiplication code; multiplication can be done simply by placing two operands next to each other – e.g. x*y can be written as xy. Short Code was interpreted purely by interpreter, which simplified programming process but slowed down execution time by 50 times, compared to a machine code (you can think contemporary programmable hand calculator as one of machine codes).

7. LISP began as a pure functional language but gradually acquired more and more imperative features. Why?

Because sometimes, people come up with imperative implementation of algorithm much easier compared to effective functional algorithm in the same complexity (the big O). Therefore, to make efficient code, many implementations of LISP provided more imperative features.

9. Why, in your opinion, did Fortran allow names that began with I, J, K,L, M, and N as implicitly integer type?

It was based on the facts that scientist and engineers, at the time Fortran was invented, used those letters as variable subscripts, usually i, j, and k. Therefore, Fortran designers allow those letters along with l, m, n as implicitly integer type variable subscripts.

13. What is the primary reason why C became more widely used than Fortran?

Because C’s compiler was a part of the widely used UNIX operating system. The C compiler is free and quite good, also available to programmers on many different kinds of computers. C is open source, and much GNU friendly compare to Fortran, which wasn’t supported by the Open Source movement.

15. Are there any nonprocedural programming languages other than Prolog?

There are. Some of them include database manipulation languages, such as SQL and perhaps some other kind of language like Visual Basic.

17. What are the limitations of language design by committee? Support your opinion!

Language design by committee are mostly lumpy and inconsistent, and worse, committee won’t take risks for just a good language design, so the language design has lot of logical flaws. Moreover, people would have to adjust to the committee’s language standards, which may not be flexible enough for people to implement the code easily as the coder desired, which means the language won’t fulfill people’s needs perfectly. The extensions and features to the language made by committee can lead to various differnt dialects, which may be incompatible with each other.

25. Give a brief general description of the Java servlet.

Java servlet is a Java programming class which are used to extend the capabilities of a server. Usually used to etend the applications hosted by web servers. Therefore, Java servlet is some sort of Java Applet that runs not on web browsers, but on servers.