RIGA (EuroBasket/FIBA Basketball World Cup) - Latvia coach Ainars Bagatskis is keeping his fingers crossed that rising star Davis Bertans did not suffer a serious knee injury in Partizan Belgrade's 3-1 triumph over Red Star in the Serbian play-off finals.

The coach has named the 20-year-old forward, a leader in Partizan's Adriatic League-title winning side this season, in his 17-strong squad for EuroBasket 2013.

According to the Latvian Basketball Federation, the most recent information suggests that Bertans ruptured his cruciate ligament.

"I very much hope that Davis' joy with the gold medal was not damaged by the last game which he did not finish due to injury," Bagatskis said.

Bertans was drafted in the second round of the 2011 NBA Draft by the Indiana Pacers.

The coach has included all of the players who helped Latvia enjoy success in the Qualification Round.

"As promised after the end of the qualifying tournament, the opportunity to qualify for a place in the squad before the Finals will be given to all those who last year won (Latvia) the right to play in Slovenia," the coach said.

Important members of this season's VEF Riga side in the national squad are Kaspers Berzins, Kristaps Janicenkoks and Bertans’ older brother Dairis.

Another is Janis Blums, the team's inspirational captain at EuroBasket 2011.

Bagatskis says that continuity is important in the national program.

"With these players I have worked for three of four years," he said.

"Together we have grown, gained experience and become stronger.

Another significant name in the preliminary squad is that of Golden State Warriors center Andris Biedrins.

The 27-year-old hasn't featured for Latvia since EuroBasket 2009 in Poland.

"I think his playing the European Championship would significantly strengthen our team and would also benefit Andris' career," Bagatskis said.

Latvia had a very hard group in 2011, when they took on Serbia, France, Israel, Germany and Italy in the First Round.

The same can be said for this year as they will go up against Lithuania, Montenegro, Serbia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (MKD) and Bosnia and Herzegovina in Group B.

The EuroBasket is a qualifying event for the 2014 FIBA Basketball World Cup.

Latvia preliminary squad for EuroBasket 2013: Janis Strelnieks, Edgars Jeromanovs, Janis Blums, Zanis Peiners, Dairis Bertans, Kristaps Janicenoks, Rihards Kuksiks, Martins Laksa, Mareks Mejeris, Janis Timma, Davis Bertans, Arturs Berzins, Rolands Freimanis, Kaspars Berzins, Martins Meiers, Andrejs Selakovs and Andris Biedrins.