14400 min (240 hr / 10 days) - The film shows centuries of decay, compressed into the span of the film, marking Helsinki's Stora Enso headquarters building. The film was originally screened in front of the building itself on a 40m2 screen so people could see the original building simultaneously to the one on the screen.

9660 min (161 hr / 6 days, 16 hours) - Composed over 35 years from 1978 until 2006, it consists of a series of over 2,792 silent vignettes (cinématons), each 3 minutes and 25 seconds long, of various celebrities, artists, journalists and friends of the director, each doing whatever they want for the allotted time.

2880 min (48 hr) - No actual footage was shot for the project, which instead consists entirely of outtakes, commercials, strips of undeveloped film, Academy leader, and other filmic castoff material, creating a seemingly endless stream of newsreel and stock footage. Some portions of the film consist of the same commercial, repeated over and over again, for more than half an hour. Strips of 35mm still picture film are also included in the film; at times, the images are run upside down, and in reverse.

1500 min (25 hr / 1 day, 1 hour) - The film is a 1967 avant-garde film by Andy Warhol, actually consisting of 25 hours of film. In typical Warhol fashion of the period, each reel of the film is 35 minutes long, or 1200 ft. in length, and is shot in sync-sound. The film's title is a pun on the rating system used by critics to rank films, with "four stars" being the highest rating.

From 1972 until 1974, Joris Ivens and Marceline Loridan, along with a Chinese film crew, documented the last days of the Cultural Revolution, marking the end of an era. The vast amount of footage they shot was edited into twelve films of varying lengths. Focusing on ordinary people spread over a wide geographic area-many of whom were living and working in collectives-the filmmakers recorded a unique moment in history, and also captured some of the more enduring aspects of Chinese culture.

Filipino poet Benjamin Agusan (Roeder Camanag) is a hapless native who returns to his hometown Padang to witness the aftermath of the super typhoon. For the past seven years, Benjamin has been living in an old town called Kaluga in Russia. With his grant and residency, he taught and conducted workshops in a university; in the process he published two poetry books of sadness and longing. In Russia, Benjamin shot video collages, fell in love with a Slavic beauty, buried a son, and almost went mad. He came back to bury his dead--father, mother, sister, and a lover. He came back to face Mount Mayon, the raging beauty and muse of his youth. He came home to confront the country that he so loved and hated, the Philippines. He came back to die in the land of his birth. He wanders around the obliterated village meeting old friends and lovers.

480 min (8 hr) - The films is a four-part Christian film produced by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania under the direction of Charles Taze Russell, the founder of the Bible Student movement. The film presented their beliefs about God's plan from the creation of the earth through to the end of the 1,000 year reign of Christ.