Original name: Whole Lotta Sole

Genre: Comedy, Crime, Drama

Country: UK

Duration: 89 min.

Story: In a misguided attempt to protect his family and pay back gambling debts to the local Mobster, Jimbo robs a fish market, which is coincidentally owned by the same Mobster. On the run, Jimbo is cornered in a local curio shop, where he takes hostage an assortment of colorful characters, including Maguire, who may be his illegitimate father. Surrounded by the Police, the SAS, and the Mobster's crew, the young man must find a way out of his precarious predicament with the help of his oddball captives.

Genre: Comedy, Crime

Country: UK

Duration: 92 min.

Story: In 1933, a mischievous ten year old, Archie, is left in the care of his unattentive father, Charlie, a reluctant gangster indebted to mob boss Benny “The Bomb” Palladino. Benny gives Charlie a last chance to clear his ‘debt’ by collecting ...

Style: semi serious, humorous, tense, captivating, realistic ...

Plot: youth, rivalry, on the run, criminal heroes, hidden identity, gangster, dishonesty, crime gone awry, family relations, chases and races, family business, parents and children ...

Time: 1930s, 20th century

Place: england

Genre: Action, Comedy, Crime

Country: Denmark, UK

Duration: 109 min.

Story: Two bumbling scrap metal thieves - father and son - steal the wrong painting during a museum heist. The painting turns out to be the only original Rembrandt painting in Denmark, and all hell breaks loose. What do you do when you've got ...

Style: semi serious, humorous, suspenseful, realistic, dark comedy ...

Plot: museum, painting, heist, on the run, nothing goes right, crime gone awry, dishonesty, unlikely criminals, disorder, art theft, chases and races, small time ...

Time: 20th century, 90s

Place: europe, denmark

Genre: Comedy, Crime, Drama

Country: Canada, USA

Duration: 90 min.

Story: Angelo, together with a group of five other people, is ordered by his father, an Italian mobster, to kill the son of an enemy of his, who has destroyed one of his buildings with a bomb. The problems grow bigger when they discover that the person ...

Style: dark comedy, independent film, realistic, semi serious, humorous ...

Audience: boys' night

Plot: mobster, child in peril, gangster, criminal heroes, introspection, uninhibited rivalry, rivalry, danger, dishonesty, criminal's revenge, buddies, disorder ...

Time: year 1998, 90s

Place: new york

Genre: Comedy, Crime, Drama

Country: USA

Duration: 91 min.

Story: Set in present day Burbank, California and the surrounding San Fernando Valley area, . BENNY BIG-TIME (The BBT) learns his brother has been arrested on suspicion of a few recent bank robberies. With every bit of the life savings he's socked ...

Style: humorous, light, tense, captivating, exciting ...

Plot: bank, crime gone awry, on the run, stalking, caper, underground, danger, friendship, robbery, destiny, righting the wronged, disorder ...

Time: 21st century

Place: california

Genre: Comedy, Crime, Thriller

Country: India

Duration: 135 min.

Story: Dass specialises in small time kidnapping and has his own set of rules. The primary and most important among them is not to get involved with influential people. Three jobless youngsters meet Dass and the four take up an assignment for a hefty sum ...

Style: dark comedy, semi serious, humorous, tense, captivating ...

Plot: gang, crime gone awry, cons and scams, parents and children, police investigation, disorder, confined, abduction, ransom, kidnapping, politics, heist ...

Time: 21st century

Place: india, asia

Genre: Comedy, Crime

Country: Italy

Duration: 102 min.

Story: Five ordinary people disillusioned with politics—a perennial temp, a docker, a university professor, a TV reporter, and a convict—decide to kidnap a politician, to dispense justice and use the ransom money to compensate the family of a ...

Style: semi serious, humorous, captivating, light, tense ...

Plot: crime gone awry, society, nothing goes right, unlikely criminals, idealism, disorder, buddies, abduction, ransom demand, hopes, kidnapping, confined ...

Time: 21st century

Place: italy

Genre: Comedy, Crime

Country: USA

Duration: 88 min.

Story: Mathematician Teresa just wanted to study during the College spring break. But her friends, who want her to live a little, drag her out to parties. The next thing she knows, she has been drugged, kidnapped, made a redhead, tattooed, and wearing ...

Style: independent film, slapstick, exciting, semi serious, realistic ...

Plot: fbi, ransom, kidnapping, gangster, special agent, college, beach, cons and scams, space travel, down on your luck, missing person, nasa ...

Time: year 1994, 90s

Genre: Comedy, Crime, Drama

Country: France

Duration: 95 min.

Story: Coming out from jail, Lucas has decided to change his life and behave like a good citizen. But when he is taken hostage in a bank by a hare-brained robber, no cops can believe he is not part of the action.

Style: feel good, exciting, witty, sentimental, humorous ...

Audience: family outing

Plot: chase, comedy of errors, reluctant partners, fugitives, bank robbery, goofy hero, odd couple, disorder, nothing goes right, chases and races, unlikely criminals, nobody believes ...

Time: 80s, 20th century

Place: france, europe

Genre: Comedy, Crime, Drama, Music

Country: USA

Duration: 96 min.

Story: The Dukes,a Doo Wop group, were on top of the world at 17, now are struggling for survival in 2008. Their manager is desperately trying to get them work but is met with failure at every turn. Finally pushed to the extreme , they pull a heist only a ...

Style: humorous, witty, semi serious, realistic, offbeat

Plot: self discovery, unlikely criminals, life is a bitch, gambling, down on your luck, robbery, music band, fight, singer, heist

Time: year 2008, 2000s

Genre: Action, Comedy, Crime, Drama

Country: Japan

Duration: 92 min.

Story: Katsutoshi is forced to flee his hometown and ends up at a rundown nightclub called "Tokyo Playboy Club." His hot-headedness gets him into further trouble, and the club's waiter Takahiro and his girlfriend Eriko also get caught up in ...

Style: humorous, tense, captivating, exciting, semi serious ...

Plot: nightlife, nightclub, gangster, danger, lifestyle, rivalry, friendship, criminal heroes, on the run, disorder, nothing goes right, chases and races ...

Time: 21st century

Place: japan, tokyo, asia

Genre: Crime, Comedy

Country: Germany, Canada, USA

Duration: 96 min.

Story: Two British conmen in Chicago are mistaken for hired hitmen by mobsters wanting to rub out a rival gangster. Keen to make a fast buck, they pretend they are the hitmen but soon find they get more than they bargained for when the real ones turn up.

Style: humorous, suspenseful, semi serious, captivating, realistic

Audience: boys' night

Plot: fall in love, hidden identity, mistaken identity, nothing goes right, rivalry, criminal heroes, cons and scams, heist, crime gone awry, criminal's revenge, dishonesty, hitman ...

Place: chicago

Genre: Comedy, Drama

Country: Ireland, UK, USA

Duration: 100 min.

Story: Set in "Barrytown", a fictitious working-class quarter of Dublin. "Bimbo" Reeves gets laid off from his job. With his redundancy, he buys a van and sells fish and chips with his buddy Larry. Due to Ireland's surprising ...

Style: realistic, humorous, independent film, social, semi serious ...

Plot: friendship, food, unemployment, working class, cooking, restaurant, erotica, soccer, family relations, friendship between men, partner, friends ...

Time: year 1996, 90s

Place: ireland, dublin ireland

Genre: Comedy, Crime, Drama

Country: UK

Duration: 60 min.

TV show

Story: Ellie finds herself in hiding in a remote Scottish village called Hope Springs along with fellow ex-cons Hannah, Josie and Shoo after plans to start a new life in Barbados – courtesy of £3m stolen from her gangster husband – go awry. All the ...

Style: humorous, semi serious, realistic, captivating

Plot: crime gone awry, on the run, hidden identity, cons and scams, disorder, starting over, partner, best friend, dishonesty, chases and races, social relations, village life ...

Time: 21st century

Place: europe, scotland

Genre: Crime, Drama

Country: USA

Duration: 82 min.

Story: In poor health and dead broke, Grace has a plan to provide a future for her young daughter. With the help of her sister Mercy, she robs her former employer. But an alarm goes off during the robbery and they escape into a nearby church. They hold the ...

Style: touching, serious, uplifting, emotional, contemplative ...

Plot: hostage, church, crime gone awry, unlikely criminals, self discovery, clergy, fugitives, introspection, life is a bitch, on the run, criminal heroes, redemption ...

Time: 21st century

Place: california, los angeles, usa

Genre: Comedy, Crime

Country: UK

Duration: 83 min.

Story: The story of two lads from Belfast as they stumble their way through the London gay underworld in search of 'gainful employment'. This being the offering of sexual favours to older gay men in order to subsidise their respective giros. 9 ...

Style: witty, humorous, semi serious, dark comedy, offbeat ...

Plot: lgbt, amateur detective, gay, unlikely criminals, crime gone awry, dark humor, nothing goes right, friendship, dishonesty, life is a bitch, buddies, cons and scams ...

Place: london, europe, ireland, england

Genre: Comedy, Drama

Country: Croatia, Serbia

Duration: 93 min.

Story: A family from isolated village in Lika makes a good living out of American pension earned by their late granddad Djuradj and received by his widow Nedja. The very existence of a family is threatened when Nedja dies, but the head of the family comes ...

Style: realistic, humorous, semi serious, sentimental, offbeat

Plot: dysfunctional family, family relations, dull life, disorder, family problems, life is a bitch, unlikely criminals, parents and children, eccentric family, pension, social relations, alcohol abuse ...

Time: 21st century

Place: croatia, europe