John H. “Jack” Ford, Ph. D., age 94, died February 20, 2016. Philosopher and teacher, Jack devoted much of his life to teaching several generations of Louisvillians at Ursuline College, Bellarmine University, where he was chairman of the philosophy department, and the University of Louisville, where he was adjunct professor of philosophy for more than twenty years. In 1968 he became President of Mount St. Agnes College in Baltimore, Maryland. He later returned to Louisville to become Executive Director of Kentuckiana Metroversity, a consortium of Louisville’s universities and colleges.

Dr. Ford was a graduate of St. Xavier High School; St. Joseph’s College, Indiana; Xavier University, Ohio; and the University of Ottawa, Canada. During World War II he served in the U.S. Navy in both the Pacific and Atlantic theatres.

During his tenure at Bellarmine, Jack received several awards including the first Wm. T. Miles award for outstanding contributions to the College. Along with the late Msgr. Felix Pitt, then head of the Catholic School System, he founded the Junior Great Books Program for advanced middle school students, which was adopted by more than thirty school systems around the country. Later he received honorary degrees from St. Joseph’s College and Bellarmine University; the Horrigan Award for Distinguished Service, and the Distinguished Catholic School Alumni Award from the Archdiocese of Louisville.

For over four decades Jack was a frequent visitor, fellow pilgrim, and friend to the monks at the Abbey of Gethsemani, at times teaching classes and tutoring.

After retirement, Jack and his wife Gladys founded Day Spring, a residential community for adults with intellectual disabilities, an accomplishment particularly close to his heart. He maintained an active interest in Day Spring until his death.

Jack found great joy in his wife and family. He was preceded in death by his parents, Rose Herbert Ford, and John B. Ford He is survived by his wife of 64 years, the former Gladys Jones; three sons, Michael Ford, Paul Ford (Judy), and Joseph Ford (Sabrina); five daughters, Cathy Ford (Everett Hoffman), Dr. Maureen Ford (Rick Szpila) of River Forest, IL, Angela Ford of Lexington, KY, Mary Ford, and Anne Ford (Rick Curtis) of Washington, D.C.; and four grandchildren, John Ford, Nicholas Ford, Olivia Ford and Cate Szpila.

Visitation will be from 2:00 to 7:00 on Tuesday, February 23rd at Highlands Funeral Home, 3331 Taylorsville Road. Funeral services will be conducted at his church, St. Frances of Rome, 2119 Payne Street, at 11:00 a.m. on Wednesday February 24th with burial to follow at Calvary Cemetery. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to Day Spring at 3430 Day Spring Court, Louisville, Kentucky 40213.