Mr. John Donaldson Ford, 79, of Buena Vista, passed away on August 5, 2023 after a long, courageous battle with Multiple Sclerosis. A celebration of life service will be held on Saturday, August 12, 2023 at 11:00 AM at Buena Vista United Methodist Church with Rev. David Hibberts and Rev. Jeremy Alexander officiating. The family will greet friends at Way-Watson Funeral Home on Friday evening from 6:00-8:00PM.

Continuing his family’s legacy of service to their country, John is a veteran of the United States Navy. He began his interest in his military career as a member of the JROTC in school. He later went on to join the Navy and received an honorable discharge.

Upon graduation from Sidney Lanier High School in Montgomery, John enrolled in college. His undergraduate work included studies at Troy State University and Auburn University and went on to complete his graduate studies at the University of Alabama. Considering he married a UGA grad and his daughter is also a UGA grad, there were many years of fun rivalry in their family.

John taught art his entire career and retired after 33 years of service. Twenty-four of those years were with the Marion County school system where he retired.

John’s family, his church, the arts, and traveling were his interests in life. He and Debby celebrated their 48th anniversary on August 1st. There were many wonderful memories over the years. The happiest moment of his life was the day his daughter, Megan, was born. He was a wonderful and devoted father to her and father-in-law to Jonathan. However, being Poppee to his four-year-old grandson, Jackson, was the joy of his life.

John had a strong faith and it never wavered even in his years with MS. He was an active church member his entire life and is currently a member of the Buena Vista United Methodist Church. Through the years, John was a member of several church choirs and served in various leadership positions.

During his life John has been a member of various organizations. Among these are Delta Kappa Phi and various educational related organizations. He also served his community as a member of the Marion County Chamber of Commerce, Jaycees, and Lions Club. John was a person who served quietly and did not expect recognition.

John’s interest in the arts was certainly major to John. Many of his personal works have been exhibited throughout the Southeast and are on permanent display throughout the country.

Anyone who knew John realized quickly he had an avid knowledge of history and genealogy. He also loved to visit historic places during his travels. But his most favorite place to be was along a seashore. It is quite evident in the numerous seascapes he painted.

We can only imagine the masterpiece John is painting with the view he is seeing in Heaven.

In addition to his parents, he was preceded in death by two sisters-in-law, Claudia Ford and Pauline Hagler Kitchens.

Survivors include his devoted wife, Deborah Hagler Ford of Buena Vista; his daughter, Megan Scott and her husband, Jonathan of Americus, GA; his grandson, Jackson Scott; a brother, Franklin Eugene Ford; a brother-in-law, William Wayne Hagler and his wife, Fran of Winter Haven, FL; a sister-in-law, Diane Hagler White of Robertsdale, AL; and numerous nieces and nephews.

In lieu of flowers, the family asks that memorial contributions be made to the National MS Foundation at www.msfocus.org, Columbus Hospice at www.columbushospice.com or to Buena Vista United Methodist Church, PO Box 449, Buena Vista, GA 31803.

Way-Watson Funeral Home of Buena Vista, GA, has been entrusted with these arrangements.