Editor's note: Sometime early on New Year's morning in 1953, Country music star Hank Williams died in the back seat of his 1952 Cadillac convertible near Oak Hill, West Virginia. He and his chauffeur were on a long drive across the South, headed from Hank's home in Montgomery, Alabama, to a gig in Canton, Ohio. Part two of Peter Egan's story retracing the singer's last journey appeared in the May 2008 issue of Road & Track. The first part can be found here.

After visiting Hank Williams' grave at nearby Oakwood Cemetery, my friend and fellow pilgrim, Richie Mayer, and I left Montgomery, driving north on Highway 31. The Hank Highway at last.

When Hank left town on the morning of December 30, 1952, his career was somewhat shaky. He had huge hit songs on the radio—"I'll Never Get Out of This World Alive" was, eerily enough, No. 1 on the Country charts—but his notorious drinking habits had made him a liability on the touring circuit. He'd recently divorced Audrey and married a young beauty named Billie Jean Jones — some said to spite his ex-wife. His health was terrible, and he'd told several of his friends he didn't expect to live long. In photos he looks painfully thin and all used up.

Nevertheless, he lined up a couple of distant gigs to keep the money rolling in. One was in Charleston, West Virginia, and the other was a New Year's Day show in Canton, Ohio. Hank's hired driver for the trip was an 18-year-old Auburn University student named Charles Carr, son of the local cab company owner, who was hoping to make a little extra money over the holidays.

Off they went, in cold, foggy winter weather with snow blanketing the South, stopping the first night at the Redmont Hotel in downtown Birmingham.

Hank's first stop, the Redmont hotel in Birmingham, Alabama.

Fifty-four years later, Richie and I pulled up in front of the Redmont and found—a beautiful, first-class hotel with an elegant lobby. Assistant Manager Dianah Putman saw our Cadillac out front, invited us in and gave us the grand tour. Seems the Redmont is the place where big-name entertainers stay even now. James Taylor recently rented a whole floor for his entourage.

"We don't know which room Hank stayed in," Dianah told me. "His driver can't remember. We only know he stayed on the second floor. The story is, he tried to check in with another hotel—one of our competitors—and they wouldn't let him in because he was drunk."

"Hank probably didn't know which room he was in, either," I said.

Actually, I can't remember a room number even when I'm sober, which is quite often.

Ms. Putman invited us to lunch on the hotel terrace and then insisted that we stay the night, but it was only noon and we had miles to go on this trip, so we reluctantly declined and headed northeast on old Highway 11.

This highway parallels I-59, looking on the map like a tendril wrapped around the Interstate, passing through all the small towns. It's a beautiful route, much of it shady and green. Most important, derelict cars and junkyards can be spotted here and there. We saw several postwar bull-nosed Packards—another touring favorite of Hank and his band, the Drifting Cowboys.

The Cadillac loved these gently winding two-lane roads. The Fleetwood has a large front anti-roll bar (right from the factory) and glides through curves in surprisingly flat and stable fashion. The 331 V8 pulls happily at these speeds, sounding like a sewing machine submerged in molasses. "This car is absolutely solid," Richie noted. "Listen...it has no squeaks or rattles, unlike my Cooper S or your Boxster."

Alas, within minutes we heard a squeak from the front end and stopped to investigate. Missing bumper nut. We bought a new one at an AutoZone store for 89 cents, and went on our way, squeak-free for the rest of the trip. It was getting dark, so we stopped at a box-shaped motel in Fort Payne, Alabama, "The Sock Capital of the World." The woman at the motel desk saw our guitar cases on the luggage cart and our long green Cadillac out front and asked, "Are you guys somebody?"

"No, ma'am," I said.

In the morning, we stopped at a place called De Kalb Auto Parts for some lead additive, and the young guy behind the counter asked, "Where are you going with that beautiful old Cadillac?"

"We're doing a Hank Williams trip along Highway 11," I said.

He nodded quickly, as if to acknowledge there was no other logical use for an old Cadillac.

"Hank stopped here in Fort Payne for a hair trim and shave on his last trip," the young man said. "The barbershop up the street still has Hank's old chair."

Minutes later, our Fleetwood glided to a stop in front of Beason's Barber Shop.

And over in the corner, carefully roped off, was the old barber chair from Hank's last trim and shave.

Here was that rarest of all things, a busy small-town barbershop with five chairs in use. The owner, Alton Beason, had three generations of family working with him. And over in the corner, carefully roped off, was the old barber chair from Hank's last trim and shave.

"I worked for Howard Simpson, the man who cut Hank's hair," Beason said, "and started at his old barbershop down the street, which is closed now, in 1962. That was my chair, the same one Hank used. When Howard retired, he kept the chair in his home. I bought it from his widow when he died in 2002."

I examined the chair, which was covered with Hank memorabilia and newspaper clippings. Manufactured by F&F Koenigkramer in Cincinnati. The first hydraulic lift chair ever, known as "The Cadillac of Barber Chairs."

Hank went first-class all the way. No second-rate cars, hotels, guitars or barber chairs.

"They say Hank got three things here in Fort Payne the day before he died," Beason told me: "a shave, a haircut and some liquor. I don't think it was the trim that killed him."

I got a haircut from Alton Beason's niece, Karen Twilley. She said there was a story, possibly apocryphal, that Hank had bought some whiskey from a famous moonshiner who lived in a stone house up on Jennings Road, and that it was bad whiskey that had killed him.

Years and years of it, I thought.

The author gets a much needed gray hair reduction at Beason's Barber Shop in Fort Payne, Alabama.

Nevertheless, Richie and I stopped at the fabled stone house on a nearby ridge and took a picture, just in case the story was true. In the mythology of music, as in religious faith, everything eventually becomes important, like a splinter from the True Cross.

We soon discovered that virtually everyone we talked to along this route knew the entire Hank Williams story, almost to the point of scholarship — his life and death, down to the smallest details. You'd just say, "Hank" and "Cadillac" in the same sentence and they had the whole picture immediately. No explanation of our intentions or motivations was required. We were assumed to be on a holy pilgrimage.

At the edge of town we stopped for lunch at a barbeque place called "Hillbilly's." Hillbilly himself (aka Scot Morrison) said he was a big car fan, and showed us his 1936 Ford sedan. "You just missed our breakfast hog jowl special," he said, "which brings people in from all over."

"Gee, that's too bad," I said, quite earnestly. I'd never had hog jowls, and will try anything once. Or, in the case of fried pork rinds, several hundred times.

Richie, who keeps a close eye on his cholesterol, remained silent.

Let me say this about the rural South: It is not Health Food Central. There were times on this trip I was afraid Richie was going to starve to death, even as I loaded up on fried okra and asked the waitress for more hush puppies.

Onward we drove, toward Knoxville. Charles Carr (Hank's driver who still lives in Montgomery and was kind enough to grant me a telephone interview for this story) says that Hank was in a cheerful mood as they cruised along, and the two of them sang songs together for quite a while. "The last song Hank sang," he told me, "was 'Midnight' by Red Foley."

When they got to Knoxville, things were looking bad. They were running late for his gig in Charleston, so they left the Cadillac at the airport and tried to fly there. The plane ran into fog and couldn't land, so it turned around and came back to Knoxville. Hank canceled the Charleston show and decided to shoot for the New Year's Day gig in Canton, Ohio.

But first they needed a little rest. So they checked into the Andrew Johnson Hotel in downtown Knoxville. Hank ordered some steaks and beer from room service, but soon developed a bad case of hiccups. A doctor was called and he gave Hank a couple of vitamin injections to calm his spasms.

Then someone called the hotel—probably the concert promoter—and instructed Carr to get Hank back in the Cadillac and drive all night to Canton to make the New Year's Day gig on time. Four thousand expensive tickets had been sold, and everyone was counting on him to be there for a sold-out matinee.

So they got back in the car and hit the road again. Carr says Hank didn't complain—he was a professional—but requested a wheelchair to take him down to the car because he wasn't feeling well.

When we got to the edge of Knoxville with our own Cadillac, no one had heard of the Andrew Johnson Hotel, and it wasn't in the phone book. We stopped at a gas station to ponder our next move. "Why don't you ask that guy standing over there," Richie said. "He looks old enough to remember Hank."

So I asked this bystander—an older, well-dressed gentleman—about the Andrew Johnson Hotel and he said, "Ah, you must be doing a Hank Williams trip with your beautiful old 1953 Fleetwood."

I nodded. Another guy who knew the whole story.

"The Andrew Johnson is right downtown," he said. "Stay on 11, then turn right after the underpass. But it's not a hotel any more; it's an office building."

"It's crazy," Richie said as we drove away. "There's like a Hank Telegraph that tells people we're coming. They're just standing around waiting for us."

"It's crazy," Richie said as we drove away. "There's like a Hank Telegraph that tells people we're coming. They're just standing around waiting for us."

"The electricity is still running right up and down Route 11," I said. "The whole Hank thing is like a tuning fork that never stops humming."

We followed our friend's directions, and there was the Andrew Johnson office building. Nice place, locked doors requiring a pass key. We took some photos and then found a motel near the Interstate.

On Sunday morning, I put on a clean shirt and jeans and my best Tony Lama boots for our last day's drive to Oak Hill. The home stretch.

When we came out of the hotel a man was looking at our Cadillac, and he said, "Your old Fleetwood came from Alderson's Cadillac in Lubbock, Texas. My wife's family is from Lubbock and they were good friends of the Aldersons."

Richie looked at me with no expression in his eyes.

We motored on toward Bristol, Tennessee.

Somewhere along this stretch of road, late on that last night, Carr was pulled over for making a supposedly dangerous pass and ticketed by a patrolman named Swan H. Kitts. The cop made Carr follow him into Blaine, Tennessee, to the justice of the peace's office.

"The justice of the peace asked me how much money I had," Carr told me, "and I said $75. Guess how much the fine was?"

"Seventy-five dollars?" I offered.

"Right."

At around midnight, Carr and Hank stopped in Bristol at an all-night joint called the Burger Bar on Piedmont Avenue. It was a place where cab drivers hung out, and the exhausted Carr was looking for a relief driver. Hank got out of the car to stretch his legs while Carr hired an off-duty cab driver named Donald Surface to take over the driving for a while. But he couldn't really relax with someone else driving the car, and eventually dropped Surface off at a club somewhere near Bluefield, West Virginia, so he could call for a ride home. Meanwhile, Hank lay sleeping in the back seat, with a blanket over him.

We found the Burger Bar—still a convincingly 1950s'-looking diner, but it was closed on Sunday. There were Hank clippings inside on the wall.

We headed up 11 into Virginia through the heart of Clinch Mountain country — the cradle of Bluegrass music — and turned north on Highway 52 toward West Virginia. A green landscape of surreal beauty, with ridges and knobs and wooded bluffs floating along the horizon like ships. Hank and his drivers wouldn't have seen any of this at night.

In West Virginia, the hills got a little more rugged, the valleys a little deeper and the road more serpentine. As Richie sawed at the wheel to avoid an oncoming truck, he pointed out a sign that said, "Road Narrows."

"Road Narrows," I said, "Car Doesn't."

Past Bluefield, we turned onto Highway 19, climbing ever upward and the Cadillac was, for the first time, running hot on the temperature gauge. We stopped to check the water, but everything was fine. It was running cool again after we leveled off and cruised along a high ridge that dipped and weaved through the late afternoon shadows toward Oak Hill.

The Skyline Drive-In was Han

On this stretch of road, Carr says he turned off at the Skyline Drive-In café to look for a restroom, but the place was closed, so he drove a short distance and pulled over. He noticed that the blanket had slipped off Hank's shoulder and reached back to replace it. "I tried to move his arm," Carr told me, "and felt a little resistance, and I knew it wasn't right." He drove into a nearby gas station and asked the owner to take a look at Hank. "I think he's got a problem," Carr said.

The gas station owner looked at Hank and said, "I think you've got a problem." He then gave Carr directions to the Oak Hill hospital, six miles to the north, where Hank was examined and pronounced dead at 7:00 a.m., January 1, 1953.

Richie and I pulled over at the Skyline Drive-In, which says "Hank's Last Stop" on the wall. The place was closed, but it looked as though someone was fixing it up.

We then drove in to Oak Hill right at dusk. Pretty little town along a high ridge. We were tired from another long day on the road, so we stopped for the night at the local Holiday Inn.

I shut the engine off and just sat for a moment.

I shut the engine off and just sat for a moment.

I turned to Richie and said, "How did Carr ever do it — even with a relief driver? We're almost 700 miles from Birmingham. And in 1952 this was a main route for trucks and travelers—no Interstate to soak up the heavy traffic. They had rain, snow, darkness, oncoming headlights and wet mountain roads. This is too far to drive for any gig."

Richie nodded. "The whole thing must have been a nightmare for that kid."

We'll never know exactly where or when Hank died on this route. Probably doesn't matter, really. As the road manager for the late Country-Rock star Gram Parsons once said, "If he hadn't died, he'd still be dead." With painkillers, drinking and failing health, he was on a downward spiral.

Hank's death certificate says he died, at age 29, from "acute right ventricular dilation." This is like saying Wild Bill Hickok died of a failure to respire. Doesn't tell the whole story.

The next morning we drove past the hospital, then went down the street for a look at the Tyree Funeral Home, where Hank's body was taken.

The fearless Richie pulled the Cadillac right into their porte-cochere while I took a few pictures. I could see curtains rustling in the funeral home and said, "Richie, we better get out of here. They're probably sick of people like us bothering them."

At that moment, a cheerful young woman came out of the funeral home and asked what we were doing. I apologized for trespassing and explained we were doing a Hank Williams trip with our old Cadillac.

"Oh!" she said. "It's a beautiful car, and you must come inside and talk to my boss, Joe Tyree. He was here when Hank died in 1953, and still runs the funeral home. My name is Merry Hanning," she said, shaking my hand. She told us that Joe had an assistant do the embalming but he drove the hearse with Hank's body back to Montgomery. "By the way, this is not the original funeral home where Hank was taken. That's right across the street from the hospital and is a pharmacy now. Come on in. Would you two like some coffee?"

Speechless, we were whisked into the presence of Joe Tyree, a dignified, nicely spoken gentleman in a suit and tie. He invited us into his office and spent 45 minutes talking to us. Mr. Tyree is 81 now.

Joe Tyree was an employee of the Tyree Funeral Home, where Hank was taken after the hospital. Tyree now owns the business.

"I didn't know who Hank Williams was when I was called to come and get him. We have a lot of people named Williams around here, so I thought it was someone local. I wasn't a Country music fan, so I didn't realize until later what a big star he was."

Hank's car, he said, was stored in a wash rack at Burdette's Pure Oil station to secure it from souvenir hunters. "Charles Carr had nowhere to go until his father and Hank's mother, Lillian, got here from Montgomery, so we let him stay in an apartment over the funeral home that was used for our ambulance employees. New Year's Day, some local people invited him over to watch football games on TV.

"Hank's mother, Lillian, was a real lady, very strong and dignified, and until she died she always sent us a card at Christmas. She got one of his cowboy outfits out of the luggage in his Cadillac and we dressed him in that and took him back to Montgomery. Charles Carr and his father drove the Cadillac home with Hank's mother, and I drove the body down to Montgomery with an assistant.

"It was quite a long drive," he continued, "and I'd never driven that far before. All along the route, at gas stations in Alabama, people would see our West Virginia license plates, and say, 'Are you carrying Hank back home?' Even today, we are asked weekly about Hank. TV and radio have made him even more of a legend now than he was then."

I thanked Mr. Tyree for his time, and he said "You're very welcome. And now I'd like to see your Cadillac. I like cars myself. I still have a coral pink 1956 Thunderbird I bought in 1957."

It seemed everyone we met on this trip was a car buff. Charles Carr told me he owned several nice Chevys during the 1950s, then bought a 1959 Alfa Romeo Veloce. He now owns a Lincoln Town Car and a 1982 Mazda RX-7 with 100,000 miles on it. He said that being asked to drive Hank's beautiful blue Cadillac as a young man had been a big thrill for him.

We took some pictures of Joe Tyree next to the Cadillac and said our goodbyes.

"What nice people," Richie said as we drove away. "And another part of the Hank Telegraph. The energy is still here."

I nodded.

All this lasting empathy for a troubled, frail man who wrote beautiful songs of deceptive simplicity, and sang them with a voice that could break your heart. There was no one like him. Probably never will be again.

We turned for home, and just outside of Oak Hill our speedometer began to wail like a banshee. The needle shook violently back and forth for a moment, then fell to rest. The odometer stopped at 79,753 miles. Done.

The Fleetwood made it home just fine. It went 2600 miles on this trip and used a quart and a half of oil, no water and no transmission fluid. When we pulled into the driveway two days later, Richie patted the Cadillac on the dash and said, "Good old soul."

You hesitate to project human emotions upon a car, but I like to think the Fleetwood wanted to make this trip as much as we did. It sat for many years in a barn in west Texas, just waiting for some distant pulse of energy to get it restored and back on the road again.

In the end, it was a few old Hank Williams songs, beamed over the airwaves long ago, that finally made it happen. You could hear them in the barbershop.