Nishita Goswami is a famous Assamese actress who was born in Guwahati, Assam. She is daughter of National Award winning actress Malaya Goswami. Nishita's father, Pradip Goswami, is employed as an Engineer with the Assam State Electricity Board. Nishita went to school at Kendriya Vidyalay, Jagi Road, Assam, and finished her Bachelor's degree in Arts from Handique Girls College, Guwahati. Along with her busy acting career, she completed her Master's Degree in Teacher's Education (M.Ed) from Guwahati University and also did a Diploma course in Mass Communication from Regional Institute of Journalism and Mass Communication (RIJAM), Assam. She is also a Sangeet Visharad in Classical music from Bhatkhande Music Institute. The foundation block of Nishita's acting career was laid very early, at the age of 6. Her first film presence was as a child artiste in Sagar Sangam Sarkar's 'Rati Phula Phool' in the year 1988. After that, she started participating in various cultural activities. Her performances in stage plays like 'Adhyay', 'Hepahor Ghor', 'Ghoduli', etc exhibited her talent and passion for acting. Her real film career started in the year 2002 with the movie 'Mon' directed by an eminent film director, Bani Das. It was a big commercial success in Assam. She did several films after that and established her authority in the Assamese Film Industry. She played major roles in films like 'Kadambari', 'Dinabandhu', 'Astaraag' and 'Mon Jai' which bagged several National Film Awards. She also did a Bengali film called 'Coolie', directed by Swapan Saha, with Mithun Chakravarty in the lead. One of her films 'Ramdhenu', is the biggest commercial success in the history of Assamese Cinema. The film was directed by Munim Barua and shot in Kerela. Nishita is currently the most popular actress in the Assamese Film Industry. Nishita Goswami got married to Sayan Chakravarty, an entrepreneur from Shillong on 21st November 2012. Sayan is the younger son of the renowned Chakravarty family who resides in the legendary bungalow, 'Jitbhumi' at Shillong. It was at 'Jitbhumi' where Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore had resided during one of his stays in Shillong and had penned the famous drama, 'Raktakarabi', and poem, 'Shillong er Chilti', etc. Nishita is happily married and settled in Shillong and stays with her husband and in-laws. She travels to Assam often with major work assignments and to take care of her adorable playschool 'Arohan' at Beltola, Guwahati.