Skateboard Shop in Summitville.

Go Skate first opened its doors to cater to skateboarders in Summitville, IN. We are the premiere “skater-owned” Skate shop in Summitville . We promote the sport by organizing, hosting skate jams and sponsoring local skaters in Summitville, IN. In year 2012, we setup our first online skate shop. With a lot of dedication to work, we are now one of the leading Skateboard Stores. We have many of customers since 2010. , we stay driven to our self:

Skate Lessons

Skate Videos

Shoes

Decks

Hoodies

What Our Summitville Shop Offers

Our Summitville Skateboard Shop offers everything from skate shoes to skate decks, from the trusted range of skate brands. We are experts in the skateboarding market and our shop only carries the best brands of skate brands such as:

Adidas Skateboarding

Fallen

Habitat

Blind

Spitfire

DVS

Spitfire.

Our goal is to treat our clients in Summitville, IN like rock stars by rendering outstanding customer service and fulfilling our promise with quality skate goods and skate clothing right at your doorstep within 24 hours.

Scroll for Physical Address or Get Fast and Free Shipping to all Towns in Indiana

At Go Skate Skateboard Shop, we provide honest, reliable and fast shipping. We use either USPS Priority Mail or Fedex Ground or to ship your orders within 24-48 hours. We process your orders between 8am and 4pm EST, excluding weekends and holidays. Please note that UPS does not deliver packages on weekends or holidays.

Order Online and You Will Get These Special Gifts

A Preferred Application to become one of our staff

I will give you access to our online skate learning program (a $30 dollar value)

Lastly, a $30 discount on skate lessons

Summitville Location

Go Skate’s instruction is customized and starts each student with the basics of transportation, pushing, and turning. At advanced levels, Go Skate’s Shop teaches flip tricks, how to skate ledges, rails, and vert.

In 2011, Go Skate had almost 5,000 lessons and over 25 camps in IN, Houston, Carlsbad , Venice Beach , Chicago, New York City, Washington DC, Philadelphia, Summitville and more.

GoSkate.com’s Online Shop created of one of the first nationwide certifications for skateboard instruction. A system that tests trainers based on their knowledge. After, instructors are trained and given a syllabus to instruct their student. Over 1300 instructors in all 50 states have become instructors . Instructors in 2012 included Chad Fernandez, Chris Dobstaff, and Jason Morrisette.

Browse Our Summitville Shop Now