Dear Transport for London,

Hello. Can you please provide me with any email addresses that you have for London United (RATP Group) bus company. On their website the only email they provide is the standard customer service email for TFL (they have no email that goes directly to themselves). However i am needing to contact them in regards to route 400 (Staines to Walton On Thames) which is their one and only non TFL bus route. It is a Surrey County Council contact and has nothing to do with TFL. But as London United also operate a very large amount of TFL routes i presume that you must have a contact email address for them. So please can you provide me with any email address that you have that goes directly to London United (RATP Group) bus company. Many thanks.

Yours faithfully,

Brian Davis

Dear Mr Davis

We do not consider that your request constitutes a request for information under the Freedom of Information Act.

To obtain specific contact details of a particular bus operator we would recommend you contact the operator directly using the contact details available on their website at the following link: http://www.ratpdevlondon.co.uk/garages.h...

Yours sincerely

Lee Hill

Information Access Manager

show quoted sections

Dear FOI,

I would like to request an internal review please in regards to this request that i made. My request definitely constitutes as an FOI Request as i am requesting information that you are very likely to hold that is not available publicly. The link that you provided only gives phone numbers and i clearly requested an email address. As you contract out many of your bus routes to London United (RATP Group) i am sure that you have a direct email address for them.

Yours sincerely,

Brian Davis

Dear Mr Davis

TfL Ref: 1165-819

Thank you for your request received by Transport for London (TfL) on 27

July 2018 asking for information about any email addresses that we have

for London United (RATP Group) bus company .

Your request will be processed by TfL, the Greater London Authority and

its subsidiaries to provide you with a response in accordance with the

Freedom of Information Act 2000 and our information access policy.

A response will be sent to you by 28 August. We publish a substantial

range of information on our website on subjects including operational

performance, contracts, expenditure, journey data, governance and our

financial performance. This includes data which is frequently asked for in

FOI requests or other public queries. Please check

[1]http://www.tfl.gov.uk/corporate/transpar... to see if this helps you.

We will publish anonymised versions of requests and responses on the

www.tfl.gov.uk website. We will not publish your name and we will send a

copy of the response to you before it is published on our website.

In the meantime, if you would like to discuss this matter further, please

do not hesitate to contact me.

Yours sincerely

Sara Thomas

FOI Case Management Team

General Counsel

Transport for London

show quoted sections

Dear Mr Davis

TfL Ref: 1165-1819

Thank you for your email received on 27 July 2018 as below.

Your request was initially determined to be a general enquiry for contact

details of a third party, rather than a specific request for recorded

information. However, as you have specified this should be processed as an

FOI request I can confirm that your request has been processed in

accordance with the requirements of the Freedom of Information and our

information access policy. I can confirm we do hold the information you

require.

We do not hold any ‘customer enquiry’ email addresses but do hold the

direct contact addresses of some individuals that work for this company.

However, please note that in accordance with TfL’s obligations under Data

Protection legislation we are not obliged to provide the requested

information, as required by section 40(2) of the FOI Act. This is because

disclosure of this personal data would be a breach of Article 5 (1)(a) of

the General Data Protection Regulation, which requires personal data to be

processed lawfully, fairly and transparently. It would not be fair to

disclose this personal information when the individuals have no

expectation it would be disclosed and TfL has not satisfied one of the

conditions in Article 6 necessary to determine that the processing is

‘lawful’.

Please see the attached information sheet for details of your right to

appeal

Yours sincerely

Sara Thomas

FOI Case Management Team

General Counsel

Transport for London

show quoted sections