This year marks the 50th anniversary of the original publication of Naked Lunch, by William S Burroughs. Given the book's ongoing influence it goes without saying that this is a significant milestone. However, when the book first appeared in Paris in 1959 (mistitled as The Naked Lunch) on the small Olympia Press, it had little impact. Because of this, perhaps a more important anniversary is that of the novel's first US publication in 1962. For that's when Burroughs's controversial drug-and-sex-fuelled classic truly burst into the limelight, both because it was recognised by large numbers of critics and readers as a breakthrough piece of literature and also because of a series of obscenity trials it inspired.

Written primarily in a "hard-boiled" style that mimics (and often mocks) classic detective fiction, Naked Lunch pretty much does without plotting, as Burroughs's alter-ego William Lee and a shifting cast of protagonists drift in and out of heroin-laced visions of scoring drugs, sexual obsession and degradation, bizarre political plots, and even stranger medical experiments. The novel's geography is similarly elastic, with chapters leapfrogging between locales such as New York City, Mexico, and Tangiers, in a way where the "story" could be viewed as a travelogue of increasing depravity, violence, cruelty, and paranoia. What ties all of this together is the underlying theme of addiction, or what Burroughs called the "algebra of need," where the increasingly desperate quest for heroin serves as a metaphor for equally destructive obsessions revolving around the need for control, be it sexual, political, or social.

Writer Terry Southern famously called Naked Lunch "an absolutely devastating ridicule of all that is false, primitive, and vicious in current American life". It's an acute take, for in one way or another this novel manages to uncover and then mock just about every negative and hypocritical impulse lurking in American culture and the country's collective psyche. However, it wasn't Burroughs's critical acumen that drew the wrath of the US legal system, but his unapologetic descriptions of gay sex, which easily surpassed Henry Miller's infamous heterosexual counterparts in their stridency and graphic nature.

Though Naked Lunch's publication inspired trials in both Boston and Los Angeles, the former is by far the most famous, if for no other reason than it featured both Allen Ginsberg and Norman Mailer, who testified in the novel's defence. Despite glowing and sometimes impassioned tributes from these writers, among others, Naked Lunch was still declared obscene by the Boston court. However, this decision was overturned by the Massachusetts supreme court. This ruling ultimately had a profound effect on the country's obscenity laws and blasted open the doors regarding the legality of sexually explicit materials.

While these trials were socially important, Naked Lunch retains its fascination because of the quality of its writing and because in it Burroughs tackled subjects that are still highly relevant. In fact, it could be argued that Naked Lunch's "algebra of need" is more prevalent that ever in our sex, drugs, and entertainment-soaked western world. Books by Burroughs fellow Beats, such as Jack Kerouac's On the Road or Allen Ginsberg's Howl, though they have stood the test of time, are also very much works of their time, in that they describe worlds that no longer quite exist. Much of Naked Lunch, however, reads like it could have been written yesterday.

It's this that makes it required reading for literary hipsters 50 years after it first hit the stands. This is also why the anniversary of its publication, be it that of its original appearance in France or its more important US debut, is such a worthwhile event to commemorate.