Too-Big Mac

Enough, already! John McEnroe's mighty mouth threatens to devour

tennis

Imagine if you'd approached John McEnroe toward the end of his

playing career and told him that a decade hence he'd have an

outsized presence in tennis. He would likely have responded: You

cannot be serious! Surely McEnroe would be too busy with his art

gallery, his band and his family. Surely the game's biggest

iconoclast would ditch the tennis establishment as soon as

possible.

Yet during the U.S. Open the past two weeks, it was impossible to

tune in to the tournament and not encounter McEnroe's overexposed

mug. Before the event he appeared on Letterman; during it he

provided some 80 hours of commentary for USA and CBS. He shilled

for Heineken and Lincoln. Until his opponent, Boris Becker,

pulled out with a foot injury, McEnroe was to have competed in a

$100,000 stadium court exhibition match after Saturday's

prime-time women's final. Close line calls were even replayed on

the Acuvue Mac Cam.

Perhaps McEnroe's ubiquity would be easier to take if he weren't

marinating in hubris. Among his favorite themes: At age 42 he

could still hold his own on the tour in doubles. Time and again

he reminded us that he'd been asked to partner with defending

U.S. Open doubles champion Max Mirnyi, 24, at Flushing Meadow

this year. (Asked about the invitation last week, Mirnyi said

with a laugh, "I didn't think we'd win; I just wanted to play

alongside a legend.") McEnroe has also used his bully pulpit to

incessantly promote his candidacy for the nonexistent position of

Commissioner of Tennis. Please. This is a man who lobbied for

years to be the U.S Davis Cup captain. When he finally got the

job, he alienated the top American players, trashed opposing

athletes and coaches and blew off meetings and press conferences.

During a disastrous 5-0 loss to Spain last summer, McEnroe showed

up at a captain's breakfast in a bathrobe. After barely a year he

quit in semidisgrace--then said he'd like to be named to a Davis

Cup doubles spot.

McEnroe also regularly bashes the men's game for its lack of

compelling personalities. He may have a point, but he's part of

the problem. So long as he refuses to cede the spotlight, he will

upstage every player and render even the most colorful of them Al

Gore-bland. As one veteran pro puts it: "We want to move forward

and out of the Borg-McEnroe-Connors era, but John won't let it

happen."

In fairness, McEnroe does have genuine passion for the game, and

his willingness to take on the sport's sacred cows is admirable.

His candor and hilarious random ruminations as an analyst make

even the most lopsided matches worth watching. During one of the

countless matches he called last week, McEnroe referred to

himself as an "old soldier." No one is asking that he fade away

entirely, but we sure wish he came in smaller doses. --L. Jon

Wertheim

Five Old McFoes: What They're Up to Now

BJORN BORG At bjornborg.net, offers eponymous line of

leisurewear, handbags and perfumes, plus manifesto against

underpopulation ("Drop your pants or drop dead").

JIMMY CONNORS Broke pro hiatus in July to play World Team

Tennis; lives in California with wife Patti, who owns and runs a

gourmet food company, Patti's Pickledilly Pickles.

IVAN LENDL Robotic Czech plays regularly on celebrity golf tour

on which he has one win. With business partners, building golf

complex near his home in Goshen, Conn.

ILIE NASTASE Failed in 1996 campaign for mayor of Bucharest and

in '99 bid for presidency of International Tennis Federation;

developing huge tennis academy in Bucharest.

MATS WILANDER Coolheaded coach of Russian star Marat Safin; has

instituted $100 fine for each racket Safin intentionally breaks.

Sports and Religion

A WIN OR A PRAYER?

Dodgers outfielder Shawn Green's decision to sit out L.A.'s Sept.

26 game against the Giants--a matchup that could have an impact on

the Dodgers' postseason hopes--to observe Yom Kippur isn't the

first time sports has run up against faith:

Eric Liddell. In a decision immortalized in Chariots of Fire, the

British sprinter, a devout Presbyterian, opted not to compete in

the 100 meters at the 1924 Olympics because qualifying heats were

to be held on a Sunday. Instead, Liddell ran the 200, earning the

bronze, and the 400, which he won in Olympic record time.

Hank Greenberg. As his Tigers battled the Yankees for the 1934

pennant, Greenberg consulted a rabbi to decide whether he should

play on Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur. He was cleared to play on

the former, the celebratory Jewish New Year, but not the latter,

the somber Day of Atonement. Greenberg hit two homers in a 2-1

win over the Red Sox on Rosh Hashanah and then didn't play on Yom

Kippur nine days later. The Tigers won the pennant by seven

games.

Sandy Koufax. After earning pitching's version of the Triple

Crown in 1965 (26 wins, 2.04 ERA, 382 strikeouts), the Dodgers

ace declined to pitch in Game 1 of the World Series against the

Twins because it fell on Yom Kippur; replacement Don Drysdale was

shelled for seven runs in 22/3 innings. Koufax lost Game 2 but

rebounded to throw complete-game shutouts in Games 5 and 7 and

win the Series MVP award.

Dan Thomas. The prized Brewers outfield prospect joined the

Worldwide Church of God before the 1977 season and declared that

he'd observe his church's Sabbath (sundown Friday to sundown

Saturday). Dubbed the Sundown Kid, Thomas quickly dropped through

the farm system due to poor play and conflicts with managers. By

season's end the sun had set on his pro career.

Edwin Correa. A Rangers righthander and Seventh-Day Adventist,

Correa negotiated with the team not to pitch on Friday nights or

Saturday afternoons during the 1987 season. The arrangement was

honored until June 27, when, at the team's urging, he reluctantly

took the mound and won the first game of a Saturday doubleheader

in Minnesota. In his next start, on July 5, Correa blew out his

shoulder. He never pitched again.

Uneasy Riders

Jazz officials must have shuddered when Karl Malone announced

he'll drive a monster truck on the U.S. Hot Rod Association's

Monster Jam Circuit. The Mailman, though, is apparently within

his rights. "I have one stipulation in my contract with the

Jazz," said Malone, an avid hunter, "and that's not shooting off

a horse." Other odd contract riders:

--When soccer player Spencer Prior moved from English club

Manchester City to Cardiff City in June, he was contractually

obliged to eat sheep's brain and testicles. Cardiff City's

Lebanese-born owner, Sam Hammam, believes the Middle Eastern

delicacies helped his players win promotion to the second

division the previous season.

--In 1999, injured Red Wings defenseman Uwe Krupp's rehab regimen

included weekends spent dogsled racing, a practice the team

contends violated his contract. Detroit is refusing to pay Krupp

$8.2 million in salary from the past two seasons. Krupp says his

deal does not ban dogsledding.

--When first baseman Will Clark played for the Giants, he could

not participate in 54 specific activities, including wood

chopping, ice boating and spelunking. Roger Clemens wasn't

allowed to play jai alai when he pitched for the Red Sox.

--Though Major League Soccer contracts forbid skydiving (as well

as riding mopeds and hang gliding), Columbus Crew striker Brian

McBride took a plunge on a whim in 1997. He was fined $500.

--Then, of course, there's Michael Jordan, who famously had a

"love of the game" clause written into his Bulls contract,

stating that MJ could play hoops anytime and anywhere he wished.

Wonder if he'll have the same deal with the Wizards?

Whoa for Five

Who says Keanu Reeves has limited range? In his new film,

Hardball (above, left), opening Friday, Reeves plays a baseball

coach, his latest athletic role. A review of his career stats:

Hardball Role Conor O'Neill, down-on-his-luck gambler forced to

coach urban Little League team. Display of athletic prowess

Scrambles up fire escape to outrun bookie's thugs. Career failing

Keeps placing big bets on post-Jordan Bulls. Sports line "What do

I know about coaching baseball?"

The Replacements Role Shane Falco (middle), ex-Ohio State

quarterback turned replacement player. Display of athletic

prowess Throws perfect spiral in first pro practice. Career

failing Choked in Sugar Bowl. Sports line "Pain heals. Chicks dig

scars. Glory lasts forever."

Point Break Role Johnny Utah, ex- Ohio State quarterback turned

FBI agent. Display of athletic prowess Spins football on

fingertip. Career failing Suffered a knee injury in Rose Bowl.

Sports line "In high school I played football because my old man

expected me to."

Parenthood Role Tod (right), slacker drag racer. Display of

athletic prowess Demonstrates WWF rassling techniques on

brother-in-law. Career failing Crashes brother's car in first

race. Sports line After being pulled from wreckage on track,

asks, "Did I win?"

Youngblood Role Heaver, French-Canadian minor league hockey

goalie. Display of athletic prowess Balances roll of stick tape

on his head. Career failing Can't stop any of Rob Lowe's shots in

practice. Sports line No intelligible quotes.

Blotter

Declined

By the Dodgers, a Giants request that the two teams dress in

1951-style uniforms at PacBell Park on Sept. 16 to commemorate

the 50th anniversary of Bobby Thomson's Shot Heard 'Round the

World. The Giants plan to wear the retro unis and celebrate

their famous playoff victory without Los Angeles's participation.

Reached

A settlement between four pro football coaches--Buddy Ryan, his

sons Rex and Rob (assistants for the Ravens and the Patriots,

respectively), and former Dallas assistant Ernie Zampese--and a

trio of Texas high school coaches who'd sold the pro coaches'

playbooks on sportsplaybooks.com. The three agreed to pay each

of the plaintiffs $3,000 and refrain from future sales.

Probed

By the U.S. Justice Department, whether the ticket policy for

the Sept. 1 World Cup qualifier between the U.S. and Honduras at

RFK Stadium in Washington, D.C., violated federal civil rights

laws. Honduran fans, including ambassador Hugo Noe Pino,

complained that they were denied good seats for the game because

they were rooting for the visiting team. U.S. soccer officials

said they wanted to restrict Honduran fans to the upper deck to

create a pro-U.S. atmosphere but denied that the policy

discriminated on the basis of national origin.

Left

The Reds, with huge pants to fill after hefty first baseman

Calvin Pickering was claimed by the Red Sox on waivers.

Cincinnati got Pickering in a trade with the Orioles on Aug. 30

but lacked trousers big enough to fit the 295-pounder and had to

buy a pair of size-50 softball pants at a sporting-goods store.

His specially ordered gray road pants arrived last Friday, the

day Boston made its waiver claim.

spot Check

The NFL's "This is what it's all about" campaign

SYNOPSIS A series of syrupy spots highlighting the softer side of

pro football. In one ad a teenage boy stays home to watch a game

with his grandmother rather than cruise for chicks with his

buddies. In another a Titans fan gets ready for a game while

Lionel Richie croons "I'm easy like Sunday morning" in the

background.

BACKGROUND After dropping its long-running "Feel the Power" ads,

the NFL turned to ad agency Young & Rubicam for a new approach.

"The league wasn't connecting to casual fans," says Y&R chief

creative officer Jim Ferguson. "The NFL already has the hard-core

fans in its pocket. All it has to do is put the game on TV, and

it's got them hooked. But the untapped market is those casual

fans, who enjoy the social aspects of football more than the game

itself." Indeed, in 90 seconds of the new ads, only six seconds

are of game footage. Says John Collins, the league's senior VP

for marketing, "The underappreciated power of the NFL is its

ability to bring people together."

BOTTOM LINE Reaching out to new fans makes sense, given that the

NFL's ratings have dropped in five of the past six years. Still,

the kinder, gentler spots might be met with criticism from

die-hard fans. After all, Lionel Richie?

Booty Call

Ah, parting is such sweet sorrow. But if you're a future Hall of

Famer, it can also be rather lucrative. Take Cal Ripken Jr. and

Tony Gwynn, who in their final visits as players to major league

parks have been racking up the going-away gifts. Here's a

rundown of some of the loot they've received from opposing

clubs, along with estimates of the gifts' value. (Most teams

have also contributed to Ripken's and Gwynn's charities.)

RIPKEN VALUE

A's Collection of Silver Oaks Cellars cabernet

sauvignon from California's Alexander Valley $425

ANGELS An original drawing of Ripken with Mickey Mouse $1,000

BRAVES Plaque commemorating Cal's 6-for-6

night against the Braves in 1999 $300 to $500

DEVIL RAYS One-year supply of stone crab claws $700

Commemorative oil painting $12,000

MARINERS One-year supply of Dungeness crabs $1,800 to $2,100

Jersey signed by current Mariners $2,000

MARLINS Three framed photos of Ripken and his father $300

RANGERS Jersey signed by Texas players $500

Pair of Lucchese ostrich cowboy boots $600

ROYALS Portrait of Ripken breaking Japan's Sachio

Kinugasa's world record for consecutive games played $1,000

WHITE SOX Wooden chair from old Comiskey Park $400 to $700

Dirt from old Comiskey PRICELESS

TOTAL VALUE $21,025 to $21,825

GWYNN

ASTROS Framed Texas flag $500

Handmade sterling-silver belt buckle $500

BRAVES Commemorative plaque $500

BREWERS Harley Davidson leather jacket $500

CARDINALS Pencil drawing of Gwynn signed by St. Louis

players as well as by Lou Brock and Stan Musial $1,500 to $2,000

MARLINS Bat signed by Florida players $400 to $500

PHILLIES Miniature Liberty Bell $500

Oil portrait $5,000

PIRATES Oil painting of Gwynn's game-winning

hit in 1994 All-Star Game in Pittsburgh $1,000

TOTAL VALUE $10,400 to $11,000

the Beat

Ichiro fever continues unabated in Japan, where every move

Mariners outfielder Ichiro Suzuki makes is reported and

dissected (page 112). Not even the recent allegation of an

extramarital affair between Suzuki and a 20-year-old Japanese

college student in San Francisco has dampened his popularity.

Last month the weekly Japanese tabloid Friday published what it

said was the transcript of a sexually explicit phone

conversation between Suzuki and a woman identified only as M.

The paper also quotes the woman's roommate as saying Suzuki and

M met at least twice. In December, Friday reported that Suzuki,

while a bachelor, had had a five-year affair with a married

woman and that he'd paid the woman's husband $100,000 to keep

quiet about the relationship. After that story Suzuki held a

press conference in which he fessed up to his "thoughtless act"

but said the relationship was over....

Lions receiver Herman Moore has fallen off the (high speed)

wagon. After two subpar seasons Moore (above), a car freak who's

owned a Ferrari Testarossa, a Lamborghini Diablo, four Jaguars

and two Porsches, swore off his hot wheels habit. Then, after

learning in the off-season that he'd be featured in Detroit

coach Marty Mornhinweg's West Coast offense, Moore broke down

and bought himself a treat: a Ferrari 360 Modena. "I looked at

red, black and silver," says Moore of his $200,000 toy. "But the

fly yellow stood out. Even sitting idle, it looks like it's

going fast." So how fast does Moore go in the car? "I'm not

saying. But if I put that kind of money in a car, it's not going

to sit around as a collectible."...

Among the stars who turned out at the U.S. Open in support of

Venus and Serena Williams were comedian Jamie Foxx, filmmaker

Spike Lee and actress/singer Brandy. The sisters took the glitzy

guests in stride, but Serena did get star-struck by one. When

told rapper Jay-Z had come to watch her, she broke down in a fit

of giggles: "Really? Really? Really? Oh my God. Oh my God.

That's a total shocker. Oh my. You know that's good. I don't

know what to say." Clearly.

B/W PHOTO: BRAD RICKERBY/REUTERS HOLDING COURT Nine years after retiring, McEnroe dominates his sport.

COLOR PHOTO: NEIL LEIFER Koufax's religion kept him out of Game 1 of the 1965 Series.

COLOR ILLUSTRATION: ILLUSTRATION BY FRED HARPER

COLOR PHOTO: CHUCK HODES/PARAMOUNT PICTURES (HARDBALL)

COLOR PHOTO: EVERETT COLLECTION (THE REPLACEMENTS)

COLOR PHOTO: NEAL PETERS COLLECTION (PARENTHOOD)

COLOR PHOTO

B/W PHOTO: ACME (THOMSON)

COLOR PHOTO: JEFF MITCHELL/REUTERS (RIPKEN)

COLOR PHOTO: CHRIS GARDNER/AP (GWYNN)

COLOR PHOTO: TODD ROSENBERG (MOORE)

COLOR PHOTO: ROBERT BECK

Go Figure

2

Basketball players on the court for Bosnia and Herzegovina at

the end of its 101-77 loss to Greece during the European

championship tournament, after referees ejected every player on

both benches for brawling and three of the remaining five

Bosnian players fouled out in the final 90 seconds.

5

Hits by White Sox shortstop Royce Clayton in Chicago's Sept. 4

doubleheader against the Tigers, equaling his total output for

May, when he went 5 for 48.

15:26.10

Winning time of Kenya's Paul Bitok in the 5,000 meters at the

Goodwill Games; it was nearly three minutes off the world mark,

14 seconds slower than the winning time in the women's 5,000 at

the Games and 41 seconds off the junior girls' world mark.

0

Steve Smiths to have played major league baseball, the only

sport among the big four that has yet to field a Steve Smith.

This Week's Sign of the Apocalypse

During its game with visiting Wofford, Clemson ordered its

marching band and cheerleaders to remain silent during breaks in

the action so that TV commercials could be played on the Memorial

Stadium video screen.

Casual fans enjoy football's social aspect more than the game.

page 34

They Said It