James H Lien December 7, 2023

James H. Lien, aged 91, peacefully entered eternal rest on December 7, 2023, surrounded by his loving family. Born on May 11, 1932, to Ingman and Clara (Keller) Lien of Arkansaw, Wisconsin, Jim's formative years were shaped on the family's dairy farm.

After graduating as salutatorian at Arkansaw High School in 1950, Jim went on to serve with pride in the U.S. Navy during the Korean War. His commitment to duty and service defined an important chapter in his life.

On July 18, 1959, Jim married Carol Rosenberg. The couple were blessed with six children Jimmy (Kristy) and Kenny Lien of Durand, Lori Lien of Tucson, Arizona, Alan (Ann) Lien of Janesville, Cindy (Kent) Burdick of Phoenix, Arizona, and Connie Stratton of Janesville.

In 1969, Jim and Carol relocated from Arkansaw to Janesville, Wisconsin, where Jim assumed the role of a USPS letter carrier. Following Carol's passing in January 1983, Jim continued to be a pillar of support for their children.

Finding companionship again, Jim married LaVon Johnson on February 14, 2003. Together, they cherished moments with family, shared adventures in travel, and made a lot of lefse.

Jim enjoyed gardening and yardwork, daily walks, Wisconsin sports, and lounging with his lapdog Jayco. A devout Catholic, Jim was a member of St. Patrick’s Parish in Janesville, the VFW and The American Legion.

He is survived by his 6 children, grandchildren Lindsay Lien Amin (Massoud) and Lisa (Daniel) George, Ashley (Mike) Wittig, Jamie and Ben (Kaitlyn Pomeroy) Ross, Shane and Troy (Fuesaina) Lien, Doug and Ryan (Claudia) Johnson, and Mathew (Victoria Cook) and Jenna Stratton, 11 great-grandchildren, step-children Jane and Mike Johnson, and countless nieces and nephews. He is preceded in death by spouses Carol and LaVon, parents Clara and Ingman, siblings Robert, Mary Lou Bauer, and Elizabeth (Betty) Giertz, stepson Dan Johnson, and grandson Matthew Camillo.

In remembering Jim, we celebrate a life well-lived—a testament to dedication, love, and enduring family bonds. May his memory be a source of comfort to all who had the privilege of knowing him.

Funeral Mass will be 11:00AM Wednesday, December 13, 2023 at St. Joseph Catholic Church in Arkansaw with Rev. Junabe V. Villapaz officiating. Burial will be in the church cemetery with Military Honors provided by the Durand American Legion Post #181 in Durand. Visitation will be 4:00PM-7:00PM Tuesday at the Rhiel Funeral Home in Durand and one hour prior to services at the church on Wednesday.

Rhiel Funeral Home & Cremation Services, Durand, is serving the family.