Board Member Description | Bylaws | Minutes

Board of Directors

Betti Ingman (Chair)

‟I am a long-term resident and want to continue to invest my time in keeping the North End as wonderful as it is.”

Neil James (Secretary)

‟I have 13 years of marketing agency experience and am a long-time resident. I have been looking for ways to put my time and talents to use in volunteer service for the community.”

Steve Tuckner

‟I am resident of the North End community. Prior to that my wife and I lived in Roseville for 20 years where we raised our twin daughters. We often ended up very near to the North End at Connie’s Creamy Cone. We are happy to live within walking distance of that and Marydale Park. We built a new net-zero home here so that we could enjoy the amenities of living in the city like sidewalks and public transit. My priority in being on this board is to try as best that I can to have the makeup of our district council accurately reflect the demographics of our district so that everyone feels represented.”

Ariel Vajda Baldini

“I moved to Minnesota from Michigan’s beautiful Upper Peninsula in 2011 for law school and have been here ever since. After living in Minneapolis for many years, my husband and I crossed the river to Saint Paul and felt like it was a good fit. When we bought our first house, it was an easy decision to stay in Saint Paul, so since 2021 we’ve been living in the North End. You may find me walking my dog in Trout Brook Nature Sanctuary or to the Rice Street library”.

Ben Jones

“My wife and I, with our newborn daughter, have lived near Front and Western for three years, with a couple years renting in the neighborhood prior to that. I love the diversity of the neighborhood, and am on the board to learn as much as I can. I hope to be a champion for things that the community wants and will lead to an improved neighborhood for all. I am an engineer, church elder, and love playing games with friends”.

Carmen Taylor (Secretary)

“As a transplant from Wisconsin, I’ve resided in Minnesota since 2006. I raised my family on the Eastside of St Paul in the Payne-Phalen neighborhood. I’ve been a resident of North End for a short time now and will be here for a long time to come. I work in the Student Loan industry, I love to volunteer, garden and cook”.

Mikki Murray

“I have been a North End resident for 10 years. I love the diversity of people and cultures, the mix of family-owned and chain businesses, and the myriad of religious and community organizations. There are many opportunities to engage in our neighborhood and impact the lives of those around us.

All of this is why I am active with NENO. This is a place where all these elements come together, or should, so our voices are heard with the City of St Paul, Ramsey County, and with other organizations. I’ve been active on the Land Use, Housing, & Transportation Committee since 2017. It is an honor to now serve as a member of the NENO Board as well”.

Lori James

Lori is new to the North End, moving here in 2021. She currently is the director of a nonprofit, Solid Roots, At Solid Roots, we believe in the power of transformation at the root and are dedicated to empowering parents who are transitioning from The Department of Corrections to rebuild their lives and restore their connections with their children. For 5 1/2 years Lori had a family owned business in the City Hall of Minneapolis. With her experience Lori is looking to working with NENO to support the North End.

Karin Groening

“I’ve been a North End resident since moving to Minnesota in 2004. I love the North End’s diversity where roaming with my dogs can mean hearing mariachis on one block, Vietnamese karaoke on another, and seeing friends from all backgrounds. I joined the NENO Board in 2017 to help the organization expand community connections and to address some concerns my neighbors and I had. After a couple years away, I want to continue where I left off”.

Adam Frei (Vice Chair)

“I have been a Saint Paul resident for the past 6 years and a North End resident for the past 3 and a half years. I have greatly enjoyed being a part of our neighborhood and want to be more involved in supporting our community to create an inviting and welcoming place for all. I believe that my personal and professional skills will positively contribute to ensuring the NENO is supporting a vibrant life for all who live and work in the North End”.

Business/Institution Seats

Distribution of business or institution appointees: Business or institution appointees shall be community members who own a business or work in an institution within the District 6 boundaries

Okkoy Graham