One of the most gifted and compelling blues and soul vocalists at the Jersey Shore performs, for free, this Sunday in Long Branch’s West End Park, when Eryn Shewell and her Whiskey Devils take the bandshell stage at 7 p.m.

But if your tastes lie more with traditional and contemporary jazz, there’s plenty of that going on, too.

Shewell and her Whiskey Devils perform as part of the Bands on the Beach series underwritten by the Long Branch Urban Enterprise Zone funds. Her free-wheeling sets typically include some blues, some classic R&B, some soul and some New Orleans rock ’n’ roll and funk. Shewell also sprinkles originals into her sets. They can be found on her independently released albums, 2009’s “4th and Broadway” and a self-titled release.

Patrons who attend Sunday evening will enjoy the classic songs she and her band interpret their own way, including tunes like Bill Withers’ “Aint’ No Sunshine,” Otis Redding’s “(Sittin’ On) the Dock of the Bay,” and classic blues fare from Elmore James, Aaron “T-Bone” Walker, Freddie King and Junior Wells. She also does justice to the great women of classic R&B, singing tunes by Etta James, Ann Peebles, Aretha Franklin, Betty Wright and others.

Other concerts in the Bands by the Beach series this month include Citizens Band Radio, who serve up an artful blend of blues and country standards on Aug. 14; Jane Lee Hooker, an all-woman blues-rock band based in Maplewood and New York City who just had their debut released on the German-based Ruf Records and are known for their high-energy live shows, perform Aug. 21, and on Aug. 28, the VooDUDES will conclude the series of shows in West End Park.

Shewell and her Whiskey Devils perform at 7 p.m. promptly this Sunday in West End Park, on the corner of Brighton and Ocean Avenues in Long Branch. In the event of rain, the show moves indoors to Jack’s Goal Line Srabd, 149 Brighton Ave.

Free contemporary jazz in the park

The Red Bank-based Jazz Arts Project continues its Thursday night Jazz in the Park series at Riverside Gardens Park off West Front Street in Red Bank. Shows begin at 7 p.m. there, and the lineup for August includes some Garden State-based heavy-hitters.

Next Thursday, Aug. 11, Brooklyn-based trumpeter and composer Eddie Allen and his quartet perform.

Montclair-based soul-jazz guitarist Bob Devos performs with his quartet on Aug. 18, which usually includes a Hammond B-3 organist.

Several of DeVos’ critically acclaimed albums were recorded for a local label, BluesLeaf Records in Ocean Township. The series wraps up Aug. 25 when Oscar Perez performs with his group, Latin Jazz Explosion.

Jazz on Sunday morning at Bethany

The Bethany Baptist Church, 275 W. Market St., Newark, home to the successful Jazz Vespers series on the first Saturday of the month during most months of the year, has put together a special series of shows for August, all during the regular Sunday morning worship services.

Vocalist and composer Ruth Naomi Floyd joins the service this Sunday at 10 a.m., and vocalist-piano player Dee Daniels will be there on Aug. 14. Saxophonist Marcus Miller performs there on Aug. 21 and the series ends with guest pianist-composer Cyrus Chestnut on Aug. 28.

The shows are free, all denominations are welcome, and donations to the church and its Jazz at Bethany series are always welcome. Call 973-623-8161 for more information or visit their website, www.bethany-newark.org.

Jazz at the Sanctuary

in Ewing

The New Jersey Jazz Society is co-sponsor of a series of concerts held at the 1867 Sanctuary on Scotch Road in Ewing, not far from the Mercer County Airport.

The series of shows continues tomorrow night, Aug. 6, at 7 p.m. with Big Soul Chicken, a Trenton/New Hope area band that plays blues and jazz standards. Other shows at the historic church in West Trenton include McMillan and Company on Aug. 13 and Crescent City piano stylist Tom McDermott on Friday, Aug. 19 at 8 p.m.

The 1867 Sanctuary at Ewing boasts more than 200 seats, beautiful wood-based acoustics and organizers from Preservation New Jersey, Inc. promise good sound.

Ticket prices and directions to the facility, located at 101 Scotch Road in Ewing, are posted online at www.1867sanctuary.org, or call 609-392-6409.