Sandra Jean "Sandy" (Palazzo) Martinez, 81, of Sandusky, passed away to the great sadness of her family; she "peacefully received her wings" late Saturday afternoon, July 22, 2023, at the Elizabeth Scott Community, in Maumee, OH.

Sandy was born on January 11, 1942, in Sandusky, OH the beloved daughter of Michael Charles "Mike" and Lucille Catherine "Lucy" (Magi) Palazzo. She was a 1960 graduate of St. Mary's Central Catholic High School. She was a lifelong resident of Sandusky, where she worked diligently at various establishments, including Providence Hospital, Palazzo-Sidoti Motors and later at the Firelands Regional Medical Center, Main Campus, Sandusky, where she had many years of service, before retiring.

Sandy had a tremendous faith in God as a member of Sts. Peter and Paul Catholic Church. She treasured every moment spent with her devoted family. Over the years, Sandy so enjoyed tending to her magnificent flower gardens, and was known by her family for how she also excelled at decorating in her own unique style, both indoors and outdoors. She was a lifelong collector of angel memorabilia and in her later years she developed a great fondness for her "Fabulous Flamingos" !

Sandy is survived by her two daughters, Leanna (Dale) Rublaitus of Chicago, IL, and Carla (David) Fasano of Maumee; her five grandchildren, Anthony (Jasmine) Rublaitus, Dominic Fasano, Angela (Shawn Miller) Rublaitus, Alyssa Fasano, and Vincent Fasano; and her extended family members and her many beloved friends.

She was preceded in death by her parents, Mike and Lucy (Magi) Palazzo; her maternal and paternal grandparents; numerous aunts, uncles and cousins; and the two "Loves of her Life," John Martinez and Henry "Hank" Tittle.

Visitation will be held on Friday, July 28, 2023, from 5-8 pm at the David F. Koch Funeral and Cremation Services, 520 Columbus Avenue, Sandusky. Prayers will be recited Saturday morning, July 29, 2023, at 9:40 am at the funeral home followed by a Mass of Christian Burial at 10 am at Sts. Peter and Paul Catholic Church, 510 Columbus Avenue, Sandusky. Fr. Monte Hoyles officiating. Entombment will be in the Calvary Cemetery Mausoleum, Sandusky.

The family suggests that memorial contributions may be made in Sandy's memory to Sts. Peter and Paul Catholic Church, 510 Columbus Avenue, Sandusky, OH 44870 or to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, 510 St. Jude Place, Memphis, TN 38105-9959.

You will forever be alive in our hearts. Rest in Peace, "Mingo."

Your memories and words of comfort may be shared with Sandy's family at davidfkoch.com.