Confidence = Career Success

Build the resume that boasts the best you

Fun fact: Recruiting cycles for some internships and leadership training programs begin as early as your second year of school. Will you be ready to seize these opportunities?

If you work with us — you will be. There's a number of things we'd like you to accomplish in your first year and each year thereafter. Like joining and leading student clubs, building networking and social skills, exploring volunteer opportunities, and landing high-caliber internships.

Step one — connect with our Career Success Center. Get familiar with the resources and professional services we offer, and get ready to find an internship or job and a career you love.

How to find a job or internship

First of all, you need a timeline: a career search is a multiyear, multistep process. Our career advisors will talk to you employment and internship options, and you'll learn about job functions and hiring cycles. You need to tackle different aspects of this process — from self-assessment and career exploration, to branding yourself and informational interviews, to résumé and cover letter writing, to getting an internship and negotiating a job offer.

We help you define your career path, guide you in your job search and provide you the tools and networking opportunities to be successful. You will be ready to market the confident, exceptional brand of you.

Let's build the brand of you

Schedule an appointment with one of our career advisors for assistance with any of the following:

Resume review

Cover letter review

LinkedIn profile help

LinkedIn professional headshot

Company information seminars

Career advice & exploration tools

Job search tools and tactics

Interview practice

Internship opportunities & advice

Resources: jobs, guides, handbooks

We have a range of online resources and tools that are available to you whenever you need guidance:

Career Guide: Find tips on preparing and applying for jobs, interviewing, and business etiquetter.

Handshake: Explore thousands of jobs and employers, career expos, workshops and more.

OSU Jobs: The place to find student worker positions or career opportunities at OSU.

GoinGlobal: Explore international internships, career opportunities and cultures.

Vmock: Obtain instant and personalized feedback on your resume or CV

Focus2: Get a free career assessment. Explore careers, job outlooks and your working personality.

StandOut: Practice interviewing on an interactive video platform.

MECOP internship

The College of Business Career Success Center (Austin Hall 102) hours are Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. (or by appointment). For information, email cob.csc@oregonstate.edu or call 541-737-3716.