Let's Get

Something Started.

Achieve Your Career Goals. Go to the Next Level.

Ready to find your ideal opportunity and land the job? Our highly experienced Career Coaches can help you stand out from the competition.

We coach individuals of all skill levels and backgrounds. Whether you seek an entry-level position or an executive role, let us be the spark that moves you forward.

Let Us Help You...

Career Exploration

Discover how your skills and and experience align with current job opportunities and in-demand careers.

Read More →

Comprehensive Career Coaching

Explore the market, assess your skills, and advocate for yourself confidently. Learn to negotiate pay and benefits with ease.

Read More →

Resume & Cover Letter Development

Create a resume to highlight your strengths and help you stand out from the competition.

Read More →

Specialized Employment Support Services

We offer individualized support and resources for all skill levels including specialized services for people with disabilities.

Read More →

Upcoming Events

Attend workshops and webinars to stay current on the latest employment trends and get tips to help you succeed in your job search and advance ...

Read More →

CAREER RESOURCES

Is This the Right Job For Me?

Why did you accept your last job offer? And the one before that? Do you see a pattern? Did you accept the job for the ...

Read More →

Engaged Employees: Is Hybrid The Answer?

Employee engagement is crucial for organizational success. It appears that a hybrid work environment may be key to maximizing the feeling of connection staff have ...

Read More →

Why Did You Leave Your Last Job? (And Other Dreaded Interview Questions)

If you’ve experienced some bumps in your career path, you may encounter questions during job interviews that can be challenging to answer.

Read More →

THE LATEST

VIDEOS

A Fireside Chat with Seth Goldman

Co-Founder of Eat the Change®, PLNT Burger, and Honest Tea and Chair of the Board, Beyond Meat

In this intimate conversation, Mr. Goldman shared key business insights and beliefs about the importance of a positive workplace culture, which are deeply rooted in the value of tikkun olam (repairing the world).

Managing When You Feel Caught Between a Rock and a Hard Place

This timely program featured a panel of Baltimore area workplace leaders who offered employers insight and guidance on navigating sensitive social and political issues.

Watch Video →

A Fireside Chat with Seth Goldman

In recognition of Workforce Development Month, the Ignite Career Center presented A Fireside Chat with Seth Goldman Co-Founder of Eat the Change®, PLNT Burger, and ...

Watch Video →

It’s Never too Late to Start Over

At 70 years old, Levi decided he wanted to pursue a different career. He turned to Ignite for help. See what he has to say ...

Watch Video →

FEATURED

JOBS

Want to Explore All

Open Positions?

Administrative / Support Services

Administrative Specialist III (Administrative Records Clerk)-HYBRID-FT

A Division of the Maryland Department of Labor is accepting applications from qualified candidates for ...

View Details →

Administrative / Support Services

Administrative Officer I (Board Administrator)-FT

A Division of the Maryland Department of Labor is accepting applications from qualified candidates for ...

View Details →

Professional / Scientific / Technical Services

Social Media Marketing Intern-HYBRID-PT

A results driven social media marketing agency based in DC, Maryland, and Virginia area is ...

View Details →

Information

Call Center Support Specialist-FT

A consumer finance company that offers personal loans in 27 states, which has been serving ...

View Details →

CLIENT BENEFITS

Become an Ignite Career Center client to receive personalized services and gain exclusive access to:

Professional Career Coaches and Employment Specialists

Certified Advanced Resume Writers

Job Coaches

Career Development Workshops and Events

Employment Opportunities from Our Employer Partners

Let our experienced staff help you:

Craft Your Resume

Create Dynamic Cover Letters

Enhance Your Social Media Presence

Prepare for Your Best Interview

Learn to Negotiate Your Salary

Hone Your Networking Skills

Connect with Our Employer Partners

Benefit from Specialized Employment Services for Individuals with Disabilities

Find out how

Ignite Career Center

can help you

Go Further and Get There Faster!