The first Wärtsilä SparkUp Challenge, an initiative by the technology group Wärtsilä to find innovative start-ups to develop ideas for the smart shipping value chain, has been won by KNL Networks and Portcall.com. The prize for the winners is a four-month collaboration and co-creation in the Wärtsilä Digital Acceleration Centre (DAC) beginning in March. In addition, they will receive a capital grant of 50,000 euros.

The technology group Wärtsilä has signed a 10-year service partnership agreement with the Swiss company Winterthur Gas & Diesel Ltd. (WinGD), a leading developer of two-stroke low-speed gas and diesel engines used for propulsion power in merchant shipping. The new partnership agreement appoints Wärtsilä as an authorized global service provider for all WinGD products and provides WinGD and its customers continued access to Wärtsilä’s worldwide service network and comprehensive services offering. It also enhances the opportunity for Wärtsilä to provide integrated smart solutions and smart services to the merchant shipping industry.

MacGregor, part of Cargotec, has signed an agreement to acquire Rapp Marine Group (RMG) in order to strengthen its offering for the fishery and research vessel segment. MacGregor’s existing portfolio includes already various deck handling equipment, such as cranes and booms, but with RMG, MacGregor is able to offer complete solutions with advanced winches and related control systems. The enterprise value of the acquisition was approximately EUR 16 million.

PHOTO: Left: Remi Eriksen, Group President and CEO of DNV GL. Right: Leif-Arne Langøy, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas, and also Chairman of the Board of Directors of DNV GL. Photo: DNV GL

The Foundation Det Norske Veritas (DNV) assumes full ownership of DNV GL and remains committed to Maritime headquarters in Hamburg.

Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas (The Foundation) and Mayfair announce the sale of Mayfair’s 36.5% shares in DNV GL Group AS to DNV Holding AS. The agreement regarding the leading quality assurance and risk management company DNV GL was signed on 8 December 2017.

The Switch has recruited Ville Parpala as Director, Product Marketing, Marine Solutions, as it targets its ambition of achieving growth of 200% in the marine segment across the next five years. The firm, a specialist in the development and supply of advanced drive train solutions, will leverage Parpala’s vast experience, and contact book, to push its ability to deliver enhanced efficiency, cost savings and environmental performance to the shipping industry worldwide.