Raul Garcia was just hours from home after a weeks-long trip away from his four kids in El Paso when he was shot and killed on Interstate 20 in Odessa.

Garcia, 35, is one of seven people killed Saturday after a gunman went on a more than 10 mile-long shooting rampage, randomly firing at motorists and law enforcement officers on the West Texas highway. Another 25 people were injured.

The long distance truck driver was heading to San Diego from the East Coast when he decided to detour home to El Paso to pick up his sons so they could join him on the final leg of the trip over the Labor Day weekend.

The family doesn't know how many times Garcia was shot through the cabin of his truck. He was taken to Midland Memorial Hospital and died about 12 hours later, according to his younger brother.

"They tried tirelessly to keep him alive but unfortunately there was nothing they could do," Luis Garcia said. "But they did try and we are so thankful for them."

Raul Garcia grew up accompanying his truck driver father on trips during summer breaks from school and it was his father who helped him get a commercial driver's license when he turned 18 and graduated from El Paso High School. When Garcia became a father, he took his own sons, who range in age from 3 to 14 years old, on trips.

"(Raul) loved traveling to different cities and exploring. It was a thrill for him," said Monica Romero, Garcia's closest friend who met him while they were students at Wiggs Middle School. She is the godmother of his oldest son and said "his kids and his truck meant everything to him."

"To him, it wasn't a job, it was his passion," Luis Garcia said.

More: Odessa shooting victims ranged in age from 15 to 57: Here's what we know about their lives

Truck driving gave Raul Garcia purpose and helped him provide for his family.

The second oldest of four siblings, he took charge of the family and made sure everyone's needs were met. Their mother lived with him and the two were inseparable, his brother said. During long trips he would make it a point to come home to El Paso, even for just a few hours, to take her out to eat.

When Luis Garcia, 33, became a dad, Raul Garcia encouraged him to become a driver and helped him obtain his license and find jobs.

Raul Garcia was always willing to help someone in need, even those he didn't know well, a quality Luis Garcia said his brother shared with their father.

Romero said Garcia would also go out of his way to visit her in San Antonio while he was on the road and in May, rearranged his driving schedule so he could make it to her daughter's 16th birthday party.

"He was very passionate about who he loved," she said. "He was there for everyone. He was a lovable person."

Perches Funeral Home will be providing his funeral service free of charge. The funeral home did the same for victims of the El Paso shooting.

Luis Garcia said his brother was on the road Aug. 3 when a white gunman targeting Hispanics killed 22 people at the Walmart near Cielo Vista Mall.

They talked about that event and the what-ifs surrounding it, never thinking such a thing could happen to their family, Luis Garcia said.

"We never imagined it would be us ... we did talk about it and it was hard. But now that it happened, it's a lot worse."

Raul Garcia's youngest sister Ana Garcia has created a Facebook fundraiser for their mother Juliana as he was her primary provider. The fundraiser can be found at https://www.facebook.com/donate/2423936554549180/.

Molly Smith may be reached at 546-6413; mksmith@elpasotimes.com; @smithmollyk on Twitter.