All wunderkinds grow up, and that sometimes means shedding the skin for which they were recognized in their younger days. Whether that’s true of Casey Desmond is yet to be seen, but as the Weymouth-bred singer and pop artist approaches her 30th birthday this summer, it’s clear she’s looking ahead, letting more than a decade’s worth of musical experiences inform her choices, but not trap her.

Nearly a decade ago, Desmond exploded onto the local scene, regularly featured on the cover of Boston-area news and arts publications. She became nationally known after appearing on NBC’s “The Voice,” where, in 2011, she landed a slot after crushing Lady Gaga’s “Born This Way” in a blind audition, and made it to the later-stage rounds as part of Maroon 5 singer Adam Levine’s team.

The years since “The Voice” have seen Desmond, a 2004 graduate of Weymouth High School, focused more on making music than mounting national tours. But earlier this year, she re-emerged in with a new, electronica-flavored project, CMB, which stands for Cosmic Microwave Background. The rest of 2016 will be dominated by CMB activity; Desmond, who now lives in Boston, already played a well-received showcase in February and released an extended-play album “Three Licks.”

“I liked the response and I had a really good time doing it,” Desmond said. “It’s been fun to go with my production instincts. I decided to stop worrying about putting out an album and just am going with the flow: an EP, a couple of videos, a few shows.”

Desmond’s next show as CMB is at Great Scott in Allston on April 25. She will also be at The Sinclair in Cambridge on May 14, with additional local dates planned, as well as shows in New Hampshire and New York.

CMB’s lineup is purposely fluid. Sometimes it’s just Desmond herself, playing synthesizers and singing, and sometimes she’ll add additional musicians on synths, percussion, electric violin, saxophone and other instruments.

Desmond was more of a singer-songwriter folkie as a teenager, then broke out with the indie pop- and rock-oriented music that defined her career up through “The Voice.” But her forays into electronic and synth-laden soundscapes aren’t a surprise to those who know her best and have been following her varied interests. She’s been experimenting with electronic styles since at least 2007, and her 2012 album, “Deja Vu,” had some of them. The seven-track “Three Licks,” however, is an unabashed embrace of synth-pop and electronica. (It’s available for purchase and streaming samples on CMB’s Bandcamp page (http://cosmicmicrowavebackground.bandcamp.com/). Several collections of “Three Licks” remixes by other local artists are also in the works.

“I watched her make this record from the ground up and I was really proud of her progress along the way – mostly for the fact that she did it for herself and on her terms,” said Jimmy Rossi, Jr., an electronica musician who records and performs as Avoxblue and who has frequently collaborated with Desmond over the past four years.

Rossi sees the CMB material as an “absolute evolution” of Desmond’s sound, vision and image.

“No labels, or management, or bandmates to cripple the process,” Rossi said. “CMB is exactly the kind of music I want to listen to and it delivers.”

Desmond’s shift toward CMB happened gradually. She parted ways with her longtime bandmate and collaborator Taylor Barefoot, and she’s also been traveling, spending at least as much time on the West Coast as she has in New England, meeting songwriters and other musicians and trying out different ideas.

“I have co-writers that I want to work with in places like L.A. and Nashville, and I think it’s important to explore different business relationships,” she notes. “The best stuff I come up with is the stuff I make up with people, casually, in a room, hanging around over beers and then deciding to pull out the guitars and synthesizers. I want to be able to do more of that.”

In May it will be five years since “The Voice.” Desmond does keep in touch with a number of her fellow contestants from the time, including Jeff Jensen, with whom she memorably went head-to-head on Elton John’s “Don’t Let the Sun Go Down On Me” during her last night on the show. It somehow feels even longer that she was first turning heads in Boston-area clubs with her shrewd pop sensibility. But for Desmond, keeping it interesting was always part of the deal.

“My biggest influences are Peter Gabriel and David Bowie,” Desmond said. “Those two never really stuck to a genre – they just went to what was good for the songs. I like that this is a little more wide open.”

Music preview: CMBwith VOWWS, Night Club and Black Plastic. 8 p.m., April 25 at Great Scott, 1222 Commonwealth Ave., Allston, $8 available at the door and via Ticketmaster.