Comcast/NBCUniversal is officially calling its upcoming video streaming service Peacock, and planning to launch in April 2020.

Peacock will have both ad-supported and subscription tiers. The company said that it would talk more about pricing and distribution for the service closer to the launch date.

The service will launch with more than 15,000 hours of content, and will be used as a key platform for coverage of the 2020 Summer Olympics.

“The name Peacock pays homage to the quality content that audiences have come to expect from NBCUniversal – whether it’s culture-defining dramas from innovative creators like Sam Esmail, laugh-out-loud comedies from legends like Lorne Michaels and Mike Schur, blockbusters from Universal Pictures, or buzzy unscripted programming from the people who do it best at Bravo and E!,” said Bonnie Hammer, chairman of direct-to-consumer and digital enterprises at NBCUniversal, in a statement. “Peacock will be the go-to place for both the timely and timeless – from can’t-miss Olympic moments and the 2020 election, to classic fan favorites like ‘The Office’.”

RELATED: NBCUniversal planning ad-supported streaming service for 2020

NBCU has announced a large lineup of library and new original content for the service. Peacock will have exclusive streaming rights to both “The Office” and “Parks and Recreation,” along with access to “30 Rock,” “Bates Motel,” “Battlestar Galactica,” “Brooklyn Nine-Nine,” “Cheers,” “Chrisley Knows Best,” “Covert Affairs,” “Downton Abbey,” “Everybody Loves Raymond,” “Frasier,” “Friday Night Lights,” “House,” “Keeping Up with the Kardashians,” “King Of Queens,” “Married…With Children,”“Monk,” “Parenthood,” “Psych,” “Royal Pains,” “Saturday Night Live,” “Superstore,” “The Real Housewives,” “Top Chef,” and “Will & Grace.”

New originals include dramas like “Dr. Death” and a reboot of “Battlestar Galactica,” along with new comedies like “Rutherford Falls.” The service will also show new versions of “Saved By the Bell” and “Punky Brewster."

In addition, the service will get unscripted content and movies, including new films developed by Universal Pictures.

Earlier this summer, NBCUniversal CEO Steve Burke said his company has more than 500 people working on the service, which will be based off Sky’s existing Now TV platform. He said he believes that NBCU has come up with a “very innovative way” of bringing its streaming service into a market crowded with incumbents like Netflix and Amazon, and new entrants like Disney, WarnerMedia and Apple.

“For competitive reasons, we believe we’ve got some ideas that are innovative and don’t really want to share those until we get close to launch. But, we’re very pleased to have ‘The Office,’ and very optimistic about our streaming plans at this point,” Burke said.