The Glenridge Performing Arts Center (7333 Scotland Way,Sarasota) is proud to present Lynn Trefzger, Comedy Ventriloquist - Saturday, December 1st at8:00 p.m.For over 30 years, Lynn has given life to a trunk full of comical characters. Shehas performed for audiences worldwide in corporations, colleges, theatres, andcruise ships.Audiences are treated to Lynn’s vocal illusion talents, when they may meet alovable camel, a grumpy old man, a feisty little girl, and may even see someother audience members who are brought up for the action!

Lynn’s off-the-wall audience interplay is riotously funny - no two shows arealike! This performance is tailored to a family audience.

Lynn has received many awards and nominations throughout her career including The AmericanComedy Awards, Variety Entertainer of the Year, and Comedy Entertainer of the Year byNational Association of Campus Activities. She has been nominated for Best Female Performerby Corporate America Magazine, and has been named Funniest Female by Campus ActivitiesMagazine. In 2010, Lynn received the “People’s Choice Award” by the Ohio Arts PresentersAssociation.

She is a premier entertainer for Disney Cruise Lines, as well as Crystal and Norwegian CruiseLines. She is also a favorite among many Celebrity Golf Classic Invitationals and the AtlantisResort and Casino in Nassau, Bahamas. Lynn (and her many voices) has appeared on ABC,TNN, A&E, and Lifetime. She is featured in a recently released comedy/documentary aboutthe art of ventriloquism with Jay Johnson and Jeff Dunham called “I’m No Dummy” by NBCUniversal.

Lynn Trefzger, Comedy Ventriloquist – at the Glenridge Performing Arts Center, 7333 ScotlandWay, Saturday, December 1 at 8:00 p.m. Tickets are on sale now for just $15.00 at gpactix.comor by calling the GPAC box office at 552-5325. Groups of 10 or more receive a reduced rate of$12.50. GPAC Family and students get a discounted rate of $10.00.

Glenridge Performing Arts Center, 7333 Scotland Way, Sarasota, 552-5325 or www.gpactix.comGet social with GPAC at www.facebook.com/glenridgePAC