Free streaming is seeing a significant track record now, and NBCUniversal has decided to share what it has to offer to all users watching from Amazon Freevee and Xumo Play. The company is leveraging its best-known shows for many to enjoy, including Saturday Night Live, Keeping Up With the Kardashians, Top Chef, and more.

Bringing the television experience to streaming platforms is expanding more of what people may get online, centering on easily-accessible content without cable or satellite subscriptions.

Amazon Freevee, Xumo Play to Get NBCUniversal Content

(Photo : Jonas Leupe on Unsplash)

NBCUniversal announced its new offers to expand more of its content to the public, and it is through distributing to free, ad-supported streaming TV (FAST) platforms. The company's initiative aims to deliver linear content offerings from the company's NBCU Television & Streaming portfolio and its Global Distribution library.

This means that the audience would have the chance to watch more of NBCUniversal's content for free, unlike before.

From entertainment shows to sports, as well as its Spanish language content, these would be available on FAST streaming platforms, partnering with Amazon Freevee and Xumo Play. NBCUniversal said that its content would arrive to FAST this summer.

Read Also: Netflix Revamps Resolution for its 'Basic with Ads' Plans-More Videos For Simultaneous Streaming

Free, Ad-Supported Streaming TV Growth

Over the past months, many companies have looked into offering a free, ad-supported streaming TV that brings cable and antenna-based television channels available to the web and apps.

The experience has seen massive growth and is offering the same experience with TV streaming, but with the ads built-in to one side of the player, appearing at all times. While that is the catch to FAST, it is a small nuisance to access channels and the television experience without any costs or installations.

Free Streaming Platforms

The world of streaming has been popularized by Netflix, and one of its most important brandings is that it is an online premium experience where users may watch at any time and place without hassle. Many services have also adopted subscription-based experiences for users, giving them on-demand content at all times.

However, on-demand content and VOD platforms have seen a drop in subscribers and people watching on the platform.

This is where companies began to offer free TV streaming platforms that replicate the television experience straight from the web, without cables or antennas to use. One of the first to do announce this was Telly, under the company called Teevee Corporation which offers the free, ad-supported streaming TV experience that is coming soon.

Soon after, other companies have also joined the developments in free TV streaming, with a familiar name like Amazon, and a new player, Xumo Play, presenting their take on it. NBCUniversal is making the FAST experience better with its new content offers, expanding more of what free TV streaming has to offer, centering on renowned shows.

Related Article: Amazon Freevee Brings More Prime Video Originals to its Ad-Supported, No-Cost Platform

ⓒ 2024 TECHTIMES.com All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.