The Postcard

Dinant in Belgium holds a strategic position on the River Meuse, and as is shown in the photograph, it suffered massive devastation from the German Army at the beginning of the Great War.

This is one of a series of 8 postcards on the photostream documenting the appalling damage that the town suffered.

Dinant

Dinant is a Walloon city in the Belgian province of Namur. It is around 90 kilometres (56 mi) south-east of Brussels.

On the 15th. August 1914, French and German troops fought for the town in the Battle of Dinant (1914). Among the wounded was Lieut. Charles de Gaulle.

On the 23rd. August, 674 inhabitants were summarily executed by troops of the German Army — the biggest massacre committed by the Germans in 1914.

Within a month, some five thousand Belgian and French civilians were killed by the Germans on numerous similar occasions.

Saturation Bombing

The reason that the outer walls of so many buildings survived intact is that if a building suffers a direct hit from a bomb or explosive shell, the pressure waves push out the weakest parts of the building, which are generally the wooden floors, the roof, and of course the windows.

The strongly-built outer walls often remain standing, and if the building suffers another direct hit, the blast is channelled upwards, with the outer walls still remaining intact. This pattern is very evident in aerial footage of the damage caused by saturation bombing of German towns and cities during WW2.

'The Ballad of French Rivers' (1917)

Here is a poem by Christopher Morley (1890 - 1957) entitled 'The Ballad of French Rivers':

'Of streams that men take honour in

The Frenchman looks to three,

And each one has for origin

The hills of Burgundy;

And each has known the quivers

Of blood and tears and pain—

O gallant bleeding rivers,

The Marne, the Meuse, the Aisne.

Says Marne: “My poplar fringes

Have felt the Prussian tread,

The blood of brave men tinges

My banks with lasting red;

Let others ask due credit,

But France has me to thank;

Von Kluck himself has said it:—

I turned the Boche’s flank!”

Says Meuse: “I claim no winning,

No glory on the stage,

Save that, in the beginning

I strove to save Liége.

Alas that Frankish rivers

Should share such shame as mine—

In spite of all endeavours

I flow to join the Rhine!”

Says Aisne: “My silver shallows

Are salter than the sea,

The woe of Rheims still hallows

My endless tragedy.

Of rivers rich in story

That run through green Champagne,

In agony and glory

The chief am I, the Aisne!”

Now there are greater waters

That Frenchmen all hold dear—

The Rhone, with many daughters,

That runs so icy clear;

There’s Moselle, deep and winy,

There’s Loire, Garonne and Seine,

But O the valiant tiny—

The Marne, the Meuse, the Aisne!'