Table of contents :

Preface

Introduction. Wolfgang J. Mommsen

Max Weber and the Social Sciences at the Turn of the Century

A Science of Man: Max Weber and the Political Economy of the German Historical School. Wilhelm Hennis

Gustav Schmoller and Max Weber. Manfred Schon

Max Weber and the ‘Younger’ Generation in the Verein fur Sozialpolitik. Dieter Kruger

Max and Alfred Weber in the Verein fur Sozialpolitik. Eberhard Demm

Personal Conflict and Ideological Options in Sombart and Weber. Arthur Mitzman

Varieties of Social Economics: Joseph A. Schumpeter and Max Weber. Jurgen Osterhammel

Robert Michels and Max Weber: Moral Conviction versus the Politics of Responsibility. Wolfgang J. Mommsen

Mosca, Pareto and Weber: A Historical Comparison. David Beetham

Georges Sorel and Max Weber. J. G. Merquior

Mill and Weber on History, Freedom and Reason. Alan Ryan

Weber and Durkheim: Coincidence and Divergence. Anthony Giddens

Max Weber’s Relation to the Theologians and Historians

Max Weber and the Evangelical-Social Congress. Rita Aldenhoff

Max Weber and the Lutherans. W. R. Ward

Friendship between Experts: Notes on Weber and Troeltsch Friedrich. Wilhelm Graf

Max Weber and Eduard Meyer. Friedrich H. Tenbruck

Karl Lamprecht and Max Weber: Historical Sociology within the Confines of a Historians’ Controversy. Sam Whimster

Otto Hintze and Max Weber: Attempts at a Comparison. Jiirgen Коска

The Realm of Politics

Friedrich Naumann and Max Weber: Aspects of a Political Partnership. Peter Theiner

Max Weber and Walther Rathenau. Ernst Schulin

Gustav Stresemann and Max Weber: Politics and Scholarship. Gangolf Hiibinger

Dietrich Schafer and Max Weber. Roger Chickering

Eduard Bernstein and Max Weber. John Breuilly

Max Weber, Karl Kautsky and German Social Democracy. Dick Geary

Max Weber’s Relation to Anarchism and Anarchists: The Case of Ernst Toller. Dittmar Dahlmann

Max Weber and Antonio Gramsci. Carl Levy

Max Weber and Philosophical Thought

Weber and Nietzsche: Questioning the Liberation of Social Science from Historicism. Robert Eden

The Ambiguity of Modernity: Georg Simmel and Max Weber. David Frisby

Weber and the Southwest German School: The Genesis of the Concept of the Historical Individual. Guy Oakes

Max Weber and Benedetto Croce. Pietro Rossi

Weber and Freud: Vocation and Self-Acknowledgement. Tracy B. Strong

Passion as a Mode of Life: Max Weber, the Otto Gross Circle and Eroticism. Wolfgang Schwentker

Ernst Bloch and Georg Lukacs in Max Weber’s Heidelberg. Eva Karadi

Max Weber, Oswald Spengler and a Biographical Surmise. Douglas Webster

Karl Jaspers: Thinking with Max Weber in Mind. Dieter Henrich

Max Weber: the Enduring Contemporary

Max Weber and the World since 1920. Edward Shils

Max Weber and Modern Social Science. Ralf Dahrendorf

Contributors

Index

Citation preview