Johannesburg - Delayed Quote • ZAc

Oando PLC (OAO.JO)

20.00 0.00 (0.00%)

At close: August 12 at 3:26 PM GMT+2

Key Executives

Amounts are as of December 31, 2007 and compensation values are for the last fiscal year ending on that date. Pay is salary, bonuses, etc. Exercised is the value of options exercised during the fiscal year. Currency in ZAc.

NameTitlePayExercisedYear Born Mr. Jubril Adewale Tinubu Group CEO & Executive Director 15.83M -- -- Mr. G. Omamofe Boyo Esq. Group Deputy CEO & Executive Director 11.34M -- -- Mr. Adeola Ogunsemi Group CFO & Executive Director -- -- -- Ms. Ayotola Olubummi Jagun Company Secretary & Chief Compliance Officer -- -- -- Ms. Akpeneye Efuntomi Omolara Chief Legal Officer -- -- -- Alero Balogun Head of Corporate Communications -- -- -- Ms. Ima Ofulue Chief Human Resource Officer -- -- -- Mr. Ayo Ajose-Adeogun Chief Executive Officer of Mining & Infrastructure -- -- -- Dr. Ainojie Alexander Irune Group Executive Director -- -- --

Oando PLC

The Wings Complex

17a Ozumba Mbadiwe Victoria Island

Lagos

Nigeria

234 1 2702400 https://www.oandoplc.com

Sector:

Energy

Description

Oando PLC, through its subsidiaries, provides energy solutions in Nigeria and internationally. The company operates through Exploration and Production, and Supply and Trading segments. It explores for and produces oil and gas; and trades in crude oil and petroleum products, including naphtha, gasoline, fuel oil, gas oil, kerosene, and bitumen. The company is also involved in the storage and haulage of petroleum products; storage, trading, and distribution of petroleum and gas products; provision of logistics and other services; and aviation activities. In addition, it engages in financial trading and hedging activities; and shipping and chartering activities. The company was formerly known as Unipetrol Nigeria Plc and changed its name to Oando PLC in December 2003. Oando PLC was founded in 1956 and is headquartered in Lagos, Nigeria. Oando PLC is a subsidiary of Ocean and Oil Development Partners Limited.

Corporate Governance

Oando PLC’s ISS Governance QualityScore as of N/A is N/A. The pillar scores are Audit: N/A; Board: N/A; Shareholder Rights: N/A; Compensation: N/A.

Corporate governance scores courtesy of Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) Scores indicate decile rank relative to index or region. A decile score of 1 indicates lower governance risk, while a 10 indicates higher governance risk.

Upcoming Events

Upcoming Events Information Not Available

Recent Events

Ex-Dividend Date