Created by veteran Doctor Who writing team Bob Baker and Dave Martin, K-9 is one of the program’s most endearing creations. When Doctor Who was mentioned to anyone with a vague notion of the series back in the day they normally knew of three things; Tom Baker, the Daleks and K-9.

K-9’s first appearance in The Invisible Enemy

A replacement companion for Professor Marius (who discovered that a flesh and blood dog was just not practical on a space station) in the 1977 adventure the Invisible Enemy, the character was a hit with the production staff and it was decided that he would remain with the Doctor.

Possessing a vast resource of data, K-9 was a constant fall back for the Doctor who was apparently forgetful in his old age. K-9’s built in radar sensors and probe allow him to access other computer systems which comes in handy for the Doctor who faces more than his share of megalomaniacal computers. A built-in laser also succeeded in repelling nearly any threat or cut through the toughest of material when a hasty escape was needed.

The focus of numerous books, toys, replicas, key chains and remote control variations, K-9 became an almost instant sensation. He even had a hit record!

For three years, K-9 operated alongside the Doctor and faced numerous threats from killer weeds to uneven flooring. A nightmare to operate in the studio or on location, the crew often were reduced to dragging the prop along by fishing line.

Actor John Leeson provided the distinctive voice of K-9 and was as much a component of the character’s success as the design itself. At a time when Doctor Who was watched by the entire family, K-9 was immensely popular with children. After he departed in 1980, fans almost immediately asked when K-9 would be returning.

In 1981, Leeson was back as the voice behind the robot dog along with Elisabeth Sladen, reprising her role as former companion to the Third and Fourth Doctor, Sarah Jane Smith (a part that has since become a major success all over again). The pilot was not picked up for a series but it was… interesting. An adventure centered on black magic, pagans, gardening and the success of having long distance relationships with obscure relatives, it did feature a bizarre blood-bath conclusion in which K-9 slew a number of cult members about to perform a human sacrifice along with the weirdest opening sequence for a program ever.

Having starred in his own spin-off K-9 and Company and appeared in the new Doctor Who series opposite David Tennant, K-9 later resurfaced on the Sarah Jane Smith Adventures before launching his own ongoing series for Australian TV last year.

While K-9 has never fought the Daleks (just imagine the mayhem in the studio!), a talented animator has created a short film that explores the possibility. The project is simply astounding and features the familiar soundtrack to James Cameron’s film, Aliens.

After debuting in his own series, K-9 has not been seen on the Doctor Who program that gave him his first taste of fame, but one can never tell if a reunion with Doctor #11, Matt Smith, is on the horizon.