Arrival

Welcome to the historical "harbor of merchants" and the outstanding capital of Denmark - Copenhagen! Upon arrival, you are met by your private driver, who transfers you to the hotel for check-in.

The rest of the day is free so you can start exploring the magnificent city center on your own, dine in one of the local restaurants or take a good rest in your comfortable room.

Copenhagen City Tour

After breakfast at the hotel you meet your private guide at the lobby and go on a breathtaking panoramiс walking city tour of Copenhagen.

First, you proceed to the Rosenborg Castle where you witness the famous Changing of the Royal Guard ceremony at the front gates of the Palace. During the tour you enjoy the views of the City Hall and Christiansborg Palace that is home to the Danish Parliament, stroll across Kongens Nytorv and see the Royal Theater.

The highlight of the tour is a visit to the colorful harbor of Nyhavn where you see the gorgeous Amalienborg Palace - the winter residence of the Royal Family.

After the tour you return to your hotel and have the afternoon at leisure. Alternatively, you can continue exploring the city on your own and visit the Gefion Fountain and the symbol of Copenhagen - the famous statue of the Little Mermaid, inspired by H. C. Andersen's fairy tale.

Arrival

Welcome to the fabulous capital of Norway - Oslo! Upon arrival, you are met by your private driver, who transfers you to the hotel for check-in.

The rest of the day is free so you can start exploring the magnificent city center on your own, dine in one of the local restaurants or take a good rest in your comfortable room.

Oslo City Tour

After breakfast you meet your private guide at the hotel lobby and go on a 5-hour guided city tour of the magnificent Norwegian capital.

You start with a visit to one of the major Scandinavian treasures - the famous Frogner Park, informally known as the Vigeland Park named after its founder Gustav Vigeland. You spend some great time strolling through this beautiful park and enjoying its extravagant sculptures and unique Scandinavian nature.

Then you proceed to other famous Oslo attractions, including the Norwegian Folk Museum and the Fram Museum (tickets are included).

Note: The Viking Ship Museum is one of Oslo's most famous museums, but it has been closed for renovation until 2025. It might be worth visiting another Norwegian sight - the Fram Museum.

After the tour, you return to your hotel and have the rest of the day free.

Geirangerfjord Cruise

After breakfast you have the morning is free to relax in the Union Bad swimming pool and sauna of your hotel or explore the charming village of Geiranger on your own.

Nearby the hotel you can enjoy the Fossevandring cascading waterfall from the top or take the stairs down to the pier to see the whole power of the falls, or visit the Norwegian Fjord Center.

In the afternoon you check out from your hotel and your driver transfers you to the port where you board a comfortable Hurtigruten ship to enjoy a fantastic Geirangerfjord cruise to Alesund that provides you with the unique chance to admire spectacular Norwegian sceneries and mind-boggling fjords. The duration of your trip is about 5 hours.

Alesund City Tour & Departure

Following breakfast, you check out from the hotel, meet your private guide and enjoy a wonderful 3-hour walking tour. The town was completely rebuilt after the great fire of Alesund happened in 1904. Now Alesund is a wonderful example of Art Nouveau architecture.

During the tour you see Alesund Church and the Alesund Park, the Town Hall and many other oustanding attractions of the town.

After the tour you return to your hotel to pick up luggage and your private driver takes you to the airport.

Reykjavik City Tour & Trip to Blue Lagoon

In the morning after breakfast you meet your guide-driver at the hotel lobby and go on an amazing 3-hour city tour around the most significant places in Reykjavik and the nearby area.

During the tour you stop by the official residence of the President of Iceland called Bessastadir. Your next stop is Hafnarfjörður - a port town and municipality located about 10 km from Reykjavik. This place is known as the home of the "Hidden people" Huldufolk from local folklore, meaning elves in Iclandic.

Then you proceed to the futuristic Perlan dome from which you see spectacular views over Reykjavik and its surroundings. You make a stop at Hofdi, the building where the all-important summit between the former U.S. President Ronald Reagan and the former U.S.S.R. Secretary General Mikhail Gorbachev took place in 1986.

Then on to the Hallgrimskirkja Church that is the tallest building in Iceland where you have a chance to walk up the stairs to see the view of the city center (entrance tickets are not included). Another place you see today is the Althing building - a classical 19th-century building which is home to the Icelandic parliament's main debating chamber.

After a break for lunch, your driver transfers you to the geothermal spa Blue Lagoon, which is one of the most visited attractions in Iceland. During 2 hours you soak up in the Northern sun while relaxing in warm geothermal seawater surrounded by a surreal lava field. After this unique spa experience, your driver transfers you back to your hotel and you have the evening at leisure.