Born on this day is Yann M’Vila, our French midfielder. Yann joined the Lads on loan from Rubin Kazan, quickly endearing himself to Sunderland fans.

His loan to the Lads represented a fresh start for the French midfielder whose career had faltered in Russia with Rubin Kazan. Once linked with top Premier League sides, M'Vila languished in the Russian League. He had recently played for Inter Milan on loan before joining us, making 8 appearances for the Italian side before falling out with manager Roberto Mancini and returning to Russia. In Russia, amidst talk of an extortion racket targeting some players, axes kept at home for security and trashed apartments, M’Vila was obviously unsettled. With the midfielder representing France at every level he was eligible for and with 22 senior caps to his name, a move to the Premier League represented a chance to kick-start his career and put himself back in contention for the Euro’s.

Whilst he was ultimately left out of the France squad, he became an instant hit with our fans. He made his debut in a 3-1 defeat to Norwich City under Dick Advocaat. M’Vila then scored his first and only goal for the club in a 2-2 draw to Aston Villa, with an inch-perfect free kick from 20 yards. The loanee was named Man of the Match in Sunderland’s first win of the season, a memorable 3-0 win against Newcastle. He ran the midfield and technically got an assist, as his effort was redirected goalward by Billy Jones. After the match, M’Vila spoke about the Tyne-Wear derby, and compared it to his time in Milan. “The atmosphere was electric. It was unique; I’d never experienced anything like it. I’d played in the Milan derby and it was great but not quite to the North East level”. He was immense that day and we knew we had a player of real quality on our hands. If we had made the move permanent when we had the chance, he could’ve become a modern day club legend.

The former France international was a key player in Sunderland’s survival that season, with Sam Allardyce making no secret of the fact he wanted to make the deal permanent. M’Vila was also more than open to contract negotiations. Clutching an axe in his Russian apartment, he dreamed of Wearside. However, the appointment of miserable David Moyes when Big Sam departed for his one-game England stint represented a spanner in the works. Moyes, in his infinite wisdom, opted to sign Didier Ndong instead , for more money than it would’ve taken to prise M’Vila away from Russia. A proven success, with experience playing in Europe, who had an affinity for the club and was arguably our star player that season, was snubbed for an unproven, silly-haired, liability in Ndong.

M’Vila took to Instagram to air his frustrations, claiming Sunderland refused to pick up the phone when he called. He posted airport pictures, inspired the Yann watch movement and generally got us all dreaming of being reunited. It was not to be.

Since his return to Rubin Kazan, M’Vila was released from the club and joined Saint-Etienne. After two seasons in Ligue 1, he joined Greek side Olympiakos. He was linked with a return to Sunderland in 2024 but he opted to join West Brom instead.