A late 70s Scotch with the "X" speed names and Beta-square logo. An earlier K60 Scotch as well as another early L series tape without the rainbow were also released.

Scotch's first L750 tape, still using the old Beta-square style logo with the new BII/BIII speed convention and updated Scotch and 3M logos.

A Scotch from after the unified Beta logo was introduced. Interestingly, the tape does not have the runtime chart of the L750 variant and only refers to the Beta II runtime on the front.

L-750 variant of the 1982 Scotch.

A sealed L750 of this generation. A colorful cardstock wrapper covers the open part of the tape box as well as the front and back and contains more product information, the UPC, and, apparently, coupons.

A similar Scotch sleeve that makes no mention of length or record time.

A High Grade Scotch cassette. Some of these older Scotch tapes seem mold-prone.

A five-pack from 1986 containing four standard EGs and a "Freeview" EXG tape that came prerecorded with previews of commercial Beta releases (presumably released on Scotch dubbing tapes) that could then be recorded over and used as a normal tape.

Similar to the previous generation, a cardstock outer wrapper covers a less informative plastic case on the sealed mid 80s EG.

The nondescript plastic case of the mid 80s Scotch EG

I quite like the Scotch tape gauge sticker in the center of the sheet - you place it over the supply spool and it gives you a rough idea of how many minutes remain. I always thought it was odd they didn't even bother to print the Beta I runtimes. A similar sticker was used on Scotch's VHS tapes.

Scratch-off promotion card inside with such prizes as EXG video tapes and single sided floppy disks.

The "Freeview" cassette from the five pack pictured above.

The mid 80s plastic case EXG. These tapes also had a nice design on the tape door but apparently would catch on the doors of some Sony Beta VCRs.

Labels for the 1986 Scotch EGX L750.

The 1987 Scotch EG promoting the 1988 Olympics.

Labels for these cassettes also carried the Olympics sponsorship.

The 1987 Scotch EG+ with Olympic sponsorship markings.

More expansive label sheet for the 1987 EG+.

The 1988 Scotch EG.

Canadian bilingual variant.

The 1988 Scotch EG+ L750.

Label sheet for the 1988 Scotch EG+.

Japanese market Scotch EG

Scotch continued to sell shorter length tapes like L250s in Japan.