Hailing from Palm Desert, California, Kyuss (pronounced "kai-uss") have become a heavy metal Velvet Underground of sorts. Though they are widely acknowledged as pioneers of the booming underground "stoner rock" scene, the band enjoyed little commercial success during their brief existence. Still, their combination of sludgy, down-tuned guitars (often played through a bass amp for maximum earth-shaking intensity), galloping thrash metal rhythms, and organic drum sound has become the blueprint, often copied, but never replicated by countless underground metal bands. Formed in 1990 by vocalist John Garcia, guitarist Josh Homme, bassist Nick Oliveri and drummer Brant Bjork, Kyuss began jamming at "desert parties", in and around the isolated towns of the southern California desert. The band eventually built a local following, signed with tiny independet label Dali Records, and released their first album Wretch in 1991. Under-produced and financed, the album failed to capture the band's live sound and went completely unnoticed, but constant touring earned them a reputation as a ferocious live unit as well as the respect of many fellow musicians. One of these, Masters of Reality singer/guitarist Chris Goss, decided to produce the band's next effort, 1992's stunning Blues for the Red Sun, eventually hailed as a landmark album by critics and fans alike. The Kyuss sound takes the heaviness of Black Sabbath, the feedback fuzzyness of Blue Cheer, and other 70's influences and infuses them with psychedelic flashes, massive grooves and a sensibility for 90's metal and thrash. The band was signed to Elektra Records just as their label was about to go bankrupt, and despite the loss of bassist Oliveri (he was replaced by Scott Reeder), the band continued to build momentum. Also recorded under Goss' guidance, 1994's Sky Valley saw Kyuss taking the novel approach of grouping the songs into three extended suites, and nearly matched the brilliance of its predecessor. But despite their creative promise and growing fan-base, personal strife began tearing the band apart, and drummer Brant Bjork departed by tour's end. After recruiting Alfredo Hernandez to replace him on 1995's less inspired ...And the Circus Leave Town, a final rift between Homme and Garcia finally brought the band to a halt. Homme, Reeder and Hernandez re-appeared as Queens of the Stone Age in 1998, and Garcia is currently a member of Unida.