Best Schools in Badi Chowdi, Hyderabad

Telangana’s capital, Hyderabad, is one of the largest cities in India. A town that is situated on a hilly terrain and is surrounded by artificial lakes. It has around 7 million people in residence within the city limit, making it one of the most populous metropolitans in India. As a capital city, Hyderabad hosts many prominent educational institutions like the University of Hyderabad and Osmania University.

The growing city always needs better education, especially at the school level. It motivated many to start private schools, which later became the backbone of Hyderabad’s primary education system. These excellent schools are affiliated with many national and international boards and provide an education that helps students professionally and personally. Selecting a school here will help your child to be a good performer in every area of life.

Age criteria of schools

The age criteria for sending children to schools will differ, but the criteria below are primarily found in Hyderabad and other parts of Telangana.

1. Nursery- Accepts children between 2.5 to 3.5 years

2. LKG- Admits children in between 3.5 to 4.5 years

3. UKG- Accepts children between 4.5 to 5.5 years

What fee you can expect in Badi Chowdi, Hyderabad

Lots of schools are taking part in the mission of educating the young generation for a better tomorrow. The fee you may expect in each school will be different depending on various factors. It may include many things, but it is mainly found considering the criteria, including quality, facilities, infrastructure, and curriculum. It is difficult to say how much a school collects, but you can get them on a particular school's website. If you are looking for an average fee, it comes to around Rs 30,000 to 7 lakhs. What is mentioned here is the average annual fee found in most of the schools in the city. If you want to check all the school fees in one place, please visit our website, Edustoke. When you enter our platform, you get all the necessary details to make a good decision.

How do you select a school for your child?

Are you looking for the best schools in Badi Chowdi, Hyderabad? Before selecting one, you must consider many factors and check whether the particular institution fits your child’s future. Looking at the criteria mentioned below will help you make an informed decision.

Curriculum

Mostly, you find Indian and foreign curricula in Hyderabad, like other cities. It is nothing that a curriculum is better than others, but it has uniqueness compared to others. For example, you take IB, which can quickly transfer around the globe, but others need this option. So, understand your child’s capacity and future requirements before you opt for a syllabus. Making the right choice at present will ensure your child has a happy life later on.

Results and quality

The history of a man tells who he is. It’s a famous quote in English to analyse a man’s character. This idea applies to schools, too. Examine the history of results of at least two to three years, not only in academics but also in every area. It gives you an idea about the quality of the schools and helps you make a good decision based on that. Analyse the quality with various criteria such as academics, years of experience, extracurricular activities, and more.

Faculties

The quality of teachers always reflects on the quality of students. A school with enthusiastic, well-qualified, and experienced teachers will always succeed in all areas. They are the ones who make a school stand tall and help children lead a better life with their way of life and experience. There must be many things to observe while looking at faculties, like qualifications, experience, teaching methods, and how they deal with children and parents. Also, see whether they are offering individual attention to all.

Location

A location has many advantages, especially for working parents. If the school is too far from your residence, it causes you and your kid lots of trouble. Select a school that can be accessed easily from your place, which will help you in any emergency. Since it is a city, opt for a school where you experience less traffic because your child does not want to spend more time travelling alone.

Facilities

You might see many advantages mentioned on the school website, but ensure all these are possible within their facilities. Sometimes, you see more extracurricular activities but need more space to implement them. Learn about the basic things such as class, furniture, smart classes, libraries, labs, and more. The other facilities include grounds, tracks, an auditorium, an art room, and more. Explore the list of the best schools in Badi Chowdi, Hyderabad, on our site, where you can experience the top facilities in the world.

Extracurricular activities

Holistic education is prevalent in today’s world. As a parent, you believe that your child must excel both in class and outside. Getting extracurricular activities is easy, but ensures your child’s favourite item is included in the list. Expert coaching is also a great factor parents must consider while looking at the other activities of an institution.

Different options for curricula

• IB (The International Baccalaureate) consists of a Programme (PYP) for 3 to 12 students, the Middle Years Programme (MYP) for 11 to 16 students, and the Diploma Programme (DP) for the 16 to 19 age group.

• IGCSE (The International General Certificate of Secondary Education) is widely accepted for students aged 14-16.

• BSET (The Board of Secondary Education, Telangana) or Telangana Board of Secondary Education.

• CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education)

• CISCE (Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations) has two wings: the ICSE (Indian Certificate of Secondary Education) for class 10 and the ISC (Indian School Certificate) for class 12.

How can Edustoke guide you for admission?

Edustoke is India's number one online school search platform with experience in counselling millions of parents. When you get admission through our platform, you get lots of experience and need only a little effort. Our counsellors will guide you and stay with you until you finish your child's admission. So, how do you get access to us? See below points

1. Search online for your preferred city with locality, like the best schools in Badi Chowdi, Hyderabad.

2. Then you see our site, Edustoke.com, on top. Please click on it3. Now, it's time for you to select the types of schools.

4. Please set your preference, such as fee, distance, board, and more, as the option seen on the screen.

5. Explore the number of schools and their advantages.

6. Select a school and contact them for admission. You also have the option to request a call back from our councillors to get assistance.

7. Please request a school visit from our councillors

8. Visit the school and confirm your admission after the procedure.