The British film industry's power couple, actor Kate Winslet and Oscar-winning director Sam Mendes, have married in a secret ceremony in the West Indies, it was announced last night.

Friends said the modest occasion had deliberately been held away from the spotlight of the couple's north London home and their £3.3m country retreat in the Cotswolds.

Mendes, 37, and Winslet, 27, both from Reading, kept the wedding details from many of their relatives and waited more than a week to issue a statement.

It said only that they had "married in late May in a very small ceremony while on holiday in the West Indies. Present were Winslet's daughter Mia and three close friends."

Winslet failed to keep her first marriage ceremony secret in 1998, when photographers and fans turned up outside a Reading church to watch her emerge with assistant director Jim Threapleton.

The couple were pursued to their reception - a meal of bangers and mash at a local pub.

Winslet divorced Threapleton in 2001 when their daughter was 15 months old. Two months later her relationship with Mendes became public.

A spokeswoman for Mendes said: "This tiny ceremony was an entirely private event, which is what they both really wanted. All their close friends and family now know and the couple are on honeymoon for another two weeks."

Mendes launched his theatrical career from the Donmar Warehouse in the West End of London, and won an Oscar for his first Hollywood film, American Beauty. He met Winslet, a three-time Oscar nominee, while casting for his Donmar double bill of Uncle Vanya and Twelfth Night.

Although Mendes had been linked to several actors, including Rachel Weisz and Calista Flockhart, he was always reserved about love.

But this year, when he became the first director to win three Olivier awards at once, he announced from the podium that through Winslet he now understood love, and this had helped his work.

The couple will base themselves in London where Mendes is launching a new film production company with his Donmar partner, Caro Newling.

Winslet's latest film, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, will be released later this year.