Kate Winslet just announced she is splitting from her husband of nearly seven years, director Sam Mendes.

After almost seven years of marriage, Oscar winning actress Kate Winslet has split from her husband, Sam Mendes, according to a statement from their lawyer, Keith Schilling.

The announcement reads:

“Kate and Sam are saddened to announce that they separated earlier this year. The split is entirely amicable and is by mutual agreement. Both parties are fully committed to the future joint parenting of their children. They ask that the media respect the privacy of the family.”

Kate and Sam met in 2001, and were married in 2003. They have one child together, Joe Alfie Winslet Mendes, 6. Kate also has a daughter, Mia Honey, 9, with her first husband, director Jim Threapleton, who she was divorced from in 2001.

Sam directed Kate and her co-star Leonardo DiCaprio in the movie Revolutionary Road in 2008, and she won a Golden Globe for Best Actress for the role. Sam was directing a production of As You Like It at BAM in Brooklyn, NY, which wrapped on Mar. 13.

Kate talked about her marriage to Sam in the Feb. 2009 issue of Elle magazine. “You have to work at a marriage. The best things always involve some effort. We aim to have two date nights a week, but always end up doing one. I don’t dress up or anything, we just have a nice meal somewhere, share a bottle of wine and talk. Sometimes it’s just about getting out of the house. We do loads of lovely meals with the kids, but every now and again you need to get out of the house together, go and be a couple, have a laugh.”

She also gushed about falling in love with him. “It was the last thing I expected, but it really was love at first sight. I woke up in the middle of the night after we’d met and I had this feeling in my stomach. I just knew what it was. I didn’t want to stop being with him. I know categorically I’m married to the right man. I feel understood by him, completely known. And I get the enormity of what I’m saying, which is why I’m so grateful.”

Kate Winslet Wore Millions Around Her Neck at the Oscars!

While Most Gals Went Up, These Ladies Let Their Hair Long & Loose!

Kate Winslet, Your New Lancome Ad is Red Hot!

ncG1vNJzZmign6G5usPOqJuloZaae6S7zGhpaWlgZH10e5BuZqSZpJp6uLXNrKOerF2orq55zJ6lnZ2jYsCxuMitZg%3D%3D