David Cameron is to hand out honours to some of his closest aides at Number 10 in a move which risks starting another “cronies” row.

Craig Oliver and Ed Llewellyn, two of David Cameron’s most senior advisers, are to be rewarded in the Prime Minister’s resignation honour list which is due to be published in a few weeks’ time.

The pair are among a dozen key staff – many of whom have worked with Mr Cameron since he became Tory leader in 2005 – who will be rewarded for their service.

Mr Oliver, the Prime Minister’s director of communications since February 2011, is likely to be given a knighthood, while Mr Llewellyn, Mr Cameron’s chief of staff since May 2010, will be given a peerage.

Traditionally the resignation honours lists are published some weeks after the Prime Minister vacates 10 Downing Street in the London Gazette.

A number of other Downing Street aides are to receive honours from Mr Cameron, including Laura Trott, a special adviser on women’s issues, and Gabby Bertin, the external affairs director at Number 10.

Both could given peerages as part of a longstanding attempt by the Conservatives to boost the number of Tory peers in the House of Lords.

Mr Lockwood is rumoured to have turned down a peerage when he quit in May 2015. Chris Hopkins, Number 10’s business adviser who helped to organise letters from large companies backing Britain to stay in the European Union head of the referendum, will also be honoured.

Other key staff likely to be honoured include Liz Sugg, Mr Cameron’s head of operations who ran the logistics for all of Mr Cameron’s visits and tightly controlled access to Mr Cameron on his trips.

Dan Korski, a digital adviser who was criticised for allegedly putting pressure on the British Chambers of Commerce over pro-Brexit remarks from its then-director general John Longworth, is expected to receive an honour.

Two former speech writers – Clare Foges and Ameet Gill, who went on to run the announcements grid for Number 10 – are also to be honoured in the resignation honours list.

There was speculation in Westminster that Mr Cameron might recommend knighthoods for key MPs who supported him, notably Gavin Williamson, his popular parliamentary private secretary.

However, Michael Gove, the Justice Secretary, is thought unlikely to be knighted after he decided to go against Mr Cameron’s wishes and back the Leave campaign at the EU referendum.

Sir Alistair Graham, the former standards watchdog, said the list risked embroiling Mr Cameron in controversy.

He said: “If in fact they have been doing important work behind the scenes well awards might be appropriate.

“But if it is just taking the opportunity to help people who are good friends then I don’t think that is appropriate.”

Number 10 declined to comment on the speculation, choosing neither to confirm nor deny that Mr Cameron will recommend others for honours when he resigns.

A Number 10 source told The Telegraph that it was “more likely than not” that Mr Cameron will publish a resignation honours list.

These lists have been published every time since 1945, when Winston Churchill stood down as Prime Minister.

The exception was Tony Blair, who did not publish a list of recommendations when he stood down as Labour Prime Minister in 2007.

The former Labour prime minister Harold Wilson was mired in controversy in 1976 when his resignation honours list included businessmen whose principles were seen as against those of the Labour Party.

It was swiftly dubbed the “Lavender list” because of a claim that the list was made by Marcia Falkender on lavender coloured note paper.

Cameron's circle - and the honours they could receive

Ed Llewellyn, Chief of Staff

Mr Llwellyn has been at Mr Cameron’s side since he entered 10 Downing Street in May 2010, effectively as his gate keeper. He is said covet an overseas ambassador role.

Tipped for: Peerage

Gabby Bertin, Director of External Affairs

Ms Bertin has been with Mr Cameron since before he became party leader. She originally worked as his spokesman before taking a more background job.

Tipped for: Peerage

Camilla Cavendish, Head of Policy Unit

A former trustee of Policy Exchange, the thinktank which did so much to develop thinking by Tory modernisers, Ms Cavendish was a Times journalist before she joined the unit in 2015.

Tipped for: Peerage

Laura Trott, Head of Strategic Communications

A former special adviser to Francis Maude, when he was Cabinet Office minister, Ms Trott was brought into Number 10 to advise on policies to benefit women.

Tipped for: Peerage

Chris Lockwood, Former Deputy Head of the Policy Unit

The former US editor of the Economist, Mr Lockwood was one of the six journalists that the Prime Minister listed as a personal friend in his evidence to the Leveson inquiry into press ethics. He worked in the policy unit from 2013 to 2015.

Tipped for: Peerage

Craig Oliver, Director of Communications

Mr Oliver, a former BBC executive, joined Mr Cameron as his £140,000-a-year head of communications in February 2011 after the resignation of Andy Coulson.

Tipped for: Knighthood

Gavin Williamson MP, Parliamentary Private Secretary

Mr Williamson’s stature has grown immeasurably as a key buffer between Tory MPs and Mr Cameron. He was at Mr Cameron’s side on the night of the EU referendum.

Tipped for: Knighthood

Liz Sugg, Head of Operations

Ms Sugg, made CBE in the dissolution honours last August, has been a mainstay for Mr Cameron, often never more than a few feet from the Prime Minister on his visits around the UK and overseas.

Tipped for: Damehood

Ameet Gill, Director of Strategy

Mr Gill has been an ever-present at Mr Cameron’s side for nine years. A former speech writer he was praised last July for one of Mr Cameron’s most important speeches on tackling Islamic extremism. He was made OBE in the dissolution honours last August.

Tipped for: CBE

Dan Korski, Digital adviser

Mr Korski, a digital advisor, played a key role in Mr Cameron’s lengthy EU renegotiations. He was criticised for complaining to the British Chambers of Commerce hours before its then-director general John Longworth was suspended earlier this year for making pro-Brexit comments.

Tipped for: OBE or MBE

Clare Foges, former speech writer

Ms Foges, who was awarded an OBE in the dissolution honours last August, stood down as Mr Cameron’s speech writer at the last general election, was writing speeches for Mr Cameron aged just 27.

Tipped for: CBE

Chris Hopkins, Business Adviser

Mr Hopkins made headlines earlier this year when he helped to organise letters from large companies backing Britain to stay in the European Union head of the referendum.

David Cameron said Mr Hopkins was doing an “excellent job” when challenged over the letters in February.

Tipped for: OBE or MBE