View salary at Nexland Inc by Job Title BETA

The average salary of Nexland Inc jobs will vary depending on the location, industry, category, and department. The table below shows the job titles you might be interested in and the hourly salary range of different positions at Nexland Inc. A difference in pay for the same job title may be based on a number of factors, such as experience, training, level of education, skills and competencies, and so on. Manager jobs at Nexland Inc earn the most with an average hourly salary of $48, while Manager, Human Resources jobs earn the least with an average hourly salary of $48.

The estimate average salary for Nexland Inc employees is around $44 per hour. The highest earners in the top 75th percentile are paid over $50. Individual salaries will vary depending on the job, department, and location, as well as the employee’s level of education, certifications, and additional skills.

JOB TITLE hourly SALARY RANGE AVERAGE hourly SALARY COMPANY NAME Manager $43 - $56 $48 Nexland Inc Manager, Human Resources $43 - $53 $48 Nexland Inc

DISCLAIMER: The salary range presented here is an estimation that has been derived from our proprietary algorithm. It should be noted that this range does not originate from the company's factual payroll records or survey data.

1. How much does Nexland Inc in the United States pay?

Nexland Inc pays its employees an average of $44 per hour. The average salary at Nexland Inc range from $39 to $50 per hour. Manager jobs at Nexland Inc earn the most with an average hourly salary of $48, while Manager, Human Resources jobs earn the least with an average hourly salary of $48.

2. Do Nexland Inc employees get a higher salary than other similar companies?

The salary at Nexland Inc is lesser than Syncomint. The highest salary package reported for an employee at Nexland Inc is $50 per hour, meanwhile the highest salary package reported for an employee at Syncomint is $66 per hour.

3. How much does Nexland Inc pay compared to Syncomint?

The average hourly salary at Nexland Inc is $44, in comparison to Syncomint which pays $58 per hour.

4. Which job skills can boost a Manager, Human Resources salary at Nexland Inc?

Leadership, Employee Relations and Initiative are key to a Manager, Human Resources job at Nexland Inc. Possessing these skills could lead to a higher salary. You can learn and develop high income skills now if you’re looking for a position at Nexland Inc.

5. What is the lowest salary at Nexland Inc?

The lowest paying job at Nexland Inc is Manager, Human Resources with an hourly salary of $48.