FIANNA Fáil must repeat the feat of the 1997 general election and win two seats in the Dublin North constituency in the next national poll, Taoiseach Bertie Ahern has insisted.

The Taoiseach added that as ‘the pace of change accelerates’ even further in the region, it was important that the area had strong Fianna Fáil representation.

Mr Ahern was speaking at the official opening of Senator Jim Glennon’s constituency office in Skerries last week.

Mr Ahern also spoke of the high esteem in which the North Dublin area is held by his party.

‘This is an active constituency organisation valued by the Fianna Fáil Party and ably represented in the Dail by GV Wright.

‘But we have to win two seats here next time round. I look forward to being able to cite Dublin North as an example of what can be achieved by teamwork, by sound strategy and by working hard to get out the Fianna Fáil vote.’

The Taoiseach noted that this office is the first of its kind in the area.

‘This is the first full-time political office in Skerries. Jim’s victory is also the first time that a Skerries based politician has been elected to the Oireachtas since 1977,’ he said.

‘Since then, Skerries and this region of North County Dublin, has changed as much, if not more, than any other urban or rural landscape in the country.

‘In the coming years, as the pace of change accelerates further still, I believe it is important that this area has strong Fianna Fáil representation.’

‘I want to offer my congratulations to JIm Glennon on this, the formal opening of his office.

‘Jim has a strong political background and is continuing a proud family tradition of public service.

‘His father, Frank, served as a Fianna Fáil councillor in the 1960s and the family pub was a well known hive of Fianna Fáil activity.’

He said. ‘I know that his family are proud that Jim has decided to serve this community and the people of North Dublin,’ the Taoiseach continued.

Mr Ahern spoke of the great experience that Senator Glennon has gained from pursuits in many fields.

‘Jim brings a wealth of experience to Leinster House,’ noted Mr Ahern.

‘He has represented his country in international competition with distinction around the world.

‘He has served as a chief executive of a successful business. He has many unique insights into the challenges we face.

‘Our parliamentary party is now reaping the benefits of the knowledge he has garnered. In a relatively short period of time, he has become a respected member of our organisation and proven himself to be a competent and innovative performer in the senate.’

Mr Ahern continued ‘at a time when cynicism about politics is a fact of life for so many people, I view it as crucially important that we continue to attract people of the ability and calibre of Jim Glennon into our public life’.

He said he was heartened by the real enthusiasm that Jim has shown since his election to the Seanad.

The Taoiseach also spoke highly of the local Fianna Fáil councillors and commended them on their work.

He said that Michael Kennedy and Dermot Murray were doing ‘trojan work’ on behalf of the people of North Dublin.

Mr Ahern said that this was a period of development for Fianna Fáil and the party was undergoing a period of ‘renewal and change’.

Mr Ahern said that prior to the last election, he pledged that the Government would deliver the infrastructure that the people of Fingal deserved.

‘I am glad to see people here who know we have kept that promise.

‘Since entering office, we have doubled Fingal County Council’s funding for non national roads and it will reach close to £6 million this year.

‘Work has now commenced on the last section of the M1. Over £130 million will be invested in this project which we expect to be completed in mid 2003.’

Mr Ahern spoke of ongoing developments in Skerries. ‘The £15 million Balbriggan/Skerries Water Services Investment Programme will be ready for construction early next year.

‘Skerries is also seeing good progress on a number of important housing schemes being developed by the County Council.’

He continued: ‘We have to listen to the concerns of the community, businesses, and all social partners.

‘I want to work with you and your local representatives to make sure that here in North Dublin you have the chance to make this area one of the best in the country to live, work and do business in.’