Brazil missed a string of chances and were left to rue a lack of quality in the final third after they were held 0-0 by Costa Rica in their Copa América Group D opener in Los Angeles on Monday.

Brazil, who came into the tournament on the back of a run of poor results in recent months, dominated possession but lacked precision in front of goal with just three of their 19 shots on target.

They were frustrated by a resolute five-man Costa Rican defence, who looked to contain their opponents and deprive them of space. The strategy paid dividends even if Gustavo Alfaro’s side rode their luck at times.

Raphinha had an excellent early opportunity to score after latching on to a long ball over the top from Rodrygo, but Costa Rica keeper Patrick Sequeira came quickly off his line to snuff out the danger.

Brazil thought they had got the breakthrough in the 30th minute when a free kick was flicked on by Rodrygo into the path of Marquinhos, who poked it in at the far post but the goal was disallowed for offside after a lengthy VAR delay. The one-way traffic continued after the break and Lucas Paquetá rattled the woodwork with a long-range effort in the 63rd minute before a venomous Guilherme Arana strike was kept out by a fine save from Sequeira.

Coach Dorival Júnior brought on youngsters Endrick and Sávio in the 70th minute as Brazil desperately sought a winner but Paquetá twice shot wide in the final 10 minutes as the nine-times champions failed to break the deadlock.

Brazil’s all-time leading scorer Neymar, who has been sidelined by an anterior cruciate ligament injury, cut a dejected figure as he looked on from the stands.

“We know we can improve, we have to improve,” Vinícius Junior said after the game. “I also know what I can improve, evolve and do for our team.”

Vinícius, who has struggled to replicate his club form at the international level, was often isolated on the left wing. Brazil tried to shift the forward inside, but Costa Rica’s defenders were able to cut-off the supply line to the forward.

“We tried with [Vinícius] on the wing and we didn’t succeed,” Dorival Júnior said post-game. “Then we put him inside and we couldn’t find a way through either ... he was very well marked.”

Despite a blistering season with Real Madrid, Vinícius continues to disappoint at the international level. He has not scored in his last 13 appearances for the national team and has scored just three times in 31 appearances since his debut in 2019, with only two goals coming in competitive games.

“Every time I enter the field for the national team, I have three or four players marking me,” Vinícius said.

Frustration has become the norm for Brazil in recent years. After 18 months of upheaval in the federation, dugout and squad, they have fallen to sixth in South American qualifying for the 2026 World Cup. This summer’s Copa América was billed as a chance to hit a reset with a new manager and fresh, young stars. After a flat opening draw, Vinícius is still preaching patience.

“New coach, new players, everything takes time,” Vinícius said. “Our fans want everything immediately done, but we’re going little by little. In the next game, I’m sure we’ll play much better because we now already understand what the competition will be like, what the pitch, what the referees will be like.”

Colombia lead Group D following their 2-1 win over Paraguay earlier on Monday. James Rodríguez evoked memories of his breakthrough performance at the 2014 World Cup on Monday after the Colombia midfielder set up both goals in his team’s victory.

The 32-year-old won the Golden Boot in Brazil a decade ago, his volleyed effort against Uruguay in the round of 16 still regarded as one of the World Cup’s best ever goals, but his career has been on a downward track over the last few years.

After playing for the likes of Real Madrid and Bayern Munich, Rodríguez joined Brazilian side Sao Paulo last year, making it his fourth club in as many seasons. However, he was the difference on Monday and was named man of the match.

“I’m very happy, it’s important to start well today against a tough opponent like Paraguay,” Rodríguez told Caracol Gol. “We could have done better in the second half, but you correct things better when the team wins, it’s much easier that way.”

More than 60,000 Colombian fans at Houston’s NRG Stadium gave Rodríguez a standing ovation as he left the field in stoppage time following a performance that has them hopeful of lifting the continental trophy again after a 23-year wait.

“It’s beautiful, they are supporting us a lot. We have a long way to go in this Copa América and we’re taking it one game at a time,” Rodriguez added.