The province of València is a sensory-filled destination, and one rooted in the essence of Mediterranean living. It has what feels like an endless coastline, interior towns bursting with charm and natural landscapes you won’t be able to stop dreaming about.

From the first time they visit, travellers can feel the province’s varying, but close-knit culture—one full of nuances, with celebrations, festivities and traditions that surprise, delight and captivate all who experience them.

On top of that, there’s a historical and artistic character to the province that you can see everywhere you walk. Exceptional sites, trails and destinations like Borja territory, Castle of Xàtiva, Ducal Palace of Gandia, the Church of San Nicolás and the Cathedral of València will take you on a journey through the history of Spain, where you can discover the splendour of the most universal and powerful valencian family in Europe during the 15th and 16th centuries.

Discovering the history of this province also means exploring its unrivalled natural landscapes. Head to the coast and find over 100 kilometres of beaches, each with their own alluring peculiarities, fine sand and calm, shallow Mediterranean waters. But, surprisingly, it’s not all about the beaches here! The Region of Valencia is filled with sparkling coves and cliffs that feel like buried treasure when you stumble upon them.

Here, the Mediterranean Sea and orchards in the province of Valencia come together, as we can see in l’Albufera, which was declared a natural park in 1986 and recognized in 1989 as being a "Wetland of International Importance.” This natural ecosystem is incredibly valuable to the Region of Valencia, as its biodiversity is home to a wide variety of plants and animals all year long.

Of course, you can’t complete your tour of the Spanish Mediterranean without visiting some of its more interior cities, towns and villages. Places like El Rincón de Ademuz, La Serranía, Valle de Ayora-Cofrentes, La Hoya de Buñol-Chiva, La Canal de Navarrés, La Vall d'Albaida, La Costera, El Camp de Túria and Requena-Utiel are steeped in historical and cultural traditions that immerse you in the province’s interesting past.

While you’re there, don’t miss the wonderful localfood and drink! The province of Valencia is known for its paella, allipebre, titaina and the iconic horchata drink, the latter of which pairs perfectly with sugary farton pastries and even has its own “Denomination of Origin (D. O.),” Chufa de València.