Hollyhock (Alcea Rosea Halo Red) - Part of the bicolored 'Halo' series of hollyhocks, Alcea rosea Halo Red bears large single red flowers with a contrasting green-yellow centre. Unlike many cultivars, Halo Red and all hollyhocks in the Halo series flowers in its first year. It's easy to grow and perfect for planting in groups at the back of a sunny border. Hollyhocks grow best in full sun. Members of the Halo series form a bushy clump of rugose green foliage with tall spikes carrying large, colorful blossoms in early to midsummer.

Hollyhock plants have soaring flowers which add a dynamic display to the back of your beds and borders. Hollyhock plants are happy in full sun and flower in the first year. They are hardy perennials, so will return year after year and provide perfect cut flowers for that special bouquet. Hollyhocks are edible and can be made into syrup or crystallised for cake decoration, and are perfect for pollinators too.

From the breeding work of Thompson & Morgan, Halo is a new series of hollyhocks that was 16 years in the making. These varieties were selected and hybridized over many generations for their large, single, bicolor flowers. Each displays a prominent, contrasting lighter or darker colored halo in the center of the flower.

Establishing hollyhocks from flower seeds is very rewarding. To get a jump start on the growing season, you can sow seeds indoors or in the greenhouse 6 - 8 weeks before the last frost date. Use starter trays and quality starter mix and sow the hollyhock seeds on the surface, pressing them into the soil to make good contact. Keep them consistently moist. Sowing the flower seeds directly outdoors is an option as well. Prepare soil bed, sow the seeds on the surface and dust over them very lightly with loose garden soil. Keep the seeds moist until germination has occurred. Young seedlings can be transplanted or even moved to other positions in the garden. The first year the seed is sown, they will establish their root system, and the second year the colorful show will begin and also become resistant to drought. During the bloom season, water plants well and fertilize. After bloom season, cut back the stalks hard, down to just 3 - 4 inches above ground. Depending on your location and growing season, the plants may come back for a second bloom in late summer or early fall.