Explore the exquisite Sunny engagement ring, showcasing a yellow lab-grown sapphire encircled by a scalloped halo and set on a textured diamond band. A perfect blend of modern elegance and sustainable luxury.

This ring is 100% American made with recycled 14kt white gold. Please allow 3-5 days for us to size the item before shipping.

Embrace the allure of the Sunny engagement ring, boasting a stunning yellow lab-grown sapphire center stone, a scalloped halo, and a textured diamond band. A beautiful choice for a sustainable and stylish engagement ring.

Details of Ring

Center Stone Specifications:

Center Stone: Lab Grown Yellow Sapphire

Color: Warm Canary Yellow

Shape: Round cut

Measurement: Approximately 6mm

Weight: Approximately 1.25cts

Quality: AAA fine quality

PLEASE NOTE!! A lab created gemstone is identical to the natural gemstone it replicates in every way; color, hardness, composition, luster, looks and so forth. The only difference is the environment it's grown in.

Diamonds on the ring:

Diamond Weight: approx 0.29cts

Diamond Quality: G in color SI in clarity

Band Width: 2.30mm widest leaf and 1.00mm thinnest at the dip

Total Halo Diameter: 8.75mm

Sizes: 6.25-8

Metal: 14kt white gold (as shown)

Please allow 3-5 business days for item to be resized before shipping.

All gemstones used are only premium cut, fairly traded, and/or conflict-free! Our accent diamonds are always natural, unless specified as lab grown, and NEVER treated for better color or clarity. For peace of mind, everything within our Rosados Box® line is NEVER simulated or imitation. We only offer stones that are lab grown or natural. Our products are only created with the finest of recycled metals. As part of our sustainability commitment, all our gemstones and alloys can be re-purposed for future redesign projects!

All products come with our "Basics Lifetime Guarantee" which includes lifetime of free check-ups, tightenings, and basic cleanings; you are responsible for shipping. If you would like additional coverage beyond our "Basics Lifetime Guarantee," we can include a complimentary appraisal certificate for your insurance company upon request. Our appraisal authenticates the quality of your purchased Rosados Box® product.