Paessler introduces the Redfish Sensor to PRTG Network Monitor. The Redfish Sensor serves as an alternative to the vendor-specific sensors currently provided to oversee users’ server hardware.

Paessler develops PRTG Network Monitor, a monitoring solution for entire infrastructures, including devices and applications. The solution promises holistic insight. The only way to achieve that is by processing the protocols and specifications that manufacturers and developers use when creating hardware and apps. In short, Paessler ensures that PRTG Network Monitor speaks the same language as all the devices and applications that make up an infrastructure. Thus, the software is able to request information, and process information into visual overviews.

The result does not disappoint. The statuses of apps, servers and network switches can be overseen at a glance. To retain its function in the present as well as the future, Paessler updates the solution year-round. The more protocols and specifications it supports, the more complete and reliable the product. A daunting task, as IT moves in waves. Nevertheless, the developer keeps up. The recent introduction of the Redfish Sensor is a prime example.

Redfish

The name of the Redfish Sensor is derived from the specification it supports: Redfish Scalable Platforms Management API, known as Redfish.

Redfish was developed by the DMTF, a non-profit collective with members such as Cisco, Dell, HPE and NetApp. The organizations benefit from a universal standard for monitoring server hardware. As such, Redfish came about. While not every server supports the specification, several popular models speak the language (see ‘Redfish support’).

Paessler’s interest in Redfish is obvious. By incorporating the specification, the developer creates visibility into all servers that support it. The new Redfish Sensor allows PRTG Network Monitor users to see the performance of server drives, power, ventilation and more.

The addition is welcome, but far from a golden egg. Redfish is one of many specifications for monitoring server hardware. All servers that support Redfish were already viewable via existing sensors in PRTG Network Monitor. The difference is that Paessler primarily uses Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) for its earlier sensors. The resulting information differs, as do the conditions for using the sensor. Redfish is not necessarily better than SNMP or vice versa. Value varies by situation.