Krome is a certified Gold Paessler PRTG Partner, we are also one of only two UK PRTG Enterprise Monitor Partners, as such we are able to provide PRTG Network Monitor advice, technical configuration, and full installation services for SMB to Enterprise sized environments.

Paessler’s flagship product PRTG Network Monitor measures network traffic and usage as well as availability of network components. Network problems create business emergencies. When the network goes down, employees can’t read emails. Customers can’t purchase the product. Work stops. Paessler PRTG Network Monitoring helps you keep your business healthy.

Paessler Certified Monitoring Experts

With our Gold Paessler PRTG Partner level of certification, we have a deep technical knowledge of PRTG and have developed and built upon the existing solution sensors to enable our customers to maximise their PRTG solution capabilities even further. With our certified monitoring expert consultants we are able to discuss architecture options, deliver network health checks and provide first-level support for any PRTG network monitoring environment.

Our certified Paessler PRTG Partner Sales Professionals know all of the key features of PRTG and are able to recommend the correct software, identify the licenses required and have a direct relationship with Paessler. Our sales team can also assist customers with maintenance renewals and license upgrades.

About Paessler PRTG Networking Monitoring

Paessler award winning PRTG Network Monitor is a powerful, affordable and easy-to-use Unified Monitoring solution. It is highly flexible and generic software for monitoring IT infrastructure, already in use at enterprises and organisations of all sizes and industries.

Since 1997, when Paessler first introduced PRTG Network Monitor, it has combined its in-depth monitoring knowledge with an innovative spirit. Today, more than 500,000 users in over 170 countries rely on PRTG and other Paessler solutions to monitor their complex IT, OT, and IoT infrastructures. Paessler’s products empower its customers to monitor everything and thus help them optimise their resources.