FLHSMV is the state’s official repository for crash records. The Florida Crash Portal provides comprehensive information about purchasing a crash report, reporting a crash and accessing Florida crash data.

Buy a Crash Report

Section 316.066, Florida Statutes, governs the completion and subsequent distribution of traffic crash reports.

Traffic crash reports may take up to 10 days to become available.

Traffic crash reports are exempt from public disclosure, except for parties involved in the crash and other specific parties outlined in the statute. This statute also provides criminal penalties (third degree felony) for the unlawful disclosure of confidential personal information and for unlawfully obtaining or attempting to obtain confidential personal information.

Crash Reports Online

Traffic crash reports can be purchased through the FLHSMV Crash Portal.

The fee for crash reports is $10.00 per report, per section 321.23, Florida Statutes. Customers are limited to a maximum of 10 reports per transaction. A convenience fee of $2.00 will be applied to each total transaction through the Florida Crash Portal.

Once the crash report(s) is/are purchased, reports become available online immediately and must be downloaded within 48 hours of the request. A download link will be emailed to the email address provided at the time of the request.

Visit the Florida Crash Portal to request a copy of a crash report.

Crash Reports By Mail or In Person

Customers requesting a crash record must complete a signed statement to receive a crash report mail or in person.

Requests for 10 or fewer crash records may be fulfilled at the FHP Troop Station nearest to where the crash occurred.

Requests for more than 10 records must include a request letter detailing the crash report you are requesting, a signed statement, for each crash report requested, payment must be mailed to:

Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles

Crash Records

2900 Apalachee Parkway, MS 28

Tallahassee, FL 32399

Payment must be included with the request. Check or money order should be made out to “FLHSMV.” Processing time to receive the record is 4-6 weeks.

Report a Crash

If you are involved in a crash involving any of the following, you must submit notify law enforcement. Please stay at the scene of the crash and call 911, as required in section 316.065, Florida Statutes.

A crash with injury;

A crash with fatality;

A hit and run crash;

A DUI crash;

A crash which requires a wrecker to remove the vehicle;

A crash with a commercial motor vehicle; or

A crash where apparent damage is at least $500.00.

Drivers in minor crashes may be able to self-report a crash.

Drivers of a vehicle involved in a crash resulting in damage to a vehicle or other property which does not meet the criteria above are eligible to self-report the crash in lieu of a law enforcement officer completing the crash report.

Self-Report Online

Customers can click here to download the Driver Report of a Traffic Crash.

Please complete all applicable fields within the linked form, including signature and date. Instructions can be found on page 2 of the form.

Once completed, a copy of the “Driver Self Report of Traffic Crash” can be emailed to SelfReportCrashes@flhsmv.gov.

Self-Report By Mail

Customers can click here to download the Driver Report of a Traffic Crash.

Please complete all applicable areas within the form. Customers must sign the report.

Once complete, mail a copy of the report to:Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles

Crash Records

2900 Apalachee Parkway, MS 28

Tallahassee, FL 32399

Please keep a copy of the submitted report for your records and insurance purposes.

Crash Data

Visit the FLHSMV Crash Facts page.

FLHSMV has released a NEW Florida Crash Dashboard.

Governmental agencies and their contractors can obtain access to the Signal 4 portal.

Media requests for additional data should be submitted to the Office of Communications.