Passions is a popular soap opera that ran from 1999 to 2008 on NBC and later DirecTV. While the show was famous for its supernatural aspects, it also created a lot of epic love stories. From Sheridan Crane (McKenzie Westmore) to Theresa Lopez-Fitzgerald (Lindsay Korman), these characters’ love lives captivated viewers. Let’s take a look at some of the show’s best couples.

‘Passions’ Theresa Lopez-Fitzgerald and Ethan Winthrop were the soap opera’s top couple

Theresa and Ethan Winthrop’s (Eric Martsolf) love story was a huge Passions storyline during the soap opera. The young lovebirds proved opposites attract Ethan being wealthy and Theresa being the maid’s daughter. Theresa developed a crush on Ethan, who also had feelings for her. Yet, Ethan’s ex-fiancée Gwen Hotchkiss (Liza Huber), remained an issue.

Gwen and her mother, Rebecca Crane (Andrea Evans), schemed to keep the couple apart and framed Theresa for revealing Ethan’s paternity to the tabloids. Ethan marries Gwen; however, his heart belongs to Theresa. Even though Theresa tries to move on, she can’t forget Ethan.

Despite all their obstacles, the finale ended happily for Theresa and Ethan. The couple finally married and lived happily ever after with their son Little Ethan.

Sheridan Crane and Luis Lopez-Fitzgerald were kept apart by her father

Passions‘ second favorite couple was Sheridan, and Luis Lopez-Fitzgerald (Galen Gering) was another of the show’s star-crossed lovers. The pair started rocky, with Sheridan disliking Luis; however, she soon fell in love with the hunky cop. Yet, the couple’s relationship faced disapproval from Sheridan’s father, Alistair Crane (John Reilly).

Other challenges the couple faced were Sheridan’s marriage to Luis’ brother Antonio Lopez-Fitzgerald (Christopher Douglas) and the kidnapping of their son Marty. Marty’s presumed death drives a wedge between Sheridan and Luis, who break up. Luis then begins dating Sheridan’s niece Fancy Crane (Emily Harper), which causes Sheridan to become a villain.

Sheridan’s attempts to break up the couple fail, and in the series finale, Luis marries Fancy. Meanwhile, Sheridan reunites with Antonio and Marty. The writers’ decision not to reunite Luis and Sheridan in the finale left fans and Westmore upset. “The show ended so weirdly, to be honest with you, for Sheridan and Luis in particular,” Westmore revealed in an interview with Soaps.com.

Eve Russell helped Julian Crane become a better man

Passions‘ couple Eve Russell (Tracey Ross) and Julian Crane’s (Ben Masters) relationship spanned two decades. The couple met when Eve worked as a nightclub singer, and the two began a whirlwind romance. Alistair disapproved of the relationship and ordered his son to marry Ivy Winthrop (Kim Johnston Ulrich).

Julian and Eve cross paths in Harmony, but they keep their past relationship a secret. However, the two began to reconnect after learning their son was alive. When Julian and Eve’s past is exposed by her Aunt Irma (Marla Gibbs). Eve’s husband, TC Russell (Rodney Van Johnson), divorces her, rekindling her romance with Julian.

Julian’s attitude changes as Eve melts his cold heart, and he becomes the gentleman she fell in love with. However, their relationship is complicated when they discover their son Vincent Clarkson (Phillip Jeanmarie) is a notorious serial killer. Eve and Julian stay together despite Vincent’s scheme and torture toward them. The series finale has Vincent carted off to prison while Eve and Julian prepare for their new life together.