Forty years ago Status Quo were known for being long-haired, denim-clad hard rockers. Now they're best known in Australia for giant red hands and a modern reimagining of their biggest hit, Down Down, as a supermarket slogan.

"They were using Down Down for some few years," Status Quo singer and guitarist Francis Rossi says when asked about the band's deal with Coles. "And our manager got a meeting with the people at Coles to discuss an Australian tour sponsorship, and the idea came back, 'Well, perhaps would they do an ad?'

"And it was so successful for them that suddenly it was, 'Oh you Status Quo boys, you're marvellous!'" he says, laughing. "It's been a great relationship. We're doing a couple more [ads] with them tomorrow."

This is what survival looks like for stars of the 60s who failed to die before they got old. What once was sneeringly dismissed as "selling out" now appears to be shrewd monetisation of existing assets.

What should establishment-threatening rock'n'roll rebels do when they become the establishment: compete with younger, cooler versions of themselves, or accept their best days are behind them and take a solid pay cheque churning out the back catalogue on the nostalgia circuit?

Rossi made that decision long ago: cool doesn't send his kids to university. "We are our back catalogue."

Emerging as a psychedelic rock band in 1967 the band originally called themselves the Status Quo, but had before long dropped the definite article along with the beads and flowers, and reinvented themselves as a straight-ahead, good-time, boogie rock outfit. It made them one of the biggest selling bands of the decade with hits such as Whatever You Want, Rockin' All over the World and the No 1 Down Down.

The band briefly disbanded in the early 80s, but have been busy ever since – touring, making albums and now, with Bula Quo!, entering the world of film.

And while the film's soundtrack forms the new Quo album, it's telling that it comes with a bonus disc of re-recordings of their best-known songs.

The way Rossi tells it, the biggest motivation for the band these days is simple: fear. "We grew up in the postwar world of England, which was heavily depressed and we were trying to escape it," he says. "This is a person who didn't get much of an education to make it in this capitalist world; success is what makes the man. And it's kind of sad, but I feel that if I fail with Status Quo, then I'm a failure."

And that is why Rossi sees nothing wrong with playing the old songs night after night. "Lots of acts that have been around a long time have a problem with their catalogue, like they're ashamed of it, and it's so much of a smack in the face for a fan.

"I've always been a keen Everly Brothers fan, or an Eagles fan or Fleetwood Mac, or Muse, or the Killers – and if I go and see those acts and they don't do the tracks I know them for, who the hell are they?"

But doesn't that get … well, boring? Being known around the world for the singles is a problem that lots of people would like to have, Rossi says."So maybe 85% of the set is for what we call the floating punter: he knows the hits and he's happy hearing that. But the hardcore fans, they want to hear the album tracks and the strange B-sides, and whenever we've done that you see these massive question marks over the heads of most of the people in the hall, going, 'What the hell? Who's this?' "

It's OK to appease that muso inside who wants to do something different – but the truth is that the big hits are who Status Quo are, Rossi says. "When you play Rockin' All over the World and it lights the place up, it's fantastic. And luckily it happens every night – which is I suppose why those songs were hits in the first place.

"And yes, when you rehearse them on a film stage in London at 10 o'clock on a Monday morning, oh my god, it's just … " he trails off. "But doing them where they're supposed to be, in front of people, is always a joy."

There are no concerns about the song being sullied as a jingle, he says. "It's one of those things that when you're younger you'd think, 'There's no way I'd do things like that!' "

In the same way young people are determined not to become like their parents, and then find age catches up with them, so things can change. "That 25-year-old angry young man, so adamant about what he was going to be and not going to be, and I'm now one of those short-haired old guys with male pattern baldness.

"Millions of blokes look like that, so what happened to me being unique?," Rossi says, chuckling.

So what would he say to that 25-year-old self? Rossi laughs again. " 'Don't be a dickhead.' "