6/9

People Management

People Management Overview

Oracle HRMS provides you with an efficient and flexible people management system to organize your workforce as your enterprise requires. Using Oracle HRMS you can:

Maintain information on all current and potential workforce to track their roles and activities from the time they apply for a job to when they leave your enterprise.

Record deployment information such as organization, job, position, and grade of the workers in your enterprise.

Maintain details such as qualifications, competency profiles, work choices, and benefits eligibility data to manage workforce development.

Maintain documents of record such as work visas, permits, and certificates.

Handle mass change processes to implement changes to high volumes of information, such as employee job data, new departments, or new work relationships.

Managing Workforce Details

You can manage your workforce details using the following features of Oracle HRMS:

Workforce Assignments: Record the details about the different work an employee, or a contingent worker does in your enterprise and relate them to your overall work structure.

Identify Workforce and Assignments: Use unique numbers to distinguish your workers and their roles.

Person number: Identifies every employee, contingent worker, or applicant in your business group.

Assignment number: Identifies every assignment in your business group.

Person Types: Record information related to different groups of people such as applicants, employees, and contingent workers and restrict access to the different group records.

Assignment Statuses: Record changes in the work status of an employee or a contingent worker with statuses such as Active, Suspended, and Terminated. For example, if an employee is on maternity leave you can assign the Suspended status. To identify different work statuses in your enterprise you can expand the predefined system statuses and set up your own multiple user statuses. For example, you can define the user statuses of maternity leave, paternity leave, and military leave for the system status of Suspended.

Managing Your Workforce

You can record details of your workforce on a daily basis using the People Management templates or the People and Assignment windows.

People Management Templates: To complete tasks like entering people and hiring applicants. Your system administrator can modify the templates to create windows that are specific to your business processes.

People and Assignment Windows: To enter, track, and report on people on a day to day basis. You use these windows if People Management templates are not set up in your enterprise.

Recording Additional Information

In addition to the workforce information you enter, you can set up flexfields to capture information unique to your enterprise. For example, you can define Special Information Types to hold employee disciplinary records and Extra Information Types to record data required by your localization such as birth certificate details.

To understand the difference between Special Information Types and Extra Information Types, see: Extra Information Types (EITs), Oracle HRMS Configuring, Reporting, and System Administration Guide

Workforce Management Using Oracle Self-Service Human Resources

Oracle Self-Service Human Resources (SSHR) enables line managers, employees, and contingent workers to update their personal and professional information through interfaces personalized to their roles, work content, and information needs. Line managers can perform day-to-day HR tasks such as updating the employees' assignment details and processing transfers, promotions, and terminations. To work with Oracle SSHR, you must purchase the license from Oracle. For information on licenses, contact your Oracle sales representative.

See: Using SSHR for Workforce Sourcing and Deployment, Oracle Self-Service Human Resources Deploy Self-Service Capability Guide

Reporting on Workforce Management

Oracle HRMS and Oracle HR Intelligence (HRI) provide a range of reports to track your workforce deployment. For example:

Oracle HRMS offers the Assignment Status report, listing people assigned to particular organizations, jobs, positions, and grades with specific assignment statuses.

Oracle HRI offers the Employee Separation by Reason (Organization Hierarchy) Status Analytics by Organization worksheet. This worksheet outlines the reasons for employees' separation in different organizations of your enterprise. To work with Oracle HRI reports you must purchase the appropriate license from Oracle. For information on licenses, contact your Oracle sales representative.

For more information, see: Reports and Processes in Oracle HRMS, Oracle HRMS Window Navigation and Reports Guide

Key Concepts

To effectively use Oracle HRMS for workforce management, see:

People in a Global Enterprise

The Employee Assignment

Contingent Workers

Assignment Statuses

Overview of Self-Service Actions

Template Windows User Interface

People Management

How does Oracle HRMS enable you to manage all the people who make up your enterprise?

Using Oracle HRMS you can hold, inquire on, and track a wide range of personal information. This can include medical details, work schedules, preferred languages for correspondence, and personal contacts, as well as the basic details such as date of birth, employee number, and addresses.

You also need to record information about what the people in your enterprise are employed to do. You can enter, maintain, report, and inquire about all aspects of employment information.

Oracle HRMS enables you to enter and track people from the day they apply for a job to the day they leave your enterprise.

Can you enter information specific to your enterprise?

Yes, you can. Not every enterprise holds the same information about its workforce, so you can configure Oracle HRMS using descriptive flexfields, Extra Information Types, and Special Information Types to record everything you need to know.

Does Oracle HRMS provide any specific features for managing contingent workers?

Yes, Oracle HRMS enables you to treat contingent workers as an entirely separate category of human resource that you can process and report on separately from employees.

How can I update a batch of assignments together, as when a department relocates?

The Mass Assignment Update feature enables you to update assignment information for multiple employees and contingent workers in a single business group using a single update request. You can also update assignment information for multiple applicants using a single update request.

My organization is relocating in three months; is it possible to create a future-dated assignment update?

Yes it is. The mass update to be submitted must operate at one effective date, which can be a past, present, or future date. The effective date is the date on which the change is recorded, and the date the update is submitted.

Does Oracle HRMS provide features to update worker information across business groups using a single responsibility?

Yes. You can use the People Management templates to query and update worker information across business groups using a single responsibility. Oracle HRMS provides a search criterion called Business Group in addition to the existing criteria in the Find window of any people management template. This criterion enables you to search for employees belonging to one or more business groups.

When you perform a search, the Summary and Maintain windows display the business group to which the worker belongs. In addition, the key flexfields, descriptive flexfields, special information types, and extra information types display data that is appropriate to that worker's business group.

Can I move people automatically from one business group to another?

Yes. Using the Global Deployments function, HR Professionals can transfer an employee either permanently or temporarily to a different business group.

At the start of the deployment, Oracle HRMS automatically creates or updates employee records in the destination business group. If the transfer is permanent, then HRMS terminates employee records in the source business group. If the transfer is temporary, then HRMS suspends the employee's current assignments. When the employee returns from a temporary deployment, HRMS automatically terminates the employee record in the destination business group and reinstates suspended assignments in the source business group.

What are personnel actions?

Personnel Actions are business activities that define and document the status and conditions of employment, such as hiring, training, placement, discipline, promotion, transfer, compensation, or termination.

Personnel Actions fall into three overall types:

Hiring

Deployment

Termination

Oracle Self Service Human Resources (SSHR) provides a configurable set of tools and web flows for initiating, approving, and managing these activities.

In what ways does Oracle SSHR make it easier to manage personnel actions?

You can process multiple actions on the same person concurrently, so you needn't wait for other actions to process before initiating one of your own. The application calculates a person's eligibility for you automatically. Approvers can return an action to any previous approver for correction. Any approver on the chain with appropriate permissions can update an action, even change the effective date. You can also specify the date on which an action takes effect, or make it effective on final approval. The application gives you easy access to information about your people, the other approvers on the chain of recipients, your pending actions, and actions on your people awaiting the approval of others.

Document management features enable you to automatically generate business documents, such as a request or notification, correspondence, or a contract. "What-If" analysis enables you to see the impact of your proposed change on a person's entitlement to compensation or benefits, before submitting the change for approval. You can attach supporting documents to an action, such as a resume, certificate, photo, or web address.

The flexibility of allowing multiple transactions and allowing any approver to change the effective date can lead to conflicts with other pending or approved actions. How does Oracle SSHR help manage this?

If someone makes a change to a person's record before you can approve your action, your setup can specify that the application add the updated information from the intervening change, or preserve your data. The application informs you of the status of the changes in a table that displays the original, intervening, and refreshed values.

Your setup can also specify that the application inform you when it encounters a future-dated change to the person's record. In this situation, the application routes your action to a Human Resources representative on approval, for manual entry of the changes.

I need to approve an absence, how do I know if another worker is available to cover the time?

You can use the Review Resource Availability page using the HR Professional responsibility to view a worker's schedule and any calendar events that affect their time. The application searches the person's schedules and applicable calendar events within the dates you specify, and displays the results in a table.

Use the integrated features from Oracle HRMS and Oracle Common Application Components (CAC) to set up shifts, schedules, and calendar events, so you can determine the availability of your workforce.

People

People in a Global Enterprise

Based on a common core application for all countries, Oracle HRMS provides you with the ability to support both local and corporate requirements for global enterprises.

People who are employees, contingent workers, applicants, or contacts of other internal people are entered within a legislative or cultural context. In Oracle HRMS, this means they have a record in a business group that complies with the legislative requirements of a specific country.

From a corporate perspective, for your employees, contingent workers, and applicants you also need to view this information across business groups to enable you to set up reporting lines and relationships between people and organizations in different countries.

As part of your global enterprise, you may have international employees who transfer between business groups to work temporarily in other countries. It is likely in this instance that you will have several local records for that person in different business groups. You still however, need to be able to identify at a corporate level that these records all relate to the same person.

A Multi-Organization Person Record

Oracle HRMS provides you with a corporate level record for each of your employees, contingent workers, and applicants. This record links all the local records for a person and is available in all business groups and also to other E-Business applications.

Note: People who are entered only as contacts of other internal people do not have a corporate level record. This enables you to restrict access to a contact's information to one business group.

To create this global view of a person, Oracle HRMS is integrated with Trading Community Architecture (TCA). TCA enables you to store person information at a corporate level so that it is available across all applications in your e-business suite. TCA provides a single place in which a person can be uniquely identified as a party. A sub-set of the personal information entered in HRMS is automatically held at the corporate level in TCA.

Some people, for example, customers, are only held at the corporate level as parties. They can be linked to other HR people as appropriate.

Note: You must have the HR: Cross Business Group profile option set to Yes for your responsibility to create links between people in different business groups.

To ensure the records in the corporate and local levels are synchronized it is important that lookup types that relate to global person information contain exactly the same lookup codes in TCA and HRMS. For example, if you add a new code to the TITLE lookup type, you must ensure the same code is added to the equivalent TCA lookup type. If the codes do not match identically then the field is cleared in TCA when an update is made in HRMS.

Benefits of Linked Person Records

One of the benefits of having the person records linked is that if any of the following information is updated in one business group, then it will be visible, in read-only format, in all other business groups relating to the person.

Qualifications

Establishments attended

Competencies

Note: Competencies may be defined as global or local to a business group. Only global competencies are visible from within another business group. Those that are local to one business group can only be seen within the context of that business group.

In addition to this, you can enable person synchronization. This enables you to update certain information against one record and have it automatically applied to all other records relating to the person. This ensures that you have a common set of information for one person across all countries in which that person operates.

Note: To control the synchronization of your person records you use the HR: Propagate Changes profile option.

See: Person Record Synchronization

Duplicate Person Search

When creating a new person record, you can search for existing duplicate person records in a single or multiple business groups:

Multiple business groups: This search uses the global name format (Global List Name). HRMS provides the HR: Cross BG Duplicate Person Check profile option to enable the duplicate person check functionality across multiple business groups. You must set the HR: Cross Business Groups and HR: Cross BG Duplicate Person Check profile options to Yes to display a list of potential duplicates across business groups.

For more information about the HR: Cross BG Duplicate Person Check user profile, see: User Profiles, Oracle HRMS Configuring, Reporting, and System Administration Guide

For information about the global name format (Global List Name), see: Person-Name Formats

Single business group: This search uses values such as, last name, first name, date of birth, or national identifier to search for duplicate records.

Validating People in Multiple Business Groups

When you create a new person record in any business group in Oracle HRMS, the application looks for matching records in all business groups and lists the records of potential duplicates. If you indicate that one of these records relates to the same person as your new record, the application automatically adds the global person reference to the new record.

When determining whether to store information at the corporate or legislative level, Oracle HRMS applies the following rules:

Employees, applicants, and contingent workers have both corporate and legislative records.

Ex-employees, ex-applicants, and ex-contingent workers retain both corporate and legislative records.

People whose system person type is Other have a legislative record only.

Note: HRMS considers any person with a system person type of Other to be a contact; contacts do not have to be part of an active contact relationship in Oracle HRMS.

Employees, applicants, contingent workers, ex-employees, ex-applicants, and ex-contingent workers who are also contacts have both corporate and legislative records.

When a contact becomes an employee, contingent worker, or applicant, the application creates a corporate-level record if one does not already exist.

Note: In this case, if you subsequently cancel (rather than terminate) the contact's employment, application, or placement, the application deletes the corporate-level record.

HRMS makes all changes to corporate-level and legislative-level records that are required as a result of person-type changes at the time the change is entered, rather than when the change comes into force.

Transferring Employees Between Business Groups

Using the Global Deployments function, HR Professionals can transfer employees permanently or temporarily between business groups. Oracle HRMS automatically creates or updates employee records in both source and destination business groups when you initiate the transfer. Similarly, when a temporary transfer ends, Oracle HRMS automatically updates records in both business groups again.

See: Employee Transfers and Secondments

Person Numbering

In Oracle HRMS, every employee, applicant, and contingent worker has a person number. If you select global person numbering, Oracle HRMS allocates numbers from a single sequence to workers of the relevant person type throughout the enterprise.

If you transfer an employee between business groups using the Global Deployments function when global employee numbering is in effect, then the transferred employee automatically retains the employee number from the source business group. In all other cases, a person who moves from one business group to another does not retain the person number from the original business group, even when global person numbering is in effect. Note, however, that you can write a formula to generate a global custom number sequence for a person type. You can handle other business needs, including the need to retain person numbers between business groups, in a person number formula.

Person Names

Oracle HRMS defines some standard formats for person names, which you can edit. You can also define your own person-name formats. For example, you can define formats for use in custom code or legislation-specific versions of the standard formats if your localization does not supply them. Person-name formats can be local or global:

Local formats are suitable for users in a single legislation who view person names in a character set appropriate to their legislation.

Global formats are generally suitable for users in global enterprises who prefer to view person names in a single (typically, Western) character set, so that all names, regardless of origin, have the same representation.

See: Person-Name Formats

Tracking People's Roles and Activities

The following table lists the windows you can use to track the roles and activities of employees and applicants. These windows are described elsewhere, as listed in the table.

You can also use the web-based Line Manager Direct Access to enter some information, such as assessments and appraisals, and to view a wide range of employee data, including employment history, roles (for example who they manage or supervise) and absence history.

See: What Is Oracle Self-Service Human Resources (SSHR), Oracle SSHR Deploy Self-Service Capability Guide

You can enter other work-related information for employees, such as salary and payment methods, after entering the employee's employment information using assignments.

Tracking peoples roles and activities table: Window Purpose See Application Describes the vacancy for which an applicant has applied Applications and Assignments Book Events Records that an employee or applicant will attend an event. The event must already be defined in the Event Bookings window. If you use Oracle Learning Management, see: Introduction to Oracle Learning Management, Using Oracle Learning Management Event and Attendance Administration Employee Review Schedules and records details of an employee's review or other interview type Employee Reviews Applicant Interview Schedules and records details of an applicant's interviews Interviews and Other Recruitment Events Assignment Records details of an employee's assignment The Employee Assignment Contract Records details of an employee's contract Entering Contracts Supplementary Roles Records details of supplementary roles a person can perform in addition to being an employee Entering Supplementary Role Information, Oracle HRMS Enterprise and Workforce Management Guide

Windows for Maintaining Personal Information

Every enterprise must be able to record personal information for its employees, applicants, and contacts. HRMS enables you to enter and update this information using windows based on templates designed for your own working environment. Your system administrator can configure the predefined templates to match your people management processes.

If the template windows are not set up at your site, you can record personal information for all person types on the People and Assignment windows.

Note: The template windows are an efficient way to perform most basic HR management actions, such as hiring, ending an application, and updating assignments. However, the template windows do not support all DateTrack options, so for complex retroactive changes to history, you may have to use the People and Assignment windows.

Your system administrator can set up task flows from the template windows or the People and Assignment windows to give you access to all the windows in which you can record personal and employment information. You can enter information about:

New employees

Employment

Office location

Applicants

Background checks

Re-hire recommendations

Further names

Medical details

Address details

Telephone numbers

Picture record

Dependents, beneficiaries and other contacts

Contracts

Supplementary role

Elections

Previous Employment

Documents of Record

Allocated Checklists

You can also use these windows to update people's statuses, for example, from applicant to employee.

Note: The system administrator can create configured versions of the People window and the template windows so that you use each version for certain person types only or for certain functions only (entering employees, entering applicants, or hiring applicants).

Displaying Personal Information

Oracle HRMS enables you to easily access all the information you enter about people. There are lots of ways to view information about people held in Oracle HRMS. You can select the approach that best fits your needs. For example, you can:

Use Employee Direct Access to view and update your own personal details using a web browser.

Use Line Manager Direct Access to view information about people in your organization.

Use the Find and Summary windows of the People Management templates to display the people who interest you, then 'drill down', by clicking on buttons, to the information you need.

If the template windows are not set up at your site, you can display the same information using the Find Person window or a People folder.

Use an inquiry window to view specific information about a person, such as employment or absence history.

See: Using Inquiry Windows and Folders, Oracle HRMS Configuring, Reporting, and System Administration Guide

Use QuickPaint to design a report incorporating personal, assignment, application, or compensation information.

See: QuickPaint, Oracle HRMS Configuring, Reporting, and System Administration Guide

Identifying Employees, Contingent Workers, and Assignments

Oracle HRMS uses the following unique identifiers for employees and contingent workers:

Employee number

Contingent worker number

Assignment number

You can search for employees and contingent workers by employee number and contingent worker number in the Find window.

See Finding a Person Using the Find Person Window or Finding a Person or Group of People

You can also search for an employee using the Person Search function in SSHR. You can search for employees by employee number and assignment number.

See Person Search, Oracle SSHR Deploy Self-Service Capability Guide

Employee Number

The employee number uniquely identifies every employee in your business group.

An employee can have only one employee number. You decide how this number is to be generated when you define your business group:

Automatic

Manual

National Identifier (for example, the US Social Security Number, the Canadian Social Insurance Number or the UK National Insurance Number)

If you choose automatic or national identifier number generation, the employee number, by default, remains the same for an employee who has multiple periods of service. If you choose manual number entry, you can update the number at any time.

The employee name and number appear together in people information windows, such as the People window and View Absence History window. In these windows you can select an employee by name or by employee number.

Contingent Worker Number

Like employees, contingent workers can have only one identifying number and you decide how this number is generated when you define your business group. Also, if you choose automatic or national identifier number generation, the contingent worker number remains the same for multiple periods of placement in the same way as it does for employees. If you choose manual number entry, you can update the number at any time.

As well as being able to choose automatic, manual, and national identifier number generation, you can also choose to identify your contingent workers using the same batch of numbers as your employees. You can do this by selecting the use employee numbering option when you define your business group. Using this method of number generation enables you to have your employee numbers and contingent worker numbers in the same sequence. For example, you enter an employee and they are given the employee number 101. If the next person entered is a contingent worker they are given the number 102 by the application.

Changing the Number Generation Method

To change from automatic to manual person numbering, you edit the business group information. In the Business Group Info window, select Manual for the relevant person type.

To change from manual to automatic numbering, you run the process "Change Person Numbering to Automatic" for the relevant person type.

Global Person Numbering

By default, automatic person numbering is local: it operates within the business group, and Oracle HRMS starts a new sequence for each business group. Alternatively, you can select global person numbering, where a single person number sequence applies to all business groups.

Note: If you use the Global Deployments function to transfer an employee to a different business group when global employee numbering is in effect, then the transferred employee automatically retains the employee number from the source business group. Otherwise, a person who moves from one business group to another does not retain the person number from the source business group, even when global person numbering is in effect.

See: Employee Transfers and Secondments

To select global person numbering, you run the process "Change automatic person number generation to global sequencing" for the person type. This process sets the appropriate user profile option (HR: Use Global Applicant Numbering, HR: Use Global Contingent Worker Numbering, or HR: Use Global Employee Numbering) to Yes. This option applies to the specified person type in all business groups. Note that you implement global person numbering by person type: for example, you could select global person numbering for applicants only or for applicants and employees.

You cannot switch from a global person number sequence to a local person number sequence. You can, however, switch from global person numbering (which is automatic) to manual person numbering by editing the business group information.

You can replace the default local or global number sequence for employees, contingent workers, or applicants using a global custom number generation formula. You may want to use an alphanumeric scheme, for example, or handle related requirements, such as the need to retain person numbers between business groups.

See Writing Formulas for Person Number Generation, Oracle HRMS FastFormula User Guide

The Assignment Number

The assignment number uniquely identifies every assignment that exists within your Business Group. An employee or contingent worker can have one or more than one assignment, and therefore more than one assignment number.

The application automatically generates the assignment number, which is the same as the employee number or contingent worker number by default. You can manually override the default assignment numbers the application generates. For example, for employees you might want to use this number to store a payroll code.

If an employee or contingent worker has a second current assignment, the application also generates the second assignment number by default from the employee or contingent worker number, as in the following example:

Employee Name: Samantha Green

Employee Number 1012

1st Assignment Number 1012

2nd Assignment Number 1012-02

Person Extra Information Types

You can define as many Extra Information Types as you require to hold information about people. There are also some predefined person EITs.

Note: To be able to access the predefined EITs, you must link the EIT to your responsibility.

See: Setting Up Extra Information Types Against a Responsibility, Oracle HRMS Configuring, Reporting, and System Administration Guide

The predefined person EITs are:

Alien Income Forecast

Type of income a visa holder receives, as well as the amount and the year in which the income was received.

AU Paid Parental Leave Reference Number (Australia Only)

Information about the Paid Parental Leave reference number and the start and end dates of the paid parental leave.

Date of Birth Verified (UK Only)

Select Yes or No to indicate whether you verified the candidate's date of birth.

Global Work Permit

Information about the work permit an employee holds.

Oracle Student System (OSS) Person Details

Records OSS identification data for the student employee. The field Synchronize OSS Data controls synchronization of student employee address and telephone information between HRMS and OSS.

Passport Details

Information about the visa holder's passport, such as country of issue, passport number, issue date and expiry date.

Singapore users: Do not use this EIT. You must enter passport information using the Passport tab in the Person window or your year-end reporting information may be incomplete.

Self Service Preference for Person

Information on a person's preferences for online documents such as the online payslip or online tax forms. The EIT determines whether the documents are available online or in a printed format, what template you are using for XML Publisher, the stored procedure do you want to use, and the date when you want to implement these changes.

Note: You can also enter this information at the location, business group, or HR organization level.

See: Location Extra Information Types, Oracle HRMS Enterprise and Workforce Management Guide

See: Entering Self-Service Preference Information, Oracle HRMS Enterprise and Workforce Management Guide

These information levels are arranged in a hierarchy; if you define self-service preferences at the person level, the settings will override any other settings made at the location, business group, or HR organization level. Similarly, if you define self-service preferences at the location level, the settings override any settings at the business group or HR organization level. Settings at the HR organization level will override settings at the business group level.

Visa Details

Information about the visa an employee holds, such as visa type, visa number, issue date and expiry date.

Visa Payroll Details

Information about the amount of income and benefit a visa holder receives.

Visa Residency Details

Information about a visa holder's residency, such as residency status, the residency status date, the first entry date and tax residence country.

Visa Visit History

Records a visa holder's visits to a country. The EIT stores information such as the purpose of the visit, the start and end dates of the visit, and whether the visa holder was accompanied by a spouse or children.

Previous Employment Details (Mexico Only)

Records employment tracking information required for End of Year calculations (Format 37 and DIM Attachment 1). Enter this information if the employee has worked for more than one employer in the current fiscal year.

Use the data provided by the employee's Format 37 to populate this information:

Employer RFC ID: Previous employer RFC ID. When you run the Year End Archiver process, it validates the value you enter here and returns the appropriate error message if it is in the incorrect format.

Note: HRMS does not validate the format of the RFC ID you specify here. Validation takes place when you run the Year End Archiver.

Employer Name: (Optional) Previous employer name.

Employment Start Date: (Optional) Previous employment start date.

Employment End Date: (Optional) Previous employment end date.

Tax Withheld (Other Employer): Total ISR tax withheld from previous employer.

Creditable Subsidy (Other Employer): Total creditable subsidy from the previous employer. Used in the calculation of Subsidy Proportion and reported in the Format 37.

Non-Creditable Subsidy (Other Employer): Total non-creditable subsidy from the previous employer. Used in the calculation of Subsidy Proportion and reported in the Format 37.

Total Earnings (Other Employer): Total earnings from the previous employer. Used in the Format 37 report.

Exempt Earnings (Other Employer): Total exempt earnings from the previous employer. Used in the Format 37.

Mexico Employee Tax Signup (Mexico Only)

Some employees may decide to perform their own Format 37 reporting. In these cases, you need to mark them as exempt from annual tax adjustment processing. This EIT defines the individual employee eligibility for the Annual Tax Adjustment process.

Annual Tax Adjustment: Defines if this employee is eligible for the Annual Tax Adjustment process. The default is Yes.

Start Date: Start period of the employee's voluntary ineligibility.

End Date: End period of the employee's voluntary ineligibility.

Employee Career Management Information

Records employee tracking information required for succession planning.

You can:

Identify the advancement potential of an employee.

Determine whether an employee is a key person in the enterprise.

Identify whether an employee is at a high risk of vacating their current position.

NINO Verification Details (UK Only)

The Nino Verification Details person extra information type captures the RTI related data at the person level and records results of RTI processes. The NINO Verification reply message upload (NVREP) or the NI Number Verified pre RTI processes update all the data items in this EIT. You can also update this EIT manually as required.

Person Record Synchronization

If you have local records for the same person in different country business groups, then you can set up Oracle HRMS to synchronize those fields that are considered to be global for that person. For example, if a person notifies a change of name in one country, the application automatically changes the names in all other countries and on the global or corporate record. The fields included in this synchronization are:

Full Name

Last Name

Date of Birth

First Name

Known As

Marital Status

Middle Names

Nationality

Gender

Title

Blood Type

Correspondence Language

Honors

Pre Name Adjunct

Rehire Authorizer

Rehire Recommendation

Resume Exists

Resume Last Updated

Second Passport Exists

Student Status

Suffix

Date of Death

Uses Tobacco Flag

Town of Birth

Country of Birth

Fast Path Employee

Email Address

FTE Capacity

To control the synchronization of your person records you use the HR: Propagate Data Changes profile option.

If you want changes to your person records to be propagated throughout all business groups, then set this profile option to Yes at the site level. The default setting is No.

Providing the profile option is set to yes, then any changes you make are propagated automatically throughout all the records for that person when you save the record you are updating.

Note: You can only propagate changes to business groups in which your security profile allows you to make updates. When you terminate an employee using Oracle HRMS and the person type changes to Ex-employee, the employee's record in the HZ_PARTIES table remains at the Active status.

New Record Synchronization

When you are entering a new person record for a person who already exists in another business group, the new record is considered to be the most up to date record for a person. Therefore, if you have synchronization enabled, then the application copies the global personal information entered in the new record to all existing records.

Fields that are blank in the new record are not copied to any other business groups. If an existing record for the person in another business group has a value for one of the fields left blank in the new record, then the existing value is added to the new record once you save.

For example, suppose you have an existing person record for John Brown in the US business group with the following values in the table below:

Person Record Table Field US Business Group First Name John Middle Name Robert Last Name Brown Date of Birth 01-MAR-1972 Marital Status Married Blood Type A Uses Tobacco?

Then, you create a new record for John Brown in the UK business group with the following values:

Field UK Business Group First Name John Middle Name Last Name Brown Date of Birth 01-MAR-1972 Marital Status Divorced Blood Type A Uses Tobacco? Y

If you link this new record to the existing one in the US business group, then you will end up with the following values:

Field US Business Group UK Business Group First Name John John Middle Name Robert Robert Last Name Brown Brown Date of Birth 01-MAR-1972 01-MAR-1972 Marital Status Divorced Divorced Blood Type A A Uses Tobacco? Y Y

Restrictions of Synchronization

The process of synchronizing data across business groups is dependent on the following factors:

Legislative Lookups

The application only propagates personal information across business groups for values selected from lookups if the lookup code exists in the target business group. For example, supposing a marital status is changed within a German business group for a person that also exists in a UK business group. If the value chosen in the German business group is not applicable to the UK, then the UK marital status is not changed.

Character Sets

The application only copies personal information across business groups if the character sets for the business groups are compatible. If an entry in one character set can not be converted to the character set of the destination business group, then the information is not updated. For example, an update to a person's name in Japanese cannot be copied to an English representation of that name.

Future Dated Changes

If there are future dated changes to the personal details for the record to which you are copying information, then these are all overwritten when the application propagates changes. For example, suppose we have the following scenario:

A record for John Smith was created on 1st January 2001. At creation he was given the marital status of Single.

During the creation of the record, a future dated change is made to the record to change his marital status to Married on 1st March 2001. So the marital status record looks like:

01/JAN/2001-28/FEB/2001: Single

01/MAR/2001-End of Time: Married

On 1st February 2001, a new record for John Smith is created in a different business group and is linked to the first record. In the new record a marital status of Divorced is selected. If synchronization is enabled, then the marital status of the original record will be changed to Divorced from 1st February and also the future dated change will be overwritten with the status of Divorced. So after the synchronization the original record is:

01/JAN/2001-31/JAN/2001: Single

01/FEB/2001-28/FEB/2001: Divorced

01/MAR/2001-End of Time: Divorced

Maintaining Synchronization

To check that all of your person records have been updated as you expect, you should run the Person Synchronization report.

The report shows details of any person in your current business group who also has a record in another business group, on the date specified. Any piece of information that is different between the two business groups is indicated with an asterisk in the Different column of the report.

Automatic Transfer of Employees Between Business Groups

If you use the Global Deployments function to transfer employees automatically between business groups, then you are recommended to set HR: Propagate Data Changes to Yes at the site level. Otherwise, HRMS cannot synchronize data held for a single employee in multiple business groups during a secondment.

Note: Synchronizing values across business groups has implications from a legislative and legal perspective. It can also impact your benefits eligibility and enrollments set up. If you prefer not to enable automatic synchronization, use the Person Synchronization report to identify differences between records, and update records manually.

Person-Name Formats

The Oracle HRMS person-name-formats function enables you to define person-name formats to meet enterprise requirements. HRMS provides some commonly required format definitions, which you can edit. You can also create your own format definitions for use in custom code. Each format definition, known as a format mask, comprises standard components of a person name, such as first name, last name, and title, in an appropriate order. A format mask can apply to a single legislation and has a format type.

Format Types

HRMS identifies the following format types:

Full Name

Display Name

List Name

Order Name

Full Name

The Full Name format type defines the full name HRMS uses in its forms-based interface (for example, in the Find Person window).

Display Name

The Display Name format type is intended for use where names appear singly.

Note: Oracle HRMS does not currently use display names in any of its interfaces. However, you can use this format type in custom code.

List Name

The List Name format type is intended for use where names appear in lists. Oracle HRMS uses this format type to display person names in SSHR pages.

Order Name

Some legislations currently store a version of the person name, known as the order name, for use in name-ordered lists when the full name is not appropriate for list ordering. Order names are not necessary in most languages, where full name dictates list order. HRMS constructs the order name using a PL/SQL procedure. HRMS also provides an Order Name format type, so that localizations or users can replace the supplied PL/SQL procedure if they wish.

User-Defined Format Types

You can define additional format types for use in custom code. To create a new format type, you add its name to the lookup PER_NAME_FORMATS. You can then select the name when defining a new format mask.

Stored Person Names

For performance reasons, HRMS stores person names in list-name, order-name, and full-name formats. By contrast, HRMS assembles names in display-name and user-defined formats when required.

Local and Global Format Masks

The format mask defines the structure of the person name (its components and their order). The character set HRMS uses to store and display person names depends on whether the format is local or global.

A local format is suitable for users in a single legislation who prefer to see person names in a character set appropriate to their legislation. For example, users in a Japanese enterprise would typically select a local format to see names displayed in a Japanese character set.

A global format is suitable for users in a multinational enterprise who prefer to see person names in a single (typically, Western) character set, so that all names, regardless of origin, have the same representation.

HRMS supplies both local and global versions of its Display Name and List Name format masks. (HRMS supplies only a local version of the Full Name format mask.) When you create a new format mask, you identify it as either local or global. A format mask may reference different name components depending on whether the format is local or global.

HRMS provides a profile option, HR: Local or Global Name Format, to enable users to choose between local and global representations of names.

See: User Profiles, Oracle HRMS Configuring, Reporting, and System Administration Guide

The Supplied Format Masks

HRMS supplies the following format masks:

Format Mask Default Structure Full Name [Prefix] [Last Name,] [Title] [First Name] [Middle Name] [Suffix] [Preferred Name] Local Display Name [Known As] [Last Name] Global Display Name [Known As] [Last Name] Local List Name [Last Name] [, Known As] Global List Name [Last Name] [, Known As]

Note: The Known As component contains the name stored in the Preferred Name field, if there is one. Otherwise, Known As is a person's first name.

You can edit the supplied format masks, but you cannot delete them.

These format masks are not legislation specific. Localizations may provide legislation-specific versions of format masks, and you can also define your own. For example, you can define a List Name format mask for France or an Order Name format mask for Japan if the legislation does not supply those format masks.

Creating or Editing Format Masks

To create a new format mask or edit the supplied format masks, you use the Person Name Formats function from the HRMS Other Definitions menu.

For a new format mask, you specify the:

Format Type

User Format Choice (local or global)

You can also specify a legislation value. A null legislation value means the format mask applies to all legislations.

These three values constitute the format mask's name, which must be unique in the enterprise.

The format mask itself comprises one or more name components in an appropriate order, with spaces and punctuation characters as required between components.

Note: Person names must not include the dollar sign ($) or vertical bar (|) characters. Oracle HRMS uses these characters to delimit punctuation and identify tokens that represent name components in format masks.

Spaces and punctuation characters can precede or follow individual name components. For example, you could define this format:

Row 1 First Name Row 2 Space (Middle Name) Row 3 Space Last Name

Following this example, John Smith's name is "John (Arthur) Smith". In this format mask, the first space and the parentheses belong with the Middle Name component: if the person has no middle name, the first space and the parentheses do not appear. If the person has no first name, however, the name begins with a space. Therefore, when you create or edit a format mask, consider carefully the positioning of spaces and punctuation characters in combination with optional name components.

Note: When you create or edit format masks, be sure to include at least one component that you are confident will never be null to avoid creating null person names.

For information about the circumstances in which HRMS uses your new or updated format mask, see How HRMS Selects a Format Mask.

Understanding Component Names

When you create or edit a person-name format, you select name components from a list of values. The names of some of the components in this list may come from the Further Person Information developer descriptive flexfield or the Additional Personal Details descriptive flexfield and are database-column names (for example, PER_INFORMATION1 or ATTRIBUTE1) rather than column prompts. For example, the component PER_INFORMATION1 is the Maternal Last Name component for Mexico. To obtain the descriptive names of the name components, review the Further Person Information and Additional Personal Details flexfields for your localization. For each segment in the Segments Summary window, the value in the Window Prompt field identifies the information held in a particular component.

Determining Whether a Localization Stores Names in Global Formats

Names in a global format are usually held in a Western character set. Whether a localization stores names in a global format is usually apparent when you create or update a person record. For example, in the Japanese localization, the People window has an English Name tab where HRMS displays a Western representation of a person's name. In the Korean localization, the Western representation of a person's name has the characters "EN" (for English) next to the name component (for example, Given (EN)).

To determine which segments of the Further Person Information developer descriptive flexfield hold the components of a global format, you can view the segments of the Further Person Information flexfield for your localization.

Migrating Stored Names to New and Revised Formats

When you first use the person-name-formats function, and whenever you update any of the supplied format masks for stored formats (list name, order name, and full name), you must run the Update Person Names concurrent program. This program populates or updates the list-name, order-name, and full-name versions of person names in a specified legislation or in all business groups.

See: Running the Update Person Names Program

How HRMS Selects a Format Mask

HRMS selects a format mask whenever you:

Create or update a person name.

Run the Update Person Names concurrent program.

When looking for an appropriate format mask, HRMS follows the sequence shown below for each format type. For example, for the global List Name format type, HRMS looks first for a global List Name format mask for the business group legislation. If there is no legislation-specific format mask, HRMS uses the supplied, null-legislation, global List Name format mask.

Full Name

Full Name format mask for the business-group legislation

PL/SQL procedure (PER_legcode_UTILITY.PER_legcode_FULL_NAME)

Supplied, null-legislation Full Name format mask

Global List Name

Global List Name format mask for the business-group legislation

Supplied, null-legislation, global List Name format mask

Local List Name

Local List Name format mask for the business-group legislation

Supplied, null-legislation, local List Name format mask

Global Display Name

Global Display Name format mask for the business-group legislation

Supplied, null-legislation, global Display Name format mask

Local Display Name

Local Display Name format mask for the business-group legislation

Supplied, null-legislation, local Display Name format mask

Order Name

Order Name format mask for the business-group legislation

PL/SQL procedure (PER_legcode_UTILITY.PER_legcode_ORDER_NAME)

Note: For Full Name and Order Name, if there is no legislation-specific format mask, HRMS looks for a PL/SQL procedure. Localizations have provided PL/SQL procedures in the past to support legislation-specific name formats. These procedures remain valid until localizations or users replace them with legislation-specific format masks.

Special Information Types

Basic information is handled in a fairly standard way from enterprise to enterprise. However, other types of information are recorded and used in quite different ways. Examples include training records, disciplinary records, competence, and medical records. Oracle HRMS does not restrict you to any predefined format for holding this information. You can set up your own user-defined fields for recording, analyzing, and reporting on whatever special information you require.

In Oracle HRMS, you use the Personal Analysis key flexfield to define any special information not provided by the main system that you want to hold about people, jobs and positions, and training activities. Alternatively you can define Extra Information Types to record this information,

See: Extra Information Types (EITs), Oracle HRMS Configuring, Reporting, and System Administration Guide

You can define any number of instances of the Personal Analysis key flexfield. Each instance is called a Special Information Type. For example, you might set up types to hold performance reviews or medical details. You can enter a person's information under these sorts of headings in the Special Information window.

Each Special Information Type can have up to thirty fields (where each field is a segment of the flexfield). You can set up cross-validation to ensure that users enter correct combinations of segments. You can also speed up data entry and minimize errors by defining an alias for common combinations of segment values.

When you enable special information types for your Business Group, you select how you plan to use each type. In Oracle Human Resources, you can use them for:

Job requirements

Position requirements

Personal information

In Oracle Learning Management, you can use them for:

Skills provided by training activities

Each Special Information Type can be used for one or more of these purposes. The options you select controls the windows in which each appears.

In Oracle Human Resources, you can also configure the windows that handle special information types to restrict them to just one Type, such as medical records. This is useful if you want to restrict access to particular types of information for security reasons, or to aid users' efficiency by giving them access to just the information they require for a particular task.

Finding a Person Using the Find Person Window

When you navigate to the People window or any of the FastPath function windows, the Find Person window automatically displays in front of it.

To query a person using the Find Person window

Do one or a combination of the following:

Enter a full or partial query on the person's name. Where a prefix has been defined for the person, a full name query must be in the format 'Maddox, Miss Julie'.

Enter a full or partial query on the person's national identifier (such as social security number).

In the Search by number region, select a number type of employee, applicant, or contingent worker to enter your query on. Then enter a full or partial query on the number type selected.

Choose the Find button.

Note: If you choose Find without entering any search criteria, the People window is displayed with the first record shown. You can use the [Down Arrow] key or choose Next Record from the Go menu to display the next person

If only one person is found, they immediately display in the People window or the appropriate FastPath function window. If more than one person is found, the results display in a separate window.

Choose the person from the list and choose OK to display their details in the People window or the appropriate FastPath function window.

Entering a New Person (People Window)

Use the People window to enter and maintain basic personal information for all person types, including employees and contingent workers.

Note: You can also use one of the template windows such as Entering Employees or Entering Contingent Workers to enter new people.

The minimum information to enter for all categories of people is name and action type. In addition, for employees you must enter gender, employee number (if your enterprise uses manual number entry), and date of birth (for assignment to a payroll). Your localization may require additional mandatory information.

To enter a new person:

Set your effective date to the appropriate date for adding the person to the application. If you are entering an employee, this should be their hire date.

Enter the person's name and other details in the Name region. Only the last name is required for most legislations, but some legislations require a first name too.

For UK users: The first name is a mandatory field. Ensure that the first character is an alphabet. The employee's last name is not a mandatory field, however, ensure that the first character is an alphabet.

In the Title field, select a title such as Mrs. or Doctor.

You can use the Prefix field to enter the first part of the person's name, such as van der. In the case of someone whose last name is van der Zee, you can sort by the last word of the name, that is Zee. If the whole name van der Zee is entered in the Last Name field, the name is sorted under van.

For Russian users only: Prefix is not required in Russia, so this field is not available to Russian users.

For UAE users only: Prefix is recorded as additional personal information. Therefore, this field is not displayed in the Name region.

The Suffix field holds part of the last name, such as Junior or II. You can report on the suffix separately, as required in some government-mandated reports.

For Russian users only: Suffix is not required in Russia, so this field is not available to Russian users.

For UAE users only: Suffix is recorded as additional personal information. Therefore, this field is not displayed in the Name region.

For Russian users only : In the Genitive Last field, enter the genitive case of the person's last name. For example, Ivanovskogo is the genitive case of the last name Ivanovskii. The genitive last name is required for some statutory reports. If you do not enter the genitive last name, the application uses the nominative last name.

Select a gender, if required. In the US, you must choose Male, Female, or Unknown Gender. In the UK, you must enter the gender of each employee. For Poland, the PESEL you enter supplies the gender information. For Finland, the PIN (Personal Identification Number) supplies the gender information.

In the Action field, select an action type (such as Create Employment) and a person type. The person type you select displays immediately in the Person Type for Action field before you save it. If only one user person type exists for the action type, it displays automatically in the Person Type for Action field.

Note: If you enter a contingent worker who has a previous person type such as ex-employee, you can choose to revert the contingent worker back to the previous person type by using the Cancel Placement action.

If you are a Finnish user and need to pay salary to a contingent worker through Oracle payroll, you need to enter the person as an employee. You then change the person as a not employed person by changing the employee status in the Additional Assignment Details window. See: Entering Additional Assignment Details (Assignment Window), Oracle HRMS for Finland Supplement (My Oracle Support Note: 283510.1)

You create user person types in the Person Types window. If you want to change a person type to another person type with the same system person type you must use the Person Type Usage window.

See: Changing Person Type Usage and Deleting OAB Person Type Usage, Oracle HRMS Enterprise and Workforce Management Guide

Entering Employee Information

Enter the following information if the person is an employee.

If desired, change the Latest Start Date field.

The Latest Start Date field displays your effective date.

For employees who have previously worked for your enterprise, the Date First Hired field displays the start date of the employee's earliest, previous period of service. This date must be on or before the start date of the earliest period of service. The Date First Hired field is situated on the Benefits Tab.

If the latest start date and the date first hired are the same, when you amend the latest start date, the date first hired is set to the same date.

If you amend the latest start date to earlier than the date first hired, the date first hired is set to the same date.

Note: In the US, before making a change to a latest hire date already entered for an employee, ensure that the start date of the employee's primary address is the same as or earlier than the new hire date. This preserves the integrity of the employee's tax records.

Entering Identification Information

Enter the person's identification information in the Identification region:

If your enterprise uses a manual number generation scheme, enter an employee, applicant or contingent worker number. If your enterprise uses automatic number generation (including Use Employee Numbering for contingent workers), the employee, applicant, or contingent worker number automatically displays when you save your entries in this window.

Note: If you query a person who has a combination of employee, applicant, and contingent worker numbers, the employee number displays in the Number field. If the person lacks an employee number but has a contingent worker number and an applicant number, the contingent worker number displays. However, you can choose to view any of the identification numbers held for a person by selecting them from the list.

Enter the national identifier for your country. For example, enter the National Insurance number in the UK, the Social Security number in the US, the Fiscal Code in Italy, the IRD Number in New Zealand, the Social Security Code (TAJ) in Hungary, the Individual Tax Payer's Number (INN) in Russia or the ID number in South Africa.

Note: If you are an Australian user, leave the National Identifier field blank. For Finland, the PIN (Personal Identification Number) supplies the values for gender, date of birth, and age.

Entering Personal Details

Enter personal details in the Personal tabbed region.

Enter a date of birth. You must do this before you can assign an employee to a payroll. For Poland, the PESEL supplies the date of birth. For Finland, the PIN (Personal Identification Number) supplies the date of birth.

For UK users only: If you have not entered the NI Number, the Date of Birth is a mandatory field.

Enter additional birth information into the Town of Birth, Region of Birth, and Country of Birth fields.

For Hungarian, UAE, and Indian users only: Enter the place of birth instead of town of birth as this information identifies employees and appears in statutory reports.

For Belgian users only: Region of birth information is not required in Belgium, so this field is not available to Belgian users.

For Russian users only: Enter the place of birth code in the Place of Birth field. The application uses this information when generating tax and pension statutory reports. You can find this code in the document All Russian Classification of Subjects of Administrative and Territorial Division (OKATO).

For Finnish users only: Enter the place of residence. The place of residence influences the regional membership. You use the place of residence and regional membership to calculate income tax and other statutory deductions.

If the Work Telephone field is displayed, enter a work telephone number. Otherwise, use the Phone Numbers window to enter this information.

In the Status field, select a marital status.

Select a nationality.

For UAE users only: Nationality is recorded as additional personal information. Therefore, this field is not displayed in the Personal tabbed region.

For Russian users only: Enter the employee's statutory Pension Insurance Fund identifier. It is the employee's ID in the Statutory Pension Insurance Fund.

For Russian and Swedish users only: Select the person's citizenship. In Russia, you require this information for some statutory reporting to migration authorities. In Sweden, you can use this information to track persons who are not Swedish citizens, since the taxation and pension insurance schemes differ from those for Swedish citizens.

Select whether your employee, applicant or contingent worker is:

Registered disabled

Not registered disabled

Partially disabled

Fully disabled

Note: Whether employees are fully or partially disabled affects benefits eligibility calculations.

In the US, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Report includes employees set up as registered disabled, partially disabled, and fully disabled.

For Finnish, Danish, and Swedish users only: This field is not available.

For Dutch users only: Select Yes in the Work Abroad Exceeding One Year field, if your employee has worked abroad for more than a year.

For Belgian users only: enter the person's preferred correspondence language in the Other region.

Save your work.

Multiple Person Records

If your data already includes a person with the same national identifier, or with the same surname and a first name and date of birth that is either the same or not entered, then a list of values shows all the people who share the details.

Note: People who are only entered with a person type of Other, that is someone external to your enterprise, are not shown in this list.

If you have entered neither a first name nor a date of birth, then the list of values displays all the records that match the information you have entered.

Note: The list of values displays only if your system administrator has set the HR: Cross Business Group profile option to Yes.

Do one of the following four tasks:

If the person you are entering already exists, but in a different business group, then select that person from the list of values. The person you are entering is saved in your current business group and linked to the existing person record to indicate they are the same person. If your application has person synchronization enabled, then the personal information entered for the new person is copied across to existing records in other business groups. If existing records have values for fields that the new record leaves blank, then these values appear in the new record. See: Person Record Synchronization

If the person already exists in your current business group then select that person from the list of values. The application retrieves the existing record and cancels the save you were trying to make, as one business group cannot contain two records for the same person. Close the new record and scroll down to display the existing record.

Note: You cannot link to any entry in the list of values marked with an asterisk as these either belong to your business group, or are linked to a person in your business group.

If the person already exists in TCA, but not in HRMS, then select that person from the list of values. The person you are entering is saved in your current business group and linked to the existing person record to indicate they are the same person. The information held for the person in TCA is updated with that entered in HRMS. See: People in a Global Enterprise

If the person you are entering does not match any of the records displayed, then select No Match in the lookup. Your new person record is saved.

What Next?

Optionally, you can enter additional information for people in the tabbed regions.

Note: The Background Information, Medical Information, and Rehire Information tabbed regions appear only if your system administrator has enabled them for you.

Entering Additional Personal Information (People Window)

Optionally, you can enter additional information for people in the tabbed regions of the People window described in the following steps.

Note: The Background Information, Medical Information, and Rehire Information tabbed regions appear only if your system administrator has enabled them for you.

To enter office information for a new hire, an existing employee, or contingent worker

Choose the Office Details tabbed region.

Enter the office number.

Enter the internal location of this office.

Enter the office identifier for internal mail.

Enter the person's e-mail address.

In the Mail To field, select Home or Office to indicate the person's preferred mail destination.

To enter information for an applicant

Choose the Applicant tabbed region.

If the applicant's resume is on file, check the Exists check box.

If the applicant's resume is on file, select the date indicating when the resume was last updated.

Select a final date a file is to be maintained for this applicant.

To enter background check information

Choose the Background tabbed region.

Check whether the person background check has been performed.

Select the date the background check was performed.

To enter rehire recommendation information for an applicant who was a former employee or contingent worker

Choose the Rehire tabbed region.

If the former manager has recommended the applicant for rehire, select the Recommended check box.

Select the reason for this recommendation.

To enter further name information

Choose the Further Name tabbed region.

Enter one or more honors or degrees (BA, MBA, or JD, for example) that the person has earned.

Enter the name (perhaps a nickname) by which the person prefers to be known.

If the person was previously known by a different name, enter the previous last name.

To enter medical information for a person

Choose the Medical tabbed region.

Select the person's blood type.

Select the date of the person's last medical test.

Enter the name of the physician who performed this test.

To enter other information for a person

To enter schedule information for a person, you can:

Set up extensive availability information such as, shifts, schedules, and calendar events using integrated features from HRMS and Common Application Components (CAC).

See: Setting Up Availability

Set up holiday calendars, shifts, and work plans in OTL.

See: Time Management Structures, Oracle Time and Labor Implementation and User Guide

Alternatively, you can enter basic schedule information in various areas of Oracle HRMS, such as here in the People window.

Important: The HR application does not use the schedule information that you can enter here to determine a worker's availability. This is for information purposes only.

The decision for which method to set up is based on knowledge of which applications use which information.

Choose the Other tabbed region.

Select the type of schedule in the Availability/Schedule field; for example, the days of the week your employee works.

Enter the person's current full time/part time availability to work with your company.

Select the language the person prefers for correspondence. For example, select German if the person prefers to correspond or receive company information such as terms of pension plan in German.

Note: The Correspondence Language list includes languages in the FND_LANGUAGES table. This table contains the languages that Oracle National Language Support Runtime Library (Oracle NLSRTL) supports. Check with your System Administrator for information on NLSRTL supported languages.

If the person has died, enter the date of death.

Date of death defaults to the person's termination date if:

In the Terminate window you enter the termination reason of deceased, but

You do not provide the actual termination date, and

You have not yet entered a date of death

Select the current student status, if the person is a student.

In the Date Last Verified field, you can enter the date the person last checked this personal information for accuracy.

Check the Military Service check box if the person is employed in a military service.

The value of this field can impact benefits calculations.

Check the Second Passport Exists check box if the person possesses multiple passports.

To enter benefits information

Choose the Benefits tabbed region.

Note: All fields in the Benefits tabbed region are optional. Most can help to determine plan eligibility or rates.

Note: If necessary, you can add the Benefits Tab to the People window. Query the BEN_MANAGER menu in the Menus window and add the HR View Benefits function to the menu.

Enter a benefit group for your employee or applicant. Benefit groups help determine a person's eligibility for a plan or set benefit rates. For example, benefit groups can address mergers and acquisitions where eligibility is complicated, or assist in grandfathering a person into a very old plan.

Enter what kind of tobacco (cigarettes, pipe, cigar, or chewing, for example) your employee uses, if any.

Enter the medical plan number, which is the policy or group plan number of an externally provided medical plan.

Enter the adoption date, if the employee has adopted a child. This information, with the child's date of birth, can determine dependent eligibility. You can enter the adoption date only if you have entered a date of birth for the person. The adoption date must be the date of birth or later.

Enter the date you received the death certificate of a deceased employee. You can enter this only after you have entered the date of death in the Other Information region. The receipt of the death certificate must be after or equal to the date of death.

Enter an adjusted service date for your employee. Benefits can use this date, rather than the date first hired, to determine the length of service for eligibility, enrollment, and rates. The adjusted service date can credit service for former employers, grandfathered benefits, or in the case of mergers and acquisitions.

Change the date first hired. For employees who have previously worked for your enterprise, the Date First Hired field displays the start date of the employee's earliest, previous period of service. This date must be on or before the start date of the earliest period of service.

Check the Other Coverage check box, if the employee or applicant has externally provided coverage.

Check the Voluntary Service check box, if your employee or applicant is volunteering, for example as a missionary.

Entering Pictures

You can store a picture associated with each person on your system, perhaps holding a photograph or digitized image of the person's signature. These may be useful for approval or identification purposes. You must digitize the image and save it in one of the following file formats:

BMP

CALS

GIF

JFIF

JPEG

PICT

RAS

TIFF

TPIC

The default file format is TIFF so loading images using this format will give you the best performance.

You enter pictures in Oracle HRMS in the Picture page.

To enter a person's picture in Oracle HRMS

In the Picture page, enter the file path or click Browse to locate the directory in which you saved the graphic file

Highlight the filename and click Open. The selected file is loaded and displayed in the Picture page.

Entering and Maintaining Documents of Record

You can create documents of record, such as work permits, visas, travel documents, and medical certificates, and store them in Oracle HRMS.

You can view, update, and delete stored documents as required.

As an HR Professional, you can search for existing documents using the Search Documents of Record function. Alternatively, you can create and maintain documents for your direct reports or for individuals whose records you can access using the Documents of Record window. The Documents of Record window is available from the People window, from the FastPath menu, and from the Search Documents of Record page.

Note: The Documents of Record functionality is also available from SSHR.

See: Documents of Record, Oracle SSHR Deploy Self-Service Capability Guide

To search for documents of record

Select Search Documents of Record from the Navigator.

Enter your search criteria.

Note: You must enter either a document type, category, or subcategory.

Click Go to perform the search.

From the search results, you can view, update, and delete documents of record.

To create or maintain documents of record for an individual

Either display the person record in the People window and select Documents of Record from the list of navigation options, or select Documents of Record from the FastPath menu and search for a person.

See: Finding a Person Using the Find Person Window

The Documents of Record window appears showing any existing documents for the individual. You can create new documents of record and view, maintain, and delete existing documents.

To perform an action on an existing document, select the corresponding icon (Update or Delete).

Note: To view the document in read-only format, click the link in the Type column.

The Update Document of Record page or the Deletion warning page appears.

Alternatively, to create a new document, click Create Document of Record.

The Create Document of Record page appears.

See: Documents of Record, Oracle HRMS Deploy Self-Service Capability Guide

Complete the Create Document of Record page or update the document information, and click Apply.

Close the window.

Running the Person Synchronization Report

The Person Synchronization report shows details of any person in your current business group who also has a record in another business group on the date specified.

Run the Person Synchronization report in the Submit Requests window.

To run the Person Synchronization report

Select the Person Synchronization report in the name field.

Click in the Parameters field to display the Parameters window, if it does not automatically open.

Enter the date upon which you want to run the report. The default is the current system date.

Select a person for whom to run the report or leave blank to run for all people in your business groups who are also in another business group.

Choose OK to run the report. You can view the results from the Requests window.

Using Special Information

Setting Up Special Information

To set up Special Information Types

Define each Special Information Type as an instance of the Personal Analysis key flexfield.

Enable the Special Information Types you want to use in your Business Group and select how you want to use them.

See: Enabling Special Information Types

Oracle HR Only

The remaining steps do not apply if you are implementing Oracle Training Administration, or Oracle Payroll, without Oracle Human Resources.

Consider whether you want to create configured versions of the windows in which you can enter and display Special Information. These are the Special Information window and the List People by Special Information window.

See: Windows You Can Configure, Oracle HRMS Configuring, Reporting, and System Administration Guide

Design the task flows for entering personal information, which should include the Special Information window.

See: Task Flow, Oracle HRMS Configuring, Reporting, and System Administration Guide

Design your navigation menus, including the List People by Special Information window (or your configured versions of it) and the personal information task flows.

See: Menu Structure, Oracle HRMS Configuring, Reporting, and System Administration Guide

Consider your special information reporting requirements. A standard Skills Matching report is supplied. This compares the special information, such as skills, held by employees and applicants with the requirements of a job or position.

See: Skills Matching Report

Entering Special Information

Basic personal information is handled in a fairly standard way from enterprise to enterprise. However, other types of information are recorded and used in quite different ways. Examples include training records, disciplinary records and medical records. Enter this type of information in the Special Information window.

Note: Your system administrator can create configured versions of the Special Information window, for entry of information for only one or a selected set of information types.

To enter special information for a person

In the Name field, select the type of information you want to enter for the person.

In the Details block, click in the Detail field to open a window for entering information of this type.

Choose the OK button when you have completed your entries, then save your work.

Enabling Special Information Types

Use the Special Information Types window to enable special information types for the Business Group, and to select how you want to use them.

To enable Special Information Types

Select the special information types you want to use in your Business Group.

Enable each type by checking the Enabled check box.

Check the other boxes to specify how you plan to use the special information type. This makes it available in the list of values in other windows as follows:

Job: in the Job Requirements window

Position: in the Position Requirements window

Other: in the Special Information window

Skill: in the Skill Provisions and Search for Event windows in Oracle Training Administration

The OSHA and ADA check boxes are for US users only.

Deleting a Person from the System (People and Delete Person Windows)

If you mistakenly save information in the People window, you can remove the person by selecting Delete Record from the Edit menu. You are prevented from performing this action if you have entered information about that person in other windows.

If you want to remove all records of a person, use the Delete Person window. However, you cannot use this window to remove the records of an employee or ex-employee whom Oracle Payroll processed in any payroll runs.

Contacts

When you delete a person from the system anybody entered as a contact is also deleted if:

The contact only has basic details set up.

The contact is not used by another person.

If the contact is used by another person or has other information set up (for example, assignment or applicant information) the contact is not deleted. However, Oracle HRMS removes the record of their relationship to the deleted person.

If you use the Delete Person window to delete a person set up as a contact, Oracle HRMS removes all records of that contact and any relationships.

To delete all records of a person

Query the person in the Delete Person window and choose the Delete Person button.

Running the Update Person Names Program

The Update Person Names concurrent program updates stored person names in the specified legislation or in all business groups. You run this program:

When you first use the person-name-formats function, to populate the stored names (list names, order names, and full names)

Whenever you update or delete an existing List Name, Order Name, or Full Name format mask

If you fail to run Update Person Names, HRMS does not populate or update stored person names. Therefore, names may be null or appear in an unexpected format.

Run the Update Person Names concurrent program in the Submit Request window.

To run the Update Person Names program

In the Name field, select Update Person Names.

The Parameters window opens.

Select a Format Type value.

Select a legislation. HRMS updates person names of the specified format type defined in business groups that have this legislation code. If you select no legislation, HRMS updates person names in all business groups.

Set Disable WHO Trigger to Yes or No.

If you set Disable WHO Trigger to Yes, HRMS prevents update of the following WHO (audit-related) columns in the table PER_ALL_PEOPLE_F while the Update Person Names program is running:

LAST_UPDATE_DATE

LAST_UPDATED_BY

LAST_UPDATE_LOGIN

Note that, when you disable the WHO trigger, you prevent update of these columns by all users and for the whole table PER_ALL_PEOPLE_F while Update Person Names is running. This setting does not apply only to rows updated by the Update Person Names program.

When the program completes, HRMS re-enables the WHO trigger.

Note: If you set Disable WHO Trigger to Yes and the program fails to complete, WHO column updates may remain disabled. If Update Person Names fails, your system administrator must check the status of the WHO trigger and re-enable it if necessary.

Click Submit.

HRMS reformats all names of the specified type in the selected legislation. For information about how HRMS selects an appropriate format mask, see Person-Name Formats.

Contracts

Contracts

Using Oracle HRMS you can record contractual information for your employees and employee applicants. Information relating to the contract reference, contract status, and contract type must all be entered. This information can then be used for reporting purposes, or to produce a hard copy of the contract to send to the person for reference and signing.

Once a contract is entered for a person you can refer an assignment to it using the Assignment window. Each person may have multiple contracts, but an assignment may refer only to one contract.

German public sector users can use contracts to control the values of certain fields in the Assignment window. Once you refer an assignment to a contract then fields such as Position, Grade, Employment Category, and Collective Agreement display the values set for the contract, and cannot be updated in the Assignment window. To update these values you must make changes to the contract.

To give your managers access to more complete records for their direct reports, you can display details of their current contracts of employment, as well as any historical contract information, in the My Employee Information pages in SSHR.

You can also display contract details to the My Information pages so that your employees can also view their own information whilst accessing SSHR.

There are a number of rules that relate to the creation and maintenance of contracts:

A contract cannot exist without a person. Therefore, if a person who has a contract attached to them is deleted, the contract will also be deleted.

Contract statuses are set up depending on the needs of your enterprise. If you have any queries about contract statuses, please contact your system administrator.

If the alteration of a hire date for an employee results in the start date for the contract being before the hire date, the contract start date is automatically amended to the new hire date.

Tip: If the alteration of a hire date results in future-dated changes being before the contract start date, the changes are deleted.

If the alteration of a hire date for an employee results in the start date for the contract being after the start date of the referencing assignment, the contract start date is automatically amended to the new hire date.

A contract cannot be deleted if an assignment currently refers to it, irrespective of the assignment status.

When you are selecting a contract to reference to an assignment you will only be able to select from contracts that have start dates on or before the assignment start date.

Creating Contract Statuses

Using the Lookup type CONTRACT_STATUS, Oracle HRMS enables you to create up to 250 different contract statuses to help track and identify contracts within your enterprise.

To create contract statuses

You must create your contract statuses before using the Contracts window to assign contracts.

Use the Application Utilities Lookups Window to create contract statuses for the Lookup type CONTRACT_STATUS.

Enter the lookup code. Adding a prefix to the lookup code defines whether the contract status is active, inactive or obsolete.

A-: You should use this prefix to indicate a contract status is active.

O-: You should use this prefix to indicate a contract status is obsolete.

Note: If a contract status has no prefix it is assumed to mean that the contract is Inactive.

Enter a meaning and, optionally, a description for the Lookup code.

See: Adding Lookup Types and Values, Oracle HRMS Configuring, Reporting, and System Administration Guide

Assigning Contract Types

Use the Extra Details of Service window to assign contract types to your employees.

To assign a contract type

Select the contract type in the Contract Type field.

Enter a start date for the contract.

Save your work.

If you subsequently change the contract on the contract types table, you can run a concurrent process for an assignment set to update FTE for a large number of assignments.

See: Running the Calculate FTE for Assignments Process

Entering Contract Types

You enter and maintain values for the user defined Contract Types table in the Table Structure and Table Values windows. The historic rates function uses this information to convert values held for one time dimension to another dimension.

Note: The system administrator can create configured versions of the Table Values window so that you use each version for one user table only.

To create contract types

In the Table Structure window, set your effective date to the date from which you want the entries to take effect.

Query the table name 'PQP_CONTRACT_TYPES'.

Choose the Rows button.

Enter the contract name in the Exact field.

Click in the next row and enter your next contract name. Repeat this step until you have entered the names of all the contract types you require.

Note: For historic rates: If you hold rates on input values and use the Period Divisor on the Contract Types table to convert the period value to an annual value (that is, Time Dimension = Periodic on the Element Attribution Information for your elements), you must create at least one contract type for each payroll frequency. For example, employees on a weekly payroll must be assigned to a separate contract type from employees on a monthly payroll. This does not apply if you select the Time Dimension Periodic - Payroll Frequency, which uses the Weekly or Monthly Payroll Divisor held on the Contract Types table to convert period values to annual.

Save your work.

To enter values for the contract types

In the Table Values window, set your effective date to the date from which you want the entries to take effect.

Query the table name 'PQP_CONTRACT_TYPES'.

With the cursor in the Column Name field, use the up and down arrows to locate the name of the column in which you want to make entries. The columns are as follows:

Annual Hours--This is the number of hours worked per year under this contract. It is used to convert rates to hourly rates.

Days Divisor--This is the number of days worked in a year under this contract. It is used to convert rates to daily rates.

Period Divisor--The number of periods in a year (12 for monthly, 52 for weekly, and so on). This divisor should always correspond to the time dimension you use to express working hours on the Assignment window. For example, if you state weekly working hours, enter 52 as the Period Divisor.

Weekly Payroll Divisor--This is the number of periods per year used to convert a periodic value into an annual value when you select Periodic - Payroll Frequency as the time dimension for the element and the employee has a payroll frequency of Weekly, or Bi-Weekly.

Monthly Payroll Divisor--This is the number of periods per year used to convert a periodic value into an annual value when you select Periodic - Payroll Frequency as the time dimension for the element and the employee has a payroll frequency of Calendar Month, Lunar Month, Bi-Month, Quarter, Semi-Year, or Year.

Overtime Annual Hours--The number of overtime hours per year, used to calculate overtime hourly rates.

Annual Term Time Hours--Used to adjust a derived rate by a factor of Annual Term Time Hours divided by Annual Hours.

Service History Band 1 Adjustment Factor--The percentage by with the derived rate is incremented for employees in Band 1.

Service History Band 1 Lower Limit--The minimum number of years service required to qualify for the Band 1 adjustment factor.

Service History Band 1 Upper Limit--The maximum number of years service applicable to Band 1.

You can define up to four further service history bands.

In the Values region and the Exact field, select each row for which you want to make an entry.

For each row, make the appropriate entry in the Value field.

Save your work.

Defining Contract Letter Types

To generate a hard copy of a contract you must first write and register an SQL*Plus script in the same way as if you were generating a standard letter.

For information about writing SQL*Plus scripts, see: Writing a SQL*Plus Script for MultiMate or WordPerfect, Oracle HRMS Configuring, Reporting, and System Administration Guide

The Letter window enables you to link your SQL*Plus script for the contract with your contract letter type.

Note: To set up a contract letter type you must access the Letter window using the Contract Letter Type menu entry. You cannot automatically generate contract letters when the assignment status changes.

To define a contract letter type

Enter a name for the letter.

Select the Concurrent Program Name assigned by your System Administrator to the SQL*Plus script.

Save your contract letter type.

Entering Contracts

You enter and maintain contracts in the Contracts window.

To enter a new contract

Set your effective date to the start date of the contract.

Enter the reference code for the contract. The code for each contract attached to a person must be different, though more than one person can use the same contract reference code.

Select the status that indicates the contract is active. The period of service dates will also be displayed if a corresponding period of service exists.

See: Creating Contract Statuses

Select the contract type.

Select the status of the contract, such as pending, opened, printed and so on. You must set up document statuses using the user extensible Lookup Type DOCUMENT_STATUS. Enter the date the document status of the contract changed.

Note: The document status is not DateTracked.

You can enter any remaining information relating to the contract such as start reason, duration, or contractual job title.

Enter further information about this contract if your Oracle localization team has set up the Further Contract Information window.

For Hungarian users only: If the duration of the contract is fixed, enter the expiry date as some reports list the contract end date.

Save your changes.

You can attach an electronic copy of any written contract that accompanies the record using the Attachments button.

See: Using Attachments, Oracle HRMS Configuring, Reporting, and System Administration Guide

Maintaining Contracts

The amendments made to a contract are datetracked. The result of any changes made to the status of a contract is dependent on whether the record is being corrected or updated. For example:

If you change the status of an active contract to make it inactive, and choose the Update button, the contract record will be ended. A new contract record with an inactive status will be created and the fields in the Active Contracts Dates region will become blank.

If you change the status of an active contract to make it inactive and choose the Correction button, the current contract record will be amended to appear as if the most recent active period has never occurred.

Deleting Contracts

If you mistakenly save information in the Contracts window you can delete it. You cannot perform this action if the contract is referenced by an assignment.

Note: Contracts cannot be date effectively end dated.

To delete a contract

Query the contract in the Contract window.

Select Delete Record from the Edit menu and proceed as instructed in the displayed windows.

Managing Contracts

The Manage Contracts folder enables you to:

search for different groups of people using a wide variety of criteria

view basic person information and comprehensive contract information

initiate a mail merge to produce written contracts

mass update the document status of contracts

navigate to the Person, Assignment and Contracts windows.

Find Contracts

The Find Contracts window automatically displays when you enter the Manage Contracts folder. This enables you to select different groups of people to manage. For example, you can find people who:

do not currently have a contract

have a contract with a particular status

are assigned to a particular organization

You can also show people with all assignments covered by the contract or just their primary assignment.

To find contracts

Enter a full or partial query on one, a selection, or all of the available person information:

Select whether to find people either with or without a contract. Leave blank to find people with and without contracts.

Enter full or partial queries on contract and assignment details using the tabbed regions.

In the Assignment tabbed region you can select to only view the primary assignment and those assignments covered by a contract. A person can be linked to a contract, but they are only covered by a contract when it is linked to a specific assignment.

Note: You can generate contracts for a person's assignment that is not covered by a contract. See: Generating and Printing Contracts

Select Find to find all the employees and employee applicants who match your query.

Manage Contracts

The Manage Contracts window displays all the employees and employee applicants you have queried. Use standard folder features to select a subset of these records and to choose the fields to view.

If you want to see the personal, assignment, or contract details for a selected person you can select the person and use the buttons to navigate to the required window

Note: You must only have one person selected in order to be able to navigate to the Person, Assignment or Contract window.

You can also use the Manage Contracts window to update the document status of a number of contracts at once.

To mass update the document status of contracts:

Select a person or a number of people with contracts.

Choose the Update Status button.

Select the new document status, such as pending, opened, printed.

Note: You set up document statuses in the Contracts window using the Lookup Type DOCUMENT_STATUS.

Choose OK.

The selected contracts are updated with the new document status.

Generating and Printing Contracts

Before you generate contracts for your employees and employee applicants in the Manage Contracts window you must ensure any rows returned for a person have a contract reference and assignment number.

If a person does not have a contract reference you can navigate to the Contract window and set up a contract reference.

If a person has multiple assignments, *MULTIPLE* d