Isabella Farnese, Queen of Spain

Oil on canvas. Ca. 1715

Piane, Giovanni Maria delle

Isabella Farnese (1692-1766), the daughter of Odoardo II, Prince of Parma, and of Dorothea Sophie of Neuburg, married Philip V of Spain in 1714. This portrait is a replica of one made in Parma by Molinaretto, after the Queen´s arrival in Spain, copying a miniature or a portrait prior to her departure from Italy, and from which she later commissioned replicas that she had brought to Spain, giving a

Saint John the Baptist

Oil on canvas. Ca. 1645

Castillo Saavedra, Antonio del

The figure depicted here is recognizable as Saint John the Baptist by his clothing, the lamb that accompanies him, the cross with its banner, the stream running at his feet and the shell with water alongside him, which was his baptismal instrument. He holds a book in his hands, which was not customary in images of him but not unknown in Andalusia, as can be seen, for example, in Juan de Mesa’s scu

Landscape with Sea and Mountains

Oil on canvas. Ca. 1623

Momper II, Joost de

Momper was one of the finest Flemish landscape painters of the first decades of the seventeenth century. He built his works on very concrete models that he repeated in many paintings. One of them was a large-format landscape with figures in the foreground carrying out an anecdotic or everyday activity. Here the figures are hunters, along with riders and beggars. Toward the background, as was custo

Lady Mary Josephine Drummond, Countess of Castelblanco

Oil on canvas. Ca. 1716

Oudry, Jean Baptiste

The sitter was the daughter of John Drummond, Duke of Melfort, one of James II’s principal councillors in exile in San-Germain-en-Laye and his Secretary of State. Lady Mary was married there in 1710 to the Count of Castelblanco. She died in 1713. It is thought that this is a posthumous portrait, painted to form a pair with that of her husband.

Isabella Farnese

Oil on canvas. 1718 - 1722

Meléndez, Miguel Jacinto

The brightly lit figure of Isabella Farnese stands out strongly against a dark background. Her face conforms to the highly idealised and slightly inexpressive prototype that Meléndez used in his numerous portraits of the Queen, but here he has paid particular attention to the depiction of the jewels. In the Queen´s hair a brooch with a large pearl secures the salmon pink ribbon that unfurls

Hunt at the Castle of Torgau in Honour of Ferdinand I

Oil on panel. 1545

Cranach the Elder, Lucas

Among the hunters depicted here are Ferdinand I, King of the Romans, on the left in the foreground, and the Elector of Saxony in the centre. On the other side of the river and holding a crossbow is the Electors wife Sibylla of Cleves. The episode takes place near the castle of Hartenfels in Torgau (Saxony) where the Elector, a supporter of the Reformation, had the first Lutheran church built. Ferd

Saint Sebastian

Oil on canvas. Ca. 1619

Reni, Guido

The Museo del Prado Saint Sebastian is one of five paintings of identical or similar composition that are traditionally ascribed to Guido Reni, and whose attributions and dating have sometimes been the object of heated debate – the four other works are in the Musée du Louvre, the Dulwich Picture Gallery, the Museo de Arte de Ponce, and the Auckland Art Gallery Toi o Tamaki. Stylistically, t

Adam and Eve

Oil on canvas. 1628 - 1629

Rubens, Peter Paul (Copy after: Titian (Tiziano Vecellio))

Eve accepts the forbidden fruit from the hands of the devil, who is half child and half serpent. Sitting on the roots of the tree of Good and Bad, Adam tries to stop her. This is a copy of a painting on the same subject that Titian made for Felipe II (P00429). Rubens saw it during his trip to Spain in 1628 and 1629. In keeping with his own concept of painting, he made significant changes with resp

Saint Onuphrius

Oil on unlined canvas. Ca. 1645

Collantes, Francisco

The fifth-century Saint Onuphrius was a Persian hermit who withdrew as an Anchorite to the desert of Thebes, where a raven miraculously brought his daily ration of food. At his feet, a crown and scepter allude to his royal origins as, according to legend, he was the son of a Persian king. He renounced his earthly wealth in favor of prayer and meditation. A contemporary of Velázquez, Collant

The Holy Family with Saint Elisabeth and the Infant Saint John

Oil on panel. Ca. 1697

Giordano, Luca (Imitation of: Raphael (Raffaello Sanzio))

Giordano’s contemporaries were particularly dazzled by his ability to recreate the style of certain past masters. This panel clearly recalls similar works by the Renaissance genius Raphael, featuring the Holy Family or the Madonna and Child. Though by no means imitative in execution, it conveys an atmosphere similar to that captured by Raphael’s paintings.

The Goddess Flora

Oil on canvas. Ca. 1697

Giordano, Luca - Painter; Belvedere, Andrea - Painter

The goddess Flora is seated on steps or a kind of dais, holding a cornucopia of flowers and distributing blossoms among the women gathered before her. This is a collaborative work between two Neapolitan artists, Luca Giordano -a painter very popular with the Spanish court under Charles II- and Andrea Belvedere. Belvedere is now believed to be responsible for the flowers, the minute and precise bru

Capture of a Stronghold

Oil on canvas. Ca. 1697

Giordano, Luca

Luca Giordano decorated three spaces in the Casón, an outbuilding of the Buen Retiro Palace, Madrid. The first was the central hall, which still exists, where he painted the fresco Apotheosis of the Spanish Monarchy, as well as sixteen scenes of the Labours of Hercules, now sadly lost.Two galleries that flanked this hall were destroyed in the late nineteenth century. The eastern one led to

Saint Augustine meditating on the Trinity

Oil on canvas. 1636

Guercino (Giovanni Francesco Barbieri)

According to this saint´s story, he was walking along the seaside meditating about the mystery of the Holy Trinity when he saw a boy filling a hole in the sand with seawater. Saint Augustine asked what he was doing and the boy answered that he was trying to empty the sea by pouring all its water into that hole. Upon hearing his answer, the saint said that that was impossible. The boy´s answer was