This item is sent from the UK (5 working days)

Get it as soon as 9th September

Jigsaw Puzzle (400 Pieces)

Discover the fascinating world of aviation history with Media Storehouse's Jigsaw Puzzle featuring Viktor Bolkhovitinov, the renowned Soviet aircraft designer. This intricately detailed puzzle showcases a captivating image of Bolkhovitinov, captured by RIA Novosti/Science Photo Library. Bring the past to life as you piece together this challenging puzzle, revealing the image of this influential figure who rose to the military rank of Major General. Engage your mind and transport yourself back in time with this stimulating and educational puzzle.

Enjoy the pleasure of assembling puzzles with our 400-piece personalised jigsaw puzzles, proudly made in the United Kingdom. Each puzzle is meticulously crafted using premium, 100% recycled 1.5 mm millboard to ensure durability and sustainability. with pieces cut to approximately 2cm x 2cm. When completed, the puzzle measures 47 x 31 cm, making it a fun and satisfying project. Delivered in a classy presentation box, personalised jigsaw puzzles provide an enjoyable and environmentally responsible experience for puzzle fans of all ages. Whether purchased for oneself or as a thoughtful present, this puzzle is sure to delight.

Jigsaw Puzzles are an ideal gift for any occasion

Estimated Product Size is 47.2cm x 31.5cm (18.6" x 12.4")

These are individually made so all sizes are approximate

Artwork printed orientated as per the preview above, with landscape (horizontal) or portrait (vertical) orientation to match the source image.

SECURE PAYMENTS

We happily accept a wide range of payment options so you can pay for the things you need in the way that is most convenient for you

MADE IN THE UK

Safe Shipping with 30 Day Money Back Guarantee

FREE PERSONALISATION

We are proud to offer a range of customisation including Cropping, Captions, and Filters. Zoom Cropping can be adjusted in the Basket.

FREE COLORIZATION SERVICE

You can choose advanced AI Colorization for this picture at no extra charge!