Only Fools And Horses star Gwyneth Strong looked as youthful as ever while enjoying a night out in Soho, London.

The 64-year-old actress, who is known for her role as Cassandra Trotter in the popular sitcom, showed off her pearly whites as she walked alongside a friend. She looked no different to the days she played Rodney Trotter's wife Cassandra from the 80s until the show ended in 2003.

She showed off her eclectic style with a black patterned maxi skirt, floral vest jacket and a long-sleeved shirt. She kept cosy and wrapped a bright orange scarf around her neck. The star accessorised with a classic Coach bag and brought along a striped tote bag for shopping.

Gwyneth was ready for a day of strolling as she completed her look with Birkenstocks. The actress rocked a similar hairstyle to Cassandra's. The Silent Witness and EastEnders star seemed relaxed as she enjoyed her afternoon stroll with her friend, who looked equally as fashionable.

Her character went through many challenges with Rodney Trotter - with the two breaking up and making up many times due to cheating accusations as well as her ambitious nature. Cassandra first appeared in the episode Yuppy Love, where she attended the same adult education class as Rodney.

They met when he accidentally took her raincoat from the cloakroom. A few hours later, they crossed paths again and his pals Mickey Pearce and Jevon tried (but failed) to ask her for a dance. A confident Rodney even bet £20 that she would agree to dance with him and she did.

During their relationship, she suffered a miscarriage before they went on to welcome a daughter named Joan - named after Del and Rodney's late mother. Gwyneth's last appearance as Cassandra in Only Fools and Horses was in the 2003 finale as well as the Christmas special titled Sleepless in Peckham.

Since Only Fools And Horses came to an end, Gwyneth enjoyed varied success in the television and film world - with the star taking up roles in Casualty and Doctors while also playing the recurring role of Geraldine Clough on EastEnders in 2016.

In 1997, the actress starred opposite David Jason for a guest role in A Touch of Frost and has impressive stage credits - including a 2008 West End production of Madness’s Our House. Gwyneth has been married to Footballers’ Wives star Jesse Birdsall since 2000 and they have two children together.