Welcome to New World Library

Here at LearnOutLoud.com we have a short list of companies whose audio content we really, really enjoy. Pretty close to the top of that list is New World Library, the publishing company co-founded by Marc Allen and Shakti Gawain. So needless to say we're very proud to announce that we now have all of New World Library's audio titles available for download through our site. Some of our favorites include Deepak Chopra's The Seven Spiritual Laws of Success, Dan Millman's Way of the Peaceful Warrior and Eckhart Tolle's The Power of Now.

For a complete listing of all of the New World Library titles that we have available, click the link below. These will change your life!

New World Library Audiobooks

10 Cures for the Summertime Blues

Summertime is in full swing. It's a great time for traveling and relaxing of course but it's also the perfect time to start audio learning. Listening to books and podcasts is an excellent way to pass time while you're at the beach or in your car on the way to Grandmother's house. To help you fight off those summertime blues I've put together a list of 10 free downloads for you to throw on your iPod or other MP3 player this summer. Enjoy!

10 Cures for the Summertime Blues

Jon Bischke

CEO/Founder, LearnOutLoud.com

Welcome to Lichtenstein Creative Media

We'd like to welcome another new publisher to the fold. Lichtenstein Creative Media produces a series called The Infinite Mind which often airs on public radio. These award-winning titles range from merely interesting to downright fascinating. For a glimpse into the subject matter, click here to read Seth's blog post about some of the titles he has listened to. For the complete listing of Lichtenstein Creative Media titles that we have up on the site, click the link below:

Lichtenstein Creative Media

(We've got more on the way soon as well!)

We've Cracked the 1,000 Title Barrier!

We mentioned last time that we were closing in on 1,000 titles in our Free Audio and Video Directory. Since then we've eclipsed the mark and David has written a blog post celebrating the milestone. To browse this repository of knowledge and wisdom, click the link below:

LearnOutLoud.com's Free Audio and Video Directory

Free Resource of the Day Newsletter

Are you one of the thousands of people getting our Free Resource of the Day newsletter? If not you definitely should be! Each day during the week we send out a link to a free audiobook, podcast or other resource. Many of these titles are exlcusively available here on LearnOutLoud. To sign up for the Free Resource of the Day newsletter, click the link below and enter your e-mail address. You'll be glad you did.

Free Resource of the Day E-mail

Latest Blog and Forum Posts

Blog Posts:

How to Have a Better Brain

Forum Posts:

I'm blogging this stuff now :)

archive.org thoughts

Visit our blog at: www.BlogOutLoud.com.