Kelly Armstrong, M.D.

Dr. Armstrong specializes in treating patients with back, neck and joint pain, sports-related injuries, women’s health and pelvic floor dysfunction. She joined Mary Free Bed in 2015.

Dr. Armstrong is a graduate of Michigan State University College of Human Medicine. She completed her Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation residency at Mayo School of Graduate Medical Education.

Philip Baty, M.D.

Dr. Baty is a family medicine physician with Mary Free Bed’s Pain Rehabilitation Program. He joined the Mary Free Bed family in 2021 after nearly 30 years in primary care practice in the Grand Rapids area.

He’s a graduate of Wayne State University School of Medicine and completed his residency at Grand Rapids Family Practice Residency, where he served as chief resident.

Dr. Baty has served as medical director of the Michigan Center of Clinical Systems Improvement since 2018 and is a Brief Action Plan trainer for the Centre for Collaboration, Motivation & Innovation.

Erin Beddows, M.D.

Dr. Beddows is a Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Physician who specializes in the treatment of cancer related conditions and electrodiagnostic. She works in Mary Free Bed’s Outpatient Clinic and provides PM&R Consults at Grand Rapids area acute care hospitals.

Dr. Beddows joined Mary Free Bed in 2022 following a fellowship in Cancer Rehabilitation at Medstar National Rehabilitation Hospital in Washington, DC. She earned her medical degree from Michigan State University College of Human Medicine and completed her residency in Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation at the Medical College of Wisconsin affiliated Hospitals in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

MEET DR. BEDDOWS

Benjamin Bruinsma, M.D.

Chief Medical Officer

Since joining the Mary Free Bed family in 1989, Dr. Bruinsma has dedicated his career to helping patients live life to its fullest. He’s directed the inpatient Amputation and Stroke Rehabilitation programs for over 30 years and was instrumental in development of the outpatient Amputation program. Whether a patient’s lost a limb due to illness or injury, or has a congenital limb difference, this interdisciplinary program provides medical care and support for a lifetime. He heads a team of specialists that includes nurses, physical therapists, prosthetists and amputee care liaisons who work together to help patients meet their goals. The program has been modeled by numerous hospital systems.

Dr. Bruinsma is a graduate of the University of Michigan and Wayne State University’s School of Medicine. He’s an active member of the American Medical Association and is a fellow for both the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and the American Association of Electrodiagnostic Medicine.

Nathan Carlton, M.D

Dr. Carlton is a physical medicine and rehabilitation physician who specializes in neurological rehabilitation. He sees inpatients at the Grand Rapids campus.

Dr. Carlton joined the Mary Free Bed Medical Group in 2023, after completing Mary Free Bed’s Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Residency program. He earned his medical degree from Michigan State University College of Human Medicine. Dr. Carlton is fluent in English and Spanish.

Daniel Fechtner, M.D.

Dr. Fechtner provides inpatient physiatry services at Mary Free Bed, treating patients with a variety of impairments and diagnoses. His specialties include spasticity management, cancer rehabilitation, Parkinson’s disease and other neurological conditions.

A graduate of Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. He joined Mary Free Bed in 2013.

Tom Fowler, D.C., DACRB

Dr. Fowler specializes in chiropractic care for patients with musculoskeletal conditions as a member of Mary Free Bed’s multidisciplinary Spine Center team. He’s the only chiropractor in Michigan – and one of only 250 across the country — who’s board certified in rehabilitation by the American Chiropractic Rehabilitation Board and is a Diplomate of the National Board of Chiropractic Examiners.

He has nearly four decades of chiropractic experience, including 32 years in private practice that includes development of onsite clinics and injury prevention strategies for local businesses and industries.

Dr. Fowler earned his Doctor of Chiropractic from Palmer College of Chiropractic. As president of the American Chiropractic Rehabilitation Board, he’s responsible for national testing of chiropractors for their board certification in rehabilitation. He joined Mary Free Bed in 2017 to help develop rehabilitation services across the Network. He’s the first chiropractor to have privileges at Mary Free Bed.

Eric Geiser, M.D.

Dr. Geiser specializes in internal medicine and pulmonary critical care, and is affiliated with Mercy Health Saint Mary’s. He cares for patients in Mary Free Bed’s Intensive Medical Rehabilitation Program.

He’s a graduate of Ross University Medical School and completed his residency at California Pacific Medical Center – Pacific Campus. He also completed a fellowship in pulmonary medicine at Physicians Carraway Medical Center.

Douglas Henry, M.D.

Dr. Henry cares for Mary Free Bed Kids patients. He’s triple board certified in physical medicine and rehabilitation, pediatrics and pediatric rehabilitation medicine.

Dr. Henry, who joined Mary Free Bed in 2019 from the Cleveland Clinic, specializes in the treatment of physical and cognitive issues, including cerebral palsy, spasticity management, traumatic injuries, stroke and muscle and nerve disorders. He’s an expert in pediatric chronic pain conditions, including complex regional pain syndrome and fibromyalgia.

He earned his medical degree from Wayne State University and completed a combined residency in pediatrics and Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at Children’s Hospital of Michigan and the Detroit Medical Center Rehabilitation Institute of Michigan, respectively.

Sam Ho, M.D.

Dr. Ho, who’s been with Mary Free Bed since 1983, specializes in the care of patients with spinal cord injuries. He’s a fellow of the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, and is a board-certified Diplomate of the American Board of Physical Medication and Rehabilitation.

A graduate of Korea University Medical College in Seoul, he completed his PM&R residency at Queens University. He completed a fellowship in spinal cord injury at Long Beach VA Medical Center.

Thomas Hordt, M.D.

Dr. Hordt, a member of the inaugural class of our Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Residency, provides physiatry consults for Mary Free Bed at Grand Rapids area acute-care hospitals. He also serves patients in Mary Free Bed’s outpatient clinic and provides weekend coverage for inpatients in our hospital.

He earned his medical degree at St. George’s University School of Medicine in Grenada.

Kyle Josephson, M.D.

Dr. Josephson specializes in spine and musculoskeletal conditions as well as spine procedures, musculoskeletal ultrasound and electrodiagnostic testing. He provides physiatry care for patients at Mary Free Bed including at the SpartanNash YMCA and Holland locations.

A graduate of Hope College and Michigan State University College of Human Medicine, Dr. Josephson completed his residency in Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation at Mary Free Bed Hospital, where he served as Chief Resident. He received additional fellowship training in interventional spine and musculoskeletal medicine at Mary Free Bed.

Naomi Kaplan, MBBS

Dr. Kaplan is double board-certified in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and Hospice and Palliative Medicine. She specializes in rehabilitation for patients with chronic pain and symptoms associated with cancer diagnoses and treatment. She sees patients at Mary Free Bed’s outpatient sites in Grand Rapids.

She earned her medical degree at University College London in England. After immigrating to the United States, Dr. Kaplan completed an internship in Internal Medicine at the University of Missouri and a residency in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at Zucker School of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell. She completed a fellowship in Hospice and Palliative Medicine at Mercy Health. Dr. Kaplan also is an alumna of the ABC News Medical Unit. She joined Mary Free Bed in 2020.

MEET DR. KAPLAN

Jeffrey Kramer, M.D.

Dr. Kramer has been with Mary Free Bed since 1994. He specializes in musculoskeletal injury, concussion and traumatic brain injury, spinal cord injury and Botox for spasticity management. Since 2020, Dr. Kramer has served as the Medical Director of Hope Network helping patients overcome challenges and achieve the highest level of independent care.

He’s a graduate of the University of Michigan and Wayne State University School of Medicine.

Andrea Kuldanek, M.D.

Dr. Kuldanek, a member of the Mary Free Bed family since 1982, has played an instrumental role in the growth of Mary Free Bed’s pediatric programs and oversees its secure inpatient unit.

Board certified in both Pediatrics and Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Dr. Kuldanek specializes in the treatment of brain injuries and disorders arising from trauma, stroke, infection and other complex neurological conditions.

A graduate of Wayne State University Medical School, Dr. Kuldanek also specializes in the treatment of patients with cerebral palsy and spasticity management.

Adam Lamm, M.D.

Medical Director, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Residency Program

Dr. Lamm specializes in the rehabilitation of adults with brain injuries and strokes, working with patients in our outpatient clinics, and helping to co-lead the post-concussion program. He also leads the Mary Free Bed Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation residency training program as the Program Director and the Designated Institutional Official. He joined the Mary Free Bed Medical Group in 2020.

Dr. Lamm graduated from Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine with his medical degree and a master’s degree in Bioethics. He completed his Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation residency at Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital/Harvard Medical School, where he served as chief resident. Following residency, he completed a brain injury medicine fellowship at Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital. His research interests include brain injury rehabilitation outcomes, techniques to improve teaching in graduate medical education, and quality improvement.

Clayton Luyk, M.D.

Dr. Luyk is a board-certified Physical Medicine &Rehabilitation Physician who provides care for a wide variety of adult patients in both inpatient and the outpatient follow-up clinic at the main Mary Free Bed campus in Grand Rapids, Michigan.

He earned his medical degree from Wayne State University School of Medicine in Detroit, Michigan; completed his transitional year at Spectrum Health and a residency in Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation at Mary Free Bed Rehabilitation Hospital where he was Chief Resident.

Nickolas Meyerkord, D.O.

Dr. Meyerkord, a physician who specializes in internal medicine, joined Mary Free Bed in February. He’s developing an outpatient Diabetes Rehabilitation Program to help patients with mobility, speech and other conditions related to the disorder and to provide education about healthy eating and exercise to help manage it.

After earning his medical degree at A.T. Still University’s Kirksville College of Osteopathic Medicine, he completed a residency in Internal Medicine at Blake Medical Center through HCA Healthcare/USF Morsani College of Medicine GME at Blake Medical Center.

Christopher Morelli, D.O.

Dr. Morelli specializes in spine procedures, therapeutic and diagnostic musculoskeletal ultrasound, sports medicine and electrodiagnostics.

A graduate of Lake Erie College of Osteopathic Medicine, he completed his residency in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at the University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics. Dr. Morelli led a rehabilitation team during his interventional spine and musculoskeletal fellowship at Spine West Physiatry and Sports Physicians. He joined Mary Free Bed in 2014.

Marianne Mousigian, M.D.

Dr. Mousigian specializes in pediatric rehabilitation and is a member of the Mary Free Bed Kids team of physiatrists. She cares for patients in both our inpatient and outpatient programs at the Grand Rapids campus.

She earned her medical degree at Wayne State University School of Medicine and completed a residency in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at the University of Michigan (Michigan Medicine), where she also completed a fellowship in Pediatric Rehabilitation Medicine. She joined Mary Free Bed in November 2021.

Christine Paul, MBBS, M.D.

Dr. Paul is an Internal Medicine Physician who will be based at Mary Free Bed Rehabilitation Hospital in Grand Rapids, Michigan. She will be working with Dr. Nickolas Meyerkord serving as a Hospitalist for the inpatient program.

Dr. Paul is a graduate of Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church Medical College Hospital in Kerala, India. She completed an Internal medicine Residency at HCA Healthcare/USF Morsani College of Medicine GME: Blake Medical Center in Bradenton, Florida. Prior to starting at Mary Free Bed, Dr. Paul worked as a Hospitalist at UF Health in Jacksonville, Michigan through Sound Physicians.

Christopher Rizik, D.O.

Dr. Rizik specializes in spine and musculoskeletal conditions, musculoskeletal ultrasound and electrodiagnostic procedures. He provides physiatry care for patients at Mary Free Bed Rehabilitation at the SpartanNash YMCA.

A graduate of Arizona College of Osteopathic Medicine, Dr. Rizik completed his residency in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, serving as chief resident, at William Beaumont Hospital – Royal Oak. He completed a fellowship in Interventional Spine and Pain Management through Michigan State University/Comprehensive Pain Specialists before joining Mary Free Bed in 2020.

Bridget Rizik, M.D.

Assistant Program Director, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Residency Program

Dr. Rizik specializes in neurorehabilitation and provides rehabilitative care for adults with brain injuries in Mary Free Bed’s inpatient and outpatient programs.

She’s a graduate of University of Cincinnati College of Medicine and completed a residency in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at University of Cincinnati Medical Center, where she also served as chief resident. She completed a fellowship in Brain Injury Medicine at Harvard Medical School – Spaulding Rehabilitation in Boston before joining Mary Free Bed in 2021.

Meagan Smith, D.O.

Dr. Smith is a physical medicine and rehabilitation physician with a special interest in cancer rehabilitation. She works at Mary Free Bed’s Grand Rapids Main Campus in the inpatient setting, where she serves as the Betty Bloomer Ford Cancer Rehabilitation Program Director, as well as the inpatient rehabilitation medical director for the hospital. She is board certified by the AOBPMR and is a fellow of the AAPMR.

Dr. Smith earned her medical degree at Michigan State University College of Osteopathic Medicine. She completed her residency in physical medicine and rehabilitation at Sparrow Hospital – Michigan State University and served as chief resident. She joined Mary Free Bed in 2017.

MEET DR. SMITH

Jonathan VandenBerg, D.O.

Dr. VandenBerg specializes in the care of adults with spinal cord injuries and medically complex conditions, and works with inpatients in our Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation and Intensive Medical Rehabilitation programs. He also sees patients in Mary Free Bed’s outpatient clinic.

A graduate of Michigan State University’s College of Osteopathic Medicine, Dr. VandenBerg completed a residency in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago, where he served as chief resident. Dr. VandenBerg, who also did a spinal cord injury medicine fellowship at the University of Texas Science Center at Houston, joined Mary Free Bed in 2020.

MEET DR. VANDENBERG

Ralph Wang, M.D.

Dr. Wang primarily sees adult inpatients with a variety of diagnoses at Mary Free Bed’s main campus in Grand Rapids.

He earned his medical degree at Northwestern University and completed his residency at the Baylor College of Medicine and TIRR Memorial Hermann. He served as Illinois medical director for U.S. Physiatry prior to joining Mary Free Bed in 2019.

Stuart A. Yablon, M.D.

Dr. Yablon is board certified in both brain injury medicine and physical medicine and rehabilitation. His special interests include neurobehavioral and neuromedical complications of acquired brain injury, including syndromes of impaired consciousness, spasticity and related motor disorders, seizure disorders and venous thromboembolic disease. He has extensive experience in non-traumatic acquired brain injury, particularly in the care of patients with hemorrhagic stroke and brain tumor. He joined Mary Free Bed in 2019.

He’s a graduate of the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston and completed his residency in PM&R at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey/New Jersey School of Medicine (now Rutgers New Jersey Medical School), where he served as academic chief resident. He completed a Rehabilitation Research Career Development Fellowship with the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at Baylor College of Medicine, specializing in brain injury rehabilitation.