Laura Brennan entered her heavenly home on Saturday, June 27, 2020. There is no doubt that she heard the words “Well done, my good and faithful servant” upon arrival.

A celebration of life was held at 10 a.m. on Monday, July 6 at Civic Green Park in Highlands Park CO.

Laura Kay Seyler was born on June 4, 1963, in Winslow AZ, the second of six daughters, to Lucky and Karen (Wadkins) Seyler. She lived in Arizona, Ottawa KS, and McCook before moving to and growing up in Aurora. She participated in band, theatre, golf and cross country, graduating in 1981. She helped out in the family store and watched after her beloved little sisters. She attended the University of Nebraska – Lincoln and remained a Husker fan no matter where she lived.

After a brief stint in Arizona, she returned to Lincoln, where she was introduced by mutual friends to her future husband, Patrick Brennan. Laura soon moved to California to be with him. They married on Sept. 5, 1987. Laura and Pat were adventurers and she loved the beach, the mountains, camping and raising and showing golden retrievers.

What she loved the most were the children they had there: Jacob, Christopher, Danielle, Ryan and Tori. With motherhood, she found her higher purpose and enjoyed being a stay at home mom.

The family moved to Highlands Ranch in 2007 for Patrick’s job. She loved the view out her windows and answered the call of the mountains as often as possible, hiking and camping with family, friends, or her dog Maggie. In Colorado, Laura also found another level of her higher purpose: foster care and adoption. Laura had always had the love in her for a thousand children and would have loved to have had half a dozen. God put it on her heart to do just that, and they added Lizzie, Rachel and Hannah to the family.

Laura was active in her church, working as the childcare coordinator. She was involved in the kids’ schools and the girls’ therapies, and as a soccer coach, her teams winning many seasons and tournaments.

The Brennans’ went on a pilgrimage to Israel and were blessed to be baptized again in the River Jordan. To walk where Jesus walked, to be washed in the waters where John the Baptist had washed the Savior, was deeply moving for Laura.

Laura was dearly loved and will be terribly missed by her husband, Patrick; children Danielle of Highlands Ranch, Ryan and fiancée Amy Loughran of Harker Heights, TX, Tori of Highlands Ranch, Hannah of Parker, Lizzie and Rachel of Highlands Ranch; parents, Lucky and Karen Seyler of Russell, KS; sisters Lisa and Scott Werner of Aurora, Mindy and Ray Smidt of Grand Island, Jenny Perez of Cairo, Stephanie and Brian Waterman of Junction City, KS, and Sarah and Nick Winfrey of Phillips; brothers-in-law Mark and Debby Brennan of Weeki Wachee, Florida and Ron and Renee Brennan of Haymarket, VA; nieces and nephews Derek and Hope Werner and children, Trent and Emily Werner and son, Brody Werner, Alyssa and James Kollie and daughter any day, Travis Mangus, Stephanie Smidt and children, Katy and Newly Gruber, Lindsey, Zack and Sydney Perez, Hunter, Tanner and Cooper Bogenhagen, Briggston, Turner and Malone Winfrey, Andrew and Morgan Brennan, Ellen, Ruby and Georgia Brennan; numerous other family members and many friends from all over the country.

She was preceded in death by twin sons, Jacob and Christopher; her grandparents Nora Wadkins and Arthur and Abby Seyler; her in-laws Jim and Adeline Brennan; and several special dogs.

One of Laura’s favorite verses comes from Psalms 27: 13-14. ”I remain confident of this: I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of living. Wait for the Lord; be strong and take heart and wait for the Lord”.

1st Corinthians 2:9 reads “No eye has seen, no ear has heard, and no mind has imagined what God has prepared for those who love him.” Laura loved Him – oh, how she loved Him. Her view now is spectacular, as she gazes on the face of God.