Energetic and impassioned, Richmond author and playwright David L. Robbins seems as if he’s enthusiastic about pretty much everything.

But he was definitely not enthusiastic when The John Marshall Foundation approached him with the possibility of writing a play about Marshall, specifically the Aaron Burr treason trial that Marshall presided over. Oh, and the foundation wanted it to be a production that would appeal to high school students, attorneys and the public at large.

Robbins acknowledged he is typically not enthralled at the notion of commissioned work — especially a scenario with so many prerequisites — but as a once-practicing attorney and admirer of Marshall, another Richmonder, he agreed to take a look. As he settled into his research, he began to see possibilities, and then it dawned on him: This would be a task perfectly suited for him.

A lawyer by training, a historian of a kind from his deeply researched historical novels, a playwright. He could check the boxes necessary, he thought to himself, to pull off this project.

“In the end, my skepticism and reluctance turned into an immense amount of enthusiasm,” Robbins said of his play “The King of Crimes,” which launches a limited run at the Gottwald Playhouse at Dominion Energy Center on Friday with a gala and after-party.

There will be an additional four public performances bookending the upcoming week filled with eight performances (with free admission) for students from Richmond Public Schools.

The John Marshall Foundation’s motivation behind wanting a theatrical interpretation of the Burr trial — one of the most historically significant of Marshall’s career and one that took place in Richmond — is, in part, to reach audiences in a different way.

The foundation has been involved in civics education in schools for years, but students increasingly “want living history and things that are a little more entertaining,” said Joni Albrecht, director of development and communications, who started floating the idea in 2016.

The box office sensation “Hamilton” — the Broadway musical that brought to life Founding Father Alexander Hamilton — is a good example, Albrecht said.

“Its tremendous success reinforces what we know about history lessons: People want to know what got us here, but are ready for a new approach,” she said. “They want to connect yesterday to today. The stage is the perfect place to bring history to life, and to do so — which we do — with modern language, nontraditional casting, state-of-the-art lighting and sound, and an eye to connecting history to current events.”

The mission of The John Marshall Foundation also is to promote a greater public understanding of Marshall, a local figure of immense importance in the development of the United States but one who also seems to remain slightly underappreciated. As chief justice of the U.S., he served on the Supreme Court for three decades.

“Underappreciated locally and nationally,” said Lacy Ward Jr., the foundation’s new executive director. “People take for granted that we’ve always had three branches of government … but I think it was Marshall’s 34 years serving as chief justice that really established the court as an equal player.

“The way I’ve thought of it, the court’s the place for the common citizen. If you want influence in Congress, you’ve got to be powerful, whether that’s in dollars or numbers. If you want to have influence in the executive (branch), it’s the same. You’ve got to be powerful. The common person with a very real constitutionally based question can only get a voice at the court.

“That’s Marshall. When he came onto the court, we only had two functioning branches. When he left the court, we had three. Modern Americans who understand this balance have to give credit to Marshall for putting the third leg on the stool.”

Robbins calls Marshall “the George Washington of the judiciary.”

Listen now and subscribe: Apple Podcasts | Google Podcasts | Spotify | YouTube | RSS Feed | Omny Studio

“The King of Crimes” refers to treason — the only criminal act defined in the U.S. Constitution. The crux of the story is this: In 1807, Burr was charged with treason for allegedly plotting to create an independent country in land bordering the United States.

He had been vice president under Thomas Jefferson, who had grown to despise Burr and wanted him convicted of treason and hanged, though the evidence was not clear-cut. Marshall, the chief justice who presided over the case as part of his circuit duties at the Capitol in Richmond, preferred allowing the Constitution to determine Burr’s fate.

Robbins joked that his original skepticism that “you can’t make a play out of a trial was right.”

So, he made it about the characters in the trial. The centerpiece of the play is the tug-of-war between Jefferson and Marshall and how Marshall, facing intense political pressure to bend, did not.

The play also features some interesting quirks, such as the fact Burr barely even shows up. He “appears for three seconds at the opening, and you don’t know it’s him,” Robbins said, noting he’s fully formed as a character, though, because “everybody else is talking about him.”

There will be humor and interaction with the audience in the 200-seat Gottwald Playhouse, but no complicated scenery changes. The set? Two tables and four chairs.

“The rest of it is really good actors, good sound effects, really good lighting, good costuming,” said Robbins, who hopes the simple approach will make the play portable and in demand by other communities.

“The King of Crimes” is produced by 5th Wall Theatre and directed by Michael Duni. Actors include William Blair, Andrew C. Boothby, Darrelle Brown, Billy-Christopher Maupin, Jasmine Shea and Foster Solomon. The stage manager is Lauren Langston.

Richmond Public Schools is thrilled to be a part of the project, said Eric Rhoades, director of curriculum and instruction.

“I can’t emphasize enough that RPS is extremely fortunate to have partners like The John Marshall Foundation and others that support our students and give them opportunities that they may otherwise not have,” Rhoades said.

The foundation has provided lesson plans for teachers and students to supplement their classroom instruction, said Ma’asehyahu Isra-Ul, RPS instructional specialist in history and social science, who has been the school system’s point person for the project.

“The play provides students an opportunity to participate in a living historical experience, which makes the study of history real and authentic,” he said. “This will be the first time for many of our students to take part in attending an event like this, so it will definitely be an opportunity for inspiration.”

Robbins called the play “really a visionary thing” undertaken by the foundation to further promote the legacy of Marshall.

“John Marshall is truly ours,” he said. “I think we should familiarize ourselves with this native son.”

The play is presented by The John Marshall Foundation with presenting partners E. Rhodes and Leona B. Carpenter Foundation, the Herndon Foundation and Virginia H. Spratley Charitable Fund II.

Other sponsors include Caroline Smith Parkinson, J. Kenneth Timmons Irrevocable Trust and Mr. and Mrs. Watson Marshall.