Check out all the prize winners at the 30th edition of the SAG Awards, which took place in Los Angeles, California, on Saturday.

Oppenheimer and The Bear scooped the most honours at Saturday’s 2024 Screen Actors Guild Awards, winning three prizes each.

What awards did Oppenheimer, The Bear win?

In the SAG Awards’ film categories, Oppenheimer stars Cillian Murphy and Robert Downey Jr won the Best Male Actor and Best Supporting Male Actor gongs, respectively. Christopher Nolan’s blockbuster also claimed the award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture.

In television, The Bear’s Jeremy Allen White and Ayo Edebiri were named as the top male and female actors in the comedy genre, respectively, while the FX/Hulu show also picked up the award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series.

What other notable winners were there?

For her performance in the Martin Scorsese movie Killers of the Flower Moon, Lily Gladstone won Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role.

Meanwhile, television’s best actor gongs also included a clean sweep by a single production in the TV Movie or Limited Series section, with Beef pair Steven Yeun and Ali Wong taking the awards.

Take a look at the full list of 2024 SAG Awards winners:

Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture

Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role

Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role

Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role

Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role

Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series

Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series

Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Drama Series

Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Drama Series

Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Comedy Series

Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Comedy Series

Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Television Movie or Limited Series

Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Television Movie or Limited Series

Outstanding Performance by a Stunt Ensemble in a Comedy or Drama Series

Outstanding Performance by a Stunt Ensemble in a Motion Picture

Streisand handed Lifetime Achievement Award

In addition to the 15 competitive TV and film categories, the gala included special recognition for the actor and singer Barbra Streisand, who received the Screen Actors Guild Life Achievement Award for her extensive and outstanding career in the world of entertainment.