Coach Diego Giustozzi aims to help Vietnamese futsal reach the semi-finals of the Asian Cup, which means winning tickets to play the 2024 World Cup for the third consecutive time. Photo of collaborators

Both Vietnamese futsal teams and host Thailand in Group A have many opportunities to compete for four spots in the 2024 World Cup finals at the Asian playground about to open on April 17 in Bangkok. In fact, the Asian Cup is a fierce competition between the top teams on the continent, besides hosts Thailand and Vietnam, there are also Iran, Japan, Uzbekistan, Australia, and Indonesia.

This season, Argentine coach Diego Giustozzi said he will help captain Pham Duc Hoa and his teammates go further, firstly overcoming the difficult opening match against Myanmar. After more than five weeks of intensive training, coach Giustozzi said: "Myanmar did not compete in the recent AFC Futsal Asian Cup but cannot underestimate them. In the first match, there was no fatigue or any mentality of losing, I think Myanmar's motivation was very high.

Regarding the Vietnamese futsal team, I am satisfied with the way the students have improved after matches in friendly tournaments. I believe in them with the hope that they all give everything they have.”

Assessing the Vietnam futsal team's consistent goals at the 2024 Asian Futsal Finals, coach Diego Giustozzi confided: "We are ready with strategies to face the upcoming opponents. Of course, we cannot win one minute, two minutes or a few situations but must maintain the highest concentration for the whole match. The whole team is very confident and promises to play well against Myanmar.

In another opening match in Group A, host Thailand, for the third time hosting the big Asian game, did not hesitate to set a goal higher than the runner-up position in 2008 and 2012. Coach Miguel Rodrigo once held the Vietnamese futsal team. returning for his second stint in charge of Thailand just two months ago said he was ready for the tournament at home.

Coach Rodrigo shared: “Our tactical system and way of playing are completely different from the previous coach, which led to many problems and troubles at first. However, thanks to the hard work and focus of the players, we have come close to the level I want. I think China is a dangerous opponent, but having the enthusiastic support of the audience will help us win."/.