In This Article

Origin, Meaning, And History Of Saul

Saul is a male given name of Hebrew origin, which means “ask/question”. The name means “asked, loaned, grave” in the Bible and the Hebrew language.

The first book of Samuel contains the Chronicle of Saul, the first king of Israel. Before his rule concluded, he fell out of God’s good graces, and David took his place as king following a Philistine victory. His relationship with David was rocky. In addition to attempting to assassinate him, Saul also made his daughters Merab and Michal available as wives for David. This could be why the personal name was unpopular throughout the Middle Ages. The apostle Paul was also known by the Hebrew name Saul in the New Testament.

The name is well-known among Christians since it was used by St. Paul when he persecuted Christians and later renounced by him when he became a Christian. It could have developed in part as a moniker for someone who had performed as the Biblical monarch in a religious performance. Nonetheless, Saul had an important place among the Israelites.

Famous variations of this name include Saoul (Biblical Greek), Sha’ul (Biblical Hebrew), Sauli (Finnish), Shaul (Hebrew), and Saulius (Lithuanian). The name has been used since 1880 when the US government started keeping track of naming patterns. The Jewish community favors this name, although Christians also appreciate it. Saul is a rather uncommon name because it has never ranked higher than 270 on the US popularity lists.

Jimmy McGill, often known as Saul Goodman, is a fictional character played by Bob Odenkirk in the Breaking Bad television series. Vince Gilligan and Peter Gould developed the character. In the Breaking Bad spinoff Better Call Saul, he plays the antihero protagonist and a vital role.

How To Pronounce Saul?

‘Saul’ In QR Code

Notable People Named Saul

This section covers people who have made the name Saul famous with their contributions in various fields. It indeed is a little more inspiration for you to choose the name for your baby, don’t you think?

Saul AlvarezProfessional boxer

Saul BassGraphic designer and Academy Award-winning filmmaker

Saul BellowWriter and literary critic

Saul WilliamsSaul Williams is an American rapper, singer, songwriter, musician, poet, writer, and actor.

Saul RubinekActor, director, producer, and playwright

Saul ZaentzAmerican film producer and record company executive widely popular for winning the Academy Award for Best Picture three times.

Saul HudsonMusician and songwriter

Saúl Craviotto RiveroSpanish athlete who has won gold, silver, and bronze medals in various Olympic events held throughout the globe.

Saul Stacey WilliamsAmerican rapper, singer, songwriter, musician, poet, writer, and actor. Best known for his blend of poetry and alternative hip-hop.

Saul On The Popularity Chart

Saul has been through a long period of popularity before regressing in the name charts. Let us study the graphs to know more.

Popularity Over Time

Saul peaked in popularity in 2006, when 1120 babies per million were registered under this name in the United States.

Source:

Rank Over Time

Saul has been a quite familiar name among the parents of the US, but unfortunately, it never made it among the top 1000 names.

Source:

Saul On MomJunction Popularity Chart

Know how popular the name Saul is among the MomJunction readers. We used a unique approach to gather relevant insights for creating this popularity chart by observing the interactions and interest around the name on our platform. See what the trend has been among our readers over these past years.

Popularity Within US States

If you're living in the US, you might be curious about the popularity of Saul in your own state, a state you're considering moving to, or one with which you have a connection. Use the drop-down menu below to select any US state and discover the name's popularity within that region.

California

Texas

Florida

Source:

Saul Name’s Presence On Social Media

Before you finalize your baby’s name, you would want to assess if the name is rare or popular. Digital footprint of the name - it’s presence on the internet and social media platforms - can provide you with valuable insights on it’s popularity. A name’s online presence is an important metric for new parents to evaluate their options and make an informed choice. How many people are searching the name on Google, how many profiles are there on Facebook, does the name have a Wikipedia page? Such information surely tells you if the name is ubiquitous or unique. Here is how Saul fares on that count.

Saul’s Mention In Fictional Works

Names With Similar Sound As Saul

If you want a name that means the same as Saul but sounds different, go through the options listed below.

There are several variations of the name Saul, and here are some suggestions you may check.

Popular Sibling Names For Saul

If you are looking for some matching sibling names that resonate with Saul, check our suggestions here.

Other Popular Names Beginning With S

Looking for more baby names starting with the letter S to resonate with your family’s naming tradition or to rhyme with the sibling names? Find a range of alternative names starting with this letter.

Names With Similar Meaning As Saul

Discover names synonymous with Saul’s meaning. Explore alternatives, each with a unique charm but that mirrors the meaning.

Names Rhyming With Saul

The significance of rhyming names extends beyond their aesthetic appeal and a good feel. The repetition and symmetry enhance their memorability. If you want your children’s names to be easily remembered or tune with your name, try some rhyming names. Here are such names that rhyme with Saul.

Anagram Names Of Saul

William Shakespeare is known for his ‘onomastic wit,’ with anagrams being one of them (remember the play Twelfth Night?). Anagram is the rearrangement of the same letters to form different words. Anagramming names has been in vogue for centuries now, and why not when it can create some cute names? Anagram baby names stand out with their unique sound and spellings. You may try an anagram of your name or your partner’s; even better if you combine both names and then try an anagram for the baby. It all stays in the family this way. You may also try anagram names for siblings, especially twins. Here are some anagrams of Saul.

Asul Sual Sula

Acrostic Poem On Saul

Dive into the lyrical charm of the name Saul with this acrostic poem. Witness how each letter paints together a story, capturing the name’s individuality, strength, vitality, and sophistication. Inspiring, is it? Why not try a similar poem that describes what you think of your baby’s personality?

Adorable Nicknames For Saul

Nicknames are an integral part of your communication with your baby. You tend to use several variations of your child’s name; some are meaningful, while others are simply adorable sounds. Here are a few nicknames you can begin with for the name Saul.

Solly

Sal

Saulie

Sauly

Saulty

Saul’s Zodiac Sign As Per Western Astrology

Western astrology includes the construction of a horoscope based on the person’s exact time of birth and location to understand the positions of the planet, stars, and zodiac signs at that time. However, in popular culture, it is often narrowed down to the sun sign, which depends on the person’s birth date.There are 12 zodiac signs, each having dominant traits, planetary rulers, elemental connection, and more.

Zodiac sign or Sun sign

The Earth’s orbit around the sun is divided into 12 zodiac signs covering 30-degree sectors. According to Western astrology, the zodiac or sun sign depends on the sun’s position in one of these sectors at the time of your birth. Starting from the sun’s position at the March equinox, the chart goes anti-clockwise from Aries, followed by Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius, and Pisces. These signs are ruled by planetary bodies - Mars, Venus, Mercury, Moon, Sun, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. Furthermore, they are categorized into triplicities or elemental signs - fire, water, air, and earth - that govern their characteristics. Each of these zodiac signs features certain personality traits that may determine how a person presents themselves.

Each zodiac sign in Western astrology is linked to a specific range of dates in the year. Unlike Vedic astrology, where names can sometimes be used to infer astrological details, Western astrology relies entirely on the birth date.

To know more about your baby’s zodiac sign, choose the period in which your baby’s date of birth falls, from the options given below. This will give you a glimpse into the world of astrology tailored for your baby.

Saul’s Zodiac Sign And Birth Star As Per Vedic Astrology

Saul Personality Traits As Per Numerology

The numerology belief system envisages a relationship between a name and numbers. The related numbers are believed to give insights into a person’s character. We have researched this area to connect the numerology-based characteristic traits to the letters of the English alphabet. And the results are fascinating.

Numerology followers believe that each letter signifies attributes that can influence a person’s attitude and approach. Among these placements, the most significant are the first letter (Cornerstone) and the last letter (Capstone) of a name. Cornerstone highlights your primary personality traits and explains how you face challenges and opportunities in life. Capstone can tell you about your approach to work and how you complete them. Often, a letter may be repeated twice or more in a name. This repetition signifies the intensification or amplification of the traits associated with the letter in an individual’s personality.

Read to know what characteristics the name Saul is known for in numerology. Here we have avoided repetition of letters and added them just once for a better reading experience.

Infographic: Know The Name Saul‘s Personality As Per Numerology

Saul In Different Languages

Saul In Fancy Fonts

Visualize your little one’s name in different captivating fonts. You can use these fancy styles on birth announcement cards, nursery decorations, personalized gifts, to name a few. Select the perfect font from these options for a touch of personalization.

Double Struck Font

𝕊 𝕒 𝕦 𝕝

Bold Script Font

𝓢 𝓪 𝓾 𝓵

Fancy Style 35 Font

š α u ﾚ

Fancy Style 7 Font

Ş Δ Ữ Ł

Love Font

S♥ a♥ u♥ l♥

Black Square Font

🆂 🅰 🆄 🅻

Hand Writing 2 Font

S α υ ʅ

X Above Bellow Font

S͓̽ a͓̽ u͓̽ l͓̽

Adorable ‘Saul’ Wallpapers To Share

Liked our fancy fonts for Saul? Why not go a step forward with these beautiful posters? They are perfect to download and use as display pictures or social media posts! You may also use them as part of decorating your child’s room. These personalized wallpapers celebrate the positive vibes of the name, offering a unique way to show how much this name means to you. What’s more! You have multiple options here to choose depending on your mood or occasion.

Saul 3D Wallpaper

Saul Birthday Wallpaper

‘I Love Saul’ Wallpaper

Stylish Saul Wallpaper

Saul Name Initial Wallpaper

How To Communicate The Name Saul In Sign Languages