Class includes nine names with impressive accolades; IVHF Special Awards also announced

HOLYOKE, Mass., May 20, 2024 - The International Volleyball Hall of Fame (IVHF) announced via video (click here to watch) its induction class of 2024, to be honored on October 19 in Holyoke. The class includes nine members who were at the top of the game in their respective category, setting the standard and making history en route to being honored with this prestigious recognition. Five of these inductees were also top in the record-setting fan vote for this class.

The 38th IVHF Induction class includes the following members: four-time Olympian Ana Paula Henkel (Brazil, Female Beach Player); Tim Hovland (United States, Male Beach Player), who won 60 titles in the course of his career; three-time Olympic gold medalist Regla Bell (Cuba, Female Indoor Player); three time Olympian Andrea Zorzi (Italy, Male Indoor Player); the only coach to win an Olympic gold medal with both men’s and women’s teams Jose “Zé Roberto” Guimarães (Brazil, Coach); Hadi Rezaei (Iran, ParaVolley), the most decorated coach in the history of sitting volleyball; an international official for 24 years Juan Angel Pereyra (Argentina, Official/Referee); Sue Lemaire (United States, Official/Referee), the first female international official from the U.S.; and influential Italian volleyball leader Giuseppe Panini (Italy, Leader).

Also announced are IVHF special award winners, recognized for their contributions to the IVHF or the sport of volleyball itself. They include international grassroots legend John Kessel (Mintonette Medallion of Merit Award), and Bill Kauffman and Ed Chan (Award for Media Excellence), both recognized posthumously with the inaugural award for their communications, photography and promotional contributions to the sport, and the Mayoral Award of Excellence to former Massachusetts State Senators and Representatives Mike Knapik, Mike Kane, Aaron Vega and Don Humason for their legislative efforts in getting volleyball designated as the Official Team and Recreational Sport of Massachusetts.

“Since 1985, the IVHF has had the distinct honor of inducting the legends of our sport and telling their stories to our worldwide volleyball family,” said IVHF Board President Steve Bishop, also the President of the Florida Region of USA Volleyball. “This year we are honored to welcome the outstanding Class of 2024 Inductees and their families, along with several very deserving special award winners. We cannot wait to meet them, hear their stories, and welcome them to Holyoke, the Birthplace of Volleyball.”

All told, the IVHF has inducted 167 individuals from 26 countries into its historic Hall of Fame – those totals will rise to 176 inductees from 27 countries after the 2024 event. More detailed information on each inductee can be found below.

"We are thrilled to announce this year's class of Hall of Fame inductees, a group that truly reflects the diversity and global reach of our sport,” stated IVHF Executive Director George Mulry. “These remarkable individuals come from varied backgrounds and have made significant contributions to volleyball in different parts of the world. Their unique stories and achievements exemplify the spirit of inclusivity and excellence that defines our sport. We hope the entire volleyball community will come together to experience their enshrinement, whether in person or online, as we honor their legacy and celebrate their impact on the volleyball world."

The 2024 International Volleyball Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony will take place in Holyoke, Massachusetts, USA on Saturday, October 19, 2024. The event is open to the public on a first-come, first-served basis, and ticket packages are available online at www.ivhf.org.

Volleyball enthusiasts are encouraged to sign up for an IVHF membership which will provide behind-the-scenes and exclusive content before, during and after Induction Weekend. More information on the IVHF membership program can be found on the organization’s website.

Located in Volleyball City - Holyoke, Massachusetts - the city where volleyball was created, the IVHF is an independent non-profit 501(c)(3) organization dedicated to honoring the legends, recognizing the greats, and preserving the history of volleyball worldwide. The IVHF museum is home to over 167 inductees from 26 different countries and over 5,000 square feet of volleyball history. Thousands of people visit the IVHF museum each year to learn about the game and experience the exhibits. Best known for its annual marquee Induction Celebration honoring the game’s elite, the Hall of Fame also operates youth, collegiate, and recreational programs annually in New England. For more information on the induction events, please visit the Hall’s website at www.ivhf.org or email [email protected].

Included in the 2024 Induction class are:

Ana Paula Henkel (Brazil, Beach)

Ana Paula ranks as one of the top women's beach volleyball players in the world as she is the only player, man or woman, who has won SWATCH-FIVB World Tour gold medals with five different partners (Monica Rodrigues, Sandra Pires, Shaylyn Bede, Leila Barros, and Shelda Bede).

FIVB Best Server 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007

FIVB Team of the Year 2008 (Shelda Bede)

FIVB Tour Champion 2003 (Sandra Pires), 2008 (Shelda Bede)

Participated in four Olympic Games: 1992 & 1996 with Brazil Indoor National team and 2004 & 2008 in Beach Volleyball

Ana Paula was also a standout player on the Brazilian Indoor National team in the 1990s. She was a member of Brazil's bronze medal Volleyball team at the Atlanta 1996 Olympic Games, and helped the South American country to three FIVB Grand Prix championship teams (1994, 1996 and 1998). She was also the most valuable player at the 1994 World Cup.

Tim Hovland (United States, Beach)

Won 60 titles including six Manhattan Beach Opens, four Hermosa Beach Opens and over $1 million in prize money.

Teamed with Hall of Famer Mike Dodd (2012) to win 18 titles in 1988-89 alone and reached the podium in 39 of 48 tournaments.

Inducted to the California Beach Volleyball Association Hall of Fame in 2000

Recipient of the USA Volleyball Thomas Haine All-Time Great Male Player Award in 2020.

Regla Bell (Cuba, Indoor)

Won three gold medals in a row at the Summer Olympics an outside hitter/opposite for Cuba (1992, 1996 and 2000), two gold medals at the FIVB World Championship (1994 and 1998), and four consecutive gold medals at the FIVB World Cup (1989, 1991, 1995 and 1999).

Bell received many individual honors including Most Valuable Player, best spiker and best receiver of the 1993 World Grand Champions Cup and best spiker of the 1997 World Grand Champions Cup along with several professional league honors.

Bell played professionally in six countries including Cuba, Italy, Spain, Brazil, Indonesia and the Philippine’s. Among several awards received over her career, Bell was elected MVP and Best Scorer for the regular season of the 2008-09 Spanish Superliga after hitting 439 kills.

Andrea Zorzi (Italy, Indoor)

Named to the FIVB Stars of the Century list

Won two World Championships with the Italian Men’s National Team (1990 and 1994); Gold (1995) and silver (1989) at the FIVB World Cup; Gold (1993) at the World Grand Champions Cup; three gold (1990, 1991, 1992), one silver (1996) and one bronze (1993) at the FIVB World League and three gold (1989, 1993, 1995) and one silver (1991) at the European Championship

Participated in three Olympics between 1988 and 1996 culminating in the silver medal at the 1996 Atlanta Games

Won several titles playing for almost all the major volleyball clubs of Italy including Maxicono Parma and Sisley Treviso. Two Italian Championships (1990, 1996) and one European Champions League in 1995. Two-time FIVB Men's World Champion (1990, 1994)

Jose “Zé Roberto” Guimarães (Brazil, Coach)

The only coach in history to win Olympic gold with both men’s and women’s teams.

Led the Brazilian men to gold at the 1992 Barcelona Games and several top 3 finishes at major FIVB competitions: bronze at the 1995 World Cup; Gold (1993), silver (1995) and bronze (1994) at the World League.

Led Brazil women to Olympic gold in 2008 and 2012 followed by a silver medal in 2020.

The Brazilian women saw much success with Ze Roberto at the helm 23 medals in major FIVB competitions including: World Championship (3 silver, 1 bronze); World Cup (2 silver); World Grand Champions Cup (2 gold, 2 silver); Nations League (1 silver); World Grand Prix (9 gold, 3 silver).

Hadi Rezaei (Iran, ParaVolley)

Rezaei is the most decorated coach in the history of sitting volleyball with 21 gold medals, three silver medals and two bronze medals at major competitions.

Led the Iranian Men’s Sitting Volleyball Team to medals in six consecutive Paralympic Games 2000 (gold), 2004 (silver), 2008 (gold), 2012 (silver), 2016 (gold), 2020 (gold)

Won seven medals at the World Championships including gold in 1998, 2010, 2018 and 2022; silver in 2006; and bronze in 2002 and 2014.

The Iranian Sitting Men also won four Asian Para Games Gold Medals in 2010, 2014, 2018 and 2022.

Rezaei had success at the club level as well, winning six gold medals at the World Club Championships and three at the Asian Club Championships.

Juan Angel Pereyra (Argentina, Official)

International Referee from 1980 to 2004

Whistled three Olympic Games including Barcelona, Sydney and Athens.

Former member of FIVB Refereeing Commission and member of Control Committees in several competitions including Beijing 2008 Olympic Games.

Still very active promoting volleyball, in roles including President of Tucuman Volleyball Federation and President of Refereeing Commission at South American Volleyball Confederation.

Sue Lemaire (United States, Official)

Became first female International Volleyball Referee certified by the FIVB (1983)

Participated in numerous international indoor events including the Pan Am Games (1987), four World University Games (1983, 1985, 1993, 1995), the Hong Kong Cup (1993) and the Goodwill Games (1994), where she officiated the women’s gold medal match.

Also became an International Beach Referee, officiating the World Beach Championships in 1997 and matches at the 1996 and 2000 Olympics for Beach Volleyball

An official with both the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW), a pioneer body for women’s sports, and the NCAA. She officiated five AIAW national tournaments and nine NCAA Division I Women’s Volleyball Championships.

Served on several national and regional rules and policy committees for volleyball and women’s sports, earning several awards for her work, including the USA Volleyball George J. Fisher Leader in Volleyball Award (1985), the USA Volleyball Golden Whistle Award (1985) and the Professional Association of Volleyball Officials Honor Award (1987).

Giuseppe Panini (Italy, Leader)

Founder of the world famous Panini trading card company in 1961.

Purchased the professional volleyball club Modena Volley in 1966 quickly growing it to the largest volleyball club in the world by bringing in talented future IVHF inductees such as Josef Musil (2004), Edward Skorek (2006), Bernard Rajman (2005) and Julio Velasco (2003) to name just a few.

Instrumental in the founding of the Italian Volleyball League (Lega Pallavolo Serie A) in 1973 - whose SuperLega is still widely regarded as the most difficult and competitive leagues in the world.

Modena would go on to win the Italian Volleyball League championship 12 times.

Modena’s Palazzo dello Sport where the team competes is also known as PalaPanini.

Included in the 2024 Special Awards categories are:

John Kessel (Mintonette Medallion of Merit Award)

Officially joined USA Volleyball in 1985 and wrote the first IMPACT Manual, which is still used today to train coaches. He retired in 2020 as the USAV Director of Sport Development but still remains active and passionate about coaching education

Has traveled to all 50 U.S. states and to more than 64 additional countries to run clinics to aid in the development of the sport globally.

Was a member of the World ParaVolley Board of Directors from 2012-2022 and continues to serve on its Coaches Commission for course development and clinics

Was instrumental in USA Volleyball securing Olympic medalist coaches Jenny Lang Ping and Hugh McCutcheon, both also IVHF Inductees

Bill Kauffman (Award for Media Excellence)

The first communication coordinator for the International Volleyball Hall of Fame, aiding in behind the scenes efforts of elections, researching and writing biographies, producing and sharing press releases with his international network and serving as a photographer for induction weekend.

Longtime communications manager with USA Volleyball, serving as the women’s national pipeline press officer through three Olympic Games and also assisting the FIVB in various capacities, including being appointed to oversee communications at the 2014 FIVB Women’s World Championships.

Volunteer for the Communications Commission to support World ParaVolley, using his talents in statistics and storytelling to help spread knowledge and exposure.

Appointed to the Communications Committee of Safe Sport International where he had been working to support the SSI Conference, a global international conference focused on the safeguarding of athletes

Prior to his sudden passing on May 20, 2023, he was involved with Angels of America’s Fallen in Colorado, supporting their communications and fundraising efforts on behalf of military families who have lost loved ones

Ed Chan (Award for Media Excellence)

Chan joined with Lee Feinswog to buy Volleyball Magazine in 2016.

Renowned as one of the best beach volleyball photographers in the world, Chan shot NCAA Championships, AVP tournaments around the country, FIVB tournaments around the world, and the Tokyo Olympics, which he considered the highlight of his career. Even today, photographers refer to methods and shooting angles and equipment they learned about from Chan.

Prior to his sudden passing on Sept. 3, 2021, he was in the sand covering the two days of Qualifying at AVP Chicago while also serving as the Publisher / Director of Photography at VolleyballMag.com

Chan was fully immersed in the sport of volleyball for more than 40 years as a photographer, beach facility owner, writer and player.

For more Information, contact;

George Mulry, IVHF Executive Director (E-Mail: [email protected], Phone: 413-536-0926)

444 Dwight Street / Holyoke, Massachusetts USA 01040 / Website: www.ivhf.org

Russia's Vyacheslav Zaytsev at his IVHF Induction in 2013

The volleyball world is mourning the passing of Vyacheslav Alekseyevich Zaytsev (Russian: Вячеслав Алексеевич Зайцев). The champion of the 1980 Olympic Games and the long-time captain of the USSR national team has died at the age of 70.

​His son, Italian Men's National Team member and professional volleyball player at Lube, Ivan Zaytsev, announced his dad's passing on Instagram on June 12, 2023 saying - “Goodbye, dad ...have a good trip, rest now if you can."

The elder Zaytsev (a 2013 IVHF Inductee) paired with teammate Aleksandr Savin, a 2010 Volleyball Hall of Fame inductee, to form one of the most dominating setter-hitter pairs to ever play the game. Zaytsev was adept at delivering quick sets to his favorite hitter leading to dominating victories and international titles along the way. Zaytsev was also well-known as among the best blocking setters in the game.

"It is with profound sadness, the volleyball world bids farewell to a true legend and a cherished member of our Hall of Fame family," said George Mulry, IVHF Executive Director. "Vyacheslav Zaytsev's exceptional talents and contributions to the sport of volleyball have left an indelible mark on the fabric of history. His enduring legacy will forever be enshrined within these hallowed walls, reminding us of the profound impact he had."

Making his debut in 1969 with Russian club Avtomobilist as a 17 year old schoolboy, Zaytsev quickly established himself as a leader and force on the court. In 1971 he won his first European Championship and by 1977 he had become captain of the national team for USSR.

Zaytsev was a key player for Avtomobilist and the Soviet National team throughout most of the 1970s and 1980s- 20 year span of international competition that includes two gold medals and two silver medals at the FIVB World Championship, two gold medal and a silver at the FIVB World Cup, and seven gold medals at the European Championships among many other accomplishments.

Zaytsev was considered one of the best setters in the world, being named the most valuable player of the 1981 FIVB World Cup, best defensive player of the 1977 FIVB World Cup and included in the list of annual 24 best players of the USSR 17 times.

Perhaps Zaytsev’s biggest accomplishments, however, came at the Olympic Games. Representing the USSR in three Olympic Games, Zaytsev netted the gold medal at the 1980 Olympics in Moscow and led his team to the silver medal at the 1976 Montreal Olympic Games and again at the 1988 Seoul Olympic Games.

He was one of the first Russian players to play professional club volleyball abroad and spent five seasons competing in Italy from 1987 to 1992. He played for Olio Venturi Spoleto the first two seasons with the team moving into the top Serie A1 division the second season. Zaytsev played in Serie A2 the next two seasons with Sanyo Agrigento and G.S. Citta di Casello before his final season with Citta di Castello returning to the top division. At the age of 40, Zaytsev played his last International match while playing for the Swiss club “Lugano” and quickly focused full-time on coaching.

As a coach, he adapted many of the volleyball techniques introducred by other coaches to retain the Russian pre-eminence in men’s volleyball competition. He coached the Russian Men’s National Team from 1996-1997 and led them to the bronze medal at the 1997 FIVB World League. He coached the Belogorie club to the silver medal in the Russian Championship five times and in 2007, he helped the Dynamo women’s club win the Russian Championship.

Zaytsev will be forever remembered for his long career, remarkable success, impeccable setting skills on the court and his inspirational leadership.

CLICK THE VIDEO ABOVE TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE CLASS OF 2023

​HOLYOKE, Mass., May 22, 2023 - The International Volleyball Hall of Fame (IVHF) is proud to present its induction class of 2023, to be honored on October 21 in Holyoke. The class includes six members across four disciplines who were at the top of the game in their respective category, setting the standard and making history en route to being honored with this prestigious recognition.

The 37th IVHF Induction class includes the following members: Olympic gold medalist and four-time Olympian Phil Dalhausser (United States, beach male player); two-time Olympic medalist and five-time FIVB World Tour Champion Larissa França Maestrini (Brazil, beach female player); three-time Olympic medalist and iconic setter with a twenty year career Katsutoshi Nekoda (Japan, indoor male player); four-time Olympian and three time Olympic medalist Yumilka Ruiz (Cuba, indoor female player); Olympic medalist and longtime professional and National Team coach Silvano Prandi (Italy, coach); and longtime administrator within various national and international federations and the first member to represent Thailand in the IVHF, Shanrit Wongprasert (Thailand, leader).

Also announced are four special award winners, recognized for their contributions to the IVHF or the sport of volleyball itself. They include the AVP (Court of Honor), the Homewood Suites Holyoke / Susan Concepcion (William G. Morgan Award) and outgoing American Volleyball Coaches Association (AVCA) Executive Director Kathy DeBoer (Mintonette Award). Also honored earlier in 2023 was Hector “Picky” Soto (Puerto Rico) with the Mayoral Award of Excellence.

“Since 1985, the IVHF has had the distinct honor of inducting the legends of our sport while recognizing them for their storied careers and numerous accomplishments,” said IVHF President Steve Bishop, also the President of the Florida Region of USA Volleyball. “This year we look forward to welcoming another amazing class of inductees, along with several very deserving special award winners. We cannot wait to create new memories with this 2023 class of award winners. So many of the world’s greatest volleyball athletes, coaches, administrators, officials and leaders have made the trip to Holyoke, MA, USA, the birthplace of volleyball, to have their names and plaques added to the Wall of Honor, and to experience the pinnacle moment as their name is called and their story is captured forever. We invite everyone to join us for this incredible celebration.”

All told, the IVHF has inducted 161 individuals from 25 countries into its historic Hall of Fame – those totals will rise to 167 inductees from 26 countries after the 2023 event. More detailed information on each inductee can be found below.

"The achievements of the class of 2023 are undeniably extraordinary," stated IVHF Executive Director George Mulry. "From exhibiting unparalleled dominance in both indoor and beach volleyball across for more than sixty years to overseeing structure and competition for an entire continent, the IVHF is privileged to recognize these deserving individuals, along with our award recipients. Each honoree brings a unique story that will be shared with the world and we invite you to join us in Volleyball City – Holyoke, Massachusetts - to witness the celebration in person."

The 2023 International Volleyball Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony will take place in Holyoke, Massachusetts, USA on Saturday, October 21, 2023. The event is open to the public on a first-come, first-served basis, and ticket packages are available online at www.ivhf.org.

Volleyball enthusiasts are encouraged to sign up for an IVHF membership which will provide behind-the-scenes and exclusive content before, during and after Induction Weekend. More information on the IVHF membership program can be found on the organization’s website.

About the IVHF

Located in Volleyball City - Holyoke, Massachusetts - the city where volleyball was created, the IVHF is an independent non-profit 501(c)(3) organization dedicated to honoring the legends, recognizing the greats, and preserving the history of volleyball worldwide. The IVHF museum is home to over 160 inductees from 25 different countries and over 5,000 square feet of volleyball history. Thousands of people visit the IVHF museum each year to learn about the game and experience the exhibits. Best known for its annual marquee Induction Celebration honoring the game’s elite, the Hall of Fame also operates youth, collegiate, and recreational programs annually in New England. For more information on the induction events, please visit the Hall’s website at www.ivhf.org or email [email protected].

Included in the 2023 Induction class are:

Phil Dalhausser (United States, Beach)

A four-time Olympian in men’s beach volleyball, won Gold at the 2008 Beijing Olympics with 2021 IVHF Inductee Todd Rogers.

Won 62 AVP titles, 38 FIVB gold medals and an Olympic Gold Medal.

From 2006-2018 Dalhausser won at least one FIVB title each year, and the 13-year streak was the second longest in Tour history behind Brazil's Emanuel Rego (14 straight seasons).

Won the FIVB World Championship in Gstaad, Switzerland – the first such victory in U.S. Men’s Beach Volleyball history.

Larissa França Maestrini (Brazil, Beach)

Winningest international beach player of all-time with 62 career titles on the FIVB Tour

A three-time Olympian winning bronze at the 2012 London Olympics and a fourth-place finish 2016 Rio Games

She is an FIVB World Tour Champion and a five-time FIVB World Championship winner or medalist

Larissa formed a successful partnership with Juliana Felisberta da Silva in 2004, and the duo went on to dominate the FIVB Tour for several years. They won their first FIVB World Tour event in 2005 and went on to win a total of 45 titles together, including the FIVB World Championship in 2011

Named FIVB Team of the Year nine times: 2005 (Juliana Felisberta), 2006 (Juliana Felisberta), 2007 (Juliana Felisberta), 2009 (Juliana Felisberta), 2010 (Juliana Felisberta), 2011 (Juliana Felisberta), 2012 (Juliana Felisberta), 2015 (Talita Antunes), 2017 (Talita Antunes)

In addition to her success on the FIVB Tour, Larissa won several national and international championships, including the Pan American Games and the South American Games.​

Katsutoshi Nekoda (Japan, Indoor)

Setter for the Japanese national volleyball team from the 1960’s to 1980.

A four-time Olympian and winner of three medals - gold at the 1972 games in Munich, silver at the 1968 games, and bronze at the 1964 Tokyo games.

Invented and popularized the ceiling serve, a serve where the ball is hit up towards the lights in the ceiling making it difficult to judge the landing.

Named Best setter of the 1969 and 1977 FIVB World Cup and Best setter at the 1970 FIVB World Championships.

Widely regarded as the most iconic player on the dominant Japanese Men’s National Team at the time.

Yumilka Ruiz (Cuba, Indoor)

Represented Cuba in four consecutive Summer Olympics, starting in 1996.

Won gold medals at the 1996 Atlanta and 2000 Sydney games; and bronze at the 2004 Athens games.

Won 16 medals, from gold to bronze, over a 12-year span, including Olympics, World Championships, World Grand Prix, World Cup, and Pan American Cup, to name a few.

Named Most Valuable Player at the 2002 Pan-American Cup and 2003 NORCECA Championships.

Named Best Spiker at the 2004 FIVB World Grand Prix and 2005 Pan-American Cup.

Silvano Prandi (Italy, Coach)

Prandi was the first Italian coach to take the jump into professionalism. He has coached ten different professional teams in Italy and France from 1976 to present winning national and European championships along the way.

He led the Italian Men’s National team from 1982-1986 to a bronze medal at the 1984 Olympic Games.

Was twice the head coach of the Bulgarian Men’s National team (2008-2010 & 2019-2021) leading them to a bronze medal at the 2009 European Championships in Turkey.

Prandi is known for his tactical expertise and ability to motivate his players. He has been praised for his innovative approach to the game which has helped him achieve success both domestically and internationally.

Shanrit Wongprasert (Thailand, Leader)

Served as Zonal Vice President and Secretary General of the Asian Volleyball Confederation

Member of the FIVB Board of Administration since 1992.

In 2019, he was awarded the Olympic Council of Asia's Merit Award for his outstanding service to the development of sports in Asia.

Held various positions within the Thailand Volleyball Association (TVA) over the course of his career including serving as its CEO for several years

Helped organize and oversee AVC competitions in indoor and beach volleyball.

Included in the 2023 Special Awards categories are:

AVP (Court of Honor)

Celebrating its 40th anniversary in 2023, the AVP (Association of Volleyball Professionals) produces, markets and distributes volleyball events worldwide, including the popular AVP Pro Beach Volleyball Tour.

27 IVHF Inductees have participated in professional AVP events.

Established in 1988 and updated in 2023, the Court of Honor award is given to a group, corporation, organization, or team/program in recognition of significant contribution and commitment to the sport of volleyball for at least ten years (does not have to be consecutive).

Kathy DeBoer (Mintonette Medallion of Merit)

American Volleyball Coaches Association (AVCA) Executive Director since 2006.

With her mantra of “Make volleyball matter,” DeBoer has been a tireless advocate for the sport working to create more opportunities for players and coaches.

Her name has been synonymous with growth and change for over 17 years, leading the way for NCAA beach volleyball to become an NCAA Championship sport, helping to provide seed money and resources to grow men’s and boys’ volleyball, and so much more.

Created in 1996 and updated in 2023 to honor the original name that volleyball’s inventor, William G. Morgan assigned to the sport which he invented in 1895, the Mintonette Medallion of Merit is awarded in recognition of significant individual achievement and dedication to the sport of volleyball or the International Volleyball Hall of Fame for at least ten years (does not have to be consecutive).

Homewood Suites / Susan Concepcion (William G. Morgan Award)

The Official Induction Headquarters Hotel since 2011

The Homewood Suites and Susan Concepcion consistently deliver a world-class experience for IVHF guests.

Created in 1994 and updated in 2023 to honor the founder of volleyball, the William G. Morgan Award is given to a group, corporation, or organization in recognition of significant support and promotion of the International Volleyball Hall of Fame for at least ten years (does not have to be consecutive).

Hector “Picky” Soto (Mayoral Award of Excellence)

All-time great Puerto Rican men’s indoor player and a 2019 inductee to the Puerto Rican Sports Hall of Fame.

Picky captured three Central America & Caribbean Games gold medals with the Puerto Rican Men’s National Team and was named Top Scorer of the 2006 FIVB World Championship (271 points) and 2007 FIVB World Cup. Picky’s 271 points still stand as the record for most points in an FIVB World Championship. ​

Established in 2023 to recognize a person, group or organization that has directly contributed to the sport of volleyball or the International Volleyball Hall of Fame and represents the ideals and spirit of the City of Holyoke. The award is given at the discretion of the sitting Mayor of Holyoke with approval by the IVHF Board of Directors.

For more Information, contact;

George Mulry, IVHF Executive Director (E-Mail: [email protected], Phone: 413-536-0926)

444 Dwight Street / Holyoke, Massachusetts USA 01040 / Website: www.ivhf.org

HOLYOKE - The International Volleyball Hall of Fame (IVHF) has announced an organization rebrand to align with its strategic vision to be recognized as the authority on the history and excellence of volleyball around the world.

The rebrand will encompass both the visual identity as well as the purpose, vision, goals and capabilities for the Hall to drive outreach, fundraising, exposure and growth. A fully realized brand strategy will cast the Hall further forward, aligned with the surge in popularity of volleyball around the globe.

As the hall of fame for volleyball around the world, the organization will now officially be known as both the International Volleyball Hall of Fame and the IVHF. Utilizing the acronym of IVHF builds upon the prestige and equity of the existing brand, while leveling up the organization to meet other similar volleyball institutions, whose names have evolved in similar ways, bringing meaning and value to the unique but accessible name.

​

Steve Bishop, IVHF Board President commented: “As volleyball continues to grow domestically and internationally, it is important that the brand of the International Volleyball Hall of Fame clearly positions the organization for recognition in every continent and every discipline of the sport worldwide. This rebrand process allowed the IVHF to reflect on the history and mission of the organization while also looking forward to where we want to be strategically in the global volleyball family. This was an important project that will help to highlight the IVHF and honor this great sport well into the future.”

The Hall is on the cusp of major change highlighted by the creation of its International Media Advisory Group comprising media representatives, blog owners, and social media influencers from around the globe that will help create and share stories of volleyball history online and in the physical museum. With change and expansion, branded materials often need to be produced, making this an ideal time for this endeavor.

“The IVHF is poised for expanded recognition nationally and globally due to the excellent leadership and contributions of its board of directors, advisors, and supporters,” said IVHF Executive Director George Mulry. “It is important we create the foundation for a strong brand that accurately represents our purpose, goals, and vision for the future. We’ve experienced incredible growth over the last decade and our brand new identity and logo will honor our roots while representing who we are today and where we are going tomorrow."

The tools and resources of the rebrand, including a corporate strategic review, were part of an in-kind donation from is+at, a prestigious strategic brand house out of New York City led by Heather Furman and Matthew Thornton that are both big supporters of international volleyball and the IVHF. The timing and offering of this donation was utilized by a special work group, the IVHF Marketing Committee, and the IVHF Board of Directors to create the final brand concepts and marks.

The new brand mark will be rolled out throughout the remainder of 2023 including transitioning the website to www.IVHF.org and will include new branding for the Induction Ceremony, to be held October 21, 2023 in Holyoke, Massachusetts.

Tickets are on sale for the 2023 Induction with the Class of 2023 to be announced on May 22. For Induction info and to purchase tickets, click here.

About International Volleyball Hall of Fame

Located in Holyoke, Massachusetts - the birthplace of volleyball - the International Volleyball Hall of Fame is an independent non-profit 501(c)(3) organization dedicated to honoring the legends, recognizing the greats, and preserving the history of volleyball. The IVHF Museum is home to more than 160 inductees from 25 countries and over 5,000 square feet of volleyball history. Thousands of people from around the world visit the museum each year to learn about the game and experience the exhibits. Best known globally for its annual Induction Celebration honoring the sport’s elite, the IVHF also supports more than a dozen youth, high school and collegiate competitions and programs annually.