Gerda Henkel Visiting Professorship

The German Historical Institute London (GHIL) is an independent academic institution dedicated to the promotion of historical research in Britain and Germany. It focuses on the comparative history of Germany and Britain, on the history of the British Empire and Commonwealth and on Anglo-German political, intellectual and cultural relations and transfers. It is part of the Max Weber Foundation. Its task is to represent German history studies in Great Britain and to make contributions towards the researching of British history from mediaeval times through to the present day. In addition the Institute brings to the discussion in Britain the latest topics and trends from German research, promotes contacts between German and British researchers and encourages European comparative studies.

The research profile of the Institute itself is under its statutes however primarily aimed at British history. Whereas British research into German history has been mainly dominated by topics such as the First World War and the period of National Socialism, the history of the Federal Republic has so far remained largely disregarded.

For this reason, in 2008 the Gerda Henkel Foundation provided the German Historical Institute London with funds to establish a Visiting Professorship (Gerda Henkel Visiting Professorship) for the topic area of German history from 1890 to the present day. The aim is to promote modern German historical research within the European context. The professorship at the German Historical Institute is linked to a Visiting Professorship at the International History Department of the London School of Economics and Political Science and requires the holding of a seminar on modern German history as part of the MA course at the University.

The Visiting Professor is supported by funding from the Gerda Henkel Foundation, the German Historical Institute London and the London School of Economics and Political Science. By bearing the costs of a professorship, exceptionally qualified historians who teach and study in the field of modern history at German universities have the opportunity to undertake a major research project over the period of the grant.

Guestprofessors

2022/2023 Prof. Dr. Constantin Goschler (Bochum): Cultures of Compromise in Germany and Britain, 1945 -2000

2021/2022: Prof. Dr. Alexander Nützenadel (Berlin): Fascism, Technocracy and Economic Populism in Europe 1920-40

2020/2021: Prof. Dr. Martina Kessel (Bielefeld): 'Germanness' in the 20th century: Identity, Violence and

Politics in Germany in the 20th century

2019/2020: Prof. Dr. Ulrich Herbert (Freiburg): Immigration into Germany and German Migration Policy, 1990 to 2018

2018/2019: Prof. Dr. Johanna Gehmacher (Wien): A Gender History of National Socialism - History, Memory, Debates

2017/2018: Prof. Dr. Arnd Bauerkämper (Berlin): Sicherheit und Humanität im Ersten Weltkrieg. Der Umgang mit zivilen „feindlichen Ausländern“ in den kriegführenden Staaten

2016/2017: Prof. Dr. Dominik Geppert (Bonn): A History of Divided Germany

2015/2016: Prof. Dr. Lutz Raphael (Trier): Transformations of industrial labour in Western Europe between 1970 and 2000

2014/2015: Prof. Dr. Kiran Klaus Patel (Maastricht): Welfare in the Warfare State: Nazi Social Policy on the International Stage

2013/2014: Prof. Dr. Dorothee Wierling (Hamburg): Coffee Worlds in Green Coffee and its Agents: The Hamburg Coffee Merchants in the 20th century

2012/2013: Prof. Dr. Andreas Rödder (Mainz): The History of the Pesent

2011/2012: Prof. Dr. Ute Daniel (Braunschweig): Media and politics - an entangled history (c. 1900-1980)

2010/2011: Prof. Dr. Christoph Cornelißen (Frankfurt am Main): The British and German welfare states after "the great boom": public debates on social inequality and social justice since the 1970s

2009/2010: Prof. Dr. Johannes Paulmann (Mainz): International aid and solidarity: Humanitarian committment and the media in Germany, c. 1950-1985

Gerda Henkel Postdoctoral and Advanced Doctoral Fellowship for Digital History

The German Historical Institute Washington (GHI) is a member institution of the Max Weber Foundation - International Humanities. It is a distinguished non-university affiliated historical research institute that conducts inter- and transdisciplinary research with a transatlantic focus. Its fellowship program promotes cutting-edge research in history and related disciplines and the international exchange of scholars. The GHI seeks to foster inter- and transdisciplinary cooperation and contributes to the advancement of digital history and digital humanities. In cooperation with the Roy Rosenzweig Center for Digital History and New Media (RRCHNM) at George Mason University in Fairfax, VA the GHI Washington provides a 12-month postdoctoral and advanced doctoral fellowship in digital history once a year.

The fellowship will provide a unique opportunity for the recipient to develop an innovative research project at RRCHNM, where she/he will be in residence for one year. One of the Center's Associate Directors will work with the fellow to develop a project further and help her/him develop the skills needed for that project. The fellow is also expected to cooperate with the GHI on a regular basis. She/he will participate in the Institute's scholarly activities and its digital projects. Moreover, the fellow will have the opportunity to get in contact with other North American Centers for Digital History or Digital Humanities. The Max Weber Foundation - International Humanities will invite the fellow to organize a workshop on new perspectives in the field of Digital History after completing the fellowship.

Fellows

2022/2023: Prof. Dr. Verena Krebs (Bochum, Germany): Africa Collecting Europe: Patronage and Power in Christian Ethiopia, 1470–1530

2021/2022: Prof. Dr. Thomas Weber-Karyotakis (Mainz, Germany): The Greco-Roman Metal Sculpture of Bilad al-Sham and the Arabian Peninsula: Art History and Technology

2019/2020: Prof. Dr. Jan Bemmann (Bonn, Germany): Karakorum – A History of Urbanization on the Steppes of Inner Asia until the decline of the Mongol Empire

2018/2019: Dr. Christian Mauder (Göttingen, Germany): In the Sultan’s Salon: Learning, Religion and Rulership at the Mamluk Court of Qanisawh al-Ghawri (1501-1516)

2017/2018: Prof. Dr. Marek Jan Olbrycht (Rzeszow, Poland): Warfare in Arsacid Iran (3rd century B.C.- 3rd century A.D.)

2016/2017: PD Dr. Klaus Oschema (Heidelberg, Germany): Orientation from the stars - late medieval astrologers and the creation of an expert culture

2015/2016: Dr. Thomas Biskup (Hull, Great Brtain): Multi-national empires of knowledge: practices of natural history in Anglo-German networks 1735-1800

2014/2015: Dr. Marco Barducci (Livorno, Italy): The English receptions of Hugo Grotius's works (c. 1617-1730). A case study of transnational reception in early modern Europe

2013/2014: Prof. Dr. Giorgio Caravale (Rom, Italy): Cultures in motion: Intellectuals, Illiterates and Censorship in Early Modern Italy from the ‘Radical Renaissance’ to the Radical Enlightenment

2012/2013: Dr. Christian Meyer (Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany): The Role of the Traditional Formula "shendao shejiao" in the Processes of Negotiating and Appropriating the Western Concept of "Religion" in Modern China, 1890-Present

2011/2012: PD Dr. Nicola Suthor (Hamburg/ Bern, Switzerland): A Revision of the So-Called "Non Finito" in Late Titian and Rembrandt / Prof. Dr. Maria Stavrinaki (Paris, France): "The Nightmare of History". Mimetic Technologies and Asynchronous Temporalities in the Avant-garde, 1910-1938

2010/2011: Prof. Dr. Anton Bierl (Basel, Switzerland): Youth in Fiction. Love, Myth, and Literary Sophistication in the Ancient Novel

2009/2010: Dr. Judith Pfeiffer (Oxford, Great Britain): Rashid al-Din (d. 718/1318): A Physician, Statesman and Intellectual of Late Medieval Islamic History

2008/2009: Prof. Dr. Sabine Schmidtke (Berlin, Germany): Abu l-Husayn al-Basri. A study of his doctrinal thought and its reception among later Mutazilites (Sunni, Shii, Jewish and Christian)

2007/2008: Prof. Dr. Cormac Ó Gráda (Dublin, Ireland): Famine: A Short History / Dr. Oleksandr Symonenko (Kiev, Ukraine): Sarmatians, Central Asia, China: New light of the origin and ethnic history of Sarmatians

2006/2007: Prof. Dr. Michael Lackner (Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany): Diagrams as tools for interpreting the Classics: Song dynasty exegetical visualization of language

2005/2006: Dr. Mechthild Fend (Berlin, Germany): Zur Geschichte und Repräsentation von Haut in Frankreich 1750–1870

2004/2005: PD Dr. Boris Dreyer (Göttingen, Germany): “Villes sujettes” and the administration of the Attalid Kingdom / Prof. Dr. Franz J. Felten (Mainz)

2003/2004: Dr. Markus Asper (Konstanz, Germany): Griechische Wissenschaftstexte. Formen, Funktionen, Differenzierungsgeschichten

2002/2003: Dr. Olaf Peters (Bonn, Germany): Max Beckmann in Exile. Studies in the later work of the painter, 1930–1950

2001/2002: PD Dr. Rudolf Haensch (Köln, Germany): Sozialgeschichtliche Untersuchungen zur Finanzierung des Kirchenbaus in den spätantiken Patriarchaten Antiochia und Jerusalem

2000/2001: Dr. Jörg Merz (Augsburg, Germany): The architecture of Pietro da Cortona

1999/2000: Dr. Vera Tolz-Zilitinkevic (Salford, Great Britain): Russia. Inventing the nation

1998/1999: Dr. Wolfhart Heinrichs (Harvard, USA) / Dr. Eckart Schütrumpf (Boulder, CA, USA): Obscure writing in medieval Arabic poetry and science. Metaphorical and other means

1997/1998: Prof. Dr. Lothar J. Haselberger (Philadelphia, PA, USA): Die beste Form der Stadt oder Die Kraft der Geometrie. Eine antike Theorie des Städtebaus nach Vitruv (The Power of Geometry. Classical City Planning according to Vitruvius) / Prof. Dr. Joachim Ganzert (Biberach). Roman architecture. The arches on the forum of Augustus in Rome

1996/1997: PD Dr. Charlotte Schoell-Glass (Hamburg, Germany): Aby Warburg und der Antisemitismus. Zur politischen Logik der Kulturwissenschaft

1995/1996: Prof. Dr. Georg Petzl (Köln, Germany): Griechische und lateinische Inschriften von Philadelphia in Lydien

1994/1995: Prof. Dr. Hubert Mordek (Freiburg, Germany) / Prof. Dr. Peter Springer (Oldenburg, Germany)

1993/1994: Prof. Dr. Dorothea Frede (Hamburg, Germany): Platons Dialog Philebos. Übersetzung und Kommentar

Postdoctoral Fellowships in Bucharest and Sofia

Since the fall of the Iron Curtain, two Institutes for Advanced Study have been founded in Romania and Bulgaria, which excel in promoting the humanities and social sciences and boast excellent reputations beyond their borders as centres for intellectual life:

Founded in 1994, the New Europe College has already invited hundreds of young scholars to in-residence fellowships in Bucharest lasting several months. The college believes that outstanding Romanian and international researchers should be able to concentrate on projects of their own choosing, while being encouraged not to pursue their studies in isolation, but to profit from debate and networking with their peers.

The somewhat younger Centre for Advanced Study Sofia (established in 2000) also appoints fellows from inside and outside the country – in this case, Bulgaria. It is involved in major international research projects and is consequently instrumental in promoting young scholars and further qualifying them. With its managing bodies and events the CAS has become a focal point for critical scholarly debate in Bulgaria.

Fellows

New Europe College Bukarest

2023/2024:

Dr. Mariya Horyacha (Ukraine), The Making of Monastic Hamartiology: The Contribution of Eastern Ascetic Fathers of the 4th-7th Century to the Christian Doctrine of Sin

Dr. Roman Shliakhtin (Russia), Anatolia Lost and Found: Trauma and Compensation in Komnenian Space (1081- 1204)

2022/2023:

Dr. Irina Nicorici (Moldova), Redefining Citizens, Kith and Kin: Cross-border Migrations between Romania and the Soviet Union, 1960-1990

Dr. Aliaksandra Valodzina (Belarus), The Image of the East in Medieval Polemic Anti-Heretical Texts

2021/2022:

Dr. Dr. Irina Kotkina (Russia), Soviet Colonialism in Music and Formation of the Cultural Eurasian Space: National Opera under Stalin

Dr. Yurii Kaparulin (Ukraine), Between Soviet Modernization and the Holocaust: Jewish Agrarian Settlements in the South of Ukraine (1924-1947)

2020/2021:

Dr. Oksana Ermolaeva (Russia), Border Demarcation and Russian Imperial Colonization in the North: The Case of the Borderland Karelia, XVII – XX century.

Dr. Andrei Emilciuc (Moldova), A Comparative Study on the Development of Commercial Institutions and Practices in Romanian Principalities / Romania and Bessarabia (1812-1918)

2019/2020:

Dr. Svitlana Potapenko (Ukraine), Instead of Myself, I Entrust to Be in the Court and to Attend …”: Attorneys in Sloboda Ukraine (1730s-1830s)

2018/2019:

Dr. Viktoriia Serhiienko (Ukraine): Russophile and Ukrainophile orientations in eastern Slovakia in 1919-1938: confrontation and interaction

Prof. Dr. Artem Kharchenko (Ukraine): A Jewish Community in the Space of Imperial City: Tradition-Adaptation-Modernization (Kharkiv, 1859-1914

2017/2018:

Prof. Dr. Aurelia Felea (Moldova), Everyday life and (re)defining identity in the Gulag: a study based on autobiographical texts belonging to people from Bessarabia and Bukovina deported to Kazakhstan

2016/2017:

Prof. Dr. Evgeny Troitskiy (Russia), Dead-Letter Regimes in Eurasia: Strategies, Communication and Dramaturgy

Centre for Advanced Study Sofia

2023/24:

Dr. Candan Badem (Turkey), The Russo-Ottoman War of 1828-29 and its Impact on the Balkans and the Caucasus

Dr. Siarhei Marozau (Belarus), The Great Duchy of Lithuania (mid-13th – 18th century) in the modern Belarusian memory politics (2015–2023)

Dr. Mikhail Maslovskiy (Russia), Historical Sociology, International Relations and Russian Civilizational Politics

2022/2023:

Prof. Dr. Abdulhamit Kirmizi (Turkey), An Empire of Officials: Christians in the Ottoman Bureaucracy

Dr. Luka Nakhutsrishvili (Georgia), The theatre-caravanserai of Tbilisi. Reassembling a civilizing heterotopia from the Russian Caucasus, 1845-1876

Dr. Anastasiya Ryabchuk (Ukraine), International development and vulnerability in the frontline communities of the Donbas

2021/2022:

Dr. Galyna Babak (Ukraine), Embracing Modernism: Soviet Ukrainian Literature and Russian Modernist Literary Theory (1920s – the beginning of 1930s)

Dr. Mariana Bodnaruk (Ukraine), Transvestite saints in Jerusalem: Embodiment, Materiality, and Cult Places of Pelagia the Penitent, Mary of Egypt, and Susanna of Eleutheropolis

Prof. Dr. Evgeny Troitskiy (Russia), The Two “Great Games”: “Homo Ludens” in Central Asia

2020/2021:

Dr. Olga Zaslavskaya (Russia), Between the Reds and the Whites: Civil War and the East European Lost Generation

Dr. Tetiana Onofriichuk (Ukraine), Define the Distinction: Natural History and Society in the Polish Provinces of the Russian Empire, 1790s-1840s

Dr. Asiya Bulatova (Russia), The Chaplin Vaccine: Taylorism and Immunization in Early-Soviet Film Theory and Fiction

2019/2020:

Dr. Irina Gordeeva (Russia), Tolstoyans and International Pacifist Movement in the 1920-1930s: The Early History of European Transnational Solidarity

Dr. Nilay Kılınç (Turkey), Highly-Skilled Turkish Migrants’ Search for Alternative Diaspora Spaces in Europe: How They Build (Digital) Social Networks Beyond the ‘Culture of Rejection‘

Dr. Anastasia Felcher (Moldova), Alexander Pushkin as Foreign Heritage: Transformation and Cultural Disintegration in post-Soviet Societies

2018/2019:

Dr. Oleksandr Polianichev (Ukraine), Engaging with the Empire: Colonial Uncertainties and the Imperial Rule in the Noth-West Caucasus, 1792-1870s

Dr. Anton Symkovych (Ukraine/South Africa), The Post-Soviet Prisoner Society and its Normative System: Power, Legitimacy, and Dynamics of the Ucrainian Prisoner Self-organisation

2017/2018:

Dr. Victoria Shmidt (Czech Republic), Eugenic thinking in the CEE countries: never-ending story of root metaphors?

Dr. Maria Mayerchyk (Ukraine), Inventing “Sexuality”: Capitalism, Nationalism and Ethnologic Knowledge Production in XIX and Beginning of XX Century

2016/2017:

Dr. Zafar Najmiddinov (Uzbekistan), Juridical Works of Hanafi School: A Critical Study as a Source of Socio-political History of Central Asia

Dr. Dr. Iurii Zazuliak (Ukraine), Landscape, Law and Memory: Forging the Local Tradition and the Perambulations of Estates' Boundaries in the Kingdom of Poland during the 15th and 16th centuries

Gerda Henkel Fellowship on the History of Knowledge and Science

The study of the history of knowledge and science is a core concern of the Interdisciplinary Center for the Study of the European Enlightenment (IZEA) in Halle. Under the heading "Structures of Knowledge", the Center's four main research areas include the examination of practices of knowledge appropriation, questions of knowledge order, and the techniques of knowledge distribution in the 18th century. Institutionally anchored at the Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, one of the most important universities of the Enlightenment period, and located on the grounds of the Francke Foundations, a research stay at the IZEA provides access to numerous resources significant for the history of knowledge and science. These include the historical holdings of the University and State Library of Saxony-Anhalt, the library of the Francke Foundations, and the Marienbibliothek, as well as the university collections dating back to the 18th century, especially in the field of natural sciences and anatomy, and the holdings of the National Academy of Sciences Leopoldina.

The Gerda Henkel Foundation has provided funding for a fellowship program on the history of knowledge and science at the IZEA since 2021. With the fellowship program, which will initially be funded for two years, the IZEA intends to provide targeted support for research in the history of knowledge and science with a focus on the Enlightenment period, and thus an area of particular relevance against the backdrop of current debates on science policy and society.

Doctoral Scholarships in Ancient History

The Commission for Ancient History and Epigraphy of the German Archaeological Institute in Munich conducts research in the areas of Greek and Latin Epigraphy, Numismatics, Papyrology and Historical Topography. Its library, which covers the entire field of Ancient History and provides excellent working conditions, counts among the best stocked specialist libraries in the world. The Commission is devoted in particular to the promotion of young academics.

Thanks to the financial support of the Elise und Annemarie Jacobi-Stiftung and the Gerda Henkel Foundation, the Commission has been awarding research scholarships in Ancient History to international PhD students four times a year since 2005. The scholarships encompass a place to work in the library along with apartment accommodation on the premises, travel expenses and an allowance towards living costs.

Applications can be addressed four times a year (until 1 January, 1 April, 1 July and 1 October) to the director of the Commission. They should be submitted at least six months before the beginning of the scholarship.

Fellows

2024

Zhengyuan Zhang (Berkeley), Transacting Honor: Honorific Practice in Response to

Civic Benefaction in the Cities of the Roman West (30 BC– AD 300)

Irene Nicolino (Pisa), Agoranomoi e agoranomeia nell’Egitto romano

Evdoxia Mintzaridou (Thessaloniki), Coinage and Public Image in Roman Empire: the case of provincial coins from Valerian to Gallienus (AD 253-268)

Vincenzo Micaletti (Ca‘ Foscari, Venedig) Quando nasce un re. La regalità infantile in epoca ellenistica

2023

Edward John Armstrong (St Andrews) Character and Rhetoric in Thukydides

Ann Lauren Osthof (Hamburg)

City Scripts. Inschriften und die Konstruktion von sozialen Räumen in Milet (Asia Minor)

Mirón Jurík (Brno)

The Christianisation of the Goths and the development of their Arian Churches during the migration period and Barbarian states

James Jesse (Harvard),

Greek International Law: Networks, Socialization and Compliance (500 – 100 BCE)

Christopher Erdmann (Santa Barbara, California)

Voting Culture and Political. Theater in Late Republican Lawmaking

2022

Matthew Hewitt (Oxford, Great Britain) The Epigraphic Culture of Manumission in the Ancient Greek World

Noelia Cases Mora (Alicante, Spain)

El culto a divinidades augusteas en la Hispania romana

Colleen Kron (Ohio, USA)

How to build Belief with Blocks: Myth and Materiality in Hellenistic and Roman Funerary Inscriptions

Kyohei Sakeshima (Edinburgh, Great Britain)

Remembering the Persian Wars in the Hellenistic Period

2021

Olga Boubounelle (Nanterre, France) La célébration du pouvoir impérial dans la province romaine de Macédoine (1er siècle av. – IVe siècle après J.-C.)

Antonio Iacoviello (Edinburgh, Great Britain) The Text as Political Weapon. The Legacy of the Attic Orators in Early Hellenistic Athens (322 - 261 BCE)

Rémi Saou (Bordeaux, France)

Violences et pratiques combattantes dans l`espace égéen entre la fin du IVe s. et le Ier s. a. C.

Piotr Glogowski (Wroclaw, Poland)

The hellenization and romanization of Phoenicia and the Phoenician cities

Nicolai Futás (Heidelberg, Germany)

Von der Liturgie zur Euergesie - die Transformation der athenischen Demokratie im 4. Jahrhundert v. Chr.

2020

Dies van der Linde (London, Great Britain) Dialectics of Imperial Cults. Religion and Socio-Political Interactions in Roman Ephesos and Miletos

Urpo Henrik Kantola (Helsinki, Finland)

Römische Namen in griechischen Quellen in der Zeit der römischen Expansion nach Osten

Adèle Vorsanger (Paris, France) Routes et territoires dans la Grèce des cites (VIe s. av. n.è. – Ier s. av. n. è)

Yadigâr Dogan (Antalya, Turkey) Politcal History, Historical Geography and Sociocultural Structure of Milyas and Kabalia Regions within the Context of the Epigraphical Evidences

Aránzazu López Fernández (Madrid, Spain) Los estudios paleohispánicos de Manuel Gómez-Moreno

2019

Julie Bernini (Bordeaux, France)

Les lieux du politique dans les cités d'Ionie et de Carie à l'époque hellénistique

Elizabeth Foley (Dublin, Ireland)

The Nesiotic Leagues, Cooperation and Connectivity in the Hellenistic Aegean

Karin Maurer (Freiburg, Germany)

Negotiated power: a study of the interaction between the Athenians and their alllies in the fifth century BC

Angelos Boufalis (Thessaloniki, Greece) The Inscriptions of the Archaic and Classical Period in Macedonia

2018

Javier Moralejo Ordax (Barcelona, Spain)

Soldados y territorio en la Hispania citerior: Una aproximación desde los testimonios epigráficos

John Fabiano (Toronto, Canada)

Reconstructing the history and place of the Urban Population of Rome, 275 - 410 CE

Valérie Schram (Paris, France)

L'arbre et le bois dans l'Egypte gréco-romaine

Lina Girdvainyte (Oxford, Great Britain)

Law and Citizenship in the Roman Greek East: the Provinces of Macedonia and Achaia (c. 146 BCE - 212 CE)

Katarzyna Kostecka (Warschau, Poland)

Mythical genealogies of the Greek aristocrats (VIII-IV c)

Simone Oppen (New York, USA)

Comparative perspectives on the Near Eastern use of Greek sanctuaries in antiquity

2017

Rodrigo José Illarraga (Buenos Aires, Argentina)

El pensamiento politico de los filósofos socráticos

Jerzy Szafranowski (Warschau, Poland)

Clerical ordinations of monks in the Late Antique and Early Medieval Gaul

Francois Gerardin (Yale, USA)

Cities in the Kingdoms of the Hellenistic East (Second Century B.C.)

Silvia Tantimonaco (Barcelona, Spain)

El latín de Hispania a través de las inscripciones. La provincia de la Lusitania

Alberto Esu (Edinburgh, Great Britain)

Dispersed Power: Deliberation, Delegation und Judicial Procedures in the Greek City-States

Anthony R. Shannon (Cambridge, USA)

Africa Romana: Appropriation, Interaction and Tradition in the Development of Urban Landscapes in the Roman Maghrib

2016

Eloisa Paganoni (Verona, Italy)

Bithynia. Politics of a Hellenistic Kingdom

Mali Skotheim (Princeton, USA)

The Greek Dramatic Festivals under the Roman Empire

Mélanie Houle (Ottawa, Canada)

Les notions de possession et d'exorcisme dans les papyri magiques de l'époque gréco-romaine jusqu'à l'Antiquité tardive: Changements et continuités

Cameron Pearson (New York, USA)

Alkmaionid Epigrams and the framing of Archaic Monuments

Jasmin Hettinger (Duisburg-Essen, Germany)

Praktiken und Paradigmen der Hochwasservorsorge im Römischen Reich

Emilio Rosamilia (Pisa, Italy)

Cirene nel periodo dell'indipendenza (440-320 a. C.): Un'élite cittadina e il suo mondo

Nikolas Hächler (Zürich, Switzerland)

Zusammensetzung, Funktion und Bedeutung der senatorischen Führungselite im Zeitalter der Soldatenkaiser (235-284)

Masataka Masunaga (Kyoto, Japan)

How did Roman Greek Cities in Asia Minor use their Cultural Capital: Spectacles and Public Building

2015

Eva Hagen (Freiburg, Germany)

Memoriae Latinae. Inhalte, Kontexte, Funktionen und Aktualisierungen von Erinnerung im antiken Latium

Andrea Angius (Rom, Italy)

Le Fonti dell'Opinione Pubblica nella Tarda Repubblica Romana

Marzena Wojtczak (Warschau, Poland)

Arbitration and Settlement of Claims in Late Antiquity

Charalampos Chrysafis (Athen, Greece)

Πέδαι Έλλαδος. Antigonid Garrisons in Mainland Greece and the Aegean

Kale Coghlan (Laval, Canada)

Ecrire la terre: l'invention du traité géographique et sa réalisation au cours de l'époque hellénistique

Chris Dawson (York/Toronto/Sackville)

Intimate Communities: Honorific Statues and Political Culture in the Cities of Africa Proconsularis

2014

Vera Hofmann (Wien, Austria)

Die Korrespondenz Kaiser Hadrians mit den Städten des griechischen Ostens. Text und Kontext im Spannungsfeld von römischer Herrschaft und provinzialer Selbstbehauptung

Sabrina Feickert (Freiburg, Germany)

Communities of Practice im kaiserzeitlichen Ägypten. Untersuchungen zur Vernetzung und Kommunikationsstruktur unter Veteranen und militärnahen Personenkreisen

Aitor Blanco Pérez (Oxford, Großbritannien)

The 3rd century A.D. in South-Western Asia Minor: Epigraphic Studies into Local Politics, Civic Life and Foreign Relations

Tobias Joho (Chicago, USA)

Nominal style, language change, and φύσις ἀνθρωπεία: an investigation of Thycididean necessity

Susan Bilynskyj Dunning (Toronto, Canada)

Roman Ludi Saeculares from the Republic to Empire

Markus Zimmermann (Bamberg, Germany)

Die epigraphische Repräsentation imperialer und lokaler Eliten in den Donauprovinzen des römischen Reiches

Emma Rix (Oxford, Great Britain)

The Epigraphic Habit in Lycia, 450 BC to AD 43

2013

Sabrina C. Higgins (Ottawa, Canada)

From Mother of Jesus to Mother of God: The Physical Materialization of the Cult of Mary in Late Antique Egypt

William J. B. G. Mack (Oxford, Great Britain)

Proxenia: Inter-Polis Networks and Relations in the Classical and Hellenistic World

Aleksandra Kubiak (Warschau, Polen / Paris, Frankreich) "Celui dont le nom est béni pour l'éternité". Une étude comparative des dédicaces sans noms propres de dieux à Palmyre

Clément Sarrazanas (Montpellier, France)

Agonothésie et agonothètes dans l'Athènes hellénistique et impériale, de ca. 320 av. J.-C. à ca. 300 ap. J.-C.

Jean-Francois Claudon (Paris, France)

Les ambassades des cités grecques d'Asie Mineure auprès des autorités romaines

Bryan Brinkmann (Providence, USA)

Imperial Acclamation in the Early and High Roman Empire

Ramón Melero Guirado (Malaga, Spain)

Ciudades des Agua: Ostia versus Italica, Roma versus Córdoba

2012

François Chevrollier (Paris, France)

Les élites des cités de Crète et de Cyrénaique à la basse époque hellénistique et sous le Haut-empire romain (IIe s. a. C.-IIIe s. p. C.)

Álvaro Moreno Leoni (Córdoba, Argentina)

Ethnic-moral representation and characterization in Polybius' The Histories: Didactics of domination and autonomy in the late Hellenistic world

Francesca Labonia (Rom, Italy)

Iscrizioni greche dalla Basilicata

Nils Steffensen (Tübingen, Germany)

Nachdenken über Rom: Das politische Denken mit geschichtlichem Argument im Frühen Prinzipat

Inger Neeltje Irene Kuin (New York, N.Y., USA)

The Gods of Lucian: A Study of the Religious Life of the Greek-Speaking Elite in the Early Empire

Marco Tentori Montalto (Rom, Italy)

Influenza del discorso di lode sull'epigramma funerario attico di IV sec. a. C. e suo rapporto con il monumento

2011

Dr. Claudio Biagetti (Rom, Italy)

La Messenia in Pausania: tradizioni dinastiche fra storia e propaganda

Sofie Waebens (Leuven, Belgium)

Life and Death of Legionary Soldiers in Third-Century Egypt

Maria Elena De Luna (Rom, Italy)

Arkadika. Edizione critica, Traduzione, Commento

Alexander Puk (Heidelberg, Germany)

Kontinuität und Wandel von antiken Lebenswelten am Beispiel des Spielewesens in der Spätantike

Adrian Dumitru (Bukarest, Romania / Paris, France)

La fin des Seleucides (129-64 av. J.-C.) - structures d'autorité centrale et autonomies locales

Lorenzo Cigaina (Triest, Italy / Regensburg, Germany)

Die Kaiserverehrung in der Provinz Kreta und Kyrenaika

Naomi Hester Carless-Unwin (London, Great Britain)

Karia and Kreta: A study in social and cultural interaction

2010

Aurélie Carrara (Bordeaux, France)

La description des quatres types d'oikonimia par le Ps.-Aristote

Gustavo Veneciano (Córdoba, Argentina)

Deliberación y creación normativa: Los jueces griegos en textos de la época arcaica

Sofie Remijsen (Leuven, Belgium)

The End of Ancient Athletics

David DeVore (Berkely, USA)

The Use of Biographic Forms and Themes in Eusbius’ Historia Ecclesiastica

2009

Patrick Sänger (Wien, Austria)

Römische Veteranen in der Severerzeit: Eine Betrachtung anhand der Archive der Veteranen Aelius Sarapammon und Aelius Syrion

Annika Kuhn (Oxford, Great Britain)

The Roman Elite in Asia Minor, c. 27 BC - AD 212

Emanuele Montagner (Triest, Italy)

Il culto di Apollo Karneios

Ghislaine Stouder (Marseille, France)

Regards croisés sur la diplomatie romaine, IVe-IIIe s. av. J-C

Christoph Lundgreen (Dresden, Germany / Paris, France)

Les, ius, mos - aber keine Verfassung? Normenhierarchie und Metaregeln in der römischen Republik

Alexander W. Meyer (Duke University, USA)

The Composition, Character, Service, and Settlement of Auxiliary Units Raised in the Spanish Provinces

Bülent Öztürk (Istanbul, Turkey)

The History of Tios (Tieion)

2008

Pierangelo Buongiorno (Bari, Italy)

Materiali per una palingenesi dei senatus dell'età di Claudio

Filiz Dönmez-Öztürk (Istanbul, Turkey)

Römische Bürgerrechtspolitik in den Provinzen Lycia und Lycia et Pamphylia

Elizabeth M. Greene (Chapel Hill, USA)

Social roles of women and family in the military community in the Roman West

Michael Snowdon (Hamilton, USA)

Greek Freedom and Roman Constraint - the Forging of a Provincial Identity

Filippo Battistoni (Pisa, Italy)

Roma, mito troiano e diplomazia (syngeneia /cognatio)

Johannes Wienand (Konstanz, Germany)

Die Inszenierung des Sieges. Kaiserliches Charisma als politisches Argument (293-363 n. Chr.)

Tatiana Ivleva (Leiden, Netherlands)

Immigration Patterns in the Roman Empire: the British Case

2007

Florian Matei-Popescu (Bukarest, Romania)

The Roman Army in Moesia Inferior

Burak Takmer (Antalya, Turkey)

Lex Porttorii Provinciae Lyciae

Luca Grillo (Princeton, USA)

Identity and Community in Caesars Bellum Civile

Andew Monson (Stanford, USA)

Agrarian Institutions in Transition: Privatization from Ptolemaic to Roman Egypt

Jens-Frederik Eckholdt (Wuppertal, Germany)

Der Tyche-Begriff in den Schriften des Plutarch von Chaironeia

Gabrielle Frija (Paris, France)

Les prêtres civiques du culte impérial en Asie Mineure. Recherche d'histoire sociale

2006

Andreas Victor Walser (Zürich, Switzerland)

Bauern und Zinsnehmer. Recht, Wirtschaft und Politik im frühhellenistischen Ephesos

Paulin Ismard (Paris, France)

Le phénomène associatif dans les cités grecques de l'époque archaique jusqu'à la fin du IIIe siècle

Colin Bailey (Vancouver, Canada)

The Gerousia of Roman Ephesus

Adrian Robu (Neuchâtel, Switzerland)

La cité de Mégare et les établissements mégariens de Sicile, de la Propontide et du Pont Euxin

Damiana Baldassara (Venedig, Italy)

Dai Messenioi andres alla polis ton Messenion. Il percorso storico dei Messeni tra continuità ed innovazione

Peter Thonemann (Oxford, Great Britain)

Studies in the Historical Geography of the Maeander Valley

2005

Aude Cassayre (Bordeaux, France)

Justice des cités, justice sous tutelle dans le monde hellénistique, des royaumes à la domination de Rome (Egypte exclue)

Davide Faoro (Udine, Italy)

Attività presidiale e ordine equestre. Analisi storica e prosopografica

Sara Saba (Durham, USA)

Greek Urban Administration

Gerda Henkel Visiting Professor Series in German Studies

The Gerda Henkel Visiting Professorship is open to professors at German universities with distinguished scholarly accomplishments in a historical humanities department other than literature, such as: History, Philosophy, Religious Studies, Art History or Music History, with a specific focus on any area within German Studies. Applicants should have a strong record of teaching.

The Gerda Henkel Visiting Professor at Stanford University will normally be on research leave from his or her home university and will be appointed at Stanford for one academic quarter (three months) to be scheduled at mutual convenience. A stipend is available to help defray costs of the visit. The Visiting Professor will be expected to offer one course, typically in seminar format. The visitor will be fully integrated into the academic and intellectual life of the department, including participation in colloquia. In addition, the Visiting Professor will deliver one formal lecture, advertised to the university community and open to the public.