Category: Entertainment

Netflix’s “Scoop” Sheds Light on Wrongful Arrest of Journalist in High-Profile Murder Case

The country was astonished by the sensational murder of India’s most famous crime reporter in June 2011 and the subsequent arrest of a female crime reporter on suspicion of involvement in the crime.

Jyotirmoy Dey, prominently known as J Dey, was shot dead in Mumbai by men on bikes on orders from perhaps of India’s most famous criminal, Chhota Rajan – he was sentenced in 2018 and is carrying out a day to day existence punishment for the killing.

However, newspaper journalist Jigna Vora became entangled in the commotion and was falsely accused of being involved in the murder.

Before being granted bail, she was held in Byculla jail for more than nine months. Ms. Vora, a single mother of a 10-year-old boy, was found not guilty in 2018 because the police didn’t have any evidence against her.

This account of a writer’s homicide – and of another’s illegitimate imprisonment – is the subject of Scoop, another web series on Netflix that is wowing pundits and watchers the same.

In light of Ms. Vora’s 2019 journal – Behind The Bars In Byculla: The gripping tale of a real-life crime, Mumbai’s mafia, and the role of the press and police in it is My Days in Prison – Scoop. Ms. Vora states that “the series makers have exercised cinematic leverage” despite the fact that many of the real-life incidents have been recreated.

As Ms Vora’s screen symbol Jagruti Pathak, who lives by pursuing scoops that would get her a byline on the first page, winds up in a jail cell with those she once covered, she likewise starts to ponder her life and needs.

Ms Vora let the BBC know that she’s satisfied with the manner in which the series has ended up yet it was hard to watch it.

“It was like going back to the entire trauma. It was hard to see on screen what I went through, the embarrassment and character death I confronted. Yet, I’m glad that the series got made on the grounds that individuals expected to see reality that I was not blameworthy.

A couple of months after J Dey’s homicide, bits of hearsay began whirling around that a female wrongdoing correspondent was engaged with the homicide. Police sources were cited in some of the media reports.

“We were likewise pondering who it very well may be? “I told her that I had no idea that it could be me.

She claims that when a report naming her appeared in a newspaper at the end of October, her initial reaction was shock. She then became aware that her arrest was imminent, and on November 25, she was apprehended.

“It was a very difficult time for me; I was afraid and even considered suicide, but my family motivated me to fight. They let me know that on the off chance that I committed suicide, individuals would feel that I was liable. I had to fight if I wanted to clear my name.”

Ms. Vora claims that the murder of J. Dey changed her life forever. The police said she was associated with the hidden world and had helped the killers by giving them data about J Dey. She was accused in accordance with the severe Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (Mcoca), a law that, in serious cases, carries the death penalty.

Some in the Mumbai press pursued her, with a significant number of her previous partners enjoying a vicarious her ruin. She was called a gangster’s mistress and a murderer. They conveyed unconfirmed stories, frequently credited to “sources in the police”, and censured her for being “excessively aggressive”.

She tells me, “I think there’s nothing wrong with being ambitious.” However, in my case, it was used to make me look bad.”

According to Ms. Vohra, “when female colleagues and editors made disparaging remarks about me, saying that I was sleeping around with people to get stories, but I had no-one to tell my side of the story” was the part of the experience that caused the most distress.

The show shows the circus that is the media as reporters harass her family, including her son. The child appears perplexed and terrified as television cameras ask him about his mother’s alleged crimes.

Ms. Vora asserts that her time in prison was “a very difficult phase of life, I think it would have been for anyone in my position.” She adds, however, that the inmates at the prison tried to cheer her up and were very helpful.

“The jail authorities additionally treated me well, they’d advise me advising me to require every day as it comes and that all that will be okay.”

Ms. Vora, who was found not guilty of any charges by both the trial court and the high court, claims that she “no idea who fixed me.”

“The only thing I am aware of is that it took place, and I accept it as my karma.” Presently regardless of whether I figure out who fixed me, could I have the option to transform anything?” She demands.

She claims that she did a lot of soul searching while she was in jail, and after she was granted bail, she “started the process of healing myself.”

“I began pondering and once out, I visited bunches of sanctuaries and all that assisted me with acquiring my internal strength. I was dependably a devotee, and presently my confidence in God expanded.”

Scoop has remained one of India’s most popular shows ever since it was released on Netflix at the beginning of June. Even now, just a few weeks after its release, it still ranks second out of the top 10 shows. It has likewise wowed pundits who have depicted it as “a holding story of the media” and “a should look for all columnists”.

Movie producer Hansal Mehta who coordinated Scoop says he had followed Ms Vora’s case in 2011.

“Yet, similar to all titles, her story was supplanted by another title. She and her family endured the trauma of being labeled without judicial process, even though it was contained within the pages,” he told The Times of India.

“The potential to engage with the audiences on a story that is both a cautionary tale and an important chronicle of our times,” he says when he read Ms. Vora’s book in 2020.

“I knew that he would be able to do justice to my story,” Ms. Vora says when she learned that Mr. Mehta would be the director. However, she claims that she was not prepared for this response.

“On social media, people are sending me love and respect, telling me that this series has helped them see the truth, and many are saying that I’m very strong – but what choice did I have?” She demands.

Ms. Vora, a tenacious reporter, had made a name for herself in the field of crime reporting in just a few years, but she never went back to the profession after serving time in jail. She now works as a life coach and astrologer, earning her living as a healer.

She is uneasy about the media trials she endured more than a decade ago, as well as the ones that take place every night in television studios and result in the destruction of reputations through speculative and unsubstantiated allegations.

According to her story, she, ought to act as an illustration for the press to be cautious on the grounds that their revealing can obliterate lives.

“The press is referred to as the “fourth estate” because of their immense power and the power to transform lives. I hope they will change their ways now that they know how serious their work is.

Oscar Awards Invites NTR Jr, Kjo, Ram Charan, Mani Ratnam To Be Members Of Academy Awards Panel

‘RRR’ star NTR Jr, who is currently busy with the shooting of his film ‘Devara’, has been invited to join the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the organisation behind the Oscars, as a new member along with Ram Charan, Karan Johar2, Siddharth Roy Kapur, Mani Ratnam and Chaitanya Tamhane, M.M. Keeravani, Chandrabose, K.K. Senthil Kumar and documentary filmmaker Shaunak Sen.

As members, they all will have several roles including but not limited to voting for the nominees for the annual Oscars ceremony. The Academy has also added international stars like Taylor Swift and Ke Huy Qwan.

Meanwhile, NTR Jr is reuniting with ace filmmaker Koratala Siva for ‘Devara’ which is currently being shot in Hyderabad. The film, which also stars actors Saif Ali Khan and Janhvi Kapoor, is slated to hit the screens on April 5, 2024.

He will also be working with KGF director Prashant Neel for ‘NTR 31’ which goes on floors in March 2024.

Padma Lakshmi Bags 2023 Critics Choice Real TV Prize

Bravo’s ‘Top Chef’ and Hulu’s ‘Taste the Nation with Padma Lakshmi’ tied for first place at the fifth annual Critics’ Choice Real TV prizes on June 16, with two awards each. The yearly awards celebrate excellence in reality, unscripted, and reality programming.

‘Top Chef’ won the best culinary show, while ‘Taste the Nation’ won the best-structured series. In the category for best show host, Lakshmi and RuPaul, host of ‘RuPaul’s Drag Race All Stars,’ took home the awards.

Reacting to the news, on Twitter, the Indian American said, “I love anytime I’m in a headline with @RuPaul!! Thanks for the wins Critics Choice! What a way to go out for #TopChef, and to keep the ball rolling with #TasteTheNation. So grateful to both amazing production teams!”

Lakshmi is the executive producer and host of the television programme ‘Taste the Nation,’ which examines the cuisines of many ethnic groups and civilizations across the country. The show’s second season premiered on Hulu in May. Meanwhile, she announced her exit as a host from Top Chef, which ended on June 8. The Emmy Award-winning series which is currently in its 20th season, was hosted and executive produced by her.

“Having completed a glorious 20th season as host and executive producer, I am extremely proud to have been part of building such a successful show and of the impact it has had in the worlds of television and food,” Lakshmi said announcing her decision on Instagram.

Shaakuntalam Wins 4 Prestigious Awards At Cannes World Film Festival

The Indian mythological film, Shaakuntalam, recently garnered four esteemed awards at the 2023 Cannes World Film Festival. Although it experienced both commercial and critical disappointment in India, despite being released across the nation, Shaakuntalam received international recognition and won ‘Best Foreign Film,’ ‘Best Costume Design,’ ‘Best Fantasy Film,’ and ‘Best Indian Film.’

It’s crucial to clarify from the beginning that the Cannes World Film Festival should not be mistaken for the Festival de Cannes, which has been making headlines since its commencement two weeks ago. Numerous Indian celebrities have graced the red carpet and attended film screenings at the latter event.

Directed by Gunasekhar and featuring Samantha Ruth Prabhu in the lead role, Shaakuntalam was produced by Neelima Guna and Hanshita Reddy. The film is currently available for streaming on Amazon Prime. In line with recent trends, the movie was released in five languages—Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada, and Hindi—and portrays the legendary romantic tale famously brought to life in literature and theater by the esteemed poet Kalidas.

Shaakuntalam also claimed the titles of ‘Best Fantasy Film’ and ‘Best Musical Film’ at the New York International Film Festival just last week (May 25). Overjoyed by the film’s success, Samantha expressed her gratitude for the accolades and awards on her Instagram account. In contrast, earlier this month, producer Dil Raju referred to the film as “my biggest failure” in an interview with “On Manorama,” revealing a loss of Rs. 22 crore.

The movie’s cast also included Dev Mohan, Ananya Nagalla, Mohan Babu, and Allu Arha, with music composed by Mani Sharma.

Padma Lakshmi Bids Farewell to “Top Chef”

Padma Lakshmi has revealed her departure from the popular culinary competition series, “Top Chef,” after serving as its host and judge for 17 years and 20 seasons. In a heartfelt Instagram post on Friday, Lakshmi announced, “After much soul searching, I have made the difficult decision to leave Top Chef.”

She expressed immense pride in being a part of the show’s success throughout its 20 seasons and stated her desire to focus on other projects, such as her Hulu series “Taste the Nation” and her New York Times bestselling books. “I feel it’s time to move on and make space for Taste the Nation, my books and other creative pursuits,” she wrote.

Over the years, Lakshmi earned 13 Emmy nominations for her work on “Top Chef.” She has been an integral part of the series since joining during its second season. An NBC Universal spokesperson expressed gratitude for her contributions, stating, “We are grateful to Padma for being a consummate host, judge and executive producer, and for bringing her ingenuity and exceptional palate to each episode where she ate every bite of food on the series for over 17 years and 19 seasons.”

While no successor has been announced yet, the spokesperson assured that Lakshmi will always be a part of the Top Chef and NBCUniversal family, adding, “She has a seat at the judges’ table anytime.”

In her farewell post, Lakshmi referred to the “Top Chef” cast and crew as family, admitting she would “miss working alongside them dearly.” She also took the opportunity to thank the show’s audience, saying, “I am deeply thankful to all of you for so many years of love and support.”

Padma Lakshmi Wants End To Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue

Indian American model, TV host, author and activist Padma Lakshmi hopes to become the oldest Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue model in history.

The 52-year-old model has said that she’d love to replace Martha Stewart in the record books, after the 81-year-old TV star appeared on the cover of the 2023 Swimsuit Issue, reports aceshowbiz.com.

Asked if she’d like to surpass Martha’s record, Padma told the New York Post newspaper’s Page Six Style column, “I hope. I mean, listen, if I’m still doing covers like she is at 80 plus. I mean, God, more power to her. And she’s always been someone I’ve admired, so why should this be any different?”

Padma appeared in this year’s Sports Illustrated Swimsuit edition. However, she never expected for it to happen so late in her career. Padma shared, “I thought it would happen one day for me when I was in my 20s and 30s and a model, but it never did, so I really thought that ship had sailed. So it’s almost sweeter happening at this age.”

Earlier this month, Martha said to being “kind of surprised” to land the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit cover. The businesswoman feels proud of her Swimsuit cover – but it wasn’t something she ever imagined doing. (IANS)

Kamal Haasan, Madhavan Shine At IIFA 2023

One of Bollywood’s biggest award nights, the IIFA Awards 2023 was held in Abu Dhabi in the presence of leading names from the industry. Legendary actor Kamal Haasan was felicitated for his outstanding achievement in Indian cinema. The actor who has worked in both regional and Hindi films was felicitated by his friend and singer AR Rahman during the event.

Bollywood actor Salman Khan hit the stage with a fusion of Bollywood and urban dance styles at the award ceremony. Several other stars including Varun Dhawan, and Jacqueline Fernandez performed at the event. Salman Khan hit the floor with a fusion of Bollywood and urban dance while actress Kriti Sanon also performed dance moves with the Norwegian dance group Quick Style on her super hit song Param Sundari from the film Mimi.

R Madhavan received the IIFA trophy under the ‘direction’ category for his stellar work in Rocketry: The Nambi Effect. Abhishek Pathak’s Drishyam 2 was selected as the best picture. Bhushan Kumar, Krishan Kumar, Kumar Mangat Pathak and the director were presented the IIFA trophy for the film. Actors Riteish Deshmukh and Genelia D’Souza, were recognized for their outstanding achievements in regional cinema.

Actor Hrithik Roshan received the trophy for his lead role in the action-packed film Vikram Vedha, a remake of the Tamil film. Producer Jayantilal Gada was on stage to receive the trophy on behalf of actress Alia Bhatt for her best actress in a lead role recognition in the film Gangubai Kathiawadi.

Veteran actor Anil Kapoor bagged an award for his supporting role in JugJugg Jeeyo; Mouni Roy for hers in Brahmastra Part One: Shiva. Actors, Shantanu Maheshwari and Babil Khan were recognized for their debut performances in Gangubai Kathiawadi and Qala respectively.

Khushalii Kumar was recognized for her debut in Dhokha: Round D Corner. Arijit Singh and Shreya Ghoshal won the playback singer awards for Kesariya and Rasiya from Brahmastra Part One: Shiva. Pritam Chakraborty and Amitabh Bhattacharya were also awarded for their music and lyrics. Meanwhile, Jasmeet K Reen and Parveez Sheikh won the best story original award for Darlings.

Anushka Sharma Dazzles at Cannes Film Festival 2023, Celebrating Women in Cinema

Anushka Sharma graces the Cannes Film Festival 2023 with her first appearance. The event celebrates women in the film industry.

Bollywood actress Anushka Sharma made her long-awaited debut at the prestigious 76th Cannes Film Festival. Photos and videos capturing her stunning entrance surfaced on social media Friday evening. For the occasion, she chose a beautiful gown by designer Richard Quinn.

Anushka Sharma’s inaugural Cannes Film Festival look

A video showcases Anushka elegantly descending the stairs at the Cannes Film Festival venue. She dazzled in an off-shoulder dress adorned with striking floral embellishments. Complementing her ensemble, she wore her hair in a sleek bun and opted for a refined makeup look. Minimal jewelry completed her appearance.

The reason behind Anushka Sharma’s presence at Cannes Film Festival

Anushka is attending the Cannes Film Festival 2023 to pay tribute to women in cinema. She will be joined by renowned actress Kate Winslet at the event. This opportunity arose shortly after Anushka and her husband, cricket star Virat Kohli, met France’s ambassador to India, Emmanuel Lenin, at the French Embassy in New Delhi.

It remains unclear when Anushka arrived in Cannes. On May 22, she was spotted at Mumbai airport with Virat Kohli as they returned from Bengaluru. While in Bengaluru, Anushka supported Virat during his Indian Premier League (IPL) match as part of the Royal Challengers Bangalore team. After arriving in Bengaluru, she shared a glimpse of the city’s rainfall. On May 24, the couple was once again seen at Mumbai airport.

Anushka Sharma’s upcoming film project

Anushka’s most recent appearance was in the film Qala, where she had a special cameo. She will star in the forthcoming sports biopic Chakda Xpress, directed by Prosit Roy. The film, which will exclusively stream on Netflix, is based on the life of former Indian cricketer Jhulan Goswami.

Anushka completed filming for Chakda Xpress in December last year. She shared several photos from the last day of shooting, which took place inside a cricket stadium, and expressed her gratitude in an Instagram post captioned, “It’s a wrap on Chakda ‘Xpress and thank you @JhulanGoswami for the final clap to bring an end to the shoot!.”

Shah Rukh Khan Hosts Ambassador Garcetti In ‘Mannat’

The newly-appointed US Ambassador to India Eric Garcetti was hosted by Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan at his home ‘Mannat’ in Mumbai.

Garcetti took to Twitter, where he shared a string of pictures from his visit, which also features SRK, his wife Gauri and his manager Pooja Dadlani.

He captioned the image: “Is it time for my Bollywood debut? Had a wonderful chat with superstar @iamsrk at his residence Mannat, learning more about the film industry in Mumbai and discussing the huge cultural impact of Hollywood and Bollywood across the globe. #AmbExploresIndia.”

Shah Rukh was seen in a black sweatshirt, matching denims and a cap. Gauri was seen in a black outfit too. Pooja opted for a white shirt and denims. The room, in which they gathered, had a red brick wall on one side in which a huge painting was hung. A chandelier also hung from the ceiling. Couches along with a coffee table were also seen in the picture.

On the acting front, Shah Rukh Khan was recently seen in the blockbuster ‘Pathaan’ alongside John Abraham and Deepika Padukone. He is now gearing up for his next titled ‘Jawan’,by Atlee. The film also features Nayanthara, Vijay Sethupathi and Sanya Malhotra in the lead roles. He also has Rajkumar Hirani’s upcoming film ‘Dunki’ opposite Taapsee Pannu.

The film is all set to hit the theatres on September 7. Earlier the film was scheduled to hit the theatres on June 2. It is billed as an event film with high-octane action sequences. Shah Rukh’s production company Red Chillies Entertainment has produced it. Apart from Jawan, Shah Rukh will also be seen in director Rajkumar Hirani’s upcoming film Dunki opposite Taapsee Pannu.

‘Indiana Jones’ At Cannes Film Festival; Harrison Ford Honored

(AP) — Indiana Jones and Harrison Ford swung into Cannes on Thursday for the world premiere of “Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny” in one of the most anticipated events of the French Riviera festival. Fedoras abounded in the throngs of onlookers who watched Ford and company hit the red carpet.

Ford walked hand in hand with his wife, Calista Flockhart, and later joined his cast mates as John Williams’ score played across the red carpet. Among those in attendance were Disney chief Bob Iger, Lucasfilm’s Kathleen Kennedy and filmmaker Steve McQueen.

Ford, 80, who has said “Dial of Destiny” will be his last performance as the character, also received an honorary Palme d’Or from the Cannes Film Festival. Last year, Cannes feted “Top Gun Maverick” and Tom Cruise in a similar manner.

Inside the theater, Ford was greeted with thunderous applause. He beamed and looked around the theater before receiving the honorary Palme.

“I’m very touched. I’m very moved by this. They say when you’re about to die, you, you see your life flash before your eyes. I just saw my life flash before my eyes,” Ford said after a clip reel of his career was played.

“A great part of my life, not all of my life,” Ford continued, thanking Flockhart as well as “Dial of Destiny” director James Mangold and co-star Phoebe Waller-Bridge.

It’s not the first “Indiana Jones” film to premiere in Cannes. The fourth installment, “Indiana and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull” launched at the 2008 edition of the festival. Critics and fans alike dismissed “Crystal Skull” as a misjudged sequel, though it still made $790 million worldwide.

This time, “Dial of Destiny” is hoping to make a similar if not larger global impact without its famous filmmakers. The new film, which the Walt Disney Co. will release June 30 in the U.S., is the first “Indiana” film not directed by Steven Spielberg or with a story credit to George Lucas. Instead, Mangold (“Ford vs. Ferrari,” “Logan”) takes the reins for a film co-starring Waller-Bridge, Antonio Banderas and Mads Mikkelsen.

Indians Bag Top Honors At NYIFF

Shefali Shah, Jaideep Ahlawat, and Avinash Arun Dhaware emerged as winners at the 2023 New York Indian Film Festival (NYIFF), which celebrated and showcased new Indian cinema to the diaspora and global audience. The festival, which took place from May 11 to 14, featured an impressive lineup of 35 films, including dramas, documentaries, and short films, highlighting the depth and range of contemporary Indian cinema.

The highly acclaimed film “Saudi Vellakka” was honored with the Best Film award, while Avinash Arun Dhaware received the Best Director award for his critically acclaimed film “Three of Us,” featuring Shefali Shah, Jaideep Ahlawat, and Swanand Kirkire.

Shah and Ahlawat were recognized with the Best Actress and Best Actor awards, respectively, for their exceptional performances in “Three of Us,” which also served as the opening film of the festival. The closing film of the extravaganza was “Goldfish,” starring Deepti Naval and Kalki Koechlin.

Other notable winners included “Follower” for Best Screenplay, “To Kill a Tiger” for Best Documentary (Short & Feature), “Birah” for Best Short (Narrative), and Leslie Shampaine, who received the prestigious Best Documentary by a Woman award for “Call Me Dancer.” “Footprints On Water,” featuring Adil Hussain, was declared the Best Debut Film at NYIFF.

One of the highlights of this year’s festival, known as North America’s longest-running and most prestigious Indian film festival, was a special screening of Rahul Chittella’s critically praised film “Gulmohar.” The screening was attended by cinema veterans Sharmila Tagore and Amol Palekar, along with renowned actors Manoj Bajpayee and Simran. Following the screening, a Q&A session was moderated by NYIFF festival director Aseem Chhabra, featuring the film’s team.

CALL ME DANCER Awarded ‘Best Documentary by a Woman Filmmaker’

Leslie Shampaine’s 84-minute feature documentary, CALL ME DANCER, attracted a full house at the 23rd edition of the New York Indian Film Festival on Saturday, May 13, 2023, at the Village East Cinema by Angelika in Manhattan. The special screening was followed by a Q&A with director Shampaine, lead protagonist Manish Chauhan, and executive producer Jay Sean. At the closing night awards ceremony, the New York Women in Film & Television awarded director Leslie Shampaine “Best Documentary by a Woman Filmmaker.”

“This is the story of how boundless determination and unremitting effort can lead to success in any endeavor – a story that I hope inspires young people across the globe to push beyond their limits to follow their dreams,” said Shampaine, a first-time director and former professional ballet dancer. “Dance films are typically created by looking into our world from the outside. They convey the difficulty of the profession, but what is often lost is the passion and inner joy that pushes dancers past the pain. I knew that as a dancer, I could offer an insider’s sensitivity and perspective.”

International pop icon, singer, and songwriter Jay Sean executive produced the film because the story resonated with his own; as a British-Indian, Sean’s parents wanted him to pursue medicine rather than his dream of becoming a singer. CALL ME DANCER, in English and Hindi (with English subtitles), is a live-your-dream film that charts the journey of Manish, a talented street dancer from Mumbai, who dreams of becoming professional against the wishes of his struggling parents. He meets a master Israeli ballet teacher who gives him the determination to keep going. But when he is pitted against another boy who’s got the attention of the top school in the world, Manish realizes he must push himself to his physical limits if he has any chance to succeed. Filmed in India, Israel, the United Kingdom, and the United States, the dance documentary features two original songs by Jay Sean, music by Bangladeshi American hip-hop artist Anik Khan, and a score by award-winning, British-Indian composer Nainita Desai. Watch teaser HERE.

*Next, the film will have its European premiere at the prestigious London Indian Film Festival on June 27, 2023, at the historic BFI Southbank Cinema.

‘Mughal-E-Azam’ To Tour North America

The musical production will tour 13 cities starting with Atlanta on May 26, 2023

Indian theatrical Mughal-e-Azam will be making its American debut. The cast and crew of the musical play will be touring 13 cities in North America in May 2023.

An interpretation of K Asif’s hit classic film that was released in 1960, the play is set in the Mughal era when Emperor Akbar was in power. It is centred around the forbidden love story of Akbar’s son Prince Salim and the courtesan Anarkali. Emperor Akbar who disapproves of the relationship is forced to take the difficult choice between responsibility towards his subjects and duty as a father.

Produced by Shapoorji Pallonji Group and directed by Feroz Abbas Khan, the play will be enacted in both Hindi and Urdu with dance sequences, spectacular lighting, extravagant costumes, and live singing. With 70 people on the cast and 150 crew members working behind the scenes, the musical is one of the most expensive theatre productions to have toured in India.

Prominent Indian designer Manish Malhotra has designed over 600 costumes for the play using rich silks, velvets, bandhani, and brocades, and crafted with zardozi embroidery. Its value is worth crores of rupees, making Mughal-e-Azam’s costume design the most expensive in the history of Indian theatre.

The play has received critical acclaim and has scooped up several awards in the year following its premiere. Some of the awards to the play’s credit include Best Costume Design, Best Choreography, Best Original Set Design, Best Original Lighting Design, and Best Ensemble Cast. Director Khan was honoured with the award for Best Director at the BroadwayWorld India Awards. It also won the award for Best Play.‌

Bollywood stars Rishi Kapoor, Anil Kapoor, filmmaker Karan Johar, and industrialist Mukesh Ambani have praised the play. The North American tour will kick off on May 26 in Atlanta, followed by New York, Baltimore, Lakeland, Chicago, Newark, Dallas, Houston, Phoenix, and San Jose among others. Tickets are available on Cinema On Stage’s website.

Diwali Comes To Disney World

The first-of-its-kind Diwali celebrations will take place at Florida’s Disney Springs, Disney’s Animal Kingdom Theme Park, and EPCOT as Jashn Productions will host a Diwali Dance Fest at Walt Disney World® Resort.

According to a statement by the organizers the event will take place from October 26-29th, 2023 and will feature the sights and sounds of the popular Indian festival. A showcase of vibrant colours, stunning costumes, and incredible performances by the dancers of South Asian dance schools from across North America will be the event’s highlight.

“We are thrilled to bring Diwali to Walt Disney World® Resort for the first time ever, ” said Jashn productions director, Jeanie Beri. “We want to share the joy and excitement of this important festival with the South Asian dance community. We hope that the Diwali Dance Fest will become an annual event at Walt Disney World® Resort, bringing people together to celebrate the rich cultural heritage of South Asia.”

The three-day festival will feature an official parade at Disney Springs, a dance showcase at Disney’s Animal Kingdom® Theme Park, and a VIP party at EPCOT, the organizers revealed.

Led by award-winning South Asian American dancer Beri, who is of South-Asian origin, Jashn Productions provides a platform for South Asian artists to display their talents on a world stage. Under Beri’s leadership South Asian talent has gained recognition at the Walt Disney World, NBA, and the Broadway stage!

Dhvani Bhanushali’s ‘Vaaste’ Garners Over 1.5 Billion Views

Singer Dhvani Bhanushali, who is known for her tracks like ‘Vaaste’, ‘Ishare Tere’ and ‘Leja Re’, has clocked 1.5 billion views for her song ‘Vaaste’ on YouTube.

Among the Indian songs that have crossed the 1 billion milestone are the devotional song ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ topping the list followed by regional songs like the Punjabi song ‘Lehanga’ and a Haryanvi song ’52 Gaj Ka Daman’ making Dhvani’s song the fourth most viewed song nationwide.

This has made Dhvani the youngest Indian musician to achieve the milestone. ‘Vaaste’ has been composed by Tanishk Bagchi and written by Arafat Mehmood, with Nikhil D’Souza featuring as the co-singer, the music video is directed by Radhika Rao and Vinay Sapru.

Expressing her gratitude, Dhvani said: “‘Vaaste’ is like that magical thing that happened in my life. I’ll always be grateful to all the people who have watched it more than a billion times on YouTube. It was the team of Tanishk, Arafat, Nikhil, Radhika Ma’am, Vinay Sir and Siddharth that we could break so many records back then and even today. Most importantly it’s all the love and support by the audiences; it only inspires me to work harder and create more magic. I want to thank everyone who was involved in making this beautiful song with me, our mark will live on forever.”

Dhvani made her debut in the pop world with ‘Ishare Tere’ and followed it up with another hit, ‘Leja Re’. However, it was ‘Vaaste’ that catapulted her to the A-list of Indian musicians.

The song became a massive hit and was also listed among the top 10 most-liked music videos globally, with Dhvani featuring as the only Indian music artist in YouTube Rewind 2019. The song was released under the label of T-Series. (IANS)

Priyanka Chopra To Star Opposite John Cena, Idris Elba In Heads Of State

Ahead of the global debut of the streaming spy series ‘Citadel’, Priyanka Chopra Jonas is getting into business with Amazon Studios again, this time with John Cena and Idris Elba in ‘Heads of State’. The movie’s cameras roll in May.

‘Nobody’ filmmaker Ilya Naishuller is directing off a script by Josh Appelbaum and Andre Nemec, with an initial draft by Harrison Query based on Query’s original idea, reports Deadline.

Plot details are being kept under wraps, but the film, which we first told you about, is being described as Air Force One meets Midnight Run. Producers are the Safran Company’s Peter Safran and John Rickard. EPs are Cena, Elba and Marcus Viscidi.

As per ‘Deadline’, in February 2021, Priyanka became a New York Times bestselling author with her memoir ‘Unfinished’. She’ll be starring with Richard Madden in Prime Video’s ‘Citadel’, set to begin streaming on April 28.

On the film side, she will next star in Sony’s ‘Love Again’ and most recently starred in Netflix’s Oscar-nominated feature ‘The White Tiger’, which she also executive produced.

Chopra Jonas’ production banner Purple Pebble Pictures is currently under a first-look film and TV deal with Amazon Studios and has also partnered with Paramount Global to create original content focused on diversity and inclusion for its entertainment and youth channels.

Indie Meme Film Festival Showcases Social & Political Issues From South Asia And Iran

Indie Meme, a non-profit organization, is holding its 8th Film Festival (IMFF2023) from April 12-16 in Austin, TX at the AFS Cinema. The festival provides a platform for filmmakers from South Asia and Iran to showcase their unique stories, with award-winning actors and filmmakers attending every year. This year, Kalki Koechlin and Pushan Kripalani, lead actor and director of the festival’s opening night film “Goldfish”, and Leena Yadav, director of “Tell it like a Woman”, will be in attendance.

The festival features over 30 films in 17 languages, representing 13 countries, touching on global issues such as mental health, women empowerment, poverty, freedom of speech, and more. Audience members have the opportunity to engage with the filmmakers after each screening, exchange perspectives and explore the premise further. Additionally, a virtual festival program is scheduled from April 28 to May 1, offering a hybrid experience for those outside Austin.

Indie Meme 2023 Film Lineup

ALL THAT BREATHES

The film “All That Breathes” is in the running for the Best International Documentary award at the 95th Academy Awards. The movie centers around two brothers who are trying to rescue black kite birds, which are crucial to New Delhi’s ecosystem but are dying due to environmental pollution. This documentary is unique in that it is the first film to have won the Best Documentary Prize at both the Sundance and Cannes film festivals.

GOLDFISH

“Goldfish,” directed by Pushan Kriplani and starring Kalki Koechlin, will premiere at the South Asian Film Festival in the US. The film follows Janaki, a young woman with bipolar disorder and addiction, as she searches for a missing father with a young boy. “Goldfish” explores mental health, trauma, and human connection and has received critical acclaim. Its premiere at the festival is significant for Indian cinema and a testament to the power of storytelling.

TELL IT LIKE A WOMAN

“Tell It Like A Woman,” a new Indian documentary film directed by Leena Yadav, will premiere at the South Asian Film Festival in the US. The film features interviews with influential and inspiring women from a range of backgrounds, exploring gender, identity, and the role of women in society in India. Through their stories, the film offers a window into the experiences and struggles of women in India.

LEILA’S BROTHERS

The Iranian film “Leila’s Brothers” will have its Texas premiere at IMFF2023. The film was awarded the International Critics’ Prize in 2022 for best film in Cannes main competition. Boasting a tour de force ensemble, Leila’s Brothers is a masterful family drama that echoes Greek tragedies.

This year, the festival scored two international premieres – “Dhabari Quruvi” and “Eikhoigi Yum.”

DHABARI QURUVI

The movie “Dhabari Quruvi” is the first of its kind in the world to have tribals both as actors and singers. It is a beautiful film directed by Priyanandanan with a cast entirely made up of indigenous people from Attappadi, Kerala. The plot revolves around a young girl who challenges the traditional customs of her tribe and takes control of her own body and life choices. The dialogue in the movie is exclusively in the “Irula” language, but according to the director, the emotions conveyed in the story will overcome any language barrier for the viewers.

EIKHOIGI YUM

The IMFF2023 will feature “Eikhoigi Yum” (Our Home), a Manipuri film directed by Romi Meitei. The film tells the story of an 11-year-old boy from an isolated fishing community who is determined to succeed in school despite personal and financial difficulties. The film takes place around the Loktak Pat Lake, and its stunning cinematography portrays the lives of those living in homes built on a floating biomass.

IN SEARCH OF BENGALI HARLEM

Don’t miss the Texas premiere of “In Search of Bengali Harlem,” a documentary created by historian and author Vivek Bald and stand-up comedian and actor Alaudin Ullah. The film follows Alaudin as he investigates the history of his immigrant parents from Bangladesh and uncovers a forgotten past where South Asian Muslims, African Americans, and Puerto Ricans created a unique and diverse community in the mid-20th century tenements of Harlem. Both creators of the documentary will be present at the event, which was supported by a grant from Humanities Texas, the state’s affiliate of the National Endowment for the Humanities.

WHILE WE WATCHED

The second documentary of filmmaker Vinay Shukla, who is an Indie Meme alumnus, is called “While We Watched.” The film centers on the experiences of Ravish Kumar, a reporter for NDTV in India, as he confronts limitations on journalism, navigates his career, and faces personal threats.

POLITE SOCIETY

The final movie for IMFF 2023 will be “Polite Society,” a comedy about a young woman training in martial arts who thinks she needs to rescue her sister from an arranged marriage. Together with her friends, they attempt to execute a daring wedding heist to promote sisterhood and independence.

Indie Meme’s Focus

Indie Meme has been featuring a diverse range of films, shorts, and documentaries from talented filmmakers in South Asia and Iran since 2013. The films address important global issues that are often neglected, including climate change, poverty, access to education and healthcare, and discrimination based on caste, gender, and sexual orientation.

Indie Meme is particularly honored to continue to bring these meaningful productions in its 10th year making Austin THE destination for debate, discussions, dialogue, and change!

Badges for the Indie Meme Film Festival, IMFF2023, are available at Indiememe.org/IMFF2023. The festival was dubbed “the best international passport” by The Austin Chronicle in 2016, solidifying Austin’s spot on the world map of film. IMFF 2023 is also supported in part by the Cultural Arts Division of the City of Austin, Economic Development Department, and its Sponsors.

Indie Meme is a non-profit organization dedicated to supporting independent cinema and filmmakers from South Asia & Iran. Our focus is on promoting diversity and cultural exchange. Over the past 10 years, and 8 years of the film festival, Indie Meme is thrilled to provide a platform for the best in independent South Asian cinema, and brings the work of these talented filmmakers to audiences in Austin, and across the United States.

Hedge Events To Organize Vandemataram 2023 Across Several Cities In USA

“As we celebrate the 10th anniversary of Hedge Events New York, we are excited to have you join in and collaborate with us at the Multi-City Vandemataram 2023: Music & Dance Nite, a very popular Entertainment Show across several states in the United States in August-September 2023,” Jacob Araham, CEO of Hedge Funds announced here today. “Vandemataram is a way of expressing our commitment to India while commemorating and paying tributes to our Mother India on the milestone celebration, the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence.”

Mr. Abraham introducing the Hedge Brokerage, the main organizing group of the Show said, “We take pride in our mission to be a link between India and the highly successful Indian American Diaspora in the United States. And, rightly so, Vandemataram 2023 is an effective way of being rooted in and appreciating the best of India’s culture and traditions, showcased by versatile internationally famed artists.

Hedge Events is well known in the community for organizing several Shows in the past decade. The Mollywood Kollywood Sooraj Venjaramoodu and Indrajith Mamatha Mohandas Show was organized in 2016. For the first time ever, The United States North American Film Award (NAFA) with participation from Dhulkar Salman, Parwathy, Bhavana. Vijay Yesudas, Gopisunder, which was live telecasted by Flowers Channel was a huge success. In 2017, NAFA event was proud to have Nivin Pauly, Kunjako Boban, Tovino, Manju Warrior, Asha Sarath, Vani Jayaram, Biji Pal, Rima Kallunkal, and Asiq Abu. The 2018 awards ceremony by the Hedge Fund and NAFA had Dulkar Salman, Manju Warrior, Andria, Vijay Yesudas, Steven Devasia, Joju and many more.

The following stars have already confirmed their participation at the Live Show organized by Hedge in collaboration with several community organizations at the much anticipated Vandemataram 2013: Popular playback singers: Harish Anker and Nithya Mammen; Popular actor Anna Prasad; Aishwarya renowned actress; Ramadan D4 Dance Winner ; P S Abhijith on Violin; Stephen Devasia on Keyboard; Rajesh Vaidyan on Veena; Mohini Dae on Base Guitar; Mahesh on Thabala; Choreographer Sunitha.

Each Show is expected to have more than 15.000 live audiences. The colorful souvenir we plan to release at the events will be an additional opportunity for you in promoting your business.

Vandemataram 2023 is a great way to connect with and inspire the hearts of souls of the fast-growing and highly successful Indian American community in the United States. For more details, please contact by Email: [email protected] or visit: www.hedgeeventsny.com

Devdas – The Musical Set For World Premiere In Singapore

There will be two shows in Hindi with English subtitles on April 21 and 22, and two shows in English with Mandarin subtitles on April 22 and 23.

India’s leading live theatre producer AGP World, along with Arte Compass and Zee TV APAC, inspired by Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay’s classic novel, brings Ashvin Gidwani’s ‘Devdas – The Musical for the world’ premiere in Singapore on April 21, 2023, at the Esplanade Theatre. The news release said that the 100-minute multi-starrer explores the saga of star-crossed lovers Devdas and Paro, torn apart by unfortunate circumstances.

This multifaceted production features performances from popular Bollywood actors such as Sunil Kumar Palwal, Aanchal Chauhan, Bhavna Pani, Jayesh Thakkar and Smita Jaykar, who play key roles in the musical. Actor Arif Zakaria w plays Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay, the writer of the classic tale. The musical also features songs from the Bollywood movie Devdas such as Woh Zindagi Hi Kya, Shyam Tore Rang Me, and Toota Re Manwa, sung by prominent singers, including Shaan, Kailash Kher, Alka Yagnik, Suresh Wadkar, Shail Hada, Bhoomi Trivedi and Antara Mitra.

Ashvin Gidwani, Producer & MD, AGP World, expressed delight to bring this classic on stage and showcase the first World Premiere in Singapore. The press statement said that there will be two shows in Hindi with English subtitles on April 21 and 22, and two shows in English with Mandarin subtitles on April 22 and 23. British theatre director, writer, actor, and teacher Toby Gough is the creative director for the grand musical which is co-directed by Indian director Ranga Godbole. The team also includes technical director and production designer Tom Kitney.

“Devdas has witnessed several renditions in the Indian cinema, yet there is something about the epic that connects with the audience. A saga of love presented by multiple onstage and offstage talents; Devdas promises to be a production never seen before on the Indian Stage,” Gidwani said.

Sanmesh Thakur, EVP – APAC, Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd, said, “Zee in Singapore has been known to support and co-produce high-quality productions. We are extremely proud and excited to be associated with Devdas, one of the most highly awaited shows of 2023!”

South Asian House At SXSW Showcased

Created through sponsorships from The Auntie Network, Tasveer, One Minute Saree, URL Media, The Partnership Inc., Sway with Pray, Indie Meme, and Lailit Vadlamani & Shubha Iyengar, the first-ever South Asian House (SAH) kicked off at Fourth & Co in downtown Austin during the first weekend of the 37th annual SXSW®.

Featured speakers at the two-day, cultural pop-up included industry professionals from business, tech, film, TV, theater, music, and fashion. SAH also hosted a networking event with happy hour each day, as well as live music and a DJ set each night. Local Bollywood dance company Sway With Pray organized flash mobs around the city, and to conclude the weekend, Tasveer presented a Red Carpet Awards Ceremony and a live Oscar Viewing Party on Sunday, March 12. Several South Asian nominees and celebrities were cheered on by the House during the Academy Awards.

The inaugural event opened with welcome remarks from the co-founders of the South Asian House and from SXSW’s Director of Sales, Neil Minocha, followed by a fireside chai & chat moderated by Ms. Media CEO and SAH co-founder Monika Samtani and featured movie producer Rishi Rajani (CEO, Hillman Grad Productions), actor Reema Sampat (Orange is the New Black), and journalist/entrepreneur Snigdha Sur (Founder & CEO, The Juggernaut). The fireside was sponsored by Catalyst Media and Lalit Vadlamani & Shubha Iyengar. SAH’s programming also included two noteworthy panels on film and television Saturday. Warm SriLankan Chai was provided by Kola Goodies.

The first, “Creating South Asian Content for a Global Audience,” was an hour-long discussion with actor Rizwan Manji (“Schitt’s Creek,” “Peacemaker”), Executive Producer of VICE TV, Falguni Adams, and Apoorva Bakshi, Emmy award-winning producer of the hit TV series “Delhi Crime,” moderated by CEO of Jingo Media and co-founder of SAH, Jitin Hingorani.

The second panel, “Investing in the Future of Our South Asian Stories,” was an important conversation that included CEO and Co-founder of URL Media S. Mitra Kalita, actor Kausar Mohammed (“4400,” “The Flash”), and Atit Shah, CEO of Create Entertainment, moderated by co-founder of Box Office Guru Media Gitesh Pandya.

Women in Film and Television, Austin presented the Pilot reading hour of Rehana Lew Mirza’s script ‘Don’t Hate’ with a full slate of talent cast by Ashley Guaragna Casting with this pilot to be produced by SAH co-founder Rohi Mirza Pandya under the sisters joint production company banner. EarlierThe Leadership Program took a deep dive into the successful leadership mindset followed by one-on-one mentorship sessions with industry leaders Pooja Kumar (Actress/Producer & former Miss India USA), Milan Chakraborty (Head of Film at Marginal MediaWorks), Sid Shah (Founder of Trackmind), and James A. Mathew (CEO of The Outer Voice Company). The Leadership Program was facilitated by SAH co-founders, Rohi Mirza Pandya and Monika Samtani, as well as their production company Catalyst Media+ sponsors Lalit Vadlamani & Shubha Iyengar.

South Asian House attendees enjoyed Happy Hours hosted by our partners Brown Girl Magazine and Austin’s very own Indie Meme Film Festival.

The Auntie Network, a Texas dating and marriage website for South Asian singles, presented The StoryLounge Variety Show, hosted by Vick Krishna and Samrat Chakrabarti, and included comics Proma Khosla, Tanveer Arora, and Aizzah Fatima, with musical guest on the table, Mayookh Bhaumik. The evening’s entertainment concluded with live music by Chloe Choudhury with SUNNN, Meetu Chilana, Aditya Rao, and DJ Anupi. The world renowned percussionist Drums Sivamani surprised all guests with an impromptu performance.

Fashion brand One Minute Saree presented Sunday’s Desi Drag Brunch, featuring New York drag queen Tara Ryst and local drag queens Darshan and Jayan, who draped the sarees on stage during their live Bollywood performances. The event was supported by Austin’s South Asian LBGTQ+ organization, Khush Texas.

The afternoon included a series of shorts content, curated by Jitin Hingorani, Founder and Festival Director of DFW South Asian Film Festival, which culminated with the launch of the title track music video from an upcoming Austin based AAPI project WHERE THE STARS ARE, a Banskota Productions feature film co-directed by Kirtana Banskota and Andy Yang. Oscar Sunday evening kicked off with a red carpet and the Uniquely South Asian awards ceremony presented by Tasveer’s Founder Rita Meher. Awardees included all the afore-mentioned panelists and other thought leaders who are uplifting the Diaspora through their unique contributions to the community at large. The Oscar Watch Party was followed by live sets from Kiss Nuka Live (Mumbai & Goa) and Austin’s DJ Anup USA.

“And that’s a wrap!” exclaimed producers Mirza Pandya, Hingorani, Samtani, and Banskota. “We are just thrilled at the reception we’ve received from the South Asian community at SXSW, and we can’t wait to come back bigger and stronger next year. A huge shoutout to all our volunteers without whom this event would not be possible.”

About South Asian House: An initiative that aims to connect a thriving community of thought leaders from various sectors in the business, tech, film, television, fashion, music, ad theater idustries from seven different South Asian countries including Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Pakistan, Maldives, Nepal, and Sri Lanka. The initiative was created by veteran producers, curators, and programmers Rohi Mirza Pandya (Box Office Guru Media), Jitin Hingorani (Jingo Media), Monika Samtani (Ms. Media), and Kirtana Banskota (Banskota Productions). For more information on SXSW’s first ever South Asian House please visit HERE.

Everything Everywhere All At Once Triumphs At Oscars

In addition to India making a remarkable mark on world stage, the 95th Academy awards were significant for another reason. It was not just India’s night, but all of Asia, with ‘Everything Everywhere All At Once’ making a clean sweep of almost every award it was nominated for. Michelle Yeoh as the first Asian Best Actress winner, and only the second person of colour to win that trophy after Halle Berry in 2002 for ‘Monster’s Ball’, spoke of her Oscar as ‘a beacon of hope and possibilities’.

Everything Everywhere All at Once has dominated this year’s Oscars, winning seven awards including best picture on a big night for Asian and Asian American representation.

The manic multiverse fantasy, about a fractured family swept up in an interdimensional adventure, also delivered wins for best actress, best director, best supporting actor, best supporting actress, best editing and best original screenplay at the 95th Academy Awards ceremony held on Sunday, March 12th, 2023. It was the most nominated film of the night.

Michelle Yeoh became only the second woman of color to win the best actress Oscar, following in the footsteps of Halle Berry in 2002. “For all the little boys and girls who look like me watching tonight this is a beacon of hope and possibility,” she said, before adding: “Ladies don’t ever let anyone tell you you are past your prime.”

Ke Huy Quan was named best supporting actor for his role in the film, beating Barry Keoghan and Judd Hirsch. He is the first Vietnam-born actor to win an Oscar. “Mom, I just won an Oscar!” he said tearfully. “They say stories like this only happen in the movies, I cannot believe this is happening to me.”

The win built on the tremendous 2020 ‘Parasite’ sweep when Bong Joon Ho won the best director, and the film won both the best picture AND the best international feature film. EEAAO won seven, yes count them, Oscars. Vietnam-born Ke Huy Kwan won Best Supporting Actor, Jamie Lee Curtis, who really should have won for her breakout perf in A Fish Called Wanda ( yes, way back in 1988), finally got hers with a Best Supporting Actress, the Daniels won the Best Director: the film also picked up awards for Best Original Screenplay and Editing.

In an industry where race and representation have mostly stayed buzz words, the ‘Everything Everywhere..’ triumph feels like a shift, where people of colour are being seen and celebrated for who they are, and what they bring to the table, even if the film often feels laden with too many nods to Asians-in-America stereotypes. But what a performance from Yeoh, and a well-deserved win: there was no better film to have got this award in this year.

I’m sad that the fabulous ‘Banshees of Insherin’, a tale of two most unusual best friends buoyed by a terrific performance from Colin Farrell (an infinitely harder one to pull off as compared to Brendan Fraser’s prosthetic-laden turn in ‘The Whale’, which won the latter the Best Actor) and the gentle donkey Jenny, lost out the Best Picture to EEAAO, but I’m very happy that the latter won, won big, and won so emphatically. Thus proving that it is quite possible to be happy and sad at the same time. Now excuse me while I play ‘Naatu Naatu’ at full volume, all over again.

Naatu Naatu, The Elephant Whisperers & Padukone Make India Shine At Academy Awards

India shone bright at the 95th Academy awards. As an ecstatic MM Keeravani sang out his thanks in tune with that Carpenter’s immortal sappy ditty, the auditorium exploded in hoots, whistles and loud cheers. His ‘namaste’, a delightful little tailpiece to his acceptance speech, echoed the sentiments of a billion Indians on the top of the world after ‘Naatu Naatu’ won the Best Original Song at the Academy awards.

With “Naatu Naatu”, the hit dance track from “RRR”, documentary feature “All That Breathes” and short documentary “The Elephant Whisperers” up for an Oscar, the 95th Academy Awards could well be India’s moment to shine at perhaps the most glittering of all showbiz stages today. It is the first time that India-made productions have earned so many Oscar nominations.

India’s win at Oscars 2023 brings up one of our major strengths, which is being unafraid of sentiment, of bringing something real and emotional to a world that has been taken over by pallid superheroes and their even more pallid tales.

It’s not just the song which had had the globe dancing to its tune from S S Rajamouli’s blockbuster ‘RRR’ that made history at this edition of the Oscars. It was also the Best Documentary Short award for the ‘The Elephant Whisperers’, a heartwarming film on the deep bond between a pair of elephants and their humans, directed by Kartiki Gonsalves, and produced by Guneet Monga. If you haven’t seen the 40 minute film on Netflix, featuring the charming Raghu and Ammu, and Bomman and Bellie, get right to it: it truly is a testament to, as Gonsalves said, the ‘sacred bond between us and the natural world and respect for indigenous

Naatu Naatu was the first Indian win in the Best original song category, and Gonsalves the first Indian to win in the short docu category. India’s cup would have brimmeth over if Shaunak Sen had won the Best Documentary Feature for ‘All That Breathes’, a haunting film about a pair of Delhi-based brothers who care for injured kites falling from the skies. That loss will be a lasting regret.

Shaunak Sen didn’t win the Best Documentary Feature for ‘All That Breathes’. But even as Sen’s film kept winning hearts on the festival circuit, from Sundance to Cannes, and we kept our fingers and toes tightly crossed, it was ‘Navalny’, about the imprisoned Russian dissident and hardcore Putin critic Alexei Navalny which had been gathering momentum in the build-up to the Oscars. This was always going to be the year that anti-war sentiment was everywhere, with ‘All Quiet On The Western Front’ the front-runner in the race, which lost out, quite rightly, to Everything Everywhere All At Once.

The German war epic, directed by Edward Berger, had to be content with the Best International Feature, original score, production design and cinematography, and it lost out, quite rightly to the totally bonkers genre-bending multiverse sci-fi-action-adventure ‘Everything Everywhere All At Once’, directed by Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert.

Still, two out of three is not a bad strike. History doesn’t always have to be grand sweeps. It can be made out of these small incremental steps, because of what they mean once the hurly burly of the awards night and the zillion pre-Oscars and post-Oscars after parties are done and dusted.

An award on a stage where the world is watching opens up doors not just for the film and its makers, but also the country they represent. Those who’ve been dismissing the ‘song-and-dance’ spectacles of Indian mainstream movies, are now dancing to the infectious rhythms of ‘Naatu Naatu’, even as SS Rajamouli’s RRR will always come with a caveat of whether or not it was truthful to the lives of the revolutionaries it was based on.

But this is a time to celebrate, not nit-pick. As first-time Oscar presenter Deepika Padukone, the lights on stage making her even more luminous, asked the audience quite rhetorically: do you know ‘Naatu Naatu’, and it played out on stage, it was a moment.

That live performance may not have matched the mad energy of the song that you see in the film, but the win, which had looked like a shoo-in from the time it was nominated, brings to the fore the joyousness of music, and the stories that can be told via song when words fail. It brings up one of the major strengths of Indian cinema, which is being unafraid of sentiment, of bringing something real and emotional to a world which has been taken over by pallid superheroes and their even more pallid tales which all look and feel similar.

Night Shyamalan Signs Multi-Year First-Look Deal At Warner Bros

Indian American filmmaker M. Night Shyamalan has inked a new multi-year, first-look deal with Warner Bros. Pictures, with the Oscar-nominated filmmaker switching his allegiance from Universal.

The announcement was made on Thursday by Warner Bros. Pictures Group co-chairs and CEOs Michael De Luca and Pam Abdy.

News of the pact comes as the director celebrates his latest release ‘Knock at the Cabin’, which marks his seventh No. 1 opening at the box office – he has a No. 1 film in each of the last four decades – and further contributes to his more than $3 billion haul at the global box office, beginning with his breakout hit, ‘The Sixth Sense’, reports Variety.

“Where I write and direct is my home,” Shyamalan said in a statement announcing the new deal. Disney and Universal, where I’ve made most of my films, will always be home and family to me. Warner Bros. has a storied history of cinema. Through its recent experiences, the company has rediscovered its love and appreciation for filmmakers, and the impact of the theatrical experience.”

“We all win when movies succeed in theatres. I believe David Zaslav, Michael De Luca, and Pam Abdy have dedicated themselves to unique filmmakers, and to filling theatres all around the world for years to come.”

Under the new agreement, Shyamalan and his Philly-based production company Blinding Edge Pictures, run by president of production Ashwin Rajan, will develop original projects for the filmmaker to produce and/or direct for WBPG production divisions Warner Bros. Pictures and New Line Cinema.

Among those projects is Shyamalan’s much-anticipated next directorial effort, ‘Trap’, which is dated for a theatrical release on August 2, 2024.

Also, in the works is ‘The Watchers’, the forthcoming directorial debut of his daughter Ishana Night Shyamalan, which will commence production this year and is slated for a June 7, 2024 release.

“Night is one of the most iconic and influential directors of his generation and an auteur in every sense of the word,” stated De Luca and Abdy.

“From ‘The Sixth Sense’ through ‘Split’ to his latest chiller ‘Knock at the Cabin,’ he’s one of the few directors in contemporary cinema whose name alone promises a bold, singular vision, compelling original storytelling and a provocative, surprising and entirely unique experience at the theatre.”

“We couldn’t be more thrilled to welcome him to the Warner Bros. family, and look forward to an exciting collaboration with Night and the entire Blinding Edge team.”

A lifelong film lover, Shyamalan began directing his own projects while a student at NYU, kicking off his career with 1992’s ‘Praying with Anger’ and 1998’s ‘Wide Awake’. In 1999, the writer, director and producer’s third film, “The Sixth Sense,” made him a mega-star, earning nearly $700 million worldwide and netting six Oscar nominations, including directing and original screenplay nods.

His body of work that followed includes blockbusters like ‘Signs’, ‘The Village’, ‘The Visit’ and the comic-book trilogy ‘Unbreakable’, ‘Split’ and ‘Glass’.

On the TV side, Shyamalan has directed five episodes of Apple+ TV’s thriller series ‘Servant’, for which he also serves as showrunner and executive producer. (IANS)

Stella Jean Quits Milan Fashion Week Over Lack Of Inclusion

(AP) — The only Black designer belonging to Italy’s fashion chamber withdrew Wednesday from this month’s Milan Fashion Week, alleging a lack of support for diversity and inclusion after the chamber “abandoned” a project to promote young designers of color working in Italy.

Stella Jean interrupted a press conference by the Italian National Fashion Chamber to announce that neither she nor five members of the We Are Made in Italy collective of designers of color would participate in fashion week.

She also said she had started a hunger strike Wednesday out of concern members of WAMI, an initiative launched in 2020 on the heels of the Black Lives Matter movement, could suffer a professional backlash for her activism.

The moves signaled a dramatic denouement of a nearly three-year-collaboration with the chamber to promote designers of color.

“The chamber told us, ‘We didn’t know there were Italian designers who weren’t white.’ We brought them to the runway. They supported us for two years. Then we were abandoned,” Jean told the press conference.

Italian Fashion Chamber President Carlo Capasa assured her from the dais that the chamber had no intention of retaliating in any way. He expressed regret that neither she nor the WAMI members would participate in Fashion Week.

“Stella’s contribution has always been appreciated. We Italians need to have our conscience stimulated,” he said. “As for WAMI, we are not people who retaliate. For us it is important to promote new brands.”

He noted that two WAMI designers from previous seasons were presenting collections during Milan Fashion Week, which runs from Feb. 21-27.

In addition, the chamber has included on the fashion week calendar the inaugural edition of the Black Carpet Awards recognizing the achievements of minorities in Italian society, and was hosting another diversity initiative by the owner and editor of U.S.-based Blanc Magazine, Teneshia Carr.

Jean charged that the chamber had significantly cut back support for WAMI after she made an impassioned speech about the personal price she had paid for highlighting racial injustice in Italy during a runway show last September.

She also said it backtracked on a promise to create a Black board within the chamber to promote diversity and inclusion. Capasa told AP that he decided against the board after WAMI made social media posts that cast a negative light on some Italian fashion brands.

“We wrote a nice letter, saying we want to give them the liberty to express themselves,” Capasa said, adding that the chamber could not host any board that appeared to take public swipes at other members.

Italian-Haitian Jean, who made her Milan runway premiere in 2013 on the Armani runway, said she and her family have been subjected to retaliation for her activism for racial justice in Italy. She said that included death threats against her daughter by other minors, and the termination of professional relationships for her.

“When you speak of retaliations, of death threats, people, I work in fashion. I don’t traffic arms, I don’t traffic drugs or make money from trafficking women,” Jean said. “It is absurd, vile, shameful and inhuman that I must speak for people who feel their lives are in danger, who feel they will suffer the same retaliation.”

WAMI was launched by Jean, African-American designer Edward Buchanan and the head of Afro Fashion Week Milano, Michelle Ngonmo, to draw attention to the lack of minority representation in the Italian fashion world. It followed some racial gaffes by major fashion houses that made global headlines.

Ngonmo told the AP that financial support for the project from the chamber had dwindled over the three years it has run so far, and that Afro Fashion Week Milano wasn’t able to come up with 20,000 euros ($21,000) to support the five young designers in making solid looks to present, plus a video.

The Italian fashion chamber fully supported the collections for the two WAMI classes, each with five designers, but hasn’t funded the third generation, Ngonmo and Jean said.

A September show featuring Jean, Buchanan and WAMI was financed through other allies and their own contributions. The latest WAMI collections were to be presented by video on Feb. 22.

“Maybe the message is the whole industry needs to open their eyes and say, ‘What can we do to make that happen?’” Ngonmo told the AP.

Capasa emphasized that the project by Blanc Magazine’s Carr is receiving the same support he offered WAMI: a slot on the calendar and a physical space in the Fashion Hub where journalists and buyers can view the collections.

But Jean insists that Italy’s designers of color deserve special promotion by the chamber, whose role is the promotion of Italian fashion.

Jean said progress in recent seasons — including opening fashion week with WAMI designer Joy Meribe’s runway show, and Jean’s own return to the runway in September — had turned out to be “performative.”

“They used WAMI as a free pass of safe conduct for diversity,” Jean told the AP. She said she was withdrawing out of fatigue with the “continual fight” for recognition for designers of color in Italy. “I am a fighter by nature, but I cannot be this way all the time,” she said.

Award-Winning Life Of Pi Stars To Make Their Broadway Debuts Reprising The Roles Of “Pi” And “Richard Parker”

Lolita Chakrabarti’s dazzling stage adaption of Yann Martel’s best-selling novel LIFE OF PI will premiere at Broadway’s Gerald Schoenfeld Theatre (236 West 45th Street) with three Olivier Award-winning performers making their Broadway debuts. Recreating their critically acclaimed performances for Broadway will be “Best Actor” winner Hiran Abeysekera in the role of “Pi” and “Best Supporting Actor” winners Fred Davis and Scarlet Wilderink join the “Richard Parker” puppeteering team.

The Broadway production of the five-time Olivier Award-winning London production of LIFE OF PI will feature Brian Thomas Abraham as Cook/Voice of “Richard Parker,” Rajesh Bose as Father, Avery Glymph as Father Martin/Russian Sailor/Rear Admiral Jackson, Mahira Kakkar as Nurse/Amma/Orange Juice, Kirstin Louie as Lulu Chen, Salma Qarnain as Mrs. Biology Kumar/Zaida Khan, Sathya Sridharan as Mamaji/Pandit-Ji, Daisuke Tsuji as Mr. Okamoto/Captain, Sonya Venugopal as Rani, with Nikki Calonge, Fred Davis, Rowan Ian Seamus Magee, Jonathan David Martin, Betsy Rosen, Celia Mei Rubin, Scarlet Wilderink and Andrew Wilson as Royal Bengal tiger “Richard Parker.” Mahnaz Damania, Jon Hoche, Usman Ali Mughal, Uma Paranjpe and David Shih round out the 24-member cast with Adi Dixit as the “Pi” alternate.

LIFE OF PI begins performances Thursday, March 9, 2023, and opens Thursday, March 30, 2023. Prior to the Broadway engagement, LIFE OF PI made its North American Premiere at the American Repertory Theater at Harvard University.

LIFE OF PI is directed by Max Webster, with Set and Costume design by Olivier Award winner Tim Hatley, Puppetry and Movement Direction by Olivier Award winner Finn Caldwell, Puppet Design by Olivier Award winners Nick Barnes and Finn Caldwell, Video Design by Olivier Award winner Andrzej Goulding, Lighting Design by Olivier Award winner Tim Lutkin, Sound Design by Carolyn Downing, Original Music by Andrew T Mackay, Dramaturgy by Jack Bradley, Wig Design by David Brian Brown, and Casting by Stewart/Whitley.

Based on one of the best-loved works of fiction – winner of the Man Booker Prize, selling over fifteen million copies worldwide – LIFE OF PI is a breath-taking new theatrical adaptation of an epic journey of endurance and hope.

After a cargo ship sinks in the middle of the vast Pacific Ocean, a sixteen-year-old boy name Pi is stranded on a lifeboat with four other survivors – a hyena, a zebra, an orangutan, and a 450-pound Royal Bengal tiger. Time is against them, nature is harsh, who will survive?

Tickets for LIFE OF PI on Broadway are available at Telecharge.com (212.239.6200) and at the Gerald Schoenfeld Theatre box office and range from $49 – $199 (including $2 facility fee). The playing schedule for LIFE OF PI is as follows: Tuesday through Saturday at 8pm, with matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2pm, and Sunday at 3pm. Please note there will be no 2pm performance on Wednesday, March 15, and March 22. Beginning Tuesday, April 4, 2023, the LIFE OF PI performance schedule is as follows: Tuesday and Thursday at 7pm, Wednesday and Friday at 7:30pm, and Saturday at 8pm, with matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2pm, and Sunday at 3pm.

LIFE OF PI on Broadway is produced by Simon Friend, Daryl Roth, Hal Luftig, Mark Gordon Pictures, Playing Field, Tulchin Bartner Productions, Gavin Kalin, Hunter Arnold, Hall Smalberg Winkler, 42nd.club, Elizabeth Armstrong, Eilene Davidson, deRoy Shea Waxman, Federman Jenen Productions, Susan Gallin, Independent Presenters Network, John Gore Organization, Kuhn Dodani, Harriet Newman Leve, Anastasia Muravyeva, Mary Lu Roffe, Catherine Schreiber, American Repertory Theatre and Sheffield Theatres, with Aaron Lustbader and Hanna Osmolska serving as Executive Producers.

LIFE OF PI played Wyndham’s Theatre in London’s West End where it won five Olivier Awards including Best New Play, Best Scenic Design and Best Lighting Design. In an historic first for the Olivier Awards, the seven performers who play Royal Bengal tiger “Richard Parker” were collectively awarded “Best Actor in a Supporting Role.” The London production with its cutting-edge visual effects has garnered great critical acclaim and will launch a UK & Ireland tour in the summer of 2023.

Show info: www.LifeOfPiBway.com; Social: @lifeofpibway on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook

India Wins 3 Oscar Nominations

India received three nominations for Best Original Song (‘Naatu Naatu’ from ‘RRR’), Best Documentary Feature Film (‘All That Breathes’), and Best Documentary Short Film (‘The Elephant Whisperers’).

The Oscars are going to be held on March 13 this year and while the wait is going to be quite a long one from now, the nominations have sure lifted the spirits of not just the crew and cast of the films mentioned above, but also of everyone who hopes to see an Indian movie bagging the prestigious award.

Actor Jacqueline Fernandez penned down a heartfelt note last week as her film ‘Tell It Like A Woman’s song ‘Applause’ recently bagged an Oscar nomination in the ‘Best Original Song’ category.

The song is competing against ‘RRR’s ‘Naatu Naatu’, ‘Hold My Hand’ from the movie ‘Top Gun: Maverick,’ ‘Lift me Up’ from ‘Black Panther: Wakanda Forever,’ and ‘This Is Life,’ from ‘Everything, Everywhere All At Once’. The actor also congratulated the team ‘RRR’ for their Oscar nomination.

“Also big congratulations to Team RRR for Naatu Naatu nomination!!! My best wishes and love to the entire team and all the nominees,” the caption further reads.

Taking to Instagram, the ‘Kick’ actor shared a post which she captioned, “Beyond words right now Congratulations to @dianewarren @sofiacarson for the Oscar nomination for ‘Applause’ and making us all proud! It was an honor to be associated with this beautiful film ‘Tell it like a woman’ alongside such esteemed artists! Thank you @leenaclicks @chiaratilesi @lucasakoskin @andreaiervolinoproducer @wditogether @aseematographer @arrahman.”

The nominations for the upcoming 95th edition of Academy Awards were announced on last week by hosts Riz Ahmed and Allison Williams, with ‘The Banshees of Inisherin’ leading the pack with as many as nine nominations.

The Colin Farrell-starrer film got nominated in the following categories — Best Supporting Actor (two nominations), Best Supporting Actress, Best Actor, Best Director, Best Original Score, Best Picture, Best Editing and Best Original Screenplay.

‘The Fabelmans’ received seven nominations followed by ‘Tar’ and ‘TopGun: Maverick’ (six each), ‘Black Panther: Wakanda Forever’ (five), ‘Avatar’ (four), and ‘The Whale’ (three).

Competing for the best picture are ‘All Quiet on the Western Front’, ‘Avatar: The Way of Water’, ‘The Banshees of Inisherin’, ‘Elvis’, ‘Everything Everywhere All at Once’, ‘The Fabelmans’, ‘Tar’, ‘Top Gun: Maverick’, ‘Triangle of Sadness’ and ‘Women Talking’.

The 95th Academy Awards is set to be presented at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles on March 12. Jimmy Kimmel will be seen back as the host, after previously leading the awards show in 2017 and 2018. Last year, the Oscars returned to a host format with Amy Schumer, Wanda Sykes and Regina Hall, after going host-less the previous two years due to the Covid-19 pamdemic.

Here is the complete list of nominations:

* Best Supporting Actor

Brendan Gleeson (‘The Banshees of Inisherin’)

Brian Tyree Henry (‘Causeway’)

Judd Hirsch (‘”The Fabelmans’)

Barry Keoghan (‘The Banshees of Inisherin’)

Ke Huy Quan (‘Everything Everywhere All at Once’)

* Best Supporting Actress

Angela Bassett (‘Black Panther: Wakanda Forever’)

Hong Chau (‘The Whale’)

Kerry Condon (‘The Banshees of Inisherin’)

Jamie Lee Curtis (‘Everything Everywhere All at Once’)

Stephanie Hsu (‘Everything Everywhere All at Once’)

* Best Animated Feature Film

‘Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio’, Guillermo del Toro, Mark Gustafson, Gary Ungar and Alex Bulkley

‘Marcel the Shell With Shoes On’, Dean Fleischer Camp, Elisabeth Holm, Andrew Goldman, Caroline Kaplan and Paul Mezey

‘Puss in Boots: The Last Wish’, Joel Crawford and Mark Swift

‘The Sea Beast’, Chris Williams and Jed Schlanger

‘Turning Red’, Domee Shi and Lindsey Collins

* Best Animated Short Film

‘The Boy, the Mole, the Fox and the Horse’, Charlie Mackesy and Matthew Freud

‘The Flying Sailor’, Amanda Forbis and Wendy Tilby

‘Ice Merchants’, Joao Gonzalez and Bruno Caetano

‘My Year of Dicks’, Sara Gunnarsdottir and Pamela Ribon

‘An Ostrich Told Me the World Is Fake and I Think I Believe It’, Lachlan Pendragon

* Best Costume Design

‘Babylon’, Mary Zophres

‘Black Panther: Wakanda Forever’, Ruth Carter

‘Elvis’, Catherine Martin

‘Everything Everywhere All at Once’, Shirley Kurata

‘Mrs. Harris Goes to Paris’, Jenny Beavan

* Best Live Action Short

‘An Irish Goodbye’, Tom Berkeley and Ross White

‘Ivalu’, Anders Walter and Rebecca Pruzan

‘Le Pupille’, Alice Rohrwacher and Alfonso Cuaron

‘Night Ride’, Eirik Tveiten and Gaute Lid Larssen

‘The Red Suitcase’, Cyrus Neshvad

* Best Makeup and Hairstyling

‘All Quiet on the Western Front’, Heike Merker and Linda Eisenhamerova

‘The Batman’, Naomi Donne, Mike Marino and Mike Fontaine

‘Black Panther: Wakanda Forever’, Camille Friend and Joel Harlow

‘Elvis’, Mark Coulier, Jason Baird and Aldo Signoretti

‘The Whale’, Adrien Morot, Judy Chin and Anne Marie Bradley

* Best Original Score

‘All Quiet on the Western Front’, Volker Bertelmann

‘Babylon’, Justin Hurwitz

‘The Banshees of Inisherin’, Carter Burwell

‘Everything Everywhere All at Once’, Son Lux

‘The Fabelmans’, John Williams

* Best Sound

‘All Quiet on the Western Front’, Viktor Prasil, Frank Kruse, Markus Stemler, Lars Ginzel and Stefan Korte

‘Avatar: The Way of Water’, Julian Howarth, Gwendolyn Yates Whittle, Dick Bernstein, Christopher Boyes, Gary Summers and Michael Hedges

‘The Batman’, Stuart Wilson, William Files, Douglas Murray and Andy Nelson

‘Elvis’, David Lee, Wayne Pashley, Andy Nelson and Michael Keller

‘Top Gun: Maverick’, Mark Weingarten, James H. Mather, Al Nelson, Chris Burdon and Mark Taylor

* Best Adapted Screenplay

‘All Quiet on the Western Front’, Screenplay by Edward Berger, Lesley Paterson & Ian Stokell

‘Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery’, Written by Rian Johnson

‘Living’, Written by Kazuo Ishiguro

‘Top Gun: Maverick’, Screenplay by Ehren Kruger and Eric Warren Singer and Christopher McQuarrie; Story by Peter Craig and Justin Marks

‘Women Talking’, Screenplay by Sarah Polley

* Best Original Screenplay

‘The Banshees of Inisherin’, Written by Martin McDonagh

‘Everything Everywhere All at Once’, Written by Daniel Kwan & Daniel Scheinert

‘The Fabelmans’, Written by Steven Spielberg & Tony Kushner

‘Tar’, Written by Todd Field

‘Triangle of Sadness’, Written by Ruben Ostlund

* Best Cinematography

‘All Quiet on the Western Front’, James Friend

‘Bardo, False Chronicle of a Handful of Truths’, Darius Khondji

‘Elvis’, Mandy Walker

‘Empire of Light’, Roger Deakins

‘Tar’, Florian Hoffmeister

* Best Documentary Feature Film

‘All That Breathes’, Shaunak Sen, Aman Mann and Teddy Leifer

‘All the Beauty and the Bloodshed’, Laura Poitras, Howard Gertler, John Lyons, Nan Goldin and Yoni Golijov

‘Fire of Love’, Sara Dosa, Shane Boris and Ina Fichman

‘A House Made of Splinters’, Simon Lereng Wilmont and Monica Hellstrom

‘Navalny’, Daniel Roher, Odessa Rae, Diane Becker, Melanie Miller and Shane Boris

* Best Documentary Short Film

‘The Elephant Whisperers’, Kartiki Gonsalves and Guneet Monga

‘Haulout’, Evgenia Arbugaeva and Maxim Arbugaev

‘How Do You Measure a Year?’ Jay Rosenblatt

‘The Martha Mitchell Effect’, Anne Alvergue and Beth Levison

‘Stranger at the Gate’, Joshua Seftel and Conall Jones

* Best Editing

‘The Banshees of Inisherin’, Mikkel E.G. Nielsen

‘Elvis’, Matt Villa and Jonathan Redmond

‘Everything Everywhere All at Once’, Paul Rogers

‘Tar’, Monika Willi

‘Top Gun: Maverick’, Eddie Hamilton

* Best International Feature Film

‘All Quiet on the Western Front’ (Germany)

‘Argentina, 1985’ (Argentina)

‘Close’ (Belgium)

‘EO’ (Poland)

‘The Quiet Girl’ (Ireland)

* Best Original Song

‘Applause’ from ‘Tell It Like a Woman’, Music and Lyric by Diane Warren

‘Hold My Hand’ from ‘Top Gun: Maverick’, Music and Lyric by Lady Gaga and BloodPop

‘Lift Me Up’ from ‘Black Panther: Wakanda Forever’, Music by Tems, Rihanna, Ryan Coogler and Ludwig Goransson; Lyric by Tems and Ryan Coogler

‘Naatu Naatu’ from ‘RRR’, Music by M.M. Keeravaani; Lyric by Chandrabose

‘This Is a Life’ from ‘Everything Everywhere All at Once’, Music by Ryan Lott, David Byrne and Mitski; Lyric by Ryan Lott and David Byrne

* Best Production Design

‘All Quiet on the Western Front’, Production Design: Christian M. Goldbeck; Set Decoration: Ernestine Hipper

‘Avatar: The Way of Water’, Production Design: Dylan Cole and Ben Procter; Set Decoration: Vanessa Cole

‘Babylon’, Production Design: Florencia Martin; Set Decoration: Anthony Carlino

‘Elvis’, Production Design: Catherine Martin and Karen Murphy; Set Decoration: Bev Dunn

‘The Fabelmans’, Production Design: Rick Carter; Set Decoration: Karen O’Hara

* Best Visual Effects

‘All Quiet on the Western Front’, Frank Petzold, Viktor Muller, Markus Frank and Kamil Jafar

‘Avatar: The Way of Water’, Joe Letteri, Richard Baneham, Eric Saindon and Daniel Barrett

‘The Batman’, Dan Lemmon, Russell Earl, Anders Langlands and Dominic Tuohy

‘Black Panther: Wakanda Forever’, Geoffrey Baumann, Craig Hammack, R. Christopher White and Dan Sudick

‘Top Gun: Maverick’, Ryan Tudhope, Seth Hill, Bryan Litson and Scott R. Fisher

* Best Lead Actor

Austin Butler (‘Elvis’)

Colin Farrell (‘The Banshees of Inisherin’)

Brendan Fraser (‘The Whale’)

Paul Mescal (‘Aftersun’)

Bill Nighy (‘Living’)

* Best Lead Actress

Cate Blanchett (‘Tar’)

Ana de Armas (‘Blonde’)

Andrea Riseborough (‘To Leslie’)

Michelle Williams (‘The Fabelmans’)

Michelle Yeoh (‘Everything Everywhere All at Once’)

* Best Director

Martin McDonagh (‘The Banshees of Inisherin’)

Daniel Kwan, Daniel Scheinert (‘Everything Everywhere All at Once’)

Steven Spielberg (‘The Fabelmans’)

Todd Field (‘Tar’)

Ruben Ostlund (‘Triangle of Sadness’)

* Best Picture

‘All Quiet on the Western Front’, Malte Grunert, Producer

‘Avatar: The Way of Water’, James Cameron and Jon Landau, Producers

‘The Banshees of Inisherin’, Graham Broadbent, Pete Czernin and Martin McDonagh, Producers

‘Elvis’, Baz Luhrmann, Catherine Martin, Gail Berman, Patrick McCormick and Schuyler Weiss, Producers

‘Everything Everywhere All at Once’, Daniel Kwan, Daniel Scheinert and Jonathan Wang, Producers

‘The Fabelmans’, Kristie Macosko Krieger, Steven Spielberg and Tony Kushner, Producers

‘Tar’, Todd Field, Alexandra Milchan and Scott Lambert, Producers

‘Top Gun: Maverick’, Tom Cruise, Christopher McQuarrie, David Ellison and Jerry Bruckheimer, Producers

‘Triangle of Sadness’, Erik Hemmendorff and Philippe Bober, Producers

‘Women Talking’, Dede Gardner, Jeremy Kleiner and Frances McDormand, Producers

Anoushka Shankar Will Perform At 65th Grammy Awards

Kicking off the proceedings for the 65th annual Grammy Awards, Awards Premiere Ceremony, Anoushka Shankar will be seen making her third performance at the event.

The ceremony will return to the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles on 5 February.

The masterful sitar player, producer, film composer, activist and nine-time Grammy Award nominee will perform alongside vocalist Arooj Aftab on their nominated track ‘Udhero Na’ from Arooj’s new album, ‘Vulture Prince’.

Anoushka shared: “I’m genuinely over the moon to be performing at the Grammy Awards Premiere Ceremony for the third time. This time I’m excited to share the stage with the wonderful Arooj Aftab, playing her beautiful song Udhero Na.”

“I’m grateful my music on this song and on my album Between Usa has been recognised with a nomination again and am proud to represent India and my instrument, the sitar, on this world stage.”

Anoushka enjoys an extensive Grammy history; she was the first Indian woman ever nominated and youngest-ever nominee in the World Music Category for her album Live At Carnegie Hall in 2002, and then went on to become the first Indian musician to perform at the ceremony in 2005, serve as presenter in 2016 and perform for the second time in 2021.

In addition to her fresh eighth and ninth nominations, Anoushka’s previous works Live At Carnegie Hall, Rise, Traveller, Traces Of You, Home, Land Of Goldand Love Letters have all been Grammy nominated.

This announcement coincides with Anoushka’s fresh inaugural empanellment as a Visiting Professor in Music at Oxford University.

Anoushka further added: “What a true honour to be invited as the Inaugural Visiting Professor in Music Business at Oxford University! I’m deeply grateful to embark upon this new journey.”

R’ Bonney Gabriel, Miss USA Is Crowned Miss Universe

R’Bonney Gabriel, a fashion designer, model and sewing instructor from Texas, a Filipino American, was crowned the 71st Miss Universe on Saturday, January 14th, 2023. Gabriel, who last year became the first Filipino-American to win Miss USA, took the crown ahead of Amanda Dudamel from Venezuela and Andreína Martínez from the Dominican Republic.

The pageant was held in New Orleans, Louisiana, with 84 women from around the world competing for the crown. Gabriel closed her eyes and clasped hands with runner-up Miss Venezuela, Amanda Dudamel, at the moment of the dramatic reveal of the winner, then beamed after her name was announced.

In the Q&A at the last stage of the competition for the three finalists, Gabriel was asked how she would work to demonstrate Miss Universe is “an empowering and progressive organization” if she were to win.

“I would use it to be a transformational leader,” she responded, citing her work using recycled materials in her fashion design and teaching sewing to survivors of human trafficking and domestic violence. “It is so important to invest in others, invest in our community and use your unique talent to make a difference.”

When Gabriel entered the Top 5, she was asked, “Miss Universe recently made an inclusive change allowing mothers and married women to compete this year. What’s another change you’d like to see and why?” Gabriel responded that she hoped the contest organizers would increase the candidate age limit.

“For me, I would like to see an age increase because I am 28 years old. And that is the oldest age to compete. And I think it’s a beautiful thing. My favorite quote is ‘if not now, then when?’ Because as a woman, I believe age does not define us. It’s not tomorrow, it’s not yesterday — but it’s now. The time is now,” she said.

Earlier in the pageant, Gabriel donned a red-orange cape inspired by a rising phoenix with the maxim “if not now, then when,” which she had dyed herself. The words take inspiration from her father’s advice to act on goals, dreams and desires.

In the final question and answer segment of the competition, the Top 3 contenders were asked how they would work to demonstrate Miss Universe as an empowering and progressive organization if they won the title.

Gabriel said she would use the platform to be a “transformational leader” and emphasized her passion as a force for good in the fashion industry by cutting down on pollution and using recycled materials in making clothing pieces.

“I teach sewing classes to women that have survived from human trafficking and domestic violence. And I say that because it is so important to invest in others, invest in our community, and use your unique talent to make a difference,” Gabriel said. “We all have something special and when we plant those seeds for other people in our life, we transform them and we use that as a vehicle for change.”

This year’s pageant was organized for the first time by JKN Global Group PCL, a Thailand-based media distribution company, after tycoon and transgender rights advocate Anne Jakkaphong Jakrajutatip bought the Miss Universe Organization for $20 million in October.

Jakkaphong has been outspoken about her experiences as a transgender woman, and is also the first woman owner of the pageant.

She made an appearance onstage to award the ImpactWayv Challenge winner to Thailand’s Anna Sueangam-iam, honoring her commitments for social good.

Miss Thailand had in the preliminary rounds of the pageant made waves in a dress made of soda tabs — a tribute to her humble beginnings and her parents’ work as garbage collectors.

3iii, A Platform for Indian Talent across the Globe

International Indian Icon (3iii) (Three Eye) by Gee Vision Inc. (Gee), Chicago USA is taking over the world as a global talent platform by giving young children and adults the opportunity to showcase their talent without any restrictions of location, culture, color, gender or age at a national and international level. Since its inception in 2017, Dec 30th 2022 Gee Vision Inc. completed 3iii 2022 Season-6 with the huge success 3iii S-6 episode production (Semi-finals, Finale and Grand finale) in n Plainfield, IL Suburb of Chicago) from Dec 29th to Dec 30th 2022. 3iii has reached a platform of 25,562 participants and a world-wide talent from the U.S., Canada, Europe, the Caribbean, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, the Middle East, Asia and India with registrations from 46 countries of 7 continents. 1st 3iii S-6 Semi-final i.e., 3iii India 2022 with 102 on-site semi-finalists and 18 on-line semi-finalists (joined through Zoom) from all over Asia was shot in Delhi, India on Dec 26th &amp; 27th 2022.

2nd 3iii S-6 semi-final and finale with 82 on-site semi-finalists; 23 on-line semifinalists from all over the world and 12 finalists i.e., 3iii India 2022 winners from India (joined through Zoom) was shot in Community Event Center, 24035 W. Riverwalk Ct., Plainfield, IL 60544 with multiple cameras and beautiful stage and 3iii Band by Suneer Mehmood on Dec 29th 2022.

3iii S-6 was judged by Bollywood Music composer, lyricist and singer ARKO, Hollywood actor and music manager BOBBY LEIGH, Ms India 2013 and International celebrity anchor SIMRAN AHUJA which was supported by 3iii International Jury consisting of Bollywood playback singer POONAL BHATIA, Bollywood entertainer from Dubai ABBAS ALI MITZA for singing; Gauri Jog, Pooja Joshi, Bharathi Devarakonda for Dance; Juhi Jigiasi and Pooja Nanjia for Fashion.

3iii Anchor/MC team included Simran Ahuja, Ajai Kumar and RJ Anya Ahuja. Grand-finale of 3iii 2022 Season-6 was successfully concluded as per plan by declaring following Winners of International Indian Icon (3iii – 2022), Season-6 of different categories and age group.

Singing:

On-site in Chicago;

Payal Roy Gaguli (Senior)

Tulip Ghosh (Junior)

* On-line through Zoom

Sanika Pandey (Junior)

Dance:

* On-site in Chicago

Gazal Sethi (Senior)

Nayan Nampally (Junior)

Fashion:

* On-site in Chicago

Nayan Nampally (Junior)

Riya (Senior)

I Got Talent:

* On-site in Chicago

Tabla Jugalbandi (Junior):

Akshay Talreja Ashwin Nair Viral Patel Tejas Patnaik

* On-line through Zoom

Surjeet Singh (Senior)

Nihal Banda (Junior)

3iii previous 5 seasons have been judged by numerous

Bollywood legendary music directors, singers and choreographers like legendary music director Jatin Pandit;

Bollywood composer, lyricist and singer Arko Mukherjee,

Bollywood Slumdog millionaires choreographer Longinus Fernandez;

Bollywood actress Meenakshi Seshadri;

Ms India 2013 Simian Ahuja

Show their talent in numerous categories such as Singing, Dancing, Instruments, acting, Fashion, Comedy and I Got Talent (Any Talent) across all 3 age groups Junior (16 Yr.), Senior (55 Years) and Super Senior (More than 55 Years).

The first two seasons of 3iii were aired on Zee TV USA while 3rd and 4th seasons were televised by Sahara One, Samay and Filmy TV channels. Discussion about airing / streaming Season-5 and 6 episodes on some global TV channels/OTT platform is in progress, soon TV channel / OTT platform will be announced.

Talents are recognized in all talent categories across all 3 age groups as State Indian Icon at state level across the country, who are invited to compete at country level to be recognized as Indian Country Icon at country level across the globe and winners of all countries of all categories across all 3 age groups are invited to Chicago, USA to join 3iii Episode Production (Semi-final, Finale &amp; Grand-finale) on-line or onsite during last week of December.

3iii (Three Eye) founded by Mr Sharan Walia, the vision behind the platform for both on-line and on-site competition to not only show the beauty of Indian culture through song, dance, fashion and talent but also allow nonnatives to show their love for Indian culture by performing to Indian songs and dance.

Gee would also like to thank Mr. Naresh Shastri (3iii Execution Director) from Chicago for successfully executing 3iii globally since 3iii 2017 Season-1. Gee thanks 3iii India Partner Mr Ajit Bains and huge support of Mr. Sanjay Yadav in making 3iii India 2022 a huge success. Gee appreciates support of Dr Chidatmika Khatua, founder of Adi Tribal Foundation for collaborating with Gee Vision for Tribal Queen Global (TQG) to empower Tribal women and recognize Tribal talent globally.

Raaj Rahhi as 3iii Director has taken the responsibility of entire 3iii episode production globally to make 3iii episodes to air/stream it globally on multiple TV channels and/or OTT Platform. TV and OTT platforms may contact Gee / 3iii for collaboration opportunities.

Gee would like to thank 3iii Advisory Board, 3iii International Jury and appreciates the volunteer support of Archana Mitta for supporting 3iii 2022 S-6 with her team.

Gee is on the move to create an International on-line and on-site platform 3iii for anyone who likes any type of Indian art and culture, living in any part of the world, without any restrictions of geographical boundaries, culture, color, gender and age to give them opportunity to showcase their talent at National and International Level.

Gee welcomes any talent of any category of any age group, gender, region, religion, and color without any discrimination to participate in 3iii Global talent competition to showcase their talent to the world. Gee has a unique vision and mission of bringing a global talent community at one platform 3iii to share the knowledge, talent, experience and art with each other globally.

3iii 2023 Season-7 plan is being built and registration for the same will open on Apr1st 2023 on both 3iii websites www.internationalindianicon.com and www.3iii.us as well as on 3iii Apps (iOS &amp; Android).

Disney To Receive Its First Indian Princess, A Musical Helmed By Gurinder Chadha

The “Disney Princess” franchise is set to go Desi with its newest addition. According to a report by entertainment outlet Deadline, the House of Mouse has commissioned an original musical film from ‘Bride and Prejudice’ director Gurinder Chadha and Paul Mayeda Berges.

Chadha will serve as the film’s producer and director. Written by both Chadha and Berges, the team will be joined by Lindy Goldstein, the producer of ‘The Nutcracker and the Four Realms’ the news report said.

No details have yet been shared on the film’s plot. However, the project would be headed by the President of the Walt Disney Motion Picture Production, Sean Bailey, Deadline said.

Chadha is the owner of the company ‘Bend It Films’, which has grossed in excess of $300 million at the worldwide box office.

She was nominated twice for the BAFTA Award, once for her debut film ‘Bhaji on the Beach’ and then for the film ‘Bend It Like Beckham’, as per Deadline.

Bend It Like Bekham was an international success, raking up $76 million worldwide and also ending up as the most successful British-financed and distributed feature film on the U.K. box office at the time.

‘Besharam Rang Is My First Song With Deepika So I Knew I Had To Do Something Really Special!’ : Vaibhavi Merchant

Producer Aditya Chopra and director Siddharth Anand unveiled the first song of Pathaan, Besharam Rang, on Monday which broke the internet! The song has been trending worldwide ever since it’s release and fans and audiences have gone berserk complimenting how SRK and Deepika Padukone are looking in the song and how hot the choreography is because the verdict is unanimous – Deepika has looked her hottest best in Besharam Rang!

Ace choreographer Vaibhavi Merchant, who is known to present the hottest versions of leading ladies on screen – Aishwarya Rai Bachchan in Kajra Re from Bunty Aur Babli, Katrina Kaif in Kamli from Dhoom: 3 to the scintillating Deepika Padukone in Besharam Rang, etc is over the moon with the response to the song.

She says, “In my body of work, I have probably consciously made an effort to ensure that the female leads are always presented very aesthetically. For instance, with Ash (Aishwarya Rai Bachchan) in Kajra Re, I made it a point to kind of enhance the expressions in the way she did her adaakari. In Kamli with Katrina again, I kept in my what Katrina would look great doing.”

She adds, “One must always study the actor you’re choreographing for because it doesn’t matter if the movement looks great on me or my assistants, but it must look fantastic on the actor, it should bespoke to the actor. So even with Katrina, it was very clear that I want to give her something that I’ve never done before and never seen before because she had her own style. In Katrina, I saw a very, very excruciatingly hard working talent and she would exhaust me with all the rehearsal time but what she did in the song, was simply incredible.”

Vaibhavi further says, “Strangely, I’ve never been able to choreograph something for Deepika until Besharam Rang. So, this is my first song with Deepika and I knew I had to do something really special for this one. It was very endearing for me to see her approach me and say finally we get to work with each other and I said Deepika I truly want to make this very special for you because this is our first and I don’t want to shoot a better song than this for you in future.”

Vaibhavi says she went all out in making Deepika look the hottest heroine that India has ever seen on screen. She says, ”I wanted to go all out to present her in a way that she has never been presented before. I must give it to Shaleena Nathani for the costumes. Deepika has a great rapport with her and I was pleasantly surprised to see her being so comfortable in her own skin. She owns the song and she is looking gorgeous in every frame.”

Vaibhavi adds, “Deepika put in a lot of hard work to look the way she is looking in Besharam Rang. She had an entire crew – dietitian, her physical trainer and the stunning costumes by Shaleena. I was mighty impressed with the way she just approached all the costumes she’s like, yeah, she’s cool to wear this, she’s cool to wear that. So, I think that really triggered a certain style in which this song should be shot. Because I was like, I can’t make her wear those costumes and make her do steps in a way that we usually shoot songs.”

The song features a sizzling Deepika with Shah Rukh Khan, who plays a gun-totting spy with a license of kill in Pathaan. Both are looking their hottest and fittest best as Deepika flaunts her hot bod in bikinis and SRK – a perfectly chiselled eight pack! Besharam Rang was shot in Spain’s most gorgeous coastal towns Mallorca, Cadiz and Jerez.

SRK and Deepika are one of the biggest on-screen pairings in the history of Indian cinema given their epic blockbusters Om Shanti Om, Chennai Express and Happy New Year.

Pathaan is India’s biggest ever action spectacle for audiences. The visually spectacular Yash Raj Films’ action extravaganza, Pathaan, is part of Aditya Chopra’s ambitious spy universe and has the biggest superstars of the country Shah Rukh Khan, Deepika Padukone and John Abraham in it. The adrenaline pumping, visually extravagant film is set to release on Jan 25, 2023 in Hindi, Tamil and Telugu.

Indian Origin Simone Ashwini Pillai Among AP’s 9 Nine Breakthrough Entertainers Of 2022

Simone Ashwini Pillai, known professionally as Simone Ashley, a British actress is among this year’s nine Associated Press’ Breakthrough Entertainers of the Year, a cl