Ruen Rudee Palace, home of the late HRH Princess Bejraratana Rajsuda, the only child of King Rama VI, will be open for public viewing until Sunday. HRH Princess Bejraratana Rajsuda passed away in 2011.

At the "Three Royal Ladies Of Siam Who Contributed A Great Deal To The Thai People" exhibition, visitors will have the opportunity to see how the Princess, her mother, Phra Nang Chao Suvadhana, and her grandmother, Queen Saovabha Phongsri, dedicated their lives to the betterment of the Thai people.

The event is in celebration of Unesco's recognition of Queen Saovabha Phongsri, the first female regent of Siam, as a "Great Personality Of The World" for her outstanding contributions to education.

On display will be jewellery of the three royals that mirror their lives and work. It is divided into three parts — Part I: The Pillar of the Kingdom — Queen Saovabha Phongsri of King Rama V; Part II: The Royal Lady Who Did Good Deeds Quietly — HRH Princess Bejraratana Rajsuda; and Part III: The Missing Parts of a Pearl Necklace for the Lives of Other People — Phra Nang Chao Suvadhana.

"Visitors will experience the modesty and work of Queen Saovabha Phongsri and Princess Bejraratana Rajsuda. The Princess's mother, Phra Nang Chao Suvadhana, taught her in the same way as King Rama VI did — doing good for goodness. You will see how the Princess assisted HM the King's work, while her mother was the wind beneath her wings," said Chachapon Jayaphorn, a member of the Bejraratana-Suvadhana Foundation's committee and academic.

Highlights of the exhibition include one of that Queen's diamond-studded Faberge brooches; gold thread-woven pha song saphak (a cloth worn across the body and over one shoulder); a coin bearing the image of a pig, which stands for the Queen's year of birth; the Princess's three royal decorations (rian ratanabhorn) of King Rama VI, King Rama VII and HM the King; and Phra Nang Chao Suvadhana's pearl necklace.

"King Rama VII presented Phra Nang Chao Suvadhana with Queen Saovabha Phongsri's exquisite pearl necklace for her to find ways to raise up Princess Bejraratana Rajsuda [after the passing of King Rama VI].

"Some of the pearls were gradually sold, but some remain," Chachapon said.

Visitors can view the main hall, living room and dining room of the palace.

They can also knit scarves, as Princess Bejraratana Rajsuda did, which will be donated to the needy, and enjoy high tea prepared by Mrigadayavan Palace ladies. A smaller-scale version of the exhibition will be held at Mrigadayavan Palace, in Phetchaburi province.

The exhibition will run from Dec 25 until the end of January.

On display will be reproductions of the jewellery and antiques, Queen Saovabha Phongsri's photos and the two princesses' old pictures.