World Events

World Statistics

Population: 4.378 billion

population by decade

Nobel Peace Prize: Karl H. Branting (Sweden) and Christian L. Lange (Norway)

More World Statistics...

Major treaties signed at Washington Disarmament Conference limit naval tonnage and pledge to respect territorial integrity of China.

U.S. Events

U.S. Statistics

Vice President: Calvin Coolidge

Population: 108,538,000

More U.S. Statistics...

Congress passes Budget and Accounting Act, which creates the Bureau of Budget (June 10).

U.S. Congress, in a joint resolution, declares WWI ended (July 2).

First burial is held at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Arlington National Cemetery (Nov. 11).

Economics

Federal spending: $5.06 billion

Consumer Price Index: $17.9

Unemployment: 11.7%

Cost of a first-class stamp: $0.02

Sports

World Series

NY Giants d. NY Yankees (5-3)

Stanley Cup

Ottawa d. Vancouver (PCHA)

Wimbledon

Women: Suzanne Lenglen d. E. Ryan (6-2 6-0)

Men: Bill Tilden d. B. Norton (4-6 2-6 6-1 6-0 7-5)

Kentucky Derby Champion

Behave Yourself

NCAA Football Champions

California (CFRA) (9-0-1) & Cornell (NCF, HF) (8-0-0)

Entertainment

Entertainment Awards

Pulitzer Prizes

Fiction:

The Age of Innocence, Edith Wharton

Drama: Miss Lulu Bett, Zona Gale

Nobel Prize for Literature: Anatole France (France)

Miss America: Margaret Gorman (DC)

More Entertainment Awards...

Events

The Sheik, directed by George Melford, debuts and establishes star Rudolph Valentino as cinema's best-known lover.

The Cleveland Playhouse opens, becoming the country's first resident professional theater.

Edith Wharton's Age of Innocence wins Pulitzer Prize.

Roscoe "Fatty" Arbuckle, the rotund actor, director and producer, is arrested on manslaughter charges, after a woman died following a party at his house. He was acquitted after three trials, but his career in film never recovered.

Science

Nobel Prizes in Science

Chemistry: Frederick Soddy (UK), for investigations into origin and nature of isotopes

Physics: Albert Einstein (Germany), for discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect

Physiology or Medicine: None awarded

More Nobel Prizes in 1998...

Vitamin D is discovered and shown to prevent rickets.

Vitamin E is discovered.