How Does Color Filters Affect B&W Film?

When you shoot black and white film, it’s tough to get the same effect as shooting color. B&W film records the colors of light as white, and color filters block some wavelengths from being captured. When taking pictures, they act as sunglasses, filtering out specific frequencies to not distract from your picture’s quality. The process often makes objects appear clearer because their background has been eliminated, along with all those pesky reflections that can get in people’s shots without asking. Colored lens filters can help to ensure objects remain well defined in images while still providing some vibrancy for mood shots or scenery backgrounds.

Choosing the Right Color Filters

As a B&W film photographer, you probably know that there is a lot of debate about using colored filters in your photography. Some say they should not be used at all, while others believe that they can add interesting effects to the final image. Many kinds of color filters are available today, but most photographers use these standard colors; yellow, orange, red, and green. These colored filters have been around since the early days of film photography and have been used by professional photographers ever since then.

Cons to Consider When Using Color Filters

The color filters covered in this article refer to the circular type. Mounting lower-quality filters on the front of a lens can increase the risk of flare. However, some filters with more expensive and advanced coatings can overcome this risk. Although, flare can happen with good filters as well which is why it is good to have a lens hood as well.

Each filter reduces the amount of light transmitted by 1 to 4 stops and could significantly affect your shooting style. It is recommended to use a film such as Delta 400 or Tri-X 400.

Delta 400 Film Review | Tri-X 400 Film Review

400 ISO film will still allow enough light even with -4 stops. In obtaining test shots for this article, we were able to shoot with 50 ISO and 100 ISO with a red filter during the day without a tripod. A tripod is a great way to achieve balance as pushing film increases contrast (as do filters) so the contrast could get way too strong especially with a red filter.

Most newer cameras use TTL metering to correct the impact of filters automatically. Some older models will need to have exposure adjusted manually – reference an owner’s manual to see how your camera meters correctly. However, beginners should stick to a film camera with TTL metering until they get used to the process and outcomes of using colored filters. It is also essential to consider the use of SLR versus Rangefinder-style cameras. With an SLR, you will see the impact of the color filter when framing the shot. However, with a rangefinder, you won’t see how the color filter impacts as you are not looking through the lens.

Using Color Filters

To get a more creative and exciting look for your black and white photos, be sure to not only convert them with the right color filter but also experiment by using an assortment of different ones.

If certain colors in a scene seem too similar, it can make the B&W picture relatively flat and milky. You can change this mood by adjusting the color contrast. A color filter allows you to alter accents of colors in different tones from their original representation.

Yellow Filter (-1 Stop)

A yellow filter gives an excellent balance between photographic effect and ease of use. Many people like to “bring out their clouds” with this type. The yellow filter darkens blues but reproduces green and other colors in lighter shades. It gives more differentiation between different kinds of leaves while flesh tones have a natural look. It works well with pictures containing people against an environmental background.