Birth

Catherine II's birth name was Sophie Friederike Auguste von Anhalt-Zerbst. She was born to a minor German prince in Stettin, a part of Prussia in modern-day Poland.

Arriving in Russia

After being invited to Russia by Elizabeth, Russia's ruler at the time. She was accepted into the Catholic Church and officially changed her name to Catherine Alekseyevna.

Marriage to Grand Duke Peter

Shortly after arriving in Russia, Catherine married Grand Duke Peter, Peter the Great's grandson and heir. At the time of the marriage, Peter was 17 and Catherine was 16. This marriage was unhappy and both partners had multiple affairs. The marriage placed Catherine in the royal family and much closer to the throne of Russia.

Paul I is born

After 8 childless years, Catherine gave birth to Paul, her first son. Although she was married to Peter III, the identity of Paul's father is still unknown due to Catherine's numerous affairs and the rumors of Peter III being infertile.

Anna Petrovna is born

Anna Petrovna was Catherine's second child who only lived for four months. Due to Catherine's many lovers, Peter did not believe that the child was his, further splitting the pair apart.

Grigory Orlov becomes Catherine's lover

Orlov was an artillery officer, who, after delivering a prisoner of war to Russia, was introduced to Catherine and her husband. A year later, he became Catherine's lover. Along with hist brother, he organized the coup that allowed Catherine to rise to power. Orlov influenced many of Catherine's decisions, encouraging her to improve the life of serfs.

Alexei Grigorievich Bobrinsky is born

Fathered by Grigory Orlov, Alexei was Catherine's third child. He is officially known as an illegitimate son, while Cathrine's other three children were only rumored to be.

Reign over Russia

Catherine the Great ruled over Russia for 34 years, earning the title of the longest-ruling female on the throne of Russia.

Peter III dies

After Czarina Elizabeth died, Catherine's husband Peter took the throne. However, he was overthrown and killed shortly after. The circumstances of his assassination are mysterious, but some suspect that Catherine may have been involved.

Catherine begins correspondence with Voltaire

In the fall of 1763, Catherine sent a letter to French philosopher Voltaire. The two corresponded until his death in 1778. These letters affected Catherine's ideas and opinions about philosophy, which translated into the laws and policies she put in place. Pictured is one of the letter sent between the two, recently sold at an auction.

Catherine establishes the Smolny Institute

Catherine was interested in writing and culture, which prompted her to establish the Smolny Institute to educate young noble women. This along with her writing and appreciation of culture earned her a reputation as a patron of the arts. Pictured is the institute building, constructed in 1808 (after Catherine's death).

Grigory Potemkin becomes Catherine's lover

A distinguished soldier in the war between Russia and Turkey, Potemkin became Catherine's lover and minister of Russia. He was extremely ambitious, influencing Catherine to conquer more territories. Many land acquisitions, such as the annexation of Crimea in 1783, were influenced by Potemkin.