One May morning in 1902, Pauline Strauss opened a telegram addressed to her husband. "I waited for you as usual in the Union Bar but alas," it said. "Please send me tickets for Monday and Wednesday. Your faithful Mieze Mücke." Pauline promptly filed for divorce and sent a telegram to her husband Richard, who was away in the Isle of Wight, to let him know. His response suggests he knew the routine: "This is so idiotic!" he wrote. "Yesterday I began composing something really nice then had to waste time excusing myself to you. Honestly, couldn't you spare me these things … ? Love from the adulterer." He went home to Berlin, they had an almighty row and eventually it became clear that Mücke had mistaken him for someone else.

And so another storm in the Strauss household abated – for the time being. Twenty years later Strauss dug up the incident and wrote an opera about it. There's little attempt made to hide the real-life characters in Intermezzo: Richard and Pauline Strauss are flimsily disguised as Robert and Christine Storch, their son Franz as Franzl, and their maid, Anna, is also given a role. The baritone who sang Storch at the 1924 premiere wore a mask to make him look as much like Strauss as possible. The opera's plot merges the telegram fiasco with recollections of Pauline's flirtation with a younger man who had wanted to borrow some money. And because Strauss wrote his own libretto (others declined the dubious honour of collaborating on such a personal bedroom drama), the text quotes the couple's spats verbatim. Intermezzo is a slice of staged autobiography.

Interesting, then, that Strauss chose to portray his wife as such an outrageous prima donna. In the opening scene, Christine screams at her servants, hurling pillows and a slew of abuse at her long-suffering husband. Anita Bader, who sings Christine in Scottish Opera's new production of Intermezzo, believes there's tenderness behind the tantrums. "Pauline was extremely capricious, true," she says. "She'd been a great opera singer but stopped performing when she married. She couldn't live drama on stage any more so she lived it offstage instead. As a performer it's dangerous to make Christine seem too unsympathetic. Why does she behave so badly? She's lonely, she's bored. She bosses everyone around, but I think it's her need for some sense of purpose. She's clinging to her fiefdom."

Roland Wood, Scottish Opera's Storch, believes Strauss made Christine seem stroppy as a way of explaining his wife to the world. "Pauline was infamously hot-tempered, and by all accounts Strauss rather enjoyed it. We shouldn't take everything Christine says seriously. She comes across as a nagging harridan, but actually she's just a woman who has to share her husband with the world. He's a famous conductor; she's jealous and protective of their relationship. But yes, Strauss trod a dangerous line with the portrayal. Either it's the most romantic thing anyone's ever done or the most misguided."

If Pauline was protective of their relationship, then she presumably would have hated to see its intimate details paraded on stage. The opera was broadly admired at its premiere – even Schoenberg liked it – but Pauline was furious. When Lotte Lehmann, the first Christine, congratulated her on receiving such a tribute from her husband, she barked "I don't give a damn," and stormed off. "Then again," says Wood, "maybe Intermezzo was Strauss's revenge." He compares it to Abba's The Winner Takes It All. "Björn wrote it for Agnetha about their divorce. He literally put words into her mouth and she had to make them public. Pauline never sang Christine, but the process was similar; this is Strauss's projection of how she feels about the situation."

Whether Intermezzo was a gesture of love or revenge, it has fared poorly on the public stage. Scottish Opera's is only the fourth professional production in the UK, where Salome and Rosenkavalier have enjoyed countless productions. So why has it been so unpopular? One reason is that it's difficult to perform. Explains Bader: "The more hysterical Christine becomes, the more she switches between singing and speaking. The effect is brilliant – fractured, unsettled – but it's really hard. It took me a full year to learn the role."

One advantage of Scottish Opera's reduced season is that it has time to take on such a hefty project. Fitting Intermezzo's orchestra, singers and sets together requires the whole cast to attend intensive rehearsals, which most British companies wouldn't accommodate – especially when the opera is too obscure to ensure good returns at the box office.

Then there's the small matter of plot. Posters up around Edinburgh and Glasgow are risking a romcom tagline – "A marriage of mutual misunderstanding" – to sell the show as cosy comedy rather than grand opera. "Actually that's a fair synopsis," says Wood. "On the surface it's worthy of a Carry On film – you're half waiting for someone to pop out of a cupboard with their trousers down. Maybe audiences don't expect such crassness in an opera.

"But it's not handled that way. Strauss knows that a trivial mishap can signal the end of the world for the people involved. He finds the pain and betrayal beneath the banality."

It was precisely in the banal that Strauss placed high hopes: he subtitled Intermezzo a Bürgerliche Komödie ("bourgeois comedy") and talked of creating a new idiom, a Germanic extension of verismo, that would play ordinary life on the operatic stage. His ideas coincided with the Neue Sachlichkeit ("new objectivity") movement of early-1920s Weimar, as well as a rising boom in the German film industry.

Certainly Intermezzo's pacing feels more cinematic than operatic: 13 snappy episodes are divided by orchestral intermezzos – like breaks in a sitcom when the camera scans the city skyline. Dialogue ends abruptly and text is never repeated. If Verdi or Donizetti had set the same libretto, the opera would have lasted for days. Explains Wood: "You can't do standard operatic 'park-and-bark' acting. There's nothing metaphorical about these scenes: if the score says you're packing a suitcase, you act out packing a suitcase."

With priority given to the quick-pace narrative, Intermezzo is short on big tunes. "That's the real reason why nobody knows it," says Bader. "You can't play a chunk on Classic FM." There are moments of striking, Straussian lyricism, but they soon pass. What's more, Strauss gives them to the orchestra – not a way to curry favour with singers.

So, given its gruelling lead roles, paucity of hummable tunes, and air of triviality maybe it's fair Intermezzo is not performed more often. But Scottish Opera's music director, Francesco Corti, believes it offers audiences something different. "Intermezzo is nearly completely new in the UK," he says. "The music is special, the story is original – for an opera, anyway – and those are the important things."

Intermezzo has already made something of a comeback in Germany, and Bader reckons that Brits will relate to its honest, reality-TV-style relationships. "You don't need prior knowledge of mythology or musical history. The curtain opens and you're immediately given a glimpse behind the scenes."

Wood agrees. "It's as close to my lifestyle as I'm likely to find in opera," he says. "I know exactly how it is to have a row while packing a bag [when you're about] to go off for months. The dramas you have in real life can be just as vivid as what you play on stage. Sitting through four hours of Handel on a wet Monday night, then going home and arguing with your wife: I know which one feels more lively."

Maybe Strauss thought so, too. Maybe, in its convoluted way, Intermezzo is his ode to having a domestic.