Earl founded and serves as President of, Scianta Intelligence, a next generation machine intelligence and knowledge exploration company. He is a futurist, author, management consultant, and educator involved in discovering the epistemology of advanced intelligent systems, the redefinition of the machine mind, and, as a pioneer of Internet-based technologies, the way in which evolving inter-connected virtual worlds will affect the sociology of business and culture in the near and far future.

Earl has over thirty years experience in managing and participating in the software development process at the system as well as tightly integrated application level. In the area of advanced machine intelligence technologies, Earl is a recognized expert in fuzzy logic, and adaptive fuzzy systems as they are applied to information and decision theory. He has pioneered the integration of fuzzy neural systems with genetic algorithms and case-based reasoning. As an industry observer and futurist, Earl has written and talked extensively on the philosophy of the Response to Change, the nature of Emergent Intelligence, and the Meaning of Information Entropy in Mind and Machine.

Dorian Pyle is Chief Scientist and Founder of PTI (www.pti.com), which develops and markets Powerhouse™ predictive and explanatory analytics software. Dorian has over 20 years experience in artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques which are used in what is known today as “data mining” or “predictive analytics”. He has applied this knowledge as a consultant with Knowledge Stream Partners, Xchange, Naviant, Thinking Machines, and Data Miners and with various companies directly involved in credit card marketing for banks and with manufacturing companies using industrial automation. In 1976 he was involved in building artificially intelligent machine learning systems utilizing the pioneering technologies that are currently known as neural computing and associative memories. He is current in and familiar with using the most advanced technologies in data mining including: entropic analysis (information theory), chaotic and fractal decomposition, neural technologies, evolution and genetic optimization, algebra evolvers, case-based reasoning, concept induction and other advanced statistical techniques.

Mamdouh Refaat is a data mining and business analytics consultant advising major organizations in North America and Europe. He has held several positions in consulting organizations and software vendors, including the director of consulting services at ANGOSS Software Corporation, a global data mining software and service provider. During his career, Mamdouh has managed numerous data mining consulting projects in marketing, CRM, and credit risk for Fortune 500 organizations in North America and Europe. In addition, he has delivered over 50 professional training courses in data mining and business analytics. Mamdouh holds a Ph.D. in Engineering from the University of Toronto, and an MBA from the University of Leeds.

During his career, Mamdouh has managed numerous data mining consulting projects in marketing, CRM, and credit risk for Fortune 500 organizations in North America and Europe. In addition, he has delivered over 50 professional training courses in data mining and business analytics.

Mamdouh holds a PhD in Engineering from the University of Toronto, and an MBA from the University of Leeds.

Toby J. Teorey is a professor in the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. He received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Arizona, Tucson, and a Ph.D. in computer sciences from the University of Wisconsin, Madison. He was general chair of the 1981 ACM SIGMOD Conference and program chair for the 1991 Entity-Relationship Conference. Professor Teorey’s current research focuses on database design and data warehousing, OLAP, advanced database systems, and performance of computer networks. He is a member of the ACM and the IEEE Computer Society.