Big-budget action films are traditionally heterosexual affairs. Or at least they’re meant to be seen as such, with predominantly male leads rescuing female romantic interests from evil, often effete supervillains. Especially during their 1990s peak, American action heroes were big, beefy, cigar-smoking “no homo” kind of guys. (Occasionally, of course, Hollywood made room amid that sameness for the occasional woman fighting an inhuman force, à la the Aliens franchise, but often without confirming the obvious queerness of characters like Ellen Ripley.)

And yet one person’s hetero sex symbol is another person’s gay sex symbol. Given the absence of openly LGBTQ+ action heroes in the big-budget blockbusters many of us grew up seeing, we often resorted to our individual headcanons instead, queering films that eschewed, avoided, or even villainized people like us. It was complicated — and sometimes it took the sort of creative thinking that might be called “reaching” today — but these are the sorts of pretzels LGBTQ+ viewers still sometimes twist our minds into if we want to find queerness where there is none.

We leapt on subtext and made mountains out of fleeting moments. We imagined all sorts of scenarios in which the tight-bodied fighter jet pilots and maverick detectives on our screens swung the other (or both) ways, even if we later realized that cops were far from queer heroes. And yes, some of us — raises hand — even made Die Hard into a film about the early stages of a bisexual awakening. Here are a few classic ’90s action and adventure films that were gay in my mind.

Tank Girl (1995)

Okay, this one is kind of cheating, because Tank Girl is technically a canon Sapphic both in her film and the comics it was based on, making the character a true lesbian cult icon. However, the heroine’s queerness, and even her horniness, are just shy of legible in the film; originally, viewers were supposed to see Tank Girl’s impressive dildo collection in the background of one bedroom scene, but the studio balked, according to director Rachel Talalay. And while Lori Petty does share a kiss with co-star Naomi “Jet Girl” Watts, it’s an uncomfortable one at best, as Tank Girl forces the smooch on Jet Girl to Watt’s visible shock and the apparent disgust of the man guarding them.

Still, Talalay’s vision of the postapocalyptic counterculture has a queer bent that United Artists executives couldn’t entirely snuff out. Tank Girl’s purely anarchic expression of sexuality and desire in the face of patriarchal capitalist doom is lesbian punk to its core, and there’s a reason it has been a feminist hit ever since its release — even if most audiences at the time didn’t get the appeal.

Batman Returns (1992)

The Batman franchise is rife with queer themes. Even ruling out Joel Schumacher’s gleefully camp duology of Batman Forever and Batman & Robin for being so obviously gay that its queer subtext practically qualifies as text, Tim Burton’s earlier Bat-sequel also provides mighty fertile ground for gay headcanons. I won’t linger on the ubiquitous rubber outfits, though we must at least pay lip service to Michelle Pfeiffer’s stitched latex catsuit and whip — the stuff of kinky Sapphic dreams.

No, Batman Returns has another queer-coded villain to consider: Danny Devito’s incomparable Penguin. Abandoned by his parents and left to die for nothing more than being repulsive to them, Oswald Cobblepot's kind of understandable reign of homicidal vengeance is enabled by a brood of penguins living in the sewers who saved his life as an infant. A subsequent stint in a freak show showed young Oswald that the world hates those who are visibly “abnormal.” It might have given me nightmares as a toddler, but the Penguin’s story proves that sometimes, queer found family can look like a nest of abandoned flightless birds underneath Gotham City.

(The queer subtext is strong here; there’s a reason why this is already the second appearance of Batman Returns in a “Gay in My Mind” column.)

Last Action Hero (1993)

If you, like me, enjoy your action-violence with tongue planted firmly in cheek, Last Action Hero is a metafictional dream. Arnold Schwarzenegger stars as both the literally unkillable action movie character Jack Slater and as himself, the actor playing Jack Slater. Then-child actor Austin O’Brien plays Danny, a child mourning his dead father who is obsessed with the Slater series and finds himself magically transported into the latest movie via a magical golden ticket. Danny quickly gets partnered up with Slater on his new adventure, even saving Slater’s life when he’s dragged into Danny’s “real” world and consequently loses his invulnerability.

There may be no more transparent an adolescent power fantasy than this movie. To be clear, we’re not shipping Danny with Jack, just acknowledging that many of us queers who grew up in the HIV hellscape of the early 1990s wished we could either become an immortal Adonis ourselves or one day find an invincible partner like Jack Slater to protect us from the world.

With Arnold’s ’90s sex appeal perfectly preserved near its peak in Last Action Hero, Slater remains prime thirst material (aside from the part where he’s an LAPD detective, which is really just the collateral damage of being into action movie protagonists.)

Die Hard with a Vengeance (1995)

Speaking of unkillable cops, more has probably been written about Bruce Willis as Die Hard’s protagonist, NYPD detective lieutenant John McClane, than any other action character in film history. But here’s a headcanon for you: presumably staunch heterosexual McClane is actually a bi man who hasn’t realized it yet.

Most of McClane’s personal life is defined by his gradually deteriorating marriage to Holly Gennaro-McClane, which began when she moved to California with their children to pursue a career while McClane stubbornly remained in NYC, saying he’s “a New York cop who used to be a New York kid.” But even after John and Holly apparently reconcile in the first movie, they can’t seem to stay together for long, and are back on the rocks by the time of Vengeance.

However, there’s a little moment in Die Hard that points to another, closeted explanation; when McClane disembarks in Los Angeles, he’s immediately kissed by a flamboyant male stranger who scampers off as quickly as he appeared. “California!” mutters McClane, apparently in disbelief — but Willis’ bewildered smile reads to me much more as pleasantly surprised than repelled.

None of that matches McClane’s hypermasculine version of himself, or the straight family man he believes he has to be. In my headcanon, he knows he can’t truly be the man he thinks Holly deserves, so their separation in Vengeance is as inevitable as McClane’s later chemistry with Harlem shopkeeper Zeus (played with aplomb by Samuel L. Jackson). I’m not saying I think Zeus should date the white boy he found on the street wearing a sandwich board with the N-word painted on it, even if McClane was only doing it to satisfy the sick demands of a mercenary who threatened to detonate another bomb in Manhattan if he didn’t. But I am saying that Zeus is clearly a bachelor playing a single dad role to his nephews — and that he has an immediate Odd Couple energy with the disheveled, drunk, and desperate McClane.

In the Die Hard canon, John never gets a boyfriend, but I’d like to think he meets a nice silver fox pacifist later in life who convinces him to come out to his kids and stop being a damn cop.

Barb Wire (1996)

Speaking as a dyke, I simply don’t want to live in a postapocalyptic hell-world where Pamela Anderson’s leather-clad bounty hunter character isn’t into women. Judging from her other occupation as a biker bar/strip club owner, though, Barb is plenty queer, with desires that encompass and extend far beyond her presumed-dead-now-estranged boy toy Axel Hood (played by Mandalorian’s Boba Fett, Temuera Morrison, in his hunky and bestubbled youth). Barb is a woman who protects herself and the people she cares about, tits out and guns blazing, which is how I think a lot of queer women are preparing to enter the end of the world here in 2022.

Face/Off (1997)

In a metaphorical sense, Face/Off is about two men who penetrate each other in the most intimate way possible: by inserting themselves into each other’s very identities. In a literal sense, it is a movie about Nicolas Cage and John Travolta’s characters developing an obsessive relationship based in psychosexual hatefucking that will inevitably consume their very selves unless one of them dumps the other, and if that sounds kinda like That One Partner You Had From Brooklyn too, we hope you’re doing okay.

The Three Musketeers (1993)

As the rest of this list has hopefully proved, I’m not above pointing to Athos, Porthos, and Aramis holding their apiers aloft and saying, “Hey, look, they’re touching tips.” But in truth, there’s no action-adventure movie from the ’90s that’s gayer in my mind than The Three Musketeers. Everything from Oliver Platt as Porthos selecting which wine goes best with a chase scene (something red) to the sumptuous velvet draped over every interior scene to the sheer presence of Tim Curry as the preening, cape-flourishing Cardinal Richelieu — to say nothing of ultra-twink Chris O’Donnell as D’Artagnan, or the elephant-in-the-room presence of baby-faced Charlie Sheen as Aramis — is drenched in gayness. Not every group of Bros Being Bros who like swords and quips is secretly a gay polycule, but these Musketeers sure are.

Get the best of what’s queer. Sign up for them.'s weekly newsletter here.