Dry Wells is a location in the Mojave Wasteland added with the Fallout: New Vegas add-on Lonesome Road.

Background[]

Once a prominent territory of the Twisted Hairs (though not their homeland), some time prior to 2281, Dry Wells became more infamous in the memory of its members, one especially, as the place of their destruction when the tribe was betrayed by Vulpes Inculta at Caesar's command and their alliance, used to defeat many other tribes in Arizona, broken as they were assimilated into the ranks of the Legion, those who resisted being crucified along Interstate 40.[1][2]

By 2281, the centurion Gaius Magnus came to reside in Dry Wells with his force of legionnaires.

Layout[]

Initially, Dry Wells can only be reached by going to Cottonwood Cove and taking the boat to Dry Wells there, furthermore of which both are only available if The Apocalypse was completed by sending the Divide missiles at Legion territory solely or both Legion and NCR territory together. After visiting it, the map marker for Dry Wells becomes a fast travel point.

The area consists of several burned tents and crumbling buildings along a road from an irradiated stretch of the river, ending in a large crater. Attempting to enter the crater will cause instant death. Just south of the boat the Courier arrives in are a couple of crates behind an overturned boat with random loot. Several burned tents are also scattered about the area, along with numerous ammunition boxes and weapons crates. The entire camp is filled with irradiated Legionaries and irradiated Legion explorers, along with the unique enemy, Gaius Magnus.

Notable loot[]

Armor of the 87th Tribe - Worn by Gaius Magnus.

Red Victory grenade rifle - Overlooking the western side of camp, there is a tower that is broken but still standing. On a cliff beside it is a burnt tent. Beneath the frame of the tent is a gun case, in which the weapon can be found.

"Missing" shipment - In the same gun case as the Red Victory grenade rifle.

Two lead-lined metal boxes at the same burned tent as described above. They are guaranteed to hold Med-X, Stimpaks, RadAway and an issue of either Lad's Life or Today's Physician.

Random advanced armor (Combat armor, reinforced mark 2, T-45 or T-51 power armor) - Located inside a metal box on a ledge, south-southeast of the crater. The ledge can be accessed by traversing a concrete slab, which leans onto it. Alongside the box are two emergency kits and four ammo boxes.

Three high-tech gun cases - One is in the first destroyed house encountered on the left (west) side of the road after entering the camp, surrounded by four ammo boxes. The other two are in the rubble of a destroyed building near the northwest corner of the camp, next to a military shipping crate containing random ammunition (including potential mini nukes), weapon mods and weapon repair kits, as well as four additional ammo boxes.

Notes[]

Unlike nearly every other location introduced through add-ons, companions can travel with the player character to Dry Wells and the Long 15 due to both being within walking distance of the Mojave, rather than an entirely new area (i.e. Big MT and Zion National Park).

Some Legion explorers may be using Stealth Boys upon entering the area.

Due to the high level of radiation towards the back end of the area, irradiated legionaries regenerate health very quickly and must be drawn away towards the docks to have an easier time killing them.

Killing any irradiated Legion troops will yield further Legion infamy. This makes it difficult to obtain the Armor of the 87th Tribe while remaining on good terms with the Legion if the Mark of Caesar was acquired after completing The Apocalypse but before traveling to Dry Wells.

Approaching the edge of the blast crater (the far end of the site when arriving at the location) will result in a radiation level of up to 35 rads/sec, as opposed to 20/sec max in the Long 15. Jumping into the crater in either location will result in a massive spike in this rate. Additionally, the amount of radiation increases exponentially as the player character approaches the crater in Dry Wells, as opposed to a more linear increase in the Long 15. This reaches approximately 322 rads/sec in the dead center of the crater, fatal almost immediately without any protection.

Trying to swim upstream will bring up the message, "You can't swim any further in this direction" and the player character will hit an invisible wall.

If he is still alive and Dry Wells was targeted during The Apocalypse, talking to Ulysses near the pass to canyon wreckage will yield a new dialogue option.

Appearances[]

Dry Wells appears only in the Fallout: New Vegas add-on Lonesome Road.

Behind the scenes[]

A black outline of a person who was vaporized by the blast can be found on the building facing the crater. These imprints happen in the real world and are called "nuclear shadows," caused by the intense heat of an atomic blast. The blast changes the colors of surfaces like steps, walls, and pavement. When people or items block this light, their outline is left on the surface behind them. In the real world, the impression on the wall would be the opposite of that seen in-game, with the dark area consisting of the individual and wall or surface appearing lighter, akin to a real shadow.

Gallery[]