Medical School:Pennsylvania State College of Medicine, Hershey

Residency:Tulane University, New Orleans

Retinal Fellowship:Jules Stein Eye Institute, UCLA, Los Angeles

A native of Northern California, Dr. Cupp joined the Retinal Consultants in 2014 after his retina fellowship at the world-renowned Jules Stein Eye Institute at UCLA, where he won the prestigious John and Theiline McCone Fellow Scholarship. Dr. Cupp is an expert in the management of macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, retinal detachments, and many other medical and surgical diseases of the eye. He served as a staff physician for the VA of Los Angeles and was on faculty as a clinical instructor at UCLA.

Prior to his retina fellowship, he completed his ophthalmology residency at Tulane University and earned his medical degree at Penn State. While in medical school, he crossed the Atlantic to spend time at Moorfields Eye Hospital in London. Prior to his medical training, he received a degree in physics and biophysics at UCSD.

Dr. Cupp is so compassionate and cares so much about his patients. He takes time with patients and explains thoroughly. He makes you feel at ease.

— B.B

In addition to his extensive clinical experience, Dr. Cupp has been involved in research trials of human stem cell transplantation and nerve growth factor supplementation. He has played an important role in the process of developing new treatments for macular degeneration and Stargardt’s disease. His research has been published in numerous peer-reviewed medical journals.

In his spare time, Dr. Cupp enjoys traveling with his wife and hanging out with his son Roscoe.

Retinal Consultants Medical Group

Since 1975, Retinal Consultants Medical Group has provided outstanding retina care to thousands of patients. With 12 retina clinics located throughout Northern California, we are easily accessible to patients from Chico, Sacramento, Modesto, and everywhere in between. All of our retina specialists and surgeons are board-certified by the American Board of Ophthalmology and are fellowship-trained members of the American Society of Retina Specialists.

Using state-of-the-art diagnostic and therapeutic technologies, we provide medical and surgical care for all conditions of the retina, macula, and vitreous, including diabetic retinopathy, dry, and wet macular degeneration, vein occlusion, eye flashes and floaters, retinal tears, retinal detachment, macular hole, macular pucker, and more. We also provide treatment for pediatric retinal conditions such as retinopathy of prematurity, retinoschisis, and retinitis pigmentosa.

In 2020, we joined together with other elite retina-only practices and formed Retina Consultants of America, now the premier national retina provider in the USA.

Apply Now