Considerations for Navy Commands Being Decommissioned, Disestablished, or Deactivated

It is important to preserve the official records and historical materials of your command for study and research by future Navy personnel, researchers, veterans, and the general public. The directives guiding accountability, care, and disposition of historical items are OPNAVINST 4770.5F (ship and craft disposal manual) and OPNAVINST 5750.13 (Historical Properties of the Navy).

A command’s historical record includes files (both electronic and paper), photographs, books (cruise books, etc.), logs (including those kept in the administrative spaces ashore during port visits), and videos, as well as the many reports, studies, and other records that the command may have submitted via the chain-of-command in response to taskings, instructions, or special directives. The submission of these documents to the senior command does not guarantee their preservation. If in doubt, the materials should be saved for assessment by the Naval History and Heritage Command (NHHC), the Navy’s principal repository of operational records and objects.

Before destroying or disposing of any records, commands should refer to SECNAV Manual 5210.1, Department of the Navy, Navy Records Management Program. This instruction provides guidance on whether records may be destroyed or must be sent to a repository such as NHHC, the National Archives, or a federal records center.

Commands should also ensure that a final Command Operations Report covering the period from the start of the year to the date of disestablishment, deactivation, or decommissioning, is submitted in accordance with OPNAVINST 5750.12.

Contact the Archives Branch at archives@navy.mil or (202) 433-3224 for help with determining what documents to retain.

Contact the Curator Branch at nhhccurator@navy.mil or (202) 433-2220 for help with determining what artifacts and artwork to retain.

Records (Paper and Electronic) that Commands Should Retain

"personal-for" messages

periodic or situation reports

cruise/deployment reports

intelligence reports

major staff, command studies or briefings (including technical/scientific reports)

action/combat reports

major exercise reports

published documents (i.e., Welcome Aboard/Alongside, cruise books, news releases, staff or crew orientation pamphlets, booklets used for public or staff orientation, etc.)

reports on performance of weapon systems, major projects or material

reports of major conferences

hazardous waste reports (storage, disposal, spillage)

photographs of aircraft, ship, or base (provide to Defense Imagery; do not send photos to NHHC)

biography and photographs of CO/XO

major awards and citations received by the command

staff directory and organization charts (do not include SSNs)

cruise books or other published documents

Artwork and Artifacts that Commands Should Retain

Bell, Ship

Bell, Quarterdeck

Plaque, Builder (ships)

Plaque, Historical Data

Plaque, Commanding Officers

Plaque, Award, Battle "E", Ney, etc.

Plaque, Insignia, Ship, squadron, other commands

Wheel, Helm

Flag, National, Last Flown

Flag, Union Jack / Don't Tread On Me, Last Flown

Pennant, Commissioning, Ship Last Flown

Pennant, Award, NUC, MUC, Battle "E", etc.

Spyglass

Cruise books

Photographs

Painting of Ship, aircraft, etc.

PAO Materials

Name board

Ribbon Board

Board, SWO

Board, ESWS

Life Ring (Good Condition with Ship Name on it)

Program, Ceremony, Keel Laying, Launching, Commissioning, Decommissioning, Establishment, Deactivation, etc. brochures

Seal, Notary

Other objects that are an integral part of a command's history and tradition should be forwarded with an explanation of its significance

Shipping Information

Artifacts, artwork, and documents identified for preservation should be shipped to the NHHC at the address below. Please use adequate bubble wrap or other dunnage to protect each piece, as well as inside the crate or triwall so the objects do not shift while in transit. Place ship bells in separate boxes or crates within the larger crate or triwall.

Defense Supply Center Richmond

6090 Strathmore Road

Richmond, VA 23237

ATTN: Many Chea or Robyn Filonczuk

Naval History and Heritage Command

Collection Management Facility

Building 54 South Tower, Truck Door #38