Bollywood actor Shahid Kapoor in a recent interview made an appeal to the audience from the southern region to embrace Hindi films. He expressed his desire for the Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, and Kannada audience to reciprocate the same acceptance that Hindi films receive from the Hindi-speaking audience. Kapoor emphasized the need for a mutual exchange, encouraging viewers from the south to explore and watch Hindi movies.

Shahid Kapoor appeals South Indian viewers to embrace Hindi cinema; says, “Hindi audience has accepted your films with an open heart, you all should also accept our films”

Talking to Bollywood Spy, Shahid said, “The Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada audience should also watch Hindi films just as how the Hindi audience has accepted your films with an open heart, you all should also accept our films. Only then the cinema will grow, the audience should be open, and there should be acceptance from every quarters.”

Citing the example of IPL, Shahid added, “I feel everybody should work with everybody because when you watch the IPL, as an example, there is a team from every state. There are also fifteen extra players sitting on the bench and waiting, and players are being prepared that way. So, when the Indian team is being made, you must have seen now how there is an India A squad and India B squad. Why do we have that? We had the power to go to the B squad also because we have so many good players. That only happens because everybody is coming together to add more value, so films should also be like that, everybody should come together to add more value so more people go to the theatres. But everybody should have the same attitude.”

He further added, “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, our filmmakers were not able to shoot abroad for their big-scale action films, therefore such films were not released for some time… But otherwise, from Hindi cinema’s standpoint of action films, our biggest superstars, whether it is Salman Khan or Akshay Kumar, or whether it is Aamir Khan in Ghajini, I think we have made very good action films. Hrithik Roshan is very, very good in action, War was fantastic.”

Meanwhile on the film, Shahid Kapoor starrer Bloody Daddy released today on JioCinema which was helmed by Ali Abbas Zafar. He was previously seen in Raj & DK helmed web series Farzi that is currently streaming on Amazon Prime Video. He will be soon seen alongside Kriti Sanon in an untitled Maddock film. The poster of the film is out and is expected to release in October.

Also Read: Shahid Kapoor charged a whopping Rs. 40 cr. for Bloody Daddy

BOLLYWOOD NEWS - LIVE UPDATES