This article is about the district. For its eponymous headquarters, see Hugli-Chuchura.

Hooghly district () is one of the districts of the state of West Bengal in India. It can alternatively be spelt Hoogli or Hugli. The district is named after the Hooghly River.

The headquarters of the district are at Hooghly-Chinsura (Chuchura). There are four subdivisions: Chinsura Sadar, Serampore, Chandannagar, and Arambag.

History

The district of Hooghly derived its name from the town of Hooghly on the west bank of the Hooghly River about 40 km north of Kolkata. This town was a river port in the fifteenth century.

The district has thousands of years of rich heritage in the form of the great Bengali kingdom of Bhurshut. The first European to reach this area was the Portuguese sailor Vasco-Da-Gama. In 1536 Portuguese traders obtained a permit from Sultan Mahmud Shah to trade in this area. In those days the Hooghly River was the main route for transportation and Hooghly served as an excellent trading port.

Within a few decades the town of Hooghly turned into a major commercial centre and the largest port in Bengal. Later in 1579-80 Emperor Akbar gave permission to a Portuguese captain Pedro Tavares to establish a city anywhere in the Bengal province. They chose Hooghly, and it became the first European settlement in Bengal. In 1599 the Portuguese traders built a convent and a church in Bandel. This is the first Christian church in Bengal known as ‘Bandel Church’ today.

The Portuguese traders started misusing their powers. They started slave trading, robbery and converting natives into Christians by pressure. At one of point they even stopped paying taxes to the Mughal Empire. As a result, Emperor Shah Jahan ordered the then-ruler of Bengal province, Qasim Khan Juvayni, to block the city of Hooghly. This eventually led to a war in which the Portuguese were defeated comprehensively.

Among other European powers that came to Hooghly were the Dutch, the Danish, the British, the French, the Belgians and the Germans. Dutch traders centred their activities in the town Chuchura which is south of Hooghly. Chandannagar became the base of the French and the city remained under their control from 1816 to 1950. Similarly, the Danish establishment in settlement in Serampore (1755). All these towns are on the west bank of the Hooghly River and served as ports. Among these European countries, the British ultimately became most powerful.

Initially the British were based in and around the city of Hooghly like traders from other countries. In 1690 Job Charnock decided to shift the British trading centre from Hooghly-Chinsura to Calcutta. The reason behind this decision was the strategically safe location of Calcutta and its proximity to the Bay of Bengal. As a result, the centre of gravity of trade and commerce in the Bengal province shifted from the town of Hooghly to Calcutta. Hooghly lost its importance as Calcutta prospered.

After the Battle of Buxar this region was brought under direct British rule until India’s independence in 1947. After independence this district merged into the state of West Bengal.

Though the city of Hooghly is more than 500 years old, the district of Hooghly was formed in 1795 with the city of Hooghly as its headquarters. Later the headquarters shifted to the town of Chuchura. In 1843 the Howrah district was created from the southern portion of this district. And in 1872, the south-west portion of this district was merged into the Medinipur district. The last change in area occurred in 1966.

Tarakeswar Temple

The Taraknath temple, dedicated to the Hindu god Shiva worshiped as Taraknath, is a major pilgrimage spot in the town of Tarakeswar. The Taraknath temple, dedicated to Lord Shiva worshiped as Taraknath, is a major pilgrimage spot in the town of Tarakeswar, West Bengal. Built in 1729, the temple is an ‘atchala’ structure of Bengal temple architecture with a ‘natmandir’ in front. Close by are the shrines of Kali and Lakshmi Narayan. Dudhpukur, a tank to the north of the Shiva temple is believed to fulfil the prayers of those taking a dip in it.

Pilgrims visit the temple throughout the year, especially on Mondays. But thousands of pilgrims visit Tarakeswar on the occasions of ‘Shivaratri’ and ‘Gajan’, the former taking place in Phalgun (Feb-March) while the latter lasts for five days ending on the last day of Chaitra (mid-April). The month of Sravana (mid-July to mid-August) is auspicious for Shiva when celebrations are held n each Monday.

Antpur Radhagovindjiu Temple

Hooghly Imambara

Chandannagar Strand

The back side of Imambara of Hooghly.

Geography

The district is a completely flat land with no place having more than an elevation of 200 meters. The River Hooghly borders it to the east. Another major river is 'Damodar'.

The district is bordered by Howrah District to the south, Bardhaman District to the north, and to the east by the River Hooghly. Bankura District lies to the north-west, with Medinipur District to the south-west.

Economy

Hooghly is one of the most economically developed districts in West Bengal. It is the main jute cultivation, jute industry, and jute trade hub in the state. The jute mills are along the banks of the river Hooghly in Tribeni, Bhadreswar, Champdani and Sreerampur.

There are a number of industrial complexes including one of the largest car manufacturing plants in India, the Hindustan Motors plant in Uttarpara.

It was also home to the The Singur Tata Nano controversy

Divisions

Administrative subdivisions

The district comprises four subdivisions: Chinsurah, Chandannagore, Srirampore and Arambagh.

Chinsurah subdivision consists of two municipalities (Hugli-Chuchura and Bansberia) and five community development blocs: Balagarh, Chinsurah–Mogra, Dhaniakhali, Pandua and Polba–Dadpur.

Chandannagore subdivision consists of Chandannagar municipal corporation and three municipalities (Bhadreswar, Champdani and Tarakeswar) and three community development blocs: Haripal, Singur and Tarakeswar.

Srirampore subdivision consists of six municipalities (Serampore, Uttarpara Kotrung, Dankuni, Konnagar, Rishra and Baidyabati) and four community development blocks: Chanditala–I, Chanditala–II, Jangipara and Sreerampur Uttarpara.

Arambagh subdivision consists of Arambag municipality and six community development blocks: Arambag, Khanakul–I, Khanakul–II, Goghat–I, Goghat–II and Pursurah.[1]

Hugli-Chuchura is the district headquarters. There are 23 police stations, 18 development blocks, 12 municipalities and 210 gram panchayats in this district.[1][2]

Other than municipality area, each subdivision contains community development blocks that are divided into rural areas and census towns.There are 41 urban units: 12 municipalities and 32 census towns.[2][3]

Chinsurah subdivision

Two municipalities: Hugli-Chuchura and Bansberia

Balagarh community development block consists of rural areas with 13 gram panchayats and one census town: Badhagachhi.

Chinsurah–Mogra community development block consists of rural areas with 10 gram panchayats and eight census towns: Kodalia, Raghunathpur, Madhusudanpur, Amodghata, Shankhanagar, Chak Bansberia, Kulihanda, Simla.

Dhaniakhali community development block consists of rural areas only with 18 gram panchayats.

Pandua community development block consists of rural areas with 15 gram panchayats and three census towns: Boinchi, Pandua and Batika.

Polba–Dadpur community development block consists of rural areas only with 12 gram panchayats.

Chandannagore subdivision

Chandannagar municipal corporation

Three municipalities: Bhadreswar, Champdani, and Tarakeswar

Haripal community development block consists of rural areas only with 15 gram panchayats.

Singur community development block consists of rural areas with 16 gram panchayats and one census town: Singur.

Tarakeswar community development block consists of rural areas only with 10 gram panchayats.

Serampore subdivision

Six municipalities: Serampore, Uttarpara Kotrung, Konnagar, Rishra, Dankuni and Baidyabati

Chanditalal–I community development block consists of rural areas only with 9 gram panchayats and 2 census towns: Masat, Gangadharpur , Aniya, Bhagabatipur, Haripur, Krishnarampur, Kumirmorah,Nawabpur, Sheakhala.

Chanditala–II community development block consists of rural areas with 11 gram panchayats and 10 census towns: Purba Tajpur, Kharsarai, Begampur, Chikrand, Pairagachha, Monoharpur, Barijhati, Garalgachha, Krishnapur and Mrigala.

Jangipara community development block consists of rural areas only with 10 gram panchayats.

Sreerampur Uttarpara community development block consists of rural areas with six gram panchayats and six census towns: Raghunathpur, Dakshin Rajyadharpur, Bamunari, Rishra, Nabagram and Kanaipur.

Arambagh subdivision

One municipality: Arambag.

Arambag community development block consists of rural areas only with 15 gram panchayats.

Khanakul–I community development block consists of rural areas only with 13 gram panchayats.

Khanakul–II community development block consists of rural areas only with 11 gram panchayats.

Goghat–I community development block consists of rural areas only with 8 gram panchayats.

Goghat–II community development block consists of rural areas only with 9 gram panchayats.

Pursurah community development block consists of rural areas only with 8 gram panchayats.

Assembly constituencies

The district is divided into 18 assembly constituencies:[4]

Jangipara (assembly constituency no. 177),

Chanditala (assembly constituency no. 178),

Uttarpara (assembly constituency no. 179),

Serampore (assembly constituency no. 180),

Champdanga (assembly constituency no. 181),

Chandernagore (assembly constituency no. 189),

Singur (assembly constituency no. 183),

Haripal (assembly constituency no. 184),

Tarakeswar (assembly constituency no. 185),

Chinsurah (assembly constituency no. 186),

Bansberia (assembly constituency no. 187),

Balagarh (SC) (assembly constituency no. 188),

Pandua (assembly constituency no. 189),

Dhaniakhali (SC) (assembly constituency no. 191),

Pursurah (assembly constituency no. 192),

Khanakul (SC) (assembly constituency no. 193),

Arambagh (assembly constituency no. 194) and

Goghat (SC) (assembly constituency no. 195).

Balagarh, Dhaniakhali, Khanakul and Goghat constituencies are reserved for Scheduled Castes (SC) candidates. Along with two assembly constituencies from Howrah district, Jangipara, Chanditala, Uttarpara, Serampore and Champdani constituencies form the Serampore (Lok Sabha constituency). Chandernagore, Singur, Haripal, Chinsurah, Bansberia, Polba and Dhaniakhali constituencies form the Hooghly (Lok Sabha constituency).

Tarakeswar, Pursurah, Khankul, Arambag and Goghat constituencies are part of the Arambagh (Lok Sabha constituency), which contains two assembly segments in Paschim Medinipur district. Balagarh and Pandua constituencies are part of the Katwa (Lok Sabha constituency), which contains five assembly constituency from Bardhaman district.

Impact of delimitation of constituencies

As per order of the Delimitation Commission in respect of the delimitation of constituencies in the West Bengal, the district will be divided into 18 assembly constituencies:[5]

Uttarpara (assembly constituency no. 185)

Sreerampur (assembly constituency no. 186)

Champdani (assembly constituency no. 187)

Singur (assembly constituency no. 188)

Chandannagar (assembly constituency no. 189)

Chunchura (assembly constituency no. 190)

Balagarh (SC) (assembly constituency no. 191)

Pandua (assembly constituency no. 192)

Saptagram (assembly constituency no. 193)

Chanditala (assembly constituency no. 194)

Jangipara (assembly constituency no. 195)

Haripal (assembly constituency no. 196)

Dhanekhali (SC) (assembly constituency no. 197)

Tarakeswar (assembly constituency no. 198)

Pursurah (assembly constituency no. 199)

Arambag (SC) (assembly constituency no. 200)

Goghat (SC) (assembly constituency no. 201)

Khanakul (assembly constituency no. 202)

Balagarh, Dhanekhali, Arambag and Goghat constituencies will be reserved for Scheduled Castes (SC) candidates. Along with two assembly constituencies from Howrah district, Uttarpara, Sreerampur, Champdani, Chanditala and Jangipara constituencies will form the Sreerampur (Lok Sabha constituency). Singur, Chandannagar, Chunchura, Balagarh, Pandua, Saptagram and Dhanekhali constituencies will form the Hooghly (Lok Sabha constituency). Haripal, Tarakeswar, Pursurah, Arambag, Goghat and Khankul constituencies will be part of the Arambag (Lok Sabha constituency), which will contain one assembly segments in Paschim Medinipur district.

Police administration

Hooghly District comes under Burdwan Police Range. The police chief of the district is the superintendent of police. His office is in Chinsurah.

For the functioning of 23 police stations of the district, District Intelligence Branch, District Enforcement Branch and District Reserve Police Force SP, Hooghly is assisted by three additional superintendents:

HQ: Having his office at Chinsurah, he looks after the Sadar Sub-Division and District Police Force, being assisted by Dy.S.P. (HQ) and Dy.S.P. (D&T).

Industrial: He is in Serampore. He is the supervising officer for Serampore and Chandernagore Sub Divisions, assisted by SDPO: Serampore and SDPO: Chandernagore.

Rural: He is in Arambagh and is the supervising officer for Arambagh Sub Division; being assisted by SDPO: Arambagh.

Transport

Rail

The railway communication of the district, especially at the suburban area, is very developed.

There are four junction stations in Hooghly:

Bandel

Dankuni

Kamarkundu

Sheoraphuli railway station, Serampore

The railway is under Howrah Division. The first train of ER started its journey from Howrah to Hooghly at 14 August 1854 (First halt was Bally (Howrah) and second halt was Serampore) . Hooghly station was announced as the heritage station.

Demographics

According to the 2011 census Hooghly district has a population of 5,520,389,[6] roughly equal to the nation of Denmark[7] or the US state of Wisconsin.[8] This gives it a ranking of 16th in India (out of a total of 640).[6] The district has a population density of 1,753 inhabitants per square kilometre (4,540/sq mi).[6]

Its population growth rate over the decade 2001-2011 was 9.49%.[6] Hugli has a sex ratio of 958 females for every 1000 males,[6] and a literacy rate of 82.55%.[6]

Education

There are 2992 primary schools, 408 high schools, 127 higher secondary schools, 22 colleges, and 6 technical institutes in Hooghly district.

The most notable institutions among them are:

Mahesh Sri Ramkrishna Ashram Vidyalaya (Higher Secondary), Serampore- 712202

Serampore College, Serampore- 712201

Serampore Girls' College

Akna Girl's High School, Serampore

HARISHCHAK HIGH SCHOOL (H.S)- Harishchak, Khanakul, Hooghly,712416

Rajhati Bandar High School

Nandanpur Rupchand Academy

Hooghly Mohsin College

Chandannagore College

Sree Gopal Banerjee College,Mogra

Hooghly Collegiate School

Hooghly Gourhari Harijan Vidyamandir

Chatra Nandalal Institution, Serampore- 712204

Auxilium Convent School

Techno India Group Public School,Hooghly,Co-Ed,estd.2005

Don Bosco School

Hati High School

Duff High School

Hooghly Branch School

Hooghly Binodini Girls High School

Gosswami Malipara High School

Dwarbasini Kumar Rajendra High School

Durgapur Primary School

Dumurpur Primary School

Dharampur Adarsha Vidyalaya

Mahesh High School, Serampore- 712202

chinsurah balika bani mandir

Chandernagore Sri Aurobindo Vidyamandir

Chandernagore Kanailal Vidyamandir

Chandernagore Krishna Bhabini Nari Siksha Mandir

St. Joseph's Convent, Chandannagar

St. Antony's Convent, Chandannagar

Uttarpara Government High School

Akna Union High School, Mogra

Methodist High School, Dankuni

Garalgacha High School, Garalgacha.

Places of Interest

Serampore: The Ratha Yatra of Mahesh in Serampore is the oldest Ratha Yatra after Puri Ratha-Yatra. Serampore was the Danish colony. The first university in Asia was established in Serampore - Senate of Serampore College (University)

Kamarpukur is the birthplace of Sri Sri Ramakrishna dev.

Tarakeswar is a renowned place of pilgrimage and the greatest centre of the Shiva sect in West Bengal.

Bandel is famous for the Bandel Church. Bandel is the birthplace of the eminent writer Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay.

Baidyabati is a place to visit the holy house of Bappaditya Chatterjee.

Chandannagar is an important and nice town of Hooghly and famous for Jagaddhatri puja and awesome lighting.

Chinsurah is the district headquarters and a historical town of Hooghly. Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay composed the "Vande Mataram," the national song of India, at Chinsurah. The Dutch villa is separated at Joraghat and Townguard. They are called 'Mondal Bari' as they are now under the aristocratic ownership of the Mondal family. One can see the Dutch lioness murals on the entrance doors and allied wooden motifs. In spite of such historical background, a major portion of the original Dutch villa at Townguard road, where once nationalist leaders used to held meetings and conferences, was demolished and gone into the hands of builders/promoters. The back portion and the joraghat Mondal house with Dutch acknowledgment are intact. The hierarchy of inheritance is becoming weak and the landmark assets needs urgent preservation as well as heritage status application

The historical triple cities of Chandanagar-Chinsurah-Serampore are called Little Europe as these were all European colonies.

Tribeni and Bansberia

See also

Rathayatra of Mahesh, Serampore

Guptipara

Kamarpukur

References

Wikimedia Commons has media related to Hooghly.

Hooghly District official homepage

Hooghly specific information on West Bengal Portal

Hooghly District map

Hooghly District information

Bankura district Bardhaman district Nadia district West Midnapore district North 24 Parganas district

Hooghly district

Howrah district