HISTORY OF VAN AVERT AND MERCER COUNTIES, OHIO - 475

JOSEPH PLIMAN,

son of B. H. and Catharine Pliman, was born in 1847. He was a carpenter and farmer, and settled in Butler Township. In 1873 he married Catharine Ferber, the daughter of John and Mary Ferber, who settled in Mercer County in 1860. Their children are Mary, Catharine, Elizabeth, Benjamin, and Annie. Benjamin died in 1880. Benjamin Pliman was drafted in 1865.

GEORGE STAGERMAN,

son of George and Catharine Stagerman, was born in Germany, and brought up as a farmer. He settled in Mercer County in 1862, and married Louisa Low, who was born in Germany, and was the daughter of Bernard and Margaret Low. They were married in Cincinnati in 1846, and have four children, Henry, Harman, Catharine, and Barnard. He settled on section 8 in Mercer County.

SAMUEL NEWTON SNIDER,

son of Thomas and Harriet Snider, was born in Highland County, Ohio, June 23., 1846 settled in Mercer County in 1850, and married Rachel Cannack, June, 1865, by whom he has three children—John H., Mary It., and Carrie A. His father's family settled in Mercer County in 1850, as did also the wife's parents. His occupation is a farmer.

FREDERICK B. SPOTTMAN,

son of John B. and Annie N. Spottman, was born in Mercer County in 1854, and has remained in Lima all his life. He married Catharine Kramer, daughter of Richard and Catharine Kramer, and has one son, called John Frederick. His father's family settled here in 1851, but his mother's family in 1837.

HENRY WENNING,

son of Joseph and Mary A. Wenning, born in 1852. He became a farmer, and married Mary E. Spottman in 1873, who was born in 1851. She is the daughter of John B. and Mary A. Spottman. They have three children, John, Joseph, and Isaac. He hasfilled the office of supervisor.

MARION TOWNSHIP.

Marion as a township is fractionally large, containing about forty-two square miles. The north line is six miles long, the east line six miles, Where it diverges southeast a distance of one mile. The south line is about eight and a half miles, and the west line from south line of the county traces north over two miles, southeast one and a half miles, and thence north about five miles to southwest corner of Franklin Township. The township, therefore, contains about forty-two sections, and is bounded north by Franklin Township east by Auglaize County, south by Darke County, and west by Granville Township, exclusive of partial line boundaries as indicated by lines already noted. It contains an area of 25,333 acres, and valued at $459,340, inclusive of buildings valued at $75,290.

Arable lands 14,342 acres, meadow lands 291 acres, and wood land 11,100 acres.

Population in 1870, 1876; in 1880, 1933.

1880, Garfield vote, 58; Hancock vote, 379.

Official Records.

June the 25th, A. D. 1833. I do hereby certify that the first election of this -township was held at the house of Matthew Kearns, in said township; the following- officers were duly elected:--

Clerk, James L. Simes. Trustees, Samuel Gray, Charles Botkins, John Miller. Treasurer, John Sprague. Overseers of Poor, Matthew Kearns, Alexander Gillaspe. Fence Viewers, Win. Botkin, John Davis, and Hugh Miller.

I do hereby certify that the above mentioned persons were duly elected and sworn into their respective offices according to law, August 1st, 1833.

JAMES L. SIMES, Town'p Clerk.

August 31, 1833. Samuel Gray, Charles Botkins, and John Miller, Trustees of Marion Township, met and proceeded to lay out the following road districts. Let it be known that we the. trustees of Marion Township have laid out the following road districts for the supervisors to work : Charles Botkin, Wrn. Botkin, Win. Ballinger, John Ballinger, Alex. Miller, Wm. B. Winters, James L. Simes, Able Worthington, John M. Gogil, and Samuel T. Grant, are struck off to work the lower district. John Davis, John Sprague, John Miller, Matthew Kearns, Samuel Gray,

- 47 -

Hugh Miller, Alex. Gillaspe, Jethro Ivens, John Wilberry, Thomas Potter, and John Potter, the upper district.. Samuel Gray and Charles Botkin, supervisors, and Matthew Kearns, constable.

I do hereby certify the above is a correct statement of the proceedings of the trustees of Marion Township.

JAMES L. SIMES, Clerk.

Grand Jurors: Wm. B. Winters, John Miller, Sr., Samuel T. Grant.

Petit Jurors : Alex. Miller, Alex. Gillaspe, John Miller, Jr.

March 4, 1834. It is hereby remembered that Samuel T. Grant has received his commission for the office of justice of the peace in and for Marion Township, the date of said commission Feb. 6, 1834.

JAMES L. SIMES, Clerk.

Election April 7, 1834. Trustees, Charles Botkins, John Miller, Wm. Beauchamp. Clerk, James L. Simes. Treasurer, Samuel Gray. Constable, Matthew Kearns.

March 2, 1835. The township Was divided into two school districts.

In 1835 the following officers were elected: Trustees, Wm. Beauchamp, Samuel Grant; Stephen Sprague. Clerk, Asa Beauchamp. Treasurer, M. Kearns. Grand Jurors selected, James Gray, Abraham Miller, J. H. Taylor, W. B. Winters, James L. Simes. Petit Jurors, John Miller, Matthew Kearns, Wm. Beauchamp, Thomas Coat, Joshua D. Wright.

Officers elect, 1836: Trustees, Stephen Sprague, Abraham Miller, J. D. Wright. Clerk, Willis Beauchamp. Treasurer, Greenberry Buxton.

1837. Trustces, Kearns, Win. Ellis, W. P. Long. Clerk, Beauchamp. Treasurer, Gray.

1838. Trustees, Long, Kearns, and John Hale. Clerk, Beauchamp. Treasurer, A. Brant.

1839. Trustees, Kearns, Hale, W. B. Winters. Clerk, Beauchamp. Treasurer, Brant.

1840. Trustees, Hale, Kearns, Winters. Clerk, G. Brandon. Treasurer, Daniel Long.

1841. Trustees, John Nutter, Robt. Burdge, Charles Bodkin. Clerk, John Raynor. Treasurer, M. Kearns.

1842. Trustees, Matthias Gast, J. J. Miller, W. Berry. Clerk, F. A. Redmon. Treasurer, D. Henders.

1843. Trustees, D. Henders, Peter Moyers, A. Buzzell. Clerk, Redmon. Treasurer, Fred. Biking.

1844. Trustees, Henders, Moyers, J. G. Young. Clerk, Elking. Treasurer, John Richards.

1845. Trustees re-elected. Clerk and treasurer re-elected.

1846. Trustees, Young, Gast, and Henders. Clerk, Elking. Treasurer, Richards.

1847. Trustees, Young, Gast, and 'Tenders. Clerk and treasurer reelected.

1848. Trustees, Henders, Gast, and J. G. Brandon. Clerk and treasurer re-elected.

1849. Trustees, Gast, Henders, and Henry Lochtefeld. Clerk and treasurer re-elected.

1850. All officers re-electcd.

1851. " " "

1852. " " "

1853, Treasurer, H. G. Schrage. All other officers re-elected.

1854. Trustees, Lochtefeld, Mayer, and Henry Osserman. Clerk and treasurer re-elected.

1855. Trustees, clerk, and treasurer re-elected.

1857. Trustees : Andrew Harman, Bernard Wehrkamp, Henry Hagedorn. Clerk and treasurer re-elected.

1858. Officers re-elected.

1859. Trustees: Wehrkamp, Hugeclorn, and Gerhart Wertgerdes. Clerk and treasurer re-elected.

1860. Trustees : Hagedorn, Wertgerdes, Henry Greshaff. Clerk: Bernard Wehrkamp. Treasurer: Bernard Pickenbrook.

1861. Trustees: G. Wertgerdes, Greshaff, Joseph Klühensy. Clerk and treasurer re-elected.

1863. Trustees: M. Gast, J. Klunhentz, M. Heirholzer. Clerk : Wehrkamp. Treasurer: B. Panning.

1866. Trustees: Heirholzer, B. Gattemoller, H. Bertke. Clerk: H. H Pulskamp. Treasurer: M. Gast.

1869. Justice of the Peace: B. Wehrkamp. Trustees: Henry Bertke, G. Kathmann, G. H. Beekmann. Clark: Herman Pulskamp.

April 12, 1870. Trustees: Henry Brackman, M. Herholzer H. Bertke. Treasurer: B. Pickenbrook. Constable: J. Flerk. Clerk: H. Pulskamp.

1871. Re-elected.

April 8, 1872. Trustees: Joseph Wobeler, Henry Martin, John Hagedorn. Clerk: Herman Pulskamp: Treasurer: Joseph Reishert. Assessor: Henry Moellers. Constables: Joseph Ankenbaner, William Blattan.

1873. Justice of the Peace: B. Wehrkamp. Trustees: Lorenz Schunk, John Schlosser. Constable: John Flerk.

1874. Treasurer: Bernard Pickenbrook. Trustees: Anthony Bernard, Lorenz Schunk.

476 - HISTORY OF VAN WERT AND MERCER COUNTIES, OHIO.

1875. Trustees: Bernard Gottemoller, Anthony Bernard. Treasurer: Bernard Pickenbrook. Clerk: John Horst. Constables: Isidore Schlosser, John Flerk. Justice of the Peace: B. Wherkamp.

April, 1876. Trustees: Bernard Gottemoller, Ber. Wilki, Ber. Overmann. Treasurer: Ber. Pickenbrook. Clerk: John Horst. Assessor: Henry Tebben. Constables: Mathias Steiner, Henry Plagemann, Bernard Dorsten. Justice of the Peace: Lorenz Lochtefeld.

1877. Board re-elected except constables. Constables: Lorenz Worte, John Bokman.

1878. Trustees: Henry Lochtefeld, Joseph Wirtz, Carl Bruns. Clerk: John Horst. Treasurer: Ber. Pickenbrook. Assessor: Henry Tebben. Constable: Joseph Meiering.

March, 1879. Trustees: Henry Lochtefeld, Joseph Wirtz, Carl Bruns. Treasurer: August Rutschilling. Clerk: John Horst. Assessor: Henry Tebben. Constables: John Bokmann, Matthias Stelzer. Justice of the Peace: John Wirtz.

1880. Trustee: Mathias Hartings. Clerk: Lorenz Lochtefeld. Constables: Win. Desch, Joseph Lengers.

1881. Justice of the Peace: Mathias Goecke. Trustees: Joseph Wirtz, Mathias pasting, Joseph Tangemann. Constable: Joseph Leugars.

1882. Trustee: William Hess. Treasurer: Fred. Fleck. Constables: J. Nick Delzeit, Mathias Stelzer. Clerk, Lorenz Lochtefeld.

In 1872 the enumeration was as follows: No. 1, 93; No. 2, 98; No. 3, 89; No. 4, 134; No. 5, 89; No. 6, 50; No. 7, 105. Colored youths in the township, 38.

Improved Roads.

This township is the only one in the county that has commenced to gravel the roads, and it has a number which are of great benefit to the farmers and business men of the township. It will not be many years until every road in the township is graded and gravelled.

CHICKASAW.

Chickasaw lies in the north half of northwest quarter of section 14, town 7 south, range 3 east. Fractional lots Nos. 1 and 15 are each 80 feet in section line from east to west, and the same depth of the other lots where they join. Lots 16, 47, and 48 are bounded west by section line, and are each 59 feet from east to west, by 132 feet deep from north to south. All the other lots are each 60 feet from east to west, by 132 feet from north to south. Main Street and State Street are cach 66 feet wide, and cross each other at right angles. All other streets are 50 feet wide, and run parallel with or cross Main Street at right angles. The alleys are each 12 feet wide, and run parallel with State Street. Alley No. 1 ends at Main Street. I have erected a stone corner to be planted, from which to make future survey. At northwest corner of lot 15 the section corner hears north 30' 40' west, distant 32 feet. Main Street 1 runs north 36̊ 20' west. The town is bounded on west and north by the section lines.

Surveyed July 27, 1838, by James Hanks, Deputy Surveyor.

Acknowledged by John Nutter and James Brooks before H. H. Frazier, Justice of the Peace, July 27, 1838.

This is a very old town, but made no progress until the last year or two, or since the building of the new railroad, which has given the town a new start. A fine brick hotel and store were erected' last year by Henry Gast. John Link has also a fine business house. George Ferner, druggist ; Charles Stelzer, hotel. A fine warehouse was erected last year, and Chickasaw will no doubt make one of the best towns in the township.

ST. JOHNS.

St. Johns is situated on part of southeast quarter of southwest quarter of section 24, owned by John Stelzer, and part of northeast quarter of northwest quarter of section 25, owned by Christian Stelzer, all in town 7 south, range 3 east, and comprising 64 lots, all of which are 4 poles in front and 8 poles back, except Nos. 16, 17, 48, and 49, which are 7 poles wide and 8 deep. .)lain, Elm, Centre, and Sycamore streets are 4 rods wide; North and Race streets are 3 rods wide. The alleys are 1 rod wide. A large stone is planted at the northeast corner of lot 33 and at the quarter section post. All of which I believe to be correct. Laid off north and south at a variation of 30 5' 52'' east.

J. S. HOUSTON, Surveyor.

Acknowledged by John and Christian Stelzer, before H. H. Frazier, Justice of the Peace, September 22, 1838.

Recorded September 24, 1838.

J. W. RILEY, Recorder.

WEST ADDITION OF ST. JOHNS

was laid out by Archbishop Purcell, April 5, 1851, and consists of forty-one lots, and are of the following size : from 1 to 26, 4 by 8 rods ; 27 to 30, each 1½ acres; lot 31, 1 90/100 of an acre ; lot 32, 2 29/100 of an acre ; lots 33, 34, 35, and 36, each 12 acres ; lots 37, 38, 39, 40, each one-half an acre, and lot 41, three-quarters. of an acre. The streets are named North, Jefferson, Jackson, and Main. The lot west of Jefferson Street is donated to the Catholic Church. John Listenschneider, John Stella; and John Thomas settled on the sight of St. Johns in 1833 and front, the fact that the first settlers above were all named John, they called the town "St. Johns." The town has a number of good stores and a line church ; and since the completion of the new railroad, which comes within half a mile of the town, considerable improvements have been made.

ROSE GARDEN.

Rose Garden is laid out on southwest corner of east half of southeast fourth of section 21, and the northwest corner of east half of northeast fourth of section 28 of town 7 south, range 3 east, and is composed of sixteen lots, which measure 51 feet 9 inches in width, except lot 9, which is but 39 feet 9 inches. Running back from St. Rosa Strcet 6.43 chains, St. Rosa Street is 60 feet wide. There is an alley on west side of lot 9, 12 feet in width. The southwest corner of lot 8 is 30 feet north of a post which stands 20.10 chains west of the corners of lots 21, 22,.27, and 28. Surveyed June 12, 1854, at a variation of 3° 30' east..

A. JACK. LINZEE, Surveyor.

Acknowledged on behalf of committee by John B. Purcell, in presence of F. Elking, Notary Public, June 17, 1854.

Recorded June 29, 1854.

JEREMIAH LUNDY, Recorder.

The place contains only one store, kept by Lorenz Lochtefeld, who keeps a general assortment, usually kept in a country store.

MARYSVILLE.

Marysville is laid out in the northeast corner of section 30, town 7 south, range 3 east, containing fifteen lots, each being four poles wide by sixteen poles deep, except lots eight and nine, which are only thirteen poles deep, and school lot fifteen is only three poles wide by eight poles deep, all of which they contain clear of streets and alleys. Marion Street, north of town, is from centre of section line to the lots thirty-three feet wide. Convent Street, east of town, is from centre of section line to lots twenty-five feet wide. School Street is twenty-five feet wide, running as far as northwest corner of lot number seven. It is all laid out On 3 variation of 3' 45' east. Stones have been planted on southwest and northwest corners of lot 14, also the northeast corner of lot 8, the north: west corner of lot 7, the southeast and southwest corners of lot 1, and the southeast corner of school lot 15, ctc. Lot 15 is dedicated for public school purposes.

All of which I do hereby certify to be correct.

March 23, 1860.

HENRY BECKMAN, Sur.

CARTHAGENA

was laid out by Charles Moore December 28, 1840, consisting of sixty; four lots, each lot being four by eight rods. The streets running east and west are called Burney, Elm, Harris, Jackson, Clay; those running north and south Pearl, Main, and Broad. All streets are sixty feet wide, and alleys ten feet.

October 20, 1859, John C. Schmidt laid out on the south of Clay Street four outlots of one, two, and three acres.

It is a part of the southeast quarter of the southwest fractional quarter of section 7, t. 7, south of range 3. The present business is represented by Anton Link, drygoods; Barney Wearcamp, hotel and grocery; John Bostwick, postmaster; John Schlosser, boots and shoes; Anthony Vicorins, organ manufacturer and cabinet maker.

This township also contains a number of smaller towns.

CRANBERRY PRAIRIE has a fine church—St. Francis. Wm. Lemm, general store ; George Vonvenbush, drygoods ; Lawrence Heiser, blacksmith.

SEBASTIAN has one general store, kept by Henry Beckman. Matthias Klinke, boots and shoes; and Anton Weber, carpenter.

COPELLA.—Henry Stetzer, drygoods ; Henry Crone, general store, and proprietor of hotel; John Crone, wagon and carriage manufacturer and blacksmithing.

COLORED CITIZENS.—Their Settlement.

Augustus Wattles, a native of Connecticut, founded a colony of colored peoplc, amounting to several hundreds, scattered through the townships of Marion, Granville, and Franklin. Wc quote his own language in regard to the settlement of these people:—

My early education would naturally lead me to look upon learning and good morals as of infinite importance in a land of liberty. In the winter of 1833-4 I providentially became acquainted with the colored population of Cincinnati, Ohio, and found about 4000, totally igno-

HISTORY OF VAN WERT AND MERCER COUNTIES, OHIO - 479

rant of everything calculated to make good citizens. Most of them bad been slaves, shut out from every avenue of moral and mental improvement. I started a school for them, and kept it up for them for two years, with two hundred pupils. I then proposed to the colored people to move into the country and purchase land, and remove from those contaminating influences which had so long crushed them in our cities and villages. They promised to do so, provided I would accompany them and teach school. I travelled through Canada, Michigan, and Indiana looking for a suitable location, and finally settled here, thinking this place contained more natural advantages than any other unoccupied country within my knowledge.

In 1835 I made the first purchase for the colored people in Mercer County. In about three years they owned not far from 30,000 acres of land. I had travelled into almost every neighborhood of colored people in the State, and laid before them the benefits of a permanent home for themselves and of the education of their children.

In my first journey through the State I established, by the assistance and co-operation of Abolitionists, twenty-five schools for colored children. I collected from the colored people such money as they had to spare, and entered land for them. Many who had no money, afterwards succeeded in raising some, and brought it to me, and with this I bought land for them.

I purchased for myself 190 acres of land to establish a Manual Labor School for colored boys. 1 had sustained a school on it at my own expense until November 11, 1842. Being in Philadelphia the winter before, I became acquainted with the trustees of the late Samuel Emlen, of New Jersey, of the denomination called " Friends." He left by his will 20,000 for the support and education iii school learning and the mechanical arts and agriculture, for such boys of African and Indian descent whose parents would give them up to the Institute. We united our means, and they purchased my farm and appointed me the superintendent of the establishment, which they called the-

Emlen Institute.

In 1845, Judge Leigh, of Virginia, purchased 3200 acres of land in this settlement for the freed slaves of John Randolph, of Roanoke. These arrived in the summer of 1846, to the number of about 400, but were forcibly prevented from making a settlement by a portion of the inhabitants of the county. Since then acts of hostility have been commenced against the people of this settlement, and threats of greater held out, if they do not abandon their lands and their homes.

In Brown County there are two large settlements of colored persons, amounting to five hundred each. One is three miles north of Georgetown, and the other is in the northeast part of the county, sixteen miles distant. They emigrated from Virginia, and were the slaves of Samuel Gest, who manumitted and settled them upon two large surveys of land. Their situation is not prosperous.

In the southern part of Mercer County is a colony of colored persons, amounting to several hundreds. They live principally by agriculture, and own extensive lands in the townships of Granville, Franklin, and Marion, founded by Augustus Willetts.

In Van Buren Township, Shelby. County, about four hundred colored Persons settled. An attempt was made in July, 1846, to colonize with them three hundred and eighty-five of the emancipated slaves of John Randolph, of Virginia, after they were driven from Mercer County, and scattered in Miami and Shelby counties.

In the office of the clerk of Common Pleas of Mercer County, Ohio, is a manuscript docket entitled "Record of Free Blacks," in which are the following entries :-

State of Kentucky, Mason County, June 21, 1842, John James Key, clerk of said Court, certifies that at the April Court, 1832, Thomas Bowles produced his certificate of his being a free man from the corporation of Lynchburg., Virginia, which was ordered to be recorded, he being thirty-five years of age, of black complexion, five feet nine and a half inches high, which certificate bears date March 29, 1826.

On December 21, 1842, Thomas Bowles registered his son, aged twenty years, five feet six and a half inches high, bushy head, and heavy make, mulatto color, with a scar in the upper edge of the right eyebrow.—

FRANKLIN LINZEE, Clerk.

North Carolina, Northampton County, March 4, 1834. Richard H. Weaver, clerk of the Court, certifies that David Mitchell is thirty-six years of age, five feet six inches high, light complexion, and a scar on the left side of the left leg, and a blacksmith.

Also, that Jenny Mitchell, his wife, is free born, thirty-three years of age, four feet five inches high, light complexion, and dark hair.

Mrs. Elizabeth Moore, on August 25, 1826, of the county of Harrison, Kentucky, but now resident in Clermont County, Ohio, emancipated, a negro woman named Dorcas, and eight children, viz.; Mintee, Henry, Charles, Denison, Rachel, George, Alfred, and William, which deed is recorded December 30, 1830, in the clerk's office of Mercer County, Ohio.—JAMES W. RILEY, Clerk.

May 21, 1833. Israel Alexander Thomas, of Hardy County, Virginia, registered himself as.24 years of age, five feet nine and one-half inches high, in that Court, and afterwards at Mercer County, Ohio, December 21, 1850.—JAS. W. RILEY, Clerk.

Burrell Archer and Martha, his wife, December 25, 1850.

Benjamin King, Esq., formerly of Iredell, North Carolina, hut now of Washington County, Indiana, manumitted his negro man, Squire Knox, forty years of age, entered of record December 30, 1850, and at the same time Squire Knox entered his wife, Rachel Jane Knox, thirty-six years of age, four feet six inches high, light color, with straight hair, and well made.. Also Thomas Delaney, aged fourteen years, and Solomon Delaney, aged eight years, with brown skin and curly hair. Squire Knox also registered his own children, born of Rachel Jane Knox, viz., George and registered with brown skin and curly hair.—JAMES WATSON RILEY, Clerk.

State of Alabama, August 15, 1847. Guilliam Nicholson petitioned the Court presided over by the Hon. H. M. McElnan, to emancipate a negro man named Thomas, and his wife, Sydney, and their children, Harry, Allen, Priscilla, Clarissa, Thomas, and Franklin, which the Court decided, notice thereof having been given in the newspapers published in the town of Tuskagee, in the county of Macon, Alabama, in con-. sideration of the long and faithful and meritorious services performed by said slaves, have emancipated and set free.

Entered of record 1854.—H. F. JUNEMANN, Clerk.

John Harper, of Randolph County, North Carolina, made his will December 2, 1850, admitted to probate May, 1851, manumitting his obedient and faithful servants, Francis, Julie, Sylvanie, Sandy, and little Harry, and such issue as may he born of either of them, and to go to some of the. free States ; requiring his nephews, .J. H. and R. G. Lindsay, to see that the slaves be permitted to have and use the following property devised to them :-

To Harry, $250, his saddle, bridle, and martingale, with his mattress and wearing apparel.

To Kitty, his feather bed, bedstead, and furniture in the lower room, one side saddle, one loom, and his stock of bees.

To his servant York, $100; also to York, Julie, James, Condie, and Sylva each a feather bed, bedstead, and necessary furniture. Harry to get his choice of two horses, and Kitty his wife two cows and calves, and $500 in money to be invested for their benefit; and if Harry, Kitty, and their children go to Liberia or some of the free States, then Harry is to get the horses, and Kitty the cows and also the $500 ; but in case of Kitty's death, to be divided among her children.

Mr. Harper also provided that if any of the white legatees of his will oppose the emancipation of his slaves, he or she shall receive no portion of his estate, but that share to be divided among the others ; and if all of the legatees opposed, then one-half of his estate goes to the American Bible Society, and the other half to the Colonization Society. He also provided for the other slaves that man and wife should not be separated. Entered November 1, 1854.—H. F. JUNEMANN, Clerk.

BIOGRAPHIES.

SILAS SHANER

is the son of John and Nancy Shaner, who settled in Mercer County, March 20, 1861. Silas was born October 9, 1847, in Greene County. Was raised a farmer and stock-raiser. On August 31, 1871, he married Tabitha, daughter of Jesse and Jemima Heinrich, who live in Darke County. Their children are Hattie Bell, Franklin, Dottie.

Henry Shaner enlisted in 1861, in Company G of the 74th Ohio Voluntry Infantry, served his full term, re-enlisted as a veteran in the 8th Ohio Battery, and was discharged in 1866.

Frederick and Robert Shaner enlisted in 1861, in the 40th Ohio Volunteer Infantry, Company E, and afterwards consolidated with the 51st, and then became a veteran in the 51st Regiment, Company E, and was discharged in 1866.

JOSEPH MILLER

was born in Germany in 1815, and emigrated with his parents to the United States in 1833, and landed at Baltimore, Md. They went to Cincinnati, where they remained only one year, and then moved into the woods of Mercer County, with his father and mother, Anton and Elizabeth Miller. He was married to Miss Elizabeth Listenschneider June 25, 1844. They have raised a family of four children, Henry, Anna, Mary, and Francisco, who still reside in the county. Mr. M. is a farmer.

JOSEPH BERNARD SWEDERMAN

was born in this county in 1845, and is the son of Herman and Mary Swederman, who settled here as early as 1835. He has all his life been engaged in farming, in which he has proved successful. His post-office is New Bremen, Auglaize County, Ohio.

480 - HISTORY OF VAN WERT AND MERCER COUNTIES, OHIO.

JOSEPH. WAHLER

was born in this county January 21, 1839, and has since resided in Marion Township, where Chickasaw is his post-office. His parents, Bernard and Elizabeth Wahler, came to the county in 1831, thus ranking among the early settlers. On the 7th of February, 1861, Joseph was married, and from that date has accumulated 150 acres of improved land, in connection with sixty lots in the town of Chicksaw, although the start given him by his father only amounted to $600. He is now one of the leading farmers of this section, and is well respected, as evi- denced by the fact that he has held the office of township trustee for a number of years. His family consists of eight children, named Joseph, Elizabeth, Frederick, Bernard, Catharine, Clemens, Frank, and Uley.

JOHN CRONE,

a carriage and wagon builder at Copella, was born in this county September 29, 1841. His parents, John and Tracey Crone, came to the. county in 1835. In October, 1861, he enlisted in Company H, 71st O. V. I., from which he was discharged in 1864. He then veteraned with his regiment, and remained in the service until 1866, when he was finally discharged at Columbus, Ohio. In the battle of Atlanta he was severely wounded, but was not long detained from field service. From 1868 until 1876 he was postmaster at Coppella. On September 11, 1866, he married Elizabeth Beckman, who was born February 16, 18.46. Their children are named Henry, William, Elizabeth, Mary, John, Philomena, Jacob, and Antony.

MATTHIAS GAST

was born in France in 1813, and emigrated to America and settled in Baltimore, Maryland, March, 1828, and lived there five years, then removed to Minster, and remained two years, and afterwards to St. Johns in 1838, when he engaged in the mercantile business, and remained in business until 1879, but has now retired from life's active duties. He served six years as county commissioner, three years as notary public and county auctioneer. For his long and faithful services, and his honest endeavors to discharge his duties as a faithful citizen, he enjoys tihee high satisfaction of having the esteem and confidence of his fellow-citizens.

JOHN SCHLOSSER,

son of Francis A. and Rosina Bryer Schlosser, was born January 8, 1836. He was raised a shoemaker, and keeps a restaurant at Carthagena. His first wife was Mary Bryer, and his second, Catharine Cromell. The dates of his respective marriages were in 1856 and 1871. The first wife's children were Catharine, John, Joseph, George, Frank, Mary, and Charles. Second wife's, Catharine, John, Elizabeth, and Gatrote. He was post-master at Carthagena from 1860 to 1871.

His brother Frank enlisted in 1861. and was wounded in the battle of Pittsburg Landing, and discharged June 15, 1863. His father was a soldier under Napoleon for twelve years.

WILLIAM H. JONES,

son of Samuel and Mary Jones. They came from Kentucky. He was born in that State March 28, 1828, and turned his attention to speculating at Carthagena, having settled in this county in 1839. Ile married Mary, daughter of Z. and Susanna Harrison, in Indianapolis, Indiana. She was born in 1832. He has filled the offices of supervisor, school director, and clerk. W. H. Jones was free born, although his father was a slave, and bought his time at the age of thirty years, and went to Liberia, where he remained for one year, returned to this country, and settled in Mercer County, and located on their own land.

GARRAT HINDERS,

son of Richard and Mary Hinders, was born in Germany in August, 1827, and came to this county with his parents in 1832. His father died in 1853, when Gatrat took charge of the home farm of eighty acres, which he continued to handle until his marriage on January 3, 1857, to Mary, daughter of Joseph and Elizabeth Ilogerman. He then acquired another forty acres of land, making his farm consist of one hundred and twenty acres. The family consists of nine children, named Joseph, Richard, William, Bernard, John, Frederick, Elizabeth, Anna, and Mary. Post-office, Maria Steen, Mercer County, Ohio.

HENRY KAISER,

a farmer of Chickasaw, was born in Minster July 2, 1842. He is the son of Theodore and Elizabeth Kaiser, of Auglaize County. In 1868 Henry moved to this township, and settled on section 10, wherc he still resides.. The same year he married Mary, daughter of John and Margaret Wenner, who came to this county in 1851. She was born in Dayton in 1846, but came here with her parents when five years of age.

BERNARD MESSMER,

an enterprising farmer, living near St. Johns (Maria Steen Post-office), was born in Germany in the year 1816, and came to America in 1834. The first two years after coming here he worked for Gatrat Hinders, to pay back the passage-money of his trip from Germany. He then con. menced farming for himself, and has since secured 160 acres of valuable land; all of which is in a good state of cultivation. In 1857 he was mar. vied. The fruits of the union being nine children, named, respectively, Anthony, Elizabeth (dec'd), Mary, Henry, Elizabeth, Bernard, Fred. erick, Frank, and Margaret.

JOSEPH NUSTEMAKER,

a resident of section 15, was born in Germany in the year 1825, and came to America in 1846. In 1849 he located where he now livcs, and fourteen years after coming to America sent for his parents, who came here and located. Although he commenced poor, he has acquired 160 acres of well-improved laud, and is one of the leading farmers of this section. He was married in 1852, his wife being a native of Germany, where she was born in 1822. They have reared four children, viz., Mary, Bernard, Elizabeth, and Anna.

GARRETT STAMMENER,

a resident of section 10, is the son of Albert and Wilhelmina Stammener., and was born in Germany September 12, 1819. He came to this county. in 1849, and has since been engaged in farming near Chickasaw. In 1853 he married Elizabeth, daughter of Dedrick and Elizabeth Cramer. She was born in Germany September 20, 1834, hut was brought Here by her parents the following year. The family consists of nine children, named Matthias, John, Peter, Andrew, Henry, Philhelmina, Mary, and Agnes.

J. HENRY BECKMAN,

son of G. Harmon and Teracia Beckman, was born in Cincinnati February 6, 1849. He was brought to this county with his parents in 1853. For a numbcr of years he has been engaged in the mercantile trade, and keeps a general supply store at St. Sebastian. On June 20, 1876, he married Mary, daughter of John and Angeline Schlorman. Her parents came to this county in 1831, where she was born September 6, 1849. The fruits of this union were two children, named Elizabeth, and Anna (deceased).

HENRY ROSE,

son of Bernard and Mary Rose, was born in Germany, June 19, 1829, and came to this county in August, 1860. He is now engaged in farming near Chickasaw, where he owns 260 acres of good land. In 1860 he married Dena, daughter of Garrat and Elizabeth Knoba. She was born in this county in 1843. Their children are named Bernard, Mary, Her- MOD, Henry, Anna, John, and Elizabeth. He is now In the mercantile business, carrying a full stock of dry-goods, hats, caps, boots and shoes at St. Rosa.

FEDENA COOK

son of Wendelon and Tracey Cook, was born in Germany, May 30,1815, and came to this county in 1846, when he located on section 15, and has now a farm of 100 acres; all well improved. In 1843 he married Mary, daughter of August and Catharine Bealer, of Darke County, and has reared a family of seven children, named John, Tracey, Mary. Catharine, Caroline, Rosie, and Joseph. Mr. Cook lives near Chickasaw, and in his own district has held the offices of school director and supervisor of roads.

LORENZ LOCHTERFELD,

son of Henry and Bernadina Lochterfeld, was born in Mercer County Nov. 1, 1851. His parents came here about fifty years ago, and were consequently among the pioneers of the township. He has held the office of justice of the peace three years, notary public three years, and township clerk two years. He married Katharina, daughter of Antony and Christena Moller, who was born in this county, her parents having come here about twenty-five years ago. They have one child, named Yinzenz, born August 13, 1880.

STEPHEN BUROMANN,

a farmer near Maria Stein, is the son of Arnold and Elizabeth Burgmann, and was born in Germany in the month of February, 1812. In 1846 he came to this county, since which time he has acquired 120 acres of land, all in cultivatable condition. He was married in this county in 1851, and has reared a family of five children, named Mary, John, Bernard, Minnie, and Anna. These are still living, while two unnamed are dead.

HISTORY OF VAN WERT AND MERCER COUNTIES, OHIO - 481

BERNARD VEHERN,

a farmer near St. Johns, was born in this county April 30, 1840, and has lived here during his whole life. He has now an excellent farm of 147 acres, which has been acquired by hard work. In 1862 he married Eliza- beth .Bedker who was born in this county in 1844. They have a family of eight children, named Anna, John, Elizabeth, Mary, Christena, Rosie; Almenna, and Anna.

MATTHIAS STELZER,

son of Leon and Catharine Stelzer, was born in this county May 10, 1854, and has since resided at Chickasaw, where he is now engaged at the carpenter trade. His parents came to this county as early as 1838. On the 7th of November, 1876, he married Elizabeth, daughter of Antony and Agnes Bosche. She was born at Minster, December 27, 1853. Their children are named Antony, Isabella, and Victoria.

GILBERT ROBINSON

was born a slave in Tennessee, and sold when he was twenty-seven years of age for the sum of six hundred dollars by Stephen Alexander to Jane Robinson, to satisfy a claim she had against said Alexander. He came to Mercer County in 1844, and now lives on section 7, Marion Township, and owns sixty-five acres of land.

JOHN H. DRESS

was born in Prussia in 1831, and came to America with his parents in 1833, and settled in Minster, then in Mercer County, Ohio. He lived there about sixteen years, and settled at St. John's in 1855, and engaged in blacksmithing, and still continues in the business. He is ranked as a pioneer.

FRANCIS EVAS

was born in Germany in 1812, emigrated to America, and settled in Cincinnati, Ohio, in 1833, and remained five years. In 1838 he removed to Marion Township, Mercer County, and settled on section 2.8, and has resided in this county forty-three years. He raised a family of seven children, who are all living.

GEORGE LANGS,

son of George and Catharine Lands. They came to this county March 10, 1838. He was bOrn February 10,1840, and raised a farmer and stock-raiser. On June 7, 1870, he married Mary, daughter of Adam Renving. She was born November 16,1852. Their children arc Catharine. George, And Anthony. He has filled the offices of constablc and supervisor.

JOHN LISTENSCHNEIDER

settled in Mercer County in 1833, and brought a family of seven children. He lived many 3-ears to assist in clearing the township, and died in 1869, at the advanced age of seventy-five years.

CHARLES STELGER,

son of Leon and Catharine Steiger, was born November 1, 1857, in this county, his parents having come here as early as 1838. He is now a resident of Chickasaw, where he is engaged in the hotel and saloon business and farming. In 1881 he married Mrs. Lena Stelzer, daughter of Henry and Martha Wall, of Indiana. She was born July 15, 1856. They have three children, viz., Henry, Bertha, and .an infant daughter.

BERNARD BORGER

was born March 4, 1843, in Mercer County, and has since resided near St. Johns. He has here one hundred acres of good land, which is highly productive, and in a good state of cultivation. He was married in 1867, his wife being a native of this county and born in 1846. Their children are named Catharine, Mary, John, Elizabeth, Frank, and Andenia.

JOHN CROW,

dealer in general merchandise at Coppella, is a native of Germany, but came here in 1835, and engaged for a time as school teacher. In 1852 he married Louisa, daughter of Jacob and Catharine Kuhn, and has reared a family of eight children. They are named Catharine, Elizabeth, Henry, Phelomena, Angeline, Francesco, August, and John.

BERNARD HANSFELD,

a farmer of this township, is a native of Germany, but came to this county February 16, 1862. He owns in this county 180 acres, and 80 acres in Auglaize County, both well unproved farms, with good buildings on the home place. In April, 1856, he was married at Minster, Auglaize County, and has reared a family of five children.

JOHN LINK

came to Mercer County in 1871, and settled in Chickasaw, where he is engaged in the hotel and restaurant and livery stable business. He is also post-master at Chickasaw. In 1880 he married Miss Rose Kock, who was born in this county in 1862. Mr. Link was born in Germany in 1855.

HENRY GREESUP

came from Oldenberg, Germany, to Mercer County in 1843, and settled in section 12, where he purchased one hundred and sixty acres of land. from John McDaniel. About five acres had been cleared. At that time the woods were full of game, and Mr. G. claims it was necessary at times to drive the deer away while the horses and hogs were feeding.

ANTHONY GROTE

was born in Germany in 1848, and came to this county and settled at Casella in 1877, where he is engaged at the trade of painting and graining. In 1878 he married Elizabeth Linthaus, by whom he has reared. two children, named Anna and Bernard.

PATRONS' LIST.

VAN WERT COUNTY.

VAN WERT.

Attorneys-at-Law.

I. N. Alexander.

I. D. Clark.

G. M. Saltzgaber.

James L. Price.

H. G. Richie.

H. Kemper.

C. M. Sutfhen.

A. J. Porter.

Geo. E. Wells.

F. S. Hammer.

Banks.

The National Bank of Van Wert. Charles Emerson, President ; A. S. Burt, Cashier.

The Van Wert National Bank. A. B. McCurdy, President ; J. M. O. Marble, Cashier.

Boots and Shoes.

James Clark & Son.

C. G. Wilkinson & Son.

R. Lynch.

Wm. Hertle.

P. Phroffit.

Clothing.

General A. Jacobs.

Drugs.

C. A. Melsheimer & Son.

Hill & Wilson.

P. John Hines & Son.

Dry Goods.

T. S. McKim & Son.

Bonewitz & Schumm.

J. S. Brumback & Co.

A. L. Teubner.

Groceries.

Dunathan & Humphreys.

Patterson & Halfhill.

A. R. McCoy.

A. Lynch.

S. Swinford & Sons.

McConahay & Hartzog.

Jeweler.

A. P. McConahay.

Harness and Saddlery.

J. Strandler & Co.

T. Shoop.

Hotels.

E. Cole, proprietor Van Wert House.

L. M. De Puy, proprietor De Puy House.

J. Potter, proprietor Avenue House.

J. H. Adams, proprietor Adams House.

Levi Raudabaugh, proprietor Ohio House.

Hardware.

A. B. McCurdy & Son.

Bughton & Lawrance.

S. B. Hertz.

Livery Stables.

S. F. Caste.

W. Brooks.

Billman & Hertle.

S. J. Cole.

Miscellaneous.

W. L. Scott, miller.

David W. McCoy, retired.

P. Freeman, blacksmith.

Joseph Gleason, retired.

J. F. Rank & Co., photographers.

Albert Faber; brewer.

W. R. Cook, broker.

David Fisher, farmer.

Philip Troup, retired.

H. H. Updegrove, postmaster.

John W. Hoagland, teacher.

T. S. Gilliland, grain dealer.

Hon. James Rimer, surveyor.

J. W. Hetrick, insurance agent.

Fred Billman, stock dealer.

Rev. Patrick Barry, pastor Catholic Church.

Rev. D. L. Mackinzie, pastor St. Mark's Lath. Church.

Rev. J. V. Stockton, pastor Presbyterian Church.

A. R. Merrick, grain dealer.

Chas. F. Germabb, tile manufacturer.

Matt. Springer, stove manufacturer.

0. D. Swartoat, insurance agent.

William Moneysmith, saloon.

E. H. Shorb, travelling salesman.

P. Zimmmerman, travelling salesman.

Mrs. L. Baltzell.

J. K. Scott, manufacturer tight barrel stock.

C. P. Richey, justice of the peace.

Jacob Winslow.

H. Butler, stove manufacturer.

William Fronfeld, butcher.

E. W. Strad:, lumber dealer.

Phebe Slater.

Rev. W. W. Watt.

Mart Brown.

Jacob Fox.

Marble Works.

Tolan & Son.

Physicians and Surgeons.

Wm. Smith.

H. C. McGavren.

G. W. McGavren.

John W. Underhill.

Stoves. and Tinware.

O. P. Clark & Son.

E. Harris & Son.

Tobacconists.

O. J. Corner.

Gipe & Stauter.

Van Wert Carriage Works.

Van Wert Book and News Co.

Newspapers.

J. H. Foster, editor Bulletin.

W. H. Clymer, editor Times.

Officials.

W. T. Exline, county auditor.

U. H. Hester, clerk of court.

A. T. Dailey, probate judge.

James Montgomery, treasurer.

H. P. Hiestand, sheriff.

W. P. Wolcott, county recorder.

Wiley M. Kear, deputy recorder.

W. B. Jones, county surveyor.

W. W. Wilson, deputy clerk.

Geo. W. Day, ex-clerk of court.

W. H. Mosier, ex-probate judge.

PLEASANT TOWNSHIP.

Arnold, I., farmer, - 30 - Van Wert

Allen, N. S., " - 19 - "

Balyeat, Aaron, " - 21 - "

Balyeat, David, " - 20 - "

Bronson, A. A., "

Clark, John W., farmer, - 10 - Van Wert.

Collins, Samuel, " - “

Cooper, J. K., " - 36 - "

Drake, Abraham, " - 16 - “

Davis, T. J., " - 21 - "

Dustman, George, " 25 - "

Dix, Peres M., " - 9 - "

Fowler, Martin, carpenter and joiner. - "

Fowler, Wm., farmer, 32 - "

Gosler, D. R., “ - "

Johns, Dallas W., 22 - "

Kennedy, Stephen, " - 16 - "

Longsworth, Jesse, " - 33 - "

Lewis, George, " - 30 - "

Mills, John C., " - 20 - "

Murphy, Samuel, " - "

Miller, Smith, " - 6 - "

McQuown, J. S., " - 9 - "

Payne, G. C., " - 16 - "

Robinson, Hamilton, " - 7 - "

Tonlinson, Jonathan, " - 17 - "

Tomlinson, Joseph, " - 8 - "

Thompson, Robert M., " - 16 - "

Wells, E. R., " - 5 - "

Webber, William, " - 20 - "

RIDGE TOWNSHIP.