Updated:

The Carillon Park Rail & Steam Society (CPR&SS) is a completely volunteer non-profit organization for the purpose of building, operating, and promoting a 71/2 inch gauge (1/8 full scale) railroad in the Carillon Historical Park, and promotes 71/2 inch gauge activities at model train shows. However, CPR&SS is a completely separate organization from Carillon Park, and we get no funding from Carillon Park, therefore, we raise our own funding for maintaining and replacing our equipment and track. Carillon Park, located at 1000 Carillon Blvd, Dayton, Ohio, 45409, is one of six locations making up the Dayton History experience. Dayton History is a privately supported, non-profit organization and is open to the public for a nominal entrance fee. The CPR&SS, not Carillon Park, finances and builds railroad structures and trackage, which become the property of the Carillon Park upon installation.

A recent news story was broadcast on Spectrum News channels about our club and what we do. To watch this, please visit this link.

NEW: Read all about why your financial help is important on our Donations Page!

Recent CPR&SS Newsletters have been moved to its own page.

Below is a view of the new loop track located east of the tube tunnel as of Saturday, Oct 28. The outer track is a 50-foot radius loop and the inner loop will be a siding. The tracks are not yet connected together and a few changes and adjustments are still planned.

Below is a YouTube link showing locomotive 7695 running around the CPR&SS track in August 2020 on one of the public train run days. Will G is the engineer. At the end, the train pulls into the loading station to pick up passengers.

Below is a YouTube link to Mr. Richard Fine running the live steam locomotive that he built. It gives viewers a look at the 1/8th scale miniature trains running at Carillon Park.

What We Do

The primary activity of the Society is cultural and historical as the railroad represents a small version of the type that contributed to the growth of the region. All locomotive types, steam, electric, and diesel, are used to pull trains loaded with family members around the trackage. Facilities common to railroads such as trestles, bridges, tunnels, turntable, switches, loading platform, and maintenance building are demonstrated on operating days. The track has been in operation since 1985 and the Society has been re-licensed as a State of Ohio non-profit organization since 1996. Any responsible member of the general public who has an interest in the historical significance of railroading in the U.S. may join the Society.

The second activity of the Society is educational and instructional as the members describe the operation of the railroad to the general public as they are boarding the trains.

Another significant activity involves school children who visit the Park on field trips. Groups that register ahead receive a short lecture on the historical significance of railroading to the region and safety requirements, are shown the three types of locomotive power and equipment and facilities involved, are exposed to professional opportunities in the industry and given a train ride. Science, math, and engineering disciplines are emphasized.

The last activity of the Society is promotion of the hobby of scale model trains. Scale models are built or purchased by the members who bring them to the Park for operation for the general public. All three types of power are used and some rolling stock (locomotives and cars) are owned by the members.

Funding is by donations. Large donations have been equipment except for a start-up fund donated by the Park in 1984 to build trackage and an equipment maintenance facility. All funds have been raised by members without personal compensation. The Society has no fund-raising committee. The Board of Directors is responsible for all financial results.