Alvin “George” Schutte, of Monroe passed away on Tuesday, April 11, 2023. At 96 years young, George was in the midst of planning his next cruise, looking forward to the next party and planting his garden.

George was married to Algreta for 75 years. Together they had five daughters and twelve sons. Grandfather to more than 50 grandchildren and Great Grandfather of 70 with more on the way. He proudly said, “I have 17 children and they are all wonderful.”

Family was always the center of everything in George’s life. The family reunions complete with water slide, music, photo booths, corn boil and fireworks were an event to behold. He is survived by Son Paul (Jerrie) Schutte, Son Daniel (Bev) Schutte, Son Russell (Cindy) Schutte, Daughter Teresa Behm, Daughter Michele Schutte- Fuchs, Daughter Denise (Michael) Erickson, Son Jody (Cheryl) Schutte, Son Joel Schutte, Son Patrick (LaDema) Schutte, Daughter Lynette (Robert) Rice, Son George Schutte, Daughter Gina (Daniel) Gardner, Son Frank (Vanessa) Schutte, Son Tory (Brenda) Schutte, Son Ryan (Yvonne) Schutte; daughters-in-law, Nancy Schutte and Monique Schutte; and sister, Vivian (Norman) Raines.

George was preceded in death by his wife, Algreta, his parents, Joe and Olympe, his sons James and Pierre, son-in-law Roger Behm, grandson James, granddaughter Payton, great granddaughter Lily; his seven brothers; and five sisters.

George was the 9th of 14 children born to Joe and Olympe (LeBlanc) Schutte in Colorado. George proudly served on the USS Pennsylvania in the United States Navy during World War II alongside Johnny Carson who was an officer on the battleship. George took up boxing in the Navy to make a few extra dollars. After the war he would box “The Pros” and be paid for each round he stayed in the fight. On several occasions he won the fight. He enjoyed attending boxing matches with his father-in-law or watching them on television.

George worked as a baker for several years and then as a grocery store manager. He moved to Monroe, in 1960 opening a new Piggly Wiggly store, which transitioned to an Eagle grocery store. Later he joined Pick and Save. During the ‘grocery years’ George seemed to know everyone and always did his best to place a smile on the faces of young and old alike. In 1989, George was National Grocer of the Year and retired in 1992 though he never slowed down. Things were just getting started.

George was an active member of St. Victor's Catholic Church. He supported many of their causes and events over the last 66 years. He loved to bake and would donate loaves of his famous sourdough bread, cinnamon knots and ginger snap cookies to their bake sales over the years.

George became a Knight of the Knights of Columbus in 1964. He worked at the concession stands, making popcorn, selling treat, and spinning cotton candy. He sold Tootsie Rolls to raise funds for those with disabilities. For his work in fundraising, he was nominated Knight of the Year on several occasions and was the Master of Ceremony for the 100th Anniversary. He hosted numerous Fish or Corn Boils for the Knights of Columbus, Veterans, Daughters of the American Revolution and several other groups.

George was an actor in the Monroe Theater Guild and gave it his all for his role. He even went as far as to shave his head and wear a horrible toupee for a part he played. He was a bit of a card and perfected over-exaggeration for the comedies. He was once presented an ‘Oscar’ for his performance. Quite the honor to receive an inflatable Oscar Mayer Weiner for his theatrical abilities.

George enjoyed travelling and throughout his entire life he took his family on trips across the United States to many points of interest. He enjoyed cruises to the Caribbean, Alaska and even to Russia. While cruising he attended toga parties, swam with the sting rays, played the Newlywed game which was broadcast on the ship’s television and took home trophies for comedy during the passenger’s talent competition. It wasn’t unusual for most of the ship to know George by the end of the cruise.

His generosity had no boundaries. He supported the Monroe Swim Team. He was a Red Cross blood donor. He received the Quality-of-Life Award for Volunteerism from the Monroe Clinic. He was Master of Ceremony for Monroe Customer Appreciation Days. He volunteered for Habitat for Humanity and collected thousands of aluminum can tabs for McDonald House. He frequently visited nursing homes and those homebound with his family singing Christmas carols over the holidays. George was interviewed by Channel 3 News when he dressed up as Santa at the UW Children’s Hospital and Toys for Tots. He also filled in for Santa travelling across the country for Swiss Colony for several years delighting hundreds of children. He worked with Father Campion, and the Apostolate of the Handicap as well as the Special Olympics. George supported the American Legion, and the Veterans of Foreign War (VFW) throughout his life. He was very proud to serve as a bugler for the Honor Guard for veteran’s funerals. He would frequently go out of his way to thank anyone in the military for their service and proudly wore a baseball cap with his battleship, the USS Pennsylvania insignia on it. A few years back, George was on the Badger Honor Flight where veterans are flown to Washington DC to see the memorials erected in their honor. During this visit Bob Dole and his wife thanked George for his service. The flight touched down in Madison where the airport was brimming with veteran’s family and friends. There was music, posters, cheers, clapping, music, posters, hugs and kisses welcoming him home.

George always looked forward to a party, a parade or running into a friend when he was out and about. A 5-minute errand would take 45 minutes because George would stop and talk to everyone. He worked the stands as a beer vendor during a demolition derby (he joked he was able to watch for free). He was a true fan of the Bucks, Packers and Brewers and even threw out the first pitch at a Brewers game. George enjoyed card games, train dominos, cribbage, telling jokes, and making people smile. And many people can attest to the fact, he made the best mug of Tom and Jerry’s ever. His happiest times were with Algreta. He enjoyed square dancing, traveling and fishing with Algreta. And more than anything, he enjoyed the moments of holding Algreta’s hand.

George’s greatest wish is that you would join us in celebrating his amazing, incredible life with his family.

Please join us at his visitation on Thursday, April 20, 2023 from 4pm to 7pm

Shriner - Hager - Gohlke Funeral Home 1455 Mansion Drive, Monroe, Wisconsin

An additional visitation will be Friday, April 21, 2023 from 9am to 11am at St. Victor’s Catholic Church

The Rosary will be recited at 8:45am - Funeral Mass at 11am

St. Clare Assisi Parish at St. Victor Catholic Church.

A Christian burial with an Honor Guard will follow at the Calvary Cemetery Monroe

A public luncheon will be at St Victor's School across from the church.