PHOTO CREDIT : Bob Scott // DOWNLOAD

“The ultimate soundtrack for ‘giviner’ is finally here,” says Deaner (aka Paul Spence). “The rock is hard, the metal is hot, and every riff is deadly." Today, Cult MTL is streaming Nightseeker’s debut album, 3069: A Space-Rock Sex Odyssey, out 4/20 via Royal Mountain Records.

STREAM 3069: A SPACE-ROCK SEX ODYSSEY HERE VIA CULT MTL

Like Alice Cooper, Dean Murdoch is the onstage personality of Paul Spence, co-creator of FUBAR and composer of music in both films. And while the films are comedies, Nightseeker’s debut album, 3069: A Space-Rock Sex Odyssey, is as serious as witches at a coven. There are no winks to the camera. Every song is on point, even if the lyrics are about needing to impregnate the universal goodness with rock to insure the propagation of humankind.

As with all great concept albums, the record tells a story, with each song leading into the next culminating in an adrenaline-fueled climax. It follows the journey of our hero Dean from post apocalyptic earth, joining forces with Amazon warrior princesses, battling his own inner dragon, to finally seducing the Space Priestess who is responsible for all the carnage. Every song will be accompanied by a full colour painting, in classic “Wizard-warrior airbrushed 80’s Van”.

WATCH AND SHARE “SHOTGUN BEER” HERE

Nightseeker will release 3069: A Space-Rock Sex Odyssey upon the masses with a special performance in Montreal on April 19 and in Toronto on April 21. More details are listed below.

In 2000, FUBAR hit the theatres and there began an epic journey towards becoming a cult classic and an integral part of the Canadian comedy landscape. In 2010 the sequel to FUBAR was released, giving birth to the band Nightseeker, who composed and recorded the music for the soundtrack. In November of 2017 Viceland premiered the new eight-episode series based on the mockumentary about two hockey-haired metalheads, featuring Nightseeker’s current line-up. It’s funny, it’s crazy, and the music is awesome, most of which is featured on the Nightseeker album.

WATCH AND SHARE FUBAR: AGE OF COMPUTER VIA VICE HERE