Season one is arguably my least favorite but "Never Kill a Boy On The First Date" is actually one of the better eps in my opinion.

Give me a Buffy pout and a tizzy fit any time and I will enjoy it! I liked her realizing that her world was dangerous and brutal and anyone in that world was in danger (though I never did understand how and why Willow and Xander were somehow exempt from this?) but whatever. Some things you just have to go with the flow on BTVS!

So I'm listening to the Unspoiled! podcast, because the idea of people being unspoiled gives me a Xander-sized happy. And they're being harsh on Season 1, but you can tell it's growing on the unspoiled guy (the girl has fandom biases), but it's still funny. And one thing that happens (because our podcasters are both gay and stereotypes do sometimes exist) is that the guy is way more conscious of the clothes than the girl is, and he's been raging about the Season 1 wardrobe, which considering the $19.95 budget that S1 costumer Susanna Puisto had to make do with, is quite understandable. And I completely love that he accurately guessed Ross Dress-for-Less as one of Susanna's "resources".

But in this episode, he goes beyond that. He says that Buffy's been getting her clothes from "the dumpster behind Marshall's". Which, harsh, but not entirely unjustified. Even though I somewhat oddly like the outfits on their own:

I mean, I like the rose coat (certainly more than the greasy shit they have Xander wearing), but it really doesn't go with what's under it:

Green-gold and rose? Oh, no.

And then there's this one:

I remember Buffy wearing this when she yells at the random kid, "What are you looking at?" (to which I always reply, "Your tits, of course! What do you think I'm looking at??"), but I completely forgot she also wears it in this scene with Giles. Is Buffy asking for Giles to throw her on the long table and teach her some new "combat techniques", or what?

Well, yes, but it's so much fun. And that Asian-floral top isn't improving my restraint.

And the piece de resistance, the Tiger hoodie. I hope Marshall's tossed this in the dumpster before they ever put it on the floor.

I mean, it's no This Year's Girl, but it's definitely the most Season One of the S1 costuming.