Developer(s)

Publisher(s)

Release year

1993

Releases

N/A

The Super Nintendo Entertainment System (also known as the Super NES, SNES or Super Nintendo) is a 16-bit video game console that was released in 1990 by Nintendo in Japan, 1991 in North America, 1992 in Europe & Australasia (Oceania), and South America in 1993. In Japan and Southeast Asia, the system is called the Super Famicom, officially adopting the abbreviated name of its predecessor, the Family Computer), or SFC for short.

Also known as

Chavez II

mx - Game name in mx

Final Knockout

Japan - Game name in Japan

Age rating

7 and above

Game mode(s)

No modes defined

License

Abandonware

Definitions of "abandoned" vary; generally, it refers to software no longer available for legal purchase, or of a certain age. Software companies may change their names, go bankrupt, enter into mergers, or cease to exist for a variety of reasons. When this happens, product rights are usually transferred to another company that may not sell or support the software acquired. Source: Wikipedia

Let's get ready to rumble!Eight of the most legendary middleweights: Sugar Ray Leonard, Roberto Duran, Thomas Hearns, James Toney, Marvelous Marvin Hagler, Jake LaMotta, Sugar Ray Robinson and Rocky Graziano collide in gigantic proportions. This decisive boxing simulation features a revolutionary perspective and knockout graphics!Every fighter uses his authentic style, seven power packed punches and three pulverizing super punches! Throw uppercuts, right or left crosses and devastating body blows! Bob and weave, clinch and block. Analyze end of round stats to enhance your performance.Choose from the eight fighters or create your own legend. Train to hone your fighting skills; choose from three modes of game play. Select the Exhibition or Career modes and master the art of boxing. Earn legendary status to enter the Battle of the Legends mode allowing up to eight person simultaneous play in legendary brawls.Do you have what it takes to become a Boxing Legend of the Ring? Accept the challenge, in the end you'll be a legend! Special password feature included!You can now own the greatest boxing game ever made!

Released in 1993 for the SNES, Boxing Legends of the Ring is fighting and sports game. It was developed by Sculptured Software and published by Electro Brain. Also known as Chavez II in mx and Final Knockout in Japan.

Published: 18.02 2023 by Coreus

Screenshots

Game boot-up screen

Introduction continued

Main menu

Introductory gameplay

In-game gameplay

In-game gameplay continued

In-game gameplay extended

There is currently no review for this game. But, you can help add one! Login to get started.

There is currently no gameplay video for this game. But, you can help add one! Login to get started.

Contribute to Boxing Legends of the Ring

Help build the ultimate source for old games by adding new content for this game page.

Login to contribute. No account? Create one today!

Contributors gain additional site functionalities like access to extra content and much more!

Files

Please login to contribute and access extra content. No account? Create one today!

Related games - Fighting

Find more Fighting games.

Close