Peter Hollingworth

Simon Crean - Leader of the Opposition

Doorstop Interview

Transcript - Question And Answer Session, Adelaide - 1 May 2003

E & OE – PROOF ONLY

JOURNALIST: On another issue, Mr Crean. In light of the Anglican Church's report tabled today – do you regard Peter Hollingworth as worthy of remaining as Governor-General?

CREAN: I've had the opportunity to get reports of the Anglican Church report. It is a concerning report in relation to one particular example. I think, it was example five or case five that they referred to. The conclusion of that report was that Dr Hollingworth's decision, whilst made in good faith, was untenable.

Thus the Board finds that this complaint was not handled ‘fairly, reasonably and appropriately'.

The Board also found in relation to that complaint, and I quote again:

No Bishop, acting reasonably, could have reached the decision to continue a known paedophile in the Ministry. There was no extenuating circumstances. Nor can the Board imagine that any could have justified his continuance.

Now this is a report that disturbs me, it saddens me, because this issue of child sex abuse is a huge problem for us as a community. It's one that we do have to tackle, and we have to tackle it head-on, because it's being pushed away; it's been hidden for too long. And the circumstances of hiding it have been on graphic display over recent months. And this report highlights one of those examples.

Child sexual abuse is a blight on our community, and it was a circumstance in which the Anglican Church was urged by the Prime Minister to investigate the allegations and to report. I met with the families of the victims in Brisbane. I've met with families of victims in many parts of this country. And it's the reason why on other occasions I've announced a policy response to try and address this issue. I'm happy to go to those details, but this is a more immediate point.

My judgement back in February was that the controversy and the lack of action by the Governor-General was such that it was diminishing the office of Governor-General, and that he should resign. If not, the Prime Minister should seek the termination of his appointment. That's the view that I still hold, and I'm confirmed in it by this report today.

I also note that the Anglican Church has asked that in the public interest this report be tabled in both the Queensland and the national Parliament. Premier Peter Beattie has today tabled that report, and I congratulate him for doing it.

What staggers me is that our Prime Minister has so far refused to table the report in our Parliament. Now this is something that the Prime Minister might like try to hide from, but it is what Australia has hidden from for too long. And we've got to be open, we've got to confront it, and we've got to put families at ease for the future. And that means we should be prepared to do all in our power to ensure that we learn from this and that it doesn't happen again.

And that's why tabling of the report is going to be an important part of that healing and that direction process. The report should be tabled in the national Parliament.