PRODUCT NEWS

PROPER ALIGNMENT OF THE DENTAL X-RAY MACHINE BY LUNALITE DENTAL X-RAY POSITIONER

The positioning of the dental X-ray machine and the correct placement of the X-ray sensor is an essential part to obtain quality images for the diagnosis of the teeth and the surrounding anatomical support structures of patients.

The correct alignment of the X-ray machine is important for several reasons:

– patient safety during radiography

– reducing the risk of relapses and a lower exposure to radiation

– creating an overall safer environment for staff safety

– better planning of dental treatment

– monitoring the progress of various dental treatments, such as orthodontic treatments, caries, bone loss, implant placement and root canals

– providing quality images necessary for diagnosis.

To ensure proper alignment of the dental x-ray machine, Suzanne Cano invented an advanced MedTech safer positioning device for dental and veterinary imaging called the LunaLite. It is stated that wirelessly positioning with this device ensures an optimized X-ray workflow, adds confidence, accuracy and efficiency in seconds to the user. The device provides accuracy, with minimal to zero taper and taper cuts, and without the user having to use a Rinn holder.

|read PDF|

EDITORIALS

Report from the European Regional Organization of the FDI (ERO-FDI)

Simona Dianišková

ERO President

I feel very priviledged to share with you my impressions from the wonderful ERO Plenary session that was held in Istanbul in April, 28-29th, 2023. Currently, ERO represents dentists from 34 countries and has 42 Dental associations as members. The 2023 Spring meeting was attended by 49 delegates. A special welcome was extended to the guests professor Ihsane Ben Yahya President of the FDI, FDI-CEO Enzo Bondioni and some of his staff members, former FDI and ERO-President Gerhard Seeberger, former FDI-President, Michèle Aerden, former ERO-Presidents Anna Lella and Michael Frank. The delegates appreciated the presence of Freddie Sloth-Lijsberg, Council of European Dentists (CED) President, who addressed a few words to the assembly. Both organisations share the same goals, as he mentioned in his short speech, to improve and maintain oral health in Europe.

A very interesting presentation was the one by the President of the Turkish Dental Association Ahmet Tarık Işmen who expressed his pleasure as host of this meeting in is country, which celebrates the 100th anniversary of its foundation in 2023. (read more)

GREEN OPEN ACCESS

The Stomatology Edu Journal (Stoma Edu J) is a new Green Open Access journal in the field of dental medicine, publishing well-established authors, but equally committed to encouraging early career researchers and professionals alike to publish their work after a non-partisan, objective, double-blind rigorous peer-reviewed process. The Stomatology Edu Journal (Stoma Edu J) is a Green Open Access journal accessible for free on the Internet, hence no processing, peer review fees or article publishing charges payable by the author are required. A Green Open Access (GOA) journal means that all content is freely available to the user or his/her institution without charge. Users are allowed to read, download, copy, distribute, print, search, or link to the full texts of the articles in this journal without asking prior permission from the publisher or the author. Our aim is to publish in the shortest possible time frame and ensure the rapid dissemination of your work via our journal page, but also through our indexing partners…(read more)

CONTINUING EDUCATION ONLINE

Stoma Edu J. 2023;10(1-4)9

From The Journal of the American Dental Association

JADA OnlinE CE ExAms

http://jada.ada.org/ce/home

http://jada.ada.org/ceworksheets

February, 2023

FRACTURE RESISTANCE OF DEFECTIVE AMALGAM RESTORATIONS REPAIRED WITH A RESIN-BASED COMPOSITE MATERIAL

Catherine E. Hopkins, Natalia Restrepo-Kennedy, Amira Elgreatly, Carissa Comnick, Marcos Vargas, Erica C. Teixeira

J Am Dent Assoc. 2023 February;154(2): 141-150.

Doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adaj.2022.10.012

https://jada.ada.org/article/S0002-8177(22)00677-8/fulltext

This article has an accompanying online continuing education activity available at:

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adaj.2022.10.012

PMID: 34952683

DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adaj.2022.10.012

Copyright © 2020 American Dental Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

Stoma Edu J. 2023;10(1-4):9

pISSN 2360-2406; eISSN 2502-0285