Capt. Allen Eugene Riley, Delaware State Police retired, 73, of Lewes passed away peacefully in the arms of his family Sunday, April 26, 2020 at his residence. Mr. Riley was born in Wilmington May 2, 1946, son of the late Charles Eugene and Mary Elizabeth Reed Riley.

Allen graduated from Seaford High School in 1964 and received his bachelor of science degree in criminal justice from Wilmington College in 1978. Following his graduation from high school, he entered the U.S. Army, where he achieved the rank of E5 and served as helicopter crew chief. During his period of service, he received his crewman wings, the National Defense Service Medal and Good Conduct Medal.

In 1968, he began his career with the Delaware State Police, where he retired as captain at Troop 7 in 1988. During his career, he performed many assignments which included patrol and criminal units, youth division, selective enforcement, detective, and many others. His duties included working at Troop 2A on Kirkwood Highway, headquarters at Dover, Troop 5 Bridgeville, Troop 4 Georgetown and Troop 7 Lewes (Dewey Beach), where he retired. He received a commendation for job performance as well as the DSP Superintendent’s Citation for performance following the construction of the Troop 7 facility, which was formerly located on Route 1 in Lewes.

Following his retirement from the Delaware State Police, he worked for the Delaware State Police Federal Credit Union from 1987 to 2002, when he again retired after holding the positions of manager, president and CEO.

Unable to sit idle, he took a position in 2003 with Tidemark Federal Credit Union (formerly known as Sussex County Federal Credit Union) where he worked from June of 2003 until the present, serving at first in marketing and most recently as vice president of operations. He had also served on the DSP FCU board for many years, and had held the position of board president for six years. In 1996, he received Professional of the Year from the Delaware Credit Union League as well as the Dean’s List with highest honors from the National Credit Union Institute. Also, in 2001 he was named an inductee to the DTCC Alumni Walk of Success and was recognized by a bronze plaque in the brick walkway.

His professional affiliations through the years included, the Delaware State Troopers’ Retired Association, past member of the Delaware School Board Association where he had served in the positions of treasurer, first vice president and president-elect; the Wilmington College Alumni Association and the CUNA School Alumni Association.

At the community level, his dedication to faithfully serve his church included the Bethel United Methodist Church Board of Trustees where he recently had served as board president; the United Methodist Men, Administrative Church Council, and the Church Emergency Preparedness Team. However, his devotion to his fellow man continued with his many memberships which included the Jefferson Masonic Lodge No. 15 A.F. & F.M., the Scottish Rite Consistory, Nur Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S., Lower Delaware Shield and Square Club where he was a past president; the Cape Henlopen Board of Education, where he served from 1979-89 and had held the positions of vice president and president; American Legion Post 28; the Credit Union Executive Society; the Henlopen Ruritan Club where he had served as president and board member; the Order of Redmen; and Ducks Unlimited where he had been a member since 1999.

Allen is survived by his wife and soulmate of 35 years, Diana F. Riley; two sons, Charles “Chuck” Riley (Patricia) and Mark Riley (Alicia Purdy); three grandchildren, Chase Riley, Bethany Riley and Luke Riley; a stepdaughter, Deena Eskew (Brian “Hoss” Coddens); his brother, Charles “Mouse” Riley (Stephanie); his sister, Cheryl Graves (The Honorable T. Henley Graves, retired); and three nephews, Mike Riley, Tyler Graves and Hunter Graves.

Due to the COVID-19 pandemic funeral services with full State Police Honors will be held at a date to be announced.

In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions are suggested to: the Delaware State Police Museum, PO Box 430, Dover, DE 19903, or to Bethel United Methodist Church, 129 W. 4th St., Lewes, DE 19958 Attn: the IT or Audio Visual Program; or to the Bethel Christian Pre-School, 129 W. 4th St., Lewes, DE 19958.