On Wednesday, Sept. 7, 2016, in the early evening, Ann Walker F. Jones passed away at home surrounded by her loving family.

Ann Walker was born Ann Walker Ferguson July 13, 1931, at Beebe Hospital in Lewes, daughter of William Edward and Rebecca Catesby Ferguson. Ann Walker was a lifelong resident of Sussex County, being raised in Bridgeville with summer homes in both Rehoboth Beach and North Indian Beach. Ann Walker was an active member of Saint Mary's Episcopal Church. For 12 years Ann Walker and her husband Allen resided in Henlopen Acres year round where she was active in the Sussex Gardeners. Ann Walker and Allen chose to returned to western Sussex near their beloved Bridgeville and built their present home on Collins Pond.

Ann Walker graduated from Bridgeville High School as salutatorian in 1949. From there, Ann Walker attended University of Delaware, graduating in 1953 with a degree in literature. Not long after graduation, Ann Walker and Allen married Aug. 6, 1953. With exquisite timing, they were able to spend a six-month honeymoon in Bermuda where Allen was stationed with the Air Force for that period of time. Then Ann Walker and Allen returned to her home town of Bridgeville where they soon bought a lovely home and raised their family.

Ann Walker is survived by her loving husband, W. Allen Jones; her son W. Allen Jones Jr. (Skip), and her daughter Rebecca C. Schellenger, as well as Skip's wife and Ann Walker's faithful and loving daughter-in-law Carol Custer Jones’ and her two grandchildren, Ross Allen Jones and Meghan Marie Jones. Ann Walker will be sorely missed by many for her gentleness and kind ways.

Funeral Services will be held Tuesday, Sept. 13, at 11 a.m., at St. Mary's Episcopal Church, 2 Williams St., Bridgeville. Friends may call Monday, Sept. 12, from 6 to 8 p.m., at Parsell Funeral Homes, Hardesty Chapel, 202 Laws St., Bridgeville. Burial will be private at Bridgeville Cemetery.

In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made in Ann Walker's name to St. Mary's Episcopal Church at the address listed above.