What is the Ticker Symbol for the S&P 500 Index?

The S&P 500 index, or Standard & Poor’s 500, is a very important index that tracks the performance of the stocks of 500 large-cap companies in the U.S. The ticker symbol for the S&P 500 index is ^GSPC. The series of letters represents the performance of the 500 stocks listed on the S&P. However, it must be remembered that ^GSPC is a price index and is not tradeable. It only shows the movement of stock prices in the S&P 500 index.

Understanding Ticker Symbols

A ticker symbol is a sequence of alphabets and numbers used to represent the stock of any publicly-traded company. Sometimes, the symbol is an abbreviated form of the name of the company. For example, the ticker for Facebook is FB, and that for McDonald’s is MCD. However, some companies use tickers that do not resemble its name at all. For example, the stock of Harley Davidson is represented by HOG, and that of Southwest Airlines is represented by LUV.

Stocks listed on a particular exchange have certain similarities in their ticker symbols. A ticker composed of one, two, or three letters belongs to a stock listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), such as Ford (F) and General Motors (GM). Similarly, ticker symbols with four or five letters represent stocks listed on the NASDAQ, such as Apple (AAPL) and Amazon (AMZN).

Ticker symbols are not restricted to stocks only; futures, options, indices, and other publicly traded securities use them too. All of the symbols are structured in a way that gives the investor complete information on the security. The tickers representing a particular category of securities come with certain unique features that help people identify them. For example, symbols for mutual funds include the letter X at the end.

Other Tickers Symbols for the S&P 500

1. SPX

Investors can use options to trade in the S&P 500 index, and when such trading is done, it uses a separate ticker symbol. The S&P’s own stock index is represented by SPX, which tracks the movement of its constituent stocks. It is a cash-settled option, wherein the asset underlying the option is not traded, but investors speculate only on its price.

Cash settlement is usually done in the trade of commodities that involve high transportation costs for the physical exchange process. Although stock trading does not involve transportation costs, trading the S&P 500 index requires the investors to hold and sell each of the 500 stocks in the exact proportion as the index. It is difficult to achieve, so cash settlements are preferred as the easy way out.

Since SPX does not trade on the underlying asset, it does not provide dividends either. However, the market is very liquid, and it is easy for traders to enter and exit at their convenience.

2. SPY

The SPDR S&P 500 ETF is an exchange-traded fund consisting of the 500 stocks listed on the actual index in the same proportion as the index. Fund managers make up the fund in order to track the performance of the largest companies in the U.S. stock market and offer returns in line with the index. Investors can simply purchase units of the ETF in order to replicate the S&P 500 index without buying each of the constituent stocks according to the weights of their market cap.

The ticker for the SPDR S&P 500 ETF is SPY. By holding units of the fund, investors can trade in the stocks of the 500 companies. The units can be bought from or sold to other participants in the stock market.

SPX and SPY options are similar since they replicate the same index, but the value of the SPX is ten times that of SPY. Moreover, there may be slight differences in their transaction prices since the price of SPY is determined through an auction.

In addition to the above, the S&P 500 index uses other ticker symbols as well. The Vanguard S&P 500 ETF, represented by VOO, and the Volatility Index (VIX), which depicts expected price variations in the S&P 500 in the next 30 days, are some more examples.

Additional Resources

Thank you for reading CFI’s guide on S&P 500 Index Ticker Symbol. To keep advancing your career, the additional resources below will be useful: