A joint venture between John Holland and CPB will design and construct the first stage of the project. This involves the excavation of 1.7km of mainline road tunnels from Rozelle to Birchgrove, and associated works including tunnels for ventilation, ramps and other services.

The government canned the search for a private partner for the development of the multi-billion-dollar Western Harbour Tunnel in September of last year. It has instead moved to a traditional design and construction commercial framework. The contracts should all be awarded by the end of this year.

The government will have to pay up to A$1M (£0.5M) compensation to each of the three shortlisted delivery partner bidders - Bechtel Infrastructure, Laing O'Rourke, and Harbour West Partners, a consortium comprising Macquarie Capital, Jacobs and RPS.

In September it was also confirmed that construction for the project had moved from commencing in 2021 and reaching completion in 2026 to a 2022 start and 2027 completion.

The contract award for the first stage of tunnelling means construction of the Western Harbour Tunnel can now start within months.

New South Wales (NSW) premier Dominic Perrottet said this “crucial milestone” would support “hundreds of jobs and ensure significant benefits for drivers, including improved travel times and reduced congestion”.

The Western Harbour Tunnel will form a second road tunnel under Sydney Harbour. It will link West Connex at Rozelle with the Warringah Freeway at North Sydney via 6.5km tunnels, with three lanes in each direction.

Minister for metropolitan roads Natalie Ward said the new tunnel is part of a major infrastructure boost to expand motorways and serve the growing Australian city.

It is estimated that the new tunnel will reduce traffic on the Western Distributor by 35%, Harbour Tunnel by 20% and Harbour Bridge by 17%.

Member for North Shore Felicity Wilson said that early works, including geotechnical investigations into the detailed tunnel design, will start this month. The geotechnical investigations are being undertaken by Aecom and Coffey.

John Holland and CPB are currently delivering the Rozelle interchange as part of West Connex.

The NSW 2021-22 budget allocated A$6.3bn (£3.4bn) over the next four years for the Western Harbour Tunnel, Beaches Link and Warringah Freeway Upgrade.