Over the last five decades, Vittorio Taviani (b. 1929) and his brother Paolo (b. 1931) have created films that explore but challenge their

native Italy. The brothers have probed political commitments, class

relations, emigration, family and fate in prize-winning features whose

subjects range from 18th century aristocrats to their restaging of

Shakespeare in a contemporary maximum-security prison, Caesar Must Die.

Their carefully-reconstructed scenarios have included the harsh poverty

of Sardinia, war-torn landscapes of Tuscany and the new world of Los

Angeles; they have drawn on sources as diverse as Pirandello, Tolstoy,

Goethe, Shakespeare and autobiographical memories. Thus, they have

created a cinematic universe that enriches perspectives established by

diverse masters of Italian cinema like De Sica, Fellini, Visconti, and

Antonioni, yet with their own, very different vision.

Initially attracted to journalism, the brothers were drawn into

film by documentarian Joris Ivens with the 1960 production L’Italia non è

un paese povero (Italy is not a Poor Country). Two early films here,

St. Michael Had a Rooster (1972) and Allonsanfan (1974), chart these

social themes as they explore mirroring historical images of radical

politics and human commitment.

Padre, Padrone brought the Tavianis international renown. It

presents the near surreal harshness of a boy forced by his father into

the isolated life of a shepherd. An epilogue by the actual shepherd

turned linguist reminds us that reality and stories are never so far

apart for the Tavianis, whether in reconstructions of Napoleonic Italy

or fables of World War II. Indeed, realism includes the fantastic, as in

Good Morning, Babylon, where two earlier Italian brothers, immigrants

in America, enter the heady universe of D.W. Griffith’s 1916 epic,

Intolerance as well as World War I.

The Tavianis also imbue their films with literature. The

enigmatic Luigi Pirandello is a favorite source, represented in two

works in this program, Kaos and You Laugh. Yet, the brothers have also

reframed foreign classics as insightful commentaries on Italian life,

whether Shakespeare, Tolstoy (Night Sun) or Goethe, whose chemical

theories provide notions of love to The Elective Affinities.

Over time, the Tavianis themselves have come to embody Italian

history and time themselves, from postwar Italy on the verge of global

boom while torn by class and region, to a nation looking for identity

and purpose in the past to contemporary Italy imprisoned by power and

corruption. In this program, 40 years of films allow spectators to share

this dialogue through unforgettable images, sounds and characters.

Programme

St. Michael Had a Rooster (San Michele aveva un gallo)

AllonsanfanPadre PadroneThe Night of San Lorenzo (La notte di San Lorenzo)KaosGood Morning, BabylonNight Sun (Il sole anche di notte)

FiorileElective Affinities (Le affinita’ elettive)You Laugh (Tu ridi)