How Yohji Yamamoto found inspiration in the androgynous style, black, grey and white tonal color palette, and overall aesthetic of American artist Romaine Brooks’ 1924 oil on canvas portrait of Lady Una Toubridge for his Spring 2007 Collection... In a letter to her friend, Brooks described the Symbolist portrait as a glimpse of the New Woman — “a sign of the age which may amuse future feminists,” - an absolutely befitting motif for a designer who continues to master the wardrobe for today’s modern woman...

Una Troubridge was a British aristocrat, literary translator, and the lover of Radclyffe Hall, author of the 1928 pathbreaking lesbian novel, The Well of Loneliness. Troubridge appears with a sense of formality and importance typical of upper-class portraiture, but with the sitter’s prized dachshunds in place of the traditional hunting dog. Troubridge’s impeccably tailored clothing, cravat, and bobbed hair convey the fashionable and daring androgyny associated with the so-called new woman. Her monocle suggested multiple symbolic associations to contemporary British audiences: it alluded to Troubridge’s upper-class status, her Englishness, her sense of rebellion, and possibly her lesbian identity... The tailored man’s morning suit conceals her feminine figure, and her pose suggests absolute control • C. 1924 • Smithsonian American Art Museum

Romaine Brooks was an American painter who worked mostly in Paris and Capri. She specialized in portraiture and used a subdued grey tonal color palette. Her subjects ranged from anonymous models to titled aristocrats and is best known for her images of women in androgynous or masculine dress, including her self-portrait of 1923. After becoming dissatisfied with the bright color schemes that she had used in her early paintings, she travelled to St. Ives on the Cornish coast, rented a small studio, and began learning to create finer gradations of gray. From then on, nearly all of her paintings were keyed to a gray, white and black color scheme with touches and tints of ochre, umber, alizarin and teal.