Chijioke has over 20 years of professional experience, with eight years in senior roles at Maryland Legal Aid and its subsidiary, the Maryland Center for Legal Assistance.

In these positions, he supervised and mentored more than 100 administrative and legal staff, and assisted thousands of pro se litigants. Among his many accomplishments was establishing an innovative self-help call center at MCLA and a centralized intake system for Maryland Legal Aid. In 2022, Chijioke was honored by the Daily Record and Maryland State Bar Association with a Leader in the Law award.

Earlier in his legal career, Chijioke managed his own law practice where he represented homeowner’s associations, small businesses, and immigration clients. He also served as a Fellow in the DC Office of the Attorney General. As a law student at Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law, Chijioke participated in the foreclosure mediation and immigration clinics that were instrumental in his educational experience and deepened his passion for serving low-income and disenfranchised communities.

As Interim Deputy Director, Gustava (“Gusty”) Taler brings a wealth of experience working in a wide range of settings including non-profits, government, and the private sector. Prior to joining Rising for Justice, Gusty was chief operating officer for Maryland Legal Aid (MLA). There she managed the day-to-day administration of Maryland’s third largest law firm with 12 offices statewide, 300 staff, and a $34 million budget. Specifically, her work included supervision of budget/finance, human resources, facilities, information technology, grants/contracts/compliance, and training/pro bono teams. Under her leadership and that of MLA’s former executive director, organizational revenues increased by 47%. This was accomplished by broadening the pool and breadth of funding sources, developing and coordinating innovative and collaborative service delivery programs, and dramatically increasing the number of multi-year grant and contract awards to serve the civil legal needs of the state’s low-income and most vulnerable residents.

Prior to joining MLA, Gusty was chief of staff for the Maryland Department of Juvenile Services, and worked for the Women’s Law Center of Maryland, the Pro Bono Resource Center, the Maryland General Assembly, and in the private practice of law. As part of her work with the Women’s Law Center, she created and was project director for the Multi-Ethnic Domestic Violence Project, which provides legal assistance to foreign-born victims of domestic violence.

Before entering the legal profession, Gusty worked in public relations and public affairs. She received her J.D. from the University of Baltimore School of Law, her M.S. in Public Relations from American University’s Kogod School of Business, and B.A. from the Johns Hopkins University.

Gregory Nolen is the executive assistant at Rising for Justice. He primarily assists the executive director and the deputy director. Gregory joined the organization after spending the past six years with the Maryland Center for Legal Assistance (MCLA), a fully owned subsidiary of Maryland Legal Aid. Gregory served as an administrative assistant and was later promoted to office manager during his time with MCLA

Gregory earned a certificate in paralegal studies at Anne Arundel Community College in May of 2016. While in the program, he completed an internship as a paralegal at the Anne Arundel County office of Maryland Legal Aid, which was later turned into a part-time role upon completion of the program. He also earned a BA in history from McDaniel College in Westminster, MD in May of 2013, graduating cum laude.

In his spare time, Gregory enjoys reading nonfiction books, watching sports, and spending time with friends and family.

J. Roby Penn IV has previously served in positions that involved executive leadership, marketing, consulting, and strategic fundraising in both the private and public sectors—from the petroleum industry to national political campaigns to arts institutions to international nonprofits.

A Fort Worth, Texas native and longtime resident of Palm Beach, Florida, Roby is an alumnus of Culver Military Academy where he was Cadet Captain and Black Horse Troop Commander. He received a BA in History from Texas Christian University. His post-graduate studies include attending Georgetown University (MLA), and he is a Candidate for a Master of Divinity at Palm Beach Atlantic University. He received a Certificate from the Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies at American University.

Roby serves or has served as a board or committee member of numerous organizations including Achilles International, the American Ballet Theater, the Chinati Foundation, the Corcoran Gallery, the Instituto Allende, the Kimball Museum, the Kravis Center for the Performing Arts, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Society of the Four Arts, the Texas State Society, and the President’s Committee on the Arts and Humanities.

Dan Clark is the Director of the Tenant Justice Program at Rising for Justice. Before becoming Director, Dan was a supervising attorney with the program. Dan earned his LL.M. in clinical teaching and systems change while serving as an instructor in the Housing and Consumer Law Clinic at the David A. Clarke School of Law, University of the District of Columbia.

Before joining the Housing Clinic, Dan was the Managing Attorney for Housing and Consumer Law at the D.C. Bar Pro Bono Program. As Managing Attorney with the Pro Bono Program, Dan oversaw operations of the Landlord Tenant Resource Center and Bankruptcy Clinic while supporting the Advice & Referral Clinic, Advocacy & Justice Clinic, and other programs. He attended law school at American University Washington College of Law and was awarded a J.D. in 1995. In 1990, he graduated with a B.A. in Political Science from the University of Florida.

Arielle Aboulafia is a Staff Attorney in Rising for Justice’s Tenant Justice Program. In May 2023, Arielle graduated from the American University Washington College of Law (WCL), where she was an executive board member of her school’s Moot Court Honor Society and National Lawyers Guild chapter. While in law school, Arielle also served as a Senior Staff Writer for WCL’s Human Rights Brief and Criminal Law Practitioner.

Prior to joining Rising for Justice, Arielle gained practical legal experience as a Student Public Defense Attorney with the Criminal Justice Clinic at WCL and with the King County Department of Public Defense’s Family Defense Unit. Her interest in housing justice stems from her engagement in and commitment to racial and socioeconomic justice.

Arielle lives with her partner and their pup, Leo. In her free time, Arielle enjoys crafting and watching cooking videos on YouTube. She also enjoys traveling and attending live music events.

Joseph is a Staff Attorney with the Tenant Justice Program at Rising for Justice. An alumnus of Rising for Justice, Joseph previously served as a Student Attorney in the Housing Advocacy and Litigation Clinic in 2023.

Joseph is a graduate of the George Washington University Law School. Throughout law school, Joseph was the Experiential Lead on Ethical Tech for Ethical Tech@GW, an interdisciplinary collaboration that sought to use novel applications of technology to assist underserved populations. He was also the inaugural Access to Justice Tech Fellow from GW Law at the Self-Represented Litigation Network.

In his free time, Joseph enjoys reading fantasy-fiction and daydreaming about the menu for his future food truck.

William Hamilton is a Supervising Attorney in the Housing Advocacy and Litigation Clinic. Will joined Rising for Justice after serving three years as a Staff Attorney in both the Housing and Economic Securities units at Neighborhood Legal Services Program (NLSP). In the Housing unit at NLSP, Will focused on eviction defense and affirmative cases for clients who were discriminated against based on source of income or disability.

In the Economic Securities unit, Will wrote criminal record sealing motions and represented Social Security and TANF clients in administrative hearings and other capacities to help them secure public benefits.

Will graduated from Georgetown University Law Center in May 2017, where he participated in the Civil Rights Clinic. While in law school, Will also interned at various public interest organizations, including the Mexican Legal Defense and Education Fund (MALDEF), the Public Defender Service for the District of Columbia, and the Washington Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs. Prior to law school, Will worked in public education for nearly 20 years as a high school teacher in Washington DC and New Haven CT and as co-director of a non-profit youth development program in Berkeley, California.

In his spare moments, Will enjoys spending time with his three teenage sons and attending their dance performances and baseball games.

Ayn Lee Sing joined Rising for Justice in June 2023, after serving as a staff attorney with Community Legal Services of Mid-Florida and the Legal Aid Society of Palm Beach County. While Ayn has practiced in various areas of laws, her practice has primarily focused on fair housing matters and landlord-tenant legal issues. Ayn has represented clients in all phases of the legal process, from administrative proceedings to judicial bodies.

Ayn grew up in Trinidad in the Caribbean and later attended Wellesley College in Massachusetts where she graduated with a double major in Africana Studies and Political Science. Ayn moved to Florida to attend law school at the University of Miami School of Law. At law school Ayn served as a student attorney and a Helping Others through Pro Bono Efforts (H.O.P.E.) summer fellow at a Children’s Law Center. Ayn also sat on the public interest leadership board of H.O.P.E. as Co-Chair of community liaisons and public relations.

In her spare time, Ayn enjoys visiting museums, attending comedy shows and concerts, and traveling, both domestic and international.

Sarah Plavcan is a Senior Staff Attorney in Rising for Justice’s Tenant Justice Program. She joined Rising for Justice after several years working as an assistant public defender in Maryland, where she represented low-income clients in criminal cases. Prior to her time with the Maryland Office of the Public Defender, she worked at Project Citizenship in Boston as an attorney with the AmeriCorps program, where she represented immigrants through the naturalization process.

Sarah graduated from Harvard Law School in 2018. At Harvard, she worked as a student attorney with HLS’s Criminal Justice Institute and Prison Legal Assistance Project. She also interned at the Federal Community Defender Office of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, the Massachusetts Federal Public Defender, and the American Civil Liberties Union of Delaware. In between her time as a student attorney, she designed and created backdrops for the law school’s annual parody musical. She earned her B.A. from the University of Arkansas, where she majored in History and English and minored in Math and Legal Studies, while working at her local public library.

In her spare time, Sarah enjoys reading and writing science fiction and fantasy, creating bookmarks, and baking.

James Toliver is a Supervising Attorney in the Housing Advocacy and Litigation Clinic. Prior to joining Rising for Justice, James was a staff attorney in Maryland Legal Aid, Inc’s Montgomery County Office, where he represented indigent clients facing substantial housing, consumer, and family law issues.

He earned his J.D. from The American University Washington College of Law. During his time in law school, James served as fellow within the Marshall-Brennan Constitutional Literacy Project. He also served as a research assistant for the second edition of the casebook Poverty Law: Policy and Practice, and as a student-attorney in the Community and Economic Development Clinic.

James was born and raised in Youngstown, Ohio. He earned a B.A. in International Relations from Youngstown State University. An avid runner and self-confessed nerd, he enjoys training for annual long-distance races in the DMV area and reading science-fiction.

Jacob Lemon-Strauss is the Program Director of Rising for Justice’s Expungement & the Respondent Representation Program.

Before joining Rising for Justice, Jacob was a Supervising Attorney at the Bronx Defenders, a nationally recognized public defender organization. He represented people charged with every level of offense, from traffic violations to homicides. As a Supervising Attorney, Jacob managed and trained staff attorneys in the office.

Jacob attended law school at Georgetown University Law Center, graduating cum laude in 2011. While in law school, he was a student attorney in the Criminal Defense and Prisoner Clinic, where he represented people charged with misdemeanors in DC Superior Court, as well as people eligible for release before the U.S. Parole Commission. Jacob graduated from Macalester College in 2006 with a BA in Religious Studies.

In his spare time, Jacob enjoys taking hikes with his dog, biking around DC, and watching basketball.

MaryHelen Getty is a paralegal with the Expungement and Respondent Representation Programs at Rising for Justice. She supports the aim of these programs to help clients overcome social and economic obstacles resulting from their criminal history and to offer equitable access to counsel for respondents in CPO/ASO matters. This work engages her passion for assisting underserved individuals impacted by the legal system with the betterment of their lives and circumstances.

Before working as a paralegal, MaryHelen interned at RFJ with these two programs during the senior year of her undergraduate career.

MaryHelen graduated cum laude from James Madison University and the university’s Honors College. She received her B.A. in Political Science with a Pre-Law concentration, and she hopes to attend law school in the future. She is a Virginia native, originally from Locust Grove. In her free time, MaryHelen enjoys hiking, watching sunsets, and attending live music performances.

Linda Brooks is the Director of Human Resources for Rising for Justice. Her tenacious energy, friendly demeanor, and integrity when dealing with confidential and sensitive information helps to promote our organization to a higher level of professionalism and respect in the community.

Linda is a committed and diligent individual who is very compassionate about the needs of the employees. With over 26 years of human resources/payroll experience at Maryland Legal Aid (formerly know as Legal Aid Bureau, Inc.), she is determined to go above and beyond to educate employees about HR policies and benefits information.

She obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in Mathematics from Coppin State College. She is a member of the Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. and enjoys volunteering in the communities.

Linda enjoys watching her son play football, volunteering at his high school and making delicious meals.