Running counter to the Mayweather-Pacquiao fight in Las Vegas, the third annual Kaleidoscope Ball in Culver City on Saturday night engaged in its own fight to raise funds for research at the UCLA Children's Discovery and Innovation Institute at Mattel Children's Hospital.

Goldie Hawn and Halle Berry were among the attendees at the fundraiser and art auction, which included a one-of-a-kind work by street artist Mr. Brainwash.

Berry, who received the Kaleidoscope award, said her own children inspire her to give back. "I know – as a mother of two now – how important children are. And they are the most important, the most vulnerable, the most valuable assets that we have on our planet."

"I'm here to support our children," said Hawn, who presented the award to Berry. "I'm doing a lot with my own foundation – the Hawn foundation – which also helps children. So there's a real connectivity there."

One of the event's co-chairs, Chloë Sommer, emphasized the fundraiser's mission and the significance of the evening. "No family should have to suffer the fear of the unknown at a time when we're so close to so many answers," she said. "And so it's nights like this when we can all come together. It truly is a communal effort to make a difference."

Halston Sage, the recipient of the young luminary award, shared a personal connection to Mattel, having supported a close friend who was treated at the hospital. The loving environment at the hospital stuck with her, despite losing her friend. "I saw firsthand how amazing her experience was when she was really having the hardest time of her life," Sage said.

Long before the auction's final tally, Dr. Sherin Devaskar, the Mattel executive endowed chair, announced the event had already raised over $1 million.

Other honorees included senior partner of TPG Kelvin Davis for his philanthropic leadership and Charlie Croxall, whose parents shared his emotional story of survival despite being born four months premature, thanks to the help of Mattel. Actress Poppy Montgomery hosted with musical entertainment by singer-songwriter Aloe Blacc.

© 2015 Variety Media, LLC, a subsidiary of Penske Business Media; Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC