EXPERT CONNECTION: WHERE ART AND SPORT MEET ON THE ROAD TO TOKYO

The relationship between art and sport and the athletes who thrive in competitions that combine the two will be theme of this week’s exciting new edition of the Expert Connection on the Panam Sports Channel, live this Thursday at 4pm (ET).

Joining the conversation will be Lima 2019 Champions Evita Griskenas and Jacqueline Simoneau, multi-medalists in the sports of Rhythmic Gymnastics and Artistic Swimming, with Alexandra Orlando, a three-time Pan Am Games gold medalist in Rhythmic Gymnastics, as the moderator.

Register now to join the conversation and submit your questions to these great athletes.

Elegance, talent, precision and passion are just some of the skills necessary to reach the podium in Rhythmic Gymnastics and Artistic Swimming. These two sports take the athleticism of elite sport and combine it with the pageantry and beauty of contemporary art to create unique competitions.

This combination makes both Rhythmic Gymnastics and Artistic Swimming unlike many other sports found on the programs at the Pan American and Olympic Games. To master these sports and reach the highest level of success, athletes must fine tune both their body and mind.

Two of these masters will join the next edition of the Expert Connection this Thursday on the Panam Sports Channel: Evita Griskenas of the United States in Rhythmic Gymnastics and Jacqueline Simoneau of Canada in Artistic Swimming.

Both Evita and Jacqueline earned multiple gold medals at the Lima 2019 Pan American Games, with Evita claiming four golds and one bronze and Jacqueline winning two golds.

Evita Griskenas was named the Best Female Athlete of Lima 2019 at the Panam Sports Awards for her four-gold-medal performance in Rhythmic Gymnastics and five total medals at the Pan Am Games.

Jacqueline Simoneau became a double Pan American Games Champion in the Artistic Swimming pool, winning golds in both the Duet and Team competitions for Team Canada. These performances booked Team Canada a place in the Tokyo 2020 Olympic competition where Jacqueline and her teammate Claudia Holzner will aim for another podium finish.

While each have qualified to the Tokyo 2020 Olympics, they have had to adjust their training routines as a result of the Coronavirus pandemic affecting the entire world. They will share their experiences in facing this great challenge and how they are beginning to prepare once more to compete on one of the biggest stage in sports following their success at Lima 2019.

Alexandra Orlando, a three-time Pan American Games Champion in Rhythmic Gymnastics from Canada, will moderate this intriguing conversation between champions of these unique sports. Don’t miss your opportunity to join the conversation, live on the Panam Sports Channel this Thursday, August 27 at 4pm (ET).

Register now and submit your questions!