Major Champion Paul Lawrie OBE has received the Winning Scotland Foundation 2012 award for the successes of his professional career and his commitment to raising the aspirations of young people in Scotland through the formation of his charity, the Paul Lawrie Foundation.

In 2010, Winning Scotland Foundation created an award recognising exemplary achievement and a lasting and significant difference in the field of sport, and the Foundation was delighted to choose Paul Lawrie as the recipient of the 2012 award.

Lawrie has led a successful golfing career spanning 26 years in the professional game. His most notable accolades include winning The Open Championship in 1999 and being part of the European Team that so memorably won the Ryder Cup at Medinah Country Club last year.

In March 2001, Lawrie formed the Paul Lawrie Foundation. The Foundation aims to support and sustain an interest and enthusiasm for the game of golf amongst under-18s. Activities are delivered in a fun and relaxed setting with equipment provided if necessary. The Foundation has grown rapidly and now also includes football and hockey.

Paul Lawrie OBE was delighted to receive the award by saying “Naturally, I’m delighted to accept this award in recognition of both my personal achievement within the game but more so for the work of my Foundation. I get huge enjoyment witnessing children benefit from the programmes and activities we provide and thank the many people, particularly my wife Marian, for their efforts in bringing it to fruition.”

Sir Bill Gammell, Founder of Winning Scotland Foundation, was pleased Lawrie accepted the award at the Aberdeen Asset Management Scottish Open, saying: “Paul’s achievements embody the vision of Winning Scotland Foundation which is success through sustained effort. His successes in the field of golf and his dedication to improving the lives of young people through sport makes him an excellent role model for children in Scotland and a worthy winner of the award.”

Previous winners of the Winning Scotland Foundation award include Bill Walker (2011) for his 50 years spent devoted to developing the talent of young track and field athletes, and Willie Allan (2010) for his tireless and selfless work over 20 years to make a positive difference to the lives of young people at Buckhaven High School, in Fife.