Amadeo I (Italian Amedeo, sometimes Latinized as Amadeus) (May 30, 1845 – January 18, 1890) was the second son of King Victor Emmanuel II of Italy. He was known for most of his life as Duke of Aosta, but served briefly as King of Spain from 1870 to 1873.

Granted the hereditary title Duke of Aosta in the year of his birth, he founded the Aosta branch of Italy's royal House of Savoy, which is junior in agnatic descent to the branch descended from King Umberto I that reigned until 1946, but senior to the branch of the Dukes of Genoa.

Prince Amedeo of Savoy was born in Turin, Italy. He was the second son of Victor Emmanuel II (King of Piedmont, Savoy, Sardinia and, later, first King of Italy) and of Archduchess Maria Adelaide of Austria.

In 1867 his father yielded to the entreaties of parliamentary deputy Francisco Cassins, and on May 30 of that year, Amedeo was wed to Donna Maria Vittoria dal Pozzo, Princess della Cisterna (b. August 9, 1847 - d. November 8, 1876). The king initially opposed the match on the grounds that her family was of insufficient rank, as well as his hopes for his son's marriage to a German princess.

Despite her princely title, donna Maria Vittoria was not of royal birth, belonging rather to the Piedmontese nobility. She was, however, the sole heiress of her father's vast fortune, which subsequent Dukes of Aosta inherited, thereby obtaining wealth independent of their dynastic appanage and allowances from Italy's kings. Maria Vittoria's mother, Countess Louise de Mérode, granddaughter of the Prince de Rubempré and of the Princess van Grimberghe, belonged to one of Belgium's premier noble houses, and had married the Principe della Cisterna in 1846 in a double wedding with her younger sister Antoinette, who married Charles III, the reigning Prince of Monaco.

Amedeo and Maria Vittoria had three children:

Emanuele Filiberto, 2nd Duke of Aosta (1869-1931), Marshal of Italy

Vittorio Emanuele, Count of Turin (1870-1946)

Luigi, Duke of Abruzzi (1873-1933), mountaineer and explorer.

Yet by March or 1870, the Duchess found herself appealing to the King to remonstrate with his son for marital infidelities that caused her hurt and embarrassment. But the King wrote in reply that, while understanding her feelings, he considered that she had no right to dictate her husband's behavior and that her jealousy was unbecoming.

Read the entire wikipedia article here.