Kelli McCarty could not believe her good fortune, but the first thing she did was have a good cry. "It's an unbelievable feeling. I feel fabulous. What I'd like to do now is wipe all these tears of joy off my cheeks," said Miss McCarty, of Liberal, Kansas, after she was named Miss USA 1991 late Friday night.

The 21-year-old Miss Kansas, an aerobics instructor and communications student at Wichita State University _ ironically, the pageant was held in Wichita _ said she hopes to pursue a modeling and acting career while finishing school.

McCarty will represent the United States in the May 17 Miss Universe pageant.

First runner-up was Charlotte Ray, 24, of Voorhees, N.J., and Diane Schock, 25, of Fontana, Calif., was second runner-up.

The other eight quarter-finalists were Candice Carley, Alabama; Maricarroll Verlinde, Arizona; Kym Lehua Digmon, Hawaii; Lisa Morgan, Illinois; Maureen Murray, New York; Pat Arnold, North Carolina; Julie Beth Khoury, Oklahoma; and Olga Calderon, Oregon.

The crowning of the new Miss USA ended the reign of Carole Gist of Detroit. She and two other former Miss USAs are involved in a legal dispute with pageant organizers.

Miss Gist's appearance at the pageant Friday night was her first public appearance as Miss USA 1990 this year. Her absence at other scheduled events was attributed first to illness and later to her conflict with pageant officials.

Two months ago, she filed a nearly $18-million lawsuit against the pageant and many of its officials. Her claims included poor working conditions, not receiving all of her prizes and discrimination.

Miss Gist was the first black to win the title in 40 years of competition.

Her lawsuit claims she didn't receive all the $144,000 in prizes she won and is challenging as unenforceable a contractual clause preventing her from using her title in commercial endorsements for two years.

Earlier Friday, $10-million lawsuits in behalf of Miss USA 1989 Gretchen Polhemus and Miss USA 1988 Courtney Gibbs each were filed in U.S. District Court in Detroit on Friday, said attorney Gregory Reed, who also represents Miss Gist.

Their lawsuits accuse Miss Universe Inc., producer of the Miss USA pageant, of misrepresentation, fraud, unfair labor practices and physical and mental abuse of the two former beauty queens.

A pageant spokesman denied the charges.