In House of Leaves:

Absent Identification by Melissa Schemell

All in All by Bernard Porch

All Accurate by Nam Eurtton

All In the Name of Feminism: A Collection of Essays by Nadine (ed.) Muestopher

American Psychology: The Ownership of Self by Helen Hodge

Ancient Devotions by Tab Fulrest

The Anti-Present Trunk by Philippa (ed.) Frake

The Architecture of Art by Cassandra Rissman LaRue

Artistic Peril by Deacon Lookner

The Bad Bodhi Wall by Bazine Naodook

Beyond the Grasp of Commercial Media by Gabriel Reller

Black Heart, Blue Heart by Rita Mistopolis

Cinematic Projections by Naguib Paredes

Collected Essays on Self-Portraiture by Haldor (ed.) Nervene

Collected Essays on "Exploration #5 by Hans Staker

The Complete Feng Shui Guide for the Navidson Record by Luther Shepard

Concatenating Corbusier by Aristides Quine

The Constancy of Carl Jung by Oona Fanihdjarte

The Courage to Withstand by Daphne Kaplan

Creationist Myths by Hanson Edwin Rose

Delial by Dennis Stake

Delial, Beatrice, and Dulcinea by Jennifer Caps

Dialects of Divorce In American Film In the Twentieth Century by Anita Massine

Esau by Freed Kashon

The Faraday Conclusion by Devon Lettau

Fear Mantras by Alicia Hoyle

Flawed performances: A Consideration of the Actors in the Navidson Opus by Isaiah Rosen

The Fraying of the American Family by Florencia Calzatti

Gathered God by Darren Meen

Glorious Garrulous Graphomania by T. N. Joseph (ed.) Truslow

Gotta Go by Mary Widmunt

Greek Mythology Again by Ivan Largo Stilets

Grief's Explorations by Hank Leblarnard

Heaven's Door by Alan P. Winnett

The Holloway Question by Newt Kuellster

The House by Daniel Bowler

House Cleaning by David N. Braer

House of Leaves by Zampano

How Have You Who Have Loved Ever Love A Next Time? by Rosemary Enderheart

In These Things I Find by Mace Roger-Court

Incarnation of Spirit Things by Lantern C. Pitch

The Incident by Iben Van Pollit

Inside Out by Rosemary Park

Killing Badly, Dying Wise by Nupart Jhunisdakazcriddle

The Language of Torture by Rafael Geethtar Servagio

A Lexicon of Improbable Theories by Blair Keepling

The Many Wall Fugue by Eugenio and Scholfield Rosch

Maternal Intrusions by Eric Keplard

Mortality and Morality in Photographs by M. G. Cafiso

The Navidson Record by Johanne Scefing

The Navidson Record: Action and Chronologies by Thorton J. Cannon

The Navidson Record: The Novelization

Not True, Man: Mi Ata Beni? by Eta Ruccalla

Notes From Tomorrow by Lisbeth (ed.) Bailey

Objects of a Thousand Facets by Edwin Minamide

Operation #4: The Art of Internal Medicine by Leon Robbins

Origins of Faith by Candida Hayashi

Our Father by Tad Exler

Pale Micturitions by Justin Krape

Palladian Grammar and Metaphysical Appropriations: Navidson's Villa Malcontenta by Sebastiano Perouse de Montclos

Passion For Pity and Other Recipes For Disaster by Helmut Muir

Perversity In Dullness... and Vice-Versa by Celine Arlesey

The Phenomenology of Coincidence in the Navidson Recort by Marla Hulbert

Pieces by Will Navidson

The Places I've Seen by Teppet C. Brookes

Privacy and Intrusion in the Twenty-First Century by Clarence Sweeney

Recovery: Methods and Manner by Cora Minehart

Red Cross Faith by Janice Whitman

Riddles Within by Amon Whitten

Semiotic Rivalry by Yuriy Pleak

Shots in the Dark by Gavin Young

Simple Themes by Brendon Beinhorn

Sketches: The Process of Entry by Denise Lowery

Smile by Lester T. Ochs

The Study: Tom's Place by Neekisha Dedic

Tamper With This by Patricia B. Nesselroade

Terrible Thoughts: The Psychology and Biology of Navidson's Nightmares by Ernest Y. Hartmann

Theater In Film by Cassady Roulet

The Third Beside you: An Analysis of the Epistemological Echo by David Eric Katz

Thru Lines by Esther Hartline

Tick-Tock-Fade: The Representation of Time in Film Narrative by Frizell Clary

Twentieth Century Dub, Dub by Tony (ed.) Ross

Twenty Years in the Program by Cynthia Huxley

Ultrapure Water, the Super-Kamiokande Detector and Cherenkov Light by Gordon Kearns, L. Kajita and M. K. Totsuka

Understanding the Self: The Maze of You by Daniel Hortz

Violent Seeds: The Holloway Roberts Myst by Jeremy Flint

Violent Verses: Cinema's Treatment of Death by Danton Blake

War's Children by Melanie Proft Knightley

"What Are You Gonna Do Now, Little Man?" and Other Tales of Grass Roots Distribution by Kevin Stanley

When a Woman's Fear Makes Her Run from Commitment and What a Smart Man Can Do About It by Steve and Carter Sokal

Wilder Ways by Ryan Murray

Wishing Well by Virginia Posah

In the Thursday Next novels:

Adventures in the Book Trade by O. Nakajima

At Long Last Lust by Daphne Farquitt

Bad Sofa by Landen Parke-Laine

The Books of H. Paige by Millon de Floss

Bradshaw's Guide to the Bookworld by Commander Trafford Bradshaw, CBE

The Brontës by W.H.H.F. Renouf

Bunyan's Bootscraper by John McSquurd (unpublished)

Cardenio - Easy Come, Easy Go by Millon de Floss

Caversham Heights (later retitled Nursery Crime, see also The Big Over Easy)

The Commander Bradshaw novels

Crimean Reminisces by Thursday Next

Death at Double-X Ranch

Degeneracy for Pleasure and Profit by Acheron Hades

Don't Desert Your Desserts by Cilla Bubb

The Earthcrossers by Mr S.A. Orbiter

Enid Blyton by Millon de Floss

The Extraordinary Career of George Formby by John Williams

The Emperor Zhark novels by Handley Paige

The Gravitube - Tenth Wonder of the World by Vincentt Dott

The Global Standard Deity by Professor M. Blessington, PR (ret.)

Great Expectations, A Study by Millon de Floss

The Great Samuel Pepys Fiasco

Hades: Family From Hell by Thursday Next

The Hardest Job in Fiction by the Bellman

A History of Gibbons by Ronan Empyre

How I Think Life Began on Earth by Dr Luciano Spagog

Journal of a LitreTec by Bowden Cable

The Jurisfiction Chronicles by Thursday Next

The Jurisfiction Guide to Book-Jumping by the Unitary Authority of Warrington Cat

The Jurisfiction Guide to the Great Library by the Unitary Authority of Warrington Cat

Jurisfiction Journals by the Unitary Authority of Warrington Cat

The Land Speed Record by the Very Reverend Toredlyne

Library Sub-Basement Gazetteer

Life After Death for Felix Tabularasa by Millon de Floss

A Life in SpecOps by Thursday Next

Also called Thursday Next: A Life in SpecOps and My Life in SpecOps

Memoirs of A Crimean Veteran by Landen Parke-Laine

The Middle of Next Week

Neanderthals: Back After A Short Absence by Gerhard von Squid

The New Whigs: From Humble Beginnings to Fourth Reich by A.J.P. Milliner

Once Were Scoundrels by Landen Parke-Laine

The Perkins and Snell novels

Remember Them? A Study of Mnemomorphs by Blake Lamme (Ex-SO-5)

Revealments of St Zvlkx

Revenge of the Thraals by Handley Paige

A Short History of the Special Operations Network by Millon de Floss

Spacestation Z-5 by Handley Paige

The Squire of High Potternews by Daphne Farquitt

Story Operating Systems - The Early Years by WordMaster Xavier Libris

Sword of the Zenobians

Timestream Navigation for ChronoGuard cadets module 6A by Bendix Scintilla

Thursday Next: A Biography by Millon de Floss

Thursday Next Casebook by Millon de Floss

UltraWord - The Aftermath by Millon de Floss

UltraWord - The Ultimate Reading Experience by WordMaster Xavier Libris

The Ups and Downs of Act Breaks by Jeremy Fnorp

Upstream/Downstream by Colonel Next, QT, CG (non-exst.)

Wales - Birth of a Republic by Zephania Jones

Who Put the Poe in Poem? by Millon de Floss

Wuthering Heights: Masterpiece or Turgid Rubbish? by Millon de Floss

In the Nursery Crimes novels:

The Berkshire Book of Records

Chymes - Friend or Foe?

The Foot Lectures by Professor Tarsus

A History of Reading

Inside the Guild of Detectives

Motoring Into Oblivion by A. Morris

A Short History of the NCD

Valleyhills Movie Guide

Watching the Detectives by Masie Gray

Who's What?

Arrakis, The Transformation by Harq al-Ada

Lectures of Prescience by Harq al-Ada

Leto Atreides II, a Biography by Harq al-Ada

Riddles of Arrakis by Harq al-Ada

Testament of Arrakis by Harq al-Ada

The Book of Leto by Harq al-Ada

The Butlerian Jihad by Harq al-Ada

The Dune Catastrophe by Harq al-Ada

The Holy Metamorphosis by Harq al-Ada

The Mahdinate, an Analysis by Harq al-Ada

The Preacher of Arrakeen by Harq al-Ada

The Prescient Vision by Harq al-Ada

The Story of Liet-Kynes by Harq al-Ada

The Arrakis Workbook by Liet-Kynes

Bene Gesserit Training Manual

Dictionary Royal

Handbook of the Hajj

Kalima: The Words of Muad' Dib, the Shuloch Commentary

Orange Catholic Bible, Revised

Palimbasha: Lectures at Sietch Tabr

Stilgar, The Commentaries

Tagir Mohandis: Conversations with a Friend

The Apocrypha of Muad' Dib

The Book of Ghanima

The Book of Kreos

The Instruction Manual: Missionaria Protectiva

The Mentat Handbook

The Panoplia Prophetica

The Pedant Heresy

The Spacing Guild Handbook

The Spacing Guild Manual

Words of My Father: An Account of Muad' Dib

Works of the Mentat

Strangler Vines of Ecaz by Holjance Vohnbrook (an anagram of John Holbrook Vance)

The Pillars of the Universe by Muad' Dib (Paul Atreides)

St. Alia, Huntress of a Billion Worlds by Pander Oulson

A Child's History of Muad' Dib by Princess Irulan

Analysis: The Arrakeen Crisis by Princess Irulan

Arrakis Awakening by Princess Irulan

Collected Legends of Arrakis by Princess Irulan

Collected Sayings of Muad' Dib by Princess Irulan

Conversations with Muad' Dib by Princess Irulan

Count Fenring: A Profile by Princess Irulan

Dictionary of Muad' Dib by Princess Irulan

In My Father's House by Princess Irulan

Manual of Muad' Dib by Princess Irulan

Muad' Dib, Family Commentaries by Princess Irulan

Muad' Dib, the Man by Princess Irulan

Muad' Dib: The Ninety Nine Wonders of the Universe by Princess Irulan

Muad' Dib: The Religious Issues by Princess Irulan

Private Reflections on Muad' Dib by Princess Irulan

Songs of Muad' Dib by Princess Irulan

The Humanity of Muad' Dib by Princess Irulan

The Wisdom of Muad' Dib by Princess Irulan

Words of Muad'dib by Princess Irulan

The Last Jihad by Sumer and Kautman

Orange Catholic Liturgical Manual by the Commission of Ecumenical Translators

The Liturgical Manual and the Commentaries by the Commission of Ecumenical Translators

The Orange Catholic Bible by the Commission of Ecumenical Translators

Pirate History of Corrino by unknown

Assassin's Handbook

History of Muad'dib

Imperial Dictionary

Kitab Al-Ibar

Muad'dib Concordance

The Almanak en-Ashnof

The Azhar Book

Analysis of History by Bronso of Ix

Proverbs of Muad' Dib

The Dune Gospels

The Dunebook

The Dunebuk of Irulan

The Ghola Speaks

The Hayt Chronicle

The Irulan Report

The Qizarate Creed

The Steersman Guide

The Stilgar Chronicle

The Tleilaxu Godbuk

The Yiam-el-Din (Book of Judgement)

The Journal of Leto II

The Oral History

The Stolen Journal

Conversations with Leto II

Lessons of Arrakis

Leto II: Dar-es-Balat Records

Muad' Dib Speaks

Songs of the Scattering

Teachings of the Golden Path

The Apocrypha of Arrakis

The Bene Gesserit Coda

The Oral History of Rakis

Hogwarts textbooks

Arithmancy

Book of Numerology

Numerology and Grammatica, a textbook that, in the movies, is divided into two separate textbooks:

Numerology by L. Wakefield

Grammatica by M. Carneiro

Care of Magical Creatures

Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them by Newt Scamander

The Monster Book of Monsters

Charms

Standard Book of Spells (Grades One, Two, Three, Four, Five, Six and presumably Seven) by Miranda Goshawk

Quintessence: A Quest

Defence Against the Dark Arts

Confronting the Faceless

Break with a Banshee by Gilderoy Lockhart

Gadding with Ghouls by Gilderoy Lockhart

Holidays with Hags by Gilderoy Lockhart

Travels with Trolls by Gilderoy Lockhart

Voyages with Vampires by Gilderoy Lockhart

Wandering with Werewolves by Gilderoy Lockhart

Year with the Yeti by Gilderoy Lockhart

The Dark Forces: A Guide to Self-Protection by Quentin Trimble

Defensive Magical Theory by Wilbert Slinkhard

Magical Me by Gilderoy Lockhart

Divination

'The Dream Oracle by Inigo Imago

Unfogging the Future by Cassandra Vablatsky

Death Omens: What to Do When You Know the Worst is Coming

Broken Balls: When Fortune Turns Foul

Predicting the Unpredictable: Insulate Yourself against Shocks"

Herbology

One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi by Phyllida Spore

Encyclopædia of Toadstools

Magical Mediterranean Water Plants and their Properties

Flesh-eating Trees of the World

History of Magic

A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot

Muggle Studies

Home Life and Social Habits of British Muggles by Wilhelm Wigworthy (Little Red Books, 1987)

Potions

Advanced Potion Making by Libatius Borage

Magical Drafts and Potions by Arsenius Jigger

Asiatic Anti-Venoms

Moste Potente Potions

Book of Potions by Zygmunt Budge

Study of Ancient Runes

Ancient Runes Made Easy

Transfiguration

A Beginner's Guide to Transfiguration by Emeric Switch

Intermediate Transfiguration

Guide to Advanced Transfiguration

Non-textbooks;

History

An Anthology of Eighteenth Century Charms

A Guide to Medieval Sorcery

Animal Ghosts of Britain by Mopsy Fleabert

Olde and Forgotten Bewitchments and Charmes

Great Wizards of the Twentieth Century

Nature's Nobility: A Wizarding Genealogy

Pureblood Directory by Cantankerus Nott (presumed)

Notable Magical Names of Our Time

The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts

The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore by Rita Skeeter

Snape: Saint or Scoundrel? by Rita Skeeter

Armando Dippet: Master or Moron? by Rita Skeeter

Man or Monster? The Truth About Newt Scamander by Rita Skeeter

Dumbledore's Army: The Dark Side of the Demob by Rita Skeeter

Prefects Who Gained Power

Great Wizarding Events of the Twentieth Century

Hogwarts, A History, by Chroniclus Punnet

Sites of Historical Sorcery

Modern Magical History

Important Modern Magical Discoveries

A Study of Recent Developments in Wizardry

An Appraisal of Magical Education in Europe

Magical creatures

Dragon Breeding for Pleasure and Profit

Dragon Species of Great Britain and Ireland

Dreadful Denizens of the Deep

From Egg to Inferno: a Dragon-Keeper's Guide

Men Who Love Dragons Too Much

Handbook of Hippogriff Psychology

Fowl or Foul? A Study of Hippogriff Brutality

Why I Didn't Die When the Augerey Cried by Gulliver Pokeby (Little Red Books, 1824)

Hairy Snout, Human Heart by an anonymous author (Whizz Hard Books, 1975)

Blood Brothers: My Life Amongst the Vampires by Eldred Worple

Dark Arts

Magick Moste Evile

Secrets of the Darkest Art

A Compendium of Common Curses and Their Counter-Actions

Curses and Counter-Curses by Professor Vindictus Viridian

The Dark Arts Outsmarted

Self-Defensive Spellwork

Jinxes for the Jinxed

Practical Defensive Magic Its Use Against the Dark Arts

Magical cooking and housecare

Charm Your Own Cheese

Enchantment in Baking

Gilderoy Lockhart's Guide to Household Pests by Gilderoy Lockhart

One-Minute Feasts—It's Magic!

Practical Household Magic by Zamira Gulch

Magical healthcare

Common Magical Ailments and Afflictions

The Healer's Helpmate

A Study into the Possibility of Reversing the Actual and Metaphysical Effects of Natural Death, with Particular Regard to the Reintegration of Essence and Matter

Magical how-to

Weird Wizarding Dilemmas and Their Solutions

Where There's a Wand, There's a Way

The Invisible Book of Invisibility

Twelve Fail-Safe Ways to Charm Witches

Handbook of Do-It-Yourself-Broomcare

Magical theory

Magical Theory by Adalbert Waffling

New Theory of Numerology

Magical Hieroglyphs and Logograms

Spellbooks

Achievements in Charming

Basic Hexes for the Busy and Vexed

Spellman's Syllabary

Madcap Magic for Wacky Warlocks

Saucy Tricks for Tricky Sorts

Powers You Never Knew You Had and What to Do With Them Now You've Wised Up

Jiggery Pokery and Hocus Pocus by Brian Gagwilde

The Book of Spells by Miranda Goshawk

Sports and games

Beating the Bludgers—A Study of Defensive Strategies in Quidditch by Kennilworthy Whisp

Flying with the Cannons

Quidditch Through the Ages by Kennilworthy Whisp (Whizz Hard Books, 1952)

Quidditch Teams of Britain and Ireland

The Official Guide to the Quidditch World Cup, by The International Confederation of Wizards' Quidditch Committee

The Beater's Bible by Brutus Scrimgeour

Muggles

Muggles Who Notice by Blenheim Stalk (1972)

The Philosophy of the Mundane: Why the Muggles Prefer Not to Know by Professor Mordicus Egg (Dust & Mildewe, 1963)

Miscellaneous

Sonnets of a Sorcerer (cursed, anyone who reads it speaks in limericks for the rest of their lives)

The Adventures of Martin Miggs, the Mad Muggle - a comic Harry sees in Ron's room

The Tales of Beedle the Bard is a book of children's stories which is mentioned in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.One, about the hairy heart, is too strong for a child to read or listen to, and so was omitted by Beatrix Bloxam from her anthology.

The Hairy Heart: A Guide to Wizards who Won't Commit

The Toadstool Tales by Beatrix Bloxam. This includes highly watered down versions of Beedle's stories.

Tom Riddle's diary, later revealed to be a horcrux, or part of Voldemort's soul.

In The Documents in the Case:

Neglected Edible Treasures by George Harrison

I to Hercules by Jack Munting

In Gaudy Night :

A Study of Sheridan Le Fanu by Harriet Vane

Death Twixt Wind and Water by Harriet Vane

The Sands of Crime by Harriet Vane

Gas-Filled Bulbs by Jacqueline Squills

The Position of Women in the Modern State by Miss Barton

History of Prosody by Miss Lydgate

Passion-Flower Pie by Mrs. Snell-Wilmington

Mock-Turtle by Tasker Hepplewater

Ariadne Adams

Dusk and Shiver

Jocund Day

Primrose Dalliance

Serpent's Fang

The Squeezed Lemon

In Have His Carcase:

Murder By Degrees by Harriet Vane

The Fountain Pen Mystery by Harriet Vane

A Bid for a Throne

The Girl who gave All

The Trial of the Purple Python

In Strong Poison:

Death in the Pot by Harriet Vane

Can the Dead Speak?

In Thrones, Dominations:

The Suspect by Claude Amery

This Forked Plague by Claude Amery

Gee-up Edward by Mr. Clandon

Distinguished Gathering

Modern Aircraft, A Manual for Trainee Pilots

The Brazen Serpent

In Unnatural Death:

The Murderer's Vade Mecum by Lord Peter Wimsey

Notes on the Collecting of Incunabula by Lord Peter Wimsey

In Whose Body?:

An Answer to Professor Freud, With a Description of Some Experiments Carried Out at the Base Hospital in Amiens by Sir Julian Freke

An Examination into the Treatment of Pauper Lunacy in the United Kingdom by Sir Julian Freke

Cerebro-Spinal Diseases by Sir Julian Freke

Criminal Lunacy by Sir Julian Freke

Functional Disturbances of the Nervous System by Sir Julian Freke

Modern Developments in Psycho-Therapy: A Criticism by Sir Julian Freke

Some Notes on the Pathological Aspects of Genius by Sir Julian Freke

Statistical Contributions to the Study of Infantile Paralysis in England and Wales by Sir Julian Freke

Structural Modifications Accompanying the More Important Neuroses by Sir Julian Freke

The Application of Psycho-Therapy to the Treatment of Shell-Shock by Sir Julian Freke

The Borderland of Insanity by Sir Julian Freke

The Physiological Bases of the Conscience by Sir Julian Freke

In the Montague Egg stories:

The Salesman's Handbook

Attributed to Kilgore Trout:

Asleep at the Switch

Barring-gaffner of Bagnialto or This Year's Masterpiece

The Big Board

The Dancing Fool

The Era of Hopeful Monsters

First District Court of Thankyou

Gilgongo!

The Gospel from Outer Space

The Gutless Wonder

Hail to the Chief

How You Doin'?

Maniacs in the Fourth Dimension

The Money Tree

Now It Can Be Told

Oh Say Can You Smell?

The Pan-Galactic Memory Bank

The Pan-Galactic Straw Boss

The Pan-Galactic Three-Day Pass

Plague on Wheels

The Planet Gobblers

The Protocols of the Elders of Tralfamadore

The Smart Bunny

The Son of Jimmy Valentine

This Means You

2BR02B

Venus on the Half-Shell

Attributed to Beatrice Rumfoord:

The Beatrice Rumfoord Galactic Cookbook by Beatrice Rumfoord

Between Timid and Timbuktu, anonymously published by Beatrice Rumfood

The True Purpose of Life in the Solar System by Beatrice Rumfoord

Attributed to other authors:

The American Philosopher Kings by Waltham Kittredge

Are Adults Harmoniums? by Dr. Frank Minot

Book of Bokonon by Bokonon

A Child's Cyclopedia of Wonders and Things to Do

Get With Child a Mandrake Root by Arthur Garvey Ulm

History of the Rosewaters of Rhode Island by Merrihue Rosewater

Pan-Galactic Humbug or Three Billion Dupes by Dr. Maurice Rosenau

Primordial Scales by Crowther Gomburg

Ramba of Macedon by Eunice Rosewater

The Winston Niles Rumfoord Authorized Revised Bible by Winston Niles Rumfoord

The Winston Niles Rumfoord Pocket History of Mars by Winston Niles Rumfoord

Too Wild a Dream? by Lavinia Waters

Unk and Boaz in the Caves of Mercury by Sarah Horne Canby

Winston Niles Rumfood, Benjamin Franklin, and Leonardo da Vinci by Howard W. Sams

The Underground by Polly Madison

The Only Way to Have a Successful Revolution in Any Field of Human Activity by Paul Slazinger

Private Art Treasures of Tuscony by Kim Bum Suk

In Bibliomen :

In "Adam Poor":

A Salted Mine by Adam Poor

Voices Vocable by Adam Poor

In "Bernard A. French":

Great Lost Art of Western Europe by Bernard A. French, editor

Perfection Unto Death by Bernard A. French

In "Captain Roy C. Mirk, B.A., M.A., Ph.D.":

A Post-Modernist Critic Views the Antebellum Middle West by Roy C. Mirk

Poultry as Symbolism in Nineteenth Century American Literature by Roy C. Mirk

Tea-Time Talk in the Novels of Louise May Alcott by Roy C. Mirk

Washing as a Euphemism in the Works of Jack London by Roy C. Mirk

In "Gertrude S. 'Spinning Jenny' Deplatta":

an unknown title by Robert T. Brooks

In "John Glaskin :'

Brideshead by John Glaskin

You Can't Go Home at All by John Glaskin

In "John J. Jons, Jr." :

Guide to the Public Toilets of America (aka Jon's Guide) by John J. Jons, Jr.

Meditation on the Utilitarian Theory of Literary Merit by John J. Jons, Jr.

In "Kirk Patterson Arthurs, Ph.D.":

Fiction in Fancy Dress: John Glaskin et al. Exposed by Kirk Patterson Arthurs

Mask and Coin: Grub Street in the 30's by Kirk Patterson Arthurs

Maze of Clay: John Glaskin Revisited by Kirk Patterson Arthurs

Sweet Sword, High Heart: Love and War in the Fiction of John Glaskin by Kirk Patterson Arthurs

In "Paul Rico":

Training the Mind by Paul Rico

In The Book of the Long Sun :

An unknown title by Scleroderma

The Chrasmological Writings by unknown author

In The Book of the New Sun :

Lives of the Seventeen Megatherians by Blaithmaic

The Book of the New Sun by Canog

The Book of Gold by unknown author

The Book of the Wonders of Urth and Sky, Being a Collection from Printed Sources of Universal Secrets of Such Age That Their Meaning has Become Obscured with Time by unknown author

In The Book of the Short Sun :

An unknown title by Man from Urbasecundus

In The Doctor of Death Island :

The Death of Love by Kinglake

In The Fifth Head of Cerberus :

Introduction to Cultural Anthropology by Miller

A Field Guide to the Animals of Sainte Anne by unknown author

In From the Desk of Gilmer C. Merton (from the short story collection Storeys from the Old Hotel)

Star Shuttle by Gilray Gunn

Come, Dark Lust! by Wolf Moon

The Shrieking in the Nursery by Wolf Moon

In Peace :

The Book that Binds the Dead by Louis Gold (writing as Abdul Alhazred)

The Lusty Lawyer by Louis Gold (writing as Amanda Ros)

In Seven American Nights (from the short story collection The Island of Doctor Death and Other Stories and Other Stories)

Mystery Beyond the Sun's Setting by Osman Aga

In The Island of Doctor Death and Other Stories (from the short story collection The Island of Doctor Death and Other Stories and Other Stories)

The Island of Doctor Death and Other Stories by unknown author

In Useful Phrases (from the short story collection Strange Travelers) :

Tohish Ablar Sens-Orriyya Ert by unknown author

In Xavier McRidy :

Allegiance to La Villa Real de la Santa Fe de San Francisco by Juan Gabriel Sabastian de Dolo y Varios

The Paper Nautilus by Xavier McRidy

Mr. Milton in Medoc by S. Peety