Name of Product:

Ivy Bronx, Orren Ellis, Stellar Home Furniture, and Wade Logan branded Murphy Beds

Hazard:

The wall beds can break or detach from the wall and fall onto those nearby, posing serious impact and crush hazards.

Remedy:

Repair

Recall Date:

September 08, 2022

Units:

About 8,200

Recall Details

Description:

This recall involves full-sized and queen-sized Low Profile Murphy beds sold online under the brand names “Ivy Bronx,” “Orren Ellis,” “Stellar Home Furniture,” and “Wade Logan”. These wall beds are installed vertically and are sold in five colors: White, Rustic Gray, Espresso, Cinnamon and Tuxedo. Part numbers included in the recall are S214 (Double Bed, Doors Installed Vertically), S215 (Queen Bed, Doors Installed Vertically), S234 (Double Bed, Doors Installed Horizontally), and S235 (Queen Bed, Doors Installed Horizontally). Consumers can identify whether their Murphy bed is included in this recall by checking their original online receipt of purchase for the brand name and style name or assembly instructions for part number or by contacting the firm.

Recalled Murphy Beds

Brand

Style Name

Part Number

Description

Wade Logan

Lower Weston Murphy Bed

S214/S215

Double Bed/Queen Bed Doors Installed Vertically

Ivy Bronx

Chenault Low Profile Murphy Bed

S214/S215

Double Bed/Queen Bed Doors Installed Vertically

Orren Ellis

Drum

S234/S235

Double Bed/Queen Bed Doors Installed Horizontally

Orren Ellis

Ojas

S234/S235

Double Bed/Queen Bed Doors Installed Horizontally

Stellar Home Furniture

S214/S215

Double Bed/Queen Bed Doors Installed Vertically

Stellar Home Furniture

S234/S235

Double Bed/Queen Bed Doors Installed Horizontally

Remedy:

Consumers should immediately stop using the recalled Murphy beds and contact Cyme Tech to schedule a free inspection and repair of the bed. Cyme Tech is contacting all known purchasers directly.

Incidents/Injuries:

The firm has received 146 reports of the beds falling or breaking including 62 injuries involving broken bones, bruising, lacerations, concussions and other injuries.

Sold At:

Online at Wayfair, AllModern, Amazon, Cymax, and Overstock from February 2014 through May 2022 for between $1,200 and $1,500.

Manufacturer(s):

Cyme Tech, of Canada

Manufactured In:

Canada

Recall number:

22-771

Note: Individual Commissioners may have statements related to this topic. Please visit www.cpsc.gov/commissioners to search for statements related to this or other topics.

If you are experiencing issues with a recall remedy or believe a company is being non-responsive to your remedy request, please use this form and explain the situation to CPSC.

Related Recalls

Trader Joe's Company Recalls Mango Tangerine Scented Candles Due to Fire Hazard

The candle flame can spread from the wick to the wax causing a larger than expected flame, posing a fire hazard.

Mattress Pads Recalled Due to Fire Hazard; Violation of Federal Mattress Pad Flammability Regulation; Manufactured by Avocado Mattress

The recalled mattress pads violate the mandatory federal flammability regulation for mattress pads, posing a fire hazard.

Origin 21 Wall Mirrors Sold Exclusively at Lowe’s Stores Recalled Due to Laceration and Impact Hazards; Manufactured by Huahong Art Home Shares

The recalled mirrors can detach from the metal plate used for hanging, causing the mirror to fall, posing laceration and impact hazards.

Grand Rapids Chair Company Recalls Wood Dining Chairs Due to Fall Hazard

The recalled chairs can shift, break or collapse, posing a fall hazard to consumers.

Best Lighting Products Recalls High Bay LED Light Fixtures Due to Fire Hazard

Plastic pins securing the LED board can degrade, allowing the energized LED board to come loose and contact the lens or combustible materials, posing a fire hazard.

Ross Stores Recalls Armchairs Due to Fall and Injury Hazards

The armchair’s leg can bend or break, posing fall and injury hazards.

About the U.S. CPSC

The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) is charged with protecting the public from unreasonable risk of injury or death associated with the use of thousands of types of consumer products. Deaths, injuries, and property damage from consumer product-related incidents cost the nation more than $1 trillion annually. CPSC's work to ensure the safety of consumer products has contributed to a decline in the rate of injuries associated with consumer products over the past 50 years.

Federal law prohibits any person from selling products subject to a Commission ordered recall or a voluntary recall undertaken in consultation with the CPSC.

For lifesaving information:

Visit CPSC.gov.

Sign up to receive our email alerts.

Follow us on Facebook, Instagram @USCPSC and Twitter @USCPSC.

Report a dangerous product or product-related injury on www.SaferProducts.gov.

Call CPSC’s Hotline at 800-638-2772 (TTY 800-638-8270).

Contact a media specialist.

Choose Your Recall Emails Get Notified About Each Recall via Email.