Michael Lee Foreman went to be with His Lord and Savior on January 13, 2023, after a short battle with cancer. He is survived by his sister, Pat Perkins; his niece, Loretta Perkins; and his nephews, Allen Eugene Perkins and Allen Pike. A celebration of his life will be held Thursday, March 16, 2023 at 2:00 pm at Grace Chapel, 406 Fourth Ave., Mason, Ohio. In lieu of flowers memorial gifts may be given in Mike’s honor to Crossroads Hospice Charitable Foundation.

Mike was born September 18, 1948, in Ft. Wayne, Indiana. He lived most of his adult life in the Cincinnati, Ohio area, first in Price Hill and later in Mason. He retired from Hutch Sporting Goods after over twenty years of employment there. He went on to work as a machinist for Deerfield Manufacturing for over twenty years before retiring from there as well. Mike was a hard worker and dedicated employee. He even came out of retirement to work for several more years part time at Deerfield Manufacturing.

Mike was a loving and caring brother and uncle, taking his sister and her children on trips to Coney Island, surprising the kids with gifts, and taking them all out to eat every weekend. He was also a dedicated friend to many, and for the last ten years he faithfully met with a close group of friends for coffee at McDonald’s every morning. He was known for his kindness and friendliness, and his humble spirit and gentle sense of humor touched everyone he knew.

Mike had several hobbies, including exploring flea markets, collecting fun trinkets and treasures, and listening to good music. He always loved sports cars and got much enjoyment from driving his Chrysler Crossfire and Chevy Camaro. He also loved and cared for many animals over the years, including his pet birds “Polly” and “Pretty Bird”, and his three pet marmosets. Mike also enjoyed movies, especially Christian movies. He loved sharing his collection of Christian movies with friends, and it was his hope that he could someday share them as an encouragement to nursing home residents. This dream was fulfilled, as his entire movie collection has been donated to an area nursing home.

Mike was a faithful follower of Jesus Christ and was involved in church most of his life. He attended Christ Church in Erlanger, Kentucky, The Vineyard of Cincinnati, and in recent years Grace Chapel in Mason, Ohio. He loved his Lord and was eager for others to come to know Him as their Savior. Mike touched many lives with his compassion and generosity here on earth and will be greatly missed. Praise God he is now fully healed and celebrating in the presence of His loving Heavenly Father.