Michael M. Foreman

Michael Marcellus Foreman, 71, of Winchester, Virginia, died Tuesday, October 30, 2012, in Winchester Medical Center.

Mr. Foreman was born in 1941, in Winchester, Virginia, the son of the late Ercell and Hazel Foreman. He was the Clerk of the Winchester Circuit Court for 27 years before retiring in 2003. During his tenure as clerk, he served as President of the Virginia Circuit Court Clerks’ Association. Previously, Mr. Foreman was a teacher and assistant principal at John Handley High School. He served on the Winchester City Council. Mr. Foreman was a graduate of the University of Richmond and the University of Virginia, receiving a Masters Degree. He was a Veteran of the Air National Guard in Martinsburg, West Virginia.

Mr. Foreman was a member of the Winchester Rotary, the Winchester Torch Club, Mount Hebron Cemetery Board and the Winchester Historical Society. In addition he served as a volunteer at the Food Bank. Mr. Foreman was also a Professor at Shenandoah University, a noted local historian, author and a resident historical speaker. He was an avid grower of roses and a Civil War buff.

He married Veerle J. Stickley, on April 29, 1967, in Winchester, Virginia.

Surviving with his wife of 45 years, are two sons, David Alexander Foreman and wife, Elizabeth, of Crozet, Virginia, Stewart Douglas Foreman and wife, Jennifer, of Asheboro, North Carolina; three grandchildren, Kendall and Jack Foreman of Crozet, Virginia and Margaret Hazel Foreman of Asheboro, North Carolina.

The family will receive friends on Friday evening, from 6:00-8:00 PM, at Omps Funeral Home, Amherst Chapel.

A funeral service will be conducted at 11:00 AM on Saturday, at Omps Funeral Home, Amherst Chapel with Pastor James H. Utt, Grace Evangelical Lutheran Church, officiating. Interment will be in Mount Hebron Cemetery, Winchester, Virginia.

Pallbearers will be, Pete Lowe, Tom Dickinson, Ted Whittle, John Davis, Bruce Patterson, Dr. John Capehart and Bob Evans. Honorary Pallbearers will be, Skeeter Knee, Jim Shipp, Jesse Moffett, Jay Givens, Lenny Milholland and members of the Winchester Rotary.

In lieu of flowers the family asks that contributions be sent to the Michael M. Foreman Scholarship c/o Community Foundation of the Northern Shenandoah Valley, 530 Amherst Street, Winchester, Virginia 22601 or the Hazel Evans Foreman Nursing Scholarship c/o the Winchester Medical Center Foundation, 220 Campus Blvd., Suite 402, Winchester, Virginia 22601.

Please view obituaries and tribute wall at www.ompsfuneralhome.com.