DEATH ANGEL frontman Mark Osegueda has issued the following press statement with regards to the new documentary, Get Thrashed: The Story Of Thrash Metal:

"Get Thrashed is the most in-depth, yet sincere look into a magical once in a lifetime era of a genre of music that changed Metal! Hell! Changed popular music forever, and never quite received the recognition it deserved until now! Told by the bands, and fans that lived, breathed, played, and gave it there all for the crumbs of success of the bands they helped influence today! A must view, and a must own for any fan of guitar based music driven by drums, and fury!!!"

Mark Osegueda / Death Angel 2008

Following is the Get Thrashed: The Story Of Thrash Metal press release:

The critically acclaimed music documentary, Get Thrashed: The Story Of Thrash Metal covers the evolution, cultural impact, and musical influence of Thrash Metal, an extreme form of heavy metal which burst on to the scene in the early - mid 1980’s. Told first-hand by members of bands such as METALLICA, MEGADETH, SLAYER and ANTHRAX, as well as using raw, original show footage, writer/director Rick Ernst (MTV/VH1) demonstrates how and why many of these bands emerged from playing local parties and small clubs to headlining major arenas and stadiums.

The film is a roller coaster ride of extreme music and personalities, starting with the most famous thrash metal pioneers, Metallica, and highlighting other genre defining bands like Megadeth, Slayer, EXODUS and more. The documentary features interviews with over 50 artists including past and current members of Metallica, Megadeth, Anthrax, Slayer, PANTERA, Exodus, LAMB OF GOD, TESTAMENT, SHADOWS FALL, IN FLAMES, KREATOR, DESTRUCTION, HATEBREED and many more.

The artists discuss the groundbreaking music of the Thrash Metal Scene, the culture surrounding it and includes raw, live concert footage depicting mosh pits, stage diving, head-banging, partying and the over the top antics that went along with the thrash metal movement. The movie breaks down how the thrash metal scene grew from its DIY beginnings in Los Angeles and San Francisco, then reached the East Coast, conquered Europe, and even took root in countries like Brazil and Australia. Get Thrashed highlights the similarities and differences in each region while illustrating how the seeds that were planted by Thrash Metal gave rise to the modern day breed of extreme Heavy Metal and Hard Rock.

The film features wall-to-wall music from Metallica, Megadeth, Pantera, Slayer, Anthrax, Exodus, SUICIDAL TENDENCIES and many more, and contains over 90 minutes of bonus footage, featuring thrash scenes and bands from around the world. The DVD offers more than 3 hours of content, including Director’s Commentary by Rick Ernst (ex Headbangers Ball) and Associate Producer, Rat Skates (ex-OVERKILL drummer), plus liner notes from legendary Exodus guitarist Gary Holt.

Get Thrashed: The Story of Thrash Metal has appeared in over 20 film festivals, highlighted by invitations to the prestigious Silver Lake Film Festival (LA), Oldenberg Film Festival (Germany), Athens International Film Festival (Greece) and Raindance Film Festival (London). The film’s year long run on the film festival circuit saw the documentary screen to packed houses and sold out theaters around the world while picking up awards including Best Documentary (2007 Seattle True Independent Film Festival, Backseat Film Festival, New York International Independent Film & Video Festival), SAFILM Grand Prize Award (2007 San Antonio Underground Film Festival), Best Soundtrack (2007 Backseat Film Festival) and Best Director (NYIIFVF).

Film running time is 100 minutes; DVD running time is 193 minutes.