Quentin Tarantino News

Double Feature of Inventive New Underground Films Will Premiere at PhilaMOCA

Spirit Riser is set to make its Philadelphia premiere at beloved local venue PhilaMOCA on Sunday July 28, as part of a double feature with Tate Hoffmaster's Psychic Vampire. Hoffmaster and Greenberg work closely together and Greenberg co-produced, shot and acted in the debut feature film from the Pennsylvania native and film prodigy.

2024 Sundance Trans Possibilities Intensive Fellows Announced

The Sundance Institute has unveiled the 2024 Trans Possibilities Intensive Fellows, celebrating emerging transgender artists and their innovative work in film and media.

Goldie Boutilier Releases New Single 'The Angel And The Saint'

Cape Breton born, singer/songwriter Goldie Boutilier has released a new single/video for, “The Angel And The Saint”. It is an anthem and a testament to the woman who has overcome countless obstacles and now can be strong about the right things. It is the second preview to her forthcoming EP, The Actress. Listen to the track now!

TOO MUCH OF A GOOD THING Goes Off-Broadway To Be Presented Off-Broadway In July

Rachel Redleaf's one-woman show TOO MUCH OF A GOOD THING debuts Off-Broadway at Playhouse 46 at St. Lukes as part of the Turn the Lights On: Festival Fringe Extension, with performances in July.

Cast Set For A RAISIN IN THE SUN at Theatrical Outfit

Theatrical Outfit and Dominion Entertainment Group have announced the cast of the upcoming revival of Lorraine Hansberry’s A RAISIN IN THE SUN – on stage September 11 – 29, 2024 at Theatrical Outfit in the heart of Downtown Atlanta.

25 Theater Books for Your Summer 2024 Reading List

From theatre biographies to theatre fiction; theatre books for kids to theatre history; check out our collection of 25 new Broadway books for every theatre lover's Summer 2024 reading list.

Bruce Dickinson to Release New Single 'Resurrection Men'

Bruce Dickinson has announced a limited edition CD release for his new single ‘Resurrection Men’, out on July 26th. The two CD bonus songs, ‘Afterglow Of Ragnarok’ and ‘Abduction’, have been recorded live at Dickinson’s show in Sao Paulo, Brazil on May 4th 2024 as part of his current world tour for The Mandrake Project.

Sundance Institute Names 2024 Producers Lab Fellows

The nonprofit Sundance Institute has announced the 10 producers selected to participate in its annual Producers Lab, being held June 10–22 for the first time at Ucross Foundation in Wyoming where they host artists throughout the year. The Producers Program reflects the Institute’s long-standing commitment to increasing support for independent producers and champions the current and rising generation of producers year-round.

Fourth Annual Academy Museum Gala to Honor Rita Moreno, Paul Mescal and Quentin Tarantino

The Academy Museum of Motion Pictures has announced details of its annual fundraising gala, to be held on October 19, 2024. The Academy Museum Gala will celebrate the acclaimed museum’s third anniversary and will honor Academy Award-nominated actor Paul Mescal; Academy Award-winning actress, singer, and dancer Rita Moreno; and two-time Academy Award-winning and six-time Academy Award-nominated writer and director Quentin Tarantino.

THREE CAN KEEP A SECRET to Return To Fringe With Even More Choices!

The updated production of THREE CAN KEEP A SECRET by Gregory Crafts returns to Fringe, allowing audiences to vote on the story's direction in real time, enhancing the interactive crime thriller experience.

Review: THE COFFIN MAKER Deftly Blends Genres at Pittsburgh Public Theater

Folks, this is a first. I've been writing reviews for BWW for about ten years now, and rarely have I seen a new work that so deftly and fearlessly blends genres and tones together. Director Monteze Freeland and playwright Mark Clayton Southers have achieved the impossible: The Coffin Maker is an exercise in theatrical flexibility that truly must be seen to be understood.

Limelight Theatre to Present HANDS ON A HARDBODY

Directed by David Nelson and Jane Anderson, Hands on a Hardbody tells the story of an annual endurance contest where the last person standing with their hands on the vehicle wins it.

Video: Pam Grier Teases FOXY BROWN Musical on THE JENNIFER HUDSON SHOW

1970s film star Pam Grier stopped by The Jennifer Hudson Show on Wednesday to discuss some of her new projects, including the horror series Them: The Scare. Also during the interview, she revealed a major project based on the 1974 blaxploitation film Foxy Brown. Watch the interview now!

REVIEW: Outhouse Theatre Co's ULSTER AMERICAN Is Revived For An Encore Season at Ensemble Theatre

Shane Anthony’s (Director) presentation of David Ireland’s (Playwright) ULSTER AMERICAN returns to the Sydney stage at Ensemble Theatre.

TFANA to Present Spring Gala This Weekend

Join TFANA as they honor Robert A. Caro, Leonard Tow, and The Tow Foundation at their gala, while also celebrating the 400th anniversary of Shakespeare's First Folio on May 13.

Tribeca to Feature 'DeNiro Con' With Guests Martin Scorsese, Whoopi Goldberg, & More

De Niro Con​, a celebration of 80 years of Robert De Niro, has unveiled its programming lineup. Coinciding with the 2024 Tribeca Festival, this three-day tribute takes place at Spring Studios in New York City from June 14-16. De Niro Con is powered by Webex Events, allowing fans to download an exclusive app to make the most of their Con experience. See the full lineup here!

Faye Dunaway and Harvey Keitel to Appear in Supernatural Romance Film

According to reports, Faye Dunaway and Harvey Keitel will be starring together in a new supernatural romance film from director Jonathan Baker. Actor Andrew McCarthy of The Blacklist will also be appearing in the film. The plot of the movie, titled Fate, is being kept under wraps but is reported to be set at a 'Vista hotel', taking its inspiration from the historic Vista Theatre in Los Angeles, now owned by Quentin Tarantino.

Kitty Coen Shares Spellbinding New Debut LP 'Hellcat'

Nashville-based alternative pop/rock artist Kitty Coen shares her long-awaited, spellbinding debut album, HELLCAT out everywhere now with the latest track 'center of the sun' where Coen learns to trust herself. Alongside the release, Coen will also embark on a summer tour across the East Coast with alt-rock Americana musician Slow Funeral. It begins on June 13 in Greenville, SC with tickets on sale now.

Chris Tucker Comes to Royal Albert Hall in June

Internationally renowned award-winning actor, producer and comedian Chris Tucker has announced a one-off London date on Sunday 2nd June at the prestigious Royal Albert Hall. This is his first UK date since 2018 when he sold out his entire tour.