Actress Una Stubbs, known for her roles in TV shows like Worzel Gummidge, Till Death Us Do Part, Sherlock and EastEnders, has died at the age of 84.

According to her agent, she passed away after a short illness at her home in Edinburgh surrounded by her family.

Una began her career as a dancer, and was the cover girl for the Dairy Box chocolates produced by Rowntree’s in the late 50s.

She made her break onto the small screen in the 60s as Alf Garnett's exasperated daughter Rita in Till Death Us Do Part and the 1980s follow-ups 'Til Death and In Sickness and In Health. She also appeared in Fawlty Towers and in Cliff Richard's Summer Holiday.

As well as TV series and films, Una was also a regular on the game show Don't Say A Word and it's follow-up Give us a Clue, and became a favourite of young audiences as Aunt Sally in Worzel Gummidge.

She remained one of the UK's best-loved screen stars, starring in another children's hit, The Worst Witch, in the late 1990s, as well as appearing in soap EastEnders, The Catherine Tate Show and sitcom Benidorm.

Her last major role saw her play Sherlock's landlady Mrs Hudson in the BBC drama starring Benedict Cumberbatch and Martin Freeman.

Her role as Mrs. Hudson won the hearts of many critics, and she was universally praised for her impressive performance. Since appearing in ‘Sherlock’, Una Stubbs has worked in ‘The Durrells in Corfu’ and ‘Murder on the Blackpool Express’.

Una's childhood

Una Stubbs was born on May 1, 1937 in Welwyn Garden City, Hertfordshire to Angela Rawlinson and Clarence Reginald Stubbs.

She is the great-granddaughter of Sir Ebenezer Howard, the founder of the Garden City Movement.

Una trained in dance at La Roche Dance School in Slough and was a part of the chorus of the London Palladium when she was 16.

She spent her childhood years in Hinckley, Leicestershire. After graduating from school, she spent her initial years performing as a dancer.

Una has two siblings: Clare and Paul Stubbs.

Was Una Stubbs married?

She was married to the actor Peter Gilmore from 1958 to 1969: they adopted a son, Jason.

She then married actor Nicky Henson in 1969, but they divorced in 1975. The couple had two children: Christian Henson and Joe Henson.

Read more popular articles

15 facts about Sherlock Holmes

Cliff Richard | His age, songs and real name