How Posidonius, Athenodorus Cananites, and Epictetus can help you navigate life’s chaos.

I was always told, “The only constant thing is change.”

As a kid, I didn’t pay attention. Mom and dad would drop wisdom for no reason. I just kept playing computer games and thought it was one of those random sayings for old people.

After COVID-19, I realized my parents were right. Either they knew some truth to the world, or I’m now on the side of the elders.

Either way, 2020 was a rollercoaster year and 2021 might be even crazier. Uncertainty isn’t new. Chaos isn’t new. Every time I read ancient philosophy, I’m struck by how relevant their advice still is today.

Those same pieces of advice these philosophers said thousands of years ago are as meaningful as ever.

I recently read the book Lives of the Stoics: The Art of Living from Zeno to Marcus Aurelius by Ryan Holiday and Stephen Hanselman. I learned about the lives of various Stoics in ancient times, and their philosophical ideas were no longer abstract concepts. Framed by the context, circumstances, and lives of the philosophers, I saw them as regular human beings like you and me.

Nobody’s perfect, but both the words and living examples of these ancient stoics gave me the mental tools to face the uncertainty of 2021 and beyond.

Posidonius (Apamea, Syria)

“In an unpredictable world, the only thing we can really manage is ourselves — and that the space between our ears is the only territory we can conquer in any kind of certain and enduring way.”

— Lives of the Stoics

Posidonius lived in a time of anxious abundance. Things were good, people got greedy. Leaders were weak and political turmoil for Roman life was soon to follow. Posidonius saw firsthand the lives of power-hungry individuals like Marius (seven-time consul of Rome) and Athenion (a wannabe Athenian tyrant). Posidonius warns:

“Be wary of ambition. Avoid the mob. Luxury, as much as power, rots.”

— Lives of the Stoics

Marius died believing himself to be immortal. He was the most powerful man in Rome, after all. And Posidonius notes,

“Marius commanded armies, but ambition commanded Marius.”

— Posidonius

Be careful of the things you chase. Not all that glitters is gold. In times like today when we drown in information, it’s easy to throw caution in the wind and go all-in on everything. Stock markets, cryptocurrencies, NFTs. Nothing wrong with doing what you want, but understand the risks involved. We hear all the success stories. But don’t forget about survivorship bias.

Not everybody wins.

Time is our enemy in the short term, but our friend in the long term. Don’t lose sight of your long-term goals while chasing your short-term ones.

“The more you experience, the more you learn, and, paradoxically, the more humbled you are by the endless amounts of knowledge that remain in front of you.”

— Lives of the Stoics

That’s the beauty of life. The more we learn, the more we realize how much there still is to learn. The past year has taught me how little I know about everything I assumed I had already mastered. I thought I was pretty motivated. Turns out all I want to do is curl up on my sofa and do nothing at all.

“It’s a timeless question: If you actually knew what “success” and “power” looked like — what it did to the people who got it — would you still want it?”

— Lives of the Stoics

There’s always a price to obtain what you want. I can’t judge what’s worth it to you, but you can. Look at all the examples laid out in history. We can learn from both the good and the bad. They lived their lives so that we don’t have to.

If “success” and “power” leads me to Marius’ life? No, thank you.

Posidonius died peacefully at age 84. I’ll take that over Marius any day.

Athenodorus Cananites (Tarsus)

“Live among men as if God were watching, and speak with God as if men were listening.”

— Athenodorus Cananites

Every day is an opportunity to be the best person you can be. Some laugh at values and ethics — in a world ruled by money, why bother? There are plenty of philosophical arguments for ethics’ importance, but honestly, I just want to sleep well at night.

“The difficulties and corruptions of a busy world made leisure an integral part of euthymia, the well-being of the soul.”

— Lives of the Stoics

In a world of remote work and Zoom meetings, we’re busier than ever. Our phones are always an arm’s reach away, and we’re always “on”.

Take a break. Work will always be there. There will always be more to do. Do something for yourself, do what feeds your soul.

Does scrolling Instagram endlessly make your eyes feel good? No?

Stop that.

Go for a walk. Take a nap. Let your eyes rest.

“Whenever you feel yourself getting angry, Caesar, don’t say or do anything until you’ve repeated the twenty-four letters of the alphabet to yourself.”

— Athenodorus Cananites

Since the lockdowns, I’m quick to anger. Maybe it’s being stuck inside all day. Maybe it’s the feeling of being stagnant in life. Whatever it is, anger usually causes more harm than good. No matter the outcome, the angry person always suffers their own feelings of hatred.

These days, I’m usually angry at myself.

I told myself I’d be more disciplined. More motivated. More productive.

And yet I fall short. I get mad. It’s not constructive at all. It just makes me feel less worthy.

I’ll work on this one all year. Every time I’m about to act or think destructively, I’ll repeat the alphabet. Take a breather. I’ll give the best version of me a chance to override the version of me that’s blinded by stress.

Epictetus (Hierapolis)

The most famous Stoic on this list. Epictetus’ life and teachings are legend. Born a slave, Epictetus truly embodied the essence of stoicism. He learned to remain free, no matter life’s circumstances.

“The Stoics believed we decided how we would react to what happened to us. Epictetus, as we each hold the power to do, chose to see his disability as only a physical impairment, and in fact, it was that idea of choice, we shall see, that defined the core of his philosophical beliefs.”

— Lives of the Stoics

The biggest lesson I’ve learned from Stoicism is that we cannot control life, but we can control ourselves.

Epictetus’ approach toward life showed me that although we do not get to choose the privileges and disadvantages we are born into, we can choose how we perceive the world around us. I can’t change the fact that I was born with the DNA that I have — but I can always change my perspective on life’s circumstances.

“Freedom is more than a legal status. It’s a state of mind, a way of living.”

— Lives of the Stoics

We are obsessed with being free. Financially free. Socially free. Perhaps even physically free. But what is freedom, truly? I’ve always struggled with this idea. I used to believe that freedom was the absence of commitments. To be free of all responsibility.

Now I see how childish I was.

Freedom is choosing to accept one’s responsibilities. Being free of all worries and problems is just a fantasy. And not a good one, either.

Why is it that so many tyrants and powerful people throughout history end up living miserable, paranoid lives? Across all cultures, there are plentiful stories of these characters. Power corrupts, absolute power corrupts absolutely. Why do we all chase that empty idol?

“It is better to starve to death in a calm and confident state of mind, than to live anxiously amidst abundance.”

— Epictetus

I never want to starve to death. I also don’t want to live anxiously amidst abundance. Every time I buy something new or gain material wealth, I’m afraid to damage it or lose it.

How is that freedom?

What I own ends up owning me.

“For no man is a slave who is free in his will.”

— Epictetus

I will never experience Epictetus’ life first-hand. But the mind is a powerful thing. Even in our cushy internet-powered lives, we serve many masters. We fight for love, attention, job security, wealth, health… How often do we remember this freedom no matter the circumstance?

How often do we remember that we are free to think whatever we wish — and the ability to think for ourselves is a wonderful gift of being alive? Rather than complain about the circumstances I cannot control, I want to use my mind for good. I’ll count my blessings, and focus on the thoughts and actions that will allow me to get closer to where I want to be.

What’s stopping me? Dreaming is free. Acting upon those dreams is free as well.

“Our chief task in life [is] to identify and separate matters so that I can say clearly to myself which are externals not under my control, and which have to do with the choices I actually control… what is up to us and what is not up to us.”

— Epictetus

I’m always complaining about the wrong things. I forget what I can control, and surrender my power. I worry about what I cannot control and waste my energy.

“It’s not things that upset us, it’s our judgment about things.”

— Epictetus

Things happen. So what? I get to decide my reaction toward it. Nobody can live my life for me, so I want to take responsibility for how I assess my life.

“Persist and resist.”

— Epictetus

Stoicism is not perfect. It’s often criticized as an easy philosopher for those in power to keep their power. After all, many of the Stoic philosophers highlighted in Lives of The Stoics lived lives of immense privilege and status.

But Epictetus walked the walk.

Yes, we must know the difference between what we can control and what we can’t.

That doesn’t mean we have to live life like a victim. That doesn’t mean that we shouldn’t fight for a better life. It doesn’t mean we shouldn’t struggle to create a better world.

I’m alive anyway. I don’t know how long I’ll be here. So why not try my best every day and keep going?

I can’t guarantee success, but I can guarantee my thoughts and actions to create the best possible conditions for success, whatever that means.

“Don’t explain your philosophy, embody it.”

— Epictetus

Let’s do our best.