April Ryan Fictional character

0 0

rank #1 ·

April Ryan is a fictional character from the adventure game The Longest Journey (1999) and its sequel Dreamfall: The Longest Journey (2006). In the former, she is the protagonist, and in the latter, one of the three primary characters. April has been praised as one of the most memorable female characters in the history of adventure games. In both games she is voiced by an American actress Sarah Hamilton.

Artist characters in video games · 3T

Science fantasy video game characters · 28T

Adventure game characters · 7T

K' Video game character from The King of Fighters fighting game series

0 0

rank #2 ·

K Dash (Japanese: ケイ・ダッシュ, Hepburn: Kei Dasshu, commonly stylized as K′ and also known as K Prime in certain English language materials), is a video game character from The King of Fighters fighting game series developed by SNK. He debuted as the leader of the Hero Team in The King of Fighters '99, released in 1999. He often stars as the reluctant hero. K′ is a young man who lost all his memories when the NESTS syndicate captured him and injected the DNA of Kyo Kusanagi to replicate his pyrokinetic abilities. While rebelling against organization, K' forms multiple bonds with other NESTS agents. Aside from the main series, K' also appears in several other media series, such as spin-offs and crossover video games, as well as printed adaptations of the series.

Fictional characters with amnesia · 54T

SNK protagonists · 16T

Video game characters in anime and manga · 26T

Hana Tsu-Vachel Topic

0 0

rank #3 ·

Hana Tsu-Vachel is a player character in the Fear Effect horror video game series for the PlayStation. She was introduced in Fear Effect in 1999 and is most notable and remembered because of her controversial bisexual relationship in the game's 2001 prequel Fear Effect 2: Retro Helix. She was supposed to return in the canceled sequel Fear Effect Inferno for the PlayStation 2.

Image Comics female characters · 14T

Criminal characters in video games · 91T

Video game protagonists · 132T

Helena Douglas Dead or Alive video game character

0 0

rank #4 ·

Helena Douglas (エレナ・ダグラス Erena Dagurasu?) is a player character in the Dead or Alive series of fighting games by Team Ninja and Koei Tecmo. She was introduced in 1999's Dead or Alive 2 as a French opera singer seeking to avenge her mother's murder. Due to her blood relation to the original head of the antagonistic organization behind the Dead or Alive fighting tournaments, she has become a key character in the franchise, including serving as the protagonist of Dead or Alive 4.

Fictional volleyball players · 8T

Koei Tecmo protagonists · 10T

Fictional opera singers · 4T

Raziel (Legacy of Kain) Fictional character

0 0

rank #5 ·

Raziel is a fictional character and a main protagonist in the Legacy of Kain video game series. Introduced in 1999 as the lead and playable character of Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver, he was created by Amy Hennig, Seth Carus and Arnold Ayala of Crystal Dynamics. He reappears as the protagonist of Soul Reaver 2, and returns as a playable character alongside series eponym, Kain, in Legacy of Kain: Defiance, which closes his story arc.

Vampire superheroes · 16T

Fictional swordfighters in video games · 141T

Fictional soul collectors · 32T

Lugia Pokémon species

0 0

rank #7 · 3

Lugia (ルギア Rugia, ) is a Pokémon species in Nintendo and Game Freak's Pokémon franchise. Created by Ken Sugimori, Lugia first appeared as a central character in the film Pokémon: The Movie 2000, The Power Of One, and later serves as the version mascot of the video game Pokémon Silver and its remake, Pokémon SoulSilver, appearing on the box art of both, and appearing in-game. It later appears in the Pokémon anime, various merchandise, spin-off titles and printed adaptations of the franchise, such as Pokémon Adventures. In animated appearances, Lugia is voiced in Japanese by Koichi Yamadera and in English localizations by Eric Rath.

Film characters introduced in 1999 · 18T

Video game characters with air or wind abilities · 10T

Dragon characters in video games · 9T

Celebi Character

0 0

rank #9 · 3 1

Celebi (セレビィ Serebī, ) is a Pokémon species in Nintendo and Game Freak's Pokémon franchise. Created by Ken Sugimori, it first appeared in the video games Pokémon Gold and Silver and later appeared in various merchandise, spinoff titles, and animated and printed adaptations of the franchise. Celebi appears with central roles in the anime movies Pokémon 4Ever and Zoroark: Master of Illusions. In the Pokémon Adventures manga, one of the main antagonists, Pryce, seeks Celebi so he can travel back in time.

Time travelers · 108T

Fictional characters with plant abilities · 26T

Fictional psychics · 27T