Japanese police have arrested a suspect after the assassination of former prime minister Shinzo Abe as he gave a speech while campaigning ahead of elections.

The shooting, involving what appeared to be a homemade gun, has rocked the world and drawn tributes from world leaders including Boris Johnson and Volodymyr Zelensky.

Local media identified the suspect as Tetsuya Yamagami, 41. Here’s what we know about him.

Who is Tetsuya Yamagami?

Tetsuya Yamagami is a resident of Nara, the western Japanese city where the shooting took place, local media reported.

He is believed to be a former member of the Japanese Maritime Self-Defence Force, the country’s version of a navy under its pacifist post-war constitution. He served for three years from 2002 to 2005, the New York Times reported.

He is being questioned at Nara Nishi police station.

Possible explosives were found at his home, NHK, the Japanese natoinal broadcaster, reported. He is believed to have fashioned the gun himself. Firearms and gun crime are very rare in Japan compared to many other countries.

Yamagami was tackled to the gound by security personnel after the attack. He was wearing a grey T-shirt and beige trousers, and had long hair and was wearing glasses, in photographs after his arrest.

What was his possible motive?

Japanese media reported that Yamagami told police he was dissatisfied with the former prime minister and “targeted Abe with the intention of killing him”. Officials and police have given no further details about a possible motive. It was reported that he did not try to escape.

Is this the first Japanese political assassination?

Gun crime is rare in Japan, with less than 10 incidents most years. By comparison, the UK had 33 fatalities related to firearms in the year to March 2019, while the United States had more than 37,000 in 2019.

But political assassination in Japan is not unknown. The first prime minister, Ito Hirobumi, was shot by a Korean nationalist in 1909. Korekiyo Takahashi, premier in 1921 and 1932, was assassinated by the army in 1936 after cutting military spending. Takashi Hara, prime minister from 1918 to 1921, was stabbed to death by a right-wing extremist.

Osachi Hamaguchi, PM from 1929 to 1931, was killed after an infection to a gunshot wound received from another right-wing extremist.

Tsuyoshi Inukai was killed at the age of 76 in 1932 by a group of junior navy officers who seized control from civilian politicians in a coup, ending a bloody period for Japanese leaders and leaing to the military-imperial government that ultimately fought the Second World War.

In more recent times, Koki Ishii, a deputy in parliament, was murdered in 2002 by a member of the Yakuza – Japan’s organised crime groups. The mayor of Nagasaki, Iccho Itoh was also killed by Yakuza in 2007, shot in the back outside his campaign office.