GRAMMY® winner, multiple Billboard chart-topping artist, and international reggae icon Buju Banton lights up a new single entitled “High Life” featuring Snoop Dogg—out now via Roc Nation Records/Gargamel Music/Def Jam Recordings. With its message of being above the clouds yet firmly grounded, “High Life” notably marks the first official collaboration between these two legendary trailblazers, tracing a direct line between Jamaica and the LBC for the first time.

Buju Banton’s latest track, “High Life,” features a captivating dancehall rhythm infused with horns and dreamy synths. Buju joyfully delivers an infectious and irresistible chorus while Snoop Dogg adds his reggae-inspired verses, requesting, “Oh Mary Jane, will you please take me home?” It’s the perfect smoker’s anthem just in time for 4/20.

The song serves as a prelude to Buju’s highly anticipated fourteenth album, set to release later this year. His last album, Upside Down 2020, was universally acclaimed and received a GRAMMY® nomination for “Best Reggae Album.” It garnered rave reviews from both The Guardian and Rolling Stone, earning a “4-out-of-5 star” rating.

Buju had a busy 2022 with the release of his fan-favorite single “Si Mi Clean,” featuring Busy Signal, which amassed over half-a-million streams and garnered attention from BET and other outlets. He is set to perform his new hits and classics from his extensive catalog during his upcoming shows in Trinidad, St. Lucia, and the Bahamas.

Buju kicked off 2023 with a bang, performing alongside Beres Hammond on New Year’s Day in Jamaica. It was their first time headlining a concert together on the island. He also had a successful performance at Kingston’s National Stadium during the Long Walk to Freedom Concert, which was one of the biggest music events in Jamaica’s history.

In 2020, he signed with Roc Nation and released “Steppa” and “Trust,” paving the way for Upside Down 2020. Relive the monumental moment from the history-making Long Walk to Freedom Concert here: https://bujubanton.me/ lwtf

Buju has had a prolific career since his debut in 1992, with highlights including Til Shiloh, which was certified Gold by the RIAA, and Before the Dawn, his GRAMMY®-winning album in 2010. He is widely respected in the reggae community and has been praised by the Associated Press as “one of the most respected acts in reggae.” The FADER has called him “a national hero” and a hallmark of Jamaican culture. With “High Life,” Buju and Snoop Dogg have provided the perfect soundtrack for the “High Life” in 2023.

Tweet

About the Author

Dr. Jerry Doby Editor-in-Chief of The Hype Magazine, Media and SEO Consultant, Journalist, Ph.D. and retired combat vet. 2023 recipient of The President's Lifetime Achievement Award. Partner at THM Media Group. Member of the U.S. Department of Arts and Culture, the United States Press Agency and ForbesBLK.