Tonight in Sheffield 2012 Industry Week guest Jeanie Finlay will introduce her latest feature film to a packed audience at Sheffield’s Showroom Cinema. The Great Hip Hop Hoax brings the audacious story of Gavin Bain and Billy Boyd to the big screen. After studying together at Dundee College they managed to fool the music industry into believing they were Californian hip hop artists “Silibil n Brains” . With their perfect American accents and attitudes they secured a record deal with Sony and lived the high life for a while until their deception began to spiral out of control. The Great …

Continue reading “Industry Week Guest Jeanie Finlay premieres her latest film at the Sheffield International Documentary Film Festival”

Confetti Degree Showcase 2013 finished on a high yesterday as winners of multiple awards were announced at the Showcase Awards Ceremony in the Antenna Bar and Restaurant. The Showcase event started at 3pm at Confetti ICT, where Higher Education students had the chance to showcase their talent and their projects produced throughout the year. The turnout this year was fantastic! Families and friends came to support and enjoy their work as well as other education establishments and industry eagerly scouting for potential. The Awards Ceremony followed hot on the heels of Showcase and was attended by the nominees and their families and …

Continue reading “Confetti Congratulates Degree Showcase Winners”

From jazz recordings in a church, to films about the Napoleonic War – Confetti Institute of Creative Technologies is opening its doors and inviting visitors to sample its creative delights at ‘Showcase’ – its annual gala celebration of Higher Education students’ creativity and achievements. On Thursday 6 June, students on the Music Technology, TV & Film Production and Games Technology degree courses will be presenting their work to an audience of fellow students, tutors, families and creative business leaders eager to spot new talent. Visitors to Showcase will be invited into Confetti’s Film Lounge and Doc Den – to view …

Continue reading “Students prepare for Confetti Degree Showcase 2013”

Bigger, better, louder… Big names from the worlds of music, games TV and film are once again gearing up to present at Confetti’s Annual Industry Week event. For one week each year, Confetti students’ normal timetable is replaced by masterclasses, workshops and lectures – all delivered by key creative industry players. This years guests include Michael Eavis and Vicky McClure.

First impressions – Do you even lift? Well he does… Rob is a very nice guy but looks intimidating because he’s built, less of the man crush and more on to the lecture. It was very good at first I was like wahh? Because he started talking about onion gravy (which made me hungry) and how to make it which was a complete was of my time because I’m not doing a cooking course at west notts I’m doing a gaming course at an awesome college J. Any-who this was meant to be a complete was of my time as …

Continue reading “Rob Yescombe on How Not to Pitch Onion Soup”

With experience in both Indie and triple A development, Rob Yescombe has truly seen it all. Today Rob shared with us his techniques and secrets for creating a well executed games pitch to a developer, using a misleading yet fantastic analogy involving onion gravy. “Today, we’ll be running through making onion gravy” was uttered to the surprise of the audience. He walked us through how you make onion gravy, starting with the planting on onion seeds (ensuring not to neglect the correct soil pH required for onion seed to thrive!) and walking right through to the final steps in cooking. …

Continue reading “Rob Yescombe on how to pitch”

Students at Confetti welcomed a special visitor yesterday in the shape of Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg. He was in Nottingham looking at how Government City Deal money of £60m could benefit creative businesses and young people. He was taken on a tour of Confetti and the Antenna Creative Business Centre by Confetti Media Group boss Craig Chettle. The Deputy Prime Minister met students on the Games Technology, Music Technology and TV and Film courses and observed their lessons. Head of Further Education Phil Myers commented on the visit: “It’s not every day the Deputy Prime Minister gets to experience …

Continue reading “Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg visits Confetti”