Acclaimed American songwriter, musician and rock ‘n’ roll lifer Gregg Sutton has died. He was 74.

Sutton’s career began in 4th grade in Great Neck, NY, when he became friends with comedian Andy Kaufman. He would go on to serve as his musical director throughout Andy’s career until his passing, including the legendary 1979 Carnegie Hall concert.

In 1984, Sutton would be part of the distinctive touring band who Bob Dylan took out on the road and recorded the Real Live concert album with, joined by the likes of Ian MacLagan on keyboards and Mick Taylor playing guitar. Gregg was on bass, and can be heard particularly front and center on the wild version of “Tombstone Blues” here.

Sutton joined Lone Justice as bassist when the lineup began to change following their signing to Geffen Records, and played a key role in the L.A. group’s second and last album, Shelter, in 1986, co-writing the songs “Dreams Come True” and “Inspiration.” His work with singer Maria McKee continued with her eponymous 1989 solo debut, co-writing the songs “Breathe” and “This Property Is Condemned.”

In the 1970s, Sutton was a member of the group KGB, featuring Carmine Appice and Barry Goldberg. He was also a member of the Arista-signed band The Pets. Shortly after their breakup, Sutton cut his solo debut, Soft as a Sidewalk, for Columbia Records. He also did a little time playing bass for Tommy Tutone, appearing on their 1983 album National Emotion.

Throughout his career, Sutton worked on songs for countless artists: Sam Brown, Joe Cocker, Tal Bachman,Bloodline, Joe Bonamassa, Ane Brun, Eric Burdon, Charles & Eddie, Papa John Creach, Shannon Curfman, Billy Ray Cyrus, Andy Griffith, Beth Hart, Jeff Healey, The Human League, Teresa James, Tom Jones, Chris LeDoux, Del McCoury, John McVie, Nelson, The Nighthawks, O-Town, Carla Olson, Thick Pigeon, Jason Ringenberg, Timothy B. Schmit, Percy Sledge, Heather Small, Ray Stevens, Curtis Stigers (together with Shelly Peiken), Andrew Strong, Swirl 360, Chris Thompson and Edgar Winter. Just to name a few.

“I knew Gregg Sutton for more than 40 years,” wrote his friend, legendary music critic Chris Morris, on Facebook today. “He was a wild, hilarious, super-talented cat, a brilliant songwriter and front man who also played with some of the heaviest people on the planet. He lived a hard, often messy, and outsized life, and I was constantly amazed that he lived as long as he did. His last few years were often rough, but he was at peace, greatly loved, and singing, playing, and writing with distinction until the end.”

“So sad to hear that Gregg Sutton has passed away, not long after Dwight Twilley,” Rock & Roll Globe’s own Mitchell Cohen shared on his Facebook page. “Both were artists I met early in my Arista career, when Gregg was a member of The Pets (Wet Behind the Ears) and the label released the second Twilley Band album. I named my Arista book Looking for the Magic after a Twilley Band track, and Gregg was generous in agreeing to be interviewed for it. Too damned many losses. Both these guys made music that resonated with me and many others, and they will be missed.”

No cause of death was given at press time.

Fare thee well to a true rock ‘n’ roll original.