Introduces the Phase One XF Camera System — a Fully Modular Platform Designed to Inspire New Imaging Possibilities

COPENHAGEN, June 2, 2015 — Phase One today introduced the new standard in professional photography equipment. Designed in-house by Phase One, the XF Camera System represents a fundamental re-engineering of all key elements in a modern camera system. With robust, aerial-grade mechanics, advanced electronics, a new autofocus platform, new modularity options, new software and customizable touch controls, this system is based on more than 20 years of digital imaging design expertise, a commitment to open systems, and a relentless focus on image quality.

“Our key objective is to help the world’s best photographers capture more epic images, to stand out as artists and have fun in the process,” said Henrik O. Håkonsson, President, Phase One. “Our new XF Camera System is designed to be like a ‘Stradivarius’ in the hands of an expert.”

Phase One has designed the XF Camera System to deliver its fastest, most robust and most expandable camera system for professional photographers. Important advancements include:

New Autofocus Platform – The XF Camera System marks an important milestone for Phase One — a new patent pending and fully controlled in-house autofocus system: the Honeybee Autofocus Platform (HAP-1).

New Flexible OneTouch User Interface (UI) – Based on clean Scandinavian design principles, the OneTouch UI is a seamless and highly customizable combination of dials, keys and touch screens, allowing photographers to personalize camera controls for their specific shooting requirements, via camera or software. Using a new modern Phase One Camera OS, the OneTouch UI is user upgradeable and will evolve in accordance with customer needs and feedback.

New IQ3 Digital Backs – A new full frame IQ3 80MP digital back is the first of its kind to offer exposures of up to 60 minutes using a new and Phase One-exclusive imaging sensor. It joins the new IQ3 60MP and IQ3 50MP digital backs — all three of which feature a high-bandwidth interface that enables advanced tools in the new OneTouch UI, including power-sharing capabilities.

New Lenses Ready for 100MP and Beyond – Two new Phase One Schneider Kreuznach Leaf Shutter lenses — 120mm and 35mm — are both designed to resolve beyond 100MP. They add to Phase One’s range of 20 high-resolution medium format optics, including a dedicated Leaf Shutter range, a Focal Plane range, specialty and zooms, and support for 60 legacy lenses.

New Capture One Pro 8.3 – Delivering the market’s best RAW image quality, more than 25 advanced photographic tools, and industry leading professional workflow, Capture One Pro 8.3 is built specifically for the XF Camera System and supports more than 300 different models of 35mm DSLRs. It offers the option to customize XF camera controls and delivers up to 30 percent faster tethered shooting.

New Modular Viewfinders – The XF Camera System introduces a new 90° Prism viewfinder and a new waist-level finder. The full frame solid glass prism viewfinder is the brightest of its kind, and comes standard on all XF cameras. The new waist- level viewfinder (an industry classic) can measure exposure thanks to the HAP-1 autofocus platform ability to perform light metering.

Phase One Medium Format Advantages

Medium format sensors are 2.5 times larger than those found in high-end 35mm DSLRs. They produce unmatched resolution combined with large, high dynamic range pixels with exceptional wide angular response. Phase One always aims to customize its sensors, and has developed a world leading expertise in sensor design and optimization. And, while other cameras simply offer interchangeable lenses, Phase One’s commitment to an open platform philosophy extends beyond its choice of lenses to its camera body, viewfinders and digital backs, all of which are interchangeable for maximum creative options – (including the option to interface with other manufacturers, such as mounting a back on a technical camera) — as well as long-term upgrade possibilities and investment value.

Phase One XF Medium Format Camera Delivers Fastest Response time

The Phase One XF camera is built on an all-new electronics architecture using faster processors, with new sensor advancements (including gyroscopic sensors and accelerometers) and an integrated wireless Profoto flash trigger.

The “Honeybee Autofocus Platform” (HAP-1) is designed with a new custom processor and high-resolution CMOS AF sensor that combines a unique floating-point architecture and fully programmable interface. It is built for precision in typical professional environments using a new white spectrum focus assist light and Phase One developed patterns. With the new Hyperfocal Point Focusing feature, it is possible to set a Hyperfocal point for each lens and have HAP-1 automatically return to that specific point when needed.

The New XF OneTouch User Interface is designed for power and simplicity.

1. Intuitive Touch – There are two touch screens: A 1.6” grip screen is designed for clear visibility under any lighting condition using a transflective capacitive touch display. On the back is a 3.2” retina touch screen designed to show high-quality image previews, with the ability to zoom to 100 percent with a single tap.

2. Soft-configured controls – The XF Camera controls can be controlled from the camera or via tethered computer/mobile device. Three customizable dial and six customizable controls let photographers personalize the operation of each control to support their needs at any given time.

3. Upgradeable Camera OS – The new XF Camera OS powering its OneTouch UI allows for easy and fast upgrades that will provide both new features and unique customization in accordance with the feedback of our customers. XF Camera Systems users are encouraged to submit ideas and feature requests and will be able to easily upgrade their system at regular intervals to benefit from new features.

The New IQ3 Digital Backs – These include the first Phase One exclusive 80-megapixel sensor capable of 60 minutes exposure. IQ3 Digital Backs use a new high-capacity interface capable of delivering faster data transmission and power sharing between the system’s two batteries. The IQ3 high-capacity interface is the enabler of many advanced integration features and will be the foundation for OneTouch UI updates for years to come.

Capture One 8.3 – Capture One distinguishes Phase One systems from the rest, to offer photographers the most consistent image quality, by industry leading RAW conversion and image processing tools. With this update, Capture One delivers 30 percent faster tethered shooting. And with direct Wi-Fi connectivity of the IQ3 range, capturing images on the XF can be triggered from Capture Pilot running on any iOS device.

Unparalleled Service & Support

Phase One offers best in class support, including guaranteed 8-hour response time for hardware customers, an unparalleled 5-year system warranty, 5-year uptime guarantee, and support directly from Phase One as well as through a worldwide network of carefully selected partners.

Availability and Pricing

Phase One XF camera system configurations are available now through Phase One photography partners worldwide: www.phaseone.com/partners

XF camera body, IQ3 Digital Back, Prism Viewfinder & Schneider Kreuznach 80mm LS lens: XF IQ3 80MP – $48,990.00 / 38.990,00 EUR

XF IQ3 60MP – $41,990.00 / 33.990,00 EUR

XF IQ3 50MP – $40,990.00 / 31.990,00 EUR

Phase One Schneider Kreuznach Leaf Shutter lenses: 35mm – $6,490.00 / 5.490,00 EUR

120mm – $6,490.00 / 5.490,00 EUR

All systems come with Capture One 8.3 software for optimal RAW image processing and image editing.

For a complete list of all available Phase One XF digital system components and options, please contact the Phase One partner closest to you.

Attractive camera system upgrade offers are available for all Phase One photographers. For a demo, please sign up here: www.phaseone.com/demo

About Phase One

Phase One is the world’s leader in open-platform, high-end camera systems and solutions. Phase One cameras, digital backs and lenses are designed to deliver superior quality image capture and investment value. Phase One’s Capture One Pro and Media Pro software help streamline capture and post-production processes for both medium format and DSLR cameras. Phase One products are known for their quality, flexibility and speed enabling pro photographers shooting in a wide range of formats to achieve their creative visions without compromise.

Phase One is based in Copenhagen with offices in New York, London, Tokyo, Cologne, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Sydney, and Tel Aviv. Phase One and Capture One are registered trademarks of Phase One A/S. All other brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders.

Learn more here: