Entry 157 : First Impressions - Phase One IQ140

Hey, guys.

You know how I usually review DSLR gear?

Well, this time I got to try out the medium format goliath, Phase One with the IQ140 digital back.

Phase One A/S IQ140 + Schneider Kreuznach LS 80mm f2.8

Forgot to bring my camera so I used my iPhone

Before I get into my impressions of the system, I will explain briefly on the mechanics of using a Phase One system.

The Phase One system is divided into three separate interchangeable parts: the lens, body and digital back.

The basic system

Image from www.colbybrownphotography.com

Lens

Usually, a lens only determines the focal length and maximum aperture.

However, in the case of Phase One, the lens also determines the maximum achievable flash sync speed.

The Schneider Kreuznach lenses are 'leaf shutter' lenses, which means the shutter is built into the lens, which basically allows the user to use flash sync speed up to 1/1600 sec., contrary to the usual maximum of 1/250 sec. in DSLRs.

This is most useful to those who want to use artificial lighting to illuminate the subjects while utilizing fast shutter speeds to capture motion and so on.

Because the Phase One camera is open platform, it can take lenses from a myriad of choices such as the Phase One digital focal plane lenses, Schneider Kreuznach leaf shutter lenses, Mamiya 645 AF and manual lenses, and also Hasselblad V & Pentacon 6 lenses via multimount adaptor.

The many available choices of lenses to use make the Phase One system unique and practical.

645 DF camera body

The 645 stands for the aspect ratio of the sensor, which is 6x4.5 (4:3).

The name is inherited from medium format film cameras, which include the size of the sensor in the name (Pentax 67, Mamiya 645).

Equipped with only one focus point, the camera body makes up for its lack of focus points with a huge viewfinder, almost three times larger than those found in 35mm cameras (DSLRs and SLRs).

This means that it wouldn't be much of a problem to utilize manual focusing for the most part of the jobs and shoots.

As mentioned above, the camera body takes many types of lenses from different platforms for a more flexible usage.

Digital back

This is where the magic happens.

The sensor of the system is in the digital back, along with functions such as playback preview, ISO settings and retouching menu.

The functions of one digital back slightly differs from the other, such as in resolution size, ISO capability and WiFi connectivity.

Now, I don't plan on writing too much about the intricacies of the Phase One and the benefits of medium over 35mm.

What I want to stress is the practicality, operations and my thoughts on the IQ140 I got to test out.

First of all, it feels plasticky.

Don't get me wrong.

It doesn't feel cheap, it just feels like it isn't as sturdy as a D4s or 1D X.

Ironic, though, seeing that it costs 10 times more than those cameras.

The operations and handling of the camera are quite similar to a DSLR.

I guess the difference is that the camera has extra weight at the rear while DSLRs are mostly front-heavy.

It felt great in the hands and wasn't as heavy as I expected it to be.

Shooting hand-held wasn't a problem; at least until I reviewed the photos on the computer.

Always the stand-in model

Phase One A/S IQ140 + Schneider LS 80mm f2.8 • f/2.8 • 1/40 sec. • ISO-400

Shooting slower than 1/100 sec. on a DSLR would often result in motion blur but I wasn't too worried with the Phase One as I was using a leaf shutter lens.

But I was greatly astonished when I found out that there was motion blur in the photo and that the lens wasn't even sharp wide open.

I assure you I was as still as a statue when I took the photo but the result was honestly far from my expectations.

And the only reason I had to shoot at a slow shutter speed was because the ISO performance was bad and it had just started to rain.

Even at ISO 400 hints of noise were visible and the maximum ISO of 800 was effectively unusable.

I wouldn't mind shooting at ISO-800 normally on other forms of cameras, but the IQ140 just wasn't good enough.

On a positive note, the image quality is superb, the RAW files are huge (40MP sensor) and great to play around with.

Shooting wide open with the Schneider 80mm was really unwise as there was a great lack of sharpness but the bokeh from the shallow depth of field was extremely pleasing.

Sorry for the lack of creativity

Phase One A/S IQ140 + Schneider LS 80mm f2.8 • f/2.8 • 1/40 sec. • ISO-400

I don't think I have much else to say about the IQ140.

Of course, given its set of specifications, the IQ140 is not meant for a broad spectrum of shoots.

And because it's such an old (discontinued, in fact) model, there was a whole lot of room for improvement.

The new IQ2 series of Phase One digital backs seem to offer much better performance in all aspects, especially the IQ250 that goes up to ISO-6400, which I originally wanted to test out.

I also only got to peruse the camera for a few minutes with the manager eyeing my every move before having to quickly return it back.

I was stumped because I initially thought Phase One would let me test out the camera for real, as in, for a few days with maybe more equipment.

I had planned on doing a full photo shoot with a hired model just to test out the system in a professional setting but unfortunately it all went up in smoke.

I don't know if I'll be able to test out a Phase One camera for real next time.

I would have certainly loved to really put it through its paces on a job or for a photo shoot.

But for right now, I'll just leave you with my first impressions and some sample photos here.

DISCLAIMER: I do not represent Phase One or any other brand that might be showcased in this review. This review is written for THE FEAR and is of no significance to any sort of argument that may or may not ensue. I deliver this with utmost honesty and sincerity.