Synopsis

Arnold Schwarzenegger revealed his interest in partaking in US politics but having been an Austria-born citizen, the actor is not legally allowed to do so. Well, fans really love to imagine him playing the role, at least fictionally.

Arnold Schwarzenegger, Hollywood action star and former Governor of California, ignited a political and entertainment frenzy when he expressed his belief that he would have made a “great” U.S. President. During a recent interview with the BBC, Schwarzenegger, who hails from Austria, candidly discussed his presidential ambitions and the legal restrictions that prevent him from pursuing the highest office in the land.

Schwarzenegger, known for his roles in iconic action movies and his distinguished career as a professional bodybuilder, remains ineligible to run for President due to a constitutional provision that limits the office to natural-born U.S. citizens.

Born and raised in Thal, Austria, he set on his journey to the United States in 1968. Over the years, he achieved fame and fortune, making a name for himself in the worlds of bodybuilding, Hollywood, and politics. Notably, he served as the Governor of California from 2003 to 2011.

“Everything I’ve Accomplished is because of America!”

Schwarzenegger acknowledged the legal barriers but remained optimistic and magnanimous in his response. “I feel like I would make a great President…But I feel that, at the same time, everything I’ve accomplished was because of America…There was no one there that stopped me from my success,” he stated. He went on to express his deep gratitude for the opportunities he had been given in the United States and the warm reception he received from the American people.

Schwarzenegger's sentiments reflect his admiration for the country that welcomed him with open arms, enabling him to carve out a life and career filled with unprecedented achievements.

Despite the constitutional impediment that kept him from pursuing the presidency, he did not dwell on what he could not change. Instead, he advocated for immigration reform to address this particular restriction, suggesting that altering the constitution's criteria could be the path to eligibility.

However, although the actor cannot prominently participate in country politics, fans of the actor feel Arnold should at least take up the role of President in a film. This way both – his dream of heading the country and his fans’ dream of seeing him in the chair can be fulfilled, although fictionally.

FAQs

What did Arnold Schwarzenegger have as a career before becoming an actor and politician?

Arnold Schwarzenegger was a bodybuilder before he became an actor and later Governor of California (2003-2011).

How long has Arnold Schwarzenegger been in politics?

He served as the 38th governor of California from 2003 to 2011 and was among Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world in 2004 and 2007.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

Disclaimer Statement: This content is authored by a 3rd party. The views expressed here are that of the respective authors/ entities and do not represent the views of Economic Times (ET). ET does not guarantee, vouch for or endorse any of its contents nor is responsible for them in any manner whatsoever. Please take all steps necessary to ascertain that any information and content provided is correct, updated, and verified. ET hereby disclaims any and all warranties, express or implied, relating to the report and any content therein.

(Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates.

...moreless

Why India needs its biggest port Vadhavan, more now than ever

FOMO overriding fundamentals? What makes India’s top shipbuilder sail despite downside calls

Is a discount of up to 3% enough to tempt Indians buy into auto scrappage?

How Tata Motors is breaking the silence of EVs, and making them roar instead

RBI and Fed are singing different tunes as world awaits next payments tech wave

Once derided, startups are now market darlings marching to Nifty 50

1

2

3