When Donna Summer was eight years old, she started singing solo in church. One day, she opened her mouth to sing a gospel song and her impressive voice shocked her and everybody in the room. Then, she started crying, and everyone in the church began crying. Several years later, she became widely known as the Queen of Disco because of her sultry vocals and pulsing rhythms. Donna’s exceptional technique and musicianship made her win five Grammys, spanning the dance, rock, R&B, and inspirational categories.

Donna Summer was an American singer, songwriter, and actress. She rose to fame in the 1970s during the disco era when she released hit songs, including Last Dance, Heaven Knows, Bad Girls, and On the Radio. Summer had a musical career spanning four decades.

Within that period, she had released 42 hit singles on the United States Billboard Hot 100 and 14 top ten hits on the charts. But Summer also had a career in the acting scene and appeared in the 1978 musical disco comedy Thank God It’s Friday, portraying Nicole Sims.

Donna Summer’s profile summary

Real nameLaDonna Adrian GainesNicknameDonna Summer, The Queen of Disco, The First Lady of Love, Donna Gaines, Gayn PierreGenderFemaleDate of birth31 December 1948Age 63 (as of 17 May 2012)Zodiac signCapricornPlace of birth Boston, Massachusetts, United StatesNationalityAmericanEthnicityBlack ReligionChristian (African Methodist Episcopal Church)SexualityStraightHeight in feet 5'7"Height in centimetres 170Weight in pounds 132Weight in kilograms 60Body measurements in inches32-26-32Body measurements in centimetres 81-66-81Shoe size7 (US)Hair colour Dark BrownEye colourDark BrownMotherMary GainesFatherAndrew GainesSiblings 6Marital status MarriedPartner Bruce SudanoChildren 3School Jeremiah E. Burke High SchoolProfession Singer, songwriter, actressNet worth$75 million

Early life

The singer was born LaDonna Adrian Gaines on 31 December 1948 in Boston, Massachusetts, United States. She is the daughter of Andrew Gaines (father) and Mary Gaines (mother). Summer grew up in the Boston neighbourhood of Mission Hill alongside her six siblings, and she is the third born in a family of seven children.

Donna Summer’s father worked as a butcher, and her mother was a schoolteacher. Her parents took her to Jeremiah E. Burke High School, where she performed in school musicals. Furthermore, they raised her as a Christian and followed the teachings of the African Methodist Episcopal Church.

Donna started singing when she was ten. One day on a Sunday morning, she went to church as usual, and a singer scheduled to perform at her church did not show up. So summer’s priest invited her to perform. But everyone got surprised because of her voice.

Her performance was overwhelming, powerful, and beautiful. That is the point Donna knew she would be a singer. In 1967, she auditioned for Hair: The American Tribal Love-Rock Musical scheduled for Munich, weeks before her high school graduation.

Music career

Donna sang for the first time in public when she stepped in for a no-show singer at her church. She wowed the congregation, and it was from that moment that her singing career started. In 1967, she moved to Germany to perform in the musical Hair and also recorded her first song in Germany.

In 1974, Donna evangelised her name to Summer after divorcing her husband, Helmuth Sommer and used it as her stage name. Then, she signed her first recording contract. She released the song Love to Love You the following year, which became a hit and put her in the top ten on international charts.

Between 1974 and 2008, Donna released 17 studio albums, two live albums, 32 compilation albums, 44 music videos, and 89 singles. She scored three number-one albums on the Billboard 200 and 16 number-one hits on Dance Club Songs. Her number one hits on the Dance Club songs earned her the title of Queen of Disco.

Acting career

Donna had a short career as an actress. She appeared in one film and three television shows, including 11 Uhr 20 (1970), Thank God It's Friday (1978), Family Matters (1994-1997), and Platinum Hit (2011).

Donna Summer's husband and children

Donna had been in two marriages. She first married Helmuth Sommer, an Austrian actor, in 1973. The couple welcomed their daughter named Natalia Pia Melanie Sommer in 1973. Unfortunately, the pair divorced three years later, in 1976.

Summer kept her ex-husband’s name as her professional stage name. On 16 July 1980, Donna married Bruce Sudano. Summer's husband is a singer and songwriter. They welcomed their first child Brooklyn Sudano on 5 January 1981. Then, on 11 August 1982, she gave birth to her second daughter Amanda Sudano.

Cause of death

On 17 May 2012, Donna passed away in her home in Naples, Florida, United States, aged 63. She had suffered lung cancer, which she believed came from inhaling toxic fumes and dust from the events of 9 September 2011.

Donna Summer’s net worth

Donna worked as an actress, singer, and songwriter for over four decades. Her net worth when she died in 2011 was $75 million. She recorded 17 albums and many other songs. When she died in 2011, she had sold more than 130 million records. Thus, she made a significant amount of money through album sales.

Donna also had several homes. In 1994, she bought a 25-acre estate in Brentwood, Tennessee, for an undisclosed amount and another property in Tennessee in College Grove for $370,000.

One year later, she bought another 2.2-acre-bay front home in Shelter Island, New York, for an undisclosed amount. In 2000, Summer bought a condo in Naples, Florida, and finally paid $3.6 million for an oceanfront in Englewood, Florida, in 2007.

Donna Summer's fast facts

What illness did Donna Summer have? She battled lung cancer which she believed stemmed from exposure following 11 September 2001 in New York.

Did Donna Summer speak German? Donna spoke fluent German after living in Germany for many years. She even recorded songs in German and appeared in a German television series.

What was Donna Summer addicted to? She developed a drug and alcohol addiction as her career peaked.

How many records did Donna Summer sell? She sold more than 130 million records worldwide.

How many studio albums did Donna Summer record? She recorded 17 studio albums and 89 singles, plus many other releases.

What was Donna Summer's cause of death? The cause of her death on 17 May 2012 was lung cancer.

Donna Summer was an American singer, actress, and songwriter. She was best known as the Queen of Dance, mainly because of her disco songs in the 70s, including Last Dance, Heaven Knows, Bad Girls, and On the Radio. Unfortunately, she died on 17 May 2012 from lung cancer. Before her death, she left behind her husband, Bruce Sudano and three children.

Are you interested to know about the untold truth about singer Stelle Madonna's adopted daughter? Tuko.co.ke shared an article giving details about the adoption.

Madonna is a household name in the entertainment industry. She is a renowned actress, singer, and songwriter. Madonna is regarded as one of the most important figures in pop culture.

Source: TUKO.co.ke