White River Junction, VT, USA – March 3, 2023 — Concepts NREC is pleased to announce a strategic partnership with Cadence Design Systems, Inc. for software development and sales in the area of Computer Aided Engineering (CAE) for turbomachinery.

Under the new agreement, Concepts NREC and Cadence will continue working together to develop Fidelity/Agile®, a comprehensive software platform that covers the entire design process for turbomachinery including system/cycle design, preliminary sizing, fluid dynamics, and mechanical stress/vibration analysis. Both companies are fully equipped to provide training and customer support for this technology, which is already in use at some of the world's leading manufacturers of gas turbines, compressors, rocket engines, pumps, turbochargers, and green energy systems.

Dr. Peter Weitzman, President of Agile Engineering Software, commented, “This partnership with Cadence will ultimately provide enhanced solutions that take advantage of both companies’ expertise and experience. Our combined efforts will open up new opportunities for innovation and ensure continued customer satisfaction with end-to-end design reliability.”

About Concepts NREC

Headquartered in the USA, Concepts NREC is the only company in the world with end-to-end capabilities to take turbomachinery products from concept to reality. For more than 65 years, Concepts NREC has been at the forefront of turbomachinery design and innovation, providing engineering services, design software, CAM software, precision manufacturing, assembly, testing, training, and installation. Our mission is to provide the cutting-edge turbomachinery products, tools, and solutions the world needs for a sustainable future. To learn more, visit www.conceptsnrec.com.

About the Agile Engineering Design System®

The Agile Engineering Design System® is a complementary suite of programs for Computer-Aided Engineering (CAE) and Computer-Aided Manufacturing (CAM) that covers the entire design process, from preliminary sizing through fluid dynamics and mechanical stress/vibration analysis. Final designs can be easily imported into our industry-leading CAM software, MAX-PAC™, to create efficient 5-axis machining strategies.

Cadence is a registered trademark and Fidelity is a trademark of Cadence Design Systems, Inc