There are several different winter weather advisories, watches and warnings issued during Michigan’s winter storms. Let’s take a look at what weather criteria cause these various winter advisories and warnings to be issued.

Let’s go over these watches, advisories and warnings in a typical sequence that occur as a storm approaches.

Firstly, when a significant winter storm is possible, but not certain, we may have a winter storm watch issued. A winter storm watch means the start of the significant winter weather is at least 12 hours from now to as much as 48 hours from now. A winter storm watch is issued for a storm that could produce six inches or more of snow in 12 hours or eight inches of snow in 24 hours. This is the criteria for Lower Michigan. Since the Upper Peninsula experiences more snow, the criteria for a winter storm watch is two inches higher: eight inches in 12 hours or 10 inches in 24 hours. A winter storm watch can also be issued for a combination of heavy snow, sleet and/or freezing rain.

The winter storm watch is expected to turn into a winter storm warning when the expected heavy snow or heavy mixture of snow, sleet and freezing rain is occurring or more certain to happen and less than 12 hours from starting.

Often several counties in the winter storm watch will eventually not be in the heaviest snow. Those counties will then have their winter storm watch refined into a winter weather advisory.

A winter weather advisory for snow is issued on the expectation of three to five inches of snow in 12 hours. This is enough snow to cause significant travel problems, but not extreme winter travel conditions. The National Weather Service at Marquette uses the northern part of the Upper Peninsula getting three to seven inches of snow for the winter weather advisory criteria.

The National Weather Service offices still have the opportunity to call three to five inches of snow produced exclusively by lake effect a lake effect snow advisory.

The blizzard warning is the most severe winter weather advisory. A blizzard warning is issued when sustained winds or frequent gusts of 35 mph or higher are occurring, and falling/blowing snow reduces the visibility near 1/4 mile or less. These conditions have to be expected to last for at least three hours.

Another brutal winter weather condition is the ice storm warning. An ice storm warning is issued when ice from freezing rain is expected to accumulate to one-quarter inch or more in 12 hours.

A new type of warning has been established in recent years. It has been found that people get caught off guard with quick moving heavy bursts of snow, usually sweeping across Lower Michigan along a brutal arctic cold front. This new warning is called a snow squall warning, and is issued for snow squalls reducing visibility to one-quarter mile or less, for 15 minutes or more, on dry, frozen highways.