Winter Weather Terms

Winter Storm Watch: Issued for the possibility of severe life-threatening winter weather conditions including: heavy snow, heavy ice and/or near blizzard conditions. Forecasters are typically 50 percent confident that severe winter weather will materialize when a watch is issued.

Blizzard Watch: Issued for the possibility of blizzard conditions. Forecasters are typically 50 percent confident that blizzard conditions will materialize when a blizzard watch is issued.

Lake Effect Snow Watch: Issued for the potential for heavy lake effect snow.

Wind Chill Watch: Issued for the potential of wind chills of -25F or less, which can cause rapid frostbite and increase the risk of hypothermia.

Winter Storm Warning: Issued for a combination of heavy snow and/or ice, of which, at least one exceeds or meets warning criteria. Winter weather is expected to cause life-threatening public impact for a combination of winter hazards including heavy snow, ice, near blizzard conditions, blowing and drifting snow and/or dangerous wind chills.

Heavy Snow Warning: Issued when 7 inches or more of snow is expected in 12 hours or less, or 9 inches or more is expected in 24 hours or less. Heavy Snow Warnings are issued when there is a high degree of confidence that the entire event will be snow.

Ice Storm Warning: Issued for a ½ inch or more of ice accumulation which causes damage to power lines and trees. Ice Storm Warnings are issued when there is a high degree of confidence that the entire event is expected to be ice.

Blizzard Warning: Issued when blizzard conditions are imminent or expected in the next 12 to 24 hours. Blizzard conditions include sustained or frequent gusts =/> 35 mph AND considerable falling, blowing and drifting of snow reducing visibilities frequently 1/4 mile.

Lake Effect Snow Warning: Issued for 7 inches or more of lake effect snow.

Wind Chill Warning: Issued when the wind chill is expected to be -25F or less. Frostbite can occur in less than 10 minutes.

Winter Weather Advisory: Issued for a hazardous combination of snow, and ice of which neither meets or exceeds warning criteria. Issued for winter weather that will cause significant inconveniences or could be life-threatening if the proper precautions are not taken.

Snow Advisory: Issued when an average of 4 to 6 inches of snow is expected in 12 hours or less. Snow advisories are issued when there is a high degree of confidence that the entire event will be snow.

Freezing Rain Advisory: Any accumulation of freezing rain that can make roads slippery. Freezing rain advisories will only be issued when there is a high degree of confidence that the entire event will be freezing rain only.

Snow and Blowing Snow Advisory: Sustained wind or frequent gusts of 25 to 34 mph accompanied by falling and blowing snow, occasionally reducing visibility to a 1/4 mile or less for three hours or more.

Blowing Snow Advisory: Widespread or localized blowing snow reducing visibilities to a 1/4 or less with winds less than 35 mph.

Lake Effect Snow Advisory: Issued for an average of 4 to 6 inches of lake effect snow.

Wind Chill Advisory: Issued for wind chills of -15F to -24F. Frostbite can occur in less than 30 minutes.

Be Prepared

Winter is a time of unsurpassed beauty. It also is a time when winter storms and sub-zero temperatures pose a threat to disrupt our daily normal lives.

Now is the time to prepare your home and car to safely enjoy the winter season. Have your home heating system checked by a professional. If you heat by wood, clean your fireplace or stove now. Have your chimney checked for any buildup of creosote and then cleaned to lessen the risk of fire.

Make sure your car is tuned and your exhaust system is working properly. Also check your snowblower and other snow removal equipment and have a supply of sand or kitty litter on hand to provide traction on walkways.

Family Disaster Plan

Families should be prepared for all hazards that affect their area and themselves.

Follow these basic steps to develop a family disaster plan:

Learn your community's warning signals.

Meet with your family to create a plan. Pick two places to meet: a spot outside your home for an emergency such as fire, and a place away from your neighborhood in case you cannot return home (a real possibility during the day when adults are at work and children are at school). Choose an out-of-area friend as your family check-in contact for everyone to call if the family gets separated.

Implement your plan. Post emergency telephone numbers by the phones. Install safety features in your house such as smoke detectors and fire extinguishers. Inspect your home for potential hazards B and correct them. Have your family learn basic safety and first aid measures. Make sure everyone knows how and when to call 9-1-1 or your local emergency medical services phone number. Have disaster supplies on hand.

Home Emergency Supplies

Winter has arrived and you should stockpile the following supplies in the event a winter storm or power outage prevents you from leaving your home.

Flashlights and extra batteries

Battery-operated radio and extra batteries

Emergency non-perishable foods that do not require refrigeration

Non-electric can opener

Bottled water

One week supply of essential medicines

Extra blankets and sleeping bags

First aid kit and manual

Fire extinguisher

Emergency heating equipment, used properly

Winter Warnings

As the winter weather season approaches, do you know what the various weather warnings and advisories mean?

Winter Storm Watch: Indicates that winter weather may affect your area.

Winter Storm Warning: Indicates that severe winter weather conditions are definitely on the way.

Blizzard Warning: Indicates that snow and strong winds of at least 35 miles per hour combined will produce blinding snow, near-zero visibility, deep drifts and life-threatening wind chill.

Winter Weather Advisory: Indicates winter weather conditions, with snowfall of between 3 to 6 inches, are expected to cause significant inconveniences and may be hazardous, especially to motorists.

Knowing what these terms mean will help you better protect yourself and loved ones

Winterize Your Home

Take the time now to get your home ready for the winter season by following these tips:

Make sure your home is properly insulated. If necessary, insulate walls and attic. This will help you to conserve energy and reduce your home's power demands for heat.

Caulk and weather-strip doors and windowsills to keep cold air out.

Install storm windows or cover windows with plastic from the inside. This will provide an extra layer of insulation, keeping more cold air out.

Inspect and flush your water heater.

Clean gutters. Leaves and other debris will hamper drainage.

Replace batteries of smoke, heat, and carbon monoxide detectors. If you didn’t do it when you set the clocks back, do it now.

To keep pipes from freezing:

Wrap pipes in insulation or layers of old newspapers

Cover the newspapers with plastic to keep out moisture

Let faucets drip a little to avoid freezing

Know how to shut off water valves

Protecting Water Pipes

To prevent the mess and aggravation frozen pipes cause, protect your home, apartment or business by following the simple steps below.

Before Cold Weather

Locate and insulate pipes most susceptible to freezing--typically those near outer walls, in crawl spaces, or in the attic.

Wrap pipes with heat tape (UL approved).

Seal any leaks that allow cold air inside where pipes are located.

Disconnect garden hoses and, shut off and drain water from pipes leading to outside faucets. This reduces the chance of freezing in the short span of pipe just inside the house.

When It's Cold

Let hot and cold water trickle at night from a faucet on an outside wall.

Open cabinet doors to allow more heat to get to uninsulated pipes under a sink or appliance near an outer wall.

Make sure heat is left on and set no lower than 55 degrees.

If you plan to be away: (1) Have someone check your house daily to make sure the heat is still on to prevent freezing, or (2) drain and shut off the water system (except indoor sprinkler systems).

If Pipes Freeze

Make sure you and your family know how to shut off the water, in case pipes burst. Stopping the water flow minimize the damage to your home. Call a plumber and contact your insurance agent.

Never try to thaw a pipe with an open flame or torch. Always be careful of the potential for electric shock in and around standing water.

Winterize Your Vehicle

Preparing your vehicle for the winter season now will help ensure your vehicle is in good working order when you need it most.

Have a mechanic check the following items on your vehicle:

Battery Wipers and windshield washer fluid Antifreeze Ignition system Thermostat Lights Exhaust system Flashing hazard lights Heater Brakes Defroster Oil level

Install good winter tires. Make sure the tires have adequate tread. All-weather radials are usually adequate for most winter conditions. You may also want to carry a set of tire chains in your vehicle for heavy snow conditions.

Keep a windshield scraper and small broom for ice and snow removal and maintain at least a half tank of gas throughout the winter season.

Finally, plan long trips carefully. Listen to the local media report or call law enforcement agencies for the latest road conditions.

Drive Safely

The leading cause of death and injuries during winter storms is transportation accidents.

Before getting behind the wheel this winter season, every driver could learn a lesson from our school bus drivers. It's elementary ... but we have to keep our vehicles clear of ice and snow. Good vision is a key to good driving.

Plan your stops and keep more distance between cars. Be extra alert. Remember, snowdrifts can hide smaller children. And always ... match your speed to the road and weather conditions.

If The Lights Go Out

If you lose electrical service during the winter, follow these tips:

Call your utility first to determine area repair schedules. Turn off or unplug lights and appliances to prevent a circuit overload when service is restored. Leave one light on to indicate power has been restored.

To help prevent freezing pipes, turn on faucets slightly. Running water will not freeze as quickly.

Protect yourself from carbon monoxide poisoning.

DO NOT operate generators indoors; the motor emits deadly carbon monoxide gas.

DO NOT use charcoal to cook indoors. It, too, can cause a buildup of carbon monoxide gas.

DO NOT use your gas oven to heat your home -- prolonged use of an open oven in a closed house can create carbon monoxide gas.

Make sure fuel space heaters are used with proper ventilation.

Keep refrigerator and freezer doors closed as much as possible to help reduce food spoilage.

Carbon Monoxide Poisoning

Carbon monoxide poisoning is a silent, deadly killer claiming about 1,000 lives each year in the United States. The colorless, odorless gas can be produced by such common items as automotive exhaust, home heating systems and obstructed chimneys.

The gas can also be produced by poorly vented generators, kerosene heaters, gas grills and other items used for cooking and heating when used improperly during the winter months.

Open a window slightly when using a kerosene heater.

NEVER run generators indoors.

NEVER use charcoal to cook indoors.

NEVER use a gas oven to heat your home.

Symptoms of carbon monoxide poisoning include sleepiness, headaches and dizziness.

If you suspect carbon monoxide poisoning, ventilate the area and get to a hospital.

Fire Safety

Wood-burning stoves, fireplaces and heaters can add a cozy glow but, make sure you are using them safely.

Always keep a screen around an open flame.

Never use gasoline to start your fireplace.

Never burn charcoal indoors.

Do not close the damper when ashes are hot.

When using alternative heat sources such as a fireplace, woodstove, etc. always make sure you have proper ventilation. Keep curtains, towels and potholders away from hot surfaces.

Have your chimney checked before the season for creosote buildup -- and then clean it.

Have a fire extinguisher and smoke detectors ... and make sure they work! Establish a well- planned escape route with the entire family.

Staying Warm Indoors

If your heat goes out during a winter storm, you can keep warm by closing off rooms you don't need.

Use only safe sources of alternative heat such as a fireplace, small well-vented wood or coal stove or portable space heaters. Always follow manufacturer's instructions.

Dress in layers of lightweight clothing and wear a cap.

Eat well-balanced meals.

Losing your heat when winter's winds are howling isn't pleasant. But by following these simple tips, you will weather the storm more comfortably.

Generator Safety

Electric generators can provide you with piece of mind and convenience when you are faced with a temporary loss of electric service.

Follow these safety guidelines when operating a generator:

Before installing a generator, be sure to properly disconnect from your utility electrical service. If possible, have your generator installed by a qualified electrician.

Run generators outside, downwind of structures. NEVER run a generator indoors. Deadly carbon monoxide gas from the generator's exhaust can spread throughout enclosed spaces. Install a carbon monoxide detector.

Fuel spilled on a hot generator can cause an explosion. If your generator has a detachable fuel tank B remove it before refilling. If this is not possible, shut off the generator and let it cool before refilling.

Do not exceed the rated capacity of your generator. Most of the small, home-use portable generators produce from 350 to 12,000 watts of power. Overloading your generator can damage it, appliances connected to it, and may cause a fire. Follow the manufacturer's instructions.

Keep children away from generators at all times.

Kerosene Heaters

If you use kerosene heaters to supplement your regular heating fuel, or as an emergency source of heat, follow these safety tips:

Follow the manufacturer's instructions.

Use only the correct fuel for your unit.

Refuel outdoors only, and only when the unit is cool.

Keep the heater at least three feet away from furniture and other flammable objects.

When using the heater, use fire safeguards and ventilate properly.

Remember, the fire hazard is greatly increased in the winter because alternate heating sources often are used without following proper safety precautions.

Dress for the Season

Winter has arrived and you should dress for the season.

Wear loose, lightweight, warm clothing in several layers. Trapped air between the layers acts as an insulator. Layers can be removed to avoid perspiration and subsequent chill.

Outer garments should be tightly woven, water repellent and hooded.

Always wear a hat or cap on your head since half of your body heat could be lost through an uncovered head.

Cover your mouth with a scarf to protect your lungs from extreme cold.

Mittens, snug at the wrist, are better than gloves because fingers maintain more warmth when they touch each other.

Physical Exertion

Winter storm conditions and cold waves are the deadliest types of weather.

Cold temperatures put an extra strain on your heart. Heavy exertion, such as shoveling snow, clearing debris or pushing a car, increase the risk of a heart attack.

To avoid problems, remember these tips:

Stay warm, dress warm and SLOW DOWN when working outdoors.

Take frequent rests to avoid over exertion.

If you feel chest pain -- STOP and seek help immediately.

Hypothermia

Prolonged exposure to cold temperatures can cause hypothermia, especially in children and the elderly.

Watch for these symptoms:

Inability to concentrate

Poor coordination

Slurred speech

Drowsiness

Exhaustion

Uncontrollable shivering, followed by a sudden lack of shivering

If the person's body temperature drops below 95 degrees Fahrenheit, get emergency medical assistance immediately!

Remove wet clothing, wrap the victim in warm blankets and give warm, non-alcoholic, non-caffeinated liquids until help arrives.

Frostbite

People working or playing outdoors during the winter can develop frostbite and not even know it.

There is no pain associated with the early stages of frostbite, so learn to watch for these danger signs: First, the skin may feel numb and become flushed. Then it turns white or grayish-yellow. Frostbitten skin feels cold to the touch.

If frostbite is suspected, move the victim to a warm area. Cover the affected area with something warm and dry. Never rub it!

And then get to a doctor or hospital as quickly as possible.

Snowblower Safety

Do you have a snowblower? Did you know that most snowblower injuries happen because the operator did not read the operating instructions?

So, read your owner's manual and follow these tips:

Never leave your snowblower running and unattended.

Make sure the discharge chute is not aimed at passing motorists or pedestrians.

Never put your hands into the discharge chute or augers to clear stuck snow and ice.

Never add fuel when the engine is running and hot.

And make sure you know how to turn the machine off quickly.

Clearing Your Roof

As the snow and ice continues to build up, homeowners should think about safety before trying to clear the snow from their roof.

Safety Tips

When possible, use long-handled snow rakes or poles.

If you must use a ladder, make certain that the base is securely anchored. Ask a friend, neighbor or adult family member to hold the ladder while you climb.

Know where the snow is going to fall before clearing the area.

Make certain not to contact electrical wires.

If possible, do not attempt to clear the roof alone.

If you're afraid of heights or think the job is too big for you, HIRE HELP.

Clearing roofs is a dangerous task. But if you think safety, and work safely, you'll get the job done.

Safety on the Road

When winter storms strike, don't drive.

If you must travel, make sure you car is stocked with survival gear like blankets, a shovel, flashlight and extra batteries, extra warm clothing, set of tire chains, battery booster cables, quick energy foods and brightly-colored cloth to use as a distress flag.

Keep your gas tank full to prevent gasoline freeze-up.

If you have a cell phone or two-way radio available for your use, keep the battery charged and keep it with you whenever traveling. If you should become stranded, you will be able to call for help, advising rescuers of your location.

And make sure someone knows your travel plans.

Trapped in a Car

What would you do if a blizzard trapped you on the road?

Safety Tips

Stay in your car. Wait for help to find you.

Run your engine for short periods of time to stay warm ... but keep your down-wind window open ... and make sure your exhaust pipe is clear of snow.

Turn on the dome light at night when you are running the engine to signal rescuers.

Hang a brightly-colored piece of cloth or piece of clothing from your car.

Exercise from time to time by vigorously moving arms, legs, fingers and toes to keep blood circulating and to keep warm.

Safety First for Kids

Hey, kids! Winter can be a fun-filled time when enjoying outdoor activities such as skiing, skating and sledding. But before going out, follow these safety tips:

The best way to stay safe in a snowstorm is to stay inside. Long periods of exposure to severe cold increases the risk of frostbite or hypothermia.

If you go out to play after the storm, dress in many layers of clothing and wear a hat and mittens. Many layers of thin clothing are warmer than a single layer of thick clothing. One of the best ways to stay warm is to wear a hat; most body heat is lost through the top of the head.

Come inside often for warm-up breaks.

If you start to shiver a lot or get very tired, or if your nose, fingers, toes or earlobes start to feel numb of turn very pale, come inside right away and tell an adult. These are signs of hypothermia and frostbite. If you experience these symptoms, you will need immediate attention to prevent further risk.

Remember these tips when you go out to play.

Winter Sports Safety

New York State offers an abundance of sports activities during the winter season. From skiing and snowboarding to ice climbing, hiking and other outdoor pursuits, parents and children should follow the safety rules of the sport.

Most importantly, use the proper equipment and check to make sure everything is in proper working condition. A well-fitting ANSI/SNELL certified helmet will assure a safer, more enjoyable wintertime experience whether you are skiing, sledding, snowboarding or skating.

Dress in multiple, lightweight layers to stay warm and dry while enjoying the outdoors. Check the weather forecast but be prepared for anything.

If you're heading into the backcountry, never travel alone. Let someone know your route and estimated time of return.

Skiers and snowboarders should go on runs which are appropriate for their ability. Stay in control at all times and be able to stop or avoid other people or objects. Obey all posted signs and warnings.

No matter what sport you participate in, always focus 100 percent of your attention on the activity and the terrain you are on. And rest when you are tired.

Protecting Pets

Winter is a time we should pay close attention to the safety of our pets. Here are some safety tips to follow:

Ingesting anti-freeze can be fatal for your dog or cat. It has a sweet taste and even a tiny amount can cause severe kidney damage and even death. If you spill some, soak it up immediately. (Clay kitty litter works well. Discard the litter once the anti-freeze has been absorbed.)

Pets that live outdoors should be fed a bit more in the winter because they need the extra calories to stay warm. They also should have fresh water put out a couple of times a day, or consider a special bowl that prevents the water from freezing.

If your pet goes outdoors, be aware of the temperature. Pets can get frostbite very easily on the ears, tail and paws.

When walking your dog, check the paws to make sure that ice isn’t building up between the toes and that salt from the roads is not irritating the skin.

If your dog is a swimmer, keep it on a leash around open water or unstable ice. Hypothermia can set in quickly and the dog may be unable to get out of the water.

Before you start your car, you should honk the horn to make sure that a cat hasn’t decided to nap in a warm spot under the hood of the vehicle.

If decorating for the holidays, keep ornaments out of the reach of your pets. Remember that poinsettias, holly, mistletoe and other plants can be toxic if ingested.

Neighbor Helping Neighbor

If someone you know is elderly or dependent on life-sustaining or health-related equipment such as a ventilator, respirator or oxygen concentrator, you should make plans now to ensure their needs are met during severe winter weather and possible power outages.

Help them stock a home disaster kit including a flashlight and extra batteries, a battery-operated radio, bottled water, non-perishable foods, essential medicines, and extra blankets or sleeping bags.

Check on them after a storm or power outage. Register them as a special needs customer with their utility so they will become a priority customer. Notify others who could provide help such as neighbors, relatives, nearby friends and local emergency responders such as the fire department.

Have a list of emergency numbers readily available.

Have a standby generator or an alternative source of power available. Be aware of the safety rules for its use.