Netviewer Support Free Version 6.1.2

Download

Free Version

Publisher Description

Netviewer Support is a professional remote support solution trusted by 16.000+ companies in 68 countries - now freely available for personal use. With Netviewer Support Free you can help solve the computer problems of your friends and family. All that is needed is an internet connection. You get fast and easy remote access to the other computer for a quick and easy assessment of the problem at hand. Once diagnosed you can take remote control and solve the problem immediately. Features like automated remote diagnosis and the ability to restart and automatically reconnect to the remote computer will help you keep your time investment to a minimum.

About Netviewer Support Free Version

Netviewer Support Free Version is a free software published in the Helpdesk & Remote PC list of programs, part of Business.

This Helpdesk & Remote PC program is available in English, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Polish, Russian, Spanish, Swedish. It was last updated on 22 April, 2024. Netviewer Support Free Version is compatible with the following operating systems: Windows.

The company that develops Netviewer Support Free Version is Netviewer AG. The latest version released by its developer is 6.1.2. This version was rated by 1 users of our site and has an average rating of 4.0.

The download we have available for Netviewer Support Free Version has a file size of 1.05 MB. Just click the green Download button above to start the downloading process. The program is listed on our website since 2010-10-01 and was downloaded 1,676 times. We have already checked if the download link is safe, however for your own protection we recommend that you scan the downloaded software with your antivirus. Your antivirus may detect the Netviewer Support Free Version as malware if the download link is broken.

How to install Netviewer Support Free Version on your Windows device:

Click on the Download button on our website. This will start the download from the website of the developer.

Once the Netviewer Support Free Version is downloaded click on it to start the setup process (assuming you are on a desktop computer).

When the installation is finished you should be able to see and run the program.

Program Details

General

Publisher Netviewer AG Released Date 2010-10-01 Languages English, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Polish, Russian, Spanish, Swedish

Category

Category Business Subcategory Helpdesk & Remote PC

System requirements

Operating systems windows

Download information

File size 1.05 MB Total downloads 1,676

Pricing

License model Free Price N/A

Version History

Here you can find the changelog of Netviewer Support Free Version since it was posted on our website on 2016-09-06. The latest version is 6.1.2 and it was updated on soft112.com on 22 April, 2024. See below the changes in each version:

version 6.1.2

posted on 2010-10-01

Faster screen transmission and improved video and VoIP sound quality.

RELATED PROGRAMS

Our Recommendations