NetView & Modem (free)

Downloads

NetView & Modem (x64, manual updates)

NetView & Modem (x86, manual updates)

NetView & Modem (automatic updates)

required internet connection for installing

Videos

NetView video lessons

Information

NetView & Modem Manual

NetView User Manual

Configure Receiver Output

Real-time logging

Update Internal Modem Firmware

Change log

Net View & Modem is a free Windows application for controlling navigation equipment developed and manufactured by JAVAD GNSS.

Net View & Modem completely includes Net View features.

Net View & Modem software provides the following functionality:

GNSS Receivers

Directly connect to the receiver(s), using one of the following interfaces: serial, USB, TCP/IP (through the Ethernet ports or Wi-Fi adapter), Secure TCP/IP (SSL/TSL), Bluetooth.

Displaying of the total number and the status of all visible and tracked satellites.

Displaying the receiver current position, time and other measurements in real time.

Satellite sky plots and orientation plots.

Clear NVRAM, receiver reset, return to the initial parameter values, initiation file system, reset RTK.

Create general, parameters and options reports.

Update Firmware online from Javad website or from a file.

Loading Options online from Javad website or from Option Authorization File.

Setup of various parameters of receiver using graphic interface or command line.

Start and stop file recording, deleting files, downloading files using file manager.

Configure inner modems using graphic interface or command line.

Update Inner modem Firmware online from Javad website or from a file.

Pairing with the Outer modems.

Manual mode terminal allows sending commands with prompt tip and view receiver response.

Collecting and display GNSS and Radio Spectra.

Connecting to multiple receivers.

Support for multiple connections to the receiver for optimized simultaneous work.

Modems

Directly connect to the modem(s), using Serial or USB interface.

Update Firmware online from Javad website or from a file.

Pairing with GNSS receiver.

Terminals

Directly communicate to the devices(s), using one of the following interfaces: serial, USB, TCP/IP (through the Ethernet ports or Wi-Fi adapter), Secure TCP/IP (SSL/TSL), Bluetooth.

System Requirements