Note: This post will probably be more appreciated by those who played the game.

Short game background first: Those who have played any final fantasy game will agree that it boasts a magnificent sountrack; this particular one belongs to final fantasy xiii-2; the second of three chapters of the nova chrysalia saga (my intel may be a bit off, but that’s the gist). As the title says, this is “Yeul’s theme”. Yeul is a character in the game – she possess the ability to see into the future. However, her ability as a seeress comes at a heavy price; the gift of seeing into the future shortens her lifespan and eventually kills her. In addition, she can see when (and where) she’ll die; but to maintain balance to the timelines, she cannot evade her fate.

Now, onto the music. The music was composed by Naoshi Mizuta, with lyrics performed by Joelle Strother (known simply as Joelle). It’s played simply by acoustic guitar.

Lyrics:

Sooner than memories begin to fray

Everything from the past just swept away

Remembering when all who have gone are now lost

Many paths, many seasons I have seen

Time has washed them away just like the sea

So many fates and dreams will become tragedies

To see you safe, to watch you grow

Visions of love, my only hope

Such loneliness is worth the price

I’ll protect you with my life

Constantly guiding despite the cost

Hoping against fear when all is lost

Pity not my destiny, no

My sacrifice is worth this

To see you safe, to watch you grow

Visions of love, my only hope

Such loneliness is worth the price

I’ll protect you with my life

This burden I must bear alone

For many lives and more to come

My loneliness is worth the price

I’ll protect you with my life

Here’s a link to the song: (credits go to YouTube account aquaicslove05931). Do take the time to listen to it. It’s just under 7 minutes.

I have always maintained that “To Zanarkand” will still be the best final fantasy music, partly due to the musical beauty it brings, but significantly backed up by my personal history involving that tune. Yet “Yeul’s Theme” gives Zanarkand a run for its money, because not only can it compete in that sweet acoustic silence, but the lyrics will cleave your emotions straight down the middle.

The lyrics, of course, naturally tie to the existence of the character in the game. But even if you didn’t know about FFXIII-2, you surely have known about what sacrifice is, what it means to be a martyr, and all that cliche’d love stuff. But since this is MY blog, i’ll rehash it all.

The lyrics are pretty straightforward, and that’s where its impact lies. “My loneliness is worth the price” cannot be interpreted any other way. Be lonely, as it is the price for protecting someone; be lonely, as it is necessary for her sake. What strikes even more is that the one you’re hurting might not be aware that you’re enduring this loneliness you claim to have. But what’s most devastating is if she’s the cause, and she willingly lets you go all martyr on yourself.

The song’s melody doesn’t hide any other meaning; a slow (heart)burn, if you must. You can almost feel the pain creep through you as you hear the long notes being drawn out so elegantly by Joelle; naturally, the choice of high notes is spot on the “loneliness” lyric.

Finally, as you feel the song is winding down, the metaphorical knife in your heart is twisted by the last stanza:

This burden I must bear alone.

Of course, the succeeding line “for many lives and more to come” is directly applicable to Yeul’s seeress-reborn-death cycle; but just focus on the line above. Listening to it makes the feeling tenfold; Joelle practically cries this line out, and i wouldn’t blame her if she actually did.

Martyrdom at its finest. (or is it ‘at its worst?’) You’ll give yourself up, literally. For this person. If you’re willing to do so, then your object of affection must really mean so much to you. If i’m going to feel that way, then it’s just marvelous how someone can mean so much, that (in my case) she will mean more to me than I could ever mean to myself. Many people will tell you that the limit of sacrifice is to keep your worth. And many more will tell you that that is the nature of love; to put someone ahead of your own sake.

But i retort: That’s only good if this someone will feel the same way. Call me practical, but i’ve been through several moments that made me adopt this mindset. It’s tough being a martyr. It’s tough sacrificing that much. It’s tough putting your self-worth for someone. It’s damning when you realize that that someone isn’t taking your efforts seriously; it’s damning when what you value is not worth giving a “thank you”; it’s damning when she doesn’t think what you did is worth a f*ck.

And to think this song is telling us that she (Yeul) will endure this forever? For many lives, and more to come? Wow. That’s heroic. That’s legendary martyrdom. That’s… that’s a girl you would not want to hurt at all.

I’ve went too far ahead with this song. But listen to it for yourself. If you can’t feel anything remotely close to what i’ve been telling, of what Yeul is telling… then first, this song is not for you, and second, maybe you’re not even old enough to understand.

#MusicMondays