These requests are handled by the Disney Legal Department on behalf of Disney Enterprises, Inc. Inquiries are processed in the order in which they are received. Due to the high volume of requests we receive, it can take up to eight (8) weeks before receiving a response. Thank you again for contacting the Walt Disney Company/Disney Enterprises, Inc.

To submit your request, click here.

Walt Disney Television (1955-1984) and Motion Picture Studios content

Paula Potter, Director

Legal Affairs, Rights Administration

Ph: (818) 560-3224

Fx: (818) 569-3333

paula.potter@disney.com

The Walt Disney Studios Clip & Still Licensing Online Submission Form may only be used to request still images and clips, posters, dialogue, props and other thematic elements for use in moving productions from Disney’s vintage cartoon content, television content (pre-1984) and all motion picture clips released under the Walt Disney Pictures, Touchstone Pictures, Hollywood Pictures and Pixar Animation Studios banners.

Please click here for the Online Submission Form.

Disney/ABC Domestic Television

(Primetime)

Lisa Ramati

Paralegal Specialist

Ph: (818) 460-6553

lisa.ramati@disney.com

ABC Daytime

Lisa Gagliardi

Director, Business Affairs

Ph: (212) 456-7492

Fx: (212) 456-6328

lisa.a.gagliardi@abc.com

ABC Signature

(Current Programming – Promotional Footage)

Gloria Stabolito

Administrator

Ph: (818) 460-5055

Fx: (818) 460-6658

gloria.stabolito@abc.com

(ABC Library – Post 1985)

Dan Kilgore

Vice President, Legal Affairs

Ph: (818) 460-6387

dan.kilgore@abc.com

ABC Primetime Reality and ABC Touchstone (SCHOOLHOUSE ROCKS!)

Lisa Koes

Principal Counsel, ABC Entertainment & Marketing

lisa.koes@disney.com

FREEFORM

Jack O’Mara

Paralegal, ABC Entertainment

jack.omara@disney.com

ABC News

abctvnewsnrRightsandClearnaces@disney.com

ABC News Videosource Stock Footage Library

Ph: (818) 460-5972

Fx: (818) 460-5274

photo.request@disney.com

www.abcnewsvideosource.com

KABC-TV (Los Angeles)

Ruth House

News Business Operations Supervisor

Ph: (818) 863-7223

ruth.a.house@disney.com

Certain film clip re-use payments may be triggered relative to talent, stunt performers, writers, directors and musicians, depending on when a film was released, in accordance with current guild collective bargaining agreements. Please contact the relevant Guilds to obtain additional information about such payments. You may also want to consider hiring a professional clearance service or clearance professional to assist you with obtaining any additional clearances and making any additional payments that may be necessary:

Screen Actors Guild

Ph: (323) 954-1600

www.sag.org

Writers Guild of America, West

Ph: (800) 548-4532

www.wga.org

Directors Guild of America

Ph: (800) 421-4173

www.dga.org

American Federation of Musicians

Ph: (323) 460-5401

Fx: (323) 461-5409

www.afm.org

Stunt performers must be cleared and paid, even when they are not seen. The best way to identify stunt performers is to contact the film’s Stunt Coordinator. The Screen Actors Guild can assist you with locating the Stunt Coordinator on a particular film so that each stunt player in the scene can be identified.

When you license a film clip, still image, sound bite, screenplay excerpt, thematic element, or poster, our license will cover use of the licensed content for the media, term, and territory to which both parties have agreed, for a negotiated fee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the license will require the licensee to indemnify Disney, its agents , employees, representatives, affiliates, parent and subsidiary corporations, and to hold Disney harmless from any and all loss, cost, damage, liability and expense, including attorneys’ fees arising out of any claim whatsoever, in connection with the licensee’s use of the licensed content. The licensee will be responsible for obtaining all waivers, permissions or approvals from the WGA, DGA, SAG, AFTRA, and the American Federation of Musicians and will pay all re-use fees required by applicable collective bargaining agreements or individual agreements or as otherwise required by law. The licensee will also assume responsibility for all laboratory or other actual costs which may arise in connection with providing the licensed content.

Marvel Studios manages the rights to all Marvel Studios produced films only. Iron Man 2008 thru the present slate of films.

Request must be sent in writing only to: permissions@marvel.com

Who do I contact to request permission to use Marvel intellectual property for commercial and non-commercial use (including comic books, animated television shows and how to become a licensee).

All requests must be submitted in writing to: permissions@marvel.com

Due to the high volume of requests, it can take several weeks for a response.

Disney Television Animation

PLEASE READ:

This inbox does not accept requests regarding intellectual property originating from Walt Disney Animation Studios, 20th Century Studios, Fox, Pixar, Marvel, Lucasfilm, or any Disney division other than Disney Television Animation.

This inbox does not accept requests regarding the creation or manufacture of artwork or consumer goods featuring intellectual property owned by The Walt Disney Company. No response will be given for requests of this nature. Instead, please see the links to Disney Consumer Products on the main page.

Please note that all requests regarding intellectual property from Disney Television Animation must be submitted in writing to the email address below. Due to the high volume of requests, it can take several weeks for a response.

dtva.permissions@disney.com

Due to the volume of requests that we receive, we are unable to accommodate individual requests for copies of our motion picture.

Viewers can purchase personal DVD copies of some ABC News programming at http://abcnewsstore.go.com/DVDList.aspx. There is also information on this page that provides licensing guidance to educational and training institutions.