We Are Hiring!

We have two open positions for an Endowed Professorships in Applied Economics. Click HERE for more information!

We have one open position for Tenured/Tenure Track Professor of Economics (Any Rank). Click HERE for more information!

In Memoriam: Dr. William Dawes

Our esteemed colleague and Emeritus Associate Professor of Economics, William S. Dawes (Bill) passed away on May 1st, 2023. Bill was a faculty member in our department from 1969 until 2016 when he retired. He then held a Toll Professorship for three years. To our community, he was a colleague, a mentor, a teacher, and a friend.

In November of 2010 an Excellence Fund was set up with his name by his alumni, The William Dawes Fund for Excellence. The proceeds of this fund are distributed to our departmental yearly awards for teaching and research excellence by our graduate students. His wife Alice asks that in-lieu of flowers, donations to the Fund that bears his name be made.

To read more about Professor Dawes' legacy, click HERE

A link to the fund can be found HERE

Our PhD and MA In Economics Has Received STEM Designation

PhD and MA students may now have the opportunity to receive more than one year of OPT. Graduate students should contact VIS for more information.

Check out a short article by Professor Benitez-Silva about environmental economics!

Professor Benitez-Silva discusses a wide range of issues in the frontier of enviormental economics. For a full link to "Sustainable and green economics as key to building sustainable communities" click HERE!

Two Economics majors awarded the State Chancellor's Award

Congratulations to Sarah Hassan and Christina Reed, Economics majors and winners of the State Chancellor's Award. We are very proud of them! To read more about the State Chancellor's Award, click HERE!

Nuzhat Nasim Named Recipient of THF's 2023 Scott Weiss Scholarship!

Congratulations to Nuzhat Nasim, a junior economics major and minor in AMS, who was recently named recipient of the 2023 Scott Weiss Scholarship from the T. Howard Foundation (THF).

The Scott Weiss Scholarship provides THF alumni with financial assistance for their academic and career pursuits as they prepare for careers in the media, entertainment, and tech industries.

Undergrad Het Joshi Wins SUNY Long Island Pitch Fest!

Congratulations to Het Joshi, a second-year economics major with a minor in theatre arts, who received the first-place prize at this year’s SUNY Long Island Pitch Fest, a competition for aspiring student innovators from SBU, Farmingdale State College and SUNY Old Westbury to present business ideas to a panel of industry leaders.

Click HERE to read more!

Economics Graduate Students at Welcome Reception!

Photo credit: Alyssa Tuthill

Great day welcoming our incoming graduate students into the program:

Featuring Mengxiao Fang, Gabriella DiTraglia, Kuhyun Kwon, Yinxue Lu, Tongfang Tian, Zheshi Li, and Siqi Wang! Photo credit: Lynette Sieger-Kamimura

Student Spotlights:

Click HERE to read about our Undergraduate & Graduate student spotlights!