About PGA

Bringing together the producing team in film, TV and emerging media

The Producers Guild of America is a non-profit trade organization that represents, protects and promotes the interests of all members of the producing team in film, television and emerging media.

Learn more about us

Member Exclusive Programs

Strength of the Community

PGA members benefit from being part of a community that is more than 8,400 strong with decades of experience in all facets of producing. Members share a deep commitment to giving back and paying it forward within their Guild – whether its volunteering to mentor others or making their first calls when staffing up.

Voices and Faces of the Guild

Meet Some of Our Members

Stephanie Allain

Julius Tennon

Tonya Lewis Lee

Melanie Cunningham

Lori McCreary

The Application Process

Join PGA

PGA is a professional trade association. Membership is not automatic.

The Application Process

The Vetting Process takes 30 – 90 days

For membership requirements and costs to join

For membership qualifying platforms and festivals

For more information on the Benefits of Joining

Apply Now

Requirements for Membership

Membership is based on Guild-recognized qualifying credits and years in the industry.

Quick rule of thumb, you’ll need one of the following for eligibility:

Enough qualifying producing credits within last 7 years for feature films

Enough qualifying producing credits within last 5 years for other formats

Receipt of the PGA Producers Mark (“p.g.a”) on 2 or more feature films with qualifying distribution (automatic qualification)

Producer nominee for the Oscars and Producers Guild Awards and apply within 2 years of your nomination(automatic qualification)

Frequently Asked Questions

Can I get health insurance if I join?

Unlike our sister guilds, we do not have a PGA administered health plan. However, there are health care options we connect eligible members to, including the Motion Picture Industry Health Fund Plan.

I recently received “p.g.a.” designation for my screen credit. Am I now a member?

No. PGA membership and the Producers Mark (p.g.a.) are two completely different designations with separate processes for approval. Membership in PGA is not a requirement to receive the Producers Mark, a certification mark which PGA licenses to the producer(s) of feature-length productions that are identified as performing a majority of the producing functions on a specific motion picture in a decision-making capacity.

I’ve applied for membership before but was denied. How can I be reconsidered?

Before you re-apply, be sure to check our membership requirements. Criteria can change over time, so check back regularly. Still have questions? Please email applications@producersguild.org

What Committees and Groups can PGA members join?

There are more than a dozen PGA Committees and Groups which any PGA member can join.

Industry Love

Initiatives

Producers shoulder the responsibility for the tone and tenor of productions. As such, the Guild has established a number of tentpole initiatives for which it is a leader within the industry. Collectively, these initiatives help lead the industry and culture forward.

Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging

A Commitment to being One Guild - inclusive and representative of all

PGA Create, a new immersive lab for emerging and mid-career creative producers from backgrounds underrepresented in the industry

Must submit with project in active development, financing or packaging

The Application for the 2024 Scripted Cycle has closed. Join the mailing list for notification about the next open cycle.

Employment

Is your company, network, streamer or studio looking to hire?

Producers Mark (p.g.a.)

A certification mark for feature-length productions

Identifies which producers performed a majority of the producing functions on a specific motion picture in a decision-making capacity

Producers who meet this standard may use the Mark (p.g.a.) next to their names in the onscreen credits and ads for a specific motion picture.

Check out the requirements

Safety

Producers set the culture and tenor on a set

Resources:

For Independent Productions: Set Etiquette Training (free harassment prevention training and two-hours of free legal consultation related to the training)

For Individual Producers: Contract Services’ Safety Pass Program (PGA members can access special deals on safety training videos here.)

For Members of Guilds, Unions and Film Schools: Educational Workshops to help make everyone on your set feel comfortable (for info, email ipsi@producersguild.org)

Production Safety Playlist on our YouTube channel – #MakeItSafe

Sustainability

Best practices to make your production more sustainable

Latest Edition

Produced By magazine is published four times a year. Producers Guild members receive a complimentary subscription with their membership.

We collect information via cookies in order to analyze use of our Site and improve your experience. By closing the message, or continuing to use our Site, you signify that you understand and agree to the use of these technologies, as described in our Privacy Policy

Close