Opera star Bryn Terfel will entertain guests at a star-studded dinner tomorrow to celebrate the centenary of David Lloyd's George's rise to Prime Minister.

The bass baritone, from Gwynedd, will be joined by harpist Hannah Stone and Pwllheli actor Richard Elfyn, who portrayed the politician in a play, at the special event at London's National Liberal Club.

BBC news anchorman and event co-host Huw Edwards will speculate whether Lloyd George would have opposed Brexit. He will also ask whether the 'cottage-bred' boy from Llanystumdwy, Gwynedd, is the father of modern Wales.

Many of Lloyd George’s family, including the current Earl Lloyd-George, will attend the dinner which will be co-hosted by TV historian and the former Prime Minister's great great grandson Dan Snow.

Robert Bourns, president of the Law Society, will also make a speech on Lloyd George’s career as a solicitor in North Wales.

The Lloyd George Centenary Dinner follows the launch in January of the £250,000 Lloyd George Premiership Centenary Appeal, which aims to raise funds to protect the Lloyd George museum in Llanystumdwy.

Mr Edwards, who has backed the appeal, said: “I will ask the question: is David Lloyd George the father of modern Wales?

“He is rightly hailed by some as the father of the welfare state, given his People’s Budget of 1909 and the constitutional battle he fought and won against the House of Lords.

“Can he also be called - as some insist - the father of devolution, the constitutional settlement that has shaped modern Wales?

“It can be argued the lowest point of his political career was in 1896, when his attempts to forge a nationwide nationalistic movement - Cymru Fydd or Young Wales - with Welsh Liberal forces ended in disaster.

“Up until this point, he had been a forceful advocate for Welsh Home Rule and constantly attacked the British government for ignoring Welsh needs.

“After 1896, his interest in Welsh Home Rule evaporated, but many of the themes he developed during this period have strong parallels today.”

Mr Edwards, who presented the 2013 Criccieth Festival David Lloyd George Memorial Lecture, added: “It is intriguing to ponder where Lloyd George, the cottage-bred Welsh boy who became an ardent upholder of the British Empire, would stand on Brexit.

“Would he, like his great friend Winston Churchill, be an evangelist for the concept of the European family? And would he regard membership of the European Union as being essential or optional or undesirable?”

Lloyd George’s grandsons Robin and Bengy Carey Evans, who are both in their 90s, also paid tribute to the man they knew as Taid.

Robin said: “I heard him speak publicly on only one occasion, at the Caernarfon National Eisteddfod.

“He was magnificent - he had the whole assembly completely captivated.”

Bengy added: “If one was able to ask him now what he would like to be remembered for, it would I believe be the ‘other war’ he waged from 1909 to 1912 - the war against poverty and social injustice.

“This was a war he clearly won without any loss of life. In fact, it gave life to millions of workers by awarding them a Government-sponsored pension.”

The Llanystumdwy museum had been earmarked for closure by Gwynedd council but, thanks to the intervention of the Government, the museum won a stay of execution until April 2020.

Elizabeth George, coordinator of the Lloyd George Centenary Appeal, said: “To keep the museum running requires a minimum of £55,000 per annum.

“By making a donation, our supporters will be contributing to secure the future of this national historical attraction, which provides unique opportunities to promote the story of the extraordinary journey of David Lloyd George from Llanystumdwy to 10 Downing Street and his influence on Wales, Britain and the world.”