THERE'S a touching meaning behind the name Kyle Walker and Annie Kilner have given to their new baby.

The couple have named the child Rezon - a name which also has a "deliberate" nod to his other kids.

It is understood the choice was "deliberate" - with all four children's names beginning with R.

In the ancient Aramaic language, Rezon means "prince" and also refers to someone who is "lean and small". It also has links to the Bible's Old Testament.

Annie, 31, is already mum to Roman, 11, Riaan, seven, and Reign, five, and is "doing well" after the birth.

Annie welcomed the former couple's baby into the world last week and was spotted pushing a pram earlier this week.

She was seen juggling shopping bags and carrying a designer Goyard tote while out in Cheshire.

Showing off her figure in gym gear, Annie donned black leggings and a khaki green zip-up top.

The birth is yet to be registered sources close to the City ace and Annie told MailOnline that loved ones have been informed so the name is unlikely to change.

The source said: "Kyle is busy with football and hasn't had time to register the birth but both him and Annie are happy with the name Rezon.

"Family and friends who have seen the baby are already calling him that.

"They wanted the name of their latest son to also begin with R. We're not sure how they came across the name Rezon because I don't think either of them know the Old Testament very well."

A source previously said: "Mum and baby are both happy and healthy.

"Kyle couldn't be happier to have four boys and is so proud of Annie. He was by her side when she gave birth.

"It has not been an easy few months for them but Kyle is doing everything he can to ­support Annie."

The Sun revealed in January that Annie had kicked Kyle out of the family's £3.5million home in Prestbury, Cheshire.

But a friend said: "Having their son has made Kyle and Annie think about their relationship and they are committed to working on it together."

Last month she was there to see Kyle captain England for the first time, as he walked out with their three sons at Wembley before the match against Brazil.

Pals said Annie was keen for him to remain a stable fixture in their young family’s life.

The friend added: "Having Kyle in the delivery suite was a no-brainer for Annie.

"While they are still navigating their relationship as a couple, Annie would never stop Kyle from spending time with their children."