Kyle is a name with Scottish and Irish origins. It comes from the Gaelic word caol, which means "narrow," "sound," or "strait." This geographic term refers to the narrow channel of water between two islands or between an island and the mainland.

Kyle is also a well-known Scottish last name the origins of which can be traced back to an area in southwestern Scotland. Although it originated as a surname, today Kyle is now used most often as a first name for boys. It has also been used as a name for girls, most commonly in the early part of the century.

How Popular Is the Name Kyle?

Kyle follows the trend of surnames that have become popular as a first name. It entered the Social Security Administration's top 1,000 list of names for baby boys in 1902 as No. 983. The name Kyle remained on the list and enjoyed a mostly upward trajectory although it bounced up and down in popularity during the following half-century. By 1950, it was ranked as No. 431.

From that point on, it began its earnest climb. Although there was no dramatic jump in its rankings, the name steadily increased in popularity until it reached its peak in 1990 when it was ranked No. 18. It stayed in the top 100 for the next 20 years. In 2023, Kyle ranked as the No. 416 most popular boy's name in the US.

As a girl name, Kyle entered the list of most popular girl names in 1950 as No. 879. By the early 1960s, it had dropped off the chart but remerged in the late 1970s. By 1991 it dropped off the top 1,000 names for girls completely. Its most popular year for girls was 1951 when it was ranked No. 594.

The name Kyle was used in several well-known television series and in the Terminator movie franchise throughout the 1980s and 1990s, possibly contributing to its rise in popularity around that time.

Name Variations

The following are variations of the name Kyle:

Kailee

Kile

Kiley

Kylan

Kylen

Kyler

Similar Names

Similar sounding names to Kyle include:

Kai

Miles

Rye

Ty

Wylie

Other names that start with "K" include:

Kane

Kareem

Kayden

Keagan

Keenan

Keith

Ken

Kendrick

Kenneth

Kevin

Kobe

Other names of Scottish origin include:

Alistair

Angus

Barclay

Callum

Fergus

Finn

Gilroy

Kirk

Logan

Ramsay

Wallace

Suggested Sibling Names

Looking for a sibling name for Kyle? Here are some popular options:

Ava

Blaine

Duncan

Evan

Freya

Grant

Isla

Knox

Lachlan

Paige

Scott

Skylar

Famous People Named Kyle

The name Kyle reached the peak of its popularity in 1990, with references in pop culture appearing around that time. The name is also associated with famous American actors, artists, and sports figures of the early 2000s.

Famous Kyles

Kyle Busch, an American NASCAR driver

Kyle Chandler, an American actor best known for Friday Night Lights

Kyle Dean Massey, an American actor and singer best known from the Broadway musical Wicked

Kyle John Baker, an award-winning American cartoonist, comic book writer-artist, and animator

Kyle Lowry, an American professional basketball player

Kyle MacLachlan, an American actor best known for his role in Twin Peaks

Kyle Thomas Harvey, an American rapper, singer, songwriter, and actor

Fictional Kyles