Third spin-off of the Angry Birds series

Released on March 12, 2015

Angry Birds POP! (originally known as Angry Birds Stella POP!) is a bubble shooter of the Angry Birds series, and formerly, the second game of the Angry Birds Stella series. The game released on December 22, 2014, in the Canada App Store and released worldwide on March 12, 2015. On October 29, 2015, the game was added to Facebook.

Characters

Playable Birds

Red (formerly playable for a limited time, but now available in the "Drop the Pigs" levels and "Defeat King Pig" levels)

The Blues(playable for a limited time)

Chuck (formerly playable for a limited time, but now available in the "Piggy in the Middle" levels)

Stella (only "Pop the Top", used to be playable in "Drop the Pigs" and "Defeat Gale" )

Matilda (formerly playable for a limited time, but now available in the "Free the Hatchlings" levels)

Bomb (formerly playable for a limited time, but now available in the "Beat the Clock" levels)

Terence (formerly unplayable, but now available to play as in Pop-a-Pig mode at the bottom right corner on the map)

Hatchlings (playable for a limited time only, promoting the release of The Angry Birds Movie)

Silver (limited time only)

Piggy McCool(playable for a limited time only)

Limited Time Birds

For a list of limited time birds, see Angry Birds POP!/Limited Time Birds.

Enemies

King Pig (formerly Gale, prior to version 2.22)

Minion Pigs

Zeta (replaces King Pig for The Angry Birds Movie 2 event, thus, promoting the film's release)

Pilot Pig

Wanted Pigs (Event Only)

Billy The Piglet

Mad Hog Mccree (Foreman Pig)

Hams Grubber (Leonard)

Others

Mighty Eagle (Appears in the limited time “Mighty Eagle Store” where players can trade Mighty Coins in for various power ups.)

Critters

Hatchlings

Bee Critters ( ) (Every successful pop will bring in one bee into the playing field up to 3 bees. Missing one will lose one, and changes color every 3 successful pops. Drop a bubble onto it, and it will bounce to score points. The color changes in order ( )

Gameplay

https://angrybirds.fandom.com/wiki/File:Mus_credits_HQ.ogg Map Music The game features the slingshot lined up in the bottom center, and the player flings the bubble to pop bubbles at the top with a combination of three or more bubbles with the same color. Each level will be given a limited number of bubbles indicated beside the slingshot known as the bubble count. Sometimes, there are some obstacles and special blocks that appear at the top along with the bubbles. This game features a common live system that starts with 5 x . Each level attempt must have at least 1 life in order to play. When you run out of bubbles, there will be an option to continue by purchasing 12 x in exchange for 5 x and 1 x each time or to give up. When you give up, will lose one of the lives. Afterwards, you may retry or if available watch an advertisement video to earn free boost at the beginning of the next attempt. If you lost all the lives, you must get lives from friends ( ) or purchase with 10 x to continue playing. The game originally featured the five characters that appear in Angry Birds Stella formerly, and after the Hamhock Holmes update, 5 characters from The Angry Birds Movie and various classic Angry Birds games (including Stella as she is remained) were added. Each character will have a special power that can be used when the Pop Meter is full to unlock powerful boosts from their powers like Stella's Power Pop, Bomb's Blast Pop and many more . To fill the Pop Meter ( ), you have to get Streaks, that means popping 6 times in a row without a single miss. The levels are in different modes and each of them marked as an icon and the level number ( ). Each kind of level has music in the game that distinguishes different types of gameplay. When the level is completed, the number of stars ( ) and if Golden Feathers ( ) were achieved, will be shown on the map (refer to gallery). Here we will show you a list of the kind of levels that have been known:

d)

Icon (Unlocked) Music Description Drop the Pigs https://angrybirds.fandom.com/wiki/File:Mus_popthepigs_HQ.ogg Help Red (formerly Stella) to pop bubbles and drop all the pigs to win the level! Pop the Top https://angrybirds.fandom.com/wiki/File:Mus_popthetop_HQ.ogg Help Stella pop any 6 top row bubbles to complete the level! Piggy in the Middle https://angrybirds.fandom.com/wiki/File:Mus_piggyinthemiddle_HQ.ogg Help Chuck (formerly Dahlia) drop the pig by popping everything around him! Free the Hatchlings https://angrybirds.fandom.com/wiki/File:Mus_freethecritters_HQ.ogg Help Matilda (formerly Willow) drop the bubbles with Hatchlings (formerly Critters) inside to free them! Beat the Clock https://angrybirds.fandom.com/wiki/File:Mus_beattheclock_HQ.ogg Help Bomb (formerly Poppy) to pop or drop all the bubbles before he runs out of time. Defeat King Pig https://angrybirds.fandom.com/wiki/File:Mus_showdown_HQ.ogg King Pig (formerly Gale) and his minions will try to stop you from clearing the level. Pop-A-Pig None https://angrybirds.fandom.com/wiki/File:Mus_terence_HQ.ogg Help Terence in getting pigs and breaking a high sco

Bird Boost

Each bird has a special pop when their streak meter is full.

Be careful when using a special pop against a powerup(s) as it wil |}

Bird Boost

Each bird has a special pop when their streak meter is full.

Be careful when using a special pop against a powerup(s) as it will trigger the effects.

For each bird's abilities, see Bird Boost.

Boosters

Boosters are powerful powerups that can be obtained by completing daily quests or by watching an advertisement video. They can be used on demand in the gameplay.

For a list of boosters and how to use them, see Boosters.

Blockers

For a list of blockers, see Blockers

Areas

For a list of areas, see Areas.

Daily tasks

Since version 2.15, players are given 3 tasks to complete for 3 reward items such as boosters and gold. (Y denotes the number value).

Pop Y

Bounce times

Complete Y levels

Spend Y (formerly)

Play as character Y times

Use Y times

Drop Y

Earn Y

Send Y

Swap times

Hit Y obstacle times

A quest will be shown while the task is in progression.

Collect rewards for each completed task. One booster for the first 2 tasks, and the last task will be a mystery boost reward either 2x or 3x of a boost.

Infinite Lives

By purchasing any bundle containing an infinite lives timer, or getting it for free, the player will have unlimited lives and will not consume one when failed to complete the level. The expiry timer is shown on the lives left meter.

Events

For a list of events, see Angry Birds POP!/Events

Costumes

Costumes can bought with gems to the birds as attires, they are available only for the main birds and are each for a specific set, which are:

Hero Set;

Hipster Set;

Winter Set;

Nutcracker Set;

Pig Set;

Saint Patrick's Day Set;

Easter Set;

Movie Set;

Halloween Set;

Christmas Set.

Trivia

This game has the second most levels in the Angry Birds series, with 6,000 levels in total (as of June 2022). Angry Birds Dream Blast (over 9,550 levels) is the first, and Angry Birds 2 (over 3,320 levels), (as of June 2022) is the third.

This is the fifth Angry Birds game or spinoff without the use of birds on a slingshot.

This is the first Angry Birds game played in a vertical orientation.

There is a lives system in this game. It works similar to Candy Crush Saga as failing a level costs 1 live and recharging for 30 minutes each.

This is the first Angry Birds video game that does not have its own Toons.TV video app, formerly, and now it has its own.

Red was the first bird to appear as a guest star twice.

This game is one of the four Angry Birds games that are available on Facebook. The other are Angry Birds Friends, Angry Birds for Facebook Messenger and Angry Birds: Flip the Bird.

However, it's not available in Facebook anymore since December 21, 2016.

It is possible to get zero stars in levels, which means you fail the level. This makes the first Angry Birds game to do this. (Angry Birds Epic does not count because the game only gets zero stars on equipment.)

Some of the Time-Limited Birds appeared in mobile devices, and are not available in the Facebook version.

When losing the Drop the Pigs levels in the Facebook version, Red's voice sounds like Poppy.

In the Facebook version, if there is an error with the game, such as internet being disconnected or synchronization errors, you will lose a live if you are playing a level.

Since the beginning of August 2022, there has been a log-in issue for users who saved their progress with Facebook. It was apparently caused by a change in the Meta (formally Facebook) API.[2][3][4] The issue has been fixed in mid-October of that same year.[5]

Mobile

In the 1.4.30 update, the player can choose between the bird required for the main level or Red when he was available for a limited time (from May 21, 2015, to June 3, 2015).

Red is also the first playable male from this game.

Also, when playing with Red, you see a feather along with the stars. In order to get the feather, the player must complete the level with Red. The game actually says that "the feathers might be valuable"

Red has been removed as of June 4, 2015, but the collected feathers still stay in the game.

Even if removed, he still appears in the map while playing a guitar.

The Blues appeared in the 1.7.2 update as playable birds in the same manner as Red (available from July 6 to July 20). However, they require blue feathers.

Blue feathers are earned in the same way as Red: by beating a certain score and completing the level.

Just like Red, The Blues stay for 2 weeks straight, and after they're not going to be playable after the timer is out.

Chuck also appears in the game.

Since v1.8.0 update, the Stella name was removed from the app store's title and the new name is Angry Birds POP!. It was probably due to the Stella game being discontinued.

Even as v2.3.0 update, Red and Chuck are now permanent playable birds. Dahlia was a limited time bird at that time.

Before the v2.3.0 update, the limited time birds have their respective feathers. As of the said update, all of their feathers are now as of one- golden feathers.

In version 2.15, daily tasks were added. However, in this update, during the level gameplay, player may activate the bird boost instantly with coins on x3 to x5 streak.

In v2.11.2 mobile update, UI menus have changed.

The Hatchlings were introduced in v2.12.0. This was to promote the upcoming Angry Birds Movie.

The Blues were available on the June 23, 2016 for the second time as a part of summer treats for a limited time.

This is the second time the Hatchlings appear as the guest star twice. When the Hatchlings were first introduced, the player has to collect treats for a reward. In the second appearance of the Hatchlings, the player has to complete 3 daily tasks the same manner as Terence's Tasks to earn one part of the movie poster and a booster. Collect all 4 parts to complete a poster.

In version 3 onwards, the game assets can be accessed by extracting its archive.

Some files in the assets folder are named as Gale_XX in the Defeat King Pig.

The episode ''Area 51'' is based on an actual highly classified top-secret government site.

''Unidentified Flying Pigs'', ''Baconheart'', ''FreeeedHam!'' ''A Song of Eggs and Bacon'', and ''King Pig's Landing'' are based on ''UFO (unidentified flying object[s])'', Lionheart (Richard the Lionheart), Freedom, A Song of Ice and Fire, a series of novels by George R.R. Martin which inspired the Game of Thrones series, and King's Landing which is a location from Game of Thrones.

The concept of Stella and her friends venturing into a cave in pursuit of Gale was later brought back in the 3rd area of Angry Birds POP! (previously Angry Birds Stella POP!), "Crystal Caves," which takes place in the same cave Angry Birds Stella ended on.[6]

In v1.3.0 Facebook update, Time Limited Birds were added.

On Facebook v 1.10.1, daily tasks were added, alongside with the movie posters. It was given 14 days instead of 30 on mobile devices.

Some of the level numbers shown on the map were cut-off by the objects overlapping on them.

Shakira Bird is still on the map however, she is not animated.

Facebook Discontinuation

On September 17, 2016, it was announced that the game on Facebook will be officially discontinued to continue with the mobile version of Angry Birds POP!. This game on Facebook closed on December 21, 2016. It was taken down on January 2, 2017, as stated on the Facebook page.

Gallery

Main article: Angry Birds POP!/Gallery

Gallery

For this subject's image gallery, see gallery.

Videos

Soundtrack

For the soundtrack version, see Angry Birds POP! Soundtrack.

Unused Content

For unused content, see Unused Content.

References

Page on the Angry Birds Website

Chinese Website

Angry Birds POP on Facebook

Angry Birds POP on Instagram

Protagonists Red (Super Red • Christmas Red • Phantom Bird) • The Blues • Chuck • Matilda • Stella • Bomb • Terence • Hatchlings (Samantha • Vincent • Zoe) • Silver • Piggy McCool • Zeta • Shakira • Dahlia • Luca • Gale • Willow • Poppy • Critters (Bee) Antagonists King Pig (Former: Gale) • Minion Pigs • Zeta (Former) • Pilot Pig • Billy The Piglet • Mad Hog Mccree • Hams Grubber • Captain Cold Cut • The Jester • Oink the Odious Blockers and Materials Slingshot • Bubble • Glass • Wood • Stone • Blitzfruit • Smoke Cloud • Splash Fruit • Fruit Bomb • Honeycomb • Lava Bubble • Ash Bubble • Bubble Pod • Picker Pod • Boomshroom • Spores • Pop Fruit • Power Flower • Sandstorm • Spike • Splash Flower • Drums • Fizz Fruit • Spin Fruit Blockers Bird Boost (Power Pop • Science Pop • Splash Pop • Line Pop • Rock Pop • Triple Threat • Color Pop • Love Pop • Blast Pop • Sonic Pop • Splash Pop • Prize Pop • Royal Pop • Smash Pop • Plunder Pop • Star Pop • Freeze Pop) • Rainbow Bubble• Mighty Eye Sight • Fireball • Crusher • Instant Bird Boost • Color Crush • Mystery Boost Episodes Other Achievements • The Sequel • Gold • Stars • Golden Feathers • Gallery • Glitches • Unused Content • Version History • Level Failed