A NEW £100million investment is set to drive tourists back to a once-thriving UK seaside town that has since become less popular with tourists.

Morecambe in Lancashire is due to benefit from the arrival of the second incarnation of the Eden Project, which is set to be completed in 2026.

Originally named Eden Project North, developers hope it can replicate the success of the Eden Project in Cornwall, which opened in 2001.

Construction is set to start on the site next year, with four huge "shell-like" domes surrounded by outdoor gardens planned for the project.

Once completed, there will be a "hyper-real forest" with large installations and immersive theatre, a 'Bay Glade' with a well-being landscape and a Natural Observatory for research and education.

Elsewhere, the Bay Hall will be an exhibition area and meeting point for guests.

The attraction will also be home to children's play areas, eateries and a gift shop.

Events will also be hosted there throughout the year, much like at the Cornwall Eden Project, where famous names such as Elton John, Lionel Richie and Kylie Minogue have all turned up.

The Eden Project website states: "Eden Project Morecambe will be a destination that combines indoor and outdoor experiences, connecting people with the internationally-significant natural environment of Morecambe Bay while also enhancing wellbeing.

"Eden Project Morecambe will combine exhibits, performance, learning, play, immersive experiences, world-class horticulture, live music, art, food, beverage and retail spaces, all integrated as essential parts of the overall experience."

It is hoped that once the site opens, it could attract as many as 750,000 guests every year.

The Eden Project isn't the only thing drawing tourists to Morecambe either.

One of the town's most famous residents, heavyweight boxing champ Tyson Fury, has recently increased the number of visitors to the town, with his Netflix series At Home With the Furys.

Google searches for "Morecambe" surged in the two weeks following the launch of the show in August.

The Mail reports: "The famous family has caused new fame for the location, with 33,000 more Brits searching for information on the hotspot location - peaking at 142,000 searches."

In episode one of the series, Fury explains why he has never moved away from the town, saying the view of the bay, where he can often be seen running, is one of the main attractions.

He said: "I've often tampered with the idea of living abroad and living in Monaco and America, but there's always something that keeps me here in Morecambe Bay.

"I believe it's probably the sea air calling to me, 'don't go! Stay!'

"Every time I jog down the front, I look at the bay and the view and I think, 'Wow, no matter where I go in the world, I will never get that anywhere else'."

Further development of much-loved tourist favourites is also expected to entice more people looking for a UK seaside staycation, with a theme park, new hotels and historic building renovations all on the agenda.

Lancs Live wrote: "More than anything else, the incoming Eden Project North is expected to be the development that really puts Morecambe back on the map.

"But as well as this, there is also an extensive Winter Gardens restoration, new hotel plans, the old Frontierland theme park site is expected to be redeveloped, there are also changes afoot at The Platform music venue."

Before the regeneration takes place, visitors have plenty to see, with places like Happy Mount Park, the Eric Morecambe Statue and The Smugglers Den pub all rated highly on TripAdvisor.

The beach itself receives a lot of praise too, with one reviewer writing: "This bay is beautiful and very extensive so there is plenty of coastline to walk along.

"There were lots of people swimming out into the sea. The beach had large rocks then sand and was full of character. Well worth a visit on a nice day."

Meanwhile, this seaside town in England – with sandy beaches, donkey rides & the best B&B in the world.