AKM Informational agency

RUSNANO has stopped the withdrawal from a number of critically important assets for the country, which contribute to the provision of infrastructure and form a technological reserve for the Russian industry in mechanical engineering, medicine, chemistry, oil and gas, lighting and electronics, telecommunications, energy, transport and housing. This is stated in the company's message. Among them are the companies "Plakart", "Virial", "Optical Fiber Systems", "RM Nanotech", "Profotek", "Russian Quartz", "NEVZ-CERAMICS", "Novomet", "ELVIS NeoTek", "ICE-Energoservice", "NovaMedica", "Pharmsintez" and a number of projects of the RUSNANO-SINTEZ Foundation.

All the listed companies have received the approval of relevant ministries and departments, meet the National Development Goals of the Russian Federation until 2030, have high growth potential and can become an alternative supplier for the market, replacing the products of foreign manufacturers. In the future, it is planned to maximize their economic potential. Industry competence centers will be created on the basis of the companies.

RUSNANO assumes the function of managing partner and integrator for the formation of a complete chain of product creation and delivery to the end customer under long-term life cycle contracts. This will provide an opportunity to continuously improve and increase the value of solutions for the end user. Relying on advanced methods of innovation, science and digital tools will accelerate the pace of development and market launch of new products, expand the scale of technology dissemination and involve scientists and investors who are ready to finance promising projects in the process.

JSC "Plakart" is a portfolio company of JSC "RUSNANO", established in 2010 to implement the project of creating a network of innovative centers for the production of nanocoats by methods of gas thermal spraying and surfacing. Plakart performs works both in its own workshops located in the Moscow region, Perm, Tyumen, Nizhny Novgorod, and Naberezhnye Chelny, and at the installation and operation site of equipment — throughout Russia and the CIS.

Virial LLC is one of the leading Russian enterprises in the field of production of high—quality hard alloys, technical ceramics and products from them. JSC Optical Fiber Systems is the first and only optical fiber production plant in Russia, located in Saransk (Republic of Mordovia). The official opening of the plant took place on September 25, 2015. The shareholders of the company are RUSNANO, Gazprombank and the Government of the Republic of Mordovia.

JSC Profotek (a portfolio company of JSC RUSNANO) has been developing and manufacturing products since 2010: electro-optical current and voltage transformers. To date, Profotek is the only Russian manufacturer with its own technology and a complete production cycle of these products.

PJSC "Pharmsintez" (Saint Petersburg) is a public joint stock company engaged in the development and production of pharmaceutical substances and medicines both in its own portfolio and on the terms of contract production. The unique production complex is located in the Leningrad region. Pharmsintez PJSC is the parent company of the holding, whose key assets are Xenetic Bioscience Inc. (USA), a developer of a number of promising medicines, shares are listed on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange (ticker XBIO), and Kevelt AS (Estonia), a developer and manufacturer of medicines for the markets of the USA, Europe and CIS countries, certified according to the GMP standard. Shares of PJSC "Pharmsintez" are admitted to trading on the Moscow Stock Exchange in the RII sector (ticker LIFE). The main shareholder of PJSC "Pharmsintez" is the RUSNANO Group.

MEMBRANIUM (RM Nanotech JSC). RUSNANO Design Company RM Nanotech JSC is the only Russian company producing nanostructured membrane fabric and rolled membrane elements for reverse osmosis (OO), nanofiltration (NF), ultrafiltration (UV). The production capacity of the plant of RM Nanotech JSC is 2 million m2 of membrane fabric per year and 50 thousand membrane elements (in terms of standard size 8040).

The Novomet Group of Companies is one of the largest holdings in Russia engaged in the production of oil—submersible equipment, including reservoir pressure maintenance systems. The company not only creates complete installations for oil production and water lifting, but also is engaged in the maintenance of its equipment, providing its comprehensive service — from selection to the well to major repairs. RUSNANO has been a shareholder of Novomet-Perm JSC since 2011.

JSC "NEVZ-CERAMICS" was formed in 2011 by HC PJSC "NEVZ-Soyuz" and RUSNANO. The company develops and manufactures products made of nanostructured ceramics for industrial consumers in the energy sector, radio electronics, mechanical engineering, chemical and petrochemical industries, medical applications from biocompatible medical nanoceramics for traumatology and orthopedics. ELVIS-NeoTek (RUSNANO portfolio company) is a leading Russian developer of intelligent security systems using image recognition and computer vision technologies, as well as microprocessors for machine vision systems for 40 and 28 nanometer tenological processes.

NovaMedica is a Russian pharmaceutical company established in 2012 by RUSNANO and the American venture fund Domain Associates LLC. NovaMedica's strategy is aimed at finding and localizing innovative pharmaceutical products in Russia and creating new drugs within its own R&D program. In 2017, NovaMedica opened the NovaMedica Innotech R&D Center in Moscow (a 100% subsidiary of NovaMedica, a resident of Skolkovo).

The RUSNANO Group includes JSC RUSNANO, the RUSNANO Management Company and the Fund for Infrastructure and Educational Programs. Thanks to RUSNANO's investments, 138 enterprises and R&D centers operate in 37 regions of Russia. RUSNANO's profit under IFRS for 2021 amounted to 0.7 billion rubles. compared with a loss of 52.9 billion rubles a year earlier. Proceeds from investment activities, including exits from projects, increased to 36.6 billion rubles against 13.3 billion rubles. Debt obligations were reduced by 20 billion rubles and amounted to 128 billion rubles, of which 93 billion rubles are secured by state guarantees. The value of the investment portfolio increased by 18.4 billion rubles, and operating expenses decreased by more than 20%. Debt servicing expenses amounted to 14.6 billion rubles.

Print