MOSCOW, 6 March 2012 – RUSNANO and Domain Associates, a U.S. venture capital firm specializing in leading-edge life sciences technologies, today announced a partnership that will spur modernization of the Russian healthcare market by bringing next-generation pharmaceuticals, medical devices and diagnostics to Russia.

RUSNANO and Domain have signed an investment agreement under which they will jointly invest in emerging life sciences technology companies, foster transfer of technology into Russia, and establish a manufacturing facility in Russia for production of advanced therapeutic products for the treatment of medical conditions including viral infections, cardiovascular diseases, cancer, and others.

This strategic partnership aggregate budget is aimed at approximatery $760 million, including co-financing from RUSNANO (via RMI LLC) of approximately $380 million. The parties will co-invest in approximately 20 US-based healthcare technology companies that develop innovative products in the fields of pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, medical devices and other areas of life sciences, that have significant applications for patient populations in Russia.

For the implementation of partnership RUSNANO has created RMI LLC, the company that will independently choose startups for joint investment with Domain Associates and manage their further development, including by participation at the Boards. The partnership will mostly focus on those startups that are at the later stages of clinical development or registering their products. The project also propose the joint creation of an innovative pharmaceutical company in Russia that will collect exclusive rights on products for the territory of Russia and selected SIC countries from the companies being jointly imvested by RMI and Domain Associates.

“Life sciences portfolio companies constitute approximately 20 percent of RUSNANO actual investments. We are working hard to spur development of innovative technologies in the Russian healthcare industry," said Anatoly Chubais, Chief Executive Officer of RUSNANO. "I am confident that this partnership will make a strong contribution toward driving innovation in the domestic pharmaceutical industry.”

“We expect Domain’s collaboration with RUSNANO to provide a significant boost to the modernization efforts of the Russian pharmaceutical and medical technology industry," said Brian Dovey, Partner at Domain Associates. "For our portfolio companies, this strategic relationship opens up new attractive avenues for financing. Finally, we are excited about the commercial potential of establishing a cutting-edge production facility in Russia.”

The partners have engaged Team Drive, a management company led by former Sistema and MTS CEO Leonid Melamed, to develop the project on the part of RMI.

“RUSNANO’s realization of this project will expedite the arrival of next-generation medicines to the Russian market, providing Russian patients with access to the most modern pharmaceuticals at the same time as other patients around the world, and in some cases earlier. In addition, this partnership is a big step forward for the Russian venture capital industry in the healthcare market. We are delighted that RUSNANO has selected our team to drive this promising initiative forward,” commented Leonid Melamed, Chairman of Team Drive.

Domain Associates announcement on the initiative: https://domainvc.com/initiatives/domain-rusnano

About RUSNANO

RUSNANO was founded in March 2011 as an open joint stock company through reorganization of state corporation Russian Corporation of Nanotechnologies. RUSNANO's mission is to develop the Russian nanotechnology industry through co-investment in nanotechnology projects with substantial economic potential or social benefit. The Government of the Russian Federation owns 100 percent of the shares in RUSNANO. Anatoly Chubais is CEO and chairman of the Executive Board of RUSNANO.

Work to establish nanotechnology infrastructure and training for nanotechnology specialists, formerly conducted by the Russian Corporation of Nanotechnologies, has been entrusted to the Fund for Infrastructure and Educational Programs, a non-commercial fund also established through reorganization of the Russian Corporation of Nanotechnologies.

www.rusnano.com

About Domain

Founded in 1985, Domain Associates, L.L.C. is a venture capital firm with an exclusive focus on life sciences. With $2.4 billion of capital under management, Domain is headquartered in Princeton, NJ with a second office in San Diego, CA.

Domain’s three major investment segments are pharmaceuticals, specialty pharmaceuticals, and medical devices, while additional areas of interest include biomaterials, bioinstrumentation, and diagnostics. The Partners of Domain have a total of close to 200 person-years of experience among them in the healthcare/venture capital industries and have been involved in the formation and growth of more than 235 life-sciences companies. The highly focused network, experience, and reputation of this team have made it one of the top private-equity groups participating in the healthcare field.

www.domainvc.com