Synopsis

The insider's guide and perfect companion to the new film starring Harvey Keitel, Mira Sorvino, and Vanessa Redgrave.Stunning and surreal, Lulu on the Bridge is a romantic mystery with a lot on its mind. It is the story of Izzy and Celia, two lonely, wounded, and mismatched strangers, transformed into soul mates by the uncanny powers of a phosphorescent stone. Destiny, as well as some bizarre and near-tragic circumstances, conspire to keep the lovers apart. But the audience and reader are privy to a grand and surprising finale that explains all. Thought-provoking, intriguing, and utterly romantic, Lulu on the Bridge offers a lyrical meditation on what distinguishes chance from fate, reality from illusion, and life from death. Following on the success of the screenplay cornpanion to Smoke and Blue in the Face, this book contains the shooting script; an interview with Paul Auster by Rebecca Prime; interviews with the producer, costume designer, editor, director of photography, and production designer; and stills from the film.

"synopsis" may belong to another edition of this title.

From Library Journal

Noted novelist Auster is now making his debut as sole film director with Lulu. Best known for his "New York Trilogy"?made up of City of Glass (LJ 10/15/85), Ghosts (1986), and The Locked Room (LJ 1/87)?Auster also wrote the screenplay for Smoke and codirected Blue in the Face. His novels have been described as postmodern anti-detective works, while his films have dealt with intersecting lives and friendship. Lulu on the Bridge proves to be a more complex film, with parallel story lines, a movie being filmed within the movie, and a romantic relationship tinged with magic and redemption. Made up of the screenplay with accompanying essays and interviews with Auster, the production designer, the costume designer, the editor, and the producer, this book is satisfying but specialized. Recommended for strong film collections only.?J. Sara Paulk, Coastal Plain Regional Lib., Tifton, GA

Copyright 1998 Reed Business Information, Inc.