Disclaimer This article has missing information and citations. Found a language or factual error in the text? Please help improve it or discuss these issues in the talk.

NRK, the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation - is the public service broadcaster in Norway.

The objective of public service broadcasting is to provide the entire population with access to a broad range of content.

The Broadcasting Act authorizes NRK to engage in broadcast activities. NRK is 97 percent financed by an individual tax that everybody in Norway has to pay.

The NRK’s public service remit is set out in the NRK placard, which is incorporated into NRK’s articles of association.

The Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation (NRK) offers the Norwegian public a wide range of content with three national TV-channels, 14 national radio-channels and the website nrk.no.

Services[]

Television channels[]

NRK has organized its programs on NRK1, NRK2, and NRK3/Super to provide the public with three real options when they turn on their TVs, forming a three-channel strategy.

NRK1 is Norway’s biggest channel. Its market share is about 30%. The content offered by NRK1 is varied, and appeals to broad segments of the population. It is varied and broad, and is intended to give Norwegians shared understanding and great experiences across news, sport, drama, entertainment, and documentaries.

NRK2 offers specialized knowledge, news, debate programs, documentaries, analyses, cultural programs, and current affairs. The channel offers a variety of thematic initiatives via theme nights or over longer seasons.

NRK3 focuses on innovative Norwegian content and developing new talent. NRK3 has worked hard to develop several Norwegian series, and in 2012, the channel had great success with Norwegian productions. NRK3 offers movies, humor, lifestyle, and music for a younger audience. NRK3 was launched on September 3, 2007. NRK3 shares a channel with NRK Super, NRK’s children’s channel, with a vision to create a world where children grow up and are important. NRK Super was launched on December 1, 2007.

Along with NRK P3, MP3, and initiatives from nrk.no, NRK3 provides content that is relevant for the younger age groups.

Radio digitisation[]

As the first country in the world, Norway became the first country in the world to end nationwide FM radio in 2017. The switch of all nationwide FM-stations followed up on the radio digitization mandate issued by the Storting (the Norwegian Parliament). Whereas the FM system only had space for five national channels, DAB offers around 25, and there is capacity for almost 20 more.

NRK has 14 radio channels.

NRK P1 is Norway’s largest radio station, both in audience figures and in broadcasting hours, with more than one million listeners each day. News, local journalism, music, current affairs, sport, traditions, and entertainment continue to be the main ingredients in the recipe that makes P1 Norway’s first choice among radio listeners. Editorial centers in Trondheim, Oslo, Bergen, and the district offices now reach a broad over-30 audience.

NRK P2 is a specialist channel for culture and society, offering, amongst other things, news and debate with background and analysis throughout the day. NRK P2 aims to develop a modern and inviting tone to ensure both experienced and loyal P2 listeners, as well as new and younger audiences, find the channel attractive and relevant. The channel has adopted systematic promotion of its content both on its own channel and on NRK P1.

NRK P3 is the youth radio station, focusing on new music, humor, entertainment, and the reality of being young. NRK P3 is mainly aimed at young people in the 15–30 age bracket. NRK P3 is a broad-spectrum radio station for young listeners between 06:00 and 18:00 hrs and more of a cultural pop and rock station during the evenings and at night. P3’s main emphasis is on music, comedy/entertainment, and news for a younger audience. The target audience is young people in Norway between the ages of 15 and 30. P3 has an important role as an ambassador for new Norwegian music. Through live broadcasts of "P3sessions" and "Urørt" (unsigned), NRK P3 brings more Norwegian artists to the limelight each year. NRK P3 will also be where young people are, delivering content from the main Norwegian music festivals.

Besides the main radio channels, NRK offers a wide range of special, targeted radio channels.

NRK Sápmi Radio - All Sápmi radio programs transmitted by NRK P1 and P2 are broadcast as repeats on the DAB and online radio station NRK Sápmi Radio. The station also produces its own programs.

NRK P1+ - Radio for those who have lived for some time Good old music and much more.

NRK P13 - Rock and pop music day and night

NRK Jazz - Jazz music day and night

NRK Super Radio - Radio for Children

NRK Klassisk - Offer classical music 24 hours a day. It was the first digital station of its kind in the world.

NRK Alltid Nyheter - Obtains news and reports; - offer BBC World Service during late evening and night.

NRK Folkemusikk - Folk Music from NRK’s Unique Folk Music Archives

NRK mP3 - Plays energetic music 24 hours a day for young people.

NRK P3 Urørt - P3 Untouched - Demo competition for non-established bands. P3 Urørt is an online radio station that serves up the best tracks from the Urørt database 24 hours a day.

NRK Vær - Weather forcast service on DAB along the coast.

NRK sign language[]

NRK1 Tegnspråk (NRK sign language)

NRK1 Tegnspråk is a digital TV channel that interprets NRK1’s broadcasts. This is a special service for hearing-impaired viewers.

NRK.no[]

The website of NRK is the second most visited Norwegian website. Nrk.no shall always present the most important events in the world, in Norway, and on NRK right now. The adaptation of such useful services represents a natural development of traditional public service content and is a recent innovation that provides the public with content in a more user-friendly manner through the use of new technology. NRK provides online services such as nrksuper.no (for children), P3.no (for young people), yr.no (weather forecast service), and NRKskole (school service).

NRK has a Media Player, which is an internet streaming catchup television and radio service. The service is available on a wide range of devices, including mobile phones and tablets, personal computers, and smart televisions.

NRK TV: tv.nrk.no

NRK Radio: radio.nrk.no

The adaptation of such useful services represents a natural development of traditional public service content and is a recent innovation that provides the public with content in a more user-friendly manner through the use of new technology.