Author:Laxman Burdak, IFS (R)

Saxony (सैक्सनी) is a landlocked state of Germany, bordering the states of Brandenburg, Saxony-Anhalt, Thuringia, Bavaria, as well as the countries of Poland and the Czech Republic. Its capital is Dresden, and its largest city is Leipzig. The area of the modern state of Saxony should not be confused with Old Saxony, the area inhabited by Saxons. Old Saxony corresponds roughly to the modern German states of Lower Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt, and the Westphalian part of North Rhine-Westphalia.

Variants

German: Freistaat Sachsen [ˈfʁaɪʃtaːt ˈzaksn̩];

Upper Saxon: Freischdaad Saggsn;

Upper Sorbian: Swobodny stat Sakska,

Old Saxony - the area inhabited by Saxons

Name

The term Saxony has been in use for more than a millennium. It was used for the medieval Duchy of Saxony, the Electorate of Saxony of the Holy Roman Empire, the Kingdom of Saxony, and twice for a republic. The first Free State of Saxony was established in 1918 as a constituent state of the Weimar Republic. After World War II, it was under Soviet occupation before it became part of the communist East Germany and was abolished by the government in 1952. Following German reunification, the Free State of Saxony was reconstituted with enlarged borders in 1990 and became one of the five new states of the Federal Republic of Germany.

History

Saxony has a long history as a duchy, an electorate of the Holy Roman Empire (the Electorate of Saxony), and finally as a kingdom (the Kingdom of Saxony). In 1918, after Germany's defeat in World War I, its monarchy was overthrown and a republican form of government was established under the current name. The state was broken up into smaller units during communist rule (1949–1989), but was re-established on 3 October 1990 on the reunification of East and West Germany.

Prehistory: In prehistoric times, the territory of present-day Saxony was the site of some of the largest of the ancient central European monumental temples, dating from the fifth century BC. Notable archaeological sites have been discovered in Dresden and the villages of Eythra and Zwenkau near Leipzig. The Germanic presence in the territory of today's Saxony is thought to have begun in the first century BC.

Parts of Saxony were possibly under the control of the Germanic King Marobod during the Roman era. By the late Roman period, several tribes known as the Saxons emerged, from which the subsequent state(s) draw their name.

Stem Duchy of Saxony: The first medieval Duchy of Saxony was a late Early Middle Ages "Carolingian stem duchy", which emerged around the start of the 8th century AD and grew to include the greater part of Northern Germany, what are now the modern German states of Bremen, Hamburg, Lower Saxony, North Rhine-Westphalia, Schleswig-Holstein and Saxony-Anhalt. The Saxons converted to Christianity during this period. This geographical region is unrelated to present-day Saxony but the name moved southwards due to certain historical events (see below).

The territory of the Free State of Saxony, called White Serbia was, since the 6th century, populated by Slavs before being conquered by Germans e.g. Saxons and Thuringii. It was not part of the old Saxon stem duchy. A legacy of this period is the Sorb population in Saxony. Eastern parts of present Saxony were ruled by Poland between 1002 and 1032 and by Bohemia since 1293.

Holy Roman Empire: The territory of the Free State of Saxony became part of the Holy Roman Empire by the 10th century, when the dukes of Saxony were also kings (or emperors) of the Holy Roman Empire, comprising the Ottonian, or Saxon, Dynasty. Around this time, the Billungs, a Saxon noble family, received extensive lands in Saxony. The emperor eventually gave them the title of dukes of Saxony. After Duke Magnus died in 1106, causing the extinction of the male line of Billungs, oversight of the duchy was given to Lothar of Supplinburg, who also became emperor for a short time.

The Margravate of Meissen was founded in 985 as a frontier march, that soon extended to the Kwisa (Queis) river to the east and as far as the Ore Mountains. In the process of Ostsiedlung, settlement of German farmers in the sparsely populated area was promoted.

In 1137, control of Saxony passed to the Guelph dynasty, descendants of Wulfhild Billung, eldest daughter of the last Billung duke, and the daughter of Lothar of Supplinburg. In 1180 large portions west of the Weser were ceded to the Bishops of Cologne, while some central parts between the Weser and the Elbe remained with the Guelphs, becoming later the Duchy of Brunswick-Lüneburg. The remaining eastern lands, together with the title of Duke of Saxony, passed to an Ascanian dynasty (descended from Eilika Billung, Wulfhild's younger sister) and were divided in 1260 into the two small states of Saxe-Lauenburg and Saxe-Wittenberg. The former state was also named Lower Saxony, the latter Upper Saxony, thence the later names of the two Imperial Circles Saxe-Lauenburg and Saxe-Wittenberg. Both claimed the Saxon electoral privilege for themselves, but the Golden Bull of 1356 accepted only Wittenberg's claim, with Lauenburg nevertheless continuing to maintain its claim. In 1422, when the Saxon electoral line of the Ascanians became extinct, the Ascanian Eric V of Saxe-Lauenburg tried to reunite the Saxon duchies.

However, Sigismund, King of the Romans, had already granted Margrave Frederick IV the Warlike of Meissen (House of Wettin) an expectancy of the Saxon electorate in order to remunerate his military support. On 1 August 1425 Sigismund enfeoffed the Wettinian Frederick as Prince-Elector of Saxony, despite the protests of Eric V. Thus the Saxon territories remained permanently separated.

The Electorate of Saxony was then merged with the much larger Wettinian Margraviate of Meissen; however, it used the higher-ranking title Electorate of Saxony and even the Ascanian coat-of-arms for the entire monarchy.[1]Thus Saxony came to include Dresden and Meissen. Hence, the territory of the modern Free State of Saxony shares the name with the old Saxon stem duchy for historical and dynastic reasons rather than any significant ethnic, linguistic or cultural connection. In the 18th and 19th centuries Saxe-Lauenburg was colloquially called the Duchy of Lauenburg, which was held in a personal union by the Electorate of Hanover from the 18th century to the Napoleonic wars, and in a personal union with Denmark (along with neighbouring Holstein and Schleswig) for much the 19th century. In 1876 it was absorbed into Prussia as the Duchy of Lauenburg district of the Province of Schleswig-Holstein).

Foundation of the second Saxon state: Saxe-Wittenberg, mostly in modern Saxony-Anhalt, became subject to the margravate of Meissen, ruled by the Wettin dynasty in 1423. This established a new and powerful state, occupying large portions of the present Free State of Saxony, Thuringia, Saxony-Anhalt and Bavaria (Coburg and its environs). Although the centre of this state was far to the southeast of the former Saxony, it came to be referred to as Upper Saxony and then simply Saxony, while the former Saxon territories in the north were now known as Lower Saxony (the modern term Niedersachsen deriving from this).

In 1485, Saxony was split in the Treaty of Leipzig. A collateral line of the Wettin princes received what later became Thuringia and founded several small states there (see Ernestine duchies). Since these princes were allowed to use the Saxon coat of arms, in many towns of Thuringia, the coat of arms can still be found on historical buildings.

The remaining Saxon state became still more powerful, also incorporating new territories and was known in the 18th century for its cultural achievements, although it was politically weaker than Prussia and Austria, states which oppressed Saxony from the north and south, respectively.

Between 1697 and 1763, the Electors of Saxony were also elected Kings of Poland in personal union.

In 1756, Saxony joined a coalition of Austria, France and Russia against Prussia. Frederick II of Prussia chose to attack preemptively and invaded Saxony in August 1756, precipitating the Third Silesian War (part of the Seven Years' War). The Prussians quickly defeated Saxony and incorporated the Saxon army into the Prussian army. At the end of the Seven Years' War, Saxony recovered its independence in the 1763 Treaty of Hubertusburg.

List of rivers of Saxony

Alte Luppe

Bahra

Bahre

Batschke

Bauerngraben

Biela

Black Elster

Black Pockau

Bobritzsch

Borlasbach

Brunndöbra

Burgauenbach

Chemnitz

Colmnitzbach

Cunnersdorfer Wasser

Dahle

Döllnitz

Eastern Rietzschke

Elbe

Eula

Fällbach

Feilebach

Fleißenbach

Flöha

Freiberger Mulde

Friesenbach

Geberbach

Gimmlitz

Goldbach

Göltzsch

Gösel

Gottleuba

Greifenbach

Große Bockau

Große Lößnitz

Große Mittweida

Große Pyra

Große Röder

Großschweidnitzer Wasser

Gruna

Grundwasser

Hammerbach

Haselbach

Helfenberger Bach

Hoyerswerdaer Schwarzwasser

Jahna

Jahnabach

Jauer

Kabelske

Käbnitz

Kaitzbach

Kaltenbach

Kemmlitzbach

Keppbach

Ketzerbach

Kirnitzsch

Kleine Bockau

Kleine Luppe

Kleine Pleiße

Kleine Pyra

Kleine Röder, tributary of the Black Elster

Kleine Röder, tributary of the Große Röder

Kleine Spree

Kleine Triebisch

Kleinwaltersdorfer Bach

Klosterwasser

Kotitzer Wasser

Krebsgraben

Krippenbach

Lachsbach

Landgraben

Landwasser

Langes Wasser

Lausenbach

Lausur

Legnitzka

Leinegraben

Leubnitzbach

Litte

Löbauer Wasser

Lober

Lockwitzbach

Lossa

Lößnitzbach

Lungwitzbach

Luppe

Lusatian Neisse

Maltengraben

Mandau

Müglitz

Mühlgrundbach

Mulde

Münzbach

Nahle

Natzschung

Neue Luppe

Northern Rietzschke

Oberhermsdorfer Bach

Oelsabach

Orla

Otterbach

Parthe

Paußnitz

Pietzschebach

Pleiße

Pließnitz

Pöbelbach

Pöhlbach

Pöhlwasser

Polenz

Pösgraben

Preßnitz

Prießnitz

Pulsnitz

Quänebach

Räderschnitza

Raklitza

Red Mulde

Red Pockau

Red Weißeritz

Romereifeldgraben

Rosenbach

Roter Graben

Rotes Wasser

Ruhlander Schwarzwasser

Satkula

Schaukelgraben

Schirmbach

Schlettenbach

Schlumper

Schnauder

Schwarzbach, tributary of the Große Mittweida

Schwarzbach, tributary of the Mulde

Schwarzbach, tributary of the Sebnitz

Schwarzbach, tributary of the White Elster

Schwarze Röder

Schwarzer Bach

Schwarzer Graben

Schwarzer Schöps

Schwarzwasser, tributary of the Mulde

Schwarzwasser, tributary of the Preßnitz

Schweinitz

Schwennigke

Sebnitz

Sehma

Seidewitz

Seifenbach

Seltenrein

Spitzkunnersdorfer Bach

Spree

Steindöbra

Striegis

Struga

Svatava

Svitávka

Syrabach

Treba

Trebnitz

Treuener Wasser

Trieb

Triebisch

Verlorenes Wasser

Weinske

Weißer Schöps

Weißeritz

Wesenitz

White Elster

White Mulde

Wiederitz

Wild Weißeritz

Wilisch

Wilzsch

Wisenta

Wittgendorfer Wasser

Würschnitz

Wyhra

Zschampert

Zschonerbach

Zschopau

Zwickauer Mulde

Zwittebach

Zwönitz

Zwota