Whether you drive a big rig for a company, own a fleet of commercial vehicles, or work as your own boss as an owner-operator – here are the top publications in the trucking industry that we think are worth checking out:

10-4 Magazine

10-4 Magazine has been in print for over 30 years, and offers commercial truck drivers a wide range of reading materials – from entertaining puzzles and cartoons to truck show reports and human interest stories. First started in California in the early 90s, this monthly magazine is now free online or at numerous truck stops, restaurants, and other locations all across the United States. Readers can also get 10-4 Magazine delivered directly to their door for a subscription fee.

American Trucker

American Trucker has been a trusted magazine in the freight industry for decades, most recently being published as Fleet Owner’s “For the Driver” segment. American Trucker writes primarily for independent owner-operators and small fleet owners, and articles cover topics from driver health to the latest trucking news. While there is no longer a printed edition of the American Trucker magazine, readers can find articles for free online.

Commercial Carrier Journal

Commercial Carrier Journal has been covering the trucking industry since 1911. Written primarily for fleet managers, CCJ publishes articles on industry news, technology trends, and other topics to help trucking companies stay informed and grow their businesses. The last print edition of CCJ was published in 2020, but readers can find free articles online and have newsletters delivered to their inboxes.

Due to their long history in the trucking industry, Commercial Carrier Journal has also released articles that explore past print editions of the trucking magazine. In these pieces, readers get a window into fascinating topics and photos from over 100 years ago!

FleetOwner

As its name suggests, FleetOwner publishes content primarily for executives and managers of commercial truck fleets (specifically businesses operating 5+ vehicles). Safety, operation, technology, and equipment are some of the main categories covered by FleetOwner, which is available in both digital and print editions. The magazine is free to qualified subscribers, and readers can also choose from an extensive list of newsletter options to get regular updates on specific topics.

FreightWaves

FreightWaves reports on a broad range of subjects in the transportation industry with many resources and articles geared toward professional truck drivers and fleet owners. Explore categories such as truck driver issues, trucking regulations, trucking equipment, or check out their podcast and YouTube channel “What the Truck?!?” A true resource for the digital age, FreightWaves doesn’t offer a print publication – but you can access FreightWaves topics through online articles, YouTube videos, podcasts, webinars, and events.

Heavy Duty Trucking

With a history dating back to the early 1900s, Heavy Duty Trucking is a long-standing publication in the trucking industry. HDT primarily writes to inform executives and managers who oversee commercial fleets. Heavy Duty Trucking offers a print and digital magazine for free, as well as newsletters, whitepapers, webinars, events, and a podcast – each intending to give decision-makers the information they need on major issues affecting their businesses.

Land Line

Land Line Magazine is the official publication of the Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association (OOIDA). This magazine covers key subjects that matter to professional truckers – including opinion pieces, human interest stories, and state-specific news. A Land Line subscription (either print or digital) is available for free to qualified subscribers. Or, listen to Land Line Now – a free podcast on major topics in the trucking business.

Overdrive

Overdrive was first published in 1961, and remained in print for several decades before going completely online. One of the best trucking magazines for owner-operators, Overdrive publishes free articles and newsletters on key subjects such as trucking equipment, regulations, and business trends – even featuring a segment on custom rigs. Overdrive online is a sister publication of Commercial Carrier Journal and Truckers News.

Redefining the Road

Published by the organization Women in Trucking, Redefining the Road is a triannual magazine written primarily for female drivers and leaders in the trucking industry. Each edition features articles on transportation trends and news, as well as topics surrounding gender diversity in the truck-driving business. This digital publication is available to subscribers for free, and interested readers can also download past editions online. Women in Trucking members receive a printed edition.

Transport Topics

Transport Topics, published since 1935, is a weekly publication for professionals in the freight industry. Subjects covered include regulatory news, business and technology trends, and opinion pieces on the transportation sector. Articles are available for free online, along with episodes of Transport Topic’s podcast RoadSigns. Alternatively, readers can pay for a subscription that includes the print and digital editions of the magazine as well as access to exclusive content and events.

Truckers News