Lebanese Americans

This is a list of notable individuals born in the United States of Lebanese ancestry and/or people of Lebanese and American dual nationality who live or resided in the United States.

Arts and entertainment[]

Artists[]

Kahlil Gibran – aka Kahlil G. Gibran, artist, sculptor

Nabil Kanso – painter

Sam Maloof – woodworker[3]

Beauty pageant contestants[]

Rima Fakih – Miss USA 2010[4]

Entertainment personalities[]

Amy Yasbeck – actress (father was of Lebanese descent)[5]

Alexander Clooney – actor (mother of Lebanese descent)

Ella Clooney – actress (mother of Lebanese descent)

Callie Khouri – Oscar-winning screenwriter[6]

Casey Kasem – radio personality, American Top 40 franchise; voiceover actor (cartoon series Scooby-Doo, Transformers)[7]

Catherine Keener – actress, mother of Lebanese descent[8]

Celeste Thorson – actress, model, activist, screenwriter

Dan Jbara – television and film producer

Danny Thomas – actor

David Yazbek – musician and composer famous for the Broadway musical The Full Monty

Diane Rehm – host and executive producer of The Diane Rehm Show on National Public Radio

Edy Ganem – actress (parents are of Lebanese descent)

Elie Samaha – film producer

Elizabeth Keener – actress known for her role in The L Word

Emeraude Toubia – actress (father is Lebanese)

Emile Kuri – Mexican-born American Oscar-winning art director

Frank Lackteen – actor

Gregory Jbara – television and film actor

George Nader – actor, uncle of Michael Nader

George Noory – radio host (radio program Coast To Coast AM)

Haaz Sleiman – actor (series Nurse Jackie; film The Visitor)

Hank the Angry Drunken Dwarf – radio and television personality

James Stacy – Film and television actor

Jamie Farr – actor (sitcom M*A*S*H)

Jane Wiedlin – musician, actress (mother was of Lebanese descent)

Jenna Dewan – actress (paternal grandfather was of Lebanese descent)

Joan Alexander – Actress known for her role as Lois Lane

John A. Kuri – author and writer, film and television producer, and director

John Leguizamo – actor (maternal grandfather was Lebanese)

Kathy Najimy – actress

Kerri Kasem – radio and television host; daughter of Casey Kasem

Khrystyne Haje – actress (sitcom Head of the Class)

Lili Estefan – Cuban-American television personality, niece of Emilio Estefan

Marlo Thomas – actress (father was of Lebanese descent)

Mario Kassar – filmmaker, founder of Carolco Pictures

Mary Zilba – television personality and singer

Mayssa Karaa – Grammy-nominated singer

Mia Khalifa — pornographic actress and adult model

Michael Ansara – stage, screen, and voice actor (Lebanese born American)

Michael Nader – actor, All My Children[6]

Michael Nouri – actor, film Flashdance[6][9]

Mo Gallini – actor (father of Lebanese descent)

Paola Turbay – Columbian-American actress, model, beauty queen and television presenter

Paul Anka – singer, songwriter, actor, producer

Peter Macdissi – film and television actor

Raya Meddine – actress of Lebanese descent

Rose Abdoo – comedian, actress

Rowan Blanchard – actress (father of Lebanese descent)

Salma Hayek – Mexican-American actress (paternal grandfather was Lebanese)[10]

Senta Moses – actress known for her role in Home Alone

Shannon Elizabeth – actress (father of Lebanese descent)

Terrence Malick – filmmaker, of part Lebanese descent

Tom Shadyac – film director (of 3/4 Lebanese descent)[6]

Tony Shalhoub – actor (Monk)[11]

Tony Thomas – producer (father was of Lebanese descent)

Vince Vaughn – actor (paternal grandmother was of Lebanese descent)[12]

Wentworth Miller – actor, maternal great-grandmother of Lebanese descent

Yasmine Al Masri – Lebanese-born American actress

Fashion designers[]

Joseph Abboud – fashion designer

Norma Kamali – fashion designer

Reem Acra – fashion designer

Musicians[]

Paul Anka – legendary singer-songwriter, and of songs like Diana, Put Your Head on My Shoulder, Lonely Boy, Having Our Baby, Nothing Stronger Than Our Love, My Way, She's A Lady, amidst hundreds of songs in a plentiful discography, and having composed for and sung with other legendary American performers like Frank Sinatra, Sammy Davis Jr, Tom Jones, Elvis Presley, Michael Jackson, Dolly Parton, Patty Labelle, Celine Dion and Barbra Streisand (both parents of Lebanese descent)

Dick Dale – rock guitarist and surf music pioneer

Emile Ghantous – songwriter, musician, music producer

Emilio Estefan – Cuban-American musician and producer; husband of Gloria Estefan[13]

G.E. Smith – lead guitarist in the band Hall & Oates; musical director of Saturday Night Live

Hamed Sinno – Lebanese-American graphic designer, singer/songwriter of the band Mashrou'Leila

Jack Barakat – guitarist of the band All Time Low

Jane Wiedlin – musician, singer-songwriter, and actress; best known as a member of the all-female new wave band The Go-Go's

John Dolmayan – Lebanese-American of Armenian descent, drummer of band System of a Down

Kat Dahlia – singer, songwriter, rapper

Mohammed El-Bakkar – tenor singer, oud player, and conductor

Nadia Azzi – pianist

Paul Jabara – composer[6]

Neil Sedaka – pop/rock singer, pianist, composer and record producer

Ron Affif – jazz guitarist and musician

Rosalind Elias – opera singer renowned for her time in the Metropolitan Opera

Serj Tankian – Lebanese-American of Armenian descent, lead singer of band System of a Down

Soraya – Colombian-American singer[14]

Tiffany – singer[6]

Tino Coury – singer, songwriter and producer

Tiny Tim – folk singer[6]

Tyler Joseph – lead singer of band Twenty One Pilots

Business[]

Alec Gores – entrepreneur

Caroline Ghosn – entrepreneur

Charles Elachi – director of Jet Propulsion Laboratory

Clifford Antone – founder of Antone's blues club in Austin, Texas

Debra Cafaro – CEO of Ventas Inc., a healthcare real estate investment trust

Fares D. Noujaim – business executive

Frédéric Fekkai – French-American hairdresser and founder of Frédéric Fekkai salons and hair products[15]

George Joseph – founder of Mercury Insurance Group

George J. Maloof, Jr. – businessman and owner of the Sacramento Monarchs, Sacramento Kings and the Palms Casino Resort in Las Vegas

George J. Maloof, Sr. – businessman and former owner of the Houston Rockets

Jacques Nasser – former CEO of Ford Motor Company

Jean Succar Kuri – businessman

Joe Jamail – attorney and businessman

Joe Robbie – attorney and original owner of the Miami Dolphins

John J. Mack – former CEO of investment bank Morgan Stanley (2005–2009)

Joseph J. Jacobs – former chairman and founder of the Jacobs Engineering Group

Madeleine A. Pickens – business executive

Magid Abraham – market research expert and businessman

Manuel Moroun – businessman and the owner of the Ambassador Bridge

Moose Scheib – founder and CEO of LoanMod.com

Nahim Abraham – businessman, philanthropist

Tom Abraham – businessman, philanthropist

Paul Orfalea – founder of Kinko's[16]

Richard E. Rainwater – investor and fund manager

Robert Khuzami – former director of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Salem Abraham – businessman

Thomas J. Barrack, Jr. – businessman and founder of Colony Capital

Tom Gores – founder and CEO of Platinum Equity

Tony Fadell – product development manager at Apple Inc.

Education and academics[]

Charbel Farhat – Chair of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Stanford University; member of National Academy of Engineering

Joseph Aoun – president of Northeastern University

Robert Khayat – chancellor of the University of Mississippi

History[]

Akram Fouad Khater – professor, author, expert on Lebanese-American studies

Philip Khuri Hitti – historian of Arab culture and history[17]

Journalism[]

Anthony Shadid – foreign correspondent for The New York Times and earlier The Boston Globe

Helen Thomas – journalist who covered every U.S. President from 1961 to 2010

Jim Avila – senior correspondent for ABC News

Leila Fadel – Journalist for National Public Radio

Lucie Salhany – first woman to head a broadcast television network in 1993 in the position as Chairman of Fox Broadcasting Company

Octavia Nasr – former television journalist for CNN

Paula Faris – journalist (father was of Lebanese descent)

Raghida Dergham – columnist and senior diplomatic correspondent for the London-based Al Hayat

Sara Ganim – CNN journalist (father is of Lebanese descent)

Serena Shim – journalist

Tamsen Fadal – television journalist

Walid Phares – security and anti-terrorism expert

Jad Abumrad – radio host, composer, and producer, founder and co-host of the syndicated public radio program Radiolab

Medicine[]

Amin J. Barakat – physician, known for the diagnosis of Barakat syndrome

Charles Sophy – psychiatrist

Daniel Amen – psychiatrist and author

George Hatem – "Ma Haide," a founder of the public health system in China

M. Amin Arnaout – nephrologist and physician-scientist

Michael DeBakey – heart surgeon, medical innovator

Paul Nassif – facial plastic surgeon, co-star on the television series "Botched"

Military[]

Alfred Naifeh – U.S. Navy Lieutenant posthumously awarded the Navy and Marine Corps Medal in WWII and namesake of a U.S. Navy ship, USS Naifeh (DE-352)

Ernest "Iron Mike" Massad – U.S. Army Major General

George Joulwan – retired U.S. Army General

James Jabara – first American jet ace

John Abizaid – retired General in the United States Army[18]

Michael A. Monsoor – U.S. Navy SEAL awarded Medal of Honor after being killed during the Iraq War

Politics[]

Activists[]

Brigitte Gabriel – founder of two non-profit political organizations American Congress For Truth and ACT! for America, she is also an author and was a journalist in Israel working for World News.[19]

Candy Lightner – activist and founder of Mothers Against Drunk Drivers

James Zogby – founder of the Arab-American Institute[20]

Jill Kelley – international advocate, socialite, and former diplomat [21][22][23]

John Zogby – pollster; founder of Zogby International

Politicians[]

Abraham Kazen, Jr. – former U.S. Representative from Texas

Alex Azar – Nominee for United States Secretary of Health and Human Services

Charles Boustany – U.S. Representative from Louisiana

Chris Greeley – former Maine state representative

Chris John – former U.S. Representative from Louisiana

Darin LaHood – Republican representative from Illinois

Darrell Issa – U.S. Representative from California

Donna Shalala – former U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services

Edmund Reggie – judge and politician

Francis Slay - Former Mayor of Saint Louis

George J. Mitchell – former U.S. Senator from Maine

James Abdnor – former U.S. Senator and U.S. Representative from South Dakota[24]

James Abourezk – former U.S. Senator from South Dakota

Jeanine Pirro – politician, judge and television host

John Baldacci – former Governor of the State of Maine

John E. Sununu – former U.S. Senator and U.S. Representative from New Hampshire

John H. Sununu – former White House Chief of Staff; former Governor of New Hampshire

Malouf Abraham, Sr. – politician and businessman

Manuel Maloof – former U.S. government official and businessman

Mary Rose Oakar – former U.S. Representative from Ohio[25]

Nick Rahall – U.S. Representative from West Virginia

Nico LaHood – Bexar County District Attorney, Texas

Philip Habib – former U.S. Ambassador and envoy

Ralph Nader – political activist and former U.S. presidential candidate (Green Party)[26]

Ray LaHood – U.S. Transportation Secretary and former U.S. Representative from Illinois

Richard L. Hanna – politician who has served as a U.S. Representative from New York since 2011

Robert G. Abboud – politician from Illinois

Selwa Roosevelt – former U.S. government official

Spencer Abraham – former U.S. Senator from Michigan

Suzanne Haik Terrell – former Louisiana Elections Commissioner

Toby Moffett – former U.S. Representative from Connecticut

Victor G. Atiyeh – former Governor of Oregon[27]

Vincent Sheheen – member of the South Carolina senate

Other personalities[]

Adele Khoury Graham – educator and former first lady of the State of Florida

Amal Clooney – Lebanese-British barrister - International Law & Human Rights - UN

George Noory – radio host of Coast to Coast AM; author; entertainer

Joseph Farah – author and journalist

Nassim Nicholas Taleb – best-selling author, risk expert and statistician, university professor, and former trader and business person

Timothy Massad – U.S. Treasury Department official and corporate lawyer

Victoria Reggie Kennedy – attorney and widow of U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy

Sciences[]

Anthony Atala – Director of the Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine

Charbel Farhat – Director, Army High Performance Computing Research Center, Stanford University, and Member of National Academy of Engineering

Charles Elachi – Director of NASA Jet Propulsion Labs

Christa McAuliffe – secondary school teacher and first American civilian selected to be an astronaut; perished in the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster; great niece of historian Philip Khuri Hitti[17]

Elias Corey – 1990 Nobel Prize winner in Chemistry[28]

Hassan Kamel Al-Sabbah – Lebanese-American technology innovator[29][30]

Michael Debakey – doctor and heart surgeon, medical innovator

Sports[]

Athletes[]

Abe Mickal – football player for LSU

Bobby Rahal – professional car racer and team owner

Charley Zivic – professional boxer

Damien Sandow – professional wrestler in the WWE

David Azzi – professional football player

Doug Flutie – former professional football player

Fred Saigh – lawyer; real estate investor; owner of the American professional baseball franchise the St. Louis Cardinals

Graham Rahal – professional car racer

Jackson Vroman – former professional basketball player and member of Lebanon's national basketball team

Jeff George – former NFL quarterback for the Indianapolis Colts

Jim Harrick – former head coach of the University of Georgia Bull Dogs

Joe Lahoud – former professional baseball player

Joe Vogel – professional basketball player and member of Lebanon's national basketball team

John Grabow – MLB pitcher for the Chicago Cubs

John Jaha – former first baseman in Major League Baseball, played for the Milwaukee Brewers and Oakland Athletics

Johnny Manziel – professional football player

Jordyn Wieber – Olympic gymnast and gold medallist

Liz Carmouche – mixed martial artist

Matt Freije – ex-NBA player and member of Lebanon national basketball team

Matt Kalil – professional football player

Patrick Maroon – ice hockey player for the Edmonton Oilers in the NHL

Petey Sarron – former featherweight boxing champion

Rich Kotite – former National Football League player and coach

Robert Watkins – former professional football player; of African-American and Lebanese descent

Rony Seikaly – former professional basketball player in the NBA and for both the U.S. and Lebanon's national basketball team

Ryan Kalil – professional football player

Sabu – professional wrestler, real name Terry Brunk

Samir Bannout – former professional bodybuilder and winner of Mr. Olympia title in 1983

Skandor Akbar – former professional wrestler

Soony Saad – professional soccer forward player

Steve Kerr – retired professional basketball player and current head coach of the Golden State Warriors

World Series of Poker Champions[]

Ihsan "Sammy" Farha – three-time WSOP-bracelet winner

Jennifer Shahade – two-time United States Women's Champion; has the FIDE title of Woman Grandmaster

Kassem "Freddy" Deeb – two-time WSOP-bracelet winner

Writers[]

Amin al-Rihani – author

D. H. Melhem – poet, novelist, and editor

Geoff Johns – comic book writer

Khalil Gibran – author and philosopher[31]

Lee Francis – poet

Mikha'il Na'ima – author and poet

Nassim Nicholas Taleb – essayist

Paula Gunn Allen – Native American poet and activist

Raymond Khoury – novelist and screenwriter

Saree Makdisi – author and literary critic

Stephen Karam – playwright

Vance Bourjaily – novelist

William Peter Blatty – writer, screenwriter

See also[]

Lebanese Americans

Lebanon–United States relations

List of Lebanese people

List of Lebanese people (diaspora)

Arab Americans

References[]

Template:Lebanese diaspora