Weather overview

In February in Switzerland, the average air temperature ranges from 5Â Â°CÂ (42Â Â°F) during the day to -1Â Â°CÂ (30Â Â°F) at night. There are 11Â days of rain on average, where the rainfall is 66Â mmÂ (2.59Â in).

Is February a good month to visit Switzerland?

In February there are not good conditions to visit Switzerland. Since Switzerland is a region with winter sports possibilities, then February can be suitable to visit for this purpose. A relatively low temperature of 5Â Â°CÂ (42Â Â°F) may be ideal for walking or outdoor activities, but some people may have a different idea of the holiday. The night temperature of -1Â Â°CÂ (30Â Â°F) is not inviting for evening and night activities except for visiting a bar and having beer or two.

What is the temperature in Switzerland during the day in February?

In Switzerland in February, the average daily temperatures will be 5Â Â°CÂ (42Â Â°F). Be sure to pack warm clothes, including a jacket and a warm sweater. On some days it may occasionally freeze, but with stronger winds, the feeling of cold may increase.

How many days of precipitation on average can I expect in February in Switzerland?

In February in Switzerland, we can expect 11Â days to be rainy, that is, days when precipitation exceeds 2Â mmÂ (0.08Â in). Converted to days of the week, this means that it will occur on an average of 2.5Â days of the week, or in general - 36Â % days.

Is there a dry season in February in Switzerland?

No, February is not a dry month in Switzerland, expect rain approximately 11Â days in a month.

What is the night temperature in Switzerland in February?

The average night temperature in Switzerland in February is -1Â Â°CÂ (30Â Â°F). The nights will be cool, layers of clothes will be needed for evening and morning walks, the hotel should be equipped with heating.

What is the rainfall intensity in February in Switzerland?

In Switzerland in February, there is 66Â mmÂ (2.59Â in) rainfall, which means on average 2Â mmÂ (0.09Â in) rainfall per day.

How many hours of sun to expect in February in Switzerland?

In February in Switzerland, you can expect around 3Â hours of sunshine.

How long is the day (from dawn till dusk) in Switzerland in February?

The length of daylight in Switzerland in February is 10Â hours.

Is February part of the wet season in Switzerland?

No, there is no wet season in February in Switzerland - you can expect 11Â days of rain during the month.

What level of humidity is to expect in Switzerland in February?

In Switzerland in February, expect humidity around 78Â %.

Can I expect a freeze in February in Switzerland?

It is possible that it will be freezing in Switzerland in February, night temperatures will be -1Â Â°CÂ (30Â Â°F) on average.

How windy is it in February in Switzerland?

An average wind scale that can be expected in Switzerland in February is 2. It is rather a milder or unnoticeable wind, therefore it will not bother you during your holiday.

Is Switzerland rainier in February than in March?

No, February in Switzerland is not a rainier month than March.