What's the Weather Like in Zurich in February

Temperature

Zurich is the capital of Switzerland and considered one of the best cities to live in across the globe. Famed for its natural allure and historical significance, Zurich is a paradise Europe destination for various kinds of guests. The modern metropolis is also a major financial hub in both Switzerland and Europe at large. February is winter and temperatures are low though slightly warmer than January, the average temperature for February at 2°C (36F). The highest temperature for February is 6°C (43F) while the lowest temperature is -2°C (28F).

Sunshine Hours

In February, Zurich receives sunshine for an average of 3 hours per day. In the course of the month, cloud cover remains constant remaining at 56% throughout February. February 27 is the clearest day of the month with an average cloud cover of 45%.

Rainfall

The average rainfall for the month of February is 70mm. During the course of February, rainfall amounts remain essentially constant. February receives rainfall for 13 days of the month.

Sunrise and Sunset

In February in Zurich, the length of day rapidly increases with an average increase of 1 hour and 25 minutes from the first to the last day of the month. February 1 is the shortest day of the month while February 28 is the longest day of the month. February 1 has the latest sunrise at 7.51am and earliest sunset at 5.27pm. On the other hand, February 28 has the earliest sunrise and latest sunset at 7.08am and 6.09pm respectively.

Humidity

In February in Zurich, humidity remains constant at 0% throughout the entire month.

Wind

In February, the average hourly wind speed remains constant the entire month within 0.1 miles per hour of 6.8 miles per hour throughout. The windiest day of the year is February 6 with a daily average wind speed of 6.9 miles per hour.

Zurich Hotels in February

Zurich has some of the finest accommodation facilities in Europe. As a world class city with international reputation, you cannot expect anything less. Guests have a wide choice of hotels to pick from and everybody is well catered for. It doesn't matter how much you're willing to spend, Zurich hospitality industry is designed for every traveler.

Central Plaza Hotel

Central Plaza Hotel is an awesome leisure and business hotel that is strategically located right on the Central Square in the middle of Zurich. The four star hotel offers guests great value and has beautiful views of Limmat River. Central Plaza Hotel sits right next to Zurich Central Station from where you can easily explore Zurich. The rooms are tastefully furnished with modern offerings to ensure guests are comfortable throughout their stay. Zurich's popular shopping district Bahnhofstrasse, Niederdorf old town, the Opera House, National Museum among other exciting attractions are within a short walking distance.

Hotel Adler

Hotel Adler is an amazingly beautiful traditional hotel located in a great location in Zurich easily accessible to famous attractions. The rooms have been done well and come with superb amenities to keep guests comfortable and entertained. Despite being on a busy street, the hotel is surprisingly quiet thanks to good soundproofing. Situated in the heart of Zurich old town, guests have a unique opportunity to indulge and marvel at what Zurich has to offer. Visitors are accorded excellent service while at the facility.

Hotel Alexander

Hotel Alexander sits in the picturesque Zurich Old Town with close proximity to Zurich Main Station, the largest train station in Switzerland. Guests are treated to clean, comfortable and homely rooms fitted with all the necessary facilities. Hotel Alexander boasts of spacious single rooms, double rooms, twin rooms and family rooms so visitors can choose what is ideal for them. While at the hotel, you can easily access shops, restaurants, coffee shops and entertainment spots. The staff is friendly and welcoming.

Coronado Hotel

Coronado Hotel is a beautiful 3-star hotel that sits in a quiet residential area of Zurich. Since 1925, the hotel has been diligently offering nice accommodation to visitors with a choice to pick from different types of rooms available. Colorado Hotel is a non-smoking hotel with elegantly furnished rooms with standard décor, television, central heating, IDD phone, Personal Computer and a dressing area. Zurich Central Business District is 4 kilometers away making it an ideal location to stay if you prefer to be in the suburbs away from the city.

Restaurants and Bars

Zurich is a culturally diverse and cosmopolitan city so you can expect dining will be unique, exciting and unforgettable. Every corner of the city has a restaurant or bar allowing guests to relax, dine and unwind in the best locations around the city. So long as you're in Zurich, you have an opportunity to sample global cuisine prepared by the finest and experienced chefs.

Ecco

Ecco Restaurant is famous for its unique culinary experiences that wow guests who visit the restaurant to have a great time. The chefs creatively come up with exciting and surprising food concepts that skillfully combine natural flavours from seasonal ingredients to create distinctive, unexpected and intense cuisines. If you're looking for an intimate, lovely and thrilling dining experience, you can be assured Ecco will meet your expectations. The service is hearty and warm making guests feel welcomed. There is an extensive wine list that captures great vineyards around the globe. Ecco Restaurant is open from Wednesday to Sunday from 7pm and last orders at 9.30pm. Sunday lunch opening hours are 12pm to 1.30pm last orders.

Differente Hotel Krone Unterstrass

Differente Hotel Krone Unterstrass is famously known for serving mouthwatering Swiss and Mediterranean cuisine. This is the best spot for creative and excellent tartare menu in Zurich. With a wide choice of specialties on the menu, diners can never run out of exciting and delicious options. Differente Hotel Krone Unterstrass offers both lunch and dinner in a friendly, welcoming and stylish ambience so it's definitely a fun place to be. The restaurant opens from Monday to Friday from 6.30am-midnight and 6.30am to 11.30pm on Saturday and Sunday.

Burgermeister

Burgermeister brings modern America fast food culture to the heart of Zurich. If you love burgers, fish, chicken and chips prepared the American way, don't forget to drop in at Burgermeister. The food is amazing and those who've been here can't stop talking about the delightful and unforgettable chips. There is no doubt, the best and freshly prepared burgers with Swiss beef are found here. There is no other better way to charm your tastebuds with the finest flavours. Opening hours are Monday to Wednesday 11am-10.30pm, Thursday and Friday 11am-11.30pm and Saturday 12pm-11.30pm. The restaurant remains closed on Sunday.

Rive Gauche

Rive Gauche is the best place to experience fun in an informal and casual dining environment coupled by an excellent customer service. A perfect blend of restaurant and bar ushers you into a world of culinary excellence. At Rive Gauche, you enjoy exquisite meat and the best fish dishes from around the globe. In addition, there are exciting vegetarian vegan gourmet creations. With the right setting, delicious food and friendly staff, Rive Gauche is the best place to eat, drink and relax. The restaurant opens every day from Monday to Sunday from 11.30am to 11pm while the bar remains open till midnight on weekdays and 1am on weekends.

Things to Do in Zurich in February

Go on an Evening City Walking Tour

Zurich city tour is the best opportunity to explore the beauty, sights and sounds of Zurich and is a must-do for anyone who visits the city. City walking tours can be done throughout the year including during January winter. Organize your walking tour with a guard who will take you to the historic old town and other picturesque and adorable parts of the city. The tours are usually free but it is recommended to tip your tour guide as a token of appreciation.

Go for Ice Skating

Ice skating is a major outdoor activity in Zurich during winter time. There are many places you can go for ice skating; you can choose between the region around Lake Zurich and various ice skating venues within the city of Zurich. Do not let the cold winter weather keep you indoors, dress up and venture outdoors to enjoy some of the best ice rinks in Europe.

Excursions to Switzerland Mountains