In January, Zurich is in the height of winter. It is cold and from time to time experiences snow and ice. The average temperature lies around 0° C (32 °F).

Be sure to pack: woolly hat, scarf, gloves, thick jacket and warm shoes or boots.

In February, it is still winter and the average temperatures are not much warmer than in January. Sometimes towards the end of the month, the first sunny days with slightly milder temperatures appear.

Be sure to pack: woolly hat, scarf, gloves, thick jacket and warm shoes or boots.

Even if March officially heralds the beginning of spring, it can still be quite cold in Zurich and may even snow. With a bit of luck, the first sunny days bring with them temperatures of 10–15° C (50‒60 °F).

Be sure to pack: warm jacket, scarf and hat, but also lighter clothing for warmer days.

In April, anything is possible. The weather can change from rain to sunshine within a matter of hours. Rainstorms are not uncommon and it could still snow. Generally speaking, it is milder than the previous months, with the maximum temperature averaging 14° C (57 °F).

Be sure to pack: rainwear and waterproof shoes

May is considerably milder and more spring-like; however, with an average of 12 rainy days, it is pretty wet. While frost may still occur at night, daytime temperatures can reach around 20° C (68 °F).

Be sure to pack: depending on the weather forecast, rainwear and waterproof shoes, light clothing, sunglasses

June marks the official beginning of summer and temperatures occasionally exceed the 20° C (68 °F) mark. However, the weather can be changeable and it rains frequently.

Be sure to pack: umbrella, light clothing, sunglasses, swimwear just in case

July is the hottest day of the year and occasionally records sweltering summer days of over 30° C (86 °F). This can give rise to heavy thunderstorms in the evenings.

Be sure to pack: swimming gear, summer clothes, light jacket, umbrella, sunglasses

On average, August is the month with the most sunny days, and daytime temperatures can get very hot. However, as always, rain and thunderstorms can occur.

Be sure to pack: swimming gear, summer clothes, light jacket, umbrella, sunglasses

In Zurich, winter begins in December. The weather is cold and it can snow. The sun only seldom manages to push its way through the high-lying fog.

Be sure to pack: hat, scarf, gloves, thick jacket and warm shoes or boots