Overview

March is a good time to visit Zurich. The weather is usually cold with a gentle breeze, with temperatures ranging from 31—48°F (-0—9°C). There are plenty of events to check out and activities to try in Zurich during this time. Some of our top recommendations: go skiing in the Swiss Alps, explore the Old Town on a guided walking tour, visit the Kunsthaus Zurich art museum, and more!

Zurich has plenty to offer for visitors of all ages and interests. In this article, we tell you the top things to see and do for your March trip to Zurich. Get inspired by the events, activities, attractions, and experiences unique to March. We’ll let you know where to explore events based on your interests, whether that’s food, culture, art, music, sport or others.

We’ll let you know everything you need to prepare for the weather in Zurich in March. Learn about what to wear and pack for your trip, the average temperatures throughout March, temperature changes from morning to evening and much more.

Visiting Zurich? See our Zurich Trip Planner.

Weather in Zurich in March

Temperatures on an average day in Zurich in March

The average temperature in Zurich in March for a typical day ranges from a high of 48°F (9°C) to a low of 31°F (-0°C). Some would describe it as cold with a gentle breeze.

For comparison, the hottest month in Zurich, July, has days with highs of 74°F (23°C) and lows of 56°F (13°C). The coldest month, February has days with highs of 38°F (4°C) and lows of 25°F (-4°C). This graph shows how an average day looks like in Zurich in March based on historical data.

Visiting Zurich? See our Zurich Trip Planner.

General weather summary

Cold with a gentle breeze

Feels like

32%

Chance of rain

0.118 in

Amount

11.3 mph

Wind speed

77%

Humidity

11.9 hrs

Daylight length

6:46 AM

Sunrise

6:37 PM

Sunset

44%

Cloud cover

Jacket

What to wear

What to wear in March

With an average high of 48°F (9°C) and a low of 31°F (-0°C), it generally feels cold with a gentle breeze. There might also be a small chance of rain. With that in mind, most people would dress in something warm like a jacket