Royal Relatives from around Europe gathered to celebrate the Wedding of Crown Prince Olav of Norway and Princess Martha of Sweden at Oslo Cathedral on this ay in 1929, following a Gala Performance at the Nationaltheatret.

Crown Prince Olav of Norway married Princess Martha of Sweden at Oslo Cathedral

The church was adorned in flowers of different shades of white – azaleas, lilacs, tulips, hydrangeas and white lilies – against a backdrop of palms. Several hundred singers from three separate choirs flanked the pipe organ, while 50 military officers stood in salute along the centre aisle.

There were 1 600 invited guests, including numerous relatives and friends on both sides, as well as government officials, foreign diplomats and many prominent citizens.

The ceremony began at 12:00 pm. Crown Prince Olav entered the cathedral accompanied by his best man, the Duke of York, to the tones of Rikard Nordraak’s “Purpose”, played by the cathedral organist, Eyvind Alnæs.

The Crown Prince was followed by the closest members of the Royal families, while the Norwegian Student Choral Society sang Wilhelm Stenhammar’s “Sverige” (Sweden). The bride entered the cathedral on the arm of her father. Four pairs of bridesmaids – each comprised of a Norwegian and a Swedish representative – walked behind her hand-in-hand, with Princess Ingrid of Sweden and the Norwegian explorer and humanitarian Mr Fridtjof Nansen’s daughter Irmelin at the head.

The ceremony was conducted by Bishop Johan Lunde. The congregation sang the hymns “Kjærlighet fra Gud” (Love from God) and “Gud som ljos og gleda sender” (God Who Sends Light and Happiness). The ceremony was concluded with the “Hallelujah Chorus” by Händel.

Two 21-gun salutes were fired from Akershus Fortress. A wedding lunch for 200 guests was held at the Palace after the ceremony.

Royal Guests and Relatives were led by King Haakon VII and Queen Maud of Norway with Prince Carl and Princess Ingeborg of Sweden, and included Crown Prince Gustaf VI Adolf and Crown Princess Louise of Sweden, The Duke and Duchess of York, and Princess Thyra of Denmark.

Royal Guests and Relatives from around Europe attend the glittering Gala Performance at the Nationaltheatret (National Theatre) in Oslo, on the eve of the Wedding of Crown Prince Olav of Norway and Princess Martha of Sweden, which followed a Ball at the Royal Palace of Oslo and another Ball held the previous week at the Royal Palace of Stockholm.

Crown Prince Olav of Norway (wearing the Order of St. Olav and Order of the Seraphim) and Princess Martha of Sweden (in the Vasa Tiara, Queen Lovisa’s Turquoise Necklace, King Gustaf V’s Portrait Brooch, and the Royal Family Order of King Haakon VII),

The Duchess of York (in her Persian Turquoise Parure Tiara), Crown Prince Gustaf VI Adolf of Sweden, Queen Maud of Norway (wearing Queen Alexandra’s Turquoise Circlet), and Prince Carl of Sweden.

Princess Ingeborg of Sweden (in her Emerald Parure Tiara), King Haakon VII of Norway, Crown Princess Louise of Sweden (wearing Queen Sofia’s 9-Prong Tiara), the Duke of York, Princess Thyra of Denmark, Princess Ingrid of Sweden (in the Khedive of Egypt Tiara) and Prince Axel and Princess Margretha of Denmark (wearing her Floral Tiara).

Crown Prince Olav and Crown Princess Martha remained happily married until her tragic death in 1954, and are the parents of King Harald, Princess Astrid, and Princess Ragnhild.

Embed from Getty Images

Emerald Parure

Queen Josefina’s Diamond Tiara

Vasa Tiara

Boucheron Pearl Circle Tiara

Diamond Bracelet Bandeau

Diamond Chandelier Earrings

Art Deco Diamond Bracelet

Pearl Earrings

Embed from Getty ImagesEmbed from Getty ImagesEmbed from Getty ImagesEmbed from Getty Images

Crown Prince Olav of Norway married Princess Martha of Sweden at Oslo Cathedral on this day in 1929. Royal guests at the first royal wedding in independent Norway included the King and Queen of Sweden, the King and Queen of Denmark, the Duke (who was the best man) and Duchess of York, and various other royals who were closely related to the couple. Crown Prince Olav and Crown Princess Martha remained happily married until her tragic death in 1954, and are the parents of King Harald, Princess Astrid, and Princess Ragnhild.

Embed from Getty Images

Share this:

Like this:

Like Loading...