Our technical support staff has identified the following critical information to get you started. To get the best results make sure you read through all material prior to using your Quest Product.

KACE recommended best practices for creating a Windows Golden System Image.

Need to create task to run a batch file.

KACE Systems Deployments Appliance (SDA) is a virtual appliance designed for fast, automated large-scale image deployments across multiple remote sites. This release of the KACE SDA includes the following features and enhancements. More information on new features, known/resolved issues, or installation instructions, please see: KACE SDA 9.2 Release Notes and Administrator Guide To download vers...

Need to change the Kace System Deployment Appliance (KSDA) IP address.

When some issues require support to connect to the Deployment Appliance via a secure connection, you can initiate a tether directly and allow support to access the appliance faster by performing the steps listed below.

In this What's New in 7.0 video, we will cover the new feature which allows you to Set the Unattend Auto Logon Count for each of your images. Auto Logons are: Required to survive Post-Installation (PO) Tasks How many tasks are attached to each deployment?How many require a reboot? Pre-configured Set via Sysprep Unattend fileBaked-in to captured image Each image deployment will have a cer...

All System Deploy Appliances (SDA) and Remote Site Appliances (RSA) have an On-Board DHCP Server. This server can be enable when there is no DHCP on an specific network.

Here are some suggestions to consider when trying to free up space on the KACE System Deployment Appliance (SDA).

In this What's New in 7.0 video, we will cover the new WIM Import feature. This new feature can be used to: Perform WIM Management on an existing DeploymentDownload the WIM file (for offline servicing)Import a replacement the WIM file OR Import a WIM to create a new Deployment This new feature allows you to upload WIMs from the SDA's Clientdrop share - whether captured and downloaded from...

The Quest KACE Systems Deployment Appliance (KACE SDA, formerly known as K2000) upgrade path from 3.3 GA to the current version.

Below is a list of the recommended software along with any documentation that will help with the install process to bring your product to the version referenced.

KBE (WinPE 10.0) contains Windows 10 drivers. The WinPE 10 Driver Pack includes Dell WinPE 10 drivers

Multiple security issues are being addressed with this hotfix update. Exim released several vulnerability reports at the end of September 2023 and provided a fixed version shortly thereafter.Quest has also discovered an undisclosed security vulnerability which could potentially allow privilege escalation in the SDA products, under certain conditions. Affected versions: All SDA versions.

This portable application tool will allow users to harvest drivers from the current workstation or by downloading drivers from vendor websites and extracting the executables (when applicable). The tool makes a WMI call on the workstation to get the model name of the workstation, and either harvests the drivers of the current workstation or extracts drivers from specified executables and uploads t...

KBE (WinPE 10.0) contains Windows 10 drivers. The WinPE 10 Driver Pack includes Dell WinPE 10 drivers

OVF virtual image for the KACE SDA Series appliance. The KACE SDA and RSA are deployed using the same virtual machine image. The appliance is configured for KACE SDA mode or RSA mode during the initial setup, and this choice cannot be changed after setup is completed. As a result of this change, the RSA is now running on a 64-bit operating system.

All System Deploy Appliances (SDA) and Remote Site Appliances (RSA) have an On-Board DHCP Server. This server can be enable when there is no DHCP on an specific network.

OVF virtual image for the KACE SDA Series appliance. The KACE SDA and RSA are deployed using the same virtual machine image. The appliance is configured for KACE SDA mode or RSA mode during the initial setup, and this choice cannot be changed after setup is completed. As a result of this change, the RSA is now running on a 64-bit operating system.

Hyper-V virtual image for the KACE SDA Series appliance. The KACE SDA and RSA are deployed using the same virtual machine image. The appliance is configured for KACE SDA mode or RSA mode during the initial setup, and this choice cannot be changed after setup is completed. As a result of this change, the RSA is now running on a 64-bit operating system and also supports running on Microsoft Hyper-V®...

KBE (WinPE 5.0) contains Windows 8.1 drivers. The WinPE 5 Driver Pack includes Dell WinPE 5 drivers

Technical Support has reviewed all the support information and has identified the most popular helpful tips and how to videos or articles to ensure you get the most out of your Quest Product.

Multiple security issues are being addressed with this hotfix update. Exim released several vulnerability reports at the end of September 2023 and provided a fixed version shortly thereafter.Quest has also discovered an undisclosed security vulnerability which could potentially allow privilege escalation in the SDA products, under certain conditions. Affected versions: All SDA versions.

KACE Boot Environments, or KBEs, are Pre-Boot environments used to access the KACE Systems Deployment Appliance (KSDA) and perform several actions like capturing images or deploying images.

All System Deploy Appliances (SDA) and Remote Site Appliances (RSA) have an On-Board DHCP Server. This server can be enable when there is no DHCP on an specific network.

Is it possible to send logs to a remote syslog server with the KACE Systems Deployment Appliance?

The KACE Systems Deployment Appliance (SDA) Remote QuickStart service provides remote assistance to help get your solution up and running quickly to begin imaging and provisioning your network-connected devices. Whether your team lacks the technical expertise or may not have time to deploy and configure your solution, our KACE subject matter experts guide you through the implementation process usi...

This article describes how to set up the LDAP authentication feature on the KACE SMA and KACE SDA Appliances.

With the release of version 8.1.183 we added the capability for you to notify our team that you are interested to join the Beta program.

The KACE Systems Management and Systems Deployment Appliances both offer built-in backup technology (SMA performs disk and database backups while the SDA offers export/import of packages). Various backup technologies such as snapshots, Veeam, Veritas, and other third-party solutions can cause performance issues or corruption of the KACE appliances. Some of these solutions have compatibility issues...

Are you new to KACE? Did you inherit an established KACE Systems Management Appliance (SMA) or KACE Systems Deployment Appliance (SDA) or KACE Cloud (KC) and now you need help with configuration or maintenance? Whether new or after having worked with KACE for some time, it is often necessary to utilize resources to complete tasks. SMA, SDA & KC offer KACE customers a wide variety of free and f...

This article addresses the status of the KACE SMA, KACE SDA, and KACE Cloud products regarding published vulnerabilities related to Curl & Libcurl.For more details about the vulnerability please refer to:CVE-2023-38545, addresses a buffer overflow flaw that impacts both libcurl and the curl command line tool. The overflow can occur during a SOCKS5 handshake.CVE-2023-38546 is associated with a ...

The information below represents the most common issues customers are encountering or recent resolutions to help you trouble shoot your Quest Product.

Affected HP EliteBook G10 devices encounter a freeze during the PXE boot sequence, displaying the message: iPXE initializing devices... This issue persists even after ensuring the following steps have been taken: BIOS updated to the latest version.DHCP configuration verified, whether using an external DHCP server or the SDA's on-board DHCP.Attempted connections via the built-in ethernet port...

KACE Boot Environments, or KBEs, are Pre-Boot environments used to access the KACE Systems Deployment Appliance (KSDA) and perform several actions like capturing images or deploying images.

When some issues require support to connect to the Deployment Appliance via a secure connection, you can initiate a tether directly and allow support to access the appliance faster by performing the steps listed below.

WinPE crashes to Blue Screen; with error: Stop Code 'DRIVER_VERIFIER_DMA_VIOLATION' when KBE loaded via PXE boot on some devices.But the KBE can start up successfully when booting the same device with a USB key.

The KACE Systems Deployment Appliance (SDA) Remote QuickStart service provides remote assistance to help get your solution up and running quickly to begin imaging and provisioning your network-connected devices. Whether your team lacks the technical expertise or may not have time to deploy and configure your solution, our KACE subject matter experts guide you through the implementation process usi...

This article addresses the status of the KACE SMA and KACE SDA appliances regarding the OpenSSH Remote Code Execution Vulnerability described under CVE-2024-6387. For more details about this vulnerability please refer to: CVE-2024-6387

The system monitoring reports that the K1000 Appliance /proc is 100% full.

When trying to log into the KACE SMA (Systems Management Appliance) or SDA (Systems Deployment Appliance), using the local admin account, it takes a long time to authenticate (>30 seconds). This issue will also be noticeable when trying to use LDAP account, however an LDAP issue is ruled out due to the local admin account being affected.

The SDA has the capability to run a tcpdump from the Troubleshooting Tools module.

The KACE Systems Management and Systems Deployment Appliances both offer built-in backup technology (SMA performs disk and database backups while the SDA offers export/import of packages). Various backup technologies such as snapshots, Veeam, Veritas, and other third-party solutions can cause performance issues or corruption of the KACE appliances. Some of these solutions have compatibility issues...

Product Life Cycle

Software

Hardware

Version Full Support as of Limited Support as of Support Discontinued 9.2 6/20/2023 9.1 1/23/2023 9.0 6/13/2022 6/20/2023 8/21/2023

Earlier product versions not listed are considered discontinued.

Warranty support on your appliance hardware is available for up to five years from the date of purchase. If you purchased less than 5 years of warranty support on your date of purchase, you may renew your warranty support annually until the warranty support term ends – five years from the original date of purchase.

The Product Support Life Cycle table above describes the phase during which products are eligible for product support and new release downloads.

As a result of Quest's recent divestiture from Dell, Quest acquired a number of products from Dell. Some of these legacy products found on this website may still contain Dell branding. However, these products are now owned and supported solely by Quest and not Dell. Dell is not affiliated with these products or services and any services Quest provides for these products is independent of Dell.

Product Support Policies

The Product Support Lifecycle describes the phases during which our products are eligible for patches (fixes), support and downloads from the Support Portal.

It is our policy to provide support and fixes in current versions of our products when you are under a current support agreement. Fixes to older versions are at our discretion. We strive to put resources behind the most recent product releases in order to continually improve and enhance the value of our products.

We will attempt to answer questions on older versions of our products provided resources are available; however, if you are using a discontinued version, we encourage you to upgrade to the currently supported version of the product.

Our usual support policy is to provide support on both the current (n) and prior (n-1) versions of our products. Refer to the product lifecycle table on your Product Support Page or Knowledge Base for more information.

Full Support

Product is fully supported, generally available release/version.

Includes most current released version of a product and one or more prior releases.

Enhancement requests for this release are accepted and may be considered for future releases.

Maintenance releases and/or hot fixes are periodically made available for this release.

Release/version is fully supported by both Support and Development.

Release/version is available for download from Support Portal.

Limited Support

Support is available for this release/version, and we will use best efforts to provide known workarounds or fixes.

No new code fixes will be generated except under extreme circumstances and at our discretion.

Enhancement requests are not accepted.

You are encouraged to plan an upgrade to a release/version on "Full Support".

Release/version is available for download from the Support Portal.

Discontinued

Includes release/versions which are retired or discontinued.

No new patches or fixes will be created for this release.

Release is not available for download from the Support Portal.

Support will be provided to assist with upgrading to a supported version.

Support is not obligated to provide assistance on this version of the product.

Continuing Support

If you are unable to upgrade or migrate your product prior to its end-of-life, for products that do not offer Long Term Support (LTS) releases, we offer a Continuing Support service to provide you with one year of limited support beyond your software's end-of-life or end-of-support date. Continuing Support is no guaranteed on every product.

Annual software maintenance contract must be renewed.

Includes uninterrupted access to technical support via phone, online and chat.

Support Engineers will provide known workaround solutions and fixes.

Fee-based service available on selected products.

Product Enhancements

If you are interested in submitting product enhancement requests, you can do so by creating a case with support. When we receive a product enhancement request, the Support Engineer will work to define and clearly document the request. Once documented, the request will be submitted into the enhancement review system, the identification number will be provided to the submitter, and the support case will be closed.

Product Management will review the open enhancement requests on a periodic basis and consider them for inclusion in a future product release. Product enhancements will not be considered or implemented in current or prior product releases. There is no guarantee that a specific enhancement request will be implemented in a future version of our product. It is at our discretion if a certain enhancement will be offered for an additional charge or as a chargeable option.

Product Defects

If your issue is determined to be a defect in the product, it is recorded in our defect tracking system, a unique Defect Identifier (ID) will be provided to you and the support case will be closed. Notifications of new product releases will be emailed to you as long as you who have configured your profile to receive product notifications. Release Notes for new releases of products will contain the list of Defect Identifiers that were addressed in the release. You can review the release notes or search the Knowledge Base on the Support Portal using your Defect Identifier to see if the issue has been addressed. We do not guarantee that all defects identified will be fixed in a future release of the product.

Our products have license keys generated for their use. Some products require a new license key when upgrading to a new release and/or patch. We also recommend that prior to any migration or upgrade of products, new licenses are confirmed as functioning properly as some license keys are machine and machine name specific.

If you have questions regarding licensing of a product please complete the form available on the Support Portal Licensing Page. A Software Licensing Representative will respond to your query within 24 hours.

You may also email the Software Licensing team: license@quest.com.

Support for Trial Users

We offer software trials on selected products for testing purposes. Support for trial users is limited to 30 days from the registration date. Cases for your trial product may only be submitted during the first 30 days of your testing period. You will still have unlimited access to our Support Portal for accessing the Knowledge Base and Product Pages.

Customizations policy for Software and Hardware products

A customization indicates functionality and configurations added to a product that are not provided as part of the core product release and, as such, would be outside the scope of normal support and maintenance. Customizations may take the form of new or modified scripts used within or alongside our products, as well as additional functionality such as custom reports, dashboards, rules, automated actions, etc. developed by you, your partners, or our Professional Services Organization.

Support and Customizations

We do not perform or maintain customizations. The design and development of customizations to our products is your responsibility. Assistance from Support will be limited to helping ensure that the product's functionality which enables the addition of customizations is functioning as expected. Alternatively, you may obtain guidance through product specific community sites or the Support Knowledge Base.

Advanced Assistance

If more thorough and detailed assistance is needed to design and develop customizations, we recommend that you engage our Professional Services Organization or fully certified partners to assist. Their expertise in designing customized solutions will ensure customers receive maximum value and product adoption. In addition to providing post-implementation expert services, Professional Services also offers a variety of pre-packaged customizations for some products which may meet your specific requirements.

Training & Certification

We recommend that you obtain the appropriate product training before attempting to design, develop, and implement any customization to our products. Our training courses will equip you with the necessary knowledge and ability to design and implement effective changes to our products. For more detail on the training services available, please refer to Training & Certification Services .

Maintaining Customizations

Careful consideration should be given to all customizations during future migration or upgrade exercises to new product and platform versions. Customizations could inhibit the upgrade itself and may require a level of re-work to continue functioning properly. Support does not take ownership for any customizations. We strongly encourage you to document and maintain records on any implemented customization work. These records can be useful in isolating problems that may be attributable to the customization or a defect in the core product.

Support Policy on Virtualization

Virtualization is a technique for hiding the physical characteristics of computing resources from the way in which other systems, applications or end users interact with those resources. It is able to make a single physical resource, such as a server, operating system, application or storage device, appear to function as multiple logical devices. It can also make multiple physical resources such as storage devices or servers appear as a single logical resource. As a result virtualization enables IT departments to increase the utilization of resources, increase high availability, and simplify back-up, systems administration and recovery procedures. It also allows IT departments to be more responsive to the dynamic needs of the business. Examples of virtualization technologies include VMware ESX Server, Citrix/XenServer and Microsoft Windows Server 2008 Hyper-V.

Our products leverage the binary compatibility offered through virtualization technologies, which provide complete transparency to the operating systems and applications deployed. As a result, for all casework received where the Software product is being used in a virtual environment, we will assume that the problem is common to both native and virtual operating environments, and that we will only require the customer to recreate the problem in a native environment if and when there is reason to believe that the problem is unique to the virtual environment itself.

From a purely functional perspective, our products will operate in exactly the same way, however we can make no guarantees with respect to performance or scalability in a virtualization environment running multiple virtual instances. Configuration aspects such as CPU, memory availability, I/O subsystem and network infrastructure can all influence such a deployment, which should be given careful consideration to ensure the virtual layer has the necessary resources available to provide a satisfactory user experience.

Support Policy on Third-Party Software

We are committed to providing products which work on the latest platforms and technologies available in the industry today. We work closely with technology vendors to ensure earliest possible compatibility with our solutions. We provide full details of all systems requirements, together with platform and third-party product versions supported with our products, in the Release Notes published for each product. These include operating system versions, service pack levels, mail clients or server versions, database versions, browsers and other related technology supported and at which particular version level our products have been formally tested and certified to run against. The support of future platform versions, new service packs and other related technologies would be taken into consideration and addressed during the regular product maintenance and release cycles of our products. This provides ongoing upward compatibility of our products as used in customer environments. It should be noted therefore that there could be a delay between the availability of the latest platform technology release or service patch, and the product version certified to operate against this. Please contact Support should you have any questions with regards to the current support status of any product and a particular related platform, patch or third-party product support not explicitly documented in our release notes.

For more information about the latest third-party platforms and versions supported, please review the System Requirements section of the release notes for your product or search our Knowledge Base on the Support Portal. Please note that while we do not directly or officially support third-party software, we work closely with many other providers to ensure our customers receive the best possible service at all times.

Regional software license agreement applicable to your use of the software is available below (including software preinstalled on hardware or made available to you by download, disk media or otherwise, at no additional cost).

Click here to find your regional agreement.

See all Support Policies