Pacific Grove >> Singer/songwriter and environmental activist John Denver called the Monterey Peninsula home at the time of the plane crash in Monterey Bay that took his life at 53 years old.

Denver was a beloved artist whose best known music reflected the glories of nature and our connection to it. Songs like “Rocky Mountain High” and “Sunshine on My Shoulders” are two examples that illustrated his emotional response to nature, reaching from the peaks of tall mountains to the depths of human experience.

When his career began its descent from its highest peak, he focused much more intently on his humanitarian, environmental and sustainable living philanthropy and action network.

His death Oct. 12, 1997, occurred when his experimental plane, a Rutan Long-EZ, careened out of control and crashed into the bay near Pacific Grove, taking his life in a flash.

It’s been 18 years since his death, and there’s been much to commemorate and recognize about his life, lived primarily in Aspen, Colorado — where he maintained a home since making it big with his 1971 breakout recording “Poems, Prayers, and Promises” — and here on the Peninsula.

Performer Jim Curry, known as the premier John Denver tribute artist, will be performing Saturday night as part of Blue Water Weekend at the Performing Arts Center of Pacific Grove.

It will be Curry’s second year at Blue Water Weekend, which was first organized last year. But he’s been here before for other Denver celebrations.

“There’s a small group of fans that annually would be in the Monterey Bay area to commemorate John. And we had joined them one time, many, many years ago,” Curry said in a telephone interview from his home in Upland. “The main event for the fans gathering has historically been in Aspen. We had been participating in the Aspen event for many years with John’s band there. Then the promoters decided that after 15 years they wouldn’t do it anymore. So we started to come out here to support the West Coast group of fans.”

For the most part, fans here would gather at the crash site and there would be an emphasis on his passing, rather than why he chose to come live in the area, Curry said. Just as it was with Colorado, Denver came here because he loved the outdoors and he wanted to live in a beautiful natural environment. After the end of his first marriage to Annie Martell, he spent time in Southern California before making the Central Coast his main residence.

Instead of having the small group of fans mourning his loss, Curry wanted to support a celebration of his life and the time he spent here.

“Basically the idea is to have a celebration of where he lived,” Curry said, “and enjoying the area with the different events. Hopefully people will come out and it will become more of a community thing to celebrate one of their residents.”

Curry said this is the second of three years confirmed for this event. “So for sure we’ll have it again next year. Then we’ll see.”

The weekend’s activities include a Lovers Point kayak tour, a walk through Henry Cowell State Park in Felton, a beach cleanup, a sing-along and Curry’s concert.

At the concert last year, there were a little over 200 people in attendance. The band is world class, with bassist Tom Williams, flautist Diane Ireland, master finger style guitarist Pete Huttlinger and Curry’s wife, Ann, singing backup.

This year’s inclusion of Huttlinger — a four-year member of Denver’s band at the time of his death — takes it to another level all together. The Nashville-based multi-instrumentalist’s talents have been experienced at Carnegie Hall and for three years at Eric Clapton’s Crossroads Festival. Sideman gigs include tours with LeAnn Rimes and John Oates of Hall and Oates fame.

“The reason we’re bringing him is not only that he was John’s lead guitar player, and an amazing finger style champion, but he’s gone through some amazing challenges in life since John passed away,” Curry said. “From birth he had a weak heart and had to have open heart surgery when he was 13. Immediately following a tour we were on a few years back, he went home to Nashville and ended up being life-flighted to Houston with a failing heart. So he went through another operation and has a new fanny pack he wears with new technology that keeps him going.

“He’s been through strokes and being paralyzed, and he couldn’t play at all. And he’s recovered from all of that and he’s back to being phenomenal. He’s written a book about it, ‘Joined From The Heart,’ which has just been released.

“We’re beginning the concert with a 20-minute segment for Pete, for him to share his talent in music and excerpts from his time on the road with John. Then we go full concert. He’ll be signing copies of the book as well.”

Denver, winner of multiple Grammy Awards, touched fans’ hearts not only through his music but through his contributions to alleviating world hunger, environmental protection and the promotion of sustainable living. To learn more, see the 2013 PBS documentary “John Denver: Country Boy,” available on DVD or Netlfix, or read the singer’s autobiography, “Take Me Home.”