Pacific Grove >> Thursday marks the 20th anniversary of the tragic plane crash that occurred about 100 yards off the rocky shoreline of Pacific Grove and took the life of beloved singer/songwriter John Denver.

It was on Oct. 12, 1997, that Denver’s experimental plane — a Rutan Long-EZ — careened out of control and crashed into the Monterey Bay.

The artist and environmental activist, best known for songs like “Take Me Home, Country Roads,” “Rocky Mountain High” and “Sunshine on My Shoulders,” was 53.

While this year many celebrations of his music and life will be taking place in his longtime home of Aspen, Colorado in honor of the two decades since his death, the local impact the singer and actor had is also still being felt on the Monterey Peninsula, where Denver also lived for a time.

For years, fans in the Monterey Bay would remember the folk singer through commemorative concerts and other tributes.

“I was there within five minutes when they pulled him out – when the national news was here,” recalled Pacific Grove Chamber of Commerce President Moe Ammar, about the incident. “As much as I hated to admit it, that put P.G. on the map.”

A permanent memorial to the musician was eventually erected in the form of a plaque embedded on a boulder located on the side of a turn-out where Asilomar and Ocean View Boulevards intersect. The plaque, which was paid for and is maintained by the group The California Friends of John Denver, has lyrics from Denver’s song “Windsong” engraved on it.

Years later, local resident Jim Willoughby would also remember the accident scene in a piece he wrote for The Herald — “Myriad white golf ball-size pieces of Styrofoam floating, if not dancing, on the ocean’s rippling blue surface over the crash site.”

In retrospect, Willoughby wrote he had often thought that perhaps this was a mosaic tribute to a beloved celebrity who brought joy to millions of his fans, including himself. That was before he knew the pilot was the famous singer.

Even now, Ammar said he gets inquiries on a weekly basis from people who come in to the Chamber looking for where Denver’s plane went down.

“People continue to show up and go down to play his music and celebrate his life,” said Ammar. “His music is still loved, especially by the seniors and the children.”

Carly Mayberry can be reached at 831-726-4363.