Kevin Clarke

Operetta Research Center

19 July, 2024

The out-door operetta festival in the castle gardens of Neustrelitz – an hour north of Berlin – is offering Oscar Straus’ Ein Walzertraum this summer, a production by Roman Hovenbitzer, conducted by Daniel Klein. It runs till 3 August.

When you’re lucky and the weather is good, the gardens in Neustrelitz are a sight to behold, with the lake in the distance and the sun setting right across the water. There’s magic all around. Also, this year the historic orangery is finally reopened, fully restored to its original glory. So there’s actually something to do in Neustrelitz, apart from wandering around in the park.

Sadly, the visuals Hermann Feuchtner has created for Walzertraum do not quite match the beauty of the surroundings. His stage is filled with three dark green railway wagons that represent the different spheres of the Court of Flausenthurn – there’s the count of Flausenthurn’s wagon, the one of Princess Helene, and that of Lieutenant Niki who was married off against his will to ensure the line of succession. His only job – in the far away kingdom of Flausenthurn – is to get Helene pregnant. So she can give birth to a male heir. Niki is not particularly thrilled to be reduced to such a role in life/court and longs to return to his hometown Vienna, where fun and freedom dominated his life.

You could say it’s a very modern story about gender roles and not accepting to simply conform. In this case it’s the man who demands emancipation – which is pretty ahead of its time for a 1907 show. But it demonstrates that certain topics we debate today are not as new as we might think.

Niki goes on strike; he refuses to go to bed with his wife Helene. Instead, he escapes court and hooks up with a young musician called Franzi, a violinist on tour with her female dance orchestra. Of questionable moral standing. Which attracts Niki magically. They all travel in a fourth railway wagon painted in pink.

As Helene tries to figure out how she could get Niki’s favors back, she bonds with Franzi – who gives her advice on how to treat men like Niki. In the famous 1931 movie version, directed by Ernst Lubitsch, Claudette Colbert as Franzi sings to Miriam Hopkins as the Princess that she needs to “jazz up” her “lingerie”. It’s a brilliant number Oscar Straus added for Hollywood. Executed there with all the double entendre of those early pre-Code years of sound film. And obviously, Maurice Chevalier is dream casting as Niki, not particularly Viennese, but the likeable bon vivant the role needs to be.

In Neustrelitz, intendant Sven Müller offers soloists which are (mostly) from his house ensemble. Luckily, he has Laura Scherwitzl. She is from Vienna, studied with Wolfgang Dosch, is totally at home in operetta land, has a clear and beautiful soprano, can act, looks amazing. In short, she is a fabulous Franzi.

But … next to her, Andrés Felipe Orozco sounds labored singing the famous hits. While his intonation is off-key throughout, his rendition of “Leise, ganz leise, klingt’s durch den Raum” lacks everything a good operetta tenor needs to display: youthful vigor, sensual yearning, dashing top notes. (Or at least a dashing delivery.) Add to that that Orozco is not a great actor, he also was put into a costume by Luzie Nehls-Neuhaus which you can’t call advantageous. It makes the interaction with Franzi painful to watch. Or rather: boring, because it seems unbelievable. There’s no chemistry.

Laura Albert as Princess Helene is equally badly served by the costume department. She, too, isn’t the greatest actress. And the chemistry between her and Niki/Orozco is zero. So the intimate story of Helene-Niki-Franzi collapses. Various people I spoke with after the performance said they didn’t understand the story and found it boring. (Which is certainly not the fault of the librettists Felix Dörmann and Leopold Jacobson.)

Parts of the dialogue are re-written for Neustrelitz (dramaturgie: Sebastian M. Richter). I can’t say this improved anything.

Stage director Hovenbitzer wants to show that the Viennese world Niki longs for is a gender liberated world. So Franzi’s female orchestra is a mix of men and woman all dressed up in bright pink costumes, a bit like Conchita Wurst lookalikes, with full beards and a dress.

While there’s nothing wrong with that idea, Hovenbitzer doesn’t do anything with it. Which makes it kind of embarrassing to look at. At least I was embarrassed. (And I am usually totally in favor of LGBTQ visibility. However, here there is not LGBTQ element, it’s just ‘pretend’.)

The chorus – courtiers in the original – is turned into the staff working on the train, once again in ugly-as-can-be costumes. Dancing around in a line that doesn’t make much sense. Just as the new jokes about railway travel (in the former East) doesn’t make much sense. But it got a few laughs … there wasn’t much else to laugh about. Certainly not Marcel Esser-Oleniecki as an over-the-top camp Count Lothar, or Sebastian Naglatzki as Joachim XIII., ruler of Flausenthurn. Let alone Robert Merwald as Niki’s best army friend Montschi, put into a red track suits here, for whatever inexplicable reason.

There was no jazzed-up lingerie, Helene at the end slips into a business costumes with pants and jacket. Perhaps this was supposed to hint at female emancipation?

Daniel Klein conducts the orchestra situated at the side of the stage without further ado. It’s nice to hear the full Oscar Straus score more or less unchanged. But you really need to know the piece to understand what’s going on – and to know that the rousing waltzes can sound different than they do in Neustrelitz.

While all of this annoyed me greatly, it didn’t matter as I walked home in the lovely summer night to the Schlossgarten Hotel. Neustrelitz is always worth visiting. Walzertraum is also a show worth seeing. But this production documents that intendant Sven Müller doesn’t much care about his summer festival. I have rarely seen a more lovelessly executed operetta performance – that only Laura Scherwitzl partly saves. Just for the record: it’s not that difficult to find a convincing cast for Walzertraum. And if you need to use your house tenor and soprano (who are worthy artists), select a different show that gives them a chance to shine.

Next year Neustrelitz is putting on Kalmans Zirkusprinzessin. Let’s hope they’ll find a different creative team for that and different singers with vigor and dash. Meanwhile, with regard to Walzertraum, stick to Lubitsch is you want to see a timeless version as The Smiling Lieutenant.