Born: sep 29, 1942 in Avranches, France.

Jean-Luc Ponty headlined the Zappanale festival in 2010.

Jean-Luc Ponty returned to the Zappanale festival in 2012 together with George Duke. They performed as The Brothers Of Invention, playing original compositions and Zappa pieces.

Bio

After studying classical violin at the Paris Conservatory, Jean Luc Ponty turned to jazz in the 60's. Thanks to his revolutionary style he collaborated with some of the best European and American musicians such as Eddy Louiss, Daniel Humair, Niels Henning-Ørsted Pedersen, John Lewis, Lalo Schifrin, and Quincy Jones. He became the first bebop violinist and US jazz magazine “Down Beat” created a violin category for him in its critics' poll, until then violin was in the 'miscellaneous instruments' category. His pioneering work on the electric violin in the 70's attracted the attention of pop and rock musicians, he recorded with Elton John and participated to several tours and legendary recordings with Frank Zappa's Mothers of Invention and John McLaughlin's Mahavishnu Orchestra. In 1975 he founded his own band and became one of the most prominent figures of the jazz-fusion movement in the USA, selling millions of albums that all reached the top of the US charts. Ponty's most recent album “The Atacama Experience” is considered as one if his best and to this day Ponty keeps touring with his band around the world.

Ponty also collaborates on occasional projects such as “The Rite of Strings” with Stanley Clarke and Al Di Meola. In 2011 Ponty joined the mythical American group RETURN TO FOREVER IV with Chick Corea, Stanley Clarke, Lenny White and Frank Gambale for a world tour spanning on 5 continents. Ponty received the 2007 Jazz Trophy in Germany, the medal of Chevalier de la Legion d'Honneur in France in 2009, the 2011 Lifetime Achievement Awards in Ireland, and the Grand Prix of the Sochi Arts Festival in 2012 in Russia from the hands of world famous classical violist and orchestra conductor Yuri Bashmet. In 2012 Ponty performed his music with Orchestre Pasdeloup for his 50-year career celebration at the Theatre du Chatelet in Paris, then again with symphony orchestras in Brazil, Russia and Hungary in 2012 and 2013. In April 2013 Herbie Hancock invited him to perform in Istanbul at “International Jazz Day” for UNESCO. Ponty also founded a new quartet with his daughter, pianist-singer-composer Clara Ponty which performed in France and Germany in 2014. Ponty also performed with the 89 musicians of the Novosibirsk Philharmonic Orcherstra for the Siberian Christmas Festival. In 2014 Ponty recorded an album as an acoustic trio with Stanley Clarke on double bass and Gypsy-French guitarist Bireli Lagrene, which was released on Impulse/Universal in the Fall 2015. Jean Luc recently formed the Anderson Ponty Band with Jon Anderson, co-founder and lead singer of British progressive rock band YES, a CD and DVD was released in 2015 followed by a North American concert tour.

discography

1968 witchcraft through the ages (häxan)- violin on 1922 film soundtrack.. includes narration by william s. burroughs

1971 harris, don sugarcane- new violin summit

1971 colombier, michel- wings

1972 john, elton- honky chateau

1972 corea, chick- compact jazz: chick corea

the mothers: over-nite sensation (17)

(1973, lp, usa, discreet)

1973 various artists- all singing - all talking - all rocking

frank zappa: apostrophe (') (18)

(1974, lp, usa, discreet)

1974 various artists- hard goods

1974 mclaughlin, john- apocalypse

1974 mclaughlin, john- visions of the emerald beyond

1976 corea, chick- my spanish heart

1980 humair, daniel- humair, louiss and ponty, vol. 1

1981 frank zappa- return of the son of shut up 'n play yer guitar

1986 frank zappa- apostrophe/over-nite sensation

1987 columbia jazz fall 1987 (producer)

1988 no boundaries- no boundaries (producer)

1991 humair, daniel- humair, louiss and ponty, vol. 2

1991 frank zappa- piquantique

1992 frank zappa- disconnected synapses

1992 frank zappa- you can't do that on stage anymore, vol. 6

1993 puss in boots- puss in boots (synthesizer, violin, composer, producer)

1993 jones, george- i'm the only hell mama ever raised

1993 putumayo presents the best of world (vocals)

1993 clarke, stanley- east river drive

1993 oconnor, mark- heroes (violin, composer)

1995 grappelli, stephane- anniversaire

1995 clarke, stanley- rite of strings (producer)

1995 frank zappa- strictly commercial

1996 frank zappa- the lost episodes

1996 carter, benny- journey to next

1997 jazz fusion, vol. 1- jazz fusion, vol. 1

1997 jazz fusion, vol. 2

1997 humair, daniel- trio hip

1998 various artists- rykodisc 15th anniversary sampler

atlantic jazz: fusion (producer, violin (electric), orchestration)

atlantic jazz: 12 volume box set (producer, violin (electric), orchestration)

corea, chick- music forever and beyond: the selec

jazz cd sampler- jazz cd sampler

jazz club: violin- jazz club: violin

joyce, james- alla livia plurabelle from finnegan

semi official releases

concerts

1975/09/01 Jean-Luc Ponty - concert 'The Village Gate', nyc, NY, usa

line-up

Jean-Luc Ponty * Darly Steurmer- guitar * Mike Wolf- keyboards * Tom Fowler- bass * Norm Fearrington- drums

setlist

radio announcer band introductions, how would you like to have a head like that?, echoes of the future, polyfolk dance, upon the wings of music, radio announcer

comments from the seeder, over at Dime

A fine radio broadcast from the Big Apple with some prime Ponty on his 1st solo band tour. The 1st tune is probably a leftover relic from his 1973 tour with Frank Zappa, the rest are all from his 1st solo record, Upon the Wings of Music, with my favorite Ponty drummer. This guy can really play. It's a short set, but I think the whole thing. the tape was flipped just before upon the wings. This tour began a long and productive mergence of Ponty with Daryl Steurmer before he joined with Genesis.

1977/06/25 Jean-Luc Ponty - concert 'Dallas Brookes Hall', Melbourne, Australia

line-up

Jean-Luc Ponty - Electric Violin * Daryl Stuermer - Guitar * Alan Zavod - Keyboards * Tom Fowler - Bass, Violin * Mark Craney - Drums

setlist

Crowd Noise & Tuning (1:02), Is Once Enough ? (12:47), Lost Forest (11:13), Passenger Of The Dark (11:05), Band Introduction (3:21), Renaissance (8:08), Question With No Answer (6:00), Between You And Me (8:26), Fight For Life (13:39), Polyfolk Dance (7:30)

an 84 minute audience recording of this concert circulates

1978/01/31 Jean-Luc Ponty - concert 'Bushnell Auditorium', Hartford, Connecticut, USA

line-up

Jean-Luc Ponty (electric violin, keyboards) * Joaquin Lievano (guitars) * Jamie Glaser (guitars) * Casey Schuerel (drums) * Ralphe Armstrong (bass) * Alan Zavod (keybords)

setlist

Cosmic Messenger, Mirage, Etherial Mood, Wandering on the Milky Way, Egocentric Molecules, New Country

a soundboard recording of this concert circulates

1978/11/15 Jean-Luc Ponty - concert 'Paramount Theater For The Performing Arts', austin, texas, usa

line-up

Jean-Luc Ponty: electric violin, Ralph Armstrong: electric bass, Allan Zavod: keyboards, Joaquin Lievano: electric guitar, Casey Scheurell: drums

setlist

NPR 'Jazz Alive' Intro, The Art Of Happiness, Don't Let The World Pass You By, I Only Feel Good With You, Ethereal Mood, No Strings Attached, Egocentric Molecules, NPR 'Jazz Alive' Outro

random notes

it has been a long, fascinating odyssey for jean-luc ponty, who started out as a straight jazz violinist only to become a pioneer of the electric violin in jazz-rock in the '70s and an inspired manipulator of sequencers and synthesizers in the '80s. at first merely amplifying his violin in order to be heard, he switched over to electric violin and augmented it with devices that were associated with electric guitarists and keyboardists, like echoplex machines, distortion boxes, phase shifters, and wah-wah pedals. classically trained, with an unquenchable ability to swing when he wants to, and consumed by a passion for tight structures and repeating ostinatos, ponty has been able to handle styles as diverse as swing, bop, free and modal jazz, jazz-rock, world music and even country, mixing them up at will. starting in 1977, he also pioneered the use of a five-string electric violin with a low c string. undoubtedly, he rivals stephane grappelli for the title of the most prominent and influential european jazz violinist.

ponty's father -- the director of the school of music in avranches and a violin teacher as well -- got jean-luc started on violin at the age of five, and his mother tutored him on piano. he left school at 13 in order to practice six hours a day in the hope of becoming a concert violinist. at 15, he was accepted into the paris conservatoire, ultimately winning the premier prix at age 17. he played with the concerts lamoureux orchestra for three years, during which time, thanks to the influence of grappelli and stuff smith, he became interested in jazz. oddly enough, ponty began playing jazz first on the clarinet and tenor sax, waiting until 1962 to apply it to the violin. after a hitch in the french army (1962- 64), ponty went completely over to the jazz camp, leading quartets and trios in europe, recording with grappelli, smith and svrend asmussen on violin summit, and visiting the u.s. for the first time in 1967 at a monterey jazz festival workshop. enriching himself with diverse american experiences in 1969, ponty recorded with frank zappa, joined the george duke trio, and upon his return to france, formed the free-jazz jean-luc ponty experience (1970-72) before settling in the u.s. and rejoining zappa's mothers of invention. he toured and recorded with the mahavishnu orchestra in 1974-75 and then set out on his own, compiling a long series of solo albums on atlantic that pulled away from the more volcanic aspects of fusion toward a more lyrical, european, yet still exciting extension of mahavishnu's idioms.

in 1983, after his records began to sound increasingly formulaic, ponty switched gears and recharged his creative batteries on the synthesizer. starting with the individual choice album, he began constructing attractive revolving patterns of electronic sounds with the help of sequencers, producing backdrops for his violin that were elegantly indebted to europop influences. he took this direction with him when he signed with columbia in 1987, but on 1991's tchokola album, ponty was on the move again, throwing out the sequencers and recording with west african musicians who provided him with new ostinato patterns to play with. -- richard s. ginell

played with john mclaughlin in the mahavishnu orchestra. jean luc-ponty appears on at least two mahavishnu orchestra albums:

apocalypse (1974)

visions of the emerald beyond (1975)

both these albums followed the first installment of m.o. which included j.m., jerry goodman, billy cobham, and jan hammer. these particular later albums featured a mini-orchestra (strings, horns, woodwinds, etc), which include jean luc-ponty.

released many jazz albums

he was recently seen playing in a band called "the rites of strings " (or something like that). the said band also featured al dimeola on guitar and stanley clarke on bass. there was no drummer in the band. the band has released a record whith the same name. the record is very good, theres no electric instruments on it.

karl kuenning sez:

i was the sound man and production manager for jlp for 2 years in the late 70's. you have left off darryl sturmmer who played guitar for jl and when on to genesis (and is still there), and steve smith who played drums and went on to journey. the name of the cd with di meola and clark is "the rites of spring". ponty's best two albums in my opinion were "enigmatic ocean" and "a taste for passion", both of which i worked on the tours. his most popular song was one of his first called "new country" of the aurora album. let me know if i can be of any assistance with jlp or other groups i worked with like patti smith or supertramp.

from: martin vasko (mjvasko@sprynet.com)

ponty recently toured (again). i believe he did about 10 dates, including one in san francisco in october. i wasn't able to go to the show, but have friends back there who told me about it and as i recall it was listed in pollstar. about a month ago i picked up his latest cd...which is a live album.

jean-luc ponty: live at chene park, 1996. atlantic jazz 82964-2

introduction

infinite pursuit

tender memories

between sea and sky

caracas

faith in you

after the storm

the gift of time

eulogy for oscar romero

the amazon forest

the story teller

elephants in love

a journey's end

good cd, very sparse liner notes, not even much in the way of tour photos. i've only seen him live once, back in about 1980 or so. 'twas awesome.

from: hadert von dicke (5107@inf.tsu.tomsk.su)

the home page of jose e.mayorga vindas http://www.geocities.com/bourbonstreet/7083 contains his own ponty discography, wherein it is written, that fz played guitar on ponty's 1969 album cantaloupe island. i think that is true, because there are listed all the musicians featured.

from: teak (shinjin@rocketmail.com)

i heard jlp and fz didn't like each other, don't know about the rumour.

from: johan lif (johan.lif@swipnet.se)

in a george duke interview i read in a swedish magazine a few years back, he said ponty resented doing "stupid things" like standing on one leg on cue. he considered himself too much of an artist for that kind of thing, and duke seemed to imply this was the source for his disagreement with zappa.

from: hyoung-seok kim (black_page@hanmail.net)

i think it's true that fz and jlp didn't like each other much. fz made fun of jlp's improvisation in trfzb, p.169. : "no matter what the solo was, after a certain period of time on the road he always ended with the same passage ..."

there fz said, "to a certain extent, alan zavod, our 1984 keyboard player, would do the same thing." but we can find that fz is much in his favor, if we compare it with the above cited sentence about jlp. (for example "in fact, alan really is a great pianist (and film composer). it's just that... he thought that type of solo was the appropriate vehicle to project his aura across vast continental areas.")

and jlp said in a interview(le jazz, april 22, 1997) that he and fz parted on bad terms. "it[touring with fz] was again a very interesting experience at the beginning, because zappa took out all the very complex instrumental music that he had stashed in his desk for a long time since it was too sophisticated for the previous members of the mothers. he had written music that was very influenced by stravinsky, so he wanted to put together a group of excellent instrumentalists. but the public lost interest quickly, and he had to go back to satire and more commercial rock. that wasn't what wanted to do, so i left after only seven months. he didn't take it well at all and we parted on very bad terms.

(i think jlp's explain in this interview has not only some truths about fz-jlp relation but also a prejudice against fz.)

from: dave lane (chickyraptor@hotmail.com)

there's an official site at http://www.ponty.com/

ponty interview

le jazz (webzine), april 22, 1997

by alain le roux