This is a great question. I've never thought about him being gay but I've noticed that he's the only James Bond actor whose love life I've never heard about.

Dalton had a long relationship with Vanessa Redgrave. I remember their relationship was news when he became Bond. Some interesting stuff about it here:

Several years ago a lady Bond fan (fanatic even) e-mailed me and told me that when she and her girlfriend first watched Dalton in the theater they immediately felt that he was gay and never could warm to him in the role.

MkB and zencat, one can question his sexuality without being negative toward him as a person and/or actor. Timothy Dalton IS James Bond regardless of his sexual preference.

Maybe but, just to make one point clear: R. Dittmar mentioned that

Several years ago a lady Bond fan (fanatic even) e-mailed me and told me that when she and her girlfriend first watched Dalton in the theater they immediately felt that he was gay and never could warm to him in the role.

So it seems these ladies linked a negative feeling toward T. Dalton as Bond with the fact that they assumed he was gay. My comment was directed to this kind of reaction, not specially to R. Dittmar's question.

Now none of this proves whether Dalton was/is gay or not. But perhaps ist helps reassure some CBNers that he can at least sleep with a woman through to, er, completion, as it were.

Also, Cassandra's two children were from a previous relationship and were not Pierce's although it appears that they are very much still part of his life.

No idea how true that was, but, heck, let's add it to the pile. With no offence intended towards R. Dittmar or to anyone else who has posted on this thread, hopefully any Bond fans who were worried about Dalton's sexual orientation will now be able to sleep soundly.

Maybe it's a bit redundant with my first post in this thread, but I'd like to stress one point: I have no idea and really don't care if your correspondent was mistaken or not as to Dalton's private life. BUT my point is that she was really mistaken if she thought that an actor's private life (be it Dalton or any other) can impediment his acting skills. Straight men/women can play the role of gay characters, and vice versa. It's not a matter of private life, it's a matter of acting.