Campbell Hall, founded in 1944 and situated on a 15-acre campus in Studio City, California, is an independent, all-gender, college preparatory, Episcopal day school for students in kindergarten through grade twelve. Campbell Hall is a community of inquiry committed to academic excellence and to the nurturing of decent, loving, and responsible human beings. As an Episcopal school, Campbell Hall thrives as an interfaith community that actively seeks to learn from the many religious traditions represented by faculty, students, and families. The school is committed to fostering a community dedicated to honoring the diversity of the human experience.

High School (Grades 9–12)

At the core of the secondary curriculum is an appreciation for the fact that students are in the process of developing the power to reason; that they are evolving a pattern of faith for daily living, part of which involves their evolution as decent, loving, and responsible human beings; that they are preparing for further education; and that they are learning to become informed contributors in society.

The high school curriculum continually evolves to provide a challenging mix of course offerings, including Engineering Research Projects, Experiments in Animation, Advanced Stage Design, Television Production II, Contemporary Choreographers’ Lab, AP Calculus BC, and AP Chinese Language and Culture. In addition, the school offers advanced inquiry (aptly titled Campbell Hall Advanced Inquiry or CHAI) courses designed to engage students in constructing meaning through authentic, rigorous study of a discipline at the college level. While some of these courses replace those Advanced Placement courses that do not serve the school’s inquiry model, others expand the topic. Those CHAI courses that replace APs cover roughly the same subject areas as the APs, but allow more discussion and inquiry and prioritize engagement, depth, and quality over quantity. With over a dozen offerings, CHAI courses include but aren’t limited to CHAI Biology Honors, CHAI English Literature and Composition Honors, CHAI Modern World History Honors, CHAI Technology and Ethics in the Information Age Honors, and CHAI Critical Race Studies.

Middle School (Grades 7–8)

Campbell Hall’s post-elementary program is inquiry-based and student-centered. The 75-minute rotating block schedule is designed to allow time for students to engage in research, lecture, discussion, group work, and project-based learning that prioritizes engagement, depth, and quality over quantity.

Through engaging coursework and a variety of extracurricular activities, students learn more about who they are and where their talents and interests lie. In middle school, students can find the appropriate level of academic challenge through traditional honors courses in math and World Language, while those who are committed to English, history, or science can elect to take an accelerated level of these courses in the 8th grade.

Through study hall exploration course offerings including visual arts, performing arts, and computer science, as well as a year-long human development course in 7th grade, the middle school offers an extensive educational experience beyond the core curriculum. The 8th grade program expands on these offerings with semester electives focusing on a wide range of topics such as Storytelling Through Photography, Acting, Filmmaking, Television Production, Rockets, Robots & Gizmos: Maker Lab, Steel Drumming, and more.

Elementary School (Grades K–6)

The elementary school core curriculum provides young learners with a sequential and integrated course of study. The program includes reading and language arts, Singapore Math, science, social studies, technology, physical education, visual and performing arts, and World Language (beginning in 3rd grade).

The Students

Campbell Hall students are simultaneously scholars, artists, athletes, and explorers. They come from 112 zip codes across southern California. Students of Color comprise 42% (as defined by NAIS) of the K–12 student body. One in four students receives financial aid, and the School is proud of the religious diversity present throughout the community. When asked what makes Campbell Hall unique, two high school students replied:

“Campbell Hall is a loving, caring community that helps develop the whole person.”

“Campbell Hall is a school where each and every student is valued, therefore, the relationships between the teachers or principal and students are strong.”

The Faculty

Campbell Hall faculty are dedicated to the developmentally appropriate education of the whole child; are interested in learning as well as teaching; connect their responsibilities with the philosophy and purpose of the school; teach to empower as well as to inform; are comfortable with questions as well as answers; can work with direction, focus, humor, and dignity within the complexities of a diverse school environment; and will be dedicated to promoting and maintaining an inclusive school community.

In addition to academic responsibilities, Campbell Hall faculty are involved in many aspects of school life. Coaching interscholastic athletics, chaperoning experiential education trips, participating in community service activities, helping students to produce school publications, overseeing student council, and leading a special interest club are just a few ways faculty are more deeply involved in the Campbell Hall community.

Campbell Hall faculty embrace the school’s mission and are dedicated to the implementation of a rigorous college preparatory program. They are equally devoted to each student’s emotional and spiritual development and strive to relate to students, parents, and colleagues in ways that promote open and supportive communication. The result is a community where students and adults are confident to learn and grow.

Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Justice

Campbell Hall is devoted to honoring the diversity of the human experience and cultivating a safe environment that empowers individuals and groups to celebrate their identities. In order to build and sustain an inclusive community, the School is called to confront systems of oppression, uproot structural inequality, challenge white supremacy, and work to create a more just and equitable world. This commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and justice is deep, ongoing, and inextricably linked to the School’s Episcopal identity. As it strives to care for the community, help its neighbors, and better the world, Campbell Hall embraces its responsibility to be truth-seekers and advocates of inclusion and equity.

Campbell Hall knows that the work of creating a truly inclusive community is an ongoing effort and one that requires the input and perspectives of the entire community. The School is working to dismantle systems of oppression by creating policies, programs, and opportunities with DEIJ as the driving force — because that is what is needed to create a more just and equitable school and society.

Dimensions of diversity include race, ethnicity, religion, culture, national origin, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, age, ability, and socioeconomic status. To learn more about Campbell Hall’s strategies for promoting DEIJ, please click here.

chapel

Campbell Hall is an Episcopal school that welcomes people of all faiths and actively seeks to learn from the many religious traditions represented by faculty, students, and families. The school honors the Episcopalian tradition as a place of open inquiry and spiritual formation. Campbell Hall’s spiritual mission is to nurture the soul and character of all students entrusted in its care by instilling morals and values that emphasize goodness, responsibility, love, respect, and a sense of connectedness to something greater than oneself.

The chapel serves as a gathering place for the community. It is where they find prayerful silence during their busy days, collectively cheer homecoming wins, and sing their alma mater with heartfelt enthusiasm. It is where they mark many of the traditions of each school year and ask for God’s continual help and guidance as they seek to become more decent, loving, and responsible human beings.

Weekly chapels, while grounded in Judeo-Christian prayers and readings, embrace and celebrate many religions of the world, encourage reflection, and above all, a commitment to bettering the world.

Campus

Campbell Hall’s fifteen-acre campus is an urban oasis located in Studio City, California. The beautifully and sustainably landscaped space features dedicated and distinct areas with multiple buildings and play and sports areas for elementary, middle, and high school. The facilities are state-of-the-art and serve as a backdrop for inspired learning. Campus highlights include places for quiet contemplation like the Nathanson-Swiger Chapel & Spiritual Center, open and natural spaces in which students gather and relax, and state-of-the-art facilities like the Spielberg Family Arts and Education Center, and high-tech science labs where creativity and innovation are unbounded.

Check out Campbell Hall’s 360° interactive virtual tour to explore their beautiful campus.

Geography

Studio City is a quaint neighborhood in the city of Los Angeles, just over the hill from Hollywood and minutes from Griffith Park to the east. Lively Ventura Boulevard offers several classic sushi houses, plus small-plates spots and stylish gastropubs. For nature lovers, Coldwater Canyon Park and Wilacre Park offer hiking trails that have panoramic valley views.