The University of La Verne was still in shock days after news broke that a former student was accused of incidents that included making a series of fake threats and posing as a victim of them.

La Verne police allege that Anayeli DominguezPena, a 25-year-old Ontario resident, sent racially motivated threats over social media and via email to members, including herself, of Decolonize ULV, an unofficial social justice student group, and posed as the victim of these threats. The group was behind multiple protests during the 2018 fall semester that attempted to bring attention to racial discrimination they say they experienced on campus.

In March 2019, DominguezPena found her backpack on fire inside her vehicle, authorities say. That incident prompted the university to cancel classes on March 1, 2019. Later that May, police said she reported that she was attacked at a campus dorm by a man in a ski mask.

On Monday, La Verne police arrested DominguezPena, who pleaded not guilty to charges of making criminal threats and filing a false claim for state victim compensation benefits, both felonies. The former student, who was in her first year of her master’s degree program at the time of last year’s incident, was also charged with internet or electronic impersonation, and six misdemeanor counts of filing a false police report, police said. Authorities allege that Dominguez-Pena acted alone.

Detective Bob Nishimura said at a Monday news conference that he couldn’t confirm whether DominguezPena lied about the dorm attack or if she was behind putting the smoking backpack in her car.

Some students said there was skepticism and doubt from the start about the validity of the threats.

Roshanda Taylor, 20, said she was surprised to hear Monday’s news but was not shocked to hear that police allege a student was behind the threats.

“I feel like it’s fake and I thought it looked staged but when they arrested the culprit I thought maybe it wasn’t staged but then when they announced who did it, I wasn’t surprised,” Taylor said. “When it was first someone being pushed down the stairs, I believed it but then when they targeted her car I was like ‘no one in their right mind would stalk the person, remember their license plate and damage her car like that.’”

Aleyah Mungia, 20, was angry about how the university handled the investigation and wishes more was done.

“The way they worded the message on Monday was very generic and broad and a lot of the things that they said they were gonna do now should have been done a long time ago, not until the case is finished.”

The reported threats also had the logo of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity in an attempt “to focus suspicion on the fraternity and its president,” Mungia said.

Mungia called the fraternity a forgotten victim. While the La Verne police found no evidence linking fraternity members to the threats, she said that the group’s image was tarnished by the accusations.

“There’s a lot of people that were targeted and blamed for the hate crime and yes they got their justice in a way because the rightful person was accused but the organization that was being targeted basically got nothing,” Munjia said.

Frankie Antiollon, 21, agreed that the fraternity might have taken one of the biggest hits in terms of its image.

“I think it’s really unfair that she pretended to be a victim and blamed it on a group of students that already don’t have a good name, Antiollon said. “I think it’s unfortunate because now their name is tarnished regardless of her coming to light as the perpetrator.”

Students said that, while the racial climate on campus has improved since last spring, there is still room for improvement.

A Monday letter from the university touted many steps it has taken to show its “commitment to diversity and inclusion.”

These include diversity training for faculty and staff, workshops, required training on unconscious biases and the opening the Ludwick Center for Spirituality, Cultural Understanding and Community Engagement.

Mungia said that’s not enough. She said the money used to build the new center could have been used to give free counseling and psychological services sessions, which she says is limited to 10 visits a year.

“La Verne just thinks that putting up a building is going to solve problems,” Mungia said. “Actually talking to students is going to solve problems and getting to know us.”

A statement from University President Devorah Lieberman said “the actions of the accused, if proven true, threatened to undermine the sincere and necessary work of addressing the very real issues of race and social justice that persist locally and nationally. We will not be deterred in that work. We are committed to moving forward together here at the University of La Verne to make positive changes on our campuses and in our community.”

Taylor, the student, says that, while the campus came together in the weeks after last year’s incident, for example by attending a candlelight vigil, there is still a lot of work to be done.

“Things have certainly improved, but some of us feel that if it can happen once it can definitely happen again.”