Now the dust has settled on the latest round of local elections in the town, residents will soon find out who will be in charge and what the future holds for Darlington.

Labour was celebrating on Friday after 24 councillors were elected following a successful election campaign, however it fell short of the 26 seat threshold required for an overall majority. It means the party must form a coalition with another party/ parties if it wants to gain control of the administration.

David Beckett was elected as a Labour councillor in the Brinkburn and Faverdale ward, where the party gained two seats on the Conservatives, however he was recently suspended following comments made about the royal family on social media. It is believed the decision came too late for him to be removed from the ballot paper. An investigation is ongoing.

What has Labour said about forming a coalition?

Party leader cllr Steve Harker said discussions will take place with other parties about forming a coalition. He also opened the door for future team work with Peter Gibson MP and Tees Valley mayor Ben Houchen, despite representing opposing parties. “This local authority will work with the MP and the combined authority, it’s about what’s best for Darlington and the Tees Valley,” he said.

What has the Conservative Party said?

The Conservatives will be opening coalition talks with other parties in the hope of continuing on the council despite its now-diminished support on the council. There are now just 15 Conservative councillors on the council and they would have to strike a deal with the Liberal Democrats, Green party and Independents to form a council, which looks unlikely.

Party leader cllr Jonathan Dulston says they have proven their worth over the past four years, he said: “We’d be open for talks, we’ve got a plan, and people we’ve already started delivering that. We will continue to make sure Darlington maximises its potential moving forward.”

But while Peter Gibson is willing to work with Labour, he’s concerned about a potential coalition with the Green Party. “I worry that co-operation will be jeopardised by Labour and the Greens in a coalition refusing to work with me out of political differences rather than for the good of the town. I also worry that the new administration, with Labour controlled by the Greens as we warned would be the case, won't have the ability to resolve the issues their campaigns said they would.

“Whoever runs Darlington Borough Council I will continue to work as hard as I have done since day one for the people of Darlington, and I will obviously hold them to account for their performance in running services here.”

What has the Green party said about a coalition?

The Green party are now in a significantly stronger position on the council. The party’s first two councillors were elected in 2019 and they now have a seven-councillor strong team after the latest shake-up, with the party’s decisions key to the future rule of the council. Is the Green Party willing to form a coalition? “We stood on a local manifesto and we will stand by that, we’ve got great ideas to make Darlington better for the future,” cllr Matthew Snedker said. “We don’t stand on dogma, we work on evidence and we work for what’s best for people at that time and place. We’re not commenting on any coalitions, we have a manifesto that is popular and we'll stick up for those policies that we stand by.”

What about the Liberal Democrats?

Three Liberal Democrat councillors were re-elected in the North Road ward and could prove pivotal in helping Labour over the line to resolve the ‘no overall control’ deadlock. The Lib Dems previously helped the Conservatives in 2019 to gain de-facto control of the council, and could be open to another power-sharing deal. But the two parties are yet to talk and a shift across the political divide would be a shock.

Simon Thorley, who stood as a candidate in Park West, said the town is now well-represented by the four main parties. “It’s clear that we’re now a four party town, which wasn’t the case until recently, and will add to the diversity of opinion on the council,” he said.

Mr Thorley said the ball is now in Labour’s court to strike a deal. He added: “It’s up to Labour to decide who they want to approach and we will listen to whatever they have to say. Our priorities are clearly outlined. It will be hard for us to work with parties who are so set on raising council tax - that will be a big stumbling block. But we will see what they want to talk about in due course.”

However, Labour will not gain the support of the one remaining Independent councillor, Kevin Nicholson, a previous cabinet member alongside Conservative colleagues, after he distanced himself from the party.

What happens if Labour can’t get a deal?

There is also the likelihood of a multi-coloured cabinet, where members from the three main parties occupy cabinet roles. The Greens’ increased presence on the council could mean cllr Matthew Snedker is likely to get a high-profile role, while some Conservative members could remain. While it may seem unlikely initially, it could prove to be realistic if Labour cannot strike a deal and its plan to run a minority council is not passed.