Gopichand's "Sahasam" has opened to an impressive start in India as well as in overseas markets.

"Sahasam", which was reportedly made on a whopping budget of ₹30 crores, collected ₹90 lakh share in Nizam area on the first day.

The film had the biggest opening in Gopichand and Taapsee Pannu's careers. According to Taapsee, "Sahasam" has recovered 70 percent of the cost over the first weekend.

"Finally d day I waited for since long! Wid 70 percent of recovery over weekend itself I can happily say "thank u for making #sahasam a hit," the elated actress tweeted on micro-blogging site Twitter.

The film's makers are yet to announce the collections from Andhra Pradesh and other parts of India.

Overseas markets

"Sahasam" has fetched ₹1.11 crore on ₹50 screens from US markets during the first weekend.

"SAHASAM [Telugu]: In its opening weekend, the film has collected $ 1,85,394 [Rs. 1.11 crores] on 50 screens. Note:- Reported screens only," according to film critic and trade analyst Taran Adarsh.

Directed by Chandrasekhar Yelati, "Sahasam" is about a man's quest for his family's property. The film received mixed reviews from critics, but positive word of mouth has helped its business.

However, the film failed to draw more collections than Ravi Teja's recently-released film "Balupu".

"Balupu", an action entertainer co-starring Shruti Hassan, opened well in the US-Canada markets two weeks ago. The film raked in ₹1.76 crore ($ 296,447) from 60 screens in its opening weekend.

With new releases, the number of screens showing "Balupu" has been reduced. The Ravi Teja starrer earned approximately ₹4 lakh in its third weekend. Its total collections are now pegged at ₹2.69 crore

"BALUPU [Telugu]: In its third weekend, the film has collected $ 8,049 on 10 screens. Total: $ 4,48,804 [Rs. 2.69 crores]. Note:- Reported screens only," Taran tweeted

It remains to be seen if both the films would be able to sustain their business this weekend with the release of Telugu film "Om 3D" on 19 July. The Kalyan Ram starrer, which is deemed as India's first ever action 3D, has won accolades from several members of the film fraternity. Superstar Rajinikanth, who watched the special screening of the film, was impressed with its 3D quality.