Monthly Archives: December 2012

Neethane En Ponvasantham Movie Review- Wasted Opportunity

Produced by Photon Kathaas and RS Infotainment, directed by Gautham Vasudev Menon, Neethane En Ponvasantham is a love story (or as the director cleverly puts it across – moments from Varun-Nithya’s love story). With excellent acting, fantastic music, pleasing-on-the-eye cinematography, Neethane En Ponvasantham is a great case study of sum being lesser than the parts. Continue reading “Neethane En Ponvasantham Movie Review- Wasted Opportunity”

12 Interesting Facts About the 12/12/12 Man-Rajinikanth

This post is dedicated to the one and only Superstar Rajinikanth who celebrates his 62nd birthday today ( 12/12/12 ). So how about looking at 12 interesting details about the person on this occasion? If you are an ardent Rajini fan then I guess you should be aware of most of these facts.So here we go- Continue reading “12 Interesting Facts About the 12/12/12 Man-Rajinikanth”

Annayum Rasoolum-Sneak Peek

Like a lot of his contemporaries, cinematographer Rajeev Ravi also recently decided to turn director and it was no surprise considering the body of work he has done over the years both in Malayalam and Hindi Cinema. So now his directorial debut film Annayum Rasoolum is almost due for release. Earlier this year Rajeev Ravi’s work as DOP was seen in Ivan Megharoopan ( Malayalam ) and Gangs of Wasseypur- 1 & 2. Continue reading “Annayum Rasoolum-Sneak Peek”

Man of Steel-Trailer

After unleashing the teaser of Man of Steel in July, Warner Bros has finally released a longer trailer of the film a short while ago. Directed by Zack Synder ( 300, Watchmen ) and produced by Christopher Nolan along with Emma Thomas, Charles Roven and Deborah Snyder, Man of Steel has Henry Cavill as Superman and the rest of the star cast includes Amy Adams, Michael Shannon, Russel Crowe, Ayelet Zurer, Laurence Fishburne, Kevin Costner, Diane Lane etc.Continue reading “Man of Steel-Trailer”

Producing "Do Dooni Chaar"

Picture this: In the cubbyholes of Lajpat Nagar, Delhi, a family of 4 is rejoicing. They have just received Rs. 7,200 as Income Tax refund. The mother wants a new fridge, the son wants a Dish TV connection and the daughter wants an iPod. The father? Well, he just wants peace! As they fight it out to see who wins the battle of what the family will ultimately buy, comes a phone call.Continue reading “Producing "Do Dooni Chaar"”

Kanna Laddu Thinna Aasaiya-Trailer

Santhanam is one of the foremost comedians in Tamil Cinema these days and enjoys the support of both the audience and trade. He turns producer for the first time with Kanna Laddu Thinna Aasaiya ( KLTA from here on ), a mad comedy caper. The film produced along with the veteran Rama Narayanan has been directed by K.S.Manikandan and has music by Thaman.S. Continue reading “Kanna Laddu Thinna Aasaiya-Trailer”

Khiladi 786 Movie Review : True to the Template

Khiladi 786

Director: Ashish R Mohan

Rating: **

In Bollywood, similar movies often come in rashes. The current trend seems to be fixated on over-the-top actioners. Ever since a few of them have done well commercially, our sensibilities have been chronically assaulted by actors who have spent more time in the gym than at rehearsals.Continue reading “Khiladi 786 Movie Review : True to the Template”

Trailer of Manoj Night Shyamalan's After Earth

M.Night Shyamalan has been having a bad run of late with his recent films like Lady in the Water, The Happening and The Last Airbender not doing well and also being trashed by critics. But all that seems to be a thing of the past now if we are to go by the trailer of his forthcoming film- After Earth. Starring Will Smith and his son Jaden Smith in the lead, After Earth is a futuristic science fiction thriller.Continue reading “Trailer of Manoj Night Shyamalan's After Earth”