HIGHLAND FALLS – J.P. Morgan had a summer home in the village.

The actor Charles Durning was born here.

And Edgar Allan Poe, a washout as a West Point cadet, was known to spend time in Highland Falls.

Those historical facts are elements in just one part of a multi-step plan to boost Main Street and help Highland Falls reach its full, unrealized potential.

The village held a Main Street symposium Wednesday afternoon at the senior center to outline its plans so far and seek input from planners, Realtors and others. Another meeting will be held in the near future.

“For decades, we have been thinking inside the box,” Mayor Joseph D’Onofrio said at the conclusion. “An hour and a half ago, that ended.”

Paul Walker, who came to Highland Falls a few years ago and is providing planning advice to the Main Street project, said the notable historic people like Morgan, Durning and Poe could be part of a memorial path that visitors could follow around the village.

“We need to make the village friendly and walkable,” he said.

The village also hopes to take better advantage of the more than one million people who visit West Point every year, but often don’t stop in Highland Falls.

A welcoming kiosk close to the West Point Visitors Center is one proposal.

Stella Bailey, the longtime historian for the Town of Highlands, thought they could take that one step further.

“The village could benefit from having a local visitors center,” Bailey said. “And they could have a tourist trolley to go around the village.”

But Walker said they also need to make Main Street more welcoming, with things as simple as benches and trash cans.

Main Street also is pretty dark at night, except at Christmas time, when it is lit up.

If the street was better lit year-round, Walker said, “People would want to come here in the evening.”

The village also is developing a uniform standard for what a Main Street building could look like, but that would have some flexibility.

The village also is looking at better connecting to the Hudson River waterfront, by restoring a marina that used to be there.

D’Onofrio said there already are signs the village’s fortunes are changing. Homes that used to take up to five years to sell are now “gone in a month,” he said.

“Something’s going on, even before we do what we’re doing here today,” he said.