“Harper’s Bazaar is thrilled to announce style icon Carine Roitfeld as global fashion director for the magazine. Roitfeld will produce a limited amount of editorials for the magazine to run across world wide editions” - it was announced today by David Carey, president, Hearst Magazines, and Duncan Edwards, president and CEO, Hearst Magazines International.

Roitfeld will collaborate with Stephen Gan, creative director of Harper’s Bazaar U.S., on several stories a year starting in the March 2013 issues of all 26 international editions of Bazaar which have a combined audience of more than 11.3 million worldwide. The special project may include covers of many of Bazaar s international editions. Roitfeld, who has recently published the first edition of her new magazine CR Fashion Book, will give her own unique take on the key fashion trends each season. Edwards commented, “This collaboration marks the first time anything like this has been done and we’re very excited about what Carine will bring to Bazaar editions around the world. She is a visionary in the fashion world and we are so happy to be working with her.” Carey said, “Hearst is the world’s largest publisher of monthly magazines, and we’re always looking for powerful ideas that can play out across the globe. Carine is one of the fashion world’s most influential tastemakers and we look forward to seeing what she does with Bazaar Her contributions will help lead the company to new heights on the creative front.” “I am thrilled to be contributing to Bazaar a brand with a rich history of creativity,” said Roitfeld. “Working with Stephen and a roster of talented photographers will be a wonderful collaboration and one that will give these stories a truly global audience.”

Roitfeld will continue to work on her various other projects including her newly launched biannual, CR Fashion Book.

hbazaar.com

I think what they mean is that Carine will style some eds for Bazaar US and other editions will reprint them.

But still very excited about this.

UK Bazaar never reprints eds from the US version so I doubt they will start now. I would agree with what saann said and that she will produce eds available for all editions.

Anyway good for Carine. This doesn't surprise me that Hearst wanted her.