LeBron James may be bearing the Los Angeles Lakers jersey on his chest, but any Cleveland Cavaliers fan would tell you that his most meaningful years were spent with his hometown team.

While his history with the Cavaliers is anything but simple, it cannot be denied that King James was the central figure for the first major sporting trophy the city had for the longest time. He’ll forever be connected to the city’s fiber for his legendary basketball skills alone.

The King left Cleveland twice in his pursuit to win as many rings as possible, but it’s clear to everyone how loved he still is in his hometown. The warm welcome he received during the Cavs’ Game 4 defeat to the Boston Celtics shows how the city still perceives James as the hometown kid who brought basketball immortality.

Now that it’s becoming clearer that LeBron is finding it more difficult to win rings on his own, some Cleveland fans made an appeal that would tug at the heartstrings of even the biggest LeBron skeptic.

Cleveland Cavaliers fans ask LeBron James to finish his career where he started

After James showed his face at the Rocket Mortgage FieldHouse, fans were taken in by the sentimentality and immediately flooded him with messages begging him to return to the Cavs for one final run.

Per The Spun’s Andrew Gould:

“He should finish his career in Cleveland,” a fan declared.

“Please come back,” another fan pleaded.

“Lol it’s happening,” a fan said.

“Bron retiring in Cleveland and they drafting Bronny,” a fan predicted.

“A glimpse of the farewell tour,” a fan suggested.

It’s easy to see why the Lakers would want James to finish the final years of his career in the Land. In the 11 years he played as a Cavalier, he averaged 27.2 points, 7.3 rebounds, and 7.3 assists. The crown jewel of his stint with the Cavs is the team’s first NBA championship.

Moreover, he’ll be returning to a well-balanced team. While Donovan Mitchell’s future with the Cavs is still uncertain, he’ll have a good shot at the title with the quality of players they have on the roster.

Of course, everything is still up to LeBron. If he does decide to move on, donning the Cavs jersey a third time would be a fitting end to his career.

For More Content