The case against Brian Walshe, the Cohasset man charged with murdering and dismembering his wife, was back in court Monday for a status hearing.

Within an hour of the defense resting in the Karen Read murder trial at Norfolk Superior Court in Dedham on Monday, Judge Beverly Cannone sat once again in her chair in the small courtroom 25 to get a short update on progress on the Walshe case.

The hearing was very short, with prosecutor Greg Connor and defense attorney Larry Tipton providing basic updates on where the case stands. In the end, a fresh discovery hearing was scheduled for Oct. 2 at 2 p.m. Walshe was not present Monday but he is scheduled to be present at that hearing.

Walshe, 49, is accused of murdering his wife Ana Walshe in their Cohasset home on Jan. 1, 2023, chopping her up and then disposing of her remains and his tools of murder in a series of dumpsters throughout Greater Boston.

The case has been defined by some grisly internet searches prosecutors say Brian Walsh made beginning in that morning’s early morning hours and continuing during the days-long process of disposing of Ana Walshe’s body. Those include: “Can you be charged with murder without a body?” and, “10 ways to dispose of a body if you really need to.”

None of her remains have ever been located and her case began on Jan. 5, 2023, as a missing persons case with police stating that Brian Walshe had been cooperative in helping to locate his wife. Brian Walshe told them at the time that she had called a rideshare car to take her to Logan Airport on Jan. 1 so she could report to work in Washington D.C. on emergency business.

The next day, Cohasset Police Chief William Quigley said that she did not board an airplane on that morning and that he didn’t believe she had taken a car anywhere at all. Her employer told investigators that she had no emergency business there.

The case quickly escalated from there. The ground searches ceased and Brian Walshe — a convicted globe-trotting art fraudster, under deep suspicion for messing with his father’s will — was no longer described as a cooperative and worried husband of a missing woman, but a suspect in a heinous deed. Police arrested him on Jan. 8 on an initial charge of misleading the police about his activities on the first two days of the year.

Police say they found blood and a damaged, bloody knife inside the home and that Walshe had gone on a $450 shopping spree at Home Depot for a number of items they say could have been used for dismemberment and cleaning up the scene.