Updated April 12, 2022

On March 5, VMware announced its suspension of all business operations in Russia and Belarus, and the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine. We stand with Ukraine, and we commend the bravery of the Ukrainian people.

The human toll is devastating and like other global businesses, we are committed to supporting our Ukrainian team members, customers and partners. We are also seeking to support non-Ukraine-based employees with family members located in Ukraine with information to access available resources. We continue to support our employees in Russia, as they are adversely impacted by the consequences of their government’s actions.

The suspension of operations includes suspension of all sales, support, and professional services in both countries in line with VMware’s commitment to comply with sanctions and restrictions. We are committed to preparedness and vigilance in this fluid situation and will comply with all applicable restrictions on the export and re-export of our products and services.

We’re working to help protect customers in Ukraine from cyberattacks and loss of continuity. For example, we are working with customers and partners in Ukraine – including large financial entities – to help migrate data center applications and workloads out of the country to other European data centers. We’re providing 90 days of free services to support that effort.

We are also working with governments and customers across the globe to provide digital infrastructure and cybersecurity assistance. As a founding member of the Joint Cyber Defense Collaborative (JCDC) convened by the U.S. Cyber and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), VMware is actively aligned with a global network of industry and public sector organizations focused on early warning and rapid response efforts to protect critical infrastructure.

Our hope is for peace to be restored.

Frequently Asked Questions

Q: How does the conflict in Ukraine impact VMware’s business?

A: In addition to monitoring the safety and wellbeing of our employees in the region, our top priorities are helping customers with their business continuity and mitigating risk from cyber threats. We are closely monitoring the situation in Ukraine and have plans in place to help address customer and partner needs. In addition to suspending business operations in Russia and Belarus, VMware is complying with the sanctions that restrict sales, support and services for customers in the Luhansk and Donetsk regions of Ukraine. You can read our security recommendations for customers here.

Q: How is VMware helping customers in Ukraine?

A: We’re working to help protect customers in Ukraine from cyberattacks and loss of continuity. For example, we are working with customers and partners in Ukraine – including large financial entities – to help migrate data center applications and workloads out of the country to other European data centers. We’re providing 90 days of free services to support that effort.

Q: How is VMware addressing potential cyber threats customers may be facing?

A: VMware takes a proactive approach to security, and we are especially vigilant regarding this situation. Read our guidance to customers in our Shields Up Security Blog. During this time of uncertainty, VMware is actively monitoring the situation and is positioned to continue providing highly available and secure products and services for our customers. VMware is also a founding member of the Joint Cyber Defense Collaborative where industry and the US Government collaborate on early warning and rapid response to protect critical infrastructure.

Q: Is VMware contributing to the Humanitarian Relief efforts in Ukraine?

A: The VMware Foundation is giving every VMware employee the opportunity to act and direct a Humanitarian Relief donation to their nonprofit of choice. In addition, every VMware person can request Matching Gifts to support relief efforts through the Foundation’s Gift Matching program through the VMware Foundation.

About VMware