Good day, and welcome to this Monday edition of The Monitor, WIRED's pop culture news roundup. Today, we've got some sad news from the box office and some good news about Steven Spielberg's West Side Story movie. Oh, Taylor Swift also released a new video. Let's get started.

Men in Black: International Didn’t Make Much Money Last Weekend

Continuing a trend of sequels and spinoffs underperforming this summer, Men in Black: International did not do well at the box office. Led by Thor: Ragnarok costars Chris Hemsworth and Tessa Thompson, the film made just $28.5 million domestically this past weekend. Internationally, International made $73.4 million. This comes after franchise films like Dark Phoenix and Godzilla: King of the Monsters also saw disappointing opening weekends.

Here's What Steven Spielberg’s West Side Story Looks Like

In case it slipped your attention, the E.T. and Schindler's List filmmaker is working on an adaptation of the Broadway musical West Side Story. He's directing from a script written by Pulitzer Prize-winner Tony Kushner. It's currently in production and now fans have their first look. The first photo from the movie is below. The film hits theaters Dec. 18, 2020. Get your snapping fingers ready.

Taylor Swift Made a Video for 'You Need to Calm Down' to Support the Equality Act

First of all, in case you didn’t hear, Taylor Swift showed up at the Stonewall Inn—the place where the LGBTQ+ rights movement started 50 years ago this month—this past weekend to wish everyone a happy Pride. That was nice, though folks were awfully conflicted about it. Anyway, on Monday morning, she dropped a new video for “You Need to Calm Down” that features a rainbow Rolodex of stars ranging from Laverne Cox to Ellen DeGeneres to the cast of Queer Eye. (It also has a reference to those darned snakes that have plagued her for so long.) There’s also a wide-eyed reunion with Katy Perry, a move that seems to indicate they’ve finally squashed their beef forever. (Beef. Is that why Perry is dressed as a hamburger? This video is full of mysteries.) The end of the video includes a call for folks to support the Equality Act, which would protect Americans from being fired or being denied housing or services based on sex, sexual orientation, or gender identity.

[#video: https://www.youtube.com/embed/Dkk9gvTmCXY

More Great WIRED Stories

Jigsaw bought a Russian troll campaign as an experiment

You could live forever with this sci-fi time hack

A very fast spin through the hills in a hybrid Porsche 911

A search for San Francisco's lost authenticity

The quest to make a bot that can smell as well as a dog

💻 Upgrade your work game with our Gear team’s favorite laptops, keyboards, typing alternatives, and noise-canceling headphones

📩 Want more? Sign up for our daily newsletter and never miss our latest and greatest stories

The 30 Best Movies on Max (aka HBO Max) Right Now

Love Lies Bleeding, Dune: Part Two, and Beetlejuice are just a few of the movies you should be watching on Max this month.

The 29 Best Shows on Apple TV+ Right Now

Sunny, Constellation, and Presumed Innocent are among the best shows on Apple TV+ this month.

The 52 Best Shows on Disney+ Right Now

Arctic Ascent With Alex Honnold, X-Men ’97, and Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures are just a few of the shows you should be watching on Disney+ this month.

Fortnite Has a Political Violence Problem

In a report shared exclusively with WIRED, the Global Project Against Hate and Extremism says it found more than a dozen user-generated games on Fortnite that featured antisemitism and political violence.

The Trump Shooting Fueled an Online Sticker Battle

After the attempted assassination of former president Donald Trump last weekend, Sticker Mule sent messages to customers suggesting they back Trump and asking to “stop the hate.” That’s not what happened.

The Inevitability of Big Tech Backing Trump

Silicon Valley, fueled by greed and acting in its own calculated interest, seeks to influence the 2024 presidential election. Political scientist Jared Clemons is certain capitalism won’t save us.

Six-Word Sci-Fi: Stories Written by You

Here's this month's prompt, how to submit, and an illustrated archive of past favorites.

How World of Warcraft Devs Launched One of the Biggest Unions in Video Games

Microsoft’s acquisition of Activision Blizzard created an environment that helped workers. Amid layoffs and worries about AI, their efforts could be an indicator of the future of the industry.