Put a circle around Friday, October 7, 2022. It is the day the Sky Sport Breakers return to Spark Arena for the first time in nearly 500 days.

If you think that is a long time, then spare a thought for four-time NBL Champion Tom Abercrombie, who has participated in all the biggest nights at Spark in his near 400-game Breakers’ career. He missed the last season’s encounter, and it is actually closer to 1000 days since he last played at home

“January 31st 2020, was the last time I suited up for a game at Spark Arena”, Abercrombie said.

“Nothing compares to the energy, excitement and atmosphere that is generated in that building, and I cannot be more excited to run out in front of a capacity home crowd again in October.”

Before COVID hit, a Breakers game at Spark Arena had established itself as the hottest ticket in Auckland’s event calendar because of its unparalleled sporting atmosphere.

Planning is already underway at Breakers Headquarters to recreate that ambience which has drawn comparisons to the mood spectators feel at NBA games in the States.

The atmosphere at all the big venues in Australia simply does not compare to Auckland.

“As a player and as a New Zealander, a return to Spark is the moment I’ve looked forward to for so long,” Abercrombie said.

“To be able to put a ring around October 7 now makes things more real, and the rest of New Zealand can now join in the excitement too.”

There is an irony in the Breakers’ first-up opponents being the Tasmanian JackJumpers, after the New Zealanders were forced to call their Hobart base ‘home’ last season.

The two clubs have already built a fierce rivalry, and it will be the first time the NBL22 Grand Finalists have played in New Zealand.

In total, there are nine games at Spark Arena in Auckland, and there is a welcome return to West Auckland where two games will be played at Trusts.

New Plymouth gets the eagerly anticipated game against arch-rivals the Perth Wildcats on January 4 while two further regional home games will be confirmed shortly.

Memberships will be on sale from next Tuesday (August 2nd) while tickets from as low as $15 will be on sale from September 5th.