Trespass

Theatrical Release Poster

Country United States Directed by Walter Hill Release Date 1992 Language English Studio Universal Pictures Distributor Universal Pictures

Main Cast Character Actor Vince Bill Paxton King James Ice-T Don William Sadler Savon Ice Cube Raymond Bruce A. Young

Trespass is a 1992 thriller directed by Walter Hill and stars Bill Paxton and William Sadler as Vince and Don, two firefighters who come across a map to a stash of gold that was stolen in the 1940s. Things become complicated, however, when they witness a gangland execution by a group of drug dealers led by King James (Ice-T) and his right-hand man Savon (Ice Cube), which leads to a hostage situation and a stand-off. Not to be confused with the 2011 heist thriller starring Nicolas Cage.

The following weapons were used in the film Trespass (1992):

Handguns

Unknown long-slide 1911 variant

During the trek into East St. Louis to search for gold, Don (William Sadler) takes along an M1911-type pistol which has a long 7" slide/barrel. This gun is also used frequently by Vince (Bill Paxton) in several scenes. It is not clear exactly what type of 1911 this is; it looks somewhat like an AMT Hardballer, but the Hardballer was only ever offered with a stainless finish, whereas the gun in the movie has a regular blued finish. It is possible that the movie's armorer had a Hardballer slide and frame re-finished and modified for the movie to look like an older 1911 (which would explain why the gun's slide release retains a stainless finish). It may also be a regular Colt 1911 frame fitted with the re-finished Hardballer long slide and barrel.

The 1911 from this movie appears to have been later re-used in Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot.

Colt Detective Special

Early in the film, when Vince (Bill Paxton) and Don (William Sadler) are putting out a fire in a burning building in Arkansas, they run into an old man named Eugene DeLong (Hal Landon Jr.) who holds a Colt Detective Special on them briefly before giving them a map to the gold he stole from a Catholic Church in 1940. Later in the film, the drug dealer Wickey (Stoney Jackson) can also be seen using a Colt Detective Special as his weapon-of-choice. When the drug dealers bring in a cache of heavier weapons, he rejects the opportunity to re-arm with an AR-15, saying that he "don't need no big-ass gun". He then takes out his Colt Detective Special, which prompts the other gangsters to mock him.

Smith & Wesson Model 686

King James (Ice-T) carries a snub-nose Smith & Wesson Model 686 with ivory grips as his sidearm throughout the movie. Later, this weapon is taken by Bradlee (Art Evans).

Glock 17

Savon (Ice Cube) carries a 2nd Generation Glock 17 as his sidearm throughout the movie.

Rifles

Colt AR-15 Sporter II

When the hostage situation begins, King James calls up his arms dealer Raymond (Bruce A. Young) and requests "heavy artillery". Raymond brings along a cache of weapons including a half-dozen Colt AR-15 Sporter II (SPII) assault rifles. Although the weapons have M16A2-style hand guards, they can be recognized as AR-15 SPIIs by the "slab side" lower receiver (visible in several shots), and the fact that none of the weapons are ever fired on full-auto. Most of King James' men, including Savon (Ice Cube), Moon (Byron Minns), Cletus (Tommy "Tiny" Lister), and Davis (Tico Wells) use AR-15s after this.

Steyr SSG 69 PI

Another of the weapons that Raymond (Bruce A. Young) brings along is a Steyr SSG 69 sniper rifle with a 10-round box magazine, which is subsequently used by Luther (Glenn Plummer), who claims to have been a marksman in the Army.

Remington 870