Film crews behind a hit Channel 4 comedy descended on the Kent coast to shoot scenes for its latest season.

Spotted yesterday in Margate, the team behind Big Boys – a sitcom about two boys who become best friends at university despite being almost polar opposites – were pictured filming near Cliftonville Lido.

Starring Derry Girls star Dylan Llewellyn as Jack and Jon Pointing as Danny, the pair explore, experiment and try to discover themselves, helping one another along the way.

Created, written and narrated by Jack Rooke, the show is loosely based on his 2020 memoir, Cheer the F*** Up, which explores the comedian's mental health journey following the death of his father Laurie and the suicide of his best friend, Olly.

In the show, Jack gets a journalism scholarship at Brent University but almost deferred his place after his dad died.

But, before he knows it he is embarking on his university experience where he meets his new roommate and soon to be best friend Danny – an outgoing 25-year-old mature student who is also on the journalism course and keen to get Jack out of his comfort zone.

Two seasons of the hit show have aired so far, with filming taking place for the third yesterday.

Pictures captured by photographer Frank Leppard showed the huge team filming scenes including Jon Pointing (Danny), and possibly Jack Rooke.

It is not known when the third season of Big Boys could drop, but last month it was revealed that the latest episodes would focus on Jack and Danny’s friendship group’s final year at Brent University.

It is not the first time film crews have used Kent as a backdrop.

Last month, teams were at The Parade in Margate shooting in front of the water for a climate change advert.

In May, a production team was spotted shooting a “science fiction thing” in Maidstone.

Eagle-eyed shoppers reported seeing cameramen setting up in Pudding Lane the evening of May 19 with a passerby reporting to KentOnline that they were told it was a science fiction production.

In May, Dua Lipa was spotted on a Kent beach filming for an O2 advert which dropped earlier this month.

The English-Albanian popstar, 28, was pictured in Viking Bay, Broadstairs, with large crowds gathering to catch a glimpse of the famous singer-songwriter.

Starstruck beachgoers could be seen watching on as Dua was filmed walking along the sand with multiple crew members around her.