Rated PG-13 (Sci-Fi Monster Action/Violence)

Running Time: 2 Hours & 19 Minutes

Cast:

Matthew Broderick-Dr. Niko Tatopoulos

Jean Reno-DGSE Agent Philippe Roaché

Maria Pitillo-Audrey Timmonds

Hank Azaria-Victor 'Animal' Palotti

Kevin Dunn-Colonel Hicks

Harry Shearer-WIDF Anchor Charles Caiman

Doug Savant-Sergeant O'Neal

Arabella Field-Lucy Palotti

Michael Lerner-Mayor Ebert

Vicki Lewis-Dr. Elsie Chapman

Malcolm Danare-Dr. Mendel Craven

Chris Ellis-General Anderson

Directed by Roland Emmerich

Godzilla, or the time Roland Emmerich bastardized a pop culture icon.

With Roland Emmerich's over-caffeinated CG-fest "2012" in theaters, another one of his earlier films has arrived on Blu-Ray and its 1998's "Godzilla," a loose remake of the 1954 Japanese classic of the same name. Godzilla has been a part of Japanese monster movies and pop culture since its inception, portrayed by a man in a cheesy latex rubber suit and starring in a total of twenty-eight films (the last one released in 2004), making this one of the longest running franchises in cinematic history. I remember there was lots of hype leading up to the release of Emmerich's film with numerous advertisements on buildings and buses plus promotional tie-ins with KB Toys and Taco Bell. When I finally saw it in theaters, I enjoyed the film very much but then again, I was just a kid and enjoyed any movie that had mindless destruction. Now, I'm older, wiser, and possibly more cynical. Watching "Godzilla" again, I found that I still enjoyed it but to a much lesser degree as aside from the big lizard trashing New York, the story is mostly a throwaway and too formulaic with bland acting, uninteresting characters and special effects that haven't aged all that well.

After a grainy montage that shows how Godzilla came to be, a Japanese fishing ship is suddenly thrashed about by a large, reptilian creature, leaving only one traumatized survivor in its wake. At the hospital, he is visited by a mysterious Frenchman who questions him about what he saw; his only reply: 'Gojira.' Meanwhile, Dr. Niko Tatopoulos (Matthew Broderick) of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission is at the famous Chernobyl site, studying the effects of radiation on earthworms. The abrupt arrival of an agent from the U.S. State Department has him reassigned to observe the massive wave of destruction left by a creature in Panama and Jamaica. Leading the military expedition is Colonel Hicks (Kevin Dunn). On a rainy day in Manhattan, the creature, dubbed 'Godzilla' by the media, rampages across the Big Apple and causes untold amounts of destruction. After a battle with the U.S. military, Niko discovers that the creature reproduces asexually and may have already planted his young somewhere deep in the subway tunnels. The Frenchman, revealed to be an agent of the DGSE named Philippe Roaché (Jean Reno), is sent to clean up France's mess with their nuclear testing (inadvertently creating Godzilla) and recruits Niko to try and destroy the nest or face the possibly of human extinction.

A film like "Godzilla" needs no plot but Emmerich saw fit to provide us with one and the result is…not that good. I really did not care for the human characters at all and actually found some of them quite annoying. If only Godzilla would squish them into a bloody heap. Alas, this is a PG-13 film, so there is nary a drop of blood to be seen. The pacing at times can get bogged down for some 'character development,' specifically when Niko meets his college sweetheart Audrey Timmonds (Maria Pitillo) and begins to rekindle their love in the face of all this chaos. Really, only a genius like Emmerich can come up with this stuff. If you didn't figure it out, I was being sarcastic. There are also a few lapses in logic. Godzilla's size seems to change when he's burrowing in the subway tunnels compared to when he's roaming outside and although he has flame breath, the ability is rarely used, such as when Niko and his friends are trapped inside a Park Avenue tunnel. Finally, if Godzilla can be killed with just a barrage of F-18 missiles, why didn't the military use them in the first place instead of using machine guns and tanks? No, this is a film where you must turn off your brain and enjoy the carnage enfold. There's a certain visceral quality to watching Godzilla running through the streets as he's being chased by military helicopters but it's all surprisingly pedestrian. Since New York has been the epicenter of many disaster films, there's little we haven't seen before but famous landmarks that get destroyed include the Flatiron and Chrysler Buildings, and Madison Square Garden. Godzilla himself is a fully CG creation but while it may have looked acceptable in 1998, the quality just isn't up to par when you're viewing the film in high definition. He looks like he's been photo-shopped in to all his scenes. This problem is also prevalent when Niko and Philippe are attacked by hundreds of Baby Godzillas. You'll notice some move awkwardly and those are controlled by the film crew but the ones that require elaborate movements are CG, given that they have a different shade of color compared to the real-life models and have a faint edge enhancement effect to them. That must be why the entire film takes place in the rain because we never really get a good look at the big lizard, who sort of blends in with the gray buildings.

The acting is forgettable and full of cheesy dialogue. Matthew Broderick is the only one who seems to be taking any of this seriously but the others often go for comic relief that falls flat. Jean Reno seems more obsessed with getting good coffee than stopping Godzilla and the scene where he gives his soldiers Double Mint gum (to look more American!) looked like it leaped from a Saturday morning cartoon, which is ironic because this film actually inspired an animated series. Hank Azaria talks in a stereotypical New Jersey accent and his interactions with his wife border on sitcom material. Finally, Maria Pitillo looks nothing like a news reporter and acts like a random dumb blonde, screaming at everything. You may also notice that the mayor of New York is called Ebert and his campaign manager named Gene. This was done to mock the two famous critics who panned Emmerich's previous films. A cheap shot if you ask me. Still Ebert himself took it all in stride but expressed disappointment that Godzilla did not squish him.

"Godzilla" finally stomps onto Blu-Ray with some rather fuzzy video quality but this is due in large part to the way it was filmed. Everything is drenched in rain, giving it a very dreary look but overall this is a solid, technically proficient transfer. Audio is 'brute force' with Godzilla's shrieking roars or the debris being scattered everywhere as random buildings are knocked over. Although most of the extras were ported over from the 'Monster Edition' DVD, the number of special features is rather paltry. There's an audio commentary on the visual effects, two featurettes with one of actor Harry Shearer (why him?) and the other a montage of fight scenes from other Godzilla movies and lastly a music video that no one really cares.

Released on May 20, 1998, "Godzilla" received largely negative reviews (not a surprise) with only 26% on Rotten Tomatoes, though there are not enough reviews to form a general consensus. Expected to take in close to $90 million over Memorial Day weekend, it grossed only $74 million with a final domestic gross of $136 million and $379 million worldwide. Although not a total flop, the film still underperformed to Sony's expectations. "Godzilla" is generally viewed with derision by hard core fans and they don't even consider him part of canon, calling the creature GINO or 'Godzilla-In-Name-Only.' This is a film that defines what summer blockbusters are: dumb, story deficient, and hopped up on special effects. There is still some enjoyment to be hand with "Godzilla" but it's largely an empty and ultimately forgettable, experience.

Final Rating: 2.5 out of 5

"I believe this is a mutated aberration, a hybrid from the fall out in that region. We're looking at a completely incipient creature. The dawn of a new species. The first of its kind."

Edit