Missionary Man

DVD Cover

Country USA Directed by Dolph Lundgren Release Date 2007

Main Cast Character Actor Ryder Dolph Lundgren John Reno Matthew Tompkins Nancy Kateri Walker Junior John D. Montoya Kiowa Chelsea Ricketts Sheriff Acoma James Chalke White Deer August Schellenberg Jarfe John Enos III

Missionary Man is a 2007 action movie co-written, directed by and starring Dolph Lundgren as Ryder, a lone Bible-reading stranger who arrives at a small Texas town on a Harley-Davidson and confronts the villain who controls the community. The cast includes Matthew Tompkins, James Chalke and John Enos III.

The following weapons were used in the film Missionary Man:

Handguns

Taurus PT92

A Taurus PT92 is a personal weapon of John Reno (Matthew Tompkins), the main villain of the movie. Several of Reno's henchmen and Jarfe's bikers also carry Taurus PT92 pistols. In one scene Ryder (Dolph Lundgren) disarms a henchman and uses the pistol himself.

Ruger Blackhawk

Another weapon used by John Reno (Matthew Tompkins) is a stainless steel Ruger Blackhawk revolver. This revolver (or another one of same model) is also seen in hands of Gomez (Lawrence Varnado), Reno's bodyguard, in the final scene.

Smith & Wesson 439

A Smith & Wesson 439 is a personal weapon of Jarfe (John Enos III), leader of the biker gang.

Walther P5 Compact

One of Jarfe's bikers is armed with a Walther P5 Compact.

Intratec TEC-9

In one scene a drug smuggler is armed with an Intratec TEC-9 pistol. In the final scene TEC-9 is used by one of Jarfe's biker.

Submachine Guns

Cobray M11/9

In the final scene one of Reno's henchen is armed with a Cobray M11/9 SMG.

Uzi

In the final scene Jarfe (John Enos III) uses an Uzi SMG.

Shotguns

Mossberg 500 Cruiser

One of Reno's henchmen is seen with a Mossberg 500 Cruiser shotgun. Ryder (Dolph Lundgren) disarms him and uses this shotgun himself.

One of Jarfe's bikers is armed with a Mossberg 500 Cruiser fitted with foregrip and saddle shell holder.

Sawn-off Remington 870

The main weapon used by Ryder (Dolph Lundgren) in the final scene is sawn-off Remington 870.

Rifles

Remington Model 700BDL

Sheriff Acoma (James Chalke) carries a Remington Model 700BDL rifle with sniper scope in several scenes.

Assault Rifles

M16/SP1

Various characters are seen with M16/SP1s with A2 style handguards including Reno's henchmen and Mexican smugglers.

M16A1