Jan. 22, 2018:

After four days at sea, we arrived this morning to glorious sunshine in the tropics. We are docked in the harbor at Nuka Hiva, the largest and most-populated of the Marquesas Islands, which are part of French Polynesia. If you are noticing how behind I already am in posting about our visits, let me tell you that the first two days out of Maui, we saw incredibly turbulent seas and unremitting rain. Suffice it to say that the first kept me from blogging or editing photos, or doing much except creeping around the ship!

We are anchored in the Bay of Taiohae. The Marquesas Islands form one of the five administrative divisions of French Polynesia. Probably the best known of those groups of islands is the Society Islands, where Tahiti and Bora Bora are located. Here, however, we are still very remote, and we are about 850 miles to the northwest of the next nearest Tahitian island. The capital of the Marquesas Islands administrative subdivision is the settlement of Taiohae on the island of Nuku Hiva. The population of the Marquesas Islands was 9,346 inhabitants at the August 2017 census, and the population of Nuka Hiva itself is about 4,000 people.

Two of the more famous visitors to the island were Herman Melville and Robert Louis Stevenson. Melville deserted his ship here in 1841, and was immediately captured by a tribe of natives in the Taipivai Valley (1 valley over from Taiohae). After three weeks of captivity, he escaped to Taiohae, and his experiences on the island served as his inspiration for his book, Typee. More recently, the island also came into the spotlight in 2001, when it served as the site for the reality TV show, Survivor Nuka Hiva.

Although we are in the tropics, the Marquesas are the most dry of the Tahitian islands, and the climate at vegetation at sea-level is pretty arid. However, in the interior of the island, large volcanic mountains rise up and are covered with lush rain forest-type vegetation. In fact, the islanders are experimenting with cattle- raising in these interior valleys.

As you might imagine, for such a remote place and small population, there are limited excursion opportunities available. In fact, there is only one, consisting of a drive over the high plateau in the center of the island called To’ovi’I to get to Taipivai. The only transportation available to accomplish this task is the personal 4WD vehicles of the villagers. Only one small drawback … most of the villagers only speak French in addition to Tahitian. The work-around for this was that we made several stops where everyone got out and took pictures, and the village spokesman, who did speak good English explained what we were seeing and the local history and culture. Our excursion took us up from the harbor on the only road up and over the ridge to the harbor in Taipivai Valley.

Our first stop was at the Hakapa look out, where we had some killer views of the harbor, and our ship, Navigator. The Survivor cast stayed up near here in 2001 while they were filming.

On the way back, we made a stop at the relatively new community center where we were served delicious fresh local fruits by some of the village ladies. As hot as it is, the highlight of the stop was the chilled, in-the-coconut juice.

We finished driving back over the pass and proceeded on to the main Catholic church, Notre Dame, which had some pretty interesting Biblical carvings rendered in Polynesian style. Our tour concluded back at the center of town near the tender pier. While we enjoyed our day, I would say that this is not our favorite Taitian island.