03/01/2023

Unified system to strengthen access and enhance care

Clive, Iowa (March 1, 2023) – Today an agreement for Genesis Health System to join MercyOne, a statewide Iowa health system, is complete.

The news follows a September announcement that MercyOne and Genesis signed a letter of intent to develop a strategic partnership. With today’s closing, all interests and operations of Davenport, Iowa-based Genesis will become part of MercyOne.

“We are excited to welcome Genesis to MercyOne and look forward to shaping a framework to enhance access to personalized, convenient health care across Eastern Iowa and Western Illinois,” said Bob Ritz, president and chief executive officer at MercyOne. “Together, we are stronger and will deliver the highest quality care and the best patient experience to all those we serve.”

The Genesis Health System Board of Directors unanimously selected MercyOne as its choice for a partner after an exploration process that began in December 2021.

“As part of MercyOne, Genesis will be able to leverage the skill, talent and scale of national and regional resources while retaining our local leadership and focus,” said Doug Cropper, Genesis Health System president and CEO. “We will deepen our commitment to quality, safety and patient experience and strengthen our workforce retention and recruitment efforts. By joining MercyOne, Genesis will continue our ability to grow, thrive and deliver more integrated care in the region.”

Genesis Philanthropy and the Genesis Health Services Foundation will continue to serve the Quad-Cities-area communities. Genesis Health Services Foundation will remain a part of the unified health system. Genesis Philanthropy will operate under a new name, the Better Health Foundation, and will be independent from the health system. Among the commitments made as part of joining MercyOne, Genesis Health System provided the Better Health Foundation with $40 million in funds, ensuring its future as one of the region's preeminent granting organizations. The Better Health Foundation will be fully operational on July 1, 2023.

Since announcing the letter of intent on September 14, Genesis and MercyOne have taken the necessary steps including regulatory filings to finalize the agreement. As integration efforts continue, patients can expect the same quality care from the providers they know and trust.

MercyOne is a member of Trinity Health, headquartered in Livonia, Michigan. Trinity Health is one of the largest not-for-profit health care systems in the country with 88 hospitals across 26 states. Trinity Health is not affiliated with any Iowa-based entities currently using the name “Trinity” or “Trinity Health.”

###

About Genesis

Genesis Health System, its affiliates and partners, offer a continuum of health care services for a 17-county region of Eastern Iowa and Western Illinois. Our affiliates include: hospital care at Genesis Medical Center, Davenport and DeWitt, Iowa and at Genesis Medical Center, Silvis and Genesis Medical Center, Aledo, Ill.; home health and hospice services through Genesis VNA and Hospice; Genesis Workplace Services; the Clarissa C. Cook Hospice House; senior living communities in partnership with WesleyLife; Genesis Health Group, with more than 300 health care providers; the Genesis Quad Cities Family Medicine Residency program; Genesis Psychology Associates; Genesis Convenient Care clinics; and, Genesis Home Medical Equipment. Partners include Crow Valley Surgery Center, Bettendorf; Center for Digestive Health, Bettendorf; Spring Park Surgery Center, Davenport; and, Genesis Imaging Centers. Genesis manages Jackson County Regional Health Center, Maquoketa, Iowa. Genesis is one of the largest employers in the Quad Cities, with more than 5,000 employees. For more information, visit our website at genesishealth.com.

About MercyOne

MercyOne is a connected system of health care facilities and services dedicated to helping people and communities live their best life. MercyOne’s care providers and colleagues make health the highest priority. The system’s clinics, medical centers, hospitals and affiliates are located throughout the state of Iowa and beyond. Headquartered in central Iowa, MercyOne is a member of Trinity Health (based in Livonia, Michigan) – one of the largest not-for-profit Catholic health care systems in the nation. Learn more at MercyOne.org

About Trinity Health