Set on the Iowa side of the Mississippi River in the QC, you’ll find the City of Davenport. Its downtown area rests along the banks of the Mississippi, with LeClaire Park providing access to riverfront biking & walking trails and amazing river views. Many events and festivals are held in the downtown area. They include the Quad-City Times Bix 7, Alternating Currents, Mississippi Valley Blues Festival, Beaux Arts Fair, and Festival of Trees, to name a few. Davenport is also home to one of the largest St. Patrick’s Day Parades in the country.

Home to a variety of craft breweries, fun local shops, and nationally recognized chains, Davenport is the largest city in the QC metro. Experience the many restaurants, museums, nightlife, live music venues, farmers market, historic and unique hotel properties, and a casino resort that are all QC originals.

There’s a lot to do in Davenport but make sure you hit up CRU and order a Man-Fashioned. Grab a Spicy Pina pizza from Lopiez, and head to the East Village for food, drinks, and shopping. Get #QCoutdoors in Davenport, take leisurely walks in parks, bike rides along the riverfront, and enjoy hilltop vistas.

SOME HIGHLIGHTS INCLUDE

Adler Theatre (Broadway & Concerts)

The Figge Art Museum

Modern Woodmen Park – Home of the River Bandits baseball team

Common Chord

Putnam Museum & Science Center

German American Heritage Center

Rhythm City Casino Resort

Freight House Farmer’s Market

Vander Veer Park & Conservatory

Sunderbruch Park – (Mountain biking & hiking)

Home to Palmer College of Chiropractic and Eastern Iowa Community Colleges

River Cruise Line docking near downtown

NEIGHBORHOODS TO EXPLORE

Downtown Davenport – This downtown is eclectic, alive, and active. Popular with young professionals and those explorers looking for variety, historical buildings, urban living in loft apartments, and much more. You’ll find plenty of diverse restaurants, pubs, unique shops, and entertainment options that are all walkable from downtown hotels.

Village of East Davenport – This historic 6-square block shopping and entertainment district is a great way to spend the afternoon or the evening. Boutiques, restaurants, and pubs line the streets of the village, and you can even sample local wine.

McClellan Heights – located east of the Village of East Davenport, is a beautiful residential area where you can drive through and admire homes in a variety of architectural styles along winding hills and streets.