Only two people in China's modern history have been given the official title "ling xiu" or "leader".

The first was the founder of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), Mao Zedong, who was called the "great leader". The second was his successor, Hua Guofeng, who was called the "wise leader".

At the CCP's 20th national Congress in October, President Xi Jinping is likely to be granted an unprecedented third five-year term in office.

He is also expected to join that exclusive club of CCP legends when he is officially given the title "the people's leader".

Despite these significant honours, Xi's legacy will still not be secure.

Only showing the ambition to take Taiwan will cement Xi's place as a remarkable person in China's history.

Failure to do so could make him vulnerable to retaliation from his inner-party rivals and leave him facing an uncertain fate.

Why a reunion is so important now

Taiwan considers itself a democracy but since the Chinese Revolution of 1949 China has regarded the island as simply a renegade province, sharing the same racial and cultural identity.

The CCP's wide-ranging campaign to legitimise China's claim to Taiwan has rooted the idea deeply in the minds of the Chinese people.

From school kids to nursing home residents, there is a line that every Chinese person is told – "Taiwan is an inseparable part of China".

It's also the last scar reminding people of the nation's "century of humiliation" by the West.

After taking over Tibet in the 1950s and Hong Kong and Macau in the 1990s, Taiwan is now the only missing piece of territory for communist China to make the Middle Kingdom whole.

Bringing the island back into the fold is the last obvious step.

From Uncle Xi to an iron fist

Xi himself has made it clear Taiwan is a priority and that he would be willing to use force if necessary.

Since Mao, every Chinese leader had been cautious in dealing with Taiwan.

From absolute hostility, Beijing and Taipei slowly found ways to establish economic, trade and cultural bonds in the early 2000s.

That was until August 2019 when Xi imposed economic sanctions against Taipei for seeking greater independence, showing his condescending views about the island.

Xi was once best known for being anti-corruption and pro-people. People referred to the President as Xi Dada — Uncle Xi — with a sense of respect and closeness.

But a decade later, he is known for repressive policies and for using an iron fist in China's domestic affairs and diplomacy.

Xi's policies on Xinjiang and Hong Kong have shown the world his determination to crack down on any public dissent.

Uyghurs and pro-democracy activists from Hong Kong and Taiwan have always been seen by Beijing as separatist forces under Western influence.

In an hour-long address marking the CCP's centenary of its founding last year, he vowed to complete "reunification" with Taiwan and "smash" any attempts at formal independence.

And ahead of the US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi's historic visit last month — intended to show US support for Taiwanese independence — Xi told US President Joe Biden "those who play with fire will perish by it".

Since then, Beijing has hardened its stance on Taiwan even further, withdrawing a commitment not to send troops or administrators to the island after taking it back.

Chasing after Mao

So what would it mean for Xi if he could reunite Taiwan with the mainland?

For the majority of Taiwan's 23 million people, he would become the man who stole the democracy and freedom they had enjoyed for decades.

But in Communist China, he would likely equal or even surpass Mao Zedong's position as the greatest leader of the country.

Even as China's founding head, Mao failed to end the division between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait.

It would also secure Xi's grip on power.

In 2018, Xi removed China's two-term limit on the presidency in the country's constitution, opening a pathway for him to remain in power for life.

Reuniting Taiwan would arguably make his position as supreme leader unassailable for as long as he chose to remain in the role.

Timing uncertain

Some Chinese people think that Xi is determined to invade Taiwan and war is just a matter of time.

However, ahead of the CCP's congress in October, the status quo helps Xi's argument that he should have another term – China is facing a historic challenge and needs a powerful leader to defend the nation.

Beyond October, opinions differ on how long Xi will wait before resorting to drastic measures.

Some argue the longer Beijing holds off, the stronger China's military capacity will be.

But there are also people who think a war will never happen, because an independent Taiwan is useful as an external threat that necessitates Xi remaining in charge.

The danger of inaction

There is danger for Xi in waiting too long to act.

Since taking office, he has made reunification a key part of his agenda.

Failure to integrate or subjugate Taiwan would eventually undermine the Chinese people's confidence in his rule.

Deng Yuwen, a former editor of a Communist Party newspaper who now lives in the US, said the country's nationalists would not be able to accept inaction on Taiwan.

"He says every day that he wants to reunite Taiwan because China is already a powerful country," Deng said.

"At the end of the day, he puts out all this propaganda while Taiwan is still breaking away. It's just inexcusable to the people."

Deng said Xi wanted to be a dictator and invading Taiwan was an excuse for him to assume total power.

"If Taiwan is then not reunited, it shows that what he is doing now lacks conviction," he said.

While the CCP presents a united face to the world, Xi still has powerful rivals who long to bring him down and take his place.

Deng said if Xi got a third term this year, he would have a deadline to achieve his signature "Chinese Dream" — the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation which includes Taiwan.

"The next five years will be a very dangerous time for him, because the only reason he can continue his future term [after that] is Taiwan," Deng said.