Today, I went on a literary adventure that involved two Fort Myers schools. I read to a spirited group of second-graders at Manatee Elementary School, and a lively bunch of fourth-graders at Three Oaks Elementary School. My mission? To read them a Christmas story. Spoiler alert: mission accomplished, and it was the highlight of my holiday season.

The book in question was a little gem titled “How Santa Got His Job.” Now, if you’re thinking this is just another heartwarming tale about the man in the red suit, you’re partially correct. But let me tell you, this story packed a punch of wisdom for me more than anything.

As I flipped through the pages of this Christmas story, the kids were hooked. They hung onto every word, their eyes widening with wonder as they got an inside look at the magical origin of Santa’s previous employment. Trust me… You haven’t lived until you’ve discussed Santa’s resume with a room full of curious second graders.

The highlight of the day? The barrage of questions about the man in the big red suit. The pictures of young Santa in the story showed that he had red hair. “I have red hair too.” I told the kids. Some of them eyed me suspiciously, their little detective minds working overtime. “Is he Santa?” they whispered, as if cracking the code of some Christmas mystery. I couldn’t help but laugh a good “Ho Ho HO!” at their adorable curiosity.

A Christmas story:

At the end of the story, the book drops a truth bomb… No job is perfect. As I wrapped up my reading and Marveled at the joy these kids got from a simple story… It hit me. Maybe my job isn’t flawless, but it’s pretty darn close, especially when you consider the huge smiles beaming from those pint sized believers.

Look, if you ever doubt the magic of the season, just spend an afternoon with a bunch of kids convinced you might be the real Santa. It’s the kind of holiday cheer you can’t buy… But it’s the best gift I could ever receive.

Florida's Favorite Christmas Movies Might Surprise You

Meet Budman, dynamic host of Marconi Award winning radio station WXKB's WiLD Bunch Morning Show, on B1039. Budman likes to write about funny news, a good Florida man story, stupid criminals or anything involving a superhero. Budman, a comic book and pop culture enthusiast, even named his daughter Kara Zor-El, after Supergirl. His only child is his true passion beyond the mic. Being a dad is his favorite role. Budman, a true family man, balances his love for radio with quality time spent with loved ones and his trusty dogs.