Renowned Nollywood actress, Joke Silva, has addressed the rumour circulating on social media about the passing of her husband, esteemed actor and film maker, Olu Jacobs. This marks the second time such rumours would surface.

In a statement to the media yesterday, Joke Silva clarified that her husband is “alive and doing just fine.” Olu Jacobs, fondly known as “Uncle Olu,” has had a profound impact on Nigeria’s film industry with over 40 years of acting experience.

He has bridged the gap between generations of actors and has been recognised for his contributions, including winning the African Movie Academy Award for Best Actor in 2007.

Trained at the prestigious Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in England, Jacobs has graced various British repertoire theaters and starred in international films, solidifying his position as one of Africa’s creative treasures.

“Fans and colleagues alike can rest assured that the veteran actor is alive and thriving,” she said. In 2007 he won the African Movie Academy Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role.

Olu Jacobs has distinguished himself as a godfather in Nollywood, paving a successful path for many emerging actors and actresses in the industry.

His love for acting was inspired by the late legendary filmmaker, Hubert Ogunde’s annual concert party which held at Colonial Hotel in Kano.

Thereafter, he travelled to England where he studied acting at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in London. He has been described as ‘one of Nollywood’s finest actors, best role interpreter and the best manipulator of words’.

For his dedication to his acting career spanning over five decades, he was honoured with the Industry Merit Award for outstanding achievements in acting at the 2013 Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards.’

Also, AMAA conferred its Lifetime Achievement Awards on him in 2016. Olu Jacobs is married to veteran actress Joke Silva.

The couple founded and operate the Lufodo Group, a media corporation that consists of film production, distribution assets and the Lufodo Academy of Performing Arts. He trained at The Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in London.