Movie poster

Country United Kingdom

United States Directed by John Glen Release Date 1989 Language English Distributor MGM/UA Entertainment Company

Main Cast Character Actor James Bond Timothy Dalton Pam Bouvier Carey Lowell M Robert Brown Q Desmond Llewelyn Franz Sanchez Robert Davi Miss Moneypenny Caroline Bliss Lupe Lamora Talisa Soto Milton Krest Anthony Zerbe Felix Leiter David Hedison Dario Benicio del Toro

Licence to Kill is the 16th entry in the official James Bond film series. The 1989 sequel (which was the first not to bear the title of an Ian Fleming novel or short story) finds Bond on a personal mission to take down the drug lord responsible for an attack on his CIA friend Felix Leiter and his wife. Licence to Kill co-stars Carey Lowell, Robert Davi, Benicio del Toro, Talisa Soto, and Wayne Newton and was the final Bond film directed by John Glen and the final film to star Timothy Dalton as Agent 007.

The following weapons were used in the film Licence to Kill:

WARNING! THIS PAGE CONTAINS SPOILERS!

Pistols

Walther PPK

James Bond (Timothy Dalton) carries his usual Walther PPK as his weapon of choice throughout the film. However, this particular PPK is a WWII-era German Waffenamt variant (it should be noted that the PPK used in Licence To Kill was sourced from Stembridge Gun Rentals instead of Bapty and Co. since the movie was filmed entirely in the US and Mexico). This is most likely the same PPK Dalton had carried in the previous film, The Living Daylights.

Walther P5

During the tour of Sanchez' drug lab, Dario (Benicio del Toro) pulls a Walther P5 on Bond. A P5 was used by Bond in Octopussy.

Taurus PT92

During the pre-credits sequence, Felix Leiter (David Hedison) hands James Bond (Timothy Dalton) a Taurus PT92 "just in case". Bond uses it during the shootout against the henchmen that open fire, using it moments later to shoot the Jeep's left front tire. Milton Krest (Anthony Zerbe) uses a PT92 after Bond uses a spear gun to impale a diver and jumps off. The film's armorer states clearly its a Taurus PT92 and not a Beretta 92FS.

Heckler & Koch P9S

Braun (Guy De Saint Cyr) is armed with a Heckler & Koch P9S. He is later seen carrying it on the Wave Krest.

Beretta 950 Jetfire

Pam (Carey Lowell) carries a stainless steel Beretta 950 Jetfire as her sidearm throughout the film, giving one to Bond, and grabbing a spare one out of her purse when Bond leaves to check the hotel room. She also notably uses her Jetfire when she meets Professor Joe Butcher (Wayne Newton) when she goes to "study" with him.

Browning Hi-Power

Col. Heller (Don Stroud) carries a Browning Hi-Power throughout the film. Another appears to be used by one of Sanchez's men.

Revolvers

Ruger Security Six

Ed Killifer (Everett McGill) draws a stainless steel Ruger Security Six on Bond in Krest's warehouse.

Smith & Wesson Model 19

Bill, one of the security guards at Milton Krest's warehouse, carries a Smith & Wesson Model 19 revolver.

Smith & Wesson Model 19 (Snub)

Kwang (Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa) appears to pull a Smith & Wesson Model 19 Snub Nose when Heller and the military close in. Franz Sanchez (Robert Davi) also carries a Smith & Wesson Model 19 Snubnose that he fires at Kwang. The snubnose also appears to be the revolver carried by MI6 agents at the Hemingway House when Bond escapes.

Smith & Wesson Model 15

When Bond hijacks the seaplane full of money, one of the pilots pulls a Smith & Wesson Model 15 on Bond and attempts to shoot him with it (instead shooting a package of money), but Bond knocks it out of the pilot's hand. Seen in the holsters of Florida Keys police officers.

Smith & Wesson Model 66

Dario (Benicio del Toro) grabs a Smith & Wesson Model 66 from one of his henchmen in the bar and uses it to fire at Bond and Pam as they get away on the boat. These appear to be the revolvers carried by Key West police officers as well.

Submachine Guns

Heckler & Koch HK94A3 (Chopped and Converted)

Many of Sanchez's henchmen are armed with H&K HK94A3s chopped and converted to resemble MP5A3 submachine guns. Dario (Benicio del Toro) carries one while in the jeep in the pre-credits sequence. The guard (Carl Ciarfalio) at Milton Krest's warehouse carries one, as do several of Sanchez's men during the final car chase. The majority of the film was produced in both the US and Mexico and the production crew sourced their weapons from Stembridge Gun Rentals instead of Bapty and Co (the traditional armorers for the James Bond movies).

IMI Micro Uzi

Perez (Alejandro Bracho) and Sanchez (Robert Davi) himself use Micro Uzis. Interestingly, if you listen carefully when Sanchez fires his Micro Uzi at Bond at the start of the truck chase, the bullet impacts against the tanker plink out the opening notes of the James Bond theme. Sanchez also uses his micro Uzi to "cut overhead" after Truman-Lodge (Anthony Starke) sarcastically congratulated him on an "eighty-million dollar write-off".

Assault Rifles

Colt Commando Carbine

Felix Leiter and DEA agents Hawkins (Grand L. Bush) and Mullens (Rafer Johnson) during the pre-credits sequence, are armed with Colt Commando Carbines.

Colt M16A1

M16A1 rifles are held by DEA agents and SWAT officers that escort the prison van carrying Sanchez. The soldiers in the fictional country of Isthmus also carry M16A1 rifles. These rifles are fitted with M16A2 handguards. What appears to be a scoped M16 is used by an MI6 agent when Bond escapes from custody at the Hemingway House.

IMI Galil AR

An IMI Galil is seen in the hands of an Isthmus soldier.

Shotguns

Remington 870

Ed Killifer (Everett McGill), the DEA agent that Sanchez bribed to get him out of custody, carries a Remington 870 shotgun in the prison van, using it to knock the driver out and take control of the van and run it off a bridge. They were also seen carried by Bank of Isthmus City security guards during the scene that introduces Truman Lodge.

Mossberg 500 Cruiser

CIA agent Pam Bouvier (Carey Lowell) uses a sawed-off Mossberg 500 Cruiser during the bar fight. It blows a hole in the wall somehow big enough for a human to fit through.

Machine Guns

Browning M1919A4

A Browning M1919A4 is seen mounted on an M5 Stuart tank ordered to open fire on a hideout.

Launchers

FIM-43 Redeye

What are referred to as "Stingers" in the film are actually older FIM-43 Redeye launchers. During the final car chase, Perez (Alejandro Bracho), one of Sanchez's henchmen, attempts to use the Redeye to try and kill Bond, but Bond dodges the missile by tilting his tanker on its left side wheels. Sanchez later attempts to use one to take down Pam's plane. The "Stinger" is incorrectly portrayed as using a reloadable launch tube: Stinger's launch tubes are single-use.

Other

Spear Gun

A spear gun is used by Bond and Krest's men during the plane chase in the Florida Keys.

"Signature Camera Gun"