VALDOSTA, Ga. — A crossover between animated characters from "Brickleberry" and "Paradise PD" started as a joke for creators Waco O'Guin and Roger Black.

Wouldn't it be fun to introduce characters from their past show "Brickleberry" into a second season episode of their current Netflix series "Paradise PD“?

They considered the idea a joke because "Brickleberry" is owned by Comedy Central and FOX, which is now owned by Disney. Even though O'Guin and Black created the "Brickleberry" characters, they do not own them.

Still, the joke became a real discussion then a negotiation between attorneys that lasted for five months of ups, downs, yes, no, maybe, O'Guin said.

But finally, yes. Though they had to pay to use the "Brickleberry" characters.

Season two of "Paradise PD" was released March 6, on Netflix, and one episode contains a crossover between O'Guin and Black's two worlds.

"We think it may be one of the only times characters owned by one network have crossed over with characters from another network," O'Guin said.

O'Guin is a South Georgia native who still returns home about once a year to visit family.

He's come a long way since his cartooning career arguably started in the early 1990s as a Lanier High School student. Then, he entered a Butterfinger contest to draw Homer Simpson for a Father's Day card. O'Guin won a big-screen TV and had his cartoon published nationally.

O'Guin said he's since met Matt Groenig, creator of "The Simpsons."

"He said he was a fan of 'Brickleberry' but he does not remember the Butterfinger contest," O'Guin said with a laugh, adding he recalls everything involving fans of his and Black's shows.

He and Roger Black became creative partners in 1999 while students at the University of Georgia. They developed a comedy routine which led to the MTV sketch comedy show "Stankervision."

They followed it with the animated series "Brickleberry" which played three seasons on Comedy Central then they created a series of "Brickleberry" comic books.

"Paradise PD" debuted in summer 2018 on Netflix.

"The show is about small town cops who are idiots," O'Guin said in a past interrview. "I don't know any cops this stupid. In 'Paradise PD,' we're talking about the dumbest people in the world to give guns to."

The streaming service ordered an additional 20 episodes. Some of those episodes were released March 6, as season two. The rest will be part of future seasons, ensuring there isn't an 18-month gap again between seasons, O'Guin said.

As for the "Paraside PD"/"Brickleberry" crossover, it's episode seven of season two, he said.

O'Guin said the crossover should satisfy fans of both shows, adding some viewers are fans of "Brickleberry" and not "Paradise PD" or the other way around. While some viewers are fans of both shows.

For O'Guin, "I think the crossover is my favorite episode of anything we've ever done."