Yekaterinburg weather in November (Sverdlovsk Region, Russia)

Will it be warm or cold in Yekaterinburg this November? See what weather conditions to anticipate this month with our guide.

Temperatures

Typically, November in Yekaterinburg includes very low temperatures and moderate snowfall. Throughout the day, temperatures typically settle at around -2°C. But by evening, they drop to around -9°C. It's a notably cold month; make sure to wear layers to stay warm. It's wiser to gear up in advance than to be caught off-guard, trembling in the cold.

Precipitation

Yekaterinburg in November usually receives moderate snowfall, averaging around 36 mm for the month. Climate statistics over the past 30 years suggest around 15 days of snow.

Average sunshine

The month is characterized by fewer sunny days, with roughly 51 hours hours of sunshine. Ideal for those who prefer a cooler, cloudier climate.

If you're looking for dry conditions and comfortable temperatures, November may not be the ideal month to visit Yekaterinburg. June, July and August typically offer the best circumstances. While January, February, March, April, October, November and December tend to showcase less optimal conditions.

For an in-depth look at the yearly conditions, visit our specialized Yekaterinburg climate page with graphs.

Yekaterinburg, monthly averages in November

Min Temperature -9°C

Max Temperature -2°C

Chance of Rain 50%

Precipitation 36 mm

Rainy days 15 days

Humidity 79% *

Windspeed 18 km/h *

Sunshine 51 hours *

Percentage Sunshine *

* Data from: Jekaterinburg, Russia (4 KM, 2 Miles).

Where to go in Russia in November

Find out more about the weather in Russia and which places have the best travel conditions in this month.

Map not visible? Whoops sorry! Please refresh the page.

Legend perfect weather pleasant tolerable unpleasant poor

Perfect weather is subjective. On this map perfect weather has been defined with temperatures between 20°C and 29°C and not too much precipitation (less than 90 mm a month).

So, what should you wear in this month?

Visitors traveling to Yekaterinburg should plan on bringing winter clothes, snow boots and a warm winter coat. There will be periods of snow.

What To Do

We rated the following activities from 1 (least suitable) to 10 (best) to do.

Swimming 1/10

Cycling 1/10

Walking 1/10

Camping 2/10

Outdoor sports 1/10

Interested in more climate information?

This site provides you with all the information you need about the climate in Yekaterinburg.

Our site offers climate and forecast data for every country in the world. Are you going to Russia? On this website you can find historical weather averages for many cities in Russia. Not sure yet where to go? We now have a tool which recommends destinations that suit your ideal travel conditions. Find out where to go with our weather planner.