Normal weather for Yekaterinburg in November

It's cold in November in Yekaterinburg with an average temperature of -3°C. Temperatures this month range from a low of -8°C to a high of 4°C. At night, you can expect temperatures between -15°C and -2°C.

In November, there is an average of 34 mm of precipitation, spread over 11 days days. Of the total precipitation, about 25 cm falls as snow in November. The wind speed is around 4 Bft, mostly coming from the Southwest.

The UV index is a maximum of 2 this month. That's a low value on the intensity scale of 1 to 11. The risk of sunburn is minimal at this time.

The highest recorded temperature on November in recent years was 9°C in 2019. The lowest daytime temperature on this day was -26°C in 2016. The extreme night temperatures ranged from a low of -33°C to a high of 5°C.

Check out the climate of Yekaterinburg for all months and discover the best travel time

Average daily weather in November

Click on a day for more details about the average weather on that day in November.

Daily Temperature in November in Yekaterinburg

This chart shows the average daily high temperatures in November in Yekaterinburg, measured in degrees Celsius. The bottom of the chart shows the days of November. Based on historical data, it shows the average daily temperatures for this month.

Daily Rainfall in November in Yekaterinburg

This chart shows the average daily rainfall in November for Yekaterinburg, measured in millimetres over the past years. Rainfall is always measured as water, even if it’s snow or hail. The bottom of the chart shows the days of November. Based on historical data, this chart gives an idea of how much rain you can expect each day.

Daily Snowfall in November in Yekaterinburg

This chart shows the average daily snowfall in November in Yekaterinburg, measured in centimetres. The bottom of the chart shows the days of the month. The data is based on historical measurements and gives an idea of the average snowfall in November.

Daily UV Index in November in Yekaterinburg

This chart shows the average daily UV index in November in Yekaterinburg, with the UV index ranging from 0 to a maximum of 11. The bottom of the chart shows the days of the month. Based on historical data, this chart provides an idea of the daily UV radiation levels you can expect.

Temperature in November in Yekaterinburg Over the Years

This chart shows the average temperature in November in Yekaterinburg, measured in degrees Celsius, over the past years.

Total Rainfall in November in Yekaterinburg Over the Years

This chart shows the average rainfall in November in Yekaterinburg, measured in millimetres over the past years. Rainfall is always measured as water, even if it’s snow or hail.

Snowfall in November in Yekaterinburg per year

This chart shows the average snowfall in November in Yekaterinburg, measured in centimetres, over the past years.

Weather experiences in November in Yekaterinburg

Have you been to Yekaterinburg in November?

Share your weather experience in November in Yekaterinburg.

When were you here?

How was the weather?

Describe your weather experiences:

What's your name?

What's your email?

Your email will not be shown in the review and will not be shared with others.

Average Weather in Yekaterinburg by Month

Click on a month below to see detailed weather info for Yekaterinburg. Based on historical weather data, you can see the average temperature, rainfall, wind, and UV index for each day of the month.

Or check out the climate of Yekaterinburg for all months at once