From the Archives / Inside the London Moment

The European League for Economic Cooperation and its founding fathers

With “mon cher ami” Paul van Zeeland, Belgian foreign politician, began a letter to the Polish political advisor Józef Retinger in 1946, in which he proposed an initial meeting to establish an association for...

From the Archives / Research Diary

The Public Records Administration and Archives Department in Cape Coast, Ghana – Under-explored sources and post-colonial archival challenges

As part of my doctorate on pan-African activism in London during World War II, I was fortunate enough to undertake an archival trip to West Africa in March 2020. In the following, I will...

From the Archives

VE Day and more: Sound Archives remembering the War and its End

As frequently referred to, public speeches and radio broadcasts played a significant role during the Second World War, from de Gaulles’ speech rallying the Free French over Queen Wilhelmina’s addressing the occupied Netherlands to...

From the Archives

Hidden Gems of Black British History: The Archives of Marika Sherwood

The Cameroonian historian Achille Mbembe postulated that archives are “not a piece of data, but a status.”[1] He alluded to the fact that the recording of documents is a profoundly political act: decisions on...

From the Archives / Research Diary

A Treasure Chest of British Political Memory: The Churchill Archives Centre

I have always had a thing for small archives. Big national archives have many advantages, they host a vast range of collections, they have mostly long opening hours and very quick turnaround. They seem...

From the Archives

Remembering Britain’s Post-War Social and Racial Tensions: The Archives of the George Padmore Institute

The George Padmore Institute is an archive and community centre with a rich collection chronicling the literary, cultural and political history of black Britain. The Institute was founded in 1991 by Caribbean activist, poet and publisher John La Rose (1927-2006).

From the Archives / Inside the London Moment

SELL TO THE ALLIES! Advertisement and the European Exiles in London

From 1940 onwards, European exiles increasingly populated London. The general attitude towards them changed quickly: After fearing a wave of penniless migrants, the British public slowly warmed to those European exiles who made it...

From the Archives / Research Diary

The West African Students Union (WASU) and the London Moment

In the northern hemisphere, autumn is heralding itself – and with it the start of the academic year. When the Michaelmas term (autumn trimester) began in 1925 London, a new group set out to...

"Capital of Europe" is a blog following the Freigeist research project "The London Moment. Transnational Collaboration of Governments-in-exile during the Second World War and its Impact on European History". The project, coordinated by Dr. Julia Eichenberg, the Principle Investigator, is based at Humboldt Universität zu Berlin and funded by the Volkswagen-Stiftung.