The Curious is a mysterious story collector who appears at the beginning and end of most episodes of Creeped Out.

Little is known about The Curious, who always wears a mask and hooded jacket and is often seen flexing their fingers. They have a distinctive whistle. According to The Narrator, when you hear their whistle, you can be sure something creepy is about to unfold.

Season 1[]

At the beginning of each season 1 episode, The Narrator provides a new detail about The Curious before asking a question of the audience, usually relating to the topic or moral of the episode. At the end of each episode, The Curious takes away a memento of the story.

Exceptions to the above are:

In Marti, rather than collecting a souvenir, The Curious appears to take a photograph of the audience.

As Side Show is split into two parts, The Curious does not appear at the end of Part 1, nor the beginning of Part 2.

Kindlesticks is the only episode in which two versions of The Curious appear in the same frame.

In Shed No Fear, The Curious is – uncharacteristically – seen dancing.

Also in Shed No Fear, The Curious seems to be able to draw an object closer to them simply by holding out their hand, suggesting they may have superpowers.

The Narrator tells us the following about The Curious:

No-one has ever seen beneath their mask (Slapstick)

They sense when a tale is about to happen, and are drawn to them (Cat Food)

They could be a boy, girl or not even human (Trolled)

They appear in the backgrounds of photographs, going back decades (Marti)

No-one knows whether they have a family (A Boy Called Red)

It is unknown whether they have control over their own actions (The Call)

No-one knows whether they get scared (Bravery Badge)

It's said that all the stories they collect are somehow connected (Spaceman)

They collect a souvenir from every tale they witness and keep them in their satchel (Kindlesticks)

No-one knows how many stories they have collected altogether (Shed No Fear)

They can keep time perfectly without the use of a watch (The Traveller)

No-one knows if they can remember how their own journey started (Side Show Part 1)

The souvenirs collected by The Curious are:

A poster advertising Mr. Blackteeth's Theatre of Hilarity which says coming soon (Slapstick)

A cross from one of Mrs. McMurtle's cat graves(Cat Food)

A chalk rubbing from the wall of St. Augustine's Choir School (Trolled)

A photo from the audience in the Hallways of the school(Marti)

A packet of Jubbs bubble gum with some of the product inside (A Boy Called Red)

A vial of sea water, might be containing some specimens of a Unknown sea creature (The Call)

A sound recording of the noise made by an unusual specimen of moss, which turns out to be the cause of the people getting possessed (Bravery Badge)

An unidentified alien device from the space wreak (Spaceman)

A pair of LED pen torches which was with Kindlesticks and was found in a Trash Can (Kindlesticks)

A disco ball, which was ejected from a Wormhole caused by a Unknown Creature (Shed No Fear)

A card reading 'take from me and I'll take from you' from the Unknown Blue Human which is suspected to be The Traveller (The Traveller)

A glass eye from Zephaniah’s Collection (Side Show: Part 2)

Season 2[]

In season 2 episodes, The Narrator introduces The Curious in the same way each time: 'they say they collects strange tales, and if you ever hear their whistle, you know something creepy is about to unfold'. The Curious is no longer seen collecting mementoes in every episode. The epilogues usually show them exploring or playing in a location relating to the events of the episode in the episodes where they don't collect anything.

A chalk from Jack's classroom (One More Minute)

Georgie's hat which containing Head lice (Itchy)

The water from the sprinklers which is controlled by Ava (Help)

A bell from the destroyed reality (The Many Place)

A jar of viscous, black liquid, possible to be the Vice Principal's essence (The Unfortunate Five)

A screen from the gallery (No Filter)

A rattle from the hospital where The Curious is in a Stroller (Only Child)

A whistle which was found in a pair of Gym clothes (Takedown)

Sugar from Junebug’s tea set (Tilly Bone)

A finger claw of Splinta Claws (Splinta Claws)

Trivia[]

The Curious is the only character (besides The Narrator, who is unseen) who appears in every episode.

The Curious may not be immune to the powers of the supernatural elements found in each story. In season one at the end of Bravery Badge, they wear earmuffs to protect themself from the sound made by the moss. In the season two episode Itchy, they start to itch all over after they put on the cap from the trash bag. This could suggest the Curious is human. In the Episode The Takedown, they also receive the text message from IAmTRuDI asking them to text a wish for a gift. (But they only introduce themselves as the Curious and throw the cell phone away without even sending the message).

In season 1, The Curious is played by William Romain in the Creeped Out episodes filmed in the UK, and by Jaiden Cannatelli in the episodes filmed in Canada. In Kindlesticks, Talon Queffelec plays the second Curious. In season 2, The Curious is played by Ashleigh Smith and Lukas Engel.

Bede Blake, co-creator of the series, has said of The Curious: "It's designed to be an evolving urban legend. You don't know what's under that mask... Story-wise, he's not a threat to the children. He has his name because he is naturally curious. He's not somebody out to do harm. He's an observer."[1]

The identity of the Curious is believed by some fans to be Jack from the season 2 episode One More Minute. This is unconfirmed by either the episode or the creators of Creeped Out.

Although the Narrator introduces the Curious as 'he', in the episode Trolled she says that nobody knows if the Curious is a boy or a girl; so even if the narrator refers to the Curious as 'he', this doesn't necessarily mean the Curious is a boy.

It seems as though the Curious is either immortal, metaphysical, or capable of time travel. This is evidenced as they appear in the 2 part episode Side Show, which appears to be set in the 1920s, as well as the other episodes, most of which seem to be set in the present day.

The Curious writes with his left hand as shown in S2E1 One More Minute.