I recently watched a documentary recommended to me called The Invisible War, directed by Kirby Dick in 2012. The Invisible War highlights sexual assault in the US military, and focuses primarily on women but also includes male victims as well. The film left me speechless. It relies on personal accounts and interviews with victims as the main body of the film, documenting their struggles after their assaults, both physically and mentally. What made this film so successful was that rather than relying on the “tradition of the victim” to invoke pity, Dick allowed to the viewer, by their own devices, to examine the system not just the victims (Leuthold, 3). The Invisible War focuses on the military as an establishment above all else, highlighting its vast power and influence and how that has allowed the military to blame the victims, rather than the type of people it is producing. When I watch documentaries I’m always wary of the one-sidedness, and I try to do some research before I watch one in order to avoid falling for the persuasive tactics that a lot of films about social issues employ. Though The Invisible War was essentially a one-sided film, and did use a lot of persuasive tactics, I never felt like I was being tricked by facts or sob stories.

Basically, what I liked so much about this movie was that it made me really angry. I’ve watched a lot of documentaries that make me feel sad, or guilty, or just depressed afterwards, but I’ve ever watched one that genuinely evoked anger. Maybe it was because I’m morally opposed to the military, or because I’m a woman. But I think that the level on injustice exposed in the film would upset anyone, even those who are in the military. I am deeply proud of those who put their lives at risk everyday for our country, and I have nothing but good things to say about them. What I have a problem with, especially after watching The Invisible War, is the way in which the military system treats its soldiers, and the way that it encourages violence against any person, even your own comrade.