Summary: "The Bible is clear: if you are a Christian, you are at war. But our approach to spiritual warfare usually falls into one of two extremes--either we place an undue emphasis on Satan and his powers or we completely ignore the existence of a personal enemy. The Invisible War offers a balanced look at what the Bible says on the subject. Based on Paul's teaching in Ephesians 6, this book shows every believer what we need to know about Satan, demons, and spiritual warfare. Find out how to: prepare yourself for spiritual battle; cultivate invincible faith; find freedom from demonic influence. "Most Christians have no idea how much of their daily life is influenced by the subtle deception and lies of our adversary," says Chip Ingram. The Invisible War will help you understand your power and position in Christ, and how to practically put on the full armor of God, and stand firm against the enemy."--From publisher's website.

Author Notes: Chip Ingram was born in 1954 in Columbus, Ohio. Ingram began exploring religion at about age 18. He attended West Virginia University and later earned a Master of Theology from Dallas Theological Seminary.In 1982 Ingram began pastoring a church near Dallas,Texas and in 1990 he became senior pastor for a church in Santa Cruz, California. In 2003 Ingram moved to Atlanta, Georgia to become president and chief executive officer of Walk Thru the Bible Ministries, succeeding Bruce Wilkinson. Ingram is currently senior pastor of Venture Christian Church in Los Gatos, California, and is president and host of Living on the Edge with Chip Ingram, an nationally-syndicated radio ministry. In 2011, Radio World reported that 850 radio stations in the United States air Ingram's programs weekly. Ingram's written works include Spiritual Simplicity, Good to Great in God's Eyes and Overcoming Emotions that Destroy. His title, True Spirituality - Becoming a Romans 12 Christian, made The New York Times best seller list in 2013.

(Bowker Author Biography)