This open source emoji is named "flag: South Korea" and is licensed under the open source CC BY 4.0 license. It's a colored emoji. It's also a defined emoji, which means it's part of the open standard on emojis. It's available to be downloaded in SVG and PNG formats (available in 256, 512, 1024 and 2048 PNG sizes).

It's part of the emoji set "OpenMoji Emoji Set", which has 7,105 emojis in it.

The following styles have this emoji in it: Color

If you need this emoji available in another format, it should be pretty straight forward to download it as an SVG image file, and then import it into apps like Canva, Fotor, Snappa or Visme. Converting it to an ICO, JPEG or WebP image format or file type should also be pretty simple (we hope to add that feature to Iconduck soon).

This emoji can be used for both Personal & Commercial purposes and projects, but please check the license to see if the designer is requesting attribution (for example, a link back to their website).

While this graphic is technically an emoji, it can be used as an icon or like any other clipart graphics.

It was published to Iconduck on: 31 December, 2020

Some use-cases for this emoji include:

Designs for your website

Using for YouTube thumbnails

Using in a logo

Using in a Photoshop design

Using on a Zoom background

Pinning to a Pinterest photo or image

Related tags: south korea, flag, emoji, emojis, geography

Can I use this emoji for personal purposes/projects?

Yes. This emoji can be freely used for personal projects including websites, designs, presentations and other things.

Can I use this emoji for commercial purposes/projects?

Yes. This emoji can be used for commercial purposes, but may require attribution (eg. a link). If it's a logo or trademark, it may be owned by another company.

Can I download this emoji for free?

Yes! This emoji has been open sourced, and can be downloaded at no charge / for free. We also don't require you to sign up for Iconduck, but you can join our mailing list to get notifications on when new icons are available.

Where can I find free map icons & illustrations?

Iconduck has 273,858 free open source icons & illustrations. You can find more map emojis right on this website.