#952 The Magnificent Ambersons

1942 // USA // Orson Welles

Criterion Collection (LINK)

The current and the sole release of THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS is a notoriously mutilated studio version overtaking a perpetually lost longer cut originally assembled by Orson Welles. The original version is believed to be more superior and less disjointed than the version available now. Be that as it may, THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS is still regarded as a masterpiece by consensus of film critics. From the moment of watching the film the first time years ago from a crappy old DVD, I’ve been wondering why the majority would consider this apparently flawed and problematic “film” amid the greatest. For reference, it was ranked at 81st in the Sight and Sound “The Greatest Films of All Time” poll in 2012, quite a high rank for a dismembered film in my opinion.

Orson Welles’s visionary aestheticism and theatrical sensibility is still by and large palapble throughout the film like a ghost haunting the Ambersons mansion. The enchanting chiaroscuro and low angle cinematography shot mostly by Stanley Cortez (excluding those key-light reshootings ordered by studio); the sumptuous and entirely connected indoor set of Ambersons mansion, featuring one of the most cinematic utilisation of a circular open staircase; the larger-than-life, hubristic character that connects all of Welles’s major film, from CITIZEN KANE to THE OTHER SIDE OF WIND; the start of the film with a death, this time around it’s a sense of demise of a bygone era in parallel to the downfall of the Ambersons family; and Welles’s characteristic charm seeping through his hypnotic deep voice in narration of the film.

The first two-third of the film is largely unscathed, it moves at a more strategic pace with a relatively more well-rounded character realisation, still there’s some difficulty in fully registering the approximate time eclipsed between certain scenes as seemingly some pieces of puzzle are missing. For a story that’s palpably spanned over decades, the resultant film is unbelievably short, just a few minutes from reaching 90 minutes long. Conversely the last-third of the film moves in such a rushed speed and disjointed rhythm that the characters are more or less reduced to caricature, particularly the young loathsome heir of Ambersons, George Minafer (Tim Holt), and his hysterical jealous aunt Fanny (Agnes Moorehead).

The story of THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS, adapted from Booth Tarkington’s Pulitzer Prize-winning 1918 novel, has a very unlikable protagonist, George, whom we’ve been expecting a “comeuppance” of from the start of the film. Eventually the expectation is delivered, with irreversible damages done by him along the way to his family and his lovely mother Isabel (Dolores Costello). One may argue Eugene Morgan (Joseph Cotten), the original suitor of Isabel and later a candidate of remarriage after Isabel‘s husband (Don Dillaway) passed away, is the true protagonist. Eugene embodies the idealistic quality of a humble, intellectual American. He’s our projection of a respectable hero we would normally root for in Hollywood films. George’s unjustifiable animosity towards Eugene simply makes us harder to associate empathetically.

Eugene’s rise in automobile business (one of the signifiers of time passing in the film) represents the change of society towards industrialization. This theme has been greatly reduced in the studio cut, henceforth the contrast between the rising of Morgan family and the downfall of Ambersons, the nostalgia of irretrievable past and the paradox of industrialization are undermined by the focus of melodrama. To me, THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS is about the putrefaction of aristocracy in the general view, and the comeuppance of the hubris in personal term. It should always be the dissolution of Ambersons, like Kane’s Xanadu, as the centrepiece of ruination.

Major Amberson (Richard Bennett), the grandfather of the family, sitting opposite to the fireplace reminiscing of the good old-time; the clearheaded Uncle Jack (Ray Collins) leaving for his own good and bidding a not-so-warm farewell to George; Fanny spending her remaining time of life in boarding house alone (totally removed in the final cut); and George kneeling besides his mother’s death bed asking God for forgiveness. All these images should be the haunting memory, but what we eventually get now is a misplaced, absurdly cheerful reconciliation that lacks time for build-up. It’s more uplifting and timely appropriate for the American audience in 1942 as the attack on Pearl Harbor in Dec, 1941 officially announced the commencement of war against the Axis powers. Welles was away in Brazil for a film project as part of the wartime Good Neighbor Policy, meanwhile THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS was being recut by editor Robert Wise under the order of RKO, scenes were reshot or added. Composer Bernard Herman requested to withdraw his credit on the final mutilated product. No one was able to save or preserve the original print.

Time after time we fantasize the original, perhaps unrefined, masterpiece, as we sympathies with Welles since THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS marked the beginning of disillusionment of the wonder boy who had long been in a series of triumphant ride in radio and theater but struggled arduously in order to fulfill his vision on the big screen. Like watching Erich von Stroheim‘s GREED, viewing THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS is like looking out of a window with Venetian blinds partially obscuring the sight, from time to time the blinds is so annoying that it unfortunately destroys the mood, still we could recognise the overwhelming, grandiose landscape through the looking-glass, albeit the integrity is forever lost.