While most people might know him as one of the most decorated actors in the industry, Ben Affleck is also known throughout Hollywood as a very accomplished director. Popular for directing films like Argo, The Town, and Live By Night to name a few, the Batman star has been slowly building up to one of his most ambitious and passionate projects, which happens to be his upcoming film Air.

Advertisement

The upcoming film will show him taking the role of Phil Knight, chairman, and co-founder of Nike, alongside Matt Damon in the role of Sonny Vaccaro, the man who recruited NBA legend Michael Jordan to create one of the most iconic and successful brand deals in sports history. But, with Affleck being a son of Boston, people were raising questions about why he was making a film related to Chicago, to which he had a humble and respectful response.

Ben Affleck Explains His Love For Boston And Respect For Michael Jordan

While he might be known for playing the role of Bruce Wayne/Batman in the DCEU, Ben Affleck is also a creative individual that has been successful in directing entire projects to be brought to the big screen. Thus, along with his best friend Matt Damon, he is all set to bring his passion project of creating the story of the Air Jordans, a story of Nike and Michael Jordan. But when people asked why he was focusing on a member of the Chicago Bulls, he gave a response that was heartwarming.

Advertisement

You may also like: Ben Affleck Eyes Another Oscar Win With Best Friend Matt Damon as Former Batman Actor Set to Star in Greatest Nike Sports Deal of All Time

During the recent NBA All-Star Celebrity Match, the Academy-Award-winning actor presented a brief look and his perspective of what it meant by bringing the story of one of the most iconic brand deals and sports accessories to life. Along with the experience of what it was like to bring the story of Michale Jordan’s influence over the sporting world and beyond. He also addressed the question of why he was interested in the Chicago Bulls even though he was from Boston. His simple reply was that Micahel Jordan was someone that transcends rivalry. He said:

“Yeah, I heard from someone who said, ‘What are you doing from Boston making a movie about a Chicago guy?’ Well, Michael Jordan kind of transcends rivalry and sports. He means something more to people. It’s about greatness. Every so often someone comes along who is so extraordinary they impact the whole world. At the time I don’t think it was the agreed upon consensus opinion about Michael Jordan.”

Thus, with such a heartwarming statement, the Justice League star concluded his presentation, hyping fans from the Sneaker Culture as well as Sports Entertainment alike.

Advertisement

You may also like: “It’s Boston, after all”: Ben Affleck Unfazed by Massive Backlash for Dunkin’ Donuts Commercial at Super Bowl, Claims Customers Hate His Service Skills

What To Expect From Air?

With the tall order of bringing one of the most iconic and important incidents in Sports Entertainment history to life, Ben Affleck and Matt Damon are seemingly taking a laid-back approach of letting the trailer of Air do all the talking. This is the amount of confidence they have in the project, so even fans can reassure themselves after having a first look that the upcoming film which would be about one of the greatest takes on an iconic time in Michael Jordan’s life. The birth of Air Jordans.

You may also like: “It was important that I honor that”: Ben Affleck Reveals Michael Jordan’s One Demand That Nearly Shut Down ‘Air’, Tried Like Hell to Fulfil NBA Legend’s Wish After Entirely Skipping Him in the Movie

Advertisement

Air, releasing on April 5, 2023, on Prime Video