Figures show that in 2021, just over a third of Stroud district councillors were female.

One of these is Beki Aldam, who has been Stroud district councillor for Thrupp since May 2021.

As well as her daughters, Beki's female role models include Shiori Ito, Chloe Turner and Caroline Lucas.

Beki spoke to the SNJ this week about balancing her life in politics with being a mum and a teacher.

“There are logistical challenges that many women face but then there are personal worries as well," said Beki, who represents the Green party.

“Last Wednesday I was approached and harassed by a drunk man in a way which made me feel unsafe.

“The staff where I have at my surgery were absolutely brilliant.

“They called the police after seeing how drunk he was while checking I was okay.

“It was a minor incident and one that countless women face every day.

“But it is not something that we should be accepting as a culture.

“I think I have a role to play in changing that culture.

“As a councillor I am addressing the imbalances just by being a woman.

"As a teacher I am ensuring that my students are aware of the terrible consequences of toxic masculinity for everyone.

“It doesn't feel like I can say what it's like being a woman in politics, because it is different for everyone.

“I can say what it is like being a woman in politics as a mum of young kids, who has a near full-time job - it is a juggling act worthy of Tweedy the Clown.

“I decided to enter politics so that I was actively doing something to answer the climate and social justice crisis enveloping our world.

"Councillors need to be recompensed properly for their time, ensuring that it becomes something you can do if you are on a low-income, and not as a hobby for the independently-wealthy.

"Inclusivity doesn't mean going to training sessions once a year.

"It means being clever and creative about how everyone can join in.

"The new acceptance of Zoom into our lives makes meetings more accessible for those with childcare or mobility issues, for example.

"I recently attended the Stroud District Green Party AGM and was impressed by how a hybrid set-up can offer so many more people access to the room.

"It's something the national government should be much more open to, when stipulating how local government meetings are held.

“In a very small way, I want to be able to say to my kids that I tried to do something.

“Although Stroud District Council do a great job trying to accommodate councillors, more needs to be done nationally and locally to make working in local government more inclusive.

“It is difficult that so many meetings are held during weekdays, for example.

“This is changing but there's still a way to go."

For International Women's Day last year Beki did a quiz in the school on the etymology of words such as 'suffragette', 'matriarch', 'feminist' etc.

Today, she will teach works by incredible poets like Anna Akmhatova, Charlotte Mew and Sarojini Naidu.

"I will also take instruction from my five and seven year old daughters as I do on all 365 women's days of the year (in my house," Beki adds, before urging more girls to take part in politics.

"You don't have to stand for election straight away of course.

"Just get involved with the political party of your choice by lending them your time and skills in any way that works for you.

"Please join us."