Reality star Adrianne Curry has opened up about her life after her divorce and reveals she is ditching her breast implants and the Hollywood spotlight altogether.

In a candid interview with DailyMail.com, the America's Next Top Model winner explains she is ready to tie the knot again after her split from Brady Bunch star Christopher Knight, 60, and is moving on from her modeling career.

'I'm grateful for all the opportunities that were and still are given to me, but I was not happy. I'm not built for this industry, I don't have the stomach for it, it will literally eat you alive,' Curry, 35, says.

'I'm from the Midwest, (Joliet, Illinois) I'm too kind and family-oriented and I don't have ulterior motives.

'For as long as I lived in Los Angeles I'm proud I stayed true to my blue-collar roots, but it was time to move on. I'm leaving with my sanity and not on drugs.'

Curry's win on ANTM parlayed into a stay on VH1's The Surreal Life's season four, where she met her ex-husband.

The two fell in love on set which once led her to run around the house saying, 'I'm in love with a Brady!'

The pair's romance resulted in their own reality show My Fair Brady which ran for three seasons on VH1 until 2009.

Viewers witnessed a nervous Adrianne going under the knife to get bigger breasts but she now admits she wants them removed.

'These things have an expiration date. I only got them because my husband [Knight] would tease me that one of my boobs was bigger than the other.

'I did it because I was young and insecure, but one of the great things about being in your thirties is that you just don't give a damn.'

The couple broke up on their five-year anniversary in 2011, and their divorce finalized in 2013.

She is now set to tie the knot for the second time with actor Matthew Rhode, who she met online playing video game Hearthstone on Twitch in 2015.

The former model says she knew he was 'the one' right away: 'I met him for lunch and he stands up, all 6'6' of him and he's handsome and such a gentleman, I was like blown away.

'I think we went on seven or so dates and never even kissed. He was probably wondering if we were even dating. But I was so damaged by previous relationships I was just going slow.'

And just months into her romance with movie trailer voice-over specialist Rhode, 36, she reveals how Knight sent her a note saying he missed her along with other niceties.

'I swear to God, men know when you've traded up and he sensed it. He certainly didn't reach out to me with the previous jerk I had dated, but with this one he knew.

'Matthew and I just read the note, laughed and crinkled it up and threw it away. My feeling now [for Chris] is that, "I wish you well, just way the f**k over there!"

The couple - who got engaged just before her 35th birthday last August - currently live in Prescott, Arizona, but are moving in June to Montana, where they've rented a place on ten acres while they look to buy a home.

'We both want to live as far off the grid as possible, while still being able to be connected for our work. We both love the outdoors, he's like survivalist level. We want to raise chickens, hunt, fish, the works.'

Their wedding which she says will be in Montana's Glacier National Park, will take place possibly later this year.

'I've already warned him my wedding dress is going to be Game of Thrones inspired, and he's like "whatever you want."

Curry also dished on her life on reality TV where she met co-stars Verne Troyer and WWF's Chyna, both who have since died.

'When you spend every single moment together in isolation filming in that house over three weeks with no TV, no cell phones, no contact with the outside world, it's more like spending a solid year with them,' she explains.

'You get really close, and our cast that season was especially tight.'

But the cast of the show has since experienced tragedies in recent years.

Chyna, real name Joan Marie Laurer, died of a drug overdose at the age of 46 in April 2016, Verne Troyer passed away two years and one day later on April 21, from alleged alcohol intoxication.

'Chyna was a very hurt person, she went from the top of the WWF, to struggling to make rent, yet being recognized everywhere. That's what I mean by this business eating you alive,' Curry says.

On Verne, her voice gets softer saying: 'He was a sweet, sweet man. You have to picture he was in this world of giants, like Jack and the Beanstalk, at times he would get so claustrophobic and panicked.

'I used to try to show him how big my feet and hands were, like "Look! I'm a giant of a woman, I'm 5'11' and take after my 6'6' father!" We connected in our way and we stayed in touch through the years. Our [season 4] cast isn't faring so well, it makes me sad.'

Curry also told how losing her beloved grandmother Anne Glasgow who helped raised her, in 2014, and a subsequent health crisis had her rethinking her life and helped her find a new hobby.

'When my grandmother died in my arms, my perspective changed instantly.'

Years of being thin, yet told to lose another twenty pounds had caused her to lose interest in the modeling world, but she retained her love of makeup and fashion.

'I was home recovering from a myomectomy to remove a tumor from my uterus (uterine cancer ultimately took her grandmother) high as a kite on meds watching Edward Scissorhands.

'I ordered from Avon so I could cosplay the character of Avon lady Pam from the movie. I was fully prepared to make fun of the products on my social media, but instead I fell in love with it.'

Curry tells how she managed to stay true to herself while in the limelight but eventually had enough of the glitz and glamour of Hollywood.

'A lot of people in the entertainment industry lie about their age, but I don't. I'd rather be a young looking 35-year old than an old looking 29-year-old.

'I think the way you wear makeup can either age you or make you look younger. I say save the red carpet look for the red carpet. No one needs that much makeup on for normal day to day, it gets in your wrinkles and ages you.

'I also believe in dressing "age appropriate" to look younger. I feel sorry for Pamela Anderson and Carmen Electra having to look like they did 20 years ago, it must be exhausting.'

In the old days Avon reps would come to your door, but with the Internet, Adrianne is able to do consultations with her clients online to customize their products. She has become one of their top sellers and recently won an exotic trip but had to cancel due to her fiance's work schedule.