PORTLAND, Ore., May 10, 2010 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ -- Rentrak Corporation (Nasdaq: RENT), the leader in multi-screen media measurement serving the advertising and entertainment industries, today announced that it has entered into an agreement to provide CTV Inc., Canada's largest private broadcaster, with measurement services from Rentrak's industry-leading OnDemand Essentials service which is well-equipped and strategically positioned to be the on-demand currency in Canada as it is in the United States.

"The Canadian video-on-demand market is poised to grow significantly in terms of marquee content, usage and ad revenue given the recent ruling by the Canadian Radio Television Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) that on-demand networks can now sell advertising specifically for the platform," said Carol Hinnant, Rentrak's Senior Vice President of Business Development, Advanced Media.

CTV is the first Canadian broadcaster to utilize data from the OnDemand Essentials service and will have access to detailed performance data to better understand how its VOD content is performing to help optimize viewership and potential ad sales.

About OnDemand Essentials(R) OnDemand Essentials, a service of Rentrak's Advanced Media & Information Division, provides operators, content providers (including broadcast/cable networks, studios) and advertisers with a transactional tracking and reporting system to view and analyze on-demand content. The product is an extension of Rentrak's Essentials suite of business intelligence products customized for the entertainment industry. OnDemand Essentials clients have password protected, near real-time, Web browser-based 24/7 access to on-demand consumer usage data at various access levels based on business and privacy rules. A sophisticated toolset aggregates and reports data across multiple vendors in one easy to use report system. Clients using the OnDemand Essentials system are able to instantly analyze and interpret their own business data to identify trends, program and promote more effectively, as well as track their performance against the broader business sector in which they operate.

About Rentrak Corporation Rentrak Corporation (Nasdaq: RENT) is a global digital media measurement and research company, serving the most recognizable companies in the entertainment industry. With a reach across numerous platforms including box office, home entertainment, on-demand and linear television, broadband and mobile, Rentrak is headquartered in Portland, Oregon, with additional offices worldwide in Los Angeles, New York City, Miami/Ft. Lauderdale, Argentina, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Mexico, Spain and the United Kingdom. For more information on any of Rentrak's services, please visit www.rentrak.com.

About CTV Inc.

CTV, Canada's Olympic Network, is also Canada's largest private broadcaster.

Featuring a wide range of quality news, sports, information, and entertainment programming, CTV is Canada's most-watched television network. CTV Inc. also owns radio stations across the country and owns or has interests in leading national specialty channels, featuring news, sports, factual, arts, entertainment, music, youth and fashion programming. Official broadcaster of the Vancouver 2010 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games and London 2012 Games of the Olympiad, CTV Inc. is owned by CTVglobemedia Inc., Canada's premier multi-media company, which also owns Canada's national newspaper, The Globe and Mail. More information about CTV may be found on the network's website at www.ctv.ca.

Contact for Rentrak Corporation:

--------------------------------

Sallie Olmsted / Amanda Bialek

Office: 310-854-8124 / 310-854-8151

Email: solmsted@rogersandcowan.com / abialek@rogersandcowan.com SOURCE Rentrak Corporation www.prnewswire.com Copyright (C) 2010 PR Newswire. All rights reserved -0- KEYWORD: Oregon

Canada INDUSTRY KEYWORD: ADV

ENT SUBJECT CODE: CON