Denmark consists of the peninsula of Jutland and 1,419 islands; 443 of which have been named and of which 78 are inhabited (2013). Of these, the largest and most densely populated are Zealand, on which the capital Copenhagen is situated, Funen, and the North Jutland Island. The North Sea borders Denmark's west coast, while the islands divide the Baltic from the sea area Kattegat. The Danish islands are thus on the sea lane from the Baltic Sea to the main oceans of the world - and at the same time on the trade route from the Nordic countries to central Europe.

Throughout the country's history, this position has had a major impact on the governing of the country, but also on trade and political and military strategy.

Towards the end of the 10th century, Denmark was united into a single kingdom. It has been an independent country ever since, and is thus one of the oldest states in Europe.

The Danish government type is a parliamentary democracy with a Royal Head of State. Administratively, the country is divided into 5 counties (regioner) and 98 municipalities (kommuner).

Denmark is a developed and industrialised country.

By international standards, the standard of living is high, and the differences between rich and poor are smaller than in many of the countries to which Denmark is traditionally compared.

Denmark has been a member of the European Union since 1973, the year when Ireland also joined the union. The proximity of Germany has traditionally orientated the country south in an economic and political sense. Close co-operation with Sweden, Norway, Finland and Iceland, with which Denmark enjoys a passport union, however, also ties Denmark to the North.

Denmark has a coastline totalling 7300 km, and a 68 km-long border with Germany. It is a distinctly low-lying country, the highest point being only 173 metres above sea level, but the landscape is undulating and varied; only occasionally is it possible to find undisturbed nature and the view everywhere shows signs of human activity. It is only on the island of Bornholm that bedrock is found, otherwise the land is characterised by fertile clayey or sandy moraine landscapes.

Most of the land, 65%, is under cultivation. 10% is covered by deciduous or coniferous forest, while meadow, heath, marshland, bogs, sand hills and lakes constitute approx. 10%. Built-up areas and traffic areas make up the remaining 15%. The climate is temperate and precipitation is sufficient to provide all the water needed.

The population stands at approx. 5.8 million and the population density is 136 per square kilometre.

The language used in Denmark is Danish, but most Danes also speaks English fluently. Of the population, 85% live in towns. The greater Copenhagen region accounts for approx. 2.3 million inhabitants. The second biggest city is Aarhus accounting for approx. 277,000 inhabitants. The entire country is otherwise covered by a network of medium-sized towns.

Danish agriculture is highly developed, producing a considerable surplus of manufactured foods that are exported to other countries. Industrial production is very varied considering the size of the country. Among the commodities that have made Denmark famous abroad, in addition to agricultural produce, are: Beer, medicines, furniture, shipping, wind turbines and products from the advanced metal industries.

Both agriculture and industry are highly effective. Agriculture and fisheries employ only 4%, and industry and construction 24% of the population. The remaining 72% are employed in the service sector; 31% of which work in the public sector and 41% in private businesses.

Denmark has an open economy, and trade with the rest of the world is of great importance.

Around 70% of foreign trade is with the other countries in the EU; the remainder is divided among a very large number of trading partners, of which the USA and Norway are the most important.

Denmark has a modern and extensive infrastructure, meaning that the road network is good everywhere in the country. Railways and air links provide quick transport, and islands are connected by either ferries, bridges or both.

Kastrup, near Copenhagen, is the largest international airport in the country and is at the same time a crossroad for air traffic to and from the other Scandinavian countries.