As a founding member of the United Nations, Denmark has committed itself for decades to a substantial role in the global fight for human rights and the eradication of poverty.

Denmark is one of only a few bilateral donors in the world that meets the UN goal for rich countries of providing a minimum of 0.7 of gross national income for development assistance.

A portion of Danish development aid is channelled through the UN, the European Union, the World Bank and other multinational bodies, while another portion is earmarked Danida, the Danish Development Assistance. Danida fights poverty and helps improve education in several developing countries.

Fighting terrorism, helping countries avoid conflict and collapse

Denmark is a founding member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO), and the Danish military participates in NATO coalitions and other group efforts to fight terrorism and further global peace and stability.

The Danish armed forces have a long tradition of delivering reliable and effective contributions in peacekeeping and related international missions. Denmark’s international engagement is multifaceted and includes the deployment of military personnel, police, and civilian specialists, including humanitarian rescue workers.

Denmark also engages actively in fragile states in order to ensure facilitate free and fair elections and encourage good government.

Activism for universal human rights against torture

Denmark is at the forefront of the fight for universal human rights and has ratified a wide range of intergovernmental human rights obligations.

The people of Denmark are also active players in achieving a world without torture as a leader in the cross-regional Convention Against Torture Initiative together with Chile, Ghana, Indonesia and Morocco. The idea is to help states ratify and implement the UN convention against torture as successfully as they can.

In its development efforts Denmark also works to uphold the rule of law and eradicate all types of discrimination - including gender discrimination - and promote respect for minorities and indigenous people.