1/31/2020

Hello, Eastwood Middle School families and community members,

It's hard to believe that we have ascended to the peak of the year and we are now closer to the end of the year than the beginning.

We are very pleased with the growth in maturity and work ethic from our students. They have truly embraced the challenge that we have placed in front of them. This is the time of year that we "grind" and prepare for the next level of learning. Skills and strategies have been the main focus to this point. Now, it is time for the application of these higher-level thinking and problem-solving skills. We are excited to see how high our students can perform.

This may be a difficult time for your child. It is challenging to find ways to expend movement energy with the weather this time of year, and academic homework and concepts are becoming more rigorous. Support them and encourage them to keep pushing forward. Keep communicating with your child's teachers should you see any concerns along the way. We want them to develop the necessary confidence and independence to be successful in their next endeavor.

Once again, "Thank you" to everyone in the Eastwood Family for your continued support in raising our "village". This is a community, and communication is the key. Please do not hesitate to contact me, should you have any questions or concerns.

Also included in this newsletter:

-Nest Notes

-Students We Like to Brag About

-Counselor's Corner (Important Scheduling Information)

-Middle School Parent Resources

-Athletics Update Schedule and Link

-Upcoming Events Calendar - Important Dates Highlighted below

-EMS Picture Gallery

-Eastwood's Beliefs, Behaviors & Outcomes

Peace,

Dwight Fertig

Principal

dfertig@eastwoodschools.net

twitter: @emsdfertig

EMS Spelling Bee Finalists

Pictured below are our 3 finalists for the 2019-2020 Eastwood Middle School Spelling Bee. Congratulations to Austin Miller (3rd), Sam Strauss (2nd), and Savanah Stephens (1st). These students qualified for the County Spelling Bee in Bowling Green, Ohio.

Wood County Youth Olympics

Volunteers are needed for the WCYO to take place at the BGSU Perry Field House on March 14. There are a.m. and p.m. sessions. You can click on "sign up to volunteer"@prosecutor.wood.oh.us . You can also email questions: wcyoutholympics@gmail.com

INFOFINDER I (Last time for info)

Infofinder is a tool, parents can use to see information about their child’s bus route in the event of a delay in the route.

Here is the link to Infofinder I.

https://www.infofinderi.com/ifi/?cid=ELSD20ICYIUJP

Important 8TH GRADE High School Scheduling Meeting 7:00pm

The high school counselors will be holding an important meeting in the middle school cafeteria on Monday, February 24 at 7:00pm for all students and their parents that will be a freshman next year (2020-2021). This meeting will explain the scheduling process, graduation requirements and answer any questions about attending the high school in the fall.

PENNIES FOR PATIENTS: We are participating in the Pennies for Patients Campaign, which supports the Leukemia and Lymphomas Society. Our fundraising campaign runs from March 2 - March 20. We have many fun activities for staff and students to get involved with. Watch the daily announcements to follow the fun.

Important Scheduling Meetings for 2020-2021 6th through 8th-grade students

March 17, 2020

Students that will be in 7th grade next school year will meet at 6:30 pm

Students that will be in 8th grade next school year will meet at 7:30 pm

April 7

Students that will be in 6th grade next school year will meet at 7:00 pm

(These meetings will take place in the middle school cafeteria)

Grandparents Raising Grandchild Support Group - G.R.G.

G.R.G. meets in a casual and welcoming environment, offering education and support to grandparents who are raising grandchildren. Grandparents have the opportunity to meet other caregivers, develop a network of support, and receive information about resources and services available.

Meetings take place on the second Wednesday of each month during the school year, at the Wood County Educational Service Center, from 6:00 to 7:30 p.m.

Dinner is served at 6 p.m., and the program begins at 6:30 p.m. Child care will be provided for children who are preschool-age or older. Free - no registration required.

For additional information, please contact:

Felicia Boyd

419-308-9010 ext. 237

fboyd@wcesc.org

Find us on Facebook

2019-2020 Meeting Schedule

February 12, 2020

March 11, 2020

April 8, 2020

May 13, 2020