Hayworth & Chaney, PA is a Civil and Trial Law Firm committed to protecting and defending the rights of individual and corporate clients who have been wronged or face lawsuits by others. Our firm was founded in 1989 in Brevard County, Florida by former insurance defense attorneys Michael S. Hayworth and Glen E. Chaney as a plaintiff’s practice in civil matters. Since 1989, our firm has grown to include an office in Vero Beach, Florida. We moved to our own newly built three-story office building, located directly on U.S. 1 in Melbourne, in 1999.

Michael S. Hayworth, Esq.

Mr. Hayworth is a Florida native who grew up in Brevard County, and is one of the initial founding partners of the law firm. Mr. Hayworth graduated cum laude and third in his Stetson law school class of 1984 after graduating summa cum laude and first in his class at the University of Central Florida.

Mr. Hayworth spent six years with the law firm of Fowler, White, Gillen, Boggs, Villareal & Banker, P.A. before moving back to Melbourne to form his own law firm where he continues to practice.

Mr. Hayworth actively litigates cases involving catastrophic personal injuries, and wrongful death claims on behalf of the victims. These cases include vehicular collisions, product liability, trucking catastrophe, railroad catastrophe, airline catastrophe, premises liability and other types of personal injury claims. Mr. Hayworth has secured multiple significant recoveries on behalf of his clients.

Glen E. Chaney, Esq.

Mr. Chaney co-founded the law firm in 1989 after practicing personal injury defense and general litigation for several Central Florida law firms. Mr. Chaney’s practice currently focuses on serious automobile accidents, truck accidents, nursing home abuse and neglect, and estate planning and probate matters. Mr. Chaney has secured significant recoveries on behalf of his clients, while representing hundreds of clients.

Mr. Chaney grew up in Wilmington, Delaware. He received a Bachelor of Science Degree in Economics and a Bachelor of Science Degree in Business Administration University of North Carolina, graduating Magna Cum Laude in 1982. Mr. Chaney attended Law School at Stetson University College of Law receiving his Juris Doctor with various honors in 1985. Mr. Chaney is a member of the Florida Justice Association, the Florida Bar Association, the Brevard County Bar Association, the Indian River County Bar Association, the United States District Court (Middle District of Florida), and Attorneys Title Insurance Fund and Omicron Delta Epsilon (National Economic Honor Society).