By Kaitlin Junod

East Africa has long held an inexplicable allure for curious outsiders. Over 130 years ago, Harar, an ancient city with many peoples, languages, religions and cultures mixing in its narrow streets, captured a special place in the heart of Arthur Rimbaud, the father of the modern French language.

In a documentary to be released later this year, filmmaker Jean-Marc Boutonnet-Tranier will explore the life of the famed Rimbaud. Taking a deep look at why the writer chose to leave his life in Europe behind for the faraway lands of East Africa, Tranier’s film will unveil new insights to the young adventurer’s life and works, including how he was influenced by and left an impact upon East African culture.

Tranier’s documentary, titled Arthur Rimbaud: An African Testimony, will be the first to provide such in-depth analysis of the poet. By using interviews, original documents from the nineteenth century and creative animations, Tranier’s hopes to portray the life of Rimbaud in a way that has never been done before.

Like Rimbaud, Tranier traveled to East Africa from France, though he first made the journey almost 100 years later in 1979. Now Tranier lives in Addis Ababa where he owns the Louvre Grand Hotel.

As a lover of French literature and Ethiopian culture, Tranier hopes his documentary can spread interest in Arthur Rimbaud beyond the writers and academics of society. While many French know of Rimbaud, the great poet’s reputation in Ethiopian society is still relatively unknown outside of Harar, though Tranier said awareness and interest is beginning to grow thanks to Amharic translations of his work.

In his short lifetime, Rimbaud left an incredibly large imprint on history. Though he only wrote poetry for five years, his style shocked famous French poets like Paul Verlaine, who was particularly impressed with “Le Bateau ivre” (The Drunken Boat).

“Many other poets were really amazed and stunned by this poetry which was coming from nowhere,” Tranier said. “It’s a bit like when rock ‘n roll appeared in the world. It was something new, so we can say Rimbaud was a kind of precursor to rock ‘n roll or punk at this period at the end of the nineteenth century.”

Rimbaud’s influence extends far beyond the European sphere. Authors from the Beat generation, a post- World War II American literary movement including Jack Kerouac, Alan Ginsberg and William S. Burroughs, drew inspiration from Rimbaud and even wrote books about him.

Indeed the precursor to rock, Rimbaud was also the muse for icons such as Janis Joplin, Patty Smith and Jim Morrison from The Doors, among other American music legends.

Rimbaud was born in Charleville, France in 1954 where he began writing poetry at a young age, setting his pen aside for the last time at the age of 19. He then decided to go to East Africa as a tradesman to financially support his family, entering Harar for the first time in December of 1880. His short career as a poet left the word with renowned works such as “Une Saison en Enfer” (A Season in Hell) and “Les Illuminations” (Illuminations).

Though he never wrote another poem, scholars and historians learned about his life in East Africa through the hundreds of letters he wrote to his family back in France.

Aside from his literary acclaim, Rimbaud is a unique figure in history for his ability to integrate himself into the region’s society and culture. He easily set himself apart from other European travellers of the time, who he often criticized for not respecting local customs.

“He was speaking Amharic, Arabic, Oromiffa, Somali, so he was well-accepted,” Tranier said. “In Harar, there are some relations he was discussing with the imam about the Quran and religion, and he was even arguing about religion. So he was quite well-mixed with the local people.”

One of Rimbaud’s many adventures in East Africa includes his mission to acquire arms for Emperor Menelik II. With a caravan carrying countless weapons, he traveled from the Red Sea to Emperor Menelik in Ankober and Entoto. Some historians say Rimbaud’s guns contributed to the later Ethiopian victory at the famed Battle of Adwa. Tranier’s documentary will, in part, look at how Rimbaud, a lone foreigner, could be the only European to ever accomplish such a task.

“It explains the psychology of Rimbaud at the time, explaining how a European guy alone could bring a caravan of hundreds of guns, more than 50 camels, safely to the center of Ethiopia” Tranier said. “He was the only European to do this, and in order to do this, he must have been accepted by all of the local people.”

Over the one and a half years he has been working in the movie, Tranier has collected over 50 hours of footage in East Africa where Rimbaud lived and has interviewed many notable East Africans, including the Sultan of Tadjoura, whose grandfather welcomed and accommodated Rimbaud for a year and Prince Bedemariam Mekonnen, whose great-grandfather, Ras Mekonnen Woldemichael, was governor of Harar and a close friend of Rimbaud. He also spoke to awarded poet Chehem Watta and UNESCO Chief of Memory in Paris, Ali Moussa Iye.

In addition to the commentary provided in the interviews, Tranier enlisted the help of French artist Patrick Singh to create animations of Rimbaud’s life. One feature in the film will be a recreation of Rimbaud’s home in Feres Megala, Harar exactly as it was in 1890. Today, the actual building in which Rimbaud lived and the palace of Raouf Pacha have been torn down, but the original church and many of the surroundings remain the same.

The film will also use over 1,000 original documents, engravings and photographs from Rimbaud’s lifetime, many of which come from Tranier’s personal collection, which he has been curating carefully for the past 35 years.

“I have many of the same books and same editions that Rimbaud ordered when he was in Harar,” Tranier said. “He ordered more than 130 technical books from France when he was in East Africa and Ethiopia, so I have a lot of the equivalent things.”

Currently, Tranier and his team are working on a teaser for the documentary, which they hope to release midway through this year. To be premiered in French with Amharic subtitles, the film will be shown at festivals and on network television.

“There is more and more interest in Arthur Rimbaud,” Tranier said. “He is not very well-known because only the elite will know him, but he is getting more well-known… I hope because of [this movie].”

Ed.’s Note: The writer is on an internship at The Reporter.