Welcome to Our Lake!

Brant Lake is located in the southeastern region of the Adirondack Mountains in New York State. The Brant Lake Association is made up of people that are interested in:

Preserving the beauty and tranquility of Brant Lake's land, water, dwellings and community.

Maintaining the lake's water quality.

Encouraging camaraderie among neighbors with scheduled social events for members during the summer.

June 18, 2024

Warren County Accepting Applications for Septic System Improvement Funding

An additional $400,000 in funding has been received from New York State to assist property owners on Schroon Lake, Brant Lake, Loon Lake, Trout Lake, Schroon River, some of their tributaries and more. Head on over to the Warren County Website for details. Warren County Septic System Funding

Treatment Plan for Eurasian Milfoil in Brant Lake

Click Here for details and FAQs

Jauary 15, 2024

From the President’s Desk: Together we can make a difference

Friends and Neighbors,

When the fall morning air becomes crisp and the monarchs fill the air, the summer season at Brant Lake is moving on. 2023 is closing out as a milestone year for the BLA. Let us talk about a few points. Memberships have reached a new high. Attendance increased at our general membership meetings; we had 110 attendees between the 2 meetings! Participation in our social events increased significantly. Volunteerism is on the rise.

What does this mean? I believe that our message of engagement is being heard. The community is rallying around the lake

We have created many new partnerships within the Brant Lake community. The Horicon Historical Society and the North Warren Chamber of Commerce just to name a few. These relationships will create more opportunities for the BLA to support community events.

The BLA along with the Town of Horicon completed the 2024 Eurasian Water Milfoil Control Plan. The process included a series of informational meetings. Meetings were well attended and informative. The plan will include the spring application of ProcellaCOR and hand harvesting of designated areas.

Information detailing the plan and periodic updates can be found on the BLA website. www.brantlakeassoc.org

The BrantLaker has become a critical means to reach the membership and the community. Recognizing how important this publication has become, the BLA established an editorial team to ensure the sustainability of the newsletter. If you enjoy reading the BrantLaker “for 35 dollars a year you can have it delivered to your home twice a year”. Remember, the newsletter is the community voice.

In closing, I would like to thank everyone for a successful year. Let us continue to engage ourselves to be the best, remembering that Brant Lake is the special place. Talk to your friends and neighbors, encourage them to become involved.

Together we are making a difference.

John Dunn, President, Brant Lake Association

Do your part to help us keep Brant Lake Clean!

Download the Survey123 App to your smartphone and report Milfoil locations quicky and easily!

Survery123 App Instructions

June 1, 2023

From the President’s Desk - Together we can make a difference

Friends and Neighbors

Traditionally we think of the Brant Laker as a spring and fall publication centering around the events during that period. During the pandemic, the BLA expanded the Brant Laker as a means to stay connected to the members and the community. The publication has generated a great deal of interest. We are now covering events that span the full year.

It is this historical partnership that started in 1907 between the BLA and the community that allows us to come together to solve the complex problems that Adirondack communities face today.

The BLA is committed to open and honest conversations to improve the quality of the Brant Lake experience.

Challenges that we face are: the constant threat of invasive species; failing septic systems; and storm water runoff, just to name a few. However, I am optimistic that together we can solve these issues.

The 2023 EWM Plan will include 14 weeks of hand-harvesting. Included in this plan is a proposal to permit the use of ProcellaCOR in Brant Lake to eradicate EWM in the spring of 2024. We will be conducting information meetings this summer on this proposal. The dates, timing and additional information can be found on the BLA website events page.

The BLA is reinstating in-person meetings and events. We will be hosting our traditional events along with some new and exciting activities this summer. For all of the latest information be sure to visit the BLA's website. We will soon be launching a new Facebook page, Instagram, and Twitter.

The greatest contribution you can make to the BLA is your continued support. Please talk to your friends and neighbors. Encourage them to join. Find the time to help the Brant Lake Community continue to be that special place it is for all.

Stay connected, stay engaged. Together we can make a difference.>

John Dunn

The foundation's primary focus is insuring the quality of the water of Brant Lake. Invasive species, salt, oil and antifreeze, roadway runoff, fuel and gasoline additives, and septic and fertilizer percolation are current or potential problems. Of particular emphasis at this time is the serious problem of the invasion of the lake by Eurasian Milfoil. To focus on solving this problem a seperate website has been created; brantlakemilfoil.org, where you can find information on the fight we are waging against this menace.

To demonstrate your support for these issues, join the Brant Lake Association today.