Lily James features as a guest vocalist on a brand new track for her upcoming movie What's Love Got To Do With It?

The actress, 33, gushed that it was 'an absolute pleasure' as she took to the recording studio with record producer Naughty Boy, real name Shahid Khan.

The song Mahi Sona (The Wedding Song) written by the producer and actress Preeya Kalidas especially for the movie will be available in three versions which are out now.

The first features Lily alongside legendary Pakistani singer Rahat Fateh Ali Khan, superstar Indian singer Kanika Kapoor, rapper Billy Khan. Another with Brit Award nominee Joy Crookes and the third without features.

Lily, who plays Zoe in the movie, said: 'It was an absolute pleasure working in the studio with both [composer] Nitin [Sawhney] and Naughty Boy. Music plays a huge part in the film, and I'm thrilled to contribute to this amazing single alongside some incredible artists'

Lily has showcased her impressive vocals in the past in Mama Mia 2: Here We Go Again as well as Cinderella.

The film follows her character, a documentary filmmaker named Zoe, who navigates the modern dating scene with little success, much to the dismay of her mother Cath (Oscar-winner Emma Thompson).

Meanwhile, Kazim (Shazad Latif), Zoe's childhood friend and neighbour, decides to follow in his parents' footsteps and pursue an arranged marriage with a beautiful and savvy bride from Pakistan.

As Zoe documents Kazim's journey from London to Lahore to marry a stranger chosen by his parents, she begins to question whether the traditional approach to finding love might have something to offer.

Speaking about his involvement in the project Naughty Boy said: 'My parents are Pakistani, I was born here, I spent much of my teenage years thinking about opting for an arranged marriage'.

'Coming from the same background as Kaz I wanted to do the track justice. The film has this fusion of Pakistani and English culture which was exciting.'

What’s Love Got To Do With It? was written and produced by British filmmaker Jemima Khan, and is largely inspired from her life and experiences in Pakistan where she lived for ten years with her then husband, cricket legend and former Prime Minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan.

The film is directed by Shekhar Kapur, a fellow Pakistani filmmaker, known for the epic Elizabeth and its sequel.

On Thursday Lily shared a slew of fun holiday snaps as she reminisces on her girls' trip to the Maldives where the villa set her back £3,000 per night.

The actress looked like she enjoyed every moment with pal Gala Gordon during her time away from the spotlight.

Posting to her 3.3million followers, the stunner looked effortlessly glamorous in a posed picture by a tropical palm tree.

Brunette beauty Lily looked gorgeous with her cut-out black slinky dress which showcased her svelte waist.

While heading out for the evening, Lily slicked her tresses into a low ponytail which put her photogenic features to the forefront.

In another post, she put her best pout on as she stood on in the clear blue waters of the Maldives with no makeup on, instead adding a pair of cat-eye sunglasses and a black baseball cap to accessorise.

Taking to her Instagram stories, the star also showed herself sat in front of the beautiful sea as she took part in a yoga session.

Another picture showed her lounging set-up, with two sunbeds placed underneath an umbrella on top of the white sandy beach and perfectly blue skies.

During one of the evenings spent with her pal Gala, the pair got stuck into a game of tennis under the flood lights while wearing some sports gear.

And the pair took a playful picture of them posing under the moonlight wearing figure-hugging dresses on the beachside.

It comes after Lily failed to win a prize for her critically acclaimed performance as Pamela Anderson in the television drama Pam & Tommy, even though she was nominated for an Emmy, Golden Globe and Critics' Choice award.

'Found heaven on earth,' trills Lily, who's staying at the luxury Joali resort, where a standard villa costs more than £3,000 a night'.

What's Love Got To Do With it and it's soundtrack is released February 24