Lily is one of the Duolingo main characters. She is an introverted, unenthused, deadpan goth teen, who secretly cares a lot.

"On an emotional scale of 1-10, Lily is at a -4. Lily's perpetually unamused facial expression has one clear message: stay away.

If you check her Spotify, she *might* have Girl in Red on her playlist. Who needs therapy when you can just dye your hair?"

―Lily's official character bio on the Duolingo Instagram[1]

Stories[]

The New Boy

The New Student

Vacation Clothes

I Say Thank You

The Diary

Lily Draws

What's Your Name? Lily

The Art Homework

Burial at Sea

My Favorite Band

Two Tickets

A Nice Old Lady

Vacation at the Airport

The Best Grade

The Drawing

Zari, The Hairdresser

Lily's Painting

Move Your Bed

Space Vikings

A Dog Murder Mystery

The Drummer

I Like your Tie

This Isn't a Date

Clara's Party

I'm The Manager

The Refund

The Lost Costume

Lily's Cousin

Remove This Statue

Pirate World

My Card is Suspended?

A Walk in Nature

The Red Jacket

Princess Zari

Oscar's Day Off

Ramiro's Space Adventures

Lily the Interpreter

You Can Talk?

Character and Lore[]

From Stories:[]

Stories and the character's names may be different depending on your language.

Lily works at a clothing store, as seen in "The Refund", "Vacation Clothes", "You Can Talk", and "I Am the Manager"

Lily dislikes the sun, as seen in "Lily's clothes".

Lily's favorite color is purple, and prefers to wear purple clothing, as seen in "Lily's clothes".

Lily enjoys drawing and is very skilled at it, as seen in "The Art Homework" and "Drawing in the Park."

Lily does not dance, as seen in "What's Your Name."

Lily is allergic to horses, as seen in "My Horse Hates Me."

Junior really likes Lily, as seen in "Love Letter", "I Like Your Tie" and "This Isn't a Date."

Lily ends up being interested in Pirate Island, as seen in "Pirate Land."

In the story "You Can Talk", Lily has a dog named Rambo.

From Duolingo 2022:[]

Lily is described as an introverted and unenthused teen who secretly cares a lot.

Lily is implied to be of Spaniard ethnicity and has an Aunt named Tara.

Lily really likes pie, as seen when Zari says "surprising facts about Pi", she gets excited thinking Zari was talking about pie.

Lily loves the singer Angélique Kidjo. When Zari mentions that she's gonna participate in the show, Lily gets excited to point of blushing, with glowing eyes. Zari asks if she's okay, since it's uncommon for her to act like this!

Linda Simensky claimed Lily was sixteen years old in a segment of Duocon 2022.

From other media:[]

Lily refused to make a new year's resolution for 2021.

In the series “Living with Lily” which can be found on YouTube and Tik Tok, Lily has an obsession with music artist Harry Styles.

Her name is probably based on the German word for purple, "Lila."

Lily appears to write off Valentine's Day as "just another consumer holiday", though this might be a façade to conceal the fact that she actually enjoys it.

In the short "The kind of filter your mom uses", Lily has a cute pet cat.

In the short "The kind of filter your mom uses", Lily reveals that she refers to her mother only by her government name.

In Duolingo Music, she wears headphones.

It is unknown if Tara is the sister-in-law of Lily's mother or the sister-in-law of Lily's father.

She and Oscar are the only humans in Duolingo to appear in Duolingo Music. ( They also appear (with Duo) in Duolingo Math ads)

Lily has an aunt in Spain, and possibly other family, shown in the short "This is why Kissing is so Complicated."

the official Duolingo store has stickers, a figurine and a plushie of Lily.

As seen in Duolingo Max, you can call Lily (for learners who are at least on B1 sections and only for Spanish, German, and French) also including Roleplay.

Gallery[]