Akari Hizamaru (膝丸 燈, Hizamaru Akari) is a Japanese boy and a martial artist. After the death of his childhood friend, he chose to join the Annex Project to find the cure of the deadly A.E. virus that afflict the Earth. He is also one of the few people who were born Post-Surgery and inherited the Mosaic Organ.

Appearance[]

Akari is a muscular young man with short brown hair and brown eyes in season 1. However, at the start of season 2, his appearance changes; his black hair and brown eyes both turn to blue.

Personality[]

Akari is a cheerful and good-hearted human-being who dramatically believes in friendship and honor, always doing his best to keep his promises and genuinely caring for his comrades, especially Michelle K. Davis. Despite his comic and straightforward behavior, Akari has shown to be a fearsome warrior and a sharp strategist, saving even Michelle's life while fighting a special terraformar.

Family History[]

Akari is somehow the offspring of 4 different parents. Two of which are Zhang Ming-Ming and Nanao Akita.

History[]

Akari was first seen entering an underground arena in Bangkok, Thailand. The announcer started explaining his past and his reasons for being there. He seemed annoyed for having to hear it every time he came out in the arena. To his surprise, his opponent wasn't a fighter, but a bear. It attacked while Akari was distracted. He was reminded of his reason for being there and jumped on the fence of the ring to fire up the crowd, he then jumped on the back of the bear. But the bear was too mighty and threw him off, knocking him to the ground. The bear began eating him, and Akari remembered his purpose once again. He lost control and activated his bug transformation. He gouged one of the bear's eyes out. The bear swiped at him again, but Akari stopped the attack and then flung it with a shoulder throw. He leaped above it and crushed its skull with great force, instantaneously killing it.

After the fight, Akari was seen backstage beating some guys and asking them to tell him, where Yuriko Minamoto is. The guy said to him that they had sold her to Shokichi Komachi, who just entered the room. Akari quickly grabbed him and told him to give her back, but Shokichi said to him that she is already dead. In his anger, Akari kicked Shokichi in the face, but he was barely affected by that. Shokichi told him they had done everything they can for her, but it was too late. Then he invited him to join him and help the others with the same affliction as Yuriko. After hearing about the disease that took Yuriko from him and their plan to go to Mars for a cure, he agreed to join them. Exiting the building, Akari was crying from the news of Yuriko and saying that he loved her. That moved Shokichi, who was reminded of the similar fate of his loved one, also pushing him to tears.

Akari is in the hospital after receiving his surgery. To his surprise, it took him a whole week to wake up. After that, Michelle explained to him the usual survival rate of the operation, but they knew that his surgery would have a higher than average chance at success. Akari was surprised to learn that they got around 100 people for their mission with such a low survival rate for the surgery.

Powers and Abilities[]

M.O. Operation

First Stage After receiving a surgery base by M.O. Operation, Akari gained the skills of the Eumeta japonica, which allows him to produce very fine, flexible silk threads, but incredibly strong, difficult to see and that can not be cut by the Terraformars. He is also very skilled at using these various threads to weave things like a bulletproof vest and to be able to regain control of his squadron's ship while simultaneously pulling Michelle K. Davis out of the water. Common to all M.O. Operation, traits from the treehopper were used to gain an open circulatory system, armored skin and enhanced strength.

Inherited Traits of Bugs Surgery: Like Michelle, Akari was born with a base of the Bugs Surgery (two, in this case).

Akari proves to have great skill in various martial arts and combat; He combines his ropes with martial arts proving to be a deadly opponent even against special Terraformars. He is also shown to be an experienced swordsman, since he was from the Hizamaru Divine Eye school. Orchid Mantis DNA (by Zhang Ming-Ming)

After Michelle sacrificed herself to protect Akari, caused him to explode with anger, awakening the Orchid mantis DNA of Zhang (one of his mothers) from inside his body, transforming his arm into a mantis claw and producing toothed threads with mini mantis claws.

Gryllus bimaculatus DNA (by Shou Saito) Over-Metamorphosis When Akari returned to Earth, he submitted to C.B. Operation, thus gaining the ability to absorb the skills of those who possess an M.O. Operation, as was the case with Saito, Kyo Hyuga, Michelle and more recently with Shokichi Komachi.

Akari enters his over-metamorphosis chimera acquires twin poisonous stings in each of his hands, but also:

the ability to shoot his stingers as short-range projectiles and piercing, these stings grow back if they are given enough time (by Shokichi).

mantis claws on each of his elbows and to turn his head on himself (by Zhang)

a pair of silk butterfly wings (by Nanao Akita).

In addition to producing their own threads. In this way Akari was able to replicate the fighting techniques of Michelle, Sylvester Asimov, Zhang, Adolf Reinhard and Liu with which Shokichi could overcome that was being controlled by Kai.

He also has a great perception of the objects and environment that surround him, a clear example was when he learned that the base of the Terraforming that fell on the ship of the squadron was a Desert Locust.

Akari has also shown to be able to transform without using the drug when emotionally charged. Unfortunately, when he transforms himself into this state, he is very unstable since he has no idea what he is doing, only knowing that he needs to destroy whatever is in front of him. The only way to knock out Akari in this way is to force him to remember who he is or to knock him out. In his transformed emotional state, Akari gets bright red eyes and a much wilder appearance, granting him enormous speed, durability and strength to the point of decimating a Terraformars with his own hands.

Techniques and Weapons[]

Fighting Style[]

The Pensioner's Stance / Haggard Sword: Rudely using the sword as a cane and stressing his breathing, Akari then spring forth, passing the opponent to deflect and cut.

Double Hand Cannon: Akari delivers a strike with both hands to deliver internal damage, bypassing armor and muscles. With this technique he can replicates the effects of the Fa Jin.[1]

Equipment[]

Hizamaru: Akari has been issued an Anti-Terraformar Sonic Ninja Blade named Hizamaru for use on the Annex 1 mission. He uses the sword fighting style of the Hizamaru Divine Eye Dojo.

Hizamaru Shadow Strike: An Anti-Terraformar Belt Sword issued to Akari after joining Ichi Security. Akari normally wears this surround around his waist as a belt and can cause the individual segments to fly off and become joined by his thread into a single sword.

Etymology[]

The name Akari means "light, lamp, lantern" (燈).

Akari's surname Hizamaru means "knee, lap" (膝) (hiza) and "round, circle, pills, purity" (丸) (maru).

The name Hizamaru itself comes from the legends surrounding Minamoto not Raiko Yoshimitsu, one of the most famous samurai heroes of the early times. Hizamaru was the name of one of the swords associated with Yorimitsu, the other was Dôjigiri Yasutsuna. In the legend, Raiko killed a giant Tsuchigumo yôkai with Hizamaru, earning the nickname Kumo-giri (spider killer) for his Tachi. Modern scholars consider that Tsuchigumo was initially a derogatory nickname for the barbarian tribes and serious threats to the authority of the Imperial Court.

"Akari" is just the Japanese version of his name. When he was abandoned, he had a note in his basket that was written in every language. In each version, his name was different, though they all had the same meaning.

Trivia[]

References[]

Site Navigation[]

Annex I Squad 1 Shokichi Komachi (Officer) • Marcos E. Garcia • Sheila Levitt • Keiji Onizuka • Kanako Sanjo • Jared Anderson • Erika Nakanojo • Kaiki Kono • Jason Bourne Squad 2 Michelle K. Davis (Officer) • Akari Hizamaru • Alex K. Stewart • Yaeko Yanasegawa • Wolf Redfield • Peggy Fortie • Amelia Venkatesh • Ryuichi Robson • Ryuji Robson Squad 3 Sylvester Asimov (Officer) • Ivan Perepelkin • Elena Perepelkina • Alexander Asimov • Nina Yujik • Sergei Seleznyov • Aaron Yujik • Anastasia A. Politkovskay Squad 4 Liu Yiwu (Officer) • Jet • Bao Zhilan • Xi Chun-Li • Borgijin Dorjiberke • Hong • Zheng • Gao Jun • Li • Yoh Squad 5 Adolf Reinhard (Officer) • Eva Frost • Isabella R. Leon • Wac Ericson • Enrique • Sandra Hoffman • Antonio • Johann • Rachel • Mirapix • Fritz Squad 6 Joseph Gustav Newton (Officer) • Marcia