Ostersunds FK did not even exist when Arsene Wenger was appointed the manager of Arsenal 21 years ago, but they head into the biggest game in their history knowing they could deliver one of the crushing final blows of the Frenchman's time in charge by doing the unthinkable and knocking the Gunners out of Europe.

On October 26, 1996, Wenger took charge of his third league game as Arsenal manager, having been appointed as Bruce Rioch's replacement just a few weeks prior. Wenger's team beat Leeds United 3-0 at Highbury that day. The scorers were Lee Dixon, Dennis Bergkamp and Ian Wright.

Five days later, 970 miles away in a remote part of northern Sweden, Ostersunds FK was born. Formally founded as the result of a collaboration between three regional clubs - IFK Ostersund, Ope IF and Ostersund / Torvalla FF (OTFF) - the club would have to wait until 1997 to play its first competitive game.

Back in England, meanwhile, a 21-year-old young hopeful by the name of Graham Potter was steadily attempting to make his way through the professional ranks at Southampton.

Much has been made of Potter and the Ostersunds adventure in recent months. The extraordinary story involves the rise of a lowly provincial club through the ranks of Swedish football from the fourth division to the top level, winning the Swedish Cup and bringing Europa League football to a town whose entire 49,806 population would fit inside the Emirates Stadium.

For Ostersunds to reach the Europa League last 32 is extraordinary. No Swedish team has progressed this far in Europe since Helsingborgs in 2008. Ostersunds eliminated the mighty Galatasaray in the qualifying round and emerged from a group that included Hertha Berlin and Athletic Bilbao to reach the knockout rounds.

This game is thus being looked upon as the culmination of Potter's fairytale; the exiled Englishman returning to his homeland for a fitting end to a wonderful adventure. But is that accurate? Or is there more life in this sprightly young underdog yet? Can Ostersunds really knock out Arsenal - and if so, how?

Here are a few things Arsenal must be aware of and keep in mind if they're not to come unstuck.

What they're good at…

Make no mistake, Arsenal are rightly huge favourites for this game, and should progress with ease if you compare the clubs' respective budgets and wage bills. But football is not played on balance sheets. While Ostersunds may be minnows, they are no mugs.

Englishman Potter once studied for a Masters in leadership and emotional intelligence at Leeds Metropolitan University and his vision of management seeks to promote freedom of expression and risk-taking. All this helps explain Ostersunds' daring approach on the field.

The team are unafraid to try things and score a relatively high proportion of goals from shots outside the box. Arsenal's analysis team will no doubt be aware of this but allowing the likes of Ken Sema, Curtis Edwards, Hosam Aiesh and Saman Ghoddos the freedom to crank shots from distance would be a dangerous strategy.

Arsenal's midfielders will need to stay alert and close players down as a matter of urgency around the area.

Bring the energy

One major advantage for Arsenal heading into this Europa League knockout tie comes in the good fortune of the respective fixture calendars. For Arsenal, the game comes in mid-season, with everybody fully match sharp and no ring rust for Wenger to consider.

For Potter, the opposite applies. Thursday's game will be Ostersunds' second competitive fixture in 2018 and only their fourth since early November.

The Swedish league season finished in November. Since then, besides two Europa League games, Ostersunds have had to settle for a handful of friendlies and a Swedish Cup match last Friday.

Potter has had to balance the long post-season break and pre-season with the need to be fully prepared for a game of huge significance. That won't be easy. Furthermore, the end of season has seen important players like midfielder Fouad Bachirou and Gabriel Somi depart for pastures new.

Meanwhile, Arsenal have played 23 games in that period. Depending on your outlook, this either hands them the advantage of being fully in their rhythm, or the potential excuse of fatigue or a lack of freshness compared to their opponents.

It's tempting to conclude that the former applies, really. Arsenal should therefore look to play a high-intensity game from the get-go at the Jamtkraft Arena, and try to stun their opponents with a few early blows while they're finding their feet.

Arsenal's best opportunities

From a tactical point of view, Potter tends to favour a wing-back system which can often leave pockets of space in the gaps between the centre-backs of the the three-man defence and the wing-backs. They can be particularly vulnerable when Ostersunds lose possession and the wing-backs have pushed forward.

Players like Mesut Ozil and Henrikh Mkhitaryan would thrive in such space - if they play - and could cause chaos on the break. The Gunners are also blessed with players who can break at pace and should look to take advantage in wide areas. Defensively, Ostersunds are not the strongest - so cracks could appear if they're placed under pressure.

Beware Ken Sema

With nine assists and four goals in the league last season left winger Ken Sema emerged as one of the best players in Sweden, earning international honours in the process. His aggressive running, strength, energy and dangerous crossing mark him down as a player who could cause Arsenal real problems and a top performance will only increase the number of clubs interested in the 24-year-old.

A significant amount of Ostersunds' attacking play goes through Sema and their very talented forward Saman Ghoddos - another versatile, enterprising player who fits the Potter mould of self-expression and improvisation perfectly. Ghoddos bagged eight league goals last season and has five in the club's Europa League campaign so far, attracting interest from several high-profile clubs such as Ajax.

The pair are arguably Ostersunds' main threats, but Potter's side share the goals around and don't rely on any one player in an attacking sense. With that in mind, Arsenal should keep an eye on wildcards Jamie Hopcutt and Curtis Edwards too - both homecoming Englishmen with an eye for goal and a point to prove in a game that will no doubt live long in the memory for both.