Doubts had been raised over whether they had ever really been husband and wife.

But a legal document has emerged that proves Ashton Kutcher and Demi Moore were in fact legally married.

They had sparked speculation they had never truly tied the knot after failing to lodge divorce documents almost a year after splitting.

No Moore doubts: A legal document has emerged which shows Demi and Ashton Kutcher were legally married

But they are named as spouses in a new uncovered quitclaim deed, which is a legal instrument by which the owner of a piece of real property, called the grantor, transfers his or her interest to a recipient, called the grantee.

The paper, obtained byInTouch, shows that Demi, 49, gave up her claim to a piece of property in Los Angeles, a move that no doubt put a smile on wealthy Ashton's face.

The Striptease favourite signed the document in March, suggesting the pair may be finding their own way of divvying up their rich portfolio of assets.

Doing the deed: The document revealed Demi had relinquished her claim to some of his property

Demi announced she was ending their marriage in November amid a slew of cheating claims, and the Two And A Half Men star has now moved onto younger pastures with new love Mila Kunis.

Sources had told Radar Online that the former couple's Kabbalah wedding was merely a 'symbolic ceremony and not a legal marriage'.

The couple wed in September 2005 in a ceremony attended by 150 guests, including Demi's ex-husband Bruce Willis.

In happier times: Demi and Ashton, who were married for six years until their split last year, are pictured with the actress's daughter Rumer and Tallulah in 2007

After the pair split last year following allegations that Ashton, 34, cheated on Demi with party girl Sara Leal, the 49-year-old actress released a statement saying ending the marriage with 'great sadness and a heavy heart'.

Allegations: The couple's marriage ended after it was alleged that Ashton had a sordid fling with party girl Sara Leal

Hinting at her husband's infidelity, she said: 'As a woman, a mother and a wife, there are certain values and vows that I hold sacred, and it is in this spirit that I have chosen to move forward with my life'.

Demi added that it was a trying time for her and her family and asked for people to respect her privacy.

Immediately after the announcement, Ashton posted his own statement on Twitter.

He wrote: 'I will forever cherish the time I spent with Demi.

'Marriage is one of the most difficult things in the world and unfortunately sometimes they fail. Love and Light, AK.'

Despite their dignified statements, Demi was reportedly gearing up to battle it out over their $290m fortune after enduring public humiliation because of his alleged infidelity.

According to reports, Demi is worth $150m, while Ashton's fortune is said to be worth $140m.

Star magazine reported at the time that Ashton's work was a cause for contention between the pair and Radaronline quoted a friend close to the couple saying:

'Demi’s finally ready to move on after all these years because she’s sick of feeling like she can’t trust Ashton.

'Especially as his star continues to rise with Two and a Half Men, he’s become really vague about where — and with whom — he spends his time.'

However since the split there has been no sign of any divorce papers or showdowns in a court room.

Demi and Ashton's relationship was rocked when the Two And A Half Men star allegedly shared a night of passion with party girl Sara Leal, 22, at the Hard Rock Hotel in San Diego.

One big happy: Demi and Ashton pose with her three daughters, her ex-husband Bruce Willis and his new wife Emma Heming in 2008

Texas-born Leal sold her story on Ashton weeks after the fling, which took place on Ashton and Demi's sixth wedding anniversary, September 24, 2011.

Younger model: Ashton is currently dating actress and That 70's Show co-star Mila Kunis

Leal relived the sordid details of the night - including how they had unprotected sex - detailing that she had cavorted naked with Ashton and a gaggle of girls in a hot tub in the luxurious hotel suite.

She claimed Ashton told her he was separated from Demi before the actor tried to persuade her to have a threesome along with her best friend Marta Borzuchowski - but in the end he settled for a two-hour romp with her.

Speaking of the fling, she told The Sun: 'We had sex twice. Everything felt natural. We were having a good time. He was good, but it wasn't weird or perverted or creepy.

'He had good endurance. We were up for a while. It was about two hours.'

In the weeks after the story broke, Ashton and Demi made apparent attempts to heal their relationship with Kabbalah retreats, including a camping trip to Cachuma Lake near Santa Barbara, California.

The couple were accompanied by some close friends along with their Kabbalah instructor Yehuda Berg and photos emerged of the pair sat around an outdoor fire.

Demi, who was previously married to Bruce Willis, started dating Ashton in 2003. They married two years later.

In May 2010 Demi talked about wanting to start a family with Ashton in an interview with Elle magazine - something that never came to pass.

The actress has three daughter with her ex-Willis - Rumer, 24, Scout, 21, and Tallulah 18.

She has maintained a friendly relationship with the Die Hard star - even attending his wedding to underwear model Emma Heming in 2009. By the same token, Willis went to Demi and Ashton's wedding four years earlier.

Demi and Willis married in 1987 before divorcing 13 years later in 2000.

At the time of the split, Willis said: 'I felt I had failed as a father and a husband by not being able to make it work.'

Demi, who starred alongside Patrick Swayze in the 1990 movie Ghost, was first married to singer Freddy Moore.

They got hitched when she was aged 18 in 1980 and the relationship lasted four years. She still goes by his last name.

For Ashton - who was 16 years Demi's junior - the actress was his first wife.