Listennn... the Album is the debut studio album by American disc jockey and record producer DJ Khaled. It was released on June 6, 2006, by Terror Squad Entertainment and Koch Records. The album also features guest appearances from Fat Joe, Young Jeezy, Kanye West, Bun B, Trick Daddy, Rick Ross, Lil’ Wayne, Birdman, Juelz Santana, Slim Thug, Krayzie Bone, Chamillionaire, Trina, Twista, Freeway, T.I., John Legend, Akon, Jadakiss, Beanie Sigel, Styles P, Cool & Dre, Paul Wall, Pitbull, and Lil Scrappy, among others. Reviews for the record were generally positive, but divided over the production, lyrical content and Khaled as an artist. Listennn... the Album debuted at number 12 on the Billboard 200, selling 44,000 copies in its first week in the United States. The album was supported by three singles: "Holla at Me", "Grammy Family", and "Born-N-Raised".

The Runners are an American electronic and hip hop production duo from Orlando, Florida, consisting of Andrew "Dru Brett" Harr and Jermaine "Mayne Zane" Jackson. Formed in 2000, their foray into musical production was inspired by Timbaland and the Neptunes. Their trademark is an exhale sound effect echoing "Ahhh" at the beginning of their productions.

"Make It Rain" is a song by American rapper Fat Joe, released in 2006 as the first single from his seventh album Me, Myself & I. It features American rapper Lil Wayne, who only raps the chorus, and was produced by Scott Storch. The song peaked at number 13 on the US Billboard Hot 100. It was released through EMI, Virgin Records, and Fat Joe's Terror Squad Entertainment.

Algernod Lanier Washington, better known by his stage name Plies, is an American rapper. Born in Fort Myers, Florida, Plies was a wide receiver on the Miami Redskins football team of Miami University in Ohio for two years in 1995 before embarking on a musical career. After a brief transfer to University of Central Florida, he dropped out and signed with South Florida-based record label Slip-n-Slide Records in 2004; after four mixtapes, he signed a joint venture with Atlantic Records two years later.

"We Takin' Over" is the first single from DJ Khaled's second album, We the Best. Akon, T.I., Rick Ross, Fat Joe, Baby, and Lil Wayne are all featured on this hip hop track. Nate "Danja" Hills assisted the artists in writing the song and is also the producer.

The discography of Rick Ross, an American rapper, consists of 11 studio albums, one compilation album, 145 singles, one soundtrack, and 40 music videos. Ross's debut studio album, Port of Miami (2006), features two singles with "Hustlin'" and "Push It". Ross's second studio album, Trilla (2008), produced hit singles such as "The Boss" and "Here I Am". Ross's third studio album, Deeper Than Rap (2009), includes the singles such as "Magnificent" and "Maybach Music 2". Ross's fourth studio album, Teflon Don (2010), includes the hit single, "Aston Martin Music".

The discography of American rapper Birdman consists of four studio albums, one collaborative album, two mixtapes, 23 music videos, 48 singles, including 23 as a featured artist, and 7 promotional singles. In 2002, Birdman released his debut studio album Birdman under the recording name Baby. It peaked at number 24 on the US Billboard 200, spending 23 weeks on the chart. Three singles were released from the album; the first, "Do That...", reached number 33 on the US Billboard Hot 100, and the second, "What Happened to That Boy", reached number 45 on the same chart. The third single, "Baby You Can Do It", only charted on the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles Sales chart. In 2003, Birdman collaborated with singer Ginuwine on the single "Hell Yeah" and rapper Bow Wow on the single "Let's Get Down", which reached numbers 17 and 14 respectively on the Hot 100.

5 * Stunna is the third studio album by American rapper Birdman. It was released on December 11, 2007, by Cash Money Records and Universal Records. The album includes the productions from Kane Beatz, T-Mix, Cool & Dre, Young Yonny, DJ Tone, the Fliptones, Tommy Gunnz, Drumma Boy, Steve Morales and Raymond "Sarom" Diaz, among others. Rapper Lil Wayne has featured 7 out of 22 tracks throughout the whole album. The album debuted at number 18 on the US Billboard 200, selling 80,000 copies in the first week. To date, the album has sold 372,000 copies in the United States.

"I'm So Hood" is a song by American musician DJ Khaled featuring American rappers T-Pain, Trick Daddy, Rick Ross, and Plies, released as the second single from the former's second studio album We the Best (2007). "I'm So Hood" is one of Khaled's best-known songs.

"Speedin'" is a song co-written and recorded by American rapper Rick Ross. It was released in October 16, 2007 as the lead single from his second album Trilla. The song features R&B singer R. Kelly. The song is produced by production team The Runners.

Antoine Franklin McColister, known professionally Ace Hood, is an American rapper. Born in Port St. Lucie and raised in Deerfield Beach, Florida, he was discovered by disc jockey DJ Khaled and became the first act to sign with his record label, We the Best Music Group in 2008. Released in a joint venture with Def Jam Recordings, his debut studio album, Gutta (2008) was met with mild critical and commercial reception, but yielded his first Billboard Hot 100 entry, "Ride".

"Out Here Grindin" is the first single from DJ Khaled's third studio album, We Global. The track features American hip hop artists Akon, Rick Ross, Young Jeezy, Lil Boosie, Trick Daddy, Ace Hood and Plies. It was produced by The Runners and co-produced by Akon, with the hook written by T-Pain.

We Global is the third studio album by American disc jockey and record producer DJ Khaled. It was released on September 16, 2008, by We the Best Music Group, Terror Squad Entertainment and Koch Records. The album contains guest appearances from The Game, T-Pain, Bun B, Rick Ross, Ace Hood, Plies, Akon, Trick Daddy, Blood Raw, Brisco, Birdman, Lil Boosie, Nas, Kanye West, Fabolous, Fat Joe, Sean Paul, Busta Rhymes, Pitbull, Casely and Flo Rida among others.

The discography of American disc jockey DJ Khaled consists of thirteen studio albums which contain 54 singles ; his videography consists of at least 58 music videos. Khaled's value proposition is his extensive network of artists of whom he enlists to perform on studio recordings. While first accumulating such connections from his work as a live DJ and radio personality, he's since become known himself for numerous quips and phrases uttered on these records—many of which became Internet memes. Furthermore, his interviews, quotes, or other presentative qualities have often been described as "motivational" or "inspirational". Despite commercial success, the albums in Khaled's discography have often garnered largely mixed receptions from music critics.

Victory is the fourth studio album by American disc jockey and record producer DJ Khaled. It was released on March 2, 2010, under his imprint, We the Best Music Group and E1 Records.

"Welcome to My Hood" is a song by American record producer DJ Khaled featuring American rappers Rick Ross, Plies, Lil Wayne, and T-Pain from the former's fifth studio album We the Best Forever. The album also contains the remix of the song featuring Ludacris, Busta Rhymes, Mavado, Twista, Birdman, Ace Hood, Fat Joe, The Game, Jadakiss, Bun B, and Waka Flocka Flame. The song is Khaled's first single to be produced with The Renegades, Cubic Z & DJ Nasty and LVM. It was released for digital download in the United States on January 18, 2011.

We the Best Forever is the fifth studio album by American disc jockey and record producer DJ Khaled. It was released under We the Best Music Group, Cash Money Records and Universal Motown Records on July 19, 2011 instead of June 28, 2011. It is his first album to be released on a major label, his first four albums being released on the independent label Koch Records, which later changed its name to E1 Music.

"Take It to the Head" is a song by American hip hop producer DJ Khaled, released as the lead single from his sixth studio album, Kiss the Ring. The song features American singer Chris Brown, rappers Rick Ross, Lil Wayne and Trinidadian American rapper Nicki Minaj. The song was premiered via DJ Khaled's Twitter on March 26, 2012. It was later released for digital download in the United States on April 3, 2012. The single was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for sales of over 500,000 digital copies. Musically, "Take It to the Head" is a hip hop song with elements of trap from Nicki Minaj, Lil Wayne and Rick Ross, and R&B from Chris Brown.

Suffering from Success is the seventh studio album by American disc jockey and producer DJ Khaled. It was released on October 22, 2013, by We the Best Music Group, Cash Money Records and Republic Records. The album has guest appearances from Future, Diddy, Meek Mill, Rick Ross, T.I., 2 Chainz, French Montana, Timbaland, Lil Wayne, Drake, Chris Brown, Nicki Minaj and Jeremih. Producers include DJ Khaled, Boi-1da, J.U.S.T.I.C.E. League, Arthur McArthur, Timbaland, Streetrunner, Young Chop and Lee on the Beats.

Khaled Mohammed Khaled, known professionally as DJ Khaled, is an American disc jockey, record producer, and record executive. Originally a Miami-based radio hype man, Khaled has become known for his extensive curation of high-profile music industry artists and producers to record singles or albums. His distinctions are his booming voice presence, "motivational" abstractions, and numerous catchphrases. While his musical contribution is often questioned, Khaled's role has been described as "organization, direction, [and] promotion".