Not only there’s a new banner poster of The Gambler, the upcoming crime drama thriller movie remake directed by Rupert Wyatt and starring Mark Wahlberg:

(Click on the poster to enlarge.)

THE GAMBLER

One man, two lives.

Plot:

“Jim Bennett is a risk taker. Both an English professor and a high-stakes gambler, Bennett bets it all when he borrows from a gangster and offers his own life as collateral. Always one step ahead, Bennett pits his creditor against the operator of a gambling ring and leaves his dysfunctional relationship with his wealthy mother in his wake. He plays both sides, immersing himself in an illicit, underground world while garnering the attention of Frank, a loan shark with a paternal interest in Bennett’s future. As his relationship with a student deepens, Bennett must take the ultimate risk for a second chance…”

There are also two new preview clips from the film, watch them below:

The Gambler – Inappropriate relationship

The Gambler – You drink?

Let’s all sin with Mark Wahlberg! Hell yeah!

The film will be released on December 25, 2014.

:)

We’ve got our hands on a new full-length trailer of The Gambler, the upcoming crime drama thriller movie remake directed by Rupert Wyatt and starring Mark Wahlberg:

THE GAMBLER

The risk is worth taking.

Plot:

“Jim Bennett is a risk taker. Both an English professor and a high-stakes gambler, Bennett bets it all when he borrows from a gangster and offers his own life as collateral. Always one step ahead, Bennett pits his creditor against the operator of a gambling ring and leaves his dysfunctional relationship with his wealthy mother in his wake. He plays both sides, immersing himself in an illicit, underground world while garnering the attention of Frank, a loan shark with a paternal interest in Bennett’s future. As his relationship with a student deepens, Bennett must take the ultimate risk for a second chance…”

Have you ever gambled money? Did you get your money back and more? Or did you lose all of it?

Besides Mark Wahlberg, the film is also starring John Goodman, Jessica Lange, Brie Larson, Michael Kenneth Williams, and Alvin Ing.

In theaters: December 19, 2014.

:)

Let’s watch the first official trailer of The Gambler, the upcoming crime drama thriller movie remake directed by Rupert Wyatt and starring Mark Wahlberg, Jessica Lange, and Brie Larson:

THE GAMBLERPlot:

“im Bennett (Mark Wahlberg) is a risk taker. Both an English professor and a high-stakes gambler, Bennett bets it all when he borrows from a gangster (Michael Kenneth Williams) and offers his own life as collateral. Always one step ahead, Bennett pits his creditor against the operator of a gambling ring (Alvin Ing) and leaves his dysfunctional relationship with his wealthy mother (Jessica Lange) in his wake. He plays both sides, immersing himself in an illicit, underground world while garnering the attention of Frank (John Goodman), a loan shark with a paternal interest in Bennett’s future. As his relationship with a student (Brie Larson) deepens, Bennett must take the ultimate risk for a second chance…”

Well, The Gambler does look like a solid thriller movie. And I do want to see Mark Wahlberg’s performance, but am even more impatient to see John Goodman’s performance as a loan shark!

Anyway, here’s the film poster:

(Click on the poster to enlarge.)

The film will open in theaters on December 19, 2014.

:)

Here’s a first official look at The Gambler, the upcoming crime drama thriller movie remake directed by Rupert Wyatt and starring Mark Wahlberg:

(Click on the poster to enlarge.) Plot:

“A literature professor with a gambling problem runs afoul of gangsters.”

Besides Mark Wahlberg the cast also includes Brie Larson, Jessica Lange, John Goodman, and Michael K. Williams.

The release date of The Gambler is set to December 19, 2014.

Thanks to Paramount Movies, here’s a clip of the original movie (starring James Caan): Continue reading »