Michael Caine in 1965. The British-born actor, who has appeared in approximately 170 films over more than six decades, is a two-time Oscar-winner for Best Supporting Actor (for "Hannah and Her Sisters" and "The Cider House Rules"). He also has been nominated four times for Best Actor, for "Alfie," "Sleuth," "Educating Rita," and "The Quiet American."

Caine has also been a familiar face in the films of Christopher Nolan, including the "Batman" franchise, "Inception," "Interstellar" and "The Prestige."

"Zulu"

Born Maurice Micklewhite, Michael Caine spent his first decade as a young actor learning his trade, playing small theatres around Britain after he'd come back from combat in Korea. Despite his Cockney origins, he was cast by American-born director Cy Endfield as a posh officer in the 1964 war epic, "Zulu." The performance brought him international acclaim.

"If he'd have been a British director, even if he'd been a left-wing Communist, he would never have cast me as an officer!" Caine told "Sunday Morning" correspondent Mark Phillips. "I mean, I was a real rough cockney, tawkin' luhke that, you know? And so, thank you, America. You got me my first part!"

"The Ipcress File"

Michael Caine portrayed British spy Harry Palmer in "The Ipcress File" (1965). It was the first starring Caine as Palmer, created by novelist Len Deighton. After appearing in the films "Funeral in Berlin" (1966) and "Billion-Dollar Brain" (1967), Caine recreated the role in two 1990s TV movies.

"The Ipcress File"

Sue Lloyd and Michael Caine in the 1965 film, "The Ipcress File."

"Alfie"

Michael Caine played the title role of a womanizing Londoner in the comedy-drama "Alfie" (1966), based on the book and play by Bill Naughton.

"Hurry Sundown"

Michael Caine and Jane Fonda in Otto Preminger's "Hurry Sundown" (1967), co-authored by Horton Foote and set in rural Georgia.

"Get Carter"

Michael Caine became an embodiment of "British cool" in a streak of cult pictures in the 1960s and '70s, including the gangster film "Get Carter" (pictured), "The Italian Job," and "Pulp."

"X, Y and Zee"

In "X, Y and Zee" (1971), Elizabeth Taylor tries to undo the romantic triangle created when husband Michael Caine begins an affair with Susannah York.

"The Man Who Would Be King"

Sean Connery and Michael Caine starred as two adventurers who set themselves up as rulers of a mountain kingdom in "The Man Who Would Be King" (1975), John Huston's adaptation of the Rudyard Kipling story. Caine has named it the favorite of his 170 or so films.

Michael and Shakira

Caine is shown with his wife Shakira and their five-month-old daughter Natasha at Nice Airport, France, Dec. 26, 1973. Caine has another daughter, Nikki, by a previous marriage. He and Shakira both appeared in "The Man Who Would Be King."

"The Hand"

Michael Caine starred as a comic artist who loses an appendage in a gruesome accident in the 1981 horror film, "The Hand," one of Oliver Stone's first directorial efforts.

"Deathtrap"

Directed by Sidney Lumet, the Ira Levin comedy-thriller "Deathtrap" (1982) starred Christopher Reeve and Michael Caine.

"Educating Rita"

Julie Walters played a hairdresser who returns to university and teaches her alcoholic professor (Michael Caine) a thing or two, in the comedy-drama "Educating Rita" (1983), directed by Lewis Gilbert ("Alfie"). Both actors earned Oscar nominations for their performances.

Oscar-Winner

Michael Caine in 1986, the year of his acclaimed performance in Woody Allen's "Hannah and Her Sisters," for which he won his first of two Oscars for Best Supporting Actor. (The second was for "The Cider House Rules.")

"The Cider House Rules"

Caine plays an ether-addicted abortionist in the 1999 film version of John Irving's novel, "The Cider House Rules."

Academy Awards

Michael Caine reacts after winning Best Supporting Actor at the 72nd Academy Awards in 2000. Caine won the Oscar for his performance in "The Cider House Rules."

Academy Awards

Best Supporting Actor Michael Caine ("The Cider House Rules"), Best Supporting Actress Angelina Jolie ("Girl, Interrupted"), Best Actress Hilary Swank ("Boys Don't Cry"), and Best Actor Kevin Spacey ("American Beauty") pose with their Oscars during the 72nd Annual Academy Awards in Los Angeles, March 26, 2000.

Sir Michael

Michael Caine holds up his insignia after receiving a knighthood from Britain's Queen Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace in London on Nov. 16, 2000. The son of a London fishseller, Caine, who grew up in poverty, reverted to his real name and was knighted Sir Maurice Micklewhite.

"Austin Powers in Goldmember"

Beyonce Knowles gets a kiss from Caine, her fellow "Austin Powers in Goldmember" cast member, at the film's premiere in L.A., July 22, 2002. In the spy comedy, Caine plays Nigel Powers, the father of Mike Myers' title character.

"Austin Powers in Goldmember"

Caine as Nigel Powers in "Austin Powers in Goldmember." In casting Caine, Myers said his Austin Powers character was modeled on the spies Caine played in his classic 1960s movies.

Obsession

Michael Caine gestures during an interview at the Peninsula Hotel in Beverly Hills in 2002. In his book "Acting In Film," Caine wrote, "Not only is acting more than a part-time job, it is a more than a full-time job. It's a full-time obsession. Anything less and you'll fall short of the mark."

"The Quiet American"

Michael Caine plays Thomas Fowler in the 2002 movie adaptation of Graham Greene's "The Quiet American." The film, about early U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War, won critical acclaim and gained accolades for Caine, including his fourth Oscar nomination for Best Actor.

Golden Globes

Nominated for a Golden Globe for his work in "The Quiet American," Caine arrives with wife Shakira for the awards ceremony in Beverly Hills, Calif., Jan. 19, 2003.

Birthplace

Film legend Sir Michael Caine stands below the plaque he unveiled Wednesday Oct. 1, 2003, to mark his birthplace at the site of the former St. Olave's hospital in Rotherhithe, South London. Sir Michael told how he arrived 30 minutes early for the unveiling ceremony so he could drive around his old neighborhood and marvel at how "great" the area looked.

"Children of Men"

Michael Caine also contributed a haunting performance as an aging hippie in the dystopian sci-fi film "Children of Men" (2006). He reportedly based his character on John Lennon.

"Sleuth"

Director Kenneth Branagh is pictured on the set of his 2007 reworking of the thriller "Sleuth" with stars Michael Caine and Jude Law. Caine starred in the 1972 original with Laurence Olivier, and here plays the Olivier role as an older mystery writer confronting a young actor who cuckolded him. Harold Pinter adapted the script from Anthony Shaffer's original play.

"The Dark Knight"

Perhaps Caine's most high-profile film appearances of late have been as Bruce Wayne's butler Alfred in Christopher Nolan's reboot of the Batman franchise.

Cementing His Reputation

Michael Caine holds up his hands after applying them in cement during a ceremony at Grauman's Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles, Friday, July 11, 2008.

Nobel Peace Concert

Scarlett Johansson watches veteran British actor Sir Michael Caine speak during a press conference in Oslo, Thursday Dec. 11, 2008. Caine and Johansson, who appeared together in the 2006 Christopher Nolan film "The Prestige," were co-presenters for the annual Nobel Peace Prize concert.

ShoWest

Michael Caine and Sienna Miller arrive for the ShoWest awards ceremony at the Paris Las Vegas Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, April 2, 2009. Caine received the 2009 Lifetime Achievement Award during the motion picture industry convention.

Toronto Film Festival

Actor Michael Caine poses for a portrait during the Toronto International Film Festival in Toronto, Sept. 11, 2007.