A man accused of killing another man by hitting him in the head with a golf club during a brawl apologized Thursday at an emotional hearing before being sentenced to five to 15 years in prison. Robert Lloyd Lowry, 18, said he didn’t think before he acted on the day 18-yearold Justin Hussin of Wixom was killed. “I’m so sorry that a meeting at 3 a.m. to settle a dispute over basically nothing has turned to this,” he said. Hussin died during a brawl that broke out between two groups of young people in the early morning hours of Sept. 1 on Bell Coney Street in Wixom. Following an exchange of angry text messages, Lowry and others traveled from White Lake to Wixom for a confrontation that police say stemmed from a dispute at a Lil Wayne concert. Lowry was charged with second-degree murder, with an alternative count of manslaughter. In December, he pleaded no contest to involuntary manslaughter as part of a sentencing agreement that included a penalty of five to 15 years in prison. The original charge was dismissed.

There were close to 100 people in Oakland Circuit Judge Michael Warren’s courtroom when Lowry was sentenced, some of them crying and sniffling throughout the hearing. Several people had to stand because there was no place to sit. Hussin’s girlfriend and his mother, Janice Hussin, tearfully addressed the court. “He was just beginning his life, and you stepped in and took it all away,” Janice Hussin said. Janice Hussin said she wakes up every day praying that it’s Aug. 31, the last peaceful day of her life. She said Lowry, who fled after the brawl, was only sorry that he got caught. “You are a coward and deserve whatever the next five to 15 years brings you,” she said.

At Lowry’s preliminary exam late last year, an eyewitness said when he and Lowry arrived in Wixom, they found a group of people with baseball bats and golf clubs. The eyewitness said Hussin was holding a baseball bat and started to swing. He said Lowry picked up a golf club that had been dropped to the ground and took a “wild swing,” striking Hussin. Hussin fell to the ground and died. Wearing shackles and orange prison garb, Lowry said Thursday he used to think of himself as a macho guy. He said he has done soul-searching since the incident. “Look at me now. I’m not a tough guy,” he said. Warren said it was a terrible killing. He said a gang-like mentality that violence is a way to solve problems leads to prison and death. Friends and relatives of Hussin said he was a kind, compassionate person who was well-liked. Cindy Caldwell, whose sister lives across the street from the Hussin family, said Hussin’s nickname was “Justin-credible.” Caldwell left the hearing in tears. She said what happened is heartbreaking. “Five to 15 years is nothing for taking someone’s life,” she said. Defense attorney Steven Schwartz said his client’s apology was sincere. “Nobody won here,” he said. “It’s just so sad.” In addition getting prison time, Lowry was ordered to pay nearly $9,000 in restitution plus other costs.