Amazon Commissions Earned

The 1981 film “Reds“ will officially be getting a “40th Anniversary Edition“ Blu-ray Disc release on November 30th via Paramount Home Entertainment. The film, directed by, co-written by, and starring Warren Beatty, co-starred Diane Keaton, Jack Nicholson, Edward Herrmann, Gene Hackman, Paul Sorvino, and Maureen Stapleton. The movie, in 1982, was nominated for twelve Academy Awards (including “Best Picture”), and it won a total of 3 Oscars (including “Best Director”).

This has received a new 4K restoration, from the original negative, supervised by director Warren Beatty which was also approved by the cinematographer, as detailed below.

” … REDS, newly restored under Beatty’s supervision. The film was restored and remastered from the original negative in 4K with High Dynamic Range using a vintage print from the Paramount archives as a reference, which was approved by Academy Award®-winning* cinematographer Vittorio Storaro. “

As you’ll notice, there’s some mention of 4K and HDR (high dynamic range) there, which means that you can someday expect a 4K UHD Blu-ray — given they [Paramount] have gone to this much effort in the restoration process. The tech specs for the release have not yet been fully detailed, but you can expect a 1080p HD video presentation and a lossless sound mix. Stay tuned for an update on that. You can now find the Blu-ray available for preorder over at Amazon. The release will come with a digital code (copy) of the film. I’d speculate ahead of time that the digital version included might even be in 4K with HDR — as mentioned is available. Bonus materials set to be included with the release are listed below.

The new Blu-ray set boasts over an hour of legacy bonus content. Bonus content is detailed below:

Witness to Reds

The Rising

Comrades

Testimonials

The March

Revolution – Part 1

Revolution – Part 2

Propaganda

Reds Trailer

Further below, after the break, you can find the full announcement regarding this upcoming 2-disc “40th Anniversary Edition” Blu-ray release of the film.

PRESS RELEASE:

WARREN BEATTY’S IMPASSIONED AND TIMELESS EPIC CELEBRATES ITS 40TH ANNIVERSARY

Newly Restored and Remastered, Award-Winning Masterpiece Arrives on

Two-Disc Blu-ray™ Set November 30, 2021

HOLLYWOOD, Calif. – Directed, co-written, produced by and starring Warren Beatty, the masterful political and historical epic REDS celebrates its 40th anniversary this year. The story of a radical American journalist embroiled in the Bolshevik revolution mesmerized critics and audiences alike and remains as relevant today as when it was originally released on December 25, 1981.

On November 30, 2021, Paramount Home Entertainment will debut a new two-disc Blu-ray set of REDS, newly restored under Beatty’s supervision. The film was restored and remastered from the original negative in 4K with High Dynamic Range using a vintage print from the Paramount archives as a reference, which was approved by Academy Award®-winning* cinematographer Vittorio Storaro.

Punctuated by interviews with real-life activists and witnesses to the revolution, REDS became an instant classic, transcending time with its eternal tale of human passion, conviction, and frailty. In addition to Beatty, the film boasts an outstanding cast including Diane Keaton, Jack Nicholson, Edward Herrmann, Gene Hackman, Paul Sorvino, and Maureen Stapleton, whose performance won her an Academy Award® for Best Actress in a Supporting Role.

The engrossing depiction of the love story between activists John Reed (Beatty) and Louise Bryant (Keaton) set against the outbreak of World War I and the rise of communism in Russia, REDS garnered 12 Academy Award® nominations and won three**, including Best Director for Beatty, who also took home every other major directorial award of the season. The Oscar®-nominated screenplay was written by Beatty and Trevor Griffiths.

The new Blu-ray set boasts over an hour of legacy bonus content, as well as access to a Digital copy of the film. Bonus content is detailed below:

Witness to Reds

o The Rising

o Comrades

o Testimonials

o The March

o Revolution – Part 1

o Revolution – Part 2

o Propaganda

Reds Trailer

# # #

About Paramount Home Entertainment

Paramount Home Entertainment (PHE) is part of Paramount Pictures Corporation (PPC), a global producer and distributor of filmed entertainment. PPC is a unit of ViacomCBS (NASDAQ: VIAC; VIACA), a leading content company with prominent and respected film, television and digital entertainment brands. The PHE division oversees PPC’s home entertainment and transactional digital distribution activities worldwide. The division is responsible for the sales, marketing and distribution of home entertainment content on behalf of Paramount Pictures, Paramount Animation, Paramount Television Studios, Paramount Players, MTV, Nickelodeon, Comedy Central and CBS and applicable licensing and servicing of certain DreamWorks Animation titles. PHE additionally manages global licensing of studio content and transactional distribution across worldwide digital distribution platforms including online, mobile and portable devices and emerging technologies.

REDS

Street Date: November 30, 2021

U.S. Rating: PG