Thursday’s TV Talk

7 a.m. (ABC) Good Morning America Contributor Tory Johnson shares the best deals; “GMA’s” daddy-daughter dance competition finale. (New)

7:00 (NBC) Today Martha Stewart shares some back-to-school organization tips; Jenna Wolfe interviews the cast of “Royal Pains”; actress Patricia Clarkson from “Last Weekend.” (N)

9:00 (CBS) The Ellen DeGeneres Show Actors Andrew Garfield, Emma Stone and Jamie Foxx; musical guest Dan + Shay.

9:00 (FOX) LIVE! with Kelly and Michael Kelly and Michael are joined by actress Cameron Diaz, as well as actor Steven Yuen, and then Kelly and Michael go behind the scenes of their show. (N)

10:00 (ABC) The Doctors A mysterious illness that is paralyzing children is featured; Loni Anderson discusses her daughter’s health issues; domestic violence survivor makeovers.

10:00 (CW) The Wendy Williams Show Actor Mark Consuelos; chef Katie Lee talks about her Food Network show “The Kitchen,” and puts together a lean dish.

10:00 (FOX) Rachael Ray Travis Stork of “The Doctors” prepares a healthy smoothie; television personality Regis Philbin and celebrity chef Robert Irvine spin common staples.

11:00 (ABC) The View Jason Biggs and Sunny Hostin guest co-host; actors Patricia Arquette and Ellar Coltrane; Piper Kerman and Larry Smith.

11:00 (MY) The Steve Wilkos Show A father is accused of beating his three children and burning one of them with a blow torch, but he claims this is all being coached to the children.

Noon (MY) Jerry Springer A woman accuses her boyfriend of cheating on her, and he says she is just making him pay for the mistakes of her previous boyfriends.

1 p.m. (ABC) The Chew Singer Kellie Pickler guest co-hosts; recipes for ribeye with corn salad, and eggplant parmesan sandwiches.

1:00 (MY) Maury Montrice believes that sex is a sport and has no issues flaunting who she’s slept with; Amber is concerned that Shawn has been cheating.

2:00 (CBS) The Talk A reunion of the cast of “The Love Boat;” singer Jack Jones performs; celebrity chef Curtis Stone.

2:00 (CW) The Trisha Goddard Show A mother has been approached by two women claiming her dead son is their father; a woman wants to prove that her ex is the father of her baby.

2:00 (FOX) Bethenny Actress Lisa Rinna visits the set; Bethenny talks misbehaving friends that take advantage; advice on losing weight and shedding pounds.

2:00 (MY) The Test A woman claims that she is completely sure that a man she had a relationship got her pregnant before going on to marry another woman.

3:00 (CBS) Steve Harvey Meredith Vieira discusses her daytime talk show, “The Meredith Vieira Show,” set to debut in September; “Iron Chef” star Cat Cora; Marjorie Harvey on her blog.

3:00 (CW) The Bill Cunningham Show Concerned guests join the set to seek Bill Cunningham’s help after second-guessing the paternity of their children when unfaithfulness took place.

3:00 (FOX) Dr. Phil A man claims that his wife of two years refuses to sleep with him and the lack of attention has driven him to gambling and finding other women for the “rush.”

3:00 (NBC) The Dr. Oz Show Wendy Williams joins the show, and since she is about to turn 50, she shares three health tests that she believes every woman needs to have done.

4:00 (NBC) The Queen Latifah Show Actress Julie Bowen; actor and rapper Ja Rule visits the show; Queen discusses some the most important women’s issues of the day.

11:00 (CW) The Arsenio Hall Show Comic and actor Bill Cosby visits the show; actress Jerrika Hinton.

11:00 (TBS) Conan Actor Jason Segel; actress Cameron Diaz; actor Matt Walsh; music artist “Weird Al” Yankovic performs.

11:35 (ABC) Jimmy Kimmel Live Actor Aaron Paul; an interview with and performance by British singer-songwriter Ed Sheeran. (N)

11:35 (CBS) Late Show with David Letterman Director Mike Myers; singer-songwriter John Fullbright performs.(N)

11:35 (NBC) The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon Actress Halle Berry; actor Chris Colfer; musical guest Florida Georgia Line perform.

Midnight (KET2) Tavis Smiley Actress and comic Joan Rivers. (N)

12:30 a.m. (KET2) Tavis Smiley Actor Ed O’Neill; music artist Jennifer Holliday.

12:37 (CBS) The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson From “Aquarius,” actor David Duchovny; musical guest Gloria Estefan performs.