Sam Taylor-Johnson has shared a rare loved-up snap with her actor husband Aaron after she hit out at the 'fascination' people have with their age-gap romance.

The director, 57, who married her spouse in 2012 after they met on the set of Nowhere Boy three years earlier, is 23 years older than the actor, 34.

Taking to her Instagram Story on Monday, Sam wrapped her arms around her husband as the pair posed for a snap at Glastonbury Festival.

She sported a khaki Marfa Stance padded jacket for the picture, which had a fluffy collar drawstring sleeves and styled her blonde hair in pigtails.

Meanwhile Aaron showed off his full beard as he beamed for the snap and sported a denim jacket with a white t-shirt underneath.

Sam said in May that she can't believe the 'fascination' people have had with her and Aaron's 23-year age gap.

The couple have a fiercely private relationship and Sam has admitted people's initial interest in the couples relationship was 'intense' because 'people want to understand things when they can't'.

She revealed that the interest has now 'gone away a little bit' as the couple have been together for 14 years.

Discussing her relationship on BBC Radio 4's This Cultural Life, she said: 'I guess that interest was more when we got together, which was now 14 years – at the beginning, was quite intense.

'And that sort of fascination, because he's younger than me, which you know, we couldn't really fathom the fascination. But I guess it's sort of gone away a little bit.

'Mostly when I'm doing press and things like this it sort of resurges a little bit. But yeah, I guess people want to understand things when they can't.

'They want to pick up art when they can't fathom what a certain love story that doesn't fit in a box is.'

Earlier this month, Sam was asked if the couple's age gap ever shows in terms of different interests or reference points.

The director told The Guardian's Saturday magazine: 'No, it never does. I mean, it's coming up now because you're asking.

'And it comes up on the outside perspective of people who don't know us, because I guess people will always.

'We're a bit of an anomaly, but it's that thing: after 14 years you just think, surely by now it doesn't really matter?'

Back To Black filmmaker Sam is a mother to Angelica, 26, and Jessie, 17, who she shares with ex-husband Jay Jopling. She shares Wylda, 13, and Romy, 12, with Aaron.

Sam went on to reveal she never hesitated about getting involved with a much younger man.

She said: 'If I had been cynical for a second, it wouldn't have worked. If I had questioned anything, it would never have worked.

'I'm quite instinctual. I've gone feet first into everything in my life. I'm always, "This seems amazing", and I jump straight in and go through the experience, whether good or bad.

'It's definitely a "F*** it, let's go with it" approach. And I'm a great believer that the heart overrides everything. Love conquers all.'