Men of West Virginia, Volume II

Biographical Publishing Company

George Richmond, Pres.: C. R. Arnold, Sec'y and Treas.

Chicago, Illinois, 1903

Pages 435-436

WILLIAM A. LEWIS, cashier of the Bank of Smithfield, Wetzel County, West Virginia, was born June 22, 1875, at Broad Run, Fauquier County, Virginia, and is a son of Hon. William H. and Sue (Smith) Lewis, both of whom were natives of that county.

The Lewis family is of Irish descent, but the grandparents of William A. Lewis, William Lewis and his wife, who was a Miss Moorhead, were natives of Virginia. On the maternal side, the ancestry is also of the Old Dominion, the Smith family long belonging to Virginia’s first families.

Hon. William H. Lewis, father of our subject, member of the Virginia Legislature from Fauquier County, is a prominent farmer of that locality. During the progress of the Civil War, he served as a member of the famous Black Horse Cavalry and was one of General Lee's special scouts. He participated in many of the battles of that war, beginning with Bull Run, suffered imprisonment and many of the troubles incident to exposure when in ill health, but survived them all, and at the age of 65 years still takes a leading part in public affairs in his State. The mother of our subject is a daughter of William A. Smith and his wife, who was a Miss Glasscock, and a grand-daughter of William Smith, who was a brother of the noted War Governor of Virginia, Governor A. J. Smith. Mrs. Lewis was one of her parents’ seven children; several of her brothers served in the Confederate Army and met death in the service.

Our subject is the second member of the family born to his parents, viz.: H. M., of Charlottesville, Virginia; William A.; Richard, who is living on the homestead; Thomas, who died in infancy; and Fanny M., who is living at home. Mr. Lewis was reared in Fauquier County and was educated at the Bethel Military Academy, at Bethel, Virginia, where he was graduated at the age of 18 years. For three years he then was engaged in a mercantile business at Charlottesville, Virginia, and in the same line located in West Virginia. After a period as clerk in the First National Bank at Mannington, in 1897, be became associated as cashier with the Bank of Smithfield, a position which he has most capably filled ever since. This is one of the sound financial institutions of the county and Mr. Lewis’ conservative and careful course as cashier meets with general approbation.

On September 20, 1900*, he married Mae Robinson, daughter of John Robinson, of Smithfield. Fraternally he is connected with Mannington Lodge, No. 31, A. F. & A. M., and White Lily Lodge, No. 94, Knights of Pythias, of Smithfield. Religiously, he belongs to the Protestant Episcopal Church.

*Note: the Marriage-License indicates September 20, 1899 as the marriage date.