Tag: mass arrests in iran

Khuzestan : Ten Detainees Identified, Four Released

Human Rights Activist News Agency (HRANA) – Pursuant to the September 22nd armed attack on a military parade in Ahvaz, hundreds of Khuzestani Arabs in Ahvaz, Susangerd, and Hamidiyeh were taken by security officers to undisclosed locations. After recently identifying 179 of these detainees, HRANA has learned the names of ten more, along with the identities of four who have been released pending court proceedings.

The ten recently-identified detainees, still in custody, are below:

1. Karim Saedi, 31, married with two children, Hamidiyeh resident, arrested on November 3, 2018

2. Adil Mashali, 30, married with two children, Hamidiyeh resident, arrested on November 3, 2018

3. Mohammad Hazbawi, son of Mahdi, married, Ahvaz resident

4. Sadegh Lazemi (Jalali), 32, married with two daughters, Susangerd resident

5. Morteza Sharhani, 28, resident of Alavi neighborhood of Ahvaz, arrested November 4, 2018

6. Amin Zaheri Sari, 22, resident of Alavi neighborhood of Ahvaz, arrested November 5, 2018

7. Hotab Zaheri Sari, 57, resident of Alavi neighborhood of Ahvaz, arrested November 5, 2018

8. Ameneh Zaheri Sari, 24, graduate of the accounting program at Azad University of Ahvaz, resident of Alavi neighborhood of Ahvaz, arrested November 6, 2018

9. Saleh Tamuli Torfi (Munabi), resident of Alavi neighborhood of Ahvaz, arrested November 6, 2018

10. Abdullah Childawi, resident of Alavi neighborhood of Ahvaz, arrested November 6, 2018

Hotab Zaheri Sari is reportedly in need of medical treatment for gastrointestinal and disc diseases. As of the date of this report, no further information is available on their whereabouts or well-being.

Over the past few days, local sources reported the bail release of jailed Ahvaz residents Saeed Mohammad Saidawi, Sajjad Saylawi, Zawdiyya Afrawi, and Qaysiyya Afrawi. The four await further notification from Ahvaz Revolutionary Court.

Arrest Sweep Continues: Ten More Go Dark In Khuzestan

Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA) – Ten more Ahwazi Arab residents of Susangerd and Shush have been caught in an arrest sweep targeting civilians and activists alike in Iran’s southwest.

A September 22nd armed attack on an Ahvaz military parade is presumed to be the pretext for unexplained, unrelenting arrests in the region since that date. In its ongoing coverage of the arrest sweep, HRANA recently published the names of 169 detainees, reportedly only a fraction of those who have already been taken.

In the past few days, security forces have added to that list, sequestering a number of citizens in locations as yet undisclosed.

The ten most arrestees have been identified as follows:

1. Jasim Ghanemi Soveidi, age 27, married father of two, resident of Hajieh Village of Susangerd County

2. Halim Sawari, age 46, father of two, resident of Susangerd County

3. Aghil Sawari, age 20, resident of Susangerd County

4. Reza Sawari, age 17, resident of Susangerd County

5. Hanash Badawi, age 47, resident of Beyt Ahmad Almola Village of Shush County

6. Ayoub Morid, age 28, resident of Beyt Ahmad Almola Village of Shush County

7. Hassan Ismaeli, age 32, resident of Beyt Ahmad Almola Village of Shush County

8. Amir Badawi, age 45, resident of Beyt Ahmad Almola Village of Shush County

9. Mahdi Soveidi, resident of Hajieh Village of Susangerd

10. Hadi Rufe, age 25, resident of Beyt Ahmad Almola Village of Shush County

As of the date of this report, no further information is available on these citizens’ locations or the charges against them.

Wave of Arrests Continues in Khuzestan Province

Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA)- Over the past few days, more Ahwazi Arab citizens in the cities of Ahvaz, Hamidiyeh, and Shush were arrested by security forces and transferred to undisclosed locations.

They are presumed to have been swept up in an ongoing arrest campaign initiated by authorities after the September 22nd shooting on a military parade in Ahvaz.

In its ongoing coverage of the arrest sweep through Khuzestan province, HRANA previously published reports listing the identities of 130 detainees.

The most recent arrestees have been identified as follows:

1. Yusef Marvaneh, age 18, resident of Molashiyeh, Ahvaz

2. Abdullah Hayati, resident of Seyed Khalaf, Ahvaz, arrested October 27th

3. Nader Hayati, resident of Seyed Khalaf, Ahvaz, arrested October 27th

4. Mustafa Basiri, resident of Kian Abad, Ahvaz, arrested October 27th

5. Kazim Sayahi, resident of Hamidiyeh County, arrested October 27th

6. Mansour Askari, resident of Koye Alawi, Ahvaz city, arrested October 27th

7. Yahya Abidawi, age 28, resident of Hamidiyeh County

8. Qasim Abidawi, age 26, resident of Hamidiyeh County

9. Adel Zabi, resident of Koye Alawi, Ahvaz

10. Aref Abiat, resident of Koye Alavi, Ahvaz

11. Nader Sharifi, age 50, resident of Mollashieh, Ahvaz, arrested October 29th

12. Najm Haydari, age 30, resident of Koye Alawi of Ahvaz city, arrested October 28th

13. Rassoul Chaldawi, age 27, resident of Koye Alawi, Ahvaz, arrested October 28th

14. Seyed Fahd Alawi, age 24, resident of Shush County

16. Abdul Hamid Kanani, age 25, resident of Shush County

16. Amin Soleymani, age 27, resident of Shush County

17. Mohammad Abidawi, age 26, resident of Shush County

18. Valid Hayavi, age 28, resident of Shush County

19. Hassan Barsim (Kanani), age 24, resident of Shush County

As of the date of this report, no further information is available on these arrestees’ locations or the charges against them.

Arrest Surge Continues in Khuzestan Province

Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA)- In the past few days, a number of Ahwazi Arab citizens in the cities of Ahvaz, Susangerd, Shushtar, and Shadegan were arrested by security forces and transferred to undisclosed locations.

They are presumed to have been swept up in an ongoing arrest campaign initiated by authorities after the September 22nd shooting on a military parade in Ahvaz. HRANA previously published a list of 133 detainees in its recent update on this arrest sweep through Khuzestan province.

The most recent arrestees were identified as follows:

1. Anvar Ashouri, age 26, resident of Beyt-e Ashur village in Shadegan County.

2. Hussein Hamoudi (Sobhani), age 25, arrested by the intelligence office of Ahvaz on October 22nd.

3. Yahya Baravieh, arrested in Ahvaz on October 23rd.

4. Naji Salimi (Ka’abi), resident of Beyt-e Mahmood village of Shush County.

5. Yahya Salimi (Ka’abi), resident of Beyt-e Mahmood village in Shush Province.

6. Azim Shaverdi, resident of Shadegan County.

7. Ibrahim Shaverdi, age 31, resident of Shadegan County.

8. Khaled Albou Khanfar, resident of Shadegan County.

9. Ahmad Shaverdi , age 24, resident of Shadegan County.

10. Mahdi Shaverdi, age 17, resident of Shadegan County.

11. Adnan Khanafere, resident of Shadegan County.

12. Moslem Farajollah, resident of Shushtar city, married father of one, arrested on October 24th.

13. Mohammad Reza Jalali, age 26, resident of Kuye Abouzar in Susangerd County.

14. Rahim Aminpour (Heydari), resident of Goldasht in Ahvaz, arrested on October 24th.

15. Muhammad Saydavi, age 26, resident of Susangerd County, arrested on October 25th.

16. Mostafa Jalali, age 29, resident of Susangerd County, mechanic and married father of one, arrested on October 25th.

17. Mahdi Abidavi, age 25, resident of Susangerd County, arrested on October 25th.

As of the date of this report, no further information is available on these arrestees’ locations or the charges against them.

Khuzestan Arrest Campaign: 133 Victims Identified, Public Demands Transparency

Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA) – HRANA has confirmed the names of 133 Ahwazi Arabs swept up in an arrest campaign, a purported search for accomplices of an armed attack on a September 22nd military parade that left 24 dead and 57 wounded.

Held in the southwestern border city of Ahvaz in observance of the Iran-Iraq war, the parade was tragically interrupted by the gunfire of four assailants who were promptly killed by authorities. Having since attributed the tragedy to ISIS, the Iranian authorities recently launched a retaliatory missile attack on an ISIS base in Iraq. Security forces, seemingly in a continued state of urgency, have continued to sequester citizens across the Khuzestan province on grounds they have yet to disclose.

With no available information on how these would-be suspects could be linked to the armed attack or to ISIS, locals wonder if arrestees are being targeted for other reasons entirely. That detained hail mostly from the cities of Ahvaz, Khorramshahr, Susangerd, and Abadan; many have had prior run-ins with authorities, several on account of their civic activism; and almost all are Ahwazi Arabs, one of Iran’s ethnic minorities.

In response to allegations that they may be using the parade attack as a pretext for purging the region of civic activism, Iranian authorities seemed to hedge.

“There are no civil or children’s rights activists among those arrested,” said Khuzestan provincial governor Gholamreza Shariati on October 22nd, without making mention of arrest numbers. “We are making concerted efforts to avoid trouble for civil and political activists, and they have not been a subject of discussion. One woman is among those detained, but we have not detained any children.”

Local activists, meanwhile, feel that their comrades have inexplicably come under a scrutiny bordering on persecution. Human rights activist Karim Dahimi cited his colleague, Susangerd civil rights activist Lamiya Hamadi, as an example: “She is not, in fact, a religious activist,” Dahimi said. “Gholamreza Shariati admitting her arrest only corroborates the fact that civil rights activists are among those detained.”

Dahimi also scoffed at the governor’s claim that only one woman had thus far been detained, countering with examples of women who were carted off shortly after their family members: Faez Afrawi, who was detained shortly after her son, is now being held in an undisclosed location, and the wife, sister, and mother of detainee Adnan Mazraia, who are also being held incommunicado.

Regarding Shariati’s claims that no children had been arrested, Dahimi said, “it ought to be noted that the entire families of the four attackers were detained on the day of the attack, including their children.”

Save for a few insinuations that some detainees have been transferred to Tehran, arrestees’ inquiring family members have been suffering in radio silence from authorities. “No one has been released since the attacks began in Khuzestan,” said Dahimi. “What’s more, we don’t know where they’re being kept, or what kind of condition they’re being kept in.”

Not long after the attack, Iran’s Ministry of Intelligence announced it had taken 22 suspects into custody, broadcasting footage of blindfolded, unidentified detainees facing a wall. Now local sources estimate the number of those arrested has climbed well into the hundreds.

While arrest numbers rise and authorities play tactics close to the vest, public fears return to the possibility that security forces will coerce past offenders to “confess” to a role in the attack. In response to mounting public concern over scapegoating and discrimination, the Defenders of Human Rights Center, headed by Nobel Peace Prize laureate Shirin Ebadi, issued the following statement on October 21st:

“[…]Although state organizations have yet to give a report on the number of detainees or the process of detention, according to the families of detainees, over 500 were arrested between September 23 and October 22 and are held in undisclosed locations. The detainees are deprived of the most basic legal rights, including the right to legal representation or the right to family visitation.

The Defenders of Human Rights Center condemns the recent arrests and any illegal action taken by the security officials and the IRGC. The Center announces that such blind arrests and security measures only result in further unrest and certainly cannot shut down the voice of the protestors. The only path to achieving peace inside Iran is through being responsive to citizens and delivering on delayed promises, as well as through combating administrative corruption, existing “red lines,” and releasing all prisoners of conscience and political prisoners.”

Listed below are the identities of the 133 arrestees thus far confirmed by HRANA:

Khaled Abidawi, of the Shekareh Kut-e Abdollah neighborhood

Abu Shalan Saki, of Hoveyzeh

Ahmad Bawi, of the Zahiriyeh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Ahmad Timas, of the Shekareh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Ahmad Hazbawi, of the Kut-e Abdollah neighborhood

Ahmad Hamari, 29, holder of a bachelor’s degree, married, of the Mandali neighborhood of Ahvaz

Ahmad Haidari, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Ahmad Sawidi, of the Hujjiyeh village of Susangerd

Ahmad Krushat, son of Kazim, of Ahvaz

Osama TImas, 26, of the Shekareh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Omid Bachari, of the Muwilhah neighborhood of Ahvaz

Amir Afrawi, son of Fazel, of Albuafri village of Susangerd

Jader Afrawi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Jasim Krushat, 45, of the Alawi neighborhood of Ahvaz

Jafar Hazbawi, of the Kut Abdullah neighborhood of Ahvaz

Jafar Abidawi, of the Goldasht neighborhood of Ahvaz

Jamil Ahmadpour (al-Ha’i), of the Aziziyah neighborhood of Ahvaz

Jamil Haydari, 33, of the Northern Kamplou neighborhood of the Lashkar district of Ahvaz

Jamil Sylawi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Jawad Badawi, 26, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Jawad Hashemi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Hatam Sawari, of the Alawi neighborhood of Ahvaz

Hassan Harbawi, of Susangerd

Hussein Haidari, of the Alawi neighborhood of Ahvaz

Hamdan Afrawi, son of Abbas, of the Albuafri village of Susangerd

Khazal Abbas al-Tamimi (Fazeli), 30, of the Shayban village of Ahvaz

Khalil Saylawi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Daniyal Adel Amjad, 43, married, of the Mash’ali neighborhood of Ahvaz

Ramin Bechari, of the Muwilhah neighborhood of Ahvaz

Riyaz Zahiri, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Riyaz Shamusi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Zamil Haydari, of the Alawi neighborhood of Ahvaz

Sattar Kuti, of Hamidieh

Samir Silawi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Sohrab Moqadam, of the Darvishiyya Kut Abdullah neighborhood of Ahvaz

Seyed Jasim Rahmani (Musawi), 33, married with three children, of the Alawi neighborhood of Ahvaz

Seyed Jalil Musawi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Seyed Hamud Rahmani (Musawi), of the Alawi neighborhood of Ahvaz

Seyed Sadeq Musawi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Seyed Qasim Musawi, of Ahvaz

Shaker Sawari, of Ahvaz

Shani Shamusi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Sadeq Silawai, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Adil Zahiri, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Adil Afrawi, of Hamidiyeh

Aref Ghazlawi, son of Hanun, of Ahvaz

Aref Mughaynemi, 27, of the Hujjiyah village of Susangerd

Aref Naseri, 30, son of Aydan, of Kut Abdullah, Majd Kuy, neighborhood of Ahvaz

Abbas Badawi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Abbas Haydari, of the Shekareh district of Kut Abdullah

Abbas Saki, son of Abdali Sharhan, of Howeyzeh

Abbas Mughaynemi, 26, married, of the Hujjiyah village of Susangerd

Abdulrahman Khasarji, 32, married, of the Kut Seyed Na’im neighborhood of Ahvaz

Abdullah Siylawi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Adnan Sawari, of the Alawi neighborhood of Ahvaz

Abdulrahman Haidari, 19, son of Qasim, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Aziz Hamidawi, of the Muwailha neighborhood of Ahvaz

Aqil Shamusi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Alireza Daris, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Ali Saki, son of Amruh, of Howeyzeh

Ali Sawiydi, of the Hujjiyah village of Susangerd

Ali Shajirat (Abu Faruq), of the Muwailha neighborhood of Ahvaz

Ali Afrawi, son of Hamd, of the Albuafri village of Susangerd

Ali Mansouri, of the Hamidiyah

Ali Abaji, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Ali Alhay (Hiyawi), of Ahvaz

Ali Haydari, son of Shayi’, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Ali Sawari, 23, son of Chasib, of the Aziziyah neighborhood of Ahvaz

Ali Sawari, son of Ghazi, of the Alawi neighborhood of Ahvaz

Ali Kuti, of Hamidiyeh

Ali Mazbani, Nasr (Sawari), of the Alawi neighborhood of Ahvaz

Ali Mazraie, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Issa Badawi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Fars Shamusi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Fazel, Shamusi, of Ahvaz

Sadiq Haydari, son of Jasim, 28, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Farhan Shamusi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Fahd Niysi, resident of Ahvaz

Qasim Ka’bawi (Ka’abi), 24, of Hamidiyeh

Karim Majdam Abu Mu’taz, of the Kut Abdullah neighborhood of Ahvaz

Kazim Ghazlawi, son of Hanun, of Ahvaz

Lami Shamusi, of Hamidiyeh

Lamiya Hamadi, of Susangerd

Majed Childawi, son of Sa’dun, of the Alawi neighborhood of Ahvaz

Majed Haydari, 25, of the Northern Kamplou neighborhood of the Lashkar district of Ahvaz

Majed Sawari, of the Alawi neighborhood of Ahvaz

Maher Mas’udi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Mohsen Badawi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Mahdi Sa’edi, of the Hamidiyeh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Mohammad Sawari, son of Sabah, of the Alawi neighborhood of Ahvaz

Mohammad Amuri, 26, of Ahvaz

Mohammad Mohammadi (Ahyat), 22, of Hamidiyeh

Mohammad Mas’udi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Mohammad Mo’men Timas, 55, of the Shekareh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Mahmud Duraqi, of the Muwailha neighborhood of Ahvaz

Mukhtar Mas’udi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Murteza Bayt Shaykh Mohammad, son of Naser, 24, of the Hujjiyah village of Susangerd

Murteza Mughaynemi, 22, of the Hujjiyah village of Susangerd

Murteza Yassin, of Darvishiyya Kut Abdullah

Mostafa Sawari, son of Sahi, of Shekareh Kut Abdullah

Mahdi Kuti, of Hamidiyeh

Mahdi Mazraie, of the Abu Hamiza neighborhood of Susangerd

Musa Mazraie, of the Abu Hamiza neighborhood of Susangerd

Milad Afrawi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Naiem Haydari, 24, of Ahvaz

Nur Naysi, resident of Alawi neighborhood of Ahvaz

Hadi Abidawi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Wali Amiri, of Kut Abdullah

Yusef Khosraji, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Ahmad Amin (Qays) Ghazi, writer, researcher and cultural activist, of the Mellat neighborhood of Ahvaz

Khalid Siylawi, of the Mollashieh neighborhood of Ahvaz

Sajjad Siylawi, of Ahvaz

Seyed Sadiq Nazari (Abu Nabil), of the Al-i Safi neighborhood of Ahvaz]

Ali Sawari, son of Sahi, of Kut Abdullah

Fa’iz Afrawi, 30, married with one child, of the Albuafri village of Susangerd

Zudiya Afrawi, 55, mother of Fa’iz Afrawi, of the Albuafri village of Susangerd

Mohammad Ami Afrawi, married, of the Albuafri village of Susangerd

Qaysiyya Afrawi, mother of Mohammad Amin Afrawi, 60, of the Albuafri village of Susangerd

Adnan Mazraie, of Susangerd

Wife of Adnan Mazra’i, of Susangerd

Sister of Adnan Mazra’i, of Susangerd

Mother of Adnan Mazra’i, of Susangerd

Jalal Nabhani, of the Ameri neighborhood of Ahvaz

Khalid Hazbawi, 40, of the Kut Abdullah, Majd Kuy, neighborhood of Ahvaz

Mohammad Hazbawi, son of Abdulkarim, 30, of the Kut Abdullah, Majd Kuy, neighborhood of Ahvaz

Reza Bitrani, 34, of the Kut Abdullah, Majd Kuy, neighborhood of Ahvaz

Tariq Amiri, 24, of Kut Abdullah

Jamal Mujdam, 35, of Kut Abdullah

Hussein Subhani, 28 of the Khashayar neighborhood of Ahvaz

Rashid Krushat, son of Haj Musa, of Ahvaz

Hakim Krushat, son of Mannan, of Ahvaz

Ali Mughaynimi, son of Saddam, of Susangerd

Jawad Mahnapour (Afrawi), of the Albuafri village of Susangerd

Ahwazi Arab Arrests Continue in Environs of Ahvaz Parade Attack

Human Rights Activist News Agency (HRANA) – Eight more Ahwazi Arab citizens, including two women, join the ranks of 55 locals already scooped up by authorities in a haphazard arrest campaign, purportedly an element of investigation into an armed attack on an Ahvaz military parade that claimed the lives of several civilians on September 22nd.

On October 15th, in the villages surrounding Susangerd, forces from the IRGC Intelligence Department arrested eight Ahwazi Arab Sunni citizens identified by HRANA as follows: Fayez Afravi, 30, married with one child; Afravi’s 45-year-old mother; Mohammad Amin Afravi, married, together with his 37-year-old mother; Abbas Moghinami, 26, married; Morteza Beyt Sheikh Ahmad, 24; Aref Moghinami, 27; and Morteza Moghinami, 22.

Fayez and Mohammad Amin Afravi are residents of Albu Afri village in Susangerd, a source told HRANA. Abbas Moghinami owns a tailor shop in the nearby village of Hojjie that specializes in Arabic garments known as thawbs or dishdashas, and where Morteza Beyt Sheikh Ahmad and Morteza Moghinami are currently employed. All three were arrested while leaving the shop with Aref Moghinami.

Susangerd is located in Dasht-e Azadegan County, Khuzestan Province.

HRANA identified 55 prior arrestees in its recent reports.

Twenty-four civilians, including a four-year-old child, were killed in the September 22nd gun attack on Ahvaz; fifty-seven more sustained injuries. The four assailants were apprehended and killed.

Following the attack, Iran’s Ministry of Intelligence announced that it had 22 suspects in custody, backing their announcement with a video recording of blindfolded, unidentified detainees facing a wall. Local sources estimate that detainees number closer to 300, and hail mostly from the cities of Ahvaz, Khorramshahr, Susangerd, and Abadan. Most of the arrestees have a previous track record with police.

As authorities work to confirm which body or group may have masterminded the attack, public urgency to find closure is tinged with the concern that innocent arrestees will be subject to inhumane interrogation methods.

Amid Parade Attack Investigations, Ahvaz Authorities Arrest More Citizens

Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA)- Dozens of citizens were rounded up October 13th and 15th in the Malashieh and Kouy-e Alavi neighborhoods of Ahvaz, the capital of southwestern border province of Khuzestan now known as the site of a violent shooting on a military parade on September 22nd of this year.

HRANA has identified nine more Ahwazi Arab arrestees, who join the 44 already arrested as of September 27th: Mohammad Omuri, 26, Naim Heydari, 24, Aref Ghazalavi, Kazem Ghazalavi, Ali al-Hay (Hayyai), Shakir Savari, Shakir Savari, and Fadhil Shemousi, arrested Saturday, and Jassim Croshat, 45, a mechanic from Kouye Alavi in Ahvaz, who was arrested Monday, October 15th.

At Least 20 Detained in Series of Home Raids in Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad Province

Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA) – Over the past few days, security forces transported at least 20 residents of Dehdasht, Suq, and Charam — cities in Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad province — to an undisclosed location, for undisclosed reasons, and without producing an arrest warrant.

A local source told HRANA that Ministry of Intelligence Agents whisked away several local residents after completing unannounced searches of their homes. HRANA has so far been able to confirm the identities of four arrestees: Ali Sina Heidari, Zarir Hadipour, Farhang Khorshidi, and Persian literature teacher Bahram Sorkhabi (a.k.a. Poor Behzad).

A Dehdasht resident described the thickening of security forces across main transportation arteries of Dehsasht and Choram: “Agents of the Ministry of Intelligence, IRGC, and Basij have set up checkpoints along the main streets of the city, and along the roads leading to Souq, Yasuj, Behbahan, and Gachsaran.”

According to the Dehdasht source, the families of the 20 detained residents have thus far been met with silence from regional security and judicial authorities, who since the arrests of October 1st and 3rd have offered no information about their loved ones’ cases or well-being. “[The families] were threatened with prosecution if they publicly disclose information about the arrests,” the source said.

Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad, a province of southwestern Iran, is comprised of Boyer-Ahmad (capital: Yasuj), Bahmai (capital: Likak), Dena (capital: Sisakht), Kohgiluyeh (capital: Dehdasht), Gachsaran (capital: Dogonbadan), Charam (capital: Charam), Basht (capital: Basht), and Landeh (capital: Landeh) counties.

HRANA will publish updates on this case as soon as they come available.

Three released, 16 arrested and interrogated in string of crackdowns across northwestern Iran

Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA) – Three detained residents of Kermanshah, Paveh, and Marivan have been released on bail. In Oshnavieh, Kamyaran, Ravansar, Urmia, and Marivan, at least 16 individuals were arrested on charges of membership in Kurdish opposition parties.

According to the Center for Democracy and Human Rights of Kurdistan, on Sunday, August 6, 2018, Amir Hossein Darabi, a news correspondent from Kermanshah, was released on a bail of approximately $1,900 USD. Security forces had arrested Darabi Tuesday, June 26th for “criticizing officials of the Islamic Republic” by “investing and squandering money in countries like Yemen”.

Meanwhile in Marivan, Atta Fatahi, who had been arrested on July 11th for “cooperating with one of the Kurdish opposition parties,” was released on bail after 25 days of detention.

Soran Ahmadi from Paveh province had been arrested on the same charges on July 12th. He posted bail and was released Saturday, August 11th.

The same charge would also be the cause of more detentions on August 4th in Oshnavieh, where the Intelligence Office arrested Yousef Ahmadi from Tajoddinabad, Kurosh Azizi from Qarehsoghol, Mansour Omarzadeh from Dashtibil, Maqdir Mohammadzad from Singan village, and Abu Bakr Minapak from Sujeh.

In Urmia, Anzal resident Mohsen Alipour was arrested by security forces and transferred to an undisclosed location on charges of “propagating in favor of Kurdish opposition parties.”

A few days ago, plainclothes Kamyaran intelligence forces arrested two individuals — Farouk Mohammadi from Shahu village and Rahim Khateri from Shirvaneh village — for “contacting Kurdish opposition parties.” They were transferred to an undisclosed location.

Last week, Bagher Safari, 60, was summoned and interrogated at the Intelligence Office of Ravansar province.

In the first week of August, several more were arrested following inspections of their homes, according to numerous reports from Marivan: Mohammad Mamlekati, Mohammad Irankhah, and Mohammad Hosseini from Dari village; Osman Delaoviz and Mohammad Karami from Gouveizeh Kaviri village; Akbar Samadi and Jamal Ebrahimi from Marivan.