Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad is one of the southwestern provinces of Iran, which is famous for having pristine and stunning natural attractions, abundant rivers, and hospitable people.

History

The land where the current Kohgiluyeh and Boyer Ahmad are located has a long history, but the formation of this province with the current divisions of the country goes back to less than fifty years ago.

Boyar Ahmad tribe, which is one of the main residents of this province, gained a lot of power during the Qajar period and continued to consolidate its power through civil and ethnic wars for a long time. During the time of the first and second Pahlavi, parts of this province belonged to Fars province and parts to Khuzestan province, until from 1342 Khurshidi onwards, this region was assigned to the governor general and named as Kohgiluyeh and Boyar Ahmad, and finally in June 1355, it became a single province. became independent.

The name of this province is derived from the name of one of its natural manifestations; It means Jilo Mountain or Gilo, and the name of one of the tribes living in this area is known as Il Boyer Ahmad.

Geography

Kohgiluyeh and Boyer Ahmad provinces border Chahar Mahal and Bakhtiari provinces from the north, Fars and Bushehr provinces from the south, Isfahan and Fars provinces from the east, and Khuzestan province from the west.

This province has a mountainous and high climate, which is surrounded by Zagros mountains with parallel ranges, all over the north and east, and Khaiz, Nile, Black and White mountains in the southeast. Dena, which is one of the highest peaks of South Zagros, is located in this province. Maron, Beshar, Zohra, Khersan and Nazmekan rivers pass through this province.

weather

The special situation of rainfall and scattered heights has divided this province into two cold and warm regions with different climates.

The tropical region, which is located in the south and west of the province and in the neighborhood of Khuzestan, has a warm and semi-arid climate. Rainfall in this area is relatively low and cold and frost rarely occur. This part of Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad province is covered with mountain pistachio trees or "Bane" as the locals call it.

cool region is located in the north and east of the province and adjacent to Fars, Isfahan, Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari provinces. This part of the province, which is actually the southernmost part of Zagros, is covered with vast and beautiful oak and mountain pistachio forests, and is the source of large and abundant rivers such as Karun and Marun. In some places, the frost season of the region starts from September and continues until the end of March.

Despite its not so wide area, Kohgiluyeh and Boir Ahmad have a great variety of climates; That is, while in the cold season of winter, the cold part is covered with snow, in the tropical parts, all kinds of summer fruits and vegetables are cultivated.

The cities of Kohgiluyeh and Boyerahmad province

Until 1375, this province included only 3 cities named Boyer Ahmad, Kohgiluyeh and Gachsaran. But in the new country divisions, this province is divided into seven counties and 16 districts, which include 16 cities and more than 1700 villages.

Boyer Ahmad with the central part of Yasouj

Yasouj, which is located in the cold part of the province, is the capital of Kohgiluyeh and Boyer Ahmad province, and its inhabitants are the Lorhais of the Boyer Ahmad tribe. Beautiful and wild nature and many historical monuments are among the attractions of this city. The snow-covered heights of this city are the destination of tourists and winter sports lovers in winters, and its waterfalls and raging rivers are the most important attraction for tourists in the summer season.

The plains covered with overturned tulips are also one of the attractions that attract tourists to this region at the end of spring.

Teng Tamradi, Yasouj and Margun waterfalls and Kakan ski resort are located in this city.

Beshar River Coastal Park, Mehrian Strait, Yasouj Mountain Park, Gol Lake and Almon Valley are other natural sights of Yasouj and its surroundings. The archaeological museum of this city, which contains the recovered works from the archaeological excavations of the region, is full of ancient objects that tell about the ancient history of this region.

Kohgiluyeh with the central part of Dehdasht

Dehdasht is a city with many natural and historical attractions and is located in the tropical part of the province. The historical context of Dehdasht, left over from the Safavid period, was registered as a national monument in 1364.

Gachsaran with a central domed part

Dogonbadan is located in the southwest of the province and in its tropical region. Most of the people of this city speak Lori and Qashqai Turkish and before 1355 it was a part of Khuzestan province. The country's second oil field, numerous gas resources and water resources located in this city have made it famous as the "city of water and fire".

Dejsaliman Castle, ancient bridges of Khairabad, Eprem or Perin bridge, Khairabad historical village which includes water tank, fire temple, castle and four arches of Khairabad, remains of Dogur Dupa fire temple, Tal Dehu hill with nearly 5 thousand years old, Lishtar Dome and Shambrakan Castle It is among the historical places of Dogonbadan.

Dana with the central part is very hard

Dana is located in the cold part of the province and in the vicinity of Isfahan, Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari provinces. The high peak of Dena and the beautiful Siskhet waterfall are among the attractions that attract a countless number of nature lovers and mountain sports lovers to this region every year.

Bahamai with the central part of Likak

Most of the people of this city live in villages and its only urban part is Likak. Bahamei is the center of the oak forests of the province and contains many scenic areas such as Tang Sulak, Tang Magher, Baram Alvan Lake, Tarch River and Maroon Dam Lake, which will delight every tourist with good taste.

Choram

Choram city is the center of pastures and meadows of the province and the name Choram is derived from this natural feature of the region. Belqis spring, Choram historical castle, areas covered with almond and mountain pistachio trees, Keikom and sparrow tongue, and plains covered with carob plants, which are often used for medicinal and food purposes, are some of the sights that attract the attention of tourists in this region.

Basht

Shalaldon, Sarabiz, Kolge Amishkhai, Shah Bahram River, Baye Khoon, Abdehgah, Posht Kouh and Mahor Bashet are among the scenic areas of Bashet city and its surroundings. Also, one of the oldest living things on earth is an old cypress tree, which is located in Lar village, a suburb of this city. The age of this tree reaches more than 2700 years and its height reaches more than 40 meters.

Landeh

The white and black mountains, which are the famous heights of the region and the habitat of wildlife species such as brown bears, leopards, boars, Persian squirrels, and goats, are located around this city. The beautiful and unspoiled nature of Mogermon, the Maron River, and the Ablesh desert are among the sights of this city.

Residences

Eram, Simorgh, Pasargad, Parsian Azadi and Jahangordi Yasouj hotels are among the well-known hotels in this province.

local foods

One of the characteristics of the local cuisine of this province is the use of dairy products and grains in the dishes and their abundance of pleasant natural flavors. Shaleh Masi, Shaleh Shiri (milk rice), Shaleh Mashaki, Shaleh Badami, Kalehjosh, Ash Kardeh, local rice with mushrooms and lizek, local broth, Dempakht, meat of Qormah, Dengo Ash, oak bread and Berko bread are among the local dishes of the province.

restaurants

Gol Restaurant, Venus Restaurant, Bajnaqha Restaurant, Shandiz Restaurant, Mobin Restaurant, Shahr Pizzeria, 22 Bahman Restaurant, Shibani Restaurant, Bahar Restaurant and Shater Abbas are some of the restaurants of this province, most of them are located in Yasouj city. The number of restaurants in this province is not very high due to the rural context and the small size of the cities.

Handicrafts

Handicrafts of Kohgiluyeh and Boyer Ahmad province are also suitable for the geography, demographic structure, fauna and flora of those Illyrian and rural handicrafts. Jajim, gachmeh and mashte rugs, felt, woven fabric, needlework and tent weaving are handicrafts of this province.

souvenirs

The existence of vast plains, high mountains and steep hills has turned Kohgiluyeh and Boyer Ahmad provinces into a unique collection of edible and medicinal aromatic plants. Walnuts, honey, raisins, curds, honeysuckle, all kinds of prunes and dried fruits, oregano, artichoke and thyme are among the most important souvenirs of this province.

Customs

The people of Kohgiluyeh and Boyar Ahmad celebrate the New Year or Nowruz very elaborately. A few nights before the delivery of the year, in a ceremony called Khairat Neem Barat, a kind of halva made of milk, rice and black seeds is distributed among the neighbors.

In addition to special customs and traditions for courtship and wedding, mourning and religious rituals are also held in this province with special customs. Weddings are full of kerchiefs and fireworks that turn the event into a festival of color and joy. Also, mourning is full of sadness and symbolic rituals that indicate the broken hearts of the mourners.

Among the various customs and traditions that can be seen in this province, it is possible to mention Chale Garmkonun or preparing and eating the most delicious local food, which is done one day before the end of the year, and its inhabitants are used as a sign of warming the oven of life and welcoming good and They do a blessing in the new year.