It has been a Premier League season like no other, but one thing that has seemed certain pretty much throughout is that Liverpool are going to win it.

A first top-flight title in 30 years for the Reds will eventually be confirmed in the coming weeks when football can resume, but the question of where that title will be won is now refusing to go away.

With authorities considering switching some of Liverpool's matches to neutral venues in order to ease any concerns over breaches of social distancing guidelines, fans have been left wondering just when, where and how Jurgen Klopp's side could end up being champions.

The Reds would ideally like to do that at Anfield even if no fans can be present, but winning the title in other team's stadiums or even when you're not playing is nothing new in the Premier League.

Here is the complete history of how the post-1992 league titles were won.

1992/93: Manchester United

The game that sealed the title: Aston Villa 0-1 Oldham, May 2

Where the trophy was lifted: Old Trafford

United's 26-year wait for a top-flight title was ended thanks to a team from Greater Manchester, but it was relegation-threatened Oldham Athletic (who ended up surviving on goal difference) who beat second-placed Aston Villa 1-0 at Villa Park on May 2 to ensure that the Red Devils couldn't be caught at the top.

Alex Ferguson, not yet a Sir, lifted the trophy at Old Trafford the next day following a 3-1 win over Blackburn in his side's penultimate game, as United ended up champions by 10 points.

1993/94: Manchester United

The game that sealed the title: Ipswich 1-2 Man Utd, May 1

Where the trophy was lifted: Old Trafford

United had seemed to be away and clear at the top before two defeats in April, including one to a Blackburn side who were determinedly chasing them down.

But after Kenny Dalglish's Rovers dropped points to Southampton and QPR, United sealed the first leg of their double with a 2-1 win at Ipswich's Portman Road thanks to goals from Eric Cantona and Ryan Giggs, and they lifted the trophy after a 0-0 draw with Coventry on the final day of the season.

1994/95: Blackburn Rovers

The game that sealed the title: West Ham 1-1 Man Utd, May 14

Where the trophy was lifted: Anfield

On one of the more remarkable final days in Premier League history, Blackburn had started the action two points clear of United but with an inferior goal difference.

Despite suggestions that Liverpool would let Rovers win in order to prevent their fierce rivals winning the league, Jamie Redknapp struck a late winner for the hosts to secure a 2-1 success, only for Ferguson's United to blow it by only drawing 1-1 at an inspired West Ham.

1995/96: Manchester United

The game that sealed the title: Middlesbrough 0-3 Man Utd, May 5

Where the trophy was lifted: Riverside Stadium

The season of Newcastle's infamous 12-point lead, a horror run of five defeats in eight games saw Kevin Keegan's side blow their advantage, while Ferguson's were serene.

They won 13 of their last 15 games to set up a final day trip to Middlesbrough in which they had to "go there and get something" according to Keegan.

And they did, winning 3-0.

1996/97: Manchester United

The game that sealed the title: West Ham 0-0 Newcastle, May 6

Where the trophy was lifted: Old Trafford

Perhaps United's messiest title win, their total of 75 points is the lowest ever for a Premier League champion but proved enough as Newcastle, Arsenal and Liverpool all fell by the wayside.

United's 3-1 win at Anfield in April had all but secured glory, but it was confirmed when Newcastle were held to a goalless draw at West Ham in early May.

United drew three of their final four matches before beating West Ham 2-0 and lifting the trophy on the final day.

1997/98: Arsenal

The game that sealed the title: Arsenal 4-0 Everton, May 3

Where the trophy was lifted: Highbury

The Gunners had been 12 points behind United at the end of February - with some bookies infamously paying out on a Red Devils title win - but 10 wins in a row turned the tide and saw Arsenal wrap up the title in their final home game of the season against Everton.

They went on to lose their final two league matches at Liverpool and Aston Villa, but wrapped up the double with a win over Newcastle in the FA Cup final.

1998/99: Manchester United

The game that sealed the title: Man Utd 2-1 Tottenham, May 16

Where the trophy was lifted: Old Trafford

The first leg of United's Treble went down to the final day after Ferguson's men drew at Blackburn in their penultimate game, and hearts started fluttering when Les Ferdinand gave Tottenham the lead at Old Trafford.

But any thoughts that Spurs could do rivals Arsenal a favour were ended with goals either side of half-time from David Beckham and Andy Cole, as the Gunners were pipped by a point.

1999/2000: Manchester United

The game that sealed the title: Southampton 1-3 Man Utd, April 22

Where the trophy was lifted: Old Trafford

United's most dominant title win, a sixth success in eight years was secured with a win at The Dell just three days after a Champions League exit to Real Madrid.

Ferguson's side celebrated the win in their final home game of the season, and ended up 18 points clear at the top.

2000/01: Manchester United

The game that sealed the title: Arsenal 0-3 Middlesbrough, April 14

Where the trophy was lifted: Old Trafford

An Arsenal implosion at home to Middlesbrough in mid-April featuring two own goals secured the title for United, who were able to jog to the finish line and still win the league by 10 points.

They lost their final three games of the season against Derby, Southampton and Tottenham, lifting the trophy after the 1-0 loss to the Rams.

2001/02: Arsenal

The game that sealed the title: Man Utd 0-1 Arsenal, May 8

Where the trophy was lifted: Highbury

One one of Arsenal's most famous nights, and four days after winning the FA Cup, the Gunners saw off a Manchester United side that had to win in their penultimate game of the season at Old Trafford thanks to Sylvain Wiltord's goal.

They got their hands on the trophy three days later after a 4-3 win over Everton, as they ended the season seven points clear of second-place Liverpool.

2002/03: Manchester United

The game that sealed the title: Arsenal 2-3 Leeds, May 4

Where the trophy was lifted: Goodison Park

A 4-1 win over Charlton on May 3 meant that United had set Arsenal the task of winning their next two matches in order to set up a final day fight, but they fell at the first hurdle as they lost 3-2 at home to Leeds.

Ferguson's side lifted the trophy after a 2-1 win at Everton on the final day, a 15th win in 18 unbeaten matches.

2003/04: Arsenal

The game that sealed the title: Tottenham 2-2 Arsenal, April 25

Where the trophy was lifted: Highbury

They remained invincible, but Arsenal let a two-goal lead slip to draw against rivals Tottenham on the day they confirmed the league title at White Hart Lane. Not that they were too bothered about that.

They remained unbeaten in their final four matches before lifting the league title after a 2-1 home win over Leicester.

2004/05: Chelsea

The game that sealed the title: Bolton 0-2 Chelsea, April 30

Where the trophy was lifted: Stamford Bridge

Jose Mourinho's dominant Chelsea became champions when Frank Lampard notched a brace in a 2-0 win at Bolton on the final day of April, with the Blues winning a first league title in 50 years by 12 points.

They lifted the trophy in their next game at home to Charlton, having lost just once in the league all season.

2005/06: Chelsea

The game that sealed the title: Chelsea 3-0 Man Utd, April 29

Where the trophy was lifted: Stamford Bridge

One day less than a year later there was another title for Chelsea, with the league secured thanks to dominant win over second-placed Manchester United at Stamford Bridge.

Mourinho's side lifted the trophy after that game, and despite back-to-back away defeats to Blackburn and Newcastle in the matches that followed they still won the league by eight points.

2006/07: Manchester United

The game that sealed the title: Arsenal 1-1 Chelsea, May 6

Where the trophy was lifted: Old Trafford

United were back after a three season absence, with Cristiano Ronaldo's penalty winner in a Manchester derby putting them on the verge of the title.

That was confirmed a day later when challengers Chelsea could only draw 1-1 at Arsenal, after which Mourinho made 'chin-up' gestures to the visiting fans.

The two teams then played out a goalless draw at Stamford Bridge in the following days, before United lifted the trophy after a 1-0 home defeat to West Ham which kept the Hammers up.

2007/08: Manchester United

The game that sealed the title: Wigan 0-2 Man Utd, May 11

Where the trophy was lifted: JJB Stadium (now DW)

An excellent United side had been taken to the final day of the season by Chelsea after losing to them at Stamford Bridge in late April, but a superior goal difference always meant that Ferguson's side had the edge.

The Red Devils secured a 2-0 win at Wigan on the final day before lifting the trophy, while Chelsea drew at home to Bolton.

2008/09: Manchester United

The game that sealed the title: Man Utd 0-0 Arsenal, May 16

Where the trophy was lifted: Old Trafford

What had appeared a serene third title in a row for United was rocked by back-to-back losses against Liverpool and Fulham in March, before seven wins in a row inspired by Federico Macheda's winner against Aston Villa.

A resurgent Liverpool's only blip during that time was a 4-4 draw with Arsenal, and that allowed United the comfort of sealing and lifting the title with a home draw against the same opponents in their penultimate game.

2009/10: Chelsea

The game that sealed the title: Chelsea 8-0 Wigan, May 9

Where the trophy was lifted: Stamford Bridge

One point ahead of United going into the final day of the season, Chelsea just needed to beat Wigan to be champions. Instead, they thrashed them.

A Didier Drogba hat-trick, a brace from Nicolas Anelka and strikes from Frank Lampard, Salomon Kalou and Ashley Cole made United's 4-0 win over Stoke irrelevant.

2010/11: Manchester United

The game that sealed the title: Blackburn 1-1 Man Utd, May 14

Where the trophy was lifted: Old Trafford

A gutsy 2-1 win over title rivals Chelsea a week previously had moved United to the brink of reclaiming their crown, and a record-breaking 19th league title was won when Wayne Rooney's penalty at Blackburn ensured that neither Chelsea nor City could catch them.

Ferguson got his hands on a 12th league trophy after a 4-2 home win over Blackpool the following week, with that result relegating the Seasiders.

2011/12: Manchester City

The game that sealed the title: Man City 3-2 QPR, May 13

Where the trophy was lifted: Etihad Stadium

You'll remember this one.

United were actually sauntering to the title before a dramatic collapse in their final six games saw them lose to Wigan and City as well as drawing 4-4 with Everton.

That meant City had the initiative going into the final day, knowing that their superior goal difference would secure the title ahead of United, presuming the Red Devils won at Sunderland.

They had done just that, winning 1-0, when City struck twice in stoppage time through Edin Dzeko and Sergio Aguero to beat QPR 3-2 and secure the title in the most dramatic way possible.

2012/13: Manchester United

The game that sealed the title: Man Utd 3-0 Aston Villa, April 22

Where the trophy was lifted: Old Trafford

A year later, Ferguson was able to bow out on a high as United secured their 20th and most recent title with four games to spare when Robin van Persie scored a hat-trick at home to Aston Villa.

They picked up the trophy in Ferguson's final home game in charge against Swansea City on May 12, before a madcap 5-5 draw at West Brom.

2013/14: Manchester City

The game that sealed the title: Man City 2-0 West Ham, May 11

Where the trophy was lifted: Etihad Stadium

Steven Gerrard's slip against Chelsea may have swung the momentum of the title race, but City still had to beat Crystal Palace and Everton to take the initiative, which they did.

After Liverpool's determined attempt to make up the goal difference deficit at Crystal Palace ended in a crazy 3-3 draw, City's 4-0 win over Aston Villa two days later meant that they entered their final day two points ahead of the Reds.

Both teams won, ensuring that it was City who took the glory.

2014/15: Chelsea

The game that sealed the title: Chelsea 1-0 Crystal Palace, May 3

Where the trophy was lifted: Stamford Bridge

Nobody other than Chelsea ever looked like lifting the crown in 2014/15, and the Blues sealed their success with three games to spare when they beat Crystal Palace at Stamford Bridge in early May.

They eventually got their hands on the trophy three weeks later following a 3-1 win over Sunderland that marked the end of Didier Drogba's Stamford Bridge career.

2015/16: Leicester City

The game that sealed the title: Chelsea 2-2 Tottenham, May 2

Where the trophy was lifted: King Power Stadium

Leicester's remarkable success story didn't end with them on the pitch, as Tottenham's surrendering of a two-goal lead on a feisty night at Chelsea meant that no-one else could catch the Foxes with two games left to play.

After leaving Jamie Vardy's kitchen, they got their hands on the trophy in their next match, a home win over Everton, before rounding out the season with a draw at Chelsea to finish 10 points clear of second-placed Arsenal.

2016/17: Chelsea

The game that sealed the title: West Brom 0-1 Chelsea, May 12

Where the trophy was lifted: Stamford Bridge

Tottenham were again the only side who could mathematically catch Chelsea as the Blues went into their 36th game of the season at West Brom, where substitute Michy Batshuayi's goal meant that no-one could stop the Blues.

Antonio Conte's side went on to secure a 4-3 win over Watford and then lifted the title after beating Sunderland 5-1 at Stamford Bridge, where John Terry made an early exit after 26 minutes.

2017/18: Manchester City

The game that sealed the title: Man Utd 0-1 West Brom, April 15

Where the trophy was lifted: Etihad Stadium

A week after blowing a two-goal lead to lose 3-2 against United on a day when a win would have secured the title, City were crowned champions fairly quietly when bottom of the table West Brom won 1-0 at Old Trafford.

Pep Guardiola's men still had five Premier League games left, and after lifting the trophy following a goalless draw with Huddersfield on May 6, they finished the season with a record 100 points thanks to Gabriel Jesus' winner at Southampton.

2018/19: Manchester City

The game that sealed the title: Brighton 1-4 Man City, May 12

Where the trophy was lifted: Amex Stadium

In a relentless title race, City were required to win each of their final 14 matches of the season in order to fend off the run of Liverpool, who ended up coming short on a remarkable tally of 97 points.