A propos de cet article

COSTUMES AND WEAVING OF THE ZOQUE INDIANS OF CHIAPAS, MEXICO (Southwest Museum Papers No. 15), Donald Bush Cordry and Dorothy M. Cordry, softcover, illustrated with photos, drawings, charts, and maps, 1964 reprint of 1941 edition. BOOK CONDITION: fine. The text block is in fine condition with no dog ears, marks, or tears. There is no bookplate nor signature of a prior owner. This is not a library book nor a remainder. The beige wraps are in near fine condition. 9 x 6, 130 pages, 10 ounces XX [Wikipedia] The Zoque are an indigenous people of Mexico. They speak variants of the Zoque languages. This group consists of 41,609 people, according to the 2000 census. They live mainly in the northerly sector of Chiapas state, principally in the municipios and towns of Amatán, Copainalá, Chapultenango, Francisco León, Ixhuatán, Ixtacomitán, Jitotol, Ocotepec, Ostuacán, Pantepec, Rayón, Totolapa, Tapilula, Tecpatán, Acala, Blanca Rosa, and Ocozocoautla. They also live in the northern part of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, in the state of Oaxaca, including the Selva Zoque. Their language is also called Zoque, and has several branches and dialects. The Zoque are related to the Mixe. In the pre-Hispanic period, the Zoque lived throughout Chiapas, and Isthmus of Tehuantepec and parts of the state of Tabasco. They are hypothesized to be the descendants of the Olmec. They had a good social and commercial relationship with the later Mexica, which contributed to the economic prosperity of their culture in Chiapas. In 1494 they were invaded and defeated by the Aztecs, during the reign of Ahuizotl, and forced to pay tribute. The Spanish conquest of the Zoque lands commenced in 1523, under the leadership of Luis Marin. The Zoque were parceled out amongst the settlers, where they endured forced labor and were obliged to pay high tribute. Diseases, exploitation and the miserable conditions under which they lived contributed to a significant decrease in their numbers. The situation of the Zoque did not improve with Mexican independence, since they continued to be exploited by the mestizos and criollos. It was not until 1922, when they were assigned ejidos (common lands), that their living conditions improved somewhat. N° de réf. du vendeur 002340

Contacter le vendeur