UPDATE 11/15/2016 at 4:30PM

HSD / ISD Employees,

OIG has ramped up their investigations relating to the systematic falsification of assets on SNAP applications to avoid late expedites.

THIS IS A CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION: AFSCME strongly advises all member to CONTACT YOUR UNION REPRESENTATIVE BEFORE participating in any interview.

We understand the importance of getting to the bottom of this swamp. It will be unacceptable should frontline workers be scapegoated or held responsible for wrong doing that federal court proceedings revealed was directed from top levels of state government.

AFSCME HALL - 505-266-2505

OIG and the USDA are now individually investigating HSD/ISD employees for criminal and disciplinary misconduct.

Because of the nature of these investigations it is imperative that you request union representation prior to going into the interview.

The notification below is what employees are receiving prior to going into interviews.

HSD Stewards, if you are contacted regarding this matter, please call your union President for direction. For more info call 505-266-2505.

Background:

Solidarity!

City of Belen Blue Collar Employees VOTE AFSCME

Congratulations to City of Belen blue collar employees who organized and voted overwhelmingly to form a union with AFSCME on July 28, 2016. The secret ballot election was conducted and supervised by Belen’s Labor Management Relations Board at the public library.

Despite intimidation tactics employed by upper management, who talked down the union and distributed misleading anti-union “fact” sheets, the organizing committee held strong and maintained good communication with 17+ bargaining unit employees.

Belen blue collar employees, who work in Streets, Water, Wastewater, and Solid Waste departments, will now focus their energy on negotiating a first contract.

City of Belen Union Organizing Committee Members (L to R): Paul Dominguez, Henry Jaramillo, Kenneth Reese, Robert Chavira, Rex Chaney

“We decided it was time to be treated more fairly, to make sure we earn wages that our families can survive on, to speak up, and try to get rid of the politics that are negatively affecting our jobs. So we organized.” - Rex Chaney, organizing committee member and City of Belen Level II Water Operator

One issue which drove the organizing effort was the disappearance of a raise approved and funded by city council last year. “Council had approved $87,000 that would’ve allowed for a good raise across the board,” said Joel Villareal, AFSCME Council 18 staff representative and lead negotiator for the Belen blue collar employees. “Somehow that money vanished and everyone received a nickel an hour instead.”

Villareal appeared alongside organizing committee members at the Belen City Council’s October meeting to introduce the union to council members and express the workers’ hopes that high paid management consultants wouldn’t be brought in to complicate negotiations.

The tone of that meeting soured quickly when one councilman spoke out in favor of hiring outside consultants, and indicated he thought Brother Villareal was committing an unfair labor practice by coming forward with an intention to intimidate the council into not hiring a notorious consulting firm.

AFSCME’s position has been consistent that existing city human resources and legal staff have the expertise to negotiate effectively and in good faith without the need to enlist the support of expensive union busting law firms.

"These firms have a disincentive to finish negotiating contracts," said Connie Derr, AFSCME Council 18 Executive Director. "The longer negotiations drag out, the more money these firms stand to rake in. They don’t only aim to bust unions, they end up busting already strained government budgets too.”

Brother Villareal responded to the councilman by insisting that “bringing up a concern is not an unfair labor practice...we find it ironic that city worker’s tax dollars are being used to fight against them.”

Belen currently has a contract with the Holcomb Law Firm out of Albuquerque for management consulting over labor issues. Prior to the organizing effort, they had only billed the city $240 through the middle of 2016. As the organizing effort went into high gear this summer, the consulting fees shot up over 1000% to $3000 for a five month period.

“Labor negotiations will take some time,“ said Villareal. “Holcomb Law just had their contract renewed and will be charging Belen taxpayers $150 to $175 per hour to lead these negotiations. Historically, we get things done more efficiently when dealing directly with City management."

“City staff know the budgets and they know the lay of the land. Using the consultants, Belen is sure to rack up tens of thousands in bills during negotiations. That money could be better used to fund city operations, or pay for those cost-of-living raises which councilors have approved in the past and somehow vanished.”

###

Brothers and Sisters,

New Mexico can rise up on November 8th. I don't know about you, but I'm deeply troubled by the continuous and dangerous cuts to public services being pushed by Governor Martinez and her allies.

These cuts are holding New Mexico down.

Please make your plan to be a voter. Our UNION votes can tip the scales and help elect candidates pledged to protect our jobs from outsourcing, our pensions from becoming 401Ks, and our communities from cuts.

See our AFSCME endorsement list below. [DOWNLOAD Here]

We desperately need to elect leaders committed to supporting working families. That means voting for our endorsed candidates from the top to the bottom of the ballot.

These candidates answered the questions correctly. They will have our backs. They stand for unions, and they stand for our families.

VOTE!

In Solidarity,

Connie Derr, Executive Director

AFSCME New Mexico

Your Union endorses these candidates:

###

TWO MORE PUBLIC SAFETY UNITS ORGANIZE WITH AFSCME COUNCIL18

New Public Safety Locals Will Continue to Raise Bar for New Mexico

It has been a busy summer for AFSCME Council 18 organizers and the public safety workers who united to organize under the AFSCME flag, ultimately bringing strong worker rights to more than 106 public safety officers!

In a two-day election on July 25 and 26, Rio Arriba County Detention Center Officers voted 12 to 2 to join AFSCME Council 18, covering 18 detention center officers. And on August 18, Sandoval County Detention Center officers voted 40 to 4 to join Council 18, covering 56 officers, with an additional 32 officers on probation.

The Rio Arriba County election was conducted by the New Mexico Public Employee Relations Board (PELRB), which officially certified the election results at their August 9 board meeting. The Sandoval County election was conducted by the County Clerk’s office, in accordance with the Sandoval County Labor Management Relations Ordinance, and was certified by its Labor Management Relations Board on August 23.

Sandoval County Detention Officers gather following their victorious union election. (L to R) Anita Apodaca, Dora Castillo, Connie Derr - AFSCME Council 18 Executive Director, and Olga Esquibel

“Both of these elections were overwhelming wins for the officers and for AFSCME. The results tell you that in order to make a stronger, better–run facility, public safety officers must be at the table and in the discussion. With the extremely high vacancy rates and, in the case of Sandoval County where one-third of the officers have less than a year of experience on the job, the stability of a union contract will go along way to help with the retention and recruitment problems,” said Connie Derr, Council 18 Executive Director. “We are thrilled to welcome the public safety officers in Rio Arriba and Sandoval counties to the AFSCME family!"

Following these successful elections, AFSCME is gathering input from all of the bargaining unit-eligible officers for the first contract, which lay out all terms and conditions of employment.

AFSCME Council 18 Senior Staff Representative Rocky Gutierrez, who has bargained more than 25 contracts for Council 18 local unions, will serve as chief spokesman for the AFSCME Rio Arriba County bargaining team. “While County Manager Tomas Campos has publicly reported the county will spend (at least) $30,000 to fight the workers’ issues in negotiations, tax-payer dollars are better invested in its personnel and facility.”

Rio Arriba County Senior Detention Officer and AFSCME organizing committee member, Guy Jordan said that officers have been working towards this victory for 14 years.

“The County had been very skilled at disrupting our previous organizing efforts,” said Jordan, a 14 year officer for Rio Arriba County. “Commissioners and upper level managers are upset we’ve organized, and have said that our ‘union will cause nothing but problems.’ For the other officers and myself, the years-long problems of denying us overtime pay, failing to provide needed training, or avoiding the need to create vital safety policies, those are the only problems that matter and that we’ll be addressing through our union.”

Another RACDC officer and organizing committee member, Santana Bustamante, pointed to other health and safety concerns to be addressed through the bargaining process. “Staffing issues have caused the county to hold officers over for 24 hour shifts. We need a voice in order to stand up for what is fair.” said Bustamante. AFSCME points to research that says 24-hour shifts are dangerous for officers’ well-being and facility safety. British journal Occupational and Environmental Medicine researchers in Australia and New Zealand report that sleep deprivation can have some of the same hazardous effects as being drunk. Getting less than 6 hours a night can affect coordination, reaction time and judgment, posing “a very serious risk.”

Sandoval County Detention Center officers will also see vast improvements thanks to a collective union voice. Officers have for years expressed their concerns over serious health and safety lapses inside the facility. Exposed electric wires, painted over black mold, a burgeoning rodent population, and even documented brown recluse spider bites hint at the issues which Officers are demanding be addressed.

Officers raising health and safety issues in the past were subjected to disparate treatment or retaliation. AFSCME is investigating the justification for denying detention officers a funded July raise when other county employees received the retroactive raise.

“Primarily, what we organized for, and what we want is to have a better, safer work environment that is fair for everybody,” said Anita Apodaca, a 12 year detention officer and organizing committee member. “Addressing issues individually has been frowned upon. Now, as a union, our unity has grown stronger, and we hope to negotiate improvements.”

Rob Trombley, who serves as Council 18's public safety coordinator and has also bargained numerous contracts for Council 18 local unions, will serve as chief spokesman for the AFSCME Sandoval County bargaining team.

STATE HSD ATTORNEYS "APPROPRIATE" TO BE IN UNION

On August 5, the PELRB hearing officer issued his Report and Recommended Decision recommending Council 18's Petition for Clarification be granted for attorneys / lawyers in the Child Support Enforcement Division of the Human Services Department. The council filed the petition on October 22, 2015 for approximately 30 attorneys, after which the State unsuccessfully argued several motions, including whether AFSCME is the exclusive representative and that there has been no change in circumstance. The merits hearing was held on February 18 and May 20. The State has appealed the final decision and that appeal is heard by the PELRB on September 13.

The State used the same arguments for Council 18's March 8, 2016 Petition for Clarification for Home Health Aide Supervisors and Psychiatric Tech Supervisors working at the Los Lunas Community Program for the Department of Health, which the hearing officer has dismissed. The merits hearing on this petition should be scheduled after the September 13 Board meeting.

###

Union Brothers and Sisters,

Gov. Martinez and the House Republicans tried to balance the budget largely by cutting workers' pay and stealing from the pension fund. Thanks to your calls, emails, and AFSCME being at the Roundhouse throughout the session, our Democratic allies in the House and a bipartisan coalition in the Senate were able to stop pay-cuts, furloughs, layoffs, and pension raids -- for now.

State agencies must now figure out how to handle nearly $190 Million in cuts to this year's operating budgets. The 60 day legislative session beginning in January will be brutal IF WE DON'T TAKE BACK THE HOUSE in November!

This has gone on long enough! Here are three things every Union member needs to do right now:

JOIN PEOPLE HERE

Register to VOTE HERE

Go VOTE EARLY for UNION endorsed candidates

Gov. Martinez and House Republicans have succeeded in hacking public service budgets straight to the bone while coddling the wealthy and large out-of state corporations. Not one solitary tax loophole was closed. The rich and powerful friends of the Governor were held harmless from paying their share during this crisis.

"JOINING as a PEOPLE member allows us to increase the political power for everyday workers and our families.

Step up to the plate if you like your job! For the price of ONE cup of coffee a week, you'll help take back the NM House of Representatives for working New Mexicans."

- Ken Long - President Local 1211, Department of Transportation, Highway Maintainer

WE CAN pass fair taxation laws, and close ridiculous tax giveaways for the rich so that wicked and harmful cuts to public services end.

Gov. Martinez and House Republicans have bankrupted the state over the last few years, turning a healthy $300 million surplus into a $460 million deficit. Those of you working for the state or a university live through those cuts every day.

We must now brace for more cuts in 2017, because Republicans insist on not only keeping all the tax cuts they've given to rich Wall Street gamblers and out-of-state corporations, but they actually just voted to lower corporate tax rates further over the next few years.

Most agencies will now face cuts of 5.5% to this year’s budgets. University costs are going to go up, and every last bit of reserves and unspent money is gone.

We hate saying that one party or the other is to blame, but every single Republican in both chambers voted to lower corporate tax rates during this crisis as we struggle to keep public services afloat. Democrats voted overwhelmingly to make rich out-of-state corporations pay their fair-share and help solve Gov. Martinez' mess.

Instead of Republicans giving money to rich Wall Street players and big corporations, we should be taking that money and using it to prevent crimes by investing in the work that AFSCME members do, from CYFD to police to corrections to social services to K-12 and higher education.

To distract voters from the economic disaster Republicans have brought upon our families, Gov. Martinez will try to make this election about the death penalty.

Whether you agree with the death penalty or not, the truth is that New Mexico has only executed one person in the last 30 years and spent over $100 million on death penalty cases. As we attempt to solve this budget crisis, it is a huge distraction from the high crime and terrible economy Gov. Martinez, House Republicans, and Albuquerque Mayor R.J. Berry have created in New Mexico.

"I fight every day to protect and better the lives of New Mexico children whose lives have turned upside-down.

We don't have to take more cuts if we don't want to. We don't have to risk paycuts, cuts to our facility resources, or layoffs in the next fiscal year.

We cannot stand by and watch our state get driven into bankruptcy and high crime.

Join PEOPLE. GO vote on the entire House and Senate this year, and for governor in 2018."

- Ben Chavez, President Local 1536, YPO II, Intake Officer - Bernalillo County Youth Services Center

In Solidarity

The last day to register (or re-register at your new address if you've moved) is Tuesday, October 11th. You can go to www.sos.state.nm.us to register or re-register, but do it today, and make sure you have a plan to vote on or before November 8th.

###

Please step up and be ready for action by signing up HERE. We must be prepared and vocal in our support for legislators support us, like Leader Michael Sanchez, who always advocates for public employees and services we provide.

Governor Martinez's failed policies of cutting taxes for the very rich and out of state corporations and not investing in vital public services has driven our state budget off a cliff. Our State University system is weathering severe cuts. Vital services such has behavioral health and medicaid are being starved out. Public safety is being left behind and threatens to make our state less safe. People struggling with poverty have been systematically oppressed as the Martinez administration conspired to rob them of their food assistance.

This isn’t leadership, this is irresponsible and we all deserve better.

July 26, 2016

"If I'm working in the trench, and a valve blows, I know these guys have my back and will pull me out. Paying Union dues is the same thing...we must have each others backs." - Joey Sanchez, AFSCME Local 624 Board Member & Volunteer Member Organizer

AFSCME Member Organizers Build Membership and Local Power

AFSCME Local 624, Albuquerque Bernalillo County Water Utility Authority, Utility Techs, (L to R) Joey Sanchez, Robert Ramirez, Michael Brown

Member Organizers Spotlight

Santa Fe County Detention Center, Local 1413 President, Daniel Solis and Albuquerque Bernalillo County Water Utility Authority, Local 624 executive board member and activist, Joey Sanchez are the June / July volunteer members organizers of the month. They've gone above and beyond to build their Local membership, keep rank and file members informed, and help them find pathways for taking action to improve union careers.

Daniel Solis, President of Local 1413, Santa Fe County Detention Center, credits his fellow detention center officers for building the kind of solidarity and unified purpose which has led to his Local reaching a 99% membership level.

"Our Local had a rough beginning. We filed (and won) half a dozen labor charges against the county to let them know we were serious," says Solis. "By including membership in the tough decisions, we've set a direction for our Local that helped build solidarity."

Detention center employees voted to have AFSCME be their exclusive bargaining representative over another competing organization in 2014. Members who were active in the previous organization report that there is unification among the officers that hadn't existed before. Led by President Solis, Local 1413 executive board members and activists recently held a series of actions to build membership.

"We stood at the gates in the morning to meet and speak with members about the issues we face and how we are working to improve things," said Solis. "The organizing drive lasted a week, and we signed up 29 new members."

[NEXT UP for Local 1413: contract negotiations where Pres. Solis and his membership intend to push for a better retirement benefit and improved recruitment efforts by the county to address high vacancy levels.]

Joey Sanchez, Local 624 Executive Board, spent a long time working as a water utility operator before deciding to become active in his union. "I wanted to see more out of our contract negotiations team," says Sanchez. "But how could I blame those guys if I wasn't involved myself?"

Brother Sanchez began attending meetings and earned a spot on the contract negotiations team. That was only the beginning though according to Sanchez. "I began talking about the union at work. I told the guys, 'don't just trust me, trust yourself. Come to the meetings, make sure for yourselves that we're doing our jobs.'"

Brother Sanchez, a married father with two children, is a career water operator of 20 years. He draws a parallel between the dangerous work of maintaining a large water system and union activism. "If I'm working in the trench, and injured after a valve blows, I know these guys have my back and will pull me out. Paying Union dues is the same thing. Whether we're fighting a grievance, or negotiating for important contract language, paying union dues is the way we protect one another and watch each others backs."

Recent organizing efforts by Brother Sanchez signed up 17 new members for Local 624, ABCWUA.

"We've seen a lot of good careers disappear in this country," says Sanchez. "I plan to keep fighting through the union to protect the good jobs that remain. We have to continue the fight for our kids."

[Thanks to a strong membership, Local 624 - ABCWUA negotiations team recently struck an agreement with the employer which includes a 6.5% hourly wage increase over three years]

###

AFSCME Council 18 News

*update May 13, 2016

"It's ALL coming from Santa Fe" That was the testimony that rang out loud and clear from Judge Garza's U.S District Court today in Las Cruces as State Employees, one after another, testified under oath that the Human Services Department is directing people to violate federal law by denying Medicaid and Food Assistance to New Mexico People in need.

97! That is the number times Deputy Secretary of Child Support Laura Galindo, Income Support Division Director Marilynn Martinez, and ISD County Director Emily Floyd invoked the 5th amendment to avoid self incrimination when asked questions regarding several alleged violations of Federal Law around the failure to deliver medicaid and food assitance.

Full Update Later...

AFSCME Council 18 News

*updated May 12, 2016

Las Cruces, NM - New Mexico's public safety-net systems continue to flounder under the Governor Martinez Administration. Evidence is mounting that deliberate and not accidental neglect by administration officials is to blame.

In an April 8 column New Mexico Behavioral Health Suspension Was 'A Manufactured Crisis,' U.S. Senator Martin Heinrich calls for a Federal investigation into what led to the false accusations of 15 behavioral health service providers.

AFSCME couldn't agree more, the Martinez administration needs higher level oversight at several agencies, and behavioral health is only the tip of the iceberg.

On Friday, May 13, during a U.S. Federal District Court hearing in Las Cruces, the New Mexico Center for Law and Poverty will finish laying out a case that the Human Services Department (HSD) needs a federal monitor. A Federal monitor's oversight will ensure there is no funny business taking place when hungry people apply for medical or food assistance.

AFSCME Income Support Division employees have stepped forward to blow the whistle and testify to ongoing and inappropriate practices that violate federal law and are resulting in people being wrongly kicked-off the roles for Medicaid or denied expedited food assistance.

The testimony is being heard as part of a federal case requesting the appointment of an expert to oversee certain divisions of HSD to ensure the State of New Mexico is exercising due diligence in its efforts to abide by the 1991 Federal Court order to bring basic processing of medical and food assistance benefits into compliance with federal law.

The allegations, which are arising from every corner of the state, say that high-level administration officials are directing lower level management to falsify application information to make New Mexico's numbers look favorable to avoid Federal scrutiny.

"There is a lot of fear and intimidation discouraging employees to testify about the questionable inner workings of New Mexico's Medicaid and food assistance programs," said Chris Armijo, AFSCME staff representative. "But that hasn't stopped all of our Family Assistance Analysts (FAAs) from doing the righteous thing by stepping forward and testifying in Federal Court."

On the heels of the April 28, 2016, Court hearing, the Human Services Department announced their own Office of Inspector General (OIG) investigation. AFSCME had concerns over the OIG investigation, believing it would only lead to further intimidation. In fact, the inspector general has been conducting unbiased and fair interviews with HSD employees. In addition to the Inspector General's investigation, the State Auditor Keller also announced his office would conduct a separate and independent investigation into the allegations.

On April 28, 2016, five Human Service Department / Income Support Division employees testified in United States District Court to the truth about what is happening inside the SNAP and Medicaid application process.

ISD employees are directed by high level Martinez administration officials to falsify assets of people applying for expedited food stamps.

Hearing ends after High level Martinez administration deputy director goes to consult attorney on whether or not to invoke 5th Amendment against self-incrimination

Even though these five brave AFSCME state employees -- including a line-manager -- are under federal subpoena and have whistleblower protection, AFSCME has serious concerns about retaliation.

$400K has been allocated to improve salaries for higher level management. AFSCME members are expressing their opinion that those positions are not truly hard to recruit or retain and not an appropriate use of the department’s limited budget resources.

Nowhere in the plan does it address the remaining 489 COs currently on the job who are theoretically making above minimum, but possibly well below the new midpoint.

During his presentation at the May 11, 2016 Legislative Finance Committee meeting in Santa Fe, Justin Najaka, Director of State Personnel Office, acknowledged that wage compaction between newer COs and career COs is an issue that his office would be addressing with future budget requests for the fiscal year 2018 budget.

Senator Carlos R. Cisneros (D-Questa) applauded the action by SPO to raise the compensation for the lowest paid at corrections, but also cautioned that the plan will result in some negative consequences due to mid-level paid employees who will see no raise whatsoever.

New Mexico Corrections Department officials told AFSCME today that their intention is to return to the legislature and request further funding to raise up career employees left behind by this first phase implementation.

In many cases, this newly launched plan will lift newer employees to a pay level equal to far more experienced officers who they're working alongside.

Cabinet Secretary Gregg Marcantel appeared before the legislature in early 2016 to lobby for the increased funding for NMCD. The Secretary said at the time, “...for the love of god” he needed this funding to avoid a catastrophic failure within the system.

AFSCME appreciates the essential task to raise wages for our newest and incoming Correctional Officers immediately. However, SPOs choice to include upper level management in the plan to boost salaries and avoid altogether long serving COs below midpoint is negligent.

The specter of leaving 489 dedicated COs behind, who deserve and have earned a competitive pay raise, should scare the hell out of anyone who has been paying attention to the realities within our crowded, understaffed, and under-maintained prisons.

###

AFSCME New Mexico Public Safety members helped to produce this documentary about the true spirit of law enforcement in America.

Local 601 President Adam Keck and Local 923 President Sammy Marquez assisted in production for the New Mexico filming, recruited community members to appear in the filming, and appear in the final production.

Proud To Protect and Serve

AFSCME Law Enforcement Documentary

AFSCME Council 18 is glad to share this film with you today in honor of National Police Week, and in memory of dedicated Peace Officers who have lost their lives in the line of duty.

Peace Officers Memorial Day is May 15th.

In Unity

Nowhere in the plan does it address the remaining 489 COs currently on the job who are theoretically making above minimum, but possibly well below the new midpoint.

New Mexico Corrections Department officials told AFSCME today that their intention is to return to the legislature and request further funding to raise up career employees left behind by this first phase implementation.

In many cases, this newly launched plan will lift newer employees to a pay level equal to far more experienced officers who they're working alongside.

Cabinet Secretary Gregg Marcantel appeared before the legislature in early 2016 to lobby for the increased funding for NMCD. The Secretary said at the time, “...for the love of god” he needed this funding to avoid a catastrophic failure within the system.

AFSCME appreciates the essential task to raise wages for our newest and incoming Correctional Officers immediately. However, SPOs choice to include upper level management in the plan to boost salaries and avoid altogether long serving COs below midpoint is negligent.

The specter of leaving 489 dedicated COs behind, who deserve and have earned a competitive pay raise, should scare the hell out of anyone who has been paying attention to the realities within our crowded, understaffed, and under-maintained prisons.

###

We know that the road has been long, that change has come too slow, and that Income Support Division (ISD) staff are under unacceptable pressures to do their jobs in the face of systematic ambush.

AFSCME has send this letter to the USDA requesting they investigate the systemic failures that have gone unaddressed by the Martinez administration for too long.

CLICK to DOWNLOAD the AFSCME letter (PDF).

CLICK here to READ about the April 28 Court case where New Mexico Center for Law and Poverty is requesting a Federal Monitor to oversee ISD. AFSCME members and ISD staff are under federal subpeona to reveal the truth of what is happening within the system.

Watch this page for updates following the Federal Court hearing.

April 11, 2016

For immediate release

contact Miles Conway

505-455-2853

New Mexico Labor Celebrates Obama Designation of New National Monument

Belmont-Paul Women’s Equality National Monument was Birth Site of 19th Amendment - Women's Right to Vote

40 New Mexico leading women send letter of thanks to President Obama for historic action

The New Mexico Federation of Labor, AFSCME New Mexico, and AFT New Mexico are joining leaders from across New Mexico and the nation in celebration of President Obama’s announcement to establish the Belmont-Paul Women’s Equality National Monument as a unit of the National Park Service.

The Belmont-Paul Women’s Equality National Monument was the site from which Alice Paul, one of the greatest women’s rights advocates and political strategists in American history, led the National Woman’s Party in securing the right for women to vote through the passage and ratification of the 19th amendment in 1919-1920.

As a National Monument, the site will ensure future generations can explore the important contributions women had in shaping equal rights in our country. The building currently is home to the most extensive collection of suffrage and equal rights movement artifacts in America, including historic documents, banners, sashes, and newsletters.

“The American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, Council 18, say ‘thank you’ to President Obama and Interior Secretary Sally Jewell. This [National Monument] designation forever bestows a proper recognition upon a pivotal chapter in American history,” said Connie Derr, Executive Director of AFSCME Council 18 in New Mexico. “Every union woman across our nation who continues the struggle for women’s equality will know the history and enduring lessons which the Belmont-Paul Women’s Equality National Monument can deliver. Its establishment within the National Park Service system ensures that future generations of young women leaders will know of the sacrifice and bravery which our suffragist sisters demonstrated in order to bring about the 19th amendment and set the roots for an American Civil Rights Movement.”

"Generations of working women have benefited from the rights granted to women as a direct result of the advocacy of Alice Paul and countless others who took a stand for equity, fairness, and justice. We, as working women, and in particular union women, have an obligation to continue the struggles that have been on-going for so many years. Our work is not yet complete, but we commit to continue the fight on behalf of all women and future generations to come. The designation of the Belmont-Paul Women’s Equality National Monument is an important reminder of this on-going work," said Stephanie Ly, President, American Federation of Teachers New Mexico.

“The Belmont-Paul Women’s Equality National Monument is a living symbol which reminds today’s generation that we build upon the victories of our predecessors. Today’s fight for equity, through the Paycheck Fairness Act, grew out of yesterday’s effort to win the Equal Rights Amendment and prior to that, the battle for ratification of the 19th amendment. They’re all connected,” said Maxine Velasquez, Secretary Treasurer of the New Mexico Federation of Labor.

Other New Mexicans joining in celebration of the new National Monument include 40 leading women in public service and business who sent a letter to President Obama today thanking him for taking this historic action.

The President used his authority under the Antiquities Act to add Belmont-Paul Women’s Equality National Monument to our National Park System as a National Monument. Since its passage in 1906, this bipartisan law has been used by sixteen U.S. Presidents, eight Republicans and eight Democrats, to declare 146 national monuments (prior to today). More information about today’s announcement is available from the U.S. Department of Interior.

###

In this update:

Luna County Public Safety Employees ORGANIZING with AFSCME; County violates workers’ rights

AFSCME members fight for competitive pay funding during Legislative Session

AFSCME fights and wins for New Mexico'scorrections, detention, and law enforcement officers to continue PERA accrual credit when injured on job (HB43)

Belen Police Officers’ Union Local 601 engages with city leaders, Chief resigns

Doña Ana CountyDetention Officers’ Union Local 1529 adopt Legal Defense Plan

Luna County Public Safety Employees Want to Join AFSCME!

Luna County public safety employees are organizing with AFSCME! Elections will be conducted by the New Mexico Public Employee Labor Relations Board in the very near future. Unfortunately, in response to the employees’ effort to have a voice in the workplace, the county is wasting tax-payer dollars to hire help to fight the workers. But, the anti-worker tactics by Luna County administration is having the opposite effect. The employees, who protect the citizens’ of the county day in and day out, are not caving in to the threatening tactics and are standing tall. Keep an eye on the www.afscme18.org website for updates and what you can do to help.

NMCD: TAKING ACTION Makes the Difference in Disastrous Budget Year

Help is on the way for public safety officers with the NM Corrections and CYFD. On February, 29 2016 the Governor signed the budget containing raises for some of our state's most difficult to recruit and retain jobs, including corrections officers and child welfare inspectors.

A sliding scale wage increase is expected in July.

Beginning with the 7th annual Blue Breakfast and Lobby Day on January 21, and continuing with the 1st Annual Red & Green Lobby Day on February (which brought the two powerful unions of AFSCME and CWA together for one strong voice), and lobbying efforts through the end of the legislative session, AFSCME public safety members made their voices heard this legislative session!

(pictured right to left, Local 3422 President Lee Ortega, Local 3422 Secretary-Treasurer Charles Navarro, and Council 18 Executive Director Connie Derr, prior to an AFSCME press conference on February 10 at the Roundhouse.)

AFSCME Public Safety members called attention to major safety concerns by delivering to legislators nearly 1,000 petition signatures, written testimonials from COs and their families, held press conferences, wrote letters and visited legislators in the effort to galvanize political will for including corrections raises in a stripped down 2017 budget.

Listen to Dateline New Mexico radio segment - AFSCME Public Safety Press Conference, Click HERE

PROTECTING PUBLIC SAFETY WORKERS

House Bill 43 (Rep. Rehm, R-Albuquerque) represented quality bipartisan legislating at its best. Our corrections officers, both at the state and county level, as well as AFSCME police members, will be able to continue to accrue PERA service credit and to continue health coverage if injured in the line of duty. AFSCME is proud to have supported this legislation over the last few years, and we look forward to expanding the number of job classifications covered by this law in years ahead.

22 year Albuquerque City Security Officer and Local 1888 Member, Patrick Gutierrez

Another bill, House Bill 142, which was sponsored by AFSCME friend Rep. Doreen Gallegos (D-Las Cruces), would have enhanced penalties for assaulting CYFD employees. AFSCME vigorously supported CYFD's Department Secretary to push this bill through the House and through all its Senate committees, but it failed to receive an up-or-down vote in classic cross-chamber, cross-party crossfire on the last morning of the session. We intend to work with several departments to bring the bill up in 2017, and will work to include additional job classifications.

Belen Police Officers’ Union Local 601 Calls on City Council to Address Issues, Chief Resigns

The Belen Police Officers’ Union Local 601 membership, led by President Adam Keck, recently called on Belen City Council and city leaders to create and execute a strategic plan of action to improve conditions within the Belen Police Department. Union members determined that they weren't getting satisfactory responses from the chief and that significant changes were necessary in order to improve quality of life in Belen.

The membership, by a unanimous vote at a March 2016 meeting, chose to send a list of concerns and suggestions for improving conditions at the Belen Police Department (BPD) which would allow officers to better patrol the community of Belen, cause jobs to be safer, and confront the unacceptable, and rising issues of violent crime and drug abuse within the city.

City Council members met Monday to consider the local's call for action. On Monday evening word reached Local 601 leadership that the Chief had resigned.

Local 601 looks forward to working more closely with the next Chief to improve policies and address deficiencies for more effective law enforcement in Belen.

AFSCME members bow their heads this week and send our thoughts and prayers to the families, and for the two souls whose lives were tragically cut short on March 14th.

CLICK HERE to view obituary and memorial info

May their loved ones find strength and some comfort in the closeness of family during this very sad time of grief.

Fellow workers of the fallen men, District 4-Roy Maintenance Patrol 44-57, will gather for their critical stress debrief on Thursday. Anyone touched by this tragid loss is encouraged to phone the NM Department of Transportation or AFSCME Union at 505-266-2505.

With shared tears, and in solidarity,

AFSCME Council 18 Executive Board and Staff

2 New Mexico Highway Workers Struck, Killed by Motorist

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS ROY, N.M. — Mar 14, 2016, 9:30 PM ET

Authorities say two state transportation worker are dead after being struck by a motorist while working in northeastern New Mexico.

State police say the workers were repairing potholes along State Road 120 in Harding County when they were hit Monday.

The investigation is ongoing. State police didn't release any further details or say whether the driver would face charges.

The New Mexico Department of Transportation identified the workers as Anthony Rivera of Rainsville and David Eggert of Wagon Mound. Both were stationed with the department's Roy patrol.

Transportation Secretary Tom Church says the men were hard workers and will be missed. He offered the department's sympathies and prayers to the men's families.

Church says the tragedy is a reminder that transportation workers have difficult jobs and are at risk each day.

###

TWO MEETINGS!

AFSCME Local 3999 Union Mtg: Tuesday 3/29 at 5:30PM, *NEW* AFSCME Hall: 1420 Cerrillos Rd - Let's WORK together to protect our JOBS!

AFSCME Local 3999 PRESS Conference: Wednesday 3/30 at 6:15pm outside City Council Chambers: Advocating for Long Term Protections of City Services

City council is poised to consider new tax measures that would help us deliver city services. These measures are IMPORTANT for us and we need to take action and support sensible measures increasing revenue.

City leaders are reluctant to pass tax increases because they face a lot of organized opposition. On the other hand, unless UNION MEMBERS speak up, councilors can be highly motivated to balance budgets on the backs of workers or cut services.

Only by speaking up, and telling city leaders what we do for our city, can budget cuts prove less painful for our families! SIGN PETITION below:

AFSCME members have launched a petition calling on city leaders to:

ensure cuts to vacant positions and services do not adversely affect the health and safety of residents and workers, and are equitably distributed among each sector of public services to include non-union, Management, Fire, Police, and the AFSCME bargaining units

Negotiate in good faith with ALL unions representing Santa Fe City Employees to identify which vacancies will be eliminated in order to minimize disruption of public services

Abandon plans calling for well-paying public careers and services to be outsourced

Please sign in support of City of Santa Fe AFSCME Local 3999 Union employees. CLICK HERE

SCROLL to bottom to download paper versions of petitions and INFO sheet.

We are concerned that budget-cutting decisions being considered by City leaders and City Council members will have negative impacts on quality of services provided and public service jobs which city employees count on to sustain their families in and around the City of Santa Fe.

Looking solely at full-time equivalents (FTEs) leads to an incomplete and inaccurate assessment of the city’s efficiency, perpetuating the myth that city government is bloated.

According to data collected by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, total costs of compensation for state and local workers account for about 44 percent of state and local spending. The Chamber of Commerce reported that Santa Fe spends about a third of its budget on wages and benefits, which is certainly not out of line with the national average.

If we actually compare apples to apples, Santa Fe is in line with other similar cities.

READ 2/17 SF New Mexican Article "City budget shortfall grows to $18M"

READ most recent ABQ Journal Article dispelling SF myth that Santa Fe has too many workers, CLICK

The city hires more Parks and Recreation FTEs per 1,000 residents than other similarly-sized cities. But if we look Parks and Recreation staff per park acre, the city is in line with its peers.

DOWNLOAD this Report (PDF 140K)

A number of cities in the chamber’s report don’t operate their own utilities. The services might be provided by another government entity or a private operator. This skews the total FTE comparison.

If we look solely at cities that do operate the same utilities as Santa Fe (water, wastewater, and solid waste), the average is 2.7 public utility FTEs per 1,000 residents. Santa Fe is comparable with 3.0 public utility FTEs per 1,000 residents. If we take all the vacancies into account, the city is actually operating with less than average utility FTEs.

READ Friday ABQ Journal Coverage: reveals much of SF Chamber Report is Sham

Note also that most utility positions and other positions related to the city’s bustiness-type activities, are positions that can be self-sustained with service charges and fees.

Transportation FTE figures are not comparable. Most of the other cities in the chamber’s report does do not employee airport transport workers or parking attendants. And it is unclear how many parking facilities each city operates, if any.

Service quality and availability as well as the services’ value to the community needs to be considered.

For example, the city hires more library staff than other similarly-sized cities. But Santa Fe libraries are more heavily used than other city libraries.The city offers on average, 10 more hours of service a week. On average, Santa Fe sees 11.4 library visits per resident each year, compared to only 5 visits for other peer cities. It is clear that the city has an exceptional library system.

Arts and Culture FTEs are higher than average due to heavy investment in tourism and preserving the city’s heritage. Santa Fe is the state capital and tourism is the primary driver of the local economy, which is not the case for most of the other peer cities.

Some of the cities included aren’t even of “similar size.” Lubbock and Des Moines both have over 200,000 residents; Colorado Springs has over 400,000 residents; and Omaha has over 500,000.

Addressing the Structural Deficit: We Need Balanced Solutions

AFSCME is committed to continue collaborating with city stakeholders to identify balanced solutions for closing the structural deficit.

AFSCME is in agreement with several of the chamber’s recommendations.

It is undeniable that cutting staff means cutting services. However, AFSCME advocates not filling vacancies when it is not disruptive to providing important services.

The city is expecting savings over the next several years due to efficiencies created through improved software and other technology. AFSCME advocates for the investment in staff training to maximize efficiencies.

In particular, the city should consider not filling management vacancies in order to flatten hierarchies. Many state and local governments have looked into increasing efficiency by decreasing the number of managers. For example in 2011, Phoenix adjusted its span of control, from a supervisor to employee ratio of 1 to 5.3 to a ratio of 1 to 8.1.The union supports efforts to incentivize early retirement and voluntary exits. There are currently 36 workers who have been with the city since at least 1990. Their retirements would save the city about 2 million.

As the Chamber recommended, AFSCME is looking forward to working with the city to identify opportunities to save on contracted services and to potentially insource certain operations. The current total cost of contracted services amounts to 20 million.

AFSCME agrees that overtime for noncritical operations should be limited.

AFSCME agrees strongly that improved debt management can bring in significant savings (about 2 to 3 million).

AFSMCE supports many of the Chamber’s recommendations to generate more revenue:

Capture GRT revenue on high-dollar retail sales that are purchased in person and then shipped out of state

Stronger enforcement of short-term rentals licensingMore aggressive collection of unpaid fees

Examine opportunities to increase fees

While the transfer of funds from the city’s enterprise funds has been controversial, the city’s business-type activities have generated surpluses and accumulated significant reserves over the years. This resource should be utilized while the city undergoes the institutional changes necessary to close the structural deficit.

The Chamber points to the water enterprises “operating losses.” However, after accounting for intergovernmental revenue (state shared grants and taxes) and transfers to other funds, the waste water management fund generated a 1.1 million surplus and the water management fund generated 2 million surplus before transfers. Together these two funds hold over 100 million in cash and cash equivalents as of the end of FY2014.

The Chamber describes Solid Waste operations a “marginally profitable.” After accounting for intergovernmental revenues and transfers, the fund generated a surplus of 1.6 million in FY2014.

March 2016 Public Safety News

In this update:

Corrections wins funding for competitive pay at legislature

HB43 PASSES! NM Corrections, Detention, and Law Enforcement Officers will now continue to accrue PERA credit when injured on job

Local 601 Belen PD engages with city leaders, Chief resigns

Doña Ana County votes for legal defense plan

NMCD: TAKING ACTION Makes the Difference in Disastrous Budget Year

Help is on the way for NM Corrections and CYFD. AFSCME Public Safety members can take heart today as Governor Martinez signed the budget containing raises for some of our state's most difficult to recruit and retain jobs, including corrections officers and child welfare inspectors.

A sliding scale wage increase is expected in July.

Beginning with the 7th annual Blue Breakfast and Lobby Day, and culminating with the 1st Annual Red & Green Lobby Day, AFSCME public safety members made their voices heard this legislative session.

AFSCME Public Safety members called attention to major safety concerns by delivering to legislators nearly 1,000 petition signatures and written testimonials from COs and their families, held press conferences, wrote letters and visited legislators in the effort to galvanize political will for including corrections raises in a stripped down 2017 budget.

See the Save New Mexico Corrections Petitions that helped win July 2016 Raises, CLICK HERE

Listen to Dateline New Mexico radio segment - AFSCME Public Safety PressConference, click HERE

PROTECTING PUBLIC SAFETY WORKERS

House Bill 43 (Rep. Rehm, R-Albuquerque) represented quality bipartisan legislating at its best. Our corrections officers, both at the state and county level, as well as AFSCME police members, will be able to continue to accrue PERA service credit and to continue health coverage if injured in the line of duty. AFSCME is proud to have supported this legislation over the last few years, and we look forward to expanding the number of job classifications covered by this law in years ahead.

Another bill, House Bill 142, which was sponsored by AFSCME friend Rep. Doreen Gallegos (D-Las Cruces), would have enhanced penalties for assaulting CYFD employees. We were proud to partner with CYFD's Secretary to push this bill through the House and through all its Senate committees, but it failed to receive an up-or-down vote in classic cross-chamber, cross-party crossfire on the last morning of the session. We intend to work with several departments to bring the bill up in 2017, and will work to include additional job classifications.

Belen Police Department, AFSCME Local 601 Calls on City Council to Address Issues, Chief Resigns

Local 601 membership, led by President Adam Keck, recently called on Belen City Council and city leaders to create and execute a strategic plan of action to improve conditions within the Belen Police Department. Union members felt that they weren't getting satisfactory response from the chief and that significant changes were necessary in order to improve quality of life in Belen.

The membership, by a unanimous vote at a March 2016 meeting, chose to send a list of our concerns and suggestions for improving conditions at the Belen Police Department (BPD) which would allow officers to better patrol the community of Belen, cause jobs to be safer, and confront the unacceptable, and rising issues of violent crime and drug abuse within our city.

City Council members met Monday to consider the Local's call for action. On Monday evening, word reached Local 601 leadership that the Chief had resigned.

The Local looks forward to working more closely with the next Chief to improve policy and the effectiveness of law enforcement in Belen.

Doña Ana County Detention Officers Vote to Join Legal Defense Fund

Detention Officers at Doña Ana County voted by overwhelming majority to join the PORAC Legal Defense Fund. The program provides legal representation for any civil or criminal charge against a member for an act within their scope of employment, which is defined as anything the officer is hired to do, trained to do, or paid to do. The majority of AFSCME Council 18’s public safety locals already provide this AFSCME members-only benefit.

In Unity!

AFSCME members and retirees are breathing a sigh of relief after surviving another series of attacks by Republican Governor Susana Martinez and the Republican controlled House of Representatives in Santa Fe.

During the session, New Mexico Labor mobilized thousands of calls, letters, emails, and personal visits to key legislators to ensure that collective bargaining was protected.

AFSCME members joined CWA members for the first annual Red & Green Rally at the Roundhouse, on Saturday, February 6. Council 18 President Casey Padilla (pictured below) kicked-off the mid-morning rally by reminding the more than 200 members that “when union members are active, positive change happens!”

Please send a quick word of thanks to our legislators in the House and the Senate who stood with working families this session! Sign a Thank You Petition here!

Labor leaders and legislators from around the state addressed the rowdy crowd. Every single speaker emphasized the importance of the 2016 elections. Jon Hendry, president of the New Mexico Federation of Labor, reminded the crowd that “the health of our communities, the rights of public employees, and the progress of the State of New Mexico depends on labor getting out the vote to support those who support New Mexicans.”

NMFL President Jon Hendry stressing the importance of the 2016 elections.

AFSCME members listen to speakers at the Red & Green Rally

Our New Mexico Legislative champions spent time visiting and listening to AFSCME membership concerns around delivery of public services during and after the rally.

Representative Moe Maestas (D - Albuquerque), who has always been a steadfast supporter of public employees, speaking with union members.

Representative Bill McCamley (D - Las Cruces) delivered a passionate speech calling for a return to reason at the legislature.

“We must improve the compensation system for state employees and employees in higher education,” said AFSCME Council 18 Executive Director Connie Derr, “but the special interests of this Governor and those who support her agenda is not moving New Mexico forward. Their actions will have consequences in the fall elections!”

AFSCME Council 18 Executive Director Connie Derr calling out the State Personnel Office for lack of transparency on a recruitment and retention plan.

Following the rally, the members sought out their elected leaders offices and called on them to invest in the people and services that make New Mexico run. Members highlighted the direct impact that state workers have on the wellbeing of New Mexico communities.

AFSCME members getting ready to lobby their elected leaders in the Roundhouse.

SUMMARY of 52nd Legislature - STATE OF NEW MEXICO - Second Session 2016

There were dozens of bills, big and small, introduced that affected workers in the 2016 session. Given the sharp divide between Democratic, pro-worker Senate and the corporate GOP House and virulently anti-worker GOP Governor, the session predictably ended mostly in stalemate.

Please send a quick word of thanks to our legislators in the House and the Senate who stood with working families this session! Sign a Thank You Petition here!

Key takeaway: while workers were mostly protected this year, and even made some small gains, anti-worker forces are gearing up for a full Republican takeover of the legislature in 2016, meaning virtually all worker protections, benefits, pay, and even job security would be at risk beginning as soon as January 2017.

This session was a clear a wake-up call that without massive member and retiree mobilization in the summer and fall of 2016, workers stand to lose decades worth of victories. WITH member participation, we stand to enter into a new era of progress and can begin to make up for 6 years of neglect and abuse under the Martinez administration.

SO-CALLED "RIGHT TO WORK"

Most importantly, for the second year in a row the Democratic-controlled Senate killed so-called "right to work" legislation on a party line vote in the Senate Public Affairs Committee, with dozens of AFSCME members joining about 75 other union members in the committee room.

PENSION ATTACKS

Two bad bills aimed to undermine the health of our pensions. One which would have reinstated double dipping for law enforcement and another which would have seized pensions from any public employee committing certain violations, each died with AFSCME's help.

THANK legislators who stood with us to protect our GREAT retirement system! Sign a Thank You here!

House Bill 171 (Rep. Larranaga, R-Albuquerque) sadly made it through the House, with many Republicans who had formerly been supportive of PERA deciding to curry political favor with Albuquerque's GOP Mayor R.J. Berry by supporting double dipping.

Virtually all Dems stood with AFSCME and our allies in the Albuquerque Police Officers Association in opposing the bill. Fortunately, we had a few Republican senators ready to join all the Dems in the Senate Public Affairs Committee to kill it, so the sponsors decided not to show up to present the bill. AFSCME testified in every committee in the House and rounded up nearly unanimous Democratic support on the House floor, and also testified in SPAC.

We were able to kill a second bad pension-related bill, House Bill 278 (Rep. Cook, R-Ruidoso). This bill had some merit, in that it would have stopped pension payments for elected officials convicted of crimes of corruption in the course of fulfilling their elected duties. However, it was far too broad as finally presented to the House floor, and would have imposed a massively disproportionate financial penalty to rank and file public employees for even one mistake.

BUDGET

As oil and gas prices plummeted, the once-promising surplus turned into a potentially devastating deficit. New Mexico would have been much better positioned to absorb a downturn in energy prices had Gov. Martinez and her conservative allies in the legislature not given hundreds of millions of dollars in corporate welfare tax breaks over the last few sessions.

We were able to successfully protect legislative proposals in House Bill 2 (the budget bill) to increase public safety pay, including for Corrections, and to increase CYFD and Corrections staffing, but when the Governor and House Republicans start with a pay freeze for all other state employees even when there was a projected surplus, there was no chance of across-the-board raises once the surplus vanished.

Key take away: elections matter! Over the last four fiscal years, even when significant surpluses were projected, Republican legislators and Republican Governor Susana Martinez pushed for pay cuts or pay freezes for most all state and university employees. Elections matter, and have direct impacts on the wallets of AFSCME members!

MINIMUM WAGE, SICK LEAVE, AND OTHER WORKER PROTECTIONS

Republican control of the governor's office and House ensured that there would be no discussion of a minimum wage increase for a sixth straight year. AFSCME and our community allies successfully blocked a terrible "pre-emption" bill (House Bill 211) that would have given a drastic pay cut to every worker earning minimum wage in those cities which have raised the minimum. The bill would have also prohibited cities and counties from passing rules requiring paid sick or vacation days, or enacting any other regulation to help workers.

Likewise, AFSCME joined with our sisters and brothers in the building trades to defeat a repeal of existing prevailing wage legislation (House Bill 200). HB200, or the “Paycheck Reduction Act” would’ve resulted in a 30% pay cut for our brothers and sisters in the construction trade.

In Unity!

For Immediate Release

Miles Conway 505-455-2853

Saturday’s Violent Incident Inside Prison Underscores Need for Legislature to Address Crisis of Vacancies at NM Corrections

NMCD in a catch-22: shutting down prison posts that enable safe family visits allows understaffed correctional officers to get needed rest, but has created a more violent prison population

Santa Fe, NM - On Saturday, February 6, just as nearly 100 American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) members were rallying at the state capitol building in support of increased funding to address dangerous understaffing inside New Mexico’s correctional facilities, a dangerous situation was developing at one of the state-run facilities.

Inmates became violent Saturday afternoon, and caused a critical incident, nearly causing officers to deploy gas and lethal force in order to regain order inside the prison.

AFSCME, who represents NM state correctional officers (COs) and support staff, understands fully the intent of the newly launched New Mexico Corrections Department program, “Operation Recovery and Staff Wellness,” aimed at giving COs much needed recovery time, but the reality is that the program has backfired in its first week.

Correctional officers’ primary goal is to keep conditions inside the prison system safe and calm. Elements of the new program, launched last week, involve shuttering special rehabilitation program posts and family visits one week per month so that officers can rest, and remain focused on critical security.

Current high vacancy rates are addressed by requiring officers work 72 hour work weeks, making adequate recovery time impossible. AFSCME believes that the new program is well intended, but represents a bandaid for a wound that can only be healed by hiring more officers across the state and increasing pay significantly to help stem the high rate of attrition plaguing the department.

AFSCME sees a direct link between Saturday’s incident and Governor Martinez’s policies affecting state employment. Officers are concerned that conditions will worsen if the GOP’s “feel good” bills become law, locking up more people up in prison without giving the department resources necessary to carry out these mandates.

“With money for corrections included in the current proposed budget, we are finally at the point where we can begin to address the issue with low pay and high turnover,” said AFSCME Council 18 Political Coordinator Josh Anderson. “Unfortunately, the Governor’s focus on increasing criminal penalties before addressing the challenges we face in corrections is putting the cart before the horse and could have us, once again, asking our COs to do more with less.”

Senator Michael Sanchez and Senator John Arthur Smith have taken what AFSCME believes is a responsible and reasonable approach to balance the budget, invest on public safety, and pass laws that will help New Mexicans, not grab headlines and play ‘cops and robbers’ politics with New Mexico public safety.

“These posts being shut down caused the prison population to become more agitated, as officers expected. It was a well intended effort to rest the officers, but resulted in the violent incident we saw Saturday,” said Rob Trombley, AFSCME New Mexico public safety coordinator. “On Saturday afternoon we witnessed inmates improvising armor and masks in preparation for combat with officers. It was a close call, and we have serious concerns moving forward, because conditions in the prison are ripe for trouble.”

At approximately 2 pm on Saturday, one officer was inside a prison area serving food to inmates. Inmates were already agitated due to recent notice that posts allowing them to have visitation with family and other programs were being shut down. Inmates begin hurling food trays. A call for assistance went out from the control room as the Officer serving lunch quickly retreated the area and a security door was locked.

A team of six officers responded and commanded the inmates to return to their cells and close their doors. It became necessary for officers to follow a protocol informing inmates that if they did not comply, gas and lethal force would be deployed.

The entire incident lasted only five minutes and nobody was injured. However, upon entering the inmate area, the response team found multiple doors unsecured and video later confirmed inmates were preparing to fight with officers by improvising masks and armor.

AFSCME has learned that there was another similar incident around the same time in another area of the prison, and had things gotten out of control between inmates and the first response team, that staffing was too thin inside the facility that day to allow quick deployment of a backup response team.

Short staffing is the root of the problem, and hiring more officers is badly needed in order to run the programs which actually rehabilitate the prisoners, and create as safe an environment as possible to protect the officers, inmates, and the public.

AFSCME members delivered over 900 petition signatures on Saturday with hundreds of testimonials from officers detailing the challenges they’re facing everyday.

The petition / comments are available online: https://www.scribd.com/doc/298325934/Save-New-Mexico-Corrections