2. History: • Company: Time Warner Inc. • Founders: Merger between Time Inc. and Warner Communications in 1990; then purchased by AOL in 2000. • Industry: Entertainment/Media; Broadcasting, Telecommunications, Internet, and Publishing History: • Time Warner Inc. is the second largest media and entertainment conglomerate, following News Corporation. • The New York City-based company has operations that include filmed entertainment, television networks, cable system, publishing, and online content and services.

3. History: • Time Warner was formed when Time Inc. and Warner Communications fused in 1990. • It was then purchased by America Online, Inc. in 2000. • Its history dates back to 1972 when Kinney National Company established Warner Communications • In 1996,the company purchased Turner Broadcasting System • In 2000, AOL purchased Time Warner, renaming the company to AOL Time Warner but eventually changing its name again to Time Warner.

5. TIME WARNER Type Traded as Industry Public NYSE:TWX Media & entertainment Founded 1990 as Time Warner Headquarters Time warner Center, new yorkcity,new york, united staes Jeff Bewkes US$28.7 billion US$6.1 billion US$3.5 billion Chairman & CEO Revenue Operating income Net income

6. Products Today with $50.48 billion worth of revenue. Its 4 major subsidiaries are: Warner Bros. Entertainment, featuring film, TV, digital distribution, comic books, animation, video games, international cinemas, and home entertainment production. Its brands include Warner Bros. Pictures, New line Cinema, and DC Comics;

7. Products Home Box Office, that provides 24-hour pay television services including HBO and Cinemax

8. Products Turner Broadcasting System, with businesses including CNN, Cartoon Network, and NASCAR; It operates international news, entertainment, animation, young adult and kids media networks as well as related businesses. Turner brands include CNN, HLN, TNT, TBS, Cartoon Network, Turner Classic Movies, truTV, Turner Sports and more

9. Products Time Inc. the leading magazine publisher with around 125 titles such as Time, Fortune, and People.

11. VALUES • CREATIVITY: We thrive on innovation and originality, encouraging risk-taking and divergent voices. • CUSTOMER FOCUS: We're focused on delivering our customers the highest quality premium content and make it available on every device. • AGILITY: We move quickly, embracing change and seizing new opportunities. • TEAMWORK: We treat one another with respect— creating value by working together within and across our businesses.

12. VALUES • INTEGRITY: We rigorously uphold editorial independence and artistic expression, earning the trust of our readers, viewers, listeners, members and subscribers. • DIVERSITY: We attract and develop the world's best talent, seeking to include the broadest range of people and perspectives. • RESPONSIBILITY: We work to improve our communities, taking pride in serving the public interest as well as the interests of our shareholders.

13. HBO ASIA •HBO Asia is able to bring the best of Hollywood to Asia first because of its exclusive licensing deals with major Hollywood studios. • In addition to the proprietary and awardwinning HBO Original programs that are produced exclusively for HBO viewers. •In South Asia, it offers HBO, HBO DEFINED and HBO HITS in SD and HD formats. HBO Asia is a joint venture of HBO (a Time Warner company) and Paramount.