Ben Kinsella is the 17th teenager to have been killed in London this year

Two youths arrested over the murder of 16-year-old Ben Kinsella, who was stabbed to death in a London street, have been released on police bail.

Ben was attacked during a row with youths in York Way, Holloway, north London, at about 0200 BST on Sunday.

The youngster, the 17th teenager killed in London this year, died in hospital a few hours later.

His sister, Brooke Kinsella, who played Kelly Taylor in the BBC One soap EastEnders, said she was "devastated".

The two suspects are due to return to a police station in late August, a Metropolitan Police spokesman said.

It was thought Ben had been at a party at the Shillibeers pub, in North Road, when the row broke out with several youths.

One of the victim's friends said Ben made a desperate phone call begging for help minutes before he died.

Popular student

"He called me on the phone and just said 'help'," he said.

"He sounded really scared and then it just clicked off."

Ms Kinsella, 24, her parents Debbie and George, and her boyfriend, former EastEnders actor Ray Panthaki, paid their respects at the murder scene on Sunday afternoon.

Former Birds of a Feather actress Linda Robson was also among 50 people who laid flowers.

Brooke Kinsella played Kelly Taylor in the BBC soap

A makeshift shrine set up near the spot where Ben died is covered with more than 100 bouquets, balloons, an Arsenal scarf and an England flag.

Among the tributes paid were flowers and a card which read: "We will always remember you Ben for your loving ways and that great smile. Paul and Louise."

Among the young people paying tribute to Ben were EastEnders stars Joe Swash, who plays Mickey Miller, and Charlie Hawkins who plays Darren Miller.

Mr Swash and Mr Hawkins, who were Ben's schoolmates, said they were too upset to speak.

Beverley Baker, a friend of the family, also paid her respects. She said: "He was such a lovely boy and they are such a lovely family.

"They must all be devastated... this is just awful."

Special assemblies were to be held at Holloway School, in Islington, where Ben had just completed his GCSEs.

'Lovely family'

Headteacher Bob Hamlyn said: "We are all devastated. Ben had so much going for him, not least a loving and supportive family, some fantastic friends, and a great future ahead of him.

"It is not an exaggeration to say he was one of the most popular students in the school, with both staff and fellow pupils.

Floral tributes have been laid at the spot where Ben died

"The randomness of this act underlines the growing menace of knives and violence on our streets. This has to stop."

Tributes to Ben have also been left on different social networking sites including Facebook and MySpace.

A Facebook group, called RIP Ben Kinsella, contains several pictures of him including one with members of his football team.

His MySpace page included a video clip of Ben, in which he described himself as: "Down to earth, easy going, get on with just about everyone..."