Real-life couple Kinsella and Panthaki both acted in EastEnders

A 22-year-old filmmaker whose first feature cost £1,500 has signed two ex-EastEnders actors for his story about heroin addicts in Swansea.

Real-life couple Brooke Kinsella and Ray Panthaki - Kelly Taylor and Ronny Ferreira in the BBC soap - will star in Andrew Jones' The Feral Generation.

He developed his script by interviewing homeless people in Swansea.

It is a follow-up to Teenage Wasteland, named best short feature at the first Swansea Bay Film Festival in June.

"Teenage Wasteland won the award for best feature under 75 minutes and around that time I had this other script," he explained.

"Brooke Kinsella and Ray Panthaki both liked it and with them both on board we were able to raise the £100,000 budget.

£100,000 is not a lot in terms of Hollywood, but it's a lot in terms of someone who was making a £1,500 film a year ago

Andrew Jones

"With the first film no-one got paid - it was just one DV camera and sound equipment with three or four of us on the crew.

"The kids we used in it were pretty much cast straight off the streets in Swansea."

He said this time around he had assembled a crew of experienced film makers and actors.

Andrew Jones is aiming for a gritty look with his film

Panthaki has also had roles in films such as 28 Days Later and Ali G In Da House.

'Bum jobs'

"£100,000 is not a lot in terms of Hollywood but it's a lot in terms of someone who was making a £1,500 film a year ago. It's a big step up," added the director.

"I've done a series of bum jobs - the last one was a painter and decorator. This is something I've always wanted to do.

"When I was writing the script I researched it and went out in my spare time and talked with homeless people on the streets of Swansea and those who had been in hostels.

"It's based on their experiences. I've always been interested in films that are more realistic rather than a lot of what you see in the cinema.

"A lot of films made in Wales tend to make it look like they've been filmed by the tourist board but we are going for a grittier look.

"We are confident of making something strong enough to take to Cannes next year - perhaps not in competition but certainly we believe that we can get it a few screenings."