Mourners and friends went to the scene of the stabbing

A school student has become the 17th teenager to be killed in London this year after being fatally stabbed.

Ben Kinsella, believed to be 16, was attacked during a row with a group of youths in York Way, in Holloway.

He was taken to hospital for treatment following the attack at about 0200 BST, but died several hours later. Two youths have been arrested.

Ben's sister, Brooke Kinsella - who played Kelly Taylor in the BBC soap EastEnders - said she was "devastated".

Police have urged any witnesses are to come forward.

'Pool of blood'

It is thought that Ben was at a party in a local pub when the row broke out with several youths.

A witness who saw him after the attack said: "His shirt had been pulled up and I could see red marks all over his stomach and then what looked like a wound and there was a pool of blood next to him.

He was a bright kid, very high achieving academically and would have had some very good results to look forward to this summer

Bob Hamlyn, head teacher, Holloway School

"There were ambulance men putting an oxygen mask on him and trying to help him."

One of the victim's friends said he made a desperate phone call minutes before he died.

The teenager, who did not want to be named, said: "He called me on the phone and just said 'Help'.

"He sounded really scared and then it just clicked off."

Brooke Kinsella played Kelly Taylor in the BBC soap

Brooke Kinsella, 24, her parents Debbie and George and her boyfriend, former EastEnders actor Ray Panthaki, were among those who paid their respects at the murder scene.

The actress Linda Robson also laid flowers at the scene.

Bob Hamlyn, Ben's headteacher at Holloway School, paid tribute to the popular student who came from "a lovely family".

"They are a lovely family and they are very supportive at school," he said.

"He was a bright kid, very high achieving academically, and would have had some very good results to look forward to this summer.

"He was also very sporty and had everything to live for, but that has been taken away from him now."