Find the organization chart, the bodies and the committees of the IRD.

Chairperson

Chairperson and CEO, Valérie Verdier

Valérie Verdier is a physiopathologist and has a PhD in Plant Sciences from Université de Paris-Sud (1988), and is accredited to conduct research (HDR). She studies interactions between plant pathogenic bacteria and tropical plants, where understanding these interactions is crucial for food safety. Co-author of over 100 scientific publications, she has earned international recognition for her fundamental contributions to understanding the bacteria mechanisms that cause disease, particularly in cassava and rice, and the approaches to control them. Prior to this appointment, Valérie Verdier was Director of the Joint Research Unit on Plant-Microorganism-Environment Interactions (IPME) and was responsible for one of IRD’s five scientific departments: Ecology, Biodiversity and Continental Ecosystem Operations (ECOBIO).

Deputy Executive Director, Gilles Pecassou

Gilles Pecassou is a graduate of the Institut d'études politiques de Toulouse and holds a master's degree in political science from the University of Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne. He is also a laureate of the Executive Program of the Harvard Negotiation Strategies Institute (NSI). With 20 years of experience in diplomacy, Gilles Pecassou is specialized in strategic and security issues. First Secretary at the French Embassy in Tel Aviv from 2004 to 2007, he then served as Chargé de Mission to the Political Director of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs from 2007 to 2010. Assigned to the Permanent Representation of France to the UN in New York from 2010 to 2013, he was in charge of negotiations related to Asia, Europe, Latin America and the fight against terrorism at the Security Council. In 2013, he became diplomatic advisor to the Secretary General of Defense and National Security (SGDSN). He then returned to Israel as first counselor at the French Embassy in Tel Aviv from 2014 to 2017. Appointed Minister-Counsellor at the French Embassy in Brasília (Brazil) from 2017 to 2021, Gilles Pecassou led the Embassy through the Covid crisis, engaging in the fight against deforestation, the promotion of biodiversity and sustainable development, in connection with all French operators present. Back in Paris, he headed the interministerial team of the Special Envoy for the Sahel during the period of re-articulation of France's presence in the region.

Deputy Director of Science, Philippe Charvis

As research Director and geophysicist, Philippe Charvis has worked on seismic risks in Ecuador, Algeria and the Lesser Antilles arc, and magmatism in hot spots. He was Director of the Géoazur Joint Research Unit, Vice-President of the scientific council of Observatoire de la Côte d’Azur in Nice and President of the "Earth and telluric planets" section of the national committee for scientific research. In October 2015, he was appointed Director of IRD’s scientific department for internal dynamics and continent surface (DISCO) which focuses on climate change, water resources, natural hazards and risks, and mineral resources and their impact on the environment.

His task is to participate in the development of the Institute’s scientific strategy, to ensure overall coordination, and to support the Chairperson and CEO in the coordination of the science division, which is central to IRD.

General Secretary, Isabelle Benoist

Isabelle Benoist is a research engineer with a graduate degree in law and began her career at INRA. She was in charge of a pole of the legal affairs department at CNRS before joining IRD in 2011 as Deputy Director General for Resources, then Deputy Secretary General. She has held the position of Secretary General since 2016.

Interim deputy: Franck Carenzi

Deputy associate director of Science, Olivier Dangles

Research director, ecologist, Olivier Dangles started his career as a lecturer at the Institute of Research on Insect Biology of the University of Tours. In 2006, he was posted to Quito, Ecuador, where he developed research on the spatiotemporal dynamics of invasive insect pests, in partnership with the Pontifical Catholic University of Ecuador.

From 2012 to 2014, he will be an associate researcher at the Universidad Mayor San Andres of Bolivia.

He is interested in the functional ecology of plant and animal communities in natural and cultivated ecosystems affected by global change, and his work has led to the creation of an international research network (covering Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia) for innovation in the control of crop pests.

From 2012 to 2016, Olivier is elected member of the IRD Scientific Council.

From 2014 to 2017, he is the representative in Ecuador, before a stay (2017-2018) at Cornell University in Ithaca, USA.

Since August 2018, he is based at the Centre d'écologie fonctionnelle et évolutive (CEFE) at the University of Montpellier where he co-directs a joint international BioInca laboratory between Ecuador, Colombia and France.

Between 2018 and 2020, he is appointed deputy director and then interim director of the Ecobio department.

Since last June, he has been appointed Deputy Science Director in charge of Sustainability Science.

Olivier Dangles is the author of numerous scientific publications on biodiversity and the functioning of natural and cultivated ecosystems, as well as popular works such as Natura Maxima or Une autre Terre.

Overseas Scientific Advisor, Frédéric Ménard

Frédéric Ménard is an IRD research director at the Mediterranean Institute of Oceanography in Marseille (UMR MIO). He conducts research on the functioning of tropical marine ecosystems in the context of global change: food webs, fisheries and biodiversity; large pelagic predatory fish and vulnerability of coastal ecosystems.

He is a member of several scientific councils and committees.

Frédéric Ménard was Director of the OCEANS Department of IRD from 2015 to 2020.

As a scientific advisor to the governance, he contributes to the Institute's scientific strategy on overseas territories, in particular in relation to the Government's Overseas Trajectory 5.0.

Scientific advisors

Geo-resources and sustainability, Laurence Maurice

Sustainable cities, Stéphanie Dos Santos

Coastline and sea, Marine Herrmann

One health, Benjamin Roche

Biodiversity, Sébastien Barot

Soil and land, Alain Brauman

Food systems, Yves Martin-Prével (acting)

Climate change, Benjamin Sultan

Migration, Annabel Desgrées du Loû

Article : Nine advisors appointed to the IRD Presidency (Fr)

Communication and Information Sharing Department (DCPI)

The objective of the Communication and Information Sharing Department is to ensure IRD’s activity is clearly understood, to facilitate the exchange and creation of internal and external communities, and to develop the Institute’s reputation and recognition.

Deputy director: Anaïs Rieu

E-mail: dcpi@ird.fr

Mission of deontology

Scientific integrity referent (RIS)

Olivier Bonato is an ecologist at the UMR PHIM, Plant Health Institute of Montpellier, he is specialized in the modeling of agrosystems functioning and the control of phytosanitary risks, his model agrosystems are cassava, maize and tomato.

His missions

The scientific integrity referent assists the CEO in any matter related to scientific integrity and the management of conflict of interest situations in the field of research and development :

► He proposes to the governance a general scientific integrity policy for the Institute and ensures its implementation.

► Exercises a watch on the implementation of a scientific integrity policy by the institution.

► Implements mechanisms and procedures for preventing and dealing with breaches of scientific integrity.

► Ensures awareness-raising actions with priority audiences, particularly within research units.

► Provides a response to research actors on the theme of scientific integrity and collects all allegations of alleged breaches of integrity.

► Sets up mediation for conflict situations related to research activities that are reported to him.

Intervenes as needed before IRD bodies, in particular the Scientific Council, the Consultative Ethics Committee for Research in Partnership (CCERP).

He is a member of the National Network of Scientific Integrity Referents (RESINT), led by the French Office of Scientific Integrity (OFIS).

The European Code of Research Integrity (ALLEA) and the Vade-mecum on Scientific Integrity (HCERES) provide a non-exhaustive list of misconduct or breaches of scientific integrity that can be divided into two types:

Generic scientific fraud (FFP) consisting of Data Fabrication, Data Falsification, Plagiarism.

Questionable Research Practices (QRP), characterized by questionable or inappropriate practices on data, methodological choices, reproducibility of results, ethically questionable publication strategies, undeclared conflicts of interest...

To report a breach, you can follow the following steps:

1 - Reporting to the RIS

2 - Examination of admissibility

3 - Referral to the RIS

4 - Collection of data and remarks

5 - Creation of a file

6 - Conclusion and recommendations

For any questions or reports concerning breaches of the requirements of scientific integrity: ris@ird.fr

Mediator

René Boutin is a member of the Institut Terre Environnement of Strasbourg. He holds a degree in Conflict Management, Negotiation and Mediation from the University of Paris V-René Descartes. He has been involved in conflict resolution with the CNRS mediator and has conducted mediation activities mainly in the associative world. He has been appointed by the President of the CNRS as the mediator's representative.

Contact : mediateur@ird.fr

His missions

The mediator acts in the event of a report or referral of a situation leading to a dispute or difficulties. He may be called upon in the case of:

► of a dispute, if after approaches to the services and authorities concerned, no answer or solution deemed satisfactory by the applicant has been found,

► of the existence of relational difficulties between two (or more) persons within a structure.

It proposes modes of resolution, favors through confidential interviews the links, prevention, conflict resolution. He/she investigates reports and referrals in order to promote the settlement of disputes or difficulties.

He must meet the requirements of independence, neutrality, impartiality, loyalty and confidentiality.

Deontology officer - whistleblower - secularism

Géraldine Bardy is a graduate of the Institute of Political Studies in Aix-en-Provence. She was then admitted to the competitive examination for administrator of the services of the National Assembly, a position she held for nearly twenty years. She then held various positions within the legislative services of the Assembly, notably in the session service, the European Affairs Committee and the Law Committee.

Her duties as ethics officer

The General Civil Service Code provides that all public servants have the right to consult an ethics officer for advice on compliance with their obligations and the ethical principles of the civil service (in particular, dignity, impartiality, integrity, probity, neutrality, and prevention and management of conflicts of interest). The compliance officer is subject to professional secrecy and discretion. Her exchanges with employees are therefore completely confidential.

The compliance officer may also be consulted by the administration, for example on issues of multiple activities.

Her missions as whistleblower referent

The whistleblower referent is responsible for receiving and processing whistleblower reports within the meaning of the law of December 9, 2016 on transparency (known as the "Sapin II" law). This may involve information about a crime, an offence, a threat or harm to the general interest, a violation of laws or regulations. In this case as well, strict rules of confidentiality are imposed on the referent.

The missions of the secularity referent

The secularism referent is in charge of providing advice on the implementation of the principle of secularism to IRD agents and to the administration. Their requests may concern individual situations or be of a general nature. The referent also has a mission to raise awareness and disseminate information on the principle of secularism.

Contact : referent-deontologue@ird.fr

Science Division

The Science Division is led by the Deputy Director of Science. The different services in the division apply and support the Institute’s scientific policy.

Scientific Departments

Continent Internal and Surface Dynamics (DISCO)

The DISCO department includes the Institute’s research teams studying continental environments, in terms of their physical and biogeochemical functioning, their change over time, and their interaction with human societies in the South against a backdrop of global change.

Interim director: Céline Mari

Deputy director : Céline Duwig

E-mail: disco@ird.fr

Ecology, Biodiversity and Functioning of Continental Ecosystems (ECOBIO)

The ECOBIO department brings IRD scientific community together to focus on ecology, evolution, dynamics and continental ecosystem functions at several levels.

Interim director : Emma Rochelle-Newall

Interim deputy director : Jean-Christophe Avarre

E-mail: ecobio@ird.fr

Oceans, Climate and Resources (OCEANS)

Using an integrated approach, the OCEANS department collects knowledge and observations regarding ocean development research, particularly processes affecting the intertropical zone, in partnership with communities from the South.

Director: Olivier Pringault

Deputy Director: Marina Lévy

E-mail: oceans@ird.fr

Health and Society (SAS)

The overall objective of the Health and Society department is to contribute to improving the health of Southern populations. The department’s work combines two complementary aspects of research: improving knowledge and conducting research projects/operational research and activities with a direct impact for the population; and supporting programmes for improvement.

Director: Eric Delaporte

Deputy Director: Sylvie Boyer

E-mail: sante@ird.fr

Societies and Globalisation (SOC)

One of the main objectives of research conducted by the Societies and Globalisation department is to further our understanding of contemporary societies in intertropical and Mediterranean countries, focusing on the dynamics, changes, adaptations and resistance that characterise and drive them.

Interim director : Estienne Rodary

Deputy director : Mina Kleiche-Dray

E-mail: soc@ird.fr

Missions of the department

Mission for Digital Infrastructures and Data

Part of the Institute’s science division, the mission for Digital Infrastructure and Data contributes to the themes in the strategic plan 2016-2030 POS and priorities as defined by the 2016-2020 objectives and performance contract 2016-2020 COPthrough the following objectives:

Develop a policy for the Institute, to be shared with partners in the South, for managing research data in accordance with the principles of open data and the open science movement and to cater for data exchange with national and international bodies.

Identify unmet (additional) needs and develop a strategy of support and assistance for research units and their partners tailored to the departments in the science division.

Network, facilitate and strengthen the capacity of research personnel whose missions or research projects are based on digital technology or methodology such as managing, distributing, processing and preserving data.

Contribute at national and international level to the visibility and affirmation of IRD missions by participating in various committees and working groups established for the development of data centres, observatories or observatory systems and national, European and international research infrastructures (IR, TGIR).

Develop interaction and synergy with equivalent structures in other research bodies and universities to exchange experience and skillsets and pool digital resources.

Director: Jean-Christophe Desconnets

Deputy Director: François Sabot

Mission for Research Evaluation and Programming (MEPR)

The Mission for Research Evaluation and Programming is responsible for all scientific evaluation processes within IRD, regardless of the institutional or partnership framework of the evaluation. Statutory evaluation processes involve many stakeholders, including members of the Institute’s bodies: the five sectoral scientific commissions (CSS), the research and applications management commission (CGRA) and the scientific committee.

The other objective of the mission is to assess the impact on development of the research support programmes implemented by the Institute. The mission provides management and officers in charge of programmes with tools (1) to characterise expected impacts in advance; (2) for monitoring; and (3) to collect feedback for improving future programmes.

Interim Director: Muriel Mambrini-Doudet

E-mail: mepr@ird.fr

Scientific and Technological Culture Mission (MCST)

In accordance with its strategic orientation plan (2016/2030), IRD is under a duty to strengthen social, economic and cultural values of research for development. To meet this objective, the Scientific and Technological Culture Mission deploys a policy for the diffusion of scientific information and knowledge sharing in society both in France and in partner countries in the South.

Director: Marie-Lise Sabrié

E-mail: mcst@ird.fr

Expertise Mission

The objective of the Expertise Mission is to promote the quality and diversity of expertise at IRD. The mission coordinates development with the departments and services in the Science, Development and Support divisions.

Director: Stéphane Raud

E-mail: expertise@ird.fr

Development, Global Issues and Partnerships Unit

International and European Relations Department

As part of its 2016-2020 Objective and Performance Contract, IRD is aiming to become a scientific benchmark for its national, European and international partners. To that end, the Institute has a department dedicated to developing its network of representatives, and to international and European affairs.

Director: Claude-Anne Gauthier

Deputy Director: Mélissa Dalleau

E-mail: drie@ird.fr

Department for the Mobilisation of Research and Innovation for Development

The goal of the Department for the Mobilisation of Research and Innovation for Development is to improve the impact of research in Southern countries by strengthening the social contribution of research; promoting the continuum of education, research and innovation; supporting researchers in their development projects; and by developing programmes involving multiple prominent members of civil society and the economy.

Director: Chantal Vernis

Deputy Director: Christophe Cypcura

Support for Research and International Scientific Standing Unit

Human Resources Department (HRD)

The responsibility of the Human Resources department is to propose, develop and implement IRD's employment and social policies and to ensure skill development amongst employees.

Director: Sabine Desclides

Deputy Director: Nathalie Parisotto

E-mail: drh@ird.fr

Finance Department (FD)

The Finance department contributes to the definition of the Institute’s financial policy and ensures that it is applied.

Interim director: Léo Manivannane

Deputy Director: Vincent Bousquet

E-mail: df@ird.fr

Legal Affairs Department (LAD)

The Legal Affairs department provides the Institute with advice, expertise and legal monitoring , and defends the Institute’s interests in legal proceedings.

Director: Elise Bourgon-Schouvey

E-mail: daj@ird.fr

Department for the Development of Innovative Digital Use (DDUNI)

The Department for the Development of Innovative Digital Use is responsible for the development and application of IRD's digital strategy, working closely with the business divisions. The department coordinates the digital master plan and the associated projects. It is also responsible for ensuring the Institute’s IT system functions correctly. It provides and promotes IRD digital services to both internal and external users. Finally, the department works with IRD partners such as institutional partners in the South and North and with sponsors to develop digital tools in countries in the South.

Director: Michel Labadie

Interim deputy director: Loïc Valognes

E-mail: dduni@ird.fr

Quality, Health, Safety and Environment Department

The Quality, Health, Safety and Environment Department defines and controls the Institute’s QHSE policy. It designs and implements actions to promote the health and safety of employees, quality in research units and the protection of the environment. The department works with and coordinates the network of actors concerned within the Institute.

Interim deputy director: Emmanuel Rodriguez

Science Support Department (MApS)

The objective of the Science Support Department is to ensure conditions conducive to coordinated decision-making and monitoring of research resources: (financial and human resources for units and research partnerships). The department works closely with the departments (DISCO, ECOBIO, OCEANS, SAS, SOC) and missions (MP2I, MIDN), as well as with the management of the Support Hub. The team has complementary competences to help departments make decisions, apply their scientific policy, communicate with and coordinate their group of unit directors, and adjudicate how to allocate human and financial resources. The department is in direct contact with the head office, thus ensuring smooth interaction between the Institute’s three divisions on all matters related to department life.

Director: Franck Carenzi

E-mail: maps@ird.fr

Support for Change Mission (MAC)

The Support for Change Mission assists the components of IRD departments in their development: processes, governance, tools and human impact. This includes a range of projects: new strategic orientation, reorganisation, deconcentration, the development of representative and administrative networks, and the modernisation and innovation of support services.

E-mail: mac@ird.fr

Representation around the world

More information about IRD representatives around the world

Regional Delegations

Each delegation provides a range of services that pools and provides resources to support the research done by the units and bodies within their remit.

Occitania

Regional delegate: Florence Morineau

Deputy regional delegate: Anne Heurtaux

E-mail: delegation.occitanie@ird.fr

Île-de-France

Regional delegate : Ana Claudia Fonseca Brefe

Deputy regional delegate : Perrine Guillon

E-mail: dr-ile-de-france@ird.fr

South-East

Regional delegate Christophe Chambon

Deputy regional delegate: Marine Sabounji

E-mail: dr.sud-est@ird.fr

West

Regional delegate: Christelle Guenneguez

E-mail: dr-ouest@ird.fr

More information about regional delegations

Bodies reporting to the Chairperson

General Advisory and Audit Unit

The General Advisory and Audit Unit audits, monitors and provides advice in order to improve the Institute’s level of functioning and performance.

Principle Accounting Department

The Principle Accounting Department is responsible for settling, recording and paying expenses and recording and collecting revenue, after carrying out the checks stipulate in public accounting regulations.

Senior Accountant: Philippe Pedro

Deputy: Muriel Sassi

E-mail: agence-comptable@ird.fr

Defence and Security Officer (DSO)

IRD Defence and Security Officer protects the fundamental interests of the nation within the scope of the Institute’s activities. They are responsible for protecting the scientific and technical heritage of IRD, namely the knowledge and results of scientific research, as well as sensitive technology. This heritage is considered to be the exclusive property of the national community. The fundamental interests of the nation must be taken into account when transferring this heritage internationally.

General Secretary: Bruno Sicard

E-mail: fsd@ird.fr

Bodies and committees