I returned yesterday from a study trip to Stockholm, arranged by my University for the students of an in-depth course on Strindberg. August Strindberg is probably the third most celebrated playwright in the world after Ibsen and Shakespeare, and one of the founders of modern drama. The first association a lot of people have when they hear his name, however, is “the man who hated women.”

Feminists and other critics have been pointing out Strindberg’s obvious loathing for women for a century now; revealed, they say, in several of his numerous plays. Thus the reception of Strindberg as a mean, mad, morbid male chauvinist has spread to innocent, virgin Strindbergians and polluted their judgement before they have even experienced one of his many productions. And true, in a number of Strindberg’s texts there lurk female characters that would make good friends with Cersei Lannister. In The Father, for instance, the manipulative wife tricks her husband into thinking that he is not the father of his child, and he goes completely bonkers, collapses into a pathetic toddler of a man in a straitjacket (she actually lures him into it), while she smoothly takes over as “head of house”, and the play ends when the poor guy dies from a heart attack. Classic bitch for you.

Though I must say that there are plenty of wonderfully profane hags in George R. R Martin’s epic too, and nobody is accusing him for hating women (yes, I do honestly try to keep my Game of Thrones references at bay). That is, I am sure there are those who do accuse Martin of sexism, but the feminists have been quiet compared to the flame war which Strindberg has gone through. After learning more about the famous Swede’s life I realise that “woman hater”, if that really is what he was, is an all-too narrow tag for Strindberg.

There are many reasons for admiring Gustie (my new nickname for Strindberg), apart from his schizophrenic-oedipal relationships with women (be they fictional or real). He was a painfully prolific artist, and in addition to plays and novels he wrote several articles on everything which concerned him, from literature to politics. He was also a brilliant chemist and he was into alchemy; moreover he painted quite a bit. My favourite is this one:

It is called “The Underworld”. He smeared it together in three hours, apparently. Peanuts. (You can clearly see Strindberg’s hatred for women in his aggressive brush, his obvious disdain for feminine colours and the camouflaged little man with the impressive moustache down in the left corner, who is stepping on a wailing girl’s face while smoking a cigar and waving his huge cane triumphantly.)

He hates her, as he loves her. The adding of a comma to the title would make a world of difference, as it would mean because instead of like like the lack of punctuation invites to. I poached this piece of writing from an analysis of Strindberg’s most famous novel, “The Defence of a Fool”. The emphasis of the analysis is not on Gustie’s contempt for the opposite sex, but on the great ambivalence by which we must always understand his work. I agree with that. Strindberg’s ambivalence is a key aspect of his abundant writings. However, is that not nearly always the case with emotions – real or fictional? I catch myself frequently saying “must we choose one or the other; can’t it be both, and both of equal value?” This tendency is aggravated by my studying art. In art you cannot take sides – unless you are being polemical – because beauty is subjective. Nevertheless, by saying that we need to interpret this author and that painter through a spyglass in which the lens is oiled with ambivalence, we sort of cause the work of art to disintegrate into a shady void where nothing is wrong and everyone smiles and nods pedagogically at one another.

My point is this: perhaps it is a tad narrow-minded and unfair to bluntly accuse Strindberg of being a sexist prick with mommy issues, but conversely it is cowardly and downright detrimental to defend him by pointing to the ambivalent nature of his work. I realise that I am being horribly circular. We can’t defend everyone by saying “he’s only human”, but neither can we base our judgement on a one-sided interpretation. So it all comes down to the healthy balance between empathy and acceptance at one end of the scale, and independence and critical thinking at the other. And there I am again, happily twittering in my best Mary Poppins voice that I don’t need to choose one or the other. Strindberg: I hereby name you woman hater for the sake of my own argument.