Brandon Sanderson Statistics

Across all of Brandon Sanderson’s works, he has sold over 40 million book copies.

His solo books have sold over 30 million copies across 35 languages.

Alongside these, Sanderson has co-authored three Wheel of Time books which have sold an additional 10 million copies (based on the written notes of Robert Jordan).

His four secret project novels have broken multiple records, such as becoming the #1 Kickstarter of all time in 2022.

The campaign had 185,000 backers in total and was able to raise $42 million in funding.

Mostly due to this, it is estimated that he earned $55 million in 2022.

However, in a typical year, Brandon Sanderson earns around $10 million.

Oathbringer by Brandon Sanderson was the most pre-ordered audiobook in Audible history at its time of publication.

Known for his diligence, Sanderson aims to write a minimum of 3,000 words each day and is known to work on multiple projects at the same time.

As of 2023, Sanderson has a team of up to 64 people that work for him to collaborate on his self-publishing projects.

Brandon Sanderson books in order

As of 2023, Brandon Sanderson has published a total of 71 books, which include:

32 novels

17 novellas

11 short stories

4 audiobooks

4 graphic novels

3 collections

Brandon Sanderson has been publishing books since April 2005 when he released Elantris.

His upcoming titles include White Sand Omnibus (Aug 2023), Defiant (Nov 2023), The Sunlit Man (Jan 2024), and Knights of Wind and Truth (Nov 2024).

Brandon Sanderson FAQ

What order to read Brandon Sanderson?

Brandon Sanderson’s works within each series should be read in reading order.

However, different series within his collection can be read in order of preference.

There is no general order to reading Brandon Sanderson’s other titles.

His works include many standalone titles, which can be read in any order.

How many Cosmere books are there?

As of 2023, there are a total of 60 books created within Brandon Sanderson’s fictional universe of Cosmere.

The most popular stories within Cosmere include:

Elantris

Mistborn

Warbreaker

The Stormlight Archive

White Sand

Arcanum Unbounded

What order to read Cosmere?

There are many series within Cosmere and as such it is recommended to read these in sequential order.

However, a reader can start with any Cosmere series that they choose.

In addition to series titles, there are also a number of standalone titles within the Cosmere universe.

The following titles could be a good starting point for a reader:

Mistborn: the Final Empire

The Emperor’s Soul

The Way of Kings

Elantris

Warbreaker

How many Mistborn books are there?

In total there are 7 Mistborn books which are split into two volumes, alongside an additional novella.

As of 2023, Sanderson is planning to write two additional volumes.

What order to read Mistborn?

The recommended reading order for Mistborn is as follows:

The Final Empire

The Well of Ascension

The Hero of Ages

Secret History (novella)

The Alloy of Law

Shadows of Self

The Bands of Mourning

The Lost Metal

How many books in the Stormlight Archive?

As of 2023 there are 4 books within the Stormlight Archive plus an additional 2 novellas.

There are also plans to increase the series so that it includes 10 novels, alongside additional novellas.

What order to read Stormlight Archive?

The recommended reading order for The Stormlight Archive is as follows:

The Way of Kings

Words of Radiance

Edgedancer (novella)

Oathbringer

Dawnshard (novella)

Rhythm of War