Here is the story behind the Ferrari logo!

As you know, Ferrari is an Italian luxury sports car manufacturer based in Maranello. What you may not know is that Ferrari was founded by Enzo Ferrari in 1929, as Scuderia Ferrari.

Back then, the company sponsored drivers and manufactured race cars before moving into production of street-legal vehicles in 1947.

Throughout its history, Ferrari has been noted for its continued participation in racing, especially in Formula One, where it has had a great success. Everyone knows that their cars are a symbol of speed, luxury and wealth.

Initially, Enzo was not interested in the idea of producing road cars when he formed Scuderia Ferrari in 1929. But after a long partnership with Alfa Romeo, he started to like the idea.

In 1939 after Enzo left Alfa Romeo, he founded Auto Avio Costruzioni, a new company ostensibly produced machine tools and aircraft accessories.

A year later, Ferrari produced a race car, the Tipo 815, based on a Fiat platform, in the non-competition period. Tipo 815 became the first Ferrari car and debuted at the 1940 Mille Miglia.

Their first road car was the 1947 125 S, a car powered by a 1.5L V12 engine.

Then in early 1969, Fiat took a 50% stake in Ferrari. An immediate result was an increase in available investment funds, and work started at once on factory extension intended to transfer production from Fiat’s Turin plant of the Ferrari engine Fiat Dino.

In 1988, Enzo Ferrari oversaw the launch of the Ferrari F40, the last new Ferrari to be launched before his death later that year, and arguably one of the most famous super cars ever made.

A year later, the company changed its name in Ferrari S.p.a.

Ever since 1943, the Ferrari factory moved to Maranello and it remained there until today.

In May of 2012, one of their cars, a 1962 Ferrari 250 GTO became the most expensive car in the world, selling in a private transaction for $38,115,000 to American communications magnate Craig McCaw.

Ferrari produced the Enzo, their fastest model at the time, which was introduced and named in honor of the company’s founder, Enzo Ferrari.

Their logo became one of the most recognizable logos in the world, a mark that today makes some of the best sport cars in the world.

According to Ferrari, Papà Enzo took the logo from an image of a red horse painted on the fuselage of Count Francesco Baracca, an ace pilot in the Italian air force and a World War I hero. Apparently, Enzo only ever spoke of the logo’s provenance once.

The famous symbol of Ferrari is a black prancing horse on yellow background, usually with the letters S F for Scuderia Ferrari.

And this is what he had to say:

In ‘23, I met Count Enrico Baracca, the hero’s father and then his mother, Countess Paolina, who said to me one day, ‘Ferrari, put my son’s prancing horse on your cars. It will bring you good luck.’

Francesco Baracca died in action, possibly after his airplane got shot by ground troops and crashed in a fiery mess.

The reason Ferrari’s horse is black, not red, is because it was meant to be a symbol of mourning for the fallen pilot.

What do you think about this story?