2 years Founded under the Guwahati University Act of 1947, the University Grants Commission (UGC) approved Gauhati University or GU is a public state university situated in Guwahati, Assam, India.

With 39 Post Graduate Departments and 341 affiliated colleges, the Gauhati University is the oldest and one of the most renowned education institutions in North East India. Gauhati University has a rank of 42 among universities and an overall rank of 65 under the NIRF rankings of 2019.

The university offers a total of 215 courses in branches of Accounting & Commerce, Animation, Arts (Fine / Visual / Performing), Banking, Finance & Insurance, Business & Management Studies, Design, Engineering, Hospitality & Travel, Humanities & Social Sciences, IT & Software, Law, Mass Communication & Media, Medicine & Health Sciences, Science, Teaching & Education etc.

The faculty at Gauhati University is considered to be highly qualified with most of them holding a PhD in their respective field of study. The teachers are knowledgeable, motivating, supportive and easy to approach.

Candidates can also search for the faculty members at the Gauhati University portal.

Establishment Year 1948 Accredited by NAAC (National Assessment and Accreditation Council) with ‘A’ Grade Affiliations UGC, NAAC, AIU, AICTE, ACU Total number of students enrolled 20275 The geographical area of the campus 650 Acres

Courses offered and Fee Structure

Undergraduate courses

Gauhati University courses offered at the undergraduate level include a variety of programmes with several disciplines. The Undergraduate courses include B.A, B.A. LL.B, B.A. LL.B. (Hons), B.Com, B.Com (Hons), B.E. / B.Tech, B.Sc, B.Voc, BBA, BBA LL.B and BCA.

The Bachelor of Technology full-time course provides degrees in Civil Engineering, Information Technology, Computer Science and Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Bio-technology, Electrical Engineering,

Read More

2 years Founded under the Guwahati University Act of 1947, the University Grants Commission (UGC) approved Gauhati University or GU is a public state university situated in Guwahati, Assam, India.

With 39 Post Graduate Departments and 341 affiliated colleges, the Gauhati University is the oldest and one of the most renowned education institutions in North East India. Gauhati University has a rank of 42 among universities and an overall rank of 65 under the NIRF rankings of 2019.

The university offers a total of 215 courses in branches of Accounting & Commerce, Animation, Arts (Fine / Visual / Performing), Banking, Finance & Insurance, Business & Management Studies, Design, Engineering, Hospitality & Travel, Humanities & Social Sciences, IT & Software, Law, Mass Communication & Media, Medicine & Health Sciences, Science, Teaching & Education etc.

The faculty at Gauhati University is considered to be highly qualified with most of them holding a PhD in their respective field of study. The teachers are knowledgeable, motivating, supportive and easy to approach.

Candidates can also search for the faculty members at the Gauhati University portal.

Establishment Year 1948 Accredited by NAAC (National Assessment and Accreditation Council) with ‘A’ Grade Affiliations UGC, NAAC, AIU, AICTE, ACU Total number of students enrolled 20275 The geographical area of the campus 650 Acres

Courses offered and Fee Structure

Undergraduate courses

Gauhati University courses offered at the undergraduate level include a variety of programmes with several disciplines. The Undergraduate courses include B.A, B.A. LL.B, B.A. LL.B. (Hons), B.Com, B.Com (Hons), B.E. / B.Tech, B.Sc, B.Voc, BBA, BBA LL.B and BCA.

The Bachelor of Technology full-time course provides degrees in Civil Engineering, Information Technology, Computer Science and Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Bio-technology, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Industrial and Production Engineering, Instrumentation Engineering, Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering, Food Processing, Applied Electronics and Instrumentation etc over a period of 4 years.

The 3 year-long Bachelor of Science programme provides degrees in Chemical Science, Interior Design, Physical Science, Fashion and Textile Design, Physics, Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Botany etc. The duration of the UG courses under Gauhati University is generally three to four years.

Postgraduate courses

Gauhati University courses list at the postgraduate level includes Executive MBA/PGDM, LL.B, LL.M, M.A, M.Com, M.E./M.Tech, M.Ed, M.J.M.C, M.Lib.I.Sc, M.Sc, MBA/PGDM and MCA. The Master of Technology degree provides specializations in Biotechnology, Communication and Signal Processing, Material Science and Technology, Bioengineering, Signal Processing and Vlsi etc.

The two year-long Master of Science programme provides degrees in Chemistry, Economics, Mathematics, Computer Science, Botany, Geology, Environmental Science, Statistics, Biotechnology, Physics, Microbiology, Geography, Information Technology, Zoology, Radiological Physics, Electronics & Communication, Instrumentation Technology, Chemical Sciences, Anthropology, Wildlife Sciences, Mathematical Science etc.

The Master of Arts programme provides specializations in Economics, Psychology, History, Linguistics, Mass Communication, Sanskrit, English, Foreign Languages, Political Science, English Language Teaching, Comparative Indian Literature, Geography, Philosophy, Arabic, Assamese, Persian, Women's Studies, Anthropology, Hindi, Bengali, Education, Sociology, Mathematics, Statistics etc. The duration of the PG courses under Gauhati University is generally two years.

PhD courses

The university offers a 3-year long PhD programme on specializations like Anthropology, Physics, Psychology, Mathematics, English, Economics, Computer Science, Commerce, Philosophy, Zoology, Environmental Science, Botany, Arabic, Assamese, Linguistics, Persian, Political Science, Sanskrit, Sociology, Women's Studies, Geology, Statistics, Biotechnology, Electronics & Communication, Folklore Research, Business Administration, History etc for a fee of INR 14,400.

Gauhati University fee structure with all the details regarding hostel fee, caution money is provided on its official website.

Admission Process

All the applicants are admitted to the university courses based on the marks scored in their qualifying degree, entrance examination or admission tests. Candidates need to score above a specified mark in these exams to get admitted to a particular course or discipline.

The entrance exams include Assam CEE (Assam Common Entrance Examination), GUBEDCET (Gauhati University B.Ed Common Entrance Test), GU RET (Gauhati University Research Entrance Test), GATE (Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering) etc.

For details, candidates are advised to check Gauhati University admission 2019. Gauhati University syllabus for different subjects is also updated here.

For the B.Tech course, admission is based on performance in Assam CEE.

Admission to the postgraduate programmes is based on marks obtained in the last qualifying degree and entrance test conducted by the university.

For the M.Tech degree, admission is based on the marks scored in GATE.

For the B.Ed course, admission is based on performance in GUBEDCET conducted by the university.

For the PhD and M.Phil admissions, candidates are selected on the basis of performance in GU RET exam conducted by the university. CSIR/UGC-JRF, DBT-JRF, ICAR-JRF or ICMR-JRF qualified candidates do not have to sit for GU RET. The selected candidates’ list is uploaded on the Gauhati University website.

Placements

Gauhati University has an excellent reputation of lateral recruitments. It has extensive connections with companies, recruiters and industries which in turn helps students to receive desirable lateral placements. The placement cell of GU takes care of all matters regarding campus placements.

The university also organises workshops, seminars, and live projects related to recruitment activities making students more experienced about the placement procedure.

The median package for Engineering and Architecture (B.E /B.Tech) departments is INR 3.62 Lakhs.

The companies recruiting B.Tech students include ICICI, Maverick, NIIT Technologies, Web Tech Developers, Wipro, WIPRO INFOTECH, Cognizant, Future Soft, Infosys, mahindra british telecom, Oil India Limited, Reliance Infocomm etc.

The companies recruiting B.Com students include ICICI, Maverick, NIIT Technologies etc.

The companies recruiting MBA/PGDM students include ICICI, Maverick, NIIT Technologies, Web Tech Developers, Wipro, WIPRO INFOTECH etc.

Results and Cut-off

Gauhati University declares the cut-off list for its several courses and degrees once the results of their respective entrance examinations are calculated. The candidates need to obtain a score which is equal to or more than the cut-off mark specified by the university to get admitted to their desired courses.

For example, M.Tech aspirants need to clear the GATE Cut Off, B.Tech students need to cross the Assam CEE cut offs, PhD and M.Phil aspirants need to clear the GU RET Cut Off (also CSIR/UGC-JRF, DBT-JRF, ICAR-JRF or ICMR-JRF cut offs) and B.Ed candidates need to clear the GUBEDCET cut-offs. The cut-offs are relaxed for reserved candidates like SCs, STs and OBCs.

Alumni Network

Gauhati University has an Alumni Association that takes care of matters regarding the alumni members of the institute. The alumni are invited to the college in various occasions, they share their academic journey to boost up the students. The alumni are placed in several places in several companies and they also help the current batch student in finding their career.

Scholarships

The scholarship and assistantship programmes offered by Gauhati University to its students include the following:

Candidates belonging to families with poor economic backgrounds are exempted from paying tuition fees. This scholarship can be availed only after submitting the required documents for proof to the college.

Research Fellows and PhD students are given a monthly scholarship or stipend of a certain amount.

The students can avail SBI bank education loan with hassle free transactions after the submission of required documents. Punjab National Bank also offers educational loan to students.

Campus Facilities

The library at Gauhati University campus, also known as Krishna Kant Handiqui library, keeps a rich collection of about 269369 books, 3704 theses, 34495 volumes of bound periodicals, 4500 manuscripts and a lot more.

The library has a seating capacity of 200 and a facility dedicated to the reprographic section. The university provides hostel or lodging provisions for both boys and girls.

It has a total of 23 hostels, eleven for boys and twelve for girls including two hostel buildings (one for boys and another for girls) reserved for research scholars. All the rooms in the hostels are equipped with basic facilities and amenities for students’ usage.

The university has a Football ground, Volley-ball court, Cricket field, Badminton court, Table Tennis room, Hockey ground, Kabaddi ground and a Basketball court. Gauhati University address is in Jalukbari, Guwahati, Assam 781014 and it is well connected with all the parts of Assam.