I am reading «Born a Crime» by Trevor Noah. I highly recommend it. It has made me laugh and reflect deeply on the relationship between racism and language. Chapter 4, for example, showed me how we can judge or be judged, depending on how we speak a language. It seems that, for racists, the tone of our voice is more relevant than the tone of our skin:

"Language brings with it an identity and a culture, or at least the perception of it. A shared language says: 'We are the same.' A language barrier says 'We are different.' (p.49) [...]

Rosina Lippi-Green wrote a great book called English with an Accent: Language, Ideology, and Discrimination, and discusses the ways in which accent plays a role to discriminate. To speak with an accent seems to be one of the causes to perpetuate social structures and unequal power relations. Trevor Noah experienced this in flesh, like many others.

"[...] However the person who doesn't look like you speaks like you, your brain short-circuits because your racism program has none of those instructions in the code. 'Wait, wait,' your mind says, 'the racism code says if he doesn't look like me he isn't like me, but the language code says if he speaks like me he... is like me? Something is off here. I can figure this out.' "(p. 50).

Trevor assures that the great thing about languages is that we can just use them to convince people that we are the same:

'Racism teaches us that we are different because the color of our skin. But because racism is stupid, it's easily tricked. If you are racist and you meet someone who doesn't look like you, the fact that he can't speak like you reinforces your racist preconceptions. He's different, less intelligent." (p.49)

That is why is easy to think that smart individuals cannot come from other countries, like Mexico, even if they are scientists. Then, Trevor tells us how he became a chameleon, using his language skills to dodge people and avoid problems.

It's remarkable how Trevor speaks several languages (Xhosa, Zulu, Africans, English, among others), and how is able to change his speech into different accents. For sure you have seen his famous TV show, you also can see two shows on Netflix where he plays with his voice to imitate Irish-English, Mexican-English, and even, Nelson Mandela and Barack Obama's voices! It is very funny and captures the importance of language, and intonation, to influence people and change lives.