The Sinclair, Autograph Collection, in Fort Worth, Texas, has always stood out for its unique blend of historic art deco design. Now the landmark property, constructed in1930 and boasting 164 boutique rooms and suites, has become a pioneer in data-driven technology innovation. In fact, the iconic hotel is now billing itself “the world’s first all-digital hotel.”

The Sinclair has invested heavily in integrating internet of things (IoT) functionality from Intel Corporation, the technology solution provider best known for its long-time leadership in semiconductor chip manufacturing, while also utilizing advanced offerings from Cisco, SAS and multiple other digital vendors. The next-generation devices, enabled by state-of-the-art software capabilities, include building and in-room sensors, IoT gateways, dashboards and restaurant sinks and appliances.

Together, these devices are delivering connected guest experience through location-based analytics, no doubt providing a glimpse into the future of hospitality.

There may be no other hotel experience anywhere that is as intelligent and responsive to guests and staff of the hotel through the deployment of advanced technology capabilities. From in-room sensors customized to a guest’s movements to the deployment of energy-conserving diesel replacement technology, The Sinclair is able to deliver personalized guest experiences and actionable business insights while also reducing operational costs and energy consumption in the long run.

“The Sinclair combines the beauty and historical significance of Fort Worth with the innovative connected technology of the future,” said Farukh Aslam, CEO and president of Sinclair Holdings. “By using the latest connected technology from Intel and our other partners, we can offer guests the absolute best experience from the moment they walk through the door.”

The technology underpinnings of this smart hotel include the following:

Intel’s IoT gateway brings together the data, edge computing power and management capabilities of the smart building infrastructure.

Cisco’s Meraki smart Wi-Fi cloud networking solution with SAS data analytics integration offers location-based analytics and personalized guest messaging.

Voltserver’s Power over Ethernet (PoE) delivers its patented “Digital Electricity” solution to power Cisco switches.

Motorized shades and drapes from Somfy use PoE for management and control and are easily controlled by guests through a digital kiosk.

Electric Mirror supplies PoE-powered LED mirrors, which guests can use to read trending news, listen to music, get weather updates and contact guest services.

Lithium battery-powered uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems eliminate the need for diesel emergency generators.

Intel Unite® wireless display and collaboration technology powers the hotel’s meeting spaces.

SinkTech IoT sinks in the hotel restaurant regulate water temperature, soap and sanitizer levels through a fully-automated, connected solution.

Intel PoE NUCs support many of the IoT technologies above (gateways, controllers, data aggregation, edge computing and an Intel Unite hub).

End-to-end Intel-based technologies enable the hotel from the smart features above to the reservation systems, point of sale, networking infrastructure, back office and guest services, such as mobile key and wireless charging.

Hotel staff can use mobile devices to connect to reservation and property management software anywhere on the premises, increasing productivity and customer service. Wireless point of sale systems enable food and drink sales anywhere on the property. Hotel guests can configure environmental settings such as temperature, lighting and shower preferences with a few taps to a digital screen, allowing for a personalized experience.

Through these technology innovations, this 90-year-old luxury hotel is reimagining the future of hotels to provide enhanced and personalized technology-driven experiences for hotel guests and staff alike.