In anticipation of Cee-Lo’s upcoming project The Lady Killer, the album’s release date has been pushed up to November 9. The album was originally scheduled for a December 7 release date.

The Goodie Mob/Gnarls Barkley member has received much praise for his single “Fuck You.” So much so that his label, Atlantic Records, bumped up The Lady Killer release by an entire month.

In other album news, Young Money’s Tyga recently spoke to MTV’s Mixtape Daily about his second studio album. The rapper revealed that he isn’t in too much of a rush when it comes to putting out the album.

“I’m thinking, I don’t wanna set no date on it,” Tyga explained to MTV. “I wanna let Nicki [Minaj] do her thing right now. Her album comes out November 23. Christmas is cool for me, January, February. I got songs; all my records and my singles, everything is timed up.”

Tyga also spoke on “Really Raw” a track on his album that features rappers The Game, Pharrell, and Snoop Dogg.

While Tyga is still working on his album fellow rapper Akon recently previewed his new album Akonic at an event in New York City earlier this week.

“Black Mafia member Big Meech, popularized on Rick Ross’ anthem ‘B.M.F. (Blowin’ Money Fast), introduces this Timbaland-esque jam with a stern speech on how you’ve only got time or money,’” said Rap-Up.com in regards to “Time Is Money” one of the tracks previewed at the listening event. “Soon, double-time snares kick in on the bass-heavy joint, where Akon plays with a fast delivery against a slow-rolling rhythm. ‘I’m on my grind, money on my mind,’ he sings.”

Those in attendance at the listening event included Sylvia Rhone, DJ Enuff, Maino, and more. Akonic will be released in stores on November 23, 2010.

Hip Hop/spoken word artist J. Ivy will soon release Here I Am, an album that will feature 18 tracks and appearances from Blitz The Ambassador, The Last Poets, and more.

“Music is the universal language, and hip-hop is the number one music in the world,” said J. Ivy in a statement. “I am focused on the genre of hip-hop because that’s what I grew up on. I am a Hip Hop baby. I wholly embrace it.”

Here I Am was released digitally earlier this week and the album will be released in stores on October 26.