For all the little bits of one-liner news that trickles in…here’s November’s blurbs

Jeff Broadbent recently completed music and sound design for the Nintendo Wii title Hot Wheels: Track Attack, developed by Firebrand Games and published by THQ. Hot Wheels: Track Attack is scheduled for release November 23, 2010.

Follow Jeff @ jeffbroadbent.com

Chance Thomas has a couple of announcements from HUGEsound:

To commemorate the 75th Anniversary of the classic board game Monopoly, Electronic Arts has released the original theme from their holiday title, Monopoly Streets as a digital download single. The theme was composed and produced by Chance, and can be previewed (and potentially purchased) at iTunes, Amazon and all the usual outlets.

Chance also has a new soundtrack album out this month. On November 8th, Ubisoft Music released the Dinosaurs Strike OST. The original orchestral action score was composed and orchestrated by Chance with Aurelien Baguerre producing. Tracks were recorded in Prague and Salt Lake City. Paul Taylor handled sheet music preparation while Pierre Langer contracted the orchestra. The score was mixed at The Pod, HUGEsound and Dynamedian by Mike Roskelley, Chance Thomas and Tillman Sillescu. Follow Chance’s news at http://HUGEsound.com

Chuck Russom’s work was recently heard in the latest Medal of Honor title from EA, as well as 007 Blood Stone and Goldeneye, World of Warcraft “Cataclysm” and his weapon sounds will be in the upcoming “Bulletstorm”. You can follow Chuck on Twitter @chuck_russom and http://chuckrussom.com

Michael Johnson, working as lead composer with The Dog and Pony Show, has several new projects coming our way, including Mission Impossible, Tarzan, Zorro and a new game based on the artwork of Michael Godard, most of which were previewed at the recent G2E show in Vegas this month. You can follow Michael at http://mjmaudio.com

Both Jesse Harlin and Wilbert Roget were able to catch their breath after finishing LucasArts “The Force Unleashed II” in addition to the fact that they both scored a great deal of music for “Star Wars: The Old Republic”.

Dren McDonald had two titles released recently:

DisneyMobile/Tapulous’ reboot, Riddim Ribbon Free is now available on iTunes (authoring levels, performing midi design, and extensive remixing/editing).

Also, the inventive platformer from Interplay, Tommy Tronic, is now available on Steam. Dren wrote the entire 80’s synth/Amiga retro inspired score. Follow Dren @drenmc