Christopher Davis, 60, of Nashua, passed away Sunday, October 1, 2023 after a lengthy illness.

Chris was born in Boston, Massachusetts on September 25, 1963, to parents Robert Davis and

Dorothy (Whittier) Davis. He spent his early youth helping to care for his mother who was very ill,

and working with his father cleaning theaters in the Boston area, learning at a young age the value of compassion and hard work.

He was a graduate of The Muscular Therapy Institute, in Cambridge MA. He worked as a massage therapist for more than 25 years. He deeply valued helping clients find relief for their pain, and was very appreciated for his

skill as a massage therapist. He had his own practice and worked at various salons in Massachusetts. In his early youth, he worked for 15 years for Osco Drug in Cambridge, MA, where he enjoyed helping customers, a hallmark of his outgoing and helpful personality. He also worked for more than 20 years for Fuoco & Co. as a property manager, where he got to know many in the Nashua area.

He was a baptized as a Jehovah’s Witness in 1981 and served faithfully for more than 40 years. In his youth, he helped build many Kingdom Halls in the New England area. Traveling to “quick builds” meeting friends and seeing everyone working together were memories he cherished. He was a member of the Merrimack Congregation of Jehovah’s Witnesses, where he served as a ministerial servant and a regular pioneer. He had the privilege of attending the Pioneer Service School of Jehovah’s Witnesses in July of 2022, which he greatly enjoyed and was very special to him. He was an avid Bible reader and was devoted to sharing its message of hope with others. His relationship with Jehovah God was what he built his life upon.

One of Chris’ greatest joys was spending time with his children, Amber and Sammy. He always loved talking to them, about so many topics. He was very proud of his children and time spent with them always brought a smile to his face.

His family enjoyed many wonderful vacations at Salisbury Beach and he particularly loved their trips to Ormond Beach, Florida, where they would enjoy going out to eat at various favorite restaurants. He was a great card player, particularly 45’s and he always cherished the times playing cards with his best friends Mark Stevens and Leonard D’Alberti. It was hard to beat Chris at cards! Chris was always known to be a friend who could be called on in a time of need. He was kind, respectful, polite and friendly to all he met. He was known for having a smile that could light up a room.

He leaves behind his wife, Paula Fuoco Davis, his children, Amber Vanessa Davis and Sammy Davis, of Nashua; his sister Jo Ann Hill of Mattapan, MA, his brother Robert Davis of Cambridge, MA, his in-laws Joseph and Sarah Fuoco, several nieces and nephews and many wonderful friends. Calling hours will be Thursday, October 12, from 5 to 9 at the Farwell Funeral Home, 18 Lock Street, Nashua, and the funeral will be held Saturday, October 14th at 1 p.m. at the Merrimack Kingdom Hall of Jehovah’s Witnesses.