MARLISS AMIEA* was most recently seen in the World Premiere of Square Blues at Horizon Theatre as Tuesday and can be seen recurring as Maguerite on season two of “Swagger” (Apple TV). The Washington D.C. native’s television/film credits include the Aretha Franklin bio pic RESPECT, A QUESTION OF FAITH, “The Resident”, “Rake”, “Young & the Restless”, and “Curb Your Enthusiasm”. She has also co-starred in a host of Lifetime, Hallmark and Ion Original Holiday movies. Atlanta audiences may remember Marliss as Nina #4 in Simply Simone at Theatrical Outfit, Octavia Vivian in the Emory Theatre Workshop For Peace I Rise, Princess in American Black Princess, or Sharmaine in Da’ Kink in my Hair. National tours and regional theater productions include Disney’s The Lion King, Hairspray, AIDA, Little Shop of Horrors, Beauty & The Beast, Sister Act the musical and the long running Disney shows Playhouse Disney Live Onstage and Hoop Dee Doo Revue. Marliss attended Berklee College of Music in Boston, MA and is a graduate of Jacksonville University in Jacksonville, Florida and the famed Duke Ellington School of the Arts in Washington D.C. She currently resides in Atlanta with her husband, two children and fur baby. For more info- IG: @MsMarliss and MsMarliss.com. I'm eternally grateful to GOD for another opportunity to grace the stage!

DESIRÉ GASTON is thrilled to join the cast of Summer: The Donna Summer Musical at Aurora Theatre. Her favorite credits include Whitney Houston in Whitney: A Moment in Time (NSU Theatre Co.), Darlene in The Color Purple (ASU Theatre), and Elle in The Forbidden Tour (International tour with Todrick Hall). She holds a Bachelor of Fine Arts in Theatre Performance from Alabama State University. Desiré is excited to have her Aurora Theatre debut this season, and would love to thank her friends and family for always supporting her!

JESSENIA INGRAM is absolutely delighted to be performing at Aurora Theatre. She is an Atlanta based actor, designer, and producer from Plano, TX. Recent acting projects include: Do You Love the Dark?, Hands Up (Alliance Theatre), Hamlet (Tiny Theatre Company), The Art of Facing Fear (Os Satyros, Brazil), and A Kids Play About Racism (Bay Area Children’s Theatre). Jessenia graduated from Spelman College and was the '19-'21 Spelman Leadership Fellow at the Alliance Theatre, where she is also a Teaching Artist & Allyship Facilitator. She sends love and gratitude to her family, both gifted and chosen. Follow her IG: @jesseniaingram

JORDAN PATRICK (he/him) is so grateful to be returning to The Aurora Theater after being in "The Donna Summer Musical"! A native of Wisconsin, Jordan moved to Georgia in 2017, and has been performing ever since: Spring Awakening, Assassins (Jennie T. Anderson) The Miraculous Journey of Edward Tulane (Synchronicity Theater), Heathers (Actors Express), Pretty Pants Bandit (Georgia Ensemble Theatre), Goodnight Tyler (Alliance Theater), Titanic, Robin Hood (Serenbe Playhouse). He also regularly performs around town with his Comedy Improv Troupe, Two Bears Blow Up in A Car. TV/Film Credits Include: Candy (Hulu) The First Lady (SHOWTIME), Teenage Bounty Hunters (Netflix), The Resident (FOX).

MICHAEL A. BLACKMON* Performance credits include Ain’t Misbehavin (as Ken), Miss Saigon (as John), Man of La Mancha (as Pedro), Jesus Christ Superstar (as Judas), Grease (as Teen Angel), Full Monty (as Tony Giodarno U/S:Horse), Damn Yankees (as Linville with Darius De Hass and Stephanie Pope), Bye, Bye Birdie (with Tommy Tune and Anne Reinking), Cinderella (as Prince Charming), Mame, Scarlet Pimpernel (as Ben), On The Town, Carnival, Camelot, Annie Get Your Gun, Singin' In The Rain, Carnegie Hall, Carnival Cruise Lines, Ballet for Young Audiences, Springfield Ballet Company, Cest Fantastique (Guam USA). Jazz Roots Dance Company, Bert and Ernie's Guide to Friendship, and Optimum Cable. His choreography credits include Escape to Margaritaville, All Shook Up, Miss Saigon, Oklahoma!, Chicago.

COURTNEY LOCKE is a Teaching Artist and founder of Actor Mommy Productions. Originally from Houston, she has lived in Atlanta for the last six years. She is so excited to be back at the Aurora with Summer, after being a part of the incredible production of Mary Poppins as a member of the Ensemble. Before that she wrote, choreographed and produced Broadway Baby Mamas with some other talented mommies as well as Moms Unleashed and Moms Unleash on Xmas at Alliance's Club Hertz. Some of her past credits include Mimi (RENT), Velma Kelley (Chicago), Cinderella (Cinderella), and Annelle (Steel Magnolias). Courtney is a graduate of San Jacinto College. IG: @thecourtneylocke

AMY DUFFY is an actor, music director, and arts administrator. After moving to Atlanta to be a part of Aurora Theatre's AppCo, she has worked with the following companies: Alliance Theatre, The Atlanta Lyric Theatre, Atlanta Shakespeare Co., Buicentennial Productions, Horizon Theatre, Serenbe Playhouse, Stone Mountain Park, Habima Theatre, and the Georgia Aquarium. Aurora credits include Men with Money, Be Here Now, A Doll's House Part 2, Beat Bugs: A Musical Adventure, Christmas Canteen 2018 and 2021, and Mary Poppins. She is the proud co-founder of Destination Theatre. Thanks for being here today! Follow along with her work. IG: @destinationtheatre

AUTUMN DAWN is an Atlanta artist who began her love for the arts at the age of 5. She was trained in various dance genres, like her all time favorite, tap. Autumn graduated from Georgia State University in 2020 where she earned a B.I.S. with a concentration in Theatre Performance and minor in Spanish. She currently works at The Alliance Theatre where she is a Teaching Artist and the TVY Stage Manager. A few of her stage production credits include; Rent (Joanne), In The Heights (Vanessa), and All Shook Up (Lorraine). Autumn has also choreographed musicals such as Newsies, Cabaret and upcoming productions of Once on This Island and Dreamgirls. “I would like to thank my DYLTM crew, friends and family for their support.” IG: @itsautumndawn

LUKE BADURA is thrilled to return home to Aurora Theatre having last appeared as male ensemble/swing in Aurora’s production of Rodgers + Hammerstein’s Cinderella. Favorite theater and film credits have included Tyler Hubbard's Dancin' in the Country music video with Terry Crews, Megalopolis with Adam Driver and Francis Ford Coppola coming later in 2023, Shoe Show commercial, Newsies, and Mamma Mia! (Aurora Theatre), Billy Elliot, and Mary Poppins (City Springs). Luke Badura is a professional dancer, artist, choreographer, actor in Atlanta, GA. Luke has danced with many dance companies, ballets, industry shows, cruise ships, and currently works in the film and theater industry and is signed with Xcel Talent Agency! Follow IG: @lukebadura

JAHI BOGARD (he/him) is an actor from Atlanta, GA through way of Little Rock, AR! Jahi has received his BA in Musical Theatre from Greensboro College and his MFA in Performance from the University of Louisville. Some of Jahi’s favorite roles he’s portrayed are Lank from Detroit ’67, Sam Carmichael from Mamma Mia!, and Sir Toby Belch from Twelfth Night. Jahi is dedicated to discovering and testing new ways to push the boundaries of African American and Queer theatre.

TYLER KIDD (he/him) is an Actor, Singer, and Dancer who works full time in the world of TV/Film, Musical Theatre, along with being a recording artist. Currently part of Aurora's AppCo23, he previously was a Dance Instructor/local Choreographer that had the chance to teach at multiple schools in the Atlanta area. He has plans to one day be able to travel around the world getting to share his studies and schooling. He’s very excited to be a part of this musical and really hopes that you enjoy the show.

GABRIELLE HINES is a Coatesville, PA native and graduate of Muhlenberg College with degrees in theatre and music. Gabrielle has studied Theatre and Music at Goldsmiths University in London, England. Past credits include Charlaine in Ain’t Misbehavin’, Danielle in Bring it On, Lady in Brown in For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide/When the Rainbow is Enuf. Offstage, Gabrielle has directed and choreographed Revival Productions’ Ruby: The Ruby Bridges Story, directed and choreographed Limelight Theatre Company’s student productions of Matilda, and assistant directed Lancaster Bible College’s Ruth, a collaboration with Sight and Sound Theatre. Gabrielle is excited to begin her artistic journey in Atlanta! @gabrielle_hines

CALVIN BERNARDO (he/him) has returned for his sixth Aurora Theatre production. You may have seen him in this season's Beautiful: The Carole King Musical, in last season's Summer: The Donna Summer Musical as Pete Bellotte, or as Robertson Ay/Valentine in Mary Poppins. He also recently performed in Aurora's Theatre for Young Audiences program in Stiles and Drewe's The Three Little Pigs, as well as portrayed Norm Waxman in Jersey Boys at the Alhambra Theatre in Jacksonville Florida. He is currently a member of Aurora's AppCo24, and has taught musical theatre and acting at the Lionheart Theatre Company for five years. He'd like to thank his family and Natalie for their love and support.

AIDAN ALFORD is thrilled to be making her debut at Aurora Theatre in Summer: The Donna Summer Musical. She is a recent graduate of Rider University where she was involved in productions like Oklahoma!(Ado Annie U/S), In Every Note (Nadia Yurievna), and Hair (Ensemble, Crissy U/S). Other favorite performances include The Roaring 20s (Gertie/Dodie), Fiddler On the Roof (Chava), The Secret Garden (Martha), and Band Geeks (Laura Jane Kirk) at Red Mountain Theatre. She would like to thank her parents and sister for all their support!

BRIANNE KNIGHTS (she/her) is excited to be back at Aurora Theatre for the most wonderful time of year! She is an actor, singer, dancer, writer, and an Atlanta native. She attended the Conservatory of Performing Arts at Point Park University in Pittsburgh, PA and is a proud Alumnus of the Youth Ensemble of Atlanta where she serves as an educator. She has performed in several theaters around Atlanta including 7 Stages, Southwest Performing Arts Center, the Rialto, and Horizon Theatre to name a few. Her most recent professional credits include Christmas Canteen (2019), Mary Poppins (Ms. Corry), the original musical, Mother of God, and Summer: The Donna Summer Musical. Tv Film: Gotham Knights and Holiday Road. Follow her on her artistic journey on IG @bri.knights

AJIA NORTHERN* is a resident of Atlanta, GA and proud Alumna of Alabama State University. With a profound love for the arts, she has a degree in Bachelor of Fine Arts in Dance. Ajia began dancing at the age of three. She has studied all genres of Dance, being well rounded in ballet, modern, jazz, and pointe, Horton, Graham & more. She's studied at The Alvin Ailey Dance Theatre for 5 years. During her rigorous studies, she has grown as a Dancer. Ajia has trained with many amazing choreographers and artists throughout many cities. Dancing is her Grace. Aurora is the beginning of an unimaginable powerful story and two words, Thank You.

SYDNEY MICHELLE (she/her) is excited to be a part of the Aurora family. She started as a box office associate at the Aurora in February of 2022. She is now happy to be a part of Appco23. Sydney has had the privilege of understudying Ms. Andrew and being an ensemble member in Mary Poppins (Aurora Theatre, 2022). She was an Ensemble Member in Summer: The Donna Summer Musical (Aurora Theatre, 2023) Sydney graduated from The Theatre School at Depaul University (2020) and received a BFA in Theatre Arts. Sydney starred in a short film called A Divas A Bedroom. Sydney also is a content creator and her brand Black.Funny.Diva. She enjoys entertaining her audience by having a comedic diva lifestyle. Sydney is ecstatic to be back at home on stage and ready to work with incredible people.

TALORIA MERRICKS is super excited to be playing the role of Ensemble/US Duckling Donna in Summer: Donna Summer the Musical. She is excited to help portray this story of black excellence. Taloria is currently based in Atlanta, Georgia. Her studies include drama classes at Howard University. She is a part of Aurora's AppCo23. Her past roles have included, Ensemble/US of Mary Poppins in Aurora's Mary Poppins. Also, she was the female identifying Swing in Aurora's Goldilocks and the Three Bears, Leading Player in a production of Pippin, & more. Taloria continues to pursue her passion in all forms of the Performing Arts with the help of God and her family.

ANN-CAROL PENCE (Co-Founder/Producing Artistic Director) arranged the music for Aurora’s first Christmas Canteen in 1996 and was hired full-time in September of 1998 as Resident Musical Director. An education major at James Madison University, she used her background to develop Learning Library (or L2). As a musician, she created Aurora’s Musicals by Moonlight, and Aurora’s New Musical Initiative. She has performed as pianist and music director both nationally (Goodspeed Opera House, Pasadena Playhouse, The Cleveland Playhouse, The Kennedy Center) and locally (The Alliance, Theatrical Outfit, The Horizon, Georgia Ensemble Theatre,). As a proud citizen of Gwinnett, Ann-Carol is most proud of Aurora Theatre winning the first ever Pinnacle Award for Large Non-Profit, and the first ever Moxie Award (for woman-led businesses) for Aurora Theatre. These distinctions go well with her 5 Suzi Awards for Outstanding Music Direction. She was a participant in the 2016 Atlanta Regional Leadership Institute and member of the “Best Class Ever!”

PATDRO HARRIS*** (he/him - Director/Choreographer) has directed at distinguished theaters such as The Alliance Theater, Sacramento Theatre Company, Round House Theater, Liberty Theater Cultural Center, San Diego Repertory Theater Company, Penumbra Theater, Tuskegee Repertory Theater, Ensemble Theater, True Colors Theater Company, Tribeca Performing Arts Center, Connecticut Repertory Theatre, Syracuse Stage, Indiana Repertory Theatre, Howard University, Syracuse University, Florida A&M University, and University of Northern Colorado. He also served as choreographer, artistic consultant, and movement director with the Oregon Shakespeare Festival, The Kennedy Center, Studio Theatre D.C, City Theatre of Pittsburgh, Minneapolis Mixed Blood Theatre, Jomandi Productions, The National Black Theatre Festival, Guthrie Theater, The National Black Arts Festival, Portland Center Stage, and Broadway’s Royal Theatre. Patdro has traveled the world as Choreographer and lead dancer for the incomparable Stevie Wonder. His talents were also showcased as Choreographer and Movement Specialist in Toni Morrison’s world premiere opera, Margaret Garner. He choreographed the Tony Award-winning Broadway hit, A Raisin in the Sun starring Sean Combs and Phylicia Rashad. Patdro choreographed the movie A RAISIN IN THE SUN and he also did additional choreographic work on the movie THE GOSPEL. Patdro is the first cho- reographer on the TV show “Dynasty” – Season 3, Episode 4 (the new millennium edition). Mr. Harris attended Alabama State University. He holds to his credit the Helen Hayes Award for Outstanding Choreography and has been honored with a nomination for the same award for Best Supporting Actor. He also received a 2002 Drammy Award for Best Choreography. In 2009 he received Atlanta’s top theatre award, The Suzi Bass Award for Outstanding Choreography. Also, in 2019 & 2013 he won the Suzi for Outstanding Director of a Play.

AJIA NORTHERN* is a resident of Atlanta, GA and proud Alumna of Alabama State University. With a profound love for the arts, she has a degree in Bachelor of Fine Arts in Dance. Ajia began dancing at the age of three. She has studied all genres of Dance, being well rounded in ballet, modern, jazz, and pointe, Horton, Graham & more. She's studied at The Alvin Ailey Dance Theatre for 5 years. During her rigorous studies, she has grown as a Dancer. Ajia has trained with many amazing choreographers and artists throughout many cities. Dancing is her Grace. Aurora is the beginning of an unimaginable powerful story and two words, Thank You.

TANYA ORELLANA (she/her) designs performance spaces for theatre, opera and immersive experiences. Collaborations include Fefu and her Friends directed by Pam MacKinnon at ACT’s Strand Theatre, Oedipus directed by Jenny Koons at The Getty Villa, We the Peoples Before directed by Roberta Uno at The Kennedy Center, The Industry’s Sweet Land, an immersive opera directed by Yuval Sharon and Cannupa Hanska Luger at LA State Historic Park, Long Beach Opera's Voices from a Killing Jar by Kate Soper, directed by Zoe Aja Moore, LEAR by Marcus Gardley directed by Eric Ting at Calshakes, . She is a member of Wingspace Theatrical Design and an organizing member of La Gente: The Latine Theatre Production Network. www.tanyaorellana.com.

JEREMIAH DAVISON (he/him) Aurora: Cinderella: The Musical, Song & Dance (Suzie Nominated); Atlanta: The Incredible Book Eating Boy, Do You Love The Dark, Do You Love The Dark (Alliance Theatre); Urinetown, Bootycandy, Home Town Boy, Heather's: The Musical, Head Over Heels, and Audio Engineer for The Color Purple at Actors’ Express (Suzie Award Winner for Best Sound Design); Chicken & Biscuits (Dominion Group); The Light (Horizon); Fires in a Mirror (Theatrical Outfit). Touring: The Step Afrika! National Tour of Drumfolk. Education: 2017-18 Actors Express Appco Alum, University of West Georgia & Georgia State Perimeter College Alum. Davison is a Co-Founder and the current Director of Operations of Multiband Studios LLC. @MultibandStudiosLLC

ALICE NEFF (she/her) joined the resident staff at the Aurora in 2022. Previously, she was the shop manager for Cinderella, Swindlers, and Christmas Canteen 2021, and was a draper for On Your Feet, Men with Money, and Mamma Mia, and designed Mary Poppins, Erma Bombeck: At Wit’s End, and The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Nighttime, a co-production with Horizon Theatre. She was the shop manager for the Theatre & Dance Department at Appalachian State for many years, and was a draper at Glimmerglass Opera and a stitcher for the Hallmark mini-series True Women. She has designed for Florida Repertory Theatre in Fort Myers, and for Lees McRae Summer Theatre, Blowing Rock Stage Company, and Horn in the West in NC, along with numerous schools in the southeast.

KATIE PELKEY (Managing Director) is celebrating twelve seasons with Aurora! In 2013, Katie transitioned to the role of Company Manager, having previously served as Resident Stage Manager. She also created the highly-successful Stage Management and Costume Apprentice programs that operates simultaneously with Aurora’s Acting Apprentice Company program. For five seasons, she worked as Aurora’s Educational Resources Associate developing educational curriculum for teachers to use in conjunction with Aurora’s TYA Learning Library offerings. And for over a decade, Katie served as Production Stage Manager for New Plays for Young Audiences, a prestigious TYA summer staged reading series based at New York University. She received her BA in Educational Theatre from New York University with a minor in Dramatic Literature. Many thanks to Michael, Maxwell, and Alexander for their love and support!

DANIEL POPE (Production Manager) is proud to be joining the great team at Aurora Theatre as Production Manager. Daniel has been a sound designer and engineer in the Atlanta area for the past seven years. He’s had the pleasure of designing sound for the Aurora Theatre on many occasions on shows such as: Into the Woods, Christmas Canteen, Sweep, and most recently The Bridges of Madison County. Additionally, he’s worked on countless other productions in the Atlanta theatre community including: Evita and A Streetcar Named Desire as Sound Designer and Production Manager at Serenbe Playhouse. Daniel received a Bachelors in Marketing with a specialization in sales and a minor in Music from The University of West Georgia in 2010.

Taylor is so excited to be joining the staff at Aurora Theatre! Worked at Alabama Shakespeare Festival (2015-2022) starting out as a carpenter moving into the Technical Director (2018-2022). A few favorite credits include: Cinderella, Macbeth, Little Shop of Horror’s, All is Calm, Pipeline, Romeo and Juliet, Sound of Music, Steel Magnolias, Into the Breeches, Buzz, The Agitators, Every Brilliant Thing, Annie, Twelfth Night, and Miracle Worker. I wouldn’t be able to do any of this with out the support of my wife, Tory, and son, Jack.

ISAAC BURRIER (he/him) is excited to have joined Aurora Theatre as their Head of Lighting. Isaac has worked on numerous shows with Aurora including Christmas Canteen, Mary Poppins (2022), Swindlers, and several others as the Master Electrician. Before working with Aurora, Isaac worked in Nashville, TN as a lighting and scenic designer as well as a lighting tech in Raleigh, NC. Some of his professional credits include: Ordinary Days (Georgia Gwinnett College), Giant Squid (Woven Theatre Company), Lungs (Woven Theatre Company), The Whale (Verge Theater Company), Beneatha’s Place (Verge Theater Company) and several dance recitals with Rejoice School of Ballet. Isaac is also a graduate of Belmont University with a BFA in Production Design in Theatre.

EMILY GRACE BLACKSTONE (she/her) is excited to be back with Aurora for another season. Her previous shows at Aurora include The Hunchback of Notre Dame, Men with Money, and & Newsies. She has also worked with the Alliance Theatre in Atlanta as well as Arena Stage and the Shakespeare Theater in Washington, DC. She thanks her family and Patty for all their support.

GALEN CRAWLEY* (she/her)is thrilled to be home for the holidays! This Snellville native is jingling her bells to be appearing in her fourth Christmas Canteen. You may remember her as the eponymous nanny from Mary Poppins (a role she has played twice at Aurora), or as a wicked stepsister in Cinderella. Regional: Ragtime, The Last 5 Years, and Urinetown (Nashville Rep), It’s A Wonderful Life: A Live Radio Play (Studio Tenn), Beehive (Flat Rock Playhouse). Atlanta: Shrek and Broke (Alliance Theatre), Fiddler on the Roof (City Springs Theatre), The Wild Party (Jennie T. Anderson Theatre), My Fair Lady, Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, Joseph…Dreamcoat (Atlanta Lyric Theatre), Miss Bennet and 110 in the Shade (Theatrical Outfit), Our Town (Atlanta Shakespeare Tavern), Bad Jews and Bloody, Bloody Andrew Jackson (Actors Express). 2014 Suzi Bass Award for Best Actress in a Musical for Mary Poppins. She holds a BFA in musical theatre from The Sargent Conservatory at Webster University; follow her online at GalenCrawley.com or @galencrawley wherever it counts. Thanks always to Jacob, Mom, Dad, Devyn, and her forever angel, Abigail, who trots along in her shadow and nibbles at her heels on the high notes.

ASHLEY PRINCE (she/her/hers) is a musician, actor, and teacher from Mississippi. She's programmed and played every Aurora musical since The Hunchback of Notre Dame in 2017, and you may have seen her at an Aurora Theatre cabaret or in the Reindeer Games during the holidays. Ashley is a proud SCAD grab with a BFA in Performing Arts. When she's not at Aurora, she's chasing her toddler or teaching at Mister John's Music (www.misterjohnsmusic.com). Follow her little family on instagram: @ashleyrprince.