Company Description

Serving the Inland Empire, including Rancho Cucamonga, our indoor go kart racing center in Ontario is a fantastic entertainment venue that is perfect for birthday parties, bachelor parties, special occasions, Bar and Bat Mitzvahs, corporate functions and team building activities. If you are looking to spend a day with family and friends or are interested in doing something unique and exciting on a Friday night, then K1 Speed is for you! We have been offering residents of Southern California a first-rate indoor go kart racing experience since 2003 and are dedicated to ensuring our customers enjoy their time at K1 Speed. We're confident that once you visit one of our locations, you will become hooked! If you are looking for the best indoor go kart racing in the Ontario, Corona, Rancho Cucamonga, Pomona and Inland Empire area, then give K1 Speed a try.

Located in the Inland Empire near Rancho Cucamonga, Corona and Pomona

Like our location in Irvine, K1 Speed Ontario offers racers a choice of two unique and challenging tracks. The layout for Track 1 features a tight and technical infield, yet also offers wide passing areas that are great for overtaking. Track 2 has a very long straightaway and several hairpin turns that demand good rhythm and a precise balance of throttle and steering. Regardless of the track that you race on (we find that many of our customers decide to try both!), racing at 40mph a mere inches from the ground with up to 12 other drivers around you fighting for position is a thrilling experience that will redefine your outlook on go karts. Our 20hp electric karts are clean, efficient, and quiet, and they offer stellar performance that may just catch you by surprise! Whether you're interested in participating in our next race event of you want to challenge your friends in our Arrive and Drive, our karts are enormously fun. We invite you to contact us if you have any questions. Serving Riverside County and the Inland Empire, including Rancho Cucamonga, Corona, Pomona, Murrieta and Mira Loma, our Ontario indoor go kart racing center is one of the finest in Southern California.

Track 1 Stats:

Length: 1/3 Mile

Number of turns: 9

Features: Long Straight with wide passing zones

Track 2 Stats: