La Cueva, s/n, Castañeda.

Posada La Robla is a hotel where tradition and modernity go hand in hand. Crisp, clean, chunky furnishings nestle beneath heavy rustic beams. A 19th century stone country house stands beside the modern dining room and apartments, united by a tall glass atrium. Yet these contrasts live in perfect harmony, perhaps because the modern structure is not too severely modern but uses stone, wood and a zinc-clad roof to complement the rest of the valley.

The garden surrounding the hotel is a great place for sitting out on the lush lawns or the gravel terraces, and perhaps even enjoying breakfast there. It is dominated by a great oak tree that gives the hotel its name (la robla = oak tree).

Indoors the main lounge is in the old building where it is one of the best examples of modern furnishing within a traditional structure. Meanwhile the dining room in the new building is wholly contemporary, with a view of the garden through the large windows.

There are seven double rooms and three singles in the old building, once again reflecting the mix of old and new. The more recent addition houses six apartments, each consisting of a double bedroom, living room with sofa-bed, kitchen and bathroom.

The location of Posada La Robla is conveniently close to the ferry port at Santander and the motorway running along the north coast of Spain. It would be a mistake to think of the hotel as just an overnight stop though, because it lies in an area of great beauty with the green hills of Cantabria all around and the rugged cliffs and clear waters of the Cantabrian coast less than a half-hour drive away.

We Say

A great base for exploring Cantabria. Especially suited to families with children. Some of the apartments will take parents plus up to four children.

A Word from the Owner

We are fortunate to find ourselves in one of the most beautiful parts of Spain, between the crystal waters of the Cantabria coast and the green meadows of the Pasiega Mountains.

Expand location map

Compact location map