Balvenie distillery produces single scotch whisky from Dufftown, Moray. The distillery is one of the most sought after known for its collectibles, owned by William Grant. Balvenie was built on 12 acres of land in 1892 by William Grant.

Dufftown Golf Club is an 18-hole course set amongst the most breathtaking scenery in Speyside, the heart of the malt whisky country. Visitors return regularly to enjoy golf in this beautiful Banffshire setting where two of the holes (7th & 10th) feature in ‘Britain’s 100 Extraordinary Golf Holes’ by Geoff Harvey and Vanessa Strowger. All […]

Boasting garden views, Inveravon Holiday Home in Dufftown features accommodation with a patio and a coffee machine, around 14.3 miles from Huntly Castle. This holiday home has a garden, barbecue facilities, free WiFi and free private parking. The holiday home features 3 bedrooms, 1 bathroom, bed linen, towels, a flat-screen TV with satellite channels, a […]

The Glenfiddich Distillery based in Dufftown; Moray has been producing malt whiskey since 1887. William Grant is the founder of the distillery with it being built in 1886. Today, Glenfiddich remains the world’s best-selling single malt with sales in excess of a million cases a year.

The Tannochbrae is a splendid historic home perfect for celebrations, group gatherings, outdoor enthusiasts and family getaways alike, set within the small town of Dufftown the Malt Whisky Capital in stunning Moray Speyside. Built in 1872 The Tannochbrae has a modern interior behind its stone exterior whilst retaining its original Victorian character. To mark its […]

Two stone cottages set in the heart of Dufftown, Speyside. An ideal town location perfect for romantic getaways and friendly adventures alike. A luxurious-nights sleep awaits with a sumptuous bed to sink into. 1 Wee-Kalf has the option for either a Super king or 2 x Single beds There are 2 enclosed garden areas with […]

Two stone cottages set in the heart of Dufftown, Speyside. An ideal town location perfect for romantic getaways and friendly adventures alike. A luxurious-night’s sleep awaits with a sumptuous bed to sink into. 2 Wee-Kalf has a King size bed. There are 2 enclosed garden areas with a patio area, outdoor furniture, and BBQ, a […]

Parkmore Holiday Cottages is a complex of 8 cottages located in the heart of Speyside, Scotland. Here at Parkmore we boast the very best self catering holiday accommodation in Scotland. Located near Dufftown, our cottages were formed by the conversion of the old steading, farmhouse and bothy at Parkmore Farm. If you are looking for […]

Eight Lands produces exceptional organic spirits with Scottish spring water, distilled and bottled at the family owned Glenrinnes Distillery on our estate in Speyside. Glenrinnes Distillery is an eye-catching, purpose-built distillery, completed in 2018 in Glenrinnes, Scotland. In keeping with Glenrinnes Farm’s organic ethos, the distillery is committed to excellence, with only the best organic […]

The Fife Arms Dufftown was an old Coaching Inn built in the 19th century and is centrally located in Dufftown Square by the famous clock tower. The hotel is family run, located halfway between Inverness and Aberdeen. We have six modern chalet style letting rooms to the rear of the main building, where you will […]

One of the longest serving hotels in Speyside, the Commercial Hotel in Dufftown provides a relaxed and friendly environment in which freshly cooked meals are prepared daily by our team of chefs using the best of local Scottish produce. Perfect accommodation for the Spirit of Speyside Whisky Festival, Glenfiddich Distillery, and fly fishing on the […]

Ben Shea Smart Home – sleeps up to 6 persons A recently refurbished 1874 Victorian 3 bedroom, 2 bathroom villa in the heart of Dufftown. It has a private garden and is a fully automated Loxone smart home – an experience in itself! Together our 3 Dufftown properties are within a moment of each other […]

A wide ditch encircles this striking, curtain-walled castle. Built in the 1200s as the seat of the powerful earls of Buchan, the heavily fortified stronghold became an elegant lodging in the 1500s. For more than 500 years, Balvenie was a mighty stronghold – initially for the Comyn earls of Buchan, who ruled over this part […]

Get off the tourist track! Discover the Malt Whisky Capital of the World – with a local! The renowned Dufftown Distilleries Walk is a relaxed walking tour around the past and present distillery sites of Dufftown. Drink in the history, the surroundings and of course samples from the distilleries themselves! This tour allows access to […]