Four weeks after losing her race for governor to Massachusetts Gov.-elect Charlie Baker, Martha Coakley is maintaining an active role in state government, completing her term as Massachusetts attorney general and working closely with Massachusetts Attorney Gen.-elect Maura Healey.

In recent weeks weeks, Coakley has worked alongside 37 other state attorneys generals to protect against telephone and privacy fraud through a variety of efforts.

On Nov. 24, the group of attorneys general urged the Federal Trade Commission to update its Telemarketing Sales Rule as a precaution to defend consumers against telemarketing fraud and abuse of privacy. A report was released Dec. 2 stating that telephone solicitors hired by Massachusetts charities received only about 47 percent of the earnings they collected during their campaigns in 2013.

“We urge the FTC to strengthen its guidelines for telemarketers in order to enhance consumers protections and prevent continued scams and abuses,” Coakley said in a Nov. 24 press release.

Despite being on her way out of office, Coakley has attempted to play an increase role in the national political landscape.

Amidst accusations condemning Bill Cosby of sexual assault, Coakley spoke out, writing a letter to administrators at the University of Massachusetts Amherst about the implications of continuing a relationship with the UMass Amherst alumnus. In her letter, she said continuing to allow Cosby to be affiliated with the university sends the wrong message at a time when sexual assaults on college campuses are of great concern.

UMass announced on Nov. 26 that they would be cutting ties with the comedian.

“Bill Cosby has agreed to resign as an honorary co-chair of UMass Amherst’s capital campaign,” UMass Amherst said in a statement on Nov. 26. “He no longer has any affiliation with the campaign nor does he serve in any other capacity for the university.”

In light of Coakley’s post-election actions, Healey, former chief of the Massachusetts Public Protection and Advocacy Bureau, said Coakley has led by example in her capacity as attorney general.

“Martha has shown this country what a great attorney general can be,” Healey said in an email statement. “She has fearlessly taken on big banks and predatory lenders. She has stood up for women’s reproductive rights and marriage equality. Martha taught me what it means to be the people’s lawyer.”

Coakley has also been working in several other areas, including entering a $1.5 million settlement with the National Federation of the Blind and Cardtronics, Inc ., the world’s largest owner and operator of retail ATMs, to resolve civil contempt charges.

In addition, Coakley has been involved with the regulation of mandatory arbitration clauses, the improvement of outcomes for asthmatic adults and children and the indictment of a Boston Fire Department district chief for charges of fraud and burglary.

Several residents said Coakley’s post-election actions could be making the public question her motives.

Niharika Bajpai , 28, of Brookline, said she met Coakley at work, and she seemed understanding, active and working only to help others.

“What I can tell from my personal experience is that when she came, she was very attentive to what all of us were saying,” she said. “She also wanted to meet with members from our office for future collaborations.”

Some said Coakley’s busy schedule is part of a greater agenda.

“I feel like she’s trying to make sure she stays relevant in people’s minds. She’s just trying to make sure she doesn’t fall to the background completely,” said Cassandra Guzman, 18, of Roxbury. “Who knows what her future plans are, but she’s probably planning to do something even bigger.”

Mo Algh, 22, of Fenway, said Coakley’s work is part of her inherent work ethic.

“She is just working for a cause,” he said. “Since she’s [almost] out of office, she’s voluntarily just speaking to her cause.”