Obituary

Click here to post a tribute, memory or comment

Lou Reed, a New York-based rock musician who co-founded the Velvet Underground and wrote and sang Walk on the Wild Side, has died. He was 71.

He died on Sunday at a hospital in Southampton, New York, his literary agent Andrew Wylie said in a telephone interview.

The cause was complications from a liver transplant, which he received in May at the Cleveland Clinic.

Reed became one of rock’s most influential stars and wrote songs such as Heroin, Sweet Jane and Perfect Day.

The Velvet Underground came to public notice in the 1960s after artist Andy Warhol took an interest in the experimental group and teamed them with singer Nico. The group was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1996.

It was Reed’s distinctive deadpan voice and songwriting that led their records as he took an interest in drugs culture on numbers such as Waiting for the Man.

While the Velvet Underground was initially commercially unsuccessful, the act’s albums are often cited by critics as among the best of all time and Reed influenced punk rock in the 1970s.

Reed was born in Brooklyn and was first a songwriter at Pickwick Records.

‘‘I don’t know that I’ve made an individual contribution,’’ he said in a 1998 interview on PBS’s Charlie Rose program.

‘‘I was part of a group that I think, along with Warhol, may have given a little nudge to multimedia, perhaps, and maybe the subject matter that can be written about in rock.’’

Reed said he entered Syracuse University with hopes to become a journalist, until he learned he’d have to leave his opinions out of his stories. He took film and directing classes, he said, ‘‘but I never had the gumption to take acting, which is what I really wanted to do.’’

‘‘Seriously, I was a guy playing bar bands,’’ he said. ‘‘I wasn’t a singer, I wasn’t up front, I was in back -- on the guitar, playing my three or four chords.’’ In Velvet Underground, though, ‘‘if you wrote it, you were the one who sang it.’’

Loading