Welcome to the world of science fiction, where anything is possible. There are many branches of science fiction and can be difficult to navigate. There is something for everyone, if you know where to look. Whether you want hard science fiction which is backed up by science or you want something a little more fantasy, the possibilities are endless.

If you are looking to get started or if you are relatively new to the genre, it may be kind of overwhelming to shift through all the categories and genres of science fiction. Today, I want to talk about the major categories of science fiction and what you may find within.

First, you’ll want to note that science fiction needs to be somewhat believable when reading but whether or not they are considered hard or soft science fiction depends whether the science is accurate and can be backed up by scientific studies or if its more of a scientific fantasy.

As our scientific understanding grows, so does our artificial intelligence. We may have a future with self-aware robots, androids, or even artificially created synthetic humans. While these are more theoretical, they are becoming more of a reality every day. Now, if those robots had superpowers like the X-men, then I would not consider them hard science fiction because magic is not possible within our own understanding of the universe. That’s when it you get more into the science fantasy.

I could go more into the different areas of hard science fiction but the important thing to remember is: is the science possible now or plausible in the future? If the answer is a resounding “no,” then it is not hard science fiction.

The thing is with soft science fiction is that it doesn’t have to be possible, just plausible. For example, the BiFrost from Thor. There has been science based around wormholes and many science fiction writers use it to get around the problem of it being scientifically impossible to go faster than light. However, it is impossible at this time to travel or create a wormhole, nor was it explained all that well in the movie besides some technobabble.

Let’s start with hard science fiction. I would, of course, recommend my all-time favorite science fiction author: Issac Asimov. From Foundation to the Caves of Steel, you will not be disappointed. Second, Arthur C. Clarke is a highly rated classic science fiction writer. For a more independent author, I’d recommend The Starborn Heir by D.J. Bodden which I have reviewed and recommend highly. Goodreads has an excellent list for other excellent and highly praised hard science fiction novels.

If you are looking for an author who writes for both categories, I’d recommend Ted Chiang who inspired the movie Arrival (2016).

For soft science fiction, I’d recommend Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? by Philip K Dick which is in the dystopian subgenere. If you want some alien themed novels, I would definitely look into Octavia Butler’s Xenogensis trilogy, which starts with Dawn. For more, check out this list on Goodreads.