Pervasive Nation is Ireland’s Internet of Things testbed operated by CONNECT, the Science Foundation Ireland Research Centre for Future Networks headquartered at Trinity College Dublin, the University of Dublin.

Pervasive Nation is based on Low Power Wide Area (LPWA) networking technology.

The objective of Pervasive Nation is to build an Internet of Things testbed of scale which will become a resource for industry, government and academia, and act as a strong catalyst for Internet of Things research and innovation.

The Pervasive Nation infrastructure uses the latest off-the-shelf LPWAN technologies, software-defined radio and Application Enablement Platform (AEP) technologies.

These provide end-to-end connectivity allowing users to shape the future of the Internet of Things. Pervasive Nation is particularly suited to the connectivity and networking of small, simple devices in difficult to reach locations or in remote areas. These devices would normally require battery operation or have only small energy scavenging needs and require a low data rate.

Pervasive Nation is headquartered at Trinity College Dublin and is present on nine other Irish third level campuses: Cork Institute of Technology, Dublin Institute of Technology, Dublin City University, Maynooth University, Tyndall National Institute, University College Cork, University College Dublin, University of Ulster and Waterford Institute of Technology.

Pervasive Nation is supported by Science Foundation Ireland via a Research Infrastructures Award made to CONNECT in January 2016.

Although Pervasive Nation has been built initially from LoRa technologies it is capable of supporting multiple, different flavours of LPWA networks.

Pervasive Nation is open and extensible allowing our partners to join their own networks securely and leverage features such as scale, resilient back-end management and application enablement platform. The network will continue to scale through its extensible architecture.

The LPWA network has several unique capabilities including the ability to quickly on-board new IoT devices and provide end-to-end IoT experimental data services.

Pervasive Nation also supports two advanced features at scale: the provision of automatic registration hooks for all devices introduced to the network and the ability to locate and track devices without the cost and energy demands of a GPS receiver. These capabilities open a whole new set of possibilities for users.