Immersed in a fantastic setting, the historic headquarters of the Federico II University of Napoli played host to the closing ceremony of the 4th edition of the 5gAcademy Unina. This #postgraduate course is dedicated to young Italians and Europeans seeking in-depth knowledge on emerging technologies such as #5G, #Cloud, #EdgeComputing, #ArtificialIntelligence (AI), #AugmentedReality (AR), and #holographic/3D reproduction. The ceremony was inaugurated by the University's Rector Matteo Lorito, and the participation of the Mayor of Naples Gaetano Manfredi. Inspired by the 800th anniversary of the founding of the University, students developed a project in three stages. The first took place in the "Courtyard of Statues," where guests could follow an integrated digital-historical-experiential journey augmented by #AR. A guiding voice narrated the stories of three illustrious figures: Giacomo Leopardi, Giordano Bruno, and G.Battista Vico. Through #smartglasses (AR visors), guests could follow the narration and view the #virtualportals that opened near each of the respective statues. Descending the Staircase of Minerva to the central atrium, where the statue of Federico II stands, alongside it was the first holographic station of the avatar designed and trained by the students to respond (unpreparedly 😀) to guests' questions regarding the life, works, and historical context in which the "Stupor Mundi" lived. The voice was kindly provided by actor Massimiliano Gallo. Following this, a roundtable discussion took place in the Pessina Hall on the theme of "Real and Virtual: Augmented Culture," moderated by nicola saldutti. It was attended by the technological partners Elio Schiavo (CEISO TIM), Stefano Grieco (CEO Nokia Italia), Walter Renna (CEO Fastweb), Stefano Zacutti - Luisa Guida (OpNet SpA). At the end, the avatar of Federico II also "took the floor," recalling the foundational proclamation of the university. It's striking how the concepts declared 800 years ago still resonate today! The ceremony unfolded seamlessly thanks to the careful direction of the Academy's Scientific Director, Prof. Antonia Tulino, and Prof. Antonio Origlia, along with researchers Vincenza Volpe and Edoardo Granata, and all the 5gAcademy Unina students. A special thanks goes to all the Fastweb colleagues who participated in the training as instructors and contributed in various ways to the success of the 5G Academy project, including Valentina Mainetti, Elena Marchetto, Luciana De Laurentiis, Massimo Pollini, Filippo Palermo, Luca Mazza, Guglielmo Bondioni, Nicholas Napolitano, Andrea Cerritelli, Raul Brena, Angela Delugan, Leonardo De Gaetani, Andrea S., Marco Esposito, Nicola Verde, and Mimma De Maria. I want to thank the many technological partners who contributed to the project, including Maurizio Pinto, Valentina Russo (Logogramma), Sergio Piane (Alkedo Produzioni S.r.l.), just to name a few. Looking forward to the next edition of the 5gAcademy Unina.