Johnny Carson may have been best known for filming The Tonight Show at NBC's Rockefeller Center in New York City, but the television legend retired to Malibu before his death, in 2005. And now, the property that Carson lived in for nearly 20 years is on the market for $81.5 million.

Listed for the first time in 10 years, the estate spans 7,083 square feet and sits on about four acres of manicured grounds. The home was built in 1978 by architect Ed Niles and features panoramic views of the Pacific Ocean and beach access. The main house offers two bedrooms, two master baths—his and hers—and two additional baths and one half-bath. There's also a guest house with two bedrooms, a kitchen, and a gym. Outside, a waterfall, Koi pond, and saltwater pool offer a relaxing retreat from the California heat. And the standout feature is a championship tennis court with viewing area where Carson enjoyed countless matches. There's even a bench from Wimbledon gifted to Carson by NBC.

Carson loved the sport so much that when he sold a different Malibu property to tennis star John McEnroe in the 1980s, there was reportedly a stipulation in the escrow agreement that McEnroe had to provide three one-hour lessons on top of the $2 million price tag.

The current owners of the estate currently on the market are Sidney and Caroline Kimmel, who purchased the home in 2007 for $45.9 million, according to a press release. Mr. Kimmel is the founder of Jones Apparel Group and Sidney Kimmel Entertainment, which has produced films including The Kite Runner, United 93, Lars and the Real Girl, and Moneyball. Johnny Carson would be proud of the Hollywood legacy the home has fostered thus far. Perhaps an A-list actor (or musical duo like Beyoncé and Jay-Z, who are in the market for a new home) could be the next owner.

Celebrity Style

Tennis Pro Caroline Wozniacki and Her NBA Star Husband David Lee List Miami Penthouse for $42.5 Million

The athletic power couple sold a different unit in the same luxury building three years ago

Celebrity Style

Inside LeBron James’s Houses: A Peek Into His Sizable Real Estate Portfolio

The NBA star owns properties in his home state of Ohio, in Florida, and in California

Celebrity Style

Ciara and Russell Wilson’s Homes: Inside the Power Couple’s Real Estate Portfolio

The R&B superstar and NFL champion have owned property all over the country

Celebrity Style

Elon Musk Now Lives in a $50,000 Prefab Tiny House in Texas

After selling most of his real estate portfolio, the multibillionaire is now living in a 400-square-foot unit on his SpaceX Texas site