There's this small genre of Rodeo pictures that I've aways been interested in -- Junior Bonner by Sam Peckinpah and Steve McQueen being what I thought was the pinnacle of the bunch. Then, last night, I saw J. W. Coop -- Cliff Robertson's very personal piece of filmmaking that completely blew me away. I sat there at the New Beverly, utterly stunned by what Cliff brought to us on that screen. First of all, the print was flawless -- part of the Sony archive -- it looked like the print was struck yesterday. Absolutely beautiful. Miraculously so.

And then there is the love that Cliff Robertson has for this world. It's the Two-Lane Blacktop of rodeo movies -- an existential…

An unsung pop masterpiece of 70's American filmmaking, this equally gritty and goofy-as-hell rodeo picture plays something like if the Prime Cut Michael Ritchie tried his hand at Easy Rider, but switched out the hogs for bulls. Cliff Robertson seems to throw everything he can at the wall and a whole hell of a lot of it sticks. J.W. Coop delivers everything from POV Bull riding, psychedelic skeeze rock slow motion rodeo sequences, truly funny dialogue from the amazing supporting cast, and a protagonist who looks at a full parking lot from the 5th or 6th floor of a hotel room and is made speechless by its beauty and decadence. With a movie this insane you just know Coop is going to meet his demise in some spectacularly gruesome way and boy does the film not disappoint. I send my condolences to the family of the stuntman in the final scene.

Uneven in terms of cinematography, performance, and writing, BUT — damn I loved this movie. The characters feel, at times, proto-Lynchian, with jagged teeth, scars, and bizarre mannerisms. Robertson does a good job playing a Texas cowboy for most of the movie, but things go off the rails when he dons one of the worst mustaches in cinema history. Still, this is a searing and slightly trippy vignette of the gritty world of rodeo in the early 1970s featuring some of the real-life stars of that era, including Larry Mahan and Myrtis Dightman.

I'm a big fan of existential road movies and this started off like a rodeo Two-Lane Blacktop (with a touch of rodeo Grey Gardens), but it wore out its welcome with awkward tonal shifts and an overdependance on an inscrutably bland hippy muse/love interest. I thought at first that she was a very subtle actress--implying conflicted emotions with barely discernable looks--but it turns out the character was written with zero depth and I was grasping at straws. Writer/director/star Cliff Robertson was clearly gifted but he was much more in love with this character and lifestyle than he could convince me to be.

What I want is a rodeo Spetters, that would be something.

"You know what a loner is?...A loner is a lonely man..."

An under appreciated gem of 70's cinema. Over shadowed by the Sam Peckinpah/Steve McQueen rodeo movie "Junior Bonner" that came out at around the same time. That one is great, but its tone is very different. Much more laid back and melancholy for a time gone by. "Coop" has a sense of middle aged desperation and lead character that has a drive to accomplish something, ANYTHING to make up for the years that he pissed away that makes it stand out.

It's also a great story of an outsider that's too rebellious to fit in with the traditional crowd, and too out of touch to fit in with flower power hippie counter culture at the time. Robertson plays that aspect of the character perfectly.

A rambling road trip from rodeo to rodeo. Cliff Robertson is our guide, as the movie is as much about the characters he meets along the way as it is about any particular arc of his. I don’t think Robertson, who co-wrote and directed, had a solid grasp on the story he was telling, so it never becomes the hidden gem it shows early flashes of being.

North Dallas Forty meets Billy Jack meets Five Easy Pieces meets The Great American Cowboy but a lesser version of all of those. Amusing at times but grows tiresome.