Events

Photos

Site Map

Historic Site Feedback

Pass

Poignant and profound, Roosevelt's Little White House stands as testimony to the neighborly association of President Franklin D. Roosevelt to the citizens of Georgia, the nation and the world, bears witness to his battles against the dreaded illness of polio, economic depression and world tyranny, and stands as a moment frozen in time when the world heard of his death there on April 12, 1945.

Roosevelt's Little White House

Now a National Historic Landmark, Franklin Delano Roosevelt built the Little White House in 1932 while governor of New York, prior to being inaugurated as president in 1933. He first came to Warm Springs in 1924 hoping to find a cure for the infantile paralysis (polio) that had struck him in 1921. Swimming in the 88-degree, buoyant spring waters brought him no miracle cure, but it did bring improvement. During FDR’s presidency and the Great Depression, he developed many New Deal Programs (such as the Rural Electrification Administration) based upon his experiences in this small town.

While posing for a portrait on April 12, 1945, FDR suffered a cerebral hemorrhage and died a short while later. Today, the “Unfinished Portrait” is featured in a museum that showcases many exhibits, including FDR’s 1938 Ford convertible with hand controls, his Fireside Chats playing over a 1930s radio, his stagecoach and a theater. Visitors can tour FDR’s home, which has been carefully preserved very much as he left it, the servants and guest quarters, and the nearby pools complex that first brought the future president to Warm Springs. Selected as a "Readers Choice" site in Georgia Magazine nine times.

Facilities

Little White House

Memorial Museum & Film

Historic Pools Museum (closed for renovations from June 3)

Legacy Exhibit

Event Room (seats 20) — call site to reserve

3 Picnic Areas

Guest Cottage

Servants Quarters

Things To Do & See

Field Trips

The "Unfinished Portrait" - Newly Updated Exhibit(Read More)

Walk of Flags & Stones

Educational Programs

Tours

Memorial Fountain

Guest Quarters & Servants' Quarters

Scavenger Hunts Through History

Birding

Picnicking

Geocaching

Guided Tours

Tours of the Little White House are available on Saturday and Sunday at 10:00am for $20.00. Please Call 706-655-5870 for reservations.

Nearby Attractions

Biblical History Museum Lagrange, GA

Callaway Gardens

Columbus, GA

F.D. Roosevelt State Park

Great Wolf Lodge Lagrange Georgia

Hills & Dales Estate

Lagrange, GA

National Infantry Museum

Newnan, Georgia

Pine Mountain, GA

Warm Springs National Fish Hatchery

Wild Animal Safari

Learn More

President in our Midst: Franklin Delano Roosevelt in Georgia - GPB

Virtual Field Trip - Warm Springs - GPB Education

GPBTV Education Channel on YouTube

The Walk of Flags and Stones at the Little White House

President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Little White House

President Franklin D. Roosevelt Visited Warm Springs, GA for Polio Treatment

How FDR's New Deal Put America Back to Work During the Great Depression

Multi-Language Brochures

ChineseDutchEnglishFrenchGermanItalianJapaneseRussianSpanishSwedishPolish

Educational Resources

A Little White House Scavenger Hunt

Pools Scavenger Hunt

School Field Trip Booklet

Under 10 Scavenger Hunt No 2

Take Flight Family Hike June 2023

Newsletters

2022

Fall 2022