Home HeadQuarters is a non-profit housing and community development organization and certified Community Development Financial Institution whose mission is to create housing opportunities in Central and Upstate New York for individuals and families and improve the communities in which they live. The organization was founded in 1996 to address the declining owner-occupancy rate and overall disinvestment in the city of Syracuse. While Home HeadQuarters now offers a wide range of programs and services, its initial strategies focused on implementing a home improvement lending program and providing homeownership education to create new city home buyers and maintain and improve city neighborhoods.

In 1999, Home HeadQuarters joined the national NeighborWorks® America Network, and became a certified NeighborWorks® HomeOwnership Center, essentially, a one-stop-shop for all homeownership needs from pre- to post-purchase. Since then, Home HeadQuarters has become one of the leading providers of homebuyer education and counseling in the country, regularly ranking in the top ten of all 240+ NeighborWorks organizations nationwide.

Home HeadQuarters was the lead administrator of the Syracuse Neighborhood Initiative (SNI) program in created almost a decade ago by Congressman James T. Walsh. Home HeadQuarters successfully delivered the majority of SNI's $81 million in housing and neighborhood investment to more than a dozen neighborhoods and target areas and hundreds of families in the city of Syracuse. Programming included neighborhood planning and development, resident capacity building, home improvement loans, mini-grants, home equity protection, purchase and rehab grants, new construction, substantial rehab, demolition and more.

Today, Home HeadQuarters serves residents throughout Upstate New York. Home HeadQuarters also acts as the primary housing delivery agency in the city of Syracuse by substantially rehabilitating distressed properties, building new homes for purchase by first-time homebuyers and providing low to moderate-income families with Urgent Care, Closing Cost Assistance and Syracuse Homeowner Assistance programs made possible with federal Community Development Block Grants and HOME Funding. Home HeadQuarters works in conjunction with the Greater Syracuse Land Bank by redeveloping their vacant properties and providing purchase and construction financing to other homebuyers and investors developing Land Bank properties. As a neighborhood development organization, Home HeadQuarters also includes affiliates CNY Affordable Realty, the only non-profit realty in Central New York, and Opportunity Headquarters, a full-service construction crew.

Currently, the organization is focusing on initiatives and programs that work to create equitable housing and financing opportunities for underserved people, end lead poisoning, fill gaps in the lending market by providing financing for local investors, MWBE certified contractors and other non-profits, create more affordable rental opportunities and develop vacant commercial and mixed-use properties within the benevolent development model. Home HeadQuarters is also the non-profit partner for the Syracuse Financial Empowerment Center, a City of Syracuse enterprise that offers free, professional financial counseling to any city of Syracuse resident.

The organization has played a major role in stabilizing and revitalizing Central and Upstate New York neighborhoods by directly facilitating more than 5,000 homebuyers; providing more than $140 million in home improvement loans and grants and $28 million in down payment assistance and first mortgage financing; removing more than 525 derelict structures; rehabilitating 230 formerly vacant properties and constructing more than 70 new, energy-efficient homes. More than 18,000 people have come to Home HeadQuarters seeking education and counseling on buying a home, building family wealth, becoming credit smart or keeping their home from foreclosure. Home HeadQuarters is one of the leading lenders to families looking to repair their homes in the city of Syracuse, providing 65% of all lending activity to families of color and out lending all other financial institutions combined.

Certifications & Awards:

HUD-affiliated Local Housing Counseling Agency

Community Housing Development Organization (CHDO)

Community Development Entity (CDE)

Neighborhood Preservation Company (NYS NPP)

Member, Federal Home Loan Bank of New York

U.S. Green Building Member

Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI)

Community Based Development Organization (First U.S. Designation)

National Association of REALTORS Hope Award Winner

NeighborWorks America Top Home Improvement Lender Award

Upstate Minority Economic Alliance (UMEA) Community Organization of the Year

LEED Platinum, Gold & Silver Development Awards

Aeris® A+ Performance Rating