MAGIS

Advérbio em latim que significa “mais; maior”.

MAGIS is a Latin adverb meaning “more; greater“. It was a term used numerous times by St. Ignatius of Loyola, the founder of the Society of Jesus, to describe the way Christianity provides a deep personal connection with God.

That’s the reason why it has become a key element for the Society of Jesus and for all who live their faith according to Ignatian spirituality, filling with meaning the way of life of those who live and serve in everything for the greater glory of God.

Thus, the “+” visible in the MAGIS 2023 image refers not only to the meaning of the word, but also to the Cross, the greatest symbol of the surrender and love of God for each person.

The history of the jesuits began in 1534, with a group of students from the University of Paris. In fact, this group of friends in the Lord were guided by Ignatius of Loyola's life and passion for Jesus.

Inspired by everything that God was moving in him since his convalescence, after being injured in the battle of Pamplona, Ignatius never stopped asking:

What can i do for Christ?

It was this motion that lead him from Loyola to the Holy Land - To know the places where Jesus had been - and from there to the universities of Alcalá, Salamanca and Paris, to base his motions in the theological study.

In Paris, between classes and studies, the first companions found time to assist the poor and sick and every marginalized brother and sister.

Moved by the desire of serving the church of Christ, Ignatius and his companions went to Rome to offer their services to the Holy Father. On the 27th of september, 1540, Pope Paul III, approved this new religious order and allowed the Society of Jesus to receive men who also had the desire to serve the Lord and his Church through missionary work and the education of the youngest, wherever it was most urgent, necessary and universal.

Over the past almost five hundred years, the Jesuits have spread throughout the world and today, the Society of Jesus has more than 16.000 men in formation, priests and brothers, and with communities in 120 countries.

The Congregation of the Handmaids of the Sacred Heart of Jesus was born at the end of the 19th century in Pedro Abad, a village near Cordoba (Spain).

The intention of the founders, Saint Raphaela Maria and Mother Pilar, was to create a family with a particular mission in the Church: to repair the Heart of Jesus, with a life centred on the Eucharist, through its celebration and adoration.

Our mission focuses essentially on education in service of the Gospel in colleges, parishes, schools, neighbourhoods, university residences and houses of prayer. Ignatian spirituality gives us our own way of carrying out our charism. From the beginning, our foundresses wanted their fundamental options to mark our being and our action, so that our lives might become, as Saint Ignatius wished, ”docile instruments in the hands of God”.

Saint Raphaela Maria wanted us to be ”universal like the Church”, that is, available to serve wherever there is need. Her desire to ”put Christ to the adoration of the peoples” takes us to any place or situation where His Heart, in the lives of so many people, needs to be repaired.

Today there are about 1000 Handmaids of the Sacred Heart of Jesus in 24 countries. From Saint Raphaela Maria, we have received the ”inheritance” of a way of looking at the world with hope and mercy, discovering where there is an absence of Life, a need for reparation, or any ”wounds” that call for the love of the meek and humble Heart of Jesus.