Apostolate

A mission endeavor or activity

Apostolic

Related to spreading the Gospel message

Conversion

Defined by the Catechism of the Catholic Church as “a radical reorientation of the whole life away from sin and evil, and toward God.” Bernard Lonergran, S.J., writes, “It is not the substitution of a new self-image, no matter how upright, for an old one. It reaches down into the roots of an individual’s affections, images, dreams, and choices….”

Father General

The Superior General of the Society of Jesus is addressed as Father General, a term that hearkens backs to the early military career of Ignatius Loyola, founder of the Society.

Formation

The education and training of Jesuits, called formation, is a multifaceted process, typically taking 10 to 12 years and involving seven stages: novitiate, first studies, regency, theology, special studies, tertianship, and final vows. The goal of formation is the holistic integration of education, experience, and values so that a Jesuit priest or brother will be prepared to serve where the need is greatest and where he can make the greatest contribution. A “formed” Jesuit is one whose life is grounded in his relationship to Jesus; freed by his vows to serve; committed to partnering with laypersons; immersed in our contemporary culture; and dedicated to the faith that does justice.

Gospel

(Literally "good news") The good news or glad tidings about Jesus. Plural. The first four works of the Christian scriptures (Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John) that tell the story of Jesus.

Inculturation

A modern theological concept, which expresses that God is already present and active in a culture, and so our presentation of the Gospel to any given culture should be allowed to flourish in the “soil” of that culture.

Jesuit

A member of the Society of Jesus.

Laity

(Layperson, laymen, laywomen) The people of a religious faith as distinguished from its clergy.

Our way of proceeding

“Certain attitudes, values, and patterns of behavior join together to become what has been called the Jesuit way of proceeding. The characteristics of our way of proceeding were born in the life of St. Ignatius and shared by his first companions.” Jerome Nadal writes that “the form of the Society is in the life of Ignatius [and they include] a deep personal love for Jesus Christ.”

--Society of Jesus, General Congregation 34

Scholastic

A Jesuit seminarian who has taken first vows and declared his intention to seek ordination as a priest.