Paschim Guwahati Mahavidyalaya

About The College

The Paschim Guwahati Mahavidyalaya is situated at Dharapur Chariali on the western outskirts of Guwahati, Assam, adjoining the National Highway No.37 on the way to the Lokapriya Gopinath Bardoloi International Airport, Guwahati. Approximately 4 kms. away from the Gauhati University the college is on the verge of The Deepar Bil, the only Ramsar Site in the North-East India and a world famous bird sanctuary. The college was established on 5th Sepetember, 1978 with the aim of providing higher education at a reasonable cost, to the people of the surrounding economically backward sub-urban areas. The college offers courses from the Higher Secondary to the Degree level, in both Arts and Commerce streams.

History of PGM

The Paschim Guwahati Mahavidyalaya is situated at Dharapur Chariali on the western outskirts of Guwahati, Assam, adjoining the National Highway No.37 on the way to the Lokapriya Gopinath Bardoloi International Airport, Guwahati. Approximately 4 kms. away from the Gauhati University the college is on the verge of The Deepar Bil, the only Ramsar Site in the North-East India and a world famous bird sanctuary. The college was established on 5th Sepetember, 1978 with the aim of providing higher education at a reasonable cost, to the people of the surrounding economically backward sub-urban areas. The college offers courses from the Higher Secondary to the Degree level, in both Arts and Commerce streams. Paschim Guwahati Mahavidyalaya is a co-educational institution. It is affiliated to the Gauhati University and was brought under the Grants-in-Aid status of the Government of Assam in the year 1996. It has been registered under 2(F) and 12(B) of the UGC Act 1956 in February 2005. The College has been assessed and accredited by NAAC in the year 2004. The college has been provincialised under the Provincialisation Act of Govt. of Assam in the year 2006. The Paschim Guwahati Mahavidyalaya campus spreads over an area of 4.58 acres of land. Being situated in the sub-urban area and away from the city, with its lush green environment and the fisheries, the college campus is pollution free. Keeping in mind the highly competitive and challenging life ahead of the students, the college is bracing itself to meet the need of the hour by introducing new and useful facilities and training courses from time to time. At present the college has a computer centre, a gym, the college wings of NCC and NSS and also a trained physical training instructor for the students. The college has been organizing vocational training programmes such as weaving, doll making, preparation of fruit squash, pickles and other traditional delicacies, painting, music, drama and acting etc. To help shaping up the overall personalities of the students, the college also has the college units of Assom Sahitya Sabha, Assam Science Society, Red Ribbon Club, Women’s Cell and Study Centre, to name a few. There is a centre of the Krishna Kanta Handique State Open University in the college itself providing opportunities of higher education through the ODL(Open and Distance Learning) System to those who have been deprived of higher studies. Apart from B.A and B.Com courses the centre offers other professional degree programmes such as BBA, BPP and D El Ed. Providing freedom and flexibility in learning there is a centre of Assam State Open School(ASOS) in the college premises which facilitates the interested students to pursue their studies and clear their examination of +2 level in Science, Arts, Commerce and also in Vocational Studies.