— So Los Angeles Lakers guard Kobe Bryant can't win a NBA championship without Shaquille O'Neal?

What about Derek Fisher? Bryant hasn't won a title without Fisher, either.

Fisher, who played at Little Rock Parkview and UALR, and Bryant were reunited this season in Los Angeles and will attempt to win their fourth NBA championship ring when their bestof-7 NBA Finals series against the Boston Celtics begins at 8 tonight at T.D. Banknorth Garden in Boston.

Fisher and Bryant have reached the NBA Finals the past fiveseasons they have played together.

"There have been hundreds of guys that have played many years in this league and really not gotten this opportunity," said Fisher, who is playing with a partially torn tendon in his right foot. "So you have to cherish it and appreciate it, and that's what feels good about it."

Bryant, the league MVP, gets most of the credit for Los Angeles' return to the finals, along with late-season acquisition Pau Gasol and power forward Lamar Odom. But the relationship between Fisher and Bryant has been key.

"The leadership that they bring goes a long, long way," Odom said. "They are proven champions. They've got rings. : They are really intense. Our coaching staff as well, from the head coach to the last assistant to even the trainers, they all got rings.

"Kobe and D-Fish [Fisher] are a reflection of them, and we're trying to become a reflection of Kobe and D-Fish and the coaching staff as well."

Fisher has played exclusively at point guard this season for the first time in his career. He averaged 11.7 points and 2.9 assists this season.

"What he does for our team isn't always in the box score, [but is in] the intangibles he brings," assistant coach Frank Hamblen said. "He's played terrific. Loose balls are his, he takes charges, and he shoots the ball really well."

Bryant said Fisher is playing the same now as he did when he was with the Lakers the first time but is wielding more influence.

"I just feel like here, with this team having younger players, they really tend to followhim a lot more and adhere to what he's saying," Bryant said. "The comments that he makes throughout the game, the spirit, the approach to practice, the preparation and his hard work, I think it rubs off a great deal."

Fisher and Bryant started out in 1996 as rookie teammates with the Lakers. Bryant was just out of high school, while Fisher had been named Sun Belt Conference Player of the Year at UALR. Back then, those who didn't play 20 minutes the night before had to practice the following day after consecutive games. That meant Fisher and Bryant were in the gym, playing against each other all the time.

"We were inseparable," Bryant said. "We were competing, shooting and playing 1-on-1. We'd challenge each other. So that's where that bond really started."

They won the NBA championship in 2001, 2002 and 2003, and lost the title to the Detroit Pistons in 2004. The team was then broken up. O'Neal was traded to the Miami Heat, and Fisher ended up signing a freeagent contract with the Golden State Warriors.

The Lakers, with Bryant as the only remaining key player from those championship teams, struggled the next three years in the tough Western Conference.

Fisher had two productive seasons with Golden State before being traded to Utah, where he made national headlines during the 2007 playoffs when his daughter Tatum was forced to have emergency surgery for retinoblastoma, a rare and life-threatening eye cancer. Once Tatum made it through surgery, Fisher flew back to Salt Lake City and helped the Jazz defeat the Warriors.

But it was Tatum's condition that eventually created a window for Fisher to return to Los Angeles. It's not that Fisher was unhappy in Utah, but he felt he needed to be closer to a medical facility that specialized in retinoblastoma. There were five options, but Los Angeles was the best fit. The Lakers signed Fisher to a threeyear, $14.2 million contract after the Jazz agreed to release Fisher.

Fisher's relationship with Bryant, who was publicly asking for a trade, didn't hurt, either.

"We've kind of come full circle," Bryant said at the start of the season.

"Derek Fisher, let's face it, he's got all the character in the world," Lakers owner Jerry Buss said.

Fisher has settled in Los Angeles pretty well the second time around. Tatum continues to do well and goes every four weeks to Children's Hospital of Los Angeles and every two months to Memorial Sloane-Kettering Cancer Center in New York.

Her cancer is dormant, but the tumor is still there.

"The reason why it's such a delicate balancing act is as long as the tumor is there, the chance of it either spreading or possibly new tumors forming is higher," Fisher said. "The only way to really totally avoid that is to remove the eye."

Community and media support have been strong. The Los Angeles City Council celebrated "Derek Fisher Day" on March 5, and Fisher is well respected among Southern California media members, doing all the interviews that Bryant, Gasol and Odom take a pass on.

Fisher is a regular guest on the nationally syndicated radio program The Jim Rome Show.

"Fisher is as classy an individual as Los Angeles has ever been graced to see put on the professional sports uniform," wrote Steve Dilbeck of the Los Angeles Daily News. "Unfailingly polite, he's a living example of how athletes should conduct themselves with teammates, media, fans. : Fisher is the ultimate team player. Without outward ego. A calm leader, a settling presence."

Not everyone thought Fisher was doing the right thing when he asked the Jazz to release him. He was blasted by some in the media who questioned whether Fisher was just trying to get out of his contract. Jazz fans also booed Fisher when he returned to Salt Lake City the first time.

"I honestly couldn't believe the reaction," Fisher said. "It was very hurtful. It threw me off."

But he chose to look at it asmore of a team thing than a personal thing.

"There's a particular lovehate thing for anybody that plays for the Lakers," Fisher said. "So me coming back to this particular team, regardless of people's personal feelings - the purple and gold, it just kind of brings out that kind of emotion."

More Jazz fans seemed to support Fisher each time he returned to Utah.

Fisher lost more than $6 million when he got out of his Utah contract, but he got his money's worth of knowledge and shared it with Bryant. Fisher told Bryant how Jazz players hung out more and grew closer throughout the season. They also prospered in Utah Coach Jerry Sloan's style of play.

"It was a style of play [in which] you have to play together, and share the ball, and be good teammates, and be respectful to each other," Fisher said. "So I think on and off the court, it was just a good environment for a team to be close."

If Bryant is to win his fourth NBA championship, he'll need Fisher to neutralize Celtics point guard Rajon Rando. That means this Lakers-Celtics series might be a throwback to those of the 1980s, when hard fouls were thenorm with the likes of Larry Bird and Magic Johnson.

"We're talking about some of the greatest players to ever play the game," Fisher said. "By the third time, it was heated, it was personal. Our guys are young. It's hard to compare what happened in those years. To compare thisto that is a little far-fetched right now."

That doesn't mean it won't get physical.

"We both stand in each other's way," he said. "I'm sure it won't take long for us to dislike each other a great deal. Both teams want to complete the goal; bothteams are four wins away from getting it."

Information for this article was contributed by the San Antonio Express-News, Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Daily News, The Orange County Register, Deseret News of Salt Lake City and The Associated Press.