Condition: To my NON US customers, do NOT ask me to alter / change the declared value of your purchase for purposes of avoiding taxes in your country. I will NOT do so.

All Music Review by David Freedlander [-]

Today is Mississippi John Hurt's first and finest studio release since his "rediscovery" on his Avalon farm by folklorist Tom Hoskins in 1963. Eclipsed possibly only by his earlier 1928 Sessions, this album shows a more mature Hurt picking his way through standards and originals after the Depression years and Hurt's fall into obscurity before the folk revival of the 1960s. It shows, however, that all that the great bluesman has lost is years; his voice retains its characteristic Buddha-esque warmth and it is still difficult to believe that there is just one man playing on the seemingly effortless guitar work. The music on the album comes from a variety of different influences, from the fun and poppy "Hot Time in Old Town Tonight" and "Coffee Blues," to the bluesy standards "Candy Man" (Hurt's most famous song) and "Spike Driver's Blues" to the soulful spirituals "Louis Collins" and "Beulah Land." Hurt's tranquil guitar work -- mixing country, Scottish folk, and Delta blues -- strings all of the songs along the same simple and elegant thread. Hurt himself never could explain his guitar playing, as he used to say, "I just make it sound like I think it ought to." Regardless, that sound, along with a mellow and heartfelt voice, wizened here by decades, combine to make Today an unforgettable whole. A truly essential album of the folk revival, unrivaled in its beauty and warmth.

Mississippi John Hurt ?– Today!

Label:Vanguard ?– VRS 9220Format:Vinyl, LP, Album, Mono

Country:USReleased:1966Genre:Blues, Folk, World, & CountryStyle:Country Blues, Folk

Tracklist

A1Pay Day4:18A2I'm Satisfied2:50A3Candy Man2:53A4Make Me A Pallet On The Floor4:29A5Talking Casey5:04A6Corinna, Corinna1:51B1Coffee Blues3:43B2Louis Collins4:04B3Hot Time In The Old Town Tonight3:03B4If You Don't Want Me , Baby3:18B5Spike Driver's Blues3:24B6Beulah Land3:43

Credits

Liner Notes – Nat Hentoff

Producer – Patrick Sky

Notes

This is the original release 1st pressing on Vanguard Records in MONO.

See our other EBAY auctions by using search by seller and using “record collector michigan”

Ferndale, Michigan 48220

Phone: 248-548-9888

Hours: Monday thru Saturday NOON to 6:00 PM (Eastern)

GOLDMINE GRADING

MINT ---- It should appear to be perfect. No scuffs or scratches, blotches or stains, labels or writing, tears or splits. Mint means perfect.

NEAR MINT ---- Otherwise mint but has one or two tiny inconsequential flaws that do not affect play. Covers should be close to perfect with minor signs of wear or age just becoming evident: slight ring-wear, minor denting to a corner, or writing on the cover should all be noted properly.

VERY GOOD PLUS ---- The record has been handled and played infrequently or very carefully. Not too far from perfect. On a disc, there may be light paper scuffs from sliding in and out of a sleeve or the vinyl or some of the original luster may be lost. A slight scratch that did not affect play would be acceptably VG+ for most collectors.

VERY GOOD ---- Record displays visible signs of handling and playing, such as loss of vinyl luster, light surface scratches, groove wear and spindle trails. Some audible surface noise, but should not overwhelm the musical experience. Usually a cover is VG when one or two of these problems are evident: ring wear, seam splits, bent corners, loss of gloss, stains, etc.

GOOD ---- Well played with little luster and significant surface noise. Despite defects, record should still play all the way through without skipping. Several cover flaws will be apparent, but should not obliterate the artwork.

POOR ---- Any record or cover that does not qualify for the above &quot;Good&quot; grading should be seen as Poor. Several cover flaws.