Italy has been experiencing a dazzling international moment when it comes to brands. The ‘Made in Italy’ label is a true indicator of top-quality products and one that is displayed with pride.

Brands from 11 categories feature in the Kantar BrandZ Italian Top 30, spanning from well-known food brands to essential telecom providers. Yet the real standout category of the ranking lies with luxury, with eight brands accounting for 44% (or $57.2 billion) of the total value of the ranking.

Italy’s number one most valuable brand is luxury fashion company, Gucci, with a brand value of US$37.9 billion. Gucci has retained this title for the fourth consecutive year in a row. This is followed by utilities company, Enel (No.2, US$12.6 billion) and confectionary company, Kinder (No.3, US$9.8 billion).

The key is that Italian brands love to lean into their origin stories and stress the special qualities that continue to make the country’s products globally renowned and desired. The most valuable Italian brands recognise that heritage is important to consumers.

Dive into our latest report, with unique insights on what is behind Italy’s most valuable brands.

Download the Kantar BrandZ Most Valuable Italian Brands 2022 report

Download the Kantar BrandZ Most Valuable Italian Brands 2022 infographic

Despite a turbulent year, and the threat of a lasting economic recession, the Kantar BrandZ Most Valuable Italian Brands ranking has risen by 11%, to reach a total brand value of $114.6 billion.

Gucci retains the top position as Italy’s most valuable brand for the third year, with a brand value of $33.8 billion. Italian luxury brands continue to dominate the ranking, accounting for 42% of the total brand value of the Top 30.

17 brands increased their value, by an average of 24%, including the fastest risers: Bottega Veneta (No.12, $2.2 billion, +54%), Aperol (No.23, $1.1 billion, +54%), Fendi (No.8, $3.2 billion, +48%), Enel (No.2, $13.6 billion, +41%) and Ferrari (No.5, $6.8 billion, +35%).

The most valuable brands in Italy – and the fastest-growing smaller brands – clearly demonstrate the benefits of being meaningful, different and salient in consumers’ minds. Those that stand out against others in their category in ways that are relevant and important to people have posted significantly stronger performances.

Find out how strong brand equity, agility, and a rapid response have offered businesses insulation from the crisis in our new report.

Download the Kantar BrandZ Most Valuable Italian Brands 2021 report

Download the Kantar BrandZ Most Valuable Italian Brands 2021 infographic