To receive the Vogue Business newsletter, sign up here.

Can any premium brand in any product category become a luxury lifestyle brand embracing the world of fashion? Belief in this proposition is driving a new era of collaborations, with the luxury auto world’s interest in fashion high on the agenda this year.

“Most luxury brands are discovering that it’s not sufficient to be on your consumer’s radar just for a specific product — be it cars or fashion,” says Anita Balchandani, senior partner at management consultancy McKinsey, who leads on fashion and luxury in EMEA. “What they’ve built up is actually a brand franchise. They’re now expanding and looking at how they can capitalise on and extend that brand franchise beyond what would be their core product.”

This enables brands to benefit from consumers buying across categories, encouraging loyalty as customers become absorbed by the brand universe. Those who can’t afford a luxury supercar can buy fashion instead — an entry point to the brand.

It’s not a straightforward process. “The challenge is to expand without diluting the core brand equity,” warns Balchandani. That’s why brands are becoming more involved in their cross-industry projects. Some carmakers are opting to develop their own clothing lines while others explore projects tied to Formula 1 to drive innovation and excitement.

The bigger the brand, the brighter the future, say analysts. High-net-worth individuals (HNWIs) are looking to the reassurance of the biggest names, a trend accentuated by the pandemic during which many consumers opted for the most trusted brands.

The luxury car sector is nearly twice as large as the luxury personal goods category, according to Balchandani. Together they have a combined market estimated at 380 to 390 million consumers worldwide, according to data from consultancy Bain as seen by Vogue Business. In theory, collaborations between the two should be a win-win, expanding brand universes for both categories.

Leveraging brand identity

Italy’s Ferrari, one of the best known brands in Formula 1, is ahead of the rest of the F1 pack in its fashion development. Its ready-to-wear line debuted in June at Milan Fashion Week for Spring 2022, showing again this February. The fashion line supports a wider brand diversification strategy to establish Ferrari as a lifestyle brand. “Ferrari is not just a car company,” says Rocco Iannone, who was appointed brand diversification creative director in 2019, after spells as creative director at Pal Zileri, head menswear designer at Giorgio Armani and designer at Dolce & Gabbana.

Ferrari’s fashion consumers tend to be younger than those who buy the company’s luxury cars. They also include more women. The demographics overlap more in China, which has a younger luxury consumer profile.

Iannone thinks more car brands will branch out into high fashion as they develop into lifestyle megabrands. “Many car companies have a very strong brand, and we live in an era where brand storytelling is more powerful than just having an archive of lines and shapes coming from an atelier,” he says. “Car manufacturers are looking to fashion to enlarge the vision of their brand because the trend right now is changing the approach from product-driven to brand-driven.”

Plenty of challenges remain. Iannone is developing a fashion brand from scratch on a very big and public stage. Consumers expect exceptional quality from the brand, while fashion critics are looking for experimentation from Ferrari. Iannone’s priorities include refining the brand identity, branching out into new categories such as leather goods and shoes, and expanding the brand’s retail distribution.

Mercedes-Benz, which now considers itself a luxury lifestyle brand, has been involved in the fashion industry for 27 years through brand collaborations and sponsorship of fashion week and prizes. It’s opted to take this route rather than developing its own high fashion line.

That said, it has tested the waters with fashion. This April, the company released the final instalment of a project with the late Virgil Abloh. “By working with cultural pioneers we can create unique brand experiences. Only in this way, we become a credible and authentic part of their lifeworld, create an emotional bond and evoke enthusiasm for the Mercedes-Benz brand,” says Bettina Fetzer, VP of communication and marketing.

For Mercedes-Benz, fashion involvement reinforces its luxury positioning. “We understand our customers are looking to invest in a vehicle that is more than a product but a piece of design that reflects a luxury lifestyle,” says Fetzer. “This is especially prevalent in F1, which is a sport that uniquely taps into values of performance and innovation.”

Both Ferrari and Mercedes-Benz are yet to take the step of directly connecting their F1 teams with their fashion products. Industry analysts expect to see a more integrated approach in the coming years. “Expect to see more integrated approaches to brand building, although the operational back-end, product development and sourcing engines will be distinct and driven by the requirements of the vertical,” says Balchandani.

Collaborating authentically

Should car brands go it alone like Ferrari? Yet another collaboration may produce a sense of ennui from the consumer. Plenty of fashion industry insiders have speculated that fashion collaborations are risking oversaturation and consumer indifference.

However, there is always room for authentic new ideas. Another premium fashion brand launched by a non-fashion brand is AlphaTauri, created by Austrian energy drinks giant Red Bull in 2016. AlphaTauri is now in turn working with Formula 1, signing a multi-year deal to become the premium fashion apparel supplier for F1, dressing the F1 team including senior staff and presenters.

AlphaTauri is already in the pit lane, as it were, thanks to its involvement in Red Bull’s Scuderia AlphaTauri F1 racing team since 2020. “We are an industry outsider in the fashion industry,” says CEO Ahmet Mercan. “We want to become one of the leading brands in premium fashion.”

To drive the development of AlphaTauri, Red Bull has appointed Bernd Hake, former chief sales officer of Hugo Boss, as CEO of its global consumer products division, including AlphaTauri, from May. The appointment of a highly regarded fashion industry veteran highlights Red Bull’s commitment to this new product category.

A partnership with F1 fits AlphaTauri’s DNA perfectly, Mercan points out. “Most brands just sponsor one racing team. We are the namesake of the racing team,” Mercan says. To date, AlphaTauri is best known for its material innovations (which are patented): Taurex, the company says, reflects energy radiating from the body back to the wearer to enhance stamina. There’s also a heat storing fabric and Taurobran, a thin and breathable nanoengineered waterproof membrane. The brand’s material innovations make a motorsports partnership a good fit: racing teams benefit from the innovative clothing, while the brand receives exposure. “We’re always striving for new innovations to fulfil our ambition of fusing fashion and function.” says Mercan. “Formula One, which is the prime class of motorsports, is the ideal playground for material innovations.”

The future of cross-category brand development may well be propelled by these kinds of synergies. “Thirty years ago there was less willingness to jump from an existing industry to another,” says Mercan. “Globalisation, the integration of industries and oversaturation in the fashion and car industries means that people are now open to something new.”

Comments, questions or feedback? Email us at feedback@voguebusiness.com.

More from this author:

Condé Nast closes Vogue Russia and terminates Russia publishing

Louis Vuitton to release new NFTs

PVH announces plan to reach $12.5 billion in revenue by 2025