Background

In 1987, Jim Henson's company, Henson Associates, Inc. became Jim Henson Productions. In 1989, the company planned to merge with The Walt Disney Company, but during negotiations, Henson died on May 16, 1990. Therefore, the deal collapsed and the company remained independent and was left under the control of Henson's children, Brian, Lisa, Cheryl, Heather and John, who gave it its current name, The Jim Henson Company, in 1997.

1st Logo (September 12, 1987-January 16, 1988)

Visuals: On a white background, there are the words arranged like this:

jim henson

-----PRODUCTIONS

"im" and "enson" are written in an italic script font, with the "J" and "h" in green and in presumably the same font as the "ha!" in the first Henson Associates logo, and the "J" is placed near the words "PRODUCTIONS". Then, a small flash of light appears above the "J" and becomes a still drawing of Kermit the Frog's head, which is used to dot the letter. Underneath is a Henson Associates copyright notice.

Variant: On Fraggle Rock: The Animated Series, the logo is still, the script font is colored blue, and there is also no copyright notice, as it appears on a separate screen after.

Technique: 2D animation.

Audio: The ending theme of the show.

Availability:

It appeared on season 4 of Muppet Babies, which as with the rest of the series has not been rerun in years.

It also appeared on Fraggle Rock: The Animated Series.

The logo is preserved on the UK Palace Video VHS releases, but modern prints don't have it.

The 2005 HIT Entertainment UK DVD release plasters this logo with the "Television" variant of the first Jim Henson Productions logo, while all newer prints (e.g. the Complete Series set) black out the logo and copyright screen and follow this up with the 2008 Jim Henson Company logo instead.

2nd Logo (September 17, 1988-January 30, 1993)

Visuals: The logo comes in many animated variations. The words:

Jim Henson

----------------------------------

P R O D U C T I O N S

are displayed on an object against a gray wall background. The words "Jim Henson" are in the now-familiar corporate "Henson" logo font introduced in 1988.

Trivia: The font used for the name "Jim Henson" is actually his signature.

Variants: There are rumored to be more variants than currently listed.

Sign 1: An animated version of Kermit the Frog's hand puts a white sign with a string on a nail on the wall reading "Jim Henson Productions". Suddenly, the sign tilts and the lettering falls off, clattering to the ground.

Arrow: The animated Kermit hand holds out a white sign against the wall reading "Jim Henson Productions". Suddenly, an arrow (with an orange or pink fletching) flies into the sign pinning it to the wall, and taken by surprise, Kermit lets go.

Sign 2: The animated Kermit hand holds up a white sign by a string reading "Jim Henson Productions". Suddenly, the sign snaps off of the string and falls straight to the ground with a crash.

Window Shade: The animated Kermit hand pulls down a window shade-like scroll that reads "Jim Henson Productions". The shade moves back up and it rolls around a bit before settling.

TV Set: The "Jim Henson Productions" text is already formed in a white rectangle on a tan background. The animated Kermit hand comes up holding a TV remote and clicks it, and the screen goes black like a television set being shut off.

Rifle: The animated Kermit hand holds a sign from the bottom that reads "Jim Henson Productions". Eventually, an off-screen rifle fires at the sign, destroying it.

Darts: Similar to the "Arrow" variant, but instead of an arrow, three darts fix the sign, with a fourth dart just missing Kermit's hand and bouncing off the wall.

Other Variants:

A copyright stamp may be seen under the logo.

TNT reruns of The Muppet Show had a variant to replace the Henson International Television logo's "bubble" variant; here, when Zoot (performed by Dave Goelz) blows out of his saxophone at the end of an episode, a gray circle with a white outline emerges from it, and the circle zooms in to engulf the screen; when that occurs, one of the normal animated variants plays against the gray background.

Technique: Traditional animation.

Audio: A particular variant's sound effects, but on some shows the end theme finished over it, combined with the sounds.

Availability:

It originally appeared on seasons 5-8 of Muppet Babies (for example, the TV Set variant appeared on a unknown episode), but as with the other versions, newer logos may replace it.

This was also seen at the end of Fraggle Rock reruns on TNT and The Disney Channel, and at the end of the 1993 VHS releases (except for the third and fifth volumes, "The Fraggles Search and Find" and "A Festive Fraggle Holiday", respectively, which use the 1991 logo).

The first two volumes of the aforementioned VHS releases use the TV Set variant, while the fourth volume, "The Haunting of Castle Gorg", uses the Sign 2 variant.

The TV Set variant was also seen on the first season of Dog City after the 1986 Nelvana logo.

The Muppet Show variant was only seen on TNT reruns of the show from 1988 to 1992.

3rd Logo (1988)

Visuals: On a white background, there is the company name from the previous logo, colored black.

Technique: A still graphic.

Audio: None.

Availability: Seen on 1988 releases of Muppet Babies Video Storybooks.

4th Logo (April 14, 1989-May 6, 1990)

Visuals: A series of green circles appear near the middle of the screen, from which emerges a long and wavy line that flails until it contracts and forms the words "Jim Henson" (in the company's corporate script font), as well as a line below them. The word "PRODUCTIONS" then appears below the script, letter by letter, with a shine effect (this also turns the green line red). Finally, a flash appears to create a red dot above the "i".

Variants:

On The Jim Henson Hour, the logo's animation is superimposed over the credits background (which is the Muppet Central set, a background of TV monitors displaying clips of Henson's work), which fades to black just before the "dot the i" part.

There is a short version that starts with the "Jim Henson" script already formed.

On The Muppets Celebrate Jim Henson, the logo is still and superimposed over the Muppet Central set from The Jim Henson Hour.

Technique: 2D animation.

Audio: The end theme of the show. On The Jim Henson Hour, its end theme syncs with the logo's animation and the last note of the off-key trumpet fanfare from the end of the theme song to Muppets, Babies and Monsters when the "i"'s dot shines.

Availability:

Seen on The Jim Henson Hour, as well as the 1989 version of A Muppet Family Christmas.

The short version was seen on The Muppets at Walt Disney World.

5th Logo (April 26, 1991-April 28, 2006)

Visuals: On a black background, a blue laser carves out a line across the screen. The line flips towards the screen, revealing a blue outline of Kermit the Frog, who is then filled with color from left to right. After shining brightly, Kermit is then swallowed by a dot of light that dances across the screen, which from left to right sweeps out the words:

Jim Henson

_________________________________

P R O D U C T I O N S

then flies back to the logo to dot the "i".

Variants:

Usually, on TV shows from Jim Henson Productions, only the "dot the I" sequence of this logo plays.

In 1997, starting with Bear in the Big Blue House, the word "PRODUCTIONS" is replaced with "TELEVISION" (a.k.a. Jim Henson Television).

When Sony Pictures Home Entertainment began distributing Henson material under the Jim Henson Home Entertainment label in 1997, the dot sweeps out the word "HOME ENTERTAINMENT" instead of "PRODUCTIONS".

On Dinosaurs from S2 E9 onward, a pteranodon flies over the logo from right to left. Sometimes, the pteranodon sits on the logo either squawking or looking left. Also, the logo is in 3D style with a slight gradient.

On It's a Very Merry Muppet Christmas Movie and original TLC airings of Jim Henson's Animal Jam, a variant of the 1997 version has "The Jim Henson Company" in place of "TELEVISION" and the text below the logo is in gray instead of red.

There is also a still version of the logo.

On Muppet Meeting Films, the logo is on a regal blue background, displaying "A Muppet Meeting Film Produced by" on top of the logo. Another variant where the text fades in after the dot flies onto the "I" has the location info text "117 East 69th Street New York, NY 10021" below the logo and above the byline.

On the music videos for "Kokomo" and "She Drives Me Crazy", the word "RECORDS" replaces "PRODUCTIONS". It's also in place after the program/presentation of The Muppet Show, The Muppet Movie and The Great Muppet Caper, where it uses the style from the Jim Henson Video logo and with the text above it with "Soundtrack Available on" (for film releases) and "Music From The Muppet Show Available On" (for The Muppet Show).

There is also a version with copyright info on the bottom of the screen, sometimes with the URL "[www.henson.com www.henson.com]" just above it.

Releases from January 29, 1993, including The Muppet Movie, The Great Muppet Caper (UK releases use the Jim Henson Video logo instead, but was later plastered by the 2nd Jim Henson Pictures logo starting on Columbia TriStar DVD releases of the films), the first two Muppet Show compilations, the first three releases of Muppet Babies, and The Tale of the Bunny Picnic had the logo off-center. There is also a difference on how the Kermit head was designed compared to the fixed variation, and the light dots also shine brighter (with additive blending) on this version.

In the US print of Muppet Babies: Let's Build, there is a video editing error of the off-center variant that has a bit of the beginning and ending frames (including the fade out) edited out to where the logo cuts straight to the Muppet Babies intro at the end. In the UK, a centered version of this variant appears on Muppet Babies VHS tapes while other early Henson videos have the Jim Henson Video logo before the presentation.

On Muppet Classic Theater, the TV variant has "PRESENTS" in the same font as "PRODUCTIONS" fading below the logo.

At the end of Gulliver's Travels, a short version starts with the text being wiped onto the screen. It is silent in this version.

At the end of The Muppet Christmas Carol and Muppet Treasure Island, another shortened version exists, which starts when Kermit is about to get sucked into the light.

There exists a "matted" 1.85:1 widescreen version of the logo for both said films.

On Mopatop's Shop in the UK, a still version of the "TELEVISION" variant is shown alongside the Carlton logo.

Earlier episodes used the 1993 Carlton logo in orange, whilst later episodes used the 1999 Carlton logo in white.

On a few episodes, the URL also appears under the Jim Henson Television logo.

On the first two seasons of Jim Henson's Animal Show with Stinky and Jake, it's on a blue background and Tizzy The Bee flies to the logo when the dot comes in and laughs with her catchphrase "Tizzy, Tizzy, Tizzy, Tizzy!" (voiced by Karen Prell, even after the character was recast with Louise Gold). The normal short logo is used for the third and final season, as Tizzy was completely absent throughout that season.

On The Hoobs, the logo is seen with the 1999 Channel 4 "Squares" logo and the Decode Entertainment logo.

On reruns of the show after Channel 4's revamp on the December 31, 2004, the Channel 4 "Squares" logo is covered by the blue background with studs variant of the 2004-2015 Channel 4 logo.

On UK airings of Muppets Tonight, the animated "PRODUCTIONS" variant is seen alongside the 1988 BBC logo in white.

Technique: CGI and motion-controlled animation.

Audio: The long version has a weird "phaser"-like sound when the laser appears, and when the Kermit head "flips" into view, an orchestrated horn/string fanfare is heard. A whoosh, 3 timpani hits, and chimes/shining sounds are heard when the head is colored in and shines. A louder whoosh and a cymbal crescendo are heard when the head gets sucked into the dot of light, followed by a woodwind section with plucked strings and "buzz"-like sounds (not unlike a cartoon bumblebee) as the dot of light flies around, and another whoosh when it sweeps out the text. One more "buzz" is heard as the dot returns, and a "ding" and a gong hit are heard when the "I" is dotted, followed by a triumphant horn/string/woodwind chord to finish the logo. The music was composed by Miles Goodman.

Audio Variants:

At the end of movies and shows, either the end theme plays over it, or it's silent.

Season 2 of The Wubbulous World of Dr. Seuss uses this audio variant: Three piano notes, then a held-out violin note when the logo appears after the credits. There is a "ding" when the "I" is dotted.

On the 1994 VHS release of Hey Cinderella!, the final "buzz" is partially muted, fading in just as it dots the "I".

1990s prints of Muppet Babies with episodes that used the 4th logo's variants plastered said logos, but kept their sound effects intact.

On one episode of Dinosaurs, a five-note synth theme (sounding similar to the last few notes of the Windows Whistler shutdown sound effect) plays.

On the 1999 UK Cinema Club VHS release of The Great Muppet Caper, the end of the post credit scene audio playing over it can be heard.

Availability:

It was first seen as a still variant on season 1 of Dinosaurs, and the full version made its debut on The Muppet Christmas Carol on December 11, 1992.

The short TV version is generally left intact on most shows from the company as well as Muppet Time skits aired on Nick Jr. and tended to plaster older logos, eg, on The Muppet Show from the time period; if shows like The Muppet Show and Fraggle Rock are rerun in the future, this logo might be tacked on unless a different logo is used (such as a Muppets Holding Company copyright notice, a newer Henson logo, or HIT Entertainment).

Reruns of Henson shows on the Odyssey Network (currently the Hallmark Channel) in the late 90s typically used this variant.

The long version appears after the Walt Disney Pictures logo on the theatrical films The Muppet Christmas Carol and Muppet Treasure Island, and can be seen on their respective home video releases.

The long version was also used as a de-facto home video logo on several '90s tapes from Jim Henson Video, with the actual Jim Henson Video logo generally appearing at the end instead. Releases with this logo include Fraggle Rock: A Festive Fraggle Holiday (this VHS also uses the short version of this logo at the end, unlike the other four 1993 VHS releases which use the 4th logo), Muppet Sing-Alongs videos, and A Muppet Family Christmas; it can also be seen on various Muppet Babies videos (first releases in the U.S. like Let's Build had the logo off-center) before the show's opening theme. It also plasters the Associated Film Distribution and Universal Pictures logos on video releases of The Muppet Movie and The Great Muppet Caper, respectively.

The long version can also be seen at the end of Muppet Classic Theater, and was also retained on the UK-exclusive DVD master of the movie (This logo appears on the second half of the movie, which was featured on The Very Best of the Muppet Show Vol. 3, which was split into three separate parts, each having the credits sequence and this logo at the end).

The "RECORDS" variant can be found on a promo for the album Kermit Unpigged, as seen on the 1994 VHS release of Muppet Classic Theater.

The "Television" variant can still be seen on Disney+ releases of later seasons of The Muppet Show.

The Mopatop's Shop, Jim Henson's Animal Show with Stinky and Jake, and The Hoobs variants are also intact on uploads to the official Jim Henson's Family Hub YouTube channel.

The "Television" variant also makes an odd appearance on the 1999 UK Cinema Club VHS release of "The Great Muppet Caper" as well.

Later prints of The Wubbulous World of Dr. Seuss, including those from Amazon Prime, have the logo blacked out. It is, however, retained on VHS and DVD releases from Columbia TriStar Home Entertainment.