On December 19, 2022, Network System Technologies, LLC (“NST” or “Plaintiff”), represented by Daniel Steven Stringfield, Erica J. Van Loon, and Vincent C. Capati of Nixon Peabody LLP; and William E. Davis, III of The Davis Firm, PC, filed an intellectual property lawsuit against Qualcomm Incorporated, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., and Arteris, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”), seeking declaratory and injunctive relief for alleged infringement of U.S. patents owned by the plaintiff. This case was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas., with Judge Robert Pitman presiding.

Plaintiff filed this complaint for the alleged infringement of U.S. patent Nos. 7,366,818 (the “’818 patent”), 7,373,449 (the “’449 patent”), 7,594,052 (the “’052 patent”), 7,769,893 (the “’9893 patent”), 8,072,893 (the “’2893 patent”), and 8,086,800 (the, “’800 patent”) (collectively, the “Assert Patents”) owed by the plaintiff.

In the complaint, the plaintiff stated, “The Asserted Patents result from extensive research and development by Philips Semiconductors, a subsidiary of Koninklijke Philips N.V. (‘Philips’) that included VLSI Technology, Inc., which Philips acquired in 1999. Prior to being spun off in 2006 as NXP Semiconductors N.V. (‘NXP’), Philips Semiconductors was one of the largest semiconductor companies in the world.”

The plaintiff further stated, “SoCs are widely used in consumer electronics or computing devices, including smartphones, laptops, tablets, and embedded systems such as vehicle infotainment devices and advanced driver assistance systems. SoCs are complex integrated circuits that may incorporate multiple processors, memory units, and interfaces onto a single chip. Qualcomm is a leading semiconductor company that provides SoCs, and Arteris is a provider of interconnect technology for SoCs.”

Plaintiff then alleged, “Qualcomm provides Snapdragon SoCs, and on information and belief, Snapdragon SoCs include Arteris interconnect technology and/or a derivative thereof. Thus, on information and belief, Qualcomm makes, uses, sells, offers for sale, and/or imports, or has otherwise made, used, sold, offered for sale, and/or imported, SoCs including Arteris interconnect technology and/or a derivative thereof. Qualcomm markets, advertises, offers for sale, and/or otherwise promotes the Qualcomm Accused Products and, on information and belief, does so to actively and knowingly induce, encourage, instruct, and aid one or more persons in the United States to make, use, sell, offer to sell and/or import the Qualcomm Accused Products.”

Plaintiff also alleged, “Qualcomm has contributorily infringed and continues to contributorily infringe the Asserted Patents by selling or offering to sell Qualcomm Accused Products, knowing them to be especially made or especially adapted for practicing the inventions of the Asserted Patents and not a staple article or commodity of commerce suitable for substantial non-infringing use.”

The plaintiff additionally alleged, “Qualcomm has known of the existence of the Asserted Patents and their applicability to Qualcomm’s Accused Products, and its acts of infringement have been willful and in disregard for the Asserted Patents, without any reasonable basis for believing that it had a right to engage in the infringing conduct, at least as of the dates of knowledge of the Asserted Patents alleged above, and no later than the date of this Complaint.”

The plaintiff further alleged, “Arteris has induced infringement and continues to induce infringement of the Asserted Patents by actively and knowingly inducing others to make, use, sell, offer to sell, and/or import, without license or authority, SoCs incorporating Arteris interconnect technology, including the Qualcomm Accused Products as alleged herein, which embody or use the inventions claimed in the Asserted Patents literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.”

Plaintiff stated six claims for relief from alleged infringement of the Asserted Patents owned by the plaintiff.

In the prayer for relief, the plaintiff requested declaratory and injunctive relief along with an award of damages, costs, and expenses with pre- and post-judgment interest.