The Mercedes G-Class lineup has been completely electrified as part of a significant overhaul that also includes several aspects to increase efficiency. While the G-Class is set to have a fully electric powertrain in the latter half of this year, for now, the Mercedes G-Wagon will feature mild-hybrid powertrains under the hood across all variants.

Mercedes-Benz G-Class: Mechanical Upgrades

The entry-level model will continue to employ a 3.0-litre straight-six diesel engine, but it will now be paired with a 48V mild hybrid integrated starting generator. This boosts power to 367PS while significantly increasing torque to 750Nm. Mercedes-Benz G 500 will be powered by a 3.0-litre inline six-cylinder engine with twin turbocharging that produces 449PS and 560 Nm.

In the case of the G63, it's the 585PS, 850Nm of torque version of AMG's M177 twin-turbo V-8 featured in the current model, upgraded with a 48-volt integrated starter-generator that provides an extra 20PS and up to 200Nm on demand. Mercedes estimates that with the optional AMG Performance Package installed mild-hybrid G63 will swarm to 100 kmph in around 4.1 seconds.

In addition to its MHEV powertrain, the new G63 has an off-road tailored version of Mercedes-AMG's advanced Active Ride Control system. It is an optional feature that employs hydraulically coupled two-valve shocks to accurately regulate wheel and body motion. Mechanical roll bars are no longer required since it can adjust each shock's effective compression and rebound damping rates.

Mercedes-Benz G-Class: Exterior, Interior and Features

The G-Class is easily recognized because of its angular form, which has altered little over the years. A few small changes have been implemented to increase aerodynamics and minimize noise. The radiator grille, which now has four horizontal fins, and the modified bumpers provide a small change to the appearance.

The rearview camera's location has been adjusted for better integration at the vehicle's back, and a washer fluid tank has been installed near the camera. The G 550 has a new metallic colour option (Sodalite blue), 19-inch alloy wheels as standard, and 18- to 20-inch diameters available for customization.

Technology upgrades include the adoption of the latest generation of MBUX, which means the G-Class now has a touchscreen, as well as a new "off-road cockpit" function that includes a 360-degree camera system that allows for a virtual transparent hood that shows what's under the front wheels on the screen. Convenience features include Keyless Go, temperature-controlled cupholders, wireless smartphone charging, and the newest Burmester 3D premium sound system with Dolby Atmos. Lane keep assist, active steering help, and emergency stop assist are now among the available options.

Also Read:

2024 Mercedes-Benz GLS review, road test - amped up on luxury