Mechanical devises that consist of two electrical contacts that control when current flows through the primary winding. When the contacts close, the electrical circuit is complete and current flows through the primary winding. However, when the contacts open, the circuit is interrupted, and the magnetic field surrouding the primary winding collapses. As the magnetic field collapses, current is induced into the secondary winding

A distributor directs high voltage current produced by the ignition coil to the spark plugs.

The distributor consists of a rotating finger and a distributor block. As it rotates, the finger distributes power from the coil to the contacts mounted in the distribution block. From there, the energy passes through an ignition lead to a spark plug.

A permenent-magnet alternating current (AC) generator that use electromagnetic and induced current to develop a pulse of high voltage electricity to fire a spark plug.

Magneto systems are classified as either high-tension or low-tension

The earliest high-tension systems experienced a problem called flashover. What is a flashover and what can it lead to?

What two methods are use to prevent it?

The rotating magnet in a magneto turns between two pole shoes. To complete a circuit, each pole shoe is joined at one end to the magneto coil core. What are the pole shoes and coil core constructed from?

When a pair of poles aligns with the shoes, lines of flux flow through the coil core.

This position is known as what?

What degree angle is this?

Full register position

In this position the magnetic field is strongest and the density of flux lines is greatest

This would either be the 0 degree or 180 degree position when the current flow is changing direction

As a magnet rotates beyond full register, the magnetic field slowly collapses until no lines of flux pass through the coil core.

What is this position called?

What angle is this?

Efficiency Gap

The specific number of degrees the rotating magnet is beyond the neutral position.

The magnetic circuit is designed to hold the flux in the core at the highest possiable value until the rotating magnet reaches its neutral position. After the magnet rotates beyond neutral, a magnetic field of opposite polarity begins to build. At this point, the greatest magnetic stress exists. This is the E-gap angle.

Directs current that is coming from the secondary winding to the distributor rotor. It is mounted in the center of the distributor rotor. From the distributor rotor, current passes to the distributor block through a distributor finger.

Arching is the gap between the two breaker points. It is an issue because as the points begin to seperate, the electrical resistance between the two points produces enough heat to ionize the air, now allowing current to travel through the air, and can get hot enough to weld the two point together.

By installing an compacitor in parallel with the breaker points, as the breaker points begin to open, the compasitor absorbs the electrons and prevents the arching from occuring

Because the ignition switch is wired in parallel with the breaker points, switching it to OFF shorts the breaker points and grounds the primary coil, preventing the magnetic field in the primary winding from collapsing and inducing current into the second winding.

Basically, both P-Leads are grounded

Set engine between 1500 and 1700 RPM

Move switch from BOTH to LEFT - This causes the right magneto to become grounded and a slight drop in RPM

Return to BOTH

Move switch from BOTH to RIGHT - This causes the left magneto to become grounded and a slight drop in RPM

Return to BOTH

If at anytime the RPM drops to zero, there is a short between the magneto and the ignition switch

Because the ignition event normally occurs before top dead center of the compression stroke, normal ignition timing can cause an engine to kick back during start. To prevent this, some magnetos use a set of _____to delay the spark during engine starting.

This item is widely used to augment low speed ignition from magnetos. It is wound up by the magneto drive gear and then released, providing a momentary increase in rotational speed while delaying the spark.

What is it?

What is the name of the three components?

If there is no RPM drop during during a magneto check, what could be the problem?

Were of the cam follower

Causes timer to retard - opens late closes sooner

Were of the breaker points

Causes timer to advance - opens early and closes late.

With bendix, you must adjust and set the points before you join the case halves and a slick magneto uses a timing pin or e-gap guage to lock the magnet in place

Synchronized ignition timing - fires both spark plugs in each cylinder at the same time

Staggered ignition timing - fires the two spark plugs in each cylinder at slightly different times.

What is used to accurately identify that the piston is top dead center?

What is the alternative?

Lycoming - front side of flywheel

TCM engines - on the propeller mounting flange or an internal gear.