Tag Archives: Rolo Tomassi

INTERVIEW: Heriot: Rising Stars of The UK’s Metal Underground

The last two years have been a hell of a ride for Heriot, the English Post Hardcore/Extreme Metal band who have experienced a rebirth of sorts and are firmly riding the crest of a wave on a distinct upward trajectory. They started life in 2016 as a three-piece, consisting of Jake Packer (vocals/bass), Erhan Alman (guitar), and Julian Gage (drums), but in 2020 drafted in former Dead Hands guitarist Deb Gough, applying depth to their musicianship, while also adding a new voice for the band to share vocal duties with Jake, enabling an intriguing expansion of their sound.

Continue reading →

ALBUM REVIEW: Rolo Tomassi – Where Myth Becomes Memory

They say no band is really an “overnight success” in the music industry. Like most cliches, that one has been ridden into the ground by lazy people. Rolo Tomassi has been a band for over fifteen years at this point, and if their ascent to the top of the underground metal genre has taken you by surprise, you just weren’t paying attention. The band has been DIY (with some proper distro mixed in) the entire way, making music on their own terms, gathering forces of fans and waves of respect. Wearing many musical masks and expertly jumping from Grindcore, to Thrash, Hardcore, Pop Rock and even Blackened extremism, the band has always sported loads of talent and great songs. For their debut album for MNRK Music, Where Myth Becomes Memory, the band is determined to change your perception of the band, even if you are a longtime fan.

Continue reading →

Rolo Tomassi Shares New Video, New “Where Myth Becomes Memory” Album Coming Soon

Rising Metal band Rolo Tomassi will release their huge, expansive and ambitious, brand new album Where Myth Becomes Memory on February 4th, 2022 through MNRK. The band returned in August with the single ‘Cloaked’, their first new music since 2018’s hugely acclaimed Time Will Die And Love Will Bury It. Pre-order bundles, vinyl variants and more are available now at the link below. The band shared a new single and music video – “Drip” which you can see right now!

Continue reading →

Rolo Tomassi Sign to eOne Music, Share New Single and Video “Cloaked’

One of the best bands in the world right now, Rolo Tomassi has signed to eOne (High On Fire, Black Label Society, The Contortionist) and have dropped a brand new single and video, “Cloaked”. Watch the video now!

Continue reading →

Rolo Tomassi Announces a Special Show This Fall

Avant Garde Math Rockers Rolo Tomassi have announces an exclusive return to the stage this fall, at Brighton Chalk 12th November, 2021. Their first show in two years will feature The Devil Sold His Soul as the direct support. Fans can purchase tickets to the event at the link below. The band has been in the studio working on a new album for release later in 2021 or early 2022.

Continue reading →

Arctangent Festival Adds Chelsea Wolfe, Caspian, Emma Ruth Rundle, Intronaut, Bell Witch and More!

Arctangent Festival has made a major announcement, their third of many for the 2020 event! Chelsea Wolfe has been named as the mainstage headliner for the Thursday night kickoff. Also added to the bill are Caspian, Emma Ruth Rundle, Bell Witch & Aerial Ruin, Intronaut, Talons, Arabrot, Wheel, The Guru Guru, Latitudes and many more. Opeth, Tesseract (UK festival exclusive), Swans, Metz, Oathbreaker (exclusive), The Locust (exclusive), This Will Destroy You, Amenra (UK 2020 exclusive), Ihsahn, Perturbator, maybeshewill (exclusive), Rolo Tomassi (performing two full albums sets – ‘Grievances’ and ‘Time Will Die And Love Will Bury It’), Earthtone9, Giraffes? Giraffes!, Fronterier and many more to be announced still. The fest takes place on August 20th/21st/22nd 2020 at Fernhill Farm, Compton Martin near Bristol, and tickets are on sale now at the link below. Continue reading →

Arctangent Festival Books Swans, Metz, The Locust, Maybeshewill, Wear Your Wounds, Car Bomb, Jo Quail, and Oathbreaker!

The amazing proggy and heavy Arctangent Festival 2020 have added a few more amazing bands, including some long-awaited returns! Swans, Metz, The Locust, Maybeshewill, Wear Your Wounds, Car Bomb, Jo Quail, Oathbreaker, Leprous, Agent Fresco, The World Is A Beautiful Place & I Am No Longer Afraid To Die, A.A.Williams, Tides From Nebula, and many more. They join the bill with the already announced headliners Opeth, Tesseract (UK festival exclusive), This Will Destroy You, Amenra (UK 2020 exclusive), Ihsahn, Perturbator, Rolo Tomassi (performing two full albums sets – ‘Grievances’ and ‘Time Will Die And Love Will Bury It’), Earthtone9, Giraffes? Giraffes!, Fronterier and many more. The festival will take place on August 20th/21st/22nd 2020 at Fernhill Farm, Compton Martin near Bristol, and tickets are on sale now at the links below. Continue reading →

Opeth, Tesseract, This Will Destroy You, Amenra, Ihsahn, Perturbator, Rolo Tomassi and More Booked for Arctangent Festival 2020

Arctangent Festival has announced its first main stage headliner for 2020, as a UK 2020 exclusive, Opeth! The band will continue touring behind its In Cauda Venenum album, out now via Nuclear Blast. They will be joined by Tesseract (UK festival exclusive), This Will Destroy You, Amenra (UK 2020 exclusive), Ihsahn, Perturbator, Rolo Tomassi (performing two full albums sets – ‘Grievances’ and ‘Time Will Die And Love Will Bury It’), Earthtone9, Giraffes? Giraffes!, Fronterier and many more to be announced. The fest takes place on August 20th/21st/22nd 2020 at Fernhill Farm, Compton Martin near Bristol, and tickets are on sale now at the link below. Continue reading →

Gojira – Rolo Tomassi: Live at Birmingham 02 Academy, 29th June

It’s the hottest day of the year. Stepping outside feels like walking into a furnace, and the pollen count is so high that even the bees are saying “yeah, that’s enough, thanks”. All because apparently, the sun has arbitrarily decided that in the space of twelve hours, everyone in the UK has to die by melting.Continue reading →