Valis III is an action-adventure game developed by Telenet Japan, Laser Soft and Reno. It was originally released in 1990. It was published by Telenet Japan. Most rawgers rated the game as "Recommended". You can play Valis III on Genesis.

Valis: The Fantasm Soldier is an adventure-platformer game developed by Bandai Namco Entertainment, Wolf Team, Telenet Japan and Riot. It came out on 21-08-1987. Bandai published the game. Most rawgers rated the game as "Recommended". Valis: The Fantasm Soldier is available on SEGA CD, NES, Nintendo Switch and Genesis.

Shieldmaiden is an indie action-adventure game developed by Dumativa Game Studio. It was originally released in 2020. Dumativa Game Studio published the game. You can play Shieldmaiden on PC. You can purchase the game on Steam.

Mystik Belle is an indie, action, adventure and RPG game developed by WayForward Technologies and Last Dimension. It was originally released in 2015. Last Dimension published the game. Most rawgers rated the game as "Recommended". Mystik Belle is available on PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC and Linux. You can purchase the game on Steam, Xbox Store and PlayStation Store.

The Darkside Detective is a casual action-adventure game developed by Spooky Doorway. It was originally released in 2017. Isometric Dreams published the game. The Darkside Detective has a Metascore of 73, based on professional reviews. Most rawgers rated the game as "Recommended". The Darkside Detective is available on Nintendo Switch, macOS, Linux and PC. The game is sold via Steam, GOG, Nintendo eShop and itch.io.

Bernie Needs Love is a casual action-adventure game developed by Protomni Multimedia. It was originally released in 2015. It was published by Protomni Multimedia. Most rawgers rated the game as "Skip". Bernie Needs Love is available on PC and Linux. You can purchase the game on Steam.

Creepy Road is an indie action-adventure game developed by Groovy Milk. It was originally released in 2018. It was published by GrabTheGames. Most rawgers rated the game as "Recommended". Creepy Road is available on Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and PC. You can purchase the game on PlayStation Store, Xbox Store, Steam and Nintendo eShop.

River City Super Sports Challenge ~All Stars Special~ Downtown Nekketsu is an action, adventure, sports and arcade game developed by Arc System Works and H2 Interactive Co. It came out on 11-02-2015. Arc System Works published the game. The game is rated as "Exceptional" on RAWG. You can play River City Super Sports Challenge ~All Stars Special~ Downtown Nekketsu on PC and PlayStation 3. The game is sold via PlayStation Store and Steam.

My Friend Pedro is an indie, action, shooter and adventure game developed by Devolver, DeadToast Entertainment and Deadtoast. It came out on 19-06-2019. It was published by Devolver Digital. On review aggregator Metacritic, My Friend Pedro has a score of 76. The game is rated as "Recommended" on RAWG. My Friend Pedro is available on PlayStation 4, Xbox One, iOS and PC. You can purchase the game on Xbox Store, PlayStation Store, Steam and Nintendo eShop.

Westerado: Double Barreled is an indie action-adventure game developed by Ostrich Banditos. It was originally released in 2015. Adult Swim Games published the game. Most rawgers rated the game as "Recommended". Westerado: Double Barreled is available on Xbox One, PC and macOS. The game is sold via Xbox Store, Steam and GOG.

Totally Normal Journey: The Interactive Musical is an indie action-adventure game developed by Totally Not Me Studio. It was originally released in 2021. It was published by Totally Not Me Studio. Most rawgers rated the game as "Recommended". You can play Totally Normal Journey: The Interactive Musical on PC. You can purchase the game on Steam.