The woman dubbed the DC Madam killed herself today, police said, just weeks after she was convicted of running a prostitution ring that catered to highly placed US government officials.

Deborah Jeane Palfrey, 52, became a tabloid celebrity in America after her escort ring led to criminal charges and she threatened to reveal the names of the men who patronised her "erotic fantasy" service.

Palfrey hung herself at her mother's home in the town of Tarpon Springs, Florida, according to reports from local police.

Her mother, aged 76, discovered the body in a shed on the property and remained "very distraught", a police spokesman said. Palfrey left multiple suicide notes, but their contents were not disclosed.

"Handwritten notes were found on scene that describes the victim's intention to take her life, and foul play does not appear to be involved," they said in a statement.

A jury in Washington convicted Palfrey of money laundering and racketeering last month. Palfrey's lawyer, who represented Monica Lewinsky during the impeachment of Bill Clinton, argued that she marketed legal fantasies and was unaware that her employees sold sex. She was due for sentencing in July and faced a maximum sentence of 55 years.

Palfrey caused a storm in Washington when she revealed she had a client list of more than 10,000, including political officials, chief executive officers and other members of the Washington elite.

At one point, she sought to sell her list of telephone numbers to help pay for her looming costs. But a judge blocked her from doing so, and ultimately few big fish were caught in the net.

Randall Tobias, an ally of George Bush and senior official in the state department, resigned immediately after he surfaced as a Palfrey client. Another, the conservative Republican senator David Vitter, held on to his career after apologising for the "serious sin" of associating with her.

The salacious chapter of US political history that Palfrey's case opened is likely to close after her death.

Palfrey, or Miz Julia to her prostitutes, kept herself in the public eye as her trial approached by promising more tawdry revelations, but the case ultimately revealed the small-scale status of her ring.

Prostitutes testified to charging $250 an hour, compared with the $1,000-plus hourly profit made by the escort who brought down former New York governor Eliot Spitzer.

In an interview with ABC news after her arrest, Palfrey mourned a former employee who killed herself after her sex work was exposed. "She couldn't take the humiliation," the madam said. "Her whole life was destroyed."

The trial concluded with prosecutors forcing several of Palfrey's prostitutes to testify in open court against her, using their real names. One was in her late 50s when she sold sex, and another was discharged from the US military for her role in the ring.

Palfrey served an 18-month jail sentence for prostitution 17 years ago. Her lawyer, Preston Burton, told the Washington Post after her conviction that the madam was "holding up fine, she's with her mother".