Detroit | The Detroit Pistons are already moving on without Ben Wallace.

A day after losing Wallace to the Chicago Bulls, the Pistons reached an agreement with free-agent center Nazr Mohammed on Tuesday, a person within the NBA told The Associated Press.

Mohammed started in 30 of 80 games last season for the San Antonio Spurs, averaging 6.2 points and 5.2 rebounds. The 6-foot-10, 250-pound center will likely replace Wallace in the starting lineup, allowing Rasheed Wallace to remain as a power forward.

Harpring re-signs with Jazz

Salt Lake City | Matt Harpring is staying with the Utah Jazz, agreeing to a multiyear deal with the team.

"Matt is a bottom-line person. He listened (to other teams) and he was flattered, but he didn't want it to drag on," Atlanta-based agent Richard Howell said.

Celtics sign pick Rondo

Boston | The Boston Celtics signed first-round draft pick Rajon Rondo. The 21st overall pick, Rondo was selected by Phoenix and traded to Boston on draft night. The 6-foot-1 guard entered the draft after his sophomore season at Kentucky.

First-rounder Douby signs

Sacramento, Calif. | The Sacramento Kings signed first-round draft pick Quincy Douby.

Douby was the 19th overall selection last week after averaging 25.4 points and 4.3 rebounds per game at Rutgers last season.

Piatkowski joins Suns

Phoenix | The Suns have agreed to a two-year contract with free-agent forward Eric Piatkowski.

The forward won't officially become a Sun until the NBA signing period opens on July 12, but the team and Piatkowski have a deal, agent Jeff Austin said.

Bulls mascot charged

Chicago | A Chicago Bulls mascot dressed in a bright red costume was charged with attacking an off-duty officer after driving a mini-motorcycle through an outdoor festival.

Barry Anderson, the Benny the Bull mascot, was charged with misdemeanor battery and driving within a parkway. The 26-year-old man is accused of throwing a punch at the sheriff's deputy, knocking off his glasses and breaking his watch.