Just six years after being elected as a Labour councillor in Derby, Nadine Peatfield is now leader of the council - only the second woman in Derby City Council history to do so - the other was Liberal Democrat Hilary Jones. Mrs Peatfield is hoping that her tenure of the top spot will go a long way to making a real difference to the city.

Mrs Peatfield was deputy leader of the Labour group on the city council when a dramatic council meeting saw her suddenly thrust into the Council leader's role. This was occupied by Councillor Baggy Shanker, who lost a vote of no confidence during an extraordinary meeting on June 18. Without hesitation, Mrs Peatfield was nominated for the leadership role and elected unopposed.

It is a role that she is already relishing, and with potentially almost three years before another election, she feels she may get the chance to make that difference that she craves. Mrs Peatfield said: "I think I can make a difference but that's not because I am woman but because I am bringing life experience to the role, have run my own business, am compassionate and am involved in the community such as in a choir."

Join us on WhatsApp to get the latest news straight to your phone

Yet strangely, when she was younger Mrs Peatfield was not interested in politics. She said: "During the 13 years which Labour took control nationally from 1997, I was having my family and setting up my business in what I call the glory years.

"It was when Labour lost in 2010 and then again in 2015 and austerity was setting in, that I began to think that someone should do something about the situation and it was in 2015 that I joined the Labour Party.

READ MORE: The challenges facing Derby City Council's new leader Nadine Peatfield

"I was further spurred on by the whole Brexit debate and also the murder of MP Jo Cox in her constituency of Batley and Spen. I was devastated at the Brexit result and very alarmed by the growth of the far right and couldn't believe what had happened to Jo Cox and how it had led to her death." It was said at the trial of Thomas Mair, who was found guilty of the MP's murder, he was obsessed with Britain remaining independent and objected to Ms Cox's stance on Brexit.

Mrs Peatfield said: "I felt that normal people needed to stand up for what they believed and a strong woman in politics with a regional accent really fired me up. From there I thought about being a councillor and actually stood in Derwent ward and was not elected.

"But this inspired to try again and after spending a great deal of the 2017 General Election campaign on the doorsteps in the Derby South constituency on behalf of Margaret Beckett, I stood for Sinfin in 2018 and was elected."

But Mrs Peatfield thinks she has been lucky that she has managed to combine family, business and politics and thinks that some women are not so lucky and that is why there are far fewer women in political life than men.

She said: "But Labour has certainly trying its best to get more women involved by having all-woman shortlists. We now have 10 women out of 23 Labour councillors on the city council, although there are only 16 women altogether out of the 51 Derby seats. In the case of single mums, where they are the wage-earner it can also be difficult and we have had women resign previously as councillors because of trying to make ends meet, hold down a job and attend meetings."

During Mrs Peatfield's time as deputy leader of the council, she says that she learned a lot and that being involved in the council is a "massive learning curve".

She added: "After almost seven years and feeling comfortable with myself and my age, my confidence in my ability has been growing. I am hoping that people, particularly women, will see me in my new position and it will inspire them to step up into leadership too. I am hoping that I provide a real and compassionate approach to this job.

"I am not putting myself forward as an MP, there is too important a job to do here in Derby and make a difference at council level.

"There are challenges ahead not least because we need to boost local economic growth and work with the fact that financially we are stretched with our resources. But I am hoping that the new Labour government and our Labour-run council will be closely aligned, together with a Labour regional mayor."

One of Nadine's first jobs will be to name her cabinet which she expects to do early next week, ahead of the full council meeting on Wednesday, July 17.

Ahead of that she chaired her first cabinet meeting as leader on Wednesday night. She said: "The first cabinet meeting with me as leader went very smoothly. I was especially proud that the cabinet approved an incredible plan for Ashgate Nursery which will see its numbers increase and special early years SEND peripatetic teachers in place to support young children. I stated that this is the true power of politics.

"The previous administration took the decision to close the Nursery. Our administration took the decision to save it. As a result of that political decision, we can now see an exciting path of progress which will undoubtedly change lives for the better; something that all councillors surely aspire to achieve.

"I also spoke on stage with Mayor Claire yesterday morning at the Derby Property Summit, to a crowd of 350 local and national developers, investors and MD bond holders. We discussed priorities for Derby and the East Midlands, opportunities and the need for stability in Derby in order to maintain the current level of investment interest in our city. I assured the audience that I will deliver continuity, without hiccup; delivering our manifesto that we were mandated to do when elected, putting people at the heart of our decision making."