London—and England in general—proudly displays its history. England’s capital has been under Anglo-Saxon influence since around A.D. 500, a remarkable span, especially from an American point of view.

And throughout this long and winding history, many people of note—including artists, politicians, scientists, musicians, and socialites (many who were famous for being famous)—have called the capital city home.

As you plan your trip to and around London, you’ll naturally fill your itinerary with museums, theaters, bars, and restaurants. Luckily, as you travel, you can soak up even more history about some of the city’s most famous residents thanks to the London blue plaque scheme. Be sure to plan your routes to make the most of these historical insights.

What do the blue plaques in London mean?

The blue markers placed on specific buildings, usually near the front doors, indicate a site of historical importance. Maintained by English Heritage charity, the blue plaques commemorate individuals, events, or locations associated with historically significant figures. They provide a glimpse into the lives of both famous and lesser-known individuals who have contributed to the city’s culture, science, politics, or more.

Are blue plaques only in London?

Currently, yes. But plans are underway to expand London’s blue plaque scheme across England, offering a fresh look at important local landmarks. This expansion is ideal for locals keen to celebrate their heritage points and for visitors eager to learn more about specific locations during their trips.

Where are the most blue plaques in London?

Many London boroughs are brimming with important landmarks, but only one boasts the most London blue plaques: the City of Westminster, with 320 as of May 2023. In second place is the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, with 188, followed by the London Borough of Camden with 176. Bringing up the rear are Havering and Hillingdon, neither of which have a blue plaque. Sounds to us like a fun challenge for any history buffs looking for a research project.

List of some notable blue plaques in London

Some blue plaques are attached to homes that have since been converted into museums; others are on residential buildings still in use. You never know when one will pop up, especially in residential areas, so keep your eyes peeled as you explore the city!

Charles Dickens

Location: 48 Doughty Street, London Borough of Camden, WC1N 2LX

The literary giant Charles Dickens lived in central London for many years. His former home, a beautifully restored Georgian townhouse where he wrote several iconic works including Oliver Twist, is now the Charles Dickens Museum.

Virginia Woolf

Location: 29 Fitzroy Square, Fitzrovia, W1T 5LP

Just a stone’s throw away from Dickens’ residence is the blue plaque honoring renowned novelist and critic Virginia Woolf. The location of this house where Woolf lived overlaps with Bloomsbury district, once the hub for the influential Bloomsbury Group of writers, artists, and intellectuals.

Sigmund Freud

Location: 20 Maresfield Gardens, Hampstead, NW3 5SX

The neurologist and founder of psychoanalysis, Sigmund Freud, has a blue plaque acknowledging his contributions to psychology at his former home in Hampstead. It’s here where he continued his work after fleeing Nazi-occupied Austria and today it’s the site of the Freud Museum.

Jimi Hendrix

Location: 23 Brook Street, Mayfair, W1K 4HA

Music fans will appreciate the plaque at 23 Brook Street in Mayfair where iconic rock guitarist Jimi Hendrix briefly lived. His former flat is part of the Handel & Hendrix in London museum, which also celebrates the composer George Frideric Handel.

Alan Turing

Location: 2 Warrington Crescent, Maida Vale, W9 1ER

Alan Turing, a brilliant mathematician and codebreaker, is commemorated with a blue plaque in the residential district of Maida Vale. The sign acknowledges his role in deciphering the Enigma code during World War II, as well as his contributions to computer science and artificial intelligence.

Florence Nightingale

Location: 10 South Street, Mayfair, W1K 1DF

Nightingale’s family home in Mayfair is marked with a blue plaque recognizing her pioneering work in modern medicine and her tireless effort during the Crimean War.

Keep an eye out for blue plaques around London. Download the Trainline app and start searching!