2012

Each year the Air Force Association honors the outstanding achievements of men and women throughout the United States Air Force, government, academia and the aerospace industry. The Association presents the awards at local AFA chapter and regional forums and during the Air & Space Conference and Technology Exposition in the Washington, D.C, area. Nominations for AFA national aerospace awards are solicited from the United States Air Force, members and leaders of AFA, the aerospace industry and U.S. citizens or organizations having a deep interest in aerospace activities.

For more information on the AFA National Aerospace Awards, please contact: Lynette Cross lcross@afa.org, (703) 247-5800, Ext. 4807

Lifetime Achievement Awards

AFA’s Lifetime Achievement Award recognizes not a single achievement, but a lifetime of work in the advancement of aerospace.

James P. McCarthy, Gen, USAF (Ret)

Vietnam POWs

Berlin Airlift Aircrews

Korean War Airmen

Fighter Pilots of WWII

View previous recipients

National Aerospace Award Recipients

H. H. Arnold Award

For the most significant contribution by a military member for national defense

Norton A. Schwartz, Gen, USAF

Chief of Staff U.S. Air Force

Washington, District of Columbia

List of previous recipients

AIR FORCE Magazine article on H.H. Arnold

W. Stuart Symington Award

For the most significant contribution by a civilian for national defense

James L. Jones, Gen, USMC (Ret)

List of previous recipients

AIR FORCE Magazine article on Stuart Symington

John R. Alison Award

For the most outstanding contribution by industrial leadership to national defense

The Boeing Company

As exemplified by their technical excellence in the development of the following systems:

Global Positioning System, Wide Band Global System and the X-37 System

List of previous recipients

AIR FORCE Magazine article on John R. Alison

David C. Schilling Award

For the most outstanding contribution in the field of flight

The Advanced Extremely High Frequency Satellite Rescue Team

Military Satellite Communications (MILSATCOM) Systems Directorate

Los Angeles AFB, California

List of previous recipients

Theodore von Karman Award

For the most outstanding contribution in the field of science and engineering

24th Air Force

Lackland AFB, Texas

List of previous recipients

Gill Robb Wilson Award

For the most outstanding contribution in the field of arts and letters

Mr. Gary Sinise

List of previous recipients

Hoyt S. Vandenberg Award

For the most outstanding contribution in the field of aerospace education

USAF Weapons School

Nellis AFB, Nevada

List of previous recipients

Thomas P. Gerrity Award

For the most outstanding contribution in the field of systems and logistics

Eric G. Ellmyer, Lt Col, USAF

439th Supply Chain Operations Squadron

Joint Base Langley-Eustis, Virginia

List of previous recipients

Thomas D. White Space Award

Recognizing outstanding contributions to Space

Ellen M. Pawlikowski, Lt Gen USAF

Commander, Space and Missile Systems Center

Los Angeles AFB, CA

List of previous recipients

Department of Veterans Affairs

Employee of the Year

For the most outstanding performance of duty as a VA employee

Dr. David F. Tharp, Maj, USAF

VISN 17 Center of Excellence for Research on Returning War Veterans

Waco, Texas

Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force Thomas N. Barnes Award

For the most outstanding aircraft crew chief in the United States Air Force

Bryan R. Jernigan, SSgt, USAF

31st Test and Evaluation Squadron

Edwards AFB, California

General Billy Mitchell Award for C4 Excellence

For the C4 professional who most enhanced the United States Air Force’s warfighting capability

David A. Cox, SMSgt, USAF

6th Communications Squadron

MacDill AFB, Florida

Lieutenant General Claire Lee Chennault Award

For outstanding aerial warfare tactician(s) from ACC, PACAF, USAFE, ANG and AFRC

Michael P. Richard, Capt, USAF

20th Operations Support Squadron

Shaw AFB, South Carolina

General Larry D. Welch Award

For the most significant impact by an individual on the overall operations, safety, security, and effectiveness of the Air Force nuclear mission

Jennifer C. Fontenot, TSgt, USAF

Headquarters Air Education and Training Command

Randolph AFB, Texas

General George C. Kenney Award

For the most significant contribution by an individual or team in the area of lessons learned

Fifth Air Force and Thirteenth Air Force Detachment 1 Lessons Learned Team

Fifth Air Force Headquarters

Yokota AB, Japan

Return to the top of the page

Team of the Year Award

Each year, the Air Force Association recognizes a specific enlisted career field for recognition. These are professionals who display superior technical expertise, attract the praise of their superiors, and provide leadership and inspiration to their co-workers. The Office of the Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force, forwards the team selection to AFA and AFA honors the team members and their spouses in a ceremony in the District of Columbia.

2012 Airborne Operations Career Field team members:

Kathleen I. Eliseo, SrA, Hurlburt Field, Florida

Jared S. Kordos, SrA, Tinker AFB, Oklahoma

Scott C. May, TSgt, Robins AFB, Georgia

David M. Pederson, II, SrA, Beale AFB, California

Michael Sailer, MSgt, Cannon AFB, New Mexico

List of previous recipients

Return to the top of the page

Citation of Honor Awards

For the outstanding contribution of an individual or organization to the development of aerospace power for the betterment of mankind

Gary North, Gen, USAF

Commander, Pacific Air Forces

Air Component Commander, U.S. Pacific Command

Executive Director, Pacific Air Combat Operations Staff

Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, Hawaii

55th Electronic Combat Group

Davis-Monthan AFB, Arizona

352nd Special Operations Group

RAF Mildenhall, United Kingdom

94th Intelligence Squadron

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland

747th Communications Squadron

Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, Hawaii

The Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command

Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, Hawaii

Return to the top of the page

Crew Awards

Airborne Battle Management Crew of the Year Award

For the outstanding AWACs or Joint STARS aircrew’s battle management contribution to the United States Air Force and air power

Combat Crew Two

16th Airborne Command and Control Squadron

Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System

461st Air Control Wing

Robins AFB, Georgia

Brigadier General Ross G. Hoyt Award

For the best air refueling crew (Active, ANG or Reserve) in the United States Air Force

The Crew of Blue 32

351st Air Refueling Squadron

RAF Mildenhall, United Kingdom

General Curtis E. LeMay Award

For the best overall bomber aircrew in the United States Air Force

The Crew of BONE 34

34th Bomb Squadron

28th Bomb Wing

Ellsworth AFB, South Dakota

General Jerome F. O’Malley Award

For the best reconnaissance crew in the United States Air Force

Aircrew of OLIVE 22

38th Reconnaissance Squadron

Offutt AFB, Nebraska

95th Reconnaissance Squadron Detachment 1

Naval Support Activity Souda Bay, Greece

488th Intelligence Squadron

RAF Mildenhall, United Kingdom

General Thomas S. Power Award

For the best overall missile crew in the United States Air Force

Andrew J. Stevens, Capt, USAF

Ross V. Millard, 1 Lt, USAF

90th Missile Wing

Francis E. Warren AFB, Wyoming

Best Space Operations Crew Award

For the best overall space operations crew in the United States Air Force

Charlie Crew

2nd Space Warning Squadron

Buckley AFB, Colorado

Lieutenant General William H. Tunner Award

For the most outstanding airlift crew in the United States Air Force

The Crew of Fever 11, comprised of aircrew from:

71st Rescue Squadron

Moody AFB, Georgia

79th Rescue Squadron and the 38th Rescue Squadron

Davis-Monthan AFB, Arizona

308th Rescue Squadron

Patrick AFB, Florida

A Company, William Beaumont Army Medical Center

El Paso, Texas

Howard W. Leaf Award

For outstanding achievement by a United States Air Force test team engaged in test and evaluation of a defense acquisition program

846th Test Squadron Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCOM) Test Team

Holloman AFB, New Mexico

Return to the top of the page

Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Awards

Chief Master Sergeant Dick Red Award

For outstanding Air National Guard aerospace maintenance

Raymond J. Phillips, CMSgt, ANG

163rd Aircraft maintenance Squadron

March ARB

California Air National Guard

Earl T. Ricks Award

For the Air National Guard person or persons for outstanding airmanship

Combat Crew One

Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System

128th Airborne Command and Control Squadron

116th Air Control Wing

Robins AFB

Georgia Air National Guard

Air National Guard Outstanding Unit Award

For the Air National Guard Unit with the most outstanding airmanship

148th Fighter Wing

Minnesota Air National Guard

George W. Bush Award for ANG Members and Employers

To recognize outstanding civilian employers of Air National Guard members who made outstanding contributions to the total force mission

Officer Category Not awarded for 2012 Enlisted Category Not awarded for 2012

President's Award for Air Force Reserve Command

For the Air Force Reserve unit which displays outstanding flying achievement and continued superior performance

David A. DeAngelis, Maj, USAFR

466th Fighter Squadron

Hill AFB, Utah

Air Force Reserve Unit Award

For the Air Force Reserve Unit which displays superior performance and outstanding achievements

910th Airlift Wing

Youngstown ARS, Ohio