Under the working title of “Live Like Line”, The Miracle Season filmed in Vancouver and area from August 2 to September 13, 2016 and it finally hits theatres this Friday, April 6th. The film is based on the tragic, yet inspiring true story of an Iowa City high school girl’s volleyball team battling for the state championship after the death of their star player: Caroline Found.

At first, it seemed impossible to continue on, both in terms of emotions and performance, following Line’s death. But the impact she’d left on the team allowed them to band together to overcome adversity and ultimately play the season of their lives, despite a few more bumps along the way.

The Miracle Season Cast

Here is the cast of The Miracle Season thanks in part to the film’s IMDb page.

Actor Role You may know them from Helen Hunt Coach Kathy Bresnahan Twister, Soul Surfer, Shots Fired, As Good As It Gets, Mad About You, Cast Away Erin Moriarty Kelly Blood Father, Captain Fantastic, Jessica Jones, Red Widow, The Watch Danika Yarosh Caroline ‘Line’ Found Shameless, Heroes: Reborn, See Dad Run, Jack Reacher: Never Go Back Tiera Skovbye Brie Riverdale, Once Upon a Time, Midnight Sun Ava Grace Cooper Little Kelly When Calls the Heart, Beyond, The Sweetest Christmas Jason Gray-Stanford Scott Sanders Monk, A Beautiful Mind William Hurt Ernie Found A History of Violence, Altered States, Goliath Burkely Duffield Beyond, Warcraft: The Beginning, The Arrangement, House of Anubis Rebecca Staab Bethany Somewhere Between, The Fantastic Four, Coming Home for Christmas Nesta Cooper Lizzie Ackerman Travelers, The Edge of Seventeen, #REALITYHIGH Bailey Skodje Little Line The Crossing, Story of a Girl, A Christmas to Remember Natalie Sharp Mack Hit the Road, Speedy and Stretch Larissa Albuquerque Montgomery Player When Calls the Heart, Woman of the House, Date With Love Lillian Doucet-Roche Taylor Blurt

The Miracle Season Trailer

Where Was The Miracle Season Filmed?

Here are some of the locations where The Miracle Season was spotted while filming in Vancouver and area.

Killarney Secondary School near East 49th Avenue & Kerr Street (Vancouver)

Britannia Secondary School (Vancouver)

Doug Mitchell Thunderbird Arena at University of British Columbia (UBC)

John Oliver Secondary School at 41st Avenue and Fraser Street (Vancouver)

Kerrisdale Presbyterian Church near 41st Avenue & Mackenzie Street (Vancouver)

843 248th Street (Langley)

Let us know in the comments if you spot The Miracle Season filming locations that we missed!

The Miracle Season Behind the Scenes Pictures

The cast and crew of The Miracle Season shared some great behind the scenes of their time filming in Vancouver.

Don’t miss The Miracle Season when it hits theatres on April 6th.