Neha Patil

(Editor)

Love my family & adore animals! Always try to have a positive mindset

Bihari literature

Share on FacebookTweet on TwitterShare on LinkedInShare on Reddit

Sign in

Bihari literature has been produced by a number of writers of Hindi, including Raja Radhika Raman Sinha, Acharya Ramlochan Saran, Acharya Shivpujan Sahay, Divakar Prasad Vidyarthy, Ramdhari Singh 'Dinkar', Ram Briksh Benipuri, Phanishwar Nath 'Renu', Gopal Singh "Nepali", Ramesh Chandra Jha and Baba Nagarjun. Writer and Buddhist scholar Mahapandit Rahul Sankrityayan was born in Uttar Pradesh but spent his life in the land of Lord Buddha, i.e., Bihar. Hrishikesh Sulabh is a short story writer, playwright and theatre critic. Arun Kamal and Aalok Dhanwa are poets.

Contents

Other regional languages

English

Women Writers of English Literature

References

Other regional languages

Different regional languages also have produced some prominent poets and authors. Raza Naqvi Wahi was the preeminent Indian Urdu language poet during his time, was born in Khujwan, Siwan, Bihar, and wrote many Urdu Poetry and also awarded as Ghalib Award.

Sharat Chandra Chattopadhyay, writer in Bengali, resided for some time in Bihar. Indian writer in English Upamanyu Chatterjee also hails from Patna in Bihar. Devaki Nandan Khatri, who at the beginning of the 20th century wrote novels including Chandrakanta and Chandrakanta Santati, was born in Muzaffarpur, Bihar. Vidyapati Thakur is the most renowned poet of Maithili. (c. 14–15th century).Usha Kiran Khan is a renowned Maithili writer

English

Satyapal Chandra has broken traditionally stereotype in English literature by writing a number of English bestsellers related to various genres

Amitava Kumar - author, journalist, and professor of English at Vassar College. He was born in Arrah district in Bihar. Author of Husband of a Fanatic, Bombay-London-New York, and Passport Photos

Siddhartha Chowdhury " Patna Roughcut"

Azhar Sabri - author and blogger, from Gaya district of Bihar.

R. K. Sinha - died in 2003. He was born in Munger district of Bihar. He was a gold medalist for his master of arts degree. He was awarded a D Phil from Oxford University in 1950

Tabish Khair - poet and novelist, born in Gaya district of Bihar

Birbal Jha, has written books on usage of the English language and worked to promote education in India

Uday Sahay "Making News, Media in Contemporary India (edited)" published by Oxford University Press, "Delhi, India in One City" published by Academic Foundation, and "Raj Bhavan of the Rising Arunachal Pradesh" published by SAUV Publication

Women Writers of English Literature

Nikita Singh - "Love @ Facebook

Manna Bahadur The Dance of Death published by Penguin India March 2012

Mallika Nawal The Eleventh Commandment - An Introduction to Religio-Marketing and Religictionary - The A-Z of Religion are international books. Her Business Communication, published by Cengage Learning is a leading management textbook that is prescribed at several universities including Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad. Her debut novel I'm a Woman & I'm on SALE was released on 16 December 2013 and has been dedicated to Nirbhaya.

References

Bihari literature Wikipedia

(Text) CC BY-SA

Similar Topics