Ask Canarios to name the island’s best player and they will all give you the same answer: David Josué Jiménez Silva, simply known as David Silva. Manchester City’s former star player was born in the southern fishing village of Arguineguin. It looks like a typical Canary village, but nothing could be further from the truth. Despite the town’s population of around 2,500, it’s been a hotbed for talented footballers, including former Spanish international Juan Carlos Valerón and David’s childhood friend Aythami Artiles, who played over 250 games for UD Las Palmas. If you ask David’s grandparents for the town’s secret: The sea and the daily portion of fresh fish.

With a capacity of 32,000, Estadio Gran Canaria is the Canary Islands’ biggest stadium. It’s the home ground of UD Las Palmas, a club that is competing for promotion to La Liga. The club was founded in 1949 in an attempt to keep the islands’ most talented players on Gran Canaria. That goal has not necessarily come to fruition, but the club has developed many big Spanish talents such as FC Barcelona’s Golden Boy Pedri, Villarreal’s wonderkid Yeremy Pino and the winger Vitolo, who’s made twelve appearances for Spain.

Estadio Gran Canaria, located in the city of Las Palmas, opened in 2003. At the time, it still had a running track but luckily that has been removed and replaced with stands. It’s a beautiful open stadium with canary yellow and bright blue seats. From the top rows, you also get a view of the apartments that surround the stadium.

Outside the stadium, you will find a statue of David Silva, who never even played for UD Las Palmas himself and moved to Valencia CF when he was fourteen. It’s definitely not as beautiful as his statue in Manchester, but it is still a nice tribute to the pride of Gran Canaria. Perhaps with the dream that El Mago will play in the shirt of Pio-Pio someday soon.

The fans of UD Las Palmas left the old Estadio Insular, where the club played between 1949 to 2003, with an aching heart. It’s the stadium where UD Las Palmas experienced its greatest achievements, with a second-place finish in the Spanish top flight as the pinnacle in 1969. The stadium was left abandoned for eleven years but in the meantime, it has turned into a beautiful park. Some of the stands have been kept and decorated with flowers. Murals of renowned former players have been given a new life and the old facade now acts as the park’s fence. A more beautiful second life for a stadium is hard to find.

David Silva is the God of Gran Canaria, but Pedri is the God of the neighbouring island of Tenerife. The two islands are big rivals and it still pains the people of Tenerife that Barça’s Golden Boy started his career at UD Las Palmas and not at CD Tenerife. Pedri lived in the coastal town of Bajamar until he was three and then moved a couple of kilometres inland to Tegueste, where he played for the local team CDAFB Tegueste on Campo Futbol Tegueste. It was also the boyhood club of Omar Mascarrell (FC Elche) and former Barcelona winger Jeffrén.

A couple of decades ago, Pedri’s grandparents, Fernando Senior and Candeleria, opened the restaurant Tasca Fernando in Tegueste. In 2005, Pedri’s parents took over. Father Fernando (Junior) was behind the bar, Mother Maria was cooking in the kitchen and their son Pedrito ate his favourite Croquetas de Pedri, made from tuna. Nowadays, Pedri’s uncle, Jose Luis, can usually be found behind the bar because Mom and Dad are regularly watching their son’s games in Barcelona.

In 1993, before Pedri was born, his granddad started the first official Barcelona fan club in the village. Every week, a young Pedri watched the FC Barcelona of Lionel Messi, idol Andrés Iniesta and Tenerife’s other local hero, Pedro. To this day, there are still dozens of fans who come to the restaurant to watch Blaugrana play weekly. The restaurant is, nowadays, also more reminiscent of a museum, with family photos of five generations and shirts of Pedri on the walls.