Jutta (Bonne) of Luxemburg (May 20, 1315 – September 11, 1349), was born Jutta (Judith), the second daughter of King John of Bohemia, and his first wife, Elisabeth of Bohemia, daughter of King Wenceslaus II of Bohemia and Judith of Habsburg, the youngest daughter of King Rudolph I of the Romans/Germany and Gertrude of Hohenberg.

John the Blind or John of Luxembourg was the Count of Luxembourg from 1313 and King of Bohemia from 1310 and titular King of Poland. He is well known for having died while fighting in the Battle of Crécy at age 50, after having been blind for a decade. In his home country of Luxembourg he is considered a national hero.

Comparatively, in the Czech Republic (the Kingdom of Bohemia), is often recognized for his role as the father of Charles IV, Holy Roman Emperor, one of the more significant Kings of Bohemia and one of the leading Holy Roman Emperors.

In June or July 1315, Jutta was betrothed to the future King Casimir the Great of Poland, son of Władysław Łokietek., but he married Aldona of Lithuania in 1325 instead.

In 1326, Jutta was next betrothed to Henri of Bar. This arrangement was broken, however, and she stayed at the abbey of Saint-Esprit until her marriage to Jean, Duke of Normandy and future King Jean II of France.

She was 17 years old, and the future king was 13. Her name Jutta (or Guta), translatable into English as Good (in the feminine case), was changed by the time of her marriage to Bonne (French) or Bona (Latin). Upon marriage, Bonne was the wife of the heir to the French throne, becoming Duchess of Normandy and Countess of Anjou and Maine.

The wedding was celebrated in the presence of six thousand guests. The festivities were prolonged by a further two months when the young groom was finally knighted at the cathedral of Notre-Dame in Paris. John was solemnly granted the arms of a knight in front of a prestigious audience bringing together the kings of Bohemia and Navarre, and the dukes of Burgundy, Lorraine and the Brabant.

Bonne was a patron of the arts, the composer Guillaume de Machaut being one of her favorites.

She died on September 11, 1349 of the bubonic plague in Maubuisson, France at the age of thirty-four. She was buried in the Abbey of Maubuisson. however, as she died a year prior to his accession, she was never a French queen.

Among her children were King Charles V of France, Philippe II, Duke of Burgundy, and Joan, Queen of Navarre as the wife of King Charles II of Navarre.

Less than six months after Bonne’s death, Prince Jean married Joan I, Countess of Auvergne.

Rudolf I, also known as Rudolf of Habsburg (May 1, 1218 – July 15, 1291), was Count of Habsburg from about 1240 and King of Germany from 1273 until his death.

Rudolf was born on May 1, 1218 at Limburgh Castle near Sasbach am Kaiserstuhl in the Breisgau region of present-day southwestern Germany. He was the son of Count Albrecht IV of Habsburg and of Hedwig, daughter of Count Ulrich of Kyburg. Around 1232, he was given as a squire to his uncle, Rudolf I, Count of Laufenburg, to train in knightly pursuits.

Count of Habsburg

At his father’s death in 1239, Rudolf inherited from him large estates around the ancestral seat of Habsburg Castle in the Aargau region of present-day Switzerland as well as in Alsace. Thus, in 1240 in order to quell the rising power of Rudolf and in an attempt to place the important “Devil’s Bridge” (Teufelsbrücke) across the Schöllenenschlucht under his direct control, Emperor Friedrich II, granted Schwyz Reichsfreiheit in the Freibrief von Faenza.

Rudolf I, Count of Habsburg and King of Germany

In 1242, Hugh of Tuffenstein provoked Count Rudolf through contumelious expressions. In turn, the Count of Habsburg had invaded his domains, yet failed to take his seat of power. As the day passed on, Count Rudolf bribed the sentinels of the city and gained entry, killing Hugh in the process. Then in 1244, to help control Lake Lucerne and restrict the neighboring forest communities of Uri, Schwyz and Unterwalden, Rudolf built near its shores Neuhabsburg Castle.

In 1245 Rudolf married Gertrude, daughter of Count Burkhard III of Hohenberg. He received as her dowry the castles of Oettingen, the valley of Weile, and other places in Alsace, and he became an important vassal in Swabia, the former Alemannic German stem duchy. That same year, Emperor Friedrich II was excommunicated by Pope Innocent IV at the Council of Lyon.

Rudolf sided against the Emperor, while the forest communities sided with Friedrich II. This gave them a pretext to attack and damage Neuhabsburg. Rudolf successfully defended it and drove them off. As a result, Rudolf, by siding with the Pope, gained more power and influence.

Rudolf paid frequent visits to the court of his godfather, the Hohenstaufen emperor Friedrich II, and his loyalty to Friedrich and his son, King Conrad IV of Germany, was richly rewarded by grants of land.

In 1254, he engaged with other nobles of the Staufen party against Bertold II, Bishop of Basle. When night fell, he penetrated the suburbs of Basle and burnt down the local nunnery, an act for which Pope Innocent IV excommunicated him and all parties involved. As a penance, he took up the cross and joined Ottokar II, King of Bohemia in the Prussian Crusade of 1254. Whilst there, he oversaw the founding of the city of Königsberg, which was named in memory of King Ottokar.

Rise to power

The disorder in Germany during the interregnum after the fall of the Hohenstaufen dynasty afforded an opportunity for Count Rudolf to increase his possessions. His wife was a Hohenberg heiress; and on the death of his childless maternal uncle Count Hartmann IV of Kyburg in 1264, Rudolf seized Hartmann’s valuable estates. Successful feuds with the Bishops of Strasbourg and Basel further augmented his wealth and reputation, including rights over various tracts of land that he purchased from abbots and others.

Arms of the Counts of Habsbourg.

These various sources of wealth and influence rendered Rudolf the most powerful prince and noble in southwestern Germany (where the tribal Duchy of Swabia had disintegrated, enabling its vassals to become completely independent). In the autumn of 1273, the prince-electors met to choose a king after Richard of Cornwall had died in England in April 1272.

Rudolf’s election in Frankfurt on October 1, 1273, when he was 55 years old, was largely due to the efforts of his brother-in-law, the Hohenzollern burgrave Friedrich III of Nuremberg. The support of Duke Albrecht II of Saxony and Elector Palatine Ludwig II had been purchased by betrothing them to two of Rudolf’s daughters.

As a result, within the electoral college, King Ottokar II of Bohemia (1230–1278), himself a candidate for the throne and related to the late Hohenstaufen King Philip of Swabia (being the son of the eldest surviving daughter), was almost alone in opposing Rudolf. Other candidates were Prince Siegfried I of Anhalt and Margrave Friedrich I of Meissen (1257–1323), a young grandson of the excommunicated Emperor Friedrich II, who did not yet even have a principality of his own as his father was still alive. By the admission of Duke Heinrich XIII of Lower Bavaria instead of the King of Bohemia as the seventh Elector, Rudolf gained all seven votes.

The interregnum of the Holy Roman Empire is taken to have lasted from the deposition of Friedrich II by Pope Innocent IV (1245, alternatively from the death of Friedrich II in 1250 or the death of Conrad IV 1254) to the election of Rudolf I of Germany (1273). Rudolf was not crowned emperor, nor were his successors Adolf and Albrecht. The next emperor was Henry VII, crowned on 29 June 1312 by Pope Clement V.