Bundaberg mayor Jack Dempsey, a former state minister in the Campbell Newman government, says the Commonwealth’s controversial cashless welfare card has been a failure in Queensland and ought to be tossed out in its current form.

In his first outright condemnation of the trial since it rolled out across the federal electorate of Hinkler in January 2019, Cr Dempsey said it had proven unfair, un-Australian and a tool of humiliation rather than help.

“I’ve looked at it over the years, and it just doesn’t stack up,” he said.

“I gave it a chance to maybe see... but I still see the same homelessness and unemployment and all the other bits and pieces.”

Loading

The card applies to about 7000 Hinkler constituents, mostly in Bundaberg and Hervey Bay, living on unemployment and parenting payments.

It works by quarantining 80 per cent of the money so it cannot not be spent on alcohol, gambling or withdrawn as cash. The remaining 20 per cent gets paid to a normal nominated bank account.

Unlike at other trial sites across the nation with more blanket enforcement, it only applies in Hinkler for welfare recipients younger than 36.

The ex-LNP stalwart has formed an unlikely alliance with Greens candidate Nicole Cornish to make the ongoing trial a 2022 federal election issue.

His public stance after three years watching the trial up close, and without any federal government data to turn his long-term scepticism into support, also puts him in step with the Labor-aligned mayor of the neighbouring Fraser Coast council, George Seymour.

Critics say it stigmatises users and is no way to treat complex social issues such as addiction or mental health. Proponents counter that it’s keeping food on family dinner tables.

Local member Keith Pitt, a federal cabinet minister, maintained the trial had strong community support across the electorate.

Hinkler joined the cashless debit card trial in 2019 because it was considered to bear out-of-proportion youth unemployment and intergenerational welfare dependency.

The South Australian town of Ceduna became the first trial site in March 2016. Western Australia’s East Kimberley and Goldfields regions followed soon after. Close to 21,000 people nationally have been part of the trial, some of them voluntarily.

Loading

Cr Dempsey said the card made it impossible for some people, including women fleeing family violence, to convince prospective landlords – already spoiled for renters in a hot housing market – that there was money in the bank.

The struggles for hard-up families had become more pronounced during the uncertainty and industry shutdowns of the pandemic, he said.

“I was with a group of people the other day [and] there’s no wriggle room for them,” said Cr Dempsey, himself a product of social housing.

“And they’re not bloody drug addicts or alcoholics or anything like that. They’re just very good people trying their best, and they get treated like second-class citizens.

“If it’s so good and great, why isn’t it implemented in other places?”

Mr Pitt and colleagues extended the Hinkler trial for two more years in December 2020.

“As I have said many times, the cashless debit card is one tool in the toolbox to help unemployed people stabilise their lives and the feedback I continue to receive is that it is making a difference,” Mr Pitt said in response to Cr Dempsey’s comments.

“It helps people put food on the table and get the kids to school and get people job ready so they can get off welfare and into a job.”

The Coalition has flagged a national rollout. Labor’s national platform states it will not expand the CDC “without clear evidence of community benefit and informed community consent”.