The new guy was all settled in, and the Bond production line continued to motor along, delivering a new movie every two years. The Living Daylights had been a huge financial success and they were going to lean hard into this change in tone for Dalton’s next go around as 007. This next instalment would take both Bond and audiences into unfamiliar territory. There was also more legal trouble ahead, and the landscape of cinema was changing fast. Licence To Kill was heading directly into the storm.

Licence To Kill – Behind The Scenes

Timothy Dalton’s darker and harder-edged portrayal of Bond was more faithful to the novels. Producer Cubby Broccoli and writers Michael G. Wilson and Richard Maibaum wanted to continue this tone while using locations the franchise had yet to visit.

The producers were invited to China by the Chinese government, and this matched some thoughts the writers had been having about a motorcycle chase along the Great Wall of China, and a fight among the Terracotta Army.

Wilson started to develop a plot around a ruthless drug lord based in the Golden Triangle. When The Last Emperor was released, Cubby felt it took away the novelty of filming in China in the late 1980s. He also had concerns over the Chinese government censoring the script and overseeing the shooting too closely. As a result that plan was shelved.

The central idea of the drug trade remained. Back at base, Brocolli was also struggling with costs, as the 1985 Films Act in the UK removed the Eady Levy that supported movies shot in Britain. This resulted in foreign artists being taxed more heavily.

Seeking a location for both the movie and the production, the idea of a Central American location fitted the central theme of narcotics. Broccoli found the Estudios Churubusco in Mexico City and negotiated hard to take over much of the facility. As a result, Licence To Kill became the first Bond film to be made entirely outside of the UK.

Even Moonraker, with the majority filmed in France, still made use of Pinewood Studios for some scenes. This was a complete de-camp to Mexico for everything and everyone. Only some post-production and sound re-recording would be carried out at Pinewood this time around.

The initial outline was further developed by the writing team of Wilson and Maibaum, but then the Writers Guild Of America went on strike and Maibaum could not work further on the script. Wilson had to go it alone.

The Central American location meant that the movie would end up having a US angle, as Bond was operating in their backyard. This led Wilson to the character of Felix Leiter and an unused sequence from the novel Live And Let Die where the villain, Mr Big, has Felix Leiter mauled by his captive shark. This idea was expanded to impact Felix’s wife, with echoes of Bond’s own brutally short marriage serving as his impetus to go on a mission of revenge.

Another influence on Wilson would be the unused plot from The Man With The Golden Gun novel, in which Bond infiltrates the villain’s operation and destroys it from within. Wilson also says Akira Kurosawa’s Yojimbo also inspired him, as well as Sergio Leone’s remake, A Fistful of Dollars. Alongside this, Wilson weaved in aspects of the Bond short story The Hildebrand Rarity where the character of Milton Krest and a dissatisfied mistress came from.

With an outline and initial drafts completed, and Bond’s resignation from MI6 to pursue vengeance as a central theme, what had been known as Bond 16 up until then now had a title – Licence Revoked.

Wilson created the Republic of Isthmus as a banana republic based on Panama, with the character of Sanchez bearing similarities to General Manuel Noriega. Press kits released to announce the production trumpeted the story as being “torn straight from the headlines of today’s newspapers”.

Now they had to cast it. Dalton was joined by returnees Robert Brown (M), Caroline Bliss (Moneypenny), and Desmond Llewellyn (Q). John Rhys-Davies was asked to reprise the role of General Pushkin from The Living Daylights in a cameo. He declined since he felt the character was not necessary to the plot.

Carey Lowell auditioned for the role of Pam Bouvier in jeans and a bomber jacket. This caught the attention of the producers among a sea of what she would describe as “Glamour Girls” and they felt she could carry the part of a CIA agent.

Lowell wore a wig for the scenes set in the United States, and a scene where Bouvier is given money and told by Bond to go and buy some new clothes was added so that Lowell’s own short hair could be used for the rest of the production.

Robert Davi was suggested as a potential Sanchez by Broccoli’s daughter Tina and screenwriter Maibaum after they saw him in the television film Terrorist on Trial: The United States vs. Salim Ajami.

Davi was no slouch. After he got the role, he researched Colombian drug cartels extensively and perfected a Colombian accent. He method acted, staying in character at all times for the production. He also learned to scuba dive for his escape scenes. He read Casino Royale, and he shaped the character to be an evil mirror image of James Bond, as that was how Fleming had described Le Chiffre.

Davi was also active in the selection of Talisa Soto as Lupe Lamora, as out of the 12 candidates for the role she was the one he said “He would kill for”, making Sanchez’s obsession believable to him.

David Hedison became the only actor to return to the role of Felix Leiter in franchise history until Jeffrey Wright during the Craig movies. He had first played Leiter in Live And Let Die. Glen was reluctant to cast the 61-year-old actor, since the role included action scenes including parachuting. Eventually, he relented, mainly as Leiter’s fate in this movie would match the fate of the character in the novel Live And Let Die.

Shooting started in Mexico, doubling for the fictional Isthmus City. The Biblioteca del Banco de Mexico became the exterior of El Presidente Hotel, with the Casino Español providing the interiors for the Casino de Isthmus and the Teatro de la Ciudad as the exterior.

Villa Arabesque, on the coast in Acapulco was used for Sanchez’s villa. Meanwhile some underwater sequences were shot off the coast of Cancun. The Olympiatec Meditation Institute was shot at the Otomi Ceremonial Center in Temoaya.

La Rumorosa Mountain Pass in Tecate was used as the filming site for the tanker chase during the climax of the film. The road is famously dangerous due to its topography, large number of curves, many hairpin turns and huge dips. The crew were warned about shooting in this location by locals, who informed them many will not go up there as it is haunted by the ghosts of numerous drivers who died on the road. Strange occurrences and apparitions were said to be commonplace and the road is considered as cursed.

From the beginning, cast and crew report that it feels as if some dark forces want to thwart their plan. During filming, one accident after another happens. The crew members also witness a large number of paranormal phenomena, such as cars starting and stopping their engines by themselves in a parking lot. Crew members reported seeing people who shouldn’t be on set who vanished when challenged.

Director John Glen says:

“There was definitely a strange atmosphere on that stretch of road. The special effects boys where convinced there was something spooky about the place. If there was any doubt left in my mind, it was dispelled by a bizarre photograph.”

The photograph in question appeared to show a hellish hand emerging from a rigged explosion.

The event baffled the effects team, who were at a loss to explain why the flames and explosion should behave that way based on how they had rigged the whole effect. They maintained the charges, fuel and debris should not have moved in that direction.

Even more terrifying for the crew was the revelation that it was here that a bus full of nuns had gone over the edge and burst into flames several years before.

Putting the spooky occurrences on the haunted road behind them, the crew moved production to the Florida Keys, mainly Key West and the Seven Mile Bridge Famous landmarks like Ernest Hemingway House, Key West International Airport, and Mallory Square were all featured.

St. Mary’s Star of the Sea Church was the venue for Leiter’s wedding and Stephano’s House at 707 South Street became Leiter’s home. The US Coast Guard Pier at Key West doubled as the Isthmus City harbor where the Wavekrest arrives.

Meanwhile, in the skies over Florida, the scene where Sanchez’s plane is captured was being filmed. Stuntman Jake Lombard was filmed being lowered from a helicopter to the plane. Dalton himself was then securely fixed to film the closeups of Bond, in mid-air, tying up Sanchez’s plane with a cable.

The plane towed by the helicopter was a life-sized model created by special effects supervisor John Richardson and it really was flown across the keys hanging from a helicopter.

For Bond and Leiter’s arrival at the wedding, the wide shot was established using a special rig to lower the actors into shot. A malfunction of the harness equipment caused Hedison to fall on the pavement, and his injury caused him to limp for the rest of the production.

The barefoot waterskiing scene was completed by world champion Dave Reinhart, with some close-ups using Dalton on a special rig being towed through the water.

Production then moved back Mexico City. Before filming, Cubby Broccoli became ill and this portion of production was the first time in Bond history that Cubby had not been present at the location and around the studio.

Here they filmed interiors and the infamous scene where Milton Krest, framed by Bond, is killed in a gruesome manner by Sanchez.

This was created using a prosthetic head from a mold of Anthony Zerbe’s face. The finished effect was so gruesome that it was heavily cut and edited as it would have caused certification issues with the censors.

John Barry was undergoing surgery on his throat, so Michael Kamen was brought on board to create the score for the movie. He also collaborated with the guitarist who played the original James Bond riff, Vic Flick, and Eric Clapton to create a lyric free main title theme based around guitars. This was rejected by the producers who went with Gladys Knight, former lead singer of The Pips.

The movie still faced a number of challenges. It was still called Licence Revoked in all publicity. American test audiences reported being unable to disassociate “revoked” from the concept of losing their driving licence. At the last moment, the decision was made to rename the movie Licence To Kill.

This meant much of the publicity had to be abandoned and re-started. A whole campaign was scrapped right before release leaving little time to carry out the usual global publicity circus that went with a Bond movie.

Also the much darker and more violent nature of the adventure this time around led to both the BBFC and the MPAA considering the original cut of the movie to contain excessive and realistic violence. They requested some reshoots and additional cuts. Sanchez punishing Lupe with a stingray tail, Krest’s death, Bond taking on a diver with a speargun on Krest’s yacht, and Bond’s revenge on Killifer were all significantly toned down from their original versions.

Even so, Licence To Kill became the first Bond film to garner a PG13 certificate in the US and a 15 certificate in the UK, even after these cuts. People who have seen the removed scenes in full say they would have pushed the movie into R-rated territory.

A truncated publicity effort, last-minute cuts, and a certificate that prevented many young fans fo the franchise from seeing the movie in theaters acted as headwinds as Licence To Kill was launched into one of the toughest, most competitive summers in cinema history. Lethal Weapon 2, Ghostbusters II, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, and Batman all landed in theaters in the same season.

The result was a movie that was still profitable but underperformed both expectations and the rest of the franchise.

Storm clouds were once again gathering around James Bond. Cubby Broccoli’s health was starting to fail, and MGM/UA was to be sold for $1.5 billion to Qintex, an Australian-American financial services company, which would spark an intense legal battle.

Do You Expect Us To Talk?

Stark: First of all, can we just agree that I will spell “Licence” the UK way, and you can use the US spelling, and damn consistency?

Wrenage: I am not sure how comfortable I am with this “C Act” you have implemented with your British powers. If this article was some sort of ship, I might be inclined to throw all the Cs overboard and call it “The Outpost C Party.”

Stark: You would need French, Dutch and Spanish help again if you want to go there.

So recollection time, perhaps also confession time. Licence To Kill was the first ever movie that I went to see on my own in the theater. It remained the only movie I had ever seen on my own in a theater until Avengers: Infinity War which I watched alone to write a review of. I guess I just never really liked going to the theater on my own. It was out in the toughest cinema season ever, with Batman, Ghostbusters 2, and Indiana Jones 3, among others. My friends were all broke or bored of the movies after constant trips there, so I went alone.

Wrenage: Predator 2 was the first movie I journeyed to completely solo. Going to movies alone never bothered me. Just like going to high school sports games alone, high school dances alone and other social functions alone never bothered me. Wait…what are these watery emissions coming from my eyes? Why do my lips blubber? Am I having a seizure?

Stark: The hilarious thing was that I was back in the UK and only 14 years old when it came out. It was a 15-certificate movie over here. So I remember (this is cringe-inducing) I dressed up a bit to look older to get into the theater. But this was the late 80s, so dressing up a bit involved borrowing my older brother’s leather jacket with rolled-up sleeves. I probably reeked of whatever the 80s version of Axe body spray was too.

Wrenage: You’re so cool, Brewster! Much like your wardrobe upgrade, License to Kill did a decent job upgrading whatever weak points The Living Daylights had. For example, the villain presence is much improved. Despite this, License to Kill still doesn’t quite feel like a Bond movie. The Living Daylights felt like Never Say Never Again — Bond filtered through a different production company. License to Kill feels more like a high-end 80s action movie. And that’s okay.