Witty Sky Guardians (Series 1) WTW72015-04

Hawker Sea Fury FB.Mk 11 Diecast Model

RAN No.724 Sqn

1:72 ScaleLengthWidthHawker Sea Fury FB.Mk 115.75"6.25"

The Sea Fury was a fighter aircraft developed for the British Fleet Air Arm by Hawker during World War II. The last propeller-driven fighter to serve the Royal Navy, it was also the fastest production single piston-engined aircraft ever built.

Hawker Sea Fury FB.Mk 11

Designed to meet an Air Ministry/Admiralty requirement for a lightweight version of the Tempest, the Sea Fury was first flown on September 1st, 1944. It was an exceptional aircraft-tough in the attack role and one of the fastest single piston-engined aircraft ever built-but it was too late to see action in WWII. The Sea Fury carried a variety of munitions and delivery was extremely accurate; one Sea Fury shot down a MiG-15 during the Korean War. The last propeller-driven fighter to serve with the Royal Navy, the Sea Fury also served prominently with other nations including Australia, Germany, the Netherlands and Egypt.

© Copyright 2003-2024 The Flying Mule, Inc.

Witty's 1:72 scale Hawker Sea Fury is constructed almost entirely of solid diecast metal. The models in this series feature distinct-yet-subtle panel lines and rivets, an uncommon feature in diecast metal (usually only seen on plastic models). The near solid fuselage has an all-metal empennage, a bubble canopy for easy viewing of the pilot figure and a sleek, five-bladed propeller and hub that blends seamlessly with the engine cowling. The solid metal wing has 20mm cannon ports on the leading edge, sturdy fixed landing gear and a variety of wing mounted drop tanks and ordnance loads. Releases in this series include the single-seat fighter-bomber and two-seat trainer variants.

© Copyright 2003-2013 The Flying Mule, Inc.

Witty Sky Guardians (Series 1)

The Witty "Wings" range presents detailed, ready-made diecast models of military aircraft. Witty have earned a reputation for producing high-quality models that can be displayed right out of the box.

Witty "Wings" (Series 1) diecast airplanes feature:

Diecast metal construction with some plastic components.

Realistic panel lines, antennas, access panels and surface details.

Pad printed markings and placards that won't fade or peel like decals.

Permanently extended landing gear with rotating wheels.

Authentic fixed ordnance loads complete with placards.

Selected moving parts such as canopies, control surfaces and swing-wings.

Detailed, hand-painted pilot and crew member figures.

© Copyright 2003-2024 The Flying Mule, Inc.