Roc Nation Nashville, a newly-formed division of Jay Z’s Roc Nation, has entered into a publishing partnership with Warner/Chappell Music (WCM), the music publishing arm of Warner Music Group. Under the agreement, WCM will publish Roc Nation Nashville’s music publishing repertoire. This marks the latest pact between Roc Nation and WCM, which first joined forces in 2013, when the companies signed global publishing agreements for Jay Z and Roc Nation’s music publishing roster.

Roc Nation Nashville and WCM have also established a venture, Rhythm House, with songwriter/producer/publisher/DJ Jesse Frasure. Rhythm House will include Frasure’s own writing and production activities, as well as the signing and development of other composers and producers. Frasure was most recently Vice President of A&R for Major Bob Music.

Coinciding with the launch of Roc Nation Nashville, WCM has promoted BJ Hill to Vice President of A&R. Hill, who was most recently Senior Director of A&R, will split his time between Rhythm House and WCM. Prior to WCM, he was with Universal Music Group and Jody Williams Music.

Jay Brown, President, Roc Nation stated, “There is nothing like working with the right individuals, at the right time, forming the right partnership. Launching Roc Nation Nashville with Warner/Chappell Music Nashville is a natural extension of the relationship we started so many years ago, and our venture with Jesse Frasure and his Rhythm House take the possibilities to a next level. Jesse’s talent, understanding of the craft and creativity are unmatched. We’re also excited to work with BJ Hill. He has a passion and respect for artists and their artistry and we look forward to working alongside him as we grow the Roc Nation Nashville roster.”

“I am thrilled to welcome Roc Nation to Music City and to our Warner/Chappell Nashville family,” said Ben Vaughn, Executive Vice President of Warner/Chappell Music Nashville. “All of us at WCM are excited to expand our already successful relationship that started with Jon Platt, JAY Z, and Jay Brown. We’re also fortunate to work with Roc Nation’s Tamara Conniff, and are incredibly happy that Jesse Frasure is on board with the new partnership. Jesse’s one of the most creative, dynamic, and multi-talented figures on the music scene today, and his new venture is a fantastic way to help Roc Nation make the Nashville music market more diverse and exciting. To top it off, we’re excited to watch longtime publishing colleague BJ Hill flourish in his expanded role.”

Frasure added, “I’m honored and grateful to begin this next chapter with partners like Roc Nation and Warner/Chappell, whom I’ve admired throughout my career. Having this opportunity—combined with having a longtime friend and industry-respected individual like BJ Hill join the Rhythm House team—is a dream come true.”