Tirana is the capital of Albania . The city is located almost in the very center of the country, at the foot of Daiti Mountain at an altitude of 110 meters above sea level. Climbing Mount Daiti by cable car and visiting the National Park located at the top makes Tirana an unforgettable experience.

The city was founded in 1614 by Suleiman Pasha Barjini and, according to one version, was named Teheran in memory of the successful military campaign of the Ottomans against the Persians. Later, the name was transformed into Tiran (in Albanian, this word is masculine). There are other hypotheses about the origin of the city's name: the first is Tirana, which comes from the Latin word "Thread"; the second is from the word "Tirkan" (that was the name of the castle on Mount Daiti); the third is from the Greek word "Tyros", which means "milk place". Another version: from the Illyrian word "Tyron" - those who descended from the mountains. The truth is hard to establish now.

In the 18th century, the rapid development of this city begins. In 1920 Tirana becomes the capital of Albania. Tirana may not boast as many attractions as other European capitals, but there is something to see here too! The geographical position of Tirana, between Istanbul and Rome, influenced the architectural style of the city. The period of “great friendship” with the USSR also contributed to the appearance of the main city of Albania, when many buildings of the Stalinist Empire style appeared in the center of Tirana.

Start your acquaintance with the Albanian capital at Skanderbeg Square . The monument to the main national hero is installed in the very center of the square and is one of the symbols of the city. The three-meter equestrian statue is located on the very spot where the monument to Stalin used to be.

Here on the square you will see the ancient mosque Etem Bey, built between 1794-1821. Next to it rises the 35-meter Clock Tower. It was built in 1822. And, if the “Ottoman trace” is clearly visible in the architecture of the mosque, then in the guise of beautiful government buildings that form a semicircle behind the Skanderbeg monument, one can feel the skillful hand of the Italian architect. These buildings appeared in Tirana during the reign of King Zogu I (1928-1939), during which the influence of Italy spread widely to all spheres of the country's life.

Well, the National History Museum and the Opera House , which are also part of Skanderbeg Square, will tell you about the times of building communism in Albania. Built during the reign of Enver Hoxha, the buildings look like typical Soviet Houses of Culture. They are a vivid example of the influence of the architectural style of the country of the Soviets on the Albanian urban planning in the 1950s-80s of the 20th century. The facade of the National Museum is adorned with a mosaic panel depicting the history of Albania from ancient times to the "bright communist future." Despite the outward unpresentability of the building, the museum's expositions contain rich and interesting material that allows you to better get acquainted with the history of this amazing country.

In addition to Skanderbeg Square in Tirana, you can visit the National Gallery of Art, the Archaeological Museum, the "Mosaic of Tirana" (an open-air museum on the site of an ancient Roman villa), a city park and much more. In the vicinity of Tirana are the medieval fortresses of Petrela and Preza, preserved from the time of the struggle of the Albanians with the Ottoman conquerors.