Hednesford Hills Raceway in Staffordshire was the birthplace of Hot Rod racing in the UK and the circuit (originally a reservoir!) was created specifically for the sport back in 1952.

About the track

The quarter-of-a-mile long oval track is banked at the corners and is covered in asphalt making it the fastest of it's kind in Britain.

Visiting the raceway

If you want to visit the raceway, the track is situated just two miles from Cannock town centre – there are brown tourist signs once you get onto the A5.

There are plenty of decent vantage points to watch the action, due to the track being built into the bowl of the old reservoir.

There are grass banks surrounding the circuit to perch on, plus 2 all seater grandstands at the corners which can fit 3 thousand people. They do get filled up quickly on busy days (so worth getting there early).

Some race-days it's also possible to drive onto the track site (for a few pounds more than the entrance fee) and watch from the comfort of your own car at the viewing points.

There's plenty of refreshments stands, including a cafe if you want to eat and a licensed bar if you fancy a beer.

Once the cars are racing it does get pretty noisy, and the smell of petrol and burning rubber is intoxicating. Although this is what appeals to many race-goers you may want to take ear-plugs for younger members of your family, and be warned you may get sprayed with exhaust dust and rubber flecks from tyres.

History

The late, great Bill Morris was the original promoter of stockcar racing on the site, taking the idea from his friend Bill France who did a similar thing in Daytona in America.

He retired from promoting the circuit in 1983 and handed over the reins to Midlands-based "Incarace", owned by his son Martin and Philip Bond. They both retired in 2008, although events at the circuit are still run by the Incarace organization.

Major events include the "National Banger Team Championships" and the "Civil War" - which is regarded the biggest head-to-head Demolition Derby in the World.

What is Hod Rod Racing?

Hot Rod racing - which is Stock Car racing’s ultimate ‘pure-power’ formula - was actually brought over from the US by Bill Morris.

In fact, The National Hot Rod Championship event has been staged for over 40 years at Hednesford - making this the oldest championship title in the sport.

With over £2 million of cars possibly out on track at any one time, Hot Rod racing is a sophisticated sport - and with thirty cars in each race the margin for error is tiny.

Speeds are enormous and, with lap times as quick as 13 seconds, action is frantic.

Bangers?

Banger racing vehicles are normally scrap cars, with all dangerously breakable bits removed such as glass and interior trims.

Banger racing vehicles are normally scrap cars, with all dangerously breakable bits removed such as glass and interior trims.

The demolition derby is essentially the same thing, with the race element not really being important. It's more about purposefully destroying everyone else's car by ramming it. The last driver whose vehicle actually works is crowned the winner.