Good access and snow quality! Big slopes spread around a historic resort hotel

◆Operating period: December 24, 2023 – March 31, 2024 (tentative)

1.Features of slopes and courses

2.Events

3.Lunch Information

4.data

1.Features of slopes and courses

Joshinetsu Expressway, the ski resort is located at the foot of Mt. Myoko and is marked by the impressive red roof of the Akakura Kanko Hotel on the slopes.

The slopes are located at an altitude of around 1,500 meters and are equipped with a total of 10 courses for all levels from beginner to advanced (40% beginner, 30% intermediate, and 30% advanced).

From the official website of Akakura Kanko Resort Ski Area

You can enjoy a long run of up to 4.5 km by riding the Sky Cable and lifts.

It is also connected to the neighboring Akakura Onsen ski resort, so you can come and go if you purchase a common ticket for both ski resorts.

The most popular course is the Hotel B Course, which offers moderate slopes and slope changes.

For advanced skiers, we recommend the Champion B Course, which offers views from Lake Nojiri to the Sea of Japan.

This is a full-scale long course where officially sanctioned competitions are held.

In addition, the resort features two non-snow courses.

For beginners and families, the hotel beginner course along the parking lot is perfect.

This course can be fully enjoyed by adults and children alike.

For children who have not yet made their debut on the slopes, we recommend the Children’s Plaza, which is safe and surrounded by a net.

Visitors can enjoy making snowmen and sledding.

From akakanTV channel

[Video] Joetsu & Myoko Ski Resort Introduction “Akakura Kanko Resort Ski Area”.

2.Events

New Year’s Day New Year’s Day sunrise early morning sky cable operation

■Date and time of operation: January 1 (Monday, holiday) from 6:30 a.m.

■Fare: Adults 2300 yen / Elementary school students 1200 yen

*Ski resort users can ride with regular lift ticket purchases.

Super-mame-maki

■Date and Time: Saturday, February 3, 2012, by 14:00

■Meeting place: slope in front of Sky Terrace

Valentine’s Day Slope Present

■Date: February 11 (Sun.) from 1:30 p.m.

■Meeting place: In front of Myoko Kogen Sky Cable Terminal

*Candy will be given to the first 150 visitors.

White Day Slope Present

■Day and time: March 16th (earth), 13:30～

■Meeting place: In front of Myoko Kogen Sky Cable Terminal

*Candy and sweets will be given to the first 150 visitors.

Ski Children’s Day Privilege

■Dates：3rd Sunday of December through March

■Target: Elementary school students and under

■ Contents: Free lift

3.Lunch Information

Inside the ski resort, at the foot of the Sky Cable, is Bakery&Table Akakura, which serves authentic pizza and other dishes.

Near the boarding area of Hotel No. 5 Triple is Restaurant Meipuru, which offers a variety of curry, noodles, and other gele meals.

And near the Sky Cable summit station is the Myoko Sky Terrace cafe-restaurant, which reopened this summer.

Myoko Mountain Curry 2000 yen (tax included)

Myoko Sky Terrace recommends the Myoko Mountain Curry, which is a curry with many ingredients poured over rice that resembles Mt.

4.data