Doctor Who is rooted in Wales since its return back in 2005, with then (and about to return) showrunner, Russell T Davies choosing to base the BBC show's production here.

With the latest series about to air on BBC One, Doctor Who: Flux will be the final instalment starring Jodie Whittaker. It will also see John Bishop make his debut on the show and Mandip Gill return as Yaz.

Read more: Russell T Davies returns to Doctor Who as showrunner ahead of show's 60th anniversary

The show has often been cited as kicking off the popularity of Wales as a location for filming for many TV shows and films, with the rate of productions since 2005 increasing. The likes of HBO's His Dark Materials, Sky's A Discovery of Witches and The Pembrokeshire Murders have been made here, plus many more, which you can read about here.

In the series about to air, some scenes have been filmed in Wales while previous Jodie Whittaker episodes have also shot in Sheffield, too.

We'll start off with those locations used in series 13, and also include many more from previous series.

Roath, Cardiff

Earlier in 2021 the crew were spotted at The Gate for the newest (13th) series. Fans reported that Jodie Whittaker and Mandip Gill were spotted on set.

Grange Gardens, Cardiff

Staff at The Hideout Cafe in the Grangetown park were chuffed as stars Bradley Walsh and John Bishop popped by for a cuppa in between filming and photography.

Zara Ali, the owner of The Hideout in Grange Gardens, said the television crew unloaded their equipment around midday with the famous faces appearing on the scene.

"I thought they were just taking a few shots of the TARDIS, but no - Bradley Walsh came, John Bishop and Jodie Whittaker," she recalled.

Atlantic College, Vale of Glamorgan

Back in the spring, Mandip and a guest star, Game of Thrones' Jacob Anderson, were spotted filming scenes at the College near Llantwit Major.

A college which takes in royal pupils from around the globe, the building has also featured in Wolf Hall, Keeping Faith and Decline and Fall with Eva Longoria.

Watch the trailer for Doctor Who: Flux

Kong's, Cardiff

The St Mary St bar was taken over in back in March for scenes for series 13. St Mary Street has made a number of appearances, including the exterior of Howells (House of Fraser) Department Store in a number of episodes - and the interior is in the episode Rose and it is where Billie Piper's character works.

The Knap, Barry

Jodie and some Weeping Angels were seen on the pebble beach down in Barry in early October and it looked cold.

What a place to run from a Weeping Angel, a pebble beach - ugh!

Peter Capaldi also filmed there back in 2015.

Cardiff Civic Centre & National Museum of Wales

The newest series has been seen filming at the City Hall in Cardiff.

Meanwhile, the interior of the museum has been used in episodes, Dalek, Voyage of the Damned, The Big Bang and 50th anniversary special, The Day of the Doctor.

Queen's Arcade, Cardiff

Oh God, imagine popping to New Look and happening upon these Autons. The creepy aliens were seen around Queen's Arcade in the centre of Cardiff back in 2005 in the episode Rose.

Cathedral Green, Llandaff

WalesOnline were there in the heart of Llandaff when Matt Smith's Doctor and Amy Pond, aka Karen Gillan, were filming a scene back in 2009.

It was from the episode, The Eleventh Hour which aired in 2010.

Neath Abbey, Neath

Another regular on the filming locations roster, Neath's 12th-century abbey has featured in five episodes, all during the tenure of Matt Smith.

Dunraven Bay, Vale of Glamorgan

The striking Vale of Glamorgan coastline has been used in many a TV show and Doctor Who is no different.

Dunraven Bay - known as Southerndown - featured heavily in David Tennant's tenure, in Doomsday and Army of Ghosts, and Matt Smith's Time Lord also partook, for Time of the Angels.

Chepstow Castle

The 50th anniversary special, Day of the Doctor, and 2011 episode, The Rebel Flesh were filmed at the country's oldest surviving fortification - it's been there since 1067.

Cardiff Bay

A hotbed for Doctor Who action, Cardiff Bay has been featured with several newer Doctors as Roald Dahl Plass - the bit in front of the WMC - is used by the Time Lord to recharge the Tardis.

Just a stone's throw, on Mount Stuart Square, Peter Capaldi, Pearl Mackie and Matt Lucas filmed series 10 back in 2017.

Gelligaer Common, Fochriw

The village near Bargoed featured, well, the common above it did, back during Tennant's reign.

Here he is, with Billie Piper, around 16 years ago.

Forest Fawr, Tongwynlais

There were some great pictures taken in the forest surrounding Castell Coch for The Woman Who Lived episode, which aired in 2015.

The episode featured Peter Capaldi's Doctor and guest-starred Game of Thrones' Maisie Williams.

Caerphilly Castle

The Vampires of Venice, The Eternity Trap and more have featured the striking Caerphilly Castle - one of Wales' most recognisable locations.

Dyffryn House & Gardens

The Vale of Glamorgan estate doubled for 18th century France in The Girl in the Fireplace, 19th century Scotland in Tooth and Claw and a cyberspace reality in Forest of the Dead.

The Fields Manor, Newport

Poirot star David Suchet had a weird connection to this period home in Newport. David starred in series 10's Knock Knock, in 2017, and during filming he realised he and his family had rented the place the Christmas before he started filming.The manor was also featured in 2007's Blink, which featured Carey Mulligan.

Tredegar House, Newport

Seventeenth century mansion Tredegar House has appeared in no less than 13 Doctor Who episodes, including The Christmas Invasion, New Earth, Tooth and Claw, The Girl in the Fireplace and more.

MOD Caerwent

A well-used location for the likes of Torchwood and Captain America: The First Avenger, the former army training base in Caerwent appeared in Doctor Who episodes Before the Flood and The Next Doctor.

St Fagans National History Museum, Cardiff

The creepy episodes Human Nature and The Family Blood - which saw 10th Doctor, David Tennant, transform into human form to avoid detection from the Family of Blood in 1913 England - were shot at this famous museum.

Other than the England bit, the St Fagans's buildings, many of which are original and chronicle centuries of Welsh life, were the ideal period for the story.

Cardiff Castle

The scene for 2012's creepy Christmas special, The Snowmen, and the first time we are introduced to Clara Oswald (Jenna Louise Coleman), well sort of, one incarnation of her, anyway. Oswald went on to be the companion of the 11th and 12th Doctors.