Kangana and Shahid in stills from Queen and Haider

Kuala Lumpur: Vikas Bahl's Queen bagged the Best Picture, Best Story and Best Performance in a Leading Role (Female) awards at the three-day long 16th edition of the International Indian Film Academy (IIFA) Weekend and Awards here on Sunday.

The film starring Kangana Ranaut was up against 2 States, PK, Haider, Highway and Mary Kom for the Best Picture trophy.

Vikas Bahl collected Kangana's Best Performance Award on her behalf.

Mr Bahl, however, lost the award in the directors' category to Rajkumar Hirani, who took home the trophy for PK.

The Best Performance in a Leading Role (Male) went to actor Shahid Kapoor for his performance in Haider. The actor, who beat the likes of Aamir Khan (PK), Hrithik Roshan (Bang Bang!), and Shah Rukh Khan (Happy New Year) also performed at the award ceremony which was hosted by actors Ranveer Singh and Arjun Kapoor.

Hrithik might have lost the award to Shahid, but his Bang Bang! act with a Bhangra twist won hearts of many including Deepika Padukone, who was felicitated with Woman of the Year award. She was also nominated in the Best Performance in a Leading Role - Female.

Riteish Deshmukh grabbed the award for Best Performance in a Supporting Role (Male) for his villainous act in Ek Villain. The actor defeated Ronit Roy (2 States), Randeep Hooda (Kick), Inaamulhaq (Filmistaan), Naseeruddin Shah (Finding Fanny) and Kay Kay Menon (Haider).

But Kay Kay wasn't left disappointed as he received the award for Best Performance in a Negative Role for Haider. His co-star Tabu won Best Performance in a Supporting Role (Female).

There was also an award for Best Regional Film, which went to the Marathi film Lai Bhaari, starring Riteish Deshmukh and co-produced by his actress-wife Genelia D'Souza.

Varun Dhawan won Best Performance in a Comic Role for his performance in Main Tera Hero. The film's director, his father David Dhawan received the trophy on his behalf.

The award for Best Music Direction went to the popular trio Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy for 2 States. Other contenders included Mithoon (Banjara, Zaroorat and Hamdard) and Ankit Tiwari (Galliyan). Ankit won Best Playback Singer (Male) for the song Galliyan from Ek Villain while singer Kanika Kapoor won Best Playback Singer (Female) for the song Baby Doll from Ragini MMS 2.

It was a big night for Heropanti actors Tiger Shroff and Kriti Sanon, who both won trophies for Best Debut. While Tiger was given the award by Hrithik, Kriti received hers from Anushka Sharma.

Tiger and Hrithik also did a few moves together on the stage, while Ranveer and Arjun tried to comically emulate them.

National Award-winning director Omung Kumar and Kick director Sajid Nadiadwala shared the the Best Debut Direction award for Mary Kom and Kick.

It was an emotional moment when the award for Outstanding Contribution to Indian Cinema was announced. 'Showman' Subhash Ghai got on stage to receive it from his Ram Lakhan actors Anil Kapoor and Jackie Shroff. Shraddha Kapoor also paid tribute to Mr Ghai by performing on songs from his films like Taal and Kisna.

"I grew up dancing on 'Taal se taal mila' in front of the mirror and today I got the opportunity to perform on the song on this platform," said the 26-year-old actress.

Other performers included Parineeti Chopra and Anushka Sharma, who made everyone swing as she danced to the tunes of songs from her latest film Dil Dhadakne Do. Sonakshi Sinha did a medley of songs from films of Amitabh Bachchan and other superstars.

A special tribute to Shah Rukh and Kajol's Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge, which completed 1,000 weeks of screening last year, was paid by the show's hosts, who also cracked jokes on their controversial AIB Roast video for which they got into trouble earlier this year.

There were also moments when Ranveer got "distracted" due to presence of Deepika, with whom he is currently being linked romantically.

Held at Putra Indoor Stadium, the award ceremony was attended by thousands of screaming fans, some of which had flown from different countries just to see their favourite stars at the gala, which celebrates Indian cinema in various foreign nations every year.

List of Winners

Best Picture: Queen

Best Performance in a Leading Role (Female): Kangana Ranaut for Queen

Best Performance in a Leading Role (Male): Shahid Kapoor for Haider

Best Direction: Rajkumar Hirani for PK

Best Story: Vikas Bahl, Chaitally Parmar & Parvez Shaikh for Queen

Woman of The Year: Deepika Padukone

Best Regional Film: Lal Bhaari

Best Performance in a Supporting Role (Female): Tabu for Haider

Best Performance in a Supporting Role (Male): Riteish Deshmukh for Ek Villian

Best Playback Singer (Female): Kanika Kapoor for Baby Doll

Best Playback Singer (Male): Ankit Tiwari for Galliyaan from Ek Villian

Award for Outstanding Contribution: Subhash Ghai

best Performance in a Negative Role: Kay Kay Menon (Haider)

Best Debut (Male): Tiger Shroff (Heropanti)

Best Debut (Female): Kriti Sanon (Heropanti)

Best Performance in a Comic Role: Varun Dhawan (Main Tera Hero)

Best Music Direction: Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy for 2 States

Best Debut Direction: Omung Kumar for Mary Kom and Sajid Nadiadwsla for Kick

Entertainment I Read Latest News on NDTV Entertainment. Click NDTV Entertainment For The Latest In, bollywood , regional, hollywood, tv, web series, photos, videos and More.