A Tribute to Peter Woodward We are sad to inform the marine industry of the death on January 2, 2024 of one of the finest people ever to grace this company. Peter Woodward was a naval architect from the UK who emigrated to Canada in the mid-1960’s. He worked at various shipyards across Canada, and ultimately joining Transport Canada as a Steamship Inspector, settling in Vancouver. In 1974, Peter was hired by Robert Allan Ltd. to become one of the team of inspectors overseeing the fast-paced construction of the four Arctic Class II, ice-breaking supply vessels built for Dome Petroleum for work in the Beaufort Sea. When those vessels were delivered in mid-1975, Peter was lured away to take command of the nascent Council of Marine Carriers, representing the tug operators of BC in their challenges dealing with Transport Canada. Peter was responsible for originating the concept of the successful BC Towboat Conferences. In 1982/1983, Peter re-joined Robert Allan Ltd. to take on the responsibility for outside supervision work. In order to facilitate this, we created a partner company, Allan-Woodward Ltd., of which Peter was president. He was kept busy with a variety of projects, notably federal projects for DFO patrol vessels and CCG icebreakers/buoy tenders. This work dried up in the late 1980’s and Peter re-joined CMC in 1989 as Vice-President, a position he held until his retirement in 2003. He was awarded the CMC Legacy Award for Service to the BC tugboat Industry. Although, we were a decade apart in age, Peter and I became fast friends and remained in regular contact throughout his working life and into his retirement. A series of debilitating strokes and subsequent dementia in the past decade reduced him to a shadow of his former robust self, but he was always keen to hear how well Robert Allan Ltd. was succeeding in the tugboat world. He was a wonderful, good-hearted person, and will be greatly missed by many in the BC tugboat community, and by his entire family. Rob Allan (picture: Peter Woodward(R) and Rob Allan ... just a few years ago)