December 6th, 1917 to April 16th, 2008

Port Huron - Mary Josephine 'Jo' Woodward, 90, died Wednesday, April 16, 2008 She was born December 6, 1917 to the late George and Margaret (Connor) Woodward. Jo was a lifelong member of Grace Episcopal Church. She graduated from Port Huron High School in 1936 and from Eastern Michigan University in 1939. She proudly served her country during WWII as a gunnery instructor with the WAVES of the United States Navy. She taught school in the Port Huron Area School District for 39 years, teaching at the Lincoln and Polk Schools early in her career. The last 28 years she taught the 5th grade at Woodrow Wilson. Jo is survived by her sister, Ruth J. Woodward of Port Huron, brother, Jack (Mary Lou) Woodward of Bath; nieces and nephews, Nan (David) Perley, Michael (Ruthann) Course, all of Port Huron, James (Mary Kay) Course, Rebecca (Mike) Gordon of Fort Gratiot, Julie (Bob) Hyzy of Ann Arbor, Tom (Pam) Woodward of Lansing, Jennifer (Bob) Diamond of London, England, Ann (Randy) Maier of Yucaipa, CA, Tyler (MaLou) Morrison of Richmond, CA and many great and great-great nieces and nephews; dear friends, Mary Pochodylo, Bethel Wilson and Helen Warwick. She was preceded in death by her sisters, Anna Ernst, Marion Course, Elizabeth Morrison and Agnes Woodward and her brother, George Woodward. Funeral services will be 2 p.m. Saturday at Karrer-Simpson Funeral Home. The Rev. Robert P. Trask, Rector of Grace Episcopal Church will officiate. . Burial will follow in Lakeside Cemetery. Military rites will be under the direction of the St. Clair County Allied Veterans Council. Pallbearers will be David Perley, Adam Course, Greg Falecki, Bernie Howard and Dave Forest. Honorary pallbearers will be Michael Course, James Course Sr., Tom Woodward and Tyler Morrison. Visiting hours are 7-9 p.m. Friday and 10 a.m. until the service time Saturday at the funeral home. In lieu of flowers, please consider making a memorial donation to Grace Episcopal Church.

No Upcoming Events

Document Actions

Print this