LOWELL — The Devils battled back from a three-goal deficit to the Springfield Falcons last night to force the game into overtime. Unfortunately for Lowell, however, it was a different kind of momentum that secured the win for Springfield in the shootout.

Referee Terry Koharski signaled no goal when Frank Doyle stopped a Viacheslav Trukhno shot and Lowell headed to the locker room ready to celebrate what would have been a come-from-behind victory.

Less than 30 seconds later, the Devils were called back out on the ice and Doyle (28 saves) made his way back to the net.

“It’s kind of a tricky call but in the end it’s probably the right call,” Doyle said. “I made the save but my own momentum ended up kicking the puck back, I think he made the right call.”

Coach Kurt Kleinendorst said Koharski explained to him the reason the goal was originally not allowed was because he thought the goal went in on a rebound shot, not Doyle’s momentum.

Falcons 4, Lowell 3

“That’s tough but under the circumstances what a great point,” Kleinendorst said. “But then to think you got two (points) and head to the locker room and get called back … honestly at that point, you almost knew.”

Rob Schremp scored on his second shootout attempt to give the Falcons the two points instead of the Devils, who fell 4-3.

“We’re happy with the point,” Kleinendorst said. “I’m not thrilled to be down three to nothing in the third period, at home, in a game that we felt we should have won, not happy about that. But we battled back and worked hard to tie the game, yeah, that makes me happy. It’s a little bit of an emotional rollercoaster really, but all in all a good point. ”

Before Ivan Khomutov scored his sixth goal of the season at 9:10 of the third period, Lowell had gone over 110 minutes of hockey without a goal. The Devils had lost their last game via the shutout when Portland blanked them 3-0 on New Year’s Eve.

Petr Vrana pulled Lowell to within 3-2 at 13:57 and then Trevor Kell, in his first AHL game, tied it 3-3 when he took passes from Khomutov and Ryan Murphy and sent a shot into the Falcons cage at 15:23.

Kleinendorst said his team has been strong in the third period all season long, but can’t continue to except come back all the time.

“Unfortunately in my mind is that we’re putting ourselves in a position in the third period that we have to come back way more than we would like,” Kleinendorst said. “But having said that, there’s no quit, there’s no frustration.

“The guys just continue to work hard and that’s actually good because now we know we’re actually capable of doing that. But how many times in a year will you be able to do that? That might be it, we can’t continue to do that, and we can’t continue to put ourselves behind the eight ball.”

Kell, called up from Trenton on New Year’s Day, made his presence known with a goal and an assist.

“I couldn’t really explain it,” Kell said. “It’s so surreal right now. My line played really well together and I got a lucky bounce.”

Ex-Boston College skater Joe Rooney was also called up from Trenton. Kleinendorst was happy with both their performances and efforts.

“I thought (Kell) played really well, I thought Joe Rooney played well,” Kleinendorst said. “Both of them contributed. They did great, they fit right in, they didn’t look like they looked out of place.

“Rooney played in every situation, even the shootout. I liked everything he did in the shootout with the exception of the no goal. I mean he went in, he went in with speed, he had the puck ready to shoot it. He even did shoot, it just didn’t get it by the goalie. It’s too bad.”