We love hockey. And the game is more suitable for us, and the results in life were the results, not the attempts at such, like those of football players. However, with hockey lately something is happening that is not what I would like to see.

Of course, when a goalkeeper with one helmet, or rather a trap, wins at least some merit for a country, that is not bad. It is very nice, if not for these very nuances, which car. And - not least - the ambitions of the country, in the name of the flag of which everything is being started.

The main problem, as it seems to us, is that the majority of Russians are still ill for the national team of the Soviet Union, which was the Red Car. But it was a long time ago, and that “Red car” had long ago rusted and crumbled to ashes. Together with the Soviet school of hockey and all the Soviet hockey.

To our great regret.

The fact that today a certain team of losers from the NHL can win at least something is already a good thing. But you look at the same Finns and do not understand how so. Fees higher? Yes, do not make me laugh. Patriotism Finnish thicker and sharper? Also doubtful.

Then why is that?

In general, there is a bunch of such questions to the leadership team. This is the KHL championship, which, they say, is not worse than the NHL (well, we have a lot of things being said), the Eurotour, in which the national team assembled following the KHL championship in principle, showed results, but ...

But let us remember how a certain team of KHL players was first assembled, as they said with pride, they say, here they are, their own eagles. And as the eagles flew back to their homes, when overseas losers began to fly out of the Stanley Cup.

Hypothetical young player. Ivannikov. From "Avangard", for example. Non-capricious and patriotic, who will happily put on the uniform of the national team. For which hockey is already a job, and the work of a professional. And who does his job conscientiously, that is, fulfilling the terms of the contract.

And here Ivannikova is called to the national team. The tide of patriotism and understanding of their success. A uniform with a coat of arms on the chest with the word "Russia" is, by the way, worth a lot.

And what about a click on the nose and sending home because Ovechkin arrived? A loser of the Stanley Cup, but a more experienced player with regalia and all that?

And if two years in a row? Three?

And for participation in the national team in terms of money, no one really wins, of course, if you win somewhere, then maybe BMW or some other Russian dzhipchik break off from the president, but compared to the contracts - small things.

And time of personal and rather short holiday is eaten.

And will not this Ivannikov be right after three years, sending this team far away? Even considering that this equates to treason?

Nothing personal and unpatriotic, only business. The man sells himself without reserve. And he wants to get a maximum of bonuses and snacks for this. And he does not give. You say, not so with us?

Hypothetically, year after year we dance the same rake dance. That is, the coaching staff of the team rides on the KHL games, looks at the players, and holds fees. And from year to year the same thing repeats: with trembling hands await the arrival of NHL players.

Yes, there the championship is much cooler than the Xerox called KHL, it is indisputable. But in our case, the KHL championship ended on April 19, and the KHL players had a month to rest. But they were replaced by overseas squeezed lemons like Ovechkin (1985 b.), Malkin (1986 b.), Kovalchuk (1983 b.).

Of course, the coaching staff is more visible, although the Russian national team that actually got up on the game in matches with the USA and Sweden is also a good indicator. Fans watched.

The alignment of the national team in general is terrifying: from 25 a man 15 is a man from the NHL. The remaining 10 is understandable from the KHL. Alignment is already peculiar, but there is another nuance.

Of the 10 people of the Russian 6 Championship, the people are represented by CSKA, 4 - SKA. That is, of the 19 Russian teams, only two were able to give the players in the national team ... The sad championship is very sad.

Meanwhile, the Finnish national team, which blocked our team the way to the desired "gold", has a completely different alignment. The same 25 players, but what is the balance!

NHL - 4 player.

KHL - 3 player.

Finnish clubs - 13 players.

European clubs - 5 players.

Well, what can I say? Only that the Finns calmly played the national team, consisting of their own and the players of the championship of Switzerland. You can say local. And the players have slightly increased this by no means the top clubs of the NHL and the KHL.

And her majesty is motivation.

In our case, the overseas stars just broke up and could not even get together to play with the Czechs. This recognized Kovalchuk.

- Do you agree that physics is over for the Russian team today?

“We are fine with physics and chemistry, it was just hard to gather thoughts and emotions into a fist after the semifinal. For the first period, no one came out at all, but then the coaching staff found the right words, we talked ourselves, in the second period we played better.

It has long become clear and clear that the NHL is not a panacea.

But at home, in the KHL, not everything is so beautiful. It is enough to look at the application lists of teams, and you understand that they consist of a third of losers. The lucky ones - they play in the NHL, and the losers - in principle, no matter where. Though in the Italian hockey championship.

But each such imported mercenary takes the place of a Russian lad who dreams of getting out on the ice. But the Russian guys, too, despite the weak fees, also dream of the NHL, where they play other hockey. And the best example is Andrey Vasilevsky. Three seasons in the youthful team of Ufa, two seasons in Salavat Yulaev - and that's enough. Over the ocean, and play, play, play.

And I doubt that he pulls back to his homeland. For the son of the goalkeeper team name is Lukas Andreevich. It is quite normal for life in America, but not very much with us. So the plans are traced, we think.

Meanwhile, the KHL players have won the Eurocup quite well ... And from the 4 matches the Finns won the 3 ...

But all of them ruthlessly sent to rest. And to watch on TV how the praised NHL veterans will actually stop in the second period, because the forces are all over.

Of course, you want gold. Lots of gold. World, Olympic. But the farther we look, the stronger comes the understanding that the farther, the worse it will be. Sport in Russia is becoming quite a profitable business, and therefore all methods are good for achieving profit.

And no matter what they try to beat the Russians in their heads, alas, there is bronze for such a team, so that Ovechkin may say there, this is a defeat. This is a victory for the goalkeeper, who won these medals, again. How big is the role of Ovechkin, hard to say. But, in fact, in his place (and in place of other over-age overseas stars) there should be guys from the Russian championship.

And we will be obliged to forgive them for not winning, by the way. Young, but local. For some reason, Kovalchuk, Malkin and others do not want to forgive the loss to a misunderstanding called “the Finnish national team”.

This Finnish horror, which played like it played, kissel on ice, and the stars could not oppose anything to it - this is sad. This is a failure.

But this is not the worst thing, that the fusion of "Sparrows +" stars "from the NHL" did not turn gold.

The further, the more understanding that our championship, which, in theory, should be the basis for the national team, turns into an arena of showdowns of two clubs that divide players.

No offense, but these clubs are CSKA and SKA. That is one feeder.

The remaining clubs, if you look at the composition of the national team, are no good for anything. To our greatest regret. Avangard, Salavat Yulaev, Metallurg, Ak Bars, Dynamo are all secondary. Although, perhaps, the role was played by a strange coincidence of the names of the coach of the Russian national team and the St. Petersburg SKA ...

At the same time, those who got into such a strange national team should be treated with respect and understanding. They were called - they flew. The same Ovechkin, who played so-so, gaining only three points for all matches (in the playoffs in general 0), but arrived ...

Although it is difficult to say how valuable his arrival was after the hardest season. Shumakov in his place after a month’s holiday would have looked at least as good. Sure. And I would have fought with no less dedication.

It is clear that million BMWs from the NHL, these BMWs, “Audi” and medal-orders - not a subject for motivation. Money there is normal, fame too. Here is the case when you want to play for the Motherland.

But it can not. Because age and the past season of 100 + games in the background.

That's the result.

The most unpleasant thing is that this comparison with that “Red car” is just for those who need at least something to rejoice. More and more people are looking back, and here you are - “The Red Car”. Just like in those times.

In fact, alas, it is necessary to recognize only the fact that there will be no “Red Car” As long as there is such an attitude towards Russian hockey, further speculation on the red form in the name of supporting patriotic sentiment will not work.

Roman Skomorokhov, Alexander Staver

Our news channels

Subscribe and stay up to date with the latest news and the most important events of the day.

169 comments

"Right Sector" (banned in Russia), "Ukrainian Insurgent Army" (UPA) (banned in Russia), ISIS (banned in Russia), "Jabhat Fatah al-Sham" formerly "Jabhat al-Nusra" (banned in Russia) , Taliban (banned in Russia), Al-Qaeda (banned in Russia), Anti-Corruption Foundation (banned in Russia), Navalny Headquarters (banned in Russia), Facebook (banned in Russia), Instagram (banned in Russia), Meta (banned in Russia), Misanthropic Division (banned in Russia), Azov (banned in Russia), Muslim Brotherhood (banned in Russia), Aum Shinrikyo (banned in Russia), AUE (banned in Russia), UNA-UNSO (banned in Russia), Mejlis of the Crimean Tatar people (banned in Russia), Legion “Freedom of Russia” (armed formation, recognized as terrorist in the Russian Federation and banned), Kirill Budanov (included on the Rosfinmonitoring list of terrorists and extremists), the International LGBT public movement and its structural divisions are recognized as extremist (decision of the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation dated November 30.11.2023, XNUMX)

“Non-profit organizations, unregistered public associations or individuals performing the functions of a foreign agent,” as well as media outlets performing the functions of a foreign agent: “Medusa”; "Voice of America"; "Realities"; "Present time"; "Radio Freedom"; Ponomarev Lev; Ponomarev Ilya; Savitskaya; Markelov; Kamalyagin; Apakhonchich; Makarevich; Dud; Gordon; Zhdanov; Medvedev; Fedorov; Mikhail Kasyanov; Dmitry Muratov; "Owl"; "Alliance of Doctors"; "RKK" "Levada Center"; "Memorial"; "Voice"; "Person and law"; "Rain"; "Mediazone"; "Deutsche Welle"; QMS "Caucasian Knot"; "Insider"; "New Newspaper"