NASHVILLE – Mike Milbury tried to pull off some dazzling moves yesterday during the first three rounds of the NHL Draft, but the Islanders’ GM wasn’t about to let one of his peers clean him out. There would be no looting of the Isles, and therefore little in the way of dramatic dealing.

“It didn’t work out,” Milbury said. “The price got ridiculous.”

Mad Mike wasn’t about to give up all three of his second-round selections yesterday for the chance to move up in the first round. And he wasn’t able to make an elephant of a trade, as he’s done before, because of the growing concern about the expiration of the league’s CBA next year.

The Islanders were one of several teams to call Florida about the No. 1 pick, which was traded to Pittsburgh early in the morning. Milbury continues to shop Michael Peca around the league, but there were no monster deals made.

“It’s been dead,” Milbury said. “People are restricted by economics . . . people are afraid of losing any more money.”

In the first round, Milbury was roundly ripped and razzed for taking Robert Nilsson (No. 15) over Zack Parise, a ferocious forechecker who carries himself much like his dad, J.P., did when he played for the Isles from 1975-78. Nilsson is also a second-generation player, the son of Kent Nilsson, a nine-year NHL vet, and the first of four forwards Milbury selected.

The Devils, one of the more active teams yesterday, traded up to get Parise at No. 17 and later traded Mike Danton to St. Louis for a third-round pick (Russian LW Ivan Khomutov).

“When we saw [Parise] start slipping,” Lou Lamoriello said, “we had to move up.”

The Devils were so surprised that Parise was available that they didn’t even have a name tag for him for the back of his jersey. The Islanders would have been a nice fit for Parise, who would have been a fan favorite because of his bloodlines, but Milbury and his staff weren’t interested.

“He said playing for the New York Islanders was the best time of his life,” Zack said of his dad, who played 14 years in the NHL and scored 171 points for the Islanders before being traded with Jean Potvin to Cleveland in 1978 for Wayne Merrick and Darcy Regier.

“Five of our scouts either played with him or against him,” Lamoriello said of J.P.

In Nilsson, the Isles got a player with “great hockey sense,” according to scout Anders Kallur. “He’s got the same talent at his dad, but he’s tougher.”

The Islanders used their three second-round selections to take Dimitri Chernykh and Evgeni Tunik – a pair of Russian forwards who will be teammates next year with the Red Army team – and Jeremy Colliton, a 6-foot-2 center from Alberta.

Also in the second round, the Devils selected Petr Vrana, a Czech left wing.