Tunes & Chat

Status Quo legend Francis Rossi is taking up his acoustic guitar to bring you a selection of well-known hits and some previously not-performed-live-before tunes. It’ll be a unique evening in which Francis will reprise fan favourites from a remarkable 50+year career. Expect original-style, acoustic versions of Quo classics, threaded together with chat in this music based evening. VIP packages are available for those wishing to meet Francis before the show.

Tickets on sale Friday 15th April at 10am.

£30 standard seats = admits the ticketholder to the show.

£45 VIP = includes goodie bag and ticket for the show.

£80 SUPER VIP = includes pre-show meet’n’greet, goodie bag and ticket for the show.

See full listings here . . .

AEG Presents are delighted to announce that due to huge public demand Britain’s best-loved rockers STATUS QUO are extending their ‘Out Out Quoing’ UK & Eire Spring Tour in 2022 and will now undertake an additional run of 6 high profile Christmas dates. All of these shows will feature Shakin’ Stevens as Very Special Guest. Tickets will go on sale from Friday 19th November 2021 at 10am from aegpresents.co.uk/quo. The UK run will be directly followed by nine major German concerts, with Very Special Guests Manfred Mann’s Earth Band.

Most shows on the February and March 2022 run are now sold out, or very nearly. The ‘Out Out Quoing’ tour marks the band’s long overdue return to the live circuit, having not performed since their triumphant set in September 2019 at the massive Radio 2 ‘Festival in a Day’ event in London’s Hyde Park in front of 65,000 fans. Following that, the largely sold out ‘Backbone’ Winter Tour of 2020 was cancelled in its entirety due to Covid-19.

Francis Rossi said, “We cannot wait to play again – and yes, Scotland; you didn’t really think that we wouldn’t be coming back did you? The demand for tickets for the first leg of the tour in February and March has been fantastic and we are delighted to add these six dates in. The ‘Out Out Quoing’ name is a bit of fun, but this is a celebration too of getting back to the stage: it has been far too long. We’re delighted also to have Shakin’ Stevens along as very special guest too.”

Shakin’ Stevens said, “Who could refuse an invitation from Status Quo, to once again get back on the the road, and Rock!”

NOVEMBER 2022

Fri 25 P&J Live, ABERDEEN

Sat 26 SEC Armadillo, GLASGOW

Mon 28 First Direct Arena, LEEDS

Weds 30 Brighton Centre, BRIGHTON

DECEMBER 2022

Thurs 1 BIC, BOURNEMOUTH

Sat 3 The SSE Arena, Wembley, LONDON

STATUS QUO is a band known for their live performances across their incredible fifty year career, it’s time to get back to doing what they do best. After such an unwanted layoff, the band is more ready than ever, making the ‘Out Out Quoing’ tour unmissable.

Francis' son Furs’ debut album 'Until I Figure It Out' is out now on all streaming platforms.

After receiving support from BBC introducing on various singles and his first Radio 1 play with ‘It Feels Right’, Furs decided it was finally the right time to bring out a full length project.

A long time in the making, having dabbled with different genres/styles from a young age, Furs is really beginning to hone in on his sound creating an ever developing musical identity.

All tracks written, produced and mixed by Furs. Furs would like to thank Andy Brook for mastering and Roger Reid (his partner from side project ‘Searching for Sergio’) for his contributions on the keys.”

AEG Presents are delighted to announce that Britain’s best-loved rockers STATUS QUO are coming back to reclaim their position on the live circuit – with a brand new tour. The ‘Out Out Quoing’ UK & Eire Spring Tour in 2022 will visit 14 venues before the band head out into Europe.

Tickets for the UK mainland shows are onsale from Friday 23rd April 2021 at 10am from aegpresents.co.uk/quo; tickets for the MCD shows in Belfast and Dublin from, respectively:

https://www.ticketmaster.ie/venueartist/459370/747939?did=elaserpdcm

https://www.ticketmaster.ie/venueartist/198239/747939?did=elaserpdcm

In September 2019, QUO performed a triumphant set at the massive Radio 2 ‘Festival in a Day’ event in London’s Hyde Park in front of 65,000 fans. That turned out to be their last UK show as the ‘Backbone’ Winter Tour of 2020 was cancelled in its entirety due to Covid-19. Now, STATUS QUO are delighted to be able to announce their long overdue return to the stage with the ‘Out Out Quoing’ tour.

Francis Rossi said, “We cannot wait to play again. Every gig is special for Quo but it’s been too long since we got to play anywhere. Going out is something that we all took for granted. Not any more. Going out, going out properly – ‘going out out’, as some would have it - became a bit of dream but now that dream can come true. The name of the tour is a bit of humour, but a celebration too. However, I’d urge fans not to overthink it and just prepare for all the hits and some serious live music energy!”