The winners of the 2024 Wolf Prize, a highly coveted international award granted in Israel, have been announced. Nine laureates were named in the fields of Medicine, Mathematics, Physics, Agriculture, and Music. Five of the laureates are affiliated with institutions in the United States.

The Wolf Prize has been awarded since 1978 and is considered one of the world’s most prestigious recognitions for scientific and artistic achievements. The prize in each field carries a monetary award of $100,000. The laureates are selected each year by international jury committees composed of world-renowned professionals from all over the world.

According to the Wolf Foundation, "over a third of the Wolf Prize laureates have subsequently received the Nobel Prize in corresponding disciplines."

The 2024 Laureates

The 2024 Wolf Prize in Medicine was awarded to José-Alain Sahel, chair and Distinguished Professor in the Department of Ophthalmology at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine. The prize in medicine was also given to Botond Roska, founding director of the Institute of Molecular and Clinical Ophthalmology Basel (IOB) and Professor at the Faculty of Medicine and the Faculty of Science at the University of Basel, Switzerland

According to the Wolf Foundation, "Professors Botond Roska and José-Alain Sahel are awarded the Wolf Prize for collectively pioneering a novel vision restoration approach by designing and applying optogenetic technology to render surviving neurons in the eye light-sensitive, functionally replacing photoreceptors lost to damage and genetic disease.This combination of powerful fundamental human neurobiological discovery research of Roska, with a deep knowledge of the clinical and translational ophthalmology of Sahel, has led to a major milestone in the fight against blindness and in the field of optogenetics more broadly.”

The Wolf Prize in Agriculture was shared by three individuals — Professor Elliot M. Meyerowitz of the California Institute of Technology and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute; Professor Joanne Chory of the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in La Jolla, California; and Professor Venkatesan Sundaresan of the College of Biological Sciences at the University of California, Davis.

Their citation read: “for key discoveries on plant developmental biology of relevance to crop improvements.”

The Wolf Prize in Mathematics was shared by Noga Alon professor of mathematics at Princeton University and Adi Shamir of the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel “for their pioneering contributions to mathematical cryptography, combinatorics, and the theory of computer science.”

“I am delighted and honored to be one of the recipients of the 2024 Wolf Prize,” Alon said in Princeton’s announcement of his award. “I would like to thank Princeton University, which provided ideal research conditions, and I would also like to thank my teachers, students, collaborators and family, who all played a major role in my success. I view the prize as a recognition of the central place of combinatorics and its applications in modern mathematics and related scientific areas, and I am happy that my work helped in the development of the subject.”

In the field of Physics, the prize was awarded to Professor Martin Rees at Cambridge University, "for fundamental contributions to high-energy astrophysics, galaxies and structure formation, and cosmology.”

The 2024 Prize in Music was awarded to the Hungarian composer György Kurtág, “for his contribution to the world’s cultural heritage, which is fundamentally inspirational and human.”

Now in its 46th year, the Wolf Prize has been awarded to a total of 382 scientists and artists. The Wolf Foundation was founded in 1975 by an endowment from the Wolf family. It major donors were Dr. Ricardo Subirana y Lobo Wolf and his wife, Francisca.