If you’re moving to Switzerland as a married couple, your marriage validly celebrated abroad is recognized in Switzerland (art. 45 PILA). If you get married in Switzerland, the celebration of marriage in Switzerland is governed by Swiss law (art. 44 PILA).

Under Swiss law, marriage may be entered into by two persons who have reached 18 years of age and have capacity of judgement. Since 1 July 2022, marriage is also open to same-sex couples (art. 94 CC). Before the introduction of same-sex marriage, a so-called “registered partnership” was open for same-sex couples. Since 1 July 2022, this institute can no longer be established. However, existing registered partnerships can be continued without specific declaration and may therefore continue to exist in the future.

In Switzerland, the wedding ceremony takes place in the presence of the civil registrar (after completing a certain preparatory procedure). An additional religious wedding ceremony is possible and permitted, but may not take place prior to the civil ceremony (art. 97 CC).

Separation and divorce

If living together is no longer possible/desirable in a marriage, the spouses will usually take up the separation, i.e., one of the spouses moves out of the family home. For the time of separation, the spouses may either settle the circumstances themselves (particularly regarding joint children and financial terms) or, if this is not possible, with the help of lawyers or by judicial regulation.

If the separation affirms and the spouses decide to stay separated for good, there are two ways to achieve a divorce. Firstly, by Swiss law, a marriage can only be dissolved by the state civil courts (same applies for a judicial separation or revocation of the marriage; both rare in practice). On one hand, a divorce under Swiss law can occur if the spouses agree and submit a joint request to the court for dissolution of the marriage. If the spouses don’t agree on the divorce, each spouse may file an action for divorce on his/her own behalf. In this case, a previous separation of two years is required (there is an exception to this requirement if the continuation is no longer reasonable for serious reasons; high demands are attached to this).

In the event of a divorce, Swiss civil courts will examine whether there is a will to divorce. If this is affirmed, the court regulates the individual consequences of divorce. By Swiss law, these are the following (art. 119 et seq. Swiss Civil Code):

Name: a spouse who has changed his/her surname on marriage retains that surname following divorce. However, the name may be changed to the name prior to the marriage at any time.

Marital property law and inheritance law: click on the next buttons for more information.

Family home: arrangement on which of the spouses remains resident in the family home

Occupational pensions: Any occupational pension assets accrued during the marriage up to the time when divorce proceedings initiated are divided equitably (special rules apply in case of disability pension and retirement pension).

Post-marital alimony: a spouse is entitled to this maintenance if he/she cannot reasonably be expected to provide for his or her own maintenance (incl. an appropriate level of retirement provision). In deciding whether such a contribution is to be made and, if so, in what amount and for how long, the court considers a list of categories (e.g., division of duties during the marriage, duration of the marriage, age and health of the spouses, income and assets of the spouses, extent and duration of child care still required of the spouses, etc.). Please note that the Swiss Federal Supreme Court has significantly tightened its requirements in this regard in the recent years.

Children: if the divorced spouses have joint children who are still minors, the divorced spouses usually remain jointly responsible for them. They’re obliged to jointly provide maintenance for them. The court regulates parental rights and obligations; in particular: parental care, residence, contact or sharing of parenting duties and child maintenance contributions.

Swiss inheritance law knows a dual system of intestate and testamentary succession, i.e., there may be statutory heirs and/or appointed heirs (more on this below).

In either case, on the death of a person, his/her heirs become joint owners of the entire estate (universal succession). Therefore, all statutory and appointed heirs form a community of heirs. Further, the acquisition of the inheritance takes place automatically without any transfers or involvement by the authorities. All rights (e.g., claims, rights of ownership and rights of possession; subject to certain exceptions) and liabilities of the deceased pass to his/her heirs. Debts of the deceased become personal debts of the heirs (please note in this regard: statutory and appointed heirs are entitled to renounce the inheritance within three months after becoming aware of their inheritance). Both principles are mandatory law and cannot be prevented by a will (art. 560 CC).

Swiss inheritance law regulates who the deceased’s heirs are if neither a testamentary disposition nor a contract of inheritance exists. By testamentary disposition or inheritance contract, the legal succession may be modified within legal limits. The revised Swiss inheritance law entered into force on 1 January 2023. The core of the revision is the testator's freedom of action to comply with changed realities of life and family forms. The statutory succession remains unaffected by the revision of the law, whereas the forced heirship is being adjusted (more on this below).

Intestate succession:

The intestate heirs are determined by the so-called “parentelic system”. There are three parentelas: the first parentela includes the descendants of the deceased person (children, grandchildren, etc.), the second one includes the parents with their descendants and the third one includes the grandparents with their descendants. More distant parentelas are not entitled to inherit. If the deceased leaves one heir of a closer parentela, the relatives of a more distant parentela are excluded from the legal succession. Within the same parentela, the respective heirs inherit equal parts (according to statutory inheritance law, subject to contrary dispositions).

Surviving spouses and registered partners are also intestate heirs, but they’re not part of a parentela. They must share their claim with members of a possible parentela. How much remains for them depends on who they’re sharing with (art. 462 CC):

If they share with members of the first parentela: they receive 50% of the estate

If they share with members of the second parentela: they receive 75% of the estate

With members of the third parentela, they don’t have to share and receive the entire estate.

If the deceased leaves no heirs, his/her estate passes to the state authority (art. 466 CC).

Please note that domestic/unmarried partners are not intestate heirs and therefore have to be favored by testamentary disposition or inheritance contract to receive any participation. If such persons shall be considered as beneficiaries of an estate, the respective tax laws need to be taken into consideration as so-called third parties are taxed at a higher rate in most Swiss cantons whereas intestate heirs can mostly inherit tax free.

Testamentary succession:

A person is capable of disposing his or her property, if he/she has capacity of judgement and is at least 18 years old (art. 467 et seq. CC). Under Swiss law, the disposal is possible in the form of a testamentary disposition (i.e., a last will) or in the form of a contract of inheritance (art. 498 et seq. CC).

Content-wise, the testator has several types of disposition; namely naming of heirs, burdens and conditions, legacies, etc.

The testator may make his/her will in the form of a public deed (made by a public official/notary/other authorized person), as a holographic will (must be handwritten by the testator from start to finish, include a date and be signed by the testator) or in oral form (if the testator is not able to use any of the other forms due to extraordinary circumstances; e.g., imminent risk of death).

By contract of succession, the testator can commit him- or herself to bequeath his/her estate or a legacy to the contractual partner or a third party. Testamentary dispositions or gifts that are incompatible with obligations entered into under the contract of succession are subject to challenge. The testator may also conclude an inheritance renunciation contract with an heir with or without valuable consideration (art. 494 et seq. CC).

The extent of the ability of disposal depends on whether the testator leaves descendants, parents, a spouse/registered partner or not. If not, the testator may dispose of his/her entire property by testamentary disposition. If he/she does bequeath any of the mentioned, the so-called compulsory portions must be observed.

Under the forced heirship principle, the compulsory portion is a quota of the statutory hereditary title, i.e., a “minimum” in which the testator may not intervene (art. 470 et seq. CC). This rate is an important component of the revision as of 1 January 2023 (see the changes in the table below).

If the testator has exceeded his/her testamentary freedom, those heirs who don’t receive the full value of their compulsory portion may sue to have the disposition abated to the permitted amount. However, if no such claims are asserted, the testamentary disposition is principally valid despite these violations.

During his or her lifetime, a person is generally free to dispose of his or her assets; he or she may also make gifts or other free disposals of assets. However, if such pecuniary advantages are granted to intestate heirs, they are subject to a legal equalization (art. 626 et seq. CC). The law contains different rules depending on the category of heirs as to what the heirs must deduct from their share of the inheritance.

If an interested heir or legatee has the apprehension that the deceased may have lacked testamentary capacity or the testamentary disposition may be a product of lack of free will or its content/a condition attached to it may be immoral or unlawful, he/she has the possibility to bring an action of declaration of invalidity before court (art. 519 et seq. CC).

Please note that, while there is no federal inheritance tax, most cantons claim an inheritance tax. However, spouses and direct descendants are often exempted from it.

According to PILA, Swiss courts – both in the event of divorce and death – generally have jurisdiction and apply Swiss law in many cases, especially if no action is taken. In detail:

In case of divorce:

According to PILA, Swiss courts have jurisdiction in case of divorce if the defendant is resident in Switzerland or if the plaintiff has resided in Switzerland for at least one year or is a Swiss citizen. Swiss courts will apply Swiss law; the subsequent effects of divorce and separation are also governed by Swiss law (see above; art. 59 et seq. PILA).

Regarding marital property law specifically: Swiss courts have jurisdiction. However, spouses have the possibility of choosing a martial property law. The choice must be agreed in writing or result with certainty from the provisions of a marriage contract. They can choose from different laws: (a) the law of the state in which they are both domiciled or will be domiciled after the celebration of marriage, (b) the law of the place of the celebration of marriage or (c) the law of a state of which either of them is a citizen. In the absence of a choice of law, the law of the state in which both spouses are resident will apply. If they reside in different states, the law of the state they were last resident at the same time will apply (art. 51 et seq. PILA).

In case of death:

Swiss courts/administrative authorities have jurisdiction if the deceased’s last place of residence was in Switzerland. The estate will generally be governed by Swiss law. However, if the testator is a foreigner, he/she may submit his/her estate by will or contract of succession to the law of one of his/her states of citizenship (such submission lapses if, at the time of death, the deceased was no longer such a citizen or acquired Swiss citizenship (art. 86 et seq. PILA). The validity of the will shall also be governed by the Hague Convention on the Form of Testamentary Dispositions.