If you’re dying to see a movie about a sinking ship, then dive in and see “Poseidon.” If you’re looking for a quality action film, you will be gasping for air because this movie won’t float your boat.

“Poseidon” is a remake of the 1972 film, “The Poseidon Adventure.” The plot is the same as the original. A luxury liner is sailing on New Year’s Eve when a giant wave flips the ship over and everyone fights for survival.

The new “Poseidon” is all action. There is no character development before disaster strikes within moments of the opening credits.

Kurt Russell is the only standout in the cast and the veteran action star brings back memories of his glory days in the mid-1980s. Kevin Dillon makes an unforgettable cameo. By unforgettable, I mean you won’t forget it because his performance is so bad. You’ll just have to see it to believe it.

Another problem is believability. There is none. The entire project feels fake, and even the background actors call attention to themselves. People at my screening were laughing when humor was not supposed to be present.

I took my friend, Katie, who is a registered nurse. Katie pointed out many of the technical flaws of the film and my wardrobe. She also noticed how a fireman incorrectly performs CPR. There are many other moments like these where the filmmakers don’t pay attention to details, and it shows.

There are some good things about “Poseidon.” It is very terrifying at times and you do feel like you’re trapped on a ship. If you experience any type of claustrophobia, you will want to avoid this film at all costs.

The editing and musical score are also solid. Some of the special effects are cheesy and resemble a video game, but that’s par for the course for an action movie these days.

“Poseidon” is a decent date film but the subject matter is so depressing, you’ll leave the theater in a horrible mood and you’ll never want to go on a cruise again. I’ve seen plenty of films that are worse than “Poseidon,” but I expected a lot and the studio didn’t deliver the goods. It’s a perfect rental movie and I highly suggest waiting until it comes out on DVD.

“Poseidon” has the hook of being a remake and the lines from a classic novel, but it’s still a sinker and it never made it to Matt’s entertainment shore.