Please Murder Me is a film noir movie title that grabs your attention. This under the radar film noir was released in 1956. The movie gives viewers an opportunity to experience Raymond Burr and Angela Lansbury in their younger years. Please Murder Me was directed by Peter Godfrey. Godfrey also directed the underappreciated film noir The Two Mrs. Carrolls (1947). That film is the only onscreen pairing of Hollywood heavyweights Barbara Stanwyck and Humphrey Bogart.

Please Murder Me starts with a mysterious sequence. As the film opens an unknown male figure is walking down a street at night. The time is unknown, but it is clear that the hour is late. His destination is unclear, but there is a purpose in his stride. Soon he enters into a pawn shop, where he purchases a handgun. The unknown figure exits the shop and hails a taxi. As the taxi drives away the unknown man loads the gun. When he arrives at his intended location the name and profession of the man is revealed. The taxi drops him off at an office. As he enters, his name and title are on the door: Craig Carlson, Attorney At Law.

Once inside of his office he turns on a desk lamp, which barely illuminates the immediate area. As he sits at the desk he places the loaded gun and a thick case file into a desk drawer. He then opens another drawer that contains a reel to reel tape recorder. To this point in the movie we have only seen a brief glimpse of his face. Even with the desk lamp lit, his face is enshrouded in shadows. As he presses the record button we hear his voice for the first time. He addresses the recording to a man named Ray Willis. He than states that in fifty five minutes he will be murdered. As he moves closer to the desk the face of Craig Carlson, the movie’s protagonist, is shown clearly. Carlson begins to tell a story of his relationship with Joe Leeds, his long time friend. This leads into a series of flashback sequences that will take up the bulk of the movie.

The initial flashback takes place in Craig’s office a few months prior. Craig and his friend Joe Leeds are in the attorney’s office causally discussing business. Craig soon turns the conversation to Joe’s marriage. He knows that Joe has been unhappy in his marriage for some time. Craig tells his friend that he has been spending more and more time with Joe’s neglected wife Myra. While Joe has been spending nights working in the office, Craig and Myra have been meeting as friends. Craig then reveals to his friend that he has fallen in love with Myra. Craig requests that Joe divorce Myra so that he can marry her. Obviously taken aback, Joe tells Craig to give him a few days to think the situation over. He than abruptly leaves Craig’s office.

A few days later Joe is in his office talking to Lou Kararian, a business partner. Their conversation soon turns to the state of Joe’s marriage to Myra. It is apparent to Lou that there are some issues in the Leeds household, however Joe is reluctant to go into details. Joe asks a favor of Lou and gives him a letter to mail. He then calls Myra to tell her that he will be home early to have a discussion with her. Joe is visibly nervous and agitated. When Joe arrives home Myra is sitting on the bed waiting for him. Joe closes the bedroom door abruptly and soon after a gunshot rings out.

In the next scene the police and Craig are present inside of the Leeds apartment. Joe has been shot dead and Myra states that she killed him in self defense. Myra is questioned by the police. Despite her claim of innocence they want to charge Myra with the murder of her husband. Myra tells the police that when Joe came home he flew into a violent rage. She feared that he was going to kill her, so she was forced to shoot him dead to protect herself. With no witnesses to the shooting the case is based purely on the physical evidence present at the scene.

Craig agrees to represent Myra in court, believing that everything occurred just as Myra said it had. During the long trial several witnesses are called by both sides. Myra eventually takes the stand and presents her account of the shooting. With conviction and legal smarts Craig successfully defends Myra against the charge of murder. During his closing arguments he delivers a stunning bit of information that sways the jury.

With Myra cleared of the charge of murder she and Craig are now free to move on with their life together. Craig then pushes forward with their plan to get married. In the world of film noir things never quite go as planned. Myra’s past will soon play an important role in the story. Joe Leeds may be dead and buried, but he still has a part to play in the life of Craig and Myra.

The situations that ensue after Myra is found innocent will test the strength of their relationship. As the story progresses the motivations and true intentions of the lead players are revealed. The movie has a few plot twists, some minor and some major. Angela Lansbury, as Myra Leeds, may have top billing, but Raymond Burr, as Craig Carlson, is clearly the star of the movie. The two have good chemistry together, but Burr’s strong presence and performance carry the film. The few supporting players in the movie are solid and they do their part to advance the storyline.

Please Murder Me is a lesser known film noir. It is not a must see film noir like Double Indemnity or Out Of The Past. However, fans of the genre should enjoy the film. Overall the movie is shot well, including some moody location night time shots. The storyline in engaging. Some of the plot points may be predictable, but there are enough surprises to keep viewers on their toes. If you are looking for a film noir to watch, after viewing the classics of the genre, then Please Murder Me is a good choice.

Troy T.