I'm re-reading Saiyuki (and eventually Reload) and posting my meta-musings on each story arc as I go.

Have just completed Volume 2 on my own journal, so below the cut are links to my thoughts on yaoi the chapters in volumes 1 and 2 of the manga.

Please be warned that they contain spoilers for:

The Saiyuki Manga, volumes 1-9

The Saiyuki Reload Manga, volumes 1-9, and the latest chapters from ZEROSUM which can be found at saiyuki_manga

The Saiyuki Gaiden Manga, volumes 1-4, and the latest chapters from WARD which can be found at saiyuki_manga

The Gensoumaden Saiyuki Anime, the Saiyuki Reload Anime, and the Saiyuki Reload Gunlock Anime

The movie -- "Saiyuki: Requiem for the one not chosen"

The Saiyuki Burial OVAs

The various translated-into-English snippets I have come across of Saiyuubito (the ultimate guide to Saiyuki)

The various translated-into-English snippets of the Saiyuki Drama Disc CDs that I have come across, kindly translated and shared by elfsoto/konnyakuhonyaku

The links below go to my livejournal and my dreamwidth account.

VOLUME ONE

Chapter Title Links My thoughts on... ProloguePrologue Arc: LJDW...different versions of the Saiyuki legend, thoughts on how Minekura's Saiyuki might end, and the human/youkai and magic/technology interaction no-nos. 1 First game Arc: LJ DW

Chapter: LJ DW ...why the Minus Wave was triggered, technology in Saiyuki, women in Saiyuki and ikkou dynamics. 2Even Arc: LJ DW

Chapter: LJ DW...when Kougaiji/Gyokumen/Lirin/etc were revived/released, ikkou dynamics and Hakkai and Gojyo's tragic, tragic dress sense. 3Get square Arc: LJ DW

Chapter: LJ DW...makai tenjou, human-youkai interactions, and ikkou-bickering. 4His god Arc: LJDW

Chapter: LJDW...Sanzo's Sanzo-ness, oddly defenceless Buddhist temples, and ikkou dynamics. 5My god Arc: LJDW

Chapter: LJDW...Burial Arc!Sanzo vs. current!Sanzo, introduction to Kougaiji and his troup.

VOLUME TWO

Chapter Title Links My thoughts on... 6Cleaning beautyArc: LJ DW

Chapter: LJ DW ...Gojyo's tragic past, why he wears those awful, awful pants, and human-youkai interactions. 7 CrimsonArc: LJ DW

Chapter: LJ DW ...half-breed status, and ikkou-as-family. 8Drugs and boozeArc: LJDW

Chapter: LJDW...Hakkai's tragic past, Kougaiji's leadership style vs. Sanzo's leadership style, and Yaone's tragic past. 9CharismaticArc: LJDW

Chapter: LJDW...parallels between Yaone and Kanan, and ikkou dynamics.10RainArc: LJ DW

Chapter: LJ DW...Sanzo's tragic past, Sanzo's Sanzofication, Shuei and his weirdness, and Sanzo and rainy nights.11Shower of bulletsArc: LJ DW

Chapter: LJ DW...parallels between this Rikudo story arc and the Hazel story arc (both priests who are obsessed with (a) Sanzo and (b) wiping out youkai), and links with Gaiden.