“A spoonful of sugar helps the medicine goes down,” is what Julie Andrews sang as Mary Poppins. The thought that some joy helps to combat the struggle. This is how I think of Le Tigre, the electronic, punk, art rock group formed by Kathleen Hanna in the late ’90s. The band formed shortly after the dissolution of Hanna’s first band Bikini Kill. Le Tigre fights against inequalities with lyrics around feminism and politics, set against a highly danceable and empowering beat. Shit, as a teen in Ohio—they were the first place I learned how Rudolph Giuliani can be a real troll (go listen to “My My Metrocard”).

In this final week of July 2023, they are wrapping up their first tour in nearly 20 years. The last time they performed in Boston was in November of 2003 at the Roxy. Ironically, or perhaps intentionally, this July 24 show was in the same space now called Royale. Hanna, along with Johanna Fateman and JD Samson emerged amidst giant letters projected in a Lite-Brite aesthetic. Hanna declared, “Tonight’s gonna be like our basement party,” but was quick to joke that instead of having a big bottle of vodka, she was looking forward to a Diet Dr. Pepper. “I may seem like your mom with too many sangria. But I’m 10 months sober!”

The self-aware, honest stage banter has always been a strength of Hanna’s. Encouraging all to enjoy their shows and sharing her own challenges displays the connection she shares with the audience. Things aren’t ideal, but everyone is in the room together for fun and for progress. Throw in tambourines and thick, distorted riffs—and that’s Le Tigre. The crowd cheered and shimmied with their classics, “TKO,” “Hot Topic,” and of course “My My Metrocard.”

Alongside the keyboard prior to “Viz,” Samson shared some back story. “This is from a straight fashionista show where people were real mean to me… but (I) was there to take up space. I urge you all to take up space and scream visibility while you do it!” The queer joy and resilient, danceable rhythms were a powerful declaration of Samson’s refusal to “blend in.” This brought massive cheers of support.

In the final songs of their set, the band went off stage and returned in all black and white. These were a swap from the previous look that Hanna referred to as an “outfit like a magician box, hiding her sweet dance moves.” With projections of bright colors and patterns elegantly hodgepodged together, it was like an art school Marimekko mashup. A stark visual treat to serve as an exclamation point to beloved songs like “Deceptacon.”

Throughout the Le Tigre tour have been a diverse set of opening bands. For their third and final night of the tour, cumgirl8 of Manhattan, NY took the stage to start the evening. The self-described “sex-positive alien amoeba entity,” was a perfect fit. Post-punk rumblings and poignant lyrics held them firmly in position as a new wave of much-needed dissent.

Le Tigre