Hyderabad, August 12, 2022

CriticalRiver, a global digital and technology consulting services company, today announced that it is extending support to Kriti Social Initiatives’ Buniyaad program as part of its community development initiative to commemorate India’s 75th Independence Day. Kriti Social Initiatives is a non-profit that works with the urban poor and has initiated the Buniyaad program to support over 400 children who lost access to primary education (classes 1 and 2) during the pandemic.

CriticalRiver assisted the non-profit organization with INR 11.5 lakhs to support the Buniyaad initiative that focuses on bridging the learning gap among students by helping them get back to grade level by attending a two-hour physical class after school. The donation also included a contribution from CriticalRiver employees who enthusiastically contributed to the cause.

Speaking at the occasion, Anji Maram, Founder, and CEO of CriticalRiver said, “As an organization, CriticalRiver has always found innovative ways to give back to the community it operates in and positively impact the lives of many. A sound foundation in education is vital to building a brighter future for all. And we are incredibly proud to partner with the Kriti Foundation and support their Buniyaad program in this direction.” He further added, “CriticalRiver is engaged in several community-focused and CSR initiatives, such as raising funds for underprivileged students, working with non-profits to promote the Indian Literacy Program, and more.”

About CriticalRiver

CriticalRiver is a trusted digital technology consulting company with a demonstrated track record of successful implementations that drive Digital Transformation, Digital Experience Management, Digital Engagement, and Digital Engineering. We deploy and offer digitally led services for CRM, ERP, Cloud Applications, Integration, Business Intelligence, Data Analytics, and Software Engineering Solutions by leveraging our skills and capabilities in cutting-edge technologies. Our highly experienced consultants and architects understand customer needs and deliver strategic, personalized solutions that harness innovative tech and industry best practices. We are also technology partners for Salesforce, Oracle, Microsoft Azure, NetSuite, AWS, Workato, LogiSense, Boomi, Snowflake, MuleSoft, Tableau, and Avolin for consulting implementations, managed, and advisory services.

We help enterprises simplify, automate, improve, and enhance operations and processes to scale and grow.

The company has an 800+ strong team operating from a wide global network of offices in USA, India, UAE, Qatar, Australia, Philippines, Costa Rica, Brazil, and Uruguay.

For more details, please visit – https://www.criticalriver.com/