2. ANCESTORS • My Great-Grandmother Hannah Hirrell(Cahill), was born in the county of Donegal Ireland in 1897. She immigrated to the US with her brother, Owen Hirrell, on board the SS Tuscanta from Londonderry, England Sept.22, 1923. They landed in Eillis Island and were admitted to the US on Oct.4,1923 to begin their new lives;Owen as a laborer and Hannah as a Domestic in Sommerville, MA. • My Great-great grandfather Patrick Cahill was born in Galway Ireland.

3. REPUBLIC GOVERNMENT • A state in which the supreme power rests in the body of citizens entitled to vote and is exercised by representatives chosen directly or indirectly by them.

4. EARLY HISTORY • Relics from the Stone Age led to the conclusion that Ireland is 8,000 years old, the first settlers probably traveling from Scandinavia to Scotland (at that time England was still linked by land to northern Europe) then across what was a narrow sea gap to Ireland. These early settlers beame the Tribes of Firbolg and Tuatha De Dannann when they were invaded by the Milesius of Spain around 1,000 B.C.. Today's Irish Race is a combination of the three-above mentioned tribes known as the one Celtic Race. After the Bronze Age and during the Iron Age around 400 A.D., brought about new technologies . The large Roman Empire stopped short of Ireland although dominating most of Europe. The Vikings began invasions of Ireland in the 9th Century. In 1171 King Henry of England asserted sovereignty with the building of abbey-churches and castles.

5. GEOGRAPHICS Ireland, Republic of (Gaelic Éire), republic comprising about five-sixths of the island of Ireland. the country consists of the provinces of Leinster, Munster, and Connaught, and part of the province of Ulster. The rest of Ulster, which occupies the northeastern part of the island, constitutes Northern Ireland, a constituent part of Great Britain. The republic has a total area of 70,283 sq km.

6. THE IRISH CIVIL WAR 1922- 1923 The Irish Civil War was one of the many conflicts that followed in the wake of the First World War. By the standards of the 'Great War' it was very small indeed; roughly 3,000 deaths were inflicted over a period of eleven months, probably less than the average casualties suffered on the Western Front during a quiet week.s with all civil wars, this conflict generated extremes of bitterness that have haunted public and political life in Ireland up to the present day.

7. ENDING THE WAR On 11 July, 1921, a Truce came into effect ending the Irish War of Independence which had lasted for over thirty months. While the war had succeeded in forcing the British to the negotiating table, it had also exposed serious divisions within the nationalist movement, divisions that would only be exacerbated by the efforts to reach a lasting peace with Great Britain. The war had begun in the wake of the overwhelming success in the general election of December 1918 of 'Sinn Fein', the nationalist political party founded by Arthur Griffith. Following party policy, the Sinn Fein candidates who had been elected to parliament in London abstained from attending and, instead, formed their own legislative body, known as the 'Dail Eireann', headed by Eamonn de Valera as President.

8. COMPARE The government of Ireland is similar to the United States in that it is a Republic. It has a legal system and Supreme Court very similar to the United States. Rather than states, Ireland has many counties and it is quite confusing with how their individual governing works.

9. SEPARATING THE COUNTIES • Ireland is made up of 32 counties. • 26 of them are in the Republic of Ireland which include; Donegal, Monaghan, Cavan, Kerry, Cork, Waterford, Clare, Tipperary, Limerick, Clare, Dublin, Meath, Kildare, Offaly, Carlow, Westmeath, Wexford, Wicklow, Kilkenny, Laois, Louth, Longford, Galway, Mayo, Roscommon, Leitrim, Sligo. • The other 6 are in Northern Ireland; Ermanagh, Antrim, Tyrone, Down, Armagh, Derry.

10. IRISH CONSTITUTION Constitution Bunreacht na hEireann (meaning 'Basic Law of Ireland') is the Irish Constitution. It is the fundamental legal document that sets out how Ireland should be governed and the rights of Irish citizens. Main Institutions of the state The Irish Constitution establishes and describes the main institutions of the Irish state. Fundamental Rights under the Irish Constitution The Irish Constitution recognises and declares that you have certain fundamental personal rights. These rights are natural human rights - they come from being human and are confirmed and protected by the Constitution. Property Rights The Irish Constitution declares that you have a right to own property. Explanation of your rights. Right to Life

11. IRISH CONSTITUTION Right to Personal Liberty The right to personal liberty, as guaranteed by the Irish Constitution. Inviolability of Dwelling The inviolability of dwelling, a right that is guaranteed by the Irish Constitution. Religious Liberty The right to religious liberty, as guaranteed by the Irish Constitution. Right to Freedom of Association The right to freedom of association, as guaranteed by the Irish Constitution. Right to Earn a Livelihood The right to earn a livelihood, as guaranteed by the Irish Constitution. Right to Freedom of Assembly The right to freedom of assembly, as set down in the Irish Constitution. Right to Fair Procedures The right to fair procedures, as set down in the Irish Constitution.

12. IRISH CONSTITUTION Right to Privacy The right to privacy, as guaranteed by the Irish Constitution. Right to Trial by Jury The right to trial by jury, as guaranteed by the Irish Constitution. Right to Bodily Integrity The right to bodily integrity, as guaranteed by the Irish Constitution. Equality before the Law Equality before the law, as set down in the Irish Constitution. Right to Freedom of Expression The right to freedom of expression, as guaranteed by the Irish Constitution. Rights of the family Families in Ireland have certain rights and privileges that are set down by Bunreacht na hÉireann (the Irish Constitution). Freedom to Travel Freedom to travel, as guaranteed by the Irish Constitution.

13. The law of the Republic of Ireland consists of constitutional, statute and common law. The highest law in the Republic is the Constitution of Ireland, from which all other law derives its authority. The Republic has acommon-law legal system with a written constitution that provides for a parliamentary democracy based on the British parliamentary system.

14. How they are different • In order to pass an amendment to the Irish Constitution, the process is not as big as if you were passing on in America. Referendum is what they call it. An amendment must be approved by both Houses of the Oireachtas, then submitted to the Referendum then signed by the president.

15. Historical Methods The Constitution has also been amended by two other ways. The Constitution provided that, for an initial period of four years, from 1937 to 1941, it could be amended by a simple Act of the Oireachtas without a referendum. The First and Second Amendments were adopted in this way. However, as a safeguard to prevent wholesale changes after it had been approved by the people, the President of Ireland, was given the right to decline to sign a Bill amending the constitution until the amendment had been voted on by the people if he believed that the amendment materially changed the whole Constitution.

16. PREVIOUS CONSTITUTIONS Prior to the adoption of the Constitution of Ireland in 1937, the state was governed under two other documents: the Dáil Constitution of the short-lived 1919–1922 Irish Republic and the constitution of the 1922–1937 Irish Free State. Each used different formal procedures for amendment of the text. The Dáil Constitution was enacted by Dáil Éireann (which was at that time a single chamber legislature) as an ordinary act of parliament. As a result it could be amended by simple vote of the legislature.