Hardik Pandya Indian cricketer (born 1993)

0 0

rank #1 · WDW 2

Hardik Himanshu Pandya (born 11 October 1993) is an Indian international cricketer who plays for Baroda in domestic cricket and Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League (IPL). He is an all-rounder who bats right-handed and bowls right-arm fast-medium. His elder brother Krunal Pandya is also an international cricketer.

Cricketers at the 2019 Cricket World Cup · 156T

Cricketers from Surat · 9T

Cricketers from Gujarat · 34T

Bhogilal Pandya Pandyaji

0 0

rank #2 · 2

Bhogilal Pandya was a freedom fighter and social worker from Dungarpur in the Indian state of Rajasthan. On 3 April 1976, the Government of India awarded him the Padma Bhushan for his social services. The Padma Bhushan is the third-highest civilian award in the Republic of India, given for distinguished service to the nation. For his championing of education and rights for the poor and underprivileged, he is referred by the people of Rajasthan as "Gandhi of Vahgad". His home is in the Gandhi aashram area of Dungarpur.

Social workers from Rajasthan · 14T

Scholars from Rajasthan · 32T

People from Dungarpur · 7T

Ameya Pandya Indian actor

0 0

rank #3 ·

Amey Pandya is an Indian film and television child actor. He made his debut on the big screen with the role of Rahul in the film Vivah and was cast in Ek Vivah Aisa Bhi (2008). He has also been in ads including Dabur Honey (with Amitabh Bachchan), Sunfeast, Dabur Chavanshakti, Savlon and Alpenliebe (Perfetti). He also played in the film Swami and Laaga Chunari Mein Daag. He has also acted in the TV serials Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi, Kaisa Ye Pyar Hai and Kesar. He performed on reality dance competition show Zara Nachke Dikha, which aired on Star One (2008). He is currently in the jury council of Surf Excel's Li'l Star Awards

21st-century Indian male child actors · 32T

Indian male child actors · 105T

Indian male television actors · 887T

Mohanlal Pandya Person

0 0

rank #4 ·

Mohanlal Pandya was an Indian freedom fighter, social reformer and one of the earliest followers of Mahatma Gandhi. Along with fellow Gandhians like Narhari Parikh and Ravi Shankar Vyas, Pandya was a key organizer of nationalist revolts in Gujarat, and a leading figure in the fight against alcoholism, illiteracy, untouchability, and a major proponent of women's freedoms and Gandhian values.

Indian social reformers · 181T

Social reformers · 333T

Indian independence activists from Gujarat · 66T

Abhijit Pandya American blogger

0 0

rank #6 ·

Abhijit Pandya (born 19 January 1980 in Harrow, England) is an English solicitor, best known for his representation in the seminal art case concerning the gifted drawings of Francis Bacon in the UK courts. He has also acted for cases concerning freedom of speech in the UK, including against the UK Home Secretary Teresa May. As a lawyer he is also known for his work in the field of investment treaty dispute resolution, including academic commentary. He has also, by invitation, written on international arbitration and investment arbitration for the widely read internet magazine 'ACQ5' that has 110,000 readers on the internet. He has frequently appeared on radio discussing international law and territorial disputes, and has appeared on television on numerous occasions discussing international law and human rights.

United Kingdom Independence Party people · 31T

People from Harrow (London borough) · 19T

English people of Ugandan descent · 31T

Krunal Pandya Indian cricketer (born 1991)

0 0

rank #8 ·

Krunal Himanshu Pandya (born 24 March 1991) is an Indian international cricketer. He is an all-rounder who bats left-handed and bowls slow left-arm orthodox. He plays for Baroda in domestic cricket, and for Mumbai Indians in the IPL. He made his international debut for the Indian cricket team in November 2018.

Indian A cricketers · 31T

Cricketers from Surat · 9T

Cricketers from Gujarat · 34T

Haren Pandya Indian politician

0 0

rank #9 ·

Haren Pandya was the Home Minister of Gujarat in India. He was murdered in 2003 in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, when he was sitting in his car (the place of his murder is contentious), after a morning walk in the Law Garden area in Ahmedabad.

2000s murders in India · 47T

2003 murders in Asia · 26T

Bharatiya Janata Party politicians from Gujarat · 162T