He was a “classic fool!” But did Alan Rickman’s Harry and Emma Thompson’s Karen survive his possible affair in the beloved 2003 holiday flick Love Actually? New details have surfaced about the fate of the characters’ marriage thanks to Emma Freud, the British broadcaster and longtime partner of Love Actually writer and director Richard Curtis.

Freud, 53, live-tweeted the film while attending a screening of it with Curtis, answering fans’ burning questions on Sunday, December 13. Many seemed confused by Harry and Karen’s outcome after that gut-wrenching Joni Mitchell scene — in which she weeps about her husband’s affair while listening to the artist’s CD in her bedroom before pulling herself back together — and Karen’s confrontation with her husband at their kids’ school play.

In the final scene of the movie, Karen and their two kids pick up Harry from the airport, and the exchange seems strained. So when one fan asked what happened to their marriage, Freud replied, “@JPerlstrom they stay together but home isn’t as happy as it once was.”

Another loyal viewer noted that Freud’s response was rather depressing, to which she replied, “@Matt_Hambly @mikeyharvey but they stay together, so that’s something. and time heals etc blah?”

As for whether or not Harry actually cheated on his wife or merely gave his curvaceous employee Mia (Heike Makatsch) a gold necklace for Christmas, Freud had another painful answer.

“Originally Rowan’s character over-wrapped the gift on purpose to stop Alan rickman being able to buy the necklace. Because he was an angel,” she tweeted of Rowan Atkinson’s jewelry salesman character in the film. A fan replied, “@emmafreud Did anyone ask if Harry ACTUALLY had an affair or was just tempted to? Alan Rickman villains r usually lovable but not this one!”

Sadly, Freud answered, “@carlotta429 DEFINITELY had an affair. i begged richard just to make it a flirtation, but no. the whole way.”

Tell Us: Are you surprised Harry and Karen stayed together in the end?