Steeped in the grand tradition of the American songbook, Gary Clark Jr. has emerged as a 21st-century rock ‘n’ roll messiah; a blues virtuoso who blends in reggae, punk, R&B, hip-hop, and soul, re-shaping the genre for our present day. He’s been doing his thing since he was a kid in Austin, Texas, but made global waves in 2014 following his first GRAMMY Award®: Best Traditional R&B Performance for “Please Come Home” from his 2012 Warner Records debut Blak and Blu.

Clark ascended to greater heights in 2019 with his third full-length album, the sensual and socially conscious This Land, which came in at #6 on the Billboard Top 200, making it his third consecutive Top 10 debut. This Land has tallied over 1 billion global streams and garnered critical acclaim from The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, Rolling Stone, Pitchfork, and many more. Clark’s U.S. tours became instant sell-outs. He topped bills internationally at legendary festivals and venues like the Hollywood Bowl, made stadium appearances supporting and sharing the stage with The Rolling Stones, and performed at the White House for the Obamas.

In 2020, Clark won three more times at the 62nd GRAMMY Awards®, taking home awards for Best Rock Performance and Best Rock Song (“This Land”), and Best Contemporary Blues Album (This Land). He performed “This Land” backed by The Roots during the ceremony, later releasing the live version as a single. To date, Clark has six GRAMMY Award® nominations and four wins. He has performed all over national TV, making stops at Saturday Night Live, The Late Show with Stephen Colbert, The Ellen DeGeneres Show, The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon, The Late Late Show with James Corden, Jimmy Kimmel Live!, Good Morning America, CBS News Sunday, CBS This Morning, The Today Show, Late Night with Seth Meyers, The Daily Show with Trevor Noah, The Howard Stern Show, WTF with Marc Maron and more.

Clark has recorded countless collaborations including Stevie Wonder, Andra Day, John Legend, Alicia Keys, Foo Fighters, Nas, Sheryl Crow, Brandi Carlile, Eric Clapton, Tom Morello, Gustavo Santaolalla, Booker T. Jones, and many more. In April of 2022, Clark served as the official Music Director for Jon Stewart’s acceptance of the 23rd Annual Mark Twain Prize for American Humor in the Kennedy Center Concert Hall. Clark and Bruce Springsteen performed “Come Together” which aired nationally on PBS. Clark has appeared in multiple films and TV series, including starring in Baz Luhrmann’s Elvis as Arthur “Big Boy” Crudup. Gary Clark Jr., currently putting the final touches on his anxiously awaited fourth studio album, is a generational artist whose music defies boundaries and continues to bring audiences together around the world.