Polar Ayers 2012 account of how King Juan of Spain (who had not yet abdicated) and Queen Sofia had been separated for 35 years, meaning that Queen Sofia had lived like a nun for 35 years.

Two months after he became king, Juan Carlos I revealed his "lustful" nature, and one day he invited his lover to his hacienda for a haircut, and Queen Sofia caught him in the act.

Legally speaking, Sofia was the queen of Spain and the nominal wife of Juan Carlos I. It is estimated that Juan Carlos I had 1500 or even 5000 lovers during his lifetime, but of course, this is just an exaggeration.

The list of Juan Carlos I's lovers grew over time, although Queen Sofia gave birth to two princesses and a prince during this time.

From the beginning, Juan Carlos I considered his wife as a "contract wife" and Queen Sofia's role in the marriage was only wishful thinking.

It is said that before he met Sofia, Juan was already with a noble lady in Italy, and according to the Spanish media, she gave birth to his illegitimate daughter.

The woman was not the queen Franco had in mind, so Juan had to choose according to Franco's wishes.

In 1954 at the royal wedding Juan met Princess Sofia who came to attend the event, Sofia fell in love with him at first sight, so in the crowd of people, Juan chose to get together with Princess Sofia of Greece.

The face of Prince Juan's indifference Princess Sofia chooses to face calmly or simply Sofia thinks time will change everything, in the wedding photos Princess Sofia always looks at his prince with affection.

Princess Sofia changed her religion for the prince and also learned Spanish for him, if she could Princess Sofia would willingly go through fire and water for Prince Juan, but she did not know that in fact, his husband did not love her.

After his marriage, Juan Carlos I would not spend most of his time with his wife, choosing to spend his time with other women in a different residence.

The king and queen of Spain have been living separately since the moment they were caught in bed and Juan Carlos I confessed to Queen Sofia.

Despite being married, Queen Sofia lived more like a quiet nun, as if they had never been married.

Of her husband's behavior as a princess in exile, Queen Sofia had no choice but to put up with it.

Although her husband chose to betray his trust, Queen Sofia chose to be loyal to her country and her family.

Queen Sofia took an active role as a mother and raised her children alone while Juan Carlos I was not doing his job.

So in the impression of the children only their mother taught them how to behave and also taught them about the royal family and diplomatic etiquette.

In her life the only hope is to hope that her son will soon be outstanding, so she devotes all her efforts to cultivating her son.

The arbitrary Juan Carlos I eventually paid the price for his actions, to make more wealth Juan Carlos I participated in many cases of corruption, the complacent Juan Carlos I finally fell into the hands of his mistress.

The moment when Juan Carlos I signed the abdication document Queen Sofia expressed her feelings with a sad look, this is the first and last time Queen Sofia expressed her dissatisfaction with her marriage.

After the abdication of the throne, Juan Carlos I and Queen Sofia only met on official occasions, and in private they continued to live their lives in their way.