There's one scene in particular that I'm wondering about, which I only really noticed after seeing the movie for at least the 5th or 6th time, when the DVD SE came out earlier this year. It's from the scene where the young Bulgarian wife asks Rick for help in getting to America. I don't think her name is given in the movie, although she says that her husband's name is Jan. The IMDB credits say that the character's name is Annina, so that's what I'll go with here (a trivia note from IMDB, not sure if it's mentioned anywhere on the DVD, is that the actress who played her, Joy Page, was Jack L. Warner's stepdaughter).

One interpretation of this, which would have been scandalous enough back in the early 1940s, is that Renault is "broad-minded" enough to be involved with a married woman. But, am I just a complete fiend for thinking that there also might be a hint of the...er...as an infamous Seinfeld episode put it, "the menage"? Were the original playwrights, or the Epstein twins, or Hal Wallis, or whoever wrote those lines, as shamelessly naughty as I seem to be making them out to be?

actually they didn't slip anything past the censors. IIRC the censors had the original line changed to 'broad-minded' because the original line was to explicit in suggesting that Renault traded visas for sex. I believe this was an especially offensive case for the censors because it was clear that she was married yet prostituting herself.

It's only today that audiences interpret such a line to suggest a 'menage'.

all this and more in The Censorship Papers

Remember that the studios were sending pages of scripts as they were being written for the first stage of approval from the Hayes office and Joseph Breen. Much racier dialogue was toned down in Casablanca, stuff that makes the illicit sex and activities much more explicit. There were also several silly things changed that boggle the mind. :p

adam

Yeah but language and dialogue may have been different then (I wasn't alive so I couldn't tell you) so something that wasn't meant to be a double entendre then could be interpreted as such now.

Take for example when I first read British literature (from the first half of the twentieth century) and read the words "faggot" -meaning a faggot of wood, or "smoked a fag" - meaning to smoke a cigarette.

I was I think in junior high school at the time and thought that I had just read the naughtiest passages and couldn't believe that it had been mandated in school, and then the teacher explained the terms in-class.

Not saying that Casablanca's dialogue wasn't meant as a double-entendre, but that we can't necessarily apply today's dialogue and standards to a movie that is more than 50 years old.

I dunno, man--things weren't really all that different. You're talking about a completely different country and their dialect. America in the 40's is not very different from America today. Adam already gave an example that the entendre WAS intended in Casablanca, and as far as "The Big Sleep" goes, Raymond Chandler was a dirty old man so if you read or watch those movies and think "nah...could it be?" then yeah, it probably was.

The 40's weren't necessarily cleaner and more innocent minded--it was just that writers were sneakier about sliding some digs in there. And to me, that actually makes it a little more naughty. The difference between todays dialog standards and the American 1940's-50's isn't anywhere NEAR as different as today's dialog standards and a completely different countries early 20th century literature.Especially since I doubt you were reading, in those old British novels, about drunk loser gumshoes.

Poor Cary Grant and Bringing Up Baby. He probably regretted that ad-lib almost immediately. (He and Randolf Scott, from many reports, were long time lovers, and Hitchcock was well aware of Grant's bisexuality, and wanted him as the professor in Rope because he knew more sophisticated audience members moight read his character as the former lover of one the murderers...something Stewart would never be able pull off in his performance....Rope would've been the gayest film in Hitchcock's history, with Farley Granger (who was having an affair with the film's screenwriter Arthur Laurents...another thing Hitchcock was well aware of), John Dahl, and Cary Grant all being actors who were either gay or bisexual.)

Anyway, Grant knew what Hitchcock had in mind and did not want to be a part of his gayest film.

Back to Casablanca, I am surprised no one has yet mentioned Louis's line where he says, "If I were a woman, I should be in love with Rick."

Now, certainly 2003, some men are comfortable enough with their sexuality to be aware of when another man has the kind of appeal that they know would be attractive to them if they were the opposite sex, but back then, who knows?

Billy Wilder stated in one interview that he wrote Double Indemnity as a love story between two men,

and Raymond Chandler was not shy about making characters homosexual. In fact, I would say that Sidney Greenstreet's characters in both The Maltese Falcon and Casablanca can be read as a gay man...and we it well known that Peter Lorie's character in The Maltese Falcon was "coded" to read as gay while having it slip past the Hayes comission.

I don't think it would be insupportable to suggest that Louis might be bisexual in Casablanca, but Rick, as presented in the film does not have even the slightest hint of same sex attraction.

Mark