It is the street formerly called "Road Lot No. 12" within the Veloso Subdivision in Barangay Guadalupe. If one is traversing from the Capitol Building going to Guadalupe passing M. Velez turn right at the corner after Andres Abellana St.

Dr. Emilio Osmeña born in 1906, son of Don Sergio Suico Osmeña and Estefania Rosales Chiong Veloso who got married on Apr. 10, 1901. Emilio was a physician and had the rank of lieutenant colonel in the USAFFE before the war and was active in the guerilla movement of Cebu and was executed by the Japanese Imperial Army in 1942. He is then considered a war hero, being one of the first casualties of the Cebuano patriots who stood up against the Japanese.

He married Maria Luisa Oriol Renner (Mary Renner), a German Mestiza whose family owned the "Elite Bakery", established in 1920's and was eventually managed by the new couple. The Maria Luisa Park established in 1965, a high-end residential estate named after her, was managed by the widow, started with a 10-hectare area and was expanded to 200 hectares.

Emilio was a national figure during his younger years, as he was King Consort to Queen Consuelo Acuna, the Miss Philippines, Manila Carnival in 1930. The Miss Carnival was a showcase of US-Philippine friendship, it had spectacular parades and lavish parties attended by the elite of the country, it was held from 1908 to 1939.

The brothers and sisters of Emilio were: Nicasio, Vicenta, Edilberto, Milagros, Maria Paloma, Jesus, Teodoro, Jose and Sergio (Serging) Jr. His father, Don Sergio married again after Estefania (daughter of Nicasio Chiong Veloso, a business tycoon) died on Jan. 18, 1918, two years after giving birth to Serging (Dec. 4, 1916), his second wife was Esperanza Limjap and they had three children.

Emilio had three children, John Henry (Sonny) born on Jan. 17, 1935, who later became city councilor, city mayor, congressman and senator, married Lucy Urgello; another son, Emilio Mario Jr. born on Sept. 11, 1938, married Annette Versoza. Emilio, more known as Lito, was a political prisoner during Martial Law, became Governor of Cebu and was the architect of Ceboom (Cebu Economic Boom). Emilio's only daughter, Annabelle (Annie) married Luis Aboitiz.

City Ordinance No. 87 was ordained by the Municipal Board (though Cebu was already a city then) on Jan. 5, 1950, at that time the Board or the Council was still composed of eight officials, they were: Florentino D. Tecson, Eulogio E. Borres, Carlos J. Cuizon, Jose A. Cavan, Eugenio G. Corro, Casimiro V. Madarang and Jose L. Briones. The City Mayor was Miguel Raffinan, his secretary was Artemio A. Mendoza while the Board Secretary was Pio A. Kabahar.