Don Severino Osmeña is the Patriarch of the Osmeña Clan of Cebu. He was the grandfather of Don Sergio Suico Osmeña, the Grand Old Man of Cebu.

Don Severino married twice and these marriages produced the great business and political leaders of Cebu. The book of Concepcion G. Briones entitled “Life in Parian” published in 1983 provides the lineage.

Don Vicente’s first wife was Vicenta Rita and they had the following children: Eduviges, Tomas (who married Faustina Rafols, he became the father figure of Don Sergio as his children were girls and became nuns) Guillermo, Victoriano, Pedro, Inocenta, Basilia, and Claudia.

His son Victoriano, who married Januaria Cabrera, had the following children: Jose, Carmen, Juanita (who married Arsenio Climaco who became governor of Cebu from 1923 to 1930), Luis (who married Concepcion Climaco), Vicente (who married Remedios Neiz), Fernanda (who married Porferio Velez), and Tomas (who married Filomena Climaco).

Severino, with his second wife Paula Suico, had two children: Don Lazaro (who married Celestina Gandiongco) and Juana, who had a child by the name of Sergio who grew up to become Cebu’s Grand Old Man. He served as the governor of Cebu from 1904 to 1907 and then became the first Speaker of the Philippine Congress and so far the only Cebuano who became president, when he succeeded Don Manuel Quezon when the latter died on August 1, 1944.

Don Sergio married twice. His first wife was Estefania Chiong Veloso who produced the following children: Vicenta, Nicasio, Milagros, Edilberto (who married a Veloso. Their son Renato became Cebu’s disciplinarian vice mayor and another son Rogelio “Jingjing” served as councilor), Dr. Emilio (the martyred military surgeon and colonel during the Japanese occupation, his sons were Emilio, more known as “Lito,” who became the governor of Cebu and the architect of Cebu Boom Economy, and John Henry more known as “Sonny,” who became OIC mayor of Cebu City, councilor, congressman, senator and the mayor of Toledo City), Teodoro, Jose, Maria Paloma, and Sergio Jr., more known as Serging, became the governor of Cebu, Cebu City mayor, congressman, and senator. His son by the name of Tomas became the first elected post-EDSA Cebu City Mayor, and the man who envisioned and made true the South Reclamation Project.

Don Sergio’s second wife, Esperanza Limjap, had the following children: Rosalina, Ramon, and Victor.