History was the one thing that was sure to be made when India embarked on this tour of Pakistan, and in terms of cricket it is proving to be one of humungous scores and close finishes. Pakistan squared the five-match series 1-1 yesterday in another high-scoring thriller, a match in which Sachin Tendulkar became the first batsman to pass 13,000 runs in one-day cricket.

Yet, as with Inzamam-ul-Haq in the spectacular first match in Karachi, Tendulkar's gallant century was not quite enough in the end. More than 1,300 runs have been scored in two matches, and if the modern cricket fan measures the worth of his game in runs then these have been among the greatest successes ever.

After interminable weeks of hype and expectation, the sensation of watching Pakistan and India playing cricket now has a tinge of normalcy. Even so it was a noisy full house in Rawalpindi, a town adjoining the capital Islamabad, and half the match was watched by Pakistan's president General Musharraf, presumably out for some light entertainment before he fields Colin Powell today.

India's bowlers took a grand pounding, their third successive one on this tour. Shahid Afridi, returning to the team from a run that encompassed 10 single-figure scores in 15 innings, swatted and swung his way to a raucous 80, which took him 58 balls. Yasir Hameed, Afridi's opening partner, bent his elbow and laced drives along the ground. Together they raced to 138 by the 19th over and the seeds were sown. Astonishingly, no subsequent Pakistan batsman passed 31 - and this in a total of 329.

Ashish Nehra, hero of India's last-over win in Karachi, braved a swollen ankle to take three important wickets, but split a webbing between the fingers of his bowling hand in the field and will return home.

Tendulkar batted beautifully, particularly as it was a pitch on which he said the ball was "stopping and coming", and strung along a chain of partnerships with the middle order. When he reached his 37th one-day international hundred - and the first by an Indian in Pakistan - this mighty chase looked on. At 245, with his own score on 141, he holed out, sweeping Shoaib Malik, the shot of a tired man.

Only then did the Rawalpindi stadium truly find its voice. Mexican waves swirled around the open stands beneath the night haze as India collapsed to 284 for eight, with Shoaib Akhtar, the homeboy in his 100th one-dayer, firing out two batsmen in two deliveries.

A final scare awaited them as two overs worth 30 runs appeared out of nowhere. But Mohammad Sami, flying in with old ball in hand, shattered Nehra's stumps with eight balls and 13 runs to go and that was that.

It had been a fine victory, but how many more runs must a team score to feel safe? Four hundred, reckoned Inzamam afterwards. We should know in the coming week.