India beat Pakistan by 18 runs

A brilliant century by skipper Mohammad Azharuddin and a blistering 67 off 44 balls by Sachin Tendulkar guided India to a win over Pakistan in the second match of the three-nation Independence Cup at the National Stadium in Dhaka on Sunday.

In response to India's 245 for 8, Pakistan, despite a fighting knock of 77 from Inzamam-ul Haq, fell short by 18 runs

Like Saturday, the game started an hour late due to poor visibility. The umpires, after consulting the match referee, reduced the contest to a 37overs-a-side game instead of the scheduled 50.

India received an early setback after Pakistan skipper Rashid Latif called correctly and put them into bat. Opener Saurav Ganguly, who started flamboyantly hitting two boundaries off debutant Pakistani medium pacer Fazle Akbar in the second over, lost his concentration in the next and was out for 13. For the second day running Saurav got out cheaply, trying to chase a delivery outside the off stump. He was caught by Inzamam at second slip off Aaqib Javed.

India soon got over that setback as Azhar joined Tendulkar; the duo clobbered the Pakistani pacemen and spinners alike. Tendulkar raced to his 38th half century off only 30 deliveries. Both batsmen were in top form and took the total to 92 in just ten overs.

Tendulkar's fine effort ended when he missed the line of a delivery from off-spinner Saqlain Mushtaq, and he was stumped by Rashid Latif. India: 126 for 2. The little master had set the ational Stadium alight with his 11 boundaries. The second wicket partnership produced 112 runs in 13.5 overs.

Tendulkar's exit saw Azhar take charge, well assisted by Navjot Sidhu. The duo posted the 200 of the innings in 28.5 overs, adding 89 runs for the 3rd wicket.

Though Manzoor Akhtar missed a caught-and-bowled opportunity when Sidhu was at 29, Azhar Mahmood got 'Jonty Singh' off his own bowling in the 32nd over. Sidhu's 36 came off 43 balls and included three boundaries.

His departure saw India lose three quick wickets -- Jadeja, Robin Singh and Bahutule. While Jadeja (6) was caught by Akhtar off Saqlain, Robin (1) lofted Aaqib into Saeed Anwar's hands. Bahutule also fell victim to Saqlain and was caught by Afridi, making just one.

Azhar, who hung on at the other end, finally scored his fifth one-day ton, taking a single off the first ball of the last over. With three balls remaining, he went for a big hit and was caught by Azhar Mahmood at deep square leg off Saqlain. His 100 came off 111 deliveries and included seven boundaries. India added just two runs in the remaining three balls.