Minnesota’s water technology sector, one of the brightest spots in the state’s economy, is poised for further growth as water scarcity concerns loom in the western United States and around the world.

The state is home to several big-name players in water technology, a varied corner of the marketplace that spans filtration, engineering and conservation operations, among others. St. Paul-based Ecolab and Pentair, which keeps its U.S. headquarters in Golden Valley, are among its biggest names.

Those larger companies, plus about 1,000 others of varying sizes, propelled Minnesota’s water sector to new prominence between 2004 and 2014 – a trend expected to continue in coming years as water scarcity reaches crisis levels in the western U.S. and some places abroad.

Water shortages are shaping the ways corporations do business. Penalties for overuse and stricter usage standards combine with an increasing focus on general waste-reduction boost demand for services pioneered by Ecolab, Pentair and others to gauge water use and establish better practices.

Those services are in higher demand thanks to a heightened focus on water waste around the globe, primed for further growth as regulators worldwide clamp down on usage, Ecolab Chairman and CEO Doug Baker said at a Friday conference at the University of Minnesota.

“This is an important opportunity for greater [Minneapolis-St. Paul] and Minnesota at large, economically,” Baker said at the conference. Ecolab alone doubled in size and tripled its revenue over the past decade, according to company figures presented Friday, mirroring a broader growth trend blanketing the sector.

Between 2004 and 2014, water technology employment in Minnesota grew three times faster than general employment, according to state figures released Friday. By last year, water-related exports jumped to $870 million, more than double the $430 million tallied in 2004.

Water technology is already considered one of the state’s economic “clusters,” groups of closely related industries operating in the same region that together drive wide-reaching growth. Though marquee names like Ecolab and Pentair lead in the space, about 80 percent of Minnesota’s water businesses have 10 employees or fewer.

Minnesota ranks third nationally in water-sector exports and third in water patents per capita, and has expanded its water-sector workforce by 13 percent between 2004 and 2014 – dwarfing overall employment gains that hovered around 4 percent.

Jobs in the water sector are especially valuable to local economies. The average water worker earns $65,525 per year, outmatching the $51,607 average across all industries, according to state numbers. Meanwhile, workers in the efficiency products and services segment pull in $117,947 on average.

“Minnesota’s fast-growing water technology industry is creating good-paying jobs and contributing to Minnesota’s global competitiveness,” Lt. Gov. Tina Smith said Friday. “This emerging sector shows that clean water and economic growth can go hand in hand, for the benefit of all of us.”

Water woes in the U.S. could bolster Minnesota’s economy in other ways long term. Water-intensive businesses – particularly in the hard-hit agriculture space – will eventually need to shift away from water-starved locations like California and Texas, Baker said.

Instead, they’ll need to return to the upper Midwest and other regions with richer water resources to support them.

Editor’s note: “Just Sold” is a Finance & Commerce feature based on certificates of real estate value recently filed for commercial transactions and significant residential transactions in Twin Cities counties. Additional details in the transactions come from Plat Research, the Minnesota Secretary of State’s Office, company documents, online real estate listings, F&C archives, CoStar and other research. Some purchase prices and per-unit calculations have been rounded. Full prices are on the CRVs posted here.

1101 Cloverleaf Parkway NE, Blaine

The Blaine Economic Development Authority is facing an unusual situation in local government: what to do with about $2 million more than it had in its original 2015 budget.

The money is what the city is projected to clear from the $10.65 million sale of the city’s only two public housing properties to two entities related to St. Louis Park-based Lang Nelson, which owns and operates multifamily and senior rental properties around the Twin Cities. The EDA closed May 27 on the $7.55 million sale of the 102-unit Cloverleaf Apartments, built in 2000 at 1101 Cloverleaf Parkway NE to Hiawatha Partners I LLC. It also closed on the $3.1 million sale of the 54-unit Blaine Courts Apartments, built in 1990 at 701 85th Ave. NE, to Hiawatha Partners II. Both properties offer senior housing.

The EDA will consider its options after paying off bonds and other obligations related to the properties, said Bryan Schafer, planning and community development director for the city.

“It wasn’t to raise money,” Schafer said of the sale. City officials had discussed from time to time whether the city should be operating housing, he said. Lang Nelson approached the city last year with an offer to buy the properties, a move that revived the discussion, he said. The city asked for proposals and the EDA decided Lang Nelson made the best offer.

“The conclusion was that if we were going to sell, this was a good time,” he said, pointing to the strong economy and the fact that the properties soon would need renovations and repairs.

The price works out to $68,269 per unit. The average sales price per unit for apartments in the Twin Cities metro area is $97,783,according to the Finance & Commerce Apartment Sales Tracker. The tracker has recorded the sale of 22,952 apartment units since Aug. 31, 2011.

Purchase prices: $7.55 million, including $457,000 in furniture, appliances and equipment; $3.1 million, including $289,000 in furniture, appliances and equipment; financing includes no down payment and a new mortgage.

Price per unit: $68,269

Property ID: 29-31-23-33-0008; 31-31-23-43-0047/0048

Date of deed: 5-27-15

ECRV released: 5-29-15

11611 Business Park Blvd. N., Champlin

Description: 167,036-square-foot office and manufacturing building, built in 1994 and renovated in 1998 on 14.96 acres

Buyer: Eagle Partners IV LLC, an entity related to Egan Co., Brooklyn Park

Seller: MIAP (MN) LLC, an entity of W.P.Carey Inc., New York

Purchase price: $7 million, with a $200,000 down payment and a new mortgage

Price per square foot: $41.91

The transaction: Brooklyn Park-based Egan Co. has closed on its long-anticipated purchase of a 167,036-square-foot facility at 11611 Business Park Blvd. in Champlin, where it plans to consolidate two west metro facilities and relocate 185 employees.

The construction subcontractor closed in February on the 14.96-acre campus, which until 2009 housed the McClean division manufacturing operations of Pentair, then headquartered in Golden Valley.

Associate Noam Newman and managing principal Mark Sims of the Minneapolis office of DTZ represented the seller in the transaction.

“This property is unique to our market due to its size and configuration,” Newman said in a prepared statement. He noted that most industrial facilities in the Twin Cities larger than 150,000 square feet designed for distribution and not manufacturing. The Champlin building has seven saw-tooth dock doors, 24-foot clear height and 30,000 square feet of office space. It also includes a media center, a gym and locker room facility and the potential for outside storage.

Last sale: $7 million, with a $200,000 down payment and new mortgage

Property ID: 31-120-21-12-0073

Date of deed: 2-27-15

ECRV released: 5-27-15

2557 Maplewood Drive, Maplewood

Description: Town & Country mobile home park and 2,403-square-foot management building, on 11.98 acres

Buyer: Town & Country Mobile Home Park LLC, Birmingham, Michigan

Seller: h61 Partners LLC, an entity managed by J. Vang of JB Realty Co., Maplewood

Purchase price: $4.2 million, including $16,050 in equipment; price includes no down payment and a new mortgage

Price per lot: $34,711

The transaction: Riverstone Communities, a private company based in Birmingham, Michigan, has paid $4.2 million for the Town & Country mobile home park at 2557 Maplewood Drive in Maplewood. The seller was h61 Partners LLC, an entity related to William Keefer, who bought the property in 1991. The sale closed May 7, according to a certificate of real estate value made public May 27.

The 121-lot community is located on 11.98 acres on the west side of Maplewood Drive, south of County Road C East.

Riverstone, which was founded in 1998, specializes in owning and managing manufactured home communities and recreational vehicle communities. It owns 77 communities in 11 states, according to its website.

J. Kou Vang manages the selling entity. Vang is president of JB Realty Co., which has its offices at the same address as the Town & Country office.

The parties couldn’t be reached Monday.

Last sale: $1.425 million in 1991

Property ID: 09-29-22-12-0011; 09-29-22-21-0002

Date of deed: 5-7-15

ECRV released: 5-27-15

Worries about water shortages are already affecting companies’ decisions about where to locate and what technology to invest in, Ecolab CEO Doug Baker said Tuesday during a conference at the University of Minnesota’s Humphrey School of Public Affairs.

Baker pointed to the St. Paul-based company he heads as an example. Ecolab, one of Minnesota’s largest water technology companies, needs to build a new facility in the Texas or Louisiana area.

One of the key questions in choosing a location is whether there will be enough water to support the facility for the next 40 years. The concern isn’t an idle one when the company has seen some of its customers’ facilities go “fallow” in places like India and China for lack of water.

“Water is the secret ingredient in everything we make,” said Baker, who gave the keynote speech. “I don’t care if you’re talking about cars, textiles, food, energy, electricity. There is nothing we do that doesn’t take a lot of water.”

Baker’s comments come as Minnesota is trying to grow a water technology industry targeted at these problems. Companies like Chaska-based Aeration Industries, the U.S. headquarters of Switzerland-based Pentair and Baker’s own Ecolab all have a presence here. State officials say the area’s existing companies and Minnesota’s ample water sources make the state a natural fit for an industry that’s only going to grow more important.

Baker expects shortages to force water-intensive industries out of dry places like California and Arizona and back to locations with ready water sources.

“There was a cow stampede that we somehow missed from Wisconsin to California. I haven’t seen the hoof prints on my yard, but it occurred. … Ultimately these cows are going to have to come pounding back east,” he said. “I think what you’ll see is industry start [converging] over time around natural resources, particularly water, which is what industry had to do before we got so swift about putting straws down in the earth.”

Still, Minnesotans have their own water problems because the Land of 10,000 Lakes draws much of its water from underground sources, just as dry states like California do. The Twin Cities area actually puts more water into the Mississippi River than it takes out because so many communities rely on groundwater, Baker noted.

White Bear Lake is the most visible symbol of this. Lake advocacy groups want the Metropolitan Council to further investigate pumping water into White Bear Lake to restore lake levels that have dropped 3 feet below normal. Meanwhile, the Met Council has been tasked with determining how much it would cost to extend St. Paul’s water utilities to northeast metro communities so they can use river water instead of aquifers.

A water cluster will also need a robust venture capital climate, said Doug Cameron, co-president and director of First Green Partners, a St. Louis Park-based early stage venture investor. The lack of start-ups often keeps clusters from taking off, and those start-ups are held back by a lack of venture capital, he said during a speech at the conference.

It’s also important that states offer some incentive for the investors to have a presence in the area, not just make an investment here, because venture capital depends on personal connections, Cameron said. He recalled that six venture capitalists talked with him about starting a company during his five years as a grad student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. But he saw just one venture capitalist during his dozen years as a professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison even though his work there was more interesting.

Meanwhile, competition for water technology business is stiff. Twelve regions have already started water cluster organizations and five, including Minnesota, have been identified as “emerging clusters,” Teresa Harten, the lead for Cincinnati’s water cluster project and an environmental technology verification director for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, said during a panel discussion.

Regions should be able to detail what makes them different and what they have to offer, said Christian Ketels, a Harvard Business School faculty member and president of The Competitiveness Institute, a network of professionals with expertise in cluster-based economic development.

The Land of 10,000 Lakes may still be covered in ice, but water was on the minds of state officials and business leaders who gathered Tuesday at Ecolab’s Schuman Campus in Eagan.

The Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development’s Water Technology Business Summit, attended by more than 150 people, is the latest of 19 state-sponsored events since 2009 that have aimed to make the most of the state’s position as a leader in water technology.

Minnesota’s water technology companies make up one of the state’s so-called business clusters, a group of closely related industries operating in a particular region, said Lee Munnich, a senior fellow and director of the State and Local Policy Program at the University of Minnesota’s Humphrey School of Public Affairs.

In 2012, the state ranked 10th in the nation for $729 million in foreign sales of water and wastewater treatment technology. In all, the industry’s concentration in Minnesota is about 39 percent greater than the national average, a measure called a location quotient.

The economic activity can be seen in the major companies operating in Minnesota. Switzerland-based Pentair, which has its U.S. headquarters in Golden Valley, worked with Target Field on a water reuse system that saves 2 million gallons of water a year. Chaska-based Aeration Industries creates technology that aerates water. St. Paul-based Ecolab produces wastewater treatment products, membranes and other water technology products for a variety of industries.

The industry had about 900 entities employing 16,334 people in 2012, according to the Minnesota Trade Office. The size of the workforce is on par with those in the hospitality and tourism or entertainment industries, Munnich said during a presentation. Pay for workers in the Twin Cities ranges from $20.87 per hour for chemical equipment operators and tenders to $53.30 for natural sciences managers, according to Greater MSP.

Munnich said in an interview after his presentation that Minnesota has become a water powerhouse largely because existing companies see business opportunities.

Ryan Rogers, a global business manager for water infrastructure renewal in 3M Co.’s Electrical Markets Division, described how the Maplewood-based company’s scientists created a lining that seals leaking pipes without forcing utility companies to dig a trench.

The opportunities for making money could be huge. By 2025, about 40 percent of the world’s population, or 3.2 billion people, are expected to live in “water-stressed environments,” Rogers told attendees. That’s up from 24 percent, or 1.6 billion, in 2007. With about 20 percent of water lost through leaky pipes and other network problems across the globe, there will be great demand for 3M and others like it to provide technology that makes the most of limited resources.

Michael Langley, CEO of Greater MSP, said the industry meshes well with other strong industries in the state — such as medical devices and food — that address growing challenges.

“Our economic development premise is that food solutions, water solutions and health solutions will drive the global economy,” said Langley, whose regional economic development group was among the event’s sponsors.

But competition from other water clusters is huge, as well. Wisconsin, with $647 million in water technology exports, is ranked 11th behind Minnesota. Milwaukee leaders have organized a Water Council, partnerships with universities, and more to boost the industry. Todd Gleason, Pentair’s senior vice president for growth, noted that his company accounts for a third of Milwaukee’s water technology jobs.

“Make no mistake about it: Milwaukee is creating a cluster,” Gleason said.

Minnesota’s water technology workforce has also declined from a high of 22,584 in 2008 to 15,781 in 2011, according to the Minnesota Trade Office.

Still, the 11,395 water-related jobs in the Twin Cities in 2012 were about twice that of Milwaukee and ahead of other Midwestern challengers like St. Louis; Oakland County, Mich., and Cedar Rapids, Iowa, according to Greater MSP. That total is expected to grow 9 percent over the next decade.

Meanwhile, state leaders plan to continue efforts to make Minnesota a water leader. The Trade Office and other organizations have roundtables planned. Twelve University of Minnesota researchers, led by Munnich, are submitting a grant request to study commercialization activities.

“It is exciting to see an industry with so much potential right in our sweet spot,” Langley said.

Water is often regarded as infinite, or at least abundant. As this year’s droughts have shown, it’s anything but.

Gazing at a future in which water probably won’t be as cheap and abundant is the impetus for a new movement in design and construction: reusing and harvesting rainwater.

The idea is to minimize the amount of city-supplied, potable water that’s used for such non-consumption purposes as toilets or lawn irrigation. A number of nations, including India, have mandated that all new construction projects must make allowances for rainwater harvesting.

“In the United States, it’s been on the radar for the past five years as we’ve seen more drought,” said Phil Rolchigo, vice president of water technology for Minneapolis-based Pentair. “There’s motivation to ensure your water supply, and for contractors, there are LEED benefits. Economics is the big driver.”

Pentair, which makes a variety of pumps, filters and water tanks, recently undertook an initiative with Hartland, Wis.-based Watertronics to educate architects, consultants and engineering firms on how and when to best use rainwater harvesting systems to encourage healthier plants and landscaping — and, not incidentally, to save money for their clients in reduced municipal water bills.

“We’re talking about this to architects and engineers during the everyday course of business,” said Mike Warren, a product manager for Watertronics. “They’re very receptive. Water harvesting is a hot topic in the last couple of years with the green building movement.”

Underground barrels

Rainwater reuse systems can come in different configurations, ranging from a complex system that collects and treats roof and pavement runoff to potable water levels using reverse-osmosis filtering and to a simpler system that collects roof runoff for irrigation.

A commonly used system routes runoff from the rooftop through a sediment filter, to an underground storage tank. A submersible pump inside the storage tank then sends it through the enclosed outdoor control panel and to the distribution system — an irrigation or nonpotable application reuse system, or both.

The latter type of system is starting to gain favor in residential construction, according to Stephen Mastey, principal at St. Paul-based Landscape Architecture Inc. Mastey’s company is currently installing a rainwater capture system on a residential double lot in St. Paul’s Highland Park neighborhood that would collect rainwater off the home’s roof and landscape and deposit it in one of three 2,500-gallon plastic cisterns made by St. Bonifacius-based Nowesco Tanks.

“It’s set up so that they don’t have to use any potable water to water their lawn if they don’t want to,” said Mastey.

The Highland Park project, off Mount Curve Boulevard, will mark the first time that the city of St. Paul will require permits for the use of rainwater cisterns on a residential site, something Mastey says points toward more common use of such systems in the future.

“These cisterns are great for residential because you can just plant them under your lawn,” he said. “And for commercial applications, companies like Xerxes [based in Minneapolis] makes fiberglass tanks that can be buried under paved surfaces like parking lots.”

The most high-profile local use of rainwater harvesting was Target Field’s rainwater recycling system, which Pentair developed with the Minnesota Twins for the stadium. The system captures, conserves and reuses rainwater for irrigating the playing field and washing down the stadium seats, reducing the ballpark’s need for municipal water by more than 50 percent.

According to Pentair, the system helped the ballpark to qualify for LEED certification and saves more than 2 million gallons of water each year.

Those results could have been even more dramatic if they had been implemented from the outset of stadium construction rather than near the end, according to Rolchigo.

“We could have harvested water from restrooms, kitchens and showers,” he said. “It goes to show that the earlier a company is engaged in the process, the larger the volume of water you can recover. Target Field was the catalyst to show that this could be done in a cost-effective way.”

Return-on-investment figures for rainwater reuse are elusive, partly because the technology is still developing and partly because the applications vary in scope. Also, retrofitting existing buildings for anything beyond landscape applications is still prohibitive. But Rolchigo estimates that for most projects, the initial outlay can be recovered in a year to five years.

Of course, there’s really nothing new about capturing and reusing rainwater; many of our grandparents kept rain barrels or cisterns to provide water for cooking, bathing and irrigation. But making such tools an essential part of new residential and commercial projects is probably just a matter of time, according to Mastey.

“The emphasis is being put more on taking this asset that we take for granted, and actually doing something with it, making it an amenity,” he said. “The idea is to get people to not rely on the city water supply.”