No Binding. Condition: Very Good. Original manuscript autograph letter/document signed/sealed by Mustafa Zeki Pasha who was Tophâne-i Âmire müsiri [i.e. Grandmaster and Commander of Artillery / Brigadier and Ministry of Military Schools], sent to Mazhar Pasha who was the commander of naval forces located in Chios Island (Sakiz Adasi) in the Archipelago, for the fortification to Chios fortress and around, and preparation an exploration report and a map. 34x21 cm. In Ottoman script. Folded. 1 p. It's written in a beautiful and legible riq'a script. Including 23 lines. Full. Zeki Pasha was one of the most trusted Ottoman generals and statesmen of Sultan Abdulhamid II. He served as Tophane Counselor for 18 years during the reign of Sultan Abdülhamid II. In 1899, Italian architect Alexandre Vallaury built the 'Tophane Müsiri Zeki Pasa Mansion (Yali)', one of the most valuable estates of Istanbul, on his behalf. In 1908, he fell out of favor with the declaration of the Second Constitutional Monarchy by Union and Progress Society (Ittihad ve Terakki Cemiyeti) and was deported first to Büyükada and then to Rhodes. (Source: Wikipedia). Minor stains on paper. A very good manuscript on a fine watermarked paper with a letterhead "Tophâne-i Âmîre Müsireti". Signed by Author(s).

No Binding. Condition: Very Good. Original manuscript autograph letter signed 'Sadrazam Rifat' sent to Tophâne-i Âmire müsiri Mustafa Zeki Pasa [i.e. Grand master of Turkish artillery]. 38x24 cm. In Ottoman script. Folded. 1 p. It's an official celebration for Mustafa Zeki Pasha's achievements in the Turco-Greco War in 1897-1898. It's written in a beautiful riq'a script. Halil Rifat Pasha was an Ottoman statesman and a Grand Vizier for six years between 1895 until his death in 1901, during the reign of Abdul Hamid II. He was born in Serres (Serez) and received education in an Islamic type parish school in Salonica (Selanik), then continued to Mekteb-i Mülkiye in Constantinople. After his education years, he started to work as a mailing clerk in Vidin, then worked as secretary in the office of the Governor of Salonica. He advanced by degrees and was appointed to higher official positions by passage of time, including at Rustchuk. In 1882 he was appointed as mutasarr?f of Vidin, then in 1886 he was appointed as governor of Sivas, where he started a road-building programme. He was subsequently appointed governor of Aidin (1889) and later of Monastir, where he fought brigandage units which was rife in the province. He was appointed as minister of internal affairs in 1893 . Then he was appointed as grand vizier in November 1895 . The most important events in his era as grand vizier were the riots of Sason (in 1895) and in Crete (in 1897), as well as the Greco-Turkish War of 1897 which ended with Ottoman victory. His motto in the road building campaign was "Any place where you can't go is not yours"! (Gidemedigin yer senin degildir!). Zeki Pasha was one of the most trusted Ottoman generals and statesmen of the Sultan Abdulhamid II. He served as Tophane Counselor for 18 years during the reign of Sultan Abdülhamid II. In 1899, Italian architect Alexandre Vallaury built the 'Tophane Müsiri Zeki Pasa Mansion (Yali)', one of the most valuable estates of Istanbul, on his behalf. In 1908, he fell out of favor with the declaration of the Second Constitutional Monarchy by Union and Progress Society (Ittihat ve Terakki Cemiyeti) and was deported first to Büyükada and then to Rhodes. (Source: Wikipedia). Slightly chipped. A very good manuscript paper. Signed by Author(s).