BIOGRAPHY

Dr. Patricia Reid-Merritt – author, educator, scholar, community activist and performing artist - is the Distinguished Professor of Africana Studies and Social Work. Dr. Reid-Merritt received the Doctorate of Social Work in Race, Law and Social Policy (University of Pennsylvania); the Master of Social Work (Temple University); and, the Bachelor of Arts in psychology and social science (Cabrini College). She served as Coordinator of the Africana Studies Program (2003 - 2016), spearheaded the University’s annual Fannie Lou Hamer Human and Civil Rights Symposiums ((2004 - 2015), and chaired the National Fannie Lou Hamer Statue Committee (2012).

Dr. Reid-Merritt is also the Founder and Artistic/Executive Director of Afro-One Dance, Drama and Drum Theatre, Inc., a community-based cultural and performing arts organization currently celebrating its 46th year of operation. Afro-One has been described as "the cultural magnet" for African American youth, families and the community in southern New Jersey

Dr. Reid-Merritt is the author of numerous publications, including: the national Blackboard best-seller, Sister Power: How Phenomenal Black Women Are Rising to the Top; Sister Wisdom: Seven Pathways to a Satisfying Life for Soulful Black Women; Righteous Self-Determination: The Black Social Work Movement in America; Race in America: How a Pseudo-Scientific Concept Shaped Human Interaction;Tarnished Legacy: A Reluctant Memoir; and, A State by State History of Race and Racism in the United States.

A resident of Hamilton, NJ, Dr. Reid-Merritt is a well-known scholar and lecturer. She has presented scholarly papers and keynote addresses at numerous national and international conferences, including Kenya, Brazil, Egypt, France, South Africa, England and Venezuela. She spent four weeks at the University of Ghana as a Ford Fellow with the National Council for Black Studies. She was the founding President of the Association of Black Women in Higher Education, Philadelphia Chapter, having served previously on the National Board of Directors. Dr. Reid-Merritt served as the founding President of the Burlington County Black Business and Professional Association, and as founding president of the National Association of Black Social Workers, South Jersey Chapter. From 1993 - 2011, she served on the Board of Directors for the National Council for Black Studies. Additionally, she is a consultant on arts and culture to communities throughout the State of New Jersey.

Dr. Reid-Merritt is the recipient of numerous honors/awards including: Cabrini College Distinguished Alumni Achievement Award; Temple University, Alumni Society Certificate of Honor; NAACP Freedom Award; Stockton University’s Council of Black Faculty and Staff Annual Achievement Award and Lifetime Achievement Award; National Council for Black Studies’ Presidential Award, and Mary McLeod Bethune and Carter G. Woodson Award for the most significant contribution to the promotion of Africana Studies. She has been honored by the NJ State Council of Black Social Workers as Social Worker of the Year, the NJ State Legislature, and named by City News as one of New Jerseys' 100 Most Influential Citizens. She is listed in Who’s Who in America, Who's Who among Black Americans and 2000 Notable American Women.

EDUCATION

Dr. Reid-Merritt received the D.S.W. in Race, Law and Social Policy (University of Pennsylvania)

AREAS OF EXPERTISE

Africana Studies – history, art, culture, social organizations and leadership development

COURSES

African American Dance, Introduction to Africana Studies, African American Movies, African American Female Writers, Race, Ethnicity and Diversity, Senior Seminar: The African Americans, Senior Seminar: Social Work, Social Justice, African Americans and the Law, Jazz and Blues Dance, Contemporary African American Dance, Black Comedy.

PUBLICATIONS

A State by State History of Race and Racism in the United States, (editor), Santa Barbara Praeger,/ABC- CLIO, Publications, 2018.

Race in America: How a Pseudo-Scientific Concept Shaped Human Interaction, (editor), Praeger,/ABC-CLIO, Publications, Santa Barbara, 2017.

Tarnished Legacy: A Reluctant Memoir, www.outskirtspress, Outskirts Press, 2017.

Righteous Self-Determination: The Black Social Work Movement in America, Baltimore: Black Classic Press, 2010.

Sister Wisdom: Seven Pathways to a Satisfying Life for Soulful Black Women, New York: John Wiley & Sons Publishing Co., 2002.

Sister Power: How Phenomenal Black Women Are Rising To The Top. John Wiley & Sons Publishing Co., New York, 1996.

Articles/Book Chapters

“Temple University African American Studies Ph.D. Program at 30: Assessing the Asante Affect,” Africology: The Journal of Pan African Studies,12. no.6, November 2018.

“Malcolm X: What Measure of a Man? Assessing Personal Growth and Social Transformation from An African-Centered Social Work Perspective,” in A Lie of Reinvention, Jared A. Ball and Todd Steven Burroughs, editors, Baltimore: Black Classic Press, 2012.

“Defining Ourselves: Name Calling in Black Studies,” One Name, One Discipline, Journal of Black Studies, Patricia Reid-Merritt, Guest Editor, Sage Publications, Fall, 2009.

“The Popularization of Afrocentricty Among the People,” in Essays in Honor of an Intellectual Warrior: Molefi Kete Asante, Ama Mazama,(editor), Paris, Menaibuc. (2008).

“Leadership, Social Responsibility and Economic Fund Development: The Case for Africana Studies,” The Afrocentric Scholar, summer, 2001.

"Black Female Leadership" in Voices of Vision, Julianne Maleaux, ed., National Council of Negro Women, 1996.

"On Transforming Images of Nutcrackers and Sugar Plum Fairies into Kinaras, Geles and Brown Sugar Ladies." Sage, spring, 1992.

"Organizational Life in South Jersey: A Look at Burlington County's Black Community", in Blacks in New Jersey, 1986; Perspectives on South Jersey, Bruce Ransom, Ph.D., editor, New Jersey Public Policy Research Institute, 1986.

"An Historical Survey of the Black Experience Through Dance," Perspectives, AGLS Press, Summer, 1983.

Archives

"A Study of African-American Women in Positions of Power in Nontraditional Leadership Roles". Harvard - Radcliffe University, Institutes of Advanced Study, Murray Research Center, Cambridge, MA, 1999.

Encyclopedia Entries

“Dance Culture” The SAGE Encyclopedia of African Cultural Heritage in North America, Mwalimu Shujaaand Kenya J. Shujaa, editors, Sage Publications, 2015.

“The National Black United Fund” The SAGE Encyclopedia of African Cultural Heritage in North America,Mwalimu Shujaa and Kenya J. Shujaa, editors, Sage Publications, 2015.

“The National Association of Black Social Workers” The SAGE Encyclopedia of African Cultural Heritage in North America,Mwalimu Shujaa and Kenya J. Shujaa, editors, Sage Publications, 2015.

“Odunde” The SAGE Encyclopedia of African Cultural Heritage in North America, Mwalimu Shujaaand Kenya J. Shujaa, editors, Sage Publications, 2015.

“Afrocentric Approaches to Social Work.” In: James D. Wright (editor-in-chief), International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences, 2nd edition, Vol 1. Oxford: Elsevier. pp. 305–309, 2015.

“Affirmative Action,” Encyclopedia of African American History, Santa Barbara: ABC-Clio Publications, pp. 597-599, 2010.

“Molefi Asante,” Encyclopedia of African American History, Santa Barbara: ABC-Clio Publications, pp. 618-619, 2010.

“Fannie Lou Hamer,” Encyclopedia of African American History, Santa Barbara: ABC-Clio Publications, pp. 792-794, 2010.

“Maulana Karenga,” Encyclopedia of African American History, Santa Barbara: ABC-Clio Publications, pp. 837-838, 2010.

“National Council for Black Studies,” Encyclopedia of African American History, Santa Barbara: ABC-Clio Publications, pp. 921-922, 2010.

“Willie Tappan Barrow,” African American National Biography, Henry Louis Gates, Jr. and Evelyn Higginbotham (editors),Harvard University and Oxford University Press, 2008.

“Affirmative Action.” Encyclopedia of Black Studies, Asante, M. and Ama Mazama,, editors, Sage Publications, 2004.

“National Black United Fund, Inc.,” Encyclopedia of Black Studies, Asante, M. and Ama Mazama,, editors, Sage Publications, 2004.

“National Black United Front, Inc.,” Encyclopedia of Black Studies, Asante, M., et.al., editors, Sage Publications, 2004.

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS

National Council for Black Studies

DIOP International

Senior Fellow, MKA Institute for Afrocentric Studies

National Association of Black Social Workers

International Association of Blacks in Dance (founding member)

BIOGRAPHY

Dr. Christopher Di Santo, a native of Columbus, Ohio, joined the faculty of Stockton University in January 2012 as Associate Professor of in the university’s School of Arts and Humanities. His duties at Stockton include teaching courses in music appreciation, music theory, conducting, and conducting instrumental ensembles. He is also the director of the Bay-Atlantic Symphony’s Music Mentorship program, an initiative that affords selected Stockton music students the opportunity to be paired with musicians from the Bay-Atlantic Symphony who act as mentors in a unique setting as visiting instrumental specialists in local middle and high school music programs.

Dr. Di Santo’s former teaching positions include appointments on the music faculties of Moravian College, as Artist-Lecturer, and as adjunct faculty in the music departments of Swarthmore College and West Chester, Lehigh and Rowan Universities. In December 2006, he accepted an invitation to Shanghai, China where he performed as soloist with the Shanghai Conservatory Symphony Orchestra and conducted a series of masterclasses with the Shanghai Conservatory of Music’s highly talented and advanced clarinet students.

Career highlights include presenting at the 7th Annual Arts, Humanities, Socials Sciences & Education Conference in Honolulu Hawaii (January 2018), delivering a keynote address at the 10th Pan African Society for Musical Arts Education (July 2, 2017) in Mbabane, Swaziland, and presenting at the Eastern Division Conference of the National Association for Music Education, Atlantic City, NJ, April 2017. Additionally, he accepted an invitation to Shanghai, China where he performed as soloist with the Shanghai Conservatory Symphony Orchestra and conducted clarinet masterclasses at the Shanghai Conservatory of Music.

Dr. Di Santo is currently the Principal Clarinetist of the Bay-Atlantic Symphony, a position he has held since 1991. A participant in music festivals in both North America and Europe, he has performed throughout venues in the United States, Canada, Austria, Germany and Italy. Recording credits include Lee Pui Ming’s She Comes to Shore: concerto for improvised piano and orchestra in 2010 with the Bay-Atlantic Symphony as well as Verdi’s Requiem and Mozart’s Requiem K. 626 with Philadelphia’s Vox Ama Deus Ensemble. His clarinet playing and commentary were highlighted on NPR’s Morning Edition on October 9, 2004, later broadcast in translation over Voice of America, throughout Europe and the former Soviet Republics.

Publishing credits include articles in The Clarinet (the official journal of the International Clarinet Association), and the International Alliance for Women in Music journal. Other media credits include a feature article entitled "A Marriage of Music and Harmony" in the March 2007 issue of Down Jersey Magazine, a front-page photo on the October 13, 2011 edition of the Press of Atlantic City’s At the Shore Magazine (with his wife Karen, also a member of the Bay-Atlantic Symphony), and two recent interviews appearing in the Arts and Entertainment section of the Press of Atlantic City.

Dr. Di Santo earned his Doctor of Musical Arts degree from Temple University, where he held a Conwell Fellowship, a Master of Music degree from the University of Illinois and a Bachelor of Music Education degree, cum laude, from The Ohio State University. Dr. Di Santo was chosen for inclusion in the ninth edition of Who’s Who Among America’s Teachers, 2005 and was elected to Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges in 1993. His clarinet teachers include Anthony Gigliotti, Alan Hacker, Howard Klug, Dr. Donald E. McGinnis, and Dr. Robert A. Titus.

EDUCATION

D.M.A., Temple University

AREAS OF EXPERTISE

Classical clarinet soloist, orchestral player, chamber musician, and educator

COURSES

MUSC 1147 Large Classical Ensemble

MUSC 2113 Fundamentals of Conducting

MUSC 2115/2116 Music Theory I & II

MUSC 3645 Form and Analysis of Music

GAH 1245 Introduction to Music

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS

Bay-Atlantic Symphony, Principal clarinetist and personnel director

The International Clarinet Association

American Federation of Musicians, Local 77

National Association for Music Education

Director - Bay-Atlantic Symphony Music Mentorship Program

STATEMENT OF PEDAGOGY

“Music is a moral law. It gives soul to the universe, wings to the mind, flight to the imagination, and charm and gaiety to life and to everything.” To me, these words by the ancient Greek philosopher Plato (428 BC – 348 BC) resonate as truly and with as much strength today as they must have when they were first uttered over two thousand years ago. As the quintessential universal language, I believe that music has a profound effect on both mind and spirit. Music has an ability to express who we were, what we are, and what we can become. It picks up where words leave off and has the unique ability to unify people by transcending cultural boundaries and physical borders. If “a picture is worth a thousand words,” similarly, musical sound conveys a thousand images and expresses a seemingly endless multitude of emotions and innermost feelings. Indeed, I can think of no other art form that endeavors to elevate the human condition to ever-higher planes through a conscious manifestation of the subconscious. Whether teaching in the classroom or performing in the concert hall, it is a genuine privilege and my greatest pleasure to share my deep passion for music with those poised to listen.

BIOGRAPHY

Aaron is an Assistant Professor of Theatre/Directing. Having served on the faculty at SUNY Buffalo State and Quinnipiac University, Aaron has maintained an active career in the arts and entertainment industry—appearing in over a dozen national commercials, recording voiceover narrations for books and films, and appearing in TV shows on NBC and HBO. Off-Off-Broadway: The Prelude Festival: ...And Jesus Moonwalks the Mississippi and We Are Proud to Present...; New Dramatist: DJ & Jess and Sistah’s: A Love Story. Regional Theatre: Yale Repertory Theatre: Death of Salesman w/ Charles S. Dutton & Stephen McKinley Henderson, A Woman of No Importance, Richard II, w/ Jeffery Carlson; Illinois Shakespeare Festival: Taming of the Shrew, Titus Andronicus, A Midsummer Night's Dream; Elm Shakespeare Company: Twelfth Night, Measure for Measure, Macbeth w/ Alvin Epstein, and The Winter’s Tale—for which he won a Connecticut Critics Circle Award for Best Debut Performance; The Christians at Road Less Travelled Productions (Artie Award nomination for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama) Dancing in the Dark (world-premiere) w/ Aja Naomi King; Kavinoky Theatre: City of Conversation; Buffalo Laboratory Theatre: Wonder of the World. Film/TV: The First Purge (Universal Pictures), American Hustle (Columbia Pictures; Golden Globe winner for Best Movie, 10 Academy Award nominations), and Why I Murdered My Roommate (pilot).

Aaron has performed narrations with the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra (Peter & The Wolf, Peter Pan, Carnival of the Animals, and T’was The Night Before Christmas) and can be seen as architect John E. Brent in the documentary Through These Gates, exhibited at the Burchfield Penny Art Center. Aaron has directed at the Paul Robeson Theatre (Detroit ’67, Blood at the Root), Against the Grain Theater Festival (Night with the Dream Keeper), Elm Shakespeare Company (Hamlet), and SUNY Buffalo State (Brothers Size, Motherf**ker with the Hat, Doctor In Spite of Himself, and Blood at the Root). Aaron was the voice of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre's 2016-2017 season's TV ads "Now more than ever!"

WEBSITE

http://aaronmoss3.wixsite.com/aaronmoss

EDUCATION

MFA, Yale School of Drama

AREAS OF EXPERTISE

Acting, directing, performance theory, dramatic theory, television and film

COURSES

GAH 2246 Introduction to Acting

THTR 2320 Stage Movement

THTR 3180 Directing for the Stage

THTR 3683 Acting III

PERFORMANCES AND DIRECTED WORKS

Moss, Aaron, perf. The First Purge. Dir. Gerard McMurray. Perf. Y’lan Noel, Lex Scott Davis, Jovian Wade. Universal Pictures, 2018.

The Christians. By Lucas Hnath, directed by Scott Behrend, performances by Aaron Moss (as Associate Pastor), Dave Hayes, and Lisa Vitrano, Road Less Travelled Productions, April 19-May 20, 2018, Buffalo, NY. Award: Artie Award nominations for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama and Outstanding Production of a Play

Moss, Aaron, perf. The Greenfields Advertisement. Airing on CBS. WIVB, Buffalo, NY. 2018.

Moss, Aaron, perf. Heritage Moments Series: W.E.B. DuBois’ The Niagara Movement Manifesto. Dir. Jeff Klein. National Public Radio. Feb. 2018.

Moss, Aaron, director. Blood at the Root. By Dominique Morisseau, performances by Kayla Bennett, Andy Noel, Azarias Soto, Kelsey Jeffs, Eliza Zanoli-Styles, and Mark Bogumil, Paul Robeson Theatre, October 13-29, 2017, Buffalo, NY.

Moss, Aaron, perf. Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater. CBS. New York, Dec. 2016.

Wonder of the World. By David Lindsay-Abaire, directed by Taylor Doherty, performances by Aaron Moss (as Captain Mike) and Anne Boucher, Buffalo Laboratory Theatre, 15 Sept.-2 Oct., 2016, Shea’s 710 Theatre, Buffalo, NY.

Moss, Aaron, perf. Buffalo Niagara Medical Center Advertisement. Prod. Pagent Films. Online, 2016.

Moss, Aaron, director. A Night with the Dream Keeper. By Austin Lamewona, performances by Roosevelt Tidwell, Drayson Colbert, and Kai B. Lewis, Against the Grain Theatre Festival, 18 August Buffalo, NY.

Moss, Aaron, perf. Through These Gates: Buffalo’s First African-American Architect, John E. Brent. Dir. Sandy White. Mustard Seed World Productions. DVD. 2016.

Peter & The Wolf. By Sergei Prokofiev, conducted by Stefan Sanders, performances by Aaron Moss and the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra, 17 April 2016. Kleinhans Music Hall, Buffalo, NY.

Moss, Aaron, director. Detroit ’67. By Dominique Morisseau, performances by Gary-Kai Fletcher, Candice Whitfield, Annette Christian, and , Paul Robeson Theatre, 14-29 May, 2015, Buffalo, NY. (Awards: Katherine Cornel Award for Excellence by Lead Actor, Art Voice nominations for Outstanding Supporting Actress and Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Play.)

City of Conversation. By Anthony Giardina, directed by Robert Waterhouse, performances by Adrianno Gatto, Kristin Tripp Kelley, Debbie Pappas Sham, Steve Jackiel, and Aaron Moss (Donald Logan), Kavinoky Theatre, February-March, 2016, Buffalo, NY. (Art Voice Award nomination for best production)

Moss, Aaron, actor (Duke Orsino). Twelfth Night. By William Shakespeare, directed by James Andreassi, performances by Andrea Goldman, Paula Plum, and ?, Elm Shakespeare Company, 16 Aug.-5 Sept., 2015, New Haven, CT.

Carnival of the Animals. By Camille Saint-Saens, conducted by Stefan Sanders, performances by Aaron Moss and the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra, 3 May 2015. Kleinhans Music Hall, Buffalo, NY.

Moss, Aaron, perf. Why I Murdered My Roommate (t.v. pilot). Dir. Michael Pauley. DVD. The New Hotness, 2015.

Peter Pan. By James Newton Howard, conducted by Stefan Sanders, performances by Aaron Moss and the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra, 3 May 2015. Kleinhans Music Hall, Buffalo, NY.

T’was The Night Before Christmas. By Bob Phillips, conducted by Stefan Sanders, performances by Aaron Moss and the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra, 6 December 2014. Kleinhans Music Hall, Buffalo, NY.

Moss, Aaron, perf. American Hustle. Dir. David O. Russell. Perf. Christian Bale, Amy Adams, Bradley Cooper, Jeremy Renner, Jennifer Lawrence, Robert DiNiro. Columbia Pictures, 2013. (Awards: Golden Globe winner for Best Film; 11 Academy Award Nominations)

Macbeth. By William Shakespeare, directed by Alan Burrows, performances by Aaron Moss (Thane of Ross), Mark Zeisler, Marianna Bassham, and James Andreassi, Elm Shakespeare Company, August-September, 2012, New Haven, CT.

Moment to Moment: Shakespeare’s Recitations. Perf. James Andreassi, Jeremy Funke, Kerry Tartar, Aaron Moss. DVD. Yale Center for British Art, 2012.

Measure for Measure. By William Shakespeare, directed by James Andreassi, performances by Aaron Moss (Lucio), Eric Martin Brown, Mark Zeisler, and Sarah Grace Brown, Elm Shakespeare Company, August-September 2011, New Haven, CT.

We Are Proud to Present… By Jackie Drury-Sibblings, directed by Eric Ting, performances by Aaron Moss, and… Prelude Festival, 2011, CUNY, New York.

Jess & DJ: A Baby Mamma Dramedy. By Natali Naman, directed by Jessi Hill, performances by Aaron Moss and Celestine Rae, New Dramatists, April 2011, New York.

Le Costume (workshop). By Peter Brook, directed and produced by Peter Brook, Marie- Hélène Estienne and Tarell Alvin-McCraney, performances by Aaron Moss (Husband) and Keith Eric Chappelle, New York University, 2011, New York.

The Winter’s Tale. By William Shakespeare, directed by James Andreassi, performances by Aaron Moss (Autolycus), Nadia Bowers, and Mark Zeisler, Elm Shakespeare Company, Aug-Sept 2010, New Haven, CT. (Connecticut Critics Circle Award—Best Debut Performance, Aaron Moss)

And Jesus Moonwalks the Mississippi. By Marcus Gardley, directed by Tea Aleric, performances by Aja Naomi King, Stanley Wayn-Matthis, and Aaron Moss (Per Brae), Prelude Festival, CUNY, 2010, New York.

Sistahs: A Love Story. By Harrison David Rivers, directed by Tea Alergic, performances by Aja Naomi King and Aaron Moss, New Dramatists, 2010, New York.

Death of a Salesman. By Arthur Miller, directed by James Bundy, performances by Charles S. Dutton, Stephen McKinley Henderson, Ato Essandoh, Kimberly Scott, Aja Naomi King, Stanley Wayne Mathis, Billy Eugene Jones, Thomas Jefferson Byrd, and Aaron Moss, Yale Repertory Theatre, May 2009, New Haven, CT.

Taming of the Shrew. By William Shakespeare, directed by Catherine Weidner, performances by Aaron Moss (Hortensio), Daniel Harray, Illinois Shakespeare Festival, June-August, 2008, Bloomington, IL.

Midsummer Night’s Dream. By William Shakespeare, directed by Robert Quinlan, performances by Aaron Moss (Oberon/Theseus) and Magdalyn Donnelly, Illinois Shakespeare Festival, June-August, 2008, Bloomington, IL.

Titus Andronicus. By William Shakespeare, directed by Catherine Weidner, performances by Robert Ramirez, Robert Anderson, and Aaron Moss (Publius), Illinois Shakespeare Festival, June-August, 2008, Bloomington, IL.

A Woman of No Importance. By Oscar Wilde, directed by James Bundy, performances by Bryce Pinkham, Felicity Jones, and Aaron Moss (Mr. Kelvil), Yale Repertory Theatre, May 2008, New Haven, CT.

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS

Actor’s Equity Association

Society of Stage Directors & Choreographers

BIOGRAPHY

Beverly Vaughn, Professor Music and Vocal/Choral Program Coordinator, is a

mezzo soprano, known for her velvety tone. She is native of Columbus, Ohio and a

graduate of La Sierra University in Riverside, California with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Spanish. Following graduation from La Sierra University, she completed both her Master of Music degree and Doctor of Music degree - both in voice performance-- at The Ohio State University where she studied primarily with Maestro Mario Alch.

In addition to the many local and regional awards and competitions she won while studying at The Ohio State University, Beverly Vaughn was also awarded a Corbett Foundation Fellowship for operatic study in New York City. While there, she studied with Madame Marinka Gurewich and coached primarily with Maestro Martin Rich. She also studied and coached with other internationally recognized teachers including Frau Hilde Zadek in Vienna, Dame Eva Turner and Maestro Geoffrey Parsons in London, Sylvia Lee in Philadelphia as well as with Maestro Franco Iglesias. Maestro Larry Woodard and

Maestro Wayne Sanders in New York.

Prior to joining the Stockton music faculty in September 1982, Beverly Vaughn made her operatic debut in as the Strawberry Woman in Gershwin’s Porgy and Bess with the

Graz (Austria) Opera followed by her debut as Nicklaus in Hoffman’s Erzahlungen (The Tales of Hoffman) with the Vienna Volksoper. She also received particular critical acclaim for her performance as Hannah in the world debut of Sir Michael Tippett’s The Ice Break at the Royal Opera House at Covent Garden under the direction of Sir Colin Davis. After joining the Stockton music faculty, she also received accolades for such performances as her portrayal in the title role as Carmen in Opera Harlem’s sevenmonth, 11-country European tour of Carmen Jones. Beverly Vaughn continues to perform and has appeared with numerous regional opera companies and orchestras in both the United States and Europe. She frequently appears in concerts and recitals and as a featured guest on local and international radio, television and online programs. In addition, Beverly has published a book chapter, articles and reviews. She has presented vocal and choral workshops in singing technique and on topics such as The religious music traditions of African Americans for choirs, universities, colleges, symposia, international conferences and community organizations throughout the world. These workshops have been given in countries which include New Zealand, Israel, China, Jamaica, Austria, Grenada, Antigua, Greece, Spain, Malawi, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Nigeria, Kenya, Brazil, Zanzibar, Australia, Canada, as well as throughout the United States. Several of her most recent workshops and presentations include the January 2018 workshop presented at The Hawaii University International Conference on Arts and Humanities in Honolulu, Hawaii, the November 2017 workshop New Jersey Educators’ Annual Conference in Atlantic City, August 2017 workshop for the 1-day Music Teacher Workshop presented by the New Jersey Music Educators Association , the July 2017 workshop/ presentation at the College Music Society International Conference in Sydney.

She continues to be a member of the Academic Faculty during the annual convention of the Gospel Music Workshop of America (the largest international organization devoted to the study and promulgation of this genre ) as well as frequently serving as a session facilitator at conferences such as those given by the National Association of Music Educators Eastern Division Conference held in Atlantic City in April 2017 as well as for the yearly New Jersey Music Educators’ Conference in Brunswick. She also has conducted choirs throughout the world in such places as the Forbidden City in Beijing to churches in Florence, Italy and Valencia, Spain to recital halls in Zomba, Malawi!

In addition, since coming to Stockton, she has won over 30 major awards and citations for her teaching, campus involvement and community outreach. Several of the most recent awards include the 2017 African American Student Alumni Award for the Outstanding Professor of the Year and the 2017 NAACP Achievement Award from the Mainland/Pleasantville Chapter. Other awards include several ARHU Teacher of the Year Awards, the Thomas Shavio Humanitarian Award from Beth El, an Image Award from the Stockton Chapter of the NAAP, the Atlantic County Rotary Club Humanitarian Service Award for Community Outreach, the Outstanding Service Award and the Merit Award from the Council of Black Faculty and Staff, Outstanding Contribution to the Arts Award from the New Jersey Arts Association, induction into the Atlantic County Women’s Hall of Fame and listed 4 times in Who’s Who Among College Teachers.

Among her duties as Vocal/Choral Program Coordinator, she conducts the University Chorus, The Stockton Select Chorale, The Stockton Oratorio Society and the Vocal Jazz Ensemble She also serves as an advisor to several student music organizations and ensembles. Under her direction, the choral organization have traveled to Europe , given full-length performances of such masterworks Verdi Requiem; Haydn’s Creation; Handel’s Judas Maccabaeus, Brahms’ A German Requiem; Mozart’s Requiem; Bach’s Passion According to St. Matthew; Rossini’s Stabat Mater; Mendelssohn’s Elijah; Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony (Choral Movement); Orff’s Carmina Burana, Mozart’s Coronation Mass; Schubert’s Mass in G; Faure’s Requiem; Ray’s Gospel Mass; Charpentier’s Messe de Noel; Vaughan Williams’ The First Nowell; Saint-Saens’ Christmas Oratorio, Britten’s Ceremony of Carols, Pinkerton’s Christmas Cantata; Pergolesi’s Stabat Mater as well as evenings of music devoted to the special repertoire of genres such as operatic choruses, music of Broadway, the operettas of Gilbert & Sullivan, vocal jazz holiday music or an evening of African American Spirituals. One of the choral program’s most important productions continues to be its bi-annual performance of Handel’s Messiah!!!

EDUCATION

D.M.A., The Ohio State University

WEBSITE

www.beverlyvaughnmusic.com/temp.asp

AREAS OF EXPERTISE

Performance, choral activities, voice, music history, music of African-Americans, introduction to music, fundamentals of music, Gospel music.

COURSES

MUSC 1143 Vocal Jazz Ensemble

MUSC 1641 Beginning Voice

MUSC 1760 Stockton Oratorio Society

MUSC 2241/2242 Music History I & II

MUSC 3251 Stockton Chorale

GAH 1248 Music of African-Americans

GAH 2401 Words and Music: College Chorus

BIOGRAPHY

Kate Nearpass Ogden has been at Stockton University since 1991, teaching the art history survey (Art History I and II) as well as specialized courses in American art, modern art, and the history of photography. Since 2003 she has occasionally taught a course, Art of New Jersey, in which students write essays for the website Art & Architecture of New Jersey.

Prof. Ogden's publications have focused on 19th century American painting and photography. Her book, Yosemite (2015) is a cultural history of a spectacular scenic location. It was preceded by a major essay, “California as Kingdom Come,” in the exhibition catalog Yosemite: Art of an American Icon (Los Angeles: Autry Museum of Western Heritage, 2006).

Other recent publications include two essays for the Encyclopedia of Greater Philadelphia (PhiladelphiaEncyclopedia.org): "Painters & Painting" and "The Peale Family of Artists."

Kate Ogden has chaired the Stockton University Art Gallery committee since 1991. She has occasionally curated exhibitions for the Art Gallery, including (most recently) "Tim Daly and Valeri Larko: Learning from New Jersey" (2012) and "Jacob Landau: The Holocaust Series and Other Prints" (2010). Her most ambitious curatorial project took place in 2008, when she curated and wrote a catalog for the exhibition "From Cape May to Cairo: The Work of George Washington Nicholson" (Oceanville, NJ: The Noyes Museum of Art, 2008).

Early in her career Prof. Ogden received Luce Foundation Fellowships (1988, 1989), a Virginia Steele Scott Fellowship (Huntington Library, San Marino, CA, Summer 1988), a Smithsonian Institution Short-Term Visit Award (1988), a Hilla von Rebay Guggenheim Museum Fellowship (1981), a Guggenheim Museum Curatorial Internship (1981), and a Smithsonian Institution Exhibition Internship (1980).

Grants and awards received while teaching at Stockton include two New Jersey Humanities Council Mini-Grants (2006, 2008), Stockton College Distinguished Faculty Fellowships (1993, 2004), a grant from the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority of Atlantic City (2001), and a National Endowment for the Arts Grant (1995).

Prof. Ogden's community engagement has included numerous lectures for arts groups and cultural institutions in the region, serving as a guest juror for local art exhibitions, and occasional curatorial collaborations. She sponsors student internships at the Noyes Museum of Art and the Stockton University Art Gallery, and has involved her students in projects for her website Art & Architecture of New Jersey, for the Noyes Museum of Art, for Vineland Historical and Antiquarian Society, and other local groups.

Prof. Ogden serves on the New Jersey State Review Board for Historic Preservation, the agency that recommends buildings for the State and National Registers; she is currently Vice-Chair of the board. In 2014 she was a member of the planning committee for the Vernacular Architecture Forum's Annual Conference "Down Jersey: From Bayshore to Seashore," for which she was project coordinator and photo editor of the conference guidebook to architecture in southern New Jersey. Prof. Ogden is also on the Board of Directors (now the Advisory Board) of The Noyes Museum of Art of Stockton University.

EDUCATION

Ph.D., Columbia University

AREAS OF EXPERTISE

19th & 20th century American painting and photography

COURSES

AMST 5004 19th-Century American Art

ARTV 2175/2176 Art History I & II

ARTV 3335 Art of New Jersey

ARTV 3610 Nineteenth-century Art

ARTV 3611 Early Modern Art

ARTV 3612 American Art

ARTV 3613 Modern Art Since 1950

ARTV 4950/51 Senior Project in Art History I & II

GAH 2227 History of Photography

PUBLICATIONS

Yosemite. London: Reaktion Books, Ltd., Oct. 2015.

"Painters & Painting.” The Encyclopedia of Greater Philadelphia (PhiladelphiaEncyclopedia.org, online), 2016.

“The Peale Family of Painters.” The Encyclopedia of Greater Philadelphia (PhiladelphiaEncyclopedia.org, online), 2016.

Guidebook to Southern New Jersey architecture, Down Jersey: From Bayshore to Seashore (Photo Editor and Project Manager), produced in conjunction with annual conference of Vernacular Architecture Forum, May 2014.

“California as Kingdom Come.” Yosemite: Art of an American Icon. Autry Museum of Western Heritage, Los Angeles. 2006. 23-53.

“Carved in Stone: Looking at American Art in New Jersey Burial Grounds,” in Siobhan Fitzpatrick, ed., Ghosts, Ghouls & Gravestones: The Trades of Burial (Exhibition catalogue, The Museum of Early Trades and Crafts, Madison, NJ, 2013), pp. 42-63.

Essay, “Michael Lenson: From Murals to Modernism,” in Time, Place and Substance: Selected Works by Michael Lenson (Exhibition catalogue, The Butler Institute of American Art, Youngstown, Ohio, 2012), pp. 4-15.

“Michael Lenson: From Murals to Modernism.” The Butler Institute of American Art, Youngstown, Ohio. 2012. 6-17.

Essay, “Surface Tension,” in Joseph Podlesnik: Surfaces (book of photographs, self-published, 2015).

Article, “Camera Lies Before PhotoshopTM,” New Horizons in Visual Literacy: Selected Readings of the International Visual Literacy Assocation, edition 200 (June 2012), pp. 133-144.

“Portraits by George Washington Conarroe.” American Art Review 22.6 (2010): 76-79.

“The Work of George Washington Nicholson.” American Art Review 20.4 (2008): 80-87, 143-144.

Exhibition Catalogue & Essay, From Cape May to Cairo: The Work of George Washington Nicholson, The Noyes Museum, Oceanville, NJ, April 22 – Nov. 9, 2008; curated exhibition drawing from public and private collections in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Delaware.

“Within the Tradition: Photographic Portraits of Holocaust Survivors,” in Holocaust Survivors of South Jersey: Portraits of Resilience, Atlantic City Art Center; produced by the Holocaust Resource Center, Stockton College, 2007; 2nd ed. 2008.

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS

College Art Association

Association of Historians of American Art

Association of Historians of 19th Century Art

Nineteenth Century Studies Association

BIOGRAPHY

Dr. Christina M. Morus (PhD University of Georgia, 2005) is an Associate Professor of Communication & Genocide Studies at Stockton University. She was a Fulbright Scholar in residence at the University of Belgrade’s Faculty of Political Sciences and the Center for Women’s Studies in 2009 and continues to serve as a volunteer and activist with Belgrade’s Women in Black, and Belgrade’s DAH Theatre.

At the core of her scholarship and pedagogy is the critical consideration of pre- and post-conflict discourses with attention to media, politics, popular thought and public memory. Her work centers mainly on the 1990s wars in the former Yugoslavia, with some attention to the 1994 Rwandan Genocide, the Khmer Rouge Genocide in Cambodia, the Genocide of Guatemala’s Maya, and the struggle against Apartheid in South Africa. Her past projects considered the impacts of Serbian historical narratives, as they are embedded within a range of public discourses, on the normalization of violence that accompanied the 1990s wars in the former Yugoslavia. Her current research considers the impacts of historical narratives on post-war discourses and the extent to which they influence regional sustainable stability and social repair. She is presently working on a book – a ten-year longitudinal study focusing on public memory and the Srebrenica Genocide. The study critically analyzes the ways in which locally-originating grassroots civil society organizations in Serbia and Bosnia are affecting post-conflict transition through carefully crafted, consciously counter-hegemonic, vernacular rhetorical strategies deployed in public space.

EDUCATION

Ph.D., University of Georgia

AREAS OF EXPERTISE

The Rhetoric of Mass Violence & Genocide;

The break-up of Yugoslavia, The Bosnian War & its aftermath;

Gender & War;

Discourses of Memory;

The Rhetoric of Social Change;

Discourses of Gender, Race, Class & Ethnicity

COURSES

COMM 3309: Media, Civil Rights, & Social Change;

COMM 3312: Media in Times of War;

COMM 4601: Senior Seminar;

GAH 2358: Perspectives on Women;

GAH 3248: Media, Public Perception & Genocide;

GIS 3418: Witness to Genocide;

GIS 3658: Women & Genocide

SELECTED RECENT RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS:

Morus, Christina M, (2012) War Rape and the Global Condition of Womanhood: Learning from the Bosnian War. In Rape as an Instrument of War and Genocide (J. Roth & C. Rittner Eds.) Paragon House publishers.

Morus, Christina M. (2011) Half the Sky: Considering the Audience-conscious Rhetorical Strategies of Nicholas Kristof & Sheryl WuDunn. Expositions – An interdisciplinary journal of Ethics, 5 (2) (Fall 2011).

Morus, Christina M. (2010) Bosnia: Violence Born of History, History Born of Violence. in L. Barria & S. Roper, Eds. The Development of Institutions of Human Rights: A Comparative Study. (Palgrave MacMillan Publishers).

Morus, Christina M. (2007) The SANU Memorandum: Intellectual Authority and the Constitution of an Exclusive Serbian “People,” Communication and Critical/Cultural Studies Journal, 4, (2) (142 – 165).

Morus, Christina M. (2007) Slobo the Redeemer: The Rhetoric of Slobodan Milosevic and the construction of the Serbian “people,” Southern Communication Journal, 72, (1) (1 – 20). Lead Article

BOOK REVIEWS:

Morus, Christina M. Review of Genocide: Truth, Memory and Representation. Hinton, Alexander L., and O'Neill, Kevin L., eds - Journal of Peace and Social Justice Studies. (January, 2011).

Morus, Christina M. Review of War, Conflict & Human Rights: Theory & Practice. Sriram, Chandra L.; Martin-Ortega, O. & Herman, J. In Human Rights Quarterly, 32 (4) (November 2010)

ENCYCLOPEDIA & DIGITAL DATABASE ENTERIES:

Morus, Christina M. (2013). Bosnian Genocide: Overview. In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences. Retrieved November 6, 2013, from http://moderngenocide.abc-clio.com/

Morus, Christina M. (2013). Bosnian Genocide: Causes. In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences. Retrieved November 6, 2013, from http://moderngenocide.abc-clio.com/

Morus, Christina M. (2013). Bosnian Genocide: Consequences. In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences. Retrieved November 6, 2013, from http://moderngenocide.abc-clio.com/

Morus, Christina M. (2013). Bosnian Genocide: Perpetrators. In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences. Retrieved November 6, 2013, from http://moderngenocide.abc-clio.com/

Morus, Christina M. (2013). Bosnian Genocide: Victims. In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences. Retrieved November 6, 2013, from http://moderngenocide.abc-clio.com/

Morus, Christina M. (2013). Bosnian Genocide: Bystanders. In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences. Retrieved November 6, 2013, from http://moderngenocide.abc-clio.com/

Morus, Christina M. (2013). Bosnian Genocide: International Reaction. In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences. Retrieved November 6, 2013, from http://moderngenocide.abc-clio.com/

Morus, Christina M. (2013). Crimes Against Women. In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences. Retrieved November 6, 2013, from http://moderngenocide.abc-clio.com/

Morus, Christina M. (2013). Sexual Violence Against Women. In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences. Retrieved November 6, 2013, from http://moderngenocide.abc-clio.com/

Morus, Christina M. (2013). Women in Black. In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences. Retrieved November 6, 2013, from http://moderngenocide.abc-clio.com/

Morus, Christina M. (2013). Stasa Zajovic. In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences. Retrieved November 6, 2013, from http://moderngenocide.abc-clio.com/

Morus, Christina M. (2013). DAH Theatre. In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences. Retrieved November 6, 2013, from http://moderngenocide.abc-clio.com/

Morus, Christina M. (2013). Humanitarian Law Center. In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences. Retrieved November 6, 2013, from http://moderngenocide.abc-clio.com/

Morus, Christina M. (2013). Mothers of Srebrenica. In Modern Genocide: Understanding Causes and Consequences. Retrieved November 6, 2013, from http://moderngenocide.abc-clio.com/

SELECTED RECENT CONFERENCE PAPERS:

“Colonization, Imagination and the Nationing of Dubrovnik: A Critical Consideration of Images of the ‘Homeland War’ and the Shifting identity of the Ancient Jewel of the Adriatic” - Lines Between: Culture and Empire in the Eastern Mediterranean, June 03 – 06, 2015, Nicosia, Cyprus

"Performing Absence as Presence in Post-traumatic/Post-conflict Commemoration." – National Communication Association Conference, November 2013, Washington, DC

"Sights of Conflict, Aggression, and Transformation: Vernacular Visual Tactics in the struggle for post-conflict Memory". George Gerbner Conference on Communication, Conflict, and Aggression - Budapest, Hungary June 2013

"Locating Invisible Agents of War: A Critical Consideration of the Bosnian War’s Militarized Women" - The Politics of Location Revisited: 8th European Feminist Research Conference, May 2012, Budapest, Hungary

"Locating local feminist activism in a transnational feminist landscape: Gender, Agency and the struggle for memory in the aftermath of the Bosnian war"- The Politics of Location Revisited: 8th European Feminist Research Conference, May 2012, Budapest, Hungary

"Invisible Agents of War: 'Seeing' Women’s War Aggression as a crucial next step in Gender & Conflict Studies" -- Gendered Memories of War & Political Violence Conference, May 2012, Istanbul, Turkey

"The Peace March – Srebrenica 2010: A Case Study of the Effects of Locally Originating solutions for Post-Conflict Transition" -- 2011 Day of Scholarship, March 2011, Richard Stockton College, NJ

"Serbia’s Women in Black: Always Disobedient to Patriarchy – A Transnational Feminist Critique" – National Communication Association Conference, November 2010, San Diego, CA,

"Teaching Genocide as more than The Holocaust" – Religious Communication Association pre-conference, November 2010, San Francisco, CA

"Understanding Media & Militarization" – Anti-militarism Conference, Belgrade, Serbia

"Women in Black: The Perils of remaining 'Always Disobedient to Patriarchy'” – 2010 Day of Scholarship, Richard Stockton College

"War Rape in Bosnia" – Scholar’s Seminar on Genocidal Rape, March, 2010, Philadelphia, PA

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS

National Communication Association

Fulbright Scholars Alumni Association

Organization for Research on Women and Communication

BIOGRAPHY

Dr. James Shen is Full Professor of Communication. Since he joined the Stockton faculty in 1997, he has offered more than a dozen courses for both undergraduate and graduate students.

Dr. Shen was head of the Communication Studies Program from fall 1998 to spring 2006. He taught and advised hundreds of students of different cultural background, including many transfer students, minority students, and international students from Albania, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Croatia, Germany, Greece, India, Indonesia, Iran, Lithuania, Lebanon, Nigeria, The Philippines, Poland, Russia, Romania, Serbia, South Korea, Taiwan, Ukraine, Venezuela and Vietnam. With his advice and recommendations, more than 65 communication seniors got admitted into graduate schools.

Being Coordinator of Stockton’s Communication Internship Program (off-campus), starting from summer 1998 to present, Dr. Shen has sent out more than 800 junior and senior students to pre-employment positions in a variety of media and non-media businesses in Atlantic City, Philadelphia, New York City, and other regional areas. He also recommended many students for Washington D.C. internship, and overseas studies.

EDUCATION

Ph.D., Ohio University

AREAS OF EXPERTISE

Mass and international communication, telecommunications and computer-mediated communication (CMC), historical journalism, critical cultural studies, Asian and international affairs.

COURSES

COMM 1201 Introduction to Mass Communication

COMM 2103 Writing for the Media

COMM 2204 Media, Culture, and Society

COMM 2400 Computer-Mediated Communication

COMM 3200 Theories of Mass Communication

COMM 3301 Communication Technologies

COMM 4601 Communication Seminar (topics: The Internet Culture, Global Communication and Career Development, Global Challenges and Management Communication)

COMM 4901 Communication Internship

GEN 1119 Introduction to Communication

GIS 3668 Media and Audience Analysis

INTC 5150 Ethical, Legal and Multicultural Issues in Technology (MAIT)

MGMT/MIS 5353 Telecommunications for Management (MBA)

PUBLICATIONS

“Beyond media power: Post-Socialist China vs. Post-industrial USA in International Communication.” Proceedings of the 18th ACPSS International Conference, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 2012.

“Media Trial and Conflict Management: Critical Challenges to a Rising China in International Communication.” Proceedings of the 17th ACPSS International Annual Conference, School of International and Public Affairs, Weatherhead East Asian Institute, Columbia University, New York City, 2011.

“Harmony, Congagement and Chinamerica: Reflections on the 21st century Sino-American strategic communication.” Proceedings of the 16th ACPSS International Annual Conference on Engaging China: Sino-American Relations, Sustainable Development and Beyond, Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, 2010.

“International Communication: An Asian Perspective and Challenges.” Human Communication 14.3 (2011): 301 - 311.[1]

“International Communication.” Critiques of Communication Studies in the West: History, Development and New Frontiers. Beijing: Renmin University Press, 2007.

“论争、调和与合作间的传播交流：美籍华人学者在美中关系中的战略作用刍议。” 美籍华人与美中关系。Beijing: Xinhua Press, 2004.

"Communicating through Conflict, Compromise and Cooperation: the Strategic Role of Chinese-American Scholars in the U.S.-China Relationship." The Expanding Roles of Chinese Americans in U.S.-China Relations: Transnational Networks and Trans-Pacific Interactions. Eds. P. Koehn and X. Yin. NY: M.E. Sharpe, 2002.

"Computer-mediated Communication: Internet Development and New Challenges in China." Chinese Communication Theory and Research: Reflections, New Frontiers, and New Directions. Eds. W. Jia, L. Xing and D. Heisey. Westport, CT: Greenwood, 2002.

"Rethinking Journalism Education in China: A Transnational Perspective." Journalism and Social Change in Asia, Hong Kong: HK Baptist University Press, 1998.

"Dual Cultural Reading and Televisual Experience of Chinese Students in the United States." Communication Studies in Mainland China. Taipei, Taiwan: National Chengchi University Press, 1995.

"The Rise and Fall of The World Economic Herald, 1980-1989," Journalism & Mass Communication Quarterly, 72 (Autumn 1995): 642-53.

[1] An earlier version was presented at the 8th PACA Biennial Conference: Communication Encounters across Cultures, Shenzhen University, July, 2010. It received The 2010 PACA Best Paper Award from the Pacific and Asian Communication Association.

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS

Current: Association for Chinese Communication Studies (ACCS, an NCA affiliate)

Association of Chinese Professors of Social Sciences in the U.S. (ACPSS)

Past: National Communication Association (NCA)

Speech Communication Association (SCA)

Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication (AEJMC)

International Communication Association (ICA)

BIOGRAPHY

Sharon Ann Musher grew up in New York City. She received her B.A. from the University of Michigan, an M.Phil. in Economic and Social History from Oxford University, and a Ph.D. in History from Columbia University.

Dr. Musher joined Stockton’s faculty in 2007. Her teaching and research focus on the arts, visual culture, gender, race, and ethnicity.

Her first book, Democratic Art: The New Deal’s Influence on American Culture (University of Chicago Press, 2015) traces a range of aesthetic visions that flourished during the 1930s to outline the successes, shortcomings, and lessons of the golden age of government funding for the arts. Her current book project, Americans Abroad: Hadassah Kaplan, Zionism, and the Making of American-Jewish Women, uses her grandmother’s archive to explore the coming of age of a young American Jewish woman in the early twentieth century in a story that foreshadows the emerging special relationship between American Jews and Israel. She has written book chapters in The Oxford Handbook of the African American Slave Narrative (Oxford University Press, 2014), Interpreting American History: The New Deal and the Great Depression (Kent State University Press, 2014), and The Case against Academic Boycotts of Israel (Wayne State Press, 2014). She has also published articles and reviews in American Quarterly, American Studies Journal, Journal of Interdisciplinary History, Jewish Journal of Sociology, Network: A Journal of Faculty Development, The Academe Blog, and Times of Israel. She teaches the US history survey as well as courses on 1930s America, American Jewish women, identity, motherhood, and American Studies. She was the founding director of Stockton’s Master of Arts in American Studies.

Dr. Musher lives in Philadelphia with her husband and three daughters.

EDUCATION

Ph.D., Columbia University

AREAS OF EXPERTISE

20th-century US history, social-cultural history, gender and women’s history, Jewish history, African-American history

COURSES

History: US History Since 1865, US History Since 1920, 1930’s America, American Jewish Women, Gender and Labor History, Introduction to the Study of History, Advanced Seminar in History: Identity, Historical Methods, Thesis

General Studies: Introduction to American Studies, New Deal Drama: Past to Present, Meanings of Motherhood, Perspectives on Women

American Studies: Proseminar in American Studies

PUBLICATIONS

Books and Book Chapters:

Americans Abroad: Hadassah Kaplan, Zionism, and the Making of American Jewish Women (manuscript in progress)

Democratic Art: The New Deal's Influence on American Culture. Chicago, IL: U of Chicago Press, 2015.

"American Studies Association and BDS" in Dream Deferred: A Concise Guide to the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict & the Movement to Boycott Israel. Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press, 2016.

“The Other Slave Narratives: The Works Progress Administration Interviews.” The Oxford Handbook of the African American Slave Narrative. Ed. John Ernest. New York: Oxford UP, 2014.

“The New Deal and the Arts” Interpreting American History: The New Deal and the Great Depression. Interpreting American History Series. Ed. Aaron D. Purcell. Kent, OH: Kent State University Press, 2014.

“The Closing of the American Studies Association’s Mind” in The Case Against Academic Boycotts, eds. Cary Nelson and Gabriel Brahm, Detroit, MI: Wayne State University Press, 2014.

Refereed Academic Journal Publications:

“Contesting the ‘Way the Almighty Wants it’: Crafting Memories of Ex-Slaves in the Slave Narrative Collection,”American Quarterly 53.1 (2001): 1-31.

“The Motivations and Assimilation of British Women Who Migrated to Israel, 1965-1975,” The Jewish Journal of Sociology, 41.1-2 (1999).

Digital Humanities Projects:

“Claiming Citizenship: African Americans and New Deal Photography,” digital supplement to an exhibit, 2012.

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS

American Historical Association

Organization of American Historians

American Association of University Professors

BIOGRAPHY

Laura Zucconi is an Associate Professor at Stockton University. Her research interests are the interplay of religion and medicine, Levantine archaeology, digital humanities, and the use of games in education. In addition to her book, Can No Physician be Found: The Influence of Religion on Medical Pluralism in Ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia, and Israel (Gorgias 2010), she has published articles on the history of ancient medicine in the edited volume Sacred History, Sacred Literature: Essays on Ancient Israel, the Bible, and Religion, and in the journals, Le Journal des Médecine Cunéiformes and Religion Compass. Currently, she is working on A History of Ancient Medicine (Eerdmans, forthcoming) and the digital role playing game Pox and the City as well as the relationship between Timna of the Biblical genealogies and the copper mining region of the same name.

EDUCATION

Ph.D., University of California, San Diego

AREAS OF EXPERTISE

Ancient Mediterranean history, ancient Near Eastern history, history of religion, history of medicine, archaeology

COURSES

HIST 2110 The Ancient Roman World

HIST 2111 The World of Ancient Greece

HIST 2116 Ancient Mediterranean History

HIST 2200 Ancient Israel

HIST 2407 Problems in Ancient History

HIST 2409 Bronze Age Mediterranean

HIST 3104 The Bible as History

HIST 3307 Travel in Antiquity

HIST 3308 Sex and Gender in Antiquity

HIST 3608 Nationalism in Antiquity

GAH 1048 History’s Mysteries

GAH 2185 The Historical Jesus

GAH 2238 Vampires: History of the Undead

GAH 2332 Britannia Rocks: A Musical History

PUBLICATIONS

“Pox and the City: Digital Games and Writing History.” Writing History in the Digital Age. Jack Dougherty and Kristen Nawrotzki, eds. U of Michigan P, forthcoming.

The Blind, the Deaf, and the Mute: Examining Categories of Disability in the Bible. Joel S. Baden. Candida R. Moss, Nicole Kelley, and Laura Zucconi, eds. Semeia Studies, forthcoming.

“Four-room House and Israelite Ethnicity.” World History Encyclopedia. Ed. Alfred J. Andrea. ABC-CLIO, 2011.

Can No Physician be Found: The Influence of Religion on Medical Pluralism in Ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia, and Israel (2700-586 BCE). Gorgias P, 2010.

“Book Review: Mad, Bad, and Sad by Lisa Appignanesi.” The Historian 72 (2010): 492-494. .

“Aramean Skin Care: A New Perspective on Naaman’s Leprosy.” Sacred History, Sacred Literature: Essays on Ancient Israel, the Bible, and Religion in Honor of R.E. Friedman on his 60th Birthday. Ed. Shawna Dolansky. Eisenbrauns, 2008.

“Mesopotamian Healers as Diviners.” Le Journal des Médecine Cunéiformes 10 (2007): 19-33.

“From the Wilderness of Zin alongside Edom: Edomite Territory in the Eastern Negev during the 8th-6th Centuries BCE.” Milk and Honey: Essays on Ancient Israel and the Bible in Appreciation for the Judaic Studies Program at the University of California, San Diego. David Miano and Sarah Malena, eds. Eisenbrauns, 2007.

“Medicine and Religion in Ancient Egypt.” Religion Compass 1 (2006): 26-37.

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS

American Historical Association

Archaeological Institute of America

Association of Ancient Historians

Reacting to the Past

Society of Biblical Literature

Healthcare and Disability in the Ancient World, Program Chair

BIOGRAPHY

Katherine Panagakos earned her M.A. in Classics from Tulane University and her Ph.D. in Greek and Latin from The Ohio State University. During her graduate work, she was a student at The American School of Classical Studies at Athens (ASCSA) and was a field walker and camp manager at the Eastern Korinthia Archaeogical Survey (EKAS). Katherine spent three years in a rotating position at schools in the Associated Colleges of the South (Southwestern University in Georgetown, TX; Furman University in Greenville, SC; and Rhodes College in Memphis, TN).

She began teaching primarily Latin and Classics-related courses at Stockton in January of 2008. Katherine serves as the advisor for the Classics National Honor Society (ΗΣΦ) and OGRE (Order of Greco-Roman Enthusiasts), as well as being an active member of the Interdisciplinary Center of Hellenic Studies (ICHS) and the Friends of Hellenic Studies (FHS). Her research focuses on the ancient Greek and Roman novels. Katherine is currently working on three manuscripts. The first focuses on the role of pirates and robbers in the ancient novels and the other two are in collaboration with former students: one is an intermediate Greek text on Aesop’s Fables; the other is a collection of essays on suicide in the ancient Greco-Roman world.

EDUCATION

Ph.D., The Ohio State University

AREAS OF EXPERTISE

Latin language and literature, Ancient Greek and Roman novels, Augustan Age, Classical mythology, Greco-Romans in film, zombies in popular culture

COURSES

LANG 1220/1221 Beginning Latin I & II

LANG 2710 & 2711 Intermediate Latin I and II (recent authors include: Catullus, Martial, Apuleius, Petronius, Cicero, Horace, and Ovid)

LANG 3710/3711 Advanced Latin I and II (recent authors/topics include: Vergil, Lucan, Lucretius, Elegiac Poetry, Roman Biography, Cicero, and Livy)

LANG 3760/3761Advanced Greek I and II (Lucian, Longus, and Homer)

GAH 1038 Reacting to the Past

GAH 1401 Classical Myth and Legend

GAH 1632 Greco-Romans in Film and Text

GAH 2351 Zombies and Cultural Anxiety

GAH 3220 The Age of Augustus

PUBLICATIONS

Review of Stefan Tilg’s Chariton of Aphrodisias and the invention of the Greek Love Novel (Oxford UP, 2010).Bryn Mawr Classical Review. Bryn Mawr, PA: BMCR, 2011.

Review of Evan Hayes and Stephen Nimis’ Lucian’s The Ass: An Intermediate Greek Reader (Faenum, 2012). Classical Journal. (Under contract)

“Heliodoran Evolution and Innovation.” Ancient Narrative. (Under revision)

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS

American Philological Association

Classical Association of the Middle West and South

Eta Sigma Phi

BIOGRAPHY

Adalaine Holton teaches courses on 19th and 20th-century multiethnic US literature and culture, and her research interests include comparative US ethnic studies, African diaspora literature and culture, and archive studies. Her articles appear in MELUS, Arizona Quarterly, and Journal of African American History. Her current book project, Counter-Archives: The Politics of Knowledge Production in the Black Atlantic, is a study of the production, use, and dissemination of archives and archival materials in black political activism in the U.S. She also directs Stockton’s Why the Humanities Matters Institute for Teachers, a collaborative, interdisciplinary professional development program for South Jersey English/language Arts and social studies teachers.

Dr. Holton was the Literature Program Coordinator for the 2016-2018 term, and she is the current director of the Master of Arts in American Studies Program.

EDUCATION

Ph.D., University of California, Santa Cruz

B.A., English Language and Literature

B.A., American Studies

AREAS OF EXPERTISE

Nineteenth- and Twentieth-Century American Literature, African American Literature

COURSES

Core Courses

LITT 2114: Literary Interpretation

LITT 2123: Introduction to Research

LITT 4610: Senior Seminar: “Representing Slavery” and “History and Memory in Literature of the Americas”

Electives

LITT 2104: American Literature 1: “New World Contact to the Civil War”

LITT 2147: Survey of Multi-Ethnic Literature

LITT 2148: Introduction to African American Literature

LITT 3125: Literary Theory and Criticism

LITT 3131: Comparative American Literature

LITT 3217: Special Topics in Ethnic Literature: “Black Radicalism”

LITT 3317: Race and the Making of U.S. Literature

MA in American Studies

MAAS 5001: Research Methods in American Studies

MAAS 5002: Critical Theory and American Studies

MAAS 5017: Teaching American Studies

General Studies

GAH 3206: Race and U.S. Culture

GAH 3312: Black Radicalism

PUBLICATIONS

REFEREED JOURNAL PUBLICATIONS

Holton, Adalaine. “‘Little Things Are Big’: Race and the Politics of Print Community in the Writings of Jesús Colón.” MELUS 38, no. 2 (2013): 5-23.

Holton, Adalaine. “To ‘tell again in many ways’: Iteration and Translation in The Souls of Black Folk.” Arizona Quarterly 66, no. 3 (2010): 23-43.

Holton, Adalaine. “Decolonizing History: Arthur Schomburg’s Afrodiasporic Archive.” Journal of African American History 92, no. 2 (2007): 218-238.

RESEARCH IN PROGRESS

Holton, Adalaine. Counter Archives: The Politics of Knowledge Production in the Black Atlantic.

This book project is a study of the production, use, and dissemination of archives and archival materials in black political activism of the early to mid 20th century. In particular, I consider the ways in which black radical intellectuals challenge conventional understandings of the form and function of the archive by engaging in experimental archival projects. These projects include physical collections of documents and cultural artifacts, as well as figurative repositories of historical memories and the practices of remembering, cataloging, and disseminating historical knowledge.

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS

American Studies Association

Modern Language Association

BIOGRAPHY

Nathan Long teaches creative writing, with a focus on fiction, as well as literature courses and courses for the Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Minor. His interests are in Contemporary American and Global Literature, flash fiction, short story cycles, and QUILTBAG literature and culture. He has published stories and essays in over 100 anthologies and journals including The Sun, Tin House, Glimmer Train, Crab Orchard Review, and Story Quarterly.

His story “Reception Theory” won the 2017 international OWT Story Prize and “Arctic” won the 2015 internationalOpen Roadfiction award. Seven other stories have been finalists forGlimmer Trainshort story contests and three have been nominated for a Pushcart Prize. Long’s essay for NPR’s “This I Believe” series, about losing his dog Gracie, is availableon line.

His collection of fifty flash fictions, The Origin of Doubt, was released Feb 2018 by Press 53. His short story collection manuscript, Two Stories, Some Tales, and a Yarn, was a finalist for the Hudson Book Manuscript Prize and a semifinalist for the Iowa Fiction Award.

Long remains active on the editorial boards of Philadelphia Stories and Interalia, and on the executive board of the Southern Humanities Council.

WEBSITE

https://blogs.stockton.edu/longn/

EDUCATION

MFA, Virginia Commonwealth University

AREAS OF EXPERTISE

Creative writing, fiction, personal essay, autobiography, contemporary literature, flash fiction, queer literature and theory, and women, gender, and sexuality studies.

COURSES

LITT 2237 Introduction to Creative Writing

LITT 3270 Creative Writing Workshop

LITT 3636 Advanced Fiction Writing Workshop

LITT 3637 Flash Fiction Workshop

GAH 3205 Queer Autobiographies

GAH 2681The History of Time

GAH 3217 Literature and Globalization

LITT 3242 Living American Poets

PUBLICATIONS

Nathan Alling Long’s stories and essays appear in over fifty literary journals, including Glimmer Train, The Sun, Tin House,Story Quarterly, Natural Bridge, Indiana Review, Salt Hill, Story South, Dos Passos Review, Coe Review,Monkey Bicycle, Philadelphia Stories, Silk Road, Sonora Review, Crab Orchard Review, Camera Obscura, Atticus Review, and Fiction Southeast.

His work has also appeared on National Public Radio, and in a number of anthologies, including Mother Knows, The Way We Work, Queer View Mirror Two, Stripped, Seek It: Writers and Artists Do Sleep, and FutureCycle Press Flash Fiction Anthology.

His stories have been seven time finalists for the Glimmer Train Very Short Story Award and have won him a Truman Capote Fellowship, a Mellon Foundation Fellowship, a Virginia Commission of the Arts grant, a Pushcart Prize nomination, and two Bread Loaf Conference working scholarships.

His scholarly work and reviews have appeared in Tin House, Southern Humanities Review, Interalia, and Panoptikum. A chapbook of his stories was published in 2005 by Popular Ink Press.

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS

Executive board, Southern Humanities Council

Editorial board, Philadelphia Stories

Editorial board, Interalia, an International Journal of Queer Studies

Member, Associated Writing Programs (AWP)

BIOGRAPHY

Prof. Siecienski is a New Jersey native who attended Georgetown University before obtaining his M. Div/STL from St. Mary’s Seminary and University and then a PhD from Fordham University in New York. He has taught at Fordham as a post-doctoral fellow, and at Misericordia University in Pennsylvania. In 2008 he returned to New Jersey and began teaching at Stockton, where he teaches courses in philosophy/religion and history. Married with two children, he supports Tottenham Hotspur, Bayern Munich, and Philadelphia Union.

EDUCATION

Ph.D., Fordham University

AREAS OF EXPERTISE

Historical theology, Patristic and Byzantine studies, Christian thought

COURSES

HIST 2113 Imperial Byzantium

PHIL 2124 Medieval Philosophy

PHIL 2211 Social and Political Philosophy

PHIL 2402 Judaism, Christianity, Islam (Abrahamic Faiths)

PHIL/HIST 2403 History of Christian Thought I

PHIL/HIST 2404 History of Christian Thought II

PHIL/HIST 2405 Eastern Christianity

PHIL 2406 Modern Issues in Religious Studies

PHIL 4600 Senior Seminar: Metaphysics

GAH 2368 Church and State in American Society

GAH 2354 History of the Papacy

GAH 1274 The Crusades: God’s Warriors

PUBLICATIONS

Books (Author)

The Papacy and the Orthodox: Sources and History of a Debate. Oxford University Press, 2017.

The Filioque: History of a Doctrinal Controversy (Oxford University Press, 2010)

Books (Editor)

Constantine: Religious Faith and Imperial Policy. Routledge, 2017.

Chapters in Books

“Maximus, the Filioque, and the Papacy: From Prooftext to Mediator.”

Chapter in Maximus the Confessor: Saint Between East and West. Cascade Books, forthcoming.

"Maximus the Confessor and Ecumenism." Chapter in Oxford Handbook to Maximus the Confessor. Oxford University Press, 2015. 548-63.

“The Filioque: A Brief History.” Chapter in Ecumenical Perspectives on the Filioque for the 21st Century. T & T Clark, 2014. 7-19

“Holy Disobedience: Resistance to Ecclesiastical and Secular Authority in the Orthodox Tradition.” Chapter in Power and Authority in Eastern Christian Experience: The Sophia Institute Studies in Orthodox Theology. Vol. 3. Theotokos Press, 2011. 138-62.

“(Re)defining the Boundaries of Orthodoxy: The Rule of Faith and the 20th Century Rehabilitation of Origen.” Chapter in Tradition and the Rule of Faith in the Early Church: Essays in Honor of Joseph T. Lienhard. Alex Huang and Ronnie Rombs, eds. Washington, D.C.: CUA, 2010. 286-307.

“Avoiding the Sin of Ham: Dealing with Errors in the Works of the Fathers.” Chapter in Studia Patristica: Ascetica, Liturgica, Orientalia, Critica et Philologica, The First Two Centuries: Papers presented at the Fifteenth International Conference on Patristic Studies, XLV. J. Peeters, 2010. 175-179.

Forward to The Infancy Gospels of Jesus: Apocryphal Tales from the Childhoods of Mary and Jesus - Annotated & Explained by Stevan Davies. Skylight Illuminations, 2009.

“Gilding the Lily: A Patristic Defense of Liturgical Splendor.” Chapter in Wealth and Poverty in Early Church and Society. Holy Cross Studies in Patristic Theology and History. Ed. Susan Holman Baker Academic Press, 2008. 211-20.

Journal Articles/Reviews

Review of The Concept of Sister Churches in Catholic-Orthodox Relations Since Vatican II by Will Cohen. St. Vladimir's Theological Quarterly, forthcoming.

"Holy Hair: Beards in the Patristic Tradition." St. Vladimir's Theological Quarterly 58 (2014): 41-67.

"Mary in Antioch: Mary in the Writings of Chrysostom, Theodoret of Cyr, and Nestorius." St. Vladimir's Theological Quarterly 56 (2012): 133-69.

Review of The Body in St. Maximus the Confessor by Adam Cooper. St Vladimir's Theological Quarterly (2008): 134-36.

“The Authenticity of Maximus the Confessor’s Letter to Marinus: The Argument from Theological Consistency.” Vigiliae Christianae 61 (2007): 189-227.

Encyclopedia Articles

Encyclopedia of the Bible and Its Reception (30 vols). Articles on Beards, Gregory of Cyprus, Gregory Palamas, John of Damascus, John Bekkos. de Gryter Publishers, 2011-present.

Oxford Dictionary of the Middle Ages. Articles on Maximus the Confessor, Barlaam of Calabria, Gregory Palamas, George Scholarius, and the Council of Ferrara-Florence. Oxford University Press, 2010.

Blackwell Encyclopedia of Eastern Orthodoxy. Articles on Cyril Loukaris, Michael Caerularios, Nicholas Cabasilas, Council of Lyons, Mark of Ephesus, Theophylact of Ohrid, Gennadius Scholarius, Eastern Catholic Churches. Blackwell, 2010.

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS

Sources of Early Christian Thought - Editorial Board

The Scholarly Editions and Translations Committee

National Endowment for the Humanities

Senior Fellow, The Sophia Institute: International Center for Orthodox Thought and Culture

American Academy of Religion

North American Patristics Society

Orthodox Theological Society of America

Byzantine Studies Association of North America

BIOGRAPHY

Lucio Angelo Privitello was raised and schooled in Grammichele, Sicily, where he received his Diploma Superiore in Ceramics and Design, and was apprentice to painter and sculptor Giuseppe Benassi in Parma, Italy. He received a B.F.A. in Sculpture from Rhode Island School of Design, an M.A. in Philosophy from Temple University, and an M.A., and Ph.D., in Philosophy from Villanova University.

He is currently a tenured Professor of Philosophy, Tsantes Endowed Professor of Ancient Greek Philosophy, and Chair of the Philosophy and Religion Program, at Stockton University. His publications include studies on Bataille, Royce, Chauncey Wright, G.H. Palmer, Marcuse, Deleuze, Visconti, Lampedusa, Baudrillard, Nietzsche, and Umberto Eco.His publications include studies on Bataille, Royce, Chauncey Wright, G.H. Palmer, Marcuse, Deleuze, Visconti, Lampedusa, Baudrillard, Nietzsche, and Umberto Eco. His conference presentations include work in ancient Greek philosophy, Derrida, Adorno, Lacan, Proust, Santayana, pedagogy, art theory, horror, and humor theory. He is currently preparing a manuscript and translation of the fragments of Parmenides, as well as a manuscript on Il Gattopardo.

EDUCATION

Ph.D., Villanova University

AREAS OF EXPERTISE

Ancient Greek philosophy, Renaissance philosophy, history of modern philosophy, aesthetics, Nietzsche, American philosophy (Wright, Royce, Palmer, Peirce), contemporary continental philosophy, Bataille, Lacan, philosophy and psychoanalysis, philosophy and literature, post-structuralism.

COURSES

PHIL 1101 Introduction to Philosophy

PHIL 1402 Mysticism and Philosophy

PHIL 2109 Ancient Greek Philosophy

PHIL 2222 Renaissance Philosophy in Italy

PHIL 2223 Death, Myth, and Philosophy

PHIL 2224 The Search for A God Language

Philosophies of Psychoanalyses

PHIL 3116 Philosophies of Art

PHIL 3607 History of Modern Philosophy

PHIL 3615 Philosophical Methods

PHIL 3619 History of Modern Philosophy II

PHIL 3616 Leibniz: Unicorns to Universes

PHIL 3300 Nietzsche: Forgetting and Remembering Philosophy

PHIL 4600 Senior Seminar (Topics: Parmenides: Philosophy and/as Law)

PHIL 4600 Senior Seminar (Topic: Volumes and Edges of Contemporary Philosophy)

PHIL 4600 Senior Seminar (Topic: Fate, Fortune, Chance, and Necessity)

GAH 1002/2102 The Ways of Love

GAH 2345 Humor's Logic and Laughter's Wisdom

GAH 2324 In the Animal's Image

GAH 2271 Philosophies of Life and Death: True Blood and Philosophy

GAH 2290 Horror: Reason, Madness, Faith - American Horror Story, Asylum

Independent Studies: Hegel Science and System, The Orders of Pleasure: Sade and Masoch, Hobbes: Of Men and Monsters, Creativity and Creation, Historicycles & Phantasy (Vico), Phenomenology and the Arts, Spinoza: Urban Conatus, Philosophy of Nature.

PUBLICATIONS

Book reviews of Guido Calenda, Un Universo Aperto: La Cosmologia e la Struttura della Terra, (Bologna: Diogene Multimedia, 2017, 127 pages), and Nicola Stefano Galgano, I Precetti della Dea: Non Essere e Contraddizione in Parmenide di Elea (Bologna: Diogene Multimedia, 2017, 233 pages) for the tier-one journal Archai: Journal on the Study of the Origins of Western Thought (Brazil). Reviews requested and peer reviewed. (Forthcoming fall/winter 2018).

“Umberto Eco’s Adventurous Orders,” Journal of Italian Philosophy, Vol. 1, pp. 83-113, Spring 2018. https://research.ncl.ac.uk/italianphilosophy/current%20issue/

“Approaching the Parmenidean Sublime,” Epoché: A Journal for the History of Philosophy (forthcoming, Fall 2018). https://www.pdcnet.org/epoche/onlinefirst.

“Who’s, What’s, I Don’t Know: A Musement on Eco’s Pragmatism,” The European Journal of Pragmatism and American Philosophy (EJPAP) Special Issue, “Eco and Pragmatism” (forthcoming, Summer 2018).

“I have wandered in a face …” Chapter 20, pp. 587-611 in The Philosophy of Umberto Eco, Vol. XXXV, Library of Living Philosophers. Edited by Sara C. Beardsworth and Randall E. Auxier, (Chicago: Open Court Publishing, 2017)

“Josiah Royce on Nietzsche’s Couch.” Article in The Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society “Royce Centennial Issue,” Spring 2016, Vol. 52. No. 2, 179-200.

“Close Encounters of a Derridian Kind: the Hippias Major and a Littering on το καλός.” Derrida Today Conference, Goldsmiths University, London, 8-11 June, 2016.

“Musings of a Foreign-Born Philosopher in the American Academy”. Chapter 20, pp. 234-245 in Experiences of Immigrant Professors: Challenges, Cross-Cultural Differences, and Lessons for Success. C. B. Hutchinson Editor. (New York: Routledge, 2016).

“Dust and Sicily’s Voluptuous Immobility: Il Gattopardo.” Conference presentation for: “Sicily: Language, Art and Culture.” Center for Italian Studies. University of Pennsylvania, 11-12 February, 2016.

“To Regain the Scent for the Wilderness of Essence: Santayana’s Fantastic Lesson”. Conference presentation for the Midwest Pragmatist Study Group (Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis), 21-22, September 2013.

“Teaching Marcuse: A Critical Pedagogy of Aesthetic Dimensions.” Radical Philosophy Review, 2014, Volume 16, number 1, pp. 109-122.

Editor, Blood Type: Writ(h)ing In & On True Blood. Vol. 1. Margate, NJ: Comteq Publishing, 2011.

“Josiah Royce and the Problems of Philosophical Pedagogy (Part 1).” The Transactions of the C.S. Peirce Society 46.1 (2010): 111-142.

“Josiah Royce and the Problems of Philosophical Pedagogy (Part 2).” The Transactions of the C.S. Peirce Society 46.2 (2011): 300-320.

Translator, “Incanto del vedutismo Veneto.” Susanna Travani. Centro Culturale Maison d’Art: Padua, Italy, 2009.

“Chauncey Wright.” Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. David Boersema and James Fieser, eds. 27 May 2007.

“S/laughter and Anima-lethe.” Reading Bataille, Now. Ed. Shannon Winnubst. Bloomington, IN: Indiana UP, 2006. 167-196.

“Introducing the Philosophy of Education and Pedagogy of Chauncey Wright.” The Transactions of the C.S. Peirce Society 41.3 (2005): 627-649.

“The Incompossible Language of Natural Aristocracy: Deleuze’s misreading of Visconti’s The Leopard." Senses of Cinema. Senses of Cinema Inc. 18 Oct. 2005.

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS

American Philosophical Association

Ancient Philosophy Society

Society for the Advancement of American Philosophy (SAAP)

North American Schelling Society

Leibniz Society of North America (nominated for membership)

Charles S. Peirce Society

The Josiah Royce Society

The David Hume Society

The William James Society

Karl Jaspers Society of North America

International Plato Society

AWARDS AND DISTINCTIONS

“Renaissance Man”, article in Stockton Now, “Stockton Goes Global”, Winter/Spring 2013, pp. 11-12

Feature article in Press of Atlantic City, July 30, 2011, Section B, pp. B1, B3.

Reviewer for Hypatia: A journal of Feminist Philosophy (summer 2015)

Reviewer for Radical Philosophy Association (spring 2015)

Moderator for “Constantine: Religious Faith and Imperial Policy” – Symposium for the 1700th Anniversary of the Edict of Milan, Stockton College, October 4-5, 2013.

Lecture on “Philosophy, and Its History” for Wesley Enhanced Living Retirement Community, Philadelphia, PA, (June 5, 2013).

Mentor and contact for PHIL student Brandon Bujnowski for European Master in Intercultural Communication (inalco), via Lugano, Suisse, and Paris. 2014.

Mentored PHIL Major, Jim Challender for paper presentation at GPPC,at College of New Jersey, February 2014.

STATEMENT OF PEDAGOGY

Teaching philosophy is to teach apprenticeships in creativity. It is an honor to be able to share the passion for philosophical investigations in a well-structured historical approach, and to guide and inspire students in their journey into ways of thinking and the ways of life. There is no greater pleasure than to see the birth of the pleasure in reflection.

Responsibilities

Scene Shop:

Design scenery for the Theatre program productions.

Responsible for the creation of all the scenery for the Theatre program productions.

Responsible for the operation, maintenance, and safeguards of the technical assets of the theatre.

Responsible for the design, management, and execution of all the technical elements of each production.

Responsible for developing the production schedule for each Theatre program show.

Responsible for overseeing each technical department and making certain that each department meets all production deadlines.

Responsible for ensuring that all technical aspects of the production work effectively and safely.

Responsible for creating scaled working construction drawings that translate a set designer’s idea into workable plans for the scenic crew of student workers.

Responsible for the recruitment and hiring of student workers and TES workers for all the technical theatre shops.

Responsible for the supervising, scheduling, and assigning of tasks for the student workers.

Responsible for performing preventive maintenance and monitoring the condition of all scene shop equipment and tools; including arranging for repair and replacement.

Responsible for the training of all student workers as to the proper operation of power and hand tools, as well as safety procedures and material safety data sheet (MSDS) information.

Supervise and maintain the scene shop itself, including tools and equipment, inventory, and safety equipment.

Responsible for supervising the scenery construction and installation of each production; including assisting, hands-on, in the construction and installation.

Responsible for the budgeting and tracking of all the technical elements in each production.

Responsible for reviewing all designers’ drawings to make sure the work can be accomplished on time and within budget, given the Theatre program’s resources and limitations.

Responsible for purchasing all the materials and supplies needed for each production.

Responsible for picking up materials and supplies for each production.

Attending production meetings, design meetings, and creative meetings as needed.

Work closely with the scene designer and scenic charge artist to fully and successfully complete the scenery as designed for the production.

Responsible for supervising the painting and texturing of all the scenery for each production.

Responsible for coordinating with the director and stage manager to ensure actor safety and fulfillment of the director’s vision.

Attend and coordinate all technical rehearsals and dress rehearsals, working closely with the Stage Manager.

Monitors all tech. and dress rehearsals, in order to supervise and assist in the technical aspects of the mounting of the show.

Responsible for supervising the strike of each production.

Costume Shop

Design costumes for the Theatre program productions.

Responsible for supervising the costume construction process of each production.

Responsible for the operation, maintenance, and safeguards of the technical assets of the costume shop.

Responsible for performing preventive maintenance and monitoring the condition of all costume shop equipment and tools; including arranging for repair and replacement.

Supervise and maintain the costume shop and storage areas, including tools and equipment, inventory, and safety equipment.

Responsible for reviewing all costume designs to make sure the work can be accomplished on time and within budget, given the Theatre program’s resources and limitations.

Responsible for purchasing all the costume materials and supplies needed for each production.

Responsible for picking up costume materials and supplies for each production.

Professional History

Prior to joining the Theatre program at Stockton University, I was one of the founders and producing artistic director for a non-profit theatre company in Upstate New York. I was also the resident scenic and costume designer for the theatre company and on occasion I would direct a production. While living in upstate New York, I was an adjunct faculty member for the Theatre department at Siena College in Loudonville. Before moving upstate, I lived in Brooklyn, New York and was a freelance designer working the Manhattan theater-scape. My professional theatre design credits in New York City included designing the costumes for the Pre-Broadway Tour of Mario Fratti’s Encounter 500…Cristoforo Colombo and designing the scenery for Gifts from the Attic starring the legendary film actor Mickey Rooney. Off-Broadway credits include The Writing on the Wall, The First Time, Guadeloupe, and the musical Rainbow with Tony Award winning actress Debbie Shapiro. My scenic design for the Off-Broadway production of Annie Wobbler earned mention and praise in the New York Times review of the show. Early in my New York City career, I served as Resident Designer for St. Bart’s Playhouse in midtown Manhattan and The Westbeth Theater Center in the Village. I have also designed scenery and costumes for various Regional Theaters in New York, Connecticut, and Pennsylvania.

Education & Training

Ph.D. in Leadership. Policy, and Change in Education, Walden University, MN

M.A. in Theatre, University of Michigan, MI

B.A. in Theatre, Indiana University, IN

What I most like about South Jersey

My mother was born and raised in North Jersey, Elizabeth, during the depression years of the last century. When she always spoke of the “good ole days,” one of her fondest memories was her family driving down to South Jersey for the summer. She loved visiting South Jersey where she said all the farmlands produced the freshest fruits and vegetables. When I moved to the state in 2010, I finally got to experience the “Garden State” that she so fondly spoke of, and I must say, she was right! I am so fortunate to be able to enjoy such fresh, seasonal fruits and vegetables throughout the year, right here in South Jersey.

One of my favorite experiences at Stockton University

My most treasured experience at Stockton University is mentoring, guiding, and teaching student designers journey through the design process, from inception to fruition. My artistry enhances and supports my teaching, and my teaching fulfills my artistic passion and allows me to pass it on to my students. I consider my design and technical direction work in the professional field as vital to my success as a teacher; whereupon I share my experiences with the design students. I also consider my teaching as an inspiration for my professional work. I am blessed to have this opportunity at Stockton University.