Classnotes Archives

1930

1940

1950

1960

1970

1980

1990

2000

2010

2020

1940s

Delbert Knooihuizen and Mimi Moncada ’43 Knooihuizen→

Delbert Knooihuizen and Mimi Moncada ’43 Knooihuizen celebrated their 70th wedding anniversary on Wednesday, Aug. 17, in Hudson, Ohio, at the Laurel Lake Retirement Community.

Connie Hinga ’49 Boersma→

Connie Hinga ’49 Boersma of Holland, Michigan, reports that she has had eight grandchildren and four of their spouses attend Hope College.

Harvey Heerspink ’49→

Harvey Heerspink ’49 of Jenison, Michigan, visited the World War II Memorial in Washington, D.C., last year with more than 100 other World War II veterans from western Michigan. More than 1,000 veterans from all over America were there on that day.

Thomas VanDahm ’48→

Thomas VanDahm ’48 had his original composition chosen for publication in the spring issue of The American Recorder. The title is “Gugue” and it is for four-part recorder ensembles.

Art Van Eck ’48 and Bea VanHeest ’53 Van Eck→

Art Van Eck ’48 and Bea VanHeest ’53 Van Eck were honored at the meeting of board members of the Fife Lake Historical Society for years of dedicated service. In October, they went on a Canadian cruise with three of their children and spouses, one of whom is Barbara Van Eck ’72.

Marvin Kragt ’49→

Marvin Kragt ’49 and his wife, Nancy, enjoyed a river cruise from Amsterdam to Budapest in September.

Arthur Van Eck ’48→

Arthur Van Eck ’48 and his wife, Beatrice Van Heest ’53 Van Eck, continue to live in Fife Lake, Michigan, where he is a member of the Friends of the Library Board. During the fall of 2017 he gave two lectures on “The Making of the New Revised Standard Version of the Bible,” a lecture … Continue reading "Arthur Van Eck ’48"

Wallace Stoepker ’43→

Wallace Stoepker ’43 reports that at age 97, Western Theological Seminary has him listed as the oldest living alumnus. He and his wife, Dorothy, who have celebrated 72 years of marriage, are living in Kalamazoo, Michigan. He spoke at Western’s donor dinner in April 2017

Thomas VanDahm ’48→

Thomas VanDahm ’48 had his composition, “Gigue,” a four-part recorder ensemble, published by The American Recorder Society.

John De Vries ’41→

John De Vries ’41 and his wife, Ruth, of Palo Alto, California, affected the world in retirement. After John retired from the research faculty at Cal State Hayward in 1987, they heard a missionary speak at their church, Menlo Park Presbyterian. The obstacle facing missionaries was their need for batteries to power their radios and … Continue reading "John De Vries ’41"

Russ Kraay ’49→

A traffic signal about 1,300 miles from Hope led to a new friendship for Russ Kraay ’49 and Lynne Kurzenberger ’76 Wissink-Tressler. Lynne was waiting at a red light in Fort Myers, Florida, when she noticed a Hope license plate frame on the vehicle ahead of her. The other driver went straight and she turned … Continue reading "Russ Kraay ’49"

Gerald A. Bax ’42→

Gerald A. Bax ’42 of Grand Rapids, Michigan, celebrated his 100th birthday on Jan. 15. He is a veteran of World War II, and his career included serving as director of the Pontiac State Hospital and as commandant of the Grand Rapids Veterans Home.

Art Van Eck ’48 and Bea VanHeest ’53 Van Eck→

Art Van Eck ’48 and Bea VanHeest ’53 Van Eck celebrated their 70th wedding anniversary on Saturday, Aug. 24. During Advent, Art conducted the Fife Lake Christmas Choir.

1950s

June Dunster ’52 Stoppels→

June Dunster ’52 Stoppels of Grand Rapids, Michigan, reports that she is still responding to questions about puppets and puppetry.

Dick Hagni ’53→

Dick Hagni ’53 of Rolla, Missouri, retired from Missouri University of Science and Technology 16 years ago, after teaching geology for 45 years (the last 15 years serving as chairman of the Department of Geology and Geophysics). However, he continues to do research in geology, give professional presentations at geology meetings, and write papers on … Continue reading "Dick Hagni ’53"

Kate Ver Meulen ’53 Rudy→

Kate Ver Meulen ’53 Rudy of Greenwich, Connecticut, reports that in the winter months she and her husband live in “The Boulders” in Scottsdale, Arizona.

John Busman ’54 and Barb Pennings ’56 Kremer→

John Busman ’54 and Barb Pennings ’56 Kremer were married on May 14, 2016, in Grand Haven, Michigan.

Barry Whitsitt ’54→

Barry Whitsitt ’54 of Oxford, Georgia, reports enjoying returning to Holland to the family’s cottages to enjoy the cooler temperatures.

Ruth Pruis ’56 Boender→

Ruth Pruis ’56 Boender and John Boender celebrated their 61st wedding anniversary in June 2016.

Terry Zylman ’59→

Terry Zylman ’59 of Grand Rapids, Michigan, taught high school band for 20 years in Michigan and performed with the Grand Rapids Symphony, Battle Creek Symphony, Lawrence Welk, Harry Connick Jr., Tommy Dorsey Orchestra, Temptations and Four Tops, touring Broadway shows and on numerous recordings, and is still performing.

Norma Hoffman ’52 Richardson→

Norma Hoffman ’52 Richardson of Mount Pleasant, Michigan, was recognized in November for 50 years as a faculty member at Central Michigan University, where she teaches Spanish. After graduation from Hope, she received her M.A. degree from the University of Iowa, where she was a teaching assistant. She earned an ABD from the University of … Continue reading "Norma Hoffman ’52 Richardson"

Alvin Vander Kolk ’55→

Alvin Vander Kolk ’55 and his wife, Joyce, celebrated their 65th wedding anniversary in February.

Ruth Pruis ’56 Boender→

Ruth Pruis ’56 Boender’s husband, John Boender, died on Dec. 3, 2016. She has retired to Sheldon, Iowa.

Lawrence Schut ’58→

Lawrence Schut ’58 worked as a neurologist at CentraCare Clinic, a multispecialty clinic in St. Cloud, Minnesota, for 17 years. He retired in August 2014 but in April 2016 he was asked to join the University of Minnesota Physicians to see specific patients with the diagnosis of ataxia. His primary interest is the hereditary degenerative … Continue reading "Lawrence Schut ’58"

Dwayne “Tiger” Teusink ’58→

Dwayne “Tiger” Teusink ’58 was honored in September with the naming of the 12-court tennis facility at Holland High School “The Tiger Teusink Tennis Courts.” He was also honored in October as one of “Seven over Seventy” individuals recognized by Resthaven and The Holland Sentinel for extraordinary achievements. It was noted that Tiger coached for … Continue reading "Dwayne “Tiger” Teusink ’58"

Carl Ver Beek ’59→

Carl Ver Beek ’59 was selected for the Indiana University Law School’s Academy of Law Alumni Fellows. Induction into the Academy is the highest honor the Maurer School of Law can bestow upon one of its graduates, and recognizes alumni who have distinguished themselves in their careers through personal achievements and dedication to the highest … Continue reading "Carl Ver Beek ’59"

Barry Whitsitt ’54→

Barry Whitsitt ’54 of Oxford, Georgia, and his wife, Maryann celebrated their 65th wedding anniversary.

John “Dave” Haas ’53→

John “Dave” Haas ’53 of Palm Desert, California, reports that at age 85 he is in good health; plays some golf; and teaches in a program for students 55 or older, called OSHER. He writes that he just had a brother-in-law pass away at age 87 (attended Hope but did not graduate; lived his entire … Continue reading "John “Dave” Haas ’53"

Janice Polhemus ’56 Jessup→

Janice Polhemus ’56 Jessup of Virginia Beach, Virginia, was named an honorary member of the fraternity of Omega Tau Rho by the State of Virginia and Hampton Roads Associations of Realtors on Oct. 3.

Dick Kanode ’54→

Dick Kanode ’54 and Nancy Guldenschuh ’62 Zimmer are pictured in front of Lake Louise in Canada. They met up by chance on a bus tour that started in Calgary.

Ruth DeGraaf ’50 Dirkse→

In the fall of 1929, the daughters of three young Hope professors celebrated together their first birthdays, which were just two months apart. On Sept. 2, Jan Vander Borgh ’50 Ver Helst, Ann Wolters ’50 Fredrickson and Ruth DeGraaf ’50 Dirkse celebrated their 90ths surrounded by family and friends at the Warm Friend, where they all now live. Lifelong … Continue reading "Ruth DeGraaf ’50 Dirkse"

Ann Wolters ’50 Fredrickson→

In the fall of 1929, the daughters of three young Hope professors celebrated together their first birthdays, which were just two months apart. On Sept. 2, Jan Vander Borgh ’50 Ver Helst, Ann Wolters ’50 Fredrickson and Ruth DeGraaf ’50 Dirkse celebrated their 90ths surrounded by family and friends at the Warm Friend, where they all now live. Lifelong … Continue reading "Ann Wolters ’50 Fredrickson"

Jan Vander Borgh ’50 Ver Helst→

In the fall of 1929, the daughters of three young Hope professors celebrated together their first birthdays, which were just two months apart. On Sept. 2, Jan Vander Borgh ’50 Ver Helst, Ann Wolters ’50 Fredrickson and Ruth DeGraaf ’50 Dirkse celebrated their 90ths surrounded by family and friends at the Warm Friend, where they all now live. Lifelong … Continue reading "Jan Vander Borgh ’50 Ver Helst"

Jack Hunt ’52→

Jack Hunt ’52 of Kalamazoo, Michigan, read the spring issue’s story about Latif Jiji, who came to the U.S. from Iraq to attend Hope in the 1940s, with particular interest for a couple of specific reasons. For one, he had roomed with Latif, who helped him with algebra. For another, he, like Latif, found his future changed profoundly … Continue reading "Jack Hunt ’52"

Christine Denny ’56 Connaire→

Christine Denny ’56 Connaire married Jonathan Fine in 2014 at the age of 80. He was the founder of Physicians for Human Rights with offices in Boston and New York.

Robert Saunders ’59→

Robert Saunders ’59 reports that after 30 years, he sold his business, which he started, to a group of investment bankers and is retiring. He mentioned that it was more fun climbing the mountain than reaching the summit. He and his wife, Karen, are looking forward to spending more time at their lodge on John … Continue reading "Robert Saunders ’59"

Robert Kisken ’59→

Robert Kisken ’59 traveled years ago around United States photographing structures built by Finnish settlers in states including Michigan, Wisconsin, Montana, Idaho, Washington and Minnesota. He has given the photos to the Emigration Department in Turku, Finland. The photos have been on exhibit in Turku and the Emigration Museum in Seinajoki for years.

William H. Heydorn ’55→

Soon, students from around the world will be traveling to Hope, some from blocks away and some from the opposite side of the globe. In the summer of 1927, William A. Heydorn ’28 and Howard R. Sluyter ’28 made an “epochal tour” from Holland to Long Island (and back) in a $10 Model T assembled … Continue reading "William H. Heydorn ’55"

Dean Veltman ’50→

Dean Veltman ’50 was among 70 veterans and astronauts who were honored on Friday, Oct. 18, during an annual Memorial Service at Patriot’s Point in Charleston, South Carolina, by the U.S.S. Yorktown Association. He was a chaplain with the United States Navy and was aboard the Yorktown when the Apollo 8 capsule was recovered in … Continue reading "Dean Veltman ’50"

Ron Lokhorst ’59→

The 1975 Summer Staff from Warwick, New York Conference Center enjoyed a reunion this past October with their beloved former Executive Director, Ron Lokhorst ’59, Mark Convoy ’75, Kristi Droppers ’76, Mary Mulder ’77, Dwayne Boyce ’77, Steve Paffrath ’77, George Beukema ’77, and Bill Agnew ’80 spent a weekend out at Castle Park in … Continue reading "Ron Lokhorst ’59"

Norma Hoffman ’52 Richardson→

Norma Hoffman ’52 Richardson retired in July after 54 years as a Spanish professor at Central Michigan University. She was tenured as a full- time professor in August 1967. She graduated from Hope with a major in Spanish, and received her M.A. in Spanish from the State University of Iowa, Iowa City, in 1954. She … Continue reading "Norma Hoffman ’52 Richardson"

L. James Harvey ’52→

L. James Harvey ’52 was recently presented with the Albert Nelson Marquis Lifetime Achievement Award by Marquis Who’s Who as a leader in the fields of education, academic administration and business consulting. His biography will appear in the new Marquis Who’s Who publication. He has also recently published his 14th book, 1001 Sentence Sermons, which … Continue reading "L. James Harvey ’52"

Carl Ver Beek ’59→

Carl Ver Beek ’59 of Grand Rapids, Michigan, received the Justice Foundation of West Michigan’s Lifetime Achievement Award on Thursday, May 13. The award recognizes a member of the Grand Rapids Bar Association for special contributions in service and support to the mission of GRBA and JFWM, the community at large, and the practice of law … Continue reading "Carl Ver Beek ’59"

L. James Harvey ’52→

L. James Harvey ’52 has updated and republished one of his earlier books titled, Does God Laugh? The book was released in September. This is his 12th book in the field of Christian living

Barry Whitsitt ’54→

Barry Whitsitt ’54 reports that he and his wife Mary Ann are celebrating their 70th wedding anniversary this month. Their family has grown to 30 members and they held a family reunion at their cottage in Holland, Michigan, this summer.

James Harvey ’52→

James Harvey ’52 has just published his 12th book in the Christian Living area. The book is titled Letters from Perverse University – 2nd Edition. The book contains a series of satirical letters from a professor of deception at Perverse University in Hell written to his former students in the U.S.A. working to undermine the … Continue reading "James Harvey ’52"

Richard Hagni ’53→

Richard Hagni ’53 received the Honorary Life Member Award from the International Association on the Genesis of Ore Deposits. The award is in recognition of lifetime achievements in the field of ore geology and services to the association and its commissions in the course of many years. He taught geology at Missouri University of Science … Continue reading "Richard Hagni ’53"

Charles Johnson ’54→

Charles Johnson ’54 published the book Another Watchman with his granddaughter, Kristin Johnson Vincenzes. He and his wife, Donna Huss, have been married for 69 years and he is 91 years old.

William Heydorn ’55→

William Heydorn ’55 reports that his book, Geronimo: The Rest of the Story, has been published by WestBow Press. The book features photos from 1900 and 1901 when his grandfather, Howard Rutsen Furbeck, joined three other seminary students from Rutgers College to “sing the Gospel” to settlers in the new towns forming along rail lines … Continue reading "William Heydorn ’55"

Eugene Jekel ’52→

A painting commissioned by Hope’s Department of Chemistry honors retired professors Dr. Eugene Jekel ’52 of Holland, Michigan, and the late Dr. Elaine Jekel for their impact on chemistry education — and tens of thousands of students — across the country and around the world through a long-running program at Hope for high school teachers. … Continue reading "Eugene Jekel ’52"

1960s

George Boerigter ’61→

George Boerigter ’61 was elected chairman of the New Mexico Angels, the local venture capital investment group in Albuquerque, New Mexico. The Angels consist of 60-75 accredited investors investing in five to seven deals per year. George also helped found the NM Startup Factory that annually starts three to four high tech NM firms

Gail Pennington ’63 Siefert→

Gail Pennington ’63 Siefert of Morehead City, North Carolina, retired after 25 years of teaching high school German, French and English in New Jersey. She retired to North Carolina and has recently traveled to Israel and Beijing, China.

Kathryn Brown ’65 Hicks→

Kathryn Brown ’65 Hicks of Athens, Texas, retired after 10 years teaching in Michigan and 29 years teaching in Texas. She recently married Mark Hicks.

Norman Ten Brink ’65→

Norman Ten Brink ’65 retired as professor of geology at Grand Valley State University in 2003 and reports that he is now enjoying summers in Holland, Michigan, and winters in Green Valley, Arizona. Hiking, biking and archery are his favorite activities.

Bob Dahl ’66→

Bob Dahl ’66 and his daughter Rachel Dahl ’95 have published their second book, titled “The Nine A.M. Jog.” Rachel formatted and illustrated the book with original abstract watercolors of several of his poems. Their first book was “The Ten P.M. Walk,” published in 2014. Bob is a retired United Church of Christ minister living … Continue reading "Bob Dahl ’66"

Mary Groenewoud ’66 Hale→

Mary Groenewoud ’66 Hale of San Antonio, Texas, is a retired reading specialist. She and her husband, Dwight, will celebrate their 50th wedding anniversary in August 2017. She reports that they enjoy traveling and visiting family and friends.

William Hultgren ’66→

William Hultgren ’66 of Dearborn, Michigan, retired after 44 years of employment with the City of Dearborn: 20 years as city attorney and 24 years as a district judge. His wife, Julie, is retiring after 25 years with the 19th District Court and City of Dearborn.

Robert Werge ’66→

Robert Werge ’66 has retired as an international anthropologist with the U.S. Government and his consulting firm. He and his wife live in Denver, Colorado, close to one of their three children and three of their nine grandchildren. He moved to Colorado 20 years ago to ski, hike and bike, which he still enjoys.

Marcia De Graaf ’67→

Marcia De Graaf ’67 retired after 17 years as the human resources/community coordinator at DW McMillan Memorial Hospital in Brewton, Alabama. She will continue to serve on the board of directors of Covenant Alzheimer’s Services, where she has served since 2007 and plans to work with Alzheimer’s education for caregivers and their support team.

Tom Renner ’67 and Carole DeYoung ’67 Renner→

This fall, Hope College dedicated the press box at Ray and Sue Smith Stadium in honor of Tom Renner ’67 and Carole DeYoung ’67 Renner, and honored the couple during the H-Club Coaches’ Luncheon on Monday, Oct. 24. Tom served Hope for 47 years before retiring in 2013. He was associate vice president for public … Continue reading "Tom Renner ’67 and Carole DeYoung ’67 Renner"

Laurie Taylor ’67 Rossi→

Laurie Taylor ’67 Rossi of Fairview, New Mexico, has been studying to become a symphony conductor. She has begun playing the cello and plays with High Desert Strings of Santa Fe. She will be conducting the Santa Fe Symphony for one piece in December, the third year in a row.

Pamela VanderWeele ’68→

Pamela VanderWeele ’68 of Shippensburg, Pennsylvania, is an interpretive volunteer at Sitka National Historical Park, Alaska. This is her second three-month volunteer position at Sitka. She is also an active Habitat for Humanity volunteer.

Karen Zeh ’69 Baumgardner→

Karen Zeh ’69 Baumgardner moved to Iowa in December 2007 to serve the Reformed Presbyterian Church. During 2011-12, all three of her daughters were married. She and her husband currently have six granddaughters. She reports that in addition to being a pastor’s wife, she has an ESL Bible class for Japanese women.

E. Stevens Binder ’69→

E. Stevens Binder ’69 retired after several principal jobs including National and State Exemplary School Awards.

Carolyn Westlake ’69 Sigler→

Carolyn Westlake ’69 Sigler of Sterling Heights, Michigan, reports that she is currently enjoying her four grandchildren and camping. She and her husband recently celebrated their 41st wedding anniversary and have enjoyed several mission trips teaching ESL in central Europe.

Dorothy Spencer ’69→

Dorothy Spencer ’69 retired on Sept. 1, 2013, from East Carolina University’s Division of Health Sciences, where she served for more than 16 years as associate vice chancellor for communication and information services and director of the William E. Laupus Health Sciences Librarian. She reports that since retirement she has relocated to Loveland, Colorado, where … Continue reading "Dorothy Spencer ’69"

Jerry Hill ’61→

Jerry Hill ’61 reports that he is turning 77 in April, having retired in 1999. Since then he has provided technical consulting for aerospace companies including Boeing, Raytheon, ITT and IITRI (Illinois Institute of Technology Research Institute). He had provided project management for telemetry acquisitions for Topex-Poseidon, an oceanographic data-gathering satellite. Completing that project with … Continue reading "Jerry Hill ’61"

P. John Paarlberg Jr. ’61 and Dale Church ’62 Paarlberg→

P. John Paarlberg Jr. ’61 and Dale Church ’62 Paarlberg are living in a retirement community in Jacksonville, Florida. He reports that their youngest son, Jonathan, lives nearby with his family. When they moved there in May 2016, they met a lady who described herself as “sister-in-law” of D. Ivan Dykstra ’35. They are currently attending … Continue reading "P. John Paarlberg Jr. ’61 and Dale Church ’62 Paarlberg"

Betty Whitaker ’62 Jackson→

Betty Whitaker ’62 Jackson of Palm Bay, Florida, reports that since her retirement from classroom teaching after 40 years and in five states she is now an author. Her first book, It’s a God Thing!, has a setting similar to Hope College. Her 13th book was published in December, and her books include a fiction … Continue reading "Betty Whitaker ’62 Jackson"

Richard Valencourt ’63→

Richard Valencourt ’63 and Barbara Valencourt recently had a 50th wedding anniversary party.

Barbara Freggens ’64 O’Brien→

Barbara Freggens ’64 O’Brien and Daniel O’Brien celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary on board Holland America’s MS Koningsdam cruising the Greek Isles with a renewal of wedding vows performed by Captain Emiel de Vries.

Peter Paulsen ’64→

Peter Paulsen ’64 and Lydia Thornburg ’13 both serve on the board of the Atlanta branch of a ministry that helps people “…see the face of God in the city.” The ministry is Discovering Opportunities for Outreach and Reflections (DOOR). Pete reports that in quiet moments at board meetings and while working on projects they … Continue reading "Peter Paulsen ’64"

Dick McFall ’65→

Dick McFall ’65 is currently working as a substitute teacher in Beaverton, Oregon. It’s his 51st year in public education. He lives with his wife, Patti, in Portland.

Richard Hallock ’66 and Anne Knox ’66 Hallock→

Richard Hallock ’66 and Anne Knox ’66 Hallock celebrated 51 years of marriage and continue to spend their time in Los Angeles, California; New York; and Sarasota, Florida.

Thelma (Tommye) Leenhouts ’66→

On Saturday, Jan. 28, students with the Washington Honors Semester joined Thelma (Tommye) Leenhouts ’66, a licensed D.C. tour guide, on a walking tour of D.C. monuments and memorials. The tour included: the Washington Monument, World War II Memorial, Vietnam Veterans Memorial, Lincoln Memorial, Korean War Memorial, Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial, Franklin D. Roosevelt … Continue reading "Thelma (Tommye) Leenhouts ’66"

James Pohl ’67→

James Pohl ’67 has retired from 42 years of parish ministry in the United Church of Christ. He and his wife, Mary, live at the Lake of the Ozarks in Missouri.

Harold Lay ’68→

Harold Lay ’68 retired after 38 years of ministry in the Reformed Church in America. He served five churches in New Jersey and New York, and traveled to RCA mission locations in Honduras, The Sudan, and Ethiopia. He and his wife, Marilyn, moved to Brick, New Jersey, where they are looking forward to new adventures.

Jeffrey Seise ’69→

Jeffrey Seise ’69 has been installed as master of Hawthorne-Fortitude Masonic Lodge #200 F&AM of Ramsey, New Jersey.

Mary Richards ’69 Watson→

Mary Richards ’69 Watson performed with Andrea Bocelli at Madison Square Garden in New York City, and the Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey, on December 15 and 18, singing backup with members of her chorus, the New York Choral Society. The NYCS has been singing annually with Bocelli on the U.S tour since 2000

Lenora (Norie) VandenBerg ’64 Koelbel→

Lenora (Norie) VandenBerg ’64 Koelbel has been appointed to the Hope College Alumni Association Board of Directors.

Sue Utzinger ’67 Buchan→

Sue Utzinger ’67 Buchan of Muskegon, Michigan, reports that she is a retired educator, grandmother and clinical social worker with a private practice in North Muskegon, Michigan. She does some volunteer work at summer camp and stays active watching her grandchildren’s sporting events. She is enjoying West Michigan and planning some landscape painting and fishing.

Wesley Granberg-Michaelson ’67→

Wesley Granberg-Michaelson ’67 of Santa Fe, New Mexico, had From Times Square to Timbuktu: The Post Christian West Meets the Non-Western Church published. He is also a member of the Global Christian Forum Steering Committee which met in Havana, Cuba, in March 2017.

John Killmaster ’67→

John Killmaster ’67 of Boise, Idaho, and Shelley Sinquefield were married and he gained two step-children. He is publishing a book on his career as an artist and university professor. He was honored with an Albert Nelon Marquis Who’s Who Lifetime Achievement Award.

Judy Tanis ’67 Parr→

Judy Tanis ’67 Parr of Holland, Michigan, has been elected to a one-year term as president of the Hope Academy of Senior Professionals (HASP). The organization, which promotes lifelong learning, was founded at Hope in 1988 by Dr. John Hollenbach, professor emeritus of English. Since then, it has grown from 38 to 750 members.

Laurie Taylor ’67 Rossi→

Laurie Taylor ’67 Rossi of Fairview, New Mexico, will be conducting the Performance Santa Fe Symphony in Santa Fe, New Mexico, on December 24 and 31 at the Lensic Theatre. On Tuesday, July 4, she conducted the Santa Fe Concert Band on the Plaza.

Lois Dykema ’67 Sharpe→

Lois Dykema ’67 Sharpe of Saint Mary’s, Ohio, reports that she and her husband, George, have four children, eight grandchildren, 11 great-grandchildren and three great-great-grandchildren and feel very blessed.

Beppy Albers ’69 Michel→

Beppy Albers ’69 Michel of San Pedro, California, reports that she is humbled by the realization of grace in her life and those of her clients, which supersedes all difficulties and so inspires us. She is a “trauma therapist” (PTSD in private practice in Palos Verdes, California. Her newly published book Art Psychotherapy Experiential Workbook … Continue reading "Beppy Albers ’69 Michel"

Peter Walther ’69→

Peter Walther ’69 of Rome, New York, was the director of music and organist at the First Baptist Church until 2016. He rewarded himself by spending all last summer in Vienna, where he reconnected with Hope professors Stephen Hemenway and Janis Gibbs. He reports that the memories of Dr. Paul Fried ’46 and Professor Molzer … Continue reading "Peter Walther ’69"

Gail Friesema ’61 Farnham→

Gail Friesema ’61 Farnham of Ithaca, New York, attended the Presbyterian Disaster Assistance annual meeting in Atlanta, Georgia, in April. Members of the volunteer National Response Team and National Volunteer Team gathered to expand the teams’ knowledge of disaster ministries and response. She started volunteering in 2005 with hurricane Katrina recovery with her local presbytery … Continue reading "Gail Friesema ’61 Farnham"

Carl Vermeulen ’61→

Carl Vermeulen ’61 of Williamsburg, Virginia, and his students at Paul D. Camp Community College (Suffolk, Virginia) reported their peer-reviewed “Heat-Proofing Vaccines” to an international meeting of the American Society for Microbiology in New Orleans in June. Non-live vaccines such as DPT, meningococcus and Salk polio along with many for livestock were stabilized in dried … Continue reading "Carl Vermeulen ’61"

Jack A. Siebers ’63→

Jack A. Siebers ’63 of Holland, Michigan, has been included in The Best Lawyers in America 2018. He is in corporate law with Foster Swift Collins & Smith, P.C.

Anne Wiegerink ’60 Anderson→

Anne Wiegerink ’60 Anderson of Sandwich, Illinois, has published a memoir, My Griefcase. The “Griefcase” looks deep into the heart of grief, and through a personal narrative provides a list of tips for survival. The tips enable the grieving and their support systems to learn to make the most of each day and to cope … Continue reading "Anne Wiegerink ’60 Anderson"

Kathryn Kurth ’60 Scudder→

Kathryn Kurth ’60 Scudder of Dearborn, Michigan, recently had her fourth book on faith and prayer, Looking to Jesus, published. Her other books, Everyday Prayers and More (2014), Prayer Thoughts for Every Day (2015) and Prayers, Praise, and People (2016), are all available online. Although retired from elementary teaching, she continues to be an active … Continue reading "Kathryn Kurth ’60 Scudder"

George Boerigter ’61→

George Boerigter ’61 has been elected to the board of the New Mexico Symphonic Chorus, making him the only person to serve on the boards of the three major New Mexico music organizations: NM Symphony Orchestra, Opera Southwest, and now the NM Symphonic Chorus. This past October, George’s company SoundOff Signal had a two-day celeberation … Continue reading "George Boerigter ’61"

Clark Matthews ’61→

Amy Henrickson ’78, Clark Matthews ’61 and Steve Maas ’81 have come together to create the Grandville Community Choir. The choir of more than 50 area singers performs at various community events in addition to holding two special concerts each year, in December and April. Keep up with the choir on its Facebook page (search … Continue reading "Clark Matthews ’61"

Vicki VanEck ’66 Hill→

Vicki VanEck ’66 Hill and Louis Quondamatteo Jr. were married on July 9, 2017, in Jenison, Michigan. They honeymooned via a hot-red Mustang, from the Badlands to Paradise, Michigan. She reports: “no longer a widow with a cat, be encouraged, youthful folk!”

David Weddle ’66→

David Weddle ’66 retired from Colorado College in 2014 as professor emeritus of religion. He has pursued his work in comparative religion that began with the book Miracles: Wonder and Meaning in World Religions (New York University Press, 2010) and continues with Sacrifice in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam (New York University Press, 2017). He and … Continue reading "David Weddle ’66"

Alan Jones ’69→

Alan Jones ’69 of Burr Ridge, Illinois, had his latest book, The First 100 Days in the Main Office: Transforming School Culture, published. Further information on the book, and others he has written, can be found on his web page.

George Bitner ’60→

George Bitner ’60 has retired after 49 years and 88 combined seasons of coaching the Spring Lake High School boys’ and girls’ golf teams. He has been inducted into MIGCA, MSHAA, AHSA, NHSCA and the MAAHF Halls of Fame.

Carl Vermeulen ’61→

Carl Vermeulen ’61 and his students at Paul D. Camp Community College in Virginia presented their peer-reviewed work at the annual meeting in Atlanta, Georgia, of the American Society for Microbiology, showing that nodes in all categories of vascular plants are instrumental in inhibiting the upward spread of bacterial diseases. This is a small part of … Continue reading "Carl Vermeulen ’61"

Betty Whitaker ’62 Jackson→

Betty Whitaker ’62 Jackson published her 16th book, which like its predecessors, is available on her website. She and her husband, Everett, celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary this year. They parented two Hope graduates, Paul Jackson ’02 and Nancy Jackson ’04, both orchestra teachers and members of the Space Coast Symphony Orchestra in Florida.

Nancy Guldenschuh ’62 Zimmer→

Dick Kanode ’54 and Nancy Guldenschuh ’62 Zimmer are pictured in front of Lake Louise in Canada. They met up by chance on a bus tour that started in Calgary.

Vern L. Sterk ’64→

The alumni H-Club at Hope presented its Hope for Humanity Award to Dr. Vern L. Sterk ’64 of Holland, Michigan, during the college’s annual HOPEYs celebration of Hope athletics and senior student-athletes, held on April 18 at the Richard and Helen DeVos Fieldhouse. A former cross country runner for the Flying Dutchmen, he is a retired Reformed Church in … Continue reading "Vern L. Sterk ’64"

Allen Hoffman ’65→

Allen Hoffman ’65 a recently retired Vail, Colorado, estate and business planning attorney, has relocated to Denver, Colorado, and with his wife, Darlene, has established Transformative Cognitions LLC, a life- and business-coaching company.

Philip Harmelink ’66→

Philip Harmelink ’66 had an article published in The American Organist (the national magazine of the Guild of Organists) titled “Detail and Discipline in Music and Accounting.” The article describes his dual careers as accounting professor (more than 38 years) and chair of the department of accounting (28 years) at the University of New Orleans … Continue reading "Philip Harmelink ’66"

John Killmaster ’67→

John Killmaster ’67 has published a book about his career as an artist, including time spent majoring in art at Hope and doing a number of paintings in the area. He went on to become a college art professor and continues to offer workshops through the country.

Randall Miller ’67→

Randall Miller ’67 co-authored, with Paul Cimbala, The Northern Home Front During the Civil War. He continues as professor of history at Saint Joseph’s University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Larry Van De Hoef ’67 and Carol Bultman ’68 Van De Hoef→

Larry Van De Hoef ’67 and Carol Bultman ’68 Van De Hoef have been busy the past six months relocating and expanding their toy store, Snickelfritz Toys, from a mall location to a store front location across the street. Their daughter, Heather Van De Hoef ’95 Edwards, is the store manager.

Bernace Brunsting ’68 De Young→

Bernace Brunsting ’68 De Young of Aventura, Florida, is a Grand Life Master, the highest rank in the American Contract Bridge League. In August 2017, she represented the United States at the World Championships in Lyon, France. Bernance is pictured is sitting in the front.

William Hoogstra ’68→

William Hoogstra ’68 retired four years ago after a career in the Air Force and then another career with the State of Texas. He has three children and six grandchildren. He and his wife of 37 years, Margaret, just returned from a trip to Israel, which he notes was way beyond expectation. He has been … Continue reading "William Hoogstra ’68"

James Sutherland ’68→

James Sutherland ’68 reports that due to excellent health and enjoying the work, he continues to direct Reconciliation Ministries Network, which he began in 1999. Currently the focus is upon inner-city ministry in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and upon ministry in Juba and Malakal, South Sudan.

Linda Star Schreiber ’68 Tobin→

Linda Star Schreiber ’68 Tobin of Naperville, Illinois, reports that after a fulfilling career guiding and nurturing young gifted students, she is now teaching her young granddaughter French in preparation for their trip to France. Genealogy research has taken her there several times in the past, as well as to England, the Netherlands, Germany and … Continue reading "Linda Star Schreiber ’68 Tobin"

Pamela Reynolds ’68 VanderWeele→

Pamela Reynolds ’68 VanderWeele was a VIP, Volunteer in Parks, at Petrified Forest National Park from August to November last year. She will be a VIP at Pecos National Historical Park this August through October

Lois Bonnema ’61 Schwartz→

Lois Bonnema ’61 Schwartz who writes as Lois Carroll, had her 42nd book published in June. She writes contemporary and historical romantic suspense novels, and her 43rd will be out at the end of this year. Each book sold funds her service project, Sophie’s Smocks, that gives free feeding smocks to kids and adults around … Continue reading "Lois Bonnema ’61 Schwartz"

Paul Hesselink ’62→

Paul Hesselink ’62 was honored on June 15 during the 50th-anniversary celebration of the Southern Nevada Chapter of the American Guild of Organists for his service as chair of the chapter’s organ recital series since the series’ inception in 2005. The citation read: “With deep appreciation for your professional contribution and committed service on bringing … Continue reading "Paul Hesselink ’62"

David Wikman ’62→

David Wikman ’62 was honored by The Friends of the Hackley Public Library with The Charles H. Hackley Commendation for Service to the Humanities on Monday, May 21. The award is for the individual whose outstanding contributions to the humanities have significantly benefited Muskegon’s citizens and whose leadership has exemplified the ideals set forth by … Continue reading "David Wikman ’62"

Dennis DeWitt ’63→

Dennis DeWitt ’63 has written a new book, Zoe Died, What Now? Finding Hope in Times of Loss. It was prompted by the very real grief that people feel when a family dog dies, an experience often endured alone because it lacks the fellowship and ritual that follow the death of a human family member or friend. The book … Continue reading "Dennis DeWitt ’63"

Kristin Blank ’63 Lucas→

Kristin Blank ’63 Lucas received the Book of Golden Deeds Award from the Hillsdale Exchange Club. This award recognizes dedicated volunteers who give endless hours of their time and talents toward making their communities better places to live.

Jean Paduch ’63 Peelen→

Jean Paduch ’63 Peelen has moved after 10 years on a barrier island off the west coast of Florida to the mountains of North Carolina. She has moved into a tiny house in a tiny house village called The Village at Flat Rock. She reports that she loves the mountains and the cool Carolina mornings.

Richard Bennink ’65→

Richard Bennink ’65 reports that after spending the first 10 years of retirement as an ex-pat living in Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula, he has returned to the U.S. and he and his wife, Leslie, are presently enjoying living in Mattawan, Michigan.

Gretchen Paalman ’68 Latowsky→

Gretchen Paalman ’68 Latowsky received an environmental leadership award from the Region 1 Office of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in a ceremony at Faneuil Hall in Boston, Massachusetts. The award recognized her 31 years of service working to educate and protect the public from toxic threats to public health and the environment. She began … Continue reading "Gretchen Paalman ’68 Latowsky"

Barbara DeHart ’69 Eadie→

Barbara DeHart ’69 Eadie retired from teaching music in the Greater Victoria school district in British Columbia, Canada, in June. She is currently teaching private flute lessons as a post retirement career.

Alan Jones ’69→

Alan Jones ’69 has published his latest book, The First 100 Days in the Main Office: Transforming a School Culture (Information Age Press). This book follows his two other works on the topic of instructional leadership, Becoming a Strong Instructional Leader: Saying NO to Business as Usual (Teachers College Press) and school improvement, Teaching Matters Most: A School Leader’s Guide to … Continue reading "Alan Jones ’69"

Marti Terpstra ’69→

Marti Terpstra ’69 received a STAR (Sharing Time and Resources) Award. She is Volunteer of the Year (senior category) in the Kalamazoo, Michigan, area. She was nominated by Communities in Schools in Kalamazoo with support from RSVP, a volunteer program of senior services of southwest Michigan. She is a mentor in the Kalamazoo Public Schools … Continue reading "Marti Terpstra ’69"

George Boerigter ’61→

The Boerigter-Hope connection is strong, as reflected in this photo of three generations of the family wearing shirts featuring the college’s Boerigter Center for Calling and Career, which opened this past fall funded by a major gift from SoundOff Signal in honor of Founder and Chairman George Boerigter ’61 and his wife, Sibilla. The couple’s Hope children, children-in-law and … Continue reading "George Boerigter ’61"

Dennis DeWitt ’63→

Dennis DeWitt ’63 taught Spanish for 10 years, was a school social worker for 20 years and an associate pastor for 20 years, and is author of two books, It’s Time to Clean the Basement Again and Zoe Died, What Now? Finding Hope in Times of Loss.

Marion Hoekstra ’65→

Marion Hoekstra ’65 of Laurel, Maryland, was recently honored by her church, Laurel Presbyterian, for her 50-year commitment to the church choir. She was given a plaque by the choir followed by a special fellowship hour. She continues to travel both in the U.S. and abroad, her most recent trip being to the Galapagos Islands, … Continue reading "Marion Hoekstra ’65"

Marilyn Koman-Crace ’68→

Marilyn Koman-Crace ’68 was featured in the December issue of ECHO by her daughter, Jacquelyn Crace-Murray, a writer for the magazine. The article, titled “#2 Salmon Drive,” tells of her early teaching in Bush Alaska in the ’70s, a picture of what life was like in a rural village.

Katherine Reynolds ’61→

Katherine Reynolds ’61 was on a tour bus on the way to the Blue Lagoon in Iceland in April, when she started a conversation with another woman. They soon discovered that they are both Hope graduates. Pam Palmer ’91 is teaching in Loudoun County, Virginia, and Katherine is living in Durango, Colorado, where she a … Continue reading "Katherine Reynolds ’61"

Norman Kansﬁeld ’62→

Norman Kansﬁeld ’62 was recently honored by Union Theological Seminary in New York City, the theological institution from which he received an STM degree in 1967. In October 2018, Union named him one of four distinguished alumni and presented him with the 2018 Unitas Award “for his steadfast and heroic activism on behalf of LGBTQ … Continue reading "Norman Kansﬁeld ’62"

Darrel Staat ’64→

Darrel Staat ’64 is the coordinator of the Higher Education Executive Leadership (Ed.D.) program at Wingate University and had a second book published by Rowman and Littlefield in February 2019 titled Exponential Technologies: Higher Education in an Era of Serial Disruptions. During the 2018-19 academic year, he made seven presentations to educational and leadership audiences in … Continue reading "Darrel Staat ’64"

Carina Erikson ’65 and Sue Rose ’66 Naumann→

Carina Erikson ’65 and Sue Rose ’66 Naumann, who’d roomed together as students, reconnected for the first time in 54 years courtesy of a Hope regional event held in May at Wyckoff Reformed Church in New Jersey to introduce new president Matthew A. Scogin ’02. Sue volunteered to call alumni for the reception, and it … Continue reading "Carina Erikson ’65 and Sue Rose ’66 Naumann"

Timothy Tam ’69→

Timothy Tam ’69 received the highest award for service from The Christian Medical Dental Society of Canada during the group’s 50th conference, held in Vancouver in British Columbia. He is now practicing with his son, Isaac Tam ’01. He is practicing orthodontics and pediatric dentistry in Vancouver.

Landis Zylman ’61→

As surprise presents go, a college degree has to rank near the top. Although he attended Hope for three years as a member of the Class of ’61, Landis Zylman of Holland, Michigan, missed becoming a graduate because, as a pre-dentistry student, he was invited by the University of Michigan to enroll directly into dental … Continue reading "Landis Zylman ’61"

Paul Hesselink ’62→

Paul Hesselink ’62 has concluded 14 years as chair and manager of the organ recital series for the Southern Nevada Chapter of the American Guild of Organists. At the final program of the season, the board of the organization surprised him with a special tribute for his service. During his tenure, he organized and produced … Continue reading "Paul Hesselink ’62"

James Cotts ’63→

James Cotts ’63 is in his 50th year of teaching college and university mathematics

Charles Postma ’67→

Charles Postma ’67 and his wife, Patsy, have retired to Holland, Michigan. Pat sold her real estate business and they have settled into their new home at Macatawa Legends Golf Club.

Anne Wiegerink ’60 Anderson→

Anne Wiegerink ’60 Anderson published her second book, Lessons from Charley, a memoir depicting 50-plus years of marriage. It’s the universal story of love, marriage and the human experience. Her first book, My Griefcase, was published in 2017.

Gail Friesema ’61 Farnham→

Gail Friesema ’61 Farnham has been a member of the National Response Team of Presbyterian Disaster Assistance since 2007 and organized and participated in two work trips to New Bern, North Carolina, for the First Presbyterian Church of Ithaca after Hurricane Florence struck the area

Carl Vermeulen ’61→

Carl Vermeulen ’61 and his students reported at the Virginia Branch of the American Society for Microbiology on Friday, Nov. 08, that a variety of anesthetics can “put to sleep” not only sap flow in plants but also photosynthesis.

Stanley Hagemeyer ’62→

Stanley Hagemeyer ’62 published Courage to Care – You Can Help Others Who Are Suffering, designed to equip readers with skills and confidence to help anyone who is in a situation of pain or suffering. The book is designed to serve both as a training resource for volunteer care teams and also for personal use. … Continue reading "Stanley Hagemeyer ’62"

Betsy Kruizenga ’63 Emerick→

Betsy Kruizenga ’63 Emerick is a member of the Orange Grove Meeting of the Religious Society of Friends.

Don Mitchell ’63→

Don Mitchell ’63 of Ada, Michigan, received the Fraternal Society’s first “Lifetime Achievement Award” during the society’s 185th Anniversary Celebration in October 2019. The award was bestowed in sincere appreciation for his dedicated service to and support of the Fraternal Active Chapter and the Fraternal Alumni Association over the past four decades. The presentation was … Continue reading "Don Mitchell ’63"

Robert Dahl ’66→

Robert Dahl ’66 and Rachel Dahl ’95 published their third book, Comedy and Tragedy and what’s in between. The book features Rachel’s formatting and several of her original watercolors. In addition, there are many photos of Chris McKinley-Dahl’s mixed-media sculptures. The cover features one of Chris’ award-winning sculptures. The visual art interprets and complements the … Continue reading "Robert Dahl ’66"

Philip Harmelink ’66→

Philip Harmelink ’66 was recognized for his 40 years of service as organist at St. Matthew’s United Methodist Church in Metairie, Louisiana, with a reception on Sunday, Dec. 8. He’s in his 30th year as chair of the department of accounting at the University of New Orleans, where he is the Ernst & Young Professor … Continue reading "Philip Harmelink ’66"

Thelma (Tommye) Leenhouts ’66→

An organ concert at historic St. John’s Episcopal Church on Lafayette Square in Washington, D.C., provided an unexpected opportunity for Thelma (Tommye) Leenhouts ’66, who lives in the city, and David Heinze ’17 of Providence, Rhode Island, to recall a unique Hope music connection. Alerted by the college that a Hope graduate would be featured, … Continue reading "Thelma (Tommye) Leenhouts ’66"

Sid Disbrow ’68→

Sid Disbrow ’68 received a second-place award in the People’s Choice category for his painting, Martini Blues in the Night at Art Walk – Grand Haven. This is the third year he has participated in the art walk.

Tom Roberts ’69→

Tom Roberts ’69 reports that after a 48-year career in inpatient psychiatry he has become an Indiana director of Therapy Dogs International. With his four certiﬁed therapy dogs, he makes daily visits to medical and psychiatric hospitals. He recently successfully lobbied the Indiana legislature for sex-crimes victims’ rights and has developed a court dog program. … Continue reading "Tom Roberts ’69"

Mary Lammers ’60 Kempker→

Hope Appoints New Alumni Board Members and Officers During its May meeting, the Hope College Alumni Association Board of Directors appointed four new members and elected two new officers. The board’s new members are: Toni Gordon ’09 of Perrysburg, Ohio; Mary Lammers ’60 Kempker of Zeeland, Michigan; Dr. Kiersten Krause ’97 of Holland, Michigan; and … Continue reading "Mary Lammers ’60 Kempker"

Tim Tam ’69→

Tim Tam ’69 was elected secretary and treasurer of the British Columbia Dental Association. He practices pediatric dentistry and orthodontics with two of his sons in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

Darrel Staat ’64→

Darrel Staat ’64 had his fourth book, Student Focused Learning: Higher Education in an Exponential Digital Era, published on June 15, 2020. The book can be used by 21st century educators in higher education to learn what teaching methods already exist, different from the lecture/ discussion method, that support student focused learning. He joined the … Continue reading "Darrel Staat ’64"

Cindy Hill ’64 Wackerbarth and Paul Wackerbarth ’64→

Cindy Hill ’64 Wackerbarth and Paul Wackerbarth ’64 celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary on August 23, 2019.

Richard Timmer ’68→

Richard Timmer ’68 is the chairman of the Chippewa County Road Commission and was elected president of the County Road Association of Michigan representing all 83 county road agencies.

Barbara Timmer ’69→

Barbara Timmer ’69 has been getting together regularly with her Sigma alumnae group, Sarah Baas ’71, Mary Browning ’69 Vanden Berg, Mary Piers ’68 George, Gail Parker ’72 Westerhof, Christy Zuverink ’69 Vanderhill, Jayne Olsen ’68 Geribo, Mary Schakel ’69, Bonnie Brandsma ’69 Mannes, Joyce Nelson ’67 Nilsen, Patti Dykstra ’69 Felix, Jill Leach ’70 … Continue reading "Barbara Timmer ’69"

Wesley Granberg-Michaelson ’67→

Wesley Granberg-Michaelson ’67 published his 10th book, Without Oars: Casting Off into a Life of Pilgrimage. Drawing from experiences on the Camino de Santiago in Spain; Lourdes, France; Mt. Tabieorar, Nigeria; and elsewhere, he shares how faith is best experienced through embodied practices as a pilgrimage. Stories and resources are shared that encourage anyone’s inward … Continue reading "Wesley Granberg-Michaelson ’67"

Bob Terwilliger ’68→

Bob Terwilliger ’68 recently published a book of lighthearted essays titled Cleverly Yours: Humorous Glimpses of Life as a Christian. The book consists of a selection of Bob’s writings for the church newsletter during his 15 years as pastor of Bethany Reformed Church in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Each essay looks at an everyday event or circumstance … Continue reading "Bob Terwilliger ’68"

Tim Tam ’69→

Tim Tam ’69 and his son, Isaac Tam ’01 were given the Recognition of Community Service Award on Monday, Nov. 30, by the British Columbia Dental Association for their extraordinary efforts to provide emergency dental care during British Columbia’s Stage 1 COVID-19 pandemic response.

Sue Holmes ’69 Tell→

Sue Holmes ’69 Tell is penning a weekly faith-based blog, Echoes of Grace.

George Boerigter ’61→

George Boerigter ’61, founder of SoundOffSignal, participated in the groundbreaking of a new 100,000 square foot office and factory. This facility will enable the company to keep up with its historic growth pattern of doubling every five years. The new facility will ultimately house approximately 250 new employees. The company currently has about 175,000 sq. … Continue reading "George Boerigter ’61"

Darrel Staat ’64→

Darrel Staat ’64 has written his fifth book, Higher Education Planning in an Exponential Age: A Continuous, Dynamic Process, which was co-published by Rowman and Littlefield and the American Association of Community Colleges, (AACC) in April 2021. The book was featured by Rowman and Littlefield at the virtual AACC Convention in May 2021. Darrel was … Continue reading "Darrel Staat ’64"

George Arwady ’69→

George Arwady ’69 was elected board president of the New England Newspaper & Press Association. He is publisher and CEO of The Republican newspaper of Springfield, Massachusetts, having held similar positions in Michigan, New Jersey and Massachusetts for the past 41 years.

Betty Whitaker ’62 Jackson→

Betty Whitaker ’62 Jackson recently selfpublished her 27th book available on her website since her retirement from her 40-year secondary school teaching career. She and her sisters, Ellen Whitaker ’65 Conrad and Dorothy Whitaker, have recently been inducted into the DAR, tracing their Scudder family roots back to the Revolutionary War period. She won First … Continue reading "Betty Whitaker ’62 Jackson"

Jack Siebers ’63→

Jack Siebers ’63 was listed in Best Lawyers in America 2022 edition. He is involved with corporate and real estate law with Foster Swift law firm.

Joseph Mayne ’64→

Joseph Mayne ’64 retired last summer from the department of mathematics and statistics at Loyola University Chicago. He was a Loyola faculty member for 48 years and served two terms as chair of the department. He conducted the Loyola Chamber Orchestra for 27 years and presented 92 orchestra concerts at Loyola. In retirement he and … Continue reading "Joseph Mayne ’64"

Darrel Staat ’64→

Darrel Staat ’64 edited a book titled Virtual Reality in Higher Education: Instruction for the Digital Age, which was co-published by Rowman and Littlefield Publishing Group and the American Association of Community Colleges. The chapters were researched and written by graduate students in the Higher Education Executive Leadership Program. This is his sixth published book.

Joan DeJager ’66 Flikkema→

Joan DeJager ’66 Flikkema was featured in the summer 2021 issue of Forum, the Calvin Theological Seminary magazine, in the article “Looking Back & Looking Ahead, Commemoration of the 25th anniversary of Women’s Ordination in the CRC.” She was a founding member of the Committee for Women in the Christian Reformed Church and helped establish … Continue reading "Joan DeJager ’66 Flikkema"

Alan Jones ’69→

Alan Jones ’69 had a new book, Living up to Your School Mission Statement: Reforming Schools from the Inside Out, released in November. The book is the last in a series on school reform and instructional leadership (Becoming a Strong Instructional Leader, Teachers College Press; Teaching Matters Most, Corwin Press; and The First 100 Days … Continue reading "Alan Jones ’69"

Milt Nieuwsma ’63→

Milt Nieuwsma ’63 of Holland, Michigan, authored a new book, Miracle on Chestnut Street: The Untold Story of Thomas Jefferson and the Declaration of Independence, published in December. It is intended especially for teens and young adults. Milt previously created—including conducting research for and writing—the Inventing America: Conversations with the Founders trilogy filmed at Hope … Continue reading "Milt Nieuwsma ’63"

Earl Johnson ’64→

Earl Johnson ’64 is currently writing in the Presbyterian Church (USA) Bible study series The Present Word. He also serves on the Albany Presbytery Peacemaking Task Force and the board of directors of the Mountain Valley Hospice and Palliative Care in Gloversville, New York.

Audrey Prins ’64 Rasmussen→

Audrey Prins ’64 Rasmussen has published two murder mysteries, Who Killed D.L. Phillips and Revenge, under the name of A. Eveline.

Fred Wezeman ’64→

Fred Wezeman ’64 of Palos Heights, Illinois, retired as professor emeritus at Loyola University Chicago Stritch School of Medicine after 38 years as professor of anatomy and cell biology, ending in 2014. His long tenure at Loyola included being a department chair, dean of the graduate school at the medical center, and director of musculoskeletal … Continue reading "Fred Wezeman ’64"

Nelson Murphy ’68→

Nelson Murphy ’68 just completed a 2-plus year assignment as an interim associate conference minister in the Central Atlantic Conference of the United Church of Christ (UCC), primarily supporting the 64 churches of the New Jersey and Chesapeake Associations, UCC. With his wife, Sandie, he moved to Yardley, Pennsylvania, to be within an hour’s drive … Continue reading "Nelson Murphy ’68"

Anne Wiegerink ’60 Anderson→

Anne Wiegerink ’60 Anderson had her third book published: Cubbie The Therapy Dog. The true story is told by Cubbie and illustrated by Donna Setterlund from California.

Jim Kaat ’60→

Al Kober ’60→

The week before his induction into the National Baseball Hall of Fame (as featured on page 46), Jim Kaat ’60 was honored by the Minnesota Twins by having his number retired. He is pictured at center with former Hope teammate (and fellow pitcher) Al Kober ’60 and current Hope coach Stu Fritz.

Darrel Staat ’64→

Darrel Staat ’64 had his eighth book published by Rowman and Littlefield: Centers of Excellence: Niche Methods to Improve Higher Education in the 21st Century. Darrel is still working full time as associate professor in the Thayer School of Graduate Studies at Wingate University. He finds working with doctoral students a great pleasure.

Neal Sobania ’68→

Neal Sobania ’68 of Lakewood, Washington, is co-author, with longtime scholarly collaborator Dr. Raymond Silverman, of the book Ethiopian Church Art: Painters, Patrons, Purveyors. The image-rich study chronicles a tradition that has been part of Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity for more than 1,500 years. It is based on research they conducted for 25 years in the … Continue reading "Neal Sobania ’68"

Jon Smoker ’69→

Jon Smoker ’69 of Elkhart, Indiana, set a world bench press record of 216 pounds for 75+, 165 lb. class. It was previously held by a lifter from Azerbaijan.

Anne Wiegerink ’60 Anderson→

Anne Wiegerink ’60 Anderson published her latest book, Cubbie The Therapy Dog, a children’s true story written from the perspective of her dog, Cubbie.

Jean Paduch ’63 Peelen→

Jean Paduch ’63 Peelen published Feisty: A Memoir in Little Pieces in August.

Barbara Walvoord ’63→

Barbara Walvoord ’63 has published, Women’s Right in Dutch America, 1857-1979: A History and Memoir. One section of the book discusses women’s roles at Hope, comparing her experiences as a Hope student (1959-63) with her mother’s (1930-34).

David Stegink ’64→

David Stegink ’64 reports that having spent 10 winters in Tucson, Arizona, with his partner, Linda Griffin, he is moving permanently back to Muskegon, Michigan. After 30 years as a social work supervisor for the State of Michigan he got back into teaching retirees in the Tucson area. Since he has just turned 80 he … Continue reading "David Stegink ’64"

Mary Klein ’64 Kansfield→

Mary Klein ’64 Kansfield has written stories of three generations of RCA church women which are captured in a new book titled A Culture of Our Own: Three Generations of Midwestern Dutch Women.

Nelson Murphy ’68→

Nelson Murphy ’68 came out of retirement for the fourth time last year and accepted a call to serve part-time as the pastor of Tinicum United Church of Christ in Pipersville, Pennsylvania, not far from where he and his wife, Sandie, now live in Yardley.

1970s

Gail Rutgers ’70→

Gail Rutgers ’70 of Holland, Michigan, has been an artist at Uptown Gallery and Frame Shop in Holland for 22 years. She continues to exhibit and sell her art through the gallery.

Reed Brown ’71→

Reed Brown ’71 is retired and enjoying life in the “Babylon by the Bay,” San Francisco, California, near theaters, War Memorial Opera House and other wonderful pastimes.

Warren Sherman ’71→

Warren Sherman ’71 has been accepted into a two-year master’s program at Brown University in cybersecurity. He is currently a consultant with Standard & Poor’s in the company’s New York headquarters.

Doris Smith ’72 DeLuca→

Doris Smith ’72 DeLuca has retired as executive assistant and office manager from CTS Inc., a software consulting company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. She reports that she and her husband are looking forward to travel and more family time as her daughter and son-in-law have recently returned to the United States with their new daughter … Continue reading "Doris Smith ’72 DeLuca"

Sharon VanDyk ’72 Purkey→

Sharon VanDyk ’72 Purkey of Sidney, Montana, retired from 30 years of teaching middle school language arts, history and mathematics. During the first month of retirement she traveled through northern Europe, and she looked forward to Japan in the fall.

Philip Tappert ’72→

Philip Tappert ’72 of Grapeland, Texas, is in his 30th year of ministry in France with students at the University of Montpellier, combined with a church-planting effort.

Christian Fenton ’73→

Christian Fenton ’73 has retired as deputy superintendent for business and operations after 37 years with the Grosse Pointe Public School System. He also served for a brief period as interim superintendent. Besides budget and finances, his focus has been on repairs, improvements and expansions to the district’s historically/architecturally significant K-12 building. He attended the … Continue reading "Christian Fenton ’73"

Mary Jo Partridge ’73→

Mary Jo Partridge ’73 of Grand Rapids, Michigan, retired from the Plymouth Road Animal Clinic after 37 years.

Lillie Parker ’73 Wilbourn→

Lillie Parker ’73 Wilbourn of Portsmouth, Virginia, has retired from teaching after 32 years. She reports that she plans to travel and keep herself busy. She volunteers at her church’s school and will help raise her grandson.

Chuck Brooks ’74→

Chuck Brooks ’74 of Harwood, Maryland, has worked as a senior security specialist and federal officer for the U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Diplomatic Security in Washington, D.C. for the past 10 years. His responsibilities include executive protections, senior security liaison for the Office of Consular Affairs and serving as a diplomatic security officer … Continue reading "Chuck Brooks ’74"

Sue Drenkhahn ’74→

Sue Drenkhahn ’74 of Holland, Michigan, retired in June 2016 from Grand Rapids Public Schools.

Paula Huey ’74 Fox→

Paula Huey ’74 Fox retired after 35 years of work as a public library reference librarian, mostly with Hennepin County Library in suburban Minneapolis, Minnesota. She reports that she now cares for her 100+-year-old mother.

Scott Lenheiser ’74→

Scott Lenheiser ’74 of Farmington Hills, Michigan, is in his 38th year as a member of the Michigan Bar Association. He specializes in real estate transactions, taxation issues and business law, and practices in Farmington Hills, Michigan, and Greater Detroit. He has helped his ninth client achieve decamillionaire net worth status.

Roxanne Vanderveer ’74→

Roxanne Vanderveer ’74 retired from the State of Michigan, Grand Traverse/Leelanau County Department of Human Services on Jan. 1, 2011, after 30 years of service. She reports that she enjoys her part-time job working in the tasting room at L. Mawby and Big Little Wineries located in rural Suttons Bay.

Kris Musco ’75 David→

Kris Musco ’75 David of Warwick, Rhode Island, completed a year as district governor for Rotary International. As governor she was responsible for 66 Rotary clubs in the state of Rhode Island, southeastern Massachusetts, Cape Cod and the islands of Nantucket and Martha’s Vineyard. The year ended with the Rotary International Convention in Seoul, South … Continue reading "Kris Musco ’75 David"

David Edwards ’75→

David Edwards ’75 recently was appointed president and CEO of the Essex County Community Foundation, a $52-million grant-making organization serving the north shore of Massachusetts.

Debra Buis ’75 Hartman→

Debra Buis ’75 Hartman and David Rockey were married on August 2, 2014. She reports that she and her husband are both retired and enjoy traveling. They divide their time between their homes in Freeport, Illinois, and Rapid City, South Dakota.

Ginny Agre ’75 Kiser→

Ginny Agre ’75 Kiser of Greensboro, North Carolina, reports that she and her husband are enjoying retirement.

Glenn Wagner ’75→

Glenn Wagner ’75 has published a book, God Incidents: Real Life Stories to Strengthen and Restore Your Faith, aimed to help persons who have lost faith, are losing faith or desire to help those who are struggling with faith issues. He has been a United Methodist Pastor for 40 years, and currently serves as senior … Continue reading "Glenn Wagner ’75"

Richard Williams ’75→

Richard Williams ’75 of Albuquerque, New Mexico, is in his 18th year as director of community economic development, with responsibilities administering the state’s MainStreet program, the Arts and Cultural District program, the Historic Theaters Restoration Initiative and the rural frontier communities program. He continues to live in the North Valley along the Rio Grande Bosque.

Ellen Barker ’76 Smith→

Ellen Barker ’76 Smith of Holland, Michigan, opened Albert K’s Catering in May 2016 after a 30-year career in human resources. She followed her true passion for cooking and entertaining.

Anthony George ’77→

Anthony George ’77 reports that after 16 years of college teaching he is now back to being a full-time artist, framer and dad.

Rachel Hesselink ’77→

Rachel Hesselink ’77 retired in June 2015 with 31 years of federal service. For the past six years, she worked in the finance budget office of the Surface Combat Systems Center, Dept. of Navy in Wallops Island, Virginia. Her federal career also included 18 years with the U.S. Government Accountability Office, primarily conducting performance evaluations … Continue reading "Rachel Hesselink ’77"

Daniel Kiel ’77→

Daniel Kiel ’77 will be bicycling Sea to Sea again, June through August. The trip is from Vancouver, BC, to Halifax, Nova Scotia. Sea to Sea raises funds to fight poverty.

Carolyn Walburn ’77 Metzler→

Carolyn Walburn ’77 Metzler of Albuquerque, New Mexico, works at the Center for Action and Contemplation in Albuquerque, serving as spiritual director for the Living School, a two-year program doing a deep dive into the Christian mystical tradition through which students from all over the world respond to the needs and suffering of creation.

Ralph Schubert ’77→

Ralph Schubert ’77 was named associate director for Title V Programs at the University of Illinois at Chicago’s Division of Specialized Care for Children. The division partners with Illinois families and communities to help children and youth with special health care needs connect to services and resources. He is supporting adoption of the “medical home” … Continue reading "Ralph Schubert ’77"

Judy Diephouse ’78 Wolffis→

Judy Diephouse ’78 Wolffis of Grand Haven, Michigan, retired from the Grand Haven Public Schools after 37 years in education. She had taught in a learning disability resource room in second grade and in kindergarten. She reports that she is looking forward to enjoying walking, gardening, family and friends gathering at the cottage, and the … Continue reading "Judy Diephouse ’78 Wolffis"

Leah Sunderlin ’79 Haugneland→

Leah Sunderlin ’79 Haugneland has completed two years serving as the treasurer for Taylor High School Band Boosters, the band of which her daughter is a member. She has amassed more than 1,200 hours of service in both years and was nominated for Volunteer of the Year during the 2014-15 school year.

Mark Ongley ’79→

Mark Ongley ’79 of Beaver Falls, Pennsylvania, published his first book, Into the Light: Healing Sexuality in Today’s Church, in August 2016. Its aim is to redeem the church’s discussion of sexuality by offering grace and healing to the sexually abused, addicted and sexually averse.

John Debreceni ’70→

John Debreceni ’70 reports the 40th anniversary of Camp Sunrise, a summer residential camp for special needs children, founded by John and the youth of the Wyckoff Reformed Church. He is the director of human resources at a digital marketing communications company in New York City.

Charles Lang ’70→

Charles Lang ’70 is retired and living with his Azorean wife of 42 years in Sao Miguel, Azores. Their retirement dream has come true.

Dr. Wendell Wierenga ’70→

Wendell Wierenga ’70 will be honored during the annual Alumni Banquet on Saturday, April 29 with the Distinguished Alumni Award. Alumni Weekend Information

Rosezina Bard ’71→

Rosezina Bard ’71 is in her second year of teaching overseas in Micronesia. Last year she was a volunteer teacher with World Teach in Micronesia, teaching both ninth grade English and kindergarten. She reports that she was blessed to be able to use both of her teaching certificates. This year she is teaching with a … Continue reading "Rosezina Bard ’71"

Don Poest ’71→

Don Poest ’71 reports that he retired in September after 38 years as pastor of the Brunswick Reformed Church, although he is still involved to some degree at all levels of denominational work. “God has been and is being incredibly good to me,” he writes.

Arlan TenClay ’71→

Arlan TenClay ’71 reports that his wife Sondra was completely healed from her third bout with cancer on Aug. 8, 2016, on the day of her death, which occurred four days following their 44th wedding anniversary.

Paul Heusinkveld ’72→

The book Elephant Baseball by Paul Heusinkveld ’72 of Holland, Michigan, offers an insider’s view of a unique world: the boarding-school experience of the missionary kid. Now retired after a career with the U.S. Department of State, Paul was a student at Kodaikanal School in the mountains of south India from fifth grade through high … Continue reading "Paul Heusinkveld ’72"

Fonda Van Sloten ’72 Kirchmeyer→

Fonda Van Sloten ’72 Kirchmeyer retired after more than 40 years in education. She reports that she continues her church, activism, volunteer and leisure activities, but at a saner and more enjoyable pace. Travel is also in the future when her husband, Rod, retires. They love living in the Southwest.

Kathy Smith ’72 Matthews→

Kathy Smith ’72 Matthews reports that she is busily retired in Cumberland Gap, Tennessee, where she writes for the local newspaper and is a member of the art co-op as a photographer.

Gerry Swieringa ’72 and Peg Francis ’73 Swieringa→

Gerry Swieringa ’72 came out of a short-lived retirement to serve as rector of St. Brendan’s Anglican Church in Bellingham, Washington. He and his wife, Peg Francis ’73 Swieringa, live on a small rural farm where they raise chickens, quail and four grandchildren. He retired from BP American in 2010 after 27 years in the … Continue reading "Gerry Swieringa ’72 and Peg Francis ’73 Swieringa"

Suzanne Rutledge ’72 Viel and Don Viel ’71→

Suzanne Rutledge ’72 Viel retired in November 2015, after 41 years in healthcare. Within 10 days she and her husband, Don Viel ’71, had moved to DeWitt, Iowa, to be closer to their son and family. Don is on the golf course and she is enjoying grandson, gardening, quilting and volunteering.

Michael Ebbers ’73→

Michael Ebbers ’73 of Green Cove Springs, Florida, retired in 2014 from IBM after more than 40 years of service. In 2015 he married Kathleen and in 2016 they bought a boat and began a trip known as the “Great Loop,” circumnavigating the eastern third of the country on the water. This will include six … Continue reading "Michael Ebbers ’73"

Daniel McAuliffe ’73→

Daniel McAuliffe ’73 reports that he has turned 65 but rather than retire full-time will undertake a new career in teaching. He notes that as a political science major he intended to become a lawyer and save the world. However he had a minor in business which led to him being awarded a George F. … Continue reading "Daniel McAuliffe ’73"

Chadwick Busk ’74→

Chadwick Busk ’74 is the co-author of “Curiouser and Curiouser Excuses for Legal Jargon,” an article that was published in the October issue of the Michigan Bar Journal. He continues his solo practice of corporate law after retiring from the Meijer Legal Department in 2014.

Scott Lenheiser ’74→

Scott Lenheiser ’74 is practicing law in Farmington Hills, Michigan, primarily in real estate, taxation and business law concerns, and in the Greater Detroit and Tri-County areas of Oakland, Wayne and Macomb counties. He also reports that he recently acquired an Enfield 2A1 military surplus rifle manufactured in 1958 for the Indian government to introduce … Continue reading "Scott Lenheiser ’74"

Judith Van De Hoef ’75 Bloor→

Judith Van De Hoef ’75 Bloor of Louisville, Kentucky, has retired from being the executive vice president of the Child Kind Center at Home of the Innocents after 23 years and reports that she is enjoying the transition into this new season of life.

Dave Cluley ’75→

Dave Cluley ’75 is the chair of the national media relations committee for the National Association of Health Underwriters, NAHU.org, a professional association of health insurance agents and insurance carriers. In August, he celebrated five years with Spectrum Health, in the communications and marketing department.

David DeKok ’75→

David DeKok ’75 has begun work on a new book with the working title “American Tragedy.” It is about Han Tak Lee, a Korean-American from New York City who was imprisoned in Pennsylvania for 24 years for a crime he did not commit. David’s previous four books include “Murder in the Stacks,” about the murder … Continue reading "David DeKok ’75"

Joan Donaldson ’75→

Joan Donaldson ’75 was selected to receive a 2017 honor prize as part of the Jane Yolen Mid-List Honor Award, sponsored by Yolen and given at the Society of Children’s Book Writers and Illustrators’ Winter Conference.

Jerry Root ’75→

Jerry Root ’75 is a part-time chaplain of athletics with Hope College’s Campus Ministries program, coming alongside athletes and coaches.

John Bush ’76→

John Bush ’76 retired after 43 years with Sodexo. As COO, he was responsible for business in Canada, Mexico, and the United States as well as supply management for the company’s food and faculty systems. He reports that he is relearning how to live at home and travel for pleasure.

Eric Endean ’76→

Eric Endean ’76 was elected president of the Southern Association for Vascular Surgery.

David James ’76→

David James ’76 has had his fifth chapbook of poems, Split-Level, published by Finishing Line Press, under the name D.R. James. He is also completing his 30th year of academic coaching in Hope’s Academic Success Center and his 32nd year of teaching in Hope’s Department of English. He and his wife, Suzy Doyle, live in the … Continue reading "David James ’76"

N. Jean Lambert ’76→

N. Jean Lambert ’76 of Greenville, North Carolina, is working with disabled children as a physical therapist, running a rehab agency with PT, OT and ST. She also plays tennis and sails in eastern North Carolina.

Rebecca Waller ’77 Gillan→

Rebecca Waller ’77 Gillan of Hammond, Louisiana, has released a new FreeSolo piano album called Clouds. The quiet album (#3) is created “in-the-moment” by using jazz and modal harmonies and classical-type melodies. After leaving Hope College, she moved to Los Angeles, California, where she performed regularly with big bands and musical theater, and had a … Continue reading "Rebecca Waller ’77 Gillan"

George Ranville ’78 and Gail Noerenberg ’78 Ranville→

George Ranville ’78 and Gail Noerenberg ’78 Ranville along with their son, Danny, opened Bière De Mac Brew Works, LLC in Mackinaw City, Michigan. George’s family has lived on Mackinac Island, Mackinaw City and in the straits area for many generations.

Laurie Griffen ’78 Vanderbeck→

Laurie Griffen ’78 Vanderbeck of Jenison, Michigan, retired in June 2016 after 38 years teaching special needs students.

Sheryl Radike ’79 Page, Cindy McOwen ’79 Poole, Mimi Miller ’79 Brado and Sandy Busman ’79 Cott→

Sheryl Radike ’79 Page, Cindy McOwen ’79 Poole, Mimi Miller ’79 Brado and Sandy Busman ’79 Cott linked up in Littleton, Colorado, in October 2016. They met as freshmen living in first floor Kollen Hall and have been close friends ever since, and get together every two years for a weekend of fun and reminiscing.

Sherie Veramay ’79→

Sherie Veramay ’79 is the director of planned giving and campaign executive director at Alma College.

Dawn Van Ark ’71→

Dawn Van Ark ’71 has retired after 46 years at Hope College, where she was library acquisitions specialist She was honored with a reception at the Van Wylen Library on Thursday, July 20.

Dorothy Breen ’72→

Dorothy Breen ’72 of Carrabassett Valley, Maine, is an associate professor emerita from the University of Maine and is a licensed psychologist in private practice.

Nancy Cooper ’72→

Nancy Cooper ’72 of Clifton, New Jersey, reports that she continues to be very active in the Reformed Church presently serving as elder delegate to classis as well as serving on two classis committees. In June, she attended the General Synod. She continues to serve as treasurer of her church, which she has done for … Continue reading "Nancy Cooper ’72"

Johanna Willems ’72 George→

Johanna Willems ’72 George of New Era, Michigan, has retired from Shelby Public Schools and spends seven months a year in The Villages, Florida.

Rick Hine ’72→

Rick Hine ’72 and his wife, Linda, report that they are blissfully retired in Coronado, California. They are just as busy in retirement as they were during their work and family years. Their motto is simple: “Every day is a great day, some days are better.”

Laurel Dekker ’72 VanHaitsma Kempkers→

Laurel Dekker ’72 VanHaitsma Kempkers reports that after her husband’s passing, she married Gord Kempkers and moved from Ludington, to Hamilton, Michigan. Combined they have 14 grandchildren, with number 15 due in August.

William Strader ’74→

William Strader ’74 presented at the Michigan Association for the Education of Young Children conference in Grand Rapids, Michigan, on Thursday-Saturday, April 20-22.

Sue Poppink ’75→

Sue Poppink ’75 of Portage, Michigan, has received the Teaching Excellence Award from the College of Education and Human Development at Western Michigan University. She has been a professor of educational leadership at WMU for the past 16 years.

Mike Carpenter ’76→

Mike Carpenter ’76 retired in April 2017 after 35 years with American Blue Ribbon Holdings (Village Inn and Bakers Square restaurants) and reports that he looks forward to traveling and relaxing in their new home in Marysville, Washington.

Barbara Wrigley ’76→

Barbara Wrigley ’76 reports that after retiring in 2012 and the death of her wife in 2014, she moved from Berkeley, California to Durham, North Carolina. On Monday, April 24, she completed the competency development program for coach certification at the Gestalt International Study Center in Wellfleet, Massachusetts, and has launched a business, Heart’s Harvest. … Continue reading "Barbara Wrigley ’76"

Philip Bosch ’77→

Philip Bosch ’77 of Fallbrook, California, is the attending physician at the University of California, San Diego Medical Center. He is in the Department of Urology, where he runs the interstitial cystitis clinic. He has also published articles and has done research on interstitial cystitis.

Philip De Jong ’77→

Philip De Jong ’77 of Charlottesville, Virginia, has been appointed president of Uppermost Press LLC with offices in Charlottesville, Virginia, and Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Uppermost Press publishes inflight magazines including Selamata, the inflight magazine of Ethiopian Airlines. He was the former president and co-founder of Journey Group Inc. in Charlottesville.

Leslie Pett ’77 Johnson→

Leslie Pett ’77 Johnson is currently working for ACSI Europe as an educational consultant, coming alongside new and growing Christian schools in Europe, especially the Czech/ Slovakia/Poland region. In talking about what it means to be a teacher who is a Christian (how one’s faith makes a difference), she has traveled as far as China … Continue reading "Leslie Pett ’77 Johnson"

Thomas Johnson ’77→

Thomas Johnson ’77 of Prague, Czech Republic, represented the World Evangelical Alliance and the 600 million members of its churches in relation to the Vatican. This includes interacting with multiple departments of the Vatican. In February he began representing evangelicals in a multi-year series of Vatican-led consultations with about 40 scholars, diplomats and religious leaders … Continue reading "Thomas Johnson ’77"

Lynn Raffety ’77 Kennedy→

Lynn Raffety ’77 Kennedy is an employee of the City of Virginia Beach Public Libraries. She is on the management team of the Tidewater Community College Joint-Use Library, a partnership serving both students and the community. She reports that she and her husband, Kevin Kennedy ’80, spend time with their children in California, Virginia, and … Continue reading "Lynn Raffety ’77 Kennedy"

Brenda Heath ’77 Vander Meulen→

Brenda Heath ’77 Vander Meulen of Holland, Michigan, is part of the Center for Leadership at Hope, teaching The Trusted Advisor and coaching CFL student consultants. She is a member of the board of directors for Good Samaritan Ministries in Holland, working to end poverty and homelessness in the community, all while still having her … Continue reading "Brenda Heath ’77 Vander Meulen"

Sylvia Haug ’77 Verdonk→

Sylvia Haug ’77 Verdonk of South Haven, Michigan, retired from teaching high school mathematics for Coloma Schools in Coloma, Michigan, in 2010 after 32 years. She has since taught mathematic classes for Lake Michigan College and has taken on duties as director of religious education at St. Basil Catholic Church in South Haven, Michigan.

Bob Niedt ’78→

Bob Niedt ’78 of Fairfax, Virginia, is an online editor at Kiplinger Washington Editors, the renowed Washington, D.C., based publisher of print and online business forecasts and personal finance advice, including the monthly magazine Kiplinger’s Personal Finance, on newsstands nationwide. Bob lives in Northern Virginia with his wife, Linda. He reports that they explore the … Continue reading "Bob Niedt ’78"

Ernie Otto ’70→

“SOMETHING IN THE WATER” PART 2 Following publication of the article “Something in the Water” (Summer 2017), about microbreweries established by alumni, we learned that we missed the earliest of them all, Grand Teton Brewing, founded in 1988 by Charlie Otto ’78 and Ernie Otto ’70 (the latter of whom died in June 2008). Originally … Continue reading "Ernie Otto ’70"

Susan Klaner ’71 Madden→

Susan Klaner ’71 Madden of Onaway, Michigan, reports that September was filled with a trip to Kailua-Kona, Hawaii, for a 10-house, 10-day Blitz Build with Habitat for Humanity. Her team, which included 27 people from all over the USA, was divided up to build two houses. She reports that the families were all on site … Continue reading "Susan Klaner ’71 Madden"

Cathleen Work ’73 Draper→

Cathleen Work ’73 Draper of Edmonds, Washington, retired after 43 years in education. The first six were as a fifth- and sixth-grade teacher in the public schools of Oberlin, Ohio. One year was as a teaching assistant at University of Washington while working on a master’s in curriculum and instruction. The remaining years were in … Continue reading "Cathleen Work ’73 Draper"

Steve Norden ’74→

Steve Norden ’74 of Dublin, Ohio, was recently awarded the John A. Price Award for Excellence in Law Enforcement Chaplaincy by the International Conference of Police Chaplains. He has served as a volunteer chaplain with the Dublin Ohio Police Department since 1990 and also with the Federal Bureau of Investigation since 2012

Robert Van Voorst ’74→

Robert Van Voorst ’74 is a professor of New Testament at Western Theological Seminary and recently had his book Commonly Misunderstood Verses of the Bible: What They Really Mean published by Cascade Press. It treats 24 passages from the Old and New Testaments, and is designed for both individual reading and group study.

Rich Williams ’75→

Rich Williams ’75 reports that he has released performance measures for New Mexico Mainstreet. They have leveraged a combined $51,021.866 in private-sector reinvestment over the last five years, which has provided opportunities for local entrepreneurs to open and expand 558 net new businesses. For 15 years he has been the executive director of New Mexico … Continue reading "Rich Williams ’75"

Beverly Kerlikowske ’76 Butler→

Beverly Kerlikowske ’76 Butler of San Rafael, California, was recently honored at Theatre Bay Area’s 40th anniversary gala as one of the 40 people who have changed the face of regional theatre in the San Francisco Bay Area. She serves on the executive committee and board of Playground, a new plays incubator, and also on … Continue reading "Beverly Kerlikowske ’76 Butler"

Todd Harburn ’78→

Todd Harburn ’78 edited the book A Surgeon with Custer at the Little Big Horn. He is an independent scholar, orthopedic surgeon and doctor of sports medicine. He and his wife, Shirley Bolhouse ’79 Harburn, reside at the Straits of Mackinac, Michigan.

Charlie Otto ’78→

“SOMETHING IN THE WATER” PART 2 Following publication of the article “Something in the Water” (Summer 2017), about microbreweries established by alumni, we learned that we missed the earliest of them all, Grand Teton Brewing, founded in 1988 by Charlie Otto ’78 and Ernie Otto ’70 (the latter of whom died in June 2008). Originally … Continue reading "Charlie Otto ’78"

Adelheid Holthuis ’71 Denz→

Adelheid Holthuis ’71 Denz of San Antonio, Texas, is the author of Uprooted: The Story of an Immigrant, a novella about a young surgical nurse who comes into adulthood during the horrors of World War II Germany. It is based on a true story, and grapples with Adelheid’s late mother’s wrenching emotional odyssey from Nazi … Continue reading "Adelheid Holthuis ’71 Denz"

Lynn Davis ’71 Austin→

The Hope College Alumni Association will honor two alumnae during the annual Alumni Banquet on Saturday, April 28. The association will present Distinguished Alumni Awards to award-winning author Lynn Davis ’71 Austin (right) of Holland, Michigan, whose 24 books have sold a combined total of more than one million copies worldwide. Austin is the author of 23 novels and a … Continue reading "Lynn Davis ’71 Austin"

Ruth Folkert ’71 Trippy→

Ruth Folkert ’71 Trippy of Auburn, Georgia, recently published her third novel, A Western Beauty – Colorado, 1879. Her first book, The Soul of the Rose, can be found in Hope’s library.

John Rothenbuhler ’72→

John Rothenbuhler ’72 of Farmersville, Texas, retired on Oct. 1, 2017.

Randy Zomermaand ’72→

Randy Zomermaand ’72 (Tampa, Florida), Conley Zomermaand ’77 (Xenia, Ohio) and Mike Zomermaand ’81 (Canton, Michigan) met in Mt. Dora, Florida, and proudly represented Hope College at the Mt. Dora Bicycle Festival Oct. 5-8. The brothers, originally from Holland, Michigan, rode routes of 25, 56, 62 and a hilly 37 miles over the course of … Continue reading "Randy Zomermaand ’72"

Chadwick Busk ’74→

Chadwick Busk ’74 of Rockford, Michigan, had the article “Using ‘Shall’ or ‘Will’ to Create Obligations in Business Contracts: Once More Unto the Breach” published in the October 2017 issue of the Michigan Bar Journal. He continues to practice information technology and corporate law from his home office and has a blog/ newsletter at busklaw.blogspot.com.

David DeKok ’75→

David DeKok ’75 of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, has been working as a contract correspondent in Pennsylvania for Reuters, the worldwide news service, since 2014. He has written several stories in the past year related to the fraternity hazing death of Timothy Piazza in 2017 at Penn State University, and the hazing death of Chen “Michael” Deng, … Continue reading "David DeKok ’75"

Karen Johnson-Weiner ’75→

Karen Johnson-Weiner ’75 of Canton, New York, had a second edition published of her book New York Amish, Life in the Plain Communities of the Empire State (Cornell University Press). More than 20 new Amish communities in New York were established between the publication of the first edition in 2010 and the appearance of the … Continue reading "Karen Johnson-Weiner ’75"

Nancy Bennett ’76 Staal→

Nancy Bennett ’76 Staal and her husband, Tim, are currently living and working in Tokyo, Japan where she is teaching grade four at Tokyo International School and Tim is the school librarian.

Thomas K. Johnson ’77→

Thomas K. Johnson ’77 was among the leaders of the World Evangelical Alliance (WEA) who met with Pope Francis in the Vatican on Dec. 14 to discuss closer cooperation with the Catholic Church, particularly regarding issues of religious freedom and persecution of Christians around the world. Tom is WEA’s religious freedom ambassador to the Vatican. His specialty is human … Continue reading "Thomas K. Johnson ’77"

Conley Zomermaand ’77→

Randy Zomermaand ’72 (Tampa, Florida), Conley Zomermaand ’77 (Xenia, Ohio) and Mike Zomermaand ’81 (Canton, Michigan) met in Mt. Dora, Florida, and proudly represented Hope College at the Mt. Dora Bicycle Festival Oct. 5-8. The brothers, originally from Holland, Michigan, rode routes of 25, 56, 62 and a hilly 37 miles over the course of … Continue reading "Conley Zomermaand ’77"

Amy Henrickson ’78→

Amy Henrickson ’78, Clark Matthews ’61 and Steve Maas ’81 have come together to create the Grandville Community Choir. The choir of more than 50 area singers performs at various community events in addition to holding two special concerts each year, in December and April. Keep up with the choir on its Facebook page (search … Continue reading "Amy Henrickson ’78"

Tom Allbaugh ’79→

Tom Allbaugh ’79 of Rancho Cucamonga, California, had his first novel, Apocalypse TV, released by eLectio Publishers on Sept. 12, 2017. It concerns an English professor who appears on a religious reality show.

Hendrika Vande Kemp ’71→

Hendrika Vande Kemp ’71 had her first display of iris folded art, featuring recycled paper, at The Scrap Exchange Creative ReUse Center in Durham, North Carolina, from March 16 through April 14, 2017. She was one of two artists in an exhibit titled “The Found Object Collection.”

Kathryn Scholes ’73 Bolt→

Kathryn Scholes ’73 Bolt reports that even though she retired from Sparta Area Schools in 2014 she manages to get called back every year to fill in as a school psychologist. She is an 11- year survivor of ovarian cancer and enjoys being outdoors whether it’s birding, walking, cycling, kayaking or cross country skiing, pastimes … Continue reading "Kathryn Scholes ’73 Bolt"

John De Meester ’73→

John De Meester ’73 reports that he has been married for 43 years this August and has one granddaughter

Sally Plagenhoef ’73 Morris→

Sally Plagenhoef ’73 Morris returned to Holland, Michigan, after working for 35 years in the Palm Beach County School system as a German/Spanish teacher and high school counselor.

Claudia Tebben ’73 Sterne→

Claudia Tebben ’73 Sterne reports that every year she has a reunion with five other “cluster mates” who all met and became friends their freshman year at Hope in 1969: Leslie Carry ’73 Kruegel, Becky Eisenbise ’74 Hostetler, Anne Walvoord ’73 VanderByl, Lillian Bertalan and Ellen Swain Roberts (the latter two transferred to other colleges).

Anne Walvoord ’73 VanderByl→

Claudia Tebben ’73 Sterne reports that every year she has a reunion with five other “cluster mates” who all met and became friends their freshman year at Hope in 1969: Leslie Carry ’73 Kruegel, Becky Eisenbise ’74 Hostetler, Anne Walvoord ’73 VanderByl, Lillian Bertalan and Ellen Swain Roberts (the latter two transferred to other colleges).

Becky Eisenbise ’74 Hostetler→

Claudia Tebben ’73 Sterne reports that every year she has a reunion with five other “cluster mates” who all met and became friends their freshman year at Hope in 1969: Leslie Carry ’73 Kruegel, Becky Eisenbise ’74 Hostetler, Anne Walvoord ’73 VanderByl, Lillian Bertalan and Ellen Swain Roberts (the latter two transferred to other colleges).

Jim McFarlin ’74→

Jim McFarlin ’74 has published his latest book project, as ghostwriter of the nonfiction work The Booster. It is the never-before-told story of the late Ed Martin, the Detroit autoworker whose extravagant gifts to such players as Chris Webber and Jalen Rose ultimately led to the downfall of the University of Michigan’s “Fab Five,” arguably … Continue reading "Jim McFarlin ’74"

Terry Muilenberg ’74→

Terry Muilenberg ’74 reports that he was laid off from Plains All America Pipeline and is now “retired.” He is devoting full time to his business, Fred’s Custom Leather, making custom leather products. He does not miss the threeto-four-hour commute to downtown Houston, Texas, and now walks about 50 yards from his house to his … Continue reading "Terry Muilenberg ’74"

P.J. Coldren ’75→

P.J. Coldren ’75 was the Fan Guest of Honor at the Malice Domestic 31 in Bethesda, Maryland, from Thursday, May 3, through Saturday, May 5. Malice Domestic™ is an annual fan convention in the metropolitan DC area that celebrates the traditional mystery, books best typified by the works of Agatha Christie.

Jeff Stewart ’75→

Jeff Stewart ’75 recently received the Jim Crowley Award from the Michigan High School Football Coaches Association. He has been coaching high school football 42 years and is currently the Big Rapids football assistant coach.

Don Wickstra ’75→

Don Wickstra ’75 is running for Michigan State Senate, 26th district. He has been a dentist in Hamilton, Michigan, for more than 40 years.

Lisa Burger ’77→

Lisa Burger ’77 retired from Central Maine Healthcare and is looking forward to settling into her new home on Brandy Pond in Maine, where she reports she can enjoy boating and playing golf on a more regular basis.

Jon Post ’77→

Jon Post ’77 and his wife, Diane, are in Kathmandu, Nepal, pursuing research on dietary interventions for chronic diseases, and especially for diabetes mellitus Type 2. Diane was diagnosed with diabetes nine years ago and has been off all medications for that, high blood pressure and high cholesterol for more than four years. They are … Continue reading "Jon Post ’77"

Scott Bradley ’78→

Scott Bradley ’78 retired from teaching in Kansas and moved to Brooklyn, New York, where his wife teaches at Long Island University. He teaches band and violin at Catholic schools and other private schools, and performs extensively on trombone and tuba throughout New York City

Todd Harburn ’78→

Todd Harburn ’78 continues to serve as co-team physician for the Hope College football team. He is chief of surgery at Mackinac Straits Health System, an outpatient surgery center at the Straits of Mackinac in Northern Michigan. He has an arthroscopic surgery orthopedic practice. He reports that he enjoys writing in his “free time” as … Continue reading "Todd Harburn ’78"

Janet Turner ’78→

Janet Turner ’78 reports that she has eight grandchildren.

Nancy MacKinnon ’78 Van Ark→

Nancy MacKinnon ’78 Van Ark and her husband, Robert, report that they are enjoying retirement by watching their grandson and traveling when they can.

Marianne Walck ’78→

Marianne Walck ’78 retired from Sandia National Laboratories in 2017 after a 33-year career, spending the last two years as vice president for Sandia’s facility in Livermore, California, and directing the energy and climate programs for the laboratory.

Vicki Wiegerink ’74 Rumpsa→

Vicki Wiegerink ’74 Rumpsa reports that she has 10 grandchildren and three foster grandchildren all living in Holland, Michigan. She is so thankful that they all live close and is looking forward to many family celebrations.

Rich Williams ’75→

Rich Williams ’75 of Albuquerque, New Mexico, is celebrating 16 years directing the New Mexico MainStreet program, utilizing community economic and rural development strategies, which is a licensed program of the country-wide network of the National Main Street Center. They just released four short videos telling the stories of the entrepreneurs and business people across … Continue reading "Rich Williams ’75"

James Cannon ’76→

James Cannon ’76 retired from teaching after 41 years. He reports that he is looking forward to spending more time with his family as well as traveling more.

Gary Oegema ’78 and Deb Cleason ’78 Oegema→

Gary Oegema ’78 of Lawton, Michigan, retired in June after teaching music for 39 years in two districts, the last 32 years in Lawton. His wife, Deb Cleason ’78 Oegema, who has accompanied the choirs for as many years, surprised him with a Mr. Holland’s Opus moment during his last choir concert by arranging to have many choir alumni join the … Continue reading "Gary Oegema ’78 and Deb Cleason ’78 Oegema"

Susan Klaner ’71 Madden→

Susan Klaner ’71 Madden is traveling this month with Habitat for Humanity to help rebuild a home for a family in Braga, Portugal. Currently the family rents a very small home with no indoor plumbing and little protection from the cold. The house to be renovated has been inherited by the family but is unlivable … Continue reading "Susan Klaner ’71 Madden"

William Hill-Alto ’72→

William Hill-Alto ’72 retired from his career as a minister in the Reformed Church of America having served congregations nationally and internationally for 43 years and as a special education teacher for 20 years. He relocated from Vermont to Atlanta, Georgia, to be near his children and grandchildren in July 2018. As a kidney-transplanted person, … Continue reading "William Hill-Alto ’72"

Louise Hughes ’72 Davies→

Louise Hughes ’72 Davies reports that she received a stem cell transplant in September 2018. She was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2007, non-Hodgkins lymphoma in 2014 and another blood cancer in 2017. She is currently recovering at home. She retired in June 2015 after 21 years of teaching high school English.

Elizabeth Newton ’72→

Elizabeth Newton ’72 has retired after 39 years as principal planner for Passaic County, New Jersey.

Mark de Roo ’73→

Mark de Roo ’73 will be joining three other Holland area residents on climbing Mt. Kilimanjaro in Tanzania in June to raise funds for research and an eventual cure for early-onset Alzheimer’s, the disease that took his wife of 41 years, Roxanne, in early 2018. The summit is 19,321 feet and will take seven to … Continue reading "Mark de Roo ’73"

Jim McFarlin ’74→

The Hope College Alumni Association will present Distinguished Alumni Awards to Jim McFarlin ’74 on Saturday, April 27, during the Annual Alumni Banquet. McFarlin is an author and freelance journalist who has had his work published in multiple national publications and has written or edited more than a dozen books (and has an article elsewhere in … Continue reading "Jim McFarlin ’74"

Steve Norden ’74→

Steve Norden ’74 was selected to serve as the Grand Leprechaun for the Dublin, Ohio, St. Patrick’s Day Parade. Approximately 20,000 people attended what is promoted as central Ohio’s greenest, grandest St. Patrick’s Day parade. His selection was in recognition of 35 years of service to the Dublin community that includes his involvement with Dublin City Schools and … Continue reading "Steve Norden ’74"

Mark Johnson, John Caven, Dave Cluley and Mark Convoy ’75→

Former roommates from the Class of ’75 recently gathered at the home of Mark Johnson in Sarasota, Florida. After a 43-year absence, Kollen Hall buddies — John Caven (Rochester, New York), Dave Cluley (Ada, Michigan), and Mark Convoy (Glen Rock, New Jersey — took Mark up on his invitation and enjoyed the sights and activities of the Florida Gulf. Pictured are … Continue reading "Mark Johnson, John Caven, Dave Cluley and Mark Convoy ’75"

Linda Plunkett ’75→

Linda Plunkett ’75 published a book, Supernatural Rescue, which chronicles true life interventions by God, including a supernatural rescue after a seven-hour brain surgery. Since Linda is a psychologist, in the second part of the book she gives hope for people going through similar devastating experiences.

Jon Constant ’72→

Jon Constant ’72 published a second edition of his 2018 book, Leelanau by Kayak. It includes new material and over 20 new photos from kayaking Leelanau’s 100-mile Great Lake shoreline, as well as 23 of its beautiful inland lakes and three of its rivers.

James De Boer ’72→

James De Boer ’72 retired after decades of practicing family medicine in Danville, Illinois, and moved with Joyce, his wife of 41 years, to Washougal, Washington, to be nearer to their children. He is also an artist/printmaker and is active in the Portland, Oregon, arts scene.

Michael Ebbers ’73→

Michael Ebbers ’73 and Kathy Ebbers are piloting their 33-foot cruiser boat on a 6,000-mile journey known as the Great Loop. This route circumnavigates the eastern third of the United States. They began in Norfolk, Virginia, went north through New York, west through Canada, then south past Chicago, Illinois, down 