The musical comedy Pitch Perfect was helmed by Jason Moore in 2012. A rough adaptation of Mickey Rapkin’s book of the same name served as the basis for Kay Cannon’s script. The movie is based on a college student Beca (Anna Kendrick) who is aware that she does not want to be a member of a clique, but upon arriving at her new school, she quickly herself into one. Beca discovers that the only thing they have in common is how well they can sing together after being thrown together with cruel women, sweet gals, and just plain crazy gals. In this article, let’s get to know more about the full cast of the Pitch Perfect movie in detail.

In an effort to win collegiate music contests, she pushes the group’s female members beyond their comfort zone of conventional arrangements and into a realm of incredible harmonic combinations. Digitally and physically, the soundtrack was made available on September 25, 2012, and October 2, 2012. On September 28, 2012, a few cinemas screened the movie. On October 5, 2012, it was released worldwide. It has an IMDb rating of 7.1.

Star Cast of Pitch Perfect Movie:

Pitch Perfect cast feature many amazing actors, so lets move further and understand their roles deeply.

Leading Cast of Pitch Perfect

Anna Kendrick as Beca Mitchell

Skylar Astin as Jesse Swanson

Anna Camp as Aubrey Posen

Brittany Snow as Chloe Beale

Rebel Wilson as Fat Amy

Adam DeVine as Bumper Allen

Ester Dean as Cynthia Rose

Hana Mae Lee as Lilly Onakuramara

Alexis Knapp as Stacie Conrad

Supporting Cast of Pitch Perfect

Ben Platt as Benji

Kelley Jakle as Jessica(as Kelley Alice Jakle)

Wanetah Walmsley as Denise

Shelley Regner as Ashley

Caroline Fourmy as Mary Elise

Cast Details of Pitch Perfect:

1. Anna Kendrick as Beca Mitchell

The main character of Pitch Perfect and its follow-up is Beca Mitchell. She is a rebellious Barden student and aspiring music producer who originally joins the Bellas to please her father but later comes to like the group. She is currently in charge of the Bellas.

Anna Cooke Kendrick has received numerous honors, including a Satellite Award, five Teen Choice Awards, three MTV Movie Awards, and nominations for an Academy Award, a Primetime Emmy Award, and a Tony Award; she is one of the youngest individuals to receive an Academy Award, Primetime Emmy Award, or Tony Award nomination.

2. Skylar Astin as Jesse Swanson

In both Pitch Perfect 1 and 2, Jesse Swanson plays a major and supporting role. He is Beca Mitchell’s potential lover as well as an aspirant member of The Treblemakers. He is the Trebles’ leader and has been dating Beca for a while in the follow-up. Skylar Astin, an actor, and singer played him. In the musical movies Pitch Perfect 1 (2012) and 2 (2015), Skyler gained notoriety for playing Jesse Swanson.

He played Georg in the Broadway production of Spring Awakening, and since then, he has appeared in movies like Hamlet 2 (2008), Taking Woodstock (2009), Cavemen (2013), and 21 & Over (2013). During the last season of Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, he took on the role of Greg Serrano, which Santino Fontana had previously performed. He played Max in the musical comedy Zoey’s Extraordinary Playlist, which was his most recent project.

3. Anna Camp as Aubrey Posen

In both Pitch Perfect 1 and 2, Aubrey Posen plays both a supporting and a pivotal role. She was The Barden Bellas’ stiff, conventional co-leader, who is infamous for throwing up anytime she is under pressure.

Anna Ragsdale Camp made headlines for playing the evil Sarah Newlin in the HBO vampire drama True Blood (2009, 2013–2014) and Aubrey Posen in the musical comedy Pitch Perfect movie series (2012–2017).

4. Brittany Snow as Chloe Beale

One of the key characters in Pitch Perfect is played by Chloe Beale. She is Barden Bellas’ co-leader who is more polite and kind. Brittany Snow gained notoriety as a result of her roles in the CBS serial series Guiding Light (1998–2001), for which she was nominated for three Young Artist Awards, including Best Young Actress, and won one herself. After that, she featured in the NBC drama series American Dreams (2002–2005), for which she received three Teen Choice Award nominations and a nomination for a Young Artist Award.

5. Rebel Wilson as Fat Amy

In Pitch Perfect 1, 2 and 3, Patricia Hobart, better known by her stage as Fat Amy, plays a significant role. The Bellas from Tasmania’s comic and quirky Fat Amy. Rebel Wilson, an Australian actress, plays Fat Amy. She is also Beca Mitchell’s closest friend.

Wilson began as Toula in the SBS comedy series Pizza (2003–2007, 2019) after graduating from the Australian Theatre for Young People in 2003. Wilson then had an appearance in the sketch comedy program The Wedge (2006–2007). She created, acted in, and produced the musical comedy Bogan Pride (2008). Wilson made appearances in the 2011 comedies Bridesmaids and A Few Best Men shortly after arriving in the country.

6. Adam DeVine as Bumper Allen

In both the series, Bumper Allen serves as both the primary antagonist and a supporting character. Before leaving The Treblemakers to perform as John Mayer’s backup singer, he was the haughty and self-centered band leader. He returns to Barden University in the follow-up to work as a security guard before finally joining The Tonehangers.

The Comedy Central comedy television programs Workaholics and Adam Devine’s House Party both include Adam Devine as one of the stars and co-creator.

7. Ester Dean as Cynthia Rose

The protagonist of the series is Cynthia-Rose Adams. The tomboyish and lesbian member of the Barden Bellas is named Cynthia-Rose.

With multiple Top 10 singles, including No. 1 hits for Rihanna and Katy Perry, Dean has also penned songs for a variety of performers, earning her the moniker “The Song Factory.”

Dean received an Album of the Year nomination at the 54th Grammy Awards for his work as a producer on Rihanna’s album Loud. In addition to writing the song “We Are (Family)” for the movie Ice Age: Continental Drift, she also voiced two more characters for the fourth installment of the Ice Age series. Dean made her acting debut in the 2012 movie Pitch Perfect as Cynthia-Rose Adams. She returned to the character for the 2015 and 2017 sequels, Pitch Perfect 2 and 3. (2017).

8. Hana Mae Lee as Lilly Onakuramara

The protagonist of the series is Lilly Onakuramara (real name: Esther) portrayed by Hana Mae Lee. She is the beatboxer for the Barden Bellas and has an extremely low voice.

Hana Mae Lee is most recognized for her performances as Lilly Onakuramara in the 2012–2017 Pitch Perfect film series and as Sonya in the 2017 horror comedy The Babysitter and its 2020 follow-up. Additionally, Lee owns the fashion label Hanamahn.

9. Alexis Knapp as Stacie Conrad

Stacie Conrad plays a major part in the first two films and a supporting role in the third. She is the Barden Bellas’ mezzo-soprano who is the most overtly sexually motivated. In the Pitch Perfect movie series, which ran from 2012 to 2017, Alexis Knapp played Stacie Conrad.

She also starred as Alexis in the party movie Project X (2012) and had an appearance in the first season of the TBS sitcom Ground Floor.

Conclusion

So, these were the stars who acted in all the seasons of Pitch Perfect and made the series fantastic for the viewers. Pitch Perfect series is a musical drama with amazing and relatable actors, who tried to give their best. All the 3 seasons of this musical series are liked by the audiences.

FAQs

Q1: Who are the main characters of Pitch Perfect?

Answer:

The main characters of Pitch Perfect are Beca, Fat Amy, Bumper, Jesse, Chloe, and Aubrey.

Q2: Do Jesse and Beca end up together?

Answer:

No, the lovable couple Jesse and Beca do not end up together, and separate out in season 3. Jesse moves on to someone else as they could not handle the long distance relationship.

Q3: Who is the Indian actor in Pitch Perfect?

Answer:

The Indian guy in Pitch Perect is singer Utkarsh Ambudkar.