Protesters made fascist salutes as the body of the founder of a fascist Spanish movement was dug up and moved from famous Valley Of The Fallen Mausoleum.

Jose Antonio Primo de Rivera, often known as Jose Antonio, was the founder of the fascist Falange movement that supported the Francoist regime.

He was executed by firing squad in 1936, having been convicted on trumped-up charges, and was not originally buried in the famous basilica, instead being interred in two mass graves in Alicante.

A handful of supporters gathered outside the gates of the complex, formerly known as the Valley of the Fallen, on Monday and made the gesture, holding up banners saying 'Jose Antonio is present' or shouting 'Long live Spain' as his hearse drove past.

Police struggled to hold back a larger crowd of about 150 Falange supporters gathered outside the San Isidro cemetery in southern Madrid, where he was to be reburied. They gave the fascist salute and sang the Falangist hymn 'Facing the sun'.

His exhumation, which follows the 2019 removal of the remains of dictator Francisco Franco, is part of a plan to convert the complex built by Franco, which last year was renamed the Valley of Cuelgamuros, into a memorial to the 500,000 people killed during Spain's 1936-39 civil war.

Presidency Minister Felix Bolanos hailed the exhumation as another step in giving the valley new symbolism on Friday.

'No person or ideology that evokes the dictatorship should be honoured or extolled there,' he said at the time.

The son of dictator Miguel Primo de Rivera, who governed Spain from 1923-1930, Jose Antonio was shot by firing squad in November 1936 by left-wing Republican forces in Alicante.

It is the fifth time his body has been buried and the fourth time it has been exhumed.

In 1939, after having lain in two different mass graves in Alicante, his coffin was paraded 500km (300 miles) from the eastern coastal city to San Lorenzo de El Escorial, a town near Madrid where Spain's royals are buried.

His remains were moved again on the completion of the Valley of the Fallen monument 20 years later and buried under the altar of the basilica, where Franco would join him on his death in 1975.

Franco, a conservative general, and Primo de Rivera, a flamboyant playboy, had little love for each other, according to Franco's biographer Paul Preston.

Franco sabotaged several efforts to organise a rescue or a prisoner swap that would have saved Primo de Rivera's life, Preston wrote in his biography.

His death allowed Franco to eliminate a rival and take control of the Falangists, subsuming them to a broader far-right movement that supported his dictatorship.

The government is carrying out works in the mausoleum to permit access to the crypts where 34,000 people's remains, many of them victims of Franco's regime, are buried anonymously, allowing families to identify their relatives.

Cabinet minister Felix Bolanos said the operation 'was another step' in the government's efforts to strip the mausoleum of its status as a symbol of Francoism and far-right ideology.

'It should not be possible to pay tribute to any person evoking the dictatorship,' he said after the government announced the exhumation on Thursday.

Honouring those who died or suffered violence or repression during the civil war and dictatorship has been a top priority for the left-wing government of Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez, who came to power in 2018.

In 2019, his government relocated Franco's remains from the basilica following a lengthy legal battle with the dictator's family.

The basilica - topped by a 150-metre (500-foot) stone cross - and mausoleum also house the remains of more than 30,000 victims from both sides of the civil war.

It is a deeply divisive symbol of a past that Spain still finds difficult to digest.

The democratic memory law, which came into effect in October 2022, aims to turn the Valley of the Fallen into a place of memory for the dark years of the dictatorship.

It also promotes the search for the regime's victims who are buried in mass graves across Spain and annuls the criminal convictions of opponents of the Franco regime.

But the law has been politically divisive with right-wing parties saying it needlessly dredges up the past.

Santiago Abascal, leader of far-right Vox, accused the government of seeking to 'once again desecrate tombs and dig up hatred' with Primo de Rivera's exhumation.

The move comes as Spain gears up for regional and local elections on May 28 and a year-end general election which polls suggest will be tight.