Edwin C. Miller OBITUARY

Edwin C. Miller, 86, husband of Shirley A. (Smoyer) Long Miller, Sunset Road, Limerick Twp., died Wednesday, at Sanatoga Center, Lower Pottsgrove Twp. He was a former resident of Trappe.

Mr. Miller was born on March 2, 1926, in DuBoistown, Lycoming Co., and was a son of the late Rev. Clarence E. and Marion R. (Gray) Miller. He was a graduate of West Philadelphia High School and served as a Radioman Third Class, in the US Navy, during World War II.

Mr. Miller retired, in 1987, as an electrician group leader, from Merck, Sharp, & Dohme, Upper Gwynedd Twp., where he worked 43 years.

Mr. Miller was a member of Trinity Reformed Church, United Church Of Christ, Collegeville, where he was a former choir member. He was a life member, former chief, and past-president of the Trappe Fire Co.; a life member of the Collegeville Fire Co., a life member at large of the Veterans Of Foreign Wars, a life member of the National Rifle Assn., a member of Warren Lodge #310, Free & Accepted Masons, Collegeville, and a member of Local #86, Oil, Chemical, & Atomic Workers of America.

In addition to his wife, Mr. Miller is survived by his children, Debra J., wife of Paul Little, New Hanover Twp., Barbara J. Miller, Limerick Twp., his stepson, Brian C., husband of Lori (Weikel) Long, Trappe; his grandchildren, Julianne, wife of William Campfield, Andrew, husband of Kimberly (Keebler) Little, and Daniel Little; his step-grandchildren, Brittany Long, Brenden Long, David Linsenbigler, Felicia Wanamaker, Ronald Wanamaker, and Bradley Wanamaker; his great-grandchildren, Aaliyah Little, Lacey Little; and his brothers, Howard, husband of Phyllis Miller, Elizabethtown, and Robert, husband of Betty Miller, Ridley Park. He was predeceased by his first wife, Esther J. (Goodman) Miller, and his sister, Ethel Soanes.

A memorial service, including a Masonic service, will be held at 11 a.m., Friday, at Trinity Reformed Church, UCC, 532 Main St., Collegeville, with the Rev. Dr. Martha B. Kriebel, Pastor, officiating. Burial will be private in the church cemetery. Friends may call from 10 to 10:45 a.m., Friday, at church. Memorial contributions may be made to Trinity Reformed Church, UCC, 532 E. Main St., Collegeville, PA 19426; or the Trappe Fire Co., 20 W. 5th Ave., Trappe, PA 19426. Arrangements are by the Holcombe Funeral Home, Inc., Trappe.