Claire Lescot is a famous first lady. All men want to be loved by her and among them is the young scientist Einar Norsen. When she mocks at him, he leaves her house with the declared intention to kill himself.

In a futuristic city sharply divided between the working class and the city planners, the son of the city's mastermind falls in love with a working-class prophet who predicts the coming of a savior to mediate their differences.

James Houghland, inventor of a new method by which television signals can be instantaneously sent anywhere in the world, refuses to sell the process to television companies, who then send agents to acquire the invention any way they can. On the night of his initial broadcast Houghland is mysteriously murdered in the middle of his demonstration and it falls to Police Chief Nelson to determine who the murderer is from the many suspects present.

The sole girl pupil of a school for pickpockets is caught in the act stealing from a well dressed Count but he hires her to steal the watch of an ambassador who he thinks is having an affair with the countess.

A teenager from the slums of Mumbai becomes a contestant on the show 'Kaun Banega Crorepati?' When interrogated under suspicion of cheating, he revisits his past, revealing how he had all the answers.

In a future British dystopian society, a shadowy freedom fighter, known only by the alias of "V", plots to overthrow the tyrannical government - with the help of a young woman.

The Duke Gagliardo della Forcoletta, penniless and expert in horse-races, finds out he has a daughter, Emma Marini, who works in the bar Aurora. The Duke decides to participate in "Lascia o Raddoppia," a TV quiz transmission, in order to win the five million lira necessary to buy the bar, and he becomes famous. Gangsters Nick Molise and Joe Taccola bet between themselves on his success and the Duke is kidnapped.

A television broadcast launches a proclamation for amateurs: "If you know how to speak, you will know how to sing". The award mirage lured many person, with ambitions or financial problems, to enroll in the competition.

In the first episode, Quirino tries to conquer Gabriella, lover of Alvaro, with the complexity of shyness. In the second part, Prof. Beozi, in order to avoid a scandal, ends up in a raid of the police in a local for homosexuals. In the third part, Guglielmo passes all tests in order to become reader of the television news brilliantly, although the commission works with all subtleness's to exclude him since nobody has the courage of uncovering the true reason for him being unwanted.