FLORENCE, ITALY – From 4th to 7th October Pisa shows the future of the Net: 4 days, 104 events, 200 speakers, 12 locations spread around the city, concerts, installations, exhibitions, contests and workshops.

From the city symbol of Italian computing – University of Pisa, born in 1969, was the first degree course in computer science from the National Research Council of Italy and from Pisa, in 1986, left the first Internet connection – “Internet Festival 2012” kicks off, an appointment to discover and explore scenarios, trends and future developments of the Net.

A full program of events and meetings through which investigate connections and relationships that, thanks to the Internet, globally reshape social landscape, cultural and economic development. Festival director is Edward Fleischner, coordination is entrusted to Fondazione Sistema Toscana. Anna Vaccarelli (Institute of Informatics and Telematics of CNR) and Gianluigi Ferrari (University of Pisa) coordinate respectively the executive committee and the scientific.

Festival will be open by Piergiorgio Odifreddi’s keynote, “A tribute to the modernity of Galileo and his theoriesW (Thursday, 4th, at 17.30). Follow the meeting “Forms of the future”, where protagonists are the ideas and projects of some exceptional witnesses of the world of politics, business, human rights, communication, whose view of the world isclearly oriented to the future. Among the guests Laura Boldrini (spokeswoman of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees – UNHCR), Alex Jordan (founder of Ninja Marketing), Max Ulivieri (blogger, expert in accessible tourism), Marco De Rossi (22 year-old founder of Oilproject ), Derrick de Kerckhove (sociologist and university teacher) and, via video link, Joichi Ito (Director of MIT Media Lab in Boston).

At the end of the first day of the Festival, the spotlight will be back on Piergiorgio Odifreddi that will lead the first of the “Impossible Interviews” scheduled. He will meet the famous scientist Galileo Galilei alias Alessandro Benvenuti in a lively dialogue (Thursday 4th, at 21). The next day will be the turn of Guglielmo Marconi aka Sandro Lombardi interviewed by Conchita De Gregorio (Friday 5th at 21), then Johann Gutenberg alias Elijah Schilton interviewed by Marco Pratellesi (Saturday 6th at 21) and, finally, Abraham Lincoln alias Marco Baliani (Sunday 7th at 17).

There will also be workshops and seminars for experts and professionals, with a speciallab that will see speakers, committee members and volunteers of the festival grips with the test: “How the Internet works.” For more information and details on times and locations of events visit the official website: www.internetfestival.it.