The Thunderbird Boutique Hotel is a unique little spot that recently got a big makeover. The newly renovated, retro-chic hotel is located in Downtown Las Vegas and offers a variety of filming and photography options.

Hidden in plain sight between the famous Las Vegas Strip and downtown’s historic Fremont Street, the vintage-style hotel places you in the midst of the city’s casinos, boutique shops, art galleries and clubs.

The original Thunderbird Hotel opened in 1948 as the fourth hotel on the Strip with the largest pool in Nevada at the time. It was later known as the Silverbird and then El Rancho before closing in 1992.

The property was purchased by California developers, and in 2017, it almost became a 15-story 370-unit mixed-use apartment and retail space called the Thunderbird Lofts. But more than $5 million of renovations later, the revamped Thunderbird Boutique Hotel has been revived with its original namesake and is gleaming with new life and a classic Las Vegas allure.

Hotel with Old Vegas Ties Goes Through $5M Renovation

“Hotel with Old Vegas Ties Goes Through $5M Renovation” by 8 News NOW Las Vegas

The 100 room hotel has an open layout configuration and includes a luxury Presidential suite with a clear view of the iconic Stratosphere Casino, Hotel & Tower. There are also eight junior suites available.

The hotel rooms include rustic wood headboards to give an earthy, modern look which helps balance some of the more vibrant, mid-century technicolor highlights, such as trendy rugs and lamps. A turquoise, orange and yellow color scheme keep it interesting. This funky Vegas hotel offers retro charm with modern facilities and scenic views of the strip. There is even a retro industrial look lounge and a fire pit patio that overlooks Las Vegas Blvd.

More than just a hotel, you will also find an elegant, 3,500 square foot showroom that can also convert to a film/photography set, two recently built wedding chapels, and a sexy spacious lounge providing a wide range of film/photography options.

In addition to the showroom, the lounge has a small stage and projector, allowing for a second, more intimate photography or film setting. The property is easily accessible with lots of parking space for any large equipment truck or even a caravan or bus.

The main wedding chapel, known as the Garden of Love, is a 60-person wedding chapel which has a majestic 60-100 year old pine tree that creates a magical air about the room. Used as an altar, only the trunk and a few bottom branches are visible because it grows through a glass roof and up into the sky while sunlight shines down upon the place where a couple would stand.

FUN FACT: The tree was growing in an outdoor courtyard and was originally supposed to be cut down as part of the renovations. However, the idea came up during remodeling to make the tree the centerpiece instead.

There is also a second and smaller chapel that has more of a traditional Las Vegas feel. Called the Crystal Wedding Chapel, it can hold up to 40 guests and features crystal chandeliers and a bedazzled podium.

The exterior doors of the rooms are painted in alternating orange and yellow-green. The small lobby continues the visual theme with sleek concrete floors, walls that have been clad in the reclaimed wood, and a single graphic lime-green painting for decoration.

Though the new Thunderbird Boutique Hotel is of no relation to the former Strip hotel also called the Thunderbird, some of the historic photos of Old Vegas that line the hallway to the lounge and restaurant give the old Thunderbird a nod. It is also located near offbeat attractions such as Zak Bagans’ Haunted Museum and the Gold and Silver Pawn Shop from the HISTORY show’s Pawn Stars.

As one of the closest hotels to the Arts District, the Las Vegas Sun puts it perfectly as it describes how the Thunderbird Boutique Hotel has managed to make itself new without sacrificing its history and is uniquely situated for the next iteration of Las Vegas.

Whether you are looking for a retro Las Vegas hotel, luxury suites or a unique wedding chapel to use as a film location for your next production, be sure to check out Thunderbird Boutique Hotel! You can view the full Thunderbird Boutique Hotel filming location details here and don’t forget to register your project!

To find more film-friendly locations, be sure to visit our Nevada Filming Locations Database or contact us if you need further assistance with your production!

Source:

https://lasvegassun.com/news/2018/oct/15/downtowns-thunderbird-hotel-gets-retro-renovation/