Game Center is one of the great features of iOS (iPad, iPhone, iPod) or OS X. However, many users find Game Center notifications, prompts and greetings annoying. When you open Game Center, you can sign in using your Apple ID. It seems that once signed into Game Center, there is no way to completely disable it. However, you can disable your Game Center account. You have a few options:

The first option is disabling your Game Center Account. This way you can remove all of your account info. To do this, launch the Game Center, tap Me > Account: > View Account. Turn off your Public Profile. Then tap your verified Email and select “Remove Email from Account.” You may also want to change your username to something else. After that, sign out of Game Center by tapping Me > Account: > Sign Out.

The option described above will remove your public profile and email addresses. But when you launch a game, a Game Center will still show up asking you to sign in. You can disable Game Center notifications. To do so tap “Settings” and select “Notifications.” Find Game Center and turn off the Notification Center for Game Center. (related: iPod, iPad and iPhone Notifications: What you Need to Know)

Both options described above will not eliminate the sign in pop up when you launch a game. Every time when you open a game, Game Center will ask you to sign in. To get rid of this, first sign out of your Game Center as described above. Launch a game and when Game Center welcome popup shows up, tap cancel. Perform this step three times meaning launch a game and tap cancel once the Game Center Welcome popup shows. After 3 times, a new pop-up will come up asking if you want to disable Game Center, then simply tap disable. Now you will not see any pop ups or other notifications.

Note 1: you can also disable Multiplayer games and Adding Friends in Game Center by turning on restrictions. To do that simply tap Settings > General > Restrictions. (related: How to Setup Parental Controls)

Note 2: Game Center is part of the iOS software and thus cannot be removed.

Obsessed with tech since the early arrival of A/UX on Apple, Sudz (SK) is responsible for the original editorial direction of AppleToolBox. He is based out of Los Angeles, CA.

Sudz specializes in covering all things macOS, having reviewed dozens of OS X and macOS developments over the years.

In a former life, Sudz worked helping Fortune 100 companies with their technology and business transformation aspirations.

Reader Interactions