What are the top trends and solutions in the world of loyalty, finance, and telecommunication?

Learn from other industry pioneers, network with like-minded professionals, and get inspired with groundbreaking presentations on the most pressing issues in your field.

Join Comarch User Group 2024 and discover the technology that drives the business of tomorrow!

It’s two days of captivating speeches, insightful presentations, and compelling case studies, all designed to immerse you in the trends and innovations that fuel growth. Featuring top experts from loyalty, finance, and telco, it’s the perfect event to broaden your knowledge and stay on top of the latest breakthroughs and topics in your industry.

The conference and accompanying events are complimentary for Clients and Partners of Comarch.

Why attend?

You can network with over 500 industry professionals and form new business connections.

You get to immerse yourself in Polish culture, tradition, cuisine, and the beauty of Kraków's Old Town.

You’ll learn about the latest market trends and tech solutions that solve the most pressing business challenges of today.

You’ll have the opportunity to explore Comarch Innovation Space, see our 5G Lab Use Cases to experience the network in action, as well as visit our Data Center.

The event is complimentary for Clients and Partners of Comarch.

Visit Comarch Innovation Space

During Comarch User Group and your visit to Comarch’s headquarters, you will have the opportunity to visit the multi-sector Comarch Innovation Space, where technologies of tomorrow are presented.

Comarch 5G LAB presents the possibilities offered by the fifth generation of telecommunications networks. In the new space, you can get acquainted with Comarch systems equipped with 5G technology and the management platform behind it, supporting business processes of enterprises from almost every sector of the economy, including telecommunications service providers. For more information about Comarch 5G LAB, please visit: https://www.comarch.com/telecommunications/5g-lab/

Experience new technologies that change the world and sign up for a free Comarch Innovation Space tour!

Our experts will be available for you throughout the CUG conference, so please contact your Account Manager to schedule a visit to Comarch Innovation Space.

A short video summary of last edition of the cross-sector CUG conference:

Comarch User Group 2024 will take place on June 4-5, 2024, in the beautiful city of Kraków. As usual, the conference will begin in the Comarch Headquarters. In the evening, our guests will be invited to the official gala dinner at Wierzynek Restaurant. The next day’s events will be spread around the Cracow’s Old Town, with venues at Grand Hotel Cracow, Palace Under the Rams, and International Cultural Center.

Wierzynek Restaurant

Traditional Polish restaurant in the heart of the Cracow Old Town. With over 600-year-old roots, it’s the perfect place to savor our local treats and learn more about Polish culture. Wierzynek's cuisine offers a combination of top-quality organic produce from local farms and the royal art of feasting.

Grand Hotel Cracow

One of the oldest and most beautiful hotels in Poland. Dating back to 1887, the Grand Hotel Cracow impresses guests with its charms, unique atmosphere, elegance, and luxury. For centuries now, it’s been serving Europe’s most distinguished clientele, including Margaret Thatcher and Prince Philip.

Palace Under the Rams

According to tradition, the Palace Under the Rams was once the site of an inn that kept rams sold to Cracovians. Today, it’s home to a beautiful studio cinema and cellars hosting performances by the acclaimed Polish cabaret, both of which boast the incredible atmosphere of the days gone by.

International Cultural Center

Located in the Ravens House at the Main Market Square, the International Cultural Center has been the silent witness of Cracow’s most important cultural events for the past decades. A beautiful art gallery dedicated to honoring the achievements of European civilization, the multiculturalism of Central Europe, and the dialogue between cultures and societies.