John Doyle Short, 89, of Broughton, Illinois, passed away on Sunday, October 1, 2023, at his residence. He was born on February 14, 1934, in Broughton, Illinois, the son of Clyde and Plumadell (Vanwinkle) Short. John Doyle married Anna Lee Webb, and she survives. He spent most of his life in the Broughton area. John Doyle proudly served his country in the United States Army. He owned and operated Shell Gas Station in Norris City, Illinois, where he guided and mentored many young men in the area who not only worked for him but in sorts became their friend for life. He later went into farming. He inspired many, if he didn't inspire, he sure made them laugh. Two of his most proud accomplishments in life were his two boys, Doyle Bradley and Brent Lee. As the boys grew, they started in the Race Horse business and became owners and trainers. Some of his most proud moments happened when his grandchildren and great-grandchildren were born. He got to watch his grandchildren grow into wonderful adults who could do no wrong in his eyes, and was able to spend time babysitting his great-grandchildren with Anna Lee. John Doyle taught them how to whittle, the names of farm equipment, and of course, any other ornery things he could come up with. He led a good and fulfilling life.

In addition to his wife, Anna Lee Short of Broughton, IL, John Doyle is survived by his son, Doyle Bradley Short; grandchildren; Braden Lee and Hailey Nicole Short; great-grandchildren, Braylen Short and Berkley Short. He is preceded in death by his parents; a son, Brent Lee Short (1982); and siblings, Kenneth and Carl Short.

Funeral services for John Doyle Short, will be held at 12:00 p.m. on Wednesday, October 4, 2023, at Campbell Funeral Home in Norris City, with burial at Big Hill Cemetery in Broughton, Illinois. Family and friends may visit from 10:00 a.m. until time of service on Wednesday, October 4, 2023, at Campbell Funeral Home in Norris City. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made in John Doyle's memory to St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital, and will be accepted at Campbell Funeral Home in Norris City, who is in charge of arrangements.