A. THE ORGANIZATION NNPC Ltd (NNPC), formerly Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, is a vertically integrated oil and gas company. It explores, produces, refines, transports and markets, oil, refined petroleum, petrochemicals and associated by-products. Headquartered in Abuja, Nigeria, NNPC operates via subsidiaries which encompass the entire gamut of oil industry operations including exploration and production, gas…

A. THE COMPANY Oando Plc is an integrated energy solution provider. Established in 1956 and formerly known as Unipetrol Nigeria Plc, the company changed its name in 2003 to Oando Plc. It explores and produces oil and gas via acquisitions. It also trades crude oil, liquefied natural gas, refined oil products, and petroleum products such…

Government-owned Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC) is currently in negotiations with Asharami Synergy Plc to jointly construct a 30,000-ton facility for handling and storing Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG). Asharami Synergy Plc is a subsidiary of Nigeria’s Sahara Group Ltd. According to Bloomberg, the agreement involves construction of a common user terminal in the port city of…

Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) has projected that the price of Premium Motor Spirit aka gasoline aka petrol may soon drop to between ₦515 and ₦550, depending on the location. This, according to them, is contingent upon Dangote Refinery becoming fully operational. Public Relations Officer of IPMAN Chinedu Ukadike said these this during…

A. THE COMPANY MRS Oil Nigeria Plc engages in the manufacturing, blending, marketing, and distribution of refined petroleum products. It operates through the following business segments: B. THE VACANCY MRS Oil Nigeria Plc is now accepting applications for its Trainee Programme. Training will be for a duration of 12 months and successful candidates will be…

The largest single-train refining plant in the world, Dangote Petroleum Refinery, has announced plans to list its shares on both the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) Limited and the London Stock Exchange (LSE). Executive director of the Dangote Group of industries, Devakumar Victor Edwin, declared this as reported by Reuters on 28 May 2024. The founder and…

On Tuesday 28 May 2024, the Federal Government of Nigeria started the distribution of free 3kg gas cylinders. The target of the scheme is to move at least 1 million homes to clean cooking gas by the year 2030. It is part of the “Decade of Gas” LPG grassroots penetration initiative and is scheduled to…

Chairman of Dangote Group and Africa’s richest man, Aliko Muhammad Dangote, has assured that, based on Dangote Refinery’s plans, Nigeria will have no need to import gasoline a.k.a. petrol within the next 5 weeks. He announced this at the Africa CEO Forum Annual Summit in Kigali, Rwanda, on Friday 17 May 2024 while expressing optimism…

A. THE COMPANY Shell is a global group of energy and petrochemical companies with an average of 86,000 employees in more than 70 countries. The company has been active in Nigeria since 1937. In 1956, Shell Nigeria discovered the first commercial oil field at Oloibiri in the Niger Delta and started oil exports in 1958.…

With scarcity of fuel still lingering across the country, the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) has started implementing sanctions against fuel marketers found to be engaging in unethical practices. A fuel station, Batoson OiI and Gas Limited at Mararaba in Baissa Kurmi Local Government Area of Taraba State, has been sealed off…