The dynamic twin sister duo, Tegan and Sara, have a style all their own. If they must be put into a category, they call it alternative pop, but many of the songs on their latest album retain a blend of folk, country and punk.

The Canadian-born twin sisters, Tegan and Sara Quin, will perform Monday evening at Chico State University”s Bell Memorial Union Auditorium, promoting their fourth studio album, “So Jealous.”

The mixing of their vocal harmonies, acoustic guitars and assortment of keyboard sounds supports their melodramatic lyrics about self-doubt, romantic disillusion and emotional turmoil. The result is a resonance that leaves the listener wanting more.

The Chico audience can expect a night of good, solid indie-pop, written entirely by the sisters. The girls are also known for their between-song banter, sharing stories about their dramatic family and teasing each other because, “just singing is weird,” Tegan said in a phone interview.

The 23-year-olds started writing their own music at age 14. After negotiating with their mom to quit piano lessons because it wasn”t so cool in high school, they compromised and decided on guitar. They began playing at house parties and made a demo in a recording studio at their high school. After winning a local battle-of-the-bands contest in their hometown of Calgary, Alberta they began adding coffee houses to their repertoire. They went back to their regular jobs for awhile but missed the music too much. They borrowed some money, made their first album and have progressed to their fourth.

The five-person band, led by Tegan and Sara, has been touring since July 2004. They keep their sanity on the road by entertaining and relying on each other. The combination of personalities — Tegan is impossibly stubborn and enjoys Scrabble, while Sara is good-natured and lovable and likes bicycle riding — and the dynamics within the band produces mostly pleasurable relationships.

“Sara and I are never the same way at the same time, even though we have a lot of the same personality traits,” Tegan said. “We are both hard-working and passionate, but this causes conflict at times because it”s hard to compromise our passions.”

The band has toured with many performers over the course of their career so far, including The Killers, Hot Hot Heat and Ryan Adams. In support of “So Jealous,” they”ve also appeared on “Late Night with Conan O”Brien,” the “Late Late Show” and “Jimmy Kimmel Live,” performing the album”s first single “Walking with a Ghost.”

Thinking long-term, Tegan and Sara plan on continuing their music career. Their music is something positive and valuable in their lives. They hope to use it to establish a larger following and satisfy the fan base they already have.

“We haven”t ever had the conversation if this is what we want to do,” Tegan said. “We just keep doing it.”

Chico State University”s AS Presents offers Tegan and Sara, along with opening acts Northern State and Hot IQs, 8 p.m. Monday in the Bell Memorial Union Auditorium. Tickets are $13 general admission, $10 with Chico State ID. Doors open at 7 p.m. Call 898-6005.