GREENFIELD -- Following a recent endorsement by Northwestern District Attorney David Sullivan, all other elected officials associated with the Franklin County Justice Center today expressed support for Democrat Jo Comerford in the region's state Senate race.

In front of the courthouse, Sheriff Christopher Donelan, Register of Probate John F. Merrigan, Superior Court Clerk Susan K. Emond and Register of Deeds Scott A. Cote endorsed Comerford in the Hampshire, Franklin & Worcester Senate District race.

Also supporting Comerford, a progressive activist from Northampton, was Greenfield Town Council President Karen "Rudy" Renaud.

Comerford's "advocacy on behalf of ordinary working people and commitment to social justice are unprecedented," said Merrigan.

Merrigan said Comerford would "hit the ground running," and Donelan said "it's important to elect people who can be powerful legislators the first day they arrive at Beacon Hill." Renaud said Comerford would "be a senator for all people."

Comerford is one of six Democrats in the primary field, and one of five who waited for Sen. Stan Rosenberg to resign before announcing write-in campaigns. Only Chelsea Kline, of Northampton, returned papers before the May 1 deadline to appear on the Sept. 4 primary ballot.

Rosenberg, who had planned to run for re-election, stepped down as Senate president in late 2017, was stripped of his committee assignments, and resigned May 3 following the release of a scathing ethics report. Rosenberg's husband, Bryon Hefner, has pleaded not guilty to criminal charges. A legislative aide filed a lawsuit Friday naming Rosenberg and Hefner, claiming Hefner sexually assaulted him and that the two conspired to give Hefner unfettered access to the Statehouse.

The Franklin County politicians gathered Wednesday praised Rosenberg. Donelan said Rosenberg and Stephen Kulik, D-Worthington, who is retiring, were "two of the most effective legislators in Massachusetts."

Comerford previously said she decided to run after hearing of Rosenberg's resignation. On Wednesday, she acknowledged the former longtime senator, thanked her supporters, and promised to work for the region.

"I know that Stan was a great advocate for Franklin County and for Greenfield, and I would be honored to take up that work," she said.

Over two decades, Comerford has been director of the Western Massachusetts American Friends Service Committee, program director for the Food Bank of Western Massachusetts, executive director of the National Priorities Project and campaign director for the national progressive group MoveOn.

The other write-in candidates are Steven Connor, David Morin, David Murphy and Ryan O'Donnell.

Comerford's campaign touted Wednesday's endorsements as "major" and "unprecedented."

"It is unusual for elected officials to endorse this early in a campaign, if they endorse at all, but the importance of this Senate seat, to their respective offices and work and to the people they collectively represent is too important to not take this stand now," the campaign said in a statement.

Mary Serreze can be reached at mserreze@gmail.com.