HADLEY - After being involved with something for 30 years, it might be tough to stay motivated. For Senate President Stanley C. Rosenberg, it's not a problem.

Rosenberg, D-Amherst, who was honored at a reception on Friday night at the Hadley Farms Meeting House in Hadley for his long tenure at the Statehouse, said many people ask him, "What keeps you motivated, what keeps you going back there every day and every week and every month and every election year after year after year?"

Rosenberg said there are two things that keep him motivated. "One is the opportunity, occasionally, to get a piece of legislation through, that will be permanent, everlasting, and will be so deep and so fundamental, that it is really a change for the better for the future of the people of the commonwealth. And I've had the opportunity to do that in many different ways, having been a champion for three capital bills for the higher education system."

"If you walked on the UMass campus 30 years ago, and you walk on the campus today, it is a totally different campus -- the feel, the look of it," he added.

Rosenberg said he worked to push through a higher education and capital bond bills "to try to get those new academic facilities built, so that we really will have world-class space, and laboratories and classrooms ... so that the men and women who go through that campus can get their education and go out and change the world. And that keeps me motivated."

Rosenberg said other, smaller things motivate him as well. He recalled an individual who thanked him for moving aside some roadblocks to allow a company to grow and create 100 jobs in a community that needs jobs desperately.

"To know at the end of the day that 100 families are going to see a brighter future, motivates you to want to get up and go to work every day," he said.

Dignitaries, including U.S. Rep. Richard E. Neal, D-Springfield, and Northampton Mayor David Narkewicz, were among the 300 well-wishers who attended the reception, sponsored by the

.

Narkewicz acknowledged elected officials in attendance, including retired U.S. Rep. John Olver, Northwest District Attorney David Sullivan, state Rep. Peter Kocot, D-Northampton; Hampshire County Sheriff Patrick Cahillane, Franklin County Sheriff Christopher Donelan, Hampden County Sheriff Nick Cocchi, Greenfield Mayor William Martin, and Register of Deeds Donald E. Ashe.

Neal told the audience, "More and more of public life, unfortunately, is about the crusader and the speech maker, and less is about the individual who gets big things done on a daily basis, in terms of advocacy for the constituents (who) sent them to the very important position. And I think tonight, the size of this crowd is ample testimony, to the regard that you hold for not just the Senate president, but for Stan Rosenberg."

"You elected him long before he was the Senate president, time and again because of the faith you exhibited on his behalf, and he's a thinker, he's a visionary, but most importantly, he's a doer," Neal added. "And when you look at that long legislative career that he's had, it's been marked by accomplishment, upon accomplishment, upon accomplishment."

Rosenberg, who said that Olver "gave me my first job in politics," thanked the guests in attendance.

"I want to thank all of you, whether you've been supporting me and helping me for 30 years or for three years ... for the extraordinary opportunity you give me to go to the Statehouse to be your voice and to speak on behalf of Western Massachusetts and to serve in the state senate and now as president," he said.

Rosenberg began in the House of Representatives in 1987 and elected in 1991, Rosenberg was elected to the state Senate. He has been chairman of the Senate Committee on Ways and Means and Majority Leader.

In January 2015, Rosenberg was unanimously elected Senate President by his colleagues.