For many centuries, Sweet Myrrh Opoponax has been used in perfumery and for treating wounds and clearing respiratory congestion. Opoponax essential oil exerts a drying action on mucous membranes, thus providing relief from bronchitis, colds, sore throats, and coughs.

Similar to Frankincense and Myrrh, Opoponax is used for its antiseptic and anti-parasitic properties. The oil also is also used to help relieve stomach ailments, arthritis, inflammation, and muscle pain.

Opoponax Essential Oil Properties:

Botanical Name: Commiphora Erythrea

Plant Part: Resin

Method of Extraction: Steam Distilled

Country of Origin: Horn of Africa

Color/Consistency: Bright Yellow Color with Medium Consistency

Aroma: Balsamic, Bittersweet, Earthy, and Honey-like

Perfumery Note: Base

Main Chemical Components: alpha-Bisabolene (24.95%), alpha-Santalene (21.17%), E-beta-Ocimene (14.17%)

Opoponax Essential Oil Indications

Opoponax resins have been used for centuries in perfumery and for treating wounds and clearing respiratory congestion. Its essential oil is distilled from the natural resin that's excreted by healthy Commiphora Erythrea trees, native to East Africa.

The Opoponax tree is in the same family as Frankincense and Myrrh, and similar to their essential oils, Opoponax Essential Oil contains anti-parasitic properties. Likewise, it's used as an antiseptic as well to provide pain relief.

The oil can be applied topically in small amounts diluted anywhere from 5% to 75% in a carrier oil to help heal infections and relieve sore muscles and joints.

Historically, King Soloman used Opoponax for fragrance purposes, as well as for its medicinal purposes. The resin and essential oil have been used for treating diarrhea, indigestion, and wounds. The oil offers anti-inflammatory benefits to relax muscles and has been used to help heal arthritis.

Emotionally and Spiritually, Opoponax may impart a clearing and balancing effect. The oil is used to cleanse and purify the emotional system when inhaled or diffused. This sweet myrrh is often used during meditation and temple practices as a space and body/mind cleanser and strengthener.

Suggested Ways to Use Opoponax Essential Oil:

Neat: Place a drop or two directly onto clean and intact skin. A couple drops on the wrists, shoulders, temples or neck imparts a beautiful aroma and is an effective remedy for stress and nervous tension. To use as deodorant, place a drop or two on each armpit.

Note: May be too concentrated to be used undiluted on facial skin.

Blended with Carrier: Use 15 drops per 1 TBL of carrier oil, and massage over any area where you would like for healing to occur. This dilution is ideal for facial skin. For more sensitive and mature skin, start out by using 5 drops per 1 TBL dilution.

Bath: Place 8 drops into 3 handfuls of bath salt and disperse, or add 8 drops to vodka or whole milk

Diffusor: Follow diffuser manufacturer's instructions, but typically add about 8 drops.

Room Deodorizer: Add 15 drops per 2oz distilled water and spray as desired

Alternatively, resin may be burned and inhaled by simply enjoying the wonderful aroma. If you can smell it, the aromatic molecules are intermingling with your system. Breathe deeply and enjoy the benefits.