Jack Walsh will step into the role of vice president and general manager at WUPA, the CBS-owned CW affiliate in Atlanta.

Walsh joins WUPA from rival WGCL, where he has been the local sales manager since 2009. Prior to that, he was the general sales manager at Atlanta’s WATL.

“Jack is one of the most highly regarded local television executives in the Atlanta market,” CBS Television Stations president Peter Dunn said in announcing the hire. “His deep roots in the advertising community, relationships with local business leaders and reputation as a skilled manager and great motivator will serve us well as he takes on the responsibility of overseeing one of the top CW affiliates in the country and our talented team of employees in Atlanta.”

Advertisement

Walsh replaces Tom Candeo, who was recently named general manager of WWJ, the CBS O&O in Detroit.

Read the full release from CBS after the jump.

JACK WALSH NAMED VICE PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER

OF CBS TELEVISION STATIONS’ WUPA-TV IN ATLANTA

Veteran Atlanta Executive Will Oversee Successful CW Affiliate

Jack Walsh has been named Vice President and General Manager of the CBS Television Station group’s Atlanta station, WUPA-TV (CW 69), it was announced today by Peter Dunn, President, CBS Television Stations.

A veteran of 15 years in the Atlanta market, Walsh is joining WUPA after having served as Local Sales Manager at WGCL-TV, the CBS Television Network affiliate in Atlanta, since April 2009. Prior to that, he spent 12 years with WATL-TV in Atlanta (primarily when the station was an affiliate of The WB Network), most recently as the station’s General Sales Manager from 2006-09.

In 2010, the Atlanta Broadcast Advertising Club presented Walsh with its lifetime achievement award.

“Jack is one of the most highly regarded local television executives in the Atlanta market,” Dunn said. “His deep roots in the advertising community, relationships with local business leaders and reputation as a skilled manager and great motivator will serve us well as he takes on the responsibility of overseeing one of the top CW affiliates in the country and our talented team of employees in Atlanta.”

“I’m grateful to Peter and CBS for this tremendous opportunity,” Walsh said. “I have great respect for the people at WUPA and the station’s programming line-up and look forward to working with my new colleagues at the station and our CBS RADIO and CBS Outdoor partners in Atlanta to pave our way to even greater success going forward.”

Prior to moving to Atlanta in 1997, Walsh spent three years as Local/National Sales Manager at KPRC-TV, the NBC affiliate in Houston. His background also includes sales positions with Capital Cities/ABC and Katz Independent Television in New York.

Walsh is succeeding Tom Canedo as Vice President and General Manager of WUPA. Earlier this month, Canedo moved from Atlanta to serve as Vice President and General Manager of WWJ-TV and WKBD-TV, the CBS-owned television stations in Detroit.