Memories of Columbus-born actor Warner Baxter have dimmed through the years.

But in the late 1920s and early 1930s, Baxter was a Hollywood leading man and an Oscar winner.

One of his more-famous films can be seen when the Wexner Center for the Arts screens 42nd Street, part of the "Cinema 614: A Bicentennial Celebration" series.

Baxter was born in Columbus in 1889 (a few online biographies list the year as 1891). In 1898, according to his biography at the Hollywood Walk of Fame website, 9-year-old Warner and his widowed mother moved to San Francisco, a city that was ravaged by the 1906 earthquake and subsequent fires. She and young Warner lived in a tent for several weeks until finding shelter.

By 1910, Baxter had found work as a vaudeville actor - and a salesman - before turning to stage roles. His film debut was as an extra in the 1914 movie Her Own Money, but his first starring performance didn't come until 1921, in the movie Sheltered Daughters.

Working steadily, Baxter's big break came in 1928, according to his Associated Press obituary. During filming of In Old Arizona, director Raoul Walsh, who was also playing the lead role of the Cisco Kid, was driving home from a shoot one night, and a jumping rabbit crashed through the windshield. The accident left Walsh blind in his right eye.

Baxter stepped in. His portrayal of the Cisco Kid in the first Western "talkie" earned him the best-actor Oscar at the second Academy Awards ceremony.

One of Baxter's most-notable roles came in 1933 as director Julian Marsh in 42nd Street. Bebe Daniels, Ruby Keeler, Ginger Rogers and Dick Powell co-star in the story of a struggling director who is forced to put a chorus girl in the spotlight after the star injures her ankle the night before the premiere.

The original review in The New York Times said: "Warner Baxter delivers one of the outstanding portrayals of his screen career as Julian Marsh."

His fame and good fortune, however, were short-lived. Baxter worked steadily until the early 1940s, when he left 20th Century Fox and suffered a nervous breakdown, according to Halliwell's Who's Who in the Movies. In 1943, he began working in the Crime Doctor series of B-pictures, reportedly because they were easy to make.

His health failed, and Baxter died in 1951 of pneumonia contracted after undergoing a lobotomy to relieve arthritis pain so severe that he couldn't eat, the Associated Press reported.

His star was installed on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 1960.

Filmed before the Production Code rules were in force, the sassy 42nd Street features plenty of music (including Lullaby of Broadway, Shuffle Off to Buffalo and You're Getting To Be a Habit With Me) and dance productions choreographed by Busby Berkeley.

Gateway lineup

In a busy week at the Gateway Film Center:

Twilight actor Robert Pattinson continues to stretch his chops in Bel Ami (2012), a drama set in the 1890s about a Parisian who rises from poverty by seducing wealthy women. Uma Thurman, Christina Ricci and Kristin Scott Thomas co-star.

A mining accident has an unusual set of repercussions - it unleashes a horde of flesh-eating zombies! - forcing the area to be quarantined. Fifteen years later, mercenaries and scientists are sent into the zone - don't do it or you'll be zombie bait! - to learn what has happened in Zombie Dawn (2011), next in the "Nightmares on High Street" series. The Chilean film is in Spanish with English subtitles.

Next in the "From Book to Film" series is an Australian version of Peter Pan (2003). Jeremy Sumpter ( Friday Night Lights) appears in the title role, and Jason Isaacs ( Awake) delivers the arrrrghs as Captain Hook.

A lawyer (James Stewart) in a Western town faces off against the baddest man in the territory (Lee Marvin) and kills him - or does he? - in The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance (1962), next in the "Double Barrel" Western series. John Wayne co-stars in the movie directed by John Ford. Note: Every impersonator of "the Duke" seems to use the word pilgrim, which came from this movie.

DETAILS Zombie Dawn: midnight Friday; 1:30 p.m. and midnight Saturday, 7:30 p.m. Tuesday and 9:30 p.m. next Thursday; Bel Ami: various times beginning Friday; Peter Pan: 1:30 p.m. Saturday and Wednesday and 7 p.m. Monday; The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance: 1:30 p.m. Friday, 7 p.m. Wednesday; Gateway Film Center, 1550 N. High St. (614-545-2255, www.wexarts.org)

ADMISSION Zombie Dawn, The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance: $6.50; Bel Ami, Peter Pan: $6.50 to $9.50, free with library card

On-screen outdoors

Outdoor movies return to the Wexner Center for the Arts as the "Wex Drive-In" series presents The Royal Tenenbaums.

The eccentric comedy about a quirky family's tribulations packs an all-star cast: Gene Hackman, Anjelica Huston, Ben Stiller, Gwyneth Paltrow, brothers Luke and Owen Wilson, Bill Murray and Danny Glover.

The program will begin at about 9 p.m. with unusual film trailers.

Also at the Wexner, documentarian Jennifer Baichwal examines the concept of debt - financial, personal, spiritual or criminal - in Payback: Debt and the Shadow Side of Wealth (2012), part of the "New Documentary" series at the center.

DETAILS The Royal Tenenbaums: 9 tonight; Payback: 7 p.m. Friday and Saturday; Wexner Center for the Arts, 1871 N. High St.; in the event of rain, The Royal Tenenbaums will be shown in Mershon Auditorium (614-292-3535, www.wexarts.org)

ADMISSION The Royal Tenenbaums: free; Payback: $7, or $5 for members, students and senior citizens

Summer series

The week is filled with classics during the CAPA Summer Movie Series:

Old-fashioned laughs will be provided during a Friday double feature: Way Out West (1937) stars Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy as couriers trying to deliver the deed for a gold mine to the daughter of a dead prospector. If it went smoothly, we wouldn't have a movie about it. Also playing: W.C. Fields and a parade of celebrities (George Burns, Gracie Allen, Rudy Vallee, Cab Calloway and Bela Lugosi) star in International House (1933).

The traditional Saturday morning "Cartoon Capers" festival of Warner Bros. and MGM characters will feature the works of animator Tex Avery.

Barbra Streisand stars as the title matchmaker in Hello, Dolly! (1969), the film version of the Broadway musical by Jerry Herman. Walter Matthau and Michael Crawford co-star.

Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall scorch the screen ("You know how to whistle, don't you, Steve?") in To Have and Have Not (1944). The film was Bacall's screen debut; it was also the beginning of a beautiful friendship.

DETAILS Way Out West, International House: 7:30 p.m. Friday; "Cartoon Capers": 10 a.m. Saturday; Hello, Dolly!: 7:30 p.m. Saturday and 2 and 7:30 p.m. Sunday; To Have and Have Not: 7:30 p.m. Wednesday and next Thursday

ADMISSION $4, or $3.50 for senior citizens

Double the fun

Talk about cutting-edge cinema: The shadow-cast group the Midnight Shift will perform along to a screening of Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007), the barber who takes more than a little off the top.

Will meat pies be sold at the concession stand? We'll stick to popcorn, thank you.

DETAILS 11:30 p.m. Saturday, Grandview Theatre, 1247 Grandview Ave. (614-358-2886, www.facebook.com/grandviewtheatre

ADMISSION $5

Street stress

Though well-served by mass transit, New York suffers from congested streets. The gradual transition of the Big Apple's roadways from 19th century boulevards to modern traffic arteries is studied in Contested Streets (2006), which will screen at the Drexel Theatre.

Director Stefan C. Schaefer examines how Copenhagen, London and Paris have dealt with traffic issues.Contested Streets replaces the movie that was originally to be shown, The Revenge of the Electric Car. The screening is sponsored by the Columbus International Film and Video Festival and The Free Press. DETAILS 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, Drexel Theatre, 2254 E. Main St., Bexley (614-231-9512, www.drexel.net)

ADMISSION free, donations requested