The statistics in the chart above are based on Eurostat's Non-national population by group of citizenship, 1 January 2023. The next Eurostat update is expected in March 2025.

According to Eurostat's Migration and migrant population statistics, as of 1 January 2023, there were about 4 394 900 third-country nationals (TCNs), representing 9.1% of the population, and another 1 690 700 EU citizens (3.5%) living in Spain at the time. Furthermore, Spain's National Statistics Institute notes that the largest groups among TCNs include migrants from Morocco, Colombia and China, with migrants from Venezuela also increasing in numbers.

In 2021, 42.8% of permits were issued for family reunification, 23.7% - for work, and 13.7 – for study purposes, according to the European Migration Network (EMN)’s 2022 country factsheet for Spain. In terms of naturalisation, 138 083 TCNs received Spanish citizenship in 2021, as opposed to 120 987 and 95 325 in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Other detailed statistical data is available in the EMN 2022 country factsheet for Spain, with insights about the age and gender of TCNs, the most common types of residence permits issued and international protection statistics.

By the end of March 2024, Spain counted a total of 203 300 non-EU citizens who had fled the war against Ukraine and were under temporary protection – see monthly updates in the numbers of temporary protection beneficiaries on Eurostat.

The OECD/EC Indicators of Immigrant Integration 2023: Settling In report provides further breakdowns of the composition of migrant populations and households in Spain, including in terms of immigration flows by legal category, concentration in densely populated areas, duration of stay and household composition.

In 2023 the Council of Ministers approved, at the proposal of the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, the new Strategic Framework for Citizenship and Inclusion against Racism and Xenophobia (2023-2027). It is the first nationwide integration strategy since 2015, when the second Strategic Plan on Citizenship and Integration (PECI 2011-2014) ended.

The new strategy has been developed through a broad process of dialogue, participation, and consensus with the three levels of administration, social agents, and civil society organisations, including immigrant associations.

The Strategic Framework has two main objectives: to advance the integration and inclusion of migrants and to prevent and combat racism, xenophobia, and other related forms of intolerance. To this end, it proposes cross-cutting actions along six lines, with a series of objectives and indicators for each. This will make it possible to monitor their situation and evolution. The framework is designed to facilitate comprehensive, voluntary and flexible action to inspire the public policies of all administrations as well as civil society as a whole.

The Strategic Framework is subject to annual and mid-term evaluation, carried out by a specific committee with the support of experts, different directorates of the Secretariat of State for Migration, and stakeholders. The monitoring process focuses on analysing the development and progress of integration policies carried out by the various implementing institutions and organisations.

Monitoring tools and mechanisms include:

Ad-hoc indicators

Mapping and monitoring of actions carried out by public administrations.

Monographic studies on the level of integration and inclusion of the population of foreign origin in key prioritized areas.

Studies on the situation and evolution of racism, xenophobia, and other forms of intolerance in Spanish society and their impact.

Pilot projects related to the strategic areas covered by the Strategic Framework.

Identification of strategies and good practices in integration and social inclusion.

Annual conferences to analyze progress made and share experiences.

Mid-term and final evaluation reports.

The evaluation will be carried out in collaboration with the European Commission and the Council of Europe.

In addition, the international Migrant Integration Policy Index (MIPEX) points out that over the last few years, immigrants in Spain have benefitted from some improvements to integration policy, mainly in naturalisation and health. With 60 out of 100 points on the MIPEX 2020 scale, the country is deemed to have a comprehensive approach to integration which overall guarantees equal rights, opportunities and security to migrants.

Finally, Spain is one of the 14 countries included in the National Integration Evaluation Mechanism (NIEM) that measures refugee integration policies in 14 EU Member States and establishes a framework for evidence-based policy-making. Spain scores 61.4 across indicators on the NIEM scale of 100, thus being a moderately supportive country.

The starting point of the framework of basic rights and obligations in terms of equality, human rights, and non-discrimination is the Spanish Constitution of 1978. Article 1.1 recognises equality as a supreme value of the national legal system, which must be interpreted as a cross-cutting element of the entire legal system. Art. 9.2 establishes the obligation of public authorities to ensure equality, so that the equality of individuals is real and effective.

According to the Spanish Constitution (Art. 149.1.2), the competencies regarding immigration and asylum belong to the state administration, while autonomous communities in Spain have social, educational, health, employment, cultural and sports competencies, among others.

The current institutional framework for immigrant integration was set by Law 2/2009, which introduced multi-level governance based on cooperation among central administration institutions, regional and local governments, and civil society.

Law on foreigners

Law 7/1985 was the first to establish the rights and freedoms of foreigners in Spain. It was abrogated 15 years later by Law 4/2000, the first piece of legislation to comprehensively address the immigration phenomenon in Spain and to introduce provisions related to the social integration of migrants. Law 4/2000 was in turn subsequently reformed by Laws 8/2000, 14/2003 and 2/2009. Legal precepts set in the last reform were executed through Royal Decree 557/2011 aimed at consolidating the "legal, orderly and job market-related migration" model.

Asylum law

Law 5/1984 established the right to asylum in Spain for the first time. It was subsequently modified by Law 9/1994 which was executed through Royal Decree 203/1995, establishing rights and conditions for international protection status. Law 9/1994 was derogated by Law 12/2009, which provided the current normative framework for international protection in Spain. At the end of March 2022, Royal Decree 220/2022 defined regulation of the national reception system for international protection, filling in an "executive gap” that has lasted 13 years.

Integration law

In Spain there is no specific law regulating integration. The Organic Law 2/2009 provides a general regulatory framework for migrants’ inclusion into the host society, and this is complemented by a pluriannual national strategy. In 2023 the new Strategic Framework for Citizenship and Inclusion, against Racism and Xenophobia (2023-2027) was approved.

Citizenship law

The Spanish citizenship regime was set up by Law 51/1982. This reform of the civil code established jus sanguinis [law related to blood] as the core principle underlying the acquisition of nationality and a general requirement of 10 years of residence for naturalisation. It also identified privileged groups of foreigners: Spanish emigrants and their descendants, citizens of former colonies and Sephardic Jews. This general framework was later modified and complemented by Laws 29/1995, 36/2002, 40/2006, 52/2007, 12/2015 and 19/2015. The last two of these amendments respectively facilitated the naturalisation procedures of Sephardic Jews and introduced language and civic tests.

Anti-discrimination law

The Integral Law for Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination, issued on July 13 2022 (Law 15/2022) represents an important milestone in the field of anti-discrimination in the country. This law pursues the legislative consolidation of equality while providing a minimum common regulatory ground containing the basic definitions and guarantees of equality and non-discrimination. At the same time, it transposes EU directives for protection against discrimination and promotes the cross-cutting application of equal treatment and non-discrimination in public policies as well as the prevention and eradication of all forms of discrimination.

The Spanish Forum for the Social Integration of Immigrants is a consultative body established in 1994.

It proposes, informs and channels actions to promote the participation and integration of immigrants in Spanish society. The Forum holds at least 2 regular plenary sessions per year, in addition to ad-hoc sessions. Its members are representatives of immigrant associations, social stakeholders and public authorities. They participate in at least 1 of the 3 commissions of the forum, dedicated to:

education and social awareness

employment and equal opportunity

multiculturality and social cohesion

Civil society actors play a remarkable role in the integration of migrants, far beyond the implementation of regional and local policies. They often create their own projects and supply a wide range of services, including legal assistance, language training, health care, after-school programmes, adult education and home rental mediation.

Finally, it is worth noting the crucial role played by civil society organisations in the context of asylum and international protection matters. According to the AMIF report 2014-2018, 91% of AMIF resources in Spain were allocated to civil-society-led endeavors. While reception and integration are designed and financed by the Ministry of Labour, Migrations and Social Security, both the reception and integration of asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection are carried out and put into practice by NGOs.