In Norway the most busy route is the Drammen - Oslo Airport section. Many local services run through this section but the main attraction of this section is the airport express train (flytoget) which runs between Drammen and Oslo Airport. Long distance trains bound for Trondheim and Bergen use this section as well.

Map of commuter trains

An interesting feature of the route are the bypass tunnels to allow faster trains to pass slower, winding sections. There are four bypass tunnels between Drammen - Oslo Airport between Asker - Sandvika, Sandvika - Lysaker and Oslo S and Lillestrøm.

Rolling stock

The airport express uses the class 71 EMU capable of reaching 210 km/h, fastest in Norway, and has a simillar body with the class 73 EMU used on intercity services. The train runs on two lines, one direct between Oslo Central and the airport, and another one that begins at Drammen and stops at more stations along the way.

The main train of this route would be the the Stadler FLIRT EMU in two versions, one regional version (class 74) and one local commuter version (class 75). The difference are that the local version has more capacity and less comfortable seats. It is currently the most numerous train set in the Oslo commuter network with 92 units in operation.

The last passanger train set used on this line is the class 72 commuter EMU which runs on the Alna branch, which connects up to the main line at Lillestrøm and just before the Oslo central station. This train is only used on only one line (L1) in the Oslo area.

As for freight operations, they are possible between the Alna train yard and the Drammen train yard as well as to the Drammen docks. Cargonet trains would then probably be used between those yards.

The most numerous locomotive in Cargonet's fleet is the powerful El 14 electric locomotive, those would probably be used as cargo locomotives on the route. For shunting the Skd 226 shunter could be included.

Although not likely to be included, the El-18 can be seen pulling long distance trains to Trondheim and Bergen. This locomotive is based on the Swiss Re 460 locomotive and is the flagship of the NSB.

Points of interest

Oslo Airport station

Lillestrøm

Alna rail yard

Loenga Depot

Oslo central station

Nasjonalteatret

Skøyen

Lysaker

Sandvika

Asker

Drammen

With this I hope that i have given a good sugestion for a future TSW route.

Thank you so much for posting this, piotrek2302!

I've been riding a lot on this line myself, and I really enjoy it.

I would love to see this route in TSW.

By the way, don't forget the "flydrivstofftoget" (Jet fuel train) that runs twice a day between Sjursøya and Oslo Airport.

Normally they use a "Euro 4000" locomotive for this task, but it has happened that they have used Di8 as well:

(Not my video, and I don't take credit for it)

Brynsbakken (Bryns hill?) is very steep, so they need a helper engine to get up the hill.

The helper engine is normally not coupled. Here's a video of the event:

It is Norways busiest railway line, with express passenger trains, local passenger trains, regional passenger trains, flytoget, flydrivstofftoget, freight trains, etc etc.