Steven E. de Souza has been talking about the plans he had for a sequel to action classic Commando, describing the film’s potential storyline, and revealing that Frank Darabont did some revisions on the script. In a wide-ranging interview with the BristolBadFilmClub, de Souza talks about everything from Die Hard and Street Fighter to Flash Gordon and Sgt Rock, but what really caught our eye was his plot for Commando 2:

“I did write a sequel for that which is floating around on the Internet. Frank Darabont even did some revisions on it. In that movie, I would look at how experiences change people, such as how in Die Hard 2 people reference how famous John McClane is after the events of the first film.

“So for Commando 2, we figured that Arnold, after blowing up half of Los Angeles, achieves some notoriety, retires from the army and, by the time the sequel occurs, is running a security firm. The plot would have seen him hired by a big corporation to oversee their security to protect their executives from being kidnapped, to stop people breaking into their building and to make sure their computers are secure."

But... there's a twist!

“So he sets it up and hires the most dangerous people to be guards in the building and then lo and behold – he discovers the people he’s working for are in the illegal arms business and the big corporation is simply a front.

“The end of the movie would see Jenny [Alyssa Milano – Arnie’s daughter from the first film] and Cindy [Dawn Rae Chong’s stewardess], who is now a lawyer, trapped in the building and Arnold now has to defeat all the people he hired – all the meanest, toughest guards – as well as the security systems, the guard dogs, everything!”

De Souza goes onto discuss why there was confusion over Commando 2 and Die Hard having similar plots, claims that Escape Plan is the modern movie that most resembles this script, and talks about a bunch of other cool projects that never came to be, all of which can be read over at BristolBadFilmClub.

Loading

Play

Chris Tilly is the Entertainment Editor for IGN in the UK and had a Commando poster on his wall for the majority of his childhood. He can be found talking nonsense on both Twitter and MyIGN.