“OLYMPISM CAME TO LIFE” AT BUENOS AIRES 2018

President of the Panam Sports Athlete Commission, Alexandra Orlando, says the success of the Youth Olympic Games in Buenos Aires went deeper than sport. Blending competition with culture and education provided the perfect atmosphere for the best young athletes in the world to learn and share the Olympic values.

After a whirlwind visit to the Argentine capital, Alexandra Orlando has regained a feeling for the Olympic values, and that feeling transcends even the greatest of athletic achievements.

As President of the Panam Sports Athlete Commission, Orlando was invited to speak at the historic first Olympism in Action Forum before watching some of the world’s best young athletes compete in the Buenos Aires 2018 Youth Olympic Games.

Orlando says both experiences served to remind its attendees about the importance of spreading the Olympic values and the role that Olympism can play in the world.

“I think that just society in general and how the Olympic Movement has progressed, we’re becoming more disconnected from those original values. I think this was a really needed reminder for people so we can remember what we stand for, what the Olympic Rings stand for and why we all do what we do. And not just athletes, it’s everybody’s responsibility.”

The Olympism in Action Forum was a step in the right direction to that goal, Orlando says. Invited to provide an athlete’s perspective to a panel discussion about corruption in sport, Orlando was impressed by the variety of backgrounds and viewpoints shared throughout the program.

“As an athlete, this is the first time that I was really engaged in this type of conversation with people from the United Nations, international politicians and those who can affect change at a global level. It was really eye-opening,” she says.

Orlando told her panel members and the audience of 1,500 people that a lot of distrust remains between athletes and the organizations that govern them. To bridge this gap, Orlando says the recipe is greater transparency and re-emphasizing the values of Olympism.

“For me, when I think about Olympism, I think about the values of fair sport, excellence, integrity and acting in a way that’s Olympic. To me that means setting a higher standard for ourselves not only physically, but also mentally and emotionally. We need to rise above because the Olympics are about bringing people together.”

And the Buenos Aires 2018 Youth Olympics did just that, she says. With no ticketed events and central venues, Orlando was often impressed by the crowds watching the youth competitions.

“The Games were so accessible for people. There were no tickets, no hierarchy. It was totally open and I love that because sport is meant to be accessible. It was amazing to see the turnout and people with their whole families going to see new sports.”

As a Rhythmic Gymnast who competed at the Beijing 2008 Olympics, Orlando comes from one of the most traditional sports on the Olympic program. However, she says she was enthralled by the new events making their debut at the Youth Olympics.

“I think the new sport formats were great. It was amazing to see the different cultures of all these new sport formats. When you look at Break-Dancing or Sport Climbing, or even Skateboarding, they all have such unique communities and cultures associated to them. There’s a beauty to their communities and an energy that is really infectious,” she says, adding that the lessons learned from these Games could help Panam Sports prepare its potential new events, especially those designed for youth athletes.

But these Games were about much more than sport.

“Sport is a reason to put our differences aside while celebrating where we come from. And the youth component makes it more special because the opportunity they have at such a young age to participate in an event like this will completely change their lives. That’s more of what Olympism is – bringing people together and sharing cultures, that was really cool to see because it was like watching Olympism coming to life.”