An insurance firm is investigating claims a worker deliberately soaked three sleeping homeless men with water.

A member of staff at Direct Line House in Leeds city centre has been accused of pouring water onto the pavement towards the trio.

Other homeless men in the city have told how they chose doorways such as Direct Line to keep safe as they have CCTV cameras.

The insurance firm in Leeds, West Yorkshire has apologised to the group of men and confirmed it is investigating the incident.

They said they had also replaced their wet bedding, and made a further donation of clothing and food.

A student described the behaviour as 'inhuman' on a Facebook post after witnessing it.

However, other onlookers said that the person had been attempting to wash away urine from a doorway.

A Direct Line statement read: ''We are aware of an incident outside one of our buildings in Leeds and are currently investigating this.

“Meanwhile, we have spoken to the individuals concerned and have apologised for any distress caused whilst we gain some clarity on the events that took place.

"However, our primary concern is for their wellbeing and we have replaced the possessions that may have got wet, and provided them with additional warm clothing and food.''

Richard White, 47, who is also homeless in the city, told how they chose doorways such as Direct Line for safety reasons.

He said just a few days ago he was sleeping in an underpass when he was kicked awake by a stranger.

He said the trio who got soaked recently are called Jock, Andy and Mark. The latter needing crutches to walk.

"The Direct Line doorway is not their usual spot. They normally bed down outside McDonalds," said Richard, who was squatting on his black hold-all outside Sainsbury's opposite Direct Line in Leeds' Dortmund Square.

"We pick doorways like Direct Line for security reasons. They have CCTV cameras which gives us some kind of protection from physical assaults.

"The three of them were in that Direct Line doorway for just one night. It's sad that they were swilled down."