Public Transport

Bus Station

Located on Dyer Street next to Leeds City Bus Station and approx. 15min walk from first direct arena the coach station provides national and regional connections to a wide variety of destinations.

Leeds Bus Station is Wheelchair Friendly, which allows easy access for wheelchair users. All bays at the station have also been modified so that wheelchair users can get on and off buses easily.

We are also registered as a "Safe Place", which allows support and help for any persons with a disability to come into the station and ask for assistance.

Nearest Bus Stops

Clay Pit Lane

Wade Lane/Lovell Park Road

Woodhouse Lane

Leeds Park & Ride

Simply head to Park and Ride Metro

Nearest Train Station

Leeds City Station on New Station Street is around a 15min walk from first direct arena and a major hub on the national, regional and local rail network providing connections to a wide variety of destinations.

By Road

first direct arena is located next to the A58(M) Inner Ring Road and from the Claypit Lane junction (A58) provides links out of the city centre to the east joining the A64 York Road, and to the south and west connecting to the M621 and other destinations within Leeds and to the wider motorway network via the M62 and the M1. For Sat Nav systems our postcode is LS2 8BY.

Parking

There are over 7,500 car parking spaces within a 15-minute walk of the arena. The arena doesn't have it's own car park however there are lots of options nearby. To receive 5% off Q Park when attending a show at first direct arena click here

The nearest Car Park with EV charging is located on Albion Street click here.

None of the above car parks are operated by the arena so for questions, queries or comments we ask that you contact the companies directly.

Drop Off / Pick Up

Please arrange to drop off and/or pick up away from the Arena as, due to our city-centre location and size of events, road closures, and diversions may be in place at the end of an event making it difficult to return to your chosen meeting point.

Nearest Taxi Rank

A hackney taxi rank is available at first direct arena and is signposted from the main doors of the arena. Additional ranks are available at a number of locations adjacent to the Arena - Merrion Way (after 22:00), Wade Lane, Merrion Street, Woodhouse Lane, Cookridge Steet and Portland Way.

On Foot

It’s easy to reach the first direct arena on foot. Visit Maps & More - Visit Leeds to download a walking map.

Hiring Bikes in Leeds

If you're looking to hire a bike in Leeds, here are some of the best options you can try: