Gender Diversity on Tech Boards: Xerox, Qorvo, Shopify Welcome Female Board Members

Xerox Announces Board Changes

Xerox announced the appointment of Cheryl G. Krongard, a former senior partner with Apollo Management, to the Xerox board of directors. Krongard currently serves as a director on the boards of Legg Mason and Air Lease Corporation.

Qorvo Appoints Former JDS Uniphase EVP to its Board

Semiconductor firm Qorvo announced the election of Susan L. Spradley to its Board of Directors. Spradley has substantial senior management experience in the communications industry, most recently as EVP and GM, Network and Service Enablement for Viavi Solutions (formerly JDS Uniphase).

Shopify Appoints former CEO and Chairperson of Constant Contact Gail Goodman to its Board

Canadian e-commerce company Shopify appointed Gail Goodman to its board of directors. Gail is the former CEO and Chairperson of Constant Contact, a software company providing small businesses with online marketing tools to grow their businesses. After becoming CEO in April 1999, she led Constant Contact through its initial public offering and for eight years as a publicly traded company, until its acquisition by Endurance International Group Holdings in February, 2016. Shopify announced that Trevor Oelschig has resigned from its board of directors.

Tableau Software Appoints New Relic President Hilarie Koplow-McAdams to its Board

Tableau Software appointed Hilarie Koplow-McAdams to its Board of Directors. Koplow-McAdams is President at New Relic. Her leadership has helped New Relic perform as a high-growth company, extend its product portfolio, and bolster its enterprise sales force.

Tech Data Appoints Director from Consumer Goods and Pharmaceutical Domain

Tech Data Corporation appointed Bridgette Heller to the company’s Board of Directors. Heller has served as EVP, Early Life Nutrition, and a member of the Executive Committee for Danone since July 2016.

Integrated Device Technology Appoints Egon Zehnder Leader as Director

Integrated Device Technology appointed Selena Loh LaCroix to serve as a director of the Company, filling a new vacancy. LaCroix, based in Dallas, is global leader of Egon Zehnder's Legal, Regulatory & Compliance Professionals Practice.

Cotiviti Appoints SAP Exec to Board of Directors

Cotiviti Holdings announced that Mala Anand, President of Analytics at SAP SE, was elected to Cotiviti’s Board of Directors to serve as an independent director.

Shutterfly Announces Board Appointment

Shutterfly elected new independent director, Elizabeth (Libby) Sartain, to its board of directors. Sartain is an executive and advisor with more than 30 years of experience as a senior human resources leader. Her diverse industry exposure includes technology, media, consumer products, professional services, and manufacturing. Sartain is currently the vice chairman of the board of AARP and holds board seats at Manpower Group and the SHRM Foundation. Sartain has served as chief people officer at Yahoo.

Sophos Group Appoints Successful Entrepreneur as Non-Executive Director

Sophos, a global leader in network and endpoint security, announced that Vin Murria is to be appointed as a non-executive director. Vin was the founder and CEO at Advanced Computer Software until it was sold to Vista Equity Partners in 2015. Prior to that Vin was CEO of Computer Software Group which was backed by HG Capital and then acquired Hellman & Friedman in 2007. Vin's earlier career includes 15 years with Kewill Systems where she was COO before leaving in 2002. Vin is currently a non-executive director for Softcat and for Zoopla Property Group, and a partner at Elderstreet Investments.

Date Range: November 12, 2016 - January 2, 2017

↧

↧

Salesforce, Citrix & Others: Cloud & Tech Infrastucture Leadership Shuffles

WSJ Senior Special Writer Joins Salesforce as EVP, Global Strategic Affairs

Salesforce announced that Senior Special Writer for The Wall Street Journal Monica Langley will join the company as EVP, Global Strategic Affairs. She will work with the company executive team to develop strategies that will continue to accelerate the company's unmatched growth in the industry. Prior to the company, Langley spent 27 years at The Wall Street Journal, where she wrote many page-one profiles, particularly of newsmakers such as CEOs and presidential candidates.

Citrix Systems’ Couple of Executives Leave

Each of Klaus Oestermann, SVP and General Manager, Delivery Networks, and Jesse Lipson, Corporate VP and General Manager of Cloud Services, of Citrix Systems announced and informed Citrix that he will be leaving the company.

ServiceNow Announces Executive Changes

ServiceNow announced that Daniel R. McGee stepped down from his role as COO. The company appointed Chirantan CJ" Desai, 46, as the company's Chief Product Officer, to take effect upon his commencement of employment, which occurred in December 2016. Most recently, Desai served as the President of the Emerging Technologies Division at EMC.

Arista Networks Announces Resignation of Worldwide Sales Operations Leader

Mark Smith, the SVP, Worldwide Sales Operations of Software Driven Cloud Networking company Arista Networks, informed the Company that he will voluntarily resign from his position. The sales function for the Company will continue to report to Anshul Sadana, the Company's Chief Customer Officer.

LogMeIn and GetGo Announce New Board of Directors for Combined Company

LogMeIn named the nine directors who will serve on the Board of Directors for the combined company effective upon the close of its proposed merger with Citrix Systems’s GetGo subsidiary, a wholly owned subsidiary consisting of Citrix’s GoTo family of service offerings.

The Board will be comprised of four directors designated by Citrix and five members of LogMeIn’s current Board of Directors. As previously announced, the four Citrix designees are Bob Calderoni, Jesse Cohn, and Peter Sacripanti, all of whom also serve as current Citrix directors, as well as Citrix’s COO and CFO, David Henshall.

Joining them from LogMeIn’s current Board will be LogMeIn’s president and CEO, Bill Wagner, LogMeIn’s Chairman of the Board, Michael Simon, as well as Steven Benson, Michael Christenson and Edwin Gillis.

Unisys Appoints IBM Exec to Manage Cloud and Infrastructure Services Portfolio Serving Federal Clients

Gary Wang has joined Unisys Federal as VP, cloud and infrastructure services, and will manage the company's portfolio of cloud-related products and services for Unisys' federal government clients. Wang most recently served as CTO, cybersecurity and biometrics at IBM, where he led the cybersecurity and biometrics solution portfolio and service solution transformation. Prior to that, he held various senior executive roles at Lockheed Martin, where he was responsible for winning and delivering several large cloud and infrastructure contracts.

Date Range: November 27, 2016 - January 19, 2017

↧

Non-Tech Boards Welcoming Tech Directors: BNY Mellon & Others

BNY Mellon Appoints President of SAP North America as Director

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation has elected Jennifer B. Morgan as independent director. Morgan has served as President of SAP North America since 2014, where she is responsible for the company’s strategy, revenue and customer success in the U.S. and Canada. Since being named President, she has led SAP’s rapid shift to the cloud in North America while helping customers achieve growth in the digital economy. Morgan served in a number of leadership roles for SAP since joining the company in 2004, including as head of SAP North America’s public sector organization and president of its Regulated Industries business unit.

PayPal Exec Joins Sallie Mae’s Board

Student loan bank Sallie Mae appointed Kirsten O. Wolberg to its board of directors. Wolberg currently serves as VP of Talent at PayPal. Wolberg also played an instrumental role in the separation of eBay and PayPal into two independent companies and was responsible for the chief operating functions for PayPal Technology. She brings more than 20 years of experience in technology management, strategy, product, finance, and operations. Wolberg currently serves on the board of YearUp and holds a leadership role with The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society.

Spirent Communications Appoints Two Non-Executive Directors

Spirent Communications announced that Gary Bullard and Bill Thomas have each been appointed as non-executive directors. Gary Bullard has had a long and successful career in senior international executive roles in companies such as IBM, BT and Logica and currently has a number of non-executive roles. Since 2010 he has also been a non-executive director at Rotork.

Bill Thomas has extensive experience of leading highly complex services businesses and technology led organizations including HP Enterprise Services and EDS EMEA. He is currently a non-executive director of The Co-operative Bank, serves on the advisory board of cyber security specialist FireEye and chairs the Royal Navy and Royal Marines Charity.

Date Range: November 27, 2016 - January 19, 2017

↧

Women Appointed on Large Boards: PayPal, Xerox & Many Other Boards

PayPal Appoints Airbnb Exec to Board

PayPal appointed Belinda Johnson to its board of directors. Johnson is a recognized attorney and business leader who has focused her talents on crafting and directing policies and strategies that enable high-growth, consumer-facing internet companies for more than two decades. Johnson is the Chief Business Affairs and Legal Officer at Airbnb.

BNY Mellon Appoints President of SAP North America as Director

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation has elected Jennifer B. Morgan as independent director. Morgan has served as President of SAP North America since 2014, where she is responsible for the company’s strategy, revenue and customer success in the U.S. and Canada. Since being named President, she has led SAP’s rapid shift to the cloud in North America while helping customers achieve growth in the digital economy. Morgan served in a number of leadership roles for SAP since joining the company in 2004, including as head of SAP North America’s public sector organization and president of its Regulated Industries business unit.

Xerox Announces Board Changes

Xerox announced the appointment of Cheryl G. Krongard, a former senior partner with Apollo Management, to the Xerox board of directors. Krongard currently serves as a director on the boards of Legg Mason and Air Lease Corporation.

PayPal Exec Joins Sallie Mae’s Board

Student loan bank Sallie Mae appointed Kirsten O. Wolberg to its board of directors. Wolberg currently serves as VP of Talent at PayPal. Wolberg also played an instrumental role in the separation of eBay and PayPal into two independent companies and was responsible for the chief operating functions for PayPal Technology. She brings more than 20 years of experience in technology management, strategy, product, finance, and operations. Wolberg currently serves on the board of YearUp and holds a leadership role with The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society.

Qorvo Appoints Former JDS Uniphase EVP to its Board

Semiconductor firm Qorvo announced the election of Susan L. Spradley to its Board of Directors. Spradley has substantial senior management experience in the communications industry, most recently as EVP and GM, Network and Service Enablement for Viavi Solutions (formerly JDS Uniphase).

Shopify Appoints former CEO and Chairperson of Constant Contact Gail Goodman to its Board

Canadian e-commerce company Shopify appointed Gail Goodman to its board of directors. Gail is the former CEO and Chairperson of Constant Contact, a software company providing small businesses with online marketing tools to grow their businesses. After becoming CEO in April 1999, she led Constant Contact through its initial public offering and for eight years as a publicly traded company, until its acquisition by Endurance International Group Holdings in February, 2016. Shopify announced that Trevor Oelschig has resigned from its board of directors.

Tableau Software Appoints New Relic President Hilarie Koplow-McAdams to its Board

Tableau Software appointed Hilarie Koplow-McAdams to its Board of Directors. Koplow-McAdams is President at New Relic. Her leadership has helped New Relic perform as a high-growth company, extend its product portfolio, and bolster its enterprise sales force.

Tech Data Appoints Director from Consumer Goods and Pharmaceutical Domain

Tech Data Corporation appointed Bridgette Heller to the company’s Board of Directors. Heller has served as EVP, Early Life Nutrition, and a member of the Executive Committee for Danone since July 2016.

Integrated Device Technology Appoints Egon Zehnder Leader as Director

Integrated Device Technology appointed Selena Loh LaCroix to serve as a director of the Company, filling a new vacancy. LaCroix, based in Dallas, is global leader of Egon Zehnder's Legal, Regulatory & Compliance Professionals Practice.

Cotiviti Appoints SAP Exec to Board of Directors

Cotiviti Holdings announced that Mala Anand, President of Analytics at SAP SE, was elected to Cotiviti’s Board of Directors to serve as an independent director.

Shutterfly Announces Board Appointment

Shutterfly elected new independent director, Elizabeth (Libby) Sartain, to its board of directors. Sartain is an executive and advisor with more than 30 years of experience as a senior human resources leader. Her diverse industry exposure includes technology, media, consumer products, professional services, and manufacturing. Sartain is currently the vice chairman of the board of AARP and holds board seats at Manpower Group and the SHRM Foundation. Sartain has served as chief people officer at Yahoo.

Sophos Group Appoints Successful Entrepreneur as Non-Executive Director

Sophos, a global leader in network and endpoint security, announced that Vin Murria is to be appointed as a non-executive director. Vin was the founder and CEO at Advanced Computer Software until it was sold to Vista Equity Partners in 2015. Prior to that Vin was CEO of Computer Software Group which was backed by HG Capital and then acquired Hellman & Friedman in 2007. Vin's earlier career includes 15 years with Kewill Systems where she was COO before leaving in 2002. Vin is currently a non-executive director for Softcat and for Zoopla Property Group, and a partner at Elderstreet Investments.

MTS Elects Bosch CFO Maximiliane Straub to Serve on its Board

MTS Systems Corporation elected Maximiliane Straub to serve on the Company's Board of Directors. Straub serves as the CFO of Bosch and EVP Finance, Controlling and Administration of Bosch North America from 2010 to present.

Date Range: November 27, 2016 - January 19, 2017

↧

79 Open Tech CEO Roles and 78 CEO Appointments in December 2016

Detailed Version of Newsletter for month ended December 2016

Welcome to our CEO Turnover Newsletter. Hope you had a restful and joyous Holiday Season. This newsletter covers open CEO roles as of December 31, 2016 and latest appointments in the tech sector in December 2016.

The average length of time the CEO searches have been open is 5 months, down from 6.5 months earlier in 2016. There is little variance across geographies.

Total Tech CEO Roles Open: 79

New Tech CEO Appointments: 78 (8 women – 10%, 70 men)

New Technology CEO Stats

New Tech CEO Openings: 14 – NII Holdings (VA), Broadway Industrial Group (Singapore), EMIS Group (UK), YourPeople (CA), Oculus VR (CA), Paymark (New Zealand), 1Spatial (UK), Mr Green & Co Technology (China), 8common (Australia), Quantum Materials (TX), Omnitele (Finland), Avero (NY), Zyber Holdings (Australia), ProText Mobility (FL).

CEOs Appointed

Sources of Appointments: 36 were External appointments, and 42 were internal promotions.

Others: founders, former execs, CMOs, Sales Leaders, CTOs, Chief Strategy Officers, and Leaders from acquired companies, etc.

Diversity: 10% of the appointments are women CEOs. Chorus (New Zealand), Global Sources (Bermuda), Amobee (Ca), GET Holdings (Hong Kong), SSH Communications Security (Finland), CNV.com (OR), Translarity (CA), Interups (NY).

Geographic Distribution: 48 in North America, 17 in Europe, 11 in Asia/Russia/Australia, and 2 in Middle East & Africa.

The average and median times open CEO roles have been open are about 5 months, and there is little variance by continent. The longest open searches are:

#1 - TeleCity Group, London, UK - $529.6M, September 2014

#2 - Wi-LAN, Ottawa, Ontario - $98.3M, June 2015

Want to keep up to date? Get more updates on new board members (Tech execs on tech and non tech boards; women board members), on new execs/board updates for the Giants, the software industry, and many more. A summary of Vell Research Reports and board/exec updates can be found here. Vell Research Reports and Exec/board moves.

Dora Vell

Vell Executive Search

t: 617-530-1260 | dora@vell.com

Vell Executive Search is a retained executive search firm that specializes in recruiting technology execs for boards and executive roles, such as CEOs and C-Levels. Vell has built a reputation for recruiting talented high-performing leadership teams globally. www.vell.com

In this Edition

Tech Companies - CEO Roles Open

Tech Companies - CEO Roles Announced

Vell Research Reports and Summary Updates

Vell Executive Search Recent Placements

Vell Executive Search Team

You can subscribe to our Open Roles Newsletters and research reports.

Tech Companies: CEO Roles Open

This is the detailed version of the Open CEO roles

Ooredoo Q.S.C., Qatar - $8.85B, October 2016

Ooredoo Oman has accepted Mr. Greg Young’s resignation from his post as CEO, and appointed its CFO, Mr. Jorgen Latte, as Acting CEO until the company appoints a new CEO.

Reliance Communications, India - $3.1B, October 2016

Reliance Communications announced that the company has accepted request of Mr. Vinod Sawhny to step down as CEO of the company with effect from September 30, 2016 to enable him and his family to relocate to New Delhi for personal reasons. Mr. William (Bill) Barney and Mr. Gurdeep Singh, who are already working with the company, will function as acting Co-CEOs of the company with immediate effect.

William Hill, UK - $2.4B, July 2016

The Board of William Hill PLC announced that James Henderson is stepping down as CEO with immediate effect. Philip Bowcock, CFO, has been appointed as Interim CEO. The search for a permanent replacement has been instigated.

Nuance Communications, Massachusetts - $1.9B, November 2016

Nuance Communications announced that its Board of Directors has extended Nuance Chairman and CEO Paul Ricci’s employment agreement through the first half of fiscal 2018. Mr. Ricci has advised the Board that he intends to retire at the end of this term. The Board of Directors will undertake a search process to choose Mr. Ricci’s successor during the term.

T-Mobile Netherlands B.V., Netherlands - $1.8B, June 2016

Deutsche Telekom announced a complete revamp of its management team at T-Mobile Netherlands. The new Dutch team will see its CEO named this summer, as the current CEO Mark Klein is leaving in September to join Ergo.

GrameenPhone, Bangladesh - $1.4B, October 2016

The Grameenphone Board of Directors has appointed Mr. Petter-B. Furberg (49) as the company's interim CEO, effective from 1 November 2016.Furberg is the SVP Telenor Digital Businesses, based in Bangkok. Furberg will replace Rajeev Sethi who will pursue new opportunities.

FTD Companies, Illinois - $1.14B, November 2016

FTD Companies announced that Christopher W. Shean, one of the company’s directors, has been appointed interim President and CEO. Shean has served as one of FTD’s directors since December 2014. Mr. Shean is CEO of Liberty Expedia Holdings.

Syntel, Michigan - $983.2M, November 2016

Syntel appointed Rakesh Khanna, formerly COO, as interim CEO and President, effective November 3, 2016.

NII Holdings, Virginia - $981.4M, December 2016

On December 21, 2016, in connection with the approval of the Company’s 2017 budget, the Agreement with Steven M. Shindler, CEO, was updated to provide for a target termination date of April 1, 2017.

Jenoptik, Germany - $754.4M, September 2016

The President & CEO Dr. Michael Mertin has informed the Supervisory Board of Jenoptik AG that he will not be seeking another term on the Executive Board after the expiry of his employment contract on June 30, 2017.

Imation, Minnesota - $678M, October 2015

Imation announced that Bob Fernander, an existing member of the company’s Board of Directors, has been appointed as Interim CEO.

Torstar, Ontario - $565.3M, July 2016

Torstar Corporation announced that David Holland has decided to retire as President and CEO of Torstar Corporation later this fall. Torstar has initiated a search to fill the joint position of President and CEO of Torstar and Publisher of the Toronto Star. Mr. Holland has worked in a number of divisions within Torstar since 1986, and has served as President and CEO for the past seven years.

TeleCity Group, UK - $529.6M, September 2014

Michael Tobin, who had led the FTSE 250 group for a decade, left the company, with chairman John Hughes taking over executive responsibilities while a replacement is found.

Broadway Industrial Group, Singapore - $447.1M, December 2016

Broadway Industrial Group Limited announced that the cessation of Mr. Lee Wai Leong (Jeremy) as Executive Director and CEO. The effective date is December 30, 2016.

Perion Network, Israel - $274M, September 2016

Perion Network. announced that Josef Mandelbaum will be leaving his position as CEO after a transition period of up to several months. The Board of Directors has begun a search for the Company's next CEO and the Board and Josef are committed to a seamless transition.

Sepura, UK - $215.6M, October 2016

Sepura PLC has appointed Alan Lovell as Chairman and David Barrass as Interim CEO. David has held a number of CEO roles as well as non-executive positions. David's appointment reflects the extended period of absence being taken by Gordon Watling, the CEO, on medical advice, as announced on 14 September 2016. Richard Smith reverts to his role as CFO having previously also been Acting CEO.

EMIS Group, UK - $208.4M, December 2016

EMIS Group plc announced that Chris Spencer, the Group's CEO since 2013, having reached the age of 60, has indicated his intention to retire from his position and from the Board by the end of 2017.

YourPeople, California - $158.4M, December 2016

Zenefits announced that CEO David Sacks, is leaving the company. Sacks confirmed that he will be stepping down from his position.

Marchex, Washington - $142.1M, October 2016

Marchex announced changes to its executive leadership team to improve its operational performance and focus on returning the company to profitability. Pete Christothoulou has resigned as CEO. The Board of Directors has created an Interim Office of the CEO subject to oversight by Anne Devereux-Mills as Chairman and comprised of the following members: Russell Horowitz, former CEO and Chairman of the Board and current consultant to the company, Michael Arends, CFO; Ethan Caldwell, Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel; and Gary Nafus, Chief Revenue Officer. The Board of Directors will begin a search for the company’s next CEO.

Nera Telecommunications, Singapore - $137.6M, October 2016

The Board of Nera Telecommunications announced that Mr. Ang Seong Kang Samuel, CEO, has tendered his resignation on October 24, 2016. In accordance with his contractual obligations, he will continue to be employed by the company for a period of 18 months and will facilitate the transition of leadership. His final day of service with the company shall be on April 23, 2018. The Board has appointed Mr. Beck Tong Hong to serve as acting CEO in the interim.

Model N, California - $107M, November 2016

Model N announced that effective November 15, 2016, Zack Rinat has re-assumed the role of CEO on an interim basis to replace Edward Sander, who will be leaving the company and resigning from the board of directors effective November 18, 2016. Mr. Rinat is Model N's founder and has served as the Chairman of the board of directors since the company's inception in December 1999. Mr. Rinat also served as the company's CEO from December 1999 to February 2016 and as Executive Chairman since February 2016.

Yuuzoo, Singapore - $106.1M, November 2016

Yuuzoo Corporation Limited announced the cessation of James Matthew Somasundram as CEO. Due to personal reasons or health reasons.

Wi-LAN, Ottawa, Ontario - $98.3M, June 2015

CEO James (Jim) Skippen intends to retire and will stay on until such time as a suitable replacement has been identified and hired. A special committee of the Board will immediately begin the search for a new permanent CEO with the assistance of a leading search firm.

Solutionary, Nebraska - $98.1M, August 2016

The CEO of Solutionary will step down at the end of this year, as the company is becoming more tightly integrated into the Japanese firm that acquired it in 2013. Steve Idelman said the company, known as of Aug. 1, 2016 as NTT Security, is hiring and growing in Omaha.

Mobotix AG, Germany - $89.4M, February 2016

MOBOTIX AG has announced the resignation of Klaus Gesmann as CEO, CFO, and as a member of management board. An interim manager will initially be placed in charge of the Finance department, previously under his control, while CTO Dr. Oliver Gabel is temporarily taking over the Purchasing department. A third board member will be appointed in the near future.

Jiangsu Nandasoft Technology, China - $81.3M, November 2016

The board of directors of Jiangsu NandaSoft Technology Company Limited announced that Mr. QIAO Ruo Gu has resigned from the offices of executive director and CEO of the Company, and Mr. DONG Liang has resigned as supervisor representing the shareholders of the Company, both with effect from 9 November 2016, due to their desire to devote more time on their personal affairs.

Support.com, California - $65.1M, October 2016

On October 28, 2016, Elizabeth M. Cholawsky resigned her position as president and CEO of Support.com. On October 28, 2016, the board of directors of the company elected Richard Bloom as the interim president and CEO of the company. Mr. Bloom, age 49, currently serves on the board, and has served since June 2016.

NetComm Wireless, Australia - $63.4M, November 2016

NetComm Wireless Limited announced that David Stewart will be retiring from the role of CEO & Managing Director, as well as from the company's Board, effective from 23 December 2016. Until a formal appointment has been made, Ken Sheridan, the company's current Chief Strategy Officer and Executive Director has been appointed Interim CEO.

Oculus VR, California - $58.9M, December 2016

Brendan Iribe, the CEO of Facebook's virtual reality unit Oculus VR, is stepping down from his position as part of a restructuring. Jon Thomason, who joined Oculus recently, will head the mobile VR group. Thomason and Iribe, along with Facebook's CTO Mike Schroepfer, will together look for a new CEO for Oculus. Oculus, will split into two groups: PC and mobile. Iribe will step down from the top spot to lead the PC VR group.

Giken Sakata, Singapore - $55.5M, November 2016

Giken Sakata (S) Limited announced cessation of Tan Kay Guan as Executive Director and CEO of the company, to pursue personal interest.

Paymark, New Zealand - $47.5M, December 2016

Paymark CEO Mark Rushworth has resigned from the firm. General counsel Liam O'Reilly will act in the role until a new head is appointed. Rushworth was in charge of the company for three years.

Ensogo, Hong Kong - $43.6M, June 2016

The Board of Ensogo advised that it has accepted the resignation of CEO, Mr. Kris Marszalek. Marszalek is a co-founder of E88 and has been the CEO since August 2014. The Board is yet to announce the appointment of a new CEO.

Xchanging Solutions, India - $42.2M, October 2016

Xchanging Solutions announced that company has received a resignation letter from Mr. Alok Kumar Sinha, CEO cum whole time director with effect from November 10, 2016.

Brady, UK - $37.3M, September 2016

Brady plc announced that after nine years Gavin Lavelle has decided to pursue new opportunities and has stepped down as CEO with immediate effect. Mr. Lavelle will leave the company in February 2017. And Ian Jenks will assume operational control of the company as executive chairman.

Touchcorp, Australia - $34.3M, November 2016

Touchcorp Limited announced that Managing Director, Mr. Adrian Cleeve, passed away on November 8, 2016 after a short illness. The Chairman of Touchcorp, Mr. Mike Jefferies, has been appointed as acting CEO.

1Spatial, UK - $34.1M, December 2016

The Board of 1Spatial plc announced that Marcus Hanke has ceased to carry out the functions of the CEO and will be resigning as a director. Claire Milverton, CFO, will carry out these functions on an interim basis.

RF Industries, California - $32.7M, October 2016

RF Industries announced that Johnny Walker, President and CEO, and the company mutually agreed to terminate his employment with the company to allow Mr. Walker to attend to family medical needs and to be closer to his residence in Arlington, Texas. Howard Hill, RFI's former President, CEO and Founder, will serve, without pay, as the company's interim President and CEO.

Towerstream Corporation, Rhode Island - $31.7M, February 2016

On February 16, 2016, the Board of Directors of Towerstream Corporation appointed Philip Urso as Interim CEO and Arthur Giftakis as COO of the company. Mr. Urso presently serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors and Mr. Giftakis as SVP of Engineering and Operations of the company. Urso co-founded Towerstream, has served as the company's director and chairman since inception and was CEO from inception until November 2005.

zamano, Ireland, $26.400M , May 2016

The Board of zamano plc announced that Ross Conlon has tendered his resignation as CEO and director of the company with effect from May 9, 2016 to pursue other interests. Ross has agreed to facilitate a smooth handover. The board will immediately commence a process for the appointment of a new CEO of the company.

Photon Control, Canada - $21.5M, June 2016

Christopher Weston has stepped down as President and CEO and has resigned from the Board of Photon Control. Michael Goldstein, Deputy Chairman of the Board, has been appointed Chairman and Acting CEO.

Brekford, Maryland - $16M, November 2016

Brekford Corp. announced that effective November 23, 2016 the company entered into a separation agreement with C.B. Brechin, the company's CEO and CFO. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, as of the Effective Date Mr. Brechin commenced a sabbatical leave from his position as the company's CEO and CFO. Mr. Brechin will continue to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the company. Commencing 18 months after the Effective Date, Mr. Brechin will serve as a consultant to the company for a period of four years pursuant to the terms of a consulting agreement between the company and Mr. Brechin. Rodney Hillman, the company's President and COO was named principal financial officer as of November 23, 2016.

Image Sensing Systems, Minnesota - $15.2M, June 2016

Image Sensing Systems announced that Dale Parker has resigned as CFO, Interim CEO, COO and Director. The board has appointed Chad Stelzig as Interim CEO. Mr. Stelzig has most recently served as VP of Engineering of ISS in addition to his prior position as Director of Algorithm and Software Engineering at the Company.

Giga-tronics, California - $13.7M, August 2016

Giga-tronics Incorporated appointed W. Joseph Thompson as Chairman and Acting CEO. He succeeds John Regazzi, the architect of the company’s Advanced Signal Generator and Analysis platform (ASG), who is assuming the role of CTO to enable him to focus on customer engagement and future technology development.

Adept4, UK - $11.90M, January 2016

Pinnacle Technology Group plc announced that Nicholas Scallan, CEO, intends to step down from the Board at this year's Annual General Meeting proposed to be held on 23 March 2016. He will remain as CEO until this time. As announced on 7 December 2015, James Dodd will also step down as a non-executive director at the time of the AGM.

WANdisco, UK - $11M, September 2016

The Board of WANdisco announced that David Richards, CEO, will be stepping down from the Board and his role as CEO of the company with immediate effect. In the interim period, Paul Walker, Non-Executive Chairman, has assumed the role of Executive Chairman with immediate effect.

Mr Green & Co Technology, China - $7.93M, December 2016

Stefan Gustafsson has been appointed as acting CEO of Mr. Green & Co Technology AB. He has extensive experience in senior positions within IT, among other positions such as CIO at Elon Group, Boxer and Com Hem. Stefan Gustafsson succeeds Niclas Enhörning who was appointed CEO of Mr. Green & Co Technology in 2014.

International Datacasting Corporation, Ontario - $7.2M, February 2016

International Datacasting Corporation announced a change in management. As previously announced, the Board has commenced a formal process to explore strategic alternatives with a view to enhancing shareholder value. Accordingly, IDC's Senior Management team including the Co-CEO's Chris Barrett and Steeve Huin, as well as the CFO, Steve Archambault, have voluntarily offered their resignations. Archambault has agreed to serve as CFO and interim CEO during this transition period.

Uniserve Communications, Canada - $4.9M, October 2016

Uniserve Communications Corporation announced that Hashim Mitha, the current President and COO, has been appointed interim CEO allowing John Dobson to focus his efforts on growing the company`s enterprise consulting division.

Great Elm Capital Group, California - $4.5M, July 2016

On July 18, 2016, Mr. Richard S. Chernicoff was appointed, on an interim basis, as CEO of the Great Elm Capital Group. Mr. Chernicoff will remain a member of the company's board of directors.

Sunvault Energy, Alberta - $3.87M, October 2016

Gary Monaghan has resigned as a member of board of directors. Mr. Monaghan concurrently resigned as CEO of company. The resignation of Mr. Monaghan is as a direct result of a change of control in the company per his management contract and a difficult personal family illness at home and not the result of any disagreement with company regarding operations, policies, practices or otherwise. Mr, Monaghan is enacting his change of control provisions within his management contract which is predominantly unpaid to date.

8common, Australia - $2.74M, December 2016

8common Limited announced that CEO Nick Gonios has resigned and provided six months notice. Nick will continue to provide services to the company as per his contract in his current role until his final day of service. Mr. Gonios said he was proud of the positive milestones he has achieved during his time as Group COO and CEO.

DagangHalal, UK - $1.48M, October 2016

A search for a replacement for CEO Mohamed Hazli Mohamed Hussain has commenced. In the interim period, Francis Chong, Managing Director and co-founder, has assumed the role of CEO with immediate effect.

iGAMBIT, New York - $1.47M, October 2016

The Board of Directors of iGambit unanimously voted to remove Rory T. Welch as its president and CEO. On October 24, 2016, Board of Directors unanimously voted to appoint John Salerno as its interim President and CEO, to replace its current president and chief executive. Officer Rory T. Welch. Mr. Welch will remain in the role of CEO and President of Subsidiary Wala.

Magor Corporation, Ontario - $1.4M, August 2016

Magor Corporation announced that Mr. Mike Pascoe has decided to step down as CEO and a member of the Board on August 31, 2016. The board has appointed Mr. Brian Baker, its current CFO, as interim President and CEO and he will be joining the board of directors.

Spindle, Arizona - $0.6M, June 2016

Spindle named Michael J. Schwartz as its Interim CEO. Schwartz replaces Bill Clark who has held the CEO role since 2011. Prior to joining Spindle, Schwartz was Chief Technology Officer, International Group of Fiserv.

Quantum Materials, Texas - $0.25M, December 2016

On December 22, 2016, Quantum Materials Corp. and Sriram Peruvemba entered into a Resignation Agreement pursuant to which Mr. Peruvemba resigned from his positions of officer and director of the company and agreed to terminate his employment agreement dated June 13, 2016. The company elected Stephen Squires Interim CEO and President.

Kronologi Asia Berhad, Selangor, Malaysia - October 2015

Kronologi Asia Berhad announced appointment of Mr. Teo Chong Meng Philip Dominic (Executive Director) as Acting CEO and Mr. Tan Wee Seng Gerard (Independent Non-Executive Director) as Non-Executive Chairman.

Wall Street Media Co., New York, NY - October 2015

Wall Street Media Co. announced that Jerrold D. Burden immediately resigned as the sole director, CEO, President, Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer of the company. The company also announced that Jeffrey A. Lubchansky was appointed as the company's sole officer and director, serving as the company's interim CEO, President, Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer.

Epcylon Technologies, Toronto, ON - September 2015

Effective on September 22, 2015, the board of directors of Epcylon Technologies accepted the resignation of Jack J. Bensimon as the CEO and member of the board of directors of the company. Gary Schwartz, as director of lead strategies on behalf of the company, will be overseeing the day-to-day operations of the company until a replacement for CEO has been appointed.

Micromax Informatics, India - January 2016

Micromax announced that CEO Vineet Taneja has resigned from the company. Taneja was appointed the CEO in May 2014. The company's four promoters, Rajesh Agarwal, Vikas Jain, Rahul Sharma and Sumeet Kumar, that own about 80% stake, are now in charge of the company.

HempTech Corporation, Florida - January 2016

In connection with the new operating structure and upon completion of the Agronetix Merger, Sam Talari will become the Acting CEO and CFO of Agronetix. The Company will start to recruit a CEO for HempTech Sam Talari will remain as the acting CEO for HempTech.

Trendit, Israel, March 2016

The Board of Directors of Trendit appointed Lior Romano as Executive Director. Mr. Romano will also act as interim CEO until a permanent replacement is appointed. Mr. Romano is also CEO of Contacts+. Benny Saban, CEO of the company, has notified the Board of his resignation from his role as CEO and as a member of the company's board.

VGTel, New York, April 2016

VGTel announced that effective August 31, 2015, the interim management team, consisting of Amilya Antonetti, interim CEO, and K. Bryce Toussaint, interim President elected not to renew the 90-day interim management contract, and as of August 31, 2015, Ms. Antonetti and Mr. Toussaint are no longer affiliated with the company. The Board of Directors is seeking replacements for both President and CEO positions.

ZipLocal, Canada, May 2016

ZipLocal announced that the Board of Directors has approved the appointment of Raj Ravindran, CFA, MBA, Ph.D as Interim CEO and Interim CFO. Both positions were vacant as a result of the resignations of Paul Van Damme as CFO and Director, and Kevin Dane as CEO and Director.

Gateway Media, Missouri, June 2016

Gateway Media announced that Gabe Douek CEO has left the company.

Lavu, New Mexico, June 2016

Marc Chesley has stepped down as the CEO of Lavu. Chesley confirmed that he left Lavu June 9, 2016.

HGS Colibrium, Georgia, June 2016

HGS Colibrium’s Board of Directors announced that Mark Poling has resigned as CEO and is leaving as a founder to pursue other interests.

chatAND, New York, June 2016

David Stefanksy, a member of the Company's Board of Directors, will serve as Interim CEO.

WordLogic, Canada, June 2016

Frank Evanshen hereby resigned from the Board of Directors and the position of CEO and President of WordLogic.

Spire, Massachusetts, August 2016

On August 19, 2016, the Board of Directors of Spire Corporation notified Rodger W. LaFavre that he was released as CEO and as an employee of Spire Corporation, effective August 26, 2016. *Replacement not announced.

TransBiotec, California, September 2016

TransBiotec appointed Ivan Braiker as Interim CEO and Interim Secretary, on September 1, 2016. Mr. Braiker was CEO of DubLi from May 2015 to January 2016. Prior to his position with DubLi, Mr. Braiker was President and CEO of Hipcricket from 2004 to 2014.

INTREorg Systems, Texas, October 2016

INTREorg Systems appointed, Mr. Thomas Lindholm to serve as a member of the company's board of directors. The board intends for Mr. Lindholm to serve as Executive Director (Officer) and be charged with recruiting and hiring a full time CEO for the Company to replace out-going President, Darren Dunckel. Currently, Mr. Lindholm is CEO of Rangeford Resources. Previously Mr. Lindholm was EVP of Radiant Oil and Gas and consultant to several other oil and gas companies in Houston, Texas.

UA Multimedia, California, October 2016

UA Multimedia announced that due to weak results in the movie production business, the Company has appointed Thu Pham as acting CEO to oversee a shift in operations and guide the Company into the advantageous and thriving cannabis industry.

FibreCo Telecommunications, South Africa, October 2016

FibreCo Telecommunications has appointed Simon Harvey as its interim CEO for the next six months. The company says Harvey is taking over from Arif Hussain, who is leaving FibreCo after six years to pursue personal interests.

Techstep ASA, Norway, October 2016

Techstep ASA announced that the termination notice period for its CEO, Lonnie Schilling, has expired and, as a result, that Mr. Schilling no longer serves as CEO of the company. By resolution of the board of directors of the company, Fredrik Johansson, COO and acting CFO, has assumed the position as acting CEO, pending the board's decision on a permanent CEO.

Omnitele, Finland, December 2016

Tomi Paatsila, the CEO of Omnitele since October 2010, is departing from the company after December 31, 2016. Head of Service and Business Development Ville Laakso, who has been with Omnitele since 2006, is appointed as Acting CEO starting January 1, 2017. In his new role Ville Laakso shall be responsible for further strengthening the customer relationships of the company and thereby the overall business of Omnitele.

Avero, New York, December 2016

Avero announced that its founder, Damian Mogavero, is stepping down from his position as CEO, effective January 5, 2017. He is leaving to pursue new opportunities related to hospitality and will remain involved in Avero in an advisory capacity.

Zyber Holdings, Australia, December 2016

Zyber Holdings Limited announced the resignation of Mr. Ben Daly as CEO and Mr. Jason Tomkinson will step down from his role as an executive director and will move to a non-executive role.

ProText Mobility, Florida, December 2016

On September 1, 2015, and on September 11, 2015, ProText Mobility accepted the resignations of Steve Berman as Interim CEO and Frank Chester as a member of the Board of Directors, respectively. On September 12, 2015, the company appointed David Lewis as Interim CEO. Mr. Lewis was previously serving on the Board of Directors as Executive Director and remains in that capacity.

Other Moves:

SunEdison Semiconductor - The employment of Shaker Sadasivam, President and CEO of the Company, was terminated.

Tech Companies: CEOs Appointed

This is the detailed version of CEOs Appointed in the month December 2016.

Fujitsu Limited, Japan - $45.25B, December 2016

Fujitsu has announced personnel changes, effective from April 1, 2017. The company has appointed Fujitsu Laboratories CEO Shigeru Sasaki as CEO and representative director.

SK Telecom, South Korea - $15.56B, December 2016

SK Telecom has appointed Park Jung-ho as its CEO, effective 2017. He previously served as CEO of SK Holding C&C. Park Jung-ho replaces Jang Dong-hyun, who will take up the position of sole CEO of SK Holdings C&C.

Viacom, New York - $12.48B, December 2016

Viacom announced that it has discontinued the exploration of a potential combination with CBS following receipt of National Amusements' letter and request, and appointed Bob Bakish as President and CEO and as a member of the Board. Bakish has served as Acting President and CEO of Viacom since November 15, 2016.

The Priceline Group, Connecticut - $10.39B, December 2016

The Priceline Group reported that Glenn Fogel, the company's current Head of Strategy and EVP of Corporate Development, has been named CEO of the company, effective January 1.

Telefónica Deutschland Holding AG, Germany - $8.75B, December 2016

Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG said that its supervisory board has resolved to appoint Markus Haas as CEO of the company effective as of January 1, 2017. Currently, he is COO of the company.

Chunghwa Telecom, Taiwan - $7.46B, December 2016

Chunghwa Telecom announced that Mr. Yu Cheng will take over the roles as Chairman and CEO of the company, succeeding Dr. Lih-Shyng Tsai. He was the former CEO and the current member of Board of Contemporary Taiwan Development Foundation.

Sabre, Texas - $3.3B, December 2016

Sabre appointed Sean Menke as president, CEO and a member of Sabre's board, effective Dec. 31, 2016. Menke will succeed Tom Klein, who has served as president, CEO and board member since 2013. Menke joined Sabre in October 2015 and currently serves as EVP of Sabre and president of Sabre Travel Network.

Hutchison Telecommunications, Hong Kong - $2.1B, December 2016

Woo Chiu Man, Cliff (‘Mr. Woo’) will be appointed as Executive Director and CEO of the Company with effect from 1 January 2017. Mr. Woo has been a director of Hutchison Telecommunications (Australia) Limited. Mr. Woo held various senior technology management positions in the telecommunications industry before joining in 1998 the group of Hutchison Whampoa Limited (‘HWL’).

Mobile Telecommunications Company Saudi Arabia, Saudi Arabia - $1.81B, December 2016

Mobile Telecommunication Company Saudi Arabia (Zain) announced the resignation of its CEO Mr. Hassan Kabbani, due to personal reasons. Zain KSA also appointed Mr. Peter Kaliaropoulos, as the new CEO. Kaliaropoulos joins Zain Saudi Arabia as a highly-accomplished telecom professional with over 30 years of international ICT sector experience.

Lands' End, Wisconsin - $1.35B, December 2016

Lands’ End announced that its Board of Directors has named Jerome Griffith to be the company’s next CEO. Griffith is a highly respected global executive with extensive experience driving growth and innovation for iconic consumer brands, who most recently served as President and CEO of Tumi Holdings.

National Instruments, Texas - $1.23B, December 2016

Alex Davern, NI’s current COO and CFO, became CEO of the company effective Jan. 1, 2017.

Kingsoft, China - $1.12B, December 2016

SVP Tao ZOU has been appointed as CEO of the company with a term of five years.

Consolidated Communications, North Carolina - $755.4M, December 2016

Consolidated Communications Holdings announced that it agreed to acquire FairPoint Communications. After the transaction closes, Bob Udell will continue to serve as president and CEO of the combined company and one director from the FairPoint Board will join the Consolidated Communications board of directors. The combined company will retain the Consolidated Communications name and will be headquartered in Mattoon, Ill.

Chorus, New Zealand - $718.7M, December 2016

Chorus Limited appointed Kate McKenzie as its new CEO, effective from February 2017. Kate is a highly regarded and experienced telco executive. Most recently Kate was Telstra’s Chief Operations Officer, responsible for Telstra’s field services, IT and network architecture and operations.

Synchronoss Technologies, New Jersey - $633.9M, December 2016

Synchronoss Technologies and Intralinks Holdings announced that they have entered into a definitive agreement for Synchronoss to acquire Intralinks for approximately $821 million in equity value. Ron Hovsepian, CEO of Intralinks, is expected to be appointed CEO of Synchronoss and join the Synchronoss board of directors upon closing of the transaction with Synchronoss’ Founder and current CEO, Stephen G. Waldis will move into the role of active Executive Chairman of the board.

Interactive Intelligence Group, Indiana - $426.2M, December 2016

In connection with the closing of the merger Interactive Intelligence Group and U.S. Bank National Association (the Trustee) entered into a First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 1, 2016, to the Indenture, dated as of May 26, 2015, between the company and the Trustee, relating to the company's outstanding 1.25% convertible senior notes due 2020. In connection with the merger, and as contemplated by the Merger Agreement, Paul Segre, CEO of Genesys, was appointed as CEO (principal executive officer).

Comet Holding, Switzerland - $309.7M, December 2016

COMET Group announced CEO change for May 2017. Ronald Fehlmann will leave COMET Group by the end of April 2017, to seek other professional opportunities. Dr. René Lenggenhager appointed as new CEO of COMET Group as of May 2017. Dr. René Lenggenhager, from 2000 to 2015, senior manager at Mettler-Toledo AG in Greifensee (Switzerland). There, he first led the R&D department, and since 2004 the Global Business Area Laboratory Weighing Technologies, as its general manager.

Xura, Massachusetts - $292.7M, December 2016

Xura announced that its affiliates have entered into definitive agreements to acquire Mitel Mobility The Xura Board of Directors has appointed Pardeep Kohli, formerly CEO of Mitel Mobile’s predecessor (Mavenir Systems) and Co-Founder and CEO of Ranzure Networks, to succeed Philippe Tartavull as CEO of Xura.

Doro, Sweden - $232.9M, December 2016

Doro’s Board of Directors has appointed Robert Puskaric as new CEO and President. Robert joins Doro from his current position as Ericsson Group SVP with responsibility for special strategic projects.

Altibox, Norway - $211.4M, December 2016

Altibox appointed Thomas Skjelbred as its new CEO. He has spent the last two-and-a-half years as technical director at the Lyse subsidiary, and also has fifteen years of management experience at Telenor. Skjelbred replaces Nils Arne Bakke, who is moving to a post as director for business development and strategic projects at parent company Lyse.

Global Sources, Bermuda - $160M, December 2016

Global Sources has appointed Craig Pepples as the CEO of the company effective January 1, 2017. Mr. Pepples was named Deputy CEO with effect on October 1, 2016, following the announcement that Mr. Spenser Au would retire from Global Sources at the end of 2016.

Tenable Network Security, Maryland - $153.8M, December 2016

Tenable Network Security announced that Amit Yoran will become the company’s chairman and CEO effective Jan. 3, 2017. Yoran joins Tenable after serving as president of RSA.

NLY Scandinavia, Sweden - $134.6M, December 2016

Qliro Group AB (publ) has recruited Jan Wallsin as new CEO of Nelly. He most recently comes from the role as Digital and Online development manager for H&M New Business Group and prior to that held the position of COO and Head of H&M Online Expansion.

Agilysys, Georgia - $126.9M, December 2016

Agilysys appointed Ramesh Srinivasan as the company’s new President and CEO, effective January 3, 2017. Mr. Srinivasan, who most recently served as CEO of Ooyala will also serve as a member of Agilysys’ Board of Directors.

Fortec Elektronik, Germany - $86.7M, December 2016

Dieter Fischer, being the chairman of the board of managing directors (CEO) of FORTEC Elektronik AG for many years, announced his retirement for the time after his 65th birthday per June 30, 2017 end of BY 2016/17. As per July 1, 2017, the supervisory board will appoint and elect Sandra Maile (CEO of subsidiary Autronic GmbH) and Bernhard Staller (CEO of subsidiary Data Display GmbH) into the board of managing directors of the company.

Newtec Cy, Belgium - $73.5M, December 2016

Newtec announced that after ten years of dedicated and successful leadership CEO Serge Van Herck has decided to resign and move his career in another direction. The company's board of directors has appointed Thomas Van den Driessche, who was named chief commercial officer four years ago, to succeed Van Herck as CEO, effective from January 1, 2017.

Orascom Telecom Media and Technology Holding, Egypt - $55M, December 2016

Tamer El Mahdi, COO & Deputy CEO, as the CEO successor.

Quadrant 4 System, Illinois - $54.8M, December 2016

Quadrant 4 System Corporation announced the appointments of Robert Steele as CEO and Shekhar Iyer as COO. Steele has been serving as President of Q4’s Health Division and Iyer has been serving as President of Q4’s Education Division.

Clarabridge, Virginia - $54M, December 2016

Clarabridge appointed Mark Bishof as CEO. As President and CEO of Flexera Software, Bishof spent 10 years growing the company to from $200 million to over $1 billion in enterprise value.

Forebase International, Hong Kong - $46.3M, December 2016

Forebase International Holdings Limited announced that, with effect from 30 December 2016. Mr. Gan Lin be appointed as CEO of the company. Mr. Gan is currently an executive director of the company.

Amobee, California - $42.9M, December 2016

Amobee announced that Kim Perell has been appointed to CEO, as current CEO Mark Strecker steps down to pursue new opportunities. Kim Perell currently serves as Amobee's President.

I.D. Systems, New Jersey - $37.8M, December 2016

I.D. Systems has announced that current Chief Product Officer Chris Wolfe has been appointed the new CEO of the company.

GET Holdings, Hong Kong - $35.1M, December 2016

Ms. Hung Yvonne has been appointed as an executive Director and the CEO of the Company. Ms. Hung was a director of Century Harmony Investment Limited.

Uniguest, Tennessee - $33.3M, December 2016

Uniguest announced the appointments of Jeff Hiscox as CEO. Previously, Hiscox served as president and CEO of Newmarket International (hospitality technology) in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, where he oversaw significant company growth in both revenue and EBITDA.

Qvantel Oy, Finland - $30.1M, December 2016

Qvantel appointed Ove Anebygd as the new CEO for the company. Ove Anebygd joins Qvantel from Ericsson, where he has held several executive positions in the last 20 years in the telecommunications sector. Most recently he has acted as the VP & Head of Product Area Digital Business Systems.

Ubisense Group, UK - $29.6M, December 2016

Ubisense Group plc appointed Richard Petti as CEO. Richard joins Ubisense having most recently been CEO of Asset Control.

Professional Diversity Network, Illinois - $29.2M, December 2016

Professional Diversity Network appointed Maoji (Michael) Wang to the position of CEO. Katherine Butkevich, the Company’s former CEO, will become CEO of NAPW, the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary. Maoji (Michael) Wang, 44, is currently a director of the Company and CEO and investor in Cosmic Forward Limited, the Company’s majority stockholder.

Corrisoft, Kentucky - $28.1M, December 2016

Corrisoft announced Bill Johnson has stepped down as President and CEO. Corrisoft's VP of Sales and Marketing, Jim Webb, will take over as Corrisoft's new President and CEO, ensuring a seamless transition with no impact on day-to-day operations or customer relations.

PROACTIS Holdings, UK - $25.7M, December 2016

PROACTIS Holdings PLC announced that Rod Jones has tendered his resignation as a director of the company and from his position as CEO. Current CFO, Tim Sykes, will be the CEO Designate whilst the company commences a search for a new CFO.

On Campus Marketing, Maryland - $19.5M, December 2016

Spire Capital Partners announced the continued growth of the executive team at On Campus Marketing. The addition of Jeff Scott, as CEO, will allow OCM to continue to provide high-quality service to its customers and school and university partners. Jeff Scott comes to OCM from his prior role as COO of GAIN Capital.

SSH Communications Security, Finland - $17.3M, December 2016

The Board of Directors of SSH Communications Security have appointed Kaisa Olkkonen as the new CEO of the company. She will start on January 1, 2017. Ms. Olkkonen has more than twenty-five years of experience in leadership roles in the digital services and telecommunications sectors. She has extensive experience in building and leading diverse international teams through change and transition.

Telensa, UK - $17.3M, December 2016

Telensa has appointed Will Franks as CEO. Franks has served on the board of the company for two years, and has a track record of leading tech companies through the transition needed to sustain rapid international growth.

Bookatable, UK - $13.5M, December 2016

Bookatable has appointed Michel Cassius as the company's CEO. Most recently Cassius has worked as an MD, CEO and non-executive director for a number of technology businesses. He started his career with Apple, before joining EA (Electronic Arts), and finally Microsoft where he was overseeing the European Xbox publishing business. Cassius succeeds Joe Steele as Bookatable CEO from November 2016.

Microphase, Connecticut - $8.04M, December 2016

Michael Ghadaksaz is the new CEO of the Company, effective as of December 1, 2016. Ghadaksaz served as the Chief Technology Officer and Chief Marketing Officer of the company.

Biamp Systems, Oregon - $2.47M, December 2016

Biamp Systems announced that Steve Metzger, president and CEO, is stepping down and Matt Czyzewski, COO is designated as his successor effective January 1, 2017.

RedZone Robotics, Pennsylvania - $1.2M, December 2016

RedZone Robotics announced that Dan Yingst, current COO, will become the company’s CEO.

Cleartronic, Florida - $0.59M, December 2016

Michael M. Moore was elected as the Registrant's new CEO of the corporation by the Board of Directors.

1-PAGE, California - $0.589M, December 2016

1-Page Limited announced founder Ms. Joanna Riley will step down as CEO to focus on strategy and business development. Mr. Peter Kent, currently CFO, will assume the role of CEO from 1 January 2017.

PAID, Massachusetts - $0.524M, December 2016

W. Austin Lewis resigned as the Company's President and CEO to allow emergeITs President, Allan Pratt, to become President and CEO of the Company.

Covata, Australia - $0.267M, December 2016

Covata Limited appointed Mr. Ted Pretty as the Managing Director and CEO of Covata, effective 23 January 2017. Pretty is also on the Advisory Board of Lighthouse Accelerator located at Barangaroo.

Bisk Education, Florida - $0.1M, December 2016

Bisk appointed Michael Bisk to CEO. He succeeds Andrew Titen, who continues as senior adviser to the chairman, Nathan Bisk. Michael Bisk has served in several leadership positions at the company, most recently as president since January 2014.

Amber Group, Nevada, December 2016

On November 29, 2016, Mr. Tee Chuen Meng was appointed as President and CEO, Secretary and Treasurer of Amber Group. Mr. Tee Chuen Meng has been navigating these companies for over 5 years expanding it to 70 retail stores in several countries. Mr. Tee is also the Senior Physician for Natural Health Naturopathics Centre.

Crowd 4 Seeds, Israel, December 2016

Kok Chee Lee named as Director & CEO. Dr. Kok Chee LEE, 60, brings extensive public management experience, and was previously Deputy Chief of a Police Center at Bayan Baru, Penang, Malaysia. He served more than 42 years in the Police Force of Penang, Malaysia until retirement on July 1, 2016.

Green Revolution Cooling, Texas, December 2016

Green Revolution Cooling selected Peter Poulin to serve as its new CEO. Poulin has spent the last 3 decades in IT, half of which at Compaq, the rest as VP of North American sales and marketing for APC, as an adviser to various small companies, and as CEO of Motion Computing.

WhereScape, Oregon, December 2016

WhereScape reported that Mark Budzinski, a 30-year industry veteran who currently serves as president of WhereScape USA and global head of sales, has been promoted to the post of CEO.

Media Analytics, California, December 2016

Guoqiang Qian named as President, CEO, Chairman. Guoqiang Qian spent the earlier part of his 40-year career working for the Shanghai Railway Yangpu Station and Shanghai Railway Bureau.

AppTech, California, December 2016

The Board of Directors of AppTech Corp. has appointed Steven Cox as the new President & CEO. Mr. Cox, who has been AppTech's President for the last three and a half years, replaces Luke D'Angelo who will remain as Chairman of the Board and Chief Investment Officer.

Enhanced Telecommunications, Georgia, December 2016

ETI Software Solutions announced that Frank Gine has been promoted from President and COO of ETI Software to CEO.

Datameer, California, December 2016

Datameer appointed Christian Rodatus, as CEO of the company. Most recently, he was EVP at Enlightened. Former Teradata and SAP HANA.

Lekmer, Sweden, December 2016

Qliro Group AB (publ) announced that Oscar Tjärnberg has been appointed as new CEO of the subsidiary Lekmer. He most recently comes from the role as CCO of Lekmer.

Conversant Intellectual Property Management, Ontario, December 2016

Conversant Intellectual Property Management announced that its Board of Directors has appointed Boris Teksler to be the company's new President and CEO and a member of the Board of Directors. Most recently he was the CEO of Unwired Planet.

CNV.com, Oregon, December 2016

Ann Houlihan becomes the new CEO of the company. Houlihan started with CNV 7 years ago as a contract book keeper, became full time controller, VP of Operations, and now CEO.

Surrey Capital, Ontario, December 2016

Surrey Capital elected Paul Dickson as President and CEO.

Tuition.io, California, December 2016

Tuition.io announced Scott Thompson as its new CEO. Thompson joins Tuition.io from ShopRunner where he served as CEO and led the company's rapid retail and member network expansion over the last four years. Prior to ShopRunner, Thompson was CEO of Yahoo.

Promisec Limited, Israel, December 2016

Promisec announced that its Board of Directors has appointed Simo Kamppari as CEO and President. Kamppari, a partner at Synetro Group, has served on Promisec's Board since 2012.

BMC Software, Texas, December 2016

BMC Software announced Peter Leav has joined BMC as President and CEO. Leav succeeds Bob Beauchamp, who continues to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors and will play a key role going forward. Leav joins BMC from Polycom, where he served as President and CEO for the last three years.

PICWELL, Pennsylvania, December 2016

Picwell has appointed Matthew Sydney as the company's CEO. Mr. Sydney succeeds Jay Silverstein, who will continue to serve as an advisor to the Picwell Board of Directors. Mr. Sydney most recently was EVP of Sales at HealthEquity.

Translarity, California, December 2016

Translarity appointed Laura Oliphant as CEO and a member of the board of directors. Dr. Oliphant brings more than 20 years of industry experience to her new role having previously served as Director of Intel Capital.

Apposite Technology, California, December 2016

Ranch Creek Partners announced that it has appointed Steve Fazio as its new CEO. Apposite's new CEO, has more than 20 years of successfully launching and operating companies in consulting, network technology, IT solutions and managed services. He is a proven operator and executive with extensive experience building teams and growing technology businesses.

DataTorrent, California, December 2016

DataTorrent announced its board of directors unanimously appointed Guy Churchward as President and CEO effective February 2017. Churchward is joining DataTorrent from Dell EMC where he serves as President of their Core Technologies Division.

Global CashSpot, Nevada, December 2016

Global CashSpot Corp. has reported that its Board of Directors has named Pierre Sawaya as CEO. Sawaya is the founder and former Chairman of Endless One Global, an international Tier-1 payment processor and financial software developer that holds patents on security features and proprietary cross-border payment processing technology.

Boston Globe Media Partners, Massachusetts, December 2016

Boston Globe Media Partners announced that CEO Mike Sheehan is stepping down. The company announced that, a veteran of The Atlanta Journal-Constitution and Cox Enterprises will take over that role in January 2017. Doug Franklin was chosen as CEO after a 10-month national search.

Max Telecom, Bulgaria, December 2016

Max Telecom appointed Andrey Rassiysky as the new CEO of the company. He joined Max in 2013 and was appointed CTO of the telecom operator before that. Before joining the company, he was also a chairman of the board of directors of Vestitel's Greek office between 2010 and 2013.

Bharti Airtel Africa B.V., Netherlands, December 2016

Bharti Airtel announced top level changes for its Africa operations. Raghunath Mandava, who is currently the COO - Airtel Africa, will take over as Managing Director and CEO - Airtel Africa with effect from January 1, 2017.

CompuCom Systems, Texas, December 2016

CompuCom Systems announced it has appointed Dan Stone as its new CEO, effective November 28, 2016. Stone previously served for two years as EVP and president, End-User Enablement, a core strength in CompuCom’s portfolio.

Limes Audio, Sweden, December 2016

Limes Audio appointed Henrik Nilsson as CEO from December 1, 2016, as current CEO Sandra Finér leaves for a new position outside of the company. Henrik Nilsson, IHM Market Economist and Master of Science, was most recently at T3, where he has been the Marketing and sales manager for the past five years.

LeoNovus, Ontario, December 2016

Michael Gaffney was voted in as Chair of the board of directors and also appointed as CEO. From 2004 to 2013, Mr. Gaffney was CEO of In-Touch Insight Systems.

ME Renewable Power, Latvia, December 2016

ME Renewable Power Corporation announced that effective December 1, 2016, Mr. Anthony Williams resigned as CEO and, if any, from all other offices of the company. Concurrently, the company appointed Ka Sing Edmund Yeung as CEO. Mr. Yeung also serves as President, CFO, Secretary, Treasurer and as a Director. The company’s officers and board of directors now solely consists of Mr. Yeung.

Interups, New York, December 2016

Interups, a holding company that intends to acquire or invest in operational Educational and Hospitality Real Property assets and businesses in India, announced that Louise Jones has been named CEO. Jones has been associated with the Company since July, 2016.

Prior to that, from November, 2014, until July, 2016, she was a partner at the Murray Peeler Group.

↧

↧

Recent Tech Exec Turnover - 68 Open CIO, CTO, CISO Roles & 68 Appointments

Welcome to our Tech Function Exec Appointment Trends & Open Roles for the - 34 days ended January 19th 2017. The roles covered here: heads of technology, which include CTOs, CIOs, Tech & Ops, CISOs, Cyber and related.

By the numbers, overall:

Total Tech Exec Roles Open: 68

New Tech Exec Appointments: 68 (9 women or 13.2%, 59 men)

The geographic breakdown of open roles and new appointments was as follows:

New Tech Function Openings: 6 – Nordstrom (Washington), Twitter (CA), Sam's West (AK), USA Truck (China), U.S. Energy Department (Washington, D.C.), and United States Department of Defense (Washington, D.C.).

Tech Execs Appointed - Sources

Sources of Appointments: 51 were External appointments, and 17 were internal promotions – Divisional execs (3), Interim or Deputy CIO/CTO (2), Others (12).

Others: SVP or VP, Technology, VP-Business Transformation, VP-Research & Innovation, Founder, Director or Senior Director of IT, CFO, CIO to CTO, CTO to President, technology etc.

Diversity: 13.2% of the appointments are women Tech Execs. Reserve Bank of New Zealand (New Zealand), Qantas Airways (Australia), Catlin Group (Bermuda), NSFOCUS (CA), Federal Reserve Bank Of Dallas (Guatemala), Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services (FL), NJVC (VA), Axio Global (NY), Nutanix (CA).

Geographic Distribution: 43 in the US, 13 in Europe, and 12 in Asia/Russia/ Australasia.

Want to keep up to date? Get more updates on new board members (Tech execs on tech and non tech boards; women board members), on new execs/board updates for the Giants, the software industry, and many more. A summary of Vell Research Reports and board/exec updates can be found here.Vell Research Reports and Exec/board moves.

Dora Vell

Vell Executive Search

t: 617-530-1260 - dora@vell.com

Vell Executive Search is a retained executive search firm that specializes in recruiting technology execs for boards and executive roles, such as CEOs and C-Levels. Vell has built a reputation for recruiting talented high-performing leadership teams globally. www.vell.com

Dell, Texas - $59B, November 2015

Bask Iyer, CIO and IoT manager at VMware, has been named interim CIO of Dell.

Nordstrom, Washington, $14.4B, January 2017

Nordstrom is searching for a technology executive to lead digital strategy following an executive-level shakeup in which the retailer’s chief information officer and chief technology officer announced their departures in the span of two weeks. The CIO title will be eliminated. The company plans to hire a new CTO by the end of the year who will be responsible for all aspects of technology at Nordstrom.

TE Connectivity, Switzerland - $14.26B, October 2015

EVP and CTO, Robert Shaddock, is retiring from the Company effective late in 2016.

Kellogg Company, Illinois - $13.5B, August 2016

Kellogg Company is seeking a VP, Chief Information Security Officer at the Kellogg Company in Oak Brook, IL.

Biogen, Massachusetts - $9.7B, June 2016

After just over a year in the position, Biogen CIO Matt Griffiths is no longer with the company. Biogen plans to fill the CIO position. In the meantime, Mr. Griffiths’ organization reports to Adriana Andi Karaboutis, Biogen’s EVP of technology, business solutions and corporate affairs.

Hudson's Bay Company, New York - $9.59B, July 2015

Hudson's Bay Company is currently seeking a Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) who will be responsible for establishing and maintaining an enterprise-wide information security strategy, architecture and program designed to ensure that HBC information assets are appropriately protected.

Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri, Turkey, $4.61B, August 2016

Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS announced that lker Kuruoz, who joined Company in 2006, and who has served as the EVP of Technology Group, has decided to resign from his position. *no replacement announced.

Tesla Motors, California - $3.5B, March 2016

Jay Vijayan has left his job as the CIO at Tesla Motors to begin working on a stealth startup. Tesla Motors confirmed Mr. Vijayan’s departure, but it would not say whether it has yet found a permanent replacement.

Parsons Corporation, California, $3.2B, September 2016

Parsons is looking for a CIO to lead the IT department.

Teradata Labs, California - $2.53B, July 2016

Teradata Labs is looking for a CTO to join the Unified Data Architecture (UDA) Platform Technologies team.

Marvell Technology, Bermuda, $2.458B, September 2016

Dr. Zining Wu, CTO, notified Marvell Technology of his decision to leave Marvell. *The company did not announce whether it has yet found a permanent replacement.

Twitter, California - $2.2B, December 2016

Twitter's CTO Adam Messinger tweeted that he decided to leave the company and take some time off. Messinger didn't say where he was headed next.

Magyar Telekom Telecommunications, Hungary - $2.22B, September 2016

Magyar Telekom announced that Chief Technology and IT Officer, Walter Goldenits shall leave his position with effect from December 31, 2016 to become CTO at Telekom Germany with effect from January 1, 2017.

Criteo SA, France - $1.62B, November 2016

Romain Niccoli resigned from his position as the company's Chief Product Officer effective December 31, 2016. Mr. Niccoli has agreed to serve the company in a consulting role for a period of time following his resignation.

Amedisys, Louisiana - $1.35B, October 2016

Amedisys announced that Martin B. Howard, CIO, is leaving the company, effective October 31, 2016. Michael North, SVP of operations, will assume the role of interim CIO. North, a seasoned IT executive, most recently led Amedisys' successful conversion to the Homecare Homebase platform.

Informatica, California, $1.05B, September 2016

Informatica is looking for a CISO to lead the corporate security and data privacy.

US Government Publishing Office, Washington, DC - $773.4M, November 2016

U.S. Government Publishing Office (GPO) named Tracee Boxley Acting CIO. Boxley replaces former GPO CIO Chuck Riddle, who has moved to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Boxley came to GPO in 2006 as a Senior Customer Advocate for IT and was promoted to Deputy CIO in 2012.

MicroStrategy, Virginia - $579.8M, June 2015

MicroStrategy seeks a CISO, who will establish and develop global information security management programs for our internal systems and customer offerings.

Sheng Siong Group, Singapore - $577.4M, October 2016

Sheng Siong Group announced the cessation of Gary Pow Han Chin as CIO due to personal reasons. He is responsible for overseeing group's design, development, implementation and maintenance of the various computer systems required for operations, including Management Information System, as well as enterprise Resource Planning System, data recovery plans and back-up schemes.

Global Eagle Entertainment, California - $486.2M, November 2016

Global Eagle Entertainment and Aditya Chatterjee, the company’s CTO, have entered into a Separation and Release Agreement.

Splunk, California, $450.9M, September 2016

Splunk is looking for a CISO to lead the IT security.

ShoreTel, California - $360.9M, May 2016

Pankaj Malhotra, the CTO of ShoreTel announced that he would be leaving the Company, effective June 30, 2016, on mutually agreeable terms. The company hasn’t announced any replacement yet.

Momo, China - $346.4M, October 2016

Momo announced that Zhiwei Li, CTO of the company, has resigned from the company for personal reasons.

StarTek, Colorado - $252.7M, October 2015

Kamalesh Dwivedi, the company's CIO, separated from the company effective October 14, 2015.

inContact, Utah - $222.0M, April 2016

On April 15, 2016, inContact reached an agreement with Julian Critchfield, EVP and CTO, for his separation from service with the Company.

Carbonite, Massachusetts - $188.6M, November 2016

David Raissipour tendered his resignation as SVP, Product and Engineering of Carbonite.

LogMeIn, Massachusetts - $166.3M, November 2014

LogMeIn is seeking a CISO to serve as a subject matter expert and leader reporting into the CTO. The CISO will lead a global team of four and be responsible for the security of LogMeIn’s suite of award winning software products (including secure development), product delivery (NOC), security features of our products (security design), internal infrastructure (development environment), and 3rd party services (CRM’s, etc).

Mastech Holdings, Pennsylvania - $123.50M, March 2016

On March 11, 2016, Denis D. Deet ceased to be VP of Technology and CIO of Mastech Holdings.

Spar Group, New York - $119.3M, April 2016

SPAR Group announced that its CIO, Panos Mastrogiannis will be leaving the company to pursue other opportunities, effective May 6, 2016.

Just Dial, India - $104.2M, October 2016

Just Dial has announced that R. V. Raman, CTO of the company has resigned from the company.

Cartesian, Kansas - $80.6M, June 2016

Cartesian announced the termination of employment to Jim Baker, the Company's CTO and CIO and a named executive officer.

Kresta Holdings, Australia - $69.9M, April 2016

Albert Xu has resigned as CIO, a role he has filled since June 2014.

Spark Networks, California - $55M, October 2015

Spark Networks announced that resignation of Gregory J. Franchina as a CIO, delivered a notice of resignation to the Company indicating that he intended to resign from the Company effective as of November 14, 2015. The Company intends to replace Mr. Franchina and has initiated the process of recruiting qualified candidates.

BSM Technologies, Canada - $39.7M, November 2016

BSM Technologies announced that Alban Hoxha, CTO of the company, will be leaving the organization to pursue other opportunities, effective January 20, 2017.

CSB Bancorp , Ohio - $24.5M, February 2016

CSB Bancorp announced that Steven R. Bailey, EVP, COO and CIO of the company and its wholly owned affiliate The Commercial & Savings Bank, notified the company that he will be retiring and resigning his positions with the Companies, effective March 4, 2016.

Diadexus, California - $18.10M, March 2016

Diadexus announced that Dr. Emilia Zychlinksy, EVP and Chief Technical Officer, notified the company on March 14, 2016, that she is resigning effective as of April 1, 2016. She will continue in that role until the effective date of her resignation.

Microphase, Connecticut - $9.12M, December 2016

The Company approved the appointment of Mr. Michael Ghadaksaz as the CEO of the Company. Prior to the Ghadaksaz appointment, Ghadaksaz served as the CTO and CMO. No tech chief replacement has been announced.

NMI Holdings, California - $7.1M, January 2015

Stan Pachura, EVP and CIO, leaves. Pachura's current duties and responsibilities will be assumed by existing members of the Company's management team, until a replacement is chosen.

Uni-Pixel, California - $2.87M, January 2016

On December 28, 2015, Robert Petcavich, the SVP and CTO of Uni-Pixel, Inc, tendered to the company his resignation for personal reasons, effective as of December 31, 2015. Mr. Petcavich will continue to provide services to the company as a consultant.

B-Scada, Florida - $1.8M, April 2016

B-Scada announced that Joshua Weeks, CTO, resigned his position effective April 1, 2016.

SPYR, Colorado - $1.6M, April 2016

SPYR announced that effective March 31, 2016, Mark McGarrity, the Company's CIO, resigned his position with the company.

Knosys, Australia - $0.805M, September 2016

Knosys Limited announced that Mr. Alistair Wardlaw has resigned from the Board and as Knosys' CTO. His other business interests include his stake in the MMG Interactive partnership (MMGI), which is the major subcontractor to Knosys in technology support and provision of IT services. Knosys will continue to sub-contract technology services to MMGI.

*Replacement has not been announced, or if the role is vacant.

CannaSys, Colorado - $0.08M, March 2016

Brandon C. Jennewine resigned from his position as CTO. Mr. Jennewine remains on the board of directors.

Sam's West, Arkansas, January 2017

Wal-Mart Stores CIO Karenann Terrell is leaving the company. Terrell has been with the company for six years, beginning as EVP of information systems. She was promoted to CIO in 2012 and has remained in the role for four years.

Activistic Holdings, Australia, November 2015

The Company announced that Activistic Holdings Pty Ltd’s CTO, Mr. Shahab Zeinoghli has resigned effective 18 November.

Smaato, California, September 2015

Smaato is seeking a CTO to determine the direction of software development, solutions and product offerings.

Brookstone, New Hampshire, June 2015

The CIO is responsible to oversee the development of corporate standards, technology architecture, technology evaluation and transfer; sponsor the business technology planning process; manage client relations; align IT with the business; and develop IT financial management systems.

Blucora, Washington, August 2015

Blucora is looking for a CISO who will be member of the company’s Operations Team.

Supreme Group, Washington, D.C., September 2015

The CIO’s role is to provide vision and leadership for developing and implementing IT initiatives. The CIO directs the planning and implementation of enterprise IT systems in support of business operations in order to improve cost effectiveness, service quality and business development. She/he is also responsible & accountable for all aspects of the organization's IT and systems.

First Help Financial, Massachusetts, October 2015

In order to continue rapid growth, FHF is looking for a highly motivated CTO with leadership and hands-on experience in programming, database, and team management.

The Buckle, Nebraska, November 2015

The Buckle is seeking a CIO to direct, plan, and manage the company's Information Systems employees and resources to ensure the effective development, implementation, and oversight of all data processing, computer operations, and related functions (Communications, Office and Retail Store Systems, Production Activities, Data Warehousing, Merchandise Management, etc.).

Ingram Content Group, Tennessee, February 2016

The Ingram Industries subsidiary is looking for a CIO who is expected to develop and implement an IT strategy that meets current needs, establishes a foundation and roadmap for future direction, and is supported and endorsed by the business.

Allina Health, Minnesota, February 2016

The company seeks a CISO, who will be responsible for overseeing the information security program, including information security policy and the coordination of security efforts across Allina Health.

Utica National Insurance Group, New York, February 2016

The company is looking for a CIO for establishing the strategic direction of the Company’s IT architecture.

Leonard Technology Group, Florida, February 2016

The computer and network security company is seeking a CIO.

Peeple App, California, July 2016

Reputation management iOS app developer Peeple App is looking for a CTO helping to transition their company and position it for maximum growth.

New York Power Authority, New York, July 2016

New York Power Authority is looking for a Chief Security Officer (CSO) to build and sustain a Cyber Risk Framework that integrates Governance and Risk Compliance controls, requirements, oversight and validation into IT and Operational Technology (OT).

SafeAuto, Ohio, July 2016

Property and casualty auto insurance carrier SafeAuto is seeking a CIO who would build a IT model to meet current organizational needs and build for continued leveraging of technology services for the future.

Jellyvision Lab, Illinois, July 2016

Jellyvision is looking for a CTO, who will be business savvy and process-minded tech leader to integrate technology and business plans, make key architectural and infrastructure decisions.

4over, California, August 2016

Trade printer company 4over is looking for a CTO, who will be responsible for overseeing the organization's software development and technology infrastructure.

Sonesta Hotels & Resorts, Massachusetts, August 2016

Sonesta is seeking a CIO, who will be responsible for the successful delivery of IT strategies, services, and operations.

ChartSpan Medical Technologies, South Carolina, September 2016

Healthcare data company ChartSpan is looking for a CIO to lead the IT department.

Deloitte, Illinois, December 2016

Deloitte is looking for a CISO reporting to the CIO.

West Virginia University, Virginia, December 2016

West Virginia University is seeking an inspiring leader for the position of CIO/Associate Provost for Information Technology.

United Medical Center, Washington, D.C., December 2016

The Not for- Profit Hospital Corporation, commonly known as United Medical Center (UMC), is looking for a CIO to provide technology vision and leadership in the development and implementation of the affiliate-wide information technology (IT) program.

USA Truck, China, January 2017

USA Truck announced that effective January 5, 2017, Christian C. Rhodes' role as CIO of USA Truck.

U.S. Energy Department, Washington, D.C., January 2017

Michael Johnson, Energy Department chief information officer, has left the agency following an almost two-year stint with the organization. Robbie Green, principal deputy CIO for enterprise information resources management, has been named interim CIO.

United States Department of Defense, Washington, D.C., January 2017

Terry Halvorsen, who as the Pentagon’s CIO, is retiring at the end of February. Current principal deputy CIO, John Zangardi, is expected to step in as acting CIO.

Tech Execs Appointed

Tech execs appointed in 34 days ended January 19, 2017

Wal-Mart, Arkansas - $482.1B, January 2017

Wal-Mart names GE Power’s Clay Johnson CIO, creates global business services group.

Goldman Sachs, New York - $30.6B, January 2017

Goldman Sachs has said that it has hired a new CIO. Chief risk officer in the firm’s overall trading division Elisha Wiesel is to take over the position at the bank. As CIO, he is to take over from R Martin Chavez, who was recently promoted to CFO.

Staples, Massachusetts - $21.1B, December 2016

Staples announced that it has appointed Faisal Masud to the newly created role of CTO. He had previously served as EVP of Global E-Commerce since joining the company in May, 2013.

Carnival Corporation, Florida - $16.4B, January 2017

Carnival Cruise Line announced that Sean Kenny has been named SVP and CIO for Carnival Cruise Line. Kenny most recently was a global client services executive for Big Four accounting firm Ernst & Young.

Unisys, Pennsylvania -$3.01B, December 2016

Gary Wang has joined Unisys Federal as VP, cloud and infrastructure services. Wang most recently served as CTO, cybersecurity and biometrics at IBM.

Associated Banc-Corp, Wisconsin - $990.2M, January 2017

James (Jim) Payne, currently Associated's EVP and deputy chief information and operations officer, has been promoted to EVP and chief information and operations officer.

Tuesday Morning, Texas - $956.4M, January 2017

Trent Taylor, currently serving as CIO, has been promoted to Chief Information and Supply Chain Officer.

Shutterstock, New York, $464.3M, January 2017

Shutterstock announced that Marty Brodbeck has joined the company as CTO. Brodbeck most recently served as CTO at Sterling Talent Solutions.

Reserve Bank of New Zealand, New Zealand - $87.7M, January 2017

The Reserve Bank has appointed Klarissa Plimmer as CIO. Ms. Plimmer was previously the Director ICT Solution Delivery at the New Zealand Defence Force, and has worked in a number of ICT leadership roles at the BNZ for 13 years.

NewVoiceMedia, United Kingdom - $33.2M, December 2016

NewVoiceMedia has strengthened its executive team with the appointment of Artur Michalczyk as CTO. He brings over 20 years' industry experience to the business, joining from Syniverse where he most recently served as SVP ESG Technology.

Christie’s International, United Kingdom, December 2016

Christie’s International has hired Richard Entrup as global CIO, the London-based auction house said. He comes to the auction house from Disney/ABC Television Group, where he oversaw Media IT business engagement.

Qantas Airways, Australia, December 2016

Qantas Airways has hired SAP SE executive Susan Doniz as its new CIO, as it ramps up efforts to tap cloud computing, data analytics and other digital initiatives.

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance, Massachusetts, January 2017

Mark Roellig has been appointed Chief Technology & Administrative Officer. Roellig has been General Counsel of MassMutual since joining the company in 2005.

SSE Enterprise Telecoms, United Kingdom, January 2017

SSE Enterprise Telecoms named Conrad Mallon as Chief Network Architect. Most recently he worked at Level 3, where he held several senior technical roles during a 12-year tenure, including Director of Network Implementation and Director of Architecture and Engineering (EMEA).

NSS Labs, Texas, January 2017

NSS Labs announced that Jason Brvenik has joined NSS Labs as CTO. He was most recently a Principal Engineer in the Office of the Chief Security Architect at Cisco.

Decibel Therapeutics, Massachusetts, January 2017

Decibel Therapeutics announced that it has expanded its leadership team with the addition of chief data sciences officer John Keilty. Keilty joins Decibel from Third Rock Ventures where he served as the general manager of platform operations.

Catlin Group, Bermuda, January 2017

XL Catlin appointed Dr. Henna A. Karna as Chief Data Officer. Her past positions include President at Verisk Digital Services, a unit of Verisk Analytics and Actuarial CIO and Managing Director at AIG.

Guardian Analytics, California, January 2017

Guardian Analytics announced that Varouzhan Ebrahimian has been appointed as the company's new CTO. Ebrahimian brings more than two decades of Product Development Leadership and innovation in enterprise software to Guardian Analytics. He has held executive positions at both Oracle and Symantec.

NSFOCUS, California, January 2017

NSFOCUS appointed Lin Xu, to the position of VP of Engineering. In her most recent role, Xu served as Senior Manager, Software Engineering at Palo Alto Networks for the last six years.

Software Aktiengesellschaft, Germany, January 2017

Software AG has appointed Stefan Sigg as new chief R&D officer. Prior to joining Software AG, Dr. Sigg held a leading R&D management position at SAP SE in Walldorf, Germany. Most recently, Dr. Sigg was SVP and head of the SAP Analytics product portfolio.

CIVIQ Smartscapes , United Kingdom, January 2017

CIVIQ Smartscapes appointed Ilan Rozenblat as CTO. Rozenblat led country-wide ICT projects as the CTO of a large system integrator in Israel. He managed carrier-grade telecom software products in the US, and built healthcare IT systems for international markets.

Erecruit Holdings, Italy, January 2017

Erecruit has appointed Aditya Srivastava to the role of SVP of Product Development. Srivastava was the CTO and SVP of Product Development at i2 Technologies, an enterprise supply chain management software company.

Cray, United Kingdom, January 2017

Cray appointed Stathis Papaefstathiou to the position of SVP of research and development. Papaefstathiou will be responsible for leading the software and hardware engineering efforts for all of company’s research and development projects. With more than 30 years of high tech experience, Papaefstathiou has held senior-level positions at Aerohive Networks, F5 Networks, and Microsoft. In his most recent position at Aerohive, Papaefstathiou was the SVP of engineering.

Identity Theft Guard Solutions, Taiwan, January 2017

ID Experts announced that technology and engineering veteran, Brent VanLoo, has joined the company as CTO. VanLoo's leadership encompasses 20 years of technology experience in software, security, and healthcare companies including HealthSparq, Symantec Corporation, Sage Software, and Lucent Technologies/Bell Labs Innovations.

Plex Systems, Malaysia, January 2017

Plex Systems announced Richard Murray as its new group VP of engineering. Murray was most recently SVP of engineering at Bromium, where he led development for the company’s global enterprise cyber security solutions.

Spireon, India, January 2017

Spireon appointed Jason Penkethman as its Chief Product Officer. In this role, Penkethman will lead the next wave of innovation for Spireon’s products and platform, creating vehicle connectivity solutions that maximize customer value.

Federal Reserve Bank Of Dallas, Guatemala, January 2017

Sherry Kidd Garvin has been promoted to SVP and CIO with responsibility for the IT Services Department, Business Continuity Department and Dallas Fed Law Enforcement Unit. Previously, she served as VP.

Opsveda, Russia, January 2017

OpsVeda has appointed Ravi Mandayam as the VP of Product Engineering. Prior to OpsVeda, he was the CTO of FrontalRain Technologies.

ChannelNet, Austria, January 2017

Chris Sims, CTO, was promoted from within and was previously the chief software architect.

Fortinet, Canada, January 2017

Fortinet appointed Phil Quade as CISO. Prior to Fortinet, Quade was the NSA Director’s Special Assistant for Cyber and Chief of the NSA Cyber Task Force with responsibility for the White House relationship in Cyber.

Oversight Systems, Australia, January 2017

Oversight Systems has named Mike Rivers as CTO. Prior to joining Oversight, Rivers was the CTO of Paymetric.

Abingdon Health, United Kingdom, January 2017

Abingdon Health appointed Dr. David Pritchard as CTO. David has a track record of success within the medical diagnostics industry having spent the last twenty years at Axis-Shield Diagnostics, most recently as Head of Research.

Marelli Motori, Italy, January 2017

Marelli Motori has appointed Mario Longo as the company’s new Group CIO. Brings over 20 years’ experience in information technology thanks to a very successful and significant career in roles involving project management, and systems integration.

True Partners Consulting, Illinois, January 2017

True Partners Consulting announced the promotion of Gerald Liebhardt to Chief Information and Security Officer. For the past ten years, Mr. Liebhardt has led the information technology function at True Partners and enables the firm to serve clients quickly, efficiently and securely through a number of technology platforms.

Docupace Technologies, California, January 2017

Docupace Technologies announced that CIO John Cunningham will fill the additional position of CISO.

Cardtronics, Texas, January 2017

President at Columbus Data Services Stuart Mackinnon will assume the role of CIO.

Elite Stor Capital Partners, Florida, January 2017

Benjamin Macfarland announced that Rob Consalvo will become the new President and CTO of the company. In his former role as COO at iStorage, Consalvo managed 70 self-storage locations across 12 states.

Continuum Health Alliance, New Jersey, January 2017

Continuum Health Alliance appoints David Kovel as CIO. A seasoned healthcare technology practitioner, Kovel has acted as the interim CIO and senior technology leader for several physician-led provider organizations across the country.

Tiangong International Company, China, January 2017

The Board of Tiangong International Company Limited announced that Mr. Liao Jun has been appointed as the CTO of the company, with effect from 3 January 2017. Prior to joining the company in July 2014 as head of innovation and technology department, he worked as Deputy Chief of technical section of Equipment Engineering of Shanghai No. 5 Steel Co.

Oak Valley Community Bank, California, January 2017

Oak Valley Community Bank announced the promotion of Russell Stahl to EVP, CIO. Stahl started working for the company in 1998, managing the bank's network and electronic channels as the company grew. He had previously held the SVP, Information Technology title since 2012.

Premier Research Group, United Kingdom, January 2017

Premier Research appointed Nate Thompson as CIO. Prior to that, he was Corporate Network Manager for Kendle International.

Cambridge Investment Group, Iowa, January 2017

Ryan Reineke will become Cambridge’s Chief Operations and Technology Officer. He will continue as SVP while serving on Cambridge’s Executive Council. Reineke has served as Cambridge’s Chief Technology Architect for over 13 years, and over the last decade, he has led the introduction of one of the most innovative advisor workstations in the industry.

American Axle & Manufacturing, Michigan, January 2017

American Axle & Manufacturing announced Donald E. Wright has been appointed VP and CIO. Wright joined AAM in 2012 as executive director and CIO. Prior, Wright was CIO at Atlas Oil.

Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services, Florida, January 2017

Doreen Griffith has been named SVP, CIO. Griffith currently serves as the EVP, CIO of Ladenburg subsidiary Securities America.

Taiwan Mobile, Taiwan, January 2017

Taiwan Mobile Co. announced James Chang, VP of the Information Technology Group appointed as CIO of the company.

CoinTribe Technologies, India, December 2016

CoinTribe has appointed Manish Gulati as its CTO. Gulati, who has over 18 years of industry experience, has worked with various companies and startups - including Yahoo, HCL, InfoEdge and Qwikcilver.

Heritage Bank, Texas, December 2016

Heritage Bank confirmed the permanent appointment of interim CIO Mr. Wayne Marchant to the CIO role. Former Billabong CIO.

Saint Francis Healthcare System, Missouri, December 2016

Saint Francis Healthcare System has named Jason Ewing as its new CIO. Ewing comes to Cape Girardeau from Idaho, where he most recently served as IT systems director for St. Luke’s Health System near Boise.

Xerox, Connecticut, December 2016

Xerox has named Steve Hoover, as CTO. Hoover currently serves as CEO of PARC, A Xerox Company.

Iguama Group, Guatemala, December 2016

iguama announced that Weihua Yan, a co-founder and board director of the company, has stepped in to serve as CTO and lead the technology team of iguama. Mr. Yan brings over 20 years of e-commerce leadership and startup experience to iguama. Prior to joining iguama, Mr. Yan was Co-Founder and CTO of diapers.com.

TeleGuam Holdings, Guam, December 2016

GTA appointed George Hill to the newly created position of EVP of Strategy, IT and Process Improvement. George worked for 7 years at TSTT, where he served initially as Chief Technical Officer and later as Chief Operations Officer and acting CEO. Most recently, he served as Chief Operations Officer of a manufacturer of small cells, Enersphere Communications.

Benson Hill Biosystems, North Carolina, December 2016

Benson Hill Biosystems announced Paul Skroch has joined the organization as VP of Data Science and Platform Engineering. Skroch held prior leadership positions developing systems for genotyping, molecular and predictive breeding, pipeline analysis and advancement. At Benson Hill, he will oversee the data science and systems biology groups as well as software development.

Cohesity, California, December 2016

Cohesity reported that Rawlinson Rivera has joined the company as global field CTO. He most recently served as principal architect in the Office of the CTO in the storage and availability business unit.

The Glimpse Group, New York, December 2016

The Glimpse Group reported that Rod Recker has joined the Company as CTO and General Manager of Glimpse Group Consulting. Previously, Recker spent 18 years at software maker Autodesk, where he led global teams delivering computer graphic technology, as well as user interface design, quality control and SAAS software development.

Data Backup Solutions, Florida, December 2016

Data Backup Solutions appointed Mr. James Holland as CTO of the Company, in addition to Mr. Holland's current position as COO.

Kewill, United Kingdom, December 2016

Kewill appointed Benny Melumad as its new CTO. Prior to joining Kewill, Melumad worked at a division of Vista Equity Partners where he oversaw the technology function within the portfolio companies.

Core, Russia, December 2016

Core announce the appointment of Lloyd Carnie as CTO. Lloyd is a natural innovator, being one of the co-founders of Parative, the leading IT Infrastructure Migration business acquired by Core in 2013.

The Ex