Introduction

TWICE is a nine-member girl group under JYP Entertainment. They were formed through the competition reality show SIXTEEN and officially debuted on October 20, 2015, with the mini album The Story Begins.

In 2015, Park Jin Young announced that the new JYP girl group would be formed by the survival reality show SIXTEEN, where sixteen JYP trainees would compete to debut in the seven-member girl group TWICE. The show started on May 5 and ended with Nayeon, Jeongyeon, Dahyun, Sana, Jihyo, Mina, and Chaeyoung. During the finale, Park announced that he would add two more members to the group, making it a nine-member girl group. By audience vote, Tzuyu was added, and by Park's choice, Momo was added, thus starting the beginning of TWICE.

On October 7, 2015, JYP launched the group's official website and announced on social media that the group would debut with the mini album The Story Begins with "Like Ooh-Ahh" as the title track. On October 20, the album and the song's music video were released online on October 20 and through the Naver "V LIVE" App. The group held their debut showcase the same day, where they performed "Like Ooh-Ahh" along with dance tracks "Going Crazy" and "Do It Again". The title track's music video hit 50 million views within five months of their debut and became the most-viewed debut music video for any K-pop group, later becoming one of the first K-pop groups to have their debut music video pass 100 million views.

TWICE rose to fame in 2016 with their single "Cheer Up": the song charted at #1 on the Gaon Digital Chart and became the best-performing single of the year. TWICE made their Japan debut on June 28, 2017, and became the first Korean girl group that earned Platinum certification by the Recording Industry Association of Japan (RIAJ).

TWICE made history as the first female K-pop to hold a Japanese dome tour, named Twice Dome Tour 2019 "#Dreamday". with a total audience of 220,000 during five shows in Osaka, Tokyo, and Nagoya held in March and April 2019. On April 22, 2019, they released their seventh EP "Fancy You". The release of Fancy You made Twice the best-selling Korean girl group of all time with a total of 3,750,000 copies sold from their twelve Korean releases, surpassing the twenty-year-old record of S.E.S.

The group released their first official English-language single, "The Feels", on October 1, 2021. "The Feels" debuted at number 83 on the Billboard Hot 100, marking the group's first appearance on the chart. The song also made its way to the UK Singles Chart, where it peaked at number 80.

Twice made history on July 6, 2023, by becoming the first K-pop group to perform at Metlife Stadium.