Posted by Ra Moon

Set in a remote Long Island house in the fictional hamlet of Point Comfort, Leave the World Behind was filmed primarily in New York State.

Sam Esmail, the creator of Mr. Robot and Homecoming, directs this brilliant movie, based on the acclaimed bestselling 2020 novel of the same name by Rumaan Alam.

The story revolves around a family whose vacation takes a drastic turn when two strangers arrive at their rental house in the middle of the night.

Julia Roberts leads the cast as Amanda Sanford and Ethan Hawke is her husband, Clay. The alleged owner of the house, G.H. Scott, is portrayed by Mahershala Ali and his daughter Ruth is Myha'la Herrold.

Welcome to Point Comfort and our spoiler-free guide to all the filming locations of Leave the World Behind. We have listed the locations in order of appearance.

The Leave the World Behind house

After establishing shots in New York City, the Sanford family takes an unplanned vacation to a luxurious beach retreat on Long Island.

The jaw-dropping home is a stunning property called The Open Corner, located in the historic Old Westbury Village area of Long Island.

Image courtesy of Netflix - Map

Designed by New York architects The Up Studio in 2019, the 5,200-square-foot L-shaped house is designed to capture sunlight (and maybe some extra radiation, too).

The studio worked closely with Netflix's art directors to build a replica of the entire home's interior on a soundstage at Grumman Studios in Bethpage, as the house is a family's primary residence.

According to Patch Media, the movie was also filmed at the FDR State Park in Yorktown Heights, which may be the location for the scenes taking place in the woods.

The Thornes' house, which appears in the background of some sequences, as well as the deers, were CGI'd into the scene.

(You can open all the locations on Google Maps by clicking on the links below in the captions ↴)

Image courtesy of Netflix - Map

The Point Comfort NY locations

The Point Comfort Marketplace where Amanda sees a man loading his truck with provisions was filmed at the Cherry Lawn Farm in New Rochelle, Westchester County.

Founded in 1936, this agricultural products market is a four-generation family business.

Image courtesy of Netflix and Google Maps

As Greater Long Island reported, the oil tanker scene at the fictional Charleston Harbor Beach was actually filmed at Sunken Meadow State Park Beach located between Kings Park and Fort Salonga in Long Island.

President Barack Obama's production company, Higher Ground, also produced this apocalyptic movie (via Deadline).

Image courtesy of Netflix - Map

On their way home, the Sanfords drive down Main Street in Kings Park, Long Island. In the real world, there is no Starbucks on this street.

Image courtesy of Netflix and Google Maps

There is a sequence on a road where Clay almost gets lost near a place called Taney Farms. These scenes were filmed on Sound Avenue, near the East Wind Long Island in Wading River.

Filming also took place on Hulse Landing Road, Twomey Avenue, and Horton Avenue in Riverhead.

Image courtesy of Netflix - Map

The (Aldous) Huxley house was filmed in a frontbeach home located on Fiddlers Green Drive in Lloyd Harbor, also on Long Island.

According to real state websites, this two-acre property has an estimated market value of approximately two million dollars.

Image courtesy of Netflix - Map

The beach behind the house where G.H. goes to have a look is part of the Caumsett State Historic Park Preserve in the Village of Lloyd Harbor.

As Newsday confirmed, the production filled this section of the beach with movie props, recreating a scene reminiscent of the iconic first episode of Lost.

Image courtesy of Netflix - Map

The Tesla crash scene was filmed on the Bay Parkway on Jones Beach Island, looking toward the Jones Bay Bridge after the Harbor Seal Watch Spot.

Image courtesy of Netflix - Map

The local press revealed that Leave the World Behind was filmed on Todd Road in Katonah, near Golden's Bridge, Westchester County.

In this area is located the house of survival expert Danny, played by Kevin Bacon.

Image courtesy of Netflix - Map

The Thornes House is also a magnificent property located at 142 Round Swamp Road in the West Hills town of Huntington, near the highest point on Long Island.

This 8,100 square foot home on a secluded 2.3 acre estate was last sold for $3,450,000.

Built in 2004, this five-bedroom Georgian-style mansion was featured in the USA Network comedy series Royal Pains.

Image courtesy of Netflix - Map

Rose, the character played by Julia Roberts' daughter in the movie has a strong fascination with the Friends TV series.

Interestingly, this detail connects to Julia Roberts herself, who made a guest appearance on an episode of the beloved NBC sitcom.

Can you help to improve this article about the filming locations of Leave the World Behind? To complete and correct this report, any feedback, info, or images that you may have are more than welcome, thank you!

NOTICE: If you’re using this information on your website, please credit and link to this page as a source.

*****

12 comments:

1- Anonymous - Dec 11, 2023, 9:00 AM

There is a scene right after leaving the tanker running aground at Sunken Meadow Beach, where they are driving through Main Street in Kings Park, just passing Ralphs Italian Ices and Main Street Pub, Julia Roberts says: "Oh Look a Starbucks."

Reply

2- Ra Moon - Dec 11, 2023, 1:20 PM

Thank you, updated!

3- Anonymous - Dec 13, 2023, 9:13 PM

So there is no place where one could actually see the NYC skyline with that particular view and details as shown in the movie, correct? Also, in the scene with the Teslas, what bridges were shown?

4- Anonymous - Dec 14, 2023, 7:54 AM

In regards to comment #3 no, the furthest point over in Nassau County in Long Island before you hit Queens is Kings Point. It has a great view of the city but not northerly as close or clear as the movie depicts. It looks much further away from that vantage point in real life.

Also I believe the Tesla crash scene may have been filmed at Ocean Parkway, or possibly the end of Sunken Meadow Parkway near Fort Salonga.

5- Bill Cornelius - Dec 14, 2023, 7:50 PM

Interestingly, the ship that runs aground is labeled the "White Lion," which was the name of the Dutch ship that delivered the first African slaves to Virginia in 1619.

6- Anonymous - Dec 17, 2023, 3:28 PM

What was the meaning behind naming the hamlet Point Comfort and the tanker White Lion?

7- Anonymous - Dec 17, 2023, 4:45 PM

In late August, 1619, 20-30 enslaved Africans landed at Point Comfort, today's Fort Monroe in Hampton, VA, aboard the English privateer ship White Lion. In Virginia, these Africans were traded in exchange for supplies. Funny how they put this in the movie as an impossible feat because in real life it was as well, because of the North Atlantic Gyre and coral reefs. The truth hidden in plain sight. We know we have been here before, and they renamed our people. Evil people and never trust the Obamas. Michael and her...

8- Anonymous - Dec 27, 2023, 6:23 AM

As for the Tesla scene, I believe it's Bay Parkway looking at the Meadowbrook Parkway bridge onto Ocean Pkwy.

Reply

9- Ra Moon - Dec 28, 2023, 11:54 AM

Thank you, that's right, a traffic sign and the trees match!

10- Anonymous - Dec 28, 2023, 4:35 AM

Could the last view of NYC be taken from Sands Point?

11- Anonymous - Jan 9, 2024, 3:47 PM

Or Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge?

12- Anonymous - Feb 1, 2024, 10:47 AM

In regard to the comment about the White Lion, being the first slave ship to visit the Virginia Colony in 1619, the slave ship had gotten caught in a storm and was blown off course.

They were low on provisions and offered to trade 28 slaves to the Virginia colony for provisions, to which the colonists agreed.

Unlike the half-truth that is currently portrayed about slavery in the colonies, the 28 slaves from the White Lion were placed into indentured servanthood. After serving their indenture, which I believe was seven years, they were freed and were probably some of the first free blacks in the south.

Half-truths can be damning, but the whole truth sheds light and context on history.

Ra Moon

Atlas of Wonders is looking for wonderful Filming Locations all around the world. We are constantly updating and improving our posts with new details and images. Follow us here: