Template:Infobox film 2

“Just when you thought it was safe to drive...”

―Tagline

Cars 4 is to be an upcoming Disney and Pixar animated movie taking place where 2011's Cars 2 and 2017's Cars 3 had left off, starring the voice talents from Matt Hill, Cathy Cavadini, E.G. Daily, Tara Strong, Grey DeLisle, Matthew Lillard, Pixie Davis, Alyson Leigh Rosenfeld, Sarah Natochenny, Hayley Noelle, Owen Wilson, Larry the Cable Guy, Kevin Spacey, Bonnie Hunt, Cheech Marin, Tony Shalhoub, Guido Quaroni, Jenifer Lewis, Paul Dooley, Michael Wallis, Lloyd Sherr, Tress MacNeille, John Ratzenberger, Richard Kind, Edie McClurg, Jeff Garlin, Eddie Izzard, Bob Costas, Darrell Waltrip, Brent Musburger, Jenson Button, Sarah Clark, Shannon Spake, Richard Petty, John Turturro, Jeff Gordon, Lewis Hamilton, Claudia Leitte, Ricky Martin, Nicholas Cage, Antonio Banderas, Dan Castellaneta, Sebastian Vettel, Greg Ellis, Dale Earnhardt, Jr., Michael Keaton, Tom Magliozzi, Ray Magliozzi, Lynda Petty, Humpy Wheeler, Jeremy Piven, Jeremy Clarkson, Michael Caine, Emily Mortimer, Michael Imperioli, John Mainieri, Stanley Townsend, Kelsey Grammer, Velibor Topic, Daniel Suárez, Chase Elliott, Ryan Blaney, Bubba Wallace, Dane Cook, Stacy Keach, Klay Hall, Jonathan Adams, Richard Pearce, Carlos Alazraqui, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Priyanka Chopra, John Cleese, Matt Hill, Gabriel Iglesias, Cedric the Entertainer, Ed Harris, Julie Bowen, Wes Studi, Curtis Armstrong, Regina King, Dale Dye, Matt L. Jones, Danny Pardo, Bryan Callen, Corri English, Kari Wahlgren, Julie Kavner, Patrick Warburton, Teri Hatcher, Brad Garrett, Danny Mann, Kyle Petty, Angel Oquendo, Thomas Kretschmann, Chris Cooper, Tina Fey, Isia Whitlock, Jr., Margo Martindale, Nathan Fillion, Keith Wickham, Bob Peterson, Mario Andretti, Andrew Stanton, Lindsey Collins, Elissa Knight, Sonoko Konishi, Mach Tony Kobayashi, E.J Holowicki, Jonas Rivera, Adrian Ochoa, Lou Romano, Charles Leclerc, Larry Benton, Douglas "Mater" Keever, Patton Oswalt, Bruce Campbell, Cristela Alonzo, Eugene Levy, Craig Ferguson, Will Collyer, Corbin Bleu, Michael Rutter, Hank Azaria, Zac Efron, Mitchel Musso, Markus Kranzler, Corey Burton, Eric Barker, Erik von Detten, Tony Anselmo, Jonas Jarvers, Richard Alexander, Richard Gunzer, James Roderick, Aaron Conover, Brian Clark, Philp Pope, J.P. Vine, Bobby Podesta, Daniel Garcia, Noah Klocek, Keith Ferguson, Armie Hammer, Keanu Reeves, Kristen Bell, Jason Isaacs, Michel Michelis, Matthew Lillard, Russi Taylor, Ashley Tisdale, Alyson Stoner, Kate McKinnon, Bart Johnson, Lea DeLaria, Jeremy Maxwell, Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Joe Mantegna, Peter Jacobson, Kerry Washington, Seth Green, Jim Parsons, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Donald Fullilove, James Rankin, MacinTalk, Franco Nero, Vanessa Redgrave, Kate Micucci, Jonathan Forbes, Felipe Massa, Bret Iwan, Teresa Gallagher, Mark Winterbottom, Max Verstappen, Kevin Magnussen, Kimi Räikkönen, Robert Kubica, John Hasler, William Byron, Daniel Ricciardo, Lando Norris, Kathy Coates, Jerome Ranft, Emily Blunt, Jerry Seinfeld, James McAvoy, Jon Cryer, Mason Vale Cotton, Bailee Madison, Mike Rotch, Tony Anselmo, Johnny Depp, Sig Hansen, Brian Fee, Eddie Murphy, LMFAO, Ned Beatty, Richard Wilson, Jay Leno, Kerry Shale, Alex Bowman, Flo Rida, Santino Fontana, Juan Pablo Montoya, Ayrton Senna, Rubens Barrichello, Jon Stevens, Lucas Grabeel, Robert Pattinson, Chris Rock, Nathan Lane, Ernie Sabella, Raymond Ochoa, Amy Poehler, Steve Purcell, Alex Reymundo, Rafael Sigler, Jerry Trainor, Harry Shearer, Seth MacFarlane Jason Earles, Jon Stewert, Bruce Willis, Vincent Martella, Kelly Hu, Wierd Al' Yankovic and Jack Angel. and featuring a flashback memory with Harrison Ford as Doc Hudson. It is to be put in movie theaters on a date of February, 2021 but will be everywhere from TV to YouTube. You’ll know when it’s coming.

Synopsis[]

"Ah, ah, ah, where should I begin? Whenever I think of you, my heart burns like an active volcano, and my body melts into a puddle of lava. My dearest Mr. McQueen, do you know how I feel? I'd be delighted if you found out! I'm so very distressed!

~FLASHBACK~

Storm, at a club:Oh, my sun, my hero, I have loved you so passionately, my Mr. McQueen. I might be your rival, but I'm also a lovesick race car who longs for you. Oh! My love, will you please...Ahem, let's try again.

Ripslinger, at the same club:What an annoying race car. He's gonna be in big trouble...REALLY, REALLY big trouble!

~END FLASHBACK~

And that's how it all began. With a plane. Really. Resulting from Ripslinger's voice recording of Jackson Storm singing high praises of Lightning McQueen, the whole entire World Of Cars falls into chaos. Now, the only one who can solve this mess is none other than Ripslinger himself! Meanwhile, McQueen deals with the feelings Storm had for him, and the rage of Sally. Does the former Wings Around The Globe champion have enough power to put everything back in place?

Cast[]

Matt Hill as Ripslinger (voice)

Cathy Cavadini as Linda McQueen (Lightning McQueen Jr.'s younger sister and the secondary protagonist of the film. She is painted electric blue and she is the daughter of Sally Carrera and Lightning McQueen.) (voice)

Elizabeth Daily as Lightning McQueen Jr. (Linda McQueen's older brother and the deuteragonist of the film. He is painted violet and he is the son of Lightning McQueen and Sally Carrera.) (voice)

Tara Strong as Candice (Linda McQueen and Lightning McQueen Jr.'s best friend and the secondary deuteragonist of the film.) (voice)

Grey DeLisle as Jennifer (Candice's younger sister who is also best friends with Lightning McQueen Jr. and Linda McQueen. She is the tritagonist of the film and she is painted teal.) (voice)

Owen Wilson as Lightning McQueen (voice)

Cristela Alonzo as Cruz Ramirez (voice)

Eugene Levy as Sheldon Shifter (Cruz Ramirez’s boyfriend or her husband) (voice)

Larry the Cable Guy as Mater (voice)

Bonnie Hunt as Sally Carrera (voice)

Cheech Marin as Ramone (voice)

Michael Wallis as Sheriff (voice)

Lloyd Sherr as Fillmore (voice)

Paul Dooley as Sarge (voice)

John Ratzenberger as Mack (voice)

Jenifer Lewis as Flo (voice)

Tress MacNeille as Lizzie (voice)

Tony Shalhoub as Luigi (voice)

Guido Quaroni as Guido (voice)

Richard Kind as Van (voice)

Edie McClurg as Minny (voice)

Craig Ferguson as Red (voice, finally speaking in this film)

Armie Hammer as Jackson Storm (voice)

Michael Caine as Finn McMissile (voice)

Emily Mortimer as Holley Shiftwell (voice)

Chris Cooper as Smokey (voice)

Greg Ellis as Nigel Gearsley (voice)

Tom Hanks as Frank Pinkerton (voice)

Tim Allen as Charlie Cargo (voice)

Michael Imperioli as Tubbs Pacer (voice)

John Mainieri as J. Curby Gremlin (voice)

Stanley Townsend as Vladimir Trunkov (voice)

Kelsey Grammer as Victor Hugo and Ivan (voice)

Jack Black as Tom Diesel (voice)

Jim Parsons as Ron Hover (voice)

Arnold Schwarzenegger as Sven (voice)

Quinton Flynn as Rusty Rust-eze (voice)

Ray Magliozzi as Dusty Rust-eze (voice)

Michael Keaton as Chick Hicks (voice)

Bob Costas as Bob Cutlass (voice)

Darrell Waltrip as Darrell Cartrip (voice)

Brent Musburger as Brent Mustangburger (voice)

David Croft as David Croftcap (voice)

John Turturro as Francesco Bernoulli (voice)

Ricky Martin as Rip Clutchgoneski (voice)

Nicholas Cage as Raoul ÇaRoule (voice)

Antonio Banderas as Miguel Camino (voice)

Dan Castellaneta as Shu Todoroki (voice)

Sebastian Vettel as Max Schnell (voice)

Lewis Hamilton as himself (voice)

Jenson Button as himself (voice)

Lindsey Collins as Mia (voice)

Elissa Knight as Tia (voice)

E.J Holowicki as DJ (voice)

Jonas Rivera as Boost (voice)

Adrian Ochoa as Wingo (voice)

Lou Romano as Snot Rod (voice)

Kathy Coates as Kathy Copter (voice)

Amy Poehler as Sally's younger sister (The same Porsche as Sally. But her paint is Irish green.) (voice)

Emily Blunt as Katherine (voice)

Jerry Seinfeld as Judge Honda (voice)

James McAvoy as Prince Wheeliam (voice)

Jeff Gordon as Jeff Gorvette (voice)

Jon Cryer as Todd (voice)

Dane Cook as Dusty Crophopper (voice)

Mason Vale Cotton as Toby, a #1 Lightning McQueen fan club member (voice)

Bailee Madison as Melanie, another #1 Lightning McQueen fan club member (voice)

Denis Leary as Trev Diesel (voice)

David Cross as Andy Gearsdale (voice)

Claudia Lette as Carla Veloso (voice)

Johnny Depp as General Achy (voice)

Sig Hansen as Crabby (voice)

Gabriel Iglesias as Ned and Zed (voice)

Brian Fee as Al Oft (voice)

Eddie Murphy as Murphy (voice)

Stacy Keach as Skipper Riley (voice)

Ned Beatty as Pope Pinion IV (voice)

Richard Wilson as Chuck Manifold (voice)

Jay Leno as Jay Limo (voice)

Kerry Shale as George G. Gremlin (voice)

Priyanka Chopra as Ishani (voice)

Julia Louis-Dreyfus as Rochelle (voice)

Kevin Spacey as himself and Delmer Skyslycer (voices)

Carlos Alazraqui as Giovanni and El Chupacabra (voices)

John Cleese as Bulldog (voice)

Cedric the Entertainer as Leadbottom (voice)

Ed Harris as Blade Ranger (voice)

Julie Bowen as Lil' Dipper (voice)

Wes Studi as Windlifter (voice)

Curtis Armstrong as Maru (voice)

Regina King as Dynamite (voice)

Dale Dye as Cabbie (voice)

Matt L. Jones as Drip (voice)

Danny Pardo as Blackout (voice)

Bryan Callen as Avalanche (voice)

Corri English as Pinecone (voice)

Kari Wahlgren as Patch (voice)

Julie Kavner as Winnie (voice)

Patrick Warburton as Pulaski (voice)

Teri Hatcher as Dottie (voice)

Brad Garrett as Chug (voice)

Dale Earnhardt, Jr. as Junior (voice)

Jason Isaacs as Siddeley and Leland Turbo (voices)

Bruce Campbell as Ken/Agent K and Rod "Torque" Redline (voices)

Will Collyer as Brick Yardley (voice)

Jess Harnell as Ponchy Wipeout (one of Lightning's good friends) (voice)

Jeff Bennett as Reb Meeker (one of Lightning's best friends) (voice)

Corbin Bleu as Cam Spinner and Jimmy Cables and Dino Draftsky and Carl Clutchen (voices)

Michael Rutter as Michael Rotor (voice)

Hank Azaria as Chris Roamin' and Harvey (voices)

Zac Efron as Chip Gearings and Rev Roadages and Jack DePost (he acts like a seal) and Floyd Mulvihill and Speedy Comet (voices)

Mitchel Musso as Tommy Highbanks and Buck Bearingly and Rex Revler (he sings the Gask its theme song) and Terry Kargas (he is Markus' rival) and Lane Locke and Ricky Axel and Darren Leadfoot and Dud Throttleman (voices)

Markus Kranzler as Markus Krankzler (voice)

Phil LaMarr as Phil Tankson (voice)

Corey Burton as Conrad Camber and Flip Dover and Tim Treadless and Harvey Rodcap and Paul Conrev and Fletcher (voices)

Eric Barker as Eric Braker (voice)

Erik von Detten as Spikey Fillups (voice)

Tony Anselmo as Ralph Carlow (voice)

Jonas Jarvers as Jonas Carvers (voice)

Richard Alexander as Rich Mixon and Ed Truncan and Herb Curbler and George New-Win and Ernie Gearson and Dirkson D'Agostino and T.G. Castlenut and Murray Clutchburn and Matthew Overtaker (voices)

Richard Gunzer as Richie Gunzit (voice)

James Roderick as Jim Reverick (voice)

Aaron Conover as Aaron Clocker (voice)

Brian Clark as Brian Spark (voice)

Philp Pope as J.D. McPillar and H.J. Hollis and Steve LaPage and Barry DePedal and James Wisconsin and Bruce Miller and Parker Brakeston (voices)

J.P. Vine as J.P. Drive (voice)

Bobby Podesta as Bobby Roadtesta (voice)

Daniel Garcia as Dan Carcia (voice)

Noah Klocek as Noah Gocek (voice)

Keith Ferguson as Lee Revkins Pitties (voices)

Keanu Reeves as Marcus Bolt (voice)

Kristen Bell as Lynn (voice)

Michel Michelis as Tomber (voice)

Matthew Lillard as Sheldon Shifter Jr. (Cruz Ramirez and Sheldon Shifter's son) (voice)

Russi Taylor as Fiona Ramirez (Cruz Ramirez and Sheldon Shifter's daughter) (voice, archival recordings)

Ashley Tisdale as Amanda (Fiona Ramirez and Sheldon Shifter Jr.’s best friend and the deuteragonist of the film Just Like her Mentor Candice and she is Painted Magenta) (voice)

Alyson Stoner as Sharon (Amanda's younger sister who is also best friends with Fiona Ramirez and Sheldon Shifter Jr.. She is the secondary deuteragonist of the film and she is painted Light Blue.) (voice)

Kate McKinnon as Kate Ramirez (Cruz Ramirez's mother, Sheldon Shifter's mother-in-law, Antonio Ramirez's wife and Sheldon Shifter Jr. and Fiona Ramirez's grandmother) (voice)

Bart Johnson as Antonio Ramirez (Cruz Ramirez's father, Sheldon Shifter's father-in-law, Kate Ramirez's wife and Sheldon Shifter Jr. and Fiona Ramirez's grandfather) (voice)

Lea DeLaria as Miss Fritter (voice)

Jeremy Maxwell as Arvy Motorhome (voice)

Tom Hanks as Frank Pinkerton (voice)

Tim Allen as Charlie Cargo (voice)

Joe Mantegna as Grem (voice)

Peter Jacobson as Acer (voice)

Eric Bauza as Dash Boardman (voice)

Kerry Washington as Natalie Certain (voice)

Harrison Ford as Doc Hudson (flashbacks) (voice)

Jim Parsons as Ron Hover (voice)

Arnold Schwarzenegger as Sven (voice)

Donald Fullilove as Stinger (speaking voice)

James Rankin as El Machismo (voice)

MacInTalk as VINs and VINs 2.0 (voice)

Franco Nero as Uncle Topolino (voice)

Vanessa Redgrave as The Queen and Mama Topolino (voice)

Kate Micucci as Holley Shiftwell's mother (voice)

Jonathan Forbes as Zachary Johnson (Cruz Ramirez and Sheldon Shifter's brother, Sheldon Shifter Jr. and Fiona Ramirez's uncle, and an Irish racer in the World Grand Prix) (voice)

Bret Iwan as Bobby Swift's crew chief, Lester Swift and Tony (voice)

Teresa Gallagher as Mater's computer (voice)

Mark Winterbottom as Frosty (voice)

Memo Rojas as Memo Rojas Jr. (voice)

Max Verstappen as Max Revstappen (voice)

Kevin Magnussen as Kevin Magwheelsen (voice)

Kimi Räikkönen as Kimi "The Iceman" Revkönen (voice)

Daniel Ricciardo as Danny Riccartdo (voice)

Robert Kubica as Robert Carbica (voice)

William Byron as William Corvette (Jeff Gorvette's Nephew) (voice)

Lando Norris as himself (voice)

Flo Rida as Falcon Bull (voice)

Joe Mantegna as Grem (voice)

Peter Jacobson as Acer (voice)

Eddie Izzard as Miles Axlerod (voice)

Thomas Kretschmann as Professor Zundapp (voice)

Santino Fontana as Charger (voice)

Samuel Vincent as Swift Alternater (voice)

Richard Petty as Strip Weathers (voice)

Humpy Wheeler as Tex Dinoco (voice)

Robert Pattinson as Benny Brakedown (voice)

Eddie Murphy as Jeffrey Murphy

LMFAO as Themselves

Ned Beatty as Pope Pinion IV

Will Smith as Walmart Wally (voice)

Nathan Lane as Milo (voice)

Ernie Sabella as Jack Albertson (voice)

Raymond Ochoa as Arlo-Mobile (voice)

Teresa Gallagher as Mater's (later Rip's) Computer Screen (voice)

John Michael Higgins as Cad Spinner (voice)

Harrison Ford as Doc Hudson (flashbacks) (voice)

Corey Burton as Fletcher (voice)

Steve Purcell as Gerald (voice)

Alex Reymundo as El Guapo (voice)

Rafael Sigler as Papo (voice)

Jerry Trainor as Todd Marcus (voice)

Harry Shearer as James Cleanair (voice)

Paul Eiding as Johnny Blamer (voice)

Seth MacFarlane as Claude Scruggs (voice)

Jason Earles as Kevin Racingtire (voice)

Jon Stewert as Aiken Axler (voice)

Bruce Willis as Sage VanDerSpin (voice)

Vincent Martella as Kevin Shiftright (voice)

Kelly Hu as Misti Motorkrass (voice)

Wierd Al' Yankovic as Crusty Rotor (voice)

Jack Angel as Chuck Armstrong (voice)

Soundtrack[]

Phoenix(Zero To One)by Allegro Beats(When The Disney Castle And Luxo, Intro Appears N/A)

Turbo Transmission (Cars 4 Version)

Locked out of Heaven by Bruno Mars [in the end credits of Cars 4]

Nobody's fool performed by Randy Newman [in the end credits of Cars 4]

Time for the Drop by Randy Newman (2011)

Bad by Michael Jackson (When Rod Returns While He's Alive 1987)

Real Gone by Honor Society (2010)

Life is a Highway by Rascal Flatts (2006) [When Linda and Junior McQueen are racing against kids on one of the New York state highways.]

Nobody's Fool (2011) [In the end credits of Cars 4. Randy Newman's version.]

When Life Gives You Lemons by Michael Giacchino (2011)

Mater the Waiter by Michael Giacchino (2011)

Radiator Reunion by Michael Giacchino (2011)

Team McQueen by Michael Giacchino (2011)

I Want you Back by the Jackson 5 (2016)

Gran Introductions by Michael Giacchino (2011)

Starting Dead Last by Randy Newman(When Miles Axlerod Breaks Out Of Prison And Allinol Is Announced AGAIN 2017)

Polyrhythm by Perfume (2007)

All-Star By Smash Mouth (1999) [When the Radiator Springs townspeople are having fun in the summer]

McQueen and Sally by Randy Newman (2006)

There’s Somethin' Special By Pharrel Williams (2017)

J Perry Ft Admiral T - Bouje (When Stinger, Candice, and El Machismo Returns 2018)

Sweet Dreams by Weezer (2019)

Elevations By U2(2001)

Last Christmas And Santa Tell Me(When McQueen Remembers Christmas Of 2017/2019)

Neil Diamond Comin' To America(When Dusty Crophopper Returns, And Rod Tourqe Redline Is Shipped To The United States 1990)

Stay (Zedd Ft Alessia Cara)

Danger Zone by Kenny Loggins (when Cruz, Sheldon, Marcus, Zach, Francesco, Carla, Shu, Max, Lewis, Rip, Brian, Max, Kevin, Iceman, Robert, Danny, Miguel, William, and Raoul are Practicing and Qualifying for the first race of the World Grand Prix in Tokyo, Japan)

The World Grand Prix by Michael Giacchino (2011)

It’s Finn McMissile (Cars 4 Version) by Michael Giacchino (2020)

Towkyo Takeout by Michael Giacchino (2011)

It’s Finn McMissile (Cars 4 Version) (Reprise) by Michael Giacchino (2020)

Funeral For A Friend - The Boys Are Back in Town (2007)

Tarmac and Magnificent by Michael Giacchino (2011)

Candyman by Sammy Davis Jr. (when Greg Candyman returns 1972)

Boulevard of Broken Dreams by Green Day (Squeaky Clean Version)

Beautiful Day by U2

My Wish by Rascal Flatts (2006)

Cars 3 - When All Your Friends Go (when Jackson Storm, Candy Van Rip, and Cruz crash for the first time 2015)

Mater's Getaway by Michael Giacchino (2011)

Beat it by Michael Jackson (When Holley Returns 1982)

Songbird By Kenny G(2004)

Y.M.C.A By Village People(When Cruz, Jackson And Greg Recovered Since The Crash Of 2018/1978)

Don’t Stop Me Now by Queen (1983)

Remember the Name by Fort Minor (Clean Version) (2005)

Fly By John Stevens (2013)

Van Halen - You Really got Me (1984)

Radio/Video by System of a down (When Cruz had a high-speed chase with Storm 2011)

Joe Santariani - always with me, always with you (When Cruz and Storm were Reported Missin' 1987)

Best I Ever Had by Drake (Clean Version) (2009)

Smokin by Boston (When Finn Returns 1976)

Cry Me a River by Justin Timberlake (When Sheldon Finds Marcus 2002)

Break of Dawn By Michael Jackson (When Mater Falls in Love With Holley 2001)

Thunderstruck by Rock Heros Famous as AC/DC (When Lee Revkins Returns 2011)

Whose Engine is This by Michael Giacchino (2011)

Finn's French Connection by Michael Giacchino (2011)

History's Biggest Loser Cars by Michael Giacchino (2011)

24K Magic by Bruno Mars (Clean Version) (When DJ, Boost, Wingo and Snot Rod Returns 2016)

Whatever it Takes by Imagine Dragons (When Lee Revkins and His Team Became a Pit Crew 2017)

Weezer - You Might Think (Extended Version)

You’re not the boss of me by They might be the Giants (2005)

Weezer - Take on Me (2019)

Porto Corsa by Michael Giacchino (2011)

The Lemon Pledge by Michael Giacchino (2011)

Eruption by Van Halen (When the WGP Race Cars Crashed in Porto Corsa Italy 1978)

David Guetta - I Can Only Imagine ft Chris Brown, Lil Wayne (When The News Shows That Mater and Holley are Getting Married 2011)

Party Rock Anthem By LMFAO [Radio Mix] (2011)

Going to the Backup Plan by Michael Giacchino (2011)

Mater's the Bomb by Michael Giacchino (2011)

Blunder and Lightning by Michael Giacchino (2011)

C. H. R. O. M. E Spy Mission Files Theme Song by The Jacksons and Michael Giacchino (2020)

Tom Petty Christmas All Over Again(When The Cars Visit Homestead, FL 1991)

Black or White By Michael Jackson (When it Ends and the Ending Credits and Bloopers and Outtakes are Shown 1991)

Road Rager by Michael Giacchino (2011)

The Other Shoot by Michael Giacchino (2011)

Axlerod Exposed by Michael Giacchino (2011)

Born Free By Kid Rock(2010)

Why Can't We Be Friends By Smash Mouth (1997)

Finesse By Bruno Mars ft Cardi B (Clean Version) (2017)

And Slow Ride - FogHat (1975)

The Radiator Springs Grand Prix by Michael Giacchino (2011)

The Turbomater by Michael Giacchino (2011)

Nothing Can Stop Me by Mark Holman (2013) [In the end credits of Cars 4]

Trivia[]

Mater and Holley get married in the movie.

Sally's younger sister will be given a name before this movie is in theaters.

Linda and Jr. who are Lightning McQueen and Sally's kids, both have poor brakes. The two of them ran out of control at a speed much too great because their brakes are on fire. Black smoke and sparks streaming out on both sides is how you can tell their brakes are on fire. This led the two to crash into anything, even somersaulting off things and in the air. That all ends with Linda and Jr. get into a violent rollover crash down the hill and through a brick wall. The two are taken to the hospital. While the hospital are fixing Linda and Jr. up, Sally and Lightning McQueen watch the news which is cars being interviewed about Linda and Jr. out of control incident. Rochelle is even interviewed as well about the brakes on fire incident. Once Linda and Jr. are out of the hospital, they are given much proper brakes.

The second time Linda and Jr. had to go to the hospital is because two of their tires blew out for the second time which made them crash through a barrier and knocked them off a steep cliff at the canyon in a world grand prix race.

It is revealed that Dusty has feelings for Blade Ranger but is too shy to admit it, and also afraid of how Ishani and/or Lil' Dipper will react. But, after hearing Ripslinger's footage, he gets the courage and finally confesses the whole lot in front of the entire crew. He also apologizes to Rip in the end and thanks him for "helping out", shocking the other air racers (especially Ishani) and Jackson.

Natalie Certain turns out to be Miles Axlerod's hidden daughter in the movie.

Chick Hicks teams up with the lemons, attempting to prove that he's better than Lightning.

Ned and Zed get a girlfriend each, and Mia and Tia get a boyfriend each. Seeing this, Ripslinger says "A car dating a plane, and another car dating another plane? That's weird!" but congratulates his lackeys for finally escaping from being a single.

This is the first musical ever in the franchise.

First, Ripslinger used to cheat on others, and in the first WATG Rally shown in the movie, they're the ones who cheat on him to kick him out of the race (with Kesha's This Is Me (the main theme) playing in the background), all but Dusty.

Priyanka Chopra returns to voice Ishani, but her only lines in the movie are "I never knew cheating was so fun! Try it, Dusty!" and a shocked gasp, hence the reason why she is uncredited.

It is revealed that Bulldog and Siddeley are acquaintances.

Lightning and Jackson end up together, against all odds.

Ripslinger wanted to become a secret agent when he was a little plane, depicted in the song "Cast Away".

In the end, Ripslinger gets the same jet engines as Mater, only stronger, bigger, and faster.

El Chupacabra: Impossible!

Ripslinger: Ha-ha!

Dusty: Rip!

Ripslinger: Check it out! They let me keep the rockets!

Dusty: I'll see ya at the finish line, Ripstinker!

Ripslinger: Not if I get there first, farm boy! Yippee!