BRUCE Willis and Demi Moore were one of Hollywood's most talked about it couples.

Despite a high-profile divorce, the two have remained close friends who have stuck together through parenthood, health battles, and more.

What is Bruce Willis and Demi Moore's relationship timeline?

The Meeting: July 1987

Demi Moore and Bruce Willis first met at a movie screening in Los Angeles.

The GI Jane actress was actually with her then-fiancé, Emilio Estevez when she met Bruce at the premiere of Stakeout.

In December 1986, Demi and Emilio called off their engagement.

After ending her relationship with Estevez, she and Bruce began dating.

The Wedding: November 21, 1987

Not long after meeting, Demi and Bruce headed off on an impromptu trip to Las Vegas.

While on their spur-of-the-moment getaway, the Die Hard actor popped the question.

The loved-up couple was wed inside their suite at the Golden Nugget hotel with only a handful of guests in attendance.

Speaking in her 2019 memoir, Demi said: "We were moving to the gambling tables when Bruce said, 'I think we should get married.'

"We'd been joking about it on the flight there, but suddenly it didn't seem like he was kidding."

A month later, the couple had another ceremony with their friends and family.

The Children: August 16, 1988/July 20, 1991/February 3, 1994

It is believed that Demi fell pregnant on their wedding night, as Rumer Willis was born on August 16, 1988.

They later welcomed two more daughters: Scout on July 20, 1991, and Tallulah on February 3, 1994.

During this period, the couple juggled parenthood and their careers - regularly traveling to Hollywood from Idaho during filming.

The Split: June 25, 1998

On June 25, 1998, the couple released a statement saying that they were splitting up after more than a decade of marriage.

They revealed: "Bruce Willis and Demi Moore have announced they are ending their marriage after 11 years. They were married on November 21, 1987."

According to reports, the couple had been living apart for months due to conflicting film schedules.

The former husband and wife were officially divorced on October 18, 2000.

Despite no longer being a couple, the pair continued to co-parent their kids and have always remained great friends.

Other Marriages: 2005/2009

Demi and Ashton Kutcher:

On September 24, 2005, Demi married actor Ashton Kutcher in a private ceremony at their home.

Bruce was a guest at their nuptials.

Demi and Ashton's divorce was finalized on November 26, 2013, and Bruce remained by her side to help her through the split.

Ashton went on to marry his childhood sweetheart Mila Kunis, and they now have two children.

Bruce and Emma Heming:

On March 21, 2009, Bruce married model Emma Heming.

The couple met through friends and dated for a year before tying the knot.

At the time, Demi and Ashton were still together and attended the Pulp Fiction star's second wedding.

The Lockdown: 2020

During the initial quarantine of early 2020 due to Covid-19, Bruce and Demi - along with their kids and their partners - began isolating themselves together.

Bruce was unable to be with his wife Emma and his youngest daughter Evelyn because the latter had accidentally stabbed herself with a needle in a park.

The travel ban went into effect while Emma and Evelyn were still seeking medical treatment in Los Angeles.

The family continuously updated fans with pictures of them in matching PJs, taking part in an art class, and uploading funny videos - which included Bruce mimicking Demi's famous scene from the 90s movie, Ghost.

The Diagnosis: March 30, 2022

On March 30, 2022, members of Bruce's family took to Instagram to announce the actor would be stepping down from his career due to a diagnosis of aphasia, a cognitive disability.

"To Bruce's amazing supporters, as a family we wanted to share that our beloved Bruce has been experiencing some health issues and has recently been diagnosed with aphasia, which is impacting his cognitive abilities," the caption read, across various family member's profiles - including Demi's.

"As a result of this and with much consideration Bruce is stepping away from the career that has meant so much to him."

They continued: "This is a really challenging time for our family and we are so appreciative of your continued love, compassion and support.

"We are moving through this as a strong family unit, and wanted to bring his fans in because we know how much he means to you, as you do to him."

The post concluded: "As Bruce always says, 'Live it up' and together we plan to do just that."

On February 16, 2023, Bruce's eldest daughter Rumer shared an update that specified his exact health condition.

He now has a more specific diagnosis of frontotemporal dementia - a distinctive form of dementia that affects language and behavior.

She revealed: "Our family wanted to start by expressing our deepest gratitude for the incredible outpouring of love, support, and wonderful stories we have all received since sharing Bruce’s original diagnosis.

"In the spirit of that, we wanted to give you an update about our beloved husband, father and friend since we now have a deeper understanding of what he is experiencing.