Description

The Mains is an exclusive, private development of two blocks of apartments that enjoy lovely residents' gardens and are located within a particularly quiet enclave of Giffnock.

The building has recently undergone significant improvement and upgrading by the residents which include newly upgraded roof system, newly installed double glazed windows throughout and the flat has a modern system of gas central heating with upgraded Worcester boiler. Other notable features include elevator access, refuse chute, and the flat also has two lock up garages in addition to residents parking.

Security entrance leads into common reception hallway with stairwell and elevator access. The flat, located on the top floor, has large residents lobby area on the upper floor with private door leading to particularly spacious reception hallway with generous storage provided via refitted upgraded oak internal contemporary doors, large dual aspect lounge with fireplace, dining room, sun room, two double bedrooms (fitted storage), en-suite shower room and a family bathroom. There is an integrated kitchen fitted with a range of appliances and fitted breakfasting bar.

Set within lovely lawned residents gardens with residents parking and the flat has two lock up garages.

EER Band D.

Local Area

Giffnock continues to be one of the most desirable residential suburbs on Glasgow's south side. A haven for young growing families, the district is synonymous with some of the best schooling in the West of Scotland. Moreover, there are excellent transport links via bus and train close at hand, in addition to local motorway links (M77/M8) providing swift access to the city centre and Ayrshire. There are two train stations within close proximity, Giffnock Train Station and WilliamwoodTrain Station. There are numerous independent shops, restaurants and delicatessens only a short walk away. An abundance of sports and leisure facilities are available within East Renfrewshire including PureGym, David Lloyd Sports Club, Nuffield Health Gym, Whitecraigs Golf Club, Giffnock and Whitecraigs Tennis Clubs and Rouken Glen Park which was voted UK's Best Park of 2016.

Directions

From our office on Ayr Road, Newton Mearns travel city bound to Eastwood Toll take the third exit on the right onto Eastwoodmains Road, first right onto Mains Avenue, proceed onwards to the top and the property is on the left hand side.