Judyta Czeska (Przemyślidka) w Wikipedii po polsku

Judith of Bohemia on Wikipedia in English

Judyta (ur. 1056/1058, zm. 25 grudnia 1086 r.) – córka władcy Czech Wratysława II i Adelajdy węgierskiej, siostra czeskiego księcia Brzetysława II i żona Władysława I Hermana. Ślub Judyty i Władysława miał miejsce w Polsce ok. 1080 r. Jak piszą kroniki, żona Władysława Hermana dbała o poddanych i więźniów oraz wspomagała potrzebujących. Przez prawie 5 lat para książęca nie mogła doczekać się dzieci. W związku z tym wysłano poselstwo do klasztoru w Saint-Gilles w Prowansji, gdzie proszono o wstawiennictwo patrona – św. Idziego. 20 sierpnia 1086 urodził się upragniony syn – Bolesław. Judyta zmarła 4 miesiące później – 25 grudnia 1086 r. została pochowana w płockiej katedrze.

Judith of Bohemia (ca. 1056/58 – 25 December 1086), also known as Judith Premyslid, was a Bohemian princess of the Premyslid dynasty, and by marriage Duchess of Poland. She was a daughter of Duke Vratislaus II of Bohemia by his second wife Adelaide, daughter of King Andrew I of Hungary. She was named after her paternal grandmother Judith of Schweinfurt, who died shortly after her birth. Judith was the second of four children born from Vratislaus II's marriage with the Hungarian princess Adelaide. The others were Bretislaus II, Ludmilla (later a nun) and Vratislaus, who died young killed in battle. Judith's uncle Duke Spytihnev II died in 1061 and was succeeded by his brother Vratislaus II. One year later, in 1062, Duchess Adelaide died. Duke Vratislaus II was remarried in 1063 to Świętosława, daughter of Duke Casimir I of Poland. From this marriage, Judith gained five half-siblings: Boleslav (Duke of Olomouc; he died shortly before his father), Borivoj II, Vladislav I, Soběslav I Oldřich and Judith, later wife of Wiprecht II of Groitzsch, Burgrave of Magdeburg. Around 1080, Judith married Władysław I Herman, Duke of Poland (nephew of her stepmother), to solidify the recently established Bohemian-Polish alliance. According to contemporary chroniclers, Duchess Judith performed remarkable charity work, helping the needy and ensuring the comfort of subjects and prisoners. After almost five years of childless marriage, the necessity of an heir had increased: Because she was barren pray to God every day with tears and orations, made sacrifices and paying debts, helping widows and orphans, and given very generous amounts of gold and silver for the monasteries, commanded the priests to pray to the saints and the grace of God for a child. On 10 June 1085, Judith and her husband were present at the coronation of her father Duke Vratislaus II as the first King of Bohemia. One year later, in 1086, Judith's prayers were finally answered, and on 20 August of that year she gave birth the long-awaited son and heir, the future Bolesław III Wrymouth; sadly, the Duchess never recovered from the effects of childbirth and died four months later, on 25 December.

http://wc.rootsweb.ancestry.com/cgi-bin/igm.cgi?op=GET&db=:2755307&...