There are endless reasons to visit Asturias in the north of Spain; the land of abundant enthusiasm where every welcome is a ‘thank you’, a ‘please stay’, a ‘come back’, or a ‘don’t go’. It is a land of generosity and affection, capable of embedding thousands of reasons to visit time and again in your mind’s eye and in your heart.

On this trip, we invite you to revel in a unique way of life, discovering Pre-Romanesque art, Biosphere reserves, and dozens of trails by the sea and the mountains. Relax your senses with the rich and traditional gastronomy, with the most captivating cities, with seaside villages that you won’t want to leave, and with beaches that are simply dreams realized.

Walking through Asturian Pre-Romanesque Art—a unique architectural style in Europe—is much more than a history lesson. It is a compelling journey into the past. On this route, you will make fascinating discoveries as well as enjoy all that the present has to offer. Explore the cities that are home to these incredible monuments and, all in the same trip, visit the natural and rural environments where others are located.

Oviedo/Uviéu was a “Regia Sedes” in the Middle Ages — the capital of the ancient Kingdom of Asturias. It is now the capital of Asturias.

The city retains not only the appearance of this historical period but also numerous Pre-Romanesque monuments of notable significance. Visit the Holy Chamber of Oviedo Cathedral, the church of San Julián de los Prados or Santuyano, and the fountain of La Foncalada. On Mount Naranco, you will find the two jewels of Santa María del Naranco and San Miguel de Lillo. All of them have been declared World Heritage Sites by UNESCO, together with Santa Cristina de Lena, located in the municipality of the same name.

Other places in Asturias, such as Santiago de Gobiendes, in Colunga; San Salvador de Priesca and San Salvador de Valdediós, in Villaviciosa, or San Juan de Santianes, in Pravia, make up an impressive pre-Romanesque route. The route is completed with Santa María de Bendones, in the municipality of Oviedo; San Pedro de Nora, in Las Regueras, and Santo Adriano de Tuñón, in Santo Adriano.

This Pre-Romanesque Route will lead you to unique landscapes and sensations!

There is plenty for nature-lovers to see in Asturias as well with 7 Biosphere Reserves to visit. A trip through these natural spaces will create a true oasis of peace and relaxation in your life. It will also add adventure and fun, an irresistible combination!

Río Eo, Oscos and Terras de Burón, is the only Asturian Biosphere Reserve that overlooks the Cantabrian Sea. It also has the largest number of Exemplary Towns of Asturias (an award given as part of the Princess of Asturias Awards). It is also a large ethnographic area, where the work of the “ferreiros” (iron and forging craftsmen) is particularly noteworthy.

The Redes Natural Park is one of the great water reserves of Asturias, the source of the Nalón River. It is comprised of Caso and Sobrescobio, home to iconic hiking routes such as the Alba, or the Arrudos, and areas of incredible beauty such as Brañagallones.

Picos de Europa was the first National Park created in Spain and it has a rich history. Visit the Royal Site of Covadonga, located in its territory. The Asturian part of this park has the most stunning peaks of the entire Cantabrian mountain range. Look for the Picu Urriellu or the Torrecerredo.

Ponga, the youngest Asturian Biosphere Reserve, makes up the natural bridge between Redes and the Picos de Europa. Explore its Peloño forest, considered one of the best-preserved beech forests on the Iberian Peninsula. Mountain passes, paths, sheepfolds, and remote villages complete this idyllic scenery.

They have grown up and lived in the kitchen, listening to their grandmothers and mothers, their sisters and sisters-in-law, smelling, tasting… Learning almost without knowing that they were learning. They were inheriting ancestral wisdom, whose roots are often difficult to explore, but as solid as an Asturian “carbayu” (oak).

They all feel that the status of guisandera is eternal. Wherever you are and whatever you do, you’ll never stop being a guisandera. You may retire or become less active, but you never give up your guisandera status.

The Guisanderas de Asturias make up a culinary geography of varied recipes, prepared with care. Fabadas (a traditional dish made from local beans), stews, desserts, meats, fish, seafood, seafood stews… Nothing escapes the culinary efficiency of the guisanderas, who place Asturias at the zenith of gastronomic delight.

In human dimensions, it is easy to walk around the city and every corner houses an unexpected treat. Visit the Fontán market and the pre-Romanesque fountain of La Foncalada. Look out for the contemporary civil architecture, and a Cathedral with one Gothic and one Romanesque tower. The historic quarter has inspired writers such as Clarín and Pérez de Ayala.

Nowadays, the city hosts a full calendar that includes the opera season and the Princess of Asturias Awards Ceremony.

Oviedo/Uviéu retains a monastic, royal and Jacobean air. It was a beacon of Christianity in the late Middle Ages, and the origin of the Camino de Santiago. It is a stop not to be missed on one of the most remarkable cultural journeys in the world. Start your Camino Primitivo with a couple of days in Oviedo!

In terms of cultural curiosities, it was the first Spanish city to receive an Oscar thanks to the Asturian-born filmmaker José Luis Garci. It also had the first Institute of Navigation and Mineralogy, inspired by the enlightened Gaspar Melchor de Jovellanos.

Gijón/Xixón offers a unique green environment, home to the Atlantic Botanical Garden and the Laboral City of Culture. Explore its Centre for Art and Industrial Creation.

A city of medieval origin with a great seafaring tradition, it has a historic quarter dotted with palaces, gardens, fountains, churches, and porticoed houses. The size and proportions of its estuary, and its passage through the very heart of the city, make Avilés the only city in Asturias with a powerful river flow at the foot of its historic centre. Amazingly, it is one of the best-preserved in the whole of northern Spain.

A land of explorers, such as Pedro Menéndez de Avilés, Avilés is a city teeming with innovation and an artistic vocation. Contemporary Avilés also experienced a great industrial revolution due to the steel industry. The post-industrial ‘physiognomy’ inspired the architectural genius Oscar Niemeyer to create the last of his great international works – a cultural centre that bears his name and is a symbol of the urban and sociological renovation that the city is undergoing.

They are all different. You will be amazed by the shapes, landscapes, and its crystal-clear waters. Each beach is unique, but all enhanced by proximity to the mountains and different attractions that change with the tides.

The Asturian coastline, one of the best-preserved in Spain, offers a unique natural and cultural environment. There are many leisure possibilities: sports, walks, bathing in the sea, sun and wind, hiking, the Pilgrims’ Route to Santiago de Compostela, and more.