Charles (Charlie) V. Hutton, age 84, a resident of Luck, passed away on Wednesday, August 11, 2021 at his home.

Charlie was born at the family home just east of Frederic on August 3, 1937 to William and Mildred (Larson) Hutton. Charlie weighed 3 pounds when he was born. He was placed in a shoe box and kept on the oven to keep him warm.

Charlie went to many country schools from Danbury to Dresser and everywhere in between. Charlie enlisted in the United States Air Force in 1955 and was honorably discharged in 1959. He took his basic training in San Antonia, Texas Laxland Air Force Base, then to mechanic school at Amerilo, Texas. He was then stationed in Lake Charles, LA. He worked on B47-6 Engine Jet Bomber Plane. He also did temp duties in England, Germany.

Charlie was a truck driver for Rolite and Fisher Stoves in Grantsburg. He also worked for Elmer Hanson in Balsam Lake, Trigger Express Trucking in Milltown and the Township of Luck as a truck driver over the road. Charlie retired around the age of 70.

Charlie liked snowmobiling and riding motorcycles. While he was in the Air Force his buddies and him would chase wild boars in LA on there motorcycles. He also made a saddle from a kit and stamped it. Charlie made VW “Bugs” out of VW’s. Charlie loved Ford tractors, he even built his own tractor from scratch, and it only took him 9 months to complete it. Charlie was working on a Ford 8N but did not get it done. Charlie also had a passion for airplanes. One year, Charlie got to show off his horse that he was proud of at the Minnesota State Fair.

Charlie was preceded in death by his parents; brothers, Virgil, Erling, DelRoy, and Vernon Hutton; sisters, Leola Saros, LaVerda Payson, Imogene Heimex and Arlene Panek.

He is survived by his companion, Linda; brother, James (Jacquie) Hutton; sisters; Eunice Banta, and Nancy (Larry) Cox; and many nieces, nephews, and friends.

A memorial service will take place on Monday, August 30, 2021 at 11:00 AM (visitation 10:00 – 11:00 AM) at Swedberg-Taylor Funeral Home in Siren, Wisconsin with Pastor Steve Ward as the officiant. Interment will follow at Northern Wisconsin Veterans Memorial Cemetery in Spooner with military honors.

Arrangements were entrusted to Swedberg-Taylor Funeral Home, Siren.

Last Update: Aug 20, 2021 8:20 am CDT