Regency Personalities Series

In my attempts to provide us with the details of the Regency, today I continue with one of the many period notables.

Olinthus Gilbert Gregory

29 January 1774 – 2 February 1841

Olinthus Gilbert Gregory

Olinthus Gilbert Gregory was born on 29 January 1774 at Yaxley in Huntingdonshire. Having been educated by Richard Weston, a Leicester botanist, in 1793 he published a treatise, Lessons Astronomical and Philosophical. Having settled at Cambridge in 1796, Gregory first acted as sub-editor on the Cambridge Intelligencer, and then opened a booksellers shop. In 1802 he obtained an appointment as mathematical master at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich through the influence of Charles Hutton, to whose notice he had been brought by a manuscript on the Use of the Sliding Rule; and when Hutton resigned in 1807 Gregory succeeded him in the professorship. Failing health obliged him to retire in 1838, and he died at Woolwich on 2 February 1841.

Gregory’s books included Hints for the Use of Teachers of Elementary Mathematics (1840, new edition 1853), and Mathematics for Practical Men (1825), which was revised and enlarged by Henry Law in 1848, and again by J. R. Young in 1862. His Letters on the Evidences of Christianity (1815) have been several times reprinted, and an abridgment was published by the Religious Tract Society in 1853. He will probably be longest remembered for his Biography of Robert Hall, which first appeared in the collected edition of Hall’s works, was published separately in 1833, and has since passed through several editions. The minor importance of his Memoir of John Mason Good (1828) is due to the narrower fame of the subject.

He was one of the founders of the Royal Astronomical Society. In 1802 he was appointed editor of the Gentlemen’s Diary, and in 1818 editor of the Lady’s Diary and superintendent of the almanacs of the Stationers Company. Gregory was a co-editor of Pantologia, 1813.

Gregory’s son was Charles Hutton Gregory, who later became president of the Institution of Civil Engineers.

Read Full Post »

Regency Personalities Series

In my attempts to provide us with the details of the Regency, today I continue with one of the many period notables.

Charles Hutton

14 August 1737 – 27 January 1823

Charles Hutton

Hutton was born at Newcastle-on-Tyne. The son of a superintendent of mines, who died when he was still very young. He was educated at a school at Jesmond, kept by Mr Ivison, a clergyman of the Church of England. Hutton worked in the colliery at Old Long Benton for a short time. Following Ivison’s promotion to a living, Hutton took over to the Jesmond school, which, in consequence of his increasing number of pupils, he relocated to nearby Stotes Hall. While he taught during the day at Stotes Hall, he studied mathematics in the evening at a school in Newcastle. In 1760 he married, and began teaching on a larger scale in Newcastle, where his pupils included John Scott, later Lord Eldon, who became Lord High Chancellor of England.

In 1764 he published The Schoolmasters Guide, or a Complete System of Practical Arithmetic, which in 1770 was followed by his Treatise on Mensuration both in Theory and Practice. At around this time he was employed by Newcastle to make a survey of the town. He drew up a map; a smaller one, of the town only, was engraved and published. In 1772 he brought out a tract on The Principles of Bridges, a subject suggested by the destruction of Newcastle bridge by a high flood in November 1771.

He left Newcastle in 1773, when appointed professor of mathematics at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1774. He was asked by the society to perform the calculations necessary to work out the mass and density of the earth from the results of the Schiehallion experiment – a set of observations of the gravitational pull of a mountain in Perthshire made by the Astronomer Royal, Nevil Maskelyne, in 1774–76.

Hutton’s results appeared in the society’s Philosophical Transactions for 1778, and were later reprinted in the second volume of Hutton’s Tracts on Mathematical and Philosophical Subjects. His work on the question procured for him the degree of LL.D. from the University of Edinburgh. He became the foreign secretary of the Royal Society in 1779. His resignation from the society in 1783 was brought about by tensions between its president Sir Joseph Banks and the mathematicians amongst its members.

After his Tables of the Products and Powers of Numbers, 1781, and his Mathematical Tables of 1785, he issued, for the use of the Royal Military Academy, in 1787 Elements of Conic Sections, and in 1798 his Course of Mathematics.

His Mathematical and Philosophical Dictionary, a valuable contribution to scientific biography, was published in 1795 and the four volumes of Recreations in Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, mostly translated from the French, in 1803. One of his most laborious works was the abridgment, in conjunction with G. Shaw and R. Pearson, of the Philosophical Transactions. This undertaking, the mathematical and scientific parts of which fell to Hutton, was completed in 1809, and filled eighteen quarto volumes.

From 1764 he contributed to the Ladies Diary (a poetical and mathematical almanac established in 1704), and became its editor ten years later, retaining the post until 1817. He had previously begun a small periodical called Miscellane Mathematica, of which only thirteen issues appeared; subsequently he published five volumes of The Diarian Miscellany which contained substantial extracts from the Diary.

He resigned his professorship in 1807, due to ill health, although he served as the principal examiner of the Royal Military Academy, and also to the East India College at Addiscombe for some years after his retirement. The Board of Ordance had granted him a pension of £500 a year. During his last years he worked on new editions of his earlier works.

He died on 27 January 1823, and was buried in the family vault at Charlton, in Kent.

Read Full Post »