Featured Video: Living Flame of Love

A documentary film from Michael B MacDonald, follow Canadian Composer Peter Togni, Michael Zaugg, and Pro Coro Canada from inception to stage on the journey of crafting a new musical work. The film follows the choir in January 2019 as they prepare for the world premiere of Togni’s new work “Living Flame of Love”.

Ugis Praulins - Laudibus in Sanctis

Our performance of Ugis Praulins’ “Laudibus in Sanctis” at A Canadian Choral Celebration Live from Koerner Hall, Toronto

Pro Coro Canada, Michael Zaugg - Conductor

Ben Sellick - Job’s Reply

Written for Pro Coro Canada, recorded Live June 2018 at All Saints Cathedral

Pro Coro Canada, Michael Zaugg - Conductor

Ugis Praulins - The Way Children Sleep

Written for Pro Coro Canada by Composer-In-Residence Ugis Praulins.

Pro Coro Canada, Michael Zaugg - Conductor

Jason Noble - Furiouser and Spuriouser

Written for Pro Coro Canada at the 2018 Choral Art Program at the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity

Pro Coro Canada, Kathleen Allan - Conductor

Dmytro Bortniansky - Let God Arise

Recorded LIVE at St. Francis Xavier Parish - New York City, 2017.

Featuring the male voices of Pro Coro Canada, the Boyan Ensemble of Kyiv, the Ukrainian Bandurist Chorus, Axios Men's Ensemble of Edmonton and friends.

Michael Zaugg - Conductor

Laura Hawley - Sonnet 43, Pro Coro #Connect

Pro Coro Canada’s youth development choir, Connect, performs Laura Hawley’s “Sonnet 43” at the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity.

Pro Coro Connect, Laura Hawley - Conductor

Listen

Holy Week Reflections

Music for daily contemplation around Holy Week. The Pro Coro archive opens to bring you some favourites from Good Friday at the Winspear and beyond! Listen to works by Pro Coro Canada Composers-In-Residence Paul Mealor and Ugis Praulins as well as musical gems old and new alike.

The Pro Coro Canada Composers Collection

Listen to select works from Pro Coro Canada Composers-In-Residence Paul Mealor and Ugis Praulins

Canadian Choral Music Radio

A collection of Canadian choral compositions sung by Pro Coro Canada including works by Allan Gilliland, Stuart Beatch, Matthew Emery, Cy Giacomin, and Cecilia Livingston.

Explore our Soundcloud

Hear the latest from Pro Coro Canada as we open our performance archive to share choral favourites new and old!

Dominik Dieterle - The Midnight Giant

Written for Pro Coro Canada and Live Electronics, The Midnight Giant was written at the 2020 Choral Art Residency at the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity

Hope Littwin - Soft Metals

Written for Pro Coro Canada, Soft Metals was written for Pro Coro Canada at the 2020 Choral Art Residency at the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity

Stuart Beatch - Set Me as a Seal

Written for Pro Coro Canada, Michael Zaugg - Conductor

Recorded LIVE September 2019 “Listen, My Beloved”

All Saints Cathedral,

Stuart Beatch - Resurrectio

Written for Pro Coro Canada, Davide Fior - Conductor

Recorded LIVE November 2019 “Heaven and Hell”

All Saints Cathedral,