Founded by Denis Chabot, the FILMharmonic Orchestra is Canada's premier film music orchestra composed of world-class Canadian musicians.

Since its creation in 2015, the FILMharmonic has presented sold-out film concerts every year at Salle Wilfrid-Pelletier at Place des Arts. Among the films presented live in concert are Harry Potter, Amadeus, Star Wars, The Godfather, Gladiator, Titanic, Fantasia and The Lord of the Rings. Since their creation, they have recorded three albums under the label GFN Classics: Music at the Movies, Phonemes: The Music of Francois Dompierre, and A Very Operatic Christmas.

The FILMharmonic is dedicated to making classical music accessible to a wider audience. For some members of our audience, Filmharmonic concerts are a first experience of live classical music. Our goal is both to engage existing audiences, as well as to cultivate a new and inclusive audience of classical concert-goers across Canada. We are committed to Canadian artists, cultural exchange, music education, and accessibility.

In addition to being the founder and artistic co-director of FILMharmonique, Denis Chabot also occupies the positions of founding President of Denis Chabot MTL, founding member of GFN Productions where he acts as Supervision & musical coordination as well as artistic coordinator in Orford Music.

After graduating with honors in performance from McGill University, he obtained a graduate degree from the prestigious Guildhall School of Music in London. Subsequently, Denis held several positions in different orchestras including the Orchestre Métropolitain, Orchestra Sinfonia de Barcelona, ​​Orchestra de Tenerife as well as Lahti Sinfonia (Finland). He is currently solo double bass with the Orchestre Classique de Montréal as well as associated solo double bass with the Orchestre des Grands Ballets Canadiens.

Named one of the CBC’s “30 Hot Canadian Classical Musicians Under 30,” Francis Choinière is a versatile musician, active as a conductor, concert producer, pianist, and composer. Winner of the Hnatyshyn Foundation’s prestigious Christa and Franz-Paul Decker Conducting Fellowship, Choinière has collaborated with some of the world’s top international artists, including engagements as chorus master and collaborative conductor for concerts with Andrea Bocelli, Sarah Brightman, Ramin Djawad, Hans Zimmer, and Jonsi & Alex Somers.

​

Choinière is the Artistic Director and Conductor of the OPCM (Orchestre Philharmonique et Choeur des Mélomanes), successfully programming large choral and symphonic masterworks for the organization. This season's performances include three engagements in Montréal's Maison Symphonique, including Vivaldi’s Gloria, André Matthieu’s Concerto de Québec with pianist Alain Lefèvre, and Orff’s Carmina Burana. Choinière is also the Principal Conductor and Co-Artistic Director of l'Orchestre FILMharmonique. Upcoming, Choinière will lead the FILMharmonique orchestra through symphonic masterworks, including Holst’s The Planets and Berlioz's Symphonie Fantastique, paired with classics from 21st-Century cinema.

​

In the 2020-2021 season, Choinière served as assistant and cover conductor of the National Arts Centre Orchestra under Alexander Shelley. Similarly, from 2018 to 2020, he worked with the Choeur Fernand Lindsay for the Festival de Lanaudière as chorus master and conductor, collaborating with conductors such as Stephan Layton (Trinity College) and Corrado Rovaris (Philadelphia Opera).

​

Choinière is highly engaged in the Canadian music scene. As the co-founder and president of GFN Productions, he is passionate about expanding and developing classical music audiences through the presentation of new symphonic programs with film including Fantasia, Star Wars, Titanic, and Lord of the Rings. Choinière completed his Master’s Degree in Conducting at McGill University, studying with Alexis Hauser, and has received many scholarships and prizes during his studies. Choinière has refined his conducting in masterclasses with renowned conductors including Francois Xavier Roth, Yoav Talmi, and Colin Metters.