Learn about the Palace Hotel in San Francisco's history. As a member of Historic Hotels of America since 2010, the Palace Hotel in is one of the most renowned destinations active in American today. It is also the most historic in downtown San Francisco, having first debuted before an enthusiastic public at the height of the Gilded Age. The building was the brainchild of William Chapman Ralston, a wealthy financier who had originally co-founded the Bank of California. Using his position within the bank, he invested $5 million of its assets toward developing what he hoped would be the grandest hotel west of the Mississippi River. Ralston subsequently hired John P. Gaynor to craft the appearance of such a building. Using the best resources available, Gaynor designed a towering, seven-story structure that dominated the local skyline. It featured beautiful hues of white and gold, as well as ornate, 14-foot-high ceilings replete with lavish decorations. Each one of its 755 guestrooms contained the best amenities of the day, including an innovative electronic call button that could summon a member of the hotel’s concierge. Perhaps the most stunning aspect Gaynor created was a huge central courtyard known as the “Grand Court.” Topped with a gorgeous skylight, the space extended the full length of the building. Many white double columns lined the expanse of the Grant Court, which was large enough to accept numerous carriages as they dropped off arriving guests. When the Palace Hotel finally opened in 1875, it truly did impress all who stepped inside. Its unprecedented luxury quickly made it an incredibly popular social gathering spot in San Francisco, hosting thousands of people every year. Among the patrons were some of nation’s most influential individuals, including U.S. Presidents like Ulysses S. Grant, William McKinley, and Theodore Roosevelt.

Unfortunately, Ralston never lived to see the success of the Palace Hotel—he died just two months before its debut. Nevertheless, the Palace Hotel continued to thrive until the cataclysmic San Francisco Earthquake of 1906. While the building managed to endure the calamity, it was still in dire need of a comprehensive renovation. Its owners thus initiated an ambitious three-year-long restoration that completely revitalized the historic Palace Hotel. Indeed, the structure possessed countless new facilities upon its anticipated reopening in 1909. Designed by the architectural firm Trowbridge & Livingston, the reborn Palace Hotel featured a wealth of new outstanding architectural details that reflected the reigning concepts of Renaissance Revivalism. Its interior floorplan had many ornate public spaces that added to its reinvigorated palatial character. For instance, the resplendent Garden Court—replacing the Grand Court—contained a wonderful stained-glass ceiling that cost some $7 million to create, as well as a massive series of Ionic columns. Its Pied Piper Bar also amazed with a 16-foot mural painted by Maxfield Parrish that depicted the mythic Pied Piper of Hameilin. These new facilities only further solidified the Palace Hotel’s reputation as one of America’s leading hostelries, and it resumed entertaining many illustrious people over the following decades. In 1919, for instance, President Woodrow Wilson specifically arranged to have a massive dinner party held at the hotel in an attempt to galvanize support for the Versailles Treaty and the League of Nations. Then in 1945, the Palace Hotel played host to dozens of international dignitaries who were ironically in San Francisco to inaugurate the founding of the United Nations.

After operating as part of Sheraton Hotels & Resorts for a time, the Palace Hotel was subsequently sold to a Japanese company known as the Kyo-Ya group during the 1970s. Kyo-Ya Hotels and Resorts oversaw the hotel’s operations throughout the remainder of the century, ultimately shuttering operations for yet another extensive renovation in 1989. The project was massive in scope, as it hoped to authentically preserve every aspect of the Palace Hotel’s rich architectural motifs. Taking years to finish, the entire project ultimately cost a breathtaking $150 million in funding! But the construction was nonetheless worth it, as the building once more teemed with the same vitality that first defined it back in the late 19th century. (Similar renovations transpired in the 21st century, which saw additional work done to the hotel’s historic pool facility, promenade, and iconic Garden Court.) Now managed by Marriott International, the Palace Hotel is still among the best places to stay in all of San Francisco, let alone California. It has received countless awards for its unrivaled hospitality, too, including an Award of Excellence for “Best Historic Hotel (Over 400 Guestrooms)” from Historic Hotels of America. And the preservation of its historical identity has also earned the praise of many professional organizations, such as the American Institute of Architects, the California Heritage Council, and the National Trust for Historic Preservation. Indeed, the City of San Francisco has even designated the building as one of its cherished historical landmarks. No avid cultural heritage traveler should pass on an opportunity to make a trip out to the legendary Palace Hotel.