"Prior to today, customers with a Pizza Profile were limited to placing their most recent order or Easy Order via Messenger," said Dennis Maloney, Domino's senior vice president and chief digital officer. "Now anyone, especially those watching the big football game, can place any order for any menu item they want – no Pizza Profile needed – thanks to Dom, our enhanced ordering assistant bot."

As if full ordering on Messenger isn't cause enough for celebration, customers who order on Messenger will receive 20 percent off every menu-priced item in their order when they ask to redeem the coupon for the deal.

"Football teams strive to get better and maintain their winning edge, and Domino's is no different," Maloney said. "Launching Messenger ordering with Pizza Profiles was a great first step, but Dom's ordering capabilities are continuing to advance as Domino's AnyWare technology evolves. We think of ourselves as a brand in progress and wanted to create an even bigger and better ordering experience for customers."

As the New England and Atlanta football teams get ready for their biggest Sunday of the season, Domino's is preparing for it as well. Domino's expects to sell more than 12 million pizza slices nationwide on game day – about five times more than on a typical Sunday.

Domino's Game Day Fun Facts

Football's final Sunday is one of the top five busiest delivery days of the year for Domino's in the U.S.

Domino's expects to sell more than 4 million chicken wings nationwide on game day.

On football Sunday, in the U.S. alone, Domino's delivery drivers will cover the equivalent of more than 1,000 round trips from Boston to Atlanta – more than a 24-percent increase over a typical Sunday.

Over the years, Domino's stores have seen sales tend to increase when the game is close and viewers are glued to their TVs.

While Domino's stores throughout New England and Atlanta will see high sales at the beginning of the game, the city of the winning team will likely see higher sales at the end of the night.

During last year's game, Domino's sold enough pizzas to stretch across more than 4,400 football fields.

About Domino's Pizza®

Founded in 1960, Domino's Pizza is the recognized world leader in pizza delivery, with a significant business in carryout pizza. It ranks among the world's top public restaurant brands with a global enterprise of more than 13,200 stores in over 80 markets. Domino's had global retail sales of over $9.9 billion in 2015, with more than $4.8 billion in the U.S. and nearly $5.1 billion internationally. In the third quarter of 2016, Domino's had global retail sales of nearly $2.5 billion, with over $1.2 billion in the U.S. and nearly $1.3 billion internationally. Its system is comprised of independent franchise owners who accounted for over 97% of Domino's stores as of the third quarter of 2016. Emphasis on technology innovation helped Domino's reach an estimated $4.7 billion annually in global digital sales at the end of 2015, and has produced several innovative ordering platforms including Facebook Messenger, Samsung Smart TV®, Apple Watch, Amazon Echo, Twitter and text message using a pizza emoji. In late 2015, Domino's announced the design and launch of the DXP®, a purpose-built pizza delivery vehicle, as well as Piece of the Pie Rewards™, its first digital customer loyalty program.

Order – dominos.com

AnyWare Ordering – anyware.dominos.com

Company Info – biz.dominos.com

Twitter – twitter.com/dominos

Facebook – facebook.com/dominos

Instagram – instagram.com/dominos

YouTube – youtube.com/dominos

SOURCE Domino's Pizza

Related Links