Discover a world of emotions with our animal friends! Children aged 2 years and up can discover emotions in a fun way, thanks to this colourful memory game. Each token features a close-up, action-packed emotion portrayed by a charming animal. This educational game is an excellent tool for developing children's observation skills and promoting their language learning. It contains 24 tokens, each representing a different emotion. Furthermore, the large pieces fit perfectly into little hands, making play easier and more enjoyable. The aim of the game: to match an emotion to a scene from everyday life. Thanks to this game, children can learn to identify and express their emotions whilst having fun exercising their memory. The ideal educational board game for learning to show empathy. This animal memory game is made in France with vegetable inks and FSC™ cardboard.

Let’s head to the garden for a game of hide and seek! This pretty ladybird-themed memory game will prompt children aged 2 years and up to develop their sense of observation. This scalable game boasts 2 levels of play: first off, you can hide a ladybird under the flower pot and ask the child to find the missing insect by testing their memory. The second level involves prompting children to observe a logical sequence of coloured ladybugs before hiding them behind the cardboard bush: your toddler will then have to reproduce the sequence of colours using the tokens. However they decide to play, your child will win “trophy” leaves that they will enjoy accumulating as they progress! This educational game consists of: 8 coloured ladybirds, 16 wooden tokens, 1 cardboard flower pot, 2 cardboard bushes and 10 “trophy” leaves. A cotton bag is also included to better store and carry all the pieces. The garden is a source of discoveries and experiences for children, even from a very early age. And it’s always when you least expect it that a pretty ladybug lands on you! This is why these mischievous little insects are in the spotlight in this edutainment game. Each game is played by 2 people, either two friends or with an adult for a learning experience adapted to the child's pace. Little ones can create colourful sequences of varying length and complexity, to help bolster their progress. This game for nursery-age children is ideal for stimulating their memory and sense of deduction, whilst allowing them to work on the concept of logical sequences and colour recognition. This educational game is made from FSC™-certified wood and cardboard. It is part of the Janod educational range, developed in collaboration with a school teacher to ensure the best possible fit with the learning and curriculum at each level.