This Lotus 18/21 formula race car is said to have been constructed by UDT-Laystall Racing Team for the 1961 season using a design that combined the Type 18’s chassis with characteristics of the newly developed Type 21. Chassis 918 debuted in June 1961 with a victory at Brands Hatch with Stirling Moss at the wheel before returning after a crash at Spa to claim a second win with Moss in August. The car was then traded to Rob Walker Racing for the 1962 season, during which it was driven to a comeback victory in the Pau Grand Prix by Maurice Trintignant and a month later placed third with Graham Hill at the wheel. It was then sold to a privateer and fitted with a Ford V8 for use in Formula Libre, after which it is said to have incurred severe damage in a 1964 crash. The car was reportedly rebuilt between 1993 and 1995 by Alan Baillie and subsequently participated in vintage races at Monterey, Goodwood, and other tracks in the US and UK. The 1.5-liter Coventry Climax inline-four was overhauled with a replacement block in the early 2000s, while further work in 2012 included a repaint of the body in its current pale green UDT-Laystall livery and a reseal of the Hewland HD5 five-speed manual transaxle. The car was featured on BaT in May 2016 before being purchased by its current owner approximately seven years ago. Additional features include dual Weber carburetors, Girling four-wheel disc brakes, sliding-spline half-shafts beneath upper rear suspension links, 15” black-painted “wobbly-web” wheels, a single seat upholstered in red, and a leather-wrapped steering wheel. This Lotus 18/21 is now offered by the seller on behalf of the owner with documentation from previous ownership, an SCCA logbook, FIA identification paperwork from the 1990s, and a bill of sale.

The Lotus 18 was introduced for the 1960 racing season as Colin Chapman’s first mid-engined design and helped establish Lotus as a force in formula racing. Lotus updated its works arsenal with the Type 21 for the 1961 Formula One season, while privately run teams without access to the new model instead revised the Type 18 to incorporate aspects of the newer design. Known as the 18/21, such cars were either modified from existing 18 chassis or built new with sleeker, more aerodynamic bodywork, an updated rear suspension arrangement, and a more reclined seating position.

This example is said to have been reconstructed in the 1990s after its remains from the 1964 crash were purchased by a UK owner. Previously finished in a darker green, the reproduction fiberglass bodywork was repainted in its current shade of pale green in 2012. Features include a low-frontal-area nose wearing a tartan stripe, a wrap-around windscreen hosting dual side mirrors, a roll hoop, and a rear safety light.

Black-painted wobbly-web wheels are wrapped in Dunlop Racing tires measuring 5.00-15 up front and 6.00-15 at the rear. Stopping is handled by Girling disc brakes at each corner. Steering is via rack and pinion, and service in 2012 included a rebuild of the rack and replacement of the shaft U-joint.

The single-place cockpit houses a bucket seat trimmed in red upholstery with white piping amid the gray-painted steel tube frame. Additional features include a Simpson four-point harness, a right-hand shifter, and aluminum floor panels.

The three-spoke steering wheel was fitted with a SPA quick-release hub and is trimmed in brown leather that has worn through in two areas. The front scuttle is trimmed in red upholstery and houses Smiths instrumentation including an 8k-rpm tachometer and gauges monitoring oil pressure and coolant temperature.

The 1.5-liter Coventry Climax FPF inline-four features a crossflow cylinder head with dual overhead camshafts, dry-sump lubrication, and dual Weber 45 DCOE carburetors. The engine is said to have been overhauled in the early 2000s with a replacement block that was reportedly cast after the previous block was damaged during practice at Goodwood in 2000. The radiator and oil cooler were repaired during the work performed in 2012 by Jim Groom in Berkeley, California. According to the seller, the car has not seen regular use in approximately seven years and will require a tune-up and fluid changes.

Power is sent to the rear wheels via a Hewland HD5 five-speed manual transaxle and sliding-spline half-shafts. Type 21-style suspension incorporates transverse upper links as opposed to the Type 18’s use of fixed-length half-shafts as upper links. Suspension also incorporates double front wishbones, a front anti-roll bar, reverse rear lower wishbones, parallel rear radius rods, and four-wheel coilover shock absorbers. Service between 2011 and 2012 included a reseal of the gearbox, repairs to the left rear upright, and replacement of the half-shaft U-joints and hub bearings.

A chassis plate stamped with number 918 is affixed to the front cowl.

The photo above shows Stirling Moss at the wheel of chassis 918 en route to a second-place finish behind Jim Clark in the 1961 South African Grand Prix. Additional photos of the car can be viewed in the photo gallery below, as can notes on the car’s provenance, a list of its results prior to the 1964 crash, FIA identification papers from the 1990s, and passages mentioning 918 and the other 18/21 chassis from marque-related books, the latter of which are not included in the sale. An SCCA logbook is also included in the sale and lists results between the late 1990s and 2012 from the Monterey and Sonoma Historics as well as Goodwood, Silverstone, and Isle of Man.

The car does not have a title as it is intended for track use only. It is sold on a bill of sale.