Born on Gravel. Raised on Pavement

Straggler is tuned for cross-over exploration on a wide variety of terrain conditions. It’s a day-tripper and a weekender. It’s a ‘rough road’ road bike, a cyclocross bike with no pretense about racing, a utilitarian townie, a light-duty touring bike and an all-weather commuter. It’s a steel gravel bicycle that thrives on the road. Think of it as a “mountain biker’s road bike.” If you only have room for one bike in your life, Straggler can (and should) be your one and only.

Straggler’s capabilities go well beyond asphalt. It also lends itself well to light touring setups. We're talking frame bags, seat bags, and "credit card touring” rather than full-blown touring. Straggler also handles our 8- and 24-Pack Racks well, so you have some heavier-duty loading options.

Frame Warranty

LIMITED WARRANTY

This Surly product is warranted against defects in materials and workmanship for three years from the date of retail purchase of the product, subject to the limitations detailed below. Save your dated receipt for proof of purchase.

This warranty does NOT cover the following:

Damage due to improper assembly or follow-up maintenance or lack of skill, competence or experience of the user or assembler

Products that have been modified, neglected, used in competition or for commercial purposes, misused or abused, involved in accidents or anything other than normal use

Installation of components, parts or accessories not originally intended for or compatible with bicycle as sold

Damage or deterioration to the paint, surface finish, aesthetics or appearance of the product

Normal wear and tear

Labor required to remove and/or refit and re-adjust the product within the bicycle assembly

This limited warranty is expressly limited to the repair or replacement of a defective product, at the option of Surly, and is the sole remedy of the warranty. This limited warranty applies only to the original purchaser of the Surly product and is not transferrable. This warranty applies only to products purchased through an authorized dealer or distributor. In no event shall Surly be liable for any loss, inconvenience or damage, whether direct, incidental, consequential, or otherwise resulting from breach of any express or implied warranty or condition, of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or otherwise with respect to our products except as set forth herein.

This limited warranty gives the consumer specific legal rights, and those rights and other rights may vary from place to place. This limited warranty does not affect your statutory rights.

TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW, THESE WARRANTIES ARE EXCLUSIVE AND THERE ARE NO OTHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS INCLUDING WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.