“Imagine a world in which every single person on the planet is given free access to the sum of all human knowledge.”

— Jimmy Wales

Internet and technology entrepreneur Jimmy Wales (@jimmy_wales) is founder of the online nonprofit encyclopedia Wikipedia and cofounder of the privately owned Wikia, Inc., including its entertainment media brand Fandom, powered by Wikia. Jimmy serves on the board of trustees of the Wikimedia Foundation, the nonprofit charitable organization he established to operate Wikipedia.

In 2019, Jimmy launched WT Social—a news-focused social network. In 2006, Jimmy was named to Time magazine’s list of the 100 most influential people in the world for his role in creating Wikipedia.

In 2021, inspired by his family quiz nights during COVID-19 lockdown, Jimmy created Quiz Night Beyond—a website where people can create and play quizzes online with family and friends wherever they may be.

Please enjoy!

Listen to the episode on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Overcast, Stitcher, Castbox, Google Podcasts, or on your favorite podcast platform.

Brought to you by You Need A Budget cult favorite budgeting app, Athletic Greens all-in-one nutritional supplement, and Helix Sleep premium mattresses. More on all three below.

The transcript of this episode can be found here. Transcripts of all episodes can be found here.

#528: Jimmy Wales, Founder of Wikipedia, on Homeschooling, Atheism, Understanding Financial Markets, Ayn Rand, Favorite Books, and More

This episode is brought to you by AG1! I get asked all the time, “If you could use only one supplement, what would it be?” My answer is usually AG1, my all-in-one nutritional insurance. I recommended it in The 4-Hour Body in 2010 and did not get paid to do so. I do my best with nutrient-dense meals, of course, but AG1 further covers my bases with vitamins, minerals, and whole-food-sourced micronutrients that support gut health and the immune system.

Right now, you’ll get a 1-year supply of Vitamin D free with your first subscription purchase—a vital nutrient for a strong immune system and strong bones. Visit DrinkAG1.com/Tim to claim this special offer today and receive your 1-year supply of Vitamin D (and 5 free AG1 travel packs) with your first subscription purchase! That’s up to a one-year supply of Vitamin D as added value when you try their delicious and comprehensive daily, foundational nutrition supplement that supports whole-body health.

This episode is brought to you by You Need A Budget! You Need A Budget is a cult-favorite budgeting app for a reason—it works. The app and its simple 4-rule method will change the way you think about your money and help you gain total control so you can plan for the things you need and get the things you want without guilt or stress. You Need A Budget has helped millions of people transform their finances, save their marriages, and live life on their own terms.

The You Need A Budget team offers free, live classes every day of the week—including video courses, bootcamps, and challenges—and active fan groups in every corner of the internet. On average, new budgeters save more than $600 by month two and $6,000 in their first year. Try the app free for 34 days (no credit card required) at YouNeedABudget.com/Tim.

This episode is brought to you by Helix Sleep! Helix was selected as the best overall mattress of 2024 by Forbes, Fortune, and Wired magazines and many others. With Helix, there’s a specific mattress to meet each and every body’s unique comfort needs. Just take their quiz—only two minutes to complete—that matches your body type and sleep preferences to the perfect mattress for you. They have a 10-year warranty, and you get to try it out for a hundred nights, risk-free. They’ll even pick it up from you if you don’t love it. And now, Helix is offering 20% off all mattress orders plus two free pillows at HelixSleep.com/Tim.

What was your favorite quote or lesson from this episode? Please let me know in the comments.

SCROLL BELOW FOR LINKS AND SHOW NOTES…

Want to hear an episode with someone who might be as optimistic as Jimmy Wales? Listen in on my conversation with venture capitalist Mike Maples, Jr., the man who taught me to invest. We discussed anti-authoritarian disruption technology, parenting advice, acting simple, investment advice, how cryptocurrency helps separate politics from economics, a 60-second idea for changing the world, lessons for aspiring entrepreneurs, the pointlessness of holding grudges, and much more.

#286: The Man Who Taught Me How to Invest — Mike Maples

SELECTED LINKS FROM THE EPISODE

Connect with Jimmy Wales:

Website | Twitter | Facebook | WT.social

Quiz Night Beyond

The Free Encyclopedia | Wikipedia

Wikimedia Foundation

Fandom

US Space & Rocket Center | Huntsville, AL

American Montessori Society

The United Methodist Church

Pascal’s Wager | Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy

Winnebago Industries: 37-Year Stock Price History | MacroTrends

Apple: 41-Year Stock Price History | MacroTrends

Compound Interest Calculator | Investor.gov

FAANG Stocks | Investopedia

Warren Buffett and His 20 Punches | The Motley Fool

Objectivism | Wikipedia

The Fountainhead by Ayn Rand | Amazon

Usenet | Wikipedia

The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People by Stephen R. Covey | Amazon

Getting Things Done: The Art of Stress-Free Productivity by David Allen | Amazon

Your Money or Your Life: 9 Steps to Transforming Your Relationship with Money and Achieving Financial Independence by Vicki Robin and Joe Dominguez | Amazon

The 4-Hour Workweek: Escape 9-5, Live Anywhere, and Join the New Rich by Tim Ferriss | Amazon

London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) | Investopedia

Netscape Navigator | Wikipedia

Bomis | Wikipedia

Slashdot

Nupedia | Wikipedia

Autotrader

Wall Street Is Banking Billions on the Food Delivery Boom | Cision

Why Smart Startups Fail Their Way to Success | Inc.

The Top 500 Sites on the Web | Alexa

If You Build It, He Will Come | Field of Dreams

Subprime Mortgage Crisis | Federal Reserve History

Mosaic (Web Browser) | Wikipedia

What We Know and Can Agree On: Wikipedia at 20 | Esquire UK

Hamlet by William Shakespeare | Wikisource

Wikipedia Embraces First-of-Its Kind Universal Code of Conduct, Conceived For The New Internet Era | Wikimedia Foundation

8 Fascinating Facts About the Playful-Looking Roly-Poly | Treehugger

Some Practical Thoughts on Suicide | Tim Ferriss

WebRTC

SHOW NOTES

Where did Jimmy grow up, and what did his family life and education look like in the early days? [05:22]

How did Jimmy’s free-range schooling inform how he thinks about education for his own children? [09:12]

How might a parent prepare to homeschool a curious kid who might be too far ahead of the curve for a traditional education? [10:41]

Why Jimmy would label himself more as a non-believer than an atheist, and how he came to a point of religious disbelief after being raised Methodist and carrying out a flawed experiment involving Santa Claus and G.I. Joe. [12:13]

What did Jimmy aspire to be when he was growing up? [17:08]

What was it that compelled Jimmy to study finance and markets? [18:37]

Were there any investors who Jimmy looked up to at this time? What influenced the way he built his portfolio in these early years?

What wisdom about building a portfolio does Jimmy wish he understood when he was younger, and what investor could have imparted such wisdom? [20:01]

When and how did Jimmy’s interest in Objectivism enter into the picture, what does he see as the most common myths and misconceptions about its creator, Ayn Rand? [22:18]

Whether or not you agree with the points Ayn Rand (or anyone) is trying to make, Jimmy considers critically thinking them through — rather than just picking a side based on a knee-jerk impression — to be the important thing. [24:46]

How Usenet was hijacked by its own design, why Twitter succumbs to many of the same problems, and how Jimmy hoped Wikipedia could be designed as a vehicle for healthier human discourse. [26:42]

Recommended reading. [32:30]

How did Jimmy go from finance and markets to founding companies? [36:14]

When was Jimmy able to leave his finance job behind and dive fully into entrepreneurial endeavors? What made this possible? [42:04]

How was Jimmy’s company discovered by a major television network, and how was their symbiotic deal established? [47:24]

With a lot of great ideas but only a limited number of resources, how did Jimmy choose what shots to take when setting out in the world of tech startups during the dotcom boom? [50:35]

When the deal fell through, was Jimmy’s company able to use the momentum it had built, or did it have to start from scratch in altering course? What sacrifices had to be made in order to weather the storm, and how did these hardships affect the direction taken by the nascent Wikipedia? [54:06]

Why did Wikipedia thrive while Nupedia became an internet footnote? [1:00:30]

How did Jimmy first come across the wiki software that would provide the building blocks for Wikipedia? [1:05:22]

What were some of the early decisions that made Wikipedia catch in its first few months? [1:07:37]

Were there any significant mistakes made in the early days of Wikipedia that either ended up needing to be fixed or that, like a vestigial tail, have remained in the system? [1:11:42]

The Steak Knives Analogy: why it’s better to design for the benefit of nice people rather than for the deterrence of bad people. [1:16:57]

What motivates great Wikipedia contributors, and how are they kept happy? [1:20:25]

What organizational decisions aim to cultivate a positive contributor culture? [1:22:19]

Has Jimmy always been a self-described “pathological optimist,” or was it something he had to work at? [1:00:00]

Does Jimmy have any practices to help him stay the course of optimism if he loses his way? [1:28:23]

Aside from Wikipedia, what other projects occupy Jimmy’s time at present? What’s the inspiration and purpose behind his new Quiz Night Beyond website?[1:30:25]

What would Jimmy’s billboard say? [1:40:35]

Parting thoughts. [1:42:06]

MORE JIMMY WALES QUOTES FROM THE INTERVIEW

“Imagine a world in which every single person on the planet is given free access to the sum of all human knowledge.” — Jimmy Wales

“You wouldn’t know it from watching TV debates or going on Twitter, but most people are pretty reasonable and will say, ‘Look, I disagree with this, but it should be presented in a fair way that the defenders of it would identify.'” — Jimmy Wales

“I’m a pathological optimist, so I always think everything’s going to be great. That’s not correct, by the way; everything is not always going to be great. But that’s the way I feel and approach things.” — Jimmy Wales

“If you design for the worst people, then you’re failing design for good people.” — Jimmy Wales

“A great Wikipedian, in my view, is someone who really takes seriously the values and ideas of Wikipedia, like neutrality for example, quality for example, reliable sources. And they take all those things as more important than any particular, say, political opinion they might have.” — Jimmy Wales

“We’ve got a lot of problems on this planet. We need as many smart, educated people to figure them out as we possibly can.” — Jimmy Wales

“Try not to be a troll on the internet.” — Jimmy Wales

Listen to the episode on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Overcast, Stitcher, Castbox, Google Podcasts, or on your favorite podcast platform.

PEOPLE MENTIONED

Abraham Lincoln

Kira Namiko Wales

Harry Potter

Madalyn Murray O’Hair

Santa Claus

G.I. Joe

Blaise Pascal

Elon Musk

Warren Buffett

Howard Marks

Ayn Rand

Stephen Covey

Tim Shell

Michael Davis

Pamela Anderson

Jack Ma

Robert K. Merton

Tim Berners-Lee

Jeremy Rosenfeld

Ward Cunningham

Wiki | Wikipedia

Donald Trump

Eeyore

Orit Kopel

Related