Among Those Present, 1921 starring Harold Lloyd

Among Those Present is a 1921 American “three-reeler” silent comedy film directed by Fred C. Newmeyer and starring Harold Lloyd, Mildred Davis and Mary Pickford. Cast: Buy a subscription to watch this movie and hundreds more: Ready to watch? Click to start your free trial. Watch anywhere. Cancel anytime. Free trial. Free trial Monthly Subscription Yearly Subscription Free $5/mo $50/yr

Hot Water, 1924 starring Harold Lloyd

Hot Water is a 1924 American silent comedy film directed by Fred C. Newmeyer and Sam Taylor and starring Harold Lloyd. Directed by Fred Newmeyer and Sam Taylor, it features three episodes in the life of Hubby (Lloyd) as he struggles with domestic life with Wifey (Jobyna Ralston) and his in-laws. Plot: Episodic in nature (effectively three short films merged… Read more →

Girl Shy, 1924 romantic comedy starring Harold Lloyd

Girl Shy is a 1924 romantic comedy silent film starring Harold Lloyd and Jobyna Ralston. The movie was written by Sam Taylor, Tim Whelan and Ted Wilde and was directed by Fred C. Newmeyer and Taylor. Plot: Harold Meadows (Lloyd) is a tailor’s apprentice for his uncle in Little Bend, California. He is so shy around women that he can… Read more →

Why Worry?, 1923 starring Harold Lloyd

Why Worry? is a 1923 American silent comedy film directed by Fred Newmeyer and Sam Taylor and starring Harold Lloyd. Plot: Harold Van Pelham (Harold Lloyd) is a young, wealthy American businessman who obsesses constantly about his health, believing he is deathly sick while in reality he is perfectly fine. Determined to improve his physical condition with an extended rest… Read more →

Safety Last!, 1923 film starring Harold Lloyd

Safety Last! is a 1923 American silent romantic comedy film starring Harold Lloyd. It includes one of the most famous images from the silent film era: Lloyd clutching the hands of a large clock as he dangles from the outside of a skyscraper above moving traffic. The film was highly successful and critically hailed, and it cemented Lloyd’s status as… Read more →