Three year agreement, totalling $100,000

Will provide 3 annual scholarships

Will recognize female excellence and social engagement of students

April 8, 2024 – Alstom, global leader in smart and sustainable mobility, has signed an agreement with the Foundation et Alumni de Polytechnique Montréal as part of its corporate Talent Attraction Program.

Lasting three-years and aimed at promoting the development of talents, the agreement, worth $100,000, will provide 3 annual scholarships to undergraduate students as well as to the second and third cycles students of Polytechnique Montréal. There will be two categories of scholarship, one focused on female excellence and the other on community engagement. This agreement also fosters an enhanced relationship between the parties, as Alstom will participate in student forums as well as partner with student committees and student technical societies focused on mobility.

“Alstom is anchored in the Montreal community and throughout Quebec,” affirms Michael Keroullé, President Alstom Americas. “With nearly 700 engineers in Quebec, Alstom is proud to invest in the development of the next generation, and in particular to help attract more women to the careers in engineering. With climate change, urbanization and population growth, complex public transportation projects are increasingly important. It is essential to prepare the next generation. This agreement will allow us to help Polytechnique Montréal students strive for excellence and social commitment, and prepare the leaders of tomorrow.”

“Our Talent Attraction Program allows companies to support the academic career of our student community through scholarships and direct support to particularly dynamic student committees and technical societies at Polytechnique Montréal. Thanks to Alstom's contribution, a greater number of students will have the chance to have a more enriching student experience. I would like to thank Alstom for its renewed confidence and commitment to the next generation of engineers.” Isabelle Péan, President and CEO of the Foundation et Alumni de Polytechnique Montréal.

“We are delighted to count Alstom among our partners. This new contribution strengthens the link between our university and the rail sector which is essential to meeting the challenge of transport sustainability. I am happy that our student community has the opportunity to become even more aware of sustainable transport and discover this promising sector for the future of our society.” Maud Cohen, General Director of Polytechnique Montréal.

Alstom is the world leader in innovation for sustainable mobility. The company employs more than 2,100 people in Quebec and its head office for the Americas is located in Saint-Bruno-de-Montarville, Quebec. Alstom provides rolling stock, signaling solutions, complete operation and maintenance services, infrastructure and turnkey systems, notably in Montreal for the Réseau express métropolitain project, the Société de transport de Montréal and exo, as well as in Canada's largest cities and main rail networks. Alstom is proud to be a Canadian player, the only rail company with a manufacturing footprint in Canada. Alstom is certified Top Employer 2024 in Canada for the fourth consecutive year by the Top Employers Institute.

Alstom™ is a protected trademark of the Alstom Group.