Minutes of the Special Meeting of Sligo County Council held on 6th December 2004 at 12.00 Noon in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Riverside, Sligo.

MEMBERS PRESENT:

Baker,

Barrett,

Barry,

Bree,

Cawley,

Colleary,

Conmy,

Devins,

Fleming,

Gormley,

Healy McGowan,

Henry,

Higgins,

Kilgannon,

Lundy,

MacManus,

McGarry,

McGrath,

McLoughlin,

Mullaney,

Murray,

Queenan,

Sherlock.

OFFICIALS IN ATTENDANCE:

Mr H. Kearns, County Manager

Mr P. Forkan, Director of Services

Mr T. Caffrey, Director of Services

Mr B. Carolan, Senior Planner

Mr D. Breen, Senior Executive Officer

Ms M. Mc Connell, Senior Executive Officer

Mr F. Mac Nabb, Administrative Officer

Ms F. Meaghar, Senior Executive Planner

Mr F. Moylan, Senior Executive Planner

Ms M. Davidescu, Assistant Planner

Ms G. O’Connell, Student Planner

Ms M. Foley, Senior Executive Technician

Ms C. Kenny, Staff Officer

Ms T. Dunleavy, Clerical Officer

Ms F. Couch, Clerical Officer

CATHAOIRLEACH:

The Cathaoirleach, Councillor M. Gormley presided.

OPEN LOCAL GOVERNMENT INITIATIVE:

The Cathaoirleach welcomed students from the Sligo Institute of Technology who are one of a number of student groups who have been invited to visit County Hall and attend meetings in progress, to learn about the local government system as part of the Council’s Open Local Government Initiative.

ELECTION OF FOUR PERSONS TO COUNTY SLIGO VOCATIONAL EDUCATION COMMITTEE:

The members agreed that Ms Mollie Lee, nominated by the Irish Countrywomen’s Association and Ms Catherine O’ Dowd nominated by Foroige District Council were automatically elected to the VEC in accordance with VEC election procedures, as they were the only two female nominees.

As agreement could not be reached in relation to the filling of the two remaining positions the Cathaoirleach asked that ballot papers be circulated and members indicate their preferences for the filling of the two remaining positions.

The results were as follows:

Mr Seamus Dolan 14 votes

Fr Christy Mc Hugh 12 votes

Mr Tom Mc Gettrick 10 votes

Mr David Mc Donagh 8 votes

Fr Gregory Hannan 1 vote

Mr John Joe Gallagher 1 vote

Revd. Canon Fred Gillmor 0 vote

The Cathaoirleach, Councillor M. Gormley declared Ms Mollie Lee, Ms Catherine O’ Dowd, Mr Seamus Dolan and Fr. Christy Mc Hugh elected to the County Sligo Vocational Education Committee.

FURTHER CONSIDERATION OF THE SECOND MANAGER’S REPORT ON SUBMISSIONS AND OBSERVATIONS RECEIVED – DRAFT COUNTY DEVELOPMENT PLAN 2005 – 2011 :

SUBMISSION 82, ISSUE 10:

Proposed by Councillor P. Conmy

Seconded by Councillor J. Queenan

AND AGREED

“That this Council insert in their plan where an emigrant is returning to the area of their ancestors or a farmers son or daughter wants to build a house on or adjacent to the family farm and where a person or persons may want to sell a site to help educate their family that the Council look favourably on such application”.

Proposed by Councillor S. Mac Manus

Seconded by Councillor M. Gormley

AND AGREED

“That the amendments in relation to rural housing inserted in the current County Development Plan as a result of the deliberations of a sub-committee of Sligo County Council now be inserted verbatim in the draft Development Plan 2005-2011.

The adoption of this proposal will not impinge on any other proposals which may be put forward in relation to this issue i.e. occupancy clause, etc.”.

Proposed by Councillor S. Mac Manus

Seconded by Councillor J. Mc Garry

AND AGREED

“proposed revised wording of Section 4.2.3 Rural-generated housing, to incorporate:

reference to returning emigrants; and

variation made by Members to current Plan on 10.10.03

4.2.3 Rural-generated housing

This is defined as housing relating to:

Persons employed in rural areas with a need to live in the locality, for example, those working in agriculture, forestry, horticulture, tourism and other rural-based activities;

Persons who do not work on the land, but who have a vital link to the area in question via close family ties, including returning emigrants; and /or

Persons whose primary employment is in County Sligo and who can demonstrate the need to live in a rural location because of that employment or other social reasons, or whose employment would provide a service to the local community.

In applying sympathetic consideration to bona fide farmers, returning emigrants and such applicants claiming exceptional social circumstances, the over-riding concern of the Council will be the resultant net community benefit accruing to an area by permitting further residential development, particularly in areas of population decline and/or where local rural services are under threat e.g. Clár areas. Whilst each individual case will be considered on its merits, the carrying capacity of the landscape in absorbing new development will be the determining factor. In other areas, development will be assessed with respect to its sustainability and to the specific design requirements as set out in Section 9.1.2 Rural housing.

The Council will endeavour to accommodate rural-generated housing in all rural areas, including Rural Areas Under Urban Influence and Rural Areas in Need of Regeneration (refer to subsection 4.2.6).

4.2.3.1 Rural Housing – Operational Footnote

Operationally, the following matters will apply to planning permissions in rural areas with respect to “sterilisation agreements” and “occupancy conditions”:

“Sterilisation Agreements” should be used only in exceptional circumstances and are not to be applied in areas in need of rural regeneration.

Any “Sterilisation Agreement” should only cover a portion of the land holding of which the site is the subject of a planning application and should not cover other unattached land holdings owned by the Applicant /Landowner.

Occupancy conditions should only be applied in limited circumstances in rural areas under urban influence and should include a clause allowing the planning authority to lift the restriction in exceptional circumstances”.

SUBMISSION 82,

ISSUES NUMBERED 11-22:

The members agreed with the Managers recommendations in relation to these issues.

SUBMISSIONS 91-103, ISSUE 1:

Proposed by Councillor S. Kilgannon

Seconded by Councillor T. Mc Loughlin

AND AGREED

“That the Rosses Point Road not be designated a scenic route as the coastline is not visible from the road and only partial views of the bay are available. That land along this road be zoned for one off housing where requested”.

Councillor D. Bree wished to be noted as dissenting.

Mr B. Carolan, Senior Planner advised the members against zoning individual sections of land for housing in the Rosses Point area.

Following a discussion on the matter it was agreed that the motion would be put for rescinding at the next meeting of the Council.

Following further discussion on this issue it was :

Proposed by Councillor J. Devins

Seconded by Councillor S. Kilgannon

“Planning permission for one off housing for family members of residents of the area be encouraged in the Cregg, Creggconnell, Kiltogher, Ballyweelin and Rosses Point road areas and that planning applications in light of an area /mini plan to be not considered premature. This to be explicitly stated in the County Development Plan 2005-2011”

As agreement could not be reached in relation to this matter the Cathaoirleach, Councillor M. Gormley asked that a poll be taken.

For the motion: Baker, Barrett, Barry, Colleary, Conmy, Devins, Healy McGowan, Henry, Higgins, Kilgannon, Lundy, McGarry, McGrath, McLoughlin, Mullaney, Queenan, Sherlock.

Abstainees: Cawley, Fleming, Gormley, MacManus, Murray.

Dissenting: Bree

As there were 17 for the motion, 5 abstainees and 1 dissenter the Cathaoirleach declared the motion carried.

Proposed by Councillor S. Mac Manus

Seconded by Councillor J. Mc Garry

AND AGREED

“That further to the agreed mini plan for Rosses Point area, Sligo County Council agrees to also undertake a Local Area Plan to include the whole of the peninsula area as quickly as possible. Such Local Area Plan should not impede planning applications which may emerge from this area in the interim”.

Proposed by Councillor S. Kilgannon

Seconded by Councillor T. McLoughlin

“That the Rosses Point Road not be designated a scenic route as the coastline is not visible from the road and only partial views of the bay are available”.

As agreement could not be reached in relation to this motion the Cathaoirleach, Councillor M. Gormley asked that a poll be taken.

For the motion: Baker, Barrett, Barry, Cawley, Colleary, Conmy, Devins, Fleming, Gormley, Healy McGowan, Henry, Higgins, Kilgannon, Lundy, MacManus, McGarry, McGrath, McLoughlin, Mullaney, Queenan, Sherlock.

Abstainee: Bree

As the result was 21 for the motion and one abstainee the Cathaoirleach declared the motion carried.

SUBMISSIONS 110-113, ISSUE 1:

The members agreed with the Managers recommendations in relation to this issue.

SUBMISSIONS 110-113, ISSUES NUMBERED 2 AND 3 :

The members agreed with the Managers recommendations in relation to these issues.

SUBMISSIONS 114-116:

The members agreed with the Managers recommendations in relation to these submissions.

SUBMISSIONS 117-118 :

The members agreed with the Managers recommendations in relation to these submissions.

SUBMISSION 119 :

The members agreed with the Managers recommendations in relation to this submission.

SUBMISSION 120, ISSUE 1:

The members agreed with the Managers recommendations in relation to this issue.

SUBMISSION 120, ISSUE 2:

Proposed by Councillor S. Mac Manus

Seconded by Councillor J. Mc Garry

AND AGREED

“That the final point of Aim 2 of Table 2.1 (Broad Aims of the County Development Plan) be amended to read, after the words “or links to”, the clause “including employment within a reasonable commuting distance”.

SUBMISSION 120,

ISSUES NUMBERED 3 – 19 :

The members agreed with the Managers recommendations in relation to these issues.

SUBMISSION 126:

The members agreed with the Managers recommendations in relation to this submission.

SUBMISSION 128 :

This item was deferred with the agreement of the Cathaoirleach.

MOTION REGARDING AN POST:

With the permission of the Cathaoirleach it was:

Proposed by Councillor J. Mc Garry

Seconded by Councillor V. Cawley

AND AGREED

“That Sligo County Council calls on the Minister for Communications to immediately intervene on behalf of the An Post workers with the management of An Post for the purpose of avoiding the proposed one day stoppage and more importantly to resolve the outstanding issues between management and workers of An Post which has led to the threat of the destruction of our national postal service”.

ST. PATRICKS DAY CELEBRATIONS:

Proposed by Councillor S. Mac Manus

Seconded by Councillor J. Mc Garry

AND AGREED

“That Councillor M. Gormley be nominated to attend the St. Patrick’s Day celebrations in America”.

Ms M. Mc Connell brought to the attention of the members that the closing date for the receipt of nominations to the governing body of University College Galway is 13th December 2004.

END OF MEETING:

It was agreed that the meeting would resume at 11.00am on 14th December 2004. The meeting ended at 6.10pm.

Meeting Date 06/12/2004