WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator John Boozman honored the public service of Southern Arkansas University President Dr. David Rankin in the Congressional Record, the official proceedings of Congress. Rankin is retiring in June after nearly half a century of dedication to education.

Boozman’s office presented Dr. Rankin a copy of the Congressional Record with the following remarks:

Mr. President, I rise today to honor Southern Arkansas University President Dr. David Rankin who will retire in June after nearly half a century of dedication to education.

For 46 years he served alongside the faculty of SAU, the last 13 as President. Dr. Rankin made a career out of helping students and facilitating growth at the school. His vision to improve academic programs and expand campus resources has been a success; benefiting the community and creating a new standard for education.

Since becoming President in 2002, Dr. Rankin helped grow graduate enrollment 200 percent.

Throughout his presidency SAU has not only seen record enrollment, but record development as well. Construction of state of the art academic buildings, upgraded athletic facilities, a 30,000 square-foot agriculture center and a $17.5 million Science Center are just a few of the projects championed by Dr. Rankin.

Public service is a cornerstone of Dr. Rankin’s life. Serving as President of SAU is certainly enough to stay busy, but his commitment to the community and the state keep him active in a variety of other roles including as the Chair of the Golden Triangle Economic Development Council. During his tenure he also served as the Economic Advisor to two Arkansas Governors. He is an active member of Central Baptist Church in Magnolia where he teaches Sunday school.

I congratulate Dr. David Rankin for his outstanding achievements in education and the community. I have appreciated his friendship and enjoyed supporting his efforts to continue making his vision for SAU a reality. I wish him continued success. SAU is a much-improved school thanks to his leadership and years of dedication to this institution.