WASHINGTON -- Arkansas megachurch pastor the Rev. Ronnie Floyd gave the U.S. House of Representatives' opening prayer Thursday.

Floyd said afterward that Republican U.S. Rep. Steve Womack of Rogers had repeatedly asked him to deliver the prayer.

Floyd had been attending the Southern Baptist Convention in Baltimore, where he was elected the next president of the group. Floyd is pastor of Springdale-based Cross Church.

Womack held a reception after the prayer for Floyd with members of Congress who are Southern Baptists. Floyd said U.S. Sen. John Boozman, R-Ark., attended.

Floyd said he took the responsibility very seriously.

"It's not every day you get to pray over your nation in the nation's Capitol over Congress," he said.

His prayer: "Our God, as your prophet Daniel spoke to the king in his day with humility and honor as recorded in Daniel 4:37, 'The God of heaven has given you sovereignty, power, strength, and glory.' Lord, as these gifted men and women serve the people of the United States, may they know you have them here by divine appointment, giving to them the influence, strength, and recognition they receive. As they make decisions that influence the entire world, I pray that you will fill them with supernatural insight, compassionate sensitivity, convictional kindness, and abounding wisdom. The needs are many and the tasks are overwhelming. They need you and each other in order to provide hope for the American people and the entire world. Use them today to change the world for your glory and for your name I pray, amen."

KIDS' STATE DINNER

A 10-year-old Arkansan will eat lunch at the White House with first lady Michelle Obama on July 18 after winning a healthy lunch recipe competition.

Hart Irby won the Healthy Lunchtime Challenge by creating Arkansas Meets Asia Catfish Sliders.

Winners from all U.S. states, three territories, and the District of Columbia will attend a Kids' State Dinner at the White House hosted by Obama.

Some of the winning recipes will be served, according to a news release.

JOB CHANGES

Michael Teague is now state director for the office of U.S. Sen. Mark Pryor, D-Ark., after Randy Massanelli moved to the University of Arkansas in early May.

Pryor's campaign spokesman Amy Schlesing was hired to replace Teague as deputy communications director, she said.

EXPLOSIVES

On Wednesday, U.S. Rep. Rick Crawford, R-Ark., hosted the fourth annual Explosive Ordnance Disposal Day on Capitol Hill. Units from each branch of the military displayed the equipment and tools they use to defuse and render inert IEDs and other explosive devices. The event is meant to educate legislators about the equipment.

Two one-star generals, one from the Army and one from the Air Force, attended along with a Navy captain, Crawford's Chief of Staff Jonah Shumate said.

Crawford is a former U.S. Army bomb-disposal technician.

MEET AND GREET

On Tuesday, Pryor met with Arkansas high school and college students to talk about Trio programs, which help low income, first generation or disabled students attend college, his staff said.

On Friday, Womack attended a naturalization ceremony for 36 new Americans at the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Arkansas in Fayetteville, his staff said.

On Tuesday, U.S. Rep. Tim Griffin met with the Little Rock Christian Academy Stock Challenge Team. The team participated in the Capitol Hill Stock Market Game. They won first place in Arkansas and fifth place in the nation in the competition, Griffin's staff said.

Planning to visit the nation's capital? Know something happening in Washington, D.C.? Contact us at (202) 662-7690 or [email protected]

SundayMonday on 06/15/2014