Actor and writer Gottlieb was hired by Steven Spielberg as a screenwriter on Jaws, and this book is his year-long chronicle of that experience. Gottlieb’s book provided the inspiration for BRUCE. Actor and writer Gottlieb was hired by Steven Spielberg as a screenwriter on Jaws, and this book is his year-long chronicle of that experience. Gottlieb’s book provided the inspiration for BRUCE. Show less

Neither BRUCE nor Jaws the film nor The Jaws Log would be possible without Benchley’s classic novel about a predatory great white shark terrorizing the residents of Amity, a fictional Long Island seaside town. Neither BRUCE nor Jaws the film nor The Jaws Log would be possible without Benchley’s classic novel about a predatory great white shark terrorizing the residents of Amity, a fictional Long Island seaside town. Show less

Learn the truth about real-life “Bruces” in journalist Casey’s riveting account of a community of great white sharks who spend their summers off the coast of San Francisco in the forbidding Farallon Islands, also known as the Devil’s Teeth. Learn the truth about real-life “Bruces” in journalist Casey’s riveting account of a community of great white sharks who spend their summers off the coast of San Francisco in the forbidding Farallon Islands, also known as the Devil’s Teeth. Show less

Film critic Haskell explores Spielberg’s personal life and career through a detailed exegesis of each of his films, including Jaws. Film critic Haskell explores Spielberg’s personal life and career through a detailed exegesis of each of his films, including Jaws. Show less

This short documentary goes behind the scenes of the filming of Jaws in 1975, and includes interviews with Carl Gottlieb, Steven Spielberg, Richard Dreyfuss and others involved with the film. This short documentary goes behind the scenes of the filming of Jaws in 1975, and includes interviews with Carl Gottlieb, Steven Spielberg, Richard Dreyfuss and others involved with the film. Show less

Filmed by a young Spielberg in 1975, Jaws is a groundbreaking thriller based on the 1974 Peter Benchley novel of the same name and one of the first summer blockbuster films. Filmed by a young Spielberg in 1975, Jaws is a groundbreaking thriller based on the 1974 Peter Benchley novel of the same name and one of the first summer blockbuster films. Show less

All copies in use Availability details Holds: 2 on 8 copies

Award-winning author and environmentalist Matthiessen travels the world’s waters in pursuit of one of nature’s most fearsome and misunderstood predators in this vividly detailed and lyrically written work. Award-winning author and environmentalist Matthiessen travels the world’s waters in pursuit of one of nature’s most fearsome and misunderstood predators in this vividly detailed and lyrically written work. Show less

Films like Jaws have stoked fears of sharks as bloodthirsty man-eating predators. In this absorbing read, McKeever corrects popular misperceptions of sharks and highlights the importance of the great white and other species to marine ecosystems. Films like Jaws have stoked fears of sharks as bloodthirsty man-eating predators. In this absorbing read, McKeever corrects popular misperceptions of sharks and highlights the importance of the great white and other species to marine ecosystems. Show less

When Cody, an alienated teen cartoonist, makes a wish to be alone at Christmas, he accidentally manifests a killer shark that terrorizes his family. A hilariously horrific film that has to be seen to be believed. When Cody, an alienated teen cartoonist, makes a wish to be alone at Christmas, he accidentally manifests a killer shark that terrorizes his family. A hilariously horrific film that has to be seen to be believed. Show less

This episode of Screenwriting 101 from the Great Courses series analyzes the plot of Jaws and its effective use of suspense and relief to elicit reactions from the audience. This episode of Screenwriting 101 from the Great Courses series analyzes the plot of Jaws and its effective use of suspense and relief to elicit reactions from the audience. Show less

What’s the next logical step after Jaws? Sharknado, of course! This over-the-top 2013 film about a cyclone of great white sharks on a killing rampage in Los Angeles quickly gained a cult following and spawned several sequels. What’s the next logical step after Jaws? Sharknado, of course! This over-the-top 2013 film about a cyclone of great white sharks on a killing rampage in Los Angeles quickly gained a cult following and spawned several sequels. Show less

In this enchanting blend of memoir, natural history and marine adventure, two friends set out in a small boat to catch a big shark – the Greenland shark – in the waters around the Lofoten Islands in northern Norway. In this enchanting blend of memoir, natural history and marine adventure, two friends set out in a small boat to catch a big shark – the Greenland shark – in the waters around the Lofoten Islands in northern Norway. Show less

This 2017 HBO documentary provides an intimate portrait of the director and his filmography through extensive interviews with Spielberg and over 80 other subjects including friends, family and colleagues in the industry. This 2017 HBO documentary provides an intimate portrait of the director and his filmography through extensive interviews with Spielberg and over 80 other subjects including friends, family and colleagues in the industry. Show less

Jaws set a new standard for summer films at the box office and is considered the quintessential summer blockbuster. Learn more about the rise of this trend and its impact on Hollywood in this short documentary. Jaws set a new standard for summer films at the box office and is considered the quintessential summer blockbuster. Learn more about the rise of this trend and its impact on Hollywood in this short documentary. Show less