Popular K-drama My Demon aired a brand new episode 3 on Friday, December 1, 2023, at 10 p.m. KST on SBS and Netflix. The series follows the story of a chaebol heiress, Do Do-Hee (Kim Yoo-Jung), who comes into contact with the demon Jung Gu-Won (Song Kang). One day, the devil loses his powers, which get shifted to Do-Hee. The two enter a contract marriage for their benefit, eventually leading to them falling in love.

Episode 3 of My Demon documents a complete change in the narrative. While viewers thought it was about a human and a demon falling in love, the drama also includes mystery and thriller components. The third episode had Madam Ju (Kim Hae-Sook), Do-Hee’s adoptive mother, passed away. However, Do-Hee realizes that it is a murder and wants to reveal the truth. Circumstances lead her to propose to Gu-Won.

My Demon Episode 3: Song Kang & Kim Yoo-Jung get untangled in a contract marriage

My Demon Episode 3 picks up from where the previous episode left off. Do-Hee’s life is in danger when Gu-Won comes in time to rescue her. When he reveals his identity, Do-Hee fails to believe him. However, she knows her powers shifted from the demon could be used well. So she asks him to be her bodyguard. While he initially refuses, his inability to make deals might make him combust, eliminating his existence.

Gu-Won eventually agrees to be Do-Hee’s bodyguard. Meanwhile, Do-Hee is still unsure about the events that transpired throughout the day, threatening her life. She listens to the news that the head of the finance team of Madam Ju’s company kill himself. Do-Hee calls Madam Ju to inform her that the same person tried to contact her with crucial information. Although Madam Ju ignores the topic, she calls an unknown person, accusing him of murder.

Meanwhile, Gu-Won uses Do-Hee’s hand with the tattoo, indicating his powers, to strike a deal with the mother of a cancer-infected child. The mother agrees to go to hell after ten years if only her child survives. Do-Hee accuses the demon of being selfish, using other people’s misfortunes for his benefit. Meanwhile, Gu-Won accuses humans of being selfish. She fires him as her bodyguard. But the two eventually get together, understanding each other’s perspectives.

After a day of work, the two travel back from the office when Do-Hee receives a text from Madam Ju saying, “This is it for me, Do-Hee. I love you.” She thinks it’s another one of Madam Ju’s pranks, but there’s no answer when she calls. Do-Hee visits Madam Ju in the latter’s garden with Gu-Won only to find her unconscious. She cries, asking the demon to save her adoptive mother. However, he confesses to not being able to save dead people.

The entire family holds a funeral. But soon, Do-Hee realizes that it is a celebration to crown the next CEO of Mirae Group. She runs back to the garden, where Gu-Won helps her meet Madam Ju as a butterfly for the last time. After an emotional farewell, Do-Hee and the family gather to hear the reports of Madam Ju’s death. They soon discover that the end happened due to medical negligence. Do-Hee realizes that Madam Ju was murdered announcing it at the funeral.

Do-Hee further realizes that Madam Ju was given a medicine she was allergic to. Only her doctor and the family knew about the allergy. Do-He discovers that one of the family members would have killed Madam Ju. While reading the will, the family finds that Madam Ju has transferred all her shares and duties to Do-Hee. The latter vows to reveal the truth with the demon’s help and his powers. She goes to Gu-Won and proposes to him.

To watch what happens next, remember to tune in to My Demon on Saturday, December 2, 2023, at 10 p.m. KST on SBS and Netflix.