Popular K-drama My Demon is all set to air a brand-new episode 3 on Friday, December 1, 2023, at 10 p.m. KST on SBS and Netflix. The series follows the story of chaebol heiress Do Do-Hee (Kim Yoo-Jung), who falls in love with a demon, Jung Gu-Won (Song Kang). The latter unexpectedly loses his powers to make deals with humans and kills them when the contract expires. Eventually, his powers shift to Do-Hee.

Episode 3 of My Demon will continue to document Do-Hee’s interactions with Gu-Won, the demon who suddenly crashes into her life. However, he comes at the right time to protect her given that her life is in danger because of her adoptive family’s hatred towards her. In the newly released trailer, Gu-Won reveals his demon identity to Do-Hee. However, she refuses to believe him. Viewers will have to stay tuned to see how the plot moves forward.

My Demon Episode 3 trailer: Kim Yoo-Jung doesn’t believe Song Kang

The trailer for My Demon Episode 3 picks up from where the previous episode left off. The past episodes showcased that Do-Hee’s adoptive family was trying to do everything in their power to stop her from running the Mirae Group. She faced two attacks, once when she was in her car and the other in the middle of the road by the end of Episode 2. However, the demon, Gu-Won, saved her both times. The episode left her wondering about his identity.

The trailer shows Do-Hee and Gu-Won in a car when the latter asks her why she couldn’t keep herself safe. Currently, the only concern for the demon is the tattoo on Do-Hee’s hand, indicating a shift of his powers to her. For him to stay alive and not combust, he needs Do-Hee’s hand and the tattoo to make deals with humans and kill them. So he needs to stay by her side and protect her.

Gu-Won reveals his identity to Do-Hee. However, she refuses to believe him. He explains that a demon’s purpose is to make contracts with humans based on their wishes. Do-Hee takes a jab at him by calling him a “Pokemon” and a “genie” which infuriates him. The demon wants her to recognize his ability, but for Do-Hee, all that matters is his superpower, which gets activated due to her tattoo. This means that she can use him as well as his powers.

Viewers will have to wait and see what their collaboration leads to in Episode 3.

My Demon episode 3 release date & time on Netflix and SBS

Episode 3 of My Demon will release on Friday, December 29, 2023, at 10 p.m. KST on SBS. The drama will also be available to stream on Netflix. If the K-drama follows a regular schedule, it will have a total of 16 episodes. It will document the love story between the human, Do-Hee, and the demon, Gu-Won.

The first two episodes are available to stream on Netflix.