Tanjiro and his friends have managed to infiltrate the Yoshiwara Entertainment District. "Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba Entertainment District Arc" Episode 3 is expected to focus on Makio, who is one of Tengen Uzui’s wives. The new episode is titled "Where Are You?"

The official website has released the synopsis and spoiler stills of "Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba Entertainment District Arc" Episode 3. After entering the Entertainment District, Tanjiro, Inosuke and Zenitsu successfully infiltrate the houses where Uzui’s wives, Makio, Hinatsuru and Suma are employed.

With the rumors going around about Suma committing Ashinuke, Tanjiro wonders if it is a convenient way for the demons to abduct women from the Entertainment District.

Meanwhile, Inosuke, who has infiltrated the house where Makio works, hears that Makio has been inside her room for quite some time.

In "Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba Entertainment District Arc" Episode 3, he is likely going to investigate and find out more about Makio. The final moments of Episode 2 show a demon torturing Makio in a room.

It is confirmed that Makio is in trouble but more than that, Inosuke is aware that she is still inside the district.

Meanwhile, Uzui senses the calm before the storm as he notes the district is way too quiet. He expects the demons to emerge and attack the innocent people residing in Yoshiwara Entertainment District. Can he and his squad of Demon Slayers stop before anything happens?

“After arriving to the Entertainment District, Tanjiro and his comrades infiltrate each House where Uzui's wives, Suma, Makio, and Hinatsuru, work. While working as apprentices and searching for their whereabouts, Inosuke hears that Makio has been shutting herself away from everyone in her room,” read the official synopsis of Episode 3.

The cast of the anime includes Natsuki Hanae as Tanjiro Kamado, Akari Kito as Nezuko Kamado, Hiro Shimono as Zenitsu Agatsuma, Yoshitsugu Matsuoka as Inosuke Hashibira, Katsuyuki Konishi as Tengen Uzui, Miyuki Sawashiro as Denki (Upper Six), Shizuka Ishigami as Makio, Atsumi Tanezaki as Hinatsuru and Nao Toyama as Suma.

"Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba Entertainment District Arc" Episode 3 is scheduled for airing Sunday.