Welcome

The Australian Embassy in Vienna and Permanent Mission to the UN is accredited to Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia, and to the International Organisations in Vienna.

Expression of Interest: Australian Embassy Events in Slovakia

Please complete this form in English if you’d like to express an interest in future events organised by the Australian Embassy in Slovakia.

Should you have any questions, please reach out to us via email at [email protected].

We look forward to hearing from you!

Appointment of Honorary Consul in Slovenia

22 January 2024

The Australian Government has appointed Ms Gabrijela Smuk as its new Honorary Consul for Australia, resident in Ljubljana with jurisdiction throughout Slovenia.

Ms Smuk is an Australian-Slovenian dual national and an active member of the Australian expatriate community in Slovenia. She is an accomplished businessperson in the fields of real estate and property development and has been dedicated to community service for more than 25 years.

Ms Smuk brings to the role a depth of knowledge of Australian culture, society and politics as well as strong professional networks in Slovenia.

Ms Smuk maintains a deep connection with her Australian home, Sydney, to where she first migrated in 1984.

As Australia’s Honorary Consul Ms Smuk will provide consular services to Australians in Slovenia in accordance with the Consular Services Charter, and is authorised to conduct interviews for Australian travel documents.

More than 45,000 Australians visit Slovenia each year, and approximately 150 Australians are living and working in Slovenia.

Contact details for the Consulate in Ljubljana are available under Contact Us.

Appointment of Honorary Consul in Hungary

24 July 2023

The Australian Government has appointed Ms Cecilia Gall as its new Honorary Consul for Australia, resident in Budapest with jurisdiction throughout Hungary.

Ms Gall is an Australian-Hungarian dual national and a Lecturer in Australian Studies at Eötvös Loránd University in Budapest. As an active member of the Australian expatriate community in Hungary, and through her role at the University, Ms Gall has collaborated with the Australian Embassy to promote Australia’s interests in Hungary for many years.

Ms Gall brings to the role a depth of knowledge of Australian culture, society and politics as well as strong professional networks in Hungary.

Ms Gall maintains a deep connection with her Australian home, Brisbane, to where she first migrated in 1990.

As Australia’s Honorary Consul Ms Gall will provide consular services to Australians in Hungary in accordance with the Consular Services Charter, and is authorised to conduct interviews for Australian travel documents.

Up to 100,000 Australians visit Hungary each year, and approximately 3,000 Australians are living and working in Hungary.

Contact details for the Consulate in Budapest are available under Contact Us.

Smartraveller website

Smartraveller has the latest, authoritative travel advice so you can be informed and prepared about overseas travel. Subscribe to receive travel advice updates - by simply supplying your name and email address – straight to your inbox.

You can now also subscribe to the new SMS service - by supplying your mobile number – to receive critical alerts in the event of a crisis overseas.

In a crisis, Smartraveller will activate a crisis page on its website. It will make it easier for you or someone you know to contact the Australian Government if you need help. It will supplement the consular emergency hotline.