Several movie fans have been left with their jaws on the floor after discovering Seth Rogen's real age when he appeared in cult classic Superbad.

The 2007 coming-of age, foul-mouthed comedy follows Seth (Jonah Hill) and Evan (Michael Cera) on the night of their last high school party together before they go to different colleges.

With iconic moments such as the 'McLovin' scene and young Seth being obsessed with drawing d***s for some reason, the film has gone down as one of the most memorable comedies of the 2000s.

Rogen and co-writer Evan Goldberg wrote the script based on their own experiences as teenagers, and the film was eventually released to critical acclaim and became a box office success.

Rogen himself appears in the film as Officer Michaels alongside SNL star Bill Hader, who portrays his partner, Officer Slater.

They are two irresponsible cops who turn up at a liquor store that Seth, Evan and their friend Fogell, aka McLovin, are trying to buy alcohol at for the big party.

Because, of course, there's a big party.

But one aspect of the comedy classic in particular left several fans gobsmacked.

It was all to do with the ages of Rogen and Hader when they portrayed the Police Officers.

You might guess that they were in their thirties, maybe even their forties - but both are quite far off the mark.

Seth Rogen was just 25 years old when he acted in the film, years on from when he originally wrote it, while Hader was just 29 years old when he appeared in Superbad.

People were shocked when they found out how young the pair were - especially Rogen - and made their surprise known on X.

One person posted: "I refuse to believe that," while a second user: "Seth was only 25 interesting!!"

A third wrote: "Seth Rogen was TWENTY FIVE here!!!"

Superbad currently boasts a score of 88 percent on Rotten Tomatoes, and grossed $170.8 million (£134.5 million) at the box office against a budget of approximately $20 million (£15.8 million).

Rogen caused a slight bit of controversy online back in 2023 when he said that Superbad was the last 'good high school movie' ever made.

It went viral across social media networks, with several suggesting movies that could be considered as the best high school movie instead.

The comedian then went on to clarify his comment in an interview with PEOPLE, saying there have been a number of good high school movies.

"That was a joke. There's a lot," he said.