She rubbed shoulders with Hollywood's A-list at Gwyneth Paltrow's star-studded wedding party on Saturday night.

And Liv Tyler packed away her glamorous duds as she jetted back home to New York via Los Angeles International Airport on Sunday evening.

The actress, 40, walked arm-in-arm with partner Dave Gardner as they prepared for the flight, wrapping up in a sophisticated cream camel coat.

The Armageddon star kept it comfortable for her trip home, opting for a cosy black jumper and loose-fitting black cropped slacks.

Liv perfectly coordinated her relaxed ensemble with pair of chic black flats as she carried a small leather cross-body bag and a larger tote bag from L.O.N.B for her travels.

The Stealing Beauty actress let her glossy brunette locks fall in a naturally straight style while a vibrant red lip brought a pop of colour to the chilled outfit.

Clad in classic thick-rimmed spectacles, Liv stashed away her accessories for the trip, instead opting for an assortment of silver rings and a delicate bracelet.

The Lord Of The Rings beauty couldn't tear herself away from her football agent beau, who looked equally casual in his denim jacket and black hoodie combo.

Holding on tightly to his love, Dave paired the ensemble with black jeans and fresh white trainers.

Only the night before, Liv and Dave had attended pal Gwyneth Paltrow's showbiz bash at the famed Los Angeles Theatre, which was believed to be an 'engagement party' or potentially a 'secret wedding' the star and her fiance Brad Falchuck.

From director Steven Spielberg to Gwyneth's actress pals, Cameron Diaz, Julia Roberts, Reese Witherspoon, Demi Moore and comic Chelsea Handler, the guestlist was packed with A-list names, some of whom wearing wearing bridal-style corsages - including Liv's partner Dave.

The couple hired out the historic theatre for a fancy black tie bash, attended by Hollywood's greatest, while Gwyneth's famous mother Blythe Danner carried a dress bag from Monique Lhuillier bridal, out of the venue.

Liv flaunted her incredible statuesque figure in a sharply tailored black suit and skyscraper stilettos, while a smart clutch bag polished off the smart ensemble.

Despite enjoying an evening with the elite of Hollywood, the brunette has stepped away from the limelight in recent years to spend time with her long-term partner Dave and their family in NYC.

Liv and Dave share son Sailor, three and daughter Lula, 18 months, while the actress also has son Milo, 11, with her ex-husband Royston Langdon.

Speaking to Red magazine last year, she insisted it was the desire to extend their families that helped strengthen her relationship with her British partner.

‘We both wanted to have a family and children and a partnership and love,' she explained.

‘Our jobs are high stress and high energy and constantly moving, so it’s really just the family part we’re on the same page about, which is amazing because I know that’s often quite tricky for couples.'

The couple put off their wedding in 2016 due to the arrival of Luna, but recently sparked rumours they had married in secret when Jack Whitehall, a good friend of Dave, referred to Liv as his 'friend's wife' on Instagram.