Director: Alex Chandon

Starring: Dani Filth, Emily Bouffante Booth, Eileen Daly, Edmund Dehn, David McEwen, Stuart Laing

Rating: 18 (Unrated)

Company: Pragmatic Productions

Duration: 120 min

Written by Film Cadet Racheal West

This is British gore and horror at its best! Directed by Alex Chandon (Perverilla) and starring Dani Filth (the ever famous Cradle Of Filth Frontman), Emily Bouffante Booth (Shock Movie Massacre) and Eileen Daly (Razor Blade Smile). The film follows Detective Neilson (played by Edmund Dehn) as he tracks the bloody trail of murder to find the source of the crimes.

Dani Filth who plays the character just called “The Man” plays it well. OK… I say well but he doesn’t have any lines… and just has to look scary which in his normal gothic clothing… so it isn’t very hard work for him! Emily Bouffante Booth’s character is the first of the main characters to be killed off after “the Man” picks her up at a club and sleeps with her… then she has a massive drug style trip out before an alien baby tears out of her stomach and kills both her and her friend in bed. You got to admit that is something new. The next 2 victims of “the Man” are 2 girls that break in to an old mans house to steal his money. These 2 are quite possibly the worst actors of the film! Nothing about them in the film seems natural not even how they speak their lines, it all sounds scripted.

The whole storyline is pretty predictable when it comes to the police tying the current murders to old murders but the film makes up for it by creating tension and the aspect of surprise.

It’s clear from the start just how gory this film is, with not even a minute in to the film people are getting their throats and brains ripped out left right and center! Even though the film is classed as a horror film, I didn’t find it particularly scary… however, it was a gore fest with random killer alien babies bursting out of stomaches!

If you love gore films with bad acting and a silly but enjoyable story line then this is the film for you! If the film had better actors that didn’t sound so cheesy when they spoke their lines, the film would be better and not seem so much like a student film. Even though the film can be cheesy in most parts, it did make the film quite funny on places. The film does have a great soundtrack by Cradle of Filth and Eileen Daly’s band, so that is got something going for it. Overall, it is trashy fun for those who like a little B Movie action!