In a valley with mountains, forests and deserts, at the banks of the river Ebro, the city of Zaragoza is surprisingly anonymous to international travelers. It’s the forth biggest city in Spain and capital of the Spanish province of Aragon.

The city has been around for well over 25 centuries and has been part of a wide variety of nations and cultures over that time. Founders of the town were the Iberians, who arrived in the area in the days of Greek cultural dominance in the Mediterranean. It’s no surprise that the Romans, with their fine nose for economic and strategic potential, came next and put their stamp on the town. They renamed it Caesaraugusta after the emperor. Gradually that name was shortened into Saragossa or Zaragoza.

Although there is still ample proof of Roman architecture in the city center, the influence of different Muslim rulers is more clearly present. The colorful and detailed decorations of the Moorish styles lend a festive and exotic touch to the town. The Aljaferia Palace was built in the 11th century when Taifa Zaragoza (the kingdom of Zaragoza) was the seat of the Banu Hud dynasty. Today it offers housing to the powers that be as the seat of the government of Aragon.

Our apartment is located across the river in a cozy neighborhood with beautifully maintained little workmen’s houses. Crossing the footbridge offers such a glorious view of the five towers of the basilica that we spend the better part of an hour on a bench, taking it in. When we finally get around to exploring the rest of the town, we discover that there are many more places in Zaragoza where you just can’t help stopping dead in your tracks to gaze. Fortunately, the town is built for that; with plenty of terraces, benches and shaded archways to take a break.

Most of the old center is closed off for traffic, making it very easy for us to roam the wide pedestrian boulevards lined with shops, cafes and ice cream parlors with small cozy terraces amidst flower pots and colorful parasols. Regularly, we return to the big square next to the Basílica de Nuestra Señora del Pilar. The parking garage underneath the square is hidden under an artificial waterfall: a lovely place to cool down on a hot summer day.

There are many things to see in Zaragoza: from the thick Roman walls that are still in use as foundations for colorful buildings of later date to the intricate patterns on some of the churches, giving away the influences of the Moorish era. But more than anything else you need to roam through Zaragoza and drink in the combination of exquisite beauty and that beautiful Spanish zest for life that only takes a short visit to learn.