Gallery

The gallery of the Department of Design.

Professor Maarit Salolainen: ‘Multidisciplinary cooperation is the key to solving sustainability issues in the textile field’

Professor of Textile Design Maarit Salolainen wants to see closer cooperation not only between research in different fields but also between the university, the industry and resellers to bring about change.

Public defence in Design, M.Sc Satu Lähteenoja

Advancing sustainability transformations – Co-design for sustainable development policies (title of thesis)

Natural luxury – 3D-printed wooden crystals make fashion shine

Biomaterials and 3D-printing conjure a sparkle out of wood without harming people or the environment

Ceramic artwork Rule of Play delights the people of Sompasaari

Nathalie Lautenbacher's Rule of Play is one of the latest public art works in the City of Helsinki. The wall relief consists of two different sets of works placed on the exterior walls of the newly completed Sompasaari daycare centre, at eye level.

Young Designer of the Year 2023 is fashion designer Henna Lampinen

The designer, who graduated from Aalto University's fashion MA programme, believes that fashion should be more accessible.

Accessible MRI could revolutionise the diagnosis of brain disorders

A research team at Aalto is developing an accessible magnetic resonance imaging machine

Annukka Svanda: It's important to challenge yourself to do hard things

'I believe that those of us who can and are capable have a duty to work to make the world a little better place all the time. For example, we can try to improve the situation of those who are not so well off.'

Education collaboration generates new ideas for using design

The School of Arts, Design and Architecture has a long tradition of working together with companies to solve challenges of many kind. Last spring, design students designed concrete speaker models for audio equipment manufacturer Genelec.

Emīlija Veselova: ‘We should consider nature as stakeholder in design process’

In our I Claim series Emīlija Veselova talks about how climate change challenges design approach and its human-centered approaches.

Sofia Guridi is designing a better world with smart textiles

Sofia Guridi, a doctoral student at Aalto University’s Bioinnovation Center, wants to introduce bio-based smart textiles that help improve people’s everyday life.

Ruusa Vuori wins the Näytös23 Award with her delicate collection

Aalto University's Fashion Show on Friday 26 May displayed collections by Bachelor's and Master's students.

Kaisu Savola: ‘The 1960s and 1970s saw a change in the values of Finnish design’

I claim series presents Kaisu Savola, who explores a generation of design students and design professionals in Finland, in the 1960s and 1970s, as they became aware of the two contradictory faces of design.

Camilla Andersson: ‘Discriminatory norms in society can be renegotiated through design’

I claim series presents researchers and their recent dissertations at School of Arts, Design and Architecture

Professor İdil Gaziulusoy: ‘Our future visions are not ambitious enough’

Presenting the new professors: Professor in sustainable design İdil Gaziulusoy

The CreaTures research project highlights how creative practices can contribute to the sustainability agenda

The newly published CreaTures Co-Laboratory Catalogue offers an overview of experiences, insights and outcomes that emerged from 20 experimental artistic productions developed within the CreaTures project in 2020 – 2022.

The state prize for design awarded to professor, textile artist Kirsi Niinimäki

Kirsi Niinimäki has dedicated her career to studying the environmental impact of the textile industry and fast fashion and to finding solutions to the problems it causes.

What will we be wearing in the future?

Aalto University has been invited to showcase its sustainable textile and fashion solutions at the European Parliament in Brussels.

New T-REX Project launches to drive closed-loop sorting and recycling of household textile waste across the EU

Aalto University is part of a consortium that has launched an innovative European Union (EU) funded project to create a circular system for post-consumer textile waste.

Aalto's strong textile expertise showcased at New York Textile Month event

DIALOGUES event in New York 2–6 November reimagines the landscape of tomorrow’s textiles and fashion

Lab-grown pigments and food by-products: The future of natural textile dyes

As the environmental impact of the fashion and textile industries becomes clearer, the demand and need for sustainable alternatives is growing. One international research group aims to replace toxic synthetic dyes with natural alternatives, ranging from plants to microbes to food waste.

Five things to see at Designs for a Cooler Planet: Evolving colours, wood glitter and garments with a history

Open until 12 October 2022, Designs for a Cooler Planet is an annual exhibit showcasing bold designs that approach sustainability from avenues including fashion, food and materials.

Professor Julia Valle Noronha: ‘Fashion can be a major force in change’

Meet our new professors: Professor in Fashion Design, Julia Valle Noronha

An eco-filling to replace down

A hundred years ago, cattail fluff was used as life vest filling – now a Finnish company wants the eco-friendly material for pillows and winter coats.

PatternLab set an all-time sales record

The pattern design project's latest sales mark the highest sales record in history. The course with a strong brand will also be renewed.

Designer Lincoln Kayiwa wants to create heirlooms

Finland seemed a bit like destiny for this Ugandan-born entrepreneur and Aalto alumnus.

Exhibition: Design creates equality

Exhibition "Design for Every Body" at Design Museum explores the importance of design from the perspective of equality.

Aalto fashion graduate Boram Yoo wins Designers' Nest Award

Also BA fashion student Leevi Ikäheimo wins a prize at the fashion competition 2022.

’It is important to identify and bring together the accumulated user knowledge'

In our series ‘I claim’, Kaisa Savolainen talks about the utilization of customer information in organizations.

They changed Finnish fashion in the 2020’s

”Intimacy” exhibition at Helsinki Designmuseum presents 40 designers and companies at the intersection of novel politicization and digital disruption of fashion.

Towards interfaces that distinguish user’s visual attention

Dissertation of the Month: What if interfaces we use are able to distinguish whether we are looking at them or not, and change their behavior accordingly?

Fashion, Clothing and Textile Design student Elisa Defossez won the Materials Innovation prize at at NextGen Awards Première Vision

Elisa Defossez entered the competition with her Master’s Thesis Project Nukumori – Surfaces of coziness.

The CHEMARTS Cookbook

Inspiration for Material Enthusiasts

Aalto University’s fashion and textile know-how acknowledged in Finland and internationally

Aalto takes home two prizes at the Fashion Finland Gala and ranks third at CEO World Magazine fashion school listing

Aalto University presents six concepts on renewable biomaterials at Dutch Design Week

CHEMARTS exhibition showcases fascinating recyclable prototypes which are toxic-free, recyclable and don't release micro-plastics.

Aalto University’s fashion studies are enhanced by a strong expertise in textiles

Combining artistic and technical design expertise in teaching is a unique concept worldwide.

Master's degree student in fashion Emilia Kuurila designed formal wear for Espoo’s female bishop

Kaisamari Hintikka was ordained as a bishop on 10 February at the Espoo Cathedral wearing elegant and modern bishop’s clothing.

Maria Punkkinen succeeded in the Future Lights in Ceramics competition

Contemporary Design master student Maria Punkkinen is one of the six winners in the European ceramics competition. The theme of the competition was Go Green - Ceramics and the Environment.

The New Children’s Hospital’s new liturgical textiles represent a modern take on an ancient art form

The liturgical textiles of the New Children’s Hospital in Helsinki were created as a master’s thesis by Terhi Laine,at Aalto University School of Arts, Design and Architecture, and were woven by Lapuan Kankurit.

Jenni Haukio’s Independence Day gown sets the stage for Finland’s next 100 years

Designed by Aalto students Emma Saarnio and Helmi Liikanen, the dress evokes nature with exquisite materiality and minimalist lines

Environmental issues get form by ceramic art

Finnish ceramic artists visualise land contamination in Venice research pavilion.

Näytös18, Henna Lampinen, BA graduate collection

Näytös18, Henna Lampinen, BA graduate collection, photo Guillaume Roujas

TEKSTIILI18

Tekstiili18 exhibition showcased the versatility and artistry of textile design at Aalto University School of Arts, Design and Architecture.

24 VASES in 24 DAYS

Design students produced a unique collection of ceramic vases for Aalto University Executive Education.

PatternLab18

Patternlab aims to create a broad, professional pattern collection. The year long project gives students the possibility to design and coordinate patterns for different purposes.

NAKUNA

The NAKUNA exhibition brought experimental design by Aalto University students to the Milan Design Week. Photo Valentina Caselini.

Finnish sauna

Students designed a rooftop sauna in the centre of London.

Näytös

Näytös is an annual fashion show for students majoring in fashion and the Fashion, Clothing and Textile Design Degree Programme.

PatternLab 17

Pattern Lab is annually recurring textile and surface design project at Aalto ARTS.

Fotoni light installation

For the Lux Helsinki light festival.

Cumulus conference

Cumulus conference at the Hong Kong Institute. Bang Jeon Lee's presentation Learning in Role Playing.

Print and textile design

A design project held for a second time brought H&M designers to guide students in producing print and textile collections.

Näytös

Näytös is an annual fashion show for students majoring in fashion.

Kivi

Kivi, Erin Turkoglu.

Bioplastic

Bioplastic, Hala Menassa and Hélène Lacombe.

Näytös16

Näytös is an annual fashion show for students majoring in fashion.

Luomo

Aava lamp, Laura Väre.

Youth Fashion Summit

Kööpenhamina, Kuvaaja, Gianluca Mazzarolo.

Railway Square lighting

Railway Square lighting plan Iina-Karoliina Välilä.

Pattern Lab

Pattern Lab esittelee mallistonsa.

Food and Place 2015

Photo, Chikako Harada.

Pasila bridge

Pasila bridge, Liang Yingjie 2015.

Kangaskokoelma

Black lipstick bad meets cotton candy good, Lotta Paananen 2015.

Superstore

The Superstore exhibition showcases experimental works by young designers at the Galleria Esplanad.

Näytös15

Näytös15 is an annual fashion show for students majoring in fashion.

Taipuva chair

Taipuva chair, Joel Klemetti 2015. Photo Ville Lahtinen.

Exploring materials and woven structures

Exploring materials and woven structures. Swatch by Riikka Buri. Photo Eeva Suorlahti.

Aeon Lines

Aeon Lines desk, Man Yau, 2014. Photo Anna Niskanen.

Asuinkerrostalon aula

Product and Spatial Design -pääaineen opiskelijat laativat ehdotuksia Ruoholahteen rakennettavan asuinkerrostalon aulaan osana Helsingin kaupungin järjestämää ”Kehittyvä kerrostalo”- hanketta. Kuvan harjoitustyön tekijät ovat Caius Verhe, Maija Jantunen, Iida Nylund ja Anna-Kaisa Laitinen.

Exhibition pavilion at the Frankfurt Book Fair

The Finnish exhibition pavilion at the Frankfurt Book Fair in the autumn of 2014 was implemented as a training project for students majoring in Product and Spatial Design. The designers were Natalia Baczynska Kimberley, Nina Kosonen and Matti Mikkilä.

Independent Control Aerial Robotic Utility System

ICARUS, Independent Control Aerial Robotic Utility System, Petteri Heinonen 2014.

Näytös14

Fashion Show, Näytös14. Photo: Mikko Raskinen.

From Birch to Catwalk

The Journey of Ioncell Fiber.