China Energy Label (CEL) programme, introduced in 2005, lays a compulsory requirement for manufacturers and importers to registrate and label energy-related products in CEL catalogue before selling or importing products into China market, thereby informing consumers of product energy consumption and efficiency grade.

China Energy Label Administrative Centre (CELAC) is the official organisation to run CEL programme by developing CEL catalogue and managing label registration system. There are currently 42 product categories in CEL catalogue by the end of 2020.

Please be noted some products which are not in CEL catalogue, though not subject to registration and labelling requirement, might still have to meet compulsory national standards stipulating minimum allowable values of energy efficiency.

There are several steps to go through before you can legitimately apply CEL label to your products, amongst which testing and registration might be most important and difficult. In-house (first-party) or third-party testing laboratories are both acceptable as long as they have been approved by CELAC and listed on official site. Then, the testing report, along with other application documents, shall be presented to CELAC to start the registration process.

Since CEL is a pre-market compulsory requirement, manufacturers or importers, if their products are in the catalogue, shall pay careful attention to correctly registrate and affix CEL label to corresponding products preceding sale or importation. Foreign applicants may often find themselves stuck in a difficult situation because:

Chinese language is required when preparing the application documents

Mandarin is advisable for smooth and timely communication with Chinese authorities

As far as testing is concerned, extensive communication and forms traffic with CELAC is expected if the laboratory undertaking the test is not in the public list

close relationship with CELAC is extremely necessary to expediate the process and enhance the success chance

only Chinese version is available for various official documents, e.g. implementation rules and technical specifications

By taking the service offered by Certrip, you will be completely released from the burdensome communication job with Chinese authorities and have a specialist working on your behalf in China to actively manage the registration process. Furthermore, anual reporting service is available on request to ensure your CEL registration is consistently valid.

Please do not hesitate to contact us for any questions or specific request.