The Maronite Church is to begin a "Special Synod of Women" to better understand the mission of women within its community.

The special assembly is scheduled for March 5 in Bkerké, at the headquarters of the Maronite Catholic Patriarchate of Antioch, located northeast of Beirut, Lebanon.

It aims, with its contents, events and dynamics to exhibit a singular ecclesial process initiated in the Maronite community for the shared discernment regarding the presence and mission of women in Church and society.

Lebanese Cardinal Béchara Boutros Raï, the Maronite Catholic Patriarch of Antioch is the host of the inaugural meeting to which the Bishops of the Maronite Synod are invited, as will be sociologist Mirna Abboud Mzawak, Coordinator of the Office for the Pastoral Care of Women at the Patriarchal Curia, and Professor Souraya Bechealany, former Secretary General of the Ecumenical Council of Churches of the Middle East.

The project to launch a special synod dedicated to the presence and mission of women was approved in June 2021 by the Synod of Maronite Bishops, which entrusted its preparation to the Office for the Pastoral Care of Women of the Patriarchate.

The synodal process will be divided over the coming time into meetings and shared reflections that will be held in parishes, dioceses, religious communities and ecclesiastical, civil and academic institutions, both in Lebanon and in countries where the Maronite diaspora is present.

It will recognize and support in a creative and innovative way the vocation of women within the ecclesial community and civil society, Fides reported.

Theologians who have prepared materials to launch the initiative underline that it has its roots in the synodal dynamics of the Eastern Churches and does not involve only the bishops, but all the baptized men and women.

Free ecclesial communities from practices that reduce women to second-class beings

The initiative of the "Synod of Women" within the Maronite Church does not want to be an adaptation to feminist demands and cultural models imported from the West, but to represent a rediscovery of the synodal features of one's own ecclesial tradition and ensure that every baptized person just does not become a passive executor of provisions and strategies imposed by ecclesiastical leaders.

Theologians of the ecumenical team Nakhtar al Hayat ("We choose life") had addressed the "female issue" in research on the present and future condition of Middle Eastern Christian communities released past September.

"Most of the historical Churches of the Middle East" the authors of the text noted "are patriarchal or synodal. Both systems are inspired by the idea of synodality, which, in its original meaning, refers to communion and walking together".

These traditional features of the ecclesial life of the communities of the East need to be recovered today, while "unfortunately today in our Churches we often see the people of God - especially women and young people - marginalized in important decisions."

Hence, "We often see the growth of an authoritarian spirit, which cancels shared responsibility, balanced government and the spirit of responsibility between people and their pastors", the theologians said.

According to the authors of that document, the ecclesial life of Middle Eastern communities must free itself "from practices that reduce women to second-class beings, practices contrary to the spirit of the Gospel".

Members of the Maronite Church are the disciples of Saint Maron, a monk and hermit, who died around 423.

These Christians date back to historical Syria, to the Patriarchate of Antioch, one of the three patriarchates of the early Church, along with Rome and Alexandria.

They took refuge in the Lebanese mountains at the time of the Muslim invasion in the 7th Century and were constituted as Patriarchates in 685.

The Maronite Church is an exception among Eastern Churches, marked by separations and reunifications but always remaining united with Rome.

Heir to a line of 76 patriarchs, Béchara Boutros Raï was appointed head of the Maronite Church in March 2011. He was made a cardinal the next year.

Their West Syriac rite, is one of the oldest Eastern rites. Maronite Christians, who represent one of the largest Christian communities in the East, celebrate mainly in Arabic.