The following post is based on a web page written by former BCL staff member Dennis Adams between 1998 and 2007 for an earlier iteration of the Beaufort County Library website. Much of the information about movies filmed in Beaufort comes from anecdotes and recollections of local residents that Adams gathered during his tenure. Revised and updated by Grace Cordial. Research assistance provided by Cheryl Graffo. Latest Update: 26 January 2022; Posted: 19 December 2019

Main Cast: Will Smith; Matt Damon; Charlize Theron; Bruce McGill; Joel Gretsch; and J. Michael Moncrief

Directed by: Robert Redford

Production company: Wildwood/DreamWorks/20th Century Fox

The sport movie’s plot begins with a financially desperate owner’s last ditch effort to save the golf course she inherited in 1931 in the aftermath of her father’s suicide. She sponsors a 36-hole tournament in Savannah, Georgia. She asks her former love interest and golfer, Rannulph Junuh, to play against golf greats Walter Hagen and Bobby Jones for the prize. Junuh, once a local young-man-about-town has returned from the Great War a disillusioned man who drinks far too much too regularly. Things do not go well at the tournament until Bagger Vance, Junuh’s mystical caddy, helps him find authenticity within himself, in his golf stroke, and in his life.

The film had a budget of $80 million. The promotional tagline was “Some things can’t be learned. They must be remembered.” The movie was released on 3 November 2000 with opening weekend receipts of $11,516,712. The movie earned $30,919,168 in the United States and Canada. The World gross as of January 2022 was $39,459,427.

Reviews for the film were mixed. Roger Ebert wrote “It is the first zen movie about golf….”A masterpiece of tact” though L.A. Weekly’s Ella Taylor’s review stated “Leven’s tepid screenplay and the passionless self-control of Redford’s direction make this bloodless movie a chore to sit through.”

The Beaufort County Library has copies of the novel The Legend of Bagger Vance by Steven Pressfield and the DVD of the movie to share with customers. The Library’s electronic book and streaming service, Hoopla offers customers a choice of two audiobooks (one read by Barrett Whitener; the other read by Ronny Cox); an e-book, and the streaming movie each of which is available for check-out with a valid Beaufort County Library card.

Local Tidbits of Information:

Many of the film’s golf scenes were filmed at the Colleton River Dye Course in Bluffton.

Note: The Beaufort District Collection (BDC) exists to acquire, preserve, maintain and make accessible a research collection of permanent value which records the history, culture, and environment of the South Carolina lowcountry wedged between the Combahee (pronounced “kum-bee”) and Savannah Rivers.

Contact the Beaufort District Collection at 843-255-6446 or e-mail bdc@bcgov.net for additional information about local history and archives relating to the people, places, and themes of the history, Gullah culture, and natural environment of Beaufort County, Jasper County and Hampton County, South Carolina.