Mrs. Sherline Owens, 70, passed away at her home in South Bend, Indiana, on the morning of Monday, March 21, 2022. Sherline was born on May 24, 1951, in South Bend, Indiana, to the union of Jessie Lottie, Jr., and Icylee (Hines) Lottie.

A lifelong resident of South Bend, Sherline was a student at Linden, then later studied at Central High School. In 1968, she began working for the South Bend Parks and Recreational Department at Pulaski Park and The Martin Luther King Center until 1975. Sherline also worked in housekeeping for Regency and Cardinal Nursing Homes, until her illness in 2002.

On July 10, 1976, she was united in marriage to Sammy Lee Owens in South Bend, Indiana. He preceded her in death in 2008.

Sherline was a saved and devoted Christian, serving and praising the Lord at Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church, where she was a dedicated member, serving under the leadership of Pastor Ray E. Owens. Sherline was a caring, devoted, loving mother of four children, as well as a beloved grandmother, great-grandmother, sister, aunt, cousin, and friend.

Sherline leaves to cherish her memories: her living children, two daughters, Tammeka Smith and Samantha Owens, and one son Jimmie Lottie, all of South Bend, Indiana. Twenty-four grandchildren: Brittney Lottie, Amanda Williams-Lottie, Jasmine Gregory-Lottie, Malaysia Cole-Lottie, Jammie Lottie, Dierra Lottie, Jacob Lottie, Dominique Saxon, Kiishawn Lottie, Jasmine Lean Lottie, Zion Joy Lottie Denajia Adams, Sania Adams Adreania Hyde, Andre Martin, Fallon Martin Kameron Martin, Ja’Breeh Martin, Shamarr Martin, Keyonte Martin, Tamaya Lester, Ralph Smith Jr., Raven Smith; and her only maternal great-granddaughter, Amaya Leigh Young. Four sisters: Gwendolyn Jean Clark of Ohio; Jessie Lorraine Lottie, Lori Ann (Kyle) Bowerman, and Jacqueline Kaye Lottie, all of South Bend, Indiana. Five brothers: Edward Lee Rodgers (Charlene) Duckworth, Joseph Duckworth, Jr., of Ohio; Charles Emery (Marcella) Lottie of Stone Mountain, Georgia; Burnis Albert (Yolanda) Lottie of Indianapolis; and Robert Earl Lottie of South Bend, Indiana. One maternal aunt, Blanche Hines of Chicago; one paternal aunt, Viola Taylor, and one paternal uncle, Adolph Lottie, both of South Bend, Indiana. A host of extended family members and friends. Sherline will be greatly missed by all who knew her.

In addition to her husband, Sammy Lee Owens, Sherline was also preceded in death by her parents, Jessie Jr., and Icylee Lottie; her son, Clarence Darnell Martin; a grandson, Joshua Lottie; three brothers, Larry Darnell Lottie, William Duckworth and Donald B. Lottie; and one sister-in-law, Linda Duckworth; and a very, very special brother-in-law, Mr. Walter Lee Clark.

Funeral services will be held 11:00am on Saturday, April 2, 2022, with visitation from 10:00-11:00am, at Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church, 1862 N. Olive Street, South Bend, IN. Pastor Ray. E. Owens will officiate. Palmer Funeral Home—West Chapel is assisting the family with arrangements.

Online condolences may be left for the family at www.palmerfuneralhomes.com.