Crazy Town frontman Shifty Shellshock has died. He was 49.

He was at home when he died on June 24, according to the Los Angeles County Medical Examiner, though a cause of death has not been disclosed.

Shifty Shellshock’s real name was Seth Brooks Binzer, and he was born in Los Angeles in 1974. He met Brett Mazur in 1992 and formed the band Brimstone Sluggers, which the pair eventually changed to Crazy Town when they added bandmates Rust Epique, James Bradley Jr. (who went by JBJ), Doug Miller, Adam Goldstein (who went by DJ AM) and Antonio Lorenzo Valli (who went by Trouble).

The rap-rock band released their first album, “The Gift of Game,” in 1999 and performed with the Red Hot Chili Peppers on tour following the release. In 2000, they released “Butterfly” as the third single from the album, which sampled the Red Hot Chili Peppers’ “Pretty Little Dirty.” The song eventually became Crazy Town’s biggest and most well-known hit, taking the No. 1 spot on the Billboard Hot 100 chart for two non-consecutive weeks.

The band broke up after releasing their second album, 2002′s “Darkhorse,” which did not generate as much success as their debut. Shifty Shellshock pursued a solo career following the breakup and released the song, “Starry Eyed Surprise,” the same year. It hit No. 41 on the charts. Binzer released his first solo album, “Happy Love Sick,” in 2004. It found success outside of the United States.

In 2007, Crazy Town got back together and released their third album, “The Brimstone Sluggers,” in 2015.

Shifty Shellshock reportedly struggled with addiction and alcohol abuse and spoke out about his problems. In 2000, Crazy Town was set to perform at Ozzfest, but had to pull out a couple weeks before because Shifty Shellshock was arrested for throwing a chair through a window while intoxicated.

He was one of the celebrities featured on VH1′s reality show “Celebrity Rehab” in 2007 and eventually graduated from the program, but reentered treatment on “Celebrity Rehab 2″ after breaking his sobriety. In 2008, he was on “Sober House 1″ before relapsing and later appeared on “Sober House 2″ in 2009 after an accidental overdose and the death of one of his former bandmates.

In 2022, Shellshock was arrested for DUI and was recently dating “Punky Brewster” actress Soleil Moon Frye. He is survived by his three children: Halo, Gage and Phoenix.

More music coverage

Popular ‘90s punk band’s founding member dead at 45

Legendary country music songwriter who wrote for Elvis Presley and Willie Nelson dead at 83

Legendary classic rock band’s singer dead at 78

Legendary artist who worked with David Bowie and Stevie Wonder dies at 78

Legendary classic rock drummer from N.J. dead at 79