Philip M. DeFusco, 63, of Haverhill passed away unexpectedly Friday, September 21, 2018 at Holy Family Hospital in Methuen. Born on August 1, 1955 in Methuen, he was the son of Rose M. (D’Urso) DeFusco and the late Philip S. DeFusco.

A graduate of Central Catholic High School, Philip excelled at football and continued his football career at UMASS Amherst, while completing his business degree. A small business owner, he co-owned Heritage Packaging with his brother, Stephen, and more recently started a new venture, American Industrial Crating. Phil was passionate about staying physically fit. Whether he was surfing, cycling, working out, or cooking, physical vitality was paramount. He enjoyed weekly visits and drives with his mother, Rose. His favorite place was the family beach house where, if the ocean wasn’t calling him and there wasn’t work to be done, you would find him telling stories on the deck. Phil had an incredible work ethic and a love for his family and friends. If you were lucky to meet Phil, he made a lasting impression on you.

The lights of his life were his boys; Luke, Nick, and Corey. He loved spending time with them, either working at the shop, driving around, or surfing at the beach. He was a devoted father who taught them the value of hard work, integrity, discipline, family, friendship, and kindness.

Philip is survived by his sons, Philip Lucas DeFusco, Nicholas Ross DeFusco, and Corey Mark DeFusco all of Haverhill; beloved fiancée, Colleen Enright of Haverhill; mother, Rose M. (D’Urso) DeFusco of North Andover; sister, Adeline Kania and her husband, Richard Kania of Haverhill; sister, Emily Perkins and her husband, Howard R. Perkins, Jr. of Andover; brother, Stephen DeFusco and his wife, Kim A. (Crompton) DeFusco of Methuen; brother, John DeFusco and his wife, Lisa (Fortune) DeFusco of Westford. He also leaves several adoring nieces, nephews, cousins, extended family, and friends.

Phil, farewell and good job. It has been a pleasure and you will be sorely missed.

Family and friends are respectfully invited to calling hours on Wednesday, September 26, 2018 from 2:00-8:00 PM at Cataudella Funeral Home, 126 Pleasant Valley Street in Methuen. A funeral service will be held Thursday, September 27th at 11:00 AM in the funeral home chapel.

In lieu of flowers, donations in Philip’s memory may be made to a charity of your choice.