Samuel Philip Urso, age 68, passed away on Thursday, December 21, 2006 at his residence in Bryan after a lengthy illness. A rosary was held on Friday at Memorial Funeral Chapel in Bryan. Sam was born on December 23, 1937 in Bryan, and his funeral service will be held on his birthday, Saturday, December 23rd at 2:00 pm at St. Joseph Catholic Church in Bryan. Burial will follow at Reliance Cemetery.

Sam is survived by his wife, Ruby Urso, of Bryan; two sons and daughters-in-law, Steve and Olgui Urso of Bryan, Gary and Lydia Urso of Manassas, Virginia; a daughter and son-in-law, Donna and Roger Bligh of College Station; a brother and sister-in-law, Joe and Gracy Urso of Kaufman and a sister-in-law and brother-in-law, Helen Jean and Stewart Wood of Denison. He is survived by eight grandchildren; Markie, Shea, Kylie and Keith Urso of Bryan; Eric and Christopher Urso of Manassas, Virginia, and Brendan and Krista Bligh of College Station. He also leaves behind numerous treasured cousins, nieces, nephews and friends.

Sam was preceded in death by his parents Philip and Rosa Lee Urso and his sister, Frances Ball.

Sam was a life-long resident of Bryan. He attended St. Joseph School and graduated from Stephen F. Austin High School in 1956. He soon met and fell in love with Ruby Collins and married on October 18, 1958. He was a retired self-employed businessman. Sam was the owner of Sam's Drive-In and Donut Shop, a "high-school hangout" for many a student who loved his "Deluxe Burgers". Later he owned a convenience store, U-Pak-M in College Station and Sam's Country Store in the Steep Hollow community. He enjoyed his country home and his cows.

Sam will always be remembered as a quiet, gentle man. He loved his wife, family and the Lord. He enjoyed fishing and keeping up with the Houston Astros. He watched many a game with his treasured Chihuahuas sitting on his lap. The family wishes to thank all of those who helped Sam during these last months. Your prayers and support will never be forgotten.

Pallbearers will be Shea Urso, Brian Yeager, Kirk Barnes, and Mark Hopcus all of Bryan, Joe Don Urso of Kaufman and David Rainwater of Houston. Honorary pallbearers are Keith, Eric, and Christopher Urso and Brendan Bligh.

Memorials may be made to the St. Joseph Catholic School Trust Fund.