RICHMOND, Va. -- Despite contentions by attorneys that Virginia's electric chair may be in danger of malfunctioning, condemned killer Richard Boggs was routinely put to death for killing an elderly widow.

'There were no complications,' Deborah Groome, acting operations officer at the State Penitentiary, said Thursday night, shortly after Boggs was executed by two jolts of 2,500 volts of electricity. A physician pronounced him dead at 11:07 p.m. EDT.

Boggs, 27, was sentenced to die for the Jan. 25, 1984, robbery and murder of Treeby Shaw, 87, of Portsmouth. She was beaten and stabbed to death. Boggs robbed her to support his drug habit.

Boggs was the 135th person executed in the United States and the ninth in Virginia since the Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976.

Boggs was brought into the execution chamber at the State Penitentiary at 10:50 p.m. EDT, escorted by six prison guards, correction officials said. Witnesses said he walked in with his head tilted back.

'He never opened his eyes. He never looked at anyone,' said Stephanie Taylor, a reporter for WAVY-TV in Portsmouth, one of witnesses to the execution.

Officials said the first surge of electricity was administered at 11:02 p.m. and moments later the second one followed.

A crowd of about 70 death penalty opponents gathered outside the antiquated penitentiary singing hymns and conducting a candlelight vigil.

Hours before the execution was scheduled to be carried out, the Supreme Court refused to stay the execution, ending a series of last-minute appeals.

Gov. L. Douglas Wilder also declined to grant Boggs clemency. The governor could have commuted the sentence of death to life in prison.

Earlier Thursday, a three-judge panel of the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals turned down his request for a stay after conducting a conference call with attorneys for Boggs and the state. The ruling came hours after U.S. District Judge Richard Williams denied a similar request.

On Tuesday, the Virginia Supreme Court refused to issue a stay.

The killer's parents, Bill and Sybil, and brother and sister, Michael and Julie, were among those who visited him Thursday.

In seeking the stay, attorney David Bruck said Boggs was a victim of fetal alcohol syndrome and suffered from organic brain damage, but lawyers for the state said it was too late to raise the issue.

Bruck also argued that Boggs had brain damage, but assistant attorney general Robert Anderson III said Boggs had registered an IQ of 100 and 118 in tests. Three medical experts had found Boggs competent to stand trial, according to Anderson.

Boggs's lawyers also contended that the electric chair could malfunction and cause Boggs to suffer, which would violate constitional safeguards against cruel and unusual punishment.

They said Virginia's electric chair is similar to the one in Florida, which went awry and botched an execution on May 9. Flames and smoke spewed around the head of the condemned man, who took several minutes longer to die than usual.

But corrections officials said the Virginia electric chair was not likely to fail. 'As a matter of law,' Anderson told Williams, 'they have not demonstrated that the chair will malfunction tonight.'