Current vacancy is in Santa Barbara.

Applicants who meet the minimum qualifications of the position will be invited to a one-hour performance exercise via Zoom. You will receive an email notification if you are invited to take the exam.

**Testing date & times**

Tuesday, October 25th, 8:00am - 9:00am or 12:00pm - 1:00pm

or

Wednesday, October 26th, 12:00pm - 1:00pm or 3:30pm - 4:30pm

(you will only need to schedule for one test time)

If you forget your password, have application login problems, or get an error message during the application process, please call the NeoGov helpline at 1-855-524-5627 for assistance.

ADDITIONAL MONETARY/BENEFIT VALUE:

In addition to the base wage listed, employees in this classification receive:

The Court pays 100% of employee health premium and contributes a significant amount to dependent coverage.

Biweekly Court contribution of $13.02 towards the cost of the dental premium.

Biweekly Court contribution of approximately 32.47% of gross wages towards employee's mandatory retirement account.

Additionally, employees from current public employers (federal, state and/or local government) may qualify for:

- Retirement reciprocity.

- Time and service credit towards vacation accrual rate.

Under general supervision, performs a variety of clerical and administrative duties related to court hearings and courtroom proceedings.

DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS

The Judicial Assistant III is the journey and advanced journey level in the Judicial Assistant classification series. The Judicial Assistant III-Courtroom Assignment is distinguished from all other Judicial Assistants in that the primary focus of the courtroom assignment is clerical and administrative courtroom support work. The Judicial Assistant III-Courtroom Assignment is distinguished from the Judicial Assistant III-Office Assignment in that the primary focus of the office assignment is clerical and administrative legal processing support work. The Judicial Assistant III classification as a whole, both courtroom and office assigned positions, may act as a "lead-worker"; leading, training and assigning the work of subordinate and/or lesser experienced Judicial Assistants. The courtroom assigned Judicial Assistant III would typically be assigned responsibility for "peer" training of lesser experienced Judicial Assistant III-Courtroom Assignment employees as needed, while the office assigned Judicial Assistant III is typically assigned responsibility for leading, training and assigning the work of subordinate Judicial Assistants within an office based work unit, and/or may be assigned formal responsibility for overseeing, leading, training, and/or assigning a unique or specialty work load. The Judicial Assistant III-Office Assignment and Courtroom Assignment may be assigned to cover other Judicial Assistant III assignments as needed. The Judicial Assistant III classification as a whole, both courtroom and office assignments, are not included in the Judicial Assistant I/II flex series.