Carole in England

In August of 1947 Carole traveled to London, England to make two movies - Brass Monkey and The Silk Noose. She had only made one film since her contract at 20th Century Fox ended and she was excited about getting back to work. At the time she was unhappily married to her fourth husband Horace Schmidlapp and was having an affair with actor Rex Harrison. Horace decided to stay in New York City but Rex followed Carole to London. Their affair continued and got more serious even though Rex's wife, Lilli Palmer, came with him. Carole spent her days filming at Teddington Studios and stayed at the Savoy Hotel with her longtime maid Susie Smith. When she wasn't working she attended many parties and events. She also spent time with her close friend Lt. Troy who had been injured during World War 2. Shortly after arriving in England she adopted a French poodle she named Gina. On September 6 she attended a garden party at Morden Park in Surrey. Then in October she sponsored the "Carole Landis Cup" at the West Helm Speedway. During a break from filming she took a short trip to Paris, France. Carole visited the Eiffel Tower and had dinner with the Duchess of Windsor.

At a Royal Command performance of The Bishop's Wife

Lilli Palmer, Patricia Roc, and Carole

In November she was photographed at the London Zoo and attended the premiere of Charlie Chaplin's new film. She also participated in a Royal Command performance of The Bishop's Wife for King George and Queen Elizabeth. After the show she attended a star-studded celebration with Bob Hope, Loretta Young, and Patricia Roc. Her lover Rex Harrison and his wife Lilli Palmer had attended the show. Carole was not photographed with Rex but she did pose for some very awkward pictures with Lilli. She met Indian dancer Ram Gopal at the Prince's Theater in December. Her husband Horace came to see her after Christmas but they only spent a few days together. During their visit the couple agreed to separate. While driving around London she got a parking ticket and had to go to court to pay a $20 fine. On February 24, 1948 she presented prizes at a children's charity boxing match. The following week she flew back to her home in California. She had lived in England for more than six months and had really fallen in love with the country. Carole said "I loved England and working there was really stimulating."