Legenda (General Series)

Legenda

30 January 2012 • 200pp

ISBN: 978-1-907747-93-9 (hardback) • RRP £80, $110, €95

ModernPortuguesePoetry

Fernando Pessoa (1888-1935) is Portugal’s most celebrated poet of the twentieth century, who wrote under the guise of dozens of literary personalities, or heteronyms. As well as his poetry, however, his work is marked by a constantly inventive and innovative engagement with authors and literary traditions from an astonishing variety of sources, placing him firmly in the worldwide literary canon. The present volume brings together a number of experts at the forefront of Pessoa studies internationally, with chapters examining his literary relations with Italy, Spain, France, England and Portugal, as well as his contextualisation in relation to major philosophers such as Kant and Nietzsche. It features essays examining his work from a range of perspectives to complement the multi-faceted nature of Pessoa himself (psychoanalytical, philosophical, political and artistic), and it includes consideration of his prose masterpiece The Book of Disquiet, as well as of various aspects of his poetic oeuvre.

David G. Frier is Senior Lecturer in Portuguese at the University of Leeds.

Reviews:

‘As its title suggests, [the book] provides Pessoan scholars and the general reader with a lot of thematic variety and in-depth insights. Some of the papers bring fresh perspectives on topics that had been critically broached before, but are here seen from enriching perspectives. Other papers provide refreshingly new arguments. These are two of the many reasons why one would wish to recommend this volume, both to the specialist and to the student who is starting out on the path to his or her own Pessoa.’ — Francisco Cota Fagundes, Bulletin of Spanish Studies 110.4, September 2013, 1058-59

Contents:

Cite this volume in standard MHRA styleCite this volume in MHRA author-date style

Bibliography entry:

Frier, David G. (ed.). 2012. Pessoa in an Intertextual Web: Influence and Innovation (Legenda)

Example citation: ‘A quotation occurring on page 21 of this work’ (Frier 2012: 21).

Example footnote reference: 35 Frier 2012: 21.

(To see how these citations were worked out, follow this link.)

Permanent link to this title:

www.mhra.org.uk/publications/Pessoa-in-Intertextual-Web