Mary C. Neal, age 87, of Adkins, TX, passed away Wednesday, December 31, 2014 in Seguin, TX. Mary was born in McCamey, TX on January 5, 1927 to Mr. and Mrs. Edward Harold and Myrtle (McCall) Christopher. She is preceded in death by her parents; husband, Walter Paul Neal Sr.; sister, Betty Jane Christopher; brother, Thomas D. Christopher and son-in-law, Daniel McDonald. Mary is survived by her sons, Walter P. Neal Jr. and wife Janell, Ronald Lee Neal and wife Mary Jane, all of Adkins, TX and Ray Alan Neal and wife Kristin of Shiner, TX; daughters, Linda Kay McDonald of Bradford, PA and Debra Ann Weinheimer and husband Steve of Adkins, TX; grandchildren, Lisa Kay McDonald, Diana Lynn Cobb and husband Matthew, all of Bradford, PA; Ryan Christopher Neal and wife Jessica of Adkins, TX, Jennifer Neal Bruning and husband Ben of San Antonio, TX; Jarrett Neal, Kristen Neal Carmona and husband Sam all of San Antonio, TX; Cody Greinke and wife Liz, Brandon Greinke, Joshua Greinke all of Seguin, TX, Stephen Todd Weinheimer of Devine, TX; Samantha Cally Neal, Sarah Elizabeth Neal, and Caleb Daniel Neal, all of Shiner, TX; great-grandchildren, Danni Jo Cobb, Ryan C. Neal Jr., Makayla Neal, Christian Phillip Carmona, Kaylee Jay Greinke, Addison Taylor Greinke, Aiden Elizabeth Greinke; sisters, Doris Inez Christopher (Sister Constance) and Patricia Ann House, both of San Antonio, TX; numerous nieces and nephews. A visitation will be held Thursday, January 1, 2015, from 5:00pm to 7:00pm at Finch Funeral Chapel, La Vernia.

Rosary Vigil and Mass

Friday, January 2, 2015

10:00am

St. Ann Catholic Church

La Vernia, TX

Father Stanislaw Fiuk, S.T.L., will officiate. Interment will follow at 1:00pm at the Heickman Cemetery in Somerset, TX. Serving as Pallbearers will be Walter Neal, Ronnie Neal, Ray Neal, Ryan Neal, Cody Greinke and Jarrett Neal. Honorary Pallbearers will be Brandon Greinke, Joshua Greinke, Steve Weinheimer and Caleb Neal. If desired, memorial contributions may be made in Mary’s name to the Alzheimer’s Association at www.alz.org/donate.