Page/Link:

Page URL: HTML link: Citations:

MLA style: "Hoven reflects on Revco's ups and downs.." The Free Library. 1997 Racher Press, Inc. 30 Aug. 2024 https://www.thefreelibrary.com/Hoven+reflects+on+Revco%27s+ups+and+downs.-a019745781

Chicago style: The Free Library. S.v. Hoven reflects on Revco's ups and downs.." Retrieved Aug 30 2024 from https://www.thefreelibrary.com/Hoven+reflects+on+Revco%27s+ups+and+downs.-a019745781

APA style: Hoven reflects on Revco's ups and downs.. (n.d.) >The Free Library. (2014). Retrieved Aug 30 2024 from https://www.thefreelibrary.com/Hoven+reflects+on+Revco%27s+ups+and+downs.-a019745781

TWINSBURG, Ohio - With the acquisition of Revco D.S. by CVS Corp. all but inevitable, so too is the departure of Dwayne Hoven, Revco's president and chief executive officer, from chain drug retailing. Hoven, who led Revco to the strongest years and participated in some of the saddest moments in its history, plans to move to Florida, where he purchased a home last year. His departure will effectively end the last chapter in the sometimes checkered but always fascinating history of one of chain drug retailing's most interesting companies.

"I really didn't think it would come to this," says Hoven of the CVS acquisition that will finally put an end to Revco as an independent drug chain, "especially after we bought Big B last year. I believed the debt we took on with that acquisition had made us less attractive as an acquisition candidate. I know our people believed it. But in the end, we were the victim of our own success. We were simply too attractive to ignore."

Actually, Revco never quite recovered from the shock and trauma that accompanied the 1996 takeover attempt by Rite Aid Corp., one which fell apart at the 11th hour. "That told everyone we were available, we could be acquired," notes Revco's chief executive officer. "After that it was only a matter of time until someone else came along. But, naively I suppose, I thought we could restructure the ownership of the company and remain independent."

Hoven maintains that what made the drug chain's ending particularly painful was the many near misses the retailer survived over the past five years. "We developed a survivor's mentality," Hoven says, recalling the company's 40 months in bankruptcy, its return to profitability and ascension to the front ranks of chain chug retailing, then the Rite Aid acquisition attempt and narrow escape.

"Those events gave our people both a feeling of vulnerability and a sense of urgency. We realized as a company that we might not be here forever, that we needed to get things done now. It enabled us to subordinate our individual agendas to that of the corporation. It helped us pull together - with results that speak for themselves."

Hoven believes that, in many ways, his job in running Revco has been an easy one. "This company has been characterized by a great ability to execute. Our people have had high standards. We have been detail-oriented. There's not a lot of magic involved in running a good company. And Revco was a great company,"

When pressed, however, he admits that success didn't come automatically. "You bet I worked at it," he notes. "It doesn't just happen. But no successful CEO honestly believes that he did it all - or even a major share of it. You have to have a team. And I had a terrific team."

If Hoven takes credit, it's for setting a direction at Revco and for providing an emotional commitment. "I set the agenda," he says. "I said: 'This is what we're going to do.'"

Hoven credits Boake Sells, his predecessor as chief executive officer, for putting in place many of the programs that ultimately righted Revco. "Sells restaffed the company, downsized it, developed the systems that enabled us to compete," says Hoven.

Thus it was Hoven who returned Revco to profitability, who pulled the people together and steered them toward a common goal. "The most difficult years were the first and the last one," he remembers. "In our first year of profitability, we earned $14 million. It was the most difficult $14 million we ever made."

Between the first and last year Hoven grappled with the challenges of improving sales and expanding profits while dealing with four separate financial groups that collectively owned half the company. Throughout, he retained three objectives - regaining the confidence of the financial community, producing profits and putting together a significant acquisition to leverage costs. To accomplish those objectives he put a new strategic plan in place each year and engineered the brilliant acquisition of Hook-SupeRx Inc., the largest in the industry to that date.

Now, all that is history. And Hoven leaves an industry for which he developed a huge affection, and one which returned a measure of that affection. "I'm optimistic about chain drug retailing," he notes. "Everything points to continued strong growth - the demographics, the increasingly important role of drug therapy, the continued growth in the number of prescriptions being dispensed. Moreover, the industry is playing to that growth in many ways - putting in drive-through pharmacies, for example.

"This is not to say that chain drug retailing is without problems," he continues. "Declining pharmacy margins remain a concern. So too is the inevitability of Medicaid coming under the managed care umbrella. Ultimately, 85% to 90% of all prescriptions will be third-party prescriptions (10% to 15% will always be cash). As a result, further consolidation is a reality - independents and regional chains will continue to disappear."

Hoven believes that, in the main, drug chains have to be large enough to build systems that will enable them to participate administratively in each managed care plan. He notes as well, however, that 90% of all plans are open networks that allow everyone to participate, a fact which should enable strong regional chains to compete in the current large-chain environment.

"This is a real estate business," he says. "The move to freestanding stores has not only strengthened the industry, it has strengthened individual chains. Freestanding stores can develop strong front-end businesses more easily. And they're not dependent on supermarkets or other stores for traffic. In that environment I believe that well-run regional chains can be here forever."

Hoven believes as well that margin erosion is slowing, that the industry has seen the beginning of the end of the decline. Still, he feels the key to success going forward, both for individual drug chains and for the entire industry, will be the ability to reduce costs. "Increasing sales is not enough." he says.

Now Hoven prepares to leave an industry he only recently got to know. "I'll miss it," he says with characteristic understatement. "Chain drug retailing is an unusual industry. It has remained a warm and open industry despite the increased competition that has come with consolidation. Retailers and vendors seem genuinely to care about each other. In today's business environment that's rare. Anyone who says this isn't a unique industry is very, very wrong."