REO Speedwagon keyboardist's long rock 'n' roll journey began in Evansville

By Sean Mcdevitt

You won't meet many rock musicians who can match REO Speedwagon's Neal Doughty when it comes to consistency.

In 1966, the Evansville native cofounded a band while a student at the University of Illinois. Some 45 years later, he's still playing with that band, remarkably untouched by the seemingly endless personality conflicts and creative battles that routinely accompany life in a rock 'n' roll outfit.

Doughty is often asked how he's managed to remain a cornerstone of such an enduring musical institution, one that has survived its share of personnel changes over the years.

"I've always been truly happy with my role in the band," he says. "I've never wanted to be the frontman. I'm happy to sit back there behind the stack of keyboards and just be on stage ... Some of the egos that get involved in bands, like where two or more of the guys are always fighting for control of things, I was just never in on that. I just went with the flow. I was just happy to be playing."

The keyboardist's perseverance has paid off. Since the band's initial days playing bars and clubs in and around its base of Champaign, Ill., REO Speedwagon has gone on to record some 20 albums and tour the world, in the process headlining stadiums and arenas, selling millions of records, enjoying chart-topping radio hits and establishing a loyal fan base that to this day sustains the band's active performance schedule.

On Tuesday, REO Speedwagon's best-selling album — 1981's "Hi Infidelity," which has sold nearly 10 million copies in the United States alone — will be reissued in a special 30th anniversary edition.

Local roots

Doughty's journey to a life in rock started in Evansville, where he was born in 1946 and where he still has an aunt, uncle, cousins and many friends. As a child, his family lived near Downtown on Ravenswood Drive, and Doughty attended Washington Elementary School.

"A few years back my dad drove by the very first little house that he and my mom lived in when they got married," remembers Doughty, who turns 65 years old this month. "He showed me a tree that he planted when I was born. It was obviously just a tiny little sapling then. Now, this thing, it covers the entire neighborhood, so I'm going, 'Oh, so that's how old I am!'"

The family later moved to a house on Stewart Avenue. Doughty attended the new Plaza Park Middle School, but his family left town when he was 12 years old. His father, who worked in the field of systems management in the early days of computers — and later acquired a computer science degree at what was then called Evansville College — took the family to western Illinois after landing a better career opportunity.

Doughty, who today makes his home in Austin, Minn., says he's no stranger to his old hometown.

"I've come back [to Evansville] every now and then for quite a while," Doughty says, "and we've played there several times. My parents now live in the St. Louis area. But whenever the band is in Evansville, they go with me, and they take me around to see all my relatives and look at the old neighborhood, which looks very different when you're growing up."

A band takes shape

After high school, Doughty attended community college for two years, eventually parlaying his aptitude for mathematics — and a good SAT score — into a scholarship to the University of Illinois, where he intended to pursue a degree in electrical engineering.

Soon after Doughty began attending classes, however, he was struggling with the work and having second thoughts. Across the hall from Doughty's dorm room on campus, a fellow engineering student from Syracuse, N.Y., named Alan Gratzer was experiencing similar emotions. The two became fast friends and, as fate would have it, started a rock 'n' roll band, Doughty on keyboards and Gratzer on drums.

Engineering slowly took a back seat. "We just got busy with the band," Doughty remembers, "and at one point we went, 'Let's go for it. We could always come back to college if this band doesn't work out.' But it slowly did. It's like things were always going in the right direction. Just as we were about to give up, something good would happen that kept us interested. We kind of got into our heads, 'We've gotta really see how far this thing can take us.'

"And now, more than 40 years later, we're still wondering how far it will take us."

'Something had to happen'

The band toured relentlessly throughout the Midwest and in 1971 began a string of album releases for Epic Records. REO endured a series of personnel changes during those early years — with Doughty remaining a constant presence — but by 1976 the band's lineup solidified with vocalist Kevin Cronin and guitarist Gary Richrath, both of whom helped set the stage for the dramatic commercial success that followed.

A 1977 release: "Live: You Get What You Play For," sold a million copies; its follow-up, "You Can Tune a Piano, but You Can't Tuna Fish," sold 2 million.

But as successful as REO Speedwagon had become as the 1970s came to a close, things were about to change in a way that no one could ever have imagined.

REO released "Hi Infidelity" in November of 1980, and by February of 1981 — on the strength of a smash "power ballad" called "Keep On Loving You" — had sold a million copies. It went on to become the biggest-selling LP of 1981 and ultimately sold nearly 10 million copies in the U.S. alone.

"That record came at the right time," recalls Doughty, noting that the band at that point still hadn't had a hit radio single. "That was our 11th full album. Everybody was starting to think that something had to happen ... If 'Hi Infidelity' hadn't done anything, we might have stopped right then."

Instead, the band was just getting started. In the summer of 1981, REO headlined sold-out shows at the Houston Astrodome, the New Orleans Superdome, New York City's Madison Square Garden and Chicago's Soldier Field, among other venues. Epic Records' pressing plants couldn't keep up with the demand. At one point, "Hi Infidelity" was selling some 250,000 copies per week.

At times it was all a bit too surreal, Doughty remembers.

"Not only the sales of the record, but just the way we were treated in general was not even real," he says. "To me, I almost didn't like it. It was a little dehumanizing, where everybody wanted at you. You feel a little bit like a product. The record was No. 1 for like four months. Everybody in the world wanted to shake hands with us. I'm going, 'Wow, where were these people for the last 10 years while we were killing ourselves trying to get a hit record?' ... They say that success changes people, [but] I have always said, 'No, I think it just changes everybody around you.'"

"Hi Infidelity," bolstered by subsequent hits like "Take It On the Run" and "Don't Let Him Go," remained the nation's No. 1 album for a remarkable 15 weeks beginning Feb. 21, 1981. It went on to help define what fans and critics today call "arena rock." It also marked the arrival of REO's decade-long "overnight success" story.

"There are a lot of bands that way now," Doughty says. "You think they just came out of nowhere, but they've actually been working on it for a while. That's really what it was like for us... It was such a different level, such a gigantic change in our status to the world."

What goes up ...

REO Speedwagon continued to generate hit singles after "Hi Infidelity" — a 1985 chart-topping ballad, "Can't Fight This Feeling," went on to become the band's biggest hit ever — but by late 1988, the band was in serious decline.

Alan Gratzer, who'd started things with Doughty in Champaign way back in 1966, retired. In 1989, Richrath, who'd long butted heads with Cronin, left the band.

America's musical landscape, meanwhile, had changed. "Hair metal" bands like Bon Jovi, Poison and Motley Crue were all the rage.

By the early 1990s, the grunge scene had exploded, catapulting acts like Nirvana, Pearl Jam and Soundgarden into the public consciousness. REO Speedwagon seemed destined for history's dustbin.

"We actually did think it was over," says Doughty, who auditioned for several other bands in anticipation of REO's demise. "In fact, in the very early 1990s, we literally, in our minds, were on our last tour. People were looking for what to do next. We were all just looking around at stuff."

But by the late 1990s, however, the remaining members of REO Speedwagon reached a crucial realization: Although the band's commercial heyday had ended, its core 1970s and 80s audiences had grown up — and those fans still possessed an appetite to experience the band live and hear those enduring 1980s hits.

'Like a fantasy'

REO Speedwagon no longer headlines stadiums, but they're not playing small-town dives, either.

By any standard, the band today enjoys what most musicians would call a sweet gig: They play casino showrooms and amphitheaters, primarily during the summer; and they play for audiences hungry for the old hits.

And they have no plans to stop.

"It's nice to know we can do it for as long as we want," Doughty says. "That's the best thing about it. It's also nice to know there's income there if you need it for your whole life. We're all very healthy and actually made the decision to stay that way somewhere back in the late 1980s. We just said, 'Hey this thing could go on for a while. Let's tone down the partying and stay alive for a long time.' It's really paid off. This is like a fantasy. We're lucky to have lasted this long."