TY - JOUR

T1 - An Engineered Nanosugar Enables Rapid and Sustained Glucose-Responsive Insulin Delivery in Diabetic Mice

AU - Xu, Rong

AU - Bhangu, Sukhvir Kaur

AU - Sourris, Karly C.

AU - Vanni, Domitilla

AU - Sani, Marc Antoine

AU - Karas, John A.

AU - Alt, Karen

AU - Niego, Be'eri

AU - Ale, Anukreity

AU - Besford, Quinn A.

AU - Dyett, Brendan

AU - Patrick, Joshua

AU - Carmichael, Irena

AU - Shaw, Jonathan E.

AU - Caruso, Frank

AU - Cooper, Mark E.

AU - Hagemeyer, Christoph E.

AU - Cavalieri, Francesca

N1 - Funding Information: R.X. and S.K.B. contributed equally to this work. This work was supported by the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia (Ideas Grant to C.E.H. and F.Cavalieri GNT1181440, Senior Research Fellowship to C.E.H. GNT1154270, Senior Principal Research Fellowship to F. Caruso GNT1135806). F. Cavalieri acknowledges the award of an RMIT Vice Chancellor Senior Research Fellowship. R.X. was supported by a Monash University Senior Postdoctoral Fellowship. This work received funding from the European Union Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation Program under the H2020 Marie Skłodowska‐Curie Actions grant agreement no. 872233 (“PEPSAMATE”). The authors thank Margaret Hibbs and Evelyn Tsantikos for advice on the lymphatic system. The authors thank Monash University's Micro‐Imaging Platform (Stephen Cody), AMREP Flow Cytometry Core Facility (Eva Orlowski‐Oliver) and Histology Platform (Camilla Cohen). This work was performed in part at the Materials Characterization and Fabrication Platform (MCFP) and Bio21 Ian Holmes imaging Center at The University of Melbourne. Publisher Copyright: © 2023 The Authors. Advanced Materials published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.

PY - 2023/5/25

Y1 - 2023/5/25

N2 - Glucose-responsive insulin-delivery platforms that are sensitive to dynamic glucose concentration fluctuations and provide both rapid and prolonged insulin release have great potential to control hyperglycemia and avoid hypoglycemia diabetes. Here, biodegradable and charge-switchable phytoglycogen nanoparticles capable of glucose-stimulated insulin release are engineered. The nanoparticles are “nanosugars” bearing glucose-sensitive phenylboronic acid groups and amine moieties that allow effective complexation with insulin (≈95% loading capacity) to form nanocomplexes. A single subcutaneous injection of nanocomplexes shows a rapid and efficient response to a glucose challenge in two distinct diabetic mouse models, resulting in optimal blood glucose levels (below 200 mg dL–1) for up to 13 h. The morphology of the nanocomplexes is found to be key to controlling rapid and extended glucose-regulated insulin delivery in vivo. These studies reveal that the injected nanocomplexes enabled efficient insulin release in the mouse, with optimal bioavailability, pharmacokinetics, and safety profiles. These results highlight a promising strategy for the development of a glucose-responsive insulin delivery system based on a natural and biodegradable nanosugar.

AB - Glucose-responsive insulin-delivery platforms that are sensitive to dynamic glucose concentration fluctuations and provide both rapid and prolonged insulin release have great potential to control hyperglycemia and avoid hypoglycemia diabetes. Here, biodegradable and charge-switchable phytoglycogen nanoparticles capable of glucose-stimulated insulin release are engineered. The nanoparticles are “nanosugars” bearing glucose-sensitive phenylboronic acid groups and amine moieties that allow effective complexation with insulin (≈95% loading capacity) to form nanocomplexes. A single subcutaneous injection of nanocomplexes shows a rapid and efficient response to a glucose challenge in two distinct diabetic mouse models, resulting in optimal blood glucose levels (below 200 mg dL–1) for up to 13 h. The morphology of the nanocomplexes is found to be key to controlling rapid and extended glucose-regulated insulin delivery in vivo. These studies reveal that the injected nanocomplexes enabled efficient insulin release in the mouse, with optimal bioavailability, pharmacokinetics, and safety profiles. These results highlight a promising strategy for the development of a glucose-responsive insulin delivery system based on a natural and biodegradable nanosugar.

KW - Akita mice

KW - glucose responsive insulin delivery

KW - hepatobiliary excretion

KW - phytoglycogen nanoparticles

KW - super-resolution microscopy

KW - type 1 diabetes

UR - http://www.scopus.com/inward/record.url?scp=85150613744&partnerID=8YFLogxK

U2 - 10.1002/adma.202210392

DO - 10.1002/adma.202210392

M3 - Article

C2 - 36908046

AN - SCOPUS:85150613744

SN - 0935-9648

VL - 35

JO - Advanced Materials

JF - Advanced Materials

IS - 21

M1 - 2210392

ER -