The Peristilio will host Travel Quotidiano's Christmas Party 2023.

"The very difficult start continued until May, and was then followed by a period with a welcome return of MICE events, and the demand for winter events has also returned,” says Manuela Vanni, owner, together with her brother Lorenzo, of a number of prestigious F&B and MICE locations in Rome, including the Peristilio and the historic residence La Casina di Macchia Madama. The Peristilio, located above the historic Caffè Vanni in Rome’s Prati district, will host Travel Quotidiano's Christmas Party 2023.

The Peristilio’s executive chef is Salvatore Saladino

"We are optimistic for the future and for next year, although there are several variables on the horizon that could still have a negative impact on the sector, such as the ongoing wars and the uncertain financial markets that are causing inflation to rise, and increasing the prices of raw materials and energy.” The Peristilio is an ideal venue for private and corporate events helmed by executive chef Salvatore Saladino. The maximum capacity is 220 seats in three rooms, with a single room seating 100 and a private room with a lift seating 30. Located near the RAI Italian television headquarters in Viale Mazzini, not far from the centre of Rome, it is easily reached by public transport, and close to the Lepanto metro station.

“Clients are looking for customized solutions”

Private customers make up a large part of the Vanni Group’s requests for weddings, private parties, birthdays and religious celebrations. "However, we also work with the corporate sector, and the world of entertainment,- says Manuela Vanni. – In the post-Covid era clients are looking for customized solutions with not only good food, but also entertainment and exclusivity. Most of our guests come from Rome or Italy, but we also have upscale international clients who often ask for events you could compare to Hollywood film productions.”

Vanni is organizing a 3-month summer food festival

"We are developing foreign markets through social media, trade newspapers, and by attending major Italian and international trade fairs, including weddings fairs, - says Lorenzo Vanni. "We firmly believe in the farm-to-fork movement and in this regard we are working on a three-month summer festival centered around this theme, with producers' stands and show kitchens for tastings of the short food chain. We will organize it on the street, in front of our historic Caffè Vanni in Via Col di Lana. Our aim is to boost an awareness of healthy and sustainable eating.”