In the U.S. and U.K., it used to be more polite in many formal settings to address adult females as "ladies", but over the past decades this has come to seem in a number of instances as old-fashioned or even patronizing.

In certain professional settings, one would now not usually speak of "ladies". "Women" is often considered a more neutral term, freer of old associations of feminine refinement that aren't supposed to be the focus in many professional or impersonal settings like business, academia, or dry journalism. A news article writer would definitely not write "three ladies were stopped for questioning" nor "one lady injured at the scene was taken to the hospital as a precaution". Likewise, you should not write in a medical business's annual report "We're pleased to announce an expansion of our lab services for expectant ladies."

In some settings, "ladies" is still treated as more appropriate:

A fine restaurant's host might ask "If you ladies and gentlemen would pease follow me?"

I'd still instruct a kid, "Thank the nice lady, Bobby, for catching your ball before it rolled into the street."

"Woman" often sounds more serious, and is preferred in no-nonsense settings. At festive occasions ("I'd like to propose a toast to Margie and Amanda, the incredible ladies who organized this!") or from workers working in service settings that are meant to evoke certain old-fashioned elegance or respect, such as fine restaurants, doormen addressing guests, etc., you will often still hear "ladies" and perhaps even "gentlemen".

Also, in a friendly setting, "ladies" can still sound more respectful/friendly:

"Can I fetch you ladies any more tea or soda from the kitchen while I'm there?" sounds ok to me.

"Can I fetch you women any more tea or soda from the kitchen while I'm there?" sounds weirdly... clinical or even hostile.

(Of course, you could just go with "Can I fetch anyone...", but my point is that "women" sounds weird there.)

In short: The words have still have definite differences in nuances and have not become generally interchangeable. I'd say that in most settings, one or the other is more appropriate, sometimes very strongly so.

Addendum

I came across the following, and realized it should probably be referenced here as a caution:

How did "lady" and "ladies" come to differ in conveying degree of respect?

Does calling to a strange woman "Hey, lady!" sound angry?

The takeaway from those is that you should generally avoid using the singular "lady" as a direct form of address to a person herself, as it's likely to sound confrontational. There may be some exceptions...

If you have a traditional New York accent, you might get away with "Hey lady, I'm pullin' outa this parkin' space in a minute if ya wannit".

There's also some recent use of it among friends.

...but it should generally be avoided as a direct form of address to one stranger.