Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi despot who menaced neighbours and murdered his own people during a quarter century of wretched tyranny, died ignominiously on the gallows shortly before dawn this morning at the hands of his former enemies.

Saddam, who was convicted last month of crimes against humanity in one of many episodes of brutality laid at his door and ordered to hang on Boxing Day, was executed at around 6am (3 am GMT) at an undisclosed location, according to local television reports.

The execution removed one of the great hangovers of 20th century brutality, a dictator with more than just a physical resemblance to Stalin who ruled through fear, vengeance, cunning and terror.

But the death of Saddam, 69, promised little respite for a country breaking along sectarian lines. With thousands dying each month and occupation forces at a loss to stop the bloodshed, the execution of the self-styled "hero of national liberation" was seen at best as an irrelevance and at worst as a possible catalyst for deeper civil strife.

Opinion divided sharply along sectarian lines, with Sunni Muslims warning of "bloodbaths in the streets". Even among the Shia, terrorised for decades by Saddam, there was a sense of hopelessness. "They can kill him 10 times but it won't bring safety to the streets because there is no state of law," said one Shia taxi driver who gave his name as Shawkat.

In the Kurdish north, jubilation was tempered by the fear of deeper sectarian tensions and disappointment that Saddam would now not be able to stand trial for other charges including the Anfal attack on the town of Halabja that killed 5,000 people in 1988.

"It would have been much better for the execution to have taken place in Halabja, not in Baghdad," said Barham Khorsheed, a Kurd.

In the end, the final act was as swift as the legal procedure mounted against Saddam had been protracted. After more than three years in detention and following a tortuous trial that oscillated between farce and high drama and back again, the execution was expedited ahead of a religious holiday that starts today.

The prime minister, Nouri al-Maliki signed Saddam's death sentence yesterday and officials accelerated the paperwork, including a sinister "red card" handed to the convict to inform him of his impending execution.

The Americans were wary of handing him over before the final moment, lest he be humiliated or mistreated in such a way as to provoke reprisal attacks and a new cycle of sectarian bloodshed. US forces in Iraq were already on high alert for a surge in violence following the execution. A four-day curfew had reportedly been imposed in Saddam's home town and erstwhile power base, Tikrit.

Details of the execution were still emerging early this morning. The authorities had rejected the idea of hanging him before a live audience in a Baghdad football stadium, but senior officials insisted that public confirmation of the success of his execution was "very important". A source in the justice ministry said the proceedings would be recorded by a video-cameraman and a stills photographer. "It is probable that clips and images may be broadcast on national TV," the official said, adding: "Iraqis must see for themselves that the man who oppressed them for so long is dead ... But we will not turn the whole thing into a circus."

Also to be hanged were Saddam's half-brother Barzan Ibrahim and Awad Hamed al-Bandar, the former chief justice of the revolutionary court.

It was unclear if Saddam would have gone to the gallows with a cone-shaped hood over the head, as is customary. Previous convicts have been allowed a final meal, cigarette and moment for prayer before facing the hangman's noose. Death is normally instantaneous.

Saddam reportedly faced his final hours in good spirits. Two of Saddam's half brothers had already visited him in his jail cell where he gave them his will, according to Iraqi officials.

Khalil al-Dulaimi, who led Saddam's defence team until he was sentenced on November 5, said yesterday that the Americans had called and "asked me to pick up the personal effects".

Another lawyer, Badie Aref, said Saddam had been "in very high spirits and clearly readying himself" during the meeting with his half-brothers. "He told them he was happy he would meet his death at the hands of his enemies and be a martyr, not just languish in jail."

Saddam's execution puts a fullstop to a life that was steeped in violence from beginning to end, a life epitomised by the iconic image of a man in a dark suit and black homburg hat impassively letting off a volley of rounds from a shotgun.

His hardy upbringing at the hands of a thuggish step-father in 1940s rural, British-controlled Iraq exposed him to the meaner side of human nature. After unexceptional studies, he began elbowing his way up the ranks of Ba'athism, the pan-Arab nationalism that served as a convenient vehicle for his singular ambitions.

He was instrumental in a botched attack on the military ruler General Kassem in 1958, and spent the next five years in Cairo, returning only when Kassem was overthrown in 1963. Five years later, the Ba'athists pulled off a coup and Saddam remained the power behind the throne until he deposed his fellow Tikriti, Ahmad Hassan al-Bakr in 1979.

Saddam immediately led his country in an eight-year war with Iran, a campaign that might have failed if it had not been for covert western support. Within two years of the ceasefire, he marched his troops into Kuwait, triggering the first gulf war that almost drove him from power.

His last decade in power was dominated by the cat-and-mouse game of avoiding UN sanctions, which ruined the economy and the prosperity of ordinary Iraqis, while Saddam, his family and their cronies grew wealthier and wealthier. And the paranoia deepened. There were at least a dozen intelligence agencies, mostly spying on each other and all spying on the Iraqi population. Saddam's image towered over a cowed society, daubed on vast concrete hoardings across the country in various poses: an army general, a tribal leader, an observant Muslim.

The beginning of the end came eight months after US forces rolled into Baghdad, when he was pulled, hirsute and disoriented from a hidey-hole in the ground in December 2003. There were times during the legal procedure when his enemies must have doubted that the outcome they sought would come. Today it did.