DVD Cover

Country USSR Directed by Viktor Zhivolub Release Date 1982 Language Russian Studio Sverdlovsk Film Studio

Main Cast Character Actor Aleksey Butov Borislav Brondukov Mariya Yana Drouz Yakov Morozov Evgeniy Papernyy Anna Morozova Anna Tveleneva Terentiy Igor Ledogorov Vasya Butov Vasiliy Sorokin Paramon Konstantin Stepankov Liu Fang-Chin Bolot Beyshenaliev

Cossack Outpost (a direct translation of original title Kazachya zastava) is a 1982 historical adventure movie directed by Viktor Zhivolub. Aleksey Butov (Borislav Brondukov), a Cossack of Amur Cossack Host, returns home in 1923 after the World War I and Russian Civil war. But Aleksey was considered dead from 1915, and his wife now has a new family. Meanwhile Aleksey's native stanitsa (Cossacks village), located on the Russian-Chinese border, suffers attacks of Honghuzi (Chinese bandtis) and former White Army men under the leadership of Anna Morozova, a widow of White officer. Aleksey raises fellow villagers to defend the border.

The following weapons were used in the film Cossack Outpost (Kazachya zastava):

Revolvers

Nagant M1895

Nagant M1895 revolvers are seen throughout the movie, used by Former White Army Rotmistr (Capt.) Stepan Morozov (Nikolay Lavrov), his widow Anna Morozova (Anna Tveleneva), Cossack Yakov Morozov (Evgeniy Papernyy) and some bandits.

Pistols

Mauser C96

Several Honghuzi, including their chieftan Liu Fang-Chin (Bolot Beyshenaliev), carry Mauser C96 pistols.

Luger P08

Kravchenko (Igor Ivanov), the head of GPU (Soviet state security in 1920s) of the town of Blagoveshchensk, carries a Luger P08 holster. A P08 (likely same prop) is used in action by White officer Semyon (Vladimir Khotinenko). In the climactic scene Semyon's pistol is used by Aleksey Butov (Borislav Brondukov).

Rifles

Mosin Nagant M1938 Carbine

Out of time Mosin Nagant M1938 Carbines are most often seen rifles in the movie, used by Cossacks, notably Aleksey Butov (Borislav Brondukov), Terentiy (Igor Ledogorov), Gavrila (Aleksandr Yakovlev) and Yerofeich (Gennadi Chetverikov), Honghuzi and Anna Morozova's bandits.

Note: see additional images on talk page.

Winchester Model 1895

Winchester Model 1895 rifles are seen in several scenes, used by Cossacks and native hunters of Goldi people.

Mauser Karabiner 98k

In the opening scene, set in 1915 on Eastern Front of WW1, German soldiers carry anachronistic Karabiner 98k rifles, standing for Gewehr 98 rifles.

Pattern 1914 Enfield

Bandit Irod (Lev Perfilov) uses a Pattern 1914 Enfield rifle.

Machine Guns

Degtyaryov DT (visually modified to resemble Lewis)

Two Degtyaryov DT machine guns, visually modified to resemble Lewis Gun, are used in the movie. One of these machine guns, with light brown wood on buttstock, is seen in hands of Aleksey Butov (Borislav Brondukov) when he confiscates the gun from local richman Fedot Makeyich (Anatoliy Popolzukhin). Another fake Lewis, with dark, nearly black furniture, is seen mounted on a patrol boat of border guards, then captured by Anna Morozova's gang and used by Irod (Lev Perfilov). During the climactic shootout Butov also uses this prop instead of the one, seen earlier.

Note: see additional images on talk page.

Maxim

A Maxim (M1910 or M1910/30) in seen in the Blagoveshchensk GPU building.

Other Weapons

F-1 Hand Grenade