Intermodal is about to start! The largest and most complete Logistics, Intralogistics, Technology, Cargo Transport, and Foreign Trade event in the Americas takes place from March 5th to 7th at São Paulo Expo. The 2024 edition is already the 28th and will be the largest till this date, with over 500 exhibitor brands spread across 40,000 square meters for 3 days. The fair is an incredible opportunity to strengthen bonds, create connections, expand networking, and experience Intermodal firsthand. See you there! #lpglobal #wearelp #Intermodal2024 #Logistics #ForeignTrade

Meet our Leader: Jorge Freitas, the Global Corporate Director at LP Global. Jorge carries 30 years of experience in foreign trade and in this video, he talks about the existing market's gap regarding tailor made services provided to local heroes where related to global network. LP Global is suited to fill up this gap. Here at LP we have a team of outstanding specialists who can play the difference, with competitiveness, flexibility and ultimate know how of the markets where the company is present. As Jorge says “when we dream big, we have to execute big. We can be the size of our dreams” Check out the full video and share with us how big your dream is where connected to international logistics! #procurement #logistics #lpglobal

Procurement goes far beyond purchasing! The practice encompasses crucial strategies, serving as the ideal ally to boost operational efficiency and business success. Procurement permeates every phase of the process, from identifying suppliers to intelligent contract management and the pursuit of improvement opportunities. We believe in collaboration as the driving force for the success of businesses of all sizes. By joining forces, we build a robust network that strengthens the position of local heroes, making them protagonists on the global stage. Our mission at LP Global is to be the catalyst for this collaboration, providing innovative solutions and personalized procurement tactics to meet the needs of each partner. Together, we can turn challenges into opportunities, driving the growth of local businesses and contributing to a more resilient and sustainable future. Here, we see procurement not just as a commercial transaction but as a fundamental pillar in building a solid path toward lasting success. #procurement #lpglobal #wearelpglobal

Jorge Freitas takes on a new challenge by expanding his role as Global Corporate Director at LP Global, in addition to his role as Global Corporate Director FCL at Craft. With nearly eight years serving as the Corporate Director of Craft, and a total of 30 years of expertise in the sector, Jorge brings an innovative approach to LP Global. He highlights the unique nature of LP, being a "one-stop-shop" procurement center focused on local players, leveling the playing field for the main actors in each trade that LP Global will operate in worldwide. “LP understands and sees the trends and needs of the market and customers, ensuring that this work is executed with excellence. LP's market model drives the circular economy, ensuring local heroes have access to global providers, preventing idle assets and generating prosperity, allowing for exponential and combined growth.” - Jorge states. In this new role, Jorge Freitas will continue to lead and innovate, bringing his vision to further strengthen LP Global's position in the market. #lpglobal #procurement #wearelpglobal

News on the horizon! Latin Pro has evolved and is now LP Global! A change that goes far beyond the name and symbolizes the major challenges that lie ahead. We've broken geographic barriers and expanded our brand beyond the Americas, also establishing a presence in Asia and Europe. The purpose is to empower local entrepreneurs from even more places, supporting their economies and fostering enriching partnerships! And as always, the commitment and excellence that have marked our journey so far remain unchanged. Stay tuned, as there's much more information and updates coming your way! #lpglobal #procurement #wearelpglobal