Home

Previous slide

Next slide

Previous slide

Next slide

Together, we are the Libertarian Party.

The Libertarian Party (LP) is your representative in American politics. It is the only political party that respects you as a unique and responsible individual.

Our slogan is that we are “The Party of Principle” because we stand firmly on our principles.

Libertarians strongly oppose any government interference in your personal, family, and business decisions. Essentially, we believe all Americans should be free to live their lives and pursue their interests as they see fit as long as they do no harm to another.

What We Do

The LNC is committed to supporting candidates and local affiliates across the country. Join Us.

Store

Check out the newest products from the only store where 100% of proceeds go to electing Libertarians. Shop Now.

Volunteer

Join a team of tireless volunteers just like you, and help spread the word of liberty across America. Get Involved.

Featured Stories from the Libertarian Party​

Join Us in Chasing Liberty!

We are thrilled to announce that Chase Oliver has officially been selected as the Libertarian Party’s candidate for President of the United States, with Mike

Learning from History: The Pitfalls of Prohibition Then and Now

As we reflect on January 29th, 1919, a pivotal moment in history occurred that would teach us a lesson we seem determined to forget –

A Beacon of Activism and Liberty for Modern Libertarians

As we celebrate the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., we are reminded of a man whose unwavering commitment to justice and

A Legacy of Resistance to Unjust Taxation

Two and a half centuries ago, on December 16, 1773, a group of ordinary people ignited a spark that would illuminate the path to liberty

We are dedicated to organizing a grassroots movement across the country powered by volunteers like you. Get involved by joining the LP now!

Recent News from the Libertarian Party

Draft 2024 Convention Minutes for Review

Per Bylaws 11.9, draft convention minutes are being posted at least 14 days prior to their being presented for approval at the August 24-25, 2024

Notice of Monthly LNC E-Meeting July 7, 2024 at 5pm Eastern

The LNC will hold its monthly e-meeting at 5pm Eastern on July 7, 2024. Advance registration is required and needs to be completed at more

Notice of Executive Committee Meeting June 24, 2024 at 9:30pm Eastern

The LNC Executive Committee will be meeting on June 24, 2024, at 9:30pm Eastern. You must register in advance for this meeting. When: Jun 24,

Notice of Executive Committee Meeting June 4, 2024 at 8pm Eastern

The LNC Executive Committee will be meeting on June 4, 2024, at 8pm Eastern. You must register in advance for this meeting. You are invited

Where Do You Align on the Key Issues of Today?

Foreign Policy

Libertarians seek a United States at peace with the world.

Libertarians believe that American foreign policy should focus more heavily on developing communications among peoples and finding peaceful resolutions to disagreements.

Read More

Civil Liberties

Libertarians believe in equal rights for all people matter all the time.

Libertarians value the right of all to live in whatever manner they choose, so long as they do not forcibly interfere with the equal right of others to live in whatever manner they choose.

Read More

Gun Ownership

Libertarians believe that everyone has the right to arm themselves.

Libertarians support people’s rights to defend themselves and to arm themselves. We see it as immoral for government to try to prevent someone from doing so.

Read More

Our growth and success depends on your support. Help us elect more Libertarians by donating today!