Rose McGowan and acclaimed director Robert Rodriguez met on May 19, 2005 at the amfAR 'Cinema Against AIDS' Gala at the Cannes Film Festival. "I first saw Rose at Cannes Film Festival a while ago and she would brutally cut me down to size... " Rodriguez recently recalled. "She was really strong, very tough and had lots of attitude. People have not really seen her fiery attitude and personality, I found it arresting. She was quite a force." The two immediately took liking to each other and ended up talking for hours. Rodriguez remembers: "I started talking to her — she's hilarious. She really just caught me off guard." He was immediately taken by Rose's charismatic personality and saw her potential as a leading lady in film. "When you meet somebody like that, that has a personality that's so strong in person, you know that if they can blow it up 50 times on a screen, it's going to be amazing. You get that epiphany of 'I want you to be in my movie, but as you are.' I was like taking notes — 'All I have to do is add a machine-gun leg to her, and she'd be over the top.'" The movie, of course, became Planet Terror and the character Cherry Darling. Rose and Robert loved working together and developed a number of projects, including Red Sonja and Machete.

In late 2007 reports broke out that Rose and Robert Rodriguez had gotten engaged. "He's my best friend. We instantly became really good friends," said Rose back in June 2007. Engagement rumors swirled for months as the couple attended Hollywood events, and McGowan was sporting a large diamond ring on her wedding finger. Finally, in October 2008 Rose confirmed to USA Today that they were indeed engaged and set to marry! "I just want to go to an island somewhere and pay somebody else to deal with it," said McGowan. "Quentin (Tarantino) is going to be my bridesmaid," she said, laughing. Of the proposal itself, Rose said, "It was lovely and very personal."Rose and Robert planned to wed in 2009 but reportedly split in late 2009.