A new movie review: Break Up by Marco Ferreri

Hello my dear readers… it’s been a while since the last time we saw each other, isn’t it? :) I’ve reviewed a new rare movie, the very brilliant Break Up by the maverick and explosive Italian director Marco Ferreri, who gained notoriety for his very polemic movies in the ’60 and the ’70. I found […]

Monday May 1st, 2017 in , cinema, news | No Comments »

A Quiet Death movie reviewed

The hunt for obscure and valuable works of art continues! This time I’ve unburied a very interesting Greek movie of the ’80s on which I’ve stumbled by pure chance. It’s name is A Quiet Death and has some very interesting visual and psychoanalytical undertones. It was shot by a director, Frieda Liappa, who shot only […]

Saturday March 25th, 2017 in , cinema, news, reviews | No Comments »

The curtain goes up one more time…new movie review: from the Life of the Marionettes

Hello, my fellow readers. One more movie review has been posted to the site today, for one of the less know works of the brilliant Ingmar Bergman, from the Life of the Marionettes. You can read the review here . A more general update is awaited in the next weeks, like replying to your mails: […]

New movie review: Forbidden Love Games/Juego De Amor Prohibido by Eloy de la Iglesia (1975)

Hi my dear readers…Illusion City is back with new content! I’m offering you a review for one of the most well hidden gems in Spanish exploitation, a political erotic thriller shot in the middle of the ’70s by the brilliant and obscure Eloy de la Iglesia, an author who surely deserves more recognition than the […]

The Bishop’s Room

TIme for a new review: After Agostino, another very beautiful movie from Italy, from Dino Risi’s genius. Like Agostino, the original source is a novel from a very talented italian writer, Piero Chiara. The movie it’s a mix between a lot of genres, with some strong gothic overtones. It’s also very subtle and psychological. You […]

Agostino

I’m very happy to announce that I’ve reviewed the first rare and underground movie of the site, an obscure italian classic, Agostino, inspired by a novel by Alberto Moravia, a very influential and prolific Italian writer who also had a very big impact on the world of cinema, both as a writer and as a […]

Cinema section opened!

With pleasure, I’m announcing you the opening of the cinema section of Illusion City! Like I wrote on the last update, the first movie to be reviewed is Francois Ozon’s Young and Beautiful, a wonderful movie about the hardship of the teenage years and many difficulties and shadows of living in the contemporary world…I’m quite […]