Capcom announced the release of STREET FIGHTER ALPHA ANTHOLOGY and DEVIL MAY CRY 3: DANTES AWAKENING Special Edition for PlayStation 2.

The compilation of the entire STREET FIGHTER ALPHA arcade series features direct arcade conversions of STREETFIGHTER ALPHA, STREET FIGHTER ALPHA 2, STREET FIGHTER ALPHA 2 GOLD and STREET FIGHTER ALPHA 3, which have never before been available together in one package. As an added bonus, the pint-sized SUPER GEM FIGHTER MINI MIX (also released on consoles as POCKET FIGHTER) is included which brings the total to five games on one disc. STREET FIGHTER ALPHA ANTHOLOGY is scheduled for release throughout North America in summer 2006. To date, the STREET FIGHTER franchise has sold more than 27million units worldwide.

All titles in the collection feature three core gameplay options. Arcade mode pits competitors against a series of CPU controlled opponents in order to beat the game. Versus mode allows two players to choose among the cast of characters for head-to-head battles. Fighters can practice special moves and combos to hone their skills in the training mode. Additionally, all four ALPHA titles feature survival mode as well as a battle mode which allows 2-on-1 tagteam matches.

DEVIL MAY CRY 3: DANTES AWAKENING Special Edition will be released as part of Sonys Greatest Hits collection. Featuring a redesigned package, the special edition features a horde of additional content, new options and an additional playable character. In DEVIL MAY CRY 3, players take on the role of Dante, the worlds toughest demon slayer. The game carries an M rating for mature audiences by the ESRB and is now available at retailers throughout North America for $19.95.

Several thousand years have passed since the demon warrior Sparda raised his sword against the unholy world to save the human race. Victorious and assured that evil forces had been confined, Sparda joined mankind and fathered Dante, a half human-half demon son infused with the power of a supernatural lineage. However, Dante was not the only son Sparda had sired. As devoted as Dante was to defeating the forces of evil, his twin brother, Vergil, was consumed by power and upheld the legacy of his sinister ancestors. One moonlit night, a mysterious tower materialized beside Dante's Devil May Cry investigative agency. On the rooftop stood his brother along with his inhuman minions goading Dante into a confrontation.

New features includes: * New playable character play as Dantes evil twin brother, Vergil, with his own unique Dark Slayer fighting style * New Jester enemy previously featured only in cut scenes, Jester has been implemented as a new boss character * Turbo Option this new feature boosts the game speed by 20% * Two continue system options * Original yellow orb system use yellow orbs to restart from the last checkpoint * New gold orb system continue unlimited times and use gold orbs to resume from the same spot or replay from the last checkpoint if there are no gold orbs left * Adjusted difficulty levels offer more balanced gameplay as players choose from five options including a new Very Hard mode * Bloody Palace Mode Dante is pitted against an onslaught of enemies in this survival mode * Movie Mode Unlocked cut scenes can be viewed either one at a time or all in a row