By Ian Adamson and Richard Kennedy

The Machine Stopped

[Rogers was contracted to] perform and present a preliminary investigation into a personal electric vehicle. The vehicle is assumed to carry one person (with a possible second person only by squeezing), and is seen as a replacement for a moped and limited to urban use with a top speed of 30 mph.

(The Sinclair Story, p.152.)

Part of the ground-up approach was not to spend... enormous amounts trying to develop a more efficient battery, but to make use of the models already available. Sinclair's very sound reasoning was that a successful electric vehicle would provide the necessary push to battery manufacturers to pursue their own developments in the fullness of time: for him to sponsor this work would be a misplacement of funds.

(ibid., p.154.)

In fact, I would not want to drive a C5 in any traffic at all. My head was on a level with the top of a juggernaut's tyres, the exhaust fumes blasted into my face. Even with the minuscule front and rear lights on, I could not feel confident that a lorry driver so high above the ground would see me. Small wonder that one of the accessories listed in the C5 brochure is a high and bright-red reflecting mast, said by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents to be a 'must'.

(Daily Telegraph, 11 January 1985.)

Targeted broadly at the family audience, Sinclair believes that the C5 will appeal equally to the younger generation ... and adults for activities such as urban commuting, shopping and getting to the railway station.

(Sinclair Vehicles, press release, 10 January 1985.)

Sinclair's reputation is built on cutting giants down to size, turning impersonal tyrants into personal servants. Sinclair took a desktop calculator and put it in your pocket ... took the big-business computer and tucked it into your living room ... took the television set and made it smaller than a paperback. Now, with the C5, Sinclair Vehicles puts personal, private transportation back where it belongs - in the hands of the individual.

('Sinclair C5 - A New Power in Personal Transport'.)

I'm going to start in a rather unusual fashion by telling you what we're not announcing today ... we're not announcing a conventional car. Sinclair Vehicles is dedicated to the development and production of a full range of electric cars, but today we have an electric vehicle, the first stage on the road to an electric car.

(The Sinclair Story, p.164.)

The C5 got a very bad press. There's an outfit called the British Safety Council who sound like a government agency ....... go round bad-mouthing other people's products, as far as I can make out... The interesting thing was that the ROSPA [Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents], who are the real authorities on safety, thought the C5 was absolutely super. They were very supportive because they thought it was a great improvement on the bicycle and motorbikes, so were very keen to see it succeed. But the press, of course, listened to the vocal James [Tye].

(Interview, 6 November 1985.)

The instructions were quite simple: sit in, switch on and go. And go the Sinclair C5 vehicle ... certainly did. For seven minutes. Then the first battery ran flat. Fortunately, I was not stuck in the middle of a city rush-hour nor on an isolated country road ... I pedalled the C5 back to the service point (my legs are still aching even though the slopes were gentle) and the spare battery was connected ... But nothing could compensate for the sheer feeling of vulnerability in spite of Sinclair's claim that it is far safer than anything on two wheels. The electrically powered car might be the personal transport of the future, but if the C5 is anything to go by, then that day has not yet dawned.

(Daily Telegraph, 11 January 1985.)

The 250 watt electric motor which drives one of the back wheels proved incapable of powering the C5 up even the gentlest slopes without using pedal power. The tricycle soon started making a plaintive 'peep, peep' noise, signalling that the engine had overheated ... The C5 is compromised by the need to sneak in under the quaintly named Electrically Assisted Pedal Cycle Regulations 1983. This lays down a maximum power of 250 watts for the engine which gives the C5 a top speed of 15 mph on the level less than most cyclists would manage.

(Your Computer, February 1985.)

Tests on the AA's normal suburban fuel-evaluation course gave a 'typical' range of ten miles, about half that claimed by the makers. On a cold day, in poor conditions, the battery ran flat after 6.5 miles.

(Daily Telegraph, 2 May 1985.)

Running costs for the C5 over a year would workout at £19.17 on off-peak electricity or £21.77 at standard rates, allowing partly for eventual battery replacement. This compared with £19.25 for a £390 Honda PXSO moped, against which it was compared. The moped had a maximum range of 150 miles on a tankful of fuel, with an average consumption of 170 mpg and a maximum speed of more than 30 mph.

(ibid.)

The C5 looks more comfortable and convenient than it really is - older cyclists looking for less pedal effort will be disappointed by the agility its layout demands. Although it is delightfully quiet, performance, range and comfort do not compare with the better mopeds and costs are much closer than one might think when one allows for the inevitable battery replacement.

(ibid.)

A spokesman for Sinclair Vehicles said, 'It would seem fruitless to argue in any detail with an organisation like the AA, but on the question of running costs compared with a moped, they are not comparing like with like.'

(ibid.)

How far? A lot less than claimed.

How fast? Hard to keep up with traffic.

Handling and braking? Adequate.

How safe? Not very good.

How manoeuvrable? Disappointing.

How secure? Too easy to steal.

How reliable? Not promising.

Our verdict: of limited use in its present form; poor value for money.

Most of us hope that electric vehicles will take over one day because they are cheaper, quieter and pollution-free. Sinclair seemed to be taking a big step towards achieving this and I felt it was important to support him. However, I thought the C5 would be more sophisticated and, although the design is very clever and it performs surprisingly well, the technology is not very innovative. I'm a little disappointed and am thinking of selling.'

(5 February 1985.)

'I was very excited when it first arrived, but the first time I tried it out it would just not go up a hill and I had to come home. I then got my stepson to have a go and he didn't get much further, so I have sent it back.'

(ibid.)

The car has a futuristic design with an elongated 'tear-drop' shape, a lightweight body made of self-coloured polypropylene and a single, possibly 'roller' type rear wheel.

(The Times, 3 February 1985.)

We have run out of several key parts and do not wish to plan for any further inventories until our differences with Sir Clive are resolved.

(Guardian, 13 August 1985.)