Co-Founder & Chairperson

Diane is the Co-founder of Circle of Friends, and the Executive Board Chairperson. Diane graduated Kennesaw State University (KSU) with a Doctorate in Nursing Science in 2017. Dr. Keen is an Assistant Professor of Nursing at KSU where she coordinates Community Health Nursing and teaches Professionalism and Ethics. Dr. Keen’s research interests include well-being in young adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities (IDD), older adults, intergenerational relationships and community health. In addition to her responsibilities at KSU, Dr. Keen is devoted to the mission of Circle of Friends, to enhance the lives of young adults with IDD in the community through intergenerational activities focused on socialization, supportive employment, and supportive affordable living in Cherokee County and beyond. During her nursing career Diane worked as an RN in both the hospital and community settings, and most recently as a case manager in home health care where Diane’s focus was helping people age in place.

Diane is the mother of a son with a diagnosis on the autism spectrum who is an active member of Circle of Friends. Diane loves spending time with people, she treasures time with her family and friends and enjoys outdoor adventures.

Co-Founder & Chief Executive Officer

Glenn is Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Circle of Friends. Glenn is the owner of Keen & Company, a financial services company in Alpharetta and is CFP certified. Glenn has helped hundreds of owner-managed businesses to prosper and help them to financially manage the challenges of growth. His unique and proven approach to tackling even the most complex financial situations any business can face has helped him to create and develop his accounting firm into one of the most forward-thinking firms in the country. Glenn employs the skills he uses with his clients to drive Circle of Friends and the leadership team.

Glenn graduated Cum Laude from Kennesaw State University with a degree in accounting. In his spare time, he enjoys spending time with his wife, Diane, adult children, family and the Circle of Friends. Glenn’s hobbies include home renovation, hiking, kayaking, boating, and other outdoor adventures.

Treasurer

Robert began his career as a CPA and worked for Ernst & Young prior to joining Aaron’s, Inc. as Vice President, Corporate Controller where he enjoyed a thirty-one-year career before retiring in 2021. During Robert’s tenure at Aaron’s he was a part of the executive team that achieved tremendous success growing the company from less than 200 stores in 1990 to over 2000 stores and $4 billion in annual revenues.

Robert has been a Board Member of Cherokee Boys and Girls club since 2014 and was previously a member of the Cherokee Young life Committee. Robert graduated from Florida State University with a degree in accounting and finance. In his spare time, he enjoys spending time with his wife, adult children, and three grandchildren.

Robert’s hobbies include mountain biking, hiking and attending his grandkids sporting events and activities.

Community Service Coordinator & Young Adult Representative

David sits on the Board of Directors as a young adult with disabilites himself. David makes certain that his peers are well represented and gives feedback to the other young adults, and also shares opinions with other board members, acting in a liasion role.

David is passionate about Circle of Friends and is excited to one day live and work with his friends. David graduated from Georgia Northwestern Technical College with a diploma in Automobile Collision Repair and would like to return to school to pursue a diploma in welding. David is an Eagle Scout with a strong work ethic.

David was born with cerebral palsy and is very dedicated to the future of Circle of Friends.

Board Member

John Damiano is a seasoned professional with over 30 years of experience in retail executive management. His career includes significant roles such as EVP of C&R Clothiers, President and CEO of Barbeques Galore, COO of Busybody Fitness, and COO of K&G Superstores, a division of the Men's Wearhouse. In 2002, he transitioned to the real estate industry in Atlanta, earning recognition as the Rookie of the Year by RE/MAX®. His real estate prowess has led to memberships in exclusive clubs like the Million Dollar Club, 100% Club, and Executive Club.

Beyond his professional achievements, John is actively involved in the business community, holding memberships in organizations like the Atlanta Executive Forum, Business Network International, and the Greater North Fulton Chamber of Commerce. He also served on the boards of the World Trade Center Atlanta, Friends of North Springs High School, the Sandy Springs Perimeter Chamber, and the South African Chamber. Additionally, he was a member of Referral Express, a Business to Business Networking Organization.

In his personal life, John values family and enjoys activities such as reading, golf, tennis, and sports. He is dedicated to fostering meaningful, long-term relationships and is known for his commitment to giving back to the community by sharing his time and knowledge.