Dallas-based Southwest Airlines is starting 2024 with a revamped loyalty program for frequent flyers looking to achieve airline milestones quickly.

Beginning Jan. 1, Southwest Rapid Rewards members can earn A-List status and A-List Preferred Status with fewer flights than before. To achieve A-List Status, Southwest lowered the required number of one-way flights to 20 or they can earn 35,000 Rapid Rewards points, five flights less than previously. For A-List Preferred Status, Southwest flyers need to 40 one-way qualifying flights or 70,000 points. A Southwest flyer previously needed to fly 50 qualifying flights for A-List Preferred Status.

Southwest is said it is taking a look at post-pandemic travel behavior and aligning with the shift in the industry between business and leisure travel, Southwest spokeswoman Tiffany Valdez said. Competitors are reducing or limiting the benefits of rewards programs too.

Related:American Airlines revamps AAdvantage frequent flyer program and drops flight requirement

”We’ve worked on these enhancements for months to prepare for the 2024 qualifying year,” Valdez said in a statement. “At a time when some of our competitors are reducing or limiting benefits to their programs, Southwest is giving our loyal customers even more reasons to fly with us whenever they travel.”

In recent years, air carriers have revamped travel loyalty programs by putting more emphasis on credit card spending and less on one-way trips. Many have also devalued airline miles, making it harder to achieve status or milestones within their programs. Last month, competitor Delta Air Lines announced changes to its SkyMiles frequent flyer program, raising spending requirements to reach status.

Also beginning next year, Southwest credit card holders will earn 1,500 tier qualifying points for every $5,000 spent, previously every $10,000 spent on their card. On Nov. 6, A-List Preferred rewards members can receive up to two complimentary premium drinks per flight, added directly to their mobile boarding passes.

Southwest will also let rewards members pay for flights with a combination of cash and rewards points, starting with a minimum of 1,000 points.