Rapid Rewards Program Named Best Bonus Promotion, Best Customer Service, and Best Award Redemption

February 08, 2000

DALLAS--Feb. 8, 2000--Southwest Airlines' frequent flyer program, Rapid Rewards, was honored recently by actual frequent flyers who prove it is possible for a low-fare airline to offer a high-reward frequent flyer program. InsideFlyer magazine invites members of the various frequent traveler programs to vote for the programs they feel deliver the "best combination of benefits, awards, and returns on loyalty." Voters said that Southwest Airlines has the Best Customer Service, Best Award Redemption, and the Best Bonus Promotion of any frequent flyer program in the world. The airline also received the unofficial honor of "garnering more positive comments per ballot than literally all other programs combined."

"While we are extremely pleased to have received these prestigious awards, it is our Customers who are the real winners," said Susan Kirkelie, Southwest's director of marketing programs. "Our members have voted to show that the true reward is being able to use the free tickets they earn."

According to Freddie Award officials, Southwest's recognition of having the Best Bonus Promotion for its double flight credits earned on purchases through www.southwest.com "won by the largest margin of any Freddie award this year." In addition, its Best Award Redemption victory for the second consecutive year makes Southwest the "undisputed champion of this category," officials said.

Southwest received second-place awards in the Program of the Year and Best Web Site categories, and a third-place prize for Best Newsletter.

More than 130,000 frequent flyers submitted ballots to Freddie Award organizers representing the various frequent flyer programs worldwide. The wins for Southwest Airlines are all the more significant since Southwest is a domestic U.S. carrier that does not interline with other carriers.

"The thing we hear most often from our members is that they appreciate how easy it is to earn and use our award tickets," Kirkelie said. "Other than a few blackout dates, a member can redeem an award ticket for any flight with open seats - no waiting six months or dealing with a bunch of restrictions."

Southwest Airlines Rapid Rewards members earn a free award ticket for every eight roundtrips flown, with no restrictions on the length of the trip or the fare paid. Based on the average Southwest Airlines trip length of 600 miles, it takes just 9600 miles to earn a free ticket on Southwest. It takes an average of 25,000 or more miles to earn a free domestic ticket on most other airlines.

Southwest has among the fewest blackout dates on award tickets of any airline in the industry. Those members who book their travel online via Southwest Airlines' web site through June 9, 2000 automatically receive double flight credits for every trip, or a free roundtrip ticket for every four roundtrips flown.

Last year, Southwest Airlines' Rapid Rewards program walked away with Freddie Awards for Best Award Redemption and Best Bonus Promotion, and second-place finishes in Best Award, Best Web site, Best Customer Service, and Program of the Year.

Southwest Airlines (NYSE:LUV), the fourth largest domestic carrier in terms of Customers boarded, currently serves 55 cities in 29 states. On May 7, 2000, the carrier will initiate service from its newest city -- Albany, New York. Based in Dallas, Southwest currently operates more than 2,500 flights a day with a fleet of 313 Boeing 737s with an average age of 8.5 years--one of the youngest pure jet fleets in the domestic airline industry.