The debut episode of Irvine Welsh's drama Crime left viewers 'curious' about the transgender plot, two months after the actor said criticism of JK Rowling left him 'deeply uncomfortable'.

The second series kicked off on Wednesday night with gender identity playing a strong theme.

This came as a surprise to some fans of the show as Trainspotting novelist Irvine, 65, had previously weighed in on the trans debate and Harry Potter author JK's views.

Rowling, 58, has previously been criticised for her staunch views on gender identity, but has always strongly denied accusations of transphobia.

The first episode followed Ray Lennox (Dougray Scott), who is battling to stay sober, having to investigate a sadistic serial killer who castrates their victims.

The deaths are linked to an attack on Ray's former colleague (played by Rebecca Root) who is is going through gender transition.

The transition storyline mirrors with the detective's nephew Fraser who stuns their family by arriving at a family dinner in a dress.

In the tense scenes, Fraser's mum ranted: 'Kindly leave the table and return dressed properly. When he came out of me, they said: 'It's a boy. I'm a feminist and young idiots acting out are agents of the patriarchy attacking women's hard-won rights.'

Fraser hit back: 'I have a right to choose who I want to be. What's wrong with that?'

Viewers took to X, formerly Twitter, to comment on the gender identity storyline.

They wrote: 'Anyone else watching Irvine Welsh's Crime on ITV? Considering his Twitter output on the trans issue, curious as to where he's going with this plot.

'Just started watching new series of Irvine Welsh's Crime and guess what transgenderism is tonight's theme!!'.

Others praised the series opening and said: 'Irvine Welsh's Crime is brilliant. Excellent acting by Dougray Scott too.'

'Watching now and loving it'.

But viewers were disgruntled they had already seen the series on ITVX.

They wrote: '@ITV you have just announced a brand new series of Crime. Imagine my surprise when I realised I've already seen it, over a year ago. This is not a new series.'

Last month in an interview with The Times, Irvine said he doesn't know JK Rowling well, but loathes how she's been vilified.

He then offered his views on the ongoing debate about rights for trans people.

Irvine told the publication: 'Only women and trans people can have that discussion, but what I would say is that I don't believe trans rights should be advanced at the expense of 50 per cent of the population.'

Before the series aired, Irvine revealed why he wrote trans characters into series two.

Talking to Deadline at the Edinburgh TV Festival, he said: 'No one is comfortable in their own skin.

'We tried to let that permeate every single character, rather than just the trans character … They're all fighting in different ways to make their voices heard. They're all acting out in some way in this mad ship of fools.'

Irvine added they had a trans advisor on set during filming to ensure gender identity issues were handled 'sensitively' in the drama.