*WARNING - This article contains spoilers for the first four episodes of Love Is Blind UK.*

The much-anticipated Love Is Blind UK has landed on Netflix this morning, with viewers tuning in to watch brand new couples form. The show, which has made its debut following the success of the original American series in 2020, is hosted by Matt and Emma Willis.

Love Is Blind sees a number of participants meet through a screen and get engaged to a person of their choosing without ever seeing them. Once the pairs confirm their engagement, they meet for the first time and enjoy a brief Honeymoon period getting to know each other before their impending nuptials.

Netflix previously lifted the lid on the diverse lineup of love-seekers, which includes Dental Nurse Catherine, Funeral Director Freddie, Product Design Manager Sam, and Social Worker Ella. One of the first couples who are easy to root for are Director of Marketing and Communications Sabrina and Gym Owner Steven.

In the Netflix show, Sabrina and Steven appear to hit it off straight away, with limited competition from other participants. However, things also quickly get emotional for Sabrina in episode one when she opens up about the death of her grandmother, which leaves her in tears.

She tells the camera: “I’m so ready to meet my soulmate. I really hope he’s here. I think it’s really great to build a life together.

“On the surface, I’m like Miss Independent. ‘I don’t need a man.’ But at the same time, I am a bit of a hopeless romantic.”

In a heartbreaking insight, she explained: “Over the last year, there’s been some situations in my life… My granny, who I was very, very close to, my Gigi, passed away.

“Oh gosh. I don’t wanna -” she trailed off as she attempted to hold back tears. As her voice broke she continued: “You know, she was kind of the heart of my family.

“And after her funeral, coming home to an empty house on my own and I was just…

“It’s moments like that where it would just be nice to have someone to be there and hug you and be like, ‘It’s going to be okay.’

“Sorry, I just get really upset every time I talk about Gigi,” she added, wiping away tears.

Will Steven turn out to be Sabrina’s person to come home to? We’ll have to wait and see how the rest of the series pans out.

Love Is Blind UK premieres Wednesday, August 7 on Netflix. Part 2 will be released on August 14, followed by Part 3 on August 21.