Landsbankinn sold the first purely green-labelled issuance from Iceland on Thursday, with a more than three-times subscribed book allowing it to price the €300m 4.25-year senior unsecured offering inside its own curve.

Landsbankinn's deal comes after domestic peer Islandsbanki sold the first international ESG issuance out of Iceland last November, a €300m sustainable senior bond.

The new transaction made clear the benefits of green-labelled issuance while also pointing to increased interest in Icelandic supply.

At a final spread of 87bp over mid-swaps, the May 2025 transaction was priced inside Landsbankinn's conventional senior curve. The bank's 0.5% €300m May 2024s were bid at 89bp on Thursday, according to Tradeweb figures.

Bookrunners ABN AMRO, Bank of America, Citigroup and Deutsche Bank had initially marketed the €300m (no-grow) with initial price thoughts of mid-swaps plus 110bp area, tightening the spread by 23bp on the back of around €1bn of orders.

Tommy Paxeus, head of UK&I, Benelux, Nordic & CEE FI DCM at Deutsche Bank, attributed the deal’s success to the additional demand from ESG accounts in combination with a growing audience for Icelandic transactions.

“The story behind Icelandic banks has grown substantially in terms of investor interest and that can be seen in an uptick of demand from accounts across Europe, particularly in regions such as Germany,” he said.

“Because Icelandic banks are non-frequent issuers they are more susceptible to market conditions than larger, frequent issuers. At this point the market is clearly positive, so you would expect them to have a larger following than normal.

“But what sets this apart from the traditional Icelandic transaction is the fact it is a green bond, which meant the price elasticity was in the issuer’s favour.”

Paxeus said fair value for an equivalent non-green transaction would have been in the mid-90s, implying Landsbankinn achieved a saving of around 8bp versus its conventional curve.

"Islandsbanki has a quite a steep curve between two-years and three-years, so it is good to see that between three-years and four-years, with the green feature, you are able to completely flatten it out," added a banker away from the leads.

The proceeds of the inaugural green bond will be used exclusively to finance loans to fisheries certified with the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) standard, which is assigned to fisheries that meet science-based requirements for sustainable fishing.

Landsbankinn's aim is to encourage non-certified fisheries to seek certification. The bank said the allocation is also representative of the pivotal role fisheries play in the Icelandic economy, noting they are the single largest industry sector in its corporate loan book.

Some 30% of Landsbankinn's corporate loan book qualify as eligible assets under the bank's sustainable finance framework, and the bank expects that share to increase over time.

The deal was launched in conjunction with a tender offer for Landsbankinn's 1.625% March 2021 senior notes, of which €200m remains outstanding. The tender was launched to help investors clear lines for the new transaction.

The offer expires on February 23 with the results to be announced the following day.