Manchester United Under-21 boss Mark Dempsey has praised Dan Gore for his 'terrific' displays in the academy this season.

Gore, 18, was an essential part of the team that won the FA Youth Cup last year. His partnership with Kobbie Mainoo, who has since made his first-team debut, was instrumental in that campaign and he's well-regarded by academy staff.

The midfielder has made 14 appearances for the U21s in the Premier League 2 this season and Dempsey, speaking after Gore assisted the Reds' only goal against Arsenal in a 1-1 draw at Old Trafford on Friday night, discussed his skillset.

ALSO READ: Erik ten Hag explains Man United's transfer approach

Dempsey described Gore as a 'proper footballer', who leads by example on the pitch when wearing the armband for the U21s.

"He [Gore] was really good. I think he’s a proper footballer, good with the ball, good without the ball, and he can travel with it. His final pass has to improve for me, that’s the last bit for him, but the rest is great," Dempsey told the MEN.

"I like to see him play football because he’s one of them to get fans off their seats. He smashes into people, technically he’s fantastic and he’s been terrific all season. He’s been captain a number of times and personality-wise, he’s a quiet boy, but he’s a leader.

"He leads by example. He’s a local lad, he loves the football club and you see that in the way he plays. Whether he’s playing at Old Trafford, a three-a-side at Carrington or at The Cliff, it’s the same performance from the kid and we’ve all got a lot of time for Daniel."

Dempsey also discussed the progress of Kobbie Mainoo and Zidane Iqbal, who have been around the first-team this season.

"To get through into the first-team is a massive thing," he added. "It’s very, very difficult to get into any first-team in the Premier League, but they’re up there and training and you just hope that they’ll get some opportunities.

"But they know the manager won’t give them out for fun. They have to really earn it and there’s some good players in front of them, although of course, as academy graduates, everyone is delighted for the two local boys, which is always nice."

READ NEXT: