For the 2024/25 season, West Ham United women's team will play their Barclay's FA Women's Super League home matches at Dagenham and Redbridge's Chigwell Construction Stadium.

To reach the stadium:

Post Code For Sat Nav

RM10 7XL

Traveling from the North & West

If you are coming from the North or West, follow the M25 Clockwise until junction 27 and take the M11 towards London. Proceed along the M11 and as the road splits at the end of the motorway follow the signs for A406 South & A13. There are speed cameras along this road and the speed limit is 50 mph. After 5 miles, take the slip road on the left signposted A13 Dagenham, Tilbury and Southend. There are speed cameras along this road and the speed limit is 40 mph.

Go under the underpass and over the flyover and with the leisure complex on your left bear left onto the A1306 signposted Dagenham East. At the fifth set of lights with McDonalds in front of you, tern left onto the A1112, Ballards Road. The speed limit is 30mph and there is a speed camera on your left. At the Bull Roundabout bear left and go past Dagenham East Tube Station. Victoria Road is the fifth turning on the left.

From the South & East Via Dartford Crossing

Follow signs for A13 to Dagenham/ Central London. Proceed along this road and take the turn off signposted Elm Park & Dagenham East and turn right at the roundabout at the bottom of the slip road. Proceed to the set of lights and turn left onto a dual carriageway.

After about half a mile you will see a McDonalds on your right. Get into the right hand filter lane and turn right onto the A1112 Ballards Road. The speed limit is 30 mph and there is a speed camera on your left. At the Bull roundabout bear left and go past Dagenham East Tube Station. Victoria Road is the fifth turning on the left.

By Rail

Nearest Tube station is Dagenham East on the District Line of London's Underground Network. After exiting the station turn left and the ground is the fifth turning on the left about 400 metres from the station.

By Rail From Liverpool Street

Board the Greater Anglia service from London Liverpool Street to Romford Station. When exiting Romford station turn left where the 103 bus (towards Rainham Station) will stop at the nearest bus stop. The 103 bus will stop outside the ground and the ground is to the right of the stop.

Was this article helpful?

Our Supporter Services team are available from Monday to Friday, 09:00 - 17:00 and on home matchdays from two hours before kick-off.

You can get in touch with us by:

West Ham Help Centre: Submitting an enquiry

Email: supporterservices@westhamunited.co.uk