About West Ham

West Ham is in the London Borough of Newham in London. In the west it is a post-industrial neighbourhood abutting the site of the London Olympic Park and in the east it is mostly residential, consisting of Victorian terraced housing interspersed with higher density post-War social housing. The place lends its name to West Ham United F.C. West Ham is located 6.1 miles (9.8 km) east of Charing Cross. West Ham station on Manor Road is served by the London Underground Jubilee, Hammersmith and City and District lines; the National Rail c2c services; and the Docklands Light Railway. Plaistow and Stratford stations are also close by. Post-industrial land and a network of waterways separate West Ham from Bromley-by-Bow. To the north and east the area bleeds into Stratford and Plaistow, with Canning Town to the south. The array of transport available which links West Ham to the rest of the City of London has made West Ham a sought after location to reside in.

Find out how much your flat or house is worth in West Ham.

Local Estate Agencies

West Ham estate agents

E15 estate agents

Why not explore some other local areas

Stratford area guide

Plaistow area guide

Upton area guide

Maryland area guide

Bow area guide

Upton Park area guide

Forest Gate area guide

Plashet area guide

Poplar area guide

Victoria Park area guide

E15 area guide

Performance cookies

Performance cookies let us collect information about how the website is used. For example, we may record what pages are visited most. This data allows us to see where we could optimise the website and make it more efficient.

Foxtons: tbp, twp2, tws. tco, referrer

Foxtons uses performance cookies to help understand how our visitors use the website and how we can improve our website.

We also host the following third-party solutions, which may set the following cookies:

Google Analytics: _ga, _gat, _gat_UA-<TOKEN>, utmx, utmxx

Google Analytics cookies are used to distinguish users and sessions and gather usage data related to your visit to our website so we can improve our website.

AddThis: _atssc, _atuvc, _atuvs, _

Some pages may have the AddThis social plugin to allow you to share pages to your social network and for Foxtons to view reports on which pages were shared and how.

Crazyegg: _ceir, is_returning, _CEFT, _ceg.s, _ceg.u, s, u, cer.s, cer.v

Crazyegg is a third-party optimisation solution which helps us to test, analyse and improve each user's experience on the website based on their online behaviour.

Convert: _conv_v, _conv_s, _conv_r, _conv_sptest

Convert is a third-party A/B testing solution which helps us to test different versions of web pages to determine which design or content provides the best user experience.

What are cookies?

To make your experience visiting the Foxtons website as simple and convenient as possible we place small data files known as "cookies" on your computer. This practice is used by many websites.

Cookies are created when your browser loads the website. The website sends information to the browser which then creates a text file. Cookies are stored on your device for various periods of time, from as short time as the duration of your browsing session to several months.

Every time you come back to the website, the browser retrieves and sends cookies to the server, which helps to improve your experience of the website by:

Remembering settings, so you don't have to re-enter them every time you visit

Remembering your last properties and searches, helping you to keep on top of new listings

Measuring use of the website so that we can see where we can improve

You can manage and/or delete these small files from your device, but please be aware that this will limit the functionality that we are able to offer to you.