Released on the 14th March, this is the latest album release from Mika Nakashima (中島美嘉), and her fourth studio album (fifth if you count the NANA ‘rock’ side-excursion).

I first heard about her via a classmate in Japanese lesson class (thanks Lucy), and was captivated with her unique voice. She was born in 1983 in Kagoshima, on the southern-most island of Kyushu, and from a young age dreamed of pursuing a singing career so much that she decided not to attend high school or college in order to pursue a music career. As is usual in the Japanese recording industry, she entered and won the audition from 3,000 other hopefuls for the place of the heroine in the 2001 Fuji TV drama, Kizudarake no Love Song (Tainted Love Song). She signed up with Sony Records in November 2001, and her first single ‘Stars’, sold nearly 470,000 copies !!! It is still her most successful single (as herself). Her debut album ‘True’, was released in August 2002, and sold over 1.1 million copies. In 2002, she won the following awards …

“New Artist of the Year” award at the Japan Gold Disc Awards

“Best New Artist of the Year” at the All Japan Request Awards 2002

“New Artist of the Year” award from the 44th Japan Record Awards

The next two albums, ‘Love’ & ‘Music’, also did well, selling 1.4 million and (only) 546,000 respectively. Her vocal style is breathy & plaintive, and her songs often have a light jazzy feel. Unfortunately, even though she is very attractive in a thin cool sort of way, I have never seen her smile. She seems to have this very serious, even sometimes sullen look about her, and often appears in her music videos in fantasy backgrounds wearing classic or frilly gowns, and often not singing along with the music. Even though many of her songs have strong beats, I have never seen her dance, and there are no background dancers/rappers/other characters in most of her music videos.

In 2005, she starred in a movie adaption of the popular manga series NANA as a tough ‘rock chick’, and also recorded the theme song under the title of ‘NANA starring Mika Nakashima’. The single ‘Glamorous Sky’, sold nearly 440,000 copies, and she released several other singles in the same rock vein, as well as an album ‘THE END’. i think most fans were glad to also see ‘the end’ of this phase, as this album only sold 180,000 copies. A few songs recorded in 2006, in and with famous New Orleans musicians such as Alan Toussaint as part of a flood awareness campaign, had a very nice gospel feel.

This latest album ‘Yes’, returns to the true and tried original formulae, however there are some songs with a reggae feel, as well as one amazing funky riff-based tune ‘Dance with the Devil’. Mika does not any of the songs, but some of the lyrics are hers.

The track listing is …

I LOVE YOU

Mienai Hoshi

Sunao na Mama

CRY NO MORE

ALL HANDS TOGETHER

DANCE WITH THE DEVIL

BLACK & BLUE

JOY

THE DIVIDING LINE

MY SUGAR CAT

Yogoreta Hana

GOING BACK HOME

Kinenka

WHAT A WONDERFUL WORLD

As well as the CD version, there is also a CD+DVD edition, and this is the first Mika Nakashima album to come with a DVD. It contains music clips of …

Opening

CRY NO MORE

BLACK & BLUE

ALL HANDS TOGETHER

MY SUGAR CAT

Mienai Hoshi

I LOVE YOU

WHAT A WONDERFUL WORLD

ENDING ROLL

Like most Japanese album releases, this contains all her non-NANA`singles released since the last album, ‘Music’ in 2005 (CRY NO MORE, ALL HANDS TOGETHER, MY SUGAR CAT, Mienai Hoshia & Sunao na Mama, well as the B-sides BLACK & BLUE , WHAT A WONDERFUL WORLD & I LOVE YOU), so there are 6 news songs on the album.

Her web site, if you want to find out more info, is http://www.mikanakashima.com/