llEYON8HIRE. .NORTH LEW. !l1'3

the Saunder family ilf o( ancient repute berer the Rev. Goodwin Keats esq. <Jf Halsdon, John Clarke esq. Mr. John

Christopher Saunder having been rector xsxs-xs67. Kelland, Hem; Mr. H. T. Woolwey, Mr. John May, the Retf. John

in this parish, was the original seat of the ancient family of Vicars K.A.. rector of Calbourne, Isle of Wigbt, and Sir R.

Keliand, who have possessed land here since 1567 without a G. Keats a:.c.B. Higher Bridge farm belongs to Richard

break in the male line, and several of whom were sheriffs of Kelland esq.

the county and members of Parliament in the 1;7tb century; EASTINGTON is a hamlet, about 1 mile north-east; from

William Henry Kelland esq. is the present representative. p17eIrtIytoof1M86is3siHt biteclhocnogcekd. to the Kellands, bnt is now the pro-

The Stone family had property here for generations until

1778, when jt .came by purchase to the Kellands. Bury

Barton, originally the seat of the Bury family, was· pur- FILLEIGH, 1! miles north-north-east; is the property ol

chased in 1877 by the present owner, Mr. Roger Densham, John ¥ay esq. and Mr. W. Densham,

whose family occupied it as tenants for several generations : IarsHCOMBE, formerly a detached. portion of this parish,

qn the farm is an ancient Catholic chapel, dating from 1434 adjoining those of West Worlington and Meshaw, 9 miles:

and now used as part of the farm buildings. Bowerthy, 234 north-eas~ from Lapford and ~~ south-east from :Meshaw~

acres in extent the property until 1828 of the late Phihp was annexed for civil purposes t() Mesha.w, March 25th,

Kelland esq. now belongs to the Earl of Portsmouth. Lap- 1885, under the Divided Parishes Act, 1882. It wRS for a.

ford Wood, the residence of Major Richards J. Horwood considerable time the property and residence of the Nottil,.

Dunning J.P. is the property of Warenne Theodore Lionel who sold it in 1770, and former,l part pf Court Man()r, in

Harries esq. B.A., J.P. for Pembrokeshire. Pennycotts was Lapford, to which it still pays a fee. T. G. Keats esq. is

purchased in 1613 from Sir Edward Seymour; in 1788 it the owner of lrishcombe, and Major H. T. Vialls of Irisb-

was sold by Rev. Samuel Stone to Richard Kelland esq. of combe Moor.

Lapford, and it is now the property of James George Kelland The soil of Lapford is skillett and clay; the subsoil is the

esq. The land is nearly all freehold, except a small portion same. The west of the parish, containing some dun land, is

in the manor of Loosbeare, now the property of John Kelland remarkably fertile; the east is moorland and of inferior soil..

esq. :r.t.A., J. P. of Totnes. The Mill House was anCiently the The chief crops are wheat, barley and oats. The acreage is

seat of the Gater family, who were seated here and in Mor- 3,819; rateable value, .£3,585; the population in 1891 was

chard Bishop adjoining from 1434 to 1820: their property in 491.

this parish was all sold to the Crootes. The princip<~.l land- Parish Clerk, Henry Northcott.

owners are the Earl of Portsmouth D.L., J.P. William Sweet PosT OFFICE.-William Stoneman, sub-postmaster. Let-

Croote esq. of Polsloe road, Exeter, William Henry Kelland ters arrive from Morchard Bishop R.S.O. North Devon,.

esq. of Southsea, J. G. Kelland esq. of Barnstaple, Mr. which is the nearest money order office, at 7.15 a.m.;

George ~outhcott, of Broomsmeed, W. T. L. Haines esq. dispatched at 6.50 p.m. Postal orders are issued here,.

William Clarke esq. Miss Hitchcock, W. 'f. L. Harries but not paid. The telegraph office is at the railway station.

esq. J.P. Mr. Roger Densham, Rev. W. Densham, Mr. Reed .A School Hoard of 5 members was formed Oct. 31, 1873,.

Partridge, Edwin Troake Saunder esq. of West Ashford, for the united district of Lapford & Nymet Rowland;

Heanton Punchardon, the trustees of the late Mr. R. Tucker, the Rev. C. W. Wilson M. A. is chairman of & clerk to the

Mr. George Saunders, Mr William Densham, of Wareham, board

Dorset, Mr. R. Gibbings, of Teignmouth, F. Saunder esq. of Board School (mixed), built about 1863, for 120 children ;

Morchard Bishop, Mr. Buckingham, of King's Nympton, average attendance, 72; John Hill Lawson, master

J. P. S. Marshall esq. Andrew Snell esq. Major Henry Police Station, William Haker Webber, constable

Thomas Vialls J.P. of Castle Grove, Hampton, Thorold Railway Station, John Harri!l, station master

PRIVATE RESIDENTS. Delve Richard, farmer & seedsman & North Elizabeth (Mrs.), shopkeeper

Cann Stephen, Saxons road contractor Northcote Henry, shoe maker

Cla.rke William, The College Densham Roger, yeoman, Bury Barton Northcote Henry, thatcher

Dunning Major Ricbards J. Horwood Down Albert, farmer, Northlake Northcote Matilda (Mrs.), Railway ina

J.P. Lapford wood Down Michael, farmer, Town farm Pike Henry, bh.cksmith

Fosbery Percy Vincent, Hopbine cottage Drake William, farmer, West Filley Reed Richard, jobbing gardener

Harold Alfred, Highfield house Elston John, farmer, Irishcombe Richards William, carpenter

Kelland Richard, Town place England Adolphus, accountant Sanders Frederick, farmer, Great Hole

.Kelland Waiter George Greenslade John, farmer, Eastington Saunders George, farmer, Filleigh

Letheren Francis Wreford, Lower Field Hern Ellen(Mrs. ), farmer & landowner, Sr.ell John, farmer, Bowertby

house Cobleys Snell William, farmer, Rensey

McKenny Rev. William Hall [Congl HolwellJobn, farmer, Glebe land Speadbnry William Albert, Yeo Va'e

Packer Miss Horwill John Skinner, butcher seed stores; salt, cake & corn mer-.

chanL; agent for Langdale's manurea~

l:louthcott George Hosegood Wm. Jn. Yeo Vale hotel

Wilson Rev.Cornelius Wm.M.A.[rector] Kelland Richard, cattle dealer, farmer & at 24 High street, Crediton

& landowner Stone Alfred, farmer, Bridge

COMMERCIAL.

Kelland Walter George, cattle dealer StonemanWm.miller(water)&postoffice

Harne'l Henry, shopkeeper Knight John, farmer, Eastington 'l'omkins Emrnanuel,thatcher,Burridge

Challice William, blacksmith Langdon James, tailor, Porches moor

..Clarke William A.R.C.P. school (board- Lawson John Hill, schoolmaster Tremlett John, farmer, Kelland Barton

ing & day) Leach William, farmer, Pennycott Tucker Giles,farmer, Saxons & Town pi

Crook James, thatcher, Little Hole Lee James Edward, farmer, Eastington TuckerWm.(exors.of),frmr.Broomsmed

Crudge James, farmer, Court Barton & Lower & Middle Eastington farms W oolway Thomas Howard, Old Malt

IDart William, mason

May Arth. Wm. Ulric, farmer, Filleigh Scoop P.H. & wheelwr1ght

Davey John, tailor & shopkeeper Mills James, farmer, Irishcombe

LEUSDEN, see WIDECOMBE·IN-THE-Moon.

NORTH LEW is a compact village and parish, 2! miles lectern, introduced at the late restoration: the font, an in-

north from Ashbury and North Lew station on the Oke- teresting example of Norman 'Work, is assumed to have:

hampton and Holsworthy branch of the London and South belonged to the original church 1 the church was restored

Western railway, d· south-west from Hatherlei\!h and 7 in 1885 at a cost of £1,400, under the direction of Mr. R.

north-west from Okehampton, in the Western division of the Medley Fulford A.R.I.B.A. of Exeter, when the roofs ami

county, petty s~sional division of Hatherleigh, hundred of benches were carefully repaired by Mr. H. Hems, of ExeLer.

H!ack Torrington, union of Okehampto[l, county court. the flooring relaid, a new communion table, pulpit, lectern

district of Totnes, rural deanery of Okehampton, arch- and choir stalls erected, the ba.ttlementing of the towe-r

deaconry of Totnes and diocese of Exeter. The river Lew, renewed and the fabric generally renovated : a number oi

which flows through the parish, abounds in salmon and ancient embossed tiles have been laid down in the tower :

trout. The church of St. Thomas 8. ,Becket .is a building of the church affords 239 sittings. 'l,'he register dates from

atone, chiefly in the Perpendicular style, with some earlier the year 1700. The living 1s a rectory united with Ashbury.

portions, and consists t>f chancel, nave, aisles, south porch average tithe rent-charge £333• joint gross yearly value-

and an embattled western tower, with pinnacles, containing £545, with 74 acres of glebe here and residence, in the gift

5 bells: the great feature of the interior is tbe very fine of the Crown, and held sinLoe 1885 by .the Rev. John Worth.-

carving of the benches, dating from the 16th century and ingtoo... M.A-of Brasenose College, Oxford. There are Bible

exhibiting great diversity of design and elabol"nte workman- Christian and Wesleyan chapels, also a Hible Christian Sun-

l!hip ~ tb, ends of the benches bear in some cases the day 11chool, erected in x8go. In the village is an ancient

pmlj>le~q11 of the Passion and in others shields with monct- ,none Cl'088. John Hayly esq. of Lipson road, Plymouth,.

grams and the date 1537: the roofs are also of carved oak and the rector, are lords of the manor. 1\lorth Grc~.nge be-

and the lowec pottion of the rood acreen remains~ the longs to Mrs. George Woollcembe. Mr_l<'rederick Georgtt

stained east window was presented by the late Miss Wooll- Smale, the. trustees of the la.te Ven. Archdeacon Herbert.

qombe1 of .4\10r~4 Ur~tnge, &IHl t~re are oak #=hoir stalls and Barnee v •.a.. ~ometim~ rootor of LangtTee, George Alexande"l'l

314 .NOBTBlLEW. DEVONSHIRE.

Williaot Henry Bickle, of Lew Down, and the trustees of the office is at :Beaworthy k telegraph office .Ashbury Taihray

r

late .Ven. Archdeacon Henry Woollcombe, are also land- station (

owners here. The .soil is sand and clay ;. subsoil, stone. Devon Constabulary, William Taylor, constable

The chief crops are wheat, barley, oats and roots, The area Sationa1 School (mi~ed), built in 1866, for 160. ~hildren :

is 7,247 acrt:S; rateable value, £3,828 ; the population in average attendance, 8o; Robert Bertram Webber, master;

1891 was 714., , Miss Shellabear Webber, mistress

Sexton, Richard Down. r CARRIERS:- ,..- .

PosT 0FFICB.-Mrs. Fanny Gay, sub-pQstmistress. Letters Nicholas Brooking, to Hatherleigh, tues. 1 Holsworthy,

received from Heaworthy R.S,O. North Devon, at 7.50

a.m.; dispatched at 4·45 p.m. The nearest money order wed. ; Torquay, fri, & Okehampton, sat

Adams John Friend John & Son, farmers, Crowden Martin John, shoe maker & farmer

Breyley Mrs. Brittons Hay Friend Arthur, farmer, West Worth Martin William Jn. shoe ma. & butcher

Dennis Mrs. West Worth l<'riend Charles William, butcher May John, farmer, Palmer's Norley

Gloyn John Watkins, Holland Friend Henry John, cowkeeper Maynard John, farmer, Worth

Shellabear John Friend John, Honeychurch Arms P.ll. Moyse William, farmer, Furze hill

SmeathRev.WilliamJn.[BibleChristian] & farmer NewcombeJas.farmer,Low.East Worth

Woollcombe Mrs. George,Morth grange Friend Mary Ann (Mrs.), farmer, Northcott Jn. farmer, Higher Eastcott

Worthington Rev. John M.A. Rectory Lower Holland Phare Henry, farmer, Birch lane

Friend Thomas, farmer, Whiddon Quick Stph. Geo. farmer, East Kimber

COMMERCIAL. Friend Waiter William, road contractr J{outley William Lawrence, farmer,

Adams Harriet(Mrs. ),farmer,Kesterfld Gay William, farmer, Lake Lower Eastcott

Adams Lewis, Green Dragon P.H Glass William & Son, farmers & millers Shobbrook William, farmer & mason

Andrews John, farmer, Southcombe (water) Smale Thos. & Richd. farmers, Durdon

Andrews Philip, farmer Glass Edward, millwright Smale Albert, farmer, East Combe

Andrews Thomas,wheelwrfght&carpntr Glass James, mill carpenter Smale Frdk.Geo.yeoman, Sth.Whiddon

Baker John & Sons, blacksmiths Glass John, fal'mer, Kimber Smale James, farmer, Crowden

Bater James, cal'penter, wheelwright & Glass William, farmer, West Southyeo Smale John,farmer,Howards Gorhuish

farmer, Southyeo cottage Glass Wm.Geo.farmer,Millcombe down Smale John, farmer, Higher Gorhuish

Hater Robert, farmer, East Southyeo Gloyn Edward Rich, yeoman, Norley Smale Henry Karslake, carpenter

Blatchford William & Son, blacksmiths Gloyn William Henry, farmer, Norley Smallacombe Geo. farmer, West Kimber

Blatchford John, mason Gratten James, farmel', Water house Speare Emmanuel, grocer & draper

Brayley James, yeoman Harry John, farmer, Milltown Toms Thomas, farmer, Hlackworthy

Brooking John, shopkeeper Harry Joseph, farmer, Higher Whitton Valance Thomas, farmer, Heath

Brooking Nicholas, carrier Harry 'fhos. farmer,Little Blackworthy West John, fal'mer, East Kimber

Brooking Thomas, farmer Heggadon Mary Ann & Sons, farmers, White William, farm bailiff to Mr.

Chowens Mary (Mrs.), shopkeeper West Kimber Thomas Palmer

Crocker Henry, farmer, New moor Heggadon Evan, farmer, Bolland Wood Samuel & Son, farmers, Lake

Cnrtis 'fhomas, cowkeeper Hill James, farmer, Stone quarry Wood Samuel & Son, tailors

Curtis William, farmer, Crowden Horrell John, farmer, Gonrsyn Wood Thomas, farmer, Orrathorne

DennisCharlotte(Miss),frmr.We.Worth Hutchings Thomas, rate collector & Wood William & Son, drapers, grocers

Down John, farmer, Lower Gorhuish · school attendance officer & tailors

Evely Henry, miller (watel') & farmer, Jones Thomas, farmer, Landsend WooldridgeHy.carpentr.& wheelwright

& registrar of births & deaths for Lashbrook Wm.carpntr.Fordatown hlls Wooldridge Thomas, farmer, Whiddon

Hratton Clovelly district, Okehamp- Martin William H. E. deputy registrar Worthington John Malcolm & Frederick

ton union of births & deaths for .Hratton Clo- Hngh, farmers, Rutleigh Barton

Evely William,farmer&thatcher,Shorts velly district,Okehampton union

LEW TRENCHARD is a parish, 2! miles north from Tuesday before the last Wednesday in November and the

Coryton station on the Lannceston branch of the Great third Wednesday in April. The Rev. Sabine Baring-Gould

Western railway, 9 north from Tavistock and 8 east from M.A., J.P. is lord of the manor and principal landowner.

Launceston, in the Western division of the county, Lifton Lew House, the manor house and seat of the Gould family,

hundred and petty sessional division, Tavi~tock union and is an interesting mansion dating from before the year 1625,

county court district, rural deanery of Tavistock, arch- when the property came into the possession of tb.at family ;

deaconry of Totnes and diocese of Exeter: it includes the it contains some finely carved oak chimney-pieces, antique

greater part of LEw DowN, a small village on the high road furniture and good piCtures. At Lew Mill, is a curious pre-

between Launceston and Okehampton, and is boundc:d on historic monolith about 16 feet high, long prostrate, but

the east by the Lew Water. The church of St. Peter is a recently re-erected. At Slayers hill is a circular British

building in the Perpendicular style, consisting of chancel, camp, where bron7Al celts have been found. The soil is

nave of three bays, north aisle, south porch and an embat- loamy ; subsoil, clay and slate and limestone. The chief

tied western tower, with pinnacles, containing 5 bells, of crops are wheat, oats, barley and pasture. The parish con-

which the first and fourth date from 1812; the rest are tams 2,818 acres; rateable value, £1,661 ; the population

dated respectively 1769, 1758 and 1804: all the windows in 1891 was 266.

are stained ; and there are ancient oak benches with finely Parish Clerk, Henry Davey.

carved ends: the church contains numerous monuments to Sexton, John Pengelly.

the Gould family : there are 100 sittings. The register of PosT & M. 0. 0. & S. B. Lew Down (Rai1way Sub-Office.

baptisms dates from the year 17o6; burials, 1714; mar- Letters should have R.S.O.North Devonadded).-Thomas

riage9, 1713; but part of this is lost, from 1756 to 1813. The James Higgins, sub-postmaster. Letter delivery corn·

living is a rectory, average tithe rent-charge [2or, gross mences 6 a.m.; dispatched at 6.55 p.m. daily ; sundays,

yearly value £246, with so acres of glebe, and residence, in letters delivered to callers from 8 to 10 a.m. The nearest

the gift of and held since 188x by the Rev. Sabine Baring- telegraph office is at Coryton railway station 1

Gould :M.A. of Clare College, Cambridge, and 1. P, A fair is National School (mixed), erected in 1842 & enlarged in 1882,

held at LEw DowN, x mile north of the church, usually the for 130 children ; average attend. 8o; Wm.Hy.Dawe,mast

IHorne Richd. miller (water), Lew mill Henson Christopher Richmond, sur-

Lew Trenchard.

Baring~Gould Rev. Sabine :M.A., J.P. Jeffrey George, farmer, Waddlestone

geon, medical officer & public

[rector], Lew house Palmar John, farmer, Lew Mill farm vaccinator for the Lew Trenchard

Baring-Gould Mrs. Edwd. Ardock lodg Palmar William, farmer, Foxcombe district of Tavistock union

Chitty Rev. James Charles Martyn Lew Down. Davy Henry, carpenter

[curate of Marystowe & Thrushel- Dustan William, tailor

ton], Brent Tor Hlick [These names should be Lew Down Hutchins Waiter, Lew Down inn

Grant Alaistair, Rampenstein R.S.O. North Devon only.) Piper William Lnxmore, horse trainer

Sperling Henry, Parsonage Benson Christopher Richmond Rattenbury William, shoe maker

Clatworthy Thomas, farm61', Wooda Alien Francis, slate merchant Rice Kate (Miss), shopkeeper

FurzeMaryJane(Mrs.), farmr.Galford Clifton Cla.ra {Miss), shopkeeper Roberts Thomas, blacksmith

LIDFORD, see LYDFORD.

LIFTON is a parish and village and head of a petty ses· stock, in theWestern division of the county, Lifto:d hundred,

sional dh·ision, pleasantly situated near the Cornish border, Ta'Vistock onion and Launceston county court district, rural

in the valley of the river Lyd, about a mile from it~~ conflu• deanery of 'favistock, archdeaconry of Totnes and diocese

ence with the Tamar, with a station on the Launceston and of Exeter. The ehurch of St. Mary is an ancient structure

'favistock branch of the Great Western railway, 275 miles, in the Decorated and Perpendicular styles, consisting of

from London, 4 from Laonceston, u miles.lrom 'Iavi- chancel, nave, south aiale, separated from the nave and

JDtRECTORY. D.EVOXSHIRE. LIFTON. 315

chancel by an arcade of six arches, north porch with parvise land; rateable ¥alue, £6,859: the population in 'Ie9i "'Was

and an embattled western tower, with crocketed pinnacles, x,r~. By a Local Government Order which came into

containing a clock and 8 bells, all recast by Taylor, of Oxford, operation March 25, x884, a detached part of this parish

in 1827; the clock w.u presented by the Rev. A. H. Simms (the hamlet of West Week) was amalgamated with Broad-

and his mother in 1883: in the church are several monu- wood Widger in Launceston union.

ments to the Harris and Dynham families, one of which, on Deputy Sexton, Richard Miller.

the north side of 'he chancel, has three Jife-sizP.d kneeling PosT, M. 0. k T. 0., S. B. & Annuity k Insurance Office

effigies, in the costume of the period, representing members (Railway Sub-Office. Letters should have R.S.O. North

of the Harris family, with the dates 1590, x6x8 and 1631: Devon added).-William Henry Teague, postmaster. Let-

this monument was restored in 1742 and 1795, and again in ters received from London &; Exeter at 5-51 a.m. & 6.35

1871 : in the south chapel is a richly illuminated mural p. m. ; dispatched at 12.30 p.m. &; 6.35 p.m. Sundays,

monument to John Dynham, dated 1649; and there is an letters received 5.51 a.m. &dispatched 6.35 p.m. WALL

interesting Norman font : the north window in the chancel Box, opposite the Railway station, cleared at 5·45 p.m.

is a memorial to the Tucker family ; two of the windows week days only

in the nave are also stained : tl}e chancel retains a piscina, COUNTl MAGISTRATES FOR LIFTO~ PETTY SESSIONAL

and there is another in the south chapel,which also contains

a brass to John Harris, ob. 1657: in 1871 the church was DIVISION.

thoroughly restored and re-seated, and has 350 sittings. Kelly Reginald esq. D.L. Kelly, Lifton R.S.O, chairman

The register of baptisms and burials dates from the year Baring-Gould Rev. Sabine M.A.. Rectory, Lew Trenchard,

1653;. marriages, r654. The living is a rectory, commuted Lew Down R.S.O

tithes .£534 ros.gross yearly value £54I xos. exclusive of 20 Bradshaw Frank esq. Lifton park, Lifton R.S.O

acres of glebe and residence, in the gift of Frank Bradshaw Bradshaw James Huller esq. Lifton park, Lifton R.S.O

esq. and held since 1863 by the Rev. William Waddon Calmady Hamlyn Vincent Waldo esq. Leawood, Bridcstowe

Martyn B.A. of Trinity College, Oxford. The Rectory Jl,.S.O

House, formerly the manor house, is a. substantial mansion, Coode Edward esq. Polapit Tamar, Launceston

with walls of extraordinary thickness. King Charles I. Coode Capt. Richard Carlyon, Polapit Tamar, Launceston

slept here on the 31st of July,r644· The Rectory House was Newman Thomas Holdsworth esq. F.R.G.s. Manor cottage,

anciently situated at Cross Town, about I! miles distant Coryton, Lew Down R.S. 0

from the church,but on thepurchase of the manor of Lifton Spear John Ward esq. East:lcott, Dunterton, Tavistock

by William Harris esq. of Hayne in 1555, it is probable that Tremayne John esq. B.A., D.L. Heligan, St. Ewe, Cornwall

the present house was assigned as a residence for the rector ; & Sydenham holltle, Lew Down R. S. 0

it was certainly so described in a terrier of the livin2" in i6r3. Clerk to Magistrates, Christopher L. Cowlard,Launceston

There is a Baptist chapel in the village, a Bible Christian Pet.ty Sessions are held at Lifton the first thnrsday in every

chapel at Tinhay (built in 1876), and a Wesleyan chapel at month at II a. m

Lifton down. In the village is a literary institute and read- The following places are included in the petty sessional

ing room. A fair is held here on the 13th of February. In di,;sion :-Bradstone, Bratton Clovelly, Bridestowe,

the parish are two lime quarries and a manganese mine, Broadwood Widger, Coryton, Dunterton, Germansweek,

but none of these are at present being worked. Lifton Park, Kelly, Lew Trenchard, Lifton, Marystowe, North Pether-

the seat of Frank Bradshaw esq. J.P. is a large, modem win, St. Giles-in-the-Heath, Sourton, Stowford,Thrushel-

mansion in the Tudor style, situated in the valley of the ton, Virginstowe & Werrington

river Tamar and commanding delightful views: the estate County Police Station, Lifton sub-division, John Vanstone,

covers 7,oooacres, about 5,ooo of which are in Lifton parish, sergeant,&; 6 constables

and 2,ooo in the neighbouring parishes. Frank Bradshaw National School (boys, girls&; infants), erected in 1871 by

esq. who is lord of the manor, J. Tremayne esq. J.P., D.L. of Henry Bradshaw esq. for 330 children: average attend-

Heligan,St.Ewe,Cornwall and Sydenharo House, Marystowe, ancl\ 75 boys, 70 girls & 6o infants : Hemy Buckingham,

• and Reginald Kelly asq. D.L., J.P. of Keliy, are the chief master; Miss Ellen Caddy, mistress: Miss Mary Ann

landowners. The soil is light loam; subsoil, limestone and Richards King, infants' mistress

day. The chief crops are wheat, barley, oats, and som2 Railway Station, John Bowden, station inspector

land is in pasture. The parish comprises 6,480 acres of CARRIFJR.-Hy. Yole, to Tavistock, fri. ; to Launceston, sat

Bradshaw Frank J.P. Lifton park; &; Doidge Elizh.(Mrs.),shopkeeper, Tinhay Oke Tom, tailor

Abshot, Titchfielcl, Rants Dyer William, farmer Oliver John, builder, Tinhay

Bradshaw Jas. Buller J.P. Lifton park Eastcott Thomas, agricultural seed & Palmer James, farmer, Hele ·

Hall Rev. Rd. [Bible Christian], Tinhay corn merchant Palmer John, registrar of births &

Harris-Arundell William Reinfred Eggins Waiter, farmer, Titchington deaths & relieving & school attend-

Arundell, Lifton cottage Fox John, blacksmith & farmer ance officer, Lifton district, Tavis-

Laidlay Rev. Henry Wentworth B.A. Gribble William Henry, farmer, Harts tock union, Tinhay

[curate] Ham William,Fox &; Grapes P.H.Tinhay PethickEdwd.frmr.Higher Cookworthy

Maddever Miss, Tyne Owen, Tinhay Hanns George Lillington & Sons, far- Reed John, farmer, Coombe

Martyn Rev. Wm. Waddon B. A. Rectory mers, Markstone . Rich John, 'builder, Tinhay

Northey Mrs. Little Beare Harris Geo. farmer, Lower Cookworthy Serpell William, farmer, Poison

Olver :.vlisses, Little Beare Hearle Joseph, land agent to Frank Soby Thomas, saddler

Taylor William Kennedy Bradshaw esq Stacey John, farmer, Tinhay down

COMMERCIAL. Heyward(William Thos. )&MounceBros. Stacey Wm. blacksmith & frmr.Tinhay

Arundell Arms Family & Com- threshing machine owners, Tinhay Stanbury Mary (Mrs.), shopkeeper

mercial Hotel & Posting Hayward Wm.miller (water), Leat mill StenlakeRobt.& Son, farmers,Wortham

House (William Labbett, proprietr) Kellaway .Amos & Charlotte (Miss), I Stick J oseph, Temperance house

Benoy John, farmer, Riscombe shopkeepers, Tinhay 1 Taylor William Kennedy L. &; M.R.c.s.I.

Berriball Stephen,farmer,Higher Cook- Literary Institute & Reading Room surgeon, & medical officer &; public

worthy (Joseph Hearle, hon. sec) vaccinator for Lifton district, Tavi~

Bevan Jane (Mrs.)&; By. builders,Leat Mason Elizabeth (Mrs.) & Fitze Richd. tock union & for Broadwood district,

Bickle Mary Pearce (Mrs.), farmer, farmers, Gatherley Launceston union

Stone & Beara Miller Richard, dairyman k farmer Teague William Henry, shopkeeper,

BlatchfordFk. Wm.&Alfd.frmrs.Ashley Miller Richard & Suns, monumental assistant overseer & carpentr.Post offi

Bradsbaw John, shoe maker masons, marble & stone carvers; all Tippett Josiah, grocer & draper

Broom Eli, coal dealer, Railway station kinds of monuments, tombs, head- Uglow Wymond Cory, farmer, Carley

Came Jn.Masons' Arms P.H.Lifton dwn stones, crosses, tablets, curbs &; iron Voaden Stephen, farmer, Hernamans

Chapman George,farmer, Smallacombe rails of the best style & finish at mod- Westlake Hannah (Mrs.), tailor

Cole Samuel, miller (water),Spry mill; erate prices; estimates on application Westlake Thomas, farmer, Whitley

res. Stowford Mitchell Richd. blacksmith, Lifton down Williams William, farmer, Leat

Colwill Fras. (Mrs.), farmer, Willtown Mounsden George, nurseryman, Lif- W1lton Frederick, baker •

Colwill Jn. Casey,frmr.Lower Wollaton ton down Wise John, farmer, Ashley

Cory William, butcher Northey John, farmer, Lake Wooldridge Henry, farmer, Colemans

Crout John Bullen, farmer, Yeat Northey Wm. jun. farmer, Little Beare Yole Henry, farmer&; carrier, Tinhay

LITTLEHAM (near Bideford) is a parish, 2! miles chancel, nave, south aisle, south porch and an emb8ttled

south-west from Bideford station on the London and South western tower, containing 4 bells (two dated 1692 and 173t

Western railway, in the North Western division of the bavebeenre-hung):thechurchwaspartiallyrestoredinx847:

county, Shebbear hundred, Bideford petty sessional division, in 1:892 a faculty was granted by the Bishop of Exeter for

union and county court district, rurlll deanery of Hartland, the restoration of the church : an interesting painting of St.

archdeaconry of Bamstaple and diocese of Exeter. 'fhe Swithin, probably dating from the 12tb century, was dis-

church of St. Switbin is an ancient building of stone in the covered on the north wall, and portions of the old rood

Early English and Perpendicular styles, consisting of screen were also met witb ; the has been restored from

DEVONSHIRE:. (!ELLY'S

•

designa by ;M:r, Temple Moore, of London, who also designed .J.P. o[ Moreton, the presenl7 lord of the manor; Sir G.

a large monumen1; which ,has been erected f,o tha late S. Stucley and Major Kirkwood, of 'Yeo Vale, J're the

Geueral Crealoca c :f\.,. c.u.G. ; ~he old benches havt\ been principallandownen. The parish is finely wooded and the

incorpora~ in the new seats, and the chancel floor has land is very fertile. The subsoil is cla.y,., The chief crops aFe

been laid with marble: the ~hurch was re-opened 31 May, wheat, barley and oats, 'fhe acreage is r,2so; rateable

1893, and affords r8o sittinj;!'S'. The register di~ote8 from value, £x,634; the populat.ion in 1891 was 348.

tbe real; 1538. The living i& a rectory, tit)le l'eqt-charge Sexton~ William Harris.

£r44, net yearly valuer £85, including 84 acres Df glebe,

with residence, in the gift of Alfred H. Morse esq~ if.P. Letters through Bideford, which is the nearest money order

of Copdock House, Snffllk, and beld since .187& by the office & telegra-ph office, arrive at 8.30 a. m.; PILLAR Box

Rev. Herbert George Morse M. A. of 'frinity College, Cam- cleared, week days only, at 5. 30 p.m

bridge. There is a Wesleyan chapel in the village. The ~.

charities are of 248. yMrly value. The manor belonged at A School Board of 5 members for t.ne Littleham & Land-

an early period to the Stapledons, and subsequently to the

cross united district was formed Dec. r8, 1874; J. B.

Botelers or Butlers, Earls of Ormond, from whom it de- llraund, Bideford, clerk to the board

saended to the families of St. Leger and Leigh; it was pur- Board School (mixed), built in 1877, for 90 children; avew-

chased in 1872 by Sir George Stucley Stucley hart. D.L., age attendance, 62; Miss J. Dobson, mistress

Cooke Otho, High park I Bale John, farmer, Middle Langdon Jenkins John, wheelwright

Hugo The Misses Bowdidge James, carpenter Lee Jamas, !Mm~r. Higher Dunn

Lockley H. James, Heale house Cock John, farmer, North Heale MoiTish Edwd. farmer, Low.llowndson

MorseRev. HerbertGeorgeli.A.[rector] Crealock James, Hoops inn Nichols John, farmer, Lower La.ngdon

Philbrick Edwa.rd Cracker Arscott, blacksmith Pennington William, farmer, Yeo

COMMERCIAL. Dennis John, blacksmith Pennington William, butcher

Dennis Thomes, farmer, Lower Dunn Philbrick Edward, brewer, maltster &.

Andrews Job, farmer, Nethercliffe Gay Jabez, shopkeeper 11erated water manuf. Apps brewery

Austin Geurge, boot & shoe maker Heywood Albert, farmer, Littlehamcrt Slater William, carpenter

Bale George, farmer, Shutta farm Hockin Dorcas (Mrs.), shopkeeper 'l'allamy Thomas, butcher & farmer

LITTLER AM (near Exmouth) is a parish and small by her mother, having been made from a beam of oak re-

straggling village on the sea coast, 2 miles east from Ex- mo\·ed from Salisbury cathedral and probably dating from

mouth station on the London and South Western railway 1250: there are several memorial windows: the church was

and 12 south-east from Exeter, in the Eastern division of restored in 1884, the chancel under the direction of Mr.

.the county, hundred of East Budleigh, petty sessional divi- Ewan Christian, architect to the Ecclesiastical Commis-

sion of Woodbury, union of St. 'fhomas, county court dis- sioners, and the rest of the fabric by Mr. Fulford: the roofs

trict of Exeter, rural deanery of Aylesbeare and archdeaconry have been renewed and the interior seated with open benches~

and diocese of Exeter. A large port.ion of the town of Ex- a western screen erected and the aisles repaved : the total

mouth is within thi'> parish. 'Ihe church of St. Margaret cost was about £3,000 : there are 286 sittings. The register

and St. Andrew is an ancient building of stone in the Early of baptisms dates from the year 1612; marriages and burials~

.English and Perpendicular styles, consisting of chancel with 1603. The living is a VIcarage, with the chapelry of Ex-

aisles, nave, aisles, south porch and an embattled western mouth annexed, average tithe rent-charge £140, joint net

tower containing 5 bells, two of which were recast in 1838 : yearly value £275, wiLh residence and 2~ acres of glebe, in

the south aisle was probably erected by the Drake family, the gift of the Dean and Chapter of Exeter, and held sincl~

of Spratsbayes, in this parish, and the roof is enriched with 1877 by the Rev. William Henry D'Olier Purcell M.A. of

figures of angels holding shields and with richly carved Trinity College, Dublin, who resides at. the Vicarage, Ex-

lJosses : on the pavement is a slab inscribed to Robert Drake, mouth ; the Rev. Jaq1es Boucher M. A.. of Worcester College~

gent. ob. Sept. 30, 1628, whose father and mother are also Oxford, and ad eundem. of Durham University,has been curette

buried here, and there are other memorials to John Drake, since 1865 The charities for this parish amount to £12

ob. x6~]4, Katherine, his wife, ob. 1692, and John Drake, their yearly. 'fhe Hon. Mark George Kerr Rolle D. L., J. P. of

son, -ob. 1712: there are monuments ro the family of Peel, llicton, is lord of the manor and sole landowner. The soil

relativesofthegreatstatesman, SirRobertPeel; another by is clay and stone; subsoil, clay. Thecbief crops are wheat~

Tlll"nerelli, the celebrated sculptor, to Frances, Viscountess oats and barley. The area IS 3,011 acres of land and 64o or

Nelson and Duchess of Bronte, widow of the great admiral, water; rateable value, £29,6o8; the population of the

who resided for many years at No, 6, The Beacon,Exmouth, parish in 1891 was 5,465, of which 5,138 are in the town oi

and dying in London, May 6, I 83 r, was buried in this church- Exmouth.

yard :there is a finely carved oak screen 37 feet in length, of the Parish Clerk, Henry Blackmore, Rolle street, Exmouth.

Decorated period, c.146o, enriched with shields bearing mono- Sexton, Isaac Tillman. ·

grams, various knots and groined tracery, and alsoparclose Letters through Exmouth, which is also the nearest money

screens, all restored in 1884 by Mr. Harry Hems, of Exeter: order & telegraph office, arrive at 8.30 a.m. LETTER

the roofs are enriched with figures of angels and carved Box cleared at 8.40 a.m. & 4.30 p.ml

bosses: the reredos, designed by Mr. R. M. Fulford F.R.I.B.A.. This place is included in the united school board district oi

of Exeter, is of oak, on a re-table of Devonshire marble, aud, Exmouth, formed March 5, 1875

soas well as the oak lectern, was executed by Mr. Hems, the National School (mixed), built in 1872, for children;

latter,~ memorial to Frances Jane, wife of Capt. Carr R.N. average attendance, 40; Miss Alice Bowden, mistress

Litten Richard, Brook villa Ellett Emanuel, farmer, Liverton farm j Ponsford Elizabeth (:Mrs.), Plough..inn

Morris Mrs. Littlefield Hillman William, smith Pratt Jn. Drewe, yeoman, Sprntshayes

Sims Rev. Edward, Bushy park Kemp Lewis, farmer, Mear farm 1 Searle Elizh. (Mrs.), farmer & beer ret

COMMERCIAL. Maunder Henry, farmer, Green farm Skinm:r Jacoh, faJ,"mer, Broadway farm

Barrett William, farmer, .Mountain MaunderWm.(Mrs.),farrner,Westdown Smith Chal"les, farmer & beer retailer

..Bolt William, farmer, Quaintance Paul Zacharias, farmer, Woodlands

LODDISWELL is a large scattered parish about 3 window in the transept was given by Miss Wise, of lde, nea.r

miles north-west of Kingsbridge, with a station about a Exeter: the east window is a memorial erected bv :Mr.

•

mile distant from the village. on the Kingsbridge branch of William Peek to his mother, who was a native of this

the South Devon (Great Western) railway, It is in the pari!ih: in the centre of the chancel is a large and interest-

Southern division of the county, hundred of Stanborough, ing stone inscribed to Mr. Phillips, a benefactor to the

petty sessional division of Stanborough and Coleridge, parish~ the font of old red sandstone is older than the

Kingsbridge union and county court district, rural deanery church and is supposed to date from the 12th century : two

ofWoodleigh, archdeaconryof Totnesand diocese of Exeter. hagioscopes and the entrance and steps to the rood loft are

The village is built upon the slope of the hills on the northern we1l preserved : a handsome new pulpit of alabaster was

side of the Avon, a rivf)r celebrated for its trout. The erected in 1893 as a memorial to the late Mr. Richard Peek :

church of St. Michael is a large building of stone, some the church was restored in 1866-7 at a cost of [,r,soo, and

portioiJ of which was erected in the 15th century, but the has 450 sittings. The parish register dates from the yeac

tower, naye and chancel date about the 12th century : it 1559· The living is a vicar-age, with the cbapelry of Buck-

consist of chancel, nave, north transept, south aisle, north land Tout Saints attached, average tithe rent-charge [,244,

and south chapels, south porch and a low embattled western joint yea\IY value about £275, ne$ £saso. including.. h4

tower containing a clock and 6 bells : the windows contain acres of glebe, with residence, in the gift of Mesdame8

the arms of the families' of .Arundel, Courtenay, l<'ortescue, Cameron, Cooper and Richards, and held since 1887 by the

Furlong, Giffard, Wise and others, and there are monu- Rev. Thomas Francis Bo11ltbee M .A, of Corpus Christi college,

ment!! to the families of Osmond, Furlong and Wise, Cambridge. Tbe tithes were commuted in 1838, the

-Gwnen of the AUeron 1lnd Woolston estates, as well as to rectorial for [28:r, yearly, now in the bands of Dr. Charles

1.be Langworthys, of Hatch .Arundelo. the north chapel Budd, as trustee for t.be family of the la.te Mrs. Betty Freke,

contains a monwuen~ to Rogen FurlOAg; oil. 16161 a s~ained and the .vicari~l (or £~6J. The V~ata~e House, 11ituntea

•

JDIRE'CTORY. DEV'ONSHIR]! LOXHORE. 3l'7

about. a mile from the village, was enlarged and neariy HA!tPJLWot>Dl 2} mile!! not'th-east, n.hd SoiAnoN', ~ mil~

built in x865. The Congregational chapel was erected in north--west; are hamlets of this parish. At Hazelwood is a

1864. There is a news and reading room and also another Congregational chapel erected in x864, and at Sta.nton a

room, rented by Colonel Wise, of Aileron, at which a surgeon chapel for Bible Christians, l>ut very irregular])'! Q.sed,

gives free attendance upon the poor one day in the week ; Parish Church Sexton, William Hingston.

it is also used for mothers' meeting!~, ni~ht schools &c.

Chapel !lexton, .tohn Pedrick.

Woolston House, the residence of Thomas Wyse Weymouth

esq. is surrounded by exttlnsive grounds. At Blackdown, Pos't OlrFICE,--James Harvey, sub-postmaster. Letters

iia this parish, copper mining was attempted, but the mines received through Kingsbridge at 8.30 a.m. ; dispatched

never made any return. Mr. R. Phillips in 1724 devised a at 4·45 p.m. week days ; sundays at 10.3o a.m. The

house and lands for the benefit of the poor of this parish ; ·nearest money order & telegraph office is at Kingsbridge.

the rents, amounting to about £58, are annually distributed Postal orders are issued here, but not paid

to the poor by the feoffees : other lands are held by them in

trust to keep the church in repair. Yellow ochre was at ScHooLs:-

()ne time manufactured from the clayey soil found on this National (mixed), is a building <:~f stone, erected in 187r

down. The remains of a Hritish camp, commonly called

"The Rings," are on land belonging to T. W. Weymouth with residence for the master adjoining, & enlarged in

esq. Aileron is the residence of Lieut.-Col. Dacres William

Wise J.P. 'fbe lordship of the manor is in three portions, 1892, at a co~t of £wo, for xoo children; average attend-

belonging respectivel:Y to Miss Carew, Mrs. Charles Osmond

and Nicholas William Prettyjohn Pitts esq. .l.P. of Whymp• ance, 65; John Tapp, master; Mrs. Elizabeth Tapp, mist

stone, Modbury. The principal landowners are Thomas British (mixed), built of stone in 1854. with residence for

Wyse Weymouth esq. N. W. P. Pitts esq. Lieut.-Col. Dacres master adjoining, by Richard Peek esq. of Hazel wood, for

200 children; average attendance, 7o; Frederick Alex.

Parker, master; Mrs. Mary Louisa Wood & Miss Sarah

Jane Hyne, mistresses

William Wyse J.P. James Peek esq. and Miss Carew. The CARRIERS TO : -

soil is various ; subsoil, clayey with shale. The chief crops PLYMOUTH-Alexander Luscombe & William Hy. Yalland,

.are whe:>.t, barley, oats and pastur&ge. The area is 3·494 junr. every fri. at 1 p.m. returning from Plymouth every

acres; rateable value,£4,175 xos. ; the population in x8g1 sat, at 3 pm

KINGSBRIDG Richard West, daily

was 8os.

Boultbee Rev. Thos.Fras. l\1.4. Vicarage Bine John, farmer Popplestone James~ farmer

Foale Philip, The Terrace Hingston Alfred & John, farmers Popplestone Philip, carpenter

:Marks Rev. Roland [Congregational] Hodder George, farmer, Greatgate Preston J obn, shoe maker

Pitman Augustus James Kennard Frederick, blacksmith :Prettejohn AI bert, farmer,Low<. Yanstorl

Weymouth Thomas '\Yyse, 'Woolston ho Kingwell Thomas, farmer, Week Rogers Richard, farmer, Cvldharbour

Willing Joel, Avon house Lakeman & Hall, farmers, Ham farm Rogers Richard, tailor

Wise Lieut.-Col.Dacres Wm..J.P.Alleron Lakeman George, draper Rundle Wilham Henry,'l'urk'sHead inn

COMMERCIAL. Lakeman Tryphena(Mrs.), New Bridge Sandover John, wheelwright

.Adams Henry, lodging ho. Bazelwood inn Saunders Mary (Mrs.), laundress

Andrews John, farmer, Heathfield Lapthorne James, tailor Shepherd George, farmer, Yanston

Haker Fras. farmer, Higher Hazelwood Lidstone A.melia (Mrs, ), draper Sparrow Benjamin, farmer1 Reveton

Baker Joseph, farmer & miller (water), Luscombe Alexander, farmer Wakeham Thomas, farmer, Stanton

Old mill Luscombe John, butcher Wakeham Thomas, jun. butcher

Ball John Thomas, farmer, see Laker- Luscombe Servington, miller (water), West Richard, carrier

man & Ball Knapp mill & farmer, Knapp farm Widger William Henry, fa1'mer, Combe

lllackler Philip, farmer, Hatch Arundell Luscombe William, farmer Walke John, farmer, Lower Hazelwood

Cole John, farmer, Hound Luscombe William, farmer, Woolston \Villing Charles Thomas, farmer. Reds

Elliott William, bread & biscuit baker, Mattacott James, farmer, Cburchlands Willing Thomas, farmer, Tunley farm

confectioner &c MaunderJames, farmer, Week Winzer William, jun. farmer, Hatch

Ellis Willia,m, millr. (water), New mill News & Reading Room (Frederick Woods Edwin, wheelwright

Fishwick George, keeper of river Avon Alexander Parker, sec) . Yalland James, jun. tailor

Hannaford Richd. By. farmer, Wigford Oates Charles, boot maker Yalland William Henry, boot maker

Hine Albert, farmer, Crannacombe Popplestone Chas. farmer, Hlackwell pk Yalland William ,Henry, jun. carrier

Hine John, carpenter Popplestone Elizabeth (Miss), laundress

LOXBEARE is a parish and small scattered village, with residence and 84 acres of glebe, in the gift of the Right

about 4 miles north-west from Tiverton, where the nearest Hon. Sir T. D. Acland hart P.C. and held since 1892 by the

railway staLion is, and 14 from South Molton, in the North Rev. William Murray Fairbairn B. A. of Trinity College,

Eastern division of the county, Cullompton petty sessional Cambridge. The interest on the Cudmore charity amo,unts

division, Tiverton hundred, union and county court district, to i,'x 2s. 8d. yearly. The manor was purchased in 16oo by

rural deanery of West Tiverton and archdeaconry and D. Cudmore, whose last descendant in the tnale line (Damel

diocese of Exeter. The church (dedication unknown), Cudmore esq.) died in 1703. The Rig-ht Hon. Sir Thomas

which stands 635 feet above the sea level, is a plain but Dyke Acland bart. P.c., D.L., if.P. of Killerton, is now lord

ancient edifice of stone, chiefly in the Decor&ted style, and of the manor and sole landowl?er. The soil is light ; and

consisting of chancel, nave and a massive western tower the subsoil in part clayey. The chief crops are wheat and

of Norman date, containing 3 ancient bells, dating from the barley and some land is in pasture, The area is 761 acres ;

time of Henry VI. ; the treble bears the legend "Ave rateable value, £x,585; the population in r8gx was 182.

Maria," and the tenor is a "Jesus" bell ; the others are also Parish Clerk, Harry Gee.

inscribed, but undated: the church has a Norman doOT- Letters tbTough Tiverton arrive at 8 a.m.; collected from

way and a few mural monuments: there are xoo sittings. WALL LETTER Box at 5 p.m. The nearest money order

The register of baptisms dates from the year 1564; & telegraph office is at Tive~ton

marriages, 1563; burials, 1560. The living is a rectory, Church of England School (mixed), for 25 children; average

average tithe ren~-charge £87, gross yearly value £161, attendance, 16; Mrs. A~nes Steward, mistress

Ashford Miss, Leigh Ferris Thomas, farmer, Leigh town Manley William, Royal Oak P.H. &

Fairbairn Rev. Wm.Murrayu.A.Rect.ory Knapman Arthur & Andrew, farmers, machinist, Gibbet moor

• AshfordJohn Henry,farmer,Chapelland Loxbeare Barton Palfreyman Lewis, farmer, Ingrams

& Leigh Harton Norrish Thomas, farmer, Church bill White Henry, blacksmith & farmer

Blake Abel, farmer, Sidbo'!'ough .

••

LOXHORE is a parish and scattered village and bounded was restored by the 'l."ector in x88o at a cost of £375: the

QD the west by t.Q.e river Yeo, 5~ miles north-east from nave was reseated a11d partially Yestored in :~881, chiefly at

Barustaple station on the North Devon branch of the London

and South Western railway and terminal station of the the expense of thff rector and late patron: there are ;~3ct

Devon and Somerset branch of the Great Western railway, in sittings. The register dates from the year 1165:~. 'fhe living

theNorth Western division of the county, Shirwell hundred,

Braunton petty sessional division, Bamstaple union and asis a l'ectory, tithe rent.-eliarge £x83, net yearly value /'.177,

county court district, rural deanery of Sherwell, arcbdea-

including acres of glebe, with residence, in the giU of the

conry of Barnstapla and dioeese oi Exeter. The church of trustees of the late Sir A. Y. Bruce Chichester bart. and held

St.. Michael is an ancient building of stone in the Early Eng- since 1884 by the Rev. George Owen Ramsay. There is a

Hsh style, consisting of chancel, nave, north aisle, south

porch and an embattled western tower containing 4 bells, small Wesleyan chapeL The trus~ pf the late !:fir 4 l\

cast in :1:742 ~ the arcade between the n!lve and north aisle Bruce Chichester bart. are lords of the manor and chief

landowners. The ~~~ is light : the subsoil is clayey~{ Thd:

is carried on wooden piers of the :iSth Cfiltury; the chancel

chief crops are oats and turnips. The acreage is ~.530;

rateable valuef £t,ssr ;-the population in 1891: was r92•

Sexton, Arthur James.. •·

318 LOXHOllE. DEVONSHIRE. [KELLY'S

Letters through Barnstaple (the nearest money order offiee) National School (mixed), built. in 184o,. for Bo children;

arrive at 9.30 a. m.; dispatched 10 a. m. Telegraph office average attendance, 43; Wilham Harns, master

at Bratton Fleming

RamsayRe¥. Geo. Owen[rector], Rectory Gonld George, farmer, Hammonds PugsleyAnthony,yeoman,Coombe farm

COMMERCIAL, Gould John,shoe maker,Lower Loxhore Pugsley Anthony, miller (water), Lox-

Clarke Corner, farmer & landowner, Gould John, jun. farmer, North farm hore mills

Smytha park Holland William (Mrs.), farmer, Bales Thorne Joseph, shoe maker

Clarke Richard, farmer, Riddle farm Mogridge Abraha.m, farmer, Cott Tucker William, farmer, South farm ·

Femey John, market gardener Mogridge Joseph, farmer, Kidwells Yendall Thomas, farmer, Lower Barton

Garnish Alfred, Fox Hunter's inn Priscott John, wheelwright

•

L UFOE'INCOTT is a parish in the valley of the Tamar when a new altar-table of carved oak was introduced ; there

and on the western border of the county, 4 miles west from are 70 sittings. The register or baptisms dates from the

Ashwater station on the Launceston and Tresmeer branch year 1659 l marriages, x6s3; burials 1664. The living is a

of the London and South Western railway and 7 south from rectory, tithe rent-charge .£'68, average £sx, net yearly in-

Holsworthy, in the Western division of the county, Black come £so, with glebe, let at £3o, and residence, in the gift

Torrington hundred, Holswortby petty sessional division, of Frank Bradshaw esq. and held since 1892 by the Rev.

union and county court district, rural deanery of Hols- Samuel Charles Haines M.A. of the University of R.Ostock.

worthy, archdeaconry of Barnstaple and diocese of J:<.:xeter. Frank Bradshaw esq. .T.P. of Lifton Park, Messrs. Joseph

The church of St. James is a small and plain edifice of stone, and Edmund Spettigue .and Mrs. Ford, who is lady of the

consisting of chancel, nal'e, soQth porch and an embattled manor, are the !»rincipal landowners. The soil is chiefly

western tower, with pinnacles at the angles, containing 3 clay; subsoil, clay. The chief crops are wheat, barle?, oats

bells, of which the first is an alphabet bell from A to I ; the and roots. Acreage, x,o71 ; rateable value, £633 ; the popu-

second bears an invocatory legend to the Virgin in Lom- lation in x88x was 6~ ; t8gt, 101.

bardic characters ; the third is dated 162s: on the 11outh Parish Clerk, William Morrish.

side of the tower is a slate slab bearing an inscription

recording the rebuilding of the tower in 179 r: in the floor Letters through Launceston arrive at xo a. m. Holsworthy

of the aisle is a stone to the memory of James, son of the is the nearest money order & telegraph office .

Rev. Joseph Whitborne, a former rector, ob. 1701: the This place is included in the United School Board district of

chnrch was thoroughly restored and reseated in 1893• under · Clawton, Luffincott & Tetcott. The children attend the

the direction of Mr. 0. B. Peter, architect, of Launceston, school at the latter place

HainesRev.SamuelCharles H.A..Rectory Skinner WiUiam, farmer, Yennon Spettigue Joseph & Edmund, yeomen,

West Pea.ke

Chubb Francis. farmer, Wordon Stidwell James, blacksmith

Congdon Thomas, farmer, Barton

L UNDY ISLAND, situated in the Bristol channel, rs Lloyd's have a signal station on the island; the. telegraph,

miles north-west from Clovelly, constitutes a parish in the owing to the breakdown and removal of the cable, had

North Western division of the county, petty sessional divi- not been worked for nearly fonT years, but the Govern-

sion, union and county court district of Bideford, hundred ment in July, 1893 restored this means of communication.

of Braunton, rural deanery of Hartland, archdeaconry of The Rev. H. G. Heaven M.A. is lord of the manor (which

Barnstaple and diocese of Exeter; it is 3 miles nautical, or retains very full manorial rights) and sole landowner. A

nearly 3l statute miles in length, by 1 nautical, or rather handsome mansion was built here by the late William Hud-

more than I statute mile in greatest breadth, but being very son Heaven esq. The whole island, with the exception of

irregular in outline, does not average more than ~ of a mile about 90 acres, is held on lease for a term of 14 years by

in breadth, giving an area of about 1,200 acres; the whole, Mr. H. Ackland. The island is mainly formed of and is

together with the sea surrounding it for 3 miles, from low famous for a. very hard and durable granitP., which furnished

water mark, is included in the port of Barnstaple ; the supplies for the construction, in 1864-70, of the Thames

sonearest railway station is 11.t Instow, on the main land; the Embankment. Of the land, only about acres are under

island is surrounded by lofty and inaccessible rocks, except cultivation, about 300 acres are maintained as permanent

on the eastern side, where it can be approached only by a pasture, and the remainder is moorland. 'fhe soil is

Tery small entrance : on this side is the roadstead, which is generally light, varying from light reddish loam to very

much frequented as a refuge by outward bound vessels and light black sandy peat, overlying a varying subsoil of white

pilot and tug boats, and affords to craft entering or leaving and yellow clay or gravel. 'fhe chief crops are hay, oats,

the Bristol channel the only shelter from westerly gales : barley and roots, and an attempt is being made to cultivate

communication with the mainland is seeured by means of a flowers for cutting and exportation to markets on the main-

sailing vessel every Thursday from Instow, and ftom Apple- land. The island supports about Boo sheep and 100 beasts

dare on the xst and ISth of every month throughout the and horses, and is the nesting-place of millions of sea-birds

year; by this vessel the weekly mails are conveyed, and, of many different varieties. The area is about 1 1 200 acres,

during the summer months only, a steamer runs from according to recent Ordnance survey, but has never been

Ilfracombe three or four times a week, as well as occasionally valued, and no rates are either levied or paid; the popula-

from Barnstaple and Bideford. The ancient chapel of St. tion is now (1893) 67.

Helen, with the annexed oratory of St. Anne, traditionally

said to hal'e been in use, at Ieastr for funeral services, in the PosT OFFICE, established in 1887 by H. M. Government,

reign of William Ill. has now been for many years a ruin,! who also pay half the expense for the weekly mail from

but in x889 the proprietor and his family erected an iron Instow, the other moiety being borne equally by the pro-

church, also dedicated to St. Helen, which has been opened prietor & the lessee, The Trinity House also have a private

and licensed by the Bishop of Exeter, and affords 82 sittings. mail from Appledore twice a month. Letters through

No parish registers are known to exist; certainly none have Inst.ow R.S.O. Postal orders are issued here, but not

been kept since the Reformation; births and deaths have paid. The Post Office authorities intend, during the

been registered of late years by the registrar of the Hart. present summer (r8g3), to establish telephonic communi-

land district. The living is a rectory, the patronage cation, by means or cable, with the mainland. in counec-

belonged in pre-Reformation times to Cleeve Abbey, in tion with the general scheme of electric communication

Somersetsbire, but on the suppression of that house the for lightbouses round t.he coast. Connected with the post •

patronage appeal'S to have lapsed, and no appointment has office are general stores, from which wind-bound ve~sels

ever since been made; the glebe, if any, passed to the may obtain supplies. H. Ackland, postmaster

owner of the island : the incumbency is in the gift of and Schools.-A day & night school, superintended & supported

has been held since 1864 by the Rev. Hudson Grosett

Heaven li.A.. of Trin1ty College, Oxford. There is an ancient by the rector & his family, who also do the teaching, is

bnrial ground attached to the remains of St. Helen's chapel,

dating from the 13th century, the freehold of which appears held four times a week, & there is also a sunday school.

to have passed into the possession of the landowner fOI' the

time being, on the suppression of monastic houses. There An iron school room was erected in 1888 at the cost- <lf &

are no diBSenting chapels of any kind. The ancient keep

relative of the proprietor, but owing to the prevalence of

illness the school has been in abeyance (May, 1893) for

some month!! ·

and otber remains of Marisco Castle, dating from the time Uoyds' Signa] Station, G. Thomas, caretaker

of Henry Ill. still exist, and there is a lighthouse and fog- Lighthouse Keeper, John M'Carthy

signal statioiL ·

Heaven Rev. Hndson Grosett li.A. rector 1Ackland Henry, farmer, storekeeper & postmaster

•

LUPPIT (or LUPPITT) is a village and parish, Exeter, in the Eastern division of the County, Axminster

by • small tributary of the river Otter, 5 miles north fJ,'om hundred, Honiton petty sessional division, union and county

Honiton, where the nearest railway station is, u south·east court di$trict, rural deanery of Dunkeswell and Honiton ami

from Wellington, 14 south from Ta"ijllton and 20 north.from archdeaconry and diocese of Exeter. Th~ church of ,St.

DIIU:Cl'ORY.] DEVONSHIRE. LUSTLEIGH. 319

)lary is an ancient cruciform building of stone, consisting of called~· Hartridge." There are ~ome remains here of an

chancel, nave, transepts, south po~h and a western tower ancient mansion of the Mohun family, barons Mohun, in-

containing 4 bells:!- it has a very ancient cradle roof ()f oak, eluding the gateway, adorned with some tine carving.

supported at the intersection of the transepts by massive ribs Arthur Francis Bernard esq. J.P. of Combe Raleigh, who

of oak, which, crossing the nave diagonally, meet in a. fine is lord of the manor, George Potter Blake esq. Mrs. Charles

boss in the centre and form two horse~shoe arches, resting on John Helyar, of Poundisford Lodge, Pitminster, Somerset :

stone pillars at the four angles: in rebuilding the chancel, Mrs. E.. Helyar; Horace Augustus Helyar esq. M. A., J.P. of

earthen jars, said to be for acoustic purposes, and commonly Coker Court, Somerset; William Story esq. and Mrs. Simcoe,

placed in buildings be!ween the 13th and 15th centuries, of Wolford Lodge, are the chief landowners. The soil is

were found in the walls: some remains of an Early Norman various; subsoil, marl. The crops are chiefly grass, with

piscina, which had been cot in order to form a buttress cor• some wheat, barley, oats and roots. The area is 5,999

bel, were also met with : in the north wall of the chancel is acres : rateable value, £4,994 ; the population in r891 wa.s

a tomb with niches and rich tabernacle work under an open 557·

foliaged arch, said to be that of Sir John Carew, ob. 1320: it SHAPECOMBR, 2f miles south-west, is a tithing, and was

once bore some fine brasses, now missing: in the south formerly a manor.

transept is a. stone inscribed to Joan (Bevyle), wife of William BEACON, 1 mile east from the church; SHAUGH, 3 miles

Wenard, supposed to be identical with William WynarJ, south-east, near the River Otter; and WEEK, !Z miles south,

recorder of Exeter, in qo4, and founder of "God's House" are hamlets. ··

in that city: there is also an interesting font of Early Nor- Parish Clerk, George James Berry.·

man or Saxon date: the church affords stttings .for 300 PosT 0FFICE.-Miss Mary Jane Llewellyn Stamp, sub-post-

persons. The register dates from the year 17to and is much mistress. Letters arrive from Honiton at 8.30 a.tn.;

mutilated. The living is a vicarage, average tithe rent· dispatched at 3.50 p.m. Up-Ottery is the neares~ money

charge £w6, net yearly value £97, including 8 acres of order & telegraph offi.ce at Honiton. Postal orders are

glebe, with residence, in the gift of Mrs. Charles John Helyar, issued here, but not paid

and held since r88o by the Rev. William Thomas Perrott, of ' National School (mixed), erected, with teachers' residence, in

Corpus Christi College, Cambridge. The view from Dump- 1873, at a cost of about £goo, for 120 children; average

don Hill, a well-formed Britisli encampment in this parish, attendance, 75; George James Berry, master; Mrs.

is extensive and beautiful. There is also a fine range of hills Charlotte Berry, mistress

Helyar Mrs. Halsdon Hayman Adolphus Gustavus, farmer, Redwood, Samuel, shoe maker, Beacon

PerrottRev. William Thomas, Vicarage Moorlands ReedJohnBurrough,farmer,Nor~hWeek

COMMERCIAL. Hooper Henry, mason, J'yles cottag-e Rice Henry, farmer, Palmerhayes

Batten William, farmer, Woodhayes Isaacs R1chard, farmer, Dolish Sage John, farmer, Lower Shelving

BerryWilliam(Mrs.),farmer,Odlefarm James Richard,farmer, Greenwayfarm Scott Alfred, farmer, Week

Blackmore Prudence (Mrs.), farmer, Johnson James, farmer, Gully Hayes Searle Francis,tbatcher, Sea.rlescottage

Moore's Week Loveridge Isaac, blacksmith & farmer Searle Fras. jun. thatcher, Antelope cot

Blackmore Wm.farmer,Mohun's Ottery Loveridge Pamela (Miss), shopkeeper Searle John, thatcher, Turf cottage

Bright James, farmer, Budgels Manfield Rt.builder&wheelwt.Beacon et Summers Samuel, farmer, Blackentield

Broom John, farmer, Scotshayes Manley Robert, farmer, Shelf Totterdell John, road contractor, Cotes

Broom William, farmer, Pitt farm ManvillA William,butcher&shopkeeper, 'fozel' John, farmer, Overday

Clapp William, farmer, Mathayes Birds cottage Trenchard John,dairyman,Shapecombe

Davey Robert, cattle dealer, Mill cot Palfreman John, farmer,Higb.Shelving Tucker William, farmer, Stockers Week

Davey Robert, jun. corn miller (water) Palmer John, carpenter, Pyles cottage Venn John, farmer, Mount Stephen·

Daymond Joseph,farmer,HugginsWeek Pearcy John, farmer, Barber~ Warren George, farmer, Barnlield

Dimond James, farmer, Windsor Pearn Joseph, farmer, Calhayes Warren James, farmer, Gully lane

Ewins Francis, farmer, Pound Phillips Henry, farmer, Red Doors Warren Josiah, farmer, Coombes head

Griffin James, farmer, Whitehall Phillips Wm. baker & shopkpr. Beacon Warren Thomas, farmer, Spurtham

Griffin John, dairyman, Stoneacre Pile John, farmer, Hill end White Samuel, dairyman, Barn

Griffin John, fanner, Ford farm Pring Joseph, farmer, Newhouse Wood Amos, farmer, Sharcombe

Ha.rding James, farmer, Shelf farm Pring Joseph, jun. farmer, Lawman's Wright Charles, Red Lion P.H

Hartnell Geo.dairyman,Higher Sh11ugh Pulman James, mason, Beacon Wright Waiter, shoe ma.Spa.rrowg ctoft

HartnellRt.(Mrs.),frmr.HigherShaugh Pulman John, mason, Week

LUSTLEIGH is a parish and village,. about one mile shafts, only the capitals being now left: the porch has an

west of the high road from Newton Abbot to Moreton aspersorium, or holy-water stoup, with a square basin: a.t

Hampstead, with a station on the Moreton Hampstead the entrance of the porch is a stone with a remarkable in-

branch of the Great Western railway, 10 miles north-by- scription on it, as yet unexplained: the communion plate

west from Newton Abbot, 4 south-south-east from Moreton includes a chalice, given by Edward Basill, rector, who died

Hampstead, and 222! from London, in the Mid division of 6th Jan. 1697, and a flagon and two patens, given by the

the county, 'feignbridge hundred, Crockernwell petty ses- Rev. William Davy, rector, who died in 1826: tpere are 200

sional division, Newton Abbot union and county court sittings. The register dates from the year 1631, The living

district, rural deanery of Moreton, archdeaconry of Totnes, is a rectory, tithe rent-charge commutation £201, average

and diocese of Exeter. The church of St. John the Baptist £148, net yearly value £rso, including 36 acres of glebe,

is an ancient edifice of granite in the Early English and with residence, in the gift of and held since 1888 by the Rev.

Perpendicular styles, consisting of chancel, south transept, Harry Tudor M.A. of Magdalene College, Cambridge, pre-

nave, north aisle, with an arcade of four arches, separating it bendary of Exeter, proctor in convocation and surrogate.

from the nave, south porch and an embattled western The rectory hou.se contains a fine hall, with an Early English

tower of ashlar work, with pinnacles and containing 6 roof. Here is a small Baptist chapel and a meeting house

bells: the chancel retains a beautiful double piscina of for the Brethren. The parish room was rebuilt iu 1888 in

Early English date, and three sedilia with triangular heads memory of the late rector. Davy's charity of about [,6 1os.

of the same period: the priest's doorway also remains, and a year is now expended in giving awards to the chUdren of

on the north side is an Early English Easter sepulchre : the Board and Sunday schools ; a. smaller charity ~( £, x

the east window in stained, and there are seven other stained yearly value is for the benefit of deserving parishioners.

windows, some of which contain ancient glass representing Lustleigh Cleave is a picturesque ravine of granite rocks of

the Virgin and Child, St. Margaret, and an Archbishop ; considerable extent, running almost parallel with the valley

in the chancel are also two small brackets, each pierced with in which the village stands, and surmounted by a hold

three holes and from which, during Lent, a cloth or hanging sweeping brow: in a hedge between the ~burch and the

was suspended concealing the altar: the rood stairs, with railway station 1s a square block .of granite1 probably once

both doorways, still remain: in the north aisle, within low the base of a cross, and called "the Bishop's. Stone," from

arched recesses, are recumbent effigies of a knight in coif the arms of Bishop Stapledon, which are. said w appear

and hauberk, covered by a cyclas, and bearing a shield ; upon it. The celebrated Logan rock is about ri miles from

and of a lady attired in a wimple and flowing gown; these the station. The chief landowners are .Mr. Willi~ WilJs,

figures appear to belong to the first part of the 14th century; Mr. William Amery and Mrs. Wise; but U\Oit of the

at the east end is a similar effigy of a knight of somewhat farmers farm their own land. The soil js granitiGI the

later date; the whole are assumed to represent members of subsoil, granite. The chief crops are wheat, barley,

the Prous or Prouz family, and according to Risdon (survey potatoes and turnips. The area is 2,286 acres; rateable

of Devon 1714-23) one of the shie-lds then bore the arms of value, £2,827; the population in xSgt was 405. On March

this family: a carved oak screen of Ferpendicular date ex- 25, x885, a. detached part of this parish, known as Pepper-

tends across the nave and aisle ; the lower portion is panelled down, was amalgamated with Moreton Hampstead.

in twenty-four panes, ,::ontaining figures of SaintM carved tPKTHYBRIDGE, mile west, and HAXKRSr.AKK1 I mile

in relief; the cornice is carved with vine foliage and grapes: south, are hamlets.

the font is Norman, •nd consists of a circular basin orna.- Parillh Clerk, Stephen Nickolls.

mented with cable moulding, and once surrounded by six PosT, M. 0. 0.., S. B. & Annuity & Insurance OJice,-k

3.20 LPSTLElG-HI DEVOXSHIRE. {KELL1'~S

William Henry Bartlett, sub-postmaster. Letters ara Bovey Tracey is a ~nuibutdry parish with !I tnembe'J'9 i

Teceived from Newtpn Abbot at 6.~o a. m. & 6.35 p1m.; William Wills, East Wray. clerk to the board

dispatched at 1.50-& 6.45 p.m. The telegraph office is at Board School, built in 1878, for So children .t enlarged

the railway statton for collection, and Bovey Tracey for 189:a for 125; average attendance~ 95; Charles Sampson•

delivery of telegrams master

A School Board of 5 members was formed October 19, 1875; Railway Station, John Powlesland

[Marked thus • receive letter~ through Wills William, East Wrey Hellier Ethel (Mrs.), furnished apart.

Moreton Hampstead]. Wise Mrs. C(lmbe ments or board & residence; tennis;

PRIVATE RESIDENTS. Wright Major Chas. Edwd.Cleav13 view pony carriage; lovely moorland

.Amery Mrs. Mapstone fJOMMERCIAL. scenery, Cleaveland

Colvile Misses, St. Andrews Aggett Emma (Mrs. ),apartmts.Fair vw *Hooper Edwin, farmer, & good fur..

Ellis Mrs. Hillshay Aggett James, thatcher nished apartments; high, healthy

Ensor Mrs. The Rectory Amery Chas. Sumpter, assistant oversr situation, Narramore

Fisher Rev. Wilfred lii.A. Parklands *Amery Ft•ederick, farmer, Barne *Hunt ArthurRoope,farmer,Foxworthy

Gibbons Mrs. Hillside *AmeryJobnWestaway,farmer,Sanduck Lamb James, blacksmith, Hillshay

Gorle Miss, Hillside Bartlett Wm. Hy. sbopkpr. Post office May Edwin, farmer, Rudge

*Hunt Arthur Roope, Foxworthy Chudley John, furnished apartments; Mortimore William, carpenter

Hunt Thomas Hy. Carew, Undercleave pshing & shooting, Caseley house Osborne William, blacksmith

Morris Miss, South hill Crook Arthur John Hussey, farmer, Payne George, blacksmith

Richmond Mrs. Woodlands Higher Combe • *Powlesland William, farmer, Peck

!Umington Miss, Middlecombe Easton George, builder, & comfortable Reading Rooms (T.H.C.Hunt,hon. sec)

~aunders Mrs. Rock mead furnished apartments, Grove villa Sherman Richard, Cleave hotel

'l'roughton Adolphus Charles,Hillhayes Easton William, carpenter Squires Jane (Mrs.), apartmts.Rock v:l

'Tudor Rev. Harry M.A. [rector, preben• French Richard & Son, farmers, Nonth Squires Samuel, cab proprietor

dary of Exeter & surrogate], Rectory Harton Westcott Richard,farmer,Soutll Ha.rton

Vigor Rev. Wm. Edwd. B.A.. Woodfield Glanv1lle RanlupbEdwd.frmr.Ellamore Wills William & Charles Germon, far-

Wills Charles Germon, East Wrey Guest Jas. market gardener, South hill mers, East Wrey

Wills Mrs. Waye *Harvey Daniel., farmer, Fursdon WillsJohn,yeoman,HigherHisley&Waye

Wills Mrs. George, Lower Hisley Harvey William, carpenter

L UTON, see BisHOPS TEIGNTON.

LYDFORD is a parish, with a station ~~ miles south of ·I K.G. and held since 1891 by the Rev. Richard Turner ~.A.

the village on the Launceston and 'favistock branch railway, of New College, Oxford, who resides at Princetown. There

:207! miles from London, in the Western division of the is a Bible Christian chapel here, built of stone, with sittings

county, Lifton hundred, Tavistock petty sessional division, for 100 persons. The vtllage is supplied with water by

union and county court district, r.ural deanery of Tavistock, means of aqueducts, constructed in r88t, at the sole

.archdeaconry of Totnes, and diocese of Exeter, 7i miles expense of D. Radford esq. .J.P. of Mount Tavy, Tavistock.

north from Tavistocli and l4 from Launceston. This place, A granite <.Toss has been erected on Bray's Tor. Lydford

.d.uring the Saxon period and subsequently, was a borough, Castle, now in ruins, was erected at some period sub-

.and returned two members to Parliament from rgor until sequent to the Conquest, as a protection to this part of

1307, after which the burgesses, "propter paupertatem," the county; the remains consist chiefly of the keep, situ-

were excused : at the beginning of the reign of Edward I. ated on an artificial mound on one side of a wide sloping

the assizes were held here and at Exeter alternately. Lyd- area, inclosed by double parallel earthworks; the fortress

.ford station is tbe junction of the London and South Western can be approached only from the north-east, and was

• railway with the LaWJceston, Tavistock and Plymouth line once, no doubt, a place of considerable importance; the

of the Great Western railway. The Plymouth, Devonport castle was in a decayed state in r6so, but continued to

.and South Western junction railway, constructed in t88g be in some degree habitable until about 1820: here the

from Lydford to flymouth, furnishes the South Western Stannary Courts were formerly held. The river Lyd,

Company with an independent line to Plymouth. The which flows through the parish, rises about 3 miles above

church of St. Petrock is a building of granite, incorporating Lydford, and is spanned by a picturesque bridge of one arch,

remains of an older structure of freestone, in the Early thrown across a ravine 70 feet in depth ; immediately below-

Perpendicular style, with some traces of Early English is the famous Lydford Gorge. The stream flows over its

work, consisting of chancel, nave of three bays, south aisle, rocky bed for about a mile and a half from the bridge,

south poreh and an embattled western tower, with crocketed where it is joined by the stream which forms the well-known

pinnacles, containing 5 bells, recast with additional metal Lydford cascade, which has a fall of about Ioo feet. About

in 1789, from a previous peal of three, by J. Pennington and one mile above the viltage, on the course of the Lyd, is a

Co. under a licence from the Bishop: in th~ west wall of waterfall, commonly called "Kitt's Steps." H.R.H. the

the aisle are remains 'Of the stairease to 'the rood loft; the Prince of Wales K.G. is lord of the manor and chief land-

.east end of the aisle, formerly a chapel, retains a hagioscope owner. 'fhis parish, which includes the greater part of the

pierced through these stairs, and a niche with a mutilated forest of Dartmoor, is the largest in area in England. The

female figure in alabaste'r: the priest's door on the south township contains g,662 acres of land, exclusive of the

side of the chancel is now blocked and filled in part Dartmoor Forest quarter, which extends over 56,333 acres;

\Tith a square-headed window= the circular granite font rateable value, £6,784: the population in 1891 was 2,707,

is a curious work of Early English date, and the porch. including about 48 officers, and 900 prisoners in Dartmoor

which belongs to the same period, retains a stoup on the Convict Prison. '

.east side; the stained east window was erected in r879 by PRINCE TowN, on the moor, is given under a sepl\rate

Daniel Radford esq. of Lidford Bridge, in memory of his heading, and particulars of Dartmoor are there given.

brother, George W. Radford esq. and there is a memorial Parish Clerk, Peter Hill.

window to a child of Mr. and Mr!f. George Radford; there PosT 0FFICE.-William Symons, receiver. Letters arrive

are also two other stained windows, placed by Arthur · from Bridestowe R.S.O. North Devon at 7 a.m.; pis-

Radford esq. as memorials to his late wife: there are roo patched 5.40 p.m. The nearest money order office is a~

.sittings. 'l'he Rev. W. K. Chafy Chafy, cnrate in charge of Okehampton. The telegraph office is at the railway station.

the parish, 1875-6, spent about £g,boo in completely re- Postal orders are issued here, but not paid

furnishing the churoh, repairing and adding to the rectory WALL LETTER Ho:t, S. W. R. ~tation, cleared 5 p.m

house and building new stables: in t8go a north aisle and WALL LETTER Box, Downton, cleared 6 p.m

.a \"estry were added -andP:the church restored at a cost of A School Board of 5 members was formed December 18,

.£8oo: in the churchyard is a tomb with a long and very 1874; J. D. Johnstone, Tavistock, clerk to the board

Routleigh1 a.

.sing ular inscri ption to Georg e r watchmaker . Board School (mixed), built in 1878, for go children;,

The register of bapti s dates fr om I1ItJ: ma riages, 1719 average attendance, 69; William Henry Kenner, master

sm ~

burials, 1726. TM living is a rectory, average tithe. rent- RAILWAY STATIONS:-

charge£t4g,netyearlyvalue.!n7,including28acresofglebe L. & S. W. R. Wallace Screttino, station master

with residence, in the gift of H.R'.H. the Prince of Wales G. W. R. John Whiteway, station mastllf

Fuller Miss •

Dartmoor Peat & Iron Smelting Co. Kennard Richard, farmer, Downtob

.J.eeves Anthony, Rouge cottage Limited (Sellsby Willsont manager Kennard William, frmr.HigherDownton

Macklin Rev. HerbertWalt. H. A.. (curate] Down William, farmer~ Townsencl May John, blacksmith ·

'Willaon Sellsby Fry Edmund, thatcher May William, carpenter

COllfMEROIAlt, Gill Henry1 boot & shoe maker PalmeP William, farmer, Doetor

Bickle George, wheelwright Heathmao Ha.rry,!lartmoor inn Pengelly Williatn, boot & shoe makel'

Hi~kle John, blacksmith Horn John, (.,'lla.Je mR< Penhallorick Harry, shopkeeper

C~mk Charles, tailorr . Petbnick Herbert, bmldet

Huggins R&g \l', masJD. .

DIRECTORY.] DEVONSHIRE. LY.MPSTONE. 321

Phillips Henry (:.\1r$.), farmer Rice Thomas Henry, miller (water), Ware Mary Ann (Mrs.), shopkeeper

Phillips John, farmer grocer & assistant. overseer [For remainder of names in this parish

Phillips Thomas, farmer Webb Wilham Martin, lodging house, see PRINCE TowN, placed there for

Symons Wm.Hy.shopkeeper&post office Lydford house postal purposes]

LYMPSTONE (or LYMPSTON) is a parish and village memory of his wife Mary Jane, and to commemorate her

pleasantly seated on the eastern banY: of the broad estuary kindness to and sympathy for the poor of Lympstone; from

of the Exe, with a station on the Exmouth branch of the the top magnificent views of the surrounding country can

London and South Western railway, 18o miles from London, be obtained. This is the head quarters of No. I Company of

7~ miles south-south-east from Exeter, 3"~ south-south-east the ISt Devonshire Volunteer Artillery, Western Division,

from Topsham and 2t north from Exmouth, in the Eastern Royal Artillery; the drill shed and general equipments are

division of the county, hundred of East Budleigh, petty sea- very complete. Here is a Working Men's Club, established

'Sional division of Woodbury, union of St. Thomas, county in 1884, and a lending library1 open during the winter

eourt district of Exeter, rural deanery of Aylesbeare and months ; also a Cl)nservative Club, established in :rB85.

archdeaconry and dwcese of Exeter. The church of St.Mary There are several good residences in the parish, including

is a building of red sandstone in the Perpendicular style, con- Harefield, Lympstone House, Lympstone Grange, the .Manor

sisting of chancel, nave, aisles, south porch and an embattled House, Sowdon Lodge, High Cliffe, and the Rectory" Sir

western tower, dating from 1409, and containing a clock Fraucis George Augustus Fuller-Elliot-Drake bart. of Nut-

and 5 bells, all cast in 1746, and the third recast in 1887: well Court, is lord of the manor, William Henry Peters esq.

in 1864 the old structure, being much dilapidated, was, with D.L., J. P. is the principal landowner; the rest of the land is

the exception of the tower, rebuilt and a north aisle added; divided among a great number of persons. The soil is of a

the interior of the tower was restored and a clock chiming rich loam, and the subsoil is gravel. The chief trades am

the quarters erected in 1884 at a cost of £266: there are sea-fishing and Honiton lace making, the latter industry

memorral windows in the south aisle to William Henry having greatly declined in recent years. The area of tha

Wright, d. May 16, 1867, and to Mary Jane, wife of W. H. parish is 1,I2o acres of land and 280 of water; rateable

Peters esq. J.P. d. Nov. 3• 1884 ; three others in the north value, £4,879; the population in 1891 was I,097·

aisle are to Frances Lucy Peters, daughter of the above, d. Sexton, Harry Pannell.

May 17, rB54, and tSoIu·Mrraerffy• Ad ·nn18a8n6d• Cadtherine Shiurre.ff, sp OST, M• 0 . & T • 0 ., • B., Annur"ty & I nsurance Office.-

t l• 1884• and Dr. an one to maJor

and Mrs. Octavius Marshall, d. 1889 ~ a new organ cham- John Mortirner, sub-postmaster. Letters received from

ber and vestry wera erected in r889 at a cost of £4oo, s&HttaLhhttor1'5eegen7rehpNde_et.2ot,omro0ncrL.lta&peh;yta.mmtarr8heutp_.ed5r1sa5tS0aolT_ton3aaou58.etwm.t;75ahn.c.a1maa.&e.dtmam.e5r7&.le..i_&2vd22d9e0.5ia4rasy5ptp.p.m.a8&cmmto.ca7.m.&h..m5em4dLwp..e3e.Ana2mt5ct·Lt4eep.3Ls°r.wmspBa&e.rtO.eme7k7;xc.Epedd&;isi.av,smsyIepCudsI.anhotwfadcunr.hearolmeycyemkhds.;

and a new organ is now (1893) being erected at a cost days only

of £450: there are 510 sittings. The register dates from Ist Devonshire Volunteer Artillery, Western Division, Royal

:\fay, 1654. The living is a rectory, average tithe rent..

charge 1,·199, net yearly income £245, with 12 acres of glebe

and house, in the gift of the Rev. C. D: E. Malet, vicar of

Beech Hill, Berks, and held since 1892 b,r the Hev. Charles

Oordon Browne M. A. of Balliol College, OJxford: attached to

the living is a rectorial manor, the lands of which are leased

ctut for hves, and held under the rector as lord ; on the ex- Artillery (No. I Company), Capt. & Hon. Major l<'rederick

piration of the leases the value of the living will be consider- Ralph Carr, commanding; Surgeon-Lieut.-Col. George

a:lJly augmented, as, by an Act of Parliament passed in I86I, Pigott Barton, medical ofticer ; Serg.-Major Hurkett R.A.

the rack rents w1ll then revert to the living. The Primitive drill instructor

:Methodist chapel, erected in rw88it3h at a cost of about £8so, National School (mixed & infants) built in 1825 & enlarged

is a n~>at building of limestone Bath stone dressings in in 1872 & r886, for 250 children; average attendance,

the Gothic style, and will seat 2g0 persons. The parish I66; 81. G. Sheppard, master; :Vlrs. Eliza Sheppard, mist

charities amount to about £6o yearly, and are expended Railway Station, William Iremongcr, station master; agent,

upon the National and Sunday schools and the deserving John Widdicombe

poor. N~ar the beach is a square tower with weather vane,· CARRIERS TO EXETER.-Charles Reynolds to' White Hart,'

containing a clock with two dials, erected in r885 at !l cost & Joseph Horsford & Son, to the 'Dolphin,' every mon.

6f about £r,ooo, by W. H. Peters esq. of H;uefield, in wed. & fri. at xo a.m.; returning at B p.m

PRIVATE RESIDENTS. Whitehead Mrs. Brook cottage Hallett John, farmer, Lyndhayes farm

l!arton George Pigott, Varnes Wreford Miss Hannett Henry, boot & shoe maker

Birch Col. Charles B.A., J.P. Lymp- Wright 11isses, Sonthtown rtaymanSamuelJn.farmer,yoombe.frm

stone grange COMMERCIAL. Hill George, farmer

BlandMrs Alford William (Mrs.), blacksmith Hill Henry, dairyman

Browne Rev. Chas. Gordon M.A. Rectry Arscott James, farmer, Thorn farm Hockings Louis, boot & shoe maker

Bryant Miss, Lympstone house Bailey John, farmer, Pitt farm Horsford Joseph & Son, carriers

Iremonger William; station mastel" Y

Carr Frederick Ralph Baker Joseph, market gardener

Chesnutt Frederick, Bronte house Blampin Jcmah, shopkeeper Jackson Sophia (Miss), boot dealer

Chetwynd M-uy Viscountess, Highcliffe Barton George Pigott, surgeon,& medi-j Jackson William Sivell, plumber, gas-

Dallas Franci$ Henry, Wistoria cottage calofficer &publicvaccinator~Lymp- fitter, bellhanger & general smith &c

Dallas James F.L.S. Cantralees stone district, St. Thomas union, & Jones George, baker

Dick Mrs. The Cottage inspector army recruits, Varnes Kennard A~ust.Emma(Mrs. ),dressmkr

Fley Miss Bodley John Noel, carpenter LawnTennisClub (Miss Dick,hon.tec-.),

Freeman Richard, Newlands Bodley Leah (Miss), milliner The Cottage

}'ulford Rev. Robert Medley (curate], Bolt William Brice, butcher Linscott Wu1.miller (water) & maltster

The Metheralls Bowerman William, dairyman Lympstone Lending Library (Miss A.

Gardner Mrs. Exe view Bricknell Jane (Mrs.), farmer Dick, hon. sec)

Grant Frederick William, Avenue ho Bridle Ernest, farmer LympstoneWorking Men's Club (Harry

Hannaford Mrs Challis John, fish dealer W. L. Landon, hon. sec)

HargreavesGeorgeHarrison,Sowdon ldg Chick George, Railway hotel Moore John & Son,farmers & dairymen

Hussey Col. Thomas, Highcliffe Chown Wm. Hy. plumber & glazier MortimerJohn,draper & grocer, Post off

lames Misses, Sontberleigh Conservative Club (H. W. L. Landon; Newbery Susannah (:Mlls. ),honiton lace

.Jameson Mrs. Lympstone house hon. sec) manufacturer

L1ndon Harry Whittington Liddiard, Coventon George, builder Pannell Henry, market gardener

'l'edstone Davey James, farmer, Sowdon . Parsons Charlotte (Mrs.), china dealer

Louch Charles .Tohn, Sowdon house Delve Frederick, wine & spirit merchnt Perry John, tly proprietor

Luxmoore Rear-Admiral Percy Putt Denning Sarah (Mrs.), shopkeeper Perry Mary (Mrs.), laundress

c.B. Bridge house Devonshire (1st) Voluntee1.1 Artillery, Pidsley William, shopkeeper

:\loore-:Miller Mrs. Sunnyside Western Division Royal Artillery (No. Pidsley William, jun_ market gardener

l'earce Frank, Underhill . I Company)(Capt.&Hon.Major Fred. Pyle William Henry, coach builder,

Penny Miss . Ralph Carr, commanding; Surgoon- wheelwright & smith

Peters WilliamHenryrl.L., J.P.Harefield Lieut.-Col. George Pigott Barton, Quick. Edward Hare, builder

medical officer; Sergt.-Maj. Hurkett Quick Eli Thomas, boot & shoe maker

'Pitt Mrs. Greenbiil

S:mctuary CommanderWilliamMelanc- R..A. dnll instructor) QuickWm.Sanders,chemist & druggis

thon R.N. The ~Ianor house

Fley James Godfre.v,shopkpr.& fish dlr Ratclitie Ann (Mrs.), shopkeeper

Sintzenich :\lrs. Ellinthorpe Furze Robert, fish dealer Reed Sarah (Mrs. ),laundress

Till Ed ward . Gardener William, builder Rew Henrietta- (¥iss), apartments,

'fupper Miss, Sunnyside GardneP Francis, London :P.ll Rew Rich.ard, farmer

• •I 21

•

322 LYMPSTONE. DEVONSHIRE.

Reynolds Chllrles, can·ier Skinner James, fish merchant Tozer James (Mrs.), laundress

Reynolds W. S. (Mrs.), apartments Skinner John Quick, painter Tuck Francis Drake, farmer, Wotton

Reynolds William, shoe maker Skinner William, baker Venman Edwin George, carpenter

Searle Francis Yard, carpenter Skinner William, fish dealer Venman Richard Gwyn,builder & assis- ·

Searle James Hole, fish dealer Stacker Thomas, saddler tant overseer

Sellers Fanny (Miss), baker Taylor & Son, tailors & riding breeches Widdicombe John, coal mer. & agent

Shears Christopher, ironmonger makers &c for London & South WesternRailway

Shears Thomas, carpenter Taylor George, Globe P.H Williams Edmund Harris, Saddlers'

Sheppard Samuel G. schoolmaster & Tozer James, thatcher & basket maker Arms P.R

organist at St. Mary's church

LYNMOUTH, so called from its situation at the con- perpetual curacy, annexed to the vicarage of Countisbury,

fluence and mouth of the East and West Lyn, on the out- and held since 1886 by the Rev. Albert Richards Hockley.

skirts of Exmoor, is well known as a popular and beautiful Tbe Lyndale, Tors Park and Bath family hotels are replete

watering-place, occupying a level site, near the seashore, at with every convenience for visitors. Here is also a public read-

the entrance of an immense gorge, into which the magnifi- ing room ; and a life-boat and life-saving rocket apparatus

cent ravine of the East Lyn and the densely-wooded but are maintained. The chief places of interest in the neighbour-

sequestered valley of the West Lyn abruptly descend, the hood are Brendon Valley, Bossington hill, Culbone, Dunkery

twin streams, after heavy or long continued rains, assum- beacon, 1,668 feet above the sea level, Exmoor, about 14

ing formidable proportions, and rush down to the sea miles square and largely uncultivated ; Glenthorne, with a

with extraordinary speed and great uproar 1 within the delightful coast path winding reund the cliffs ; Heddon's

circuit of a few miles inland there is every variety of hill moutb, the entrance to a romantic valley, Lyndale, Lee

and dale, with woody tracts and moorland of vast extent, bay, the Valley of Rocks, and that of the West Lyn and

and valleys of extreme beauty traversed by mountain Waters' meet. The population in 1891 was 312.

streams dashing impetuously over their rock-strewn beds; PosT, M. 0. & T. 0., S. B. & Annuity & Insurance Office.-

the coast scenery here is also very fine and extensive: the Edward James Pedder, sub-postmaster. Letters arrive

Welsh coast is generally visible, and sometimes the hills of from Barnstaple at 9.25 a. m. & 7.30 p.m.; dispatched at

South Wales maybe very distinctly made out. By an Order 7.3oa.m. & 3.46 p.m

in Council, dated July 6, 1886, l..ynmouth was ecclesiasti- PUBLIC ESTABLISHMENTS :-

cally annexed to Countisbury. The church of St. John the National Life Boat Institution, Lynmouth, Rev. A. R.

Baptist, a chapel of ease to Countisbury, erected by voluntary Hockley, hon. sec

contributions at a cost of about J;2,ooo, is a building of stone Public Reading Room, Lynmouth, John Elworthy, sec

in the Early English style, consisting of vaulted apsidal chan- Coast Guard Station, William J ones, chief officer

eel, nave, south aisle, north porch, and a western turret National School (mixed), for 100 children; average attend-

containing 2 bells: there are 220 sittings. The living is a ance, so; William Northcote, master

Beck John, Prospect house Blackford Sidney, watch maker Oxenham Ann (Mrs.), dress maker

.Bevan William, Glen Lyn CrickMary(Mrs.),apartmnts.Clifton ho Oxenham Thomas, tailor

Burgess William, Prior's cot Elworthy Jobn, grocer Parker Aaron, shoe maker

Edmouds Mrs. Frederick Ezekiel, Fewings Thomas, apartments, I Lyn Peake Wm. apartments,2 Lyn Cliff ter

Clooneavin Cliff terrace Pedder Edward James, shipowner, coal

Hermann Mrs. Bonniecott villa Ford Mary (Mrs.), apartments & corn merchant, grocer & draper,

Hockley Rev. Albert Richards [vicar of Goodacre Bros. stationers & booksellers butcher, boarding house & horse &

Countisbury & perpetual curate of Hartnett John, Rising Sun P. H carriage proprietor, & general stores,

Lynmouth], The Vicarage Heywood John, Bath family hotel &; London house

Ridden Mrs. Glenwhalt posting house & wine & spirit mer Pennicot Margaret (Mrs.), china dealer

COMMERCIAL. Hooper Henry, carpenter · & apartment.'!, Lyn cottage & Or-

Bale Henry, boot & shoe maker Hurcombe Harry,watchma. & aprtmts chard house

Bale Mary Jane (Miss), dress maker Jones Brothers, fancy dealers Pennicott Bertram,aprtmnts.Bridge ho

Berry David Richard, tailor Jones Amelia L. (Miss), private hotel, Pitts William, baker, London bakery

Berryman Maria (Mrs.), apartments, Beech house PublicReading Room (Jn.Elworthy,sec)

Ferndale Jones William, chief officer of coast- Pugsley Waiter, mason

Bevan Cecil N. Tors Park family hotel guard, Tors Rice Wllliam John, barber

& posting house. See advert Knight Fanny (Miss), apartments, Sea Richards Andrew, apartments, Wood-

Bevan Tom Sydney, Lyndale family Breeze cottage bine villa

hotel & posting house. See advert Moore Richard, apartments, Sea view Richards Fanny (Miss), dress maker

Burgess Louisa (Miss), apartments, Nercombe John, baker & apartments, Richards William, tailor

Victoria house West Lyn house Taylor J ohn,apartments, Bridge bldngs

:-IL YNTON is a parish containing several hamlets; the College, Cambridge, and surrogate. In 1879 (Feb. 7) the

village is 20 miles from each of the following towns, viz living was endowed with 3 acres of land for a parsonage.

Minehead, Barnstaple, South Molton and Ilfracombe, and 'l'he mission church of St. Bartholomew, at Barbrook Mill,

stands on a high hill, immediately overhanging Lynmouth, is an edifice of stone, consisting of chancel, nave, north aisle,

where the waters of the East and West Lyn unite and fall south porch and a western turret containing one bell. There

into the Bristol Channel, the scenery here, especially in the are Congregational and Wesleyan chapels at Lynton and a

Valley of Rocks, being wild and romantic. Lynton is in Wesleyan chapel at Barbrook Mill.

the North Western division of the county, hundred of Shir- LYNTON has communication by coach to Barnstaple daily~

well, petty sessional division of Braunton, union and county and to Ilfracombe and Minehead in the summer months.

court district of Barnstaple, ruml deanery of Shirwell, arch- There are 7 hotels, viz.: " The Royal Castle," Lynton Cottage

Private hotel (both in the same extensive and romantic

deaconry of Barnstaple and diocese of Exeter. The parish is grounds), the" Valley of Rocks," "the Crown," "the Ken-

sington," "Globe" and" the Queen." 'fhe District Hospital,

governed by a Local Board of 15 members, formed Dec. 7, established in 1873, is a plain cottage building, supported by

voluntary contributions, but is now (1893) being greatly en-

1866, under the" Local Government Act of r858." 'fhe larged. The Foresters' Hall will seat about 300 persons. A

village is supplied with water by the Lynton and Lynmouth lift, one of the longest and steepest of its kind in the world,

Water Co. Limited. The church of St. Mary, an ancient now connects Lynton with Lynmouth : it was designed and

building of stone, in the Early English style, enlarged dur- built by Mr. Jones of this town and opened on Easter Mon-

day, 189o. Lee Abbey is the residence of Charles Frederick

ing the period 1817-33, was entirely rebuilt, wiGh the excep- Bailey esq. .J.P. Evan Browell Jeune esq. .J.P. of the Manor

tion of the tower and south wall, about 1892, at a cost of House, is lord of the manor, and the principal landowners

are Mrs. Roe and James Lean esq. 'fhe soil is light.

£3,200, and now consists of chancel, nave, aisles, north a.nd gravelly; subsoil, turf, in some parts, rock ; crops, oats and

south-west porches and an embattled western tower con- barley. The area is 7,163 acres; rateable value, £8,671 ;

taining a clock and 3 bells, 2 of which are of pre-Reforma- the population in 1891 was 1,547: this without doubt

tion date ; the third was cast in 1707 by Richard Penneyton : must include several hundred visitors as the resident popu-

lation cannot be near this number.

a clock with two dials was erected in 1887: there are 500

LYNMOUTH, a hamlet in this parish, has been ecclesiasti~

sittings : the church was wholly closed against interments,

and regulations made concerning the churchyard, Feb.

9, 1855. The register of baptisms dates from the year

1569; marriages, 1591; burials, 1568. The early registers

are written on the back of indentures of apprenticeship and

bound together. The living is a vicarage, and was severed

from that of Countisbury by an Order in Council, :May, 7,

1858, but not gazetted, gross yearly value from tithe rent- cally annexed to Countisbury,

charge £300, average £tS~, with 27 acres of glebe and Verger, J ames Scott.

residence, in the gift of the Bishop of Exeter, and held PosT, M. 0. & T. 0., S. B. & Annuity & Insurance Office,

since r887 by the Rev. Waiter Enstace Cox :M.A. of Jesus Lynton.-William Crook, eub-postmaster. Letters arrive

DIBECTORY.] DEVONSHIRE. LYNTON. 323

from Ba.rnstaple at 9.15 a.m. & 7 p.m.; dispatched at 4 Town Crier, R. Bale

p.m.; sundays, receivedatg.3oa.m.: dispatchedat4p.m PLACES OF WORSHIP, with times of services:-

LocAL BoARD. St. Mary's Church, Rev. Waiter Eustace Cox M.A. vicar;

Board room, Cavendish street. 8 & II a.m. & 6.30 p.m. & daily

St. Bartholomew's Mission Church, Barbrook Mill

Board day, last wednesday of every month.

Clerk, William A. Roberts, Barnstaple Congregational, Rev. J. W. Ingram; II a.m. &6.3op.m.;

Treasurer, Frank B. Erridge, Fox, Fowler & Co.'s Bank

wed. 7.30 p.m

Medical Officer of Health, Daniel Lovett Hubbard M.B., B.s. Wesleyan, Rev. A. J. Pickworth; II a.m. & 6.30 p.m. ;

Lyn cottage

thurs. 7.30 p.m

Surveyor & Inspector of Nuisances, Wm. Squire, Gordon villa Wesleyan, Barbrook Mill, A. J. Pickworth; rr a.m. &6.30

Collector, Charles J. Collins, South Cliff villa

PUBLIC ESTABLISHMENTS : - p.m. ; wed. 7 p.m

Coast Guard, R. Jones, chief officer SCHOOLS:-

National (mixed), built in 1846, for 120 children & enlarged

District Hospital, Daniel Lovett Hubbard M.B., B.S. medi- in 1866, for 160; average attendance, II7; Thomas Driver,

cal officer ; Henry Robert Henley, assistant medical

officer ; Mrs. Bailey, hon. sec master; Mrs. Driver, assistant mistress; Mrs. Ridge,

Public Reading Room, William Taylor; manager infants' mistress

PuBLIC OFFICERS : - Wesleyan, Barbrook Mill (mixed), for 100 children; aver-

Admiralty Surgeon & Agent, Medical Officer & Puqlic Vac- age attendance, 48 ; Arthnr Yates, master

cinator, No. 11 district, Barnstaple union, Daniel Lovett Lynton & Lynmouth Recorder (William Palmer, proprietor

Hubbard M.B., o.s. Lyn cottage & publisher), publi'!hed tues

Overseers, T. S. Bevan esq. & J. Gregory esq CoNVEYANCE.-Coaches to Barnstaple every week day & to

Registrar of Births, Deaths & Marriages, Parracombe sub- llrracombe, Minehead, Dunster daily through the summer

district, Barnstaple union, Philip Taylor, Lyn bridge months, from the Castle hotel

PRIVATE RESIDENTS. J Devon & Cornwall Ba~king Co. Limited Lynton & Lynmouth Cliff Railway &

Bailey Charles Frederick J.P.Lee abbey (branch)(Edward Rwhard Humphrey Pier & Harbour Co. (Tom Jones, sec)

Masters, ma~ager); draw on Ba!- Lynton & Lynmouth Electric Light Co.

Bateman John, Lynhurst clay,Bevan,Trtttpn,Ransom,Bouverte (Henn Hanns, manager)

Bratchell Miss Clarence villa

hill ·BuddJohn Wr'eford Coombe park Lynton & Lynmouth Recorder (William

& Co. London E c

Burnell Mrs. Bonn District Hospital(DanielLovettHubbard Palmer, proprietor &publisher ; pub-

Carew Sir HenryPalk bart.Woolhanger M.B., B.s. medical ?fficer; He~ry lished tuesday)

R~bert Henley~ asststant mediCa Lynton & Lynmouth WaterCo. Limited

Cornish Frederick W. Chough's nest

Cox Rev. Waiter Eustace M.A. [vicar & officer; Mrs. B~tley, hon. sec) (C. J. Collins, sec.), South Cliffe villa

surrogate], Vicarage Dou_bt George, tailor Medway Charles, butcher, farmer &

Crocombe Miss 4 Lee villas Errtdge Frank B. manager of Fox, post horse proprietor

Fowler & Co.'s Bank & treasurer to Medway Charles, farmer, Six Acre &

Crook John, Lynwood house New mills

Edmunds Mrs. Clooneavin the local board

Fear Claude, hair dresser & tobacconist Medway Herbert, butcher, Orchard ho

Erridge Frank Bevern Bank house Medway Mrs. apartments, Sinai villa

Moon George, apartments, Waterloo ho

GHreenelneywoHoednJroyhRn~beCrrto,ftIpAlafcfeord terrace ~Foirsehsetr~rNs'icHhoallals(,Wfairllmiaemr, West Lyn

Taylor, keeper) Moore John, nurseryman, The Nursery

Moule John, blacksmith

Hewitt pTlhacoemaLs~n'rdhoen Hoe· & 10 Ash- Fox, Fowler & Co. bankers (branch) Moule Hobt. apartments, 2 Alford ter

burn sw '

o(FnrBaanrk~lBay. ,EBrreivdagne,, manager) ; draw

Heywood John, Valley of Rocks hotel Tritton, Ransom, Murley 'l'homas, nurseryman, Victoria

HubbardDaniel Lovett M.B.Lyn cottage .Bouvene & Co. London E c

Gill Sarah Ann (Mrs.), apartments, fernery

Hume Capt. William Rock lodge . Palmer W. (Mrs.), china & glass dealtr

lngram Rev. John [Cong.], Westwood Victoria fernery.

Jones Bob Oakland villa Great Western Railway (Thos. Sqmre), Palmer William, proprietor & publisher

J owitt 'fh~mas Woodlands carriers to Minehead "Lynton & Lynmouth Recorder "

Henley Hy. Robt. ~urgeon, I .Afford ter Parker John, tailor

Kerby George, 'sinai Pile David, farmer, East Lyn

Ley Mrs. St. Vincent's walk Hobbs J ames, carrmge propnetor Prideaux Chas. apartments, 4 Alford ter

Masters Edwin Richard Humphrey, Hodges Edward, confectioner

Hole Edward, saddler & harness maker Prideaux Thomas, blacksmith

Devon & Cornwall Bank Holman John Ward, Kensington Public Reading Room (William Taylor,

Parker John 1 Lee villas . manager)

Pickworth Rev. A. J. [Wesleyan] family hotel

Holman John Ward, grcr. & wme mer Rawle Philip, apartments, Osborne villa

Smallridge Miss I Gordon villas Hooper George, b~ot dealer Reed William, Queen's family & com-

Squire William,'2 Gordon vjllas

Hooper Anne (M1ss), dress maker, 3 mercial hotel -

Sturt Miss, Barbrook

Ridd Frederick, apartments, Alford ter

Taylor Robert Henr y~eZawepohodyr cottage HuObrbcahradrdDatenrir~alceLovett M.B., B.s. sur- Ridd Joseph, carpenter, Barbrook mill

Walker Col. Smart,

geon, & Admualty surgeon & agent, Ridge Mary(Mrs.),shpkpr.20rchard ter

White Mrs. Ingleside medical officer & public vaccinator, R.ose Albert, fishmonger & poulterer

COMMERCIAL. nth district, Barnstaple union & Rumsam John, Globe hotel •

medical officer of health to the Lyn- Sandford Waiter, tailor

Alien John, boot & shoe maker ton urban sanitary district, Lyn cot Sheppard Henry Charles, boot maker

Baker Thomas, Royal Castle family Hurcombe Harry, watch maker SheppardH.C,(Mrs. ),fancy ~oods dealer

hotel & posting house Jonea Brothers, coach & carriage Squire John, farmer, East Ilkerton

Baker Thomas, farmer & breeder of proprietors, carriers to the London & Squire Thomas, farmer, West Ilkerton

Exmoor ponies SouthWestern Rail way, viaBarnstaple Squire 'l'homas, grocer, & agent for W.

Baker Thomas, Cottage private hotel & Jones Brothers, builders & contractors & A. Gilbey, wine & spirit merchants

coach proprietor Jones Hrothers, furnishing ironmongers Squire William, farmer, & surveyor &

Bale Thomas, boot maker Jones Thomas, apartwents, Heath villa inspector of nuisances to the local

Barwick Josiah, mason, Barbrook mill Jones Thos. miller (water), Lyn bridge board, Gordon villa

Benn Hans, mangr. of Electric Light Co Jones Tom, sec. to the Lynton & Lyn- Taylor Mary (Miss), boarding hous!',

Burch Thomas, Crown hotel mouth Cliff Railway & Pier & Har- Bnrlington house

Clark John, farmer, Shallowford bour Company Taylor Pnillip, apartments, registrar Qf

Collins Charles, grocer & baker Jones William, farmer, Caffins birthw, deaths & marriages, Parra-

Collins Charles J ames,assistant overseer Jose Giles, draper & fancy dealer, combe sub-district, Barnstaple union,

& collector of rates & taxes, & apart- Church Hill house & school attendance off. Lyn bridge

ments, South Cli:ffe villa Kingdon Jas. blacksmith, Barbrook mill Taylor Wil