Join us as we present the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Medal, the Municipal Art Society’s highest honor, to Patricia Cruz, Jeffrey Gural and Frank J. Sciame. The Medal is awarded annually to individuals who, through vision, leadership, and philanthropy, have made a lasting contribution to New York City.

The Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Medal was established in 1994 to honor Mrs. Kennedy Onassis, her passionate efforts to preserve great architecture in New York City, and her remarkable partnership with the Municipal Art Society over nearly two decades.

Learn more about the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Medal →

View photos from the 2022 Celebration →

View a video of the event on the MAS YouTube Channel →

About MAS

For more than 125 years, the Municipal Art Society of New York (MAS) has worked to educate and inspire New Yorkers to engage in the betterment of our city. As a nonprofit advocacy organization with a high profile and proven track record, MAS mobilizes diverse allies to act on issues that affect New York from sidewalk to skyline. Through planning, policy, and preservation, each of our advocacy initiatives seeks to create a just, livable environment for over 8.5 million New Yorkers. We also strive to provide replicable urban policies and practices for the benefit of other cities throughout the nation and the world.

Due to the efforts of MAS since our founding, iconic landmarks such as Grand Central Terminal, Radio City Music Hall, Jefferson Market Courthouse, and St. Bartholomew’s Church were saved from demolition. Other notable accomplishments have included preserving the Garment District and lights of Times Square and advocating for construction of Rockefeller Center and the Second Avenue Subway. Our advocacy has also led to the creation of the New York Planning Commission, the Public Design Commission, the Landmarks Preservation Commission, as well as the conservation of more than 50 works of public art. MAS was also instrumental in the founding of important civic organization such as the Public Art Fund, the New York Landmarks Conservancy, P.S. 1, the Historic Districts Council, the Park Avenue Armory Conservancy, and the Waterfront Alliance.

Learn more about our history →