Used: See description

Description

London: John Templeman,, 1842. A handsome copy First Hazlitt edition of the French philosopher Michel de Montaigne's collected works, gathering his influential essays and letters. The present essays were originally published between around 1570 to 1592, and cover a wide variety of topics, from religion, philosophy, and classics, to solitude, age, drunkenness, anger, books, imagination, and many more. Montaigne's influence reached the likes of Francis Bacon, William Shakespeare, Blaise Pascal, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, and Friedrich Nietzsche. From the library of Francis Darby (1783-1850), of Sunnyside, and afterwards of the White House, Colebrookdale in Shropshire. From 1810, he had oversight of the Coalbrook Foundry. A collector of contemporary art, he introduced designers in the foundry, some of them French, who started a very successful line in decorative artistic castings, not only gates, railings and stoves, but pillars for churches, fountains, and even statues. The library of Francis Darby was sold at auction by Sotheby's 15 June 1904. Large octavo (239 x 149 mm). Contemporary tan calf by Charles Lewis, titles in gilt direct to spine, arms of Francis Darby and double gilt fillets blocked in gilt on each boards, dark green endpapers, edges gilt. Engraved portrait frontispiece and engraved title by W. Read. Light rubbing, engravings a little browned, else internally clean; an attractive copy.

This copy is temporarily unavailable. Please check back later or see below for alternate copies of this book, if available. You can also add this book to your want list and we will notify you if this book becomes available again or we locate other copies:

The Works of Michel de Montaigne:with Notes, Life and Letters Complete in Ten Volumes

by Montaigne, Michel de; Cotton, Charles (translator); Hazlett, William Carew (editor)

Used

Good

Hardcover

Show Details

Description:

New York, NY, U.S.A.: Edwin C. Hill, 1910. This is the Emerson Edition of the complete essays of Montaigne, published in a limited edition of 1050 copies (this is #492) in 1910, with the text translated by Charles Cotton, first published in1685-86, as revised and corrected by the editor William Carew Hazlitt, grandson of the English essayist Wiilam Hazlitt; the first volume includes Emerson's essay on Montaigne and a preface by the editor; the last volume includes a sketch of the life of Montaigne, his letters, and the notes and index for all of the volumes; each volume contains a frontispiece and three additional illustrations (quarter tan cloth over green paper-covered boards, title and volume number on tan paper spine label, gilt top edge, other edges are rough-cut; all volumes are good to very good; some volumes have worn edges and/or corners; all spines are darkened; otherwise these are clean, tight, sturdy copies; in stock & available for immediate shipment from a reliable independent bookstore;… Read More