We, Shirak region drivers of the cars with Georgian registration numbers, have applied to RA President, Prime-Minister, Chairman of the National Assembly, 9 deputies of the National Assembly from Shirak region, Gyumri Mayor, all the members of the City Council, Head of the police regional department and Shirak region Governor with protest and suggestions concerning limitations of the regime of cars temporary importing put into force from February 5, 2011 and thus limitations in the free movement of cars with Georgian registration numbers.

During the last 10 days we have received the following replies:

A reply is received from RA President staff, informing that the notice is referred to RA Government staff, NA deputies from "Heritage" party (Zharangutyun) Z.Bostanjyan, S.Safaryan, L.Alaverdyan, A.Bakhshyan and the vice-chairman of the party R.Hakobyan have visited Gyumri several times, have had meetings with us and discussed possible ways of the problem solution, have actively participated in our marches of protest and actions organized by us; the Chairman of the Public (Zhoghovrdakan) Party T.Karapetyan visited Gyumri and participated in our car march of protest to Bavra; RA NA deputy M. Grigoryan invited us to his office and discussed possible options of the problem solution.

On our own initiative we also had a meeting with the Shirak Diocese Primate Bishop Michael Ajapahyan, we have presented the problem and our desperate situation to them and Gyumri Mayor.

The rest 8 deputies from Shirak region (S.Avetisyan, S.Balasanyan, R.Zaqaryan, A.Ghukasyan, A.Aghajanyan, M.Varagyan, A.Aghababyan, H.Margaryan), RA Prime-Minister, members of Gyumri city Council, Shirak region Governor and the Head of Shirak Regional Police Department have not officially replied to us up to now.

We consider this indifference disregard towards their own citizens. Instead of referring to our questions, the policemen from Shirak Regional Police Department, Gyumri City and Akhouryan regional departments, as well as those of the traffic police, hindered the actions (meetings and car marches) of peaceful and legal protest organized by us. Particularly, on February 8, three of our cars were hijacked from the Railway Station Square and taken to the penalty area; on February 8, 10, 14 and 16 they blocked the entry to 14 districts from all the crossroads of Musayelyan, Gorky, Spandaryan streets and Victory Avenue.

Several drivers were illegally invited or taken to the police officials to listen to lectures and threats concerning their participation in these actions of protest, in a number of other cases these lectures were read in the flats of many of us. On February 15 the highway Gyumri-Vanadzor was closed for 4 hours near the village of Jajur for us and other drivers who had nothing in common with us. The highway Yerevan-Vanadzor was closed for 40 minutes at the entrance to Vanadzor.

On February 16 the highway Vanadzor-Gyumri was closed for 5 hours near the village of Jajur. On February 17, from 07:45 till 18:02 they closed Sayat-Nova Street in Gyumri with all its suburbs and alley-ways. The result of all these isolations was paralyzing of the traffic, which made problems not only for us but also for thousands of citizens who had no connection with our protests.

The police carried out these violations of the law by preventing more than 300 policemen (from Shirak and Lori regions) from carrying out their main responsibilities, and involving more than 60 state properties, office cars.

We qualify these violations of our fundamental rights for free movement and free expression, defined by RA Constitution, as disgraceful illegality, which took place by the permission and orders of the higher officials who are still unknown to us. During all these illegalities none of the policemen could give any sensible explanation to all the inquiries of ours, those of the journalists, deputies and public figures, the only reply was "No comment" or "This is an order-we are implementing it", or "It must be like this".

We condemn these serial crimes of the policemen of Shirak and Lori regions and those who gave the orders, and inform the public that we are firm in protection of our rights, we will not defend and will oppose till the last official realizes that we are the owners of our rights, and not they. We believe that some day the officials who have made these crimes will take the responsibility for it.

We also condemn the indifference of RA authorities towards our protest to sudden and deliberate decision to make the custom clearance requirements strict and once again we call to common sense towards the lives and future of the citizens: understand at last that we do not have these legendary sums (almost the price of one car) to pay to the state budget and carry out the custom clearance of the cars, we are not public activists, and this is your improvident customs policy, indifference and pressure that makes us go out into the streets and fight for elementary vital safety.

We demand and anticipate from the RA authorities a quick reply and exact actions towards solution of this question. We are ready to leave the streets and participate in the negotiations - in any format.

We can wait for the proper reply to our problem no longer than February 28 - concerning the amendments to Article 38 of RA Customs Code introduced by RA National Assembly.

We are also obliged to inform that having no reply means for us having no alternative. In this case we will go to extreme measures, including this one: to ensure free transportation of our cars to Armenia we are going to apply to the Georgian authorities asking to grant us Georgian citizenship, etc.

RA citizens - Shirak region drivers of the cars with Georgian registration numbers

P.S.

This statement is open to join for other drivers who are concerned by this issue.