The Carlyle Group, Providence Equity Partners and GMT

Communications Partners (the "Sponsors") today announced that they

have signed a definitive agreement with Cinven and Warburg Pincus

under which Cinven and Warburg Pincus will acquire Casema for EUR 2.1

billion.

Casema is a leading provider of cable, Internet and telephony

services to residential and business customers in the Netherlands. The

Company is the third largest cable operator in the country, passing

1.5 million homes. The Company's current customer base represents

approximately 21% of all Dutch households.

The Sponsors acquired Casema in January 2003 from France Telecom,

with Providence and Carlyle each owning 46% of the Company and GMT 8%.

Under the ownership of the Sponsors and management of Chief Executive

Officer Jos Molenkamp who joined shortly after the acquisition, Casema

invested in excess of EUR 250 million in its network and

infrastructure. The Company has been transformed from a utility-like

analog television provider into the leading "triple play" operator in

the Netherlands, offering digital television, broadband internet and

telephony to the Dutch consumers. As of June 30, 2006, the Company had

1.3 million television subscribers (of which 112,000 subscribed to

digital packages), 400,000 broadband internet and 136,000 telephony

subscribers. Additionally, Casema has achieved revenue growth of 10%

annually since 2002 and approximately doubled EBITDA, while increasing

its headcount to approximately 1,050 from 750 employees at the end of

2002.

Benoit Colas, Managing Director at Carlyle said: "We are very

pleased with our investment in Casema. This success is due to the

strengths of the Casema business and the great work done by management

since the acquisition. We are also very proud of having accompanied

the Company through this major transformation into one of the leading

triple-play operators in Europe."

Jorg Mohaupt, Managing Director at Providence said: "Thanks to the

leadership of Jos and his team, the hard work of our partners, and the

dedication of all Casema employees, we have added significant value to

the company over the past three years and helped Casema grow, enhance

its product offerings and customer service, and improve its financial

position. We are confident that Casema has a bright future with its

new partners."

Jos Molenkamp, CEO of Casema said: "Casema has established itself

as a strong competitor with an exceptional product offering, a large

and sophisticated customer base, and one of the most reliable

broadband networks. We are pleased with the Company's success in

delivering excellent service to all of our customers."

The transaction, which is expected to close in the second half of

2006, is subject to regulatory approvals.

Goldman Sachs International acted as sole financial advisor to the

Sponsors.

About Casema

With over 30 years of experience and around 1.3 million

subscribers, Casema is one of the Netherlands' leading cable

operators. The Casema network is located mainly in the central and

southwestern parts of the Netherlands and serves such cities as The

Hague, Utrecht and Breda. Casema has rapidly developed from cable

television operator to full service provider, offering an extensive

package of electronic services via the cable. Visit www.casema.nl for

additional information.

About Providence Equity Partners

Providence Equity Partners Inc. is a global private investment

firm specializing in equity investments in media and entertainment,

communications and information companies around the world. The

principals of Providence Equity manage funds with over $9 billion in

equity commitments and have invested in more than 80 companies

operating in over 20 countries since the firm's inception in 1990.

Significant investments include Bresnan Broadband Holdings, Comhem,

Education Management Corporation, eircom, Kabel Deutschland,

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Ono, PanAmSat, ProSiebenSat.1, Recoletos,

VoiceStream Wireless, Warner Music Group, and Western Wireless.

Providence Equity is headquartered in Providence, RI and also has

offices in New York and London. Visit www.provequity.com for

additional information.

About The Carlyle Group

The Carlyle Group is a global private equity firm with $41.9

billion under management. Carlyle invests in buyouts, venture & growth

capital, real estate and leveraged finance in Asia, Europe and North

America, focusing on telecommunications & media, industrial,

automotive & transportation, aerospace, consumer & retail, energy &

power, technology & business services and healthcare. Since 1987, the

firm has invested $19.7 billion of equity in 500 transactions for a

total purchase price of $79.7 billion. The Carlyle Group employs more

than 670 people in 15 countries. In the aggregate, Carlyle portfolio

companies have more than $46 billion in revenue and employ more than

184,000 people around the world. Significant telecom and media

investments include Comhem, Insight, Taiwan Broadband, Willcom,

PanAmSat, Hawai Telecom and VNU. Visit www.carlyle.com for additional

information.

About GMT Communications Partners