DESCRIPTION: A replica of the ancient Greek god of sleep, Hypnos, exclusive to the British Museum. This magnificent replica is cast and hand-finished in the UK from resin, using a mould taken from the

A Patinated Composition Head of Hypnos, After the Antique20th centurya replica of the Head of Hypnos in the British Museum, London. Raised on a square baseHeight 12 1/2, width 15 1/2 inches.Property f

A Greek style Hypnos, God of Sleep, after the Antique, figural sculpture rising on a custom base, a replica of the Head of Hypnos in the British Museum, London, 13"h

19th century A.D. Electrotype replica, original coin struck under Laomedon, copying an issue from the Ake mint, dated year 27. Obv: head of Herakles right, wearing lionskin headdress. Rev: ALEXANDROY

A PLASTER BUST OF A 'HEROIC HEAD'BY DOMENICO BRUCCIANI & CO, CIRCA 1900 Numbered to socle 2258 and inscribed to cast reverse Heroic head British Museum D Brucciani London 52.5cm high, 29cm wideThis he

Etruscan-Style Terracotta Male HeadMuseum replica of Etruscan-style terracotta head of a man, possibly of the god Dionysus; a serene expression, his hair pulled back with loose tendrils to the side; w

The British Museum replica sculpture of the Horse of Selene, cast in plaster, marked to underside "The British Museum." 23" H x 34" W x 12" D. The Horse of Selene is a detail from the east pediment of

Three Replicas of Female & Male HeadsThree museum replicas of composite heads: a young Roman boy with closely cropped hair; a Indian female with floral diadem; together with a Roman female, her hair p

oil and gilt on canvas, depicts the celebrated marble horse's head in the British Museum. Presented in carved gilt frame. DOA 26 x 32 in.; SS 17.5 X 23.75 IN. A Single-Owner Collection of Cypriot Hist

9th-6th century BC. A bronze round-section penannular bracelet with opposed beast-head terminals. See The British Museum, 'Annual Report of the General Progress of the Museums for the year 1936' in Na

Julio-Claudian-Style Head of a BoyMuseum replica of a Roman Julio-Claudian-style composite head of a boy; with delicate features, his short cropped hair brushed forward (frits and wear); H: 9 1/2"

An impressive and finely detailed patinated plaster Alva Studios Museum replica of the head of the Charioteer of Delphi, known also as Heniokhos. The original bronze sculpture was originally found in

Vintage museum replica cast bronze head with wood platform base. Measures 4 1/2" x 2 1/2" x 1 1/4" not including base.

Antique Antoine Watteau "Two Studies of Ladies Heads" Vintage Coloured Facsimile by the British Museum in 'Reproductions of Drawings by Old Masters in the British Museum. Published by the Trustees in