English Español Tagalog (Pilipinas)

Federal Employees' Compensation Program

We also have FAQs on our Medical Authorization and Bill Pay processes for Injured Workers, Medical Providers, and Employing Agencies.

I was injured on the job. How do I file a claim?

You need to complete either form CA-1, "Federal Employee's Notice of Traumatic Injury and Claim for Continuation of Pay/Compensation" or form CA-2 "Notice of Occupational Disease and Claim for Compensation". A traumatic injury is one that can be pinpointed to have occurred during one particular work shift – falling down the steps for example. An occupational disease is a medical condition that has developed due to work activities performed over more than one work shift. 20 C.F.R. §§ 10.100-10.101.

Forms can be submitted electronically via the Employees' Compensation Operations and Management Portal (ECOMP). Visit the ECOMP site to register for an account and initiate a claim.

If you are submitting a CA-2, you should also review the appropriate CA-35 "Evidence Required in Support of a Claim for Occupational Disease" form/checklist. There are several of these detailing the different sorts of documentation to be submitted depending on the type of occupational disease.

Be sure to keep a copy of everything for your records. Your agency will complete their portion of the CA-1 or CA-2 and submit the entire packet to the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP) office. OWCP will advise you of the claim number which has been established. The office will review the information submitted and will determine if there is sufficient information to adjudicate the claim. If there is insufficient information to adjudicate the claim, they will send you a letter advising of the additional information needed.

Is there a timeline for filing a claim?

The Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA) provides that a claim for compensation must be filed within 3 years of the date of injury. For a traumatic injury, the statutory time limitation begins to run from the date of injury. For a latent condition, it begins to run when an injured employee with a compensable disability becomes aware, or reasonably should have been aware, of a possible relationship between the medical condition and the employment. Where the exposure to the identified factors of employment continues after this knowledge, the time for filing begins to run on the date of the employee's last exposure to those factors. If a claim is not filed within 3 years, compensation may still be paid if written notice of injury was given within 30 days or if the employer had actual knowledge of the injury within 30 days after it occurred. There is nothing to prohibit you from filing the claim. Timeliness is determined by the OWCP office as part of the adjudication process. 5 U.S.C. § 8122; 20 C.F.R. §§ 10.100-10.101.

How do I claim compensation for the wages lost due to my injury?

If you have a loss of wages (following any Continuation of Pay (COP) received for a traumatic injury, if applicable) and are in Leave Without Pay (LWOP) status as a result of the accepted condition(s) on your claim, you need to file a CA-7 "Claim for Compensation" with your agency. If the period claimed on the CA-7 is intermittent, you need also to complete a CA-7a "Time Analysis Form". You may file the forms on the ECOMP site. You need to provide medical documentation supporting any periods of disability claimed. Your agency will complete their portion of the CA-7 and submit it and the medical documentation to OWCP. OWCP will determine if there is sufficient information on file to pay compensation for the periods claimed or if further information/development is needed. 20 C.F.R. §§ 10.102, 10.400-10.403.

How do I buy back the leave I took for my injury?

If you used leave to cover period of disability resulting from the accepted injury, you can apply to your agency to buy back your leave. Each agency establishes its own rules for whether they allow leave buy back (LBB), timelines for submission, etc. If your agency does allow leave buy back, to request a LBB, you need to complete a complete a CA-7 and check box B in section 2. You also must sign form CA-7b "Leave Buy Back (LBB) Worksheet/Certification and Election," after it has been completed by your employing agency. If the period you claimed was intermittent (not a solid block of full days), you also need to complete a CA-7a "Time Analysis Form". Each of these forms is available through ECOMP. The agency will complete their portion and forward them to OWCP for processing. There needs to be medical documentation in the OWCP file supporting your inability to work as a result of your accepted medical condition for any period where LBB is claimed.

OWCP pays compensation at 66 2/3% of your pay rate (if you have no eligible dependents) or at 75% (if you have at least one eligible dependent), while official leave is paid at 100% of your pay rate. To buy back your leave, you have to pay your agency the difference between what you were paid and what you would have received for compensation. For example, if you have at least one eligible dependent and your pay rate was $1000 per week, OWCP would pay you $750 in compensation ($1000 x .75) if you took a week of leave. To buy back your 40 hours of leave, you need to pay your agency $250 ($1000 - $750).

How can I find out about the status of the CA-7 I filed for wage loss compensation?

Injured workers and their representatives may access information regarding case status and wage loss compensation payments by contacting the Federal Employees Program. Injured workers should have their 9-digit case file or claim number and social security number when calling.

The Claimant Query System (CQS), now part of ECOMP, also provides injured workers with 24-hour access to their case file status; accepted conditions; address of record and; compensation payments and tracking.

How do I receive my compensation payment via direct deposit?

To receive compensation payments via Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT), please complete form SF-1199a "Direct Deposit Sign-Up Form." The SF-1199a is available on our forms page.

You may upload the form to your file via ECOMP. Click the button "Access Case and Upload Document" and enter the identifying information for your case.

How do I claim a Schedule Award?

When an injured worker has permanent loss of use of certain body parts or organs, s/he may request a schedule award by submitting a CA-7 Claim for Schedule Award and an impairment rating completed by her/his treating physician. 20 C.F.R. §§ 10.103, 10.404. The impairment rating can only be completed after maximum medical improvement has been reached and must be in accordance with the 6th Edition of the American Medical Association Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent Impairment, referencing the appropriate tables, and citing the date of maximum medical improvement. Impairment ratings may be done in a narrative format. There is not a form for the physician to complete for the impairment rating unless the Claims Examiner has provided one in response to incomplete medical documentation previously submitted.

You may file the form on the ECOMP site. Your agency will complete their portion and forward the CA-7 to OWCP.

How are Schedule Awards processed?

Once the completed CA-7 and the impairment rating have been received, reviewed, and determined to appear complete by the claims examiner, s/he forwards it to the district medical advisor (DMA) for review. In some situations, the Claims Examiner must develop the claim by contacting the claimant, employer, or rating physician for additional information. In some cases, the claimant must be referred to a second opinion medical examination to obtain a complete impairment rating.

What office do I call about my claim?

A listing of the offices and their contact information is available on our contacts page.

How do I learn my claim number?

When a case is created, a letter is mailed to the injured worker which includes the claim number and basic information about available benefits. You may also learn your claim number by calling the office with jurisdiction over your claim. Provide your name, SSN, DOB, and date of injury. The office will be able to provide you with the claim number.

If you filed your claim electronically via ECOMP, your claim number will be shown on your employee dashboard page once a case has been created.

Who can I contact for information about the status of my FECA claim?

The OWCP office that services your claim is generally the best place to contact if you have questions about the status of your claim. You may upload correspondence to your file via ECOMP. Click the button "Access Case and Upload Document" and enter the identifying information for your case.

The Claimant Query System (CQS), now part of ECOMP, also provides injured workers with 24-hour access to their case file status; accepted conditions; address of record and; compensation payments and tracking.

You may also contact that office by phone or in writing. When you mail a document to the Central Mailroom, the document is scanned into the case record based on the claim number written on it. The information is made available in the computer system to the claims examiner assigned to your claim. When you call the office your call will be routed to an individual who can assist you with your concerns.

Can I communicate with my claims examiner by email?

Pursuant to policy established by the Department of Labor, Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Division of Federal Employees' Compensation, email communication on case specific inquiries is not allowed due to security concerns. Therefore, in order to protect the identities and personal information of claimants under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act and to allow better tracking of incoming communications, we do not use email with claimants and representatives.

To correspond with OWCP, you may also upload correspondence to your file via ECOMP. Click the button "Access Case and Upload Document" and enter the identifying information for your case.

You may also send mail to U.S. Department of Labor, OWCP/DFEC, PO Box 8311, London, KY 40742-8311. As is the case with anything you send to OWCP, please note your claim number on every page, send only single sided copies, and be sure to keep a copy for your records.

Please do not send CDs, Flash Drives, DVDs, or other electronic media. We are unable to access these for security reasons. Either print and send or follow the instructions to upload the documents to ECOMP.

How do I change my address with OWCP?

To change your address with OWCP, you may upload correspondence regarding a change of address via ECOMP. Click the button "Access Case and Upload Document" and enter the identifying information for your case.

You may also send a signed letter/statement to OWCP at U.S. Department of Labor, OWCP/DFEC, PO Box 8311, London, KY 40742-8311 advising of your new address. A telephone contact is not sufficient for the OWCP to change an address. Another acceptable document for an address change is the form SF-1199a used to elect receipt of compensation payments by electronic funds transfer (EFT). As is the case with anything you send to OWCP, please note your claim number on every page, send only single sided copies, and be sure to keep a copy for your records.

Why is it so important that my claim number be on every page of anything I send to OWCP?

When mail is received in our Central Mailroom in London, KY, it is scanned into the appropriate file in our computer system based on the claim number listed on the incoming documentation. When there is no claim number, efforts are made to determine the correct claim based on other identifying information in the incoming correspondence. This can take some time, and, in many instances, mail can never be scanned into a claim because of lack of identifying information. To assure that correspondence you sent to OWCP is scanned into your claim in a timely fashion, it is imperative that you list your OWCP claim number on every page you send. Be sure to provide your claim number to all parties submitting documentation on your behalf.

What form do I use to let OWCP know that I have named someone as my authorized representative?

There is no form used for naming someone as an injured worker's authorized representative. You may upload correspondence authorizing a representative to your file via ECOMP. Click the button "Access Case and Upload Document" and enter the identifying information for your case.

If you wish to name someone (spouse, union rep, attorney, etc.) as your authorized representative, you need to send OWCP a signed statement naming that person as your authorized representative. 20 C.F.R. §§10.700-10.703. This statement needs to list your claim number and should be sent to U.S. Department of Labor, OWCP/DFEC, PO Box 8311, London, KY 40742-8311. As is the case with anything sent to OWCP, you need to note your claim number on every page, send only single sided copies, and keep a copy for your records.

How do I get a copy of my OWCP file?

You can now view, print, and/or save your complete case at – ECOMP. There, you can access the ECOMP Dashboard provided to injured workers.

Step 1 - Registration: For help registering for an ECOMP account, hover your mouse pointer over the “HELP” icon found at the top right- hand corner of the ECOMP website, and then click on the “INJURED WORKER” link found under the “USER GUIDES” column in the middle.

Step 2 - ID Veriﬁcation: To access information about your FECA claims, you must verify your identity in ECOMP after you register for an account. The “IDENTITY VERIFICATION” tab under the “INJURED WORKER” user guide includes information on identity verification. You will only have to do this one time. Once your identity has been verified you will be able to sign in with only your username (email address) and password in the future. Identity verification grants you access to your complete case, so we encourage you to verify your identity in ECOMP.

How do I request a change of physician?

To request a change of physician, put the request in writing, detail the reason why you wish to change physicians, include the new physician's name, specialty, and contact information, and sign the request. You may upload correspondence regarding a change of physician via ECOMP. Click the button "Access Case and Upload Document" and enter the identifying information for your case.

This may also be mailed to U.S. Department of Labor, OWCP/DFEC, PO Box 8311, London, KY 40742-8311. Your claims examiner will review the request and advise you whether the change is approved. As is always the case, please be sure to include your claim number on every page you send. You will receive written notice of the approval of your request.

Can I receive my medical transportation and mileage reimbursement payments via direct deposit?

No. At this time, these payments are issued via paper check.

Will OWCP reimburse me for lunch or other meals when I have to travel for medical treatment?

OWCP reimburses for travel based on the Federal Travel Regulation (41 C.F.R. 300-304). Per diem reimbursement is covered in Chapter 301-11.1.c. which specifies that you must be in a travel status for more than 12 hours to be eligible for per diem reimbursement (either actual cost or per diem).

What is the mileage reimbursement rate for travel to medical appointments?

Travel to medical appointments is reimbursed according to the rate determined by the General Services Administration (GSA) for privately owned vehicles (POV). Therefore, the amount reimbursed by OWCP is subject to change should GSA change the POV mileage reimbursement rate. To view the current mileage reimbursement rate, please visit the GSA website.

Where can I get copies of OWCP forms?

Our forms page contains many forms that you would need to initiate yourself. There are some forms (a CA-1032, for example) that are issued by a claims examiner. If you've been sent a form to complete, have misplaced it, and can't find it at our forms website, please call your office with jurisdiction over your claim to request a replacement.

Why isn't the CA-16 on the web? How do I get a copy?

The CA-16 is not available on our website because it guarantees payment of medical expenses. We limit access to the form as it is to be issued by the employing agency and may only be used in certain circumstances.

If you are the injured worker, your agency will provide this form if it is appropriate.

If you are the supervisor of an injured worker, please contact your Workers' Compensation Unit for this form.

If you are with the Workers' Compensation unit, your Headquarters should have a supply of these forms. Even if a supply is unavailable, they should be able to provide you with one CA-16 that you can copy as needed.

Authorized employing agency users of the Agency Query System (AQS) may access an electronic version of the CA-16 for download through the AQS website.

If Form CA-1 is electronically filed via ECOMP, employing agency users may obtain a copy of Form CA-16 in electronic format after completing the supervisor review step.

Where is the AB-1 form I can use to file an appeal with the ECAB?