Translation of "Hawaii" into Latin

Havaii, havaii are the top translations of "Hawaii" into Latin. Sample translated sentence: The Hawaii Catholic Herald is the present-day version of a series of official newspapers of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Honolulu and its predecessor vicariate apostolic. ↔ Hawaii Catholic Herald ('Praeco Catholicus Havaiiensis') est hodierna versio seriei diariorum propriorum quae Dioecesis Honoluluensis Catholica Romana et antecessor vicariatus apostolicus proferunt.

Hawaii proper noun

A state of the United States of America. The capital is Honolulu, on the island of Oahu. It is the fiftieth state to join the United States. The nickname is the Aloha State. It is located from 19° to 23° N latitude, with the eight main islands from 155° to 162° W longitude and including many smaller islands extending westward. [..]

+ Add translation Add Hawaii

English-Latin dictionary

Havaii

Proper noun

insula [..]

Show algorithmically generated translations

Automatic translations of "Hawaii" into Latin

Google Translate

Translations with alternative spelling

geographic terms (below country level)

Images with "Hawaii"

Add example Add

Translations of "Hawaii" into Latin in sentences, translation memory

Declension Stem

The Hawaii Catholic Herald is the present-day version of a series of official newspapers of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Honolulu and its predecessor vicariate apostolic.

Hawaii Catholic Herald ('Praeco Catholicus Havaiiensis') est hodierna versio seriei diariorum propriorum quae Dioecesis Honoluluensis Catholica Romana et antecessor vicariatus apostolicus proferunt.

Template:Governors of Hawaii

Formula:Gubernatores Havaiorum

Maui County, Hawaii

Maui Comitatus

Hawaii County, Hawaii

Havaii Comitatus

Category:Flora of Hawaii

Categoria:Flora Havaiorum

Category:Cities in Hawaii

Categoria:Urbes Havaiorum

Category:University of Hawaii

Categoria:Universitas Havaiorum

Hawaii Aloha

Hawaii Aloha

Category:Governors of Hawaii

Categoria:Gubernatores Havaiorum

Category:United States Senators from Hawaii

Categoria:Senatores Civitatum Foederatarum Havaiorum

Category:Endemic fauna of Hawaii

Categoria:Fauna endemica Havaiorum

Category:Islands of Hawaii

Categoria:Insulae Havaiorum

Category:Symbols of Hawaii

Categoria:Symboli Havaiorum

Kauai County, Hawaii

Kauai Comitatus

Category:Reptiles of Hawaii

Categoria:Reptilia Havaiorum

The Keck Telescope in Hawaii has since confirmed this to be the case, at least for the ν ring.

Telescopium Keckianum in Havaiiis hunc casum esse ex illo tempore confirmavit.

Hawaii

Havaii (civitas)

The island lies almost halfway between Hawaii and Australia and is an unincorporated, unorganized territory of the United States.

Insula paene in medio itinere inter Havaios et Australiam iacet, territorium inconstitutum et inconditum Civitatum Foederatarum.

List of Governors of Hawaii

Index Gubernatorum Havaii

Category:Biota of Hawaii

Categoria:Biota Havaiorum

Kalawao County, Hawaii

Kalawao Comitatus

Category:Kingdom of Hawaii people

Categoria:Incolae Regni Havaiorum

Category:Honolulu, Hawaii

Categoria:Honolulu

Category:Fauna of Hawaii

Categoria:Fauna Havaiorum

In 1879, he became a naturalized citizen of the Kingdom of Hawaii.

Anno 1879, "naturalizatus"? est Regni Havaiorum civis.