The following is the List of the Catholic bishops of the United States, including the five overseas dependencies of the U.S. The Catholic Church in the United States comprises 177 Latin-rite dioceses and 17 Eastern Catholic eparchies led by diocesan bishops or eparchs, plus the Archdiocese for the Military Services, USA. Dioceses led by archbishops are called archdioceses.[1] In archdioceses and some large dioceses, one or more auxiliary bishops serve in association with the diocesan bishop. There are thirty-two Latin-rite and two Eastern Catholic archbishops who serve as metropolitan archbishops of their respective Latin-rite ecclesiastical provinces or Eastern Catholic metropoliae. (One archbishop — that of the Archdiocese for the Military Services — is not a metropolitan.) As of August 2009, five of these metropolitans are cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church.

All active and retired bishops in the United States and the Territory of the U.S. Virgin Islands — diocesan, coadjutor, and auxiliary — are members of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB).

In addition to the 195 dioceses, there are several dioceses in the nation's other four overseas dependencies. In the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the bishops in the six dioceses (one metropolitan archdiocese and five suffragan dioceses) form their own episcopal conference, the Conferencia Episcopal Puertorriqueña.[2] The bishops in U.S. insular areas in the Pacific Ocean — the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Territory of American Samoa, and the Territory of Guam — are members of the Episcopal Conference of the Pacific.

Province of Anchorage[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Anchorage

The Metropolitan Province of Anchorage comprises the state of Alaska.

Roger Lawrence Schwietz, OMI, Archbishop of Anchorage

Francis Thomas Hurley, Archbishop Emeritus of Anchorage

Donald Joseph Kettler, Bishop of Fairbanks

Edward James Burns, Bishop of Juneau

Province of Atlanta[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Atlanta

The Metropolitan Province of Atlanta comprises the states of Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina.

Wilton D. Gregory, Archbishop of Atlanta

Luis Rafael Zarama, Auxiliary Bishop of Atlanta

John F. Donoghue, Archbishop Emeritus of Atlanta

Robert Guglielmone, Bishop of Charleston

David B. Thompson, Bishop Emeritus of Charleston

Peter Joseph Jugis, Bishop of Charlotte

William G. Curlin, Bishop Emeritus of Charlotte

Michael Francis Burbidge, Bishop of Raleigh

F. Joseph Gossman, Bishop Emeritus of Raleigh

J. Kevin Boland, Bishop of Savannah

Raymond W. Lessard, Bishop Emeritus of Savannah

Province of Baltimore[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Baltimore

The Metropolitan Province of Baltimore comprises all but five counties of the state of Maryland, and all of the states of Delaware, Virginia and West Virginia. (The said five counties of Maryland are part of the Province of Washington, D.C.)

Edwin Frederick O'Brien, Archbishop of Baltimore

William Henry Keeler, Cardinal, Archbishop Emeritus of Baltimore

Denis J. Madden, Auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore

Mitchell T. Rozanski, Auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore

Paul Stephen Loverde, Bishop of Arlington

Francis Xavier DiLorenzo, Bishop of Richmond

Michael Joseph Bransfield, Bishop of Wheeling-Charleston

William Francis Malooly, Bishop of Wilmington

Province of Boston[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Boston

The Metropolitan Province of Boston comprises the states of Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Vermont.

Seán Patrick O'Malley, OFM Cap, Cardinal Archbishop of Boston

Robert Francis Hennessey, Auxiliary Bishop of Boston

Emilio S. Allué, Auxiliary Bishop of Boston

John Anthony Dooher, Auxiliary Bishop of Boston

Walter James Edyvean, Auxiliary Bishop of Boston

John P. Boles, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Boston

Francis Xavier Irwin, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Boston

Salvatore Ronald Matano, Bishop of Burlington

George William Coleman, Bishop of Fall River

John Brendan McCormack, Bishop of Manchester

Richard Joseph Malone, Bishop of Portland in Maine

Timothy Anthony McDonnell, Bishop of Springfield in Massachusetts

Robert Joseph McManus, Bishop of Worcester

Province of Chicago[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Chicago

The Metropolitan Province of Chicago comprises the state of Illinois.

Francis George, OMI, Cardinal Archbishop of Chicago

John R. Manz, Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago

Joseph N. Perry, Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago

Francis J. Kane, Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago

Thomas J. Paprocki, Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago

Gustavo Garcia-Siller, Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago

George J. Rassas, Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago

John R. Gorman, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Chicago

Thad J. Jakubowski, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Chicago

Timothy Lyne, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Chicago

Raymond E. Goedert, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Chicago

Edward Kenneth Braxton, Bishop of Belleville

James Peter Sartain, Bishop of Joliet in Illinois

Joseph M. Siegel, Auxiliary Bishop-Elect of Joliet in Illinois

Joseph Leopold Imesch, Bishop Emeritus of Joliet in Illinois

Daniel Robert Jenky, CSC, Bishop of Peoria

Thomas George Doran, Bishop of Rockford

Episcopal see of Springfield in Illinois (vacant see)

Province of Cincinnati[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Cincinnati

The Metropolitan Province of Cincinnati comprises the state of Ohio.

Dennis Marion Schnurr, Archbishop of Cincinnati

Daniel Edward Pilarczyk, Archbishop Emeritus of Cincinnati

Richard Lennon, Bishop of Cleveland

Alexander James Quinn, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Cleveland

Frederick F. Campbell, Bishop of Columbus

Robert Daniel Conlon, Bishop of Steubenville

Leonard Paul Blair, Bishop of Toledo

George Murry, SJ, Bishop of Youngstown

Province of Denver[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Denver

The Metropolitan Province of Denver comprises the states of Colorado and Wyoming and those parts of Idaho and Montana that are within Yellowstone National Park (all of which is part of the Diocese of Cheyenne).

Charles Joseph Chaput, OFM Cap, Archbishop of Denver

James Francis Stafford, Cardinal Major Penitentiary Emeritus of the Apostolic Penitentiary and Archbishop Emeritus of Denver

James Conley, Auxiliary Bishop of Denver

Paul D. Etienne, Bishop of Cheyenne

Michael John Sheridan, Bishop of Colorado Springs

Fernando Isern, Bishop-Elect of Pueblo

Arthur Nicholas Tafoya, Bishop Emeritus of Pueblo

Province of Detroit[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Detroit

The Metropolitan Province of Detroit comprises the state of Michigan.

Allen Henry Vigneron, Archbishop of Detroit

Adam Joseph Maida, Cardinal Archbishop Emeritus of Detroit

Edmund Casimir Szoka, Cardinal President Emeritus of the Pontifical Commission for Vatican City State and Archbishop Emeritus of Detroit

Francis R. Reiss, Auxiliary Bishop of Detroit

Moses Anderson, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Detroit

Thomas Gumbleton, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Detroit

Bernard Hebda, Bishop of Gaylord

Patrick R. Cooney, Bishop Emeritus of Gaylord

Walter A. Hurley, Bishop of Grand Rapids

Paul J. Bradley, Bishop of Kalamazoo

James Albert Murray, Bishop Emeritus of Kalamazoo

Earl Alfred Boyea, Jr., Bishop of Lansing

Carl Frederick Mengeling, Bishop Emeritus of Lansing

Alexander King Sample, Bishop of Marquette

Joseph R. Cistone, Bishop of Saginaw

Province of Dubuque[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Dubuque

The Metropolitan Province of Dubuque comprises the state of Iowa.

Jerome Hanus, Archbishop of Dubuque

Daniel Kucera, Archbishop Emeritus of Dubuque

Martin John Amos, Bishop of Davenport

William Edwin Franklin, Bishop Emeritus of Davenport

Richard Pates, Bishop of Des Moines

Joseph Charron, C.Pp.S., Bishop Emeritus of Des Moines

R. Walker Nickless, Bishop of Sioux City

Lawrence Donald Soens, Bishop Emeritus of Sioux City

Province of Galveston-Houston[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Galveston-Houston

The Metropolitan Province of Galveston-Houston comprises the eastern counties of the state of Texas.

Daniel Nicholas DiNardo, Cardinal Archbishop of Galveston-Houston

Joseph Fiorenza, Archbishop Emeritus of Galveston-Houston

Joe S. Vasquez, Auxiliary Bishop of Galveston-Houston

Vincent M. Rizzotto, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Galveston-Houston

Episcopal see of Austin (vacant)

Curtis Guillory, Bishop of Beaumont

Daniel Ernest Flores, Bishop-Designate of Brownsville

Raymundo Joseph Peña, Bishop Emeritus of Brownsville

Edmond Carmody, Bishop of Corpus Christi

Álvaro Corrada del Rio, Bishop of Tyler

David Eugene Fellhauer, Bishop of Victoria in Texas

Province of Hartford[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Hartford

The Metropolitan Province of Hartford comprises the states of Connecticut and Rhode Island, and also Fishers Island, NY.

Henry J. Mansell, Archbishop of Hartford

Daniel Anthony Cronin, Archbishop Emeritus of Hartford

Peter A. Rosazza, Auxiliary Bishop of Hartford

Christie Macaluso, Auxiliary Bishop of Hartford

William E. Lori, Bishop of Bridgeport

Michael Richard Cote, Bishop of Norwich

Thomas Joseph Tobin, Bishop of Providence

Robert C. Evans, Auxiliary Bishop-Elect of Providence

Louis Edward Gelineau, Bishop Emeritus of Providence

Robert Edward Mulvee, Bishop Emeritus of Providence

Province of Indianapolis[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Indianapolis

The Metropolitan Province of Indianapolis comprises the state of Indiana.

Daniel M. Buechlein, OSB, Archbishop of Indianapolis

Gerald Andrew Gettelfinger, Bishop of Evansville

Kevin C. Rhoades, Bishop-Designate of Fort Wayne-South Bend

John Michael D'Arcy, Bishop Emeritus of Fort Wayne-South Bend

Dale Joseph Melczek, Bishop of Gary

William Leo Higi, Bishop of Lafayette in Indiana

Province of Kansas City[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Kansas City

The Metropolitan Province of Kansas City comprises the state of Kansas.

Joseph Fred Naumann, Archbishop of Kansas City in Kansas

Ronald Michael Gilmore, Bishop of Dodge City

Paul Stagg Coakley, Bishop of Salina

Michael Owen Jackels, Bishop of Wichita

Province of Los Angeles[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Los Angeles

The Metropolitan Province of Los Angeles comprises the southern counties of the state of California.

Roger Michael Mahony, Cardinal Archbishop of Los Angeles

Edward W. Clark, Auxiliary Bishop of Los Angeles

Thomas John Curry, Auxiliary Bishop of Los Angeles

Alexander Salazar, Auxiliary Bishop of Los Angeles

Oscar A. Solis, Auxiliary Bishop of Los Angeles

Gerald Eugene Wilkerson, Auxiliary Bishop of Los Angeles

Gabino Zavala, Auxiliary Bishop of Los Angeles

Joseph M. Sartoris, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Los Angeles

John J. Ward, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Los Angeles

John Thomas Steinbock, Bishop of Fresno

Richard John Garcia, Bishop of Monterey in California

Sylvester Donovan Ryan, Bishop Emeritus of Monterey in California

Tod David Brown, Bishop of Orange

Cirilo Flores, Auxiliary Bishop of Orange

Gerald Richard Barnes, Bishop of San Bernardino

Robert Henry Brom, Bishop of San Diego

Province of Louisville[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Louisville

The Metropolitan Province of Louisville comprises the states of Kentucky and Tennessee.

Joseph Edward Kurtz, Archbishop of Louisville

Roger Joseph Foys, Bishop of Covington

Richard Stika, Bishop of Knoxville

Ronald William Gainer, Bishop of Lexington

J. Terry Steib, Bishop of Memphis

David R. Choby, Bishop of Nashville

William Medley, Bishop-Elect of Owensboro

John Jeremiah McRaith, Bishop Emeritus of Owensboro

Province of Miami[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Miami

The Metropolitan Province of Miami comprises the state of Florida.

John Clement Favalora, Archbishop of Miami

Thomas Gerard Wenski, Bishop of Orlando

Gerald Michael Barbarito, Bishop of Palm Beach

John Ricard, Bishop of Pensacola-Tallahassee

Victor Galeone, Bishop of St. Augustine

Robert Nugent Lynch, Bishop of Saint Petersburg

Frank Joseph Dewane, Bishop of Venice in Florida

Province of Milwaukee[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Milwaukee

The Metropolitan Province of Milwaukee comprises the state of Wisconsin.

Jerome Edward Listecki, Archbishop of Milwaukee

Rembert George Weakland, OSB, Archbishop Emeritus of Milwaukee

Richard J. Sklba, Auxiliary Bishop of Milwaukee

William P. Callahan, OFM Conv, Auxiliary Bishop of Milwaukee and Archdiocesan Administrator of Milwaukee

David Laurin Ricken, Bishop of Green Bay

Robert Joseph Banks, Bishop Emeritus of Green Bay

Robert F. Morneau, Auxiliary Bishop of Green Bay

Episcopal see of La Crosse (vacant see)

Robert C. Morlino, Bishop of Madison

Peter F. Christensen, Bishop of Superior

Raphael Michael Fliss, Bishop Emeritus of Superior

Province of Mobile[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Mobile

The Metropolitan Province of Mobile comprises the states of Alabama and Mississippi.

Thomas John Rodi, Archbishop of Mobile

Oscar Hugh Lipscomb, Archbishop Emeritus of Mobile

Roger Morin, Bishop of Biloxi

Robert Joseph Baker, Bishop of Birmingham in Alabama

David Edward Foley, Bishop Emeritus of Birmingham in Alabama

Joseph Nunzio Latino, Bishop of Jackson

Province of New Orleans[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of New Orleans

The Metropolitan Province of New Orleans comprises the state of Louisiana.

Gregory Michael Aymond, Archbishop of New Orleans

Alfred Clifton Hughes, Archbishop Emeritus of New Orleans

Francis Bible Schulte, Archbishop Emeritus of New Orleans

Philip Matthew Hannan, Archbishop Emeritus of New Orleans

Shelton Fabre, Auxiliary Bishop of New Orleans

Ronald Paul Herzog, Bishop of Alexandria in Louisiana

Robert William Muench, Bishop of Baton Rouge

Sam Gallip Jacobs, Bishop of Houma-Thibodaux

Charles Michael Jarrell, Bishop of Lafayette in Louisiana

Glen Provost, Bishop of Lake Charles

Michael Gerard Duca, Bishop of Shreveport

William Benedict Friend, Bishop Emeritus of Shreveport

Province of New York[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of New York

The Metropolitan Province of New York comprises the state of New York, except Fishers Island (in Suffolk County), which is part of the Diocese of Norwich (in the Province of Hartford).

Timothy Michael Dolan, Archbishop of New York

Edward Michael Egan, Cardinal Archbishop Emeritus of New York

Josu Iriondo, Auxiliary Bishop of New York

Dominick John Lagonegro, Auxiliary Bishop of New York

Dennis Joseph Sullivan, Auxiliary Bishop of New York

Gerald Thomas Walsh, Auxiliary Bishop of New York

Howard James Hubbard, Bishop of Albany

Nicholas Anthony DiMarzio, Bishop of Brooklyn

Octavio Cisneros, Auxiliary Bishop of Brooklyn

Frank Joseph Caggiano, Auxiliary Bishop of Brooklyn

Ignatius Anthony Catanello, Auxiliary Bishop of Brooklyn

Guy Sansaricq, Auxiliary Bishop of Brooklyn

Edward U. Kmiec, Bishop of Buffalo

Episcopal see of Ogdensburg (vacant see)

Matthew H. Clark, Bishop of Rochester

William Murphy, Bishop of Rockville Centre

Robert Joseph Cunningham, Bishop of Syracuse

James Michael Moynihan, Bishop Emeritus of Syracuse

Province of Newark[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Newark

The Metropolitan Province of Newark comprises the state of New Jersey.

John J. Myers, Archbishop of Newark

Peter Leo Gerety, Archbishop Emeritus of Newark

Manuel Aurelio Cruz, Auxiliary Bishop of Newark

Edgar Moreira da Cunha, Auxiliary Bishop of Newark

Gaetano Aldo Donato, Auxiliary Bishop of Newark

John Walter Flesey, Auxiliary Bishop of Newark

David Arias, O.A.R., Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Newark

Dominic A. Marconi, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Newark

Charles J. McDonnell, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Newark

Joseph A. Galante, Bishop of Camden

Paul Gregory Bootkoski, Bishop of Metuchen

Edward T. Hughes, Bishop Emeritus of Metuchen

Arthur J. Serratelli, Bishop of Paterson

Frank J. Rodimer, Bishop Emeritus of Paterson

John Mortimer Smith, Bishop of Trenton

John C. Reiss, Bishop Emeritus of Trenton

Province of Oklahoma City[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Oklahoma City

The Metropolitan Province of Oklahoma City comprises the states of Arkansas and Oklahoma.

Eusebius J. Beltran, Archbishop of Oklahoma City

Anthony Basil Taylor, Bishop of Little Rock

Edward James Slattery, Bishop of Tulsa

Province of Omaha[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Omaha

The Metropolitan Province of Omaha comprises the state of Nebraska.

George Joseph Lucas, Archbishop of Omaha

Elden Francis Curtiss, Archbishop Emeritus of Omaha

William Joseph Dendinger, Bishop of Grand Island

Fabian Bruskewitz, Bishop of Lincoln

Province of Philadelphia[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Philadelphia

The Metropolitan Province of Philadelphia comprises the state of Pennsylvania.

Justin Francis Rigali, Cardinal, Archbishop of Philadelphia and Apostolic Administrator of Scranton

Anthony Joseph Bevilacqua, Cardinal, Archbishop Emeritus of Philadelphia

Robert P. Maginnis, Auxiliary Bishop of Philadelphia

Joseph P. McFadden, Auxiliary Bishop of Philadelphia

Daniel E. Thomas, Auxiliary Bishop of Philadelphia

Timothy C. Senior, Auxiliary Bishop of Philadelphia

Martin Nicholas Lohmuller, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Philadelphia

Louis A. DeSimone, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Philadelphia

John Barres, Bishop of Allentown

Edward Peter Cullen, Bishop Emeritus of Allentown

Joseph Victor Adamec, Bishop of Altoona-Johnstown

Donald Walter Trautman, Bishop of Erie

Lawrence Eugene Brandt, Bishop of Greensburg

Episcopal see of Harrisburg (vacant see)

David Zubik, Bishop of Pittsburgh

Episcopal see of Scranton (vacant see)

Joseph Francis Martino, Bishop Emeritus of Scranton

James Clifford Timlin, Bishop Emeritus of Scranton

John M. Dougherty, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Scranton

Province of Portland[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Portland

The Metropolitan Province of Portland comprises the states of Idaho, Montana and Oregon, except those parts of Idaho and Montana that are within Yellowstone National Park (all of which is part of the Diocese of Cheyenne, in the Province of Denver).

John George Vlazny, Archbishop of Portland in Oregon

Robert Francis Vasa, Bishop of Baker

Michael Patrick Driscoll, Bishop of Boise

Michael William Warfel, Bishop of Great Falls-Billings

George Leo Thomas, Bishop of Helena

Province of Saint Louis[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Saint Louis

The Metropolitan Province of Saint Louis comprises the state of Missouri.

Robert J. Carlson, Archbishop of Saint Louis

Raymond Leo Burke, Prefect of the Supreme Tribunal of the Apostolic Signatura and Archbishop Emeritus of Saint Louis

Robert Joseph Hermann, Auxiliary Bishop of Saint Louis

John R. Gaydos, Bishop of Jefferson City

Robert Finn, Bishop of Kansas City-Saint Joseph

James Vann Johnston, Jr., Bishop of Springfield-Cape Girardeau

John Joseph Leibrecht, Bishop Emeritus of Springfield-Cape Girardeau

Province of Saint Paul and Minneapolis[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Saint Paul and Minneapolis

The Metropolitan Province of Saint Paul and Minneapolis comprises the states of Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota.

John Clayton Nienstedt, Archbishop of Saint Paul and Minneapolis

Harry Flynn, Archbishop Emeritus of Saint Paul and Minneapolis

Lee Anthony Piché, Auxiliary Bishop of Saint Paul and Minneapolis

Paul Albert Zipfel, Bishop of Bismarck

Michael Joseph Hoeppner, Bishop of Crookston

Victor Hermann Balke, Bishop Emeritus of Crookston

Paul D. Sirba, Bishop-Elect of Duluth

Samuel Joseph Aquila, Bishop of Fargo

John M. LeVoir, Bishop of New Ulm

Blase Joseph Cupich, Bishop of Rapid City

John Francis Kinney, Bishop of Saint Cloud

Paul J. Swain, Bishop of Sioux Falls

John M. Quinn, Bishop of Winona

Bernard Joseph Harrington, Bishop Emeritus of Winona

Province of San Antonio[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of San Antonio

The Metropolitan Province of San Antonio comprises the western counties of the state of Texas.

José Horacio Gomez, Archbishop of San Antonio

Patrick Flores, Archbishop Emeritus of San Antonio

Oscar Cantu, Auxiliary Bishop of San Antonio

Patrick James Zurek, Bishop of Amarillo

John Walter Yanta, Bishop Emeritus of Amarillo

Kevin Joseph Farrell, Bishop of Dallas

Charles Victor Grahmann, Bishop Emeritus of Dallas

Armando Xavier Ochoa, Bishop of El Paso

Kevin William Vann, Bishop of Fort Worth

James Anthony Tamayo, Bishop of Laredo

Plácido Rodriguez, Bishop of Lubbock

Michael David Pfeifer, Bishop of San Angelo

Province of San Francisco[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of San Francisco

The Metropolitan Province of San Francisco comprises the northern counties of the state of California and all of the states of Hawaii, Nevada and Utah.

George Hugh Niederauer, Archbishop of San Francisco

John R. Quinn, Archbishop Emeritus of San Francisco

William Joseph Levada, Cardinal Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith and Archbishop Emeritus of San Francisco

William J. Justice, Auxiliary Bishop of San Francisco

Ignatius C. Wang, Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of San Francisco

Clarence Richard Silva, Bishop of Honolulu

Joseph A. Pepe, Bishop of Las Vegas

Salvatore Joseph Cordileone, Bishop of Oakland

John Stephen Cummins, Bishop Emeritus of Oakland

Randolph Roque Calvo, Bishop of Reno

Jaime Soto, Bishop of Sacramento

John Charles Wester, Bishop of Salt Lake City

Patrick Joseph McGrath, Bishop of San Jose in California

Pierre DuMaine, Bishop Emeritus of San Jose in California

Daniel F. Walsh, Bishop of Santa Rosa in California

Stephen Blaire, Bishop of Stockton

Province of Santa Fe[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Santa Fe

The Metropolitan Province of Santa Fe comprises the states of Arizona and New Mexico.

Michael Jarboe Sheehan, Archbishop of Santa Fe

James S. Wall, Bishop of Gallup

Donald Edmond Pelotte, SSS, Bishop Emeritus of Gallup

Ricardo Ramirez, CSB, Bishop of Las Cruces

Thomas J. Olmsted, Bishop of Phoenix

Gerald Frederick Kicanas, Bishop of Tucson

Province of Seattle[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Seattle

The Metropolitan Province of Seattle comprises the state of Washington.

Alexander Joseph Brunett, Archbishop of Seattle

Raymond G. Hunthausen, Archbishop Emeritus of Seattle

Eusebio Elizondo, Auxiliary Bishop of Seattle

Joseph J. Tyson, Auxiliary Bishop of Seattle

William Stephen Skylstad, Bishop of Spokane

Carlos Arthur Sevilla, SJ, Bishop of Yakima

Province of Washington, D.C.[]

See: Category:Roman Catholic Ecclesiastical Province of Washington

The Metropolitan Province of Washington, D.C., comprises the District of Columbia, five neighboring counties in Maryland, and — as its only suffragan — a United States overseas dependency, the Territory of the Virgin Islands.

Donald William Wuerl, Archbishop of Washington

Theodore Edgar McCarrick, Cardinal Archbishop Emeritus of Washington

William Wakefield Baum, Cardinal Major Penitentiary Emeritus of the Apostolic Penitentiary and Cardinal Archbishop Emeritus of Washington

Francisco González Valer, S.F., Auxiliary Bishop of Washington

Martin Holley, Auxiliary Bishop of Washington

Barry Christopher Knestout, Auxiliary Bishop of Washington

Leonard Olivier, S.V.D., Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of Washington

Herbert A. Bevard, Bishop of Saint Thomas in the Virgin Islands

Archdiocese for the Military Services, USA[]

In 1939, Pope Pius XII canonically erected a military ordinariate for members of the Armed Forces of the United States serving domestically and abroad and their dependents. In 1985, Pope John Paul II elevated the ordinariate to the Archdiocese for the Military Services, USA. The archdiocese serves members of and others employed by the United States military, the Veterans Health Administration and its patients, and Americans in government service overseas. The jurisdiction of the Archdiocese extends to any United States government property both in the United States and abroad, including all military installations and U.S. embassies, consulates and other diplomatic missions. The archbishop oversees bishops and priests working at military installations worldwide, and is assisted by auxiliary bishops.

Timothy P. Broglio, Archbishop for the Military Services, USA

Joseph W. Estabrook, Auxiliary Bishop for the Military Services, USA

Richard B. Higgins, Auxiliary Bishop for the Military Services, USA

Metropolia of Philadelphia for the Ukrainians[]

See: Category:Ukrainian Catholic Metropolia of Philadelphia

The Ukrainian Catholic Metropolitan Province of Philadelphia consists of four eparchies of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, and covers the entire United States.

Stefan Soroka, Metropolitan Archbishop of Philadelphia

John Bura, Auxiliary Bishop of Philadelphia and Apostolic Administrator of Parma

Bishopric of Parma (vacant see)

Robert Mikhail Moskal, Bishop Emeritus of Parma

Richard Stephen Seminack, Bishop of Chicago

Paul Patrick Chomnycky, OSBM, Bishop of Stamford

Metropolia of Pittsburgh for the Ruthenians[]

See: Category:Byzantine Catholic Metropolia of Pittsburgh

The Byzantine Catholic Metropolitan Province of Pittsburgh is a sui iuris metropolia, traditionally linked to the Ruthenian Catholic Church. The metropolia consists of four eparchies of the Byzantine Ruthenian Catholic Church and covers the entire United States, with jurisdiction for all Ruthenian Catholics in the United States, as well as other Byzantine Rite Catholics without an established hierarchy in the country.

Basil Myron Schott, OFM, Metropolitan Archbishop of Pittsburgh

William Charles Skurla, Bishop of Passaic

Andrew Pataki, Bishop Emeritus of Passaic

John Michael Kudrick, Bishop of Parma

Gerald Nicholas Dino, Bishop of Van Nuys

Other Eastern Catholic bishops[]

The other Eastern Catholic Churches with eparchies (dioceses) established in the United States are not grouped into metropoliae. All are immediately subject to the Holy See, with limited oversight by the head of their respective sui iuris church.

Armenian Catholic Church

Manuel Batakian, Bishop of the Armenian Catholic Eparchy of Our Lady of Nareg in New York

Chaldean Catholic Church

Ibrahim Namo Ibrahim, Bishop of the Chaldean Catholic Eparchy of Saint Thomas the Apostle of Detroit

Sarhad Yawsip Hermiz Jammo, Bishop of the Chaldean Catholic Eparchy of Saint Peter the Apostle (San Diego)

Maronite Catholic Church

Gregory John Mansour, Bishop of the Maronite Catholic Eparchy of Saint Maron of Brooklyn

Robert Joseph Shaheen, Bishop of the Maronite Catholic Eparchy of Our Lady of Lebanon of Los Angeles

Melkite Greek Catholic Church

Cyrille Salim Bustros, Bishop of the Melkite Greek Catholic Eparchy of Newton (Massachusetts)

Romanian Byzantine Catholic Church

John Michael Botean, Bishop of the Romanian Catholic Eparchy of Saint George's in Canton (Ohio)

Syrian Catholic Church

Syrian Catholic Eparchy of Our Lady of Deliverance of Newark (New Jersey) (for the U.S. and Canada) (vacant see)[3]

Syro-Malabar Catholic Church

Mar Jacob Angadiath, Bishop of the Syro-Malabar Catholic Diocese of Saint Thomas the Apostle of Chicago

Province of Agaña[]

See also: List of Roman Catholic dioceses in Oceania#Ecclesiastical Province of Agaña

The Metropolitan Province of Agaña comprises the United States overseas dependencies of the Territory of Guam and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, as well as Wake Island, an unorganized, unincorporated territory of the U.S. Also included are the sovereign and independent nations of the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau. (The bishops in U.S. insular areas in the Pacific Ocean — the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Territory of American Samoa, and the Territory of Guam — are members of the Episcopal Conference of the Pacific.)

Anthony Sablan Apuron, Archbishop of Agaña (Guam)

Tomas Aguon Camacho, Bishop of Chalan Kanoa (Northern Mariana Islands)

Amando Samo, Bishop of Caroline Islands

Amando Samo, Apostolic Prefect of the Marshall Islands (including Wake Is.)

Province of Samoa-Apia[]

See also: List of Roman Catholic dioceses in Oceania#Ecclesiastical Province of Samoa-Apia

The Metropolitan Province of Samoa-Apia is foreign to the United States, but it includes — as its only suffragan — a single diocese that comprises a United States overseas dependency, the Territory of American Samoa. (The bishops in U.S. insular areas in the Pacific Ocean — the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Territory of American Samoa, and the Territory of Guam — are members of the Episcopal Conference of the Pacific.)

Alapati Lui Mataeliga, Bishop of Samoa-Pago Pago

Province of San Juan de Puerto Rico[]

The Metropolitan Province of San Juan de Puerto Rico comprises the United States Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. (The bishops of the province form their own episcopal conference, the Conferencia Episcopal Puertorriqueña.)[4]

Archdiocese of San Juan de Puerto Rico

Roberto González Nieves, O.F.M., Archbishop of San Juan

Luis Aponte Martínez, Cardinal, Archbishop Emeritus of San Juan

Hermín Negrón Santana, Auxiliary Bishop of San Juan

Héctor Rivera Pérez, Auxiliary Bishop of San Juan

Diocese of Arecibo

Iñaki Mallona Txertudi, Bishop of Arecibo

Diocese of Caguas

Ruben González Medina, C.M.F., Bishop of Caguas

Enrique Hernández Rivera, Bishop Emeritus of Caguas

Diocese of Fajardo-Humacao

Eusebio Ramos Morales, Bishop of Fajardo-Humacao

Diocese of Mayagüez

Ulises Aurelio Casiano Vargas, Bishop of Mayagüez

Diocese of Ponce

Félix Lázaro Martinez, Bishop of Ponce

Juan Torres Oliver, Bishop Emeritus of Ponce

American bishops serving outside the United States[]

Edward Joseph Adams, Archbishop, Apostolic Nuncio to the Philippines (ordained a priest of the Archdiocese of Philadelphia)

Raymond Leo Burke, Archbishop, Prefect of the Supreme Tribunal of the Apostolic Signatura and Archbishop Emeritus of Saint Louis

Joseph Augustine Di Noia, OP, Archbishop, Secretary of the Congregation for Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments

John Patrick Foley, Cardinal, Grand Master of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem and President Emeritus of the Pontifical Council for Social Communications

James Patrick Green, Archbishop, Apostolic Nuncio to Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland (ordained a priest of the Archdiocese of Philadelphia)

James Michael Harvey, Archbishop, Prefect of the Papal Household (ordained a priest of the Archdiocese of Milwaukee)

Bernard Francis Law, Cardinal, Archpriest of the Papal Basilica of Saint Mary Major in Rome and Archbishop Emeritus of Boston

William Joseph Levada, Cardinal, Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith and Archbishop Emeritus of San Francisco

Joseph Salvador Marino, Archbishop, Apostolic Nuncio to Bangladesh (ordained a priest of the Diocese of Birmingham, Alabama)[5]

James Francis Stafford, Cardinal, Major Penitentiary Emeritus of the Apostolic Penitentiary and Archbishop Emeritus of Denver

Edmund Casimir Szoka, Cardinal, President of the Pontifical Commission for Vatican City State and Archbishop Emeritus of Detroit

Non-American bishops serving in the United States[]

Pietro Sambi, Archbishop and Apostolic Nuncio to the U.S. (Nunciature of the Holy See in Washington, D.C.)

Celestino Migliore, Archbishop and Permanent Observer of the Holy See to the United Nations (in New York City)

See also[]

Category:Roman Catholic dioceses in the United States (including ecclesiastical provinces)

List of the Catholic cathedrals of the United States

List of the Catholic dioceses of the United States

American Cardinals Dinner

List of living cardinals (sortable by name, country, and birthdate)

List of oldest Catholic bishops (100 oldest bishops, including cardinals)

Bishop (Catholic Church)

Catholic Church hierarchy

Roman Catholicism in the United States

History of Roman Catholicism in the United States

Catholic Church and politics in the United States

Catholic Church by country

Global organisation of the Catholic Church

List of Roman Catholic dioceses (alphabetical) (including archdioceses)

List of Roman Catholic dioceses (structured view) (including archdioceses)

List of Roman Catholic archdioceses (by country and continent)

Index of Catholic Church articles

The term Roman Catholic

Christianity in the United States

Religions by country

[]

Resources[]

United States Conference of Catholic Bishops – List of Bishops

Giga-Catholic Information - Bishops of United States

Template:R-C provinces in the United States

Template:North America in topic