Daniel E. Skinner, the president and general of Texas Public Radio for more than six years, has been named the new general manger of Kent State University's NPR-affiliated radio station, WKSU FM/89.7. His first day at the Kent station will be Monday, Jan. 2.

He replaces Al Bartholet, who is retiring after 11 years as WKSU's general manager. Skinner brings with him 32 years of experience in public radio, including more than 20 years as a general manager. He will be just the fifth person to lead WKSU since it first went on the air in October 1950.

Based in San Antonio, Texas Public Radio operates three FM stations: KSTX, with an emphasis on news and information; KPAC, specializing in classical music; and KTXI, a news and classical music station in the Texas Hill Country.

Before joining Texas Public Radio, Skinner was department head and general manager of Purdue University’s WBAA AM and FM (1992-2006); program manager and then manager of internal operations and programming for Ball State University’s WBST (1987-1992); and operations manager and then program director for Hutchinson Community College’s KHCC (1980-1987).

Skinner has been a member of Public Radio in Mid-America (PRIMA) since 1995 and is its current vice president. The organization serves as a forum on issues in public radio, advancing the public radio industry and its services.

The new WKSU general manager holds a bachelor's degree in general studies with a focus on management from Wichita State University and a master's degree in executive development for public service from Ball State University.

WKSU was founded as a student-operated public radio station, broadcasting five hours a day, five days a week. The station joined as an affiliate of the National Public Radio network in 1974 and increased its power to 50,000 watts in 1980.

In 2003, the station launched FolkAlley.com, a folk music-based Internet radio stream and content provider. WKSU programming is produced at its primary facility in Kent, as well as in satellite bureaus in Akron, Cleveland and Canton.