Translink is Northern Ireland’s public transport provider. Metro and Glider services operates in the Belfast area, with Ulsterbus and Goldline bus services connecting the rest of Northern Ireland.

Glider services operate with a modern eco-hybrid fleet. Catering for more passengers than conventional buses, passengers also enjoy a new ticketing system which speeds up getting on and off the vehicle.

Translink operates Northern Ireland Railways which connects Belfast to various cities and towns in Northern Ireland. Within Belfast, the main train stations are Great Victoria Street Station and Lanyon Station (previously known as Belfast Central Station).

From Dublin

The Enterprise Train service connects Dublin and Belfast. It is jointly operated by Translink and Irish Rail.

Value Cabs provides a professional taxi service, executive vehicles and sightseeing tours.

Wheelchair accessible vehicles and seven seater vehicles are available on request.

A debit and credit card payment facility is available in every vehicle. This service is particularly useful to business travellers, tourists, students, shoppers and anyone who is not carrying cash. Please ask your driver for details.

Bikes are available for public hire, with over 30 docking stations located across Belfast City Centre. You can register as a casual user or annual subscriber from £5 and the first 30 minutes of each trip is free.

George Best Belfast City Airport

Belfast City Airport is just three miles from Belfast City Centre. Aer Lingus, British Airways, KLM and Eastern Airways all fly to and from Belfast City Airport. The Translink Airport Express 600 bus service runs between the airport and Belfast city centre.

Belfast International Airport

Belfast International Airport is a 30 minute drive from Belfast City Centre. EasyJet, Ryanair, Jet2 and Wizz all fly to and from Belfast International Airport. The Translink Airport Express 300 bus service runs between the airport and Belfast city centre.

From Dublin and Republic of Ireland

Irish Rail operates services from towns and cities across the Republic of Ireland to Dublin’s Connolly Station, where you can then catch a connecting train to Belfast.

The Enterprise Train service (provided jointly by Translink and Irish Rail), from Dublin’s Connolly Station to Lanyon Station (previously known as Belfast Central Station), runs eight times daily (five times on Sundays) and takes two hours 15 minutes. Book in advance at irishrail.ie for the best value fares.