Home > Ireland Rail Pass

Ireland Rail Tickets

Ireland Rail Pass

Ireland Rail Tickets

Ireland Rail Pass - Irish Rail Passes

Enjoy rail travel throughout the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, to popular destinations such as Dublin, Belfast, Cork, Limerick, Galway and Bangor. Please remember the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland are 2 separate countries and have different passport/visa requirements. Also remember they have different currencies. Republic of Ireland being the 'Euro' and Northern Ireland being 'Pounds Sterling'.

Rail transport in Ireland is provided by Iarnród Éireann also known as Irish Rail in English, is the operator of the national railway network of Ireland. Established on 2 February 1987, it is a subsidiary of Córas Iompair Éireann (CIÉ). It operates all internal InterCity, Commuter, DART and freight railway services in the Republic of Ireland, and, jointly with Northern Ireland Railways, the Enterprise service between Dublin and Belfast.

Rail transport in Northern Ireland is provided by the Northern Ireland Railways.

Most routes in the Republic radiate from Dublin as 5 railway lines. Northern Ireland has suburban routes from Belfast and two main InterCity lines, to Derry and cross-border to Dublin.

Ireland's only light rail service, the Luas tram system, is in Dublin. No metro lines currently exist in Ireland but there is a planned MetroLink line which would serve Dublin.

There are 3 main train stations in Dublin:

Connolly Train Station

1 Amiens St · +(01) 836 6222

Heuston Station Train Station

Heuston Station St. Johns Road West · +353 1 703 2132

Grand Canal Dock Train Station

Barrow St · +353 1 703 1470

Ireland 1 Country Pass

Eurail Ireland Pass (Eurail is a European Rail Pass for Non Europeans)

Interrail Ireland Pass (Interrail is a European Rail Pass for Europeans)

Eurail Northern Ireland Pass (Eurail is a European Rail Pass for Non Europeans)

Interrail Northern Ireland Pass (Interrail is a European Rail Pass for Europeans)

see also: BritRail Pass (BritRail is a set of rail passes for tourists to travel in the United Kingdom)

Ireland 2 Countries Pass

Travel in 2 bordering countries in Europe.

Eurail Select Pass

Ireland 3 Countries Pass

Travel in 3 bordering countries in Europe.

Eurail Select Pass

Ireland 4 Countries Pass

Travel in 4 bordering countries in Europe.

Eurail Select Pass

Eurail Global Rail Pass 28 Countries Pass

Enjoy train travel in 28 countries with this one pass!

Eurail Global Pass

Interrail Global Rail Pass 30 Countries Pass

Enjoy train travel in 30 countries with this one pass!

Interrail Global Pass

Eurail Pass Benefits in Ireland