October 3, 1924 – June 30, 2019

Widow of the late Marinus (Martin) Korevaar (January 29, 2016).

To our deep sorrow, but thanksgiving to God, after a long fulfilled life, she was called to her heavenly home. Our beloved mother, mother-in-law, grandmother, great- grandmother, great-great- grandmother, step-grandmother, step- great- grandmother, sister-in-law and aunt completed her earthly journey at University Hospital, London, Ontario in her 95th year. Formerly of Richmond Woods, London and Saintsbury Line, Lucan.

Emigrated from Holland in 1951 to pursue their dream of owning a dairy farm. Devoted her life to caring for her family and took meticulous care of her home and gardens which were her pride and joy. She was resilient and fought her health challenges later in life with grit and determination. Helena and Marinus were married for 71 years.

Dear mother of Teresa Hamilton (Gerald), Mary Perry (Bob 2016), Linda Greenhow (Doug), Angela Carey, Mark (Tina) and the late Maria Jasperina (1949 at 13 months). Grandchildren: Ian and Patty(Connor and Carter), Wendy and Rob (Katelyn and Emily); Brad and Lesley (Isaac and Ava), Lori and Gerry (Matthew and Jolene [Willow], Nic and Emiley [Ethan, Arya and Violet] and Michael, Christine and Dave (Nathan and Andrew); Sarah and Eric, Ali, Eric, Jake and Marnie; Jennifer and Paul (Elizabeth and Phillipa), Michael and Iva; Chris and Jessica(Ben and Henry), Carolin (Jonah) and the late Fabian. Sister-in-law of Jacob and Marie, Andrew and Joan, Jack and Cathy in Canada, Marrie, Arie and Dicky, and Arrie in Holland. Helena was the last surviving child of the late Willem Korevaar and Maria Van Den Heuvel. Predeceased by her siblings: Marinus, Anigje, Pieter, Willem, Maria, Gerrit, Arie, Marius, Jasperina, Jasper and Teunis. Helena was a long-time member of the Bethel Reformed Church in Exeter.

Friends may call at the Haskett Funeral Home, 370 William Street, EXETER for visitation on Thursday, July 4th from 2:00-4:00 and 7:00-9:00 p.m. The funeral service will be conducted at the Exeter Christian Reformed Church, 330 Huron Street West, Exeter on Friday, July 5th at 10:30 a.m. Officiated by Pastor Kevin teBrake. Interment immediately following service at Exeter Cemetery.

Donations to Jessica’s House or Countryside Camp (Camp Shalom) would be appreciated by the family.