Bio: Pickett, Dr. Samuel L. & Mary E. Hatch

Contact: Stan

Surnames: Pickett, Multer, Hatch, Foster

----Source: History of the St. Croix Valley, 1909

Samuel Pickett

S. L. Pickett, M. D., is a native of Wisconsin, born in Harford, December 24, 1861, son of Samuel H. and Eliza (Multer) Pickett. The father was a native of Cattaraugus County, New York, and was a carpenter by trade. He came westward to Wisconsin in the early days and settled in Milwaukee County, and later in Hartford, Washington County, remaining there until 1872. In that year he came to Clark county, Wisconsin, and took up land, which he broke and improved. Samuel H. Pickett still continues to live on the old homestead.

Samuel L. attended the common schools of Wisconsin, receiving his education in the winter months and assisting his father to clear land during the summer. He remained with his father until attaining his majority and then started teaching school. During his first year of teaching he took up the study of medicine, and after teaching two years he attended the Minnesota Hospital College for one year, afterward teaching again for a similar period. He then went to the Keokuk College of Physicians and Surgeons two years, graduating with honors in 1888.

He at once started the practice of his profession in Wilson. His skill, his personality and his social qualities rapidly obtained recognition, and he now has a very large practice, owning a well-equipped office a beautiful home, being a fine type of a well-to-do country physician.

He also makes a hobby of an artificial lake near Wilson, which he keeps supplied with spring water and stocked with game fish. The villages of Wilson and Hersey are supplied with ice taken from this lake.

Dr. Pickett was married in November, 1888, to Mary Hatch, daughter of Edwin and Eliza (Foster) Hatch, early settlers of Waukesha county and later of Dunn county, who later came to Wilson and passed away. This union has been blessed with three children: Edwin, Alta and Marion. Dr. Pickett belongs to the Hudson Lodge, Independent Order of Foresters; Hersey Lodge, Independent Order of Odd Fellows, and Wilson Lodge, Modern Woodmen of America. He is also a member of the county, state and American medical societies. A Democrat in politics he has served as chairman of the township of Springfield.

His large practice necessitates the keeping of two teams and an auto, and he is regarded as one of the leading physicians of the county. Socially, Dr. and Mrs. Pickett occupy an enviable position in the community, and they are always leaders in every effort for the betterment of the neighborhood. They are worshipers at the Methodist church at Wilson.

*Eliza Multer, mother of Samuel L., was born 24 Sep 1834 in Ashford, Cattaraugus County, New York(6) and died 12 Jan 1920 in Unity, Clark Co WI at age 85.

**Dr Samuel L. Pickett, son of Samuel Hopshead G. Pickett and Eliza Multer, was born in December 24, 1861 and died in Bayfield, Wisconsin during the summer of 1925 at the age of 63.

----Source: Janesville Daily Gazette July 14, 1923

Dr. and Mrs. S. L. Pickett and son, Edwin and daughter, Marion, Bayfield, Wis., were guests Friday of Mr. and Mrs. Irwin Nye, 914 School street. They are motoring to Chicago.

Obit: Pickett, Samuel L. (1861 - 1925)

----Source: Port Arthur News April 10, 1925 Dr. S. L. Pickett Dies In Bayfield, Wisconsin

Samuel L. Pickett (1861 - 1925)

Accompanying her sister, Mrs S. L. Pickett, to Bayfield, Wis, following the receipt of messages that Dr. S. L. Pickett had died suddenly at his home there, Mrs. C. V. Palmer, of 1101 Lake Shore Drive is remaining over with her sister for several weeks Mrs. Pickett was visiting in Port Arthur when the death of her husband occurred last week.

Dr. Pickett visited in Port Arthur for about two months in 1922, and made a wide circle of acquaintances m this city. Details of his death received here, state that he died while in his office, stricken suddenly with a heart attack. He was 63 years of age, and was prominent in civic affairs at Bayfield, having served as the first mayor of that place. Besides his widow, a son, Edwin, a daughter, Marion, and an adopted daughter, Mrs. Arthur England survive.

BioM: Hatch, Mary E. (1888)

Wisconsin Marriage Records

Saml. L. Pickett

Birthplace: Wis

Spouse's Name: Mary E. Hatch

Spouse's Birthplace: Wis

Event Date: 14 Nov 1888

Event Place: Weston, Clark, Wisconsin

Father's Name: Samuel H. Pickett

Mother's Name: Eliza Multer

Spouse's Father's Name: Edwin D. Hatch

Spouse's Mother's Name: Eliza Ann Foster

Race: White

Spouse's Race: White

Wisconsin Birth Records

Bio: Pickett, Samuel Edward (Birth -1889)

Samuel Edw Pickett

Gender: Male

Birth Date: 03 Oct 1889

Birthplace: Wilson, St Croix, Wisconsin

Race: White

Father's Name: Samuel L Pickett

Father's Birthplace: Harlford, Wis

Mother's Name: Mary E Hatche

Mother's Birthplace: Stone Bank, Wis

1917-1918 World War I Selective Service System Draft Registration Cards (5 Jun 1917)

Samuel Edwin Pickett, Male, single Caucasian, partly deaf

Medium height, slender build, dark brown eyes, black hair with no balding

Occupation: Common Laborer for Dr. S. L. Pickett, Bayfield, Wisconsin

Event Place: Bayfield County, Wisconsin, United States

Birth Date: 31 Oct 1889

Birthplace: Springfield, Wisconsin, United States

Nationality: United States

1880 Federal Census, Unity, Clark, Wisconsin, United States, pg. 456

Sam Picket, white American male student

Father's Name: Samuel H. Picket

Father's Birthplace: New York, United States

Mother's Name: Eliza Picket

Mother's Birthplace: New York, United States

Household Members

Self Samuel H. Picket M 44 New York, United States

Wife Eliza Picket F 45 New York, United States

Daughter Kata Picket F 21 Wisconsin, United States

Son Eli K. Picket M 20 Wisconsin, United States

Son Sam Picket M 18 Wisconsin, United States

Daughter Mabel Picket F 8 Wisconsin, United States

Son Lyn H. Picket M 3 Wisconsin, United States

1910 Federal Census, Springfield, St Croix, Wisconsin, United States, District: 206, family 40

Samuel L Pickett, male, white, married

Titles and Terms:

Event Type: Census

Event Year: 1910

Relationship to Head of Household: Head

Relationship to Head of Household (Original): Head

Birth Year (Estimated): 1862

Birthplace: Wisconsin

Father's Birthplace: New York

Mother's Birthplace: New York

Household Members

Head Samuel L Pickett M 48 Wisconsin

Wife Mary Pickett F 41 Wisconsin

Son Edwin Pickett M 20 Wisconsin

Adopted daughter Alta Pickett F 15 Wisconsin

Daughter Marion Pickett F 10 Wisconsin

Boarder Hazel Flint F 24 Wisconsin

Servant Elsie Mackwitz F 20 Wisconsin

Hired man Henry Flatkin M 51 Germany

1920 Federal Census, Bayfield, Bayfield, Wisconsin, District: 23, United States, Family 167, Line 67

Samuel L Pickett, white, married male

Can Read and Write:

Father's Birthplace: New York

Mother's Birthplace: New York7

Household Members

Head Samuel L Pickett M 58 (1861) Wisconsin

Wife Mary E Pickett F 51 Wisconsin

Son Edwin S Pickett M 30 Wisconsin

Daughter Marrion E Pickett F 20 Wisconsin

Bio: Pickett, Samuel H. (1836 - )

1910 Federal Census, Unity, Clark, Wisconsin, United States, District: 20, family 30

Eliza M Pickett (Mother of Samuel L. Pickett)

Gender: Female

Age: 75

Marital Status: Married

Race: White

Race (Original): White

Father's Birthplace: Connecticut

Mother's Birthplace: New York

Household Members

Head Howard L Pickett M 33 Wisconsin

Wife Rose M Pickett F 27 Minnesota

Son Norman L Pickett M 7 Wisconsin

Daughter Thelma E Pickett F 4 Wisconsin

Daughter Lula M Pickett F 1 Wisconsin

Father Samuel H Pickett M 74 New York

Mother Eliza M Pickett F 75 (1835) New York

1920 Federal Census, Unity, Clark, Wisconsin, United States, District: 34, Family 196, Line 11

S H Pickett (Father of Samuel L. Pickett)

Gender: Male

Age: 84

Marital Status: Widowed

Race: White

Race (Original): White

Can Read: andWrite:

Relationship to Head of Household: Father

Relationship to Head of Household (Original): Father

Father's Birthplace: Connecticut

Mother's Birthplace: Connecticut

Household Members

Head J M Pickett M 62 Wisconsin

Wife Sarah Pickett F 60 Wisconsin

Daughter Blanche Pickett F 23 Wisconsin

Father S H Pickett M 84 New York

Mother Eliza Pickett F 85 New York

[2data/footer_gif.html]