During his lifetime, James Elwood Baillie was an active member of his United Church community of faith in Ottawa. He believed that the future of the church depended upon the involvement of its young people in ministry and the development of their capacity to take on leadership roles. As such, he felt strongly that young people should be encouraged to participate in the witness of the church in the world and recognized for their many valuable contributions. In response to a generous legacy gift he made through his Will, TUCC created The James Baillie Fund to do just that – celebrate and uplift the many important ways in which youth and young adults (aged 13-35) contribute their energy and talents to the church community and beyond.

Fund Guidelines

The Fund is dedicated to supporting youth and young adults aged 13-35 who are members, adherents, or regular attendees of worship services at the United Church of Canada. It is specifically for individuals in need, who must be recommended by a congregation or community of faith. The Fund’s financial support can be used for a variety of purposes, including:

Courses and Training: Funding for courses on biblical studies, life skills, or parenting.

Camping Sponsorships: Financial support for attending camps offered by any UCC camp within the regions served by TUCC.

Basic Necessities: Accessing food and clothing from food/clothing banks operated by the UCC.

Educational Support: Scholarships or bursaries for technical/trade courses or college education.

There are twelve grants of $1,000 available per youth/young adult. The application process is open from January 2nd to February 15th. Grant recipients will be announced in March/April.

The application deadline for 2025 is February 15th.

The full criteria for qualifying projects, and application requirements can be found HERE. Grant applications can be completed online.

For more information contact Janice Meighan, Director of Fundraising and Donor Care, at janice@tucc.ca or (905) 771-5124 ex. 22.

Previous Grant Recipients

2022/2023/2024: Rosedale, Bloor Street, and Fairlawn Avenue United Church to support youth attending Gibimishkaadimin, a project of reconciliation engaging Indigenous youth from across Canada and non-Indigenous youth from Shining Waters Regional Council area.

The Treble Fund came under the care of TUCC in 2012 and is rooted in the heartfelt generosity of Lillian Frances Massey Treble (1854-1915). The founder of the Lillian Massey School of Household Science and Art, Lillian was profoundly concerned for the well-being of families and the nurturing of household arts and sciences. This fund, established through a legacy gift from her estate, embodies her legacy of compassion and care.

Grants for ministries and communities of faith in the City of Toronto are available to assist with practical life skills development in the areas of:

Food preparation

Nutrition

Sustainable food gardening

Financial literacy

Crafting and sewing programs

Previous Grant Recipients

2023: Kimbourne Park United Church to equip the Community Kitchen Food Program.

One grant of up to $5,000 is available per year. The application process is open from January 2nd to February 15th. Grant recipients will be announced in March/April.

The application deadline for 2025 is February 15th.

The full criteria for qualifying projects, and application requirements can be found HERE. Grant applications can be completed online.

For more information contact Janice Meighan, Director of Fundraising and Donor Care, at janice@tucc.ca or (905) 771-5124 ex. 22.

The Leslie and Anna Davenport Funds consist of both loans and grants. The Davenport Funds stand as a testament to the power of generosity and collective action in creating positive change in ministry and the broader community.

Established in January 1990 from a generous legacy gift, these funds were entrusted to the care and stewardship of TUCC. The grants, sourced from the Davenport Interest Fund, serve as a beacon of hope and support for social ministry initiatives. These initiatives are instrumental in addressing social challenges and advancing the welfare of those in need within the regions TUCC serves.

Previous Grant Recipients

2023: Islington United Church and Trinity St. Paul’s United Church for mural projects by Indigenous artists.

2021-2022: Filipino Christian Fellowship for their newcomers’ program

2019: Eastminister United Church for a kitchen program and renovation

2018/2019: Great Lakes Water Walk

2018: Gumboot Productions to complete the film “Finding Peter Bryce.”

2017: Le Ministère Protestante Francophone de Toronto

1996 – 2012: Variety of community relief projects

This is an open grant application process. Communities of faith may apply for grants of up to $5,000 per project. Grant applications can be completed online.

For more information contact Janice Meighan, Director of Fundraising and Donor Care, at janice@tucc.ca or (905) 771-5124 ex. 22.