THE CANADIAN RECDRD

COMMUNITY PAGE

THURSDAY 15 FEBRUARY2DD7

21

OBITUARY

OBITUARY

BOB R. WARD

Bob R. Ward, 84, of Canadian died on

Wednesday, February 7,2007 in Canadian. S|p

vices wore held at 10 a.m. on Saturday. February

10, at the First Presbyterian'Church with Rev.

Kd (Vidlcy. officiating and Jim Pollard, assisting.

Burial was in Edith Ford Memorial Cemetery

under the direction of Hughs Funeral Home of

Canadian.

Bob was born December 26, 1922 in Tulsa,

Oklahoma, to Leslie Ward and Willie Mae Gil-

bert Ward, He: was a graduate of Pampa High

School. He then went on to graduate from New

Mexico Military Institute in Roswell, New Mex-

ico. Mr. Ward was a Veteran of the United States

Air Force serving in World War II where he was

a radio operator-mechanic gunner. Bob moved

to Canadian in 1945 from Pampa. He married

Bettye McAfee Ward on October 15. 1947 in

Amarillo. She preceded him in death on March

30,2006. Bob was owner and operator of Ward

Oil Company from 1956 until his retirement

in 1991. He wag. a member of the 388th Bomb

Group,Canadian Lodge #855 AF and AM, and

the First Presbyterian Chureh.

He was preceded in death by a brother, Bill

Ward: a sister. Kathorine Taylor; and a granddaughter, Jacqueline Ward;

He is survived by a son, Kelley Ward and wife, Ruth, of Canadian; a daughter, Kay Ward of

Brighton, Colorado; a sister, Polly Parnell of Holland* Texas; five grandchildren, Kris Sanchez

and husband, Javier, and Krystal Dickinson and husband, Ty, all of Canadian, Lisa White of

Amarillo, and Shelby Ward and Raehel Ward, both of Brighton, Colorado; and two great-grand-

children, Mya Sanchez and Aiden Dickinson, both of Canadian.

The family suggests memorials be to Hemphill O^unty Hospice-, 1020 S. Main, Canadian, TX

79014.

Condolences maybe Sent online aiivww.hughsfuneralhome.com.

OBITUARY

¥

ROBERT CHARLES 'BOB' HEXT

Robert Charles "Bob" Ilext. 58, of Alpine died Sunday evening, February 11, 2007 ©fan ap-

parent heart attack. A private service for the family will be held today [Thursday], February 15.,

at 4 p.m. at the First:Qhristian Church in Alpine. A community service will be held at 6 p.m. at

the Kokernot Outdoor Theatre, Brother Keith West, instructor in Fine Arts and a longtime col-

league, will officiate.

Bob Hext, a: native of Canadian,, had taught at Sul Ross State University since 1974. He, joined

the faculty as an instructor and was Subsequently promoted to assistant professor, associate pro-

fessor and to his present rank. He was named chair of the Art Department in 1989.

Hext,, who was named to "Who's Who Among America's Teachers'* several times,, took art

education far outside the classroom. For a number of years, he led art tours in Europe, and also

taught classes about rock art in West Texas, taking his students, to the sites. He studied Paleolith-

ic cave: art in northern Spain, was regarded as an international expert in the field and was active

both in preserving regional rock art and teaching students to create their own works.

An accomplished sculptor, with wood as his primary medium, his works were exhibited at

numerous shows. His metal "cowboy" Sculptures:are also visible in Alpine, along Highway 67/90

near Sul Ross and infront of the Alpine Chamber of Commerce office.

"Bob Hext's presence extended far beyond the campus," said Sul Ross President R. Vic Mor-

gan. "He was a talented artist and extremely committed teacher. l ie will be sorely missed as a

colleague and friend."

HeXt was born May 26,1948 M Canadian and graduated from ('attailiati High School in 1966.

He attended Stephen F. Austin University in XacagiInches, receiving a: B.S. degree in 1970, an

M.A. in 1971, and an M.F.A. in 1975. He taught at Wicagdoches High School from 1972-74 before

going to Sul Ross.

He was preceded in death by his parents, Charles "Hub" and Bessie Mae Hext; his sister, Dora

Mae Busbee;:.and a nephew;, Zack Busbee,

He is survived by his wife, Kristi, of Alpine;, two daughters, Ashley Baker of Alpine and her

husband, Will, and Andrea Rudolph of Colorado and her husband, Mike; a granddaughter, Berk-

ley Baker, and a grandson, Fisher Baker, both of Alpine; a brother, Phil Love of Michigan; three

nieces,. Brooke Busbee of Arizona, Kassie Fuller of Alpine, and Heather Barron of Argyle; five

nephews,day Busbee of Dallas and his wife, Courtney, Lance Posey of Austin, James Fuller of

Arizona, Will Fuller of Midland and his wife. Brandy, and E.O. Barron of Austin; seven great-

nieces and nephews; many friends;.and thousands of students.

In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations to the Sul Ross State University Scholarship

Fund in memory of Bob Hext.

TOM ABRAHAM

Tom Abraham, 96, of Canadian died on

Thursday February 8, 2007 in Canadian. Ser-

vices were held at 2:30 p.m. on Sunday. Febru-

ary 11, at the First Christian Church with Matt

Cook, Rev. Ashley Abraham Hood and Kari

Stainback, officiating. Burial was in Edith Ford

Memorial Cemetery under the direction of

Hughs Funeral Home of Canadian.

Tom Abraham: was born in Kafracab, Leba-

non in 1910, sometime around December 8. His

parents were Nahim and Alia Malouf (their sur-

name was changed to Abraham when they Came

to America through Ellis Island). Tom grew up

in Canadian and graduated from Canadian High

School in 1928.

In 1932, he graduated from Texas, Tech,

where he played on the football team, was the

business manager of The Toreador (the school

newspaper), and later helped start the Red

Raider Club. He was also .a member of the Com-

mission that created the Texas Tech Dad's Asso-

ciation (now knownas Texas Tech Association of

Parents) and served as its first Vice-President.

Upon his death, Tom was thought to be the oldest

living Texas Tech Letterman. Tom liked to say that he: received the first BBA degree from Tech

(chuckling about the: fact that it wasn't for his academic prowess, but because his last name began

with "A").

After graduation he married Helen Ferguson of Padueah and returned to Canadian. He went

to work at The Fair Department Store, which was started by his father, and he eventually became

the owner.

He was a member of First Presbyterian Church of Canadian where he Was instrumental in

building the original church, Along with his brothers, he helped found the Edward Abraham

Memorial Home. He was active in the Rotary Club, was very proud of being a Mason, and served

in numerous community leadership positions. In his later life, Tom was also the recipient of many

honors. Among them were: Man of the Year by the Canadian-Hemphill County-Chamber of Com-

merce, the Africanism Award presented by Daughters of the American Revolution (given only

to immigrants who helped other immigrants obtain citizenship), Hemphill County Bicentennial

Chairman, and "BevenWhd Care" from KVII-TV in Amarillo. Mr. Abraham was proudest of his

coveted Freedom's Foundation Award presented at Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, in: 1980. How-

ever* Tom was known mostly for his many kindnesses to others, which were described in the 1992

Amarillo Globe-News column, "Santa: Claus is alive and giving in Canadian:"

Pallbearers will be Kent Stainback, Timothy Stainback, Kyle Abraham, Blake Beedy, Kelly

Feezel, Doug Hood and Kirk Stephens.

Tom was preceded in death by his parents: his three brothers, Xaceeb. Malouf Sr. and Eddie;

and his son-in-law, Raiford Stainback. Jr.

He is survived by his wife of 71 years, Helen; his chiktaen, Donna Abraham Stainback of

Greenville* Ken Abraham and his wife, Renee, of Lubboek* and Kay Abraham Brown and her

husband, Terry, of Canadian; his grandchildren: KentStainback, Kari Stainback, Timothy Stain-

back, Lacy Stainback Fe.ezel, Kyle Abraham, Rev, Ashley Abraham Hood* Alex Abraham, Wendi

BroWn Stephens, Hilary Brown Beedy; and 17 great-grandchildren.

"Because he loves me,- s.ays the Lord,, .1 will deliver.him and honor him. With a long life I will

satisfy him and show him my salvation." Psalm 91

Condolences may be sent online to Hughs Funeral Home at www.hughsfuneralhome.com or

P.O., Box 105, Canadian,. TX 79014.

We will be dosed on

Monday, February 19th

in observance of

Presidents' Day.

1

Sena* & Z06 3S3 97/ / 7 ^,yz>xs

Wellington - Wheeler - Memphis - Childress