Paul Robeson became best known around the world for his bass-baritone voice that made spirituals – many of them by the Black composer/arranger Harry T. Burleigh – a truly American standard and worthy of the concert stage. Thousands of people showed up to hear him reach deep into his soul to sing the songs of his people: “Ev’ry Time I Feel the Spirit,” “Go Down Moses,” “Sing Low, Sweet Chariot,” “The House I Live In” and “Deep River.”

“Yes, I heard my people singing! – in the glow of parlor coal-stove and on summer porches sweet with lilac air, from choir loft and Sunday morning pews – and my soul was filled with their harmonies,” he wrote in “Here I Stand,” published in 1958. “Then, too, I heard these songs in the very sermons of my father, for in the Negro’s speech there is much of the phrasing and rhythms of folksong. The great, soaring gospels we love are merely sermons that are sung; and as we thrill to such gifted gospel singers as Mahalia Jackson, we hear the rhythmic eloquence of our preachers, so many of whom, like my father, are masters of poetic speech.”

Robeson sang in parlors and churches, large music halls and small venues, in stadiums and on prominent stages, at colleges and in homes, and on the backs of flatbed trucks. He sang at the world-famous Carnegie Hall in New York – the first time in 1929, the last in 1958.

He not only sang the songs of his own people but also of peoples in other countries, sometimes in their own language. He could sing or understand more than 20 languages. He went to the Spanish front to inspire soldiers at war for their country, and he gave concerts to raise money for China’s fight with Japan, among other causes.

Even with his fame, Paul Robeson was still faced with racial discrimination in America. His celebrity status did not shield him from being told to use the servant’s entrance rather than the elevator or that he could eat in a restaurant but away from the white guests.

Starting in the 1930s, Robeson decidedly moved from being a performer to an activist, using his voice as a weapon. His travels for performances around the globe opened up the world to him, putting him in touch with other oppressed peoples. He spent most of the 1930s living in England and performing throughout Europe.

While in London, he became acquainted with African leaders and African students, and felt deeply the connection with people in the African Diaspora, as did his wife Eslanda. He was chair of the Council of African Affairs in the United States. He became friends with Jomo Kenyatta of Kenya and others who would go on to lead movements against colonialism and imperialism in Africa. Others of his African friends were Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana and Nnamdi Azikiwe of Nigeria.

He was invited to the Soviet Union in 1934 and was warmly received. He was impressed by the Russian people, and what he saw as their embrace of equality and respect for different cultures, and rejection of fascism. He arrived in the country at a time when Soviet-US relations were cordial.

“I’ve learned that my people are not the only ones oppressed … I have sung songs all over the world and everywhere found that some common bond makes the people of all lands take to Negro songs as their own,” Robeson said.

Writer Claude McKay had also been warmly accepted by the Russian government and its people. Unlike Robeson, though, he soon saw behind the façade – Stalin’s genocidal murder of scores of his own people, both peasants and government higher-ups.

For years, Robeson was a supporter and advocate of the Soviet Union, although he never joined the Communist Party or became a communist. He had an affinity for the Russian populace, and he was singularly beloved by them. Never did Robeson express disappointment in the Russian leadership despite its aggressions – not even when his Jewish friend the poet Itzik Feffer was executed during one of Stalin’s purges.

While abroad and back in the United States, Robeson spoke out fervently and often against racism, oppression, Jim Crowism and the laws written to keep Black people in their place. “The artist must fight for freedom or slavery. I have made my choice. I had no alternative,” he said at a rally in London in 1937.

In 1950, Robeson and W.E.B. DuBois, who was also persecuted by the U.S. government, founded Freedom newspaper. Lorraine Hansberry was one of its writers. Robeson spoke at her funeral in 1965.

Robeson was much beloved in the United States – his concerts were well attended or sold out, and he was lauded in the press. But as relations between the U.S. and Russia soured after World War II, the country also moved toward the right. Communism and socialism were seen as the enemies, and people such as Robeson who were Russia-friendly were terrorized. The Cold War was beginning.

In March 1949, Paul Robeson made a speech at the World Peace Conference in Paris about chilly relations between the United States and the Soviet Union. The conference was sponsored by the Soviets. For years, Robeson had spoken out against racism and Jim Crowism at home, colonialism abroad and oppression of people all over the world. Over the last two decades he had become an advocate for human rights and peace, and often praised the Soviet Union.

Robeson spoke extemporaneously at the conference. This is what he said:

“We in America do not forget that it was the backs of white workers from Europe and on the backs of millions of blacks that the wealth of America was built. And we are resolved to share it equally. We reject any hysterical raving that urges us to make war on anyone. Our will to fight for peace is strong. … We shall support peace and friendship among all nations, with Soviet Russia and the People’s Republics.“

This is how he was quoted by the Associated Press:

“We colonial peoples have contributed to the building of the United States and are determined to share its wealth. We denounce the policy of the United States government which is similar to Hitler and Goebbels. … It is unthinkable that American Negros would go to war on behalf of those who have oppressed us for generations against a country (the Soviet Union) which in one generation has lifted our people to the full dignity of mankind.“

Robeson had been misquoted. The AP report set off a flood of hatred and malevolence toward Robeson, with many calling him un-American and a communist traitor for stating that Black people would not fight in a war against the Soviet Union. Many across the country turned their backs on him, including Rutgers, the NAACP and some top Black leaders. He had many supporters in the United States, including W.E.B. DuBois, who was also being hounded by the U.S. government, and strong backing abroad.

While playing Othello in Stratford in 1959, he told her, he was always afraid of forgetting his lines (which he did once). “Every performance was an ordeal,” he said. Eslanda and friends urged him to retire but he first resisted.

“He could not shake a lifetime of trying to live up to those perfectionist demands his father had placed on him in his childhood, and which he had long since internalized as his own, to live up to the dictum that he should always do better and more,” Martin Duberman wrote in “Paul Robeson: A Biography.”

“He could never quite believe that he had done enough to allow him to retire with honor from the field. Particularly, he could not shake the wish to rejoin in a significant way a black-rights movement he had done so much to inaugurate, could not give up the hope that the new generation of black activists would make some request of his services that he would be able to fulfill, that together they might establish some continuity of purpose, some mutual acknowledgment of interconnection between the generations.”

In 1963, Robeson decided to return to the United States, and he eventually retired from public engagements. Eslanda was coping with a major illness at the same time. She died of cancer in 1965.

Listen to Robeson in this Australian interview in 1960 as he talks about Africa, colonialism and the Black struggle in America:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=puOIdh944vk

In 1966, Paul Robeson moved into the home of his sister Marian Forsythe and her daughter Paulina. Marian was his only sister and the second youngest of the children. Both Forsythe and Robeson’s son Paul Jr. were very protective of him, screening his visitors to permit only certain personal friends. One of those friends was Harry Belafonte, who considered Robeson his mentor.

“Shortly before he died, I visited him in Philadelphia,” Belafonte said in an address in 1997 before the Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade, a mixed-race eclectic group of Americans who fought to defend the Spanish government during its civil war in the 1930s.

“He was living at his sister’s. And I looked at this giant of a man who was, quiet frail in body, but still strong in spirit. And through all that had engulfed him – McCarthyism, the difficult times that he faced in this country because of his beliefs, because of his resistance to oppression – I looked at him, and I said, ‘Paul, I must know. Was all that you have gone through, really worth it? Considering the platform you had gained, and how easy life could have been for you, was it worth it?’

“And he said, `Harry, make no mistake: there is no aspect of what I have done that wasn’t worth it. Although we may not have achieved all the victories we set for ourselves – may not have achieved all the victories and all the goals we set for ourselves, beyond the victory itself, infinitely more important, was the journey.”

(Belafonte is the honorary chairperson of the Paul Robeson House & Museum’s 125th Birthday Celebration in April.)

Robeson was sickly, and had good and not-so-good days. His sister was his caretaker and doted on him. On good days, he sometimes sat on the porch of the twin house at 4951 Walnut St. in West Philadelphia (now home of the house & museum) and greeted neighbors who passed by.

One was a 21-year-old woman named Arcenia McClendon, a native of Laurel, MS. She recalled the joy at meeting him one day.

“I lived around the corner from this very spot right here,” she said in a 2018 interview for the Paul Robeson House & Museum’s “Where Art Lives” video for the Scribe Video Center. “When I would pass by and say good evening, she (Forsythe) would say good evening and he would just nod his head. One day I came by and he was not on the porch with her … and she said ‘he’s not feeling well.’ She said would you like to come in and see him.”

“When I got to the room, … this giant of a man was lying in the bed, still had that head, a huge head, because it had so much knowledge in it and brains in it. She said, ‘Paul this is the young lady that used to pass by and speak to you in the afternoons.’ I had told her previously why I was so interested in him, where I’m from. She said, ‘Paul, she’s from Laurel, Mississippi.’ And he said, ‘Leontyne Price.’ And I said he remembers that. She said, it’s nothing, he’s alright. …”

“To this day that has been the most glorious … that has been the most glorious experience I have had in my life, and I know this will go with me to the grave.”

The renowned opera singer Leontyne Price had studied under Robeson in a master class at Central State University in Wilberforce, OH, when she was a student there in 1948. Robeson admired her voice and hosted a benefit concert to raise money for her to attend Juilliard.

Vernoca L. Michael, former executive director of the Robeson House, and her family were close to Robeson and Forsythe. Her father Dr. E. Raphael Michael was a confidante, and her mother Elizabeth Arnold Michael vocalized with Robeson as he sang the songs that had touched the hearts of millions of people. Charlotte Turner Bell accompanied Robeson on piano in Marian’s parlor and wrote a book, “Paul Robeson’s Last Days in Philadelphia,” about her time with him.

Vernoca ran errands for Robeson and his sister, drove him to appointments and performed any duties asked of her. She knows them as her Uncle Paul and Aunt Marian.

He watched public affairs and British TV programs; sports, especially football, and read newspapers and books. He accompanied friends to the movies, plays and concerts, including performances by Marian Anderson in 1967 and Pearl Bailey in “Hello Dolly” in 1970.

“I think there has been some sort of media myth that he was a bitter and exiled man, “ his son said in 1977. “My father was never bitter or exiled. The only reason for his retirement was his health. He did not want to function in public as a sick old man.”

Thomas DeLoach, who rented Forsythe’s summer home in Pleasantville, NJ, remembered meeting Robeson when he returned a key in the 1960s. Forsythe had invited him in, and Robeson was sitting on the sofa.

“So he smiled and he stood up, he kept growin’ and growin’ and growin’ … and I said, ‘Whoa’ – and he extended his hand out, shook my hand,” DeLoach said in an interview for the 2009 book “Stories From the Paul Robeson House.” “He got a real big hand. He was so large. To me. I mean, sitting on the sofa in the living room, he didn’t seem that big. But when he stood up, he was like a tree growing. You know what I mean? He just kept getting’ taller and once he reached his limit, he was still stooped over. It was really something to see. I’ll never forget it.”

In 1967, Paul Robeson was admitted to the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia for a skin ailment. No one was allowed to see him without permission from his sister Marian Forsythe or son Paul Jr. Charles L. Blockson was not on the permissions list, but he wanted to see the man who had long been his hero.

Growing up, Blockson’s father and grandfather played Robeson’s 78 rpm records. Born in 1933, he was a child and then a grown man when Robeson reached the highs and lows of his popularity. In the 1930s and much of the 1940s, Robeson was hitting the right notes – making movies, acting on Broadway, singing in the United States and abroad, and interacting with global cultures.

“I read about Paul Robeson being a patient at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital on a cold winter day,” Blockson said in a 2018 interview for the Paul Robeson House & Museum’s video “Where Art Lives,” produced with Scribe Video Center. “It said he wasn’t seeing any visitors, but something told me to get in my car in Norristown my hometown 18 miles from Philly and drive in to see him. Something kept telling me, ‘Who do you think you are. People from all over been trying to see him and they’re being turned away,’ but I persisted.”

“I went to the reception area. The African American receptionist said Paul Robeson is not receiving any visitors. She said, ‘Mr. Blockson, I know who you are, and I’ll permit you to see him for 10 minutes, he’s in room such and such upstairs.’ I went to his room. I saw flowers, I saw the book “Black Magic” (about the history of Black entertainers), Christmas cards. I didn’t see Paul Robeson. He was out receiving X-rays.

“Something said, ‘Be patient.’ A short time later, a young African American nurse came in the room wheeling Paul Robeson in a wheelchair. He had a blue checkered robe on, and he stood up. I introduced myself. He said, ‘Yes Charles, Marian was telling me about you, that you wanted to see me. Marian being his sister, Marian (Robeson) Forsythe. So I said I won’t stay long.

“I had two books: His book “Here I Stand” and another book of his came out, Paul Robeson “Othello.” So he autographed them to me. I kept my word and stayed 10 minutes and I left.” (Robeson published “Here I Stand” in 1958. “Paul Robeson: The American Othello” by Edwin Hoyt came out in 1967.)

“I’ll never forget this as long as I live,” Blockson told a newspaper reporter in 1987. “There was a magnetic force when he shook my hand, and we talked, and he told me the importance of collecting and that books were important to our history and the history of all people, and that we came from a proud heritage.”

Robeson moved to Philadelphia in 1966, a year after the death of his wife Eslanda, to live with his older sister Marian Forsythe and her daughter Paulina. They lived in a corner twin house at 4951 Walnut Street, which is currently the location of the Paul Robeson House & Museum.

Blockson had much in common with Robeson: Both were football players (Robeson at Rutgers University and Blockson at Pennsylvania State University), collected and enjoyed books, possessed a insatiable love for the history of African Americans, and descended from the Igbo people of Nigeria.

Blockson is the among the country’s foremost bibliophiles and collectors of Black history, amassing a collection of more than 500,000 materials pertaining to the experiences of Black people in this country and across the world. The collection consists of books, manuscripts, sheet music, pamphlets, journals, newspapers, broadsides, posters, photographs and rare documents. He donated the collection – the Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection – to Temple University in 1984. He has also authored more than a dozen books.

Blockson has put his admiration for Robeson into tangible products: He was the impetus behind the placement of a state historical marker on the sidewalk in front of the house in 1991. With artist Frank Stephens in 1998, he curated a series of panels on Robeson’s life, achievements and contributions titled “From These Roots,” which are in the Paul Robeson House & Museum. Blockson said that he commissioned artist Cal Massey to create portraits of Robeson’s parents, the Rev. William Drew Robeson and Maria Bustill Robeson; Robeson’s sister Marian and Robeson. Blockson was a longtime patron of the house, starting with its purchase by Frances P. Aulston and the West Philadelphia Cultural Alliance in 1994.

His interest in the history of African Americans stretches far back. In fourth grade, a substitute teacher was reviewing American history, spewing out the usual names of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson and Ben Franklin. “I raised my hand,” Blockson recalled once in an interview. “I was curious. I always had an interest in humanity and history and art. I said, ‘Are there any colored people that we could emulate besides Paul Robeson, Jessie Owens, Marian Anderson?’

“She said, ‘No Charles. Negroes were born to serve white people.’ She wasn’t a bigoted person per se. But she was a victim of her environment. … About 20 years later, I met her. She said she was proud of what I was doing, and she apologized. She said she didn’t know when she told me that remark. She said she was always hurt, because this was the way she was taught. So it was like I forgave her. I didn’t hold any grudges.”

Stung by the teacher’s words but not trapped by them, Blockson spent years buying books, ephemera and artifacts about Black history. Among them were materials pertaining to Robeson.

He never expected to meet Robeson. But he did, three times in the late 1960s and 1970s, twice at Forsythe’s home. He was told each time not to mention his visit.

“We had an exhibition going on called the Black Film Exhibition about black movie stars. Something told me to take the poster around to 4951 Walnut Street and have Paul Robeson sign it,” Blockson said of a 1972 visit. “I was a little leery because so many people were turned away. Mrs. Forsythe wouldn’t permit them to see Paul because of the instructions from Paul Jr., didn’t want people bothering his father. But they knew of my love for him. She permitted me to come in and I did.

“I was sitting down(stairs) waiting for him to come down to sign the poster for the Black Film Festival. She said you have a lucky day. Paul is upstairs. He’s having one of his better days. So I waited patiently on the couch, and I heard BOOM, BOOM, BOOM, BOOM, BOOM, BOOM coming down the steps. Something told me that moment, he was okay, the strength in his steps.”

Robeson signed the poster, which hangs in the research room at the Blockson collection at Temple.

Blockson said he saw Robeson for the last time a few months before the great man died. He had brought with him a copy of his book to present to Robeson as a gift. It was the day before Blockson’s Dec. 16 birthday.

“’Pennsylvania’s Black History’ was published, so I took a copy around to Mrs. Forsythe his sister and knocked on the door,” he said. “Paulina his niece – Paulina was named after him – she came to the door, she said, ‘Charles, Uncle Paul isn’t feeling too well today.’ I said I won’t stay long. She cracked the door. She had Venetian blinds on the door. They would scrutinize anyone who came to the door before they let them in. She cracked the door enough for me to see him sitting at the dining room table holding his two hands to his head nodding back and forth.

“I had the strange feeling his time was near. … I left the book. Three and a half weeks later he died in Presbyterian Hospital.” Robeson died on Jan. 23, 1976.

Forsythe died the following year, and Paulina moved out of the house. Blockson made a final stop by the vacant house.

“In the closet upstairs in his room there was an overcoat and a suit, a pair of shoes,” Blockson said. “Paul Robeson and I were the same height, 6-3, 215 pounds. I started to put the overcoat on. I was going to take them as a museum piece, but a voice said, ‘Let those clothes be.’ And even today I wish I had taken those clothes and shoes.

“Then I went downstairs. On the floor there were three photographs of Judge (Raymond) Pace Alexander and his wife Sadie Alexander, attorney; Paul Robeson, Mrs. Forsythe and Paul in his robe – the same blue and white robe I saw in the hospital – taking a picture. There on the floor I found telegrams from all over. People who cleaned the place out, they left a lot of materials, so I got on my hands and knees and picked them up and I have them here today.”

Marian Forsythe’s life was as quiet as her brother Paul Robeson’s was spirited. She was a teacher in the Philadelphia public schools for more than 30 years, married a prominent Philadelphia doctor and engaged in charitable community work.

Robeson settled into the peace and tranquility of her home at 4951 Walnut Street in 1966, living there for the last 10 years of his life protected and nurtured.

Marian (or Marion) Marguerite was the second youngest of Rev. William Drew Robeson and Maria Bustill Robeson’s six children. She was born on Dec. 1, 1894, while her father was pastor at the Witherspoon Street Presbyterian Church in Princeton. The only girl, Marian was four years old when Paul was born.

(Forsythe’s name was spelled two ways – Marian and Marion – in newspaper articles, Robeson’s 1958 book, U.S. Census records, and her newspaper obituary and funeral program.)

She was in a boarding school in North Carolina in 1904 when her mother died after her clothing caught fire at their home in New Jersey. Robeson spoke of his sister in his 1958 book “Here I Stand”:

“My sister Marion was not at home as much as Ben, but the thought of Sis always brings an inner smile,” he wrote. “She lives now in Philadelphia, with her husband, Dr. William Forsythe. If it turned out that it was to be Ben who followed my father’s calling as a minister, it was Marion who continued the teaching traditions of my mother’s family. As a girl she brought to our household the blessing of laughter, so filled is she with warm good humor. When she was at home from school, Sis did the cooking, but firmly believing that a woman’s place was not in anybody’s kitchen – at least not for long – she always left the big stack of dishes … for me! (We laugh about that, too, when we get together.)

“With all her happy ways, Marion was earnestly resolved to stand on her own feet and make a way for herself, aware, more keenly than the rest of us, the double burden that a Negro woman bears in striving for dignity and fulfillment in our boasted ‘way of life.’ As a young woman she became a school teacher in Philadelphia and remained in that vocation until recently. I recall with pride her dedication to work with (special needs) children, and her zeal to prove that devoted attention can bring these along with all others.”

From the age of 9, Forsythe attended the boarding school at Scotia Seminary in Concord, NC, founded in 1867 by the Presbyterian Church to educate southern Black women. It taught students in elementary, secondary and college classes. The school trained them for employment as social workers and teachers – career paths other than that of domestic worker, the job most often open to Black women. The school was among the country’s first historically Black educational institutions formed after the Civil War.

One of its graduates was Mary McLeod Bethune, who founded Bethune-Cookman College (now university) in Florida.

Scotia Seminary was renamed Scotia Women’s College in 1916, merged with Barber Memorial College in Alabama in 1930, and became Barber-Scotia Junior College for women. It is now Barber-Scotia College.

Forsythe received a diploma from the Cheyney Training School for Teachers in 1916 and attended the West Chester State Teachers College in West Chester, PA.

She became a special-education teacher in Philadelphia, working at Harrison, Durham and Wilson Elementary Schools. At Harrison in 1932, she was among a group of teachers who raised money to provide daily meals to needy children. In 1940 while at Durham, she was named among several outstanding women who represented the spirit of Elmwood, a section of Philadelphia where she lived.

“She was a good teacher,” recalled Reginald M. Thompson in the 2009 book “Stories from the Paul Robeson House.” “She was a quiet, good, patient teacher. … She always stood out as one who – I think her quietness and her patience really helped a lot of her students back then.”

Once, Forsythe invited her famous brother to visit Wilson school. The air sparked with excitement, said Thompson, then a fifth or sixth grade student. “All of a sudden, this man walked in, a big – I remember it because of his hat, the hat and the overcoat – and when he walked in, it was just like everybody just stopped. And he was with Mrs. Forsythe, and she introduced him as Paul Robeson, a famous actor. … It always made me think, I said, ‘Wow, she has a famous brother,’ but you would never have known it. “

Forsythe was involved in her community: member of the Lincoln Dames, an auxiliary group organized to support Lincoln University, from where both her father and brother William Jr. graduated; a member of the Association of Business and Professional Women of Philadelphia; the Rose Norwood Stewart Memorial Council of Heritage House, and the Philadelphia Cotillion Society, a philanthropic organization that promoted human rights and education.

She was a member of Reeve Memorial Presbyterian Church and its Ever Ready Club. In 1944, Eslanda Goode Robeson, Paul’s wife, spoke at the church’s Women’s Day Program.

“She was not a person who was out in the public eye,” noted Vernoca L. Michael, whose family was very close to Robeson and Forsythe. Michael calls him “Uncle Paul” and her, “Aunt Marian.”

In the summer of 1930, Forsythe was aboard the SS Paris headed back to the United States from France, likely after a visit with Robeson and Eslanda. That year, he performed before large crowds in Paris and other European cities, performing in “Othello” in London and starring with Eslanda in an independent film “Borderline, shot in Switzerland.

Forsythe remained independent and single until she was in her 30s. In August 1931, she married a prominent Black Philadelphia doctor named William Alexander Forsythe, who was 10 years older. He was born in Augusta, GA, in 1884 and graduated from Haines Normal and Industrial Institute. (Normal schools were formed to train teachers.) He received a degree from the Howard University College of Pharmacy and a medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania Medical School. He was a pharmacist in Atlantic City and at one point, worked at Douglass Hospital. He was a member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity and the Pyramid Club, an organization of Black professional men in Philadelphia.

The couple had one child, a daughter Paulina, named after brother Paul. William Forsythe died in January 1959.

The following July, Marian Forsythe bought a house at 4951 Walnut Street for $13,000 and moved in with her daughter. It was in this house where Paul Robeson took refuge in 1966 after the death of Eslanda and with his health deteriorating.

Forsythe took him to her summer home at the Jersey shore in Pleasantville, NJ. In Philadelphia, she sat on the porch of her home with him as he nodded or waved to people who passed by. She and friends took him to appointments, shopping and to local live theater and the movies. Sometimes, they just drove him around town.

Forsythe tended to her brother’s every need, deciding with Paul Jr. who would be permitted to see him and who would not. “She did not just allow people to come into the house,” said Michael. “You would have the media showing up at the door. You would have other people just showing up at the door. This was her house. This was her refuge, too. So, she did not allow them to just come in.”

She did not necessarily like turning people away, according to Lloyd Brown, Robeson’s official biographer and friend. “It was a disagreeable task. She was a sweet, gentle, loving person. She was not the kind of person to say ‘no,’ but she had to protect him from people. Her home was, for Robeson, a spiritual haven. In the sense of family, she represented the only living link with his father.”

Forsythe died at age 82 in February 1977, a year after Robeson’s death. Robeson left one-fourth of his $150,000 estate to her.

Robeson said in his 1958 book “Here I Stand” that his sister like his brother Ben (the Rev. Benjamin Robeson) had their father’s temperament: “Reserved of speech, strong in character, living up to their principles – and always selflessly devoted to their youngest brother who cannot express in words his gratitude for their love. But in his heart there is a song, the most tender of songs – for them.”