‘Return fire on that position!” hollered Capt. Benjamin Tupper, over the steady crackle of Taliban AK-47s from a mud compound 200 meters away. “We’re going to flank them,” he shouted to a scattered company of ambushed soldiers hunkered down in the only cover they could find, small well holes in the dry Afghanistan earth.

Across an open gauntlet of flying bullets, Tupper’s NCO, Cpl. Radoslaw “Ski” Polanski, was at the Humvee, wielding an M240 Bravo machine gun and keeping the Taliban at bay. For now. As long as the ammo held out.

Capt. Tupper loosened a few rounds from his M4 carbine and again hollered, “Return fire!”

His troops looked back at him, a little dumbfounded.

That’s because most of them didn’t speak English. The company, members of the Afghan National Army, or ANA, spoke only Dari or Pashto.

After a desperate huddle in a well hole with a translator, the ANA’s top officer finally yelled back to the captain, “No, you get planes and helicopters! They can kill the enemy!”

Such is the ragged frontline chaos and absurdity that fill the pages of Capt. Tupper’s new memoir, “Greetings from Afghanistan, Send More Ammo.” For a year spanning 2006-07, he was an ETT (Embedded Training Team) leader, assigned to mentor a 40-strong gang that couldn’t shoot straight.

Tupper and his machine-gunning partner Ski were in a dozen firefights with Taliban during their year in Afghanistan – a relatively high number – and in those vividly recounted life-and-death gun battles, they were not backed by a platoon of US soldiers with “high-tech commo, weapons, medical skills and evacuation assets.” They were barreling along IED-laden roads with no engineer route-clearing teams. As just two US soldiers, they were very low on the pecking order for emergency air support or a quick reaction force, meaning Special Forces backup.

Yet Tupper and Ski were a priority target for Taliban fighters.

“The ETTs with their sole Humvee,” Tupper says, “were understood to be the nerve center of the operation . . . and we were targeted accordingly.”

The ETT program in Afghanistan began a half-decade before Tupper’s 2006 arrival in country, its aim to speed up Afghan self-sufficiency in logistics, tactics and combined-arms fights against insurgencies. In short, it’s “teach a man to fish” with assault rifles.

Amid the current troop surge under Gen. Stanley McChrystal’s leadership, the ETT program has been strengthened, with no less than three two-man Humvee teams per Afghan company. In Tupper’s time, with the US military’s engagement in Afghanistan back-burnered to the Iraq war, he was part of only about 50 ETT teams – none closer than a two hours away on frequently mined roads.

As a volunteer to “go native” as an ETT, Tupper got practically zero relevant training. “We were experts at using our nuclear/chemical/biological suits but clueless as to the language, culture and history of the Afghan people,” he says.

And so, Tupper winged it.

In that first major ambush, with his ANA soldiers pinned down and hunched in well holes, Tupper ran the gantlet of bullets back to his Humvee – only to discover the radio was dead. After a near-miss from an RPG rocket, the situation was dire. Then Tupper had an idea: his cellphone!

He exited the armored truck and crouched outside, fully exposed to enemy gunfire, to get reception and call headquarters. After holding the Taliban at bay for two hours, the quick-response cavalry finally arrived in a row of Humvees.

The first man out was a burly Special Forces major.

“Who the hell are you?” blurted out Tupper.

“I’m Major White with Task Force Paladin. What’s the situation here?” he calmly responded.

“We’ve been surrounded.”

“Surrounded?” A look of amusement rose on the major’s face. “I love being surrounded.”

IN May 2006, National Guard Capt. Tupper first set his boots on the ground in the Andar district of Afghanistan’s Ghazni province, in the southeastern part of the country along the front range of mountains that form the Pakistan border and offer refuge to Taliban attack squads.

In Andar, he found an ANA company of very willing fighters – “like hunting dogs ready for the chase” – who he quickly realized were ill-prepared to take on an elusive guerrilla force like the Taliban.

“The average AK-47 or any weapon they have,” Tupper told The Post last week from his home in upstate Syracuse, “was rusty, beat to crap, and painted red, green or blue. ‘Jingling it up,’ they call it, like blinging it up. The weapons are inaccurate, the soldiers have horrible marksmanship and they don’t want to train.”

Afghan soldiers follow a belief of “inshallah” – the will of God. “They view training exercises as folly and a momentous waste of time,” Tupper writes. “In their minds, God rules the battlefield, not the soldiers and bullets. God determines if you survive combat, not training.”

To lure them unwillingly into target practice, Tupper had to improvise. “We bribed their leaders with odds and ends like printer cartridges, pens, and dry-erase boards, which they would receive if they delivered their soldiers.”

Another head-scratcher was seeing Afghan soldiers in formation wearing flip-flops instead of combat boots, preferring their comfort. They “also wear do-rags, Arab-style head scarves and baseball caps. Some of these guys look like they just came off the set of ‘The Road Warrior.’ “

Nevertheless, on missions in the Andar district, Tupper makes clear that the ANA exhibited great bravery. Driving in a dry creek one day, Tupper and Ski spotted “the tail fin of a mortar round partially buried” and surrounded by “recently disturbed earth.” With those hallmarks of an IED, standard procedure was to call in the EOD (Explosive Ordnance Disposal) team to come disarm it. That, however, could take hours, putting the unit at risk of ambush.

Minutes later, Tupper and Ski saw two ANA soldiers walking toward them, one carrying the mortar round. “The two soldiers had decided to single-handedly yank it out of the ground to speed things along.” Luckily, the round was a “rusted-out dud” likely buried since the Russian invasion in the 1980s. The disturbed earth, they surmised, was from curious goats nosing around at the spot.

Making it through Afghanistan had more to do with adaptation than training. One lesson in intelligence gathering taught Tupper the power of the Pop-Tart.

A day after being fired upon by Taliban snipers, he was tasked with ascertaining their location. While village elders are cautious in cooperating with coalition forces – “They don’t want to face reprisals when the Taliban returns later in the day” – Tupper approached some children while carrying blueberry Pop-Tarts he’d packed inside the Humvee.

“I told them I’d give the packet of Pop-Tarts to the first kid to tell me where the rockets came from,” Tupper writes. After that message was translated, one young boy pointed to a rocky hill nearby, and the translator said, “The boy says he saw men launch the rockets on the side of that hill this morning. He wants his Pop-Tarts now.”

Detractors of US operations in Afghanistan point to the nation’s fragmented and tribal history as impediment to any effective centralized government. Tupper doesn’t completely disagree, telling a story of a stolen horse, and quarreling tribes, nearly resulting in massacre.

Tensions flared when the horse from a Cuchie tribe wandered into a nearby Pashtun village and was confiscated. Quarrel escalated to violence, and a small Pashtun boy lay dead from an errant bullet. Seeking vengeance, one of the Pashtun elders lied to Tupper, saying, “There are four hundred Taliban in the mountains next to our village. Help!”

With daylight dwindling and nightfall easing a “Taliban” escape, the temptation to call in Air Force bombers grew. Tupper resisted, aware that rules of engagement specified that for an air strike, “We had to have ‘eyes on’ our target.” No bombing was ordered, and no Cuchie tribe was eradicated due to a wandering horse and the lies of the rival Pashtun.

BENJAMIN Tupper grew up the son of a biology professor at Syracuse University, encouraged to challenge conventional thinking. In high school, he was into punk rock and sported a Mohawk, pierced nose and “Anarchy Now” T-shirts. As a political-science student at the university and in the years afterward, he made six trips to Nicaragua to observe for himself the conflict between the US-based Contras and the communist Sandinista government.

Picture an unwashed 20-year-old kid on guard patrols at agricultural collectives, toting a Kalashnikov rifle by day and organizing a literacy campaign at night with the uneducated campesinos.

“I became addicted to the adrenaline rush of living in a combat zone,” Tupper told The Post. “Every second of picking a coffee bean and thinking, this could be the last second I’m alive. Knowing there’s an imminent threat of people out there trying to kill you. You get hooked on the adrenaline.”

Tupper joined the National Guard in 1993. And while 9/11 affected him deeply, Tupper’s true motivation to volunteer for service in Afghanistan came from a trip there as a civilian in 2004.

“I was having dinner at a house with three musicians listening to their stories about the Taliban breaking their hands or beating up their wives because they had hidden their instruments,” Tupper said. “Just everyday people who refused to give up their art after Taliban thugs ordered them to stop. To the Taliban, there is only prayer.

“I decided then that I need to come back and put my life on the line. I volunteered because I knew that al Qaeda and the Taliban were antithetical to all the principles that I felt the US tries to promote. Namely, people having rights to participate in their society. For that reason, this is such a noble, noble war.”

Tupper also launched a humanitarian aid project, collecting stuffed animals and winter clothing for kids in his area of operations. In the weeks before Christmas 2006, his barracks was filled with boxes of Teddy bears, stuffed animals and Beanie Babies mailed from the States. For his efforts, his fellow soldiers gave him the nickname Capt. Care Bear. Seeing the smiles on the faces of Afghani children, and their appreciative parents, brought home a truth about humanity, the coalition effort and the path to success.

“Every gift we hand out makes our job here safer,” Tupper writes. “Establishing a free medical clinic in the heart of every Taliban area would do more to win popular support than any presence patrol or combat operation.”

The endgame for coalition forces is to hand off the fight to the Afghan army – turn them into an efficient fighting unit and bring the Americans home. As ETT point man, Tupper’s mission was to speed the ANA’s development, but he admits that “Old habits and deficiencies die hard.”

Progress, he said, is measured in the willingness of Afghanis to work as one. “I saw positive change in soldiers, who had for generations been segregated by tribe or ethnicity, working together for a peaceful, united Afghanistan. That was inspiring.”

Yet capturing the hearts and minds of the Afghan people, Tupper believes, will ultimately prove more effective and longer lasting in securing peace. “It is my opinion that this war cannot and will not be won militarily. That is not to say it shouldn’t be fought, because it should. But victory, however you define it, will come when the Afghan government is capable of providing security and some semblance of prosperity and welfare for the people, not because we have killed all the Taliban.”

Greetings from Afghanistan, Send More Ammoby Benjamin TupperNew American Library