Filming of the new Halloween movie, executive produced by John Carpenter, is officially underway in Charleston, South Carolina, and a new addition to the cast has just been confirmed, with Will Patton on his way to Haddonfield.

A native of Charleston, Will Patton (Armageddon, Silkwood, Copycat, The Poastman, Shots Fired) will play “a cop” in the new film, according to a report from the Tracking Board.

Co-writer Danny McBride also released a new photo from the set today, which you can see below!

Patton joins Virginia “Ginny” Gardner (Project Almanac, Marvel’s Runaways) as Vicky, Miles Robbins (Mozart in the Jungle, My Friend Dahmer), Dylan Arnold (Mudbound, Laggies, When We Rise), and Drew Scheid (“Stranger Things”, The War with Grandpa) in the supporting cast.

Andi Matichak plays Allyson, Laurie Strode’s granddaughter in the new film, with Judy Greer set to play Laurie’s daughter Karen Strode, and of course Jamie Lee Curtis returning to once again reprise her role as Laurie Strode.

Nick Castle will also reprise his role from Carpenter’s original 1978 Halloween to once again play Michael Myers in the new film. Stunt performer and actor James Jude Courtney has also been cast to play Myers.

Filming is expected to continue for the next four weeks in Charleston.

The official synopsis: Jamie Lee Curtis returns to her iconic role as Laurie Strode, who comes to her final confrontation with Michael Myers, the masked figure who has haunted her since she narrowly escaped his killing spree on Halloween night four decades ago.

Master of horror John Carpenter will executive produce and serve as creative consultant on this film, joining forces with cinema’s current leading producer of horror, Jason Blum (Get Out, Split, The Purge, Paranormal Activity). Inspired by Carpenter’s classic, filmmakers David Gordon Green and Danny McBride crafted a story that carves a new path from the events in the landmark 1978 film, and Green also directs.

Halloween will be produced by Malek Akkad, whose Trancas International Films has produced the Halloween series since its inception. Green and McBride will executive produce under their Rough House Pictures banner.

Halloween will be distributed worldwide by Universal Pictures.

You can read everything we know so far about Halloween 2018 here.

As I’m sure you are well aware, 2018 marks the 40th anniversary of the release of John Carpenter’s original 1978 Halloween. It is also worth noting that the film’s release date happens to be Michael Myers’ birthday (in 1957), according to the original franchise canon. Myers would be 61 on Halloween night in 2018.

The new Halloween arrives in theaters on October 19, 2018.

Keep watching this site for updates on the return of Michael Myers and all the latest news on the next Halloween movie!

Read all of our HALLOWEEN 2018 coverage here!

For more Halloween news, follow @HalloweenDaily.

Share