Customer Update

We’re sorry that our phone lines are currently down, so you will be unable to reach us in this way at the moment. We're working hard to get the lines back up-and-running as soon as possible, and we thank you for your patience.

If you need to track an order, please use the button below or you can also email one of our team directly.

Government Update

As of [DATE], the government has announced changes to [TOPIC] – and it means [BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE CUSTOMER IMPACT].

More detailed information about the changes can be found below.

Technical issues

Our [SYSTEM NAME] is currently down, and it’s causing problems for our [PRODUCT/SERVICE NAME].

Keep an eye on your order’s progress through our Track My Fuel Order page. Or, if you still need help, you can use the Live Chat option on our website to get in touch, or call your local team.

Disrupted Deliveries

The current weather conditions are causing disruption on the roads and as a result, some heating oil deliveries are being delayed.

Keep an eye on your order’s progress through our Track My Fuel Order page. Or, if you still need help, you can use the Live Chat option on our website to get in touch, or call your local team.

Easter Opening Times

View our business trading hours over the Easter period

Fuelling Scotland's Homes and Businesses

Our local Scottish teams are on your doorstep. Ready to supply your fuels, lubricants and more, all year round.

£20 off heating oil using code LUCKY20 - ends Sunday!

Welcome to Scottish Fuels

We’re proud to have been providing fuel, lubricants and so much more to Scottish homes, farms and businesses since 2001 and we’re one of the largest oil distributors in Scotland.

Our customer service teams and delivery depots are dotted the length and breadth of Scotland. So you can be assured of a reliable local service all year round. From the Highlands to the Lowlands you can trust us to deliver your fuel when you need it most.

Your local Scottish fuel provider

We provide a wide range of fuels, including home heating oil, gas oil, diesel, petrol and lubricants. Plus, complimentary services such as boiler maintenance, replacement tanks, additives and more.

We also take care of fuel for business, including farms and specialist sectors too such as aviation, marine and more

Fuel you can trust

When you buy from Scottish Fuels, you’ll get quality fuel and a product at a fair honest price all year round. And you can rest assured that we always put your safety first.

Large range of quality fuels

Local service on your doorstep

A choice of ways to pay

Fair honest pricing

Safety first

Get a quote today

Ready to power up? Choose from a large range of fuels to run your home or business.