Stephen New is a native of Gilbert, West Virginia, living and practicing law in Beckley. He is a 1990 graduate of Gilbert High School and 1994 graduate of Marshall University, B.A. Political Science, continuing his education at West Virginia University College of Law, He graduated in 1998, Order of the Barristers.

Stephen enlisted in the West Virginia Army National Guard on December 23, 1988, and retired as a Major in May 2009. He completed Army ROTC at Marshall and was commissioned as an Armor officer. He has served at Ft. Knox, KY; Ft. Bliss, TX; Ft. Bragg, NC; Ft. Dix, NJ; and elsewhere. Stephen retired as the Deputy Commander of Camp Dawson in Kingwood, West Virginia.

While a student at the College of Law, Stephen was the Chief Justice of the Moot Court Board and a member of the Lugar Trial Association. Stephen participated in WVU’s Baker Cup Tournament and represented WVU at Vanderbilt University’s First Amendment Moot Court Tournament in March 1998. Stephen was the top ranked Lugar trial advocate and represented WVU in the ATLA National Trial Advocacy Tournament. Stephen was one of the first 10 Judicial Law Clerks employed by the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals and clerked for the Raleigh County Circuit Judges.

In August 1999, Stephen joined Pamela A. Lambert’s law practice in Gilbert, until leaving to start his own office in May 2004.

Stephen concentrates his practice primarily in personal injury, wrongful death and employment discrimination. He has tried 55 cases to jury verdict; primarily motor vehicle accidents, medical malpractice, employment discrimination and environmental/toxic tort cases. in 2018, Stephen had a trial victory, representing ladies in the Alderson Broaddus University civil case. Stephen has made eight appearances before the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals.

Stephen is licensed in all courts in West Virginia. He is licensed before the United States District Courts for the Northern and Southern Districts of West Virginia, and the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. He is licensed before the United States Supreme Court.

From February of 2018 through June of 2019 Mr. New served as the President of the West Virginia Association for Justice. He was recognized as the West Virginia Association for Justice Member of the Year for 2018-2019 for his dedication and commitment to preserving access to the courts, the right to a jury trial, and remedies for citizens of the state of West Virginia. Mr. New currently continues his commitment to the WVAJ as a Board Member. Mr. New is also active in the American Association for Justice. Since January 29, 1998, Mr. New has been a member of the American Association for Justice, and from 2012-2013 Mr. New was a Board Member for the New Lawyers Division.

Stephen has represented individuals in a wide array of cases, including prominent class actions. These cases have resulted in large sums of monetary compensation and peace of mind for the clients. Stephen was co-lead counsel for the nursing students in the Mountain State University litigation. Stephen has litigated mass environmental damage cases and cases involving the Beckley VA Medical Center, fighting for our Veterans. Stephen has most recently taken on the challenge of our state’s jail system, advocating for humane living conditions for the convicted persons of West Virginia.

In 2017, Stephen became a member of the “Opioid Justice Team” and represents hundreds of babies and individuals who have been tremendously harmed in the opioid epidemic. Stephen will long be remembered for his victory at the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals on behalf of his client Diana Dickerson who illegally had her widows’ benefits taken away by a worker’s compensation insurance carrier and later lost her home. Stephen took the case to the Supreme Court and was able to have Ms. Dickerson and other widows’ benefits restored to them.

Stephen New has received recognition from a variety of national and state entities for his exemplary legal and community service. In 2018, Mr. New received the West Virginia University College of Law and West Virginia Executive Magazine Lawyers & Leaders Award. Recipients of the award were selected for their positive impact on the state and nation through dedication of their careers to service, leadership, and their communities. From 2016-2019 Mr. New was also recognized as a Super Lawyer.

Stephen takes immense pride in what he feels is his greatest achievement and his greatest joy, his daughter, Rebekah. They enjoy concerts, boating, Marshall University sports, and are actively involved in Theatre West Virginia, where Stephen served as President of the Board from 2014-2019. Stephen is a member of Faith Community Church.

Of the many things Stephen’s firm is proud of, the firm’s philanthropy is at the top of the list. Since 2004, and resulting from one of Stephen’s real-life interactions with a client, Stephen’s Law Office has given away over 12,000 bicycle helmets to children and safety groups throughout West Virginia.

Education

West Virginia University College of Law, Morgantown, West Virginia – 1998

Marshall University