In the face of invisibility and racism, nuanced images that represent complex identities with dignity are necessary. For Afro-Latinas, iconic singers like Celia Cruz and La Lupe do just that. Their charisma and powerful voices launched them onto the international stage, and they continue to win the hearts of fans in the past, present, and surely for generations to come, whether it’s through La Lupe’s fearless sexuality or Celia Cruz’s celebratory lyrics. While household names like Celia Cruz and La Lupe are worthy of constant celebration, these are two of only about a handful of women from Latin America and the Caribbean who are recognized in American pop culture. As part of Día de la Mujer Afrodescendiente, we have decided to list 10 other black women whose voices represent resistance in the face of oppression, yet still are often overlooked in U.S. pop culture.

On July 25, 1992, black women from over 30 countries gathered in the Dominican Republic to discuss strategies to fight racism from a woman’s perspective, permanently marking the occasion by establishing July 25 as the International Day of Afro-Latinas, Afro-Caribbean Women, and Women of the Diaspora. Their pillars included fighting for political, social, and cultural rights. Indeed, afrodescendant women from Latin America and the Caribbean have waged a powerful fight for dignity.

The list below features women whose talent is not only undeniable, but defiant in a society that seeks to erase blackness. Some of the women had their sexuality, femininity, or powerful political statements used as weapons against them, and yet they have broken barriers and become pioneers in their own way, some beyond the realm of music. Ruth Fernández and Toto Bissainthe’s voices are hauntingly beautiful; Elza Soares and Xiomara Fortuna collide genres together to create compelling new musical formations, while others like Susana Baca, Petita Palma Piñeiros, and Inés Granja have become educators or political activists. Ultimately, black women continue to represent the essence of so much of the cultural markers of Latin America and the Caribbean, as well as the fight for human rights and visibility. The women on this list are icons who play an important role in the deliberate elevation of blackness while captivating us with their extensive catalogs.