What it's like outside the Staples Center, where fans are mourning Kobe Bryant

This morning, CNN is outside of the Staples Centers in Los Angeles, where the Lakers play, as fans are gathering to pay tribute to the late Kobe Bryant.

A sports icon and basketball legend, Bryant, his daughter, and 7 others were killed in a helicopter crash on Sunday. Bryant won 5 NBA titles during his 20-year career with the Lakers.

See what the scene is like in the clip below:

NBA players discuss playing despite the news of Kobe Bryant's death

Despite the news of Kobe Bryant’s death, eight NBA were games played Sunday.

Players on multiple teams discussed keeping focus and playing for Bryant.

Carmelo Anthony with the Portland Trail Blazers told reporters it was “probably the hardest game I ever had to play.” The Trail Blazers played the Indiana Pacers Sunday.

Zion Williamson with the New Orleans Pelicans told reporters he was on his way to the arena when he got the news. “At first it was a little difficult, it was hard to focus.” The Pelicans played the Boston Celtics Sunday.

Kawhi Leonard with the Los Angeles Clippers told reporters he knew Bryant would want him to play. The Clippers played the Orlando Magic Sunday.

Kobe Bryant's legacy is being felt as far away as Japan

Kobe Bryant’s legacy and impact were felt as far as Japan, where he was the face of an American Red Cross campaign in 2011 to raise support for survivors of the tsunami and earthquake that rocked Tohoku.

That tragedy left more than 22,000 people dead or missing.

“The NBA family starts with the people of Japan, the survivors of the earthquake and the Pacific tsunami,” said Bryant, in a Red Cross campaign video now being shared widely on Twitter.

Also tying Bryant to Japan is his name.

Bryant’s parents reportedly named him after the famous beef that is produced in Japan’s Kobe city.

In 1998, Bryant visited Kobe city and handed a donation of 480,000 yen ($4,400) raised through an Adidas charity event in Tokyo to help support social welfare in the city.

Bryant also became the ambassador of Kobe city between 2001 and 2011.

Major sports leagues comment on Kobe Bryant's death

The MLB, NFL and NHL all released statements Sunday on Kobe Bryant’s death.

International sports organizations and teams share their condolences

The Olympics, International Basketball Federation and AC Milan soccer team in Italy used Twitter to share their thoughts on the passing of Kobe Bryant.

Bryant lived in Italy for eight years while his father played in the Italian Professional Basketball League. Bryant spoke Italian fluently.

NBA teams pay their respects to Kobe Bryant during Sunday games

As news of Kobe Bryant’s death spread, teams across the league honored the NBA legend during their games today.

The Toronto Raptors let the 24-second shot clock run out after tip-off during their game with the Spurs as a sign of respect for the 5-time NBA champion.

The Los Angeles Clippers also let the 24-second shot-clock run out, while their opponent Orlando Magic got an 8-second violation. Bryant wore numbers 24 and 8 during his career.

The Boston Celtics and New Orleans Pelicans also followed suit, with fans chanting “Kobe.”

The Washington Wizards and Atlanta Hawks also took the 24-second and 8-second violations. Hawks guard Trae Young also wore the number 8 in honor of Bryant.

The Memphis Grizzlies and Phoenix Suns also paid tributes to Bryant.

Magic Johnson on Kobe Bryant: The "greatest Laker of all-time is gone"

In a series of tweets Sunday, Earvin “Magic” Johnson – a former Laker and the team’s president of basketball operations – spoke candidly about Kobe Bryant.

“I love him, his family and what he stood for on the court and off the court,” Johnson tweeted.

Read Johnson’s tweets below:

Politicians react to Kobe Bryant's death

Politicians joined celebrities and athletes in responding to Kobe Bryant’s death today.

Shaquille O'Neal, a longtime Lakers teammate, calls Bryant's death a "tragedy"

Shaquille O’Neal mourned the death of his former Lakers teammate today on Twitter where he said “there’s no words to express the pain I’m going through.”

O’Neal played on the Lakers from 1996-2004 and won three championships with the team.

O’Neal expanded on his thoughts on Bryant more in a later post on Instagram.

“Kobe was so much more than an athlete, he was a family man,” O’Neal wrote. “That was what we had most in common.”

Celebrities react to Bryant's death

Celebrities also took to Twitter this afternoon to share their condolences over the passing of NBA legend Kobe Bryant.

“RIP Kobe Bryant,” Skip Bayless tweeted. “I cannot believe I just typed those words.”

Athletes react to Bryant's death

Athletes across all sports have taken to Twitter this afternoon to share their condolences over the passing of NBA legend Kobe Bryant.

“This is not real right now,” said former Boston Celtics star Paul Pierce.

LeBron James had passed Kobe Bryant on the all-time NBA scoring list a day before Bryant's death

On Saturday Los Angeles Lakers forward LeBron James passed Kobe Bryant for third place on the NBA’s all-time scoring list during the Lakers’ game with the Philadelphia 76ers.

Bryant tweeted congrats to James. It would be his last tweet before his death.

Bryant also posted on his Instagram congratulating James.