STEPS TO SUCCESS

FUTURE STUDENTS

Applying to Ivy Tech

Getting Started

Your first step to starting your Ivy Tech education is to apply for admission—with no application fee. And we’ve made that as simple as possible! If you have never applied before or it’s been two years since you last applied, you will start by clicking here. This page describes the process and tells you what you might want to later upload for your assessment. From there, you will click the “Apply Now for Free” button. It’s an easy process!

Timing

Ivy Tech does not require applications by certain dates. Instead, we offer five opportunities to start classes in January, March, June, August and October. You can start whichever time works best in your life. Your application will take about 7-10 business days to process, after which you will receive an acceptance letter in the mail. If you do not hear back from us in that timeframe, call Admissions at 888-IVY-LINE (1-888-489-5463) for information.

Online Application

We accept online applications. If this won’t work for you, you will need to visit your local campus.

After You're Accepted

How to Become an Ivy Tech Student

Once you receive your acceptance letter, you will get instructions on what to do next. Below is a list of steps you will take to become and Ivy Tech student.

Your first step will be to set up your MyIvy Account, which you’ll use all the time for student information.

Meet with an Enrollment Specialist at your campus (find local campus contact info here).

File your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).

Submit your transcripts if you recently finished high school or college courses.

Check to see if you need to take a Knowledge Assessment.

Meet with your Career Coach.

Meet with your Advisor.

Register for classes.

Pay for classes and/or set up a payment plan.

Getting Started Checklist

If you like to check off items on a list, you can download a handy checklist here that outlines the steps to completing enrollment and class registration and becoming an Ivy Tech student.

Tuesdays@The Tech

If this all feels a bit overwhelming, don’t worry, we’re here to help. Take advantage of Tuesdays@TheTech by stopping by your local campus on any Tuesday to get personal support and guidance to complete your registration.

Talking with Your Advisor

You will not be alone as you take your Ivy Tech journey. Instead, you’ll be guided by your Advisor, who will meet with you to build your Academic Completion Plan. This will include determining which classes to take each semester. If you’re planning to transfer to a four-year university after finishing your Ivy Tech degree or certificate, that will drive your plan.

Finding Your Advisor

You will work directly with an advisor at your location. You will start by logging into MyIvy, scroll to the QUICKLINKS section, and then click Schedule Appointment with Advisor. You can use this appointment scheduling guide for step-by-step instructions. The Advising Checklist on page 2 of this document will give you a good idea of what to expect and how to be best prepared for your meeting.

Navigating Financial Aid & FAFSA

Worrying about how you’ll pay your tuition should never keep you away from improving your career options with an Ivy Tech education. There are many types of financial aid available to our students, and we want you to find the best fit for your situation. Getting financial aid can help you pay for college now and finish with little or no debt or a more manageable payment plan.

Financial Aid Options

Ivy Tech offers students many ways to find aid that doesn’t have to be paid back. This gift aid includes grants, scholarships, and work study programs.

Grants - A grant is tuition money given to students based on financial need.

Scholarships - Ivy Tech offers hundreds of scholarships worth more than $7 million. Scholarships are based on a number of factors, including financial need and/or academic achievement. Many of the scholarships are tied to a certain campus. You must complete the FAFSA and fill out just one scholarship application per year.

Work Study Programs - You have both federal and state work study programs to consider as a way to help pay for your education. These require you to work a certain number of hours per week.

Loans - This is money that you borrow from a bank, credit union, or other organization that you are required to pay back once you’re done with school. The payment you make back will be the amount loaned plus interest that is charged over the course of the loan.

Starting with the FAFSA

The FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) is the starting point for all financial aid opportunities, and you must fill it out every year. It’s actually easier to fill out than you might think. This page will help you know what information to gather and the steps to take when filling out the form.

Registering for Classes

To register for classes, you must already be accepted to Ivy Tech. It's a good idea to meet with your Advisor before registering. You can find the courses that best fit your life with our schedule builder, a tool in the MyIvy student portal that lets you easily search for the class you want. When you’re ready, you can get started here on registering for classes. If you have questions about the process, you can find lots of answers here.

You can also take advantage of Tuesdays@TheTech by stopping by your local campus on any Tuesday to get personal support and guidance to complete your registration.

Getting Comfortable with MyIvy & IvyLearn

Put most simply, MyIvy is your student portal for email, course registration, grades, transcripts, online payments, class communication, college events, and other student services. The first time you go to MyIvy, just click on “First Time User” to start the process (see the complete steps here).

IvyLearn is the student portal to access your course information, syllabus, and online coursework. Learn more here about getting started with IvyLearn before your first class. You’ll find both portals will make your Ivy Tech experience easy to navigate.

CURRENT STUDENTS

Registering for Classes

As you know, the schedule builder in MyIvy is our tool that lets you easily search for the classes you want. The schedule builder provides you with dates and times of each course, instructor information, and the course description so you have everything you need to make your semester schedule.

When you’re ready to register for classes, it's a good idea to schedule a meeting with your Advisor. Your advisor will make sure your academic plan is on track.

You can also take advantage of Tuesdays@TheTech by stopping by your local campus on any Tuesday to get personal support and guidance to complete your registration.

Using MyIvy & IvyLearn

As a reminder, MyIvy is your student portal for email, course registration, grades, transcripts, online payments, class communication, college events and other student services. If you’re just getting started at Ivy Tech, click here to learn how to access MyIvy.

IvyLearn is Ivy Tech’s learning management system where you access your course information, syllabus, and online coursework. To get started successfully in an online course via IvyLearn, you need to do three things at least one week before your class begins.

Working with Your Advisor

Your Advisor is available not just when you’re registering for classes but throughout the semester if you have questions or concerns. You can meet with your Advisor in person, virtually or on the phone. Remember that your Advisor helped you create your Academic Completion Plan. Check back on that to make sure it still includes your current goals. If you’ve made a change, talk through that with your Advisor.

Managing Your Account & Financial Aid

Remember that you will need to fill out the FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) each year, as well as the scholarship application. Then you can keep track of your financial aid in MyIvy. Your financial aid might include grants, scholarships, loans, and/or work study. If you cannot make just one payment for your tuition, you can set up a payment plan in MyIvy.

See important dates and deadlines for:

Refunds

Payment plans

FAFSA

Getting Your Transcript

Your transcript includes information about your attendance at Ivy Tech. It includes your current program of study, any degrees awarded by Ivy Tech, transfer credit and term-by-term course, and grade and GPA information.

You can request your transcript in MyIvy. Once you log in, just select Browse Topics at the top of the page, select Academics & Advising from the drop-down menu, and then select Request Official Transcripts. If you prefer, you can request your transcript by visiting your local Express Enrollment Center or Registrar’s Office. You can request mailed or electronic transcripts. The fee for official transcripts is $5 per copy.