The Ivy Tech Nursing program can be a challenging, yet rewarding, program. Before you apply, review the following requirements and expectations for nursing students.

Time Commitment

The Associate of Science in Nursing and Practical Nursing programs require a major commitment of time and energy. Nursing courses are typically scheduled over 3-4 days per week. Students may also need to schedule additional general education courses as needed each semester. It is essential that you plan for the same amount of study time as class time per week. Nursing course schedules and assignment due dates will not be adjusted to accommodate individual work schedules.

You can expect to spend the following hours each week in active contact for your courses (based on 8-week courses):

Lecture classes: 1 classroom contact hours per credit hour (so if a class is worth 3 credit hours, expect 6 contact hours)

Lab classes: 2 lab contact hours per credit hour

Clinical courses: 3 clinical contact hours per credit hour

Attendance

Students are expected to attend all class meetings, or other activities assigned as a part of a course of instruction. Attendance is necessary to maximize student-learning opportunities. Students who are absent are responsible for missed material. Clinical courses require that the student be present to effectively evaluate successful achievement of clinical course objectives and concepts, as clinical course objectives cannot be accomplished or evaluated outside the clinical setting. There are no make-up sessions for missed clinical hours; therefore, regular clinical attendance is mandatory for successful clinical course and program completion. These clinical locations may be up to one hour drive in any direction of the Ivy Tech full-service campus where you are enrolled.

The online application system allows students to apply to any nursing program and any location within the statewide system. Carefully consider the implications of being accepted to a campus requiring extended driving distances.

Mandatory Drug Testing and Criminal Background Screening

All nursing program clinical affiliates require mandatory drug testing and criminal background screening before allowing students to participate in clinical courses at their facilities. Results of these tests could impact your ability to complete nursing clinical courses and therefore, your ability to meet nursing program requirements for completion. Requiring criminal background and drug screenings ensures students meet the same standards as health care facility employees. Annual criminal background and drug screenings are required for all nursing students.

Eligibility for Licensure

Successful program completion provides students eligibility to apply to a state board of nursing to take the licensure examination (NCLEX-RN for Associate of Science in Nursing and NCLEX-PN for Practical Nursing). The Indiana State Board of Nursing (ISBN) application for licensure includes questions about criminal history, substance abuse problems, malpractice judgments, and disciplinary action on previous licenses and certifications. Students are encouraged to review the questions located on the ISBN application for examination. Similar questions are found on other state board of nursing applications.

If an applicant answers yes to any of the questions located on the ISBN application for examination they will be required to submit a sworn affidavit. It is possible that an applicant would not be eligible for licensure or face license restrictions after completing the nursing program. Read more about the licensure application

In addition, the state of Indiana will not authorize a graduate to take a National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX®) without a social security number. This is a mandatory Indiana State Board of Nursing (ISBN) requirement and applications to test cannot be processed without it. The United States Immigration and Nationality Act identifies that all candidates applying to take the NCLEX exam are required to be a U.S. citizen or be identified as a “Qualified Alien.” The U.S. Immigration and Nationality Act is found in the Federal Regulation 8 of the U.S.C.; Section 1641. In response to this federal legislation, Indiana Senate Bill SB419 became law in 2018 and provides for potential licensing of DACA and F1 in the state of Indiana. Students should seek their own legal counsel for concerns regarding these matters.

Nursing Program Student Requirements

The following are required for participation in clinical activities:

Annual criminal background and sex offender registry screening

Annual drug screening

Physical examination and verification of essential functions

Annual flu vaccination

Up-to-date immunizations including Hepatitis B series, MMR, Varicella, Tdap, Diphtheria, Pertussis, and COVID-19

Annual TB skin testing or other documentation for positive tests per CDC guidelines

Documentation of current CPR Certification in Basic Life Support (BLS) for Health Care Providers from AHA or American Red Cross

Proof of ongoing unencumbered Indiana licenses or certifications for Licensed Practical Nurses, Medical Assistants, Military Medics,or Paramedics for the Transition to ASN track

Students interested in applying for admission to a nursing program should begin locating childhood immunization records early to ensure complete vaccination and physicals are submitted by established deadlines.

Students with disabilities are required to contact the college Disabilities Support Staff at the campus of interest for assistance in requesting accommodations (if applicable).

Financial Aid

Connect with the Financial Aid team at your home campus to find out if you can receive financial aid for the program of your choice. Make sure that you have completed the FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) by the established deadlines to be considered for financial aid assistance.

REQUEST MORE INFO APPLY NOW

Prerequisite Courses for Nursing

Completion of the following required prerequisite courses with a grade of “C” or higher is required for admission to the Associate of Science in Nursing:

APHY 101 Anatomy and Physiology I

APHY 102 Anatomy and Physiology II

ENGL 111 English Composition

PSYC 101 Introduction to Psychology

Gen Ed Prerequisites

In order for prerequisite general education courses to count toward your program admission decision score, the course grades must be posted to Banner by the time the application site closes and auto-selection begins. Courses must be completed according to the specific deadlines listed below:

Fall admission - completed by the end of previous spring semester

Spring admission – completed by the end of the first 8-week term of previous fall semester

Summer admission - completed by the end of the previous fall semester

The highest grade of the first three attempts for any prerequisite course will be considered for points toward the admission decision score. This includes grades of D, F, and FW.

No Expiration of Credits

There is no expiration date for course credits that were earned in previous years from Ivy Tech Community College.

Transfer Credit for Prerequisite Courses

Prerequisite courses completed at colleges other than Ivy Tech will only be considered for general education selection points if transfer credit has been awarded and courses appear on the Ivy Tech transcript prior to the application deadline.

TR grades are not recognized by the online application. It is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure that transfer credit has been awarded and that TR grades are updated to transfer letter grades (TA, TB, TC) on their Ivy Tech transcript.

It is recommended that college transcripts be submitted to the Registrar’s office for evaluation and transfer credit at least 4 weeks prior to the program application deadline to ensure adequate time for processing.

Information Sessions

Prospective students must participate in a Nursing Information Session or complete an online Nursing Information Session within 3 months prior to applying. The completion of one Information Session fulfills the requirement for all Ivy Tech locations. No reservation is required.

View Nursing Information Session Presentation Slide Deck

Contact your local campus to learn about upcoming Nursing Information Sessions

Required Testing and Documentation

The ASN and Practical Nursing programs at Ivy Tech have more specific admission criteria than Ivy Tech as a whole. Prospective students must:

Complete the Knowledge Assessment if they do not have previous college credit, ACT, SAT, or PSAT scores on file in the Registrar’s Office

Complete all required remedial courses (OXX) and any required co-requisites to those courses, prior to admission to the program (the first semester of nursing “NSGA” and “NSGP” courses).

Score at the PROFICIENT level or higher on the ATI TEAS Test.

Submit a copy of their high school transcript or High School Equivalency Exam (GED or TASC) test scores. See more on transcript requirements below.

For the Practical Nursing program, meet admission requirements for ENGL 111 and MATH 123

High School Transcript Requirements

Per Indiana State Board of Nursing regulations, applicants must submit a copy of their high school transcript or High School Equivalency Exam (GED or TASC) test scores. High school transcripts must include date of graduation.

Current high school students who will be graduating after the close of applications, but before the start of classes, are allowed to apply without a high school transcript and should submit a letter including anticipated graduation date and acknowledgment that the student will submit their high school transcript to the campus nursing dean by the indicated deadline.

International students will need to provide official credential evaluation from a NACES-approved organization showing the equivalence of a U.S. high school diploma. Official evaluation must be sent directly from the credential evaluator to the Ivy Tech campus registrar. A copy of the original high school transcript and the NACES evaluation must be submitted with the nursing program admission application. The NACES process takes some time and includes an associated fee, so please contact NACES early.

Prerequisite Transfer Credit

Students seeking transfer credit for prerequisite courses completed at other colleges desiring must submit transcripts from other colleges to the Registrar Hub for evaluation. Submit external college transcripts at least one month prior to the application deadline to allow for adequate time for evaluation and processing so that prerequisite course grades can be counted for points toward admission.

The email address students should relay to their colleges/universities for official transcripts to Ivy Tech is: transcripts@ivytech.edu

The mailing address students should relay to their colleges/universities for hard (paper) copies of official transcripts to Ivy Tech is:

Transcript Processing

9301 E 59th Street

Indianapolis, IN 46216

APPLY NOW

The Assessment Technologies Institute’s (ATI) Test of Essential Academic Skills (TEAS) is used as part of the admissions process by the Ivy Tech School of Nursing programs.

Schedule Your TEAS Test Appointment Now

Test Components

The ATI TEAS test measures your ability in four categories: Reading, English, Math, and Science. Your TEAS test must include all four test components to be considered valid; partial tests will not be accepted. Applicants must score at the PROFICIENT level or higher to be considered for admission. ATI TEAS sub-category scores will be used in the selection point system.

Preparing for the TEAS Test

A good time for a high school student to take the ATI TEAS test is during the last semester of high school or upon graduation. If an interested student graduated from high school a year or more ago, the test should be taken after review of high school content and after you’ve completed at least a portion of the prerequisite courses for nursing. All candidates must attend an Ivy Tech online Nursing information session prior to taking the TEAS exam.

TEAS Deadlines & Timing

These dates will not change and will be consistent from year to year:

Semester

TEAS Deadline Date

Application Date

Fall April 30 May 15 Spring September 30 October 15 Summer January 15 February 1

Ivy Tech Testing Services does not offer the TEAS exam during the months of May or June, between the TEAS deadline date and the application date, and during peak weeks (weeks 4, 8, 12, 16 each semester). Also note, TEAS exams taken after the TEAS deadline date will count toward the next application cycle.

TEAS testing must be completed within the published application deadlines (see table above) in order to be considered for the corresponding application period. Due to processing time for the ATI TEAS to appear in the student’s application, it is recommended that testing times be scheduled 2 to 4 weeks prior to the posted TEAS test deadline date. ATI TEAS scores not available by the deadlines will not be considered.

Applicants who take the ATI TEAS at schools other than Ivy Tech must contact Assessment Technologies Institute (ATI) to have an official copy electronically submitted directly to Ivy Tech.

The TEAS total score will be used in the selection point system, with no weighting

The TEAS may be taken up to 3 times in a 1-year period

14 day wait period between TEAS attempts (day of initial testing is day 0)

TEAS score must be within 2 years of application deadline

ATI TEAS tests that expire prior to the application deadline will be ineligible for consideration towards program admission, even if the student applies prior to the application deadline.

Allied Health vs. Nursing TEAS Tests

The ATI Allied Health and ATI Nursing TEAS tests are the same test; they are just scored differently. Taking the Allied Health TEAS will count the same as taking the ATI nursing TEAS test. When ATI Allied Health TEAS test scores are present on the ATI transcript, the applicant will need to contact ATI to request reporting of Nursing TEAS test scores. There may be an associated fee for requests such as these.

Taking the Test & Costs

The test takes approximately 3 1/2 hours to complete. You will need your valid (non-expired) government-issued photo ID. All TEAS exam appointments must be made and paid for online through our self-serve site. The TEAS exam fee for Ivy Tech students is $77 ($137 for non-students, not available at all Testing Services locations).

How to Schedule Your TEAS Admission Test

Click here for a printable version of these steps

Create an ATI account at atitesting.com (if you already have an account at atitesting.com you can skip this step). Use something you will remember as a username and password. If admitted, ATI testing will be used throughout your nursing program and you will need the same username and password for access to the ATI tests.

In order for your TEAS test scores to migrate to the Ivy Tech record system, you must select your Ivy Tech home campus as your institution, add your full Ivy Tech Community College student ID number (C0#######), birth date, and your last name must match the Ivy Tech record system when creating your ATI profile and. (Do not use dashes in the C number.)

After your account is created on the ATI site, DO NOT schedule an appointment or PAY any funds at the ATI website, as additional charges will be applied.

View guide: How to create a new ATI account.

Schedule your TEAS exam at the CASS (Certification & Assessment Scheduling) Self-Serve website or in MyIvy located under Student / Course Info / Schedule Testing Appointment.

Click on Student/Applicant Login and use your Ivy Tech email address and password to log in.

Click on “This exam is not related to an Ivy Tech course”

Type in TEAS for the test name.

Select the correct TEAS Attempt 1, Attempt 2 or Attempt 3 exam based on the attempt number.

Select the campus location where you would like to take your TEAS exam for the campus and click next.

Click on the red calendar and select the date for your exam appointment and click next.

Use the dropdown box and select the time for your appointment and click next.

Review your appointment details and click next.

Select “Pay now via credit card online”. The cost of the exam is $77.00 for students.

Check your Ivy Tech email. After scheduling your exam, you will receive emails containing information about your exam session.

Click on “Submit My Appointment Request.”

Check your Ivy Tech email. After scheduling your exam, you will receive emails containing information about your exam session.

Schedule Your TEAS Test Appointment Now

STEP 1

Apply to Ivy Tech

Students interested in attending the School of Nursing must first submit the Ivy Tech general application and complete the requirements for admission to the college. Admission to the college does not ensure acceptance to a nursing program, but students can be working on prerequisite courses for nursing after admission to the college and before applying to the nursing program of choice.

Apply to Ivy Tech

Step 2

Apply to the School of Nursing

Once your requirements for admissions are complete (such as completing any prerequisite courses, the Knowledge Assessment and required remedial courses, scoring at the PROFICIENT level or higher on the ATI TEAS Test, and submitting your high school transcript or High School Equivalency Exam test scores), you may apply for admission to the School of Nursing.

Students may apply to a nursing program during three application windows each year:

March 15 - May 15 for Fall Program Start

August 15 - October 15 for Spring Program Start

December 1 - February 1 for Summer Program Start

Note: Not every campus accepts applications during every application window. Click here to view cohort starts by campus

Once the application site closes, late applications will not be accepted. You are encouraged to apply for the next cohort.

Filling Out the Nursing Online Application

Apply To Nursing Program View Application User Guide

Before you begin:

If you are not a current Ivy Tech Community College student, please Apply Now. You will need a C# (Ivy Tech student ID number) and Ivy Tech single sign-on login credentials in order to apply.

Gather all required or optional documentation that you will need to upload into the system, such as high school transcripts, copies of certifications, etc. View more about requirements here. You will have the ability to save your application in progress until you are able to secure documentation.

Make sure your scores for the ATI TEAS Test have been sent to Ivy Tech.

If you are transferring from another institution, please make sure that your transcripts are evaluated at least 4 weeks prior to the application deadline.

How to complete the Nursing application:

Go to https://apps.ivytech.edu/apply/NursingAndHealthScience

Log in using your Ivy Tech credentials.

Check to make sure your personal information is accurate.

Select the programs and campuses you would like to be considered as an applicant. You can select up to 3 different programs and 3 different campuses.

You must meet all of the prerequisites for a program in order to submit your application. If you receive a message indicating that you do not meet the prerequisites, then please remove that program selection in order to proceed with the application.

Upload any necessary documents.

Make sure grades and pre-admission exam scores in the system are accurate. If not, please contact your home campus registrar or advisor.

You will be able to submit your application if you are currently enrolled in a course identified as a prerequisite into the program.

Once complete, submit your application.

You will receive an email confirmation in your Ivy Tech email account that your application has been submitted and is pending review.

Once you have submitted your application, you have the option to reopen it to make changes.

Note: DO NOT USE THE “BACK” function on your computer. Use the navigation pane at the side of the page to navigate.

Apply Now

Offers of Admission

Students can select up to 3 program types and 3 campuses each on the application, and rank them in order of preference. Offers of acceptance are for a specific nursing program and a specific campus. The offers are determined through the point selection process.

If you are accepted, you will receive an email from the online application system to your Ivy Tech email account offering you a seat in the program you selected. Offers are emailed beginning within 1 week of the application close date and continue until program capacity is met or one week before the start of semester classes.

Depending on their points and campus ranking, a student could potentially receive multiple offers.

Once you accept one offer, you are immediately withdrawn from all other offers and you will be contacted by the chair or dean of the program with information about the program orientation date, time, and location.

If a student fails to respond, then the offer expires. If a student rejects an offer three (3) times, the application is removed from the auto-selection application pool but will then be available for manual selection rounds that occur later in the process.

What If I Don’t Get Admitted?

The Nursing program does not maintain a waitlist. Non-admitted applicants can reapply in the next semester’s application cycle. You may also want to meet with your advisor. Advisors can assist students in exploring other programs of interest in Ivy Tech’s School of Health Sciences if they have applied several times and have not been accepted into the nursing programs. Ivy Tech offers many programs similar to nursing that lead to high-demand jobs that may be new to you, but fit your passion to help others.

Application Help Video: Step-by-step instructions for how to submit the online application for Ivy Tech's nursing program. (6:20)

Selective Admissions

Admission to the nursing programs at Ivy Tech is highly competitive. The program has a selective admissions process, which means not all students who apply to the program will be accepted. Selective admission processes are needed because there are more people interested in taking courses in our nursing programs than there are seats available.

Preference Ranking and Point System Application Selection Process

Applicants are now able to rank their program selections in their application as first choice, second choice, and third choice of program and campus.

Applicants will rank their campus and program choices as first, second, and third choice, with up to nine campus and program options.

At the close of the application cycle, the system will rank all applications by overall application score, from the highest score to the lowest score, and by each applicant’s first ranked campus and program.

Points are evaluated from course grades, pre-admission testing, and certifications as applicable to the program.

Weighted Point System

Total Points Possible: 190 + 5 optional Certification points

General Education Course Points: 90 points possible. Points are awarded based on prerequisite course grades.

ATI TEAS points: 100 points possible, utilizing the adjusted individual total score.

CNA Certification points: 5 optional points possible with approved CNA documentation for applicants to ASN and PN programs. We accept verifications for active certifications in Indiana, Ohio, Kentucky, Illinois, and Michigan only.

CMA Certification points: 5 optional points possible with approved CMA documentation for applicants to ASN and PN programs. The active certification verification must come via a letter from the AAMA. (https://www.aama-ntl.org/cma-aama-exam/verify-cma-status)

CCMA Certification points: 5 optional points possible with approved CCMA documentation for applicants to ASN and PN programs. We accept active certification verifications from the National Healthcare Assn. (https://certportal.nhanow.com/certification_verification/).

Tie Breaker Points: GPA

General Education Weighted Point System

When multiple course attempts are reported on applicant transcripts (including transcripts from other colleges and universities), the highest earned grade of the first three attempts will be used for the selection decision score through the application period. Points for courses transferred from other institutions will be awarded from the grade recorded on the transcript from the other institution provided transfer credit appears on the Ivy Tech transcript. Points for verified credit (V) or college credit awarded through High School Advanced Placement, College Level Examination Program (CLEP) International Baccalaureate (IB) and Dantes Subject Standardized Test (DSST), will be awarded as indicated below.

Course A B C D/F Verified Credit APHY 101 30 20 10 0 N/A APHY 102 30 20 10 0 N/A ENGL 111 15 10 5 0 10 PSYC 101 15 10 5 0 10 Total General Education Points Possible = 90

Certification points

Up to one certification will be applied for five (5) optional points may be added to the total admission decision score for applicants of the ASN Traditional Track or Practical Nursing programs, with approved documentation of current, active Certified Nurse Aide, Certified Medical Assistant, and Certified Clinical Medical Assistant certification. Documentation must be uploaded to the online nursing application for consideration. Once approved, five (5) points will be added to the total admission decision score for an ASN Traditional Track or Practical Nursing application.

To secure your certification documentation, follow the link below

Learn more about the application process and deadlines