Top Scholars 2014-15

Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board announces its Top

Ontario Scholars for 2014-15

3,368 Grade 12 Dufferin-Peel students score 80 per cent or higher

The Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board is pleased to announce its Top Ontario Scholars for the 2014-15 school year.

Brian Tran from Cardinal Ambrozic Catholic Secondary School is the board’s top scholar inBrampton with an average of 99.33 per cent. Brian will be studying Computer Engineering at the University of Waterloo in the fall.

Julia Perlotto from St. Joseph Secondary School is Mississauga’s top scholar with an average of 99.30 per cent. Julia is enrolled in the Commerce program at Queen’s University School of Business.

Nicholas Chrobok from St. Michael Catholic Secondary School is the board’s top scholar in the Bolton/Caledon area with an average of 98.50 per cent. Nicholas is enrolled in the Biomedical Science program at York University.

Students must achieve an average of 80% or higher on their top six Grade 12 courses to be an Ontario Top Scholar. This year, 3,368 Dufferin-Peel students earned this distinction.

“One of the Ontario Catholic School Graduate Expectations is to be a self-directed, responsible, lifelong learner who develops and demonstrates their God-given potential,” said John B. Kostoff, director of education. “Marks like these represent students who are tapping into that potential, demonstrating exceptional study habits and dedication. Such qualities will serve them well as they continue their academic journey at their chosen post-secondary institutions and beyond.”

A list of the top scholars from each Dufferin-Peel Catholic secondary school is attached.

The Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board is one of largest and most diverse school districts in Ontario, with approximately 84,000 students in 149 Catholic schools throughout Mississauga, Brampton, Caledon and Orangeville. With over 11,000 employees, the board is also one of the largest employers in the region.

2014-15 Top Ontario Scholars

School

Student Name

Average

Brampton

Cardinal Ambrozic Catholic S.S.

Brian Tran

99.33

St. Thomas Aquinas S.S.

Robert Maronowski

98.83

Holy Name of Mary Catholic S.S.

Giulia Salvati

98.33

Cardinal Leger S.S.

Layo Alaga

97.67

Cardinal Leger S.S.

Yared Tamiru

97.67

St. Edmund Campion S.S.

Shawn Varghese

97.33

St. Roch Catholic S.S.

Kyle Gouveia

96.83

St. Marguerite d'Youville S.S.

Janhavi Patel

96.33

St. Augustine S.S.

Tom Pavlovic

94.66

Notre Dame Catholic S.S.

Priya Moraes

93.57

Mississauga

St. Joseph S.S.

Julia Perlotto

99.30

St. Francis Xavier S.S.

Kari Guentner

99.00

Our Lady of Mt. Carmel S.S.

Hannah Gora

98.30

Father Michael Goetz S.S.

Julia Won

98.00

Loyola Catholic S.S.

Molly Brown

98.00

Loyola Catholic S.S.

Thomas Piekut

98.00

St. Joan of Arc Catholic S.S.

Lamar Pinto

98.00

St. Martin S.S.

Olivia Adamczyk

97.83

St. Aloysius Gonzaga S.S.

Christopher Charow

97.67

St. Marcellinus S.S.

Mayuka Bulathsinghala

97.67

Iona Catholic S.S.

Victoria Hartviksen

97.00

Philip Pocock Catholic S.S.

Abhishek Sai Moturu

96.86

Ascension of Our Lord S.S.

Pavani Perera

96.50

John Cabot Catholic S.S.

Sergio Raez Villanueva

96.33

St. Paul S.S.

Victoria Danesi

95.16

Archbishop Romero Catholic S.S.

Ivan Ablordepey

91.00

Caledon/Bolton

St. Michael Catholic S.S.

Nicholas Chrobok

98.50

Robert F. Hall Catholic S.S.

Samantha Martin

95.17

↧

↧

Summer Program

Summer Program for International Students

The Dufferin-Peel Catholic Institute for International Education is pleased to offer International Students from around the world the opportunity to study English as a Second Language at two of our secondary schools during the summer. We offer both a four-week ESLAO and a two-week ESL Certificate Program.

This course will give students an opportunity to learn English in a regular secondary summer school setting, and is designed with the understanding that the students may be in Canada for the first time. With this in mind, teachers are selected with an extensive knowledge of the educational needs of those new to the country and with experience teaching students with various degrees of comprehension of the English language. Students will use ability appropriate language skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing for everyday and essential academic purposes. They will learn English language structures and simple sentence patterns to use in conversations, to read short adapted texts, and to write phrases, short sentences and paragraphs. They will also acquire knowledge and skills needed to adapt to Canadian life.

PROGRAM OVERVIEW

REGISTRATION FORM

For more information about the International Student Summer Program, please contact Rita Borg, Principal of the International Education Program at 905-412-3341 ext. 31460 or rita.borg@dpcdsb.org

↧

Home

↧

Black History Month

Black History Month - February 2016

Events:

February 18 - Black History Student Conference 2016: It’s Everyone’s History - Opening Doors

This year’s theme is “It’s Everyone’s History - Opening Doors”. Through workshops and a variety of experiences, this conference serves to enlighten and empower all participants. By learning about and celebrating the contributions of African-Canadians, students are inspired to develop and share the diverse talents with which they have been blessed. The event will include a Panel Discussion about Black Identity in 2016, followed by a series of workshops. Time: 8:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m. Location: University of Toronto Mississauga Campus, 3359 Mississauga Road, Mississauga. For more information, contact Michelle Coutinho, Principal of Equity, Diversity and Inclusive Education at 905-890-0708 ext. 24405.

Conference Program

Links:

Black History in Canada Education Guide

Black History Canada

Black History in Canada Quiz

Black History Society

Government of Canada – Black History Month

Resources:

Diversity, Equity and Inclusive Education – Speakers List & Workshops

Learn about early Black Settlement in Canada

This interactive timeline covers 300 years of migration of people of African descent into Canada and some of the communities they established.

Freedom Quilts: Activities and Lessons for Grades 2-8

Introduction/Table of Contents

History of Freedom QuiltsSketch Pad LessonMath LessonsMaking your Freedom QuiltThe Drinking Gourd LessonsAnalyzing Music LyricsLet's Make MusicWeb-Based ActivitiesHarriet Tubman ActivitiesGeography LessonsQuick ActivitiesJazz Talk ShowABC BookComing to North AmericaPassages to CanadaBlack and White TemplatesColour Quilt TemplatesResourcesBlack History Bibliography

Celebrating Our Canadian History Poster Series:Download Black History Month Poster

↧

French as a Second Language

French as a Second Language (FSF1P) (FSF2P)

Learn a new language!

French is not only one of Canada’s two official languages, but is also widely used around the world. Knowledge of a second language is valuable for a number of reasons. Through learning a second language, learners can strengthen their first-language skills and enhance their critical and creative thinking abilities; they also tend to become more tolerant and respectful of other cultures.

In addition, the ability to communicate in another language provides learners with a distinct advantage in a number of careers, both in Canada and internationally.

This course is to provide learners with fundamental communication skills in French and an understanding of the nature of the language and its culture. It offers learners the chance to develop a usable command of the French language that can be expanded through further study or through contact with French-speaking people.

Monday & Wednesday

6:00 pm - 9:30 pm

February 10 - May 25, 2016

Location: St. Aloysius Gonzaga S.S.

2800 Erin Centre Blvd, Mississauga

Material Fee: $30

For more information and to register, call 905-891-3034.

Attention: These classes are for adults only.

↧

↧

Secondary Library e-Resources -- Subject Specific

Browse by Subject:

Subject

BusinessHospitality & TourismCareersLaw & JusticeCulinary ArtsLiteratureEnvironment & GeographyMedia & TechnologyGardening & HorticultureReligion & PhilosophyGovernmentScienceHealthWar & MilitaryHistoryVideos

Browse Full List: Please click on the name of an e-Resource to connect to it online.

Business

NameDescriptionGeneral Business File ASAPAnalyze company performance and activity, industry events and trends as well as the latest in management, economics and politics. Access to a combination of resources, many with full text and images.InfoTrac Insurance & Liability eBooks Ebooks on the topic of insurance and liability.

Back to top

Careers

NameDescriptionCareer CruisingProvides various forms of content and interactive activities to help determine, find and navigate your chosen career path. InfoTrac Vocation & Careers eBooks Ebooks on the topic of careers and professions.InfoTrac Vocation & Careers eCollectionThis collection provides content from general career guides to highly specialized industry journals.

Back to top

Culinary Arts

NameDescriptionCulinary Arts Collection The Culinary Arts collection includes many of the major cooking and nutrition magazines. Coverage includes thousands of searchable recipes, restaurant reviews, and industry information.

Back to top

Environment & Geography

NameDescriptionEnvironmental Studies and Policy CollectionProvides extensive coverage of environmental issues and policies, including diverse perspectives from the scientific community, governmental policy makers, as well as corporate interests. GREENR (Global Reference on the Environment, Energy and Natural Resources) This database focuses on the physical, social, and economic aspects of environmental issues. InfoTrac Environmental Issues & Policy eBooks Ebooks on environmental issues and policies.National Geographic's Map MachineLocate nearly any place on Earth, search and print historical, weather, and population maps, and more.

Back to top

Gardening & Horticulture

NameDescriptionGardening, Landscape and Horticulture CollectionA collection of nearly 50 journals focused specifically on key issues in gardening, landscaping, and other areas of horticulture. InfoTrac Garden, Landscape & Horticulture eBooks Ebooks on gardening, landscaping and horticulture.

Back to top

Government

NameDescriptionDocuments Gouvernementaux de l'Ontario Ayez accès à 26 000 documents gouvernementaux de la collection de la Bibliothèque de l’Assemblée législative de l’Ontario. Ontario Government DocumentsAccess 26,000 government documents from the collection of the Ontario Legislative Library.

Back to top

Health

NameDescriptionHealth & Wellness Resource Center and Alternative HealthProvides access to trusted medical reference materials. Material contained in this Resource Center is intended for informational purposes only.Health Reference Center AcademicA multi-source database that provides access to nursing journals, plus the wide variety of personal health information sources. Intended for informational purposes only.

Back to top

History

NameDescriptionInfoTrac World History eCollectionThis database includes journals covering past and present events in World History.

Back to top

Hospitality & Tourism

NameDescriptionHospitality, Tourism and Leisure Collection Provides well-rounded coverage of both the historical and current state of affairs in the hospitality and tourism field, and includes cultural aspects of travel, leisure activities, economic aspects of tourism, and more.

Back to top

Law & Justice

NameDescriptionCriminal Justice CollectionProvides access to 150 journals on the topic of criminial justice.LegalTrac LegalTrac provides indexing for major law reviews, legal newspapers, bar association journals and international legal journals. This database also contains law-related articles.

Back to top

Literature

NameDescriptionLiterature Resource CenterBiographical information, overviews, criticism and reviews on writers in all disciplines, from all periods and from around the world.NoveList NoveList provides access to reviews 120,000 works of fiction. In addition, NoveList recommends similar titles and authors and provides guides for book discussions.

Back to top

Media & Technology

NameDescriptionCommunications & Mass Media CollectionProvides current and accurate information on all aspects of the communications field. Key subjects covered include: advertising and public relations, literature and writing, linguistics, and many more. Computer DatabaseUse this database to find computer-related product introductions, news and reviews in areas such as hardware, software, electronics, engineering, communications and the application of technology. InfoTrac Communication & Media eBooksEbooks on communication and media topics.InfoTrac Computer Database Reference eBooks Reference ebooks on computers and technology.InfoTrac Information Science & Technology eBooksEbooks on the topics of information science and technology. InfoTrac Information Science & Technology eCollectionThis collection provides current and accurate information for the information professional. Coverage includes such topics as data processing techniques, metadata architectures, and more.

Back to top

Religion & Philosophy

NameDescriptionReligion and Philosophy Collection This custom collection provides coverage of different religions, philosophies and how they impact our daily lives.

Back to top

Science

NameDescriptionInfoTrac General Science eBooks Ebooks on general science topics.InfoTrac General Science eCollection A database that offers information on the latest scientific developments -- including such topics as particle physics, advanced mathematics, and nanotechnology. InfoTrac Psychology eBooksEbooks on psychology.Psychology CollectionThis collection offers information on the topic of psychology and its practice.Science in ContextProvides contextual information on hundreds of today's most significant science topics.

Back to top

War & Military

NameDescriptionInfoTrac War & Terrorism eCollectionProvides a expansive collection for students of history, social science and current events, providing insight into war and its multiple causes. Military and Intelligence Database Covers all aspects of the past and current state of military affairs. Key subjects include the effects of war, governmental policies, the structure of armed forces, and many more.

Back to top

Videos

Back to top

↧

Secondary Library e-Resources -- General

Please click on the name of an e-Resource to connect to it online.

Back to top

↧

Student Voice

Welcome to Student Voice at Dufferin-Peel!

Student Voice is about you having a say in your learning. This is your OPPORTUNITY, your VOICE, and your PATHWAY to SUCCESS.

We invite you to submit stories and photos of events in your school. Showcase examples of yourselves as leaders and COLLABORATIVE CONTRIBUTORS in your school, parish and community. Please submit them to your Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board Student Trustees at StudentTrustee@dpcdsb.org.

Student Voice Council

Student Voice Council is made up of secondary Student Leaders from across Dufferin-Peel who meet and correspond throughout the school year to establish a specialized support and leadership network. Speak to your Student Council President in May about joining next year!

Student Voice Council Updates

NEW! – March 1 – RISE – The DPCDSB Student Voice Leadership Conference

Dufferin-Peel Catholic School board is hosting RISE (Reflect, Inspire, Support, Empower), a board-wide Student Voice Leadership Conference on March 1, for secondary school students. This event will be held from 8:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. at Mississauga Grand Banquet Hall. The conference will feature keynote Jesse James, who graduated from St. Augustine Secondary, and other community role models who will challenge all students to reflect, inspire, support and empower each other. More than 200 students are expected to attend the event which will include a panel discussion on the transition to post-secondary life, followed by carousel of SpeakUp Projects. Location: Mississauga Grand Banquet Hall, 35 Brunel Rd. For more information, call 905-890-0708 ext. 23456.

John Cabot C.S.S. participating in World Autism Awareness Day

Student Trustee Elections

The Student Trustee elections were held on April 21, 2015 at the Catholic Education Centre. Congratulations to our new Student Trustees for 2015-2016: Jana Anderson from Iona Catholic Secondary School (second from left) and Alexandria Hesketh-Pavilons from St. Michael Secondary School (second from right).

Brampton North East - Grade 7 Student Voice Conference

St. Martin’s Link Crew on Grade 8 Transition Day

Student Voice Council members at a meeting

Student Trustees for 2014-2015: Meghana Benoy and Izabella Balcerzak

Student Voice Leadership Conference

Student Voice Representatives presented SpeakUp Grants at the Student Voice Leadership Conference on March 2, 2015.

↧

International Baccalaureate

Regional IB Schools

Regional IB schools:Notre Dame S.S., St. Francis Xavier S.S. and St. Paul S.S.

Boundary Map for the 2016-17 School Year

International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma Programme is a rigorous pre-university course of studies, leading to examinations, designed for highly motivated secondary school students between the ages of 16 and 19 years. Conceived as a comprehensive two-year curriculum that allows its graduates to fulfill requirements of various national education systems, the diploma model is based on the pattern of no single country, but incorporates the best elements of several.

The IB diploma candidates are required to select one subject from each of six subject groups.

Group 1: Studies in Language and Literature

Language A: Literature; Language A: Language and Literature, and Language A: Literature and Performance (an interdisciplinary subject).

Group 2: Language Acquisition

Language ab initio courses are for beginners (that is, students who have little or no previous experience of learning the language they have chosen). These courses are only available at standard level.

Language B courses are intended for students who have had some previous experience of learning the language. They may be studied at either higher level or standard level.

Latin or Classical Greek coursework provides opportunities for students to study the language, literature and culture of ancient Rome or Greece.

Group 3: Individuals and Societies

Business and Management, Economics, Geography, History, Information Technology in a Global Society, Philosophy, Psychology, Social and Cultural Anthropology, Global Politics, World Religions.

Group 4: Sciences

Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Computer Science, Design Technology, Environmental Systems, Sports, Exercise and Health Science, and Societies (this course meets the group 3 and group 4 requirements).

All of these subjects can be studied at the Higher or Standard Level.

Group 5: Mathematics

Students must study at least one course in Mathematics.

Mathematics courses include: Mathematical Studies at Standard Level, Mathematics at Standard Level, Mathematics at Higher Level, and Further Mathematics at Higher Level.

Group 6: The Arts

Dance, Film, Music, Theatre, Visual Arts: These subjects may be studied at Higher Level or Standard Level.

NOTE: Students are required to choose one subject from each of the six academic areas, including one from Group 6 although instead of a group 6 subject they can choose a second from Groups 1 – 5.

The programme offers special features in addition to the strengths of a liberal arts curriculum.

Theory of Knowledge (TOK) is a required interdisciplinary course intended to stimulate critical reflection upon the knowledge and experience gained inside and outside the classroom. Theory of Knowledge seeks to develop a coherent approach to learning which transcends and unifies the academic subjects and encourages appreciation of other cultural perspectives.

Creativity, Action, Service (CAS) is a fundamental part of the diploma curriculum. The goal of educating the whole and fostering a more compassionate citizenry comes alive in an embedded way when students reach beyond themselves and their books.

Diploma candidates are required to undertake original research and create an Extended Essay of some 4,000 words. This project offers the opportunity to investigate a topic of special interest and acquaints students with the kind of independent research and writing skills expected at university.

The grading system used by the International Baccalaureate Organization is criterion referenced. This means that each student’s performance is measured against well-defined levels of achievement consistent from one examination session to the next. Top grades are not simply awarded "on a curve" to a certain percentage of candidates, but rather reflect attainment of knowledge and skills relative to set standards equally applied to all schools. Validity, reliability and fairness are the watchwords of the IBO's international examining board.

More Information: IB Diploma Programme Curriculum

↧

↧

Parent Reaching Out Events

"Preparing your Child with Differing Abilities for the Sacraments of First Reconciliation, First Holy Communion and Confirmation"

Thursday, January 29, 2015

6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.

Catholic Education Centre, Room 301

More Information: Event Brochure

↧

Resources

FEBRUARY IS PSYCHOLOGY MONTH

How to talk to children about traumatic events

PSYCH 5 TO THRIVE facts sheets:

Making the Most of Parent-Teacher Interviews: A Parent’s Guide

Raising Confident and Resilient Children

Healthy Sleep, Healthy Child

Talking to Teens About Stress

Steps to Exam Success

Other Resources:

Anxiety and Anxiety Disorders in Children: Information for Parents (article by NASP)

Parent Guide - Psychological Assessment: FAQs

Psychology Services: Making a Difference for Learning and Behaviour

Your Guide to the Personal Health Information Protection Act (PHIPA)

Archives:

2014

Psychology Services & Catholic Board Learning Plan

Tier 1 - Universal Services for All

Tier 2 - Target or Selected Intervention

Tier 3 - Intensive Intervention

2013

Stress and Worries Too Much of a Good Thing.pdf

Is It More Than Just the Winter Blahs.pdf

Your Child in Full Day Kindergarten.pdf

Strategies for Dealing with Challenging Behaviours

2012

Boosting Your Memory

Effective Strategies for Your Own Learning

Media Dangers, Part One: Cyberbullying

Media Dangers, Part Two: Violent Video Games

Procrastination and Motivation: The Game of "Get Started"

Sleep Habits: Essential for Health and Wellbeing

Stress Management and Relaxation

2011

Student Anxiety & Role of Psychology School Mental Health Initiative

Project Memory: Making It Work!

2010

Violence, Youth & Gangs

Tips for Parents: What Parents Can Do To Help Their Children In School

2009

Helping Children Cope in Unsettling Times

Importance of Play

2008

Tips for Teachers and Parents: Stress In Students

How to Make and Keep Resolutions

Response to Intervention

Behaviour Management in the Classroom

2007

Executive Functions: Getting Organized for Success

The Psychology of Reading: From Research to Practice in the Classroom

Defiant & Emotionally Unpredictable Students

Cyber Bullying

ADHD

Eating Disorders - Prevention is Worth Every Ounce

Helping Withdrawn or Sad Students

Name Calling

Preventing School Dropouts

Retention

Self Esteem

The ABCs of Children's Mental Health

↧

Night School

The Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board offers evening credit courses under the Ontario Secondary School curriculum guidelines. Parents and students should consult with their day school Guidance Counsellor regarding their course selections, prerequisite courses and diploma requirements. Course selections must be made in accordance with the Ontario Ministry of Education curriculum guidelines. You can earn one credit each semester at night school. Diploma requirements are listed on the Ontario Ministry of Education website: http://www.edu.gov.on.ca/

SCHEDULE:

Classes will be held on Mondays and Wednesdays – February 10 to May 25, 2016 from 6:00 p.m. to 9:30 p.m.

REGISTRATION IS NOW CLOSED. Walk-in registration will take place on Thursday, February 11 from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m. at NIGHT SCHOOL SITES ONLY.

Course Availability

Course Descriptions

Registration Form

Please select one of the following options to submit your registration form:

Fax all documents to 905-271-9060

Email all documents to doris.fijan@dpcdsb.org

Drop off in person at: Adult and Continuing Education (Brian J. Fleming Bldg.) 870 Queen St. West, Suite 100, Mississauga between 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday to Friday

MISSISSAUGA LOCATION:

St. Aloysius Gonzaga Secondary School

2800 Erin Centre Blvd., Mississauga

Map

St. Francis Xavier Secondary School

50 Bristol Road West, Mississauga

Map

BRAMPTON LOCATION:

Notre Dame Secondary School

2 Notre Dame, Brampton

Map

IMPORTANT DATES:

February 1, 2016 – Last Day to Register

February 10, 2016 – First Night of Classes

February 11, 2016 – Final Walk-in Registration Night

February 15, 2016 – Family Day

March 14 & 16, 2016 - March Break - No Classes

March 28, 2016 - Easter Monday - No Classes

April 4, 2016 – Midterm Exam

April 6, 2016 – Midterm Report Cards Distributed

April 20, 2016 – Last opportunity to drop without full disclosure

May 18, 2016 – Final Exam

May 23, 2016 - Victoria Day - No Classes

May 25, 2016 – Final Day of Classes – Students must attend to pick-up report card and review exam

TEXTBOOKS:

Students must have their own textbooks. Textbook information information will be provided to students on the first night of classes. While it is expected that you will purchase a textbook, there is no obligation to purchase via the textbook distributor. Canadian School Book Exchange is a company which will be available for students to purchase textbooks.

Information about ordering a textbook through the Canadian School Book Exchange

To order a book, visit https://store.csbe.net/Select.aspx?Route=coned

Canadian School Book Exchange – Textbook Buy Back Information

↧

Mississauga Wards 2 & 8

Sharon Hobin

Mississauga Wards 2 & 8

905-301-1210

sharon.hobin@dpcdsb.org

Born in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Sharon was schooled in Catholic elementary and secondary schools. After graduating from St. Mary's University with degrees in English, Political Science (BA) and a Bachelor of Education, she taught in Halifax schools until she became Executive Director of Junior Achievement of Mainland Nova Scotia.

In 1983, Sharon moved to Ontario to become National Program Director of Junior Achievement of Canada. In this role she sat on provincial education committees and worked with both national and provincial boards. She was also responsible for curriculum development for national Junior Achievement programs that became part of curricula in many school boards across Canada.

After leaving this full-time position, Sharon ran a special event planning business and served as a curriculum consultant and writer for Junior Achievement.

Sharon is a dedicated supporter of Catholic education and has participated as a parent volunteer on several school councils and committees over twenty years. She has also served as chair of the Central Committee for Catholic School Councils. Sharon is currently in her ninth year as Catholic Trustee.

Her role in education in Dufferin-Peel has been that of an advocate and cheerleader for Catholic schools, parents, staff and most of all, students. She was Vice-Chair for two years (2009-2011), and has also chaired the Faith and Program Committee and the System Review and Strategic Planning Committee as well as Vice Chair and Chair of the Administration and Finance Committee. She is also a member of the Challenged Materials Committee, Discipline Committee, S.E.A.C. and the S.A.L (Supervised Alternative Learning Committee). She is currently Vice Chair of the Administration and Finance Committee. Sharon and her family, husband George, and three children, are members of St. Ignatius of Loyola Parish in Mississauga." I am thrilled to have the honour of being your trustee over these past nine years and I look forward to continuing my work to protect Catholic education and support our school communities, fellow trustees and school board staff."

Schools Represented:

Schools (Ward 2)

Elementary:

St. Christopher

St. Francis of Assisi

St. Helen

St. Louis

St. Luke

Secondary:

Iona Catholic S.S.

Schools (Ward 8)

Elementary:

All Saints

Christ the King Catholic

St. Clare

St. Francis of Assisi

St. Margaret of Scotland

St. Mark

St. Rose of Lima

St. Sebastian Catholic

Secondary:

Loyola Catholic S.S.

St. Aloysius Gonzaga S.S.

St. Joan of Arc Catholic S.S

Regional Schools:

St. James Catholic Global Learning Centre

St. Sofia Elementary School

Holy Name of Mary Catholic Secondary School

↧

↧

Family of Schools

Jump to:

Brampton East/Caledon/Dufferin/Malton

Brampton West

Brampton North East

Mississauga East

Mississauga North

Mississauga South

Mississauga Brampton Central

Brampton East/Caledon/Dufferin/Malton

Superintendent: Les Storey

Tel: 905-890-0708 Ext. 24240

Elementary

Father Clair Tipping

Good Shepherd

Holy Cross

Holy Family

Our Lady of Providence

St. Andrew

St. Benedict

St. Cornelius

St. Isaac Jogues

St. John Paul II Catholic

St. John the Baptist

St. Nicholas

St. Peter

St. Raphael

Secondary Schools

Ascension of Our Lord S.S.

Robert F. Hall Catholic S. S.

St. Marguerite d’Youville S.S.

St. Michael Catholic S.S.

Venerable Michael J. McGivney Catholic

Brampton West

Superintendent: Sue Steer

Tel: 905-890-0708 Ext. 24034

Elementary

Bishop Francis Allen

Father C.W. Sullivan

Guardian Angels Catholic

Our Lady of Fatima

St. Aidan Catholic

St. Angela Merici

St. Anne

St. Bonaventure Catholic

St. Francis Xavier

St. Jean-Marie Vianney Catholic

St. Josephine Bakhita Catholic

St. Lucy Catholic

St. Maria Goretti

St. Mary

St. Rita

St. Ursula

Secondary Schools

Cardinal Leger S.S.

St. Edmund Campion S.S.

St. Roch C.S.S.

Brampton North East

Superintendent: Deb Finegan-Downey

Tel: 905-890-0708 Ext. 24612

Elementary

Cardinal Newman Catholic

Father Francis McSpiritt Catholic

Georges Vanier Catholic

Holy Spirit Catholic

Lester B. Pearson Catholic

Our Lady of Lourdes Catholic

Sacred Heart

St. Agnes

St. Andre Bessette Catholic

St. Anthony

St. Cecilia

St. Jean Brebeuf

St. Joachim

St. John Bosco

St. John Fisher

St. Leonard

St. Marguerite Bourgeoys

St. Patrick

St. Stephen

Secondary Schools

Cardinal Ambrozic C.S.S.

Holy Name of Mary C.S.S. (Regional)

Notre Dame C.S.S.

St. Thomas Aquinas S.S.

Mississauga East

Superintendent: Tim Lariviere

Tel: 905-890-0708 Ext. 24004

Elementary

Bishop Scalabrini

Blessed Teresa of Calcutta Catholic

Canadian Martyrs

Corpus Christi

Father Daniel Zanon

Metropolitan Andrei Catholic

Queen of Heaven

St. Alfred

St. Basil

St. Charles Garnier

St. Dominic

St. Edmund

St. James Catholic Global Learning Centre

St. Philip

St. Pio of Pietrelcina

St. Sofia (Regional)

St. Thomas More

St. Timothy

St. Vincent de Paul

Sts. Martha and Mary

Sts. Peter and Paul Catholic

Secondary Schools

Father Michael Goetz S.S.

John Cabot Catholic S.S.

Philip Pocock Catholic S.S.

St. Paul S.S.

Mississauga North

Superintendent: Tilia Cruz

Tel: 905-890-0708 Ext. 24001

Elementary

Divine Mercy

Our Lady of Mercy

St. Albert of Jerusalem

St. Bernard of Clairvaux Catholic

St. Edith Stein

St. Elizabeth Seton

St. Faustina

St. John of the Cross

St. Joseph (Mississauga)

St. Richard

St. Rose of Lima

St. Sebastian Catholic

St. Simon Stock

St. Teresa of Avila

St. Therese of the Child Jesus

Secondary Schools

Our Lady of Mount Carmel S.S.

St. Aloysius Gonzaga S.S.

St. Joan of Arc Catholic S.S.

Mississauga South

Superintendent: David Amaral

Tel: 905-890-0708 Ext. 24007

Elementary

All Saints

Christ the King Catholic

Mary Fix Catholic

Our Lady of Good Voyage

St. Bernadette

St. Catherine of Siena

St. Christopher

St. Clare

St. David of Wales

St. Dunstan

St. Francis of Assisi

St. Gerard

St. Helen

St. Herbert

St. Jerome

St. John XXIII Catholic

St. Louis

St. Luke Catholic

St. Margaret of Scotland

St. Mark

St. Raymond

St. Valentine

Secondary Schools

Iona Catholic S.S.

Loyola Catholic S.S.

St. Joseph S.S.

St. Martin S.S.

Mississauga Brampton Central

Superintendent: Lucy Papaloni

Tel: 905-890-0708 Ext. 24613

Elementary

Our Lady of Peace

San Lorenzo Ruiz

St. Barbara

Pauline Vanier Catholic

St. Brigid

St. Joseph (Brampton)

St. Gertrude

St. Gregory

St. Kevin

St. Hilary

St. Jude

St. Julia Catholic

St. Matthew

St. Monica

St. Veronica

Secondary Schools

St. Augustine S.S.

St. Francis Xavier S.S.

St. Marcellinus S.S.

↧

Kindergarten Registration for St. Alphonsa

↧

Open House Meeting East Credit Pupil Accommodation Review

↧

DPCDSB and CUPE 1483 reach a tentative local Collective Agreement

Posted on: 01/07/16

Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board and the CUPE 1483 Bargaining Unit reach a tentative local Collective Agreement

The Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board and the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE) and its Local 1483 have reached a tentative local Collective Agreement, pending ratification by both parties.

Local negotiations and the ratification process are governed by the new two tiered bargaining structure outlined in the School Boards Collective Bargaining Act, 2014.

The three-year agreement, September 1, 2014 to August 31, 2017 is in accordance with the ratified terms of the central agreement “Memorandum of Settlement between CUPE, the Council of Trustees -Associations (CTA), and as agreed to by the Crown, dated November 2, 2015.”

The CUPE Local 1483 represents approximately 737 Custodial and Maintenance support staff in Dufferin-Peel.

The Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board is one of the largest school boards in Ontario with approximately 83,000 students in 149 schools located throughout Mississauga, Brampton, Caledon and Orangeville. The board is also one of the largest employers in the region with approximately 11,000 employees.

For more information about the Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board and Catholic schools in Peel Region and Dufferin County, visit Dufferin-Peel online at www.dpcdsb.org

-30-

Media Contacts:

Bruce Campbell, General Manager, Communications & Community Relations

905-890-0708, ext. 24466 | 905-609-1480

Valirie Burton, President, C.U.P.E. Local 1483

416-616-5508

↧

↧

DPCDSB and Dufferin-Peel Secondary Unit (DPSU) ratify new collective agreement

Posted on: 01/05/16

Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board and Dufferin-Peel Secondary Unit (DPSU) ratify new collective agreement

The Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board and the Dufferin-Peel Secondary Unit (DPSU) have both ratified a new local collective agreement. The three-year agreement, September 1, 2014 to August 31, 2017 is in accordance with the ratified terms of the central agreement “Memorandum of Settlement between OECTA AND OCSTA,” and as agreed to by the Crown.

The OECTA-DPSU represents 2,210 secondary school teachers.

The Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board is one of the largest school boards in Ontario with approximately 83,000 students in 149 schools located throughout Mississauga, Brampton, Caledon and Orangeville. The board is also one of the largest employers in the region with approximately 11,000 employees.

For more information about the Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board and Catholic schools in Peel Region and Dufferin County, visit Dufferin-Peel online at www.dpcdsb.org

-30-

Media Contacts:

Bruce Campbell, General Manager, Communications & Community Relations

905-890-0708, ext. 24466 | 905-609-1480

Clara Pitoscia, Superintendent, Human Resources and Employee Relations

905-890-0708, ext. 24056

Peter MacDonald, President - OECTA-DPSU

905-564-7211

↧

DPCDSB and CUPE 2026 reach a tentative local Collective Agreement

Posted on: 01/06/16

Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board and the CUPE 2026 Bargaining Unit reach a tentative local Collective Agreement

The Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board and the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE) and its Local 2026 have reached a tentative local Collective Agreement, pending ratification by both parties.

Local negotiations and the ratification process are governed by the new two tiered bargaining structure outlined in the School Boards Collective Bargaining Act, 2014.

The three-year agreement, September 1, 2014 to August 31, 2017 is in accordance with the ratified terms of the central agreement “Memorandum of Settlement between CUPE, the Council of Trustees -Associations (CTA), and as agreed to by the Crown, dated November 2, 2015.”

The CUPE Local 2026 represents approximately 480 Secretarial and Technical support staff in Dufferin-Peel.

The Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board is one of the largest school boards in Ontario with approximately 83,000 students in 149 schools located throughout Mississauga, Brampton, Caledon and Orangeville. The board is also one of the largest employers in the region with approximately 11,000 employees.

For more information about the Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board and Catholic schools in Peel Region and Dufferin County, visit Dufferin-Peel online at www.dpcdsb.org

-30-

Media Contacts:

Bruce Campbell, General Manager, Communications & Community Relations

905-890-0708, ext. 24466 | 905-609-1480

Lisa Maye, President, C.U.P.E. Local 2026

905-501-1773

↧

Personal Support Worker Program

Personal Support Worker Program (PSW)

The Personal Support Worker program trains students to provide or assist with personal care for the elderly, the chronically ill and people with physical disabilities living in the community, in long-term care facilities and in select ambulatory settings. This program offers a certificate and six Ontario high school credits.

We are taking registrations for the next session. The cost of the program is $1,500.00 payable in three installments. Fees must be paid with a money order made out to Dufferin-Peel C.D.S.B.

Location for Registration:

Brian J. Fleming Catholic Adult Learning Centre (Map)

870 Queen St. West, Mississauga

Location for Classes:

St. Kateri Tekakwitha Catholic Learning Centre

3566 South Common Court, Mississauga

Sessions:

8:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. (Monday - Friday)

Next Class - September 6, 2016

For more information, call 905-891-3034.

↧