PRTG Network Monitor is an advanced network monitoring solution by Paessler AG. It ensures the availability of network components while also measuring traffic and usage. It saves costs by avoiding outages and by analysing the data it gathers, optimise your servers, Internet connection and network.

Optimize Your Network and Avoid System Downtimes

Businesses increasingly rely on their networks to move data, provide communication, and enable basic operations.Performance loss or system outages can seriously impact the bottom line of your business. Continuous network and server monitoring enables you to find problems and resolve them before they become a serious threat to your business:

Avoid bandwidth and server performance bottlenecks

Deliver better quality of service to your users by being proactive

Reduce costs by buying bandwidth and hardware based on actual load

Increase profits by avoiding losses caused by undetected system failures

Find peace of mind: As long as you do not hear from PRTG via email, SMS, pager, etc. you know everything is running fine and you have more time to take care of other important business.

Your Entire Network at a Glance

PRTG Network Monitor covers all aspects of network monitoring:

Up / Downtime monitoring

Traffic and usage monitoring

SNMP

NetFlow

Packet sniffing

many more

Powerful Customisation

Virtually anything can be monitored with PRTG – custom sensors allow you to be creative with monitoring not just your network, but business performance as well.

The software runs 24/7 on a Windows-based machine within your network, recording network usage parameters. Recorded data is stored in a database for historic reports.

The easy to use web-based user interface allows to configure the devices and sensors that you want to monitor. You can create usage reports and provide colleagues and customers access to graphs and tables.

Combined with concise reporting and analysis features, PRTG Network Monitor is a clean and simple monitoring solution.

For further information on the Paessler range of products, visit the Paessler website

InterSys are a reseller of Paessler PRTG Network Monitor. We can help you develop custom solutions that go beyond network monitoring.