Robbie Biography

Robbie Williams was born Robert Peter Williams in Stoke-on-Trent on 13th February, 1974.

At the age of three, his parents divorced and he resided with his mother and sister.

He went to high school and was renowned for being mischievous, so it wasn’t surprising when he didn’t pass any of his G.C.S.E’s.

With few options open to him, he got a job as a salesman but destiny had a lot more in mind; his mother had noticed an article in the newspaper for an audition for a boy band and considering Robbie’s talented voice and acting abilities, she decided to get him to audition and he stepped on the first step to stardom.

Hear Robbie's Mum talk about Rob

On February 6th 2004, Jan chatted with BBC Stoke presenter Stuart George for nearly an hour about Robbie, his troubles, his early life and Give It SumYou need Real Player to hear this. Click for BBC's RP download guide

Take That

He joined Take That in 1990. For five straight years, the success of Take That was undisputed but, in 1995, Robbie decided that he wanted to quit - and interviews that followed this incident never really cleared up whether Robbie had been pushed out, or was quitting the band of his own free will.

But one thing was for sure; he had always felt that being in a band was constricting and prevented him from being his own person; he had stopped giving input and stopped doing as he was told (perhaps being young was not an advantage, after all!).

The rules set out for the band were too much for someone as extroverted as Robbie - which led to him resorting to alcohol and drugs; while ensuing legal battles with BMG, which was his record company, to allow him to go solo (apparently there was a clause that prevented him from becoming a solo singer if he ever left Take That) drained his energy.

Hear Robbie's Dad talking about Rob

Pete Conway chatted with BBC Stoke presenter Den Siegertsz about what Robbie is really likeYou need Real Player to hear this. Click for BBC's RP download guide

Going solo

On the 27th of June, 1996, Robbie announced that his contract with BMG was coming to an end and that he was now signed on with Chrysalis Records.

His first single was the cover version of ‘Freedom’ by George Michael; it hit No. 2, narrowly beaten by the ‘Wannabe’ by the Spice Girls.

He met Jacquie Hamilton-Smith at a New Year’s Party and soon moved in with her and he started leading a life of parties; the previous months had been very hard on him and after a whole year he returned to his senses.

He followed the advice of Sir Elton John and various other artists, and went to a rehab centre to recover from drug and alcohol addiction (Clouds House Drink and Drugs Rehabilitation Clinic, Salisbury).

Hear (just a little bit!) of sister Sally talking about Rob

BBC Stoke's Jo Morris asked a number of people on the street in Stoke about Robbie's marriage prospects. By coincidence she bumped into Rob's older sister Sally!You need Real Player to hear this. Click for BBC's RP download guide

The best in the business

From this point his music career has gone uphill, receiving international fame and many No 1s. He has also taken many awards in the process.

And you too can add to this page ...

Can you add some other facts about Robbie?

Do you know of relevant websites, local memorials, or accounts about him that would be useful to know?

Have you ever met him?...

If you can help or have comments - e-mail us!

Did you know?