Football (American)

Football Rules Player Positions Football Strategy Football Glossary

Back to Sports

American Football is one of the world's most popular competitive sports. It is mostly popular in the United States where football is the number one spectator sport. Each year the NFL championship, the Super Bowl, is one of the most watched events on American TV. College football is also very popular with numerous 100,000 plus stadiums selling out every week.

Football is often called a high-impact sport of violence. The football is advanced down the field by runners or by passing until the opposing team tackles or brings the player with the ball to the ground. Points in football are scored by advancing the football beyond the goal line (called a touch down) or kicking the ball through a field goal. The rules of the sport are quite complex and differ depending on the levels of play.

Football is a true team sport. Most players specialize in a particular position and skill. With eleven players on defense and offense, substitutions, as well as special teams, most teams will play at least 30 or 40 players on a regular basis. This makes teamwork and overall team talent more important than the abilities of any single player.

History of American Football

Football is an American sport that was formed in the late 1800's at college campuses. The sport has it's roots in the English game of Rugby. The first college game was played between Rutgers and Princeton.

This early form of football was extremely violent with many players actually dying every year. New rules were established over time and, although football is still a physical sport with many injuries, it is much safer today.

The NFL was formed in 1921 and became the major professional league by the 50's. It has continued to grow in popularity becoming the most watched professional league of any sport in the United States.

Scoring in Football

Football scoring can seem complex at first, but really there are only five ways to score points in football:

Touchdown (TD): A TD is scored when a player catches a pass in the opponent's end zone or runs with the football into the end zone. A TD is worth 6 points.

Extra Point or Two-Point Conversion: Upon scoring a touchdown the scoring team can either attempt to kick the ball through the goal posts for 1 extra point or can run/pass the football into the end zone for two extra points.

Field Goal: A team may kick the football through the goal posts for 3 points.

Safety: When the defense tackles an offensive player with the football in the offensive team's end zone. A safety is worth 2 points. More Football Links:

Rules

Football Rules

Football Scoring

Timing and the Clock

The Football Down

The Field

Equipment

Referee Signals

Football Officials

Violations that Occur Pre-Snap

Violations During Play

Rules for Player Safety

Positions

Player Positions

Quarterback

Running Back

Receivers

Offensive Line

Defensive Line

Linebackers

The Secondary

Kickers

Strategy

Football Strategy

Offense Basics

Offensive Formations

Passing Routes

Defense Basics

Defensive Formations

Special Teams

How to...

Catching a Football

Throwing a Football

Blocking

Tackling

How to Punt a Football

How to Kick a Field Goal

Biographies

Peyton Manning

Tom Brady

Jerry Rice

Adrian Peterson

Drew Brees

Brian Urlacher

Other

Football Glossary

National Football League NFL

List of NFL Teams

College Football

Back to Sports