PROFESSOR Stephen Hawking may have been a science genius but he was also featured in many films and TV shows - either with someone playing him or as a cameo.

We take a look at the times when the late physicist was portrayed in the movies...

Who has played Stephen Hawking in a film?

Eddie Redmayne

Eddie Redmayne played Professor Hawking in the 2014 biographical romantic drama The Theory of Everything.

His performance received universal acclaim and Eddie was awarded an Oscar, Golden Globe and Bafta Award for Best Actor.

The film explores Hawking's relationship with his first wife Jane, his ALS diagnosis and his ambitious study of time.

Hawking said of the film: "Unfortunately, Eddie [Redmayne] did not inherit my good looks."

Benedict Cumberbatch

In 2004, a then little known Benedict Cumberbatch played Hawking in the 90-minute made-for-television movie Hawking, which ran on the BBC.

Just like The Theory of Everything, Hawking sees the budding cosmologist meet his future wife, Jane Wilde, at a party.

But unlike Eddie's portrayal, which follows Hawking's degeneration of muscle function to the point that he's unable to use his own voice, Benedict plays Hawking while he was still very much able to walk and talk.

The actor was nominated for a Bafta TV Best Actor Award in 2005.

What TV shows did Stephen Hawking appear in?

Professor Hawking became known for his funny cameos in numerous hit shows:

The Big Bang Theory

The sit-com made for him - a flat full of science geeks who worship his work.

Professor Hawking played himself, stunning chief science geek Sheldon, played by Jim Parsons, and his pals Leonard, Raj and Howard.

Hilarious scenes include the boys doing creepy impressions of his robot voice.

He appeared in seven episodes and sang Happy Birthday to Sheldon over Skype.

The Simpsons

Game for a laugh, Professor Hawking lent his voice to FOUR episodes of the legendary animated sitcom, The Simpsons.

In our favourite, the great man came to Springfield to warn them their vision of utopia would never pan out.

Star Trek: The Next Generation

Hawking popped up in the season six finale of Next Generation, where he played poker against Albert Einstein and Isaac Newton as holograms.

The professor is a famous Trekkie, and his book A Brief History of Time was adapted into a documentary by Leonard Nimoy, aka, Spock.

Futurama

Stephen popped up in season two of the futuristic cartoon Futurama.

He joins the Vice Presidential Action Rangers, led by Al Gore, who aim to protect the space-time continuum.

He later wound up as a floating head in a jar in the Futurama movie.

Little Britain

The theoretical physicist popped up for a Comic Relief cameo in Little Britain.

He was being pushed along by over-eager carer Lou, as he teaches him how to say "quack" like a duck.

Stephen showed off his comic timing, providing droll comebacks to everyone who came over to patronise him.

In the end, annoyed by everyone talking down to him, Hawking turns into a giant rocket-launching transformer robot.