Reservation Deadline: All reservations made on or before May 23, 2023, will be ensured announcement of your float by the commentator; any reservations made afterwards may still be eligible to be in the parade, but may not be announced by the commentator.

Parade Dos & Dont's

If you have a float in the parade, it is OK to hand out candy and/or informational materials about your organization. However, we ask you to respect the veterans by NOT distributing any politically-oriented materials.

If you are a military organization, please supply your own federal flag.

Military organizations will be heading the parade. All other organizations will follow, ordered by first-come/first-served; however, similar organizations will not be grouped together.

Duluth Women of Today hosts Memorial Day Parade

The Duluth Women of Today are taking on this endeavor and partnering with all the local Veteran Service Organizations to ensure these historical and important days are celebrated and not forgotten, and also acknowledge the service and sacrifices made by our veterans.

We are looking for businesses who are willing to support our local veterans by helping us continue these parades. If your organization would like to be in the 2021 parade, please complete the Memorial Day Float Reservation form to be considered. If you would consider a monetary donation, we are an established non-profit organization and the MNWT Foundation's EIN is 41-1439527. All donations are tax deductible and can be used for tax purposes. Donation checks should be made out to the MNWT Foundation with "DWT Veterans Day Parade" in the memo line, then send it to Duluth Women of Today, PO Box 16756, Duluth MN 55816.

“Honor to the sailor and soldier everywhere, who bravely bears his country’s cause. Honor, also, the citizen who cares for his brother in the field and serves, as he best can, the same cause.” ~Abraham Lincoln

The Duluth Women of Today is a volunteer organization that tackles projects about which we are approached, and/or for which we have a passion. Started in 2004, our members meet monthly, volunteer in the community, and hold social events and personal growth training. Duluth Women of Today is a local chapter of Minnesota Women of Today that improves the lives of our members and others. Women of Today develops and fosters skills and talents that allow members to become successful leaders, helps raise funds, and takes on worthy projects with our communities, which is the reason for this letter of financial request.

In closing, we would like to thank you for any consideration you might give to supporting this very important cause and our veterans.

Respectfully, Linda Nindorf, Duluth WT President 2019-2020

Memorial Day

It is a Federal holiday observed on the last Monday in May, and commemorates the men and women who died while in the military service. Pay tribute to the U.S. men and women who died during military service by observing a national moment of remembrance with a minute of silence at 3:00 PM, local time.

Memorial Day is observed on the last Monday of May. It was formerly known as Decoration Day and commemorates all men and women who have died in military service for the United States. Many people visit cemeteries and memorials on Memorial Day and it is traditionally seen as the start of the summer season.

What Do People Do? It is traditional to fly the flag of the United States at half staff from dawn until noon. Many people attend parades and/or visit cemeteries and memorials, particularly to honor those who have died in military service. Many volunteers place an American flag on each grave in national cemeteries.

Memorial Day History

Memorial Day began sometime after the Civil War with both formal and informal ceremonies at graves and ceremonies for the soldiers who had fallen in battle. Many places claim to be the birthplace of Memorial Day in 1866, including Waterloo, New York and both Macon and Columbus, Georgia. On May 5, 1868, the Grand Army of the Republic (GAR), a Union veterans organization, established Decoration Day, May 30, as a time for the nation to decorate the dead with flowers. Arlington National Cemetery held the first large observance later that year.

By the end of the 19th century, Memorial Day ceremonies were being held throughout the country on May 30. Over time, the Army and Navy adopted policies for proper observances, and state legislatures passed proclamations designating the day. After World War I the day was expanded to honor those who died in all American wars, and in 1971, Memorial Day was declared a national holiday to be celebrated on the last Monday in May.

Memorial Day vs Veterans Day

Memorial Day is meant for remembering and honoring military personnel who died in the service of their country, particularly those who died in battle, or as a result of a wound sustained in battle.

Veterans Day is intended to thank all those who have honorably served in the military – in wartime or peacetime.