Fast cars and jazz are not readily associated in many minds; however, “Indiana” is a favorite of fans of both. The majority of those who recognize the song would identify it as “Back Home Again in Indiana,” a highlight of the Indianapolis 500 pre-race ceremonies, courtesy of the distinctive voice of Jim Nabors. Jazz fans, on the other hand, are more likely to say it is “Indiana,” a favorite of jazz musicians and the basis for numerous compositions, including Lennie Tristano’s “No Figs” and Miles Davis’ “Donna Lee.” The official title is simply “Indiana.” “Back Home Again in Indiana” is the first line of the refrain.

The story of “Indiana” begins with Paul Dresser (1858-1906). Born Johann Paul Dreiser Jr., he was the older brother of the well-known novelist, Theodore Dreiser, whose works include An American Tragedy (1925), the basis for the film A Place in the Sun (1951).

By the age of thirty-seven Dresser had tired of a jack-of-all-trades career on the minstrel circuit and decided instead to concentrate on composing popular songs, a sideline in which he had already experienced some success. In 1897 Dresser wrote his biggest hit, “On the Banks of the Wabash, Far Away,” a million-selling song that is often compared to Stephen Foster’s “Old Folks at Home.” Unfortunately his success in composing and publishing would be short lived, and at the age of 47 Dresser died penniless.

Paul Dresser’s music would become his legacy, and in 1913 the Indiana State Legislature adopted “On the Banks of the Wabash, Far Away” as the state song. Four years later Jack Hanley and Ballard MacDonald wrote “Indiana,” a song similar musically and lyrically to the Dresser composition. While Hanley and MacDonald had secured permission to use a couple of bars from the publisher of the state song, Clayton W. Henderson, professor of music at Saint Mary’s College, South Bend, Indiana, and author of On the Banks of the Wabash: The Life and Music of Paul Dresser, suggests that the song “Indiana” borrows shamelessly from Dresser’s lyrics and music. He proposes, “By using note values of long, followed by short durations throughout his song--precisely those note lengths that pervade Dresser’s songs--Hanley simulated the entire musical mood of ‘Wabash.’”

Over twenty years later, brother Theodore Dreiser considered a lawsuit charging the songwriters with plagiarism but was dissuaded by the publishers and possibly by the fact that he would be suing Ballard MacDonald, a composer already familiar with copyright infringement. In 1910 MacDonald was the plaintiff in a suit against Fred Helf, the publisher of the sheet music for “The Barbershop Chord,” a hit song MacDonald had begun and others had finished. When Helf omitted MacDonald’s name, MacDonald sued him for $37,500, driving Helf out of business.

“Indiana” was a near instant hit in 1917, first with a Conway’s Band recording which rose to number eight on the pop charts and then with the Original Dixieland Jazz Band, again rising to number eight. In 1929 Red Nichols and His Five Pennies’ recording climbed the charts to number nineteen. All three hits were instrumentals.