Gavin Schilling (206-C-95, college: Michigan St.) is a 25 year old 206cm forward that was born in Munich, Germany and is playing his third professional season and first with the Basketball Lowen Braunschweig. He began his basketball career with the SG Urspringschule/Schelklingen junior team and then went to the states playing at De La Salle High School, in Illinois and at the well known Findlay Prep in Nevada. He then played at Michigan State (NCAA) from 2013-2018 playing a total of 134 NCAA games. He came back to Germany in 2018 and played two years with Ratiopharm Ulm (BBL). Last season he averaged 5.6ppg, 3.5rpg, FGP: 60.0%, FT: 72.7%; and played 10 Eurocup games averaging 3.0ppg, 3.4rpg. he spoke to germanhoops.com after the 90-80 win over s. Oliver Wurzburg.

Gavin thanks for talking to germanhoops.com. Congrats on the massive win. What has been key in this three game winning streak for the success?

I think that starting out the game with energy and dictating the game was important as well as being physical.

Braunschweig had the 51-34 advantage at the break. What do you believe was the club’s biggest strength in the first 20 minutes?

We hit open shots and moved the ball very well. We also did a good job sticking to find the best open look each possession.

In the fourth quarter Braunschweig let up a little as Wurzburg won the quarter. Ex NBA player Perry Jones got going. I guess a perfect phrase for him is that he can get going at anytime if you don’t keep an eye on him.

Perry Jones is a good 1-1 player that hit some tough shots. But that didn’t bring us out of the game. We did let up a bit with some turnovers. That shouldn’t have happened as their pressure got to us. We need to learn from that.

Braunschweig shot very well. What was the team biggest strength and was the 46% free throw percentage the team’s biggest weakness?

Hitting free throws has been our downfall this season. We continue to work on it in practice. Being able to make free throws is big for being able to win games. Our biggest strength was starting the game out well with energy and finding the best shots.

How key was it not letting Cameron Hunt have a typical very solid game?

We knew coming in that they have five lefties. We did a good job forcing them to their right hand and forcing them to tough finishes.

One can’t say enough about the two imports Velicka and Peterka. Where would the team be this season without them?

Peterka found his rhythm and has been playing well with a lot of consistency. He spaces the floor well and hits three’s. Velicka is an all around great player. He plays older than he is.

You guys had a four game winning streak at the start of the season and as of late have won four of five games. Is it fair to say that your playing your best basketball of the season?

Yes I believe so. It has been a while since we won three games in a row. We played a few good games at the start, but then were inconsistent. Now we are consistent again and we hope to finish the season strong.

What do you feel did the team learn about yourselves after being Munich and Berlin?

Those two wins definitely gave us confidence. Nobody believed that we could win those games. That we were able to win both games on the road like that was huge. That helped begin our momentum. We did have a slip up against Ludwigsburg, but we have been playing well as of late.

The next game is against Bamberg who you lost to in Bamberg What will be key to sweeping the season series?

We have to stop Devin Hall who had a good game against us as well as their big David Kravish and keep him off the boards. They also have Christian Sengfelder. They are a very solid team. If we can start out well like in the last three games then we should be in good shape.

Let’s talk about your game. You had a quiet game with 5 points and 5 boards in 16 minutes. You had a very consistent time from mid Feb until April. But since then been up and down. Has the long crazy season taken a toll on your body?

I guess that I have been banged up. But that isn’t the reason why I have been up and down. Teams are scouting me better now. For me it’s important to be mentally stronger than my opponent but still be able to play my game. Even if I have a bad start to a game or can’t find my rhythm, I still need to keep going. You won’t be perfect every game, but you have to be mentally locked in.

You made your break through this season in Braunschweig. How do you feel has your game matured this season with your new team?

Coach Pete Strobl has put me in a great position to succeed. I took advantage of that. My teammates have found me and I’m very grateful to them.

Head Coach Pete Strobl has given you freedom. How has he helped you most this season for letting your game develop further?

He has given me a chance to play and get experience with more minutes. I have been able to be productive in the minutes that I have gotten. I just try to let the game come to me. I feel like I have gotten better each game.

Chris Paul recently passed Magic Johnson for fifth all-time in assists. Where do you rank him with the best point guards all-time despite never having won a ring?

Chris Paul is definately top 10

How have you seen the development of Boston Celtic Jayson Tatum? He has scored 50 plus points this season. Where will his journey go as a player in the next years?

He is playing his best basketball at the moment and is on the right path.

Dino Radja recently said he couldn’t see Russell Westbrook leading a team in Europe to success. Do you agree?

I have no comment on that.

Draymond Green recently said he is the best defender of all-time. Do you agree?

He is up there. He knows his role perfect. He is a big reason why the Warriors have been successful. But all-time is a big term.

Have you seen the Coming to America sequel? It has had mixed reviews. Shouldn’t they just have left it alone?

I haven’t seen it yet.

Thanks Gavin for the chat.