On June 5 in Astana, the capital of Kazakhstan, the Muz TV Awards rolled out the red carpet for the A-list of Russian pop. The Awards, which were taking place outside of Russia for the first time, are a Who’s Who of Russian-language pop — and always feature countless Eurovision stars.

ESC alumni Polina Gagarina (2015), Mumiy Troll (2001), Dima Bilan (2006 and 2008), Filipp Kirkorov (1995), Serebro (2007), Ani Lorak (Ukraine 2008), Yulia Savicheva (2004) were among the nominees. Dima Bilan, Filipp Kirkorov, Serebro, and Ani Lorak each picked up silver plates with a gold apple after winning their respective categories: Best concert, Best male singer, Best pop group and Best female singer. Here’s our shot of Dima accepting his award.

The eleganza started outside, where wiwibloggs spied the stars coming into the venue. Here you can see the lovely Polina moving from car park to arena. As in Vienna, purity defines her all-white look.

We also spotted Georgia’s 2008 singer Diana Gurtskaya, one of the world’s most famous blind singers. She was trailed by a very colourful entourage.

The performances were amazing and over-the-top. Filipp Kirkorov gave us his best angel look — replete with halo. Simply divine!

As with any big production, the show had its share of troubles. In the middle of the red carpet ceremony, heavy rain drove the sun away. Storms destoryed most of the buildings for press and fans. And the rooftop inside the arena started to leak, soaking the floor and forcing several acts to adjust their performances. Arash, who represented Azerbaijan at Eurovision 2009 with ‘Always’, was hit in the leg by a piano.

But the show must go on — and it did so with a bang. Among the highlights was Ani Lorak taming a troupe of male dancers before taking flight in a giant pendelum. As you do!

The President of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nasarbaev, received the loudest applause. He spoke about music and the connection between all the countries in the world. It seems to give credence to the ever-present rumours that Kazakhstan will one day take part in the Eurovision Song Contest. It’s fair to say that Nasarbaev would support the idea.

Muz TV Awards 2015: Full Show

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p65VdSgI-Y0

Muz TV Awards 2015: Winners

Breakthrough of the Year – Yegor Creed

Best Hip Hop Project – Dzhigan

Best song – Nyusha – Tsunami

Best song in a foreign language – Alien24 – Wally

Best pop group – Serebro

Best rock band – Beasts

Best concert show – Dima Bilan – 33 (hall “Crocus City Hall”)

Best Duet – VIA Gra and the ILO – Oxygen

Best Album – Emin – “honest”

Best Video – Nikolai Baskov and Sophie – You’re my happiness

Best Female Video – Anita Choi – My air, my love

Best Male Video – Sergey Lazarev – 7 digits

Best performer – Ani Lorak

Best Artist – Filipp Kirkorov