Chelsea’s bitter fall-out with Atlético Madrid will be tested again after they were drawn in the same Champions League group as the club Diego Costa is determined to rejoin.

Antonio Conte's side will face Atlético, Roma and FK Qarabag in a tough Group C, but it is Tottenham Hotspur who have landed in the dreaded ‘group of death’ against European champions Real Madrid, Borussia Dortmund and Apoel.

Manchester United have been handed the most favourable draw of the English clubs, while Manchester City and Liverpool will also be optimistic.

The most eye-catching moment of the draw in Monaco was when Atlético were placed alongside Chelsea. Costa remains on strike, with Chelsea and Atlético yet to agree on a fee and the 28-year-old accusing Conte of treating him like a “criminal.”

Even if Costa gets his wish, the striker will not face Chelsea as he could not play for Atlético until January under the terms of the Spanish club’s transfer embargo.

The tension between the clubs pre-dates the Costa affair, with the cracks first surfacing in 2014.

Then manager Jose Mourinho was furious that goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois, who was on loan at Atlético from Chelsea, was allowed to face his parent club in the semi-finals of the competition.

Chelsea had inserted a clause into the loan agreement that would have meant Atlético had to pay around £5 million to field Courtois against them, but it was overruled by Uefa. Atlético knocked out Chelsea, with Courtois playing both legs, to reach the final.

Costa signed for Chelsea in that summer, but they have since been upset by Atlético’s repeated public attempts to take him back. Chelsea have written to Atlético on two separate occasions threatening to report them to Fifa over public comments made by club officials over their desire to re-sign Costa. Stamford Bridge officials believe Atlético have contributed to Costa never fully settling at Chelsea. Atlético have been far more guarded in their pursuit of Costa this year, but that will do nothing to ease the tensions between themselves and Chelsea when they meet twice in the group stages.

Chelsea have won only one of their five games against Atlético in European competition and also face a tricky test against Roma. Conte’s team must also make a 5½-hour flight to Baku to play Azerbaijan’s Qarabag.

Having failed to reach the knockout stages of the Champions League last season, Tottenham’s hopes of a favourable draw were dashed.

Mauricio Pochettino’s team will have to face Real, who last season became the first team to defend the Champions League successfully, and 2013 finalists Dortmund. Apoel finish Group H, which means a 4½-hour flight to Cyprus.

Tottenham’s Eric Dier said: “It’s a very exciting group, that’s what the Champions League is all about. It’s about pitting yourself against the best teams in Europe. It’s fantastic for our fans, a really exciting group and we’re all looking forward to it.”

Although United have to travel to Moscow, Mourinho will be the happiest of the Premier League managers after his team drew Benfica, Basel and CSKA on their return to the Champions League.

Mourinho has lost one of his previous seven competitive meetings with Benfica as a manager.

City’s toughest test will come against Napoli, but Pep Guardiola’s team will be expected to progress from Group F, which also includes Shakhtar and Feyenoord.

Liverpool, who qualified after beating Hoffenheim 6-3 on aggregate on Wednesday, have been drawn with Sevilla, who beat them in the final of the Europa League in 2016. Spartak Moscow and Maribor make up the group.

Full draw

Group A Benfica, Man Utd, Basel, CSKA Moscow

Group B Bayern Munich, PSG, Anderlecht, Celtic

Group C Chelsea, Atletico Madrid, Roma, Qarabag

Group D Juventus, Barcelona, Olympiakos, Sporting

Group E Spartak Moscow, Sevilla, Liverpool, Maribor

Group F Shakhtar, Man City, Napoli, Feyenoord

Group G Monaco, Porto, Besiktas, RB Leipzig

Group H Real Madrid, Dortmund, Tottenham, APOEL