Bob Dylan brings the Rough and Rowdy Ways tour to Europe and the UK this fall.

Tickets go on sale on Friday, July 19.

See all the tour dates at http://bobdylan.com/on-tour

Don’t you dare miss it!

The 1974 Live Recordings will be released on Friday, September 20, celebrating the 50th anniversary of Bob Dylan’s return to touring that year. Featuring all professionally recorded shows from the artist’s 1974 performances backed by The Band, the collection will be available as a deluxe box set across 27 CDs. The 1974 Live Recordings offers fans 417 previously-unreleased Bob Dylan live tracks – including 133 recordings newly mixed from 16-track tape, and every single surviving soundboard recording – along with new liner notes by journalist and critic Elizabeth Nelson.

Pre-order The 1974 Live Recordings today! https://BobDylan.lnk.to/1974LiveRecordings

The 2024 Outlaw Music Festival Tour features an unprecedented lineup including headliners Willie Nelson & Family, Bob Dylan, Robert Plant & Alison Krauss, and John Mellencamp with Brittney Spencer, Celisse, and Southern Avenue. Billy Strings will also join the tour for one special night at The Gorge in Washington.

See the bobdylan.com On Tour page for dates and ticket links.

A deluxe box set celebrating Bob Dylan’s 1978 world concert tour and the 45th anniversary of the artist’s first concert appearances in Japan, The Complete Budokan 1978 presents two full shows originally recorded on 24-channel multitrack analog tapes at Tokyo’s Nippon Budokan Hall on February 28 and March 1, 1978 and offers fans 36 previously unreleased Dylan performances. The Complete Budokan 1978 is available in 4CD, 8LP (Japan only) and digital configurations.

Order today!

“The entire show was one jaw-dropping delight after another.” – Rolling Stone

“He hasn’t sounded better in decades.” – Variety

Order Now!

Shadow Kingdom originally aired as an exclusive streaming event in July 2021 and will now be available on vinyl, CD and streaming platforms for the first time.

Shadow Kingdom presents Bob Dylan performing revelatory 21st century versions of songs from his storied back catalog — including fan favorites like “Forever Young” and “It’s All Over Now, Baby Blue,” and deep catalog gems like “Queen Jane Approximately” and “The Wicked Messenger.”

The full-length Shadow Kingdom feature film will also be available for download and rental on Tuesday, June 6.

Watch the video for a previously unreleased version of “Not Dark Yet,” one of the stand-out tracks on the original ‘Time Out Of Mind’ album. Photography in the video is courtesy of renowned photo agency Magnum Photos.

“Not Dark Yet” (Version 1) will be included in the upcoming release of Bob Dylan’s ‘Fragments – Time Out of Mind Sessions (1996-1997): The Bootleg Series Vol. 17.’

‘1970’ is a new 3-disc set, released by popular demand on February 26. It includes previously unreleased outtakes from the sessions that produced ‘Self Portrait’ and ‘New Morning’ plus the complete May 1, 1970 studio recordings with George Harrison, which capture the pair performing together on nine tracks.

PURCHASE Bob Dylan – 1970

Greetings to my fans and followers with gratitude for all your support and loyalty across the years.

This is an unreleased song we recorded a while back that you might find interesting.

Stay safe, stay observant and may God be with you.

Bob Dylan

Listen to “Murder Most Foul”> bobdylan.com has published the <u>lyrics to “Murder Most Foul.”

News Flash – we are not perfect! Due to a printing error, four pages were left out of the handwritten lyric notebook included in the Deluxe Edition of ‘More Blood, More Tracks.’

We’re including them here, with our apologies.

Bob Dylan’s Live 1962 – 1966: Rare Performances from The Copyright Collections is now available digitally or as a 2-CD set.

Most of the performances on the album have been previously available only on the extremely limited edition “50th Anniversary / Copyright Extension” albums (three highly-collectible compilations–released in 2012, 2013 and 2014–of rare early Dylan recordings).

Across two discs-worth of music, Live 1962 – 1966: Rare Performances from The Copyright Collections chronicles Dylan’s transformation from groundbreaking acoustic “folk” artist to iconic force of pop culture.

The album features seminal recordings from the artist’s coffeehouse era (Gerde’s Folk City, 1962), his mythic 1963 breakout concerts at New York’s Town Hall and Carnegie Hall, a duet with Joan Baez from the historic March on Washington (August 28, 1963), definitive performances from his European and world tours of 1965 and 1966, incandescent moments from the 1964 and 1965 Newport Folk Festivals and more.

Get your copy today!

Heaven’s Door – a collection of American Whiskeys developed in collaboration with Bob Dylan and renowned craft distillers, will be available in May. Years in the making, the inaugural trilogy of expressions includes a Tennessee Straight Bourbon Whiskey, Double Barrel Whiskey and Straight Rye Whiskey finished in oak barrels from Vosges, France, air-dried for 3 years. The perfect blend of art and craft, each bottle showcases Dylan’s distinctive welded iron gates that he created in his metalworking studio, Black Buffalo Ironworks.

Heaven’s Door web site

New York Times article

New York Times taste test

“Trouble No More – The Bootleg Series Vol. 13 / 1979-1981” has been recommended on many publications’ year-end gift lists. Rolling Stone’s Best Reissue of the Year

It’s one of the most enthusiastically praised Bootleg Series releases. Get your copy today or give it to a Bob Dylan fan in your life!

Order Now:

Deluxe

Deluxe download

Double CD

Vinyl

Bob Dylan Store

Order from Amazon

Out now:: A beautiful, comprehensive volume of Dylan’s lyrics, from the beginning of his career through the present day—with the songwriter’s edits to dozens of songs, appearing here for the first time.

“If the measure of greatness is to gladden the heart of every human being on the face of the earth, then he truly was the greatest. In every way he was the bravest, the kindest and the most excellent of men.”

“All the Way” is the second song released off the album Fallen Angels out May 20. Both “All the Way” and “Melancholy Mood” are available instantly with all digital pre-orders of the album. The track can also be streamed here and on Apple Music.

Put yourself in the studio during the 1965-66 sessions by visiting the Studio A Revisited microsite, which gives you an opportunity to play with the four studio “stems” that make up “Like A Rolling Stone” and more.