Director: Chad Stahelski

Starring: Keanu Reeves, Halle Berry, Laurence Fishburne, Mark Dacascos, Asia Kate Dillon, Lance Reddick, Anjelica Huston, Ian McShane

The Keanu Reeves-led series seems to outdo itself with every new chapter, putting the haggard assassin John Wick in danger via a dizzying array of villains in wilder locales. With Parabellum, we get everything from the viral horse ride through the streets of NYC to Wick and Sofia (Halle Berry)—along with her two dogs—ripping through the streets of Casablanca to the Battle of the Continental. Wick’s murdering people with knives, in pools, and with his bare hands; it’s a beautiful display of ultra-violence that’s perfect for theaters. It kinda started out as a film about the death of a dog but turned into a series that puts Keanu’s staying power on full display.

Director: Anthony and Joe Russo

Starring: Robert Downey Jr., Chris Hemsworth, Mark Ruffalo, Chris Evans, Scarlett Johansson, Benedict Cumberbatch, Don Cheadle, Tom Holland, Chadwick Boseman, Paul Bettany, Elizabeth Olsen, Anthony Mackie, Sebastian Stan, Danai Gurira, Letitia Wright, Dave Bautista, Zoe Saldana, Josh Brolin, Chris Pratt

While it’s counterpart Endgame was obviously the more fan service-y of the series, Infinity War packed a cruel, Infinity Gauntlet-clad punch. The Russo Brothers took the “War” in the title seriously, with this film basically being one intergalactic battle. From Thanos taking out the Hulk with ease to Iron Man and company taking on Thanos’ Children in the streets of NYC to the epic confrontations on Titan and in Wakanda, this film gathered all of the pieces of the decade-long MCU puzzle and set them on fire. We were left with loads of dust, a pit in our stomachs, and some of the most insane action sequences to hit a superhero film of this caliber.

Director: George Miller

Starring: Tom Hardy, Charlize Theron, Nicholas Hoult, Hugh Keays-Byrne, Rosie Huntington-Whiteley

Mad Max: Fury Road is a lot of things, but it is primarily a great action movie. Expect firey, loud car chases, explosions, actually scary villains, and high stakes. Set in a post-apocalyptic universe, it manages to be wildly violent without turning gratuitous. Of course, there’s a lot of CGI, but it doesn’t overpower the movie, and feels like it belongs there. There are some legitimate climate change concerns in the background (a nuclear holocaust is unlikely, but water access is already a major concern, as are the wars being aged over oil). The film explores the intersection of a real crisis scenario and raw power—how far we’ll go to keep it, how strong oppositions can be, and just how important it is for any kind of civilization. Last but not least, it’s also feminist AF, which is rare in quality action movies, so it’s an all-around great watch, worthy of the 17,000 Oscars it was nominated for (it actually won six and was nominated for 10, including Best Picture).

Director: Christopher McQuarrie

Starring: Tom Cruise, Henry Cavill, Ving Rhames

The Mission: Impossible series is practically synonymous with the phrase "best action movies." The sixth installment of the Tom Cruise-led franchise, Mission: Impossible — Fallout features all of the running, shooting, and jumping out of planes you'd expect, and fully lives up to the greatness of its predecessors. The film follows Ethan Hunt in a race against time as he struggles to retrieve the plutonium core from the reinvented Apostle organization. The summer blockbuster is a rousing rollercoaster ride, jam-packed with intense fight scenes, jaw-dropping explosions, and seamless rooftop jumps. Cruise makes it all look easy, and that's why it's so good.

Director: Anthony Russo, Joe Russo

Starring: Chris Evans, Robert Downey Jr., Scarlett Johansson, Sebastian Stan, Anthony Mackie, Don Cheadle

You can love Captain America because it puts 12 Marvel characters all in one place. You can love it because it’s just not Batman v Superman. Those are all fine reasons, but you should also love it because of its masterful action scenes. It employs its heroes’ superpowers masterfully, celebrating each individual’s abilities and personalities instead of conflating them. The best example is the climactic fight scene at the airport when the superheroes fight each other: the Scarlet Witch directs magic to spice up the smaller fights, Black Panther is the fiercest competitor in hand to hand combat, Ant Man grows huge and throws around an airplane, Captain America is all brawn, Spider-Man is cheeky and throws webs in just the right places at just the right moments, while Iron Man is behind the explosions and witty one liners. There are cars flying from the sky and buildings collapsing all around them and it works because it still sets the heart racing. Commercially, it does what it needs to do: leave you craving for more Marvel.

Director: Chad Stahelski, David Leitch

Starring: Keanu Reeves

John Wick wanted to stop killing people. He married the love of his life, moved into a lovely house, and devoted himself to his car. But then, after his wife dies tragically young, a punk-ass son of a Russian mobster steals John’s car and kills his puppy—the final gift Wick ever got from his spouse. At that point, Keanu hits perhaps the best, oh-somebody-gonna-get-their-ass-kicked face in cinema history before checking into an assassins-only hotel and following through on the promise communicated in his expression. The barebones plot gives just enough emotion to make the unending series of intricately choreographed fight scenes cathartic—as opposed to just purposeless killing, which Wick clearly did often before his mid-life pivot.

Director: Luc Besson

Starring: Jean Reno, Gary Oldman, Natalie Portman, Danny Aiello

Historically speaking, The Professional (also known as Léon: The Professional) has remained in film circle discussions due to its previously unknown, at the time young star, Natalie Portman. Playing the enormously complicated and resilient Mathilda, Portman injected a 12-year-old character with the heart, soul, and toughness of a woman four times her age.

And while we totally cosign the future Academy Award winner's performance, The Professional's biggest hook, at least in our eyes, is writer-director Luc Besson's assured skills at staging livewire gunfights and action set-pieces. Just as much of an art-house picture as it is a popcorn thrill ride, The Professional hits all of its targets head-on.

Director: Gareth Evans

Starring: Iko Uwais, Joe Taslim, Donny Alamsyah, Yahan Ruhian, Pierre Gurno, Tegar Setrya, Ray Sahetapy

In the age of CGI overload, modern-day filmmakers have mostly forgotten about the charms of simply watching guys beat the shit out of each other with their bare hands. Or, in the case of writer-director Gareth Evans' ferocious and breathless The Raid: Redemption, bare hands, feet concealed by boots, and automatic weapons. With the leanest of plots, The Raid incorporates the Indonesian fighting style known as Silat to a punishing degree, showing how SWAT team members and ruthless criminals try to out-Silat one another while trapped inside a beat-down apartment building. The result: Some of the best hand-to-hand choreography you'll ever see.

Director: Robert Houston

Starring: Tomisaburo Wakayama

Aside from being one of the most influential action flicks on this countdown, Shogun Assassin has one particular distinction that sets it apart from the pack: Director Robert Houston's infamously savage film was once included on the United Kingdom's list of “video nasties,” which were movies banned for being too graphic, either sexually or gore wise.

Shogun Assassin, a combination of two episodes from Japan's popular Baby Cart series, is a symphony of decapitations, severed limbs, and blood geysers. And arguably the movie's coolest byproduct, its opening was used by GZA for the beginning of his classic LP Liquid Swords.

Director: Stanley Tong

Starring: Jackie Chan, Michelle Yeoh, Maggie Cheung, Yuen Wah

American audiences got their first dose of Hong Kong native Jackie Chan's lively, comedic take on martial arts in 1995, with the successful but ultimately uneven Rumble In The Bronx. But it wasn't until Supercop hit U.S. theaters in 1996 (four years after its initial Japanese release) that stateside action fans were blessed with the man's true genius.

For purists, Supercop remains Chan's all-around best movie, and it's easy to see why: With high-flying, hilariously timed stunts (all performed by the man himself) and impeccable chemistry with fellow kick-and-punch champ Michelle Yeoh, director Stanley Tong's romp never gets old.

Director: Paul Verheoven

Starring: Arnold Schwarzenegger, Rachel Ticotin, Sharon Stone, Ronny Cox, Michael Ironside

Have you ever had the feeling, after morning sex with Sharon Stone, that your life was a lie? Tell it to Arnold Schwarzenegger, who had to go to Mars and team up with a shrunken parasitic head to get to the bottom of things.