CANNES, France, May 17 -- 'The City of Lost Children,' a dark fairy tale for grown-ups set in a world populated by misfits, opened the 48th Cannes Film Festival Wednesday. The offbeat and captivating French movie is the product of the imagination of ex-admen Jean-Pierre Jeunet and Marc Caro, whose first work together, the 1991 black comedy 'Delicatessen,' already has attained cult status. 'The City of Lost Children' confirms the pair has succeeded in creating their own bizarre style. The movie's gigantic and elaborate set representing a mist-shrouded port city creates an atmosphere that is part Victorian and part 21st century. A man living on an oil rig-type platform offshore is aging prematurely because he has lost the ability to dream. He hires a gang of cyclopes from a religious cult to kidnap children from an orphanage so he can steal their dreams, but when the terrified youngsters are connected to his brain machine, they feed him only nightmares. Daniel Emilfork, a 71-year-old actor with Dickensian features, is perfectly cast as the villain, Krank. He already is considered a contender for the festival's best actor award. Krank is helped in his scheme by a group of clones played by Dominique Pinon, one of the stars of 'Delicatessen,' and a dwarf played by Mireille Mosse. One of the kidnapped children is the young brother of a dim-witted circus strongman and former whale harpooner called One, who sets about freeing his sibling with the aid of street-wise girl from the orphanage, Miette, played by Judith Vittet.

One is played by lantern-jawed American actor Ron Perlman, who has previously starred as a Neanderthal is the French movie 'Quest for Fire' and a monk in 'The Name of the Rose.' TV audiences know him as the beast in the 1980s U.S. series 'Beauty and the Beast.' The directors denied they chose Perlman in an attempt to boost the movie's sales in the United States. 'We looked in France and in Europe for an actor to play One,' Jeunet said. 'We wanted an actor who could play the character we had in mind. We did not look for an American actor just to be more international.' But Perlman, who next will costar with Marlon Brando in a remake of 'The Island of Dr. Moreau,' complained of being frequently typecast. 'Once you begin to be known for certain things in this business, people think of you when similar roles arise,' he told the post- screening news conference. The movie takes One and Miette through a series of adventures until they destroy Krank's domain with the help of a professor who lives in an underwater house in the port. Other weird characters include a former circus owner (Jean-Claude Dreyfuss, who played the cannibal butcher in 'Delicatessen') who uses trained fleas armed with poisonous darts to attack his enemies, and elderly Siamese twins who run the orphanage and teach the children to steal. 'What has influenced us is everything we ever liked from television series, films and comic strips when we were young,' Jeanet said. 'We just regurgitated all that when we made this film, which contains all the things we like. In fact, this is the way things things go forward artistically. Perhaps someone else will try this style and mix it with other things.' Another 23 films in competition will be shown before the festival's awards, including prestigious Palme d'Or, are announced on May 28. The head of the 10-member festival jury, French actress Jeanne Moreau, tried to describe what she is looking for in a winning film. 'A good film speaks to your heart and your intellect, and it can be quite profound,' she told a press conference. 'But it's impossible to define.' Another jury member, Nobel Prize-winning South African novelist Nadine Gordimer, said the Palme d'Or winner should have 'moral values, artistic values, a visual aspect, script quality.' 'It has to have all these things to be satisfying and illuminating for the audience,' she said. Also on the multi-national jury is American director John Waters, Russian filmmaker Maria Zvereva and director Gaston Kabore of Burkina Faso. Thursday's screenings include an African film, 'Waati' (Time), and 'Sharaku,' set in 18th century Japan.