London, United Kingdom, November 08, 2009 --(PR.com)-- Doctors.net.uk, the largest and most active network of medical professionals in the UK, and Emap Limited, publisher of the Health Service Journal and Nursing Times, have formed an agreement that will see significant online collaboration between the two organisations. As a result, the UK public sector and healthcare industry will for the first time be able to talk directly and simultaneously with all key groups of professionals that make decisions about patient care.

The agreement, which will see extensive sharing of content and joint-branded activity, is a major step forward for organisations which have until now had to treat doctors, nurses and healthcare managers as discrete groups and engage with them through separate communications programmes.

Doctors.net.uk has a membership comprising the vast majority of UK doctors. Each week over 50,000 use the service, making it the online professional resource most frequently used by medical professionals. It provides extensive clinical content including online education, conference highlights, user-generated content and discussion fora.

Health Service Journal and hsj.co.uk are regularly read by over 100,000 decision-makers in healthcare and 92 per cent of health managers are readers on a monthly basis. Nursing Times and nursingtimes.net are the leading source of independent information in the nursing sector. With 140,000 nurses registered online, it is the largest nursing community in the UK.

Richard Adams, chief executive of Doctors.net.uk, said: “This agreement is a response to increasing demand from clients who wish to undertake fully integrated communications or market research programmes that encompass all key health decision-makers. We are excited about combining the expertise of Doctors.net.uk with Emap’s ability to reach out to other healthcare professionals.”

“We can now simultaneously engage with doctors, nurses and healthcare managers in vitally important areas such as disease management, care pathways and new treatments. This new capability will be incredibly beneficial for many of our clients who have struggled to engage these audiences in a consistent way.”

Claudia Arney, Group Managing Director of EMAP Inform, said: “This agreement with Doctors.net.uk allows us to deliver a more complete offering to all our clients involved in health care delivery at what is a demanding and difficult time for many organisations. We are developing training, research, data, and communications tools jointly with Doctors.net.uk and these products are designed to support and sustain our public and private sector healthcare clients through this period of significant change.”

###