Henry Jansen posted

After a cloudy afternoon on January 21 this year [2021], a cold front moved in, causing a crystal-clear sky. This happened just before I heard Canadian Pacific's H37 crew over the radio indicating they were at the St. Paul Yard with a pair of SD60s for power. I had the perfect amount of time to move into position for a photo of them crossing the Robert Street Lift Bridge in downtown St. Paul - a shot I had wanted to take for a while.

H37 is known informally as the "Soo Northfield Job," a name from the Soo Line era that obviously stuck around. It originates in the St. Paul Yard and gets on the Union Pacific at the "Robert Street" control point, located just before the bridge starts on the north side of the river. It then crosses the Mighty Mississippi into Union Pacific's South St. Paul Yard, which it runs through on the way to Rosemount. Down there, it makes a set out for Progressive Rail before continuing south to Northfield, where it interchanges with Progressive Rail again. Work stops there for the night, and the next day, the rested crew takes it back to St. Paul. Canadian Pacific technically owns the trackage between Rosemount and Comus (south of Northfield), which Soo Line inherited from the Milwaukee Road's Mendota-to-Austin line. However, it is maintained and dispatched by Union Pacific as part of its Albert Lea Sub.

The aforementioned SD60s were both originally Soo Line units. CP 6231 and CP 6222 were built as SOO 6031 and SOO 6022, respectively. They were delivered in the "hockey stick" livery and wear Soo Line's Candy Apple Red color today, albeit with Canadian Pacific lettering. In the background of the photo is the 1926-built Robert Street Bridge and the Hyatt Place St. Paul/Downtown building. You can see more of the train in the far right of the frame, as well as part of Union Depot.

The Robert Street Lift Bridge has been an iconic feature of downtown St. Paul for over a century. It was built in 1913 by Waddell & Harrington, contracted by the St. Paul Bridge and Terminal Railway (StPB&T) to replace the previous through-truss swing bridge. It is the northernmost vertical lift bridge on the Mississippi River, and one of only a small handful on the entire mid-American shipping artery. The lifting action is facilitated by concrete counterweights in the 105-foot-high main towers. Six-foot risers were installed between the concrete piers and deck girder spans in 1925, leveling the track with the elevated lines serving Union Depot and avoiding washouts. The north approach over Warner Road was redone in 1955. Chicago Great Western (CGW), which leased the StPB&T in 1935, was bought out by the Chicago & North Western Railway in 1968, which itself was acquired by Union Pacific in 1995. The bridge tender house is painted in a dull gray, but once wore traditional CGW depot colors; red with cream trim.

Henry Jansen shared