This route is a 3rd sector commuter line that operates in the Tokyo and Saitama prefectures of Japan.

The line opened in 1915 as the Seibu Musashino Line, which ran between Ikebukuro and Hanno, before being extended to Agano around 1930. The railway line was renamed as the Seibu Ikebukuro Line in 1952.

Aside from the trains operated by Seibu group, trains operated by Tokyo Metro, Tokyu Corporation, and the Yokohama Minatomirai Railway Company also run on this line, gaining access via the Seibu Yurakucho Line, which connects to the Tokyo Metro Yurakucho and Fukutoshin Lines.

Like the majority of railway lines in Japan, the route utilises 3'6" gauge track.

As of the late 2010s, several stations now have a unique departure melody, including sports cheering songs, anime openings and compositions written for use on the railway. Special departure melodies are used at the following stations: Shiinamachi (Kaibutsu-kun Theme), Nerimatakanodai (2 melodies made by elementary school students), Oizumigakuen (Galaxy Express 999 Theme), Tokorozawa (My Neighbour Totoro Theme), Nishitokorozawa & Seibukyujo-mae (Saitama Seibu Lions cheering song "Barking Lions"), and Irumashi (Tea-picking).

This railway line has appeared in several anime including Anohana, Noragami, and Encouragement of Climb. As Seibu group also have a presence outside of Japan (hotels in Taiwan, UK, and USA), meaning that they may be one of the more likely 3rd sector companies to agree to have their trains licenced in TS2021. Additionally, they operate one of the largest 3rd sector railway networks in western Tokyo and Saitama, meaning that additional Seibu routes could be an option for the future.

Overall, this route is 55.5km (34.5 miles) in length and features around 40 stations.

Route Map

Current Seibu Rolling Stock

Seibu 001 Series - Express train introduced in 2019. Designed to be a new and unique vehicle that hasn't been seen before, that blends into both city and natural landscapes. The aim was to make a train that people would come to travel on, as a destination itself rather than just as a means of transport. It won the Kids Design Award and the Good Design Gold Award in 2019, and the Blue Ribbon Award in 2020.

Seibu New 2000 Series / Seibu N2000 Series - A remodelled version of the older Seibu 2000 Series, these first appeared on the Seibu Ikebukuro Line around 2008, and have since completely replaced the older version of the Seibu 2000 Series. One of these trains carried a Koro-Sensei livery from 2015, as part of a collaboration with Assassination Classroom.

Seibu 4000 Series - Primarilly used on the trains between Hanno and Chichibu, these also run to Ikebukuro, providing a direct train that runs from Chichibu into Ikebukuro. A special 4-car sightseeing version of the train, the Seibu Travelling Restaurant 52 Seats Bliss also runs on this line.

Seibu 6000 Series - This type of train can be split into 3 varieties. The first are the prototypes, which are used on all branches of the Seibu Ikebukuro Line, however they cannot run on the Tokyo Metro network due to a lack of the correct ATC equipment. The production models are very similar to the first, however they were modified from the late 2000s, to the early 2010s, for operation on the Tokyo Metro network, carrying the correct ATC equipment and sporting a white cab front instead of the original silver/grey. The final variant has an aluminium body instead of the stainless steel body used by the other 2 variants. These can also operate on the Tokyo Metro network. In order to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Seibu Musashino Line, 6157F was given a yellow livery.

Seibu 20000 Series - A commuter train introduced to both the Seibu Shinjuku and Seibu Ikebukuro lines in 2000. These trains cannot be operated on the Seibu Yurakucho Line or on the Tokyo Metro network, due to a lack of gangway doors, so are only operated on the Seibu network. Aside from the silver and blue colour scheme most of these trains carry, 2 were given special liveries. One with a Galaxy Express 999 Livery, the other with a Saitama Seibu Lions Livery.

Seibu 30000 Series - A commuter train introduced to both the Seibu Shinjuku and Seibu Ikebukuro lines in 2008. Like the earlier 20000 Series, these cannot be operated on the Seibu Yurakucho Line or on the Tokyo Metro network, due to a lack of gangway doors. These also come in a wide variety of liveries.

Seibu 40000 Series - Introduced in 2017, these are used on S-Train services between Chichibu and Nerima on the Seibu Ikebukuro line. These trains then continue to Toyosu, Shibuya, and Motomachi-Chukagai via the Tokyo Metro Yurakucho and Fukutoshin lines. 2 variants of this train exist, one with both lond and cross seats, and one with only long seats. A blue or orange sticker on the front emergency exit states which seating arrangement is being used. These trains recieved the Good Design Award in 2017.

Heritage Seibu Rolling Stock

Seibu 2000 Series - An older variant of the New 2000 Series mentioned earlier, there are several differences with the body work and interior, such as windows, flooring, and seat colours. Additionally, the destination displays used were only capable of using orange light instead of using the full colour display on the newer models. Despite being heritage rolling stock according to Wikipedia, it also mentioned that they were still being utilised on the Seibu Ikebukuro Line as of 2020, when additional trains are needed.

Seibu 3000 Series - These trains operated on the Seibu Railway between 1983 and 2014, these trains had a similar appearance to the older 101 and 301 series trains that operated on the Seibu railways. Like the Seibu 9000 Series, and Seibu 20000 Series, there were trains operating with Galaxy Express 999 and Saitama Seibu Lions Liveries.

Seibu 9000 Series - These trains used the running gear of Seibu's Old 101 Series trains, but had a body that was virtually identical to the Seibu New 2000 Series. Like the Seibu 20000 Series, these trains have been run in special liveries during their lifetime, although unlike most trains which were returned to their original colours once the collaborations ended, these were only stripped of their branding, with the trains keeping the base colour used on the special livery.

Seibu 10000 Series - Operating on the Seibu Ikebukuro Line between 1993 and 2020, these trains were used on a variety of express services between Ikebukuro and Chichibu, and to Seibu dome at Seibukyujo-mae. These have since been replaced by the Seibu 001 Series trains, with some vehicles being transferred to the Toyama Chiho Railway. The last of these operating on the Seibu routes is to be retired on 29/04/2021.

Throughout the 2010s, these trains ran in wide variety of liveries, some to mark special occasions for the railway, others as part of events being ran at Seibu Dome. These included a classic Red Arrow colour scheme, which is reminiscent of the old Seibu 5000 Series trains which were retired in 1995 and the Platinum Express, which was decorated with pictures of landmarks around Chichibu or the Kawagoe Festival floats. Collaborations as part of events being held at Seibu Dome had trains sporting characters from Love Live! Sunshine!! and The Idolm@ster Cinderella Girls. There were also special liveries to commemorate the Seibu Chichibu line's 50th anniversary, and the retirement of the Seibu 10000 Series trains.

Tokyo Metro Rolling Stock

Tokyo Metro 7000 Series - Beginning operation on the Tokyo Metro in 1974, these trains primarilly operate on the Tokyo Metro Yurakucho and Fukutoshin lines, also running through onto the Seibu Yurakucho Line, Seibu Ikebukuro Line, Seibu Sayama Line, Tobu Tojo Line, Tokyu Toyoko Line, and the Minatomirai Line. These are currently being replaced by the newer 17000 Series trains, and are due to be completely phased out by 2022.

Tokyo Metro 10000 Series - Introduced in 2006, these were the first new type of rolling stock introduced to the line after the Tokyo Metro network was transferred to Tokyo Metro Co. from the TRTA. Compared to the older 7000 Series trains, these have a sleeker, more modern asthetic, and can achieve a slightly higher top speed.

Tokyo Metro 17000 Series - The replacement for the Tokyo Metro 7000 Series, the first of these trains was introduced to the Tokyo Metro in January 2020, beginning commercial operations in February 2021, and through services onto the Seibu Ikebukuro Line in March 2021.

Tokyu Corporation Rolling Stock

Tokyu 5000 Series / Tokyu 5050 Series / Tokyu 5050-4000 Series - The workhorse of the Tokyu Corporation's railway lines, these operate through services to Hanno via the Tokyo Metro Fukutoshin Line. These trains were designed to be as environmentally friendly and people friendly as was possible, featuring a lower floor and hanging straps, to make it friendlier to elderly and disabled passengers. They were also quieter and required less power than the Tokyu 8500 Series trains that preceded them. The Tokyu 5000 Series was introduced on the Tokyu Denentoshi Line in May 2002, and the Tokyu 5050 Series to the Tokyu Toyoko Line in 2004. The Tokyu 5050-4000 Series designation is used for 10 car sets of the Tokyu 5050 Series to differentiate them from the basic 8 car sets.

Special liveries for these trains include a frog green version that was used on the 90th anniversary of the Tokyu Toyoko Line, and the Shibuya Hikarie.

Yokohama Minatomirai Railway Rolling Stock

Yokohama Minatomirai Railway Y500 Series - Beginning operation in 2004, these were based on the Tokyu Corporation's 5000 Series trains, but featured a few minor differences, such as interior door rails and the interior conductor switch. They also LCD monitors above the doors instead of the LED displays on the Tokyu 5000 Series. This allows some to be used for detailed passenger information, while the others are used to play advertisments throughout the journey.

That sums up every piece of rolling stock that operated on the route on a regular basis within the past 10 years.

Thanks for reading through this if you made it this far, feel free to give your opinions on this route proposal below.

Finally, if anyone could tell me how to add polls to threads, or could guide me to the correct place to find that information, I would very much appreciate the assistance.

Edit---

If this route ever gets made, and there are no issues with Tokyo Metro Co. I would argue that adding the Tokyo Metro Fukutoshin Line between Ikebukuro and Shibuya would be the best way to expand on this, as trains from all listed companies can operate on the route, with no need to worry about changing the direction of travel like there would be if expanded towards Chichibu. As this would be entirely underground, only a minimal amount of modelling would be required.

In my opinion, you could get good value out of a deal with Seibu group. Other routes, like Hanno - Chichibu, and the Seibu Shinjuku Line, could be made using mostly the same rolling stock and assets.