PRM Events 2019/20

PRM Consultation & Events

As part of our commitment to consult with local disability groups, we hold a variety of events throughout the year. Below is a list of activities we’ve conducted recently.

PRM Forum

Unfortunately, our rescheduled PRM Forum on 16th March 2020 has had to be cancelled at very short notice due to current world events. This has led to many people attending having to cancel due to work restrictions or for other personal reasons. We will reschedule later in the year when travel restrictions etc. have been relaxed. In the meantime, if anyone wishes any further info on the PRM service or requires help or advice please contact our service provider at GLA.PRMLeadership@OCS.co.uk

Healthy Working Week

On the week commencing 3rd of Feb we held our annual Glasgow Airport Health week and also invited the Stroke Association and Alzheimer Scotland to take part and provide information and support advice to both staff and members of the public. Following this we have made arrangements to meet again with the Stroke Association to update our staff awareness and training material.

Dementia Friends Workshops

On the 29th January we had the next of our planned series of Dementia Friends awareness sessions for all of our front line staff where we had around 70 more of our staff present and feedback has been great from our staff.

PRM Forum

Our planned PRM forum on the 17th January unfortunately had to be cancelled due to unforeseen circumstances. Another date will be arranged in the near future as soon as possible if you wish to attend please contact us at GLA.PRMLeadership@OCS.co.uk

Ian Hamilton (BBC Scotland)

We met with Ian from the BBC to try to raise awareness of the PRM services available at GLA and the improvements that have been made, in particular the implementation of fully trackable IT system (Avtech Connect) and the improvements to performance made and the benefits of pre-booking correctly with your airline to ensure a smoother and quicker passenger experience.

RAP

We met again with Renfrewshire Access Panel on the 6 December and are aiming to provide some formal training for our Glasgow Airport Taxi drivers and Forecourt Ambassadors. We hope to roll this out in early 2020.

Alzheimer Scotland

On the 4th and 5th of December we held the first in a series of planned sessions with Alzheimer Scotland who are delivering Dementia Friends awareness and training sessions to our front line staff. The aim is to have Dementia Friends across every front line department.

Prevalis

We engaged with Prevalis on the 8th November as we are currently trialling a newer PRM transfer hoist which is currently under development and being rolled out for use. Feedback from the users has been very positive and the equipment seems suitable for a large range of aircraft types and sizes.

RAP

We met with Renfrewshire Access Panel on the 4th and 31st October to start preparation for our next PRM Forum. We were also engaging on design advice for new accessible toilets which are being constructed for our airside departures area.

OCS National awards

On the 2nd October, Jim Lobban, OCS Glasgow Airport skill trainer received the Fresh thinking Award in recognition for the work he does in connection with hidden disabilities at Glasgow Airport and in particular for the efforts in facilitating pre visits for passengers with autism. This is also recognised locally and Jim highly deserved the recognition nationally for the care and compassion and selfless drive in his efforts to improve the ability for others to travel.

Newcastle Airport Visit

On 18th of September we facilitated a visit with Newcastle International Airport to share best practice on the service provided to our passengers who use the Special Assistance service. Following this visit, Newcastle have kindly offered to reciprocate the visit and we will hopefully arrange this in the new year.

Parkinson’s Support Group

On Monday the 16th September we visited the Glasgow South Parkinson’s support group after receiving an invite from the group chair. We were invited to present on the service that was available to all at the airport and many were unaware of the hidden disability assistance available or that it could be individually tailored to the user. Feedback was very positive and we are also planning on updating our internal training following this and the work with Alzheimer Scotland when completed.

Aberdeen Visit

On the 16th August we visited Aberdeen to assess some assistance equipment to help in boarding process for Loganair. Having assessed to proposed equipment work is ongoing with the airline to introduce as soon as practical when they arrive.

PRM Open Forum

On the 30th of July we had our PRM open forum chaired by Renfrewshire Access Panel (RAP). The event was held in the airport Holiday Inn and attended by a wide range of local user groups and individuals, including Alzheimer Scotland, Ramble Tag and representative from Renfrewshire Council (Inequalities) who all gave a presentation on their work. We gave updates on the year to date performance and other ongoing work and improvements to the service. Some actions taken included arranging further Dementia training and to investigate “mystery shopper” type audit by a user group.

Glasgow City Council Autism Awareness

On the 25th of July we attended the first of two full day Autism Awareness training session run by Glasgow City Council. We sent representatives and trainers from every front line facing department over the course of two days including our PRM assistance provider, Security Team, Safety and First Aid Team, Airport Ambassadors, Taxi and Onward Travel Service and Customer Services management team who are now all recognised as being Autism champions within their respective area of the business.

EasyJet Customer Contact Centre visit

On the 26th June we facilitated a visit with EasyJet customer contact centre who wanted to gain a better understanding of the PRM booking process and assistance that is provided at airports in the UK. The aim was to help better equip them when dealing with a customer call by having a greater awareness from and operational point of view. This was beneficial on both sides and both gained a greater understanding of each other’s roles and needs.

Renfrewshire Access Panel

On the 10th May 2019 we met to again prep for our planned open forum and arrange invites etc. We also met to discuss and facilitate planned training for drivers of the Glasgow Airport taxis on correct assistance and carriage of PRM passengers.

Heathrow PRM Workshop

On the 2-3 May 2019 we attended a UK and Europe wide PRM event where the proposed changes to EC1107/2006 were discussed along with the current IATA guides and codes for passengers and the need for more meaningful information for PRM providers and challenges on the aviation industry to improve pre-notification and assistance provided to passengers. Others issues raised included training and ease of booking process as well as the need to improve the service for all.

AOA Joint industry PRM meeting

On the 23 April we attended the AOA PRM meeting and discussions took place around proposed UK passenger charter and specifically around the needs of PRM passengers. This is running in parallel to a similar CAA workstream and we took actions to ensure that the current Glasgow Airport Charter is still aligned with both.

Renfrewshire Access Panel

On the 5th April 2019 we again met with RAP to discuss the agenda and delegates for the Airport PRM forum to be held on the 30th July.

Renfrewshire Access Panel

On the 15th March 2019 we met with Renfrewshire Access Panel to discuss outcomes and actions from the event on the 12th March and to plan the next Airport PRM forum in July 2019. We have also asked to set up a joint meeting with some other user groups and in the first instance have asked to meet with MS society and to meet with one of our local groups with hearing loss.

Disability Equality Scotland

On the 12th March 2019 we took part and presented on some of the recent work we have been doing with various disability groups and shared our current performance and feedback etc. with the users groups. Following this in the afternoon we facilitated group discussions with some local disability groups and have agreed to meet individually with some of the groups to share information on the services we offer.

Transport Scotland

On the 7th March we took part in the Transport Scotland accessible transport conference, a follow up from the event in Edinburgh in 2018. Transport Scotland has a 10 year plan to imbed their accessible travel framework across all modes of transport and we are working with them to help deliver this plan. Information was shared by a European Commission shared information that consultation is underway to review and update EC1107/2006 and publication expected by third quarter 2019.

Disability Equality Scotland

On the 25th of January 2019 we also met with D.E.S. who wanted our help and engagement to run a Renfrewshire accessible transport event which would bring together transport users and ourselves along with other transport providers e.g. buses and taxis. We shared our local contacts and assisted with suggesting local disability groups and agreed to take part in the event in March.

Transport Providers Accessibility Forum

On the 25th January 2019 we met again with other transport providers to progress and update actions from the larger accessible transport framework whose aim is to make transport more seamless for passengers with reduced mobility. Discussions included review of training for all staff and how we engage with user groups. Some good practice shared and following talks with First bus we aim to run a similar event which will allow staff to gain a better insight on the difficulties faced by some service user groups.

For previous consultations click below:

PRM Consultation 2018 (PDF)