Dentsply Sirona named Emily P. Miner as its senior vice president of quality and regulatory, joining the company’s management team.

Dentsply Sirona announced that Emily P. Miner has been appointed as senior vice president, quality and regulatory. In this role, she becomes a member of the management team reporting to the chief executive officer.

Miner joins Dentsply Sirona as a proven strategic leader with more than 15 years of quality and regulatory experience in the medical device and pharmaceutical industries.

“Emily is a seasoned executive who has acquired significant quality and regulatory experience during her career in major medical device companies,” said Simon Campion, CEO of Dentsply Sirona. “The most critical interface that our customers and their patients have with our company is through the quality of our products, our hardware and our software. Emily’s appointment to the management team at Dentsply Sirona is a reflection of our continued commitment to the quality of the products and services we provide to the global dental community.”

With more than 15 years of experience, Miner’s expertise spans all elements of quality and regulatory management, including consent decree remediation, general quality system remediations, extensive global regulatory inspection preparation and management, stage gate development projects, strategic program management, and global quality operations.

She had served as senior vice president, global quality and regulatory, at Terumo Cardiovascular since 2018. Prior to Terumo, Miner was with PwC PRTM Management Consultants, Hospira, and Boston Scientific. She holds a Bachelor of Science in Bioengineering from the University of Pittsburgh and a Master of Engineering Management from Duke University.

“I am honored and excited to join the world’s largest dental company where quality and innovation are core values,” said Miner. “I am looking forward to working with the team to advance our quality and regulatory initiatives and ensuring that our products and solutions meet the highest standards for our customers globally.”

Photo courtesy of Dentsply Sirona