Tempe, Ariz. – July 26, 2012 – StandardAero has named Chris Schechter Vice President & General Manager of Associated Air Center (AAC), the company’s Large Transport Category, VIP Aircraft Completions Center in Dallas, Texas. The announcement follows Schechter’s nearly three month tenure as interim Vice President & General Manager, a position he assumed this past May.

“We are excited to make this announcement,” said Jack Lawless, President, Associated Air Center and Chief Operating Officer, StandardAero. “Chris brings a wealth of experience and tremendous leadership depth and breadth to AAC. Just as he applied his influence and continuous improvement leadership efforts toward our operational turn-around, I fully anticipate he will continue to raise the bar on both our performance and our front-end business development and sales pipeline. With tremendous success in his previous role as Vice President, Operational Excellence for all of StandardAero, Chris brings deep insights on the best practices from all of our sectors along with his extensive knowledge of AAC’s customers, services, business processes, people and marketplace.”

Schechter has more than 15 years of experience in program management, product development, operations management and global Lean 6-Sigma deployments. He previously worked at Ford Motor Company, PRTM Management Consulting and Axcelis Technologies.

Schechter holds both bachelors and masters degrees in Mechanical Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and an MBA from the MIT Sloan School of Management. He joined StandardAero in 2007.

Schechter was part of last month’s opening of AAC’s new, state-of-the-art VIP Design Center which serves as the launching point for AAC customers to explore and design their custom aircraft interiors on-site. The new Design Center complements a series of recent AAC on-site, customer service enhancements, including an actual 20 foot, fully functioning Boeing aircraft mockup fuselage.

StandardAero’s Associated Air Center provides superior program management and ODA certification authority to keep airplane programs on schedule and provides the most experience and outstanding warranty support after delivery. The company’s vertically-integrated, state-of-the-art facility employs the most advanced engineering in the industry along with operational excellence and superior customer service from start to finish.

StandardAero is one of the world’s largest independent providers of services including engine and airframe maintenance, repair and overhaul, engine component repair, engineering services, interior completions and paint applications. StandardAero serves a diverse array of customers in business and general aviation, airline, military, helicopter, components, energy and VIP completions markets. A Dubai Aerospace Enterprise (DAE) company, StandardAero provides a global service network of 13 primary facilities in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Singapore and Australia, along with an additional 50 sales and field service locations. The company celebrated its 100th year of industry leadership in 2011.