COLLEGE STATION, Texas (KBTX) - Multiple sources tell KBTX’s Rusty Surette that the much-anticipated George Strait concert happening this summer at Texas A&M’s Kyle Field is now set for Saturday, June 15.

The date has been confirmed by three separate sources.

Information on ticket sales, opening act, and more have not been shared at this time but an announcement is expected at 9 a.m. Tuesday.

Donors to the 12th Man Foundation have been told that they will be invited to a donor presale event from 10 a.m. Tuesday, March 19 to Thursday, March 21.

On Monday afternoon, a tease for a Texas show was shared on George Strait’s X account, only further confirming that the 71-year-old will soon entertain fans in College Station.

Parker McCollum also shared on his Instagram account: “College Station, I told y’all it would all make sense. Tomorrow at 9 a.m.” McCollum had previously been scheduled to perform in College Station in August, but earlier this year canceled it, citing “unforeseen circumstances” but promised it would make sense in the future.

Singer Catie Offerman also dropped hints on her social media platforms Monday that she would also be part of the lineup.

Texas A&M had previously confirmed efforts were underway to make the concert a reality and last week, the 12th Man Foundation’s website displayed a banner featuring George Strait on its summer schedule of upcoming events, however, the banner was scrubbed after we pointed it out on social media.

Rumors of this show have been swirling since late last year and the event, which will happen in one of the largest venues the “King of Country” will have ever performed in, is taking place exactly one week after Kyle Field will host an epic Mexico vs. Brazil soccer match on June 8.

Tickets for the game at Kyle Field go on sale through www.SomosLocales.com on April 5 at 10 a.m. Fans are encouraged to pre-register on the website for future ticket information and the opportunity to have first access to ticket inventory for all venues.

Summer is typically a slower, more quiet time in Aggieland but this June is shaping up to be one of the most exciting and historic months we’ve ever seen in a very long time.