Travellers can book online trains in Laos and receive the electronic tickets by email, ready for boarding.

We support advance ticket booking for 5 stations in Laos, including Vientiane, Vang Vieng, Luang Prabang, Muang Xay and Luang Namtha.

We also support ticket booking for international train routes connecting Laos with China and Thailand.

Train companies in Laos

The railway network in Laos is managed by Laos-China Railway (LCR), a joint venture company participated by Laos and China governments. In the present, trains transiting the Laos railway network are pulled by electric locomotives circulating at a speed of 120-160 km/h.

Laos-China Railway

Laos-China Railway (LCR) operates two types of train services:

- High-speed trains

- Ordinary trains

High-speed trains

The high-speed railway service is operated with CR200J trainsets running at a maximum speed of 160 km/h.

High-speed trains are designated by a letter identifying the class of service followed by two numerals:

- C8x is the daily service stopping at all the stations.

- C9x is the daily service stopping at the major stations.

The high-speed trains offer two seat passenger classes:

- First class Seat

- Second class Seat

First class Seat

Second class Seat

Ordinary trains

The ordinary railway service is operated with HXD3CA locomotives running at a maximum speed of 120 km/h.

Ordinary trains are designated by a letter identifying the class of service followed by two numerals:

- K1x is the daily service stopping at all the stations.

The ordinary trains offer one seat passenger class:

- Hard Seat

Hard Seat

Getting around Laos by train

Laos has 422 km of standard gauge electrified railway tracks.

The terminus stations are Vientiane and Boten. The intermediate stations are Vang Vieng, Luang Prabang, Muang Xay and Luang Namtha.

The railway network comprises a single line that traverses Laos and links the Kunming–Yuxi–Mohan railway in China through Boten–Mohan in the north with the SRT Northeastern Line in Thailand through Vientiane–Nong Khai in the south. This railway is part of the future Kunming–Singapore railway corridor that will connect China, Laos, Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore.

Vientiane–Boten railway

Vientiane–Boten railway

The Vientiane–Boten railway is the main railway line that links the capital of Laos with the border of China.

Trains depart from Vientiane Railway Station bound to Boten Railway Station.

The major cities served by the line include Vang Vieng, Luang Prabang, Muang Xay and Luang Namtha.

This line consists of several passenger services: C8x is the high-speed service stopping at all the stations, whereas C9x is the high-speed service stopping at the major stations; K1x is the ordinary service stopping at all the stations.

International trains from Laos

Laos has a direct international railway connection with China through the Boten–Mohan border checkpoint in Luang Namtha Province. Laos also has an international railway connection with Thailand through Khamsavath railway station in Vientiane.

China

Laos is connected with direct international trains to Xishuangbanna and Kunming in China.

Thailand

Laos is connected with direct international trains to Nong Khai, Udon Thani, Khon Kaen, Ayutthaya and Bangkok in Thailand.

How to book train tickets in Laos

Booking your train tickets in Laos is very quick and simple. Search for train routes between any two cities for your travel dates.

Select your route

After search, we will display the results for your itinerary.

Find the train services operated by Laos-China Railway (LCR) available for your itinerary and select the most convenient option.

Reservation of train tickets in Laos is available 3 days in advance, as ticket sale opens 3 days before departure. Reservation of international train tickets from Laos to China is available 14 days in advance.

Click to expand the details of the route, you will find the available fares.

- First class Seat, available in high-speed trains.

- Second class Seat, available in high-speed trains.

- Standard Seat, available in ordinary trains.

Fill in the passenger and contact details

Next, provide the passenger(s) information.

Baolau currently does not support seat selection on trains in Laos but you can indicate your preference during the reservation process and we will consider your request depending on the availability.

Don't forget to provide the contact details of the person responsible for booking. We will send the ticket confirmation by email.

Complete your payment

Select your payment method. We accept international credit or debit cards.

Check your itinerary and price breakdown. Confirm that the booking information is correct. Before you proceed to payment, you must read and accept the terms and conditions of booking.

Receive your electronic ticket by email

Once your payment is complete, your reservation will be processed.

In the following 24 hours you will receive the itinerary and booking confirmation by email with the electronic ticket attached in PDF format.

You can also access to Manage your booking via web and download the electronic ticket to your device.

How to use the train e-ticket?

The electronic ticket is a valid boarding pass and can be used to board the train or pick up the physical ticket at the station of departure.