Second most installed app in workflow category in its first month on Google Apps marketplace; KiSSFLOW unveils Google Drive integration for document management workflows

MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. – September 25, 2012 – KiSSFLOW is the first workflow creation app specifically built for Google Apps™. It offers customers a simple and efficient way to automate workflows around their existing email user base. Last month, OrangeScape announced it has added KiSSFLOW to the Google Apps Marketplace™, Google’s online storefront for Google Apps products and services. Within the first month of marketplace launch, KiSSFLOW has emerged as the second most installed app in the workflow category.

“Workflow automation is a common need for companies with 100+ users. Google Apps marketplace serves that need by listing popular workflow products for 3 years now. We are excited to see KiSSFLOW leap to the top of that list in the first month itself. We are thankful for the support from our users. This traction proves the need for such exclusive workflow product for Google Apps.” said Mani Doraisamy, Co-Founder and Chief Technology Officer of OrangeScape. “As a Google Apps specific product, we will create the best possible Google experience in KiSSFLOW. We want customers to realize workflow automation benefits from day one, without spending time and money on Google Apps integration.”

KiSSFLOW is free for 10 users and 10 workflow processes. The Standard edition is $3 per user monthly and $18 per workflow creator monthly. Full pricing and availability details can be found online. A free trial is available on the home page.Google Drive integration

Document management is one of the common use cases of workflow. Companies use workflows to route documents from one person to another for document review, approvals, and sign-offs. With today’s product release, KiSSFLOW has enhanced document management capability with Google Drive integration. Users can now upload documents directly in KiSSFLOW, instead of uploading it in Google Drive and then attaching it to workflow requests. Additional details of this release are online.

About OrangeScape

OrangeScape is a leading Platform as a Service (PaaS) company. Its PaaS solution enables the creation of cloud-based, SaaS or on-premise business applications. OrangeScape also offers KiSSFLOW, the first workflow creation app specifically for Google Apps™. With KiSSFLOW, businesses can easily create HR and business approval workflow processes in a few simple steps. OrangeScape has secured $1M in an angel bridge round of venture funding. The lead investor is former CEO of Yahoo® India, Sharad Sharma. Other investors include Pramod Bhasin (former chairman, NASSCOM® and CEO of Genpact®); Linda Bernardi (CEO StraTerra Partners); Venkat Raju; and Raman Roy (CEO of Quattro Global Services). The company maintains offices in Mountain View, Calif. and Chennai, India. More information about OrangeScape and KiSSFLOW is available at http://www.orangescape.com and http://kissflow.com.

Note: Whether noted or not, references to certain words may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.