Martin's Hospital, at the age of

52, from pneumonia, arising from

an attack of influenza.

Buildings designed by Mr. Powell in

clude St. Martin's Hospital, the Masonic

Temple, in Ann Street, the Equitable

Life Building, Exton House, Griffiths

House, and several churches outside

Brisbane, including Holy Trinity

Church, Mackay.

A son of the late Rev. William Powell,

he was born in Rockhampton and edu

cated in Brisbane. He was articled as

an architect to the late Mr. G. H. M

Addison, and afterwards studied in

London, where several of his architect

tural drawings were accepted by the

Royal Academy.

On his return to Brisbane Mr. Powell

became a partner in the firm of Cham

bers and Powell before opening his own

office.

He was president of the Queensland

Institute of Architects several times,

and with Sir Charles Rosenthal drafted

the constitution of the Australian Insti

tute of Architects, following Sir

Charles as its second president. He

was a fellow of the Royal Institute of

British Architects and also of the Aus

tralian Institute, and for a period was

Masonic Grand Architect.

He married Miss Maud Moore,

voungest daughter of Mrs. Moore, of

Moore Park, Murtoa, Victoria, and is

survived by his widow and a son and

two daughters — Dr. Keith Powell and

Misses Joan and Betty Powell.

ARCHBISHOP WAND'S

TRIBUTE

Special reference was made by Arch

bishop Wand, in St. John's Cathedral,

yesterday morning, to the late Mr.

Lange Powell, who, he said, had done

much to beautify the cathedral and

had designed much of the recent work

in its various chapels.

'Mr. Powell was a genuine artist

whose love of beauty was his master

passion.' said his Grace. 'He delighted

to use his gift for religious purposes.

The great Masonic Temple in Brisbane

will long remain to keep his memory

green in the minds of those who ad

mired his art.'

A beautiful specimen of Mr. Powell's

ecclesiastical architecture was to be

seen in the fine Anglican Church at

Mackay, stated his Grace. Just before

hig death he designed a small wooden

church for Caloundra, and also was

engaged upon very beautiful additions

to the church at Warwick. He had

beautified the chapel at Bishopsbourne

by the erection of a triptych over the

altar of Renaissance design, and at the

time of his death was engaged in de

sgininga Gothic triptych for the chapel

of Our Lady and the Holy Innocents in

the cathedral.