A notable enthusiasm for bold experiences in food and life characterizes Seed Kitchen & Bar’s Executive Chef & Owner, Doug Turbush.

Chef Doug’s desire to learn every aspect of the restaurant business led him to a Bachelor’s degree in Hospitality and Tourism Management from the University of Wisconsin in Stout, and later to the prestigious Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, New York, graduating with honors from both universities. He completed his internship at the American Club in Kohler, Wisconsin, and also spent two months completing an Intensive Spanish Immersion Course in Monterrey, Mexico.

Upon graduating from the CIA, a move to Minneapolis opened the doors to a position at Goodfellows, a restaurant by celebrity chef Stephen Pyles, where he got his first taste of Latin and Asian inspired American cooking. Next was a move to Bangkok, Thailand, where he cooked both professionally and recreationally for more than a year. Chef Doug describes the experience as a great personal learning era, as he was surrounded by new flavors and cooking techniques with thousands of years of history.

Chef Doug joined the Buckhead Life Restaurant Group in 1999 as chef de tournant at Nava under Chef Kevin Rathbun and for the opening of Bluepointe. He was promoted to Executive Chef at Nava in 2001, where he energized the kitchen with his passion for Latin and South American cuisine. In 2005, he accepted the position of Executive Chef at Bluepointe where he further developed his disciplined style, passion for bold flavors, fresh local ingredients and beautiful presentations – all trademarks of his cooking at Seed Kitchen & Bar today.

In his latest venture, he takes on modern American cuisine in a neighborhood setting. Chef Doug explains, “Seed is a place where families and friends will meet to enjoy modern comfort food, unpretentious service, a sleek setting and excellent value. Sourcing locally has been core to my approach to food since I began cooking. I want to create a fun neighborhood restaurant with a reasonably priced menu, interesting cocktails, and great wine and beer programs." Making the most of locally available produce and natural ingredients, he devotes a great deal of attention to sourcing the finest ingredients possible and an ever-changing seasonal menu.

Chef Doug resides in Marietta and enjoys spending time with his wife, Pranee, originally from Bangkok, Thailand, and son, Jack, born in June 2002. In his leisure time, he enjoys music, dining out and traveling.