Ebb Tide

Season 2, Episode 1 TV-MA CC HD CC SD

In the Season Two premiere, Det. Jimmy McNulty--exiled to police-boat duty--finds the body of a woman floating in the Baltimore harbor. Bodie drives to Philly to make a connection for the Barksdale crew and Stringer Bell takes the train to New York to feel out the crew's reticent suppliers.

Collateral Damage

Season 2, Episode 2 TV-MA CC HD CC SD

Major Valchek gets back at Sobotka for the church gift fiasco and a feud begins, and Valchek ups the ante by asking Deputy Commissioner Burrell for a detail to go after Sobotka. Avon Barksdale continues to run his empire from a prison cell--counseling his nephew D'Angelo and going after a guard who is harassing the organization's convicted hit-man, Wee-Bey. On the waterfront, port police officer Beatrice Russell gets stuck investigating the contraband found in The Greek's container. McNulty lends a hand with the investigation, albeit for vindictive reasons. Ultimately, Detectives Bunk Moreland and Lester Freamon are assigned to help Russell investigate the deaths.

Hot Shots

Season 2, Episode 3 TV-MA CC HD CC SD

Bunk and Freamon chase their crime scene, a container ship, to Philly, where none of the crew finds it useful to speak English. Lt. Cedric Daniels--disgusted with his exile to the evidence control unit--lets it be known he's going to leave the department. On orders from Barksdale, Bell finds a way to set up the correctional officer, Tilghman, who's been harassing Wee-Bey. McNulty pursues the identity of the Jane Doe found floating in the harbor. A pair of young longshoremen--Frank Sobotka's son Ziggy and his nephew Nick--heist a container of digital cameras and sell them to men working for The Greek. After an ominous visit from his uncle, Avon Barksdale, D'Angelo agrees to stop getting high in prison, a wise move in more ways than one.

Hard Cases

Season 2, Episode 4 TV-MA CC HD CC SD

Sobotka reprimands his nephew Nick for stealing the cameras and orders him to bring the cargo back--too late. McNulty is on a self-assigned moral mission to identify his floater, but his old partner, Bunk, says they have a more pressing matter at hand: to find Omar to testify against a Barksdale trigger man in one of last year's murders. To placate Valcheck, Burrell asks Daniels to lead the detail investigating Sobotka, and Daniels agrees. McNulty--on his second moral mission of the season--begins courting his estranged wife, promising a new day and a new Jimmy McNulty. Still holding onto a shred of hope, McNulty signs a separation agreement.

Undertow

Season 2, Episode 5 TV-MA CC HD CC SD

Ziggy loses his prized Camaro to drug dealers who aren't buying his alibis about not paying up. Unable to dump the homicide investigation on other police agencies, Col. Rawls measures Bunk for the blame, if the cases go unsolved. Weak product in the pit has Bodie getting heat from fiends and slingers alike. Homicide detectives hand out grand jury summonses to stevedores involved in the homicide case, and port police officer Beadie Russell works the lingering affections of an old boyfriend--also a stevedore--to find out how cargo disappears from the docks. Inside the detail, there is clamoring to have the ongoing homicide investigation folded into the investigation of Frank Sobotka and his band of union brothers.

All Prologue

Season 2, Episode 6 TV-MA CC HD CC SD

Trying to let go of police work and return to his marriage, McNulty gives up on identifying his Jane Doe. In their investigation of Sobotka, the detectives discover a pattern in the computer and explain the connection to Daniels, but he still won't take the murders. Sobotka tries to play the political game on behalf of his union. Nick gets the chemicals that Vondas asked for and, as payment, accepts money and drugs--packaged for sale. D'Angelo wants to live life outside of Barksdale's umbrella, forcing Bell to bring in outside help for the problem.

Backwash

Season 2, Episode 7 TV-MA CC HD CC SD

Sobotka gives his lobbyist grief over the status of port legislation. Russell tells Sobotka the investigation is over, but a port computer is cloned, and when a container goes missing, the detectives follow. Simultaneously, Greggs and Prez tap into a circuit of Russian prostitutes. With two sets of evidence, the detail goes to Pearlman. Neither crime merits wiretap--but a drug connect could give the case legs. Rawls can't persuade Daniels to take the murders, but new evidence does. In the discordant Barksdale Empire, Bell tries to hold it together in the wake of a recent tragedy.

Duck and Cover

Season 2, Episode 8 TV-MA CC HD CC SD

McNulty is back to his old self, on a drunken binge of legendary proportions. Urged by fellow stevedores to fight Maui, Ziggy is again humiliated, but has a moment later at the bar. Worried about McNulty, Bunk tries to get Daniels, and Rawls, to take him on. After some labor, the wiretap is up--just in time to catch another disappearing can. A suspicious Sobotka meets with The Greek and Vondas, and they decide to change up. Herc and Carver register their imaginary C.I. And with the package still weak, business dries up for Bodie and Poot.

Stray Rounds

Season 2, Episode 9 TV-MA CC HD CC SD

Bodie's effort to improve sales ends disastrously, forcing Bell to rethink his strategy. Ziggy, duck in tow, pulls Johnny Fifty into a new caper that should have the Greeks paying off big. McNulty, undercover and outnumbered in the brothel, awaits 'rescue' by the detail. Daniels and Pearlman keep their composure as Valcheck fumes over the change of targets--and Burrell pulls the rug out beneath him. Meanwhile, the Greeks, feeling confident, get back to business.

Storm Warnings

Season 2, Episode 10 TV-MA CC HD CC SD

The Detail uses satellite technology to its advantage. Bodie is unhappy that Proposition Joe's people are slinging on his turf, but business flows--until a new face from New York arrives. Stringer Bell looks to an unlikely solution to the problem. A frustrated Valcheck visits the FBI in an attempt to get real results on the docks. Ziggy's deal with Double-G goes bad in a big way. Nick lies to Aimee, Greggs considers the idea of motherhood, and Prez makes a major blunder. The Detail prepares for an action that they hope will give them the man on top.

Bad Dreams

Season 2, Episode 11 TV-MA CC HD CC SD

With the clock ticking, the Detail makes a desperate move, and Daniels reams out Landsman for dropping the ball. Nick's deceit is in the open as Sobotka is overwhelmed by bad news. The Greeks confidently ease out of a brief encounter with the Detail, and Omar's suspicions are validated. The Detail hopes to find Vondas's boss, and Nick hopes to repair relations with the Greeks. Sobotka is forced to make a difficult choice.

12. Port in a Storm

Port in a Storm

Season 2, Episode 12 TV-MA CC HD CC SD

In the Season Two finale, the Detail has a setback, and needs a new cooperator, while Russell and Bunk revisit Philly, looking for evidence. Brother Mouzone talks with Stringer Bell regarding their agreement, leaving Bell to contend with a dissatisfied Avon Barksdale. Bubbles and Johnny pull another caper and McNulty and Greggs return to the Westside, where they discover new connections. Herc and Carver feel disrespected by fellow officers, while Nick tries to come to terms with the Greeks--and himself. Omar and his crew have a new target and the Feds are less trustworthy than they seem.