Wurmsbach Abbey

Wurmsbach Abbey (Kloster Mariazell-Wurmsbach) is a monastery of Cistercian nuns located in Bollingen near Rapperswil-Jona, in the Canton of St. Gallen, Switzerland. It is located on the north shore of Lake Zurich. The house is a part of the Order of Cistercians of the Common Observance (O. Cist.).

Egelsee (Bubikon)

Egelsee is a lake in the municipality of Bubikon in the Canton of Zurich, Switzerland. Its surface area is 4.3 ha.

Goldbach, Zurich

Goldbach is part of the municipality of Küsnacht in the district of Meilen in the canton of Zürich in Switzerland. Goldbach is located north of Küsnacht proper, south and west of Zollikon, and on the Goldküste (Gold Coast) of Lake Zürich. The Küsnacht-Goldbach railway station is 12-14 minutes from downtown Zurich via the S6 and S16 S-Bahn train lines. Goldbach is home to the Goldbach Center and Goldbach Media AG.

Busskirch

Busskirch is a village (Kirchdorf) within the municipality of Rapperswil-Jona in the canton of St. Gallen, Switzerland.

Rüti Abbey

Rüti Abbey was a former Premonstratensian abbey, founded in 1206 and suppressed in 1525, in the municipality of Rüti in the canton of Zürich, Switzerland. In the Zürcher Oberland, Rüti, the owner of extensive lands, was the final resting place of the Counts of Toggenburg, among them Count Friedrich VII and 13 other members of the Toggenburg family, and other noble families. Between 1206 and 1525, the abbey comprised 14 incorporated churches and estates at 185 localities.

Rüti ZH railway station

Rüti ZH is a railway station in the municipality of Rüti in the Swiss canton of Zurich. The station is located on the Wallisellen to Uster and Rapperswil railway line just south-west of its junction with the Tösstalbahn from Winterthur. It is served by Zurich S-Bahn lines S5 and S15, which run between Zurich and Rapperswil, and is the terminus of line S26 on the Tösstalbahn.

Jona railway station

Jona is a railway station in Switzerland, situated next to the village of Jona in the municipality of Rapperswil-Jona. The station is located on the Wallisellen to Uster and Rapperswil railway line and served by Zurich S-Bahn lines S5 and S15.

Bubikon railway station

Bubikon is a railway station in the Swiss canton of Zurich and municipality of Bubikon. The station is located on the Wallisellen to Uster and Rapperswil railway line, and is served by Zurich S-Bahn lines S5 and S15. Bubikon was formerly a junction point with the Uerikon to Bauma railway (UeBB), which diverged from the Wallisellen to Rapperswil line at either end of the station. The UeBB to the south, originally to Uerikon, is still in use as a freight siding as far as Wolfhausen.