What is ETDCtrl.exe?

The genuine ETDCtrl.exe file is a software component of ELAN Smart-Pad by ELAN Microelectronics.

ELAN Smart-Pad is a touchpad usually found on laptops. ETDCtrl.exe runs the control center, a configuration screen that provides options to modify settings for the ELAN Smart-Pad. This is not an essential Windows process and can be disabled if known to create problems. ELAN Smart-Pad is an input device used for finger tracking. This device is often sold to original equipment manufacturers such as Samsung. The trackpad features two and three finger gestures as well as intuitive scrolling, zooming in and out, rotation, magnification, window-switching, tapping, and more. ELAN Smart-Pad supports the Windows platform. The ELAN Microelectronics Corporation is a Taiwanese company that designs microchips and integrated circuitry. ELAN specializes in the development of Smart Human-Machine Interface applications and is heavily invested in the research of Capacitive Touchpad. The company was founded in 1994 and is currently headquartered in Hsinchu Science Park, Taipei, Taiwan and owns offices in the US, Shenzhen, Shanghai, and Hong Kong.

ETDCtrl stands for Elan Trackpad Device Control Center

The .exe extension on a filename indicates an executable file. Executable files may, in some cases, harm your computer. Therefore, please read below to decide for yourself whether the ETDCtrl.exe on your computer is a Trojan that you should remove, or whether it is a file belonging to the Windows operating system or to a trusted application.

Click to Run a Free Scan for ETDCtrl.exe related errors

ETDCtrl.exe file information

The process known as ETD Control Center or ETD Ware TSR Enhancements belongs to software ELAN Smart-Pad or ETD Ware PS/2-x86 (version 5.0.0.5 WHQL, 7.0.3.8 WHQL 03Sep08, 7.0.4.3 WHQL, 7.0.5.9_WHQL, 7.0.5.7_WHQL, 7.0.3.12 For XP WHQL, 7.0.5.2 WHQL, 7.0.4.6 WHQL, 7.0.5.4_WHQL, 7.0.2.5 WHQL) or ETDWare PS/2-x64 (version 7.0.5.9_WHQL) or Elantech Smart-Pad by ELAN Microelectronics or ELAN Microelectronic (www.emc.com.tw) or ELANTECH Devices (www.emc.com.tw).

Description: ETDCtrl.exe is not essential for the Windows OS and causes relatively few problems. The file ETDCtrl.exe is located in a subfolder of "C:\Program Files" (e.g. C:\Program Files\Elantech\). Known file sizes on Windows 10/11/7 are 3,242,696 bytes (10% of all occurrences), 1,891,720 bytes and 158 more variants.

ETDCtrl.exe is not a Windows system file. The file is certified by a trustworthy company. ETDCtrl.exe is a Microsoft signed file. It is a Verisign signed file. The program has no visible window. ETDCtrl.exe is able to record keyboard and mouse inputs and monitor applications. Therefore the technical security rating is 17% dangerous; however you should also read the user reviews.

Uninstalling this variant: In the event of any problems with ETDCtrl.exe, you can also uninstall the associated program (Start > Control Panel > Uninstall a Program > ETDWare PS/2-x86 7.0.3.8 WHQL 03Sep08 or ETDWare PS/2-x86 7.0.5.9_WHQL).

Recommended: Identify ETDCtrl.exe related errors

If ETDCtrl.exe is located in a subfolder of the user's profile folder, the security rating is 85% dangerous. The file size is 791,552 bytes (20% of all occurrences), 787,440 bytes, 783,312 bytes, 812,024 bytes or 779,232 bytes. The file is not a Windows core file. There is no information about the author of the file. The program has no visible window.

If ETDCtrl.exe is located in the Windows folder for temporary files, the security rating is 92% dangerous. The file size is 209,408 bytes. The program has no visible window. The application starts upon Windows startup (see Registry key: MACHINE\Run, Run, TaskScheduler). It is not a Windows system file. The process uses ports to connect to or from a LAN or the Internet. ETDCtrl.exe appears to be a compressed file.

Important: Some malware camouflages itself as ETDCtrl.exe, particularly when located in the C:\Windows or C:\Windows\System32 folder, for example Gen:Variant.Barys.55312 (detected by BitDefender), and Gen:Variant.Barys.55312 (detected by F-Secure). Therefore, you should check the ETDCtrl.exe process on your PC to see if it is a threat. We recommend Security Task Manager for verifying your computer's security. This was one of the Top Download Picks of The Washington Post and PC World.

Best practices for resolving ETDCtrl issues

A clean and tidy computer is the key requirement for avoiding problems with ETDCtrl. This means running a scan for malware, cleaning your hard drive using 1cleanmgr and 2sfc /scannow, 3uninstalling programs that you no longer need, checking for Autostart programs (using 4msconfig) and enabling Windows' 5Automatic Update. Always remember to perform periodic backups, or at least to set restore points.

Should you experience an actual problem, try to recall the last thing you did, or the last thing you installed before the problem appeared for the first time. Use the 6resmon command to identify the processes that are causing your problem. Even for serious problems, rather than reinstalling Windows, you are better off repairing of your installation or, for Windows 8 and later versions, executing the 7DISM.exe /Online /Cleanup-image /Restorehealth command. This allows you to repair the operating system without losing data.

To help you analyze the ETDCtrl.exe process on your computer, the following programs have proven to be helpful: ASecurity Task Manager displays all running Windows tasks, including embedded hidden processes, such as keyboard and browser monitoring or Autostart entries. A unique security risk rating indicates the likelihood of the process being potential spyware, malware or a Trojan. BMalwarebytes Anti-Malware detects and removes sleeping spyware, adware, Trojans, keyloggers, malware and trackers from your hard drive.

Other processes

sedsvc.exe rubyw.exe dashost.exe ETDCtrl.exe swg.dll aestsr64.exe mscorsvw.exe unlockerassistant.exe lavasofttcpservice.exe lavasofttcpservice.dll wuauclt.exe [all]