Lacey Chabert is regarded as one of the best young actresses of her generation. From an early age, she was exposed to dramatic and musical performances in and around her hometown of Purvis, Mississippi. Chabert received her first break in a cough syrup commercial before successfully auditioning for the Broadway production of Les Miserables, in which she played young Cosette for two years. In 1998, she made her feature film debut as Penny Robinson in Lost in Space.

Chabert’s resume is as extensive as it is versatile. Consistently delivering memorable performances, she has become one of Hollywood’s most sought-after talents. Best known for her role as Claudia on the Golden Globe Award®-winning FOX television series Party of Five, Chabert has appeared on ABC Family’s Baby Daddy, ABC’s All My Children as well as in several made-for-TV movies, including Gypsy starring Bette Midler; A Little Piece of Heaven with Cloris Leachman; Lifetime’s What If God Were the Sun? starring opposite Gena Rowlands; and the Hallmark Channel Original Movies Moonlight in Vermont with Carlo Marks and Jesse Moss, All of My Heart with Edward Asner, Matchmaker Santa opposite Florence Henderson, A Royal Christmas alongside Jane Seymour and John Ratzenberger, All of My Heart: Inn Love with Brennan Elliott, The Sweetest Christmas, Love on Safari opposite Jon Cor, All of My Heart: The Wedding with Brennan Elliott, Pride, Prejudice, and Mistletoe, Love, Romance & Chocolate, Christmas in Rome, Haul Out the Holly, and Winter in Vail, Christmas Waltz, Christmas at Castle Hart, Sweet Carolina, and Haul Out the Holly: Lit Up and A Merry Scottish Christmas, both of which she also executive produced. Chabert also starred in the Hallmark Movies & Mysteries Original The Color of Rain, which was the highest rated and most watched original film in the network’s history. Chabert also starred in Hallmark Movies & Mysteries’ signature mystery movie franchise starting with Crossword Mysteries: A Puzzle to Die For, and followed by Crossword Mysteries: Proposing Murder, Crossword Mysteries: Abracadaver, Crossword Mysteries: Terminal Descent and Crossword Mysteries: Riddle Me Dead.

Next up, Chabert is helping Halmark lead their first foray into the unscripted programming space, launching an inspirational series Celebrations with Lacey Chabert. The series will feature the actress as she surprises kids, families and adults who are making a positive impact in their communities by throwing them the celebration of a lifetime. Chabert also executive produces the 10-episode series, which will debut later this year on Hallmark Media’s subscription streaming service.

Chabert’s feature film credits include Warner Bros.’ Ghosts of Girlfriends Past, starring opposite Jennifer Garner and Matthew McConaughey; box office hit Mean Girls, for which she received outstanding reviews and an MTV Movie Award; Daddy Day Care, starring as Anjelica Huston’s daughter; and A&E’s The Brooke Ellison Story, playing the lead in Christopher Reeve’s final directorial project.

Known for her natural acting skills and charming personality, Chabert’s cotton candy voice has been featured in numerous animated films and TV shows, including Nickelodeon’s The Wild Thornberrys, Sony’s The Spectacular Spider-Man, FOX’s Allen Gregory, Hasbro’s Transformers: Rescue Bots and most recently, Warner Bros.’ Young Justice.