It all started in Paris about 120 years ago, with our parent company RATP. The first metro line crossed the French capital. It was opened for the Paris world fair on July 19, 1900, after less than eighteen months of construction—an impressive feat.

Since then, we've kept on innovating, from the first hydraulic metros in the fifties to electric trams and driverless shuttles today. That technical excellence has propelled us to our current status as the global leader in automated subways and trams.

The foundation of RATP Dev in 2002 was a watershed moment. The goal was to develop, operate and maintain new transportation systems in France, Europe, and around the world, drawing on the know-how of RATP Group. We've never looked back. Some 1.5 billion passengers use our transit systems every year. As we grow, our know-how grows too. But our passion stays the same: to build along with you and bring cities around the world the excellence of innovative, sustainable transportation.

SUPPORTING YOUR TRANSPORTATION TO BRING US CLOSER TOGETHER.

"How can quality of life and the experience of living in a city be measured? First and foremost by the city’s services. Transportation systems are the heart and soul of a city. They have to be safe, effective, practical, and reliable.

Our mission is not only to develop and optimize public transit systems, but also to boost the economy and quality of life, in order to make distances feel shorter and bring people together.

At RATP Dev, we are also blazing the trail for smart cities. We envision places where mobility and digital technologies merge smoothly, quickly, and simply.

Our more than 23,000 employees take pride in serving both passengers and transit authorities, who look to us every year. We are passionate and innovative, and we continue to make advancements.

Your future. Our destination."

Hiba Farès

President of the Executive Board

Our parent company, RATP, is the transportation operator for Paris and the surrounding region. It ensures 12 million trips a day on one of the world's densest and most multi-modal transportation systems.

As the world's third-largest public transportation operator, RATP Group runs and maintains tens of thousands of kilometers of subway, bus, tram, and urban or intercity rail lines around the globe.

Every day we innovate for smarter, more sustainable cities by designing, operating and maintaining networks for the well-being of our passengers. Our key words: passion and determination.

Implementing tailored solutions

Jointly building reliable, accessible transportation systems from scratch? Restructuring existing operations to suit available resources? Maintaining them long-term, designing innovative solutions, or incorporating new modes into a system? Whatever the context, our agile, out-of-the-box approach helps us make all your projects a reality.

It’s more than a mission. It’s our pledge to you: to improve the quality of life and daily routine for passengers, by continuing to improve safety and comfort, and by providing tailored solutions. To link neighborhoods, cities, and regions. To bring people together.

Supporting your region's development

Developing mass transit boosts regional economies and promotes growth.

This is the role filled by our 100+ transportation systems. We transfer skills and help promote sustainable development in harmony with the local fabric. With better public transit, cities and territories begin a virtuous cycle leading to increased business opportunities and job creation. We hire locally and currently train and support 23,000 employees.

We are driven by our commitments to corporate social and environmental responsibility, and so are our employees who volunteer. This is materialized through grass-roots involvement, as is seen in Johannesburg, Manila, Washington, and Valenciennes.

The Executive Board and the Executive Committee share a deep-founded conviction: integrity in business dealings. That is one of the cornerstones of our Group.

The trust the Group inspires in its employees, shareholders, customers, and suppliers is a driver of growth. Integrity, both within the company and in our business relationships, means rejecting all types of corruption and influence peddling. It also means avoiding conflicts of interest and complying with antitrust law. Finally, integrity also involves protecting our assets and resources. The involvement and exemplary conduct of all our employees are what make that commitment to unfailing integrity possible.

Read our Code of ethics

Read our Code of business conduct