STAFF CODES (DBZ MAN)

Character tips:

MICKEY

1st race: hug the inside walls

2nd: go in the water...you turn into a boat

3rd: the water that has ripples in it works just like the trench on the road

4th: (this is not what it says but it is better info.) use the spirit of mickey...you will win...but wait closer to the end

MINNIE

1st race: just after the tunnel, drive down in-between the tree stumps

2nd: take the last corner slow

3rd: if going is tough take the bottom route, it is wider

4th: go around the poles to hit the fast water, it is hard

DAISY

1st: after landing your car after a ramp if you press up and down on the control pad you get a much smoother landing

2nd: take the racing line...it is quicker

3rd: be aware of all the curves!! also get those wrenches!

4th: take the top route....it is a short cut!

DONALD

1st: go slow up the ramps

2nd: sometimes it is better to brake then keep going all the time

3rd: hit the cannons to get back on the track

4th: go in the water it is quicker(short cut)

GOOFY

1st: land your car corectly to get some speed

2nd: turn at the first piece of track. you then drive under it.(i have no idea how this works)

3rd: take the racing line

4th: use a spell to slow pete down...

PLUTO

secret coin 1: infront of the station

secret coin 2: in front of the post office

secret nut 1: in the circle with one patch of soil you can dig through(just explore in the treehouse glade, you will find it.)

secret nut 2: in front of the caldren

NOTE: you must dig for those.

Cheats:

Evertime you beat pete with a character on all the courses you get cheats...

I will explane them if i can:

DISCO MODE: funky music and different colors

SEE CREDITS: see credits(duh!)

Camera 1,2,3: i don't know how this works!

PINBALL MODE: when you hit a car it bounces off hard!

TIME TRIAL MODE:no racers...you just try to beat your own times...and can surch for short cuts...

SUBERINE MODE:your car is seethrough so you don't bounce off racers, i think it only works when you are a boat(the car in mickeys garage is a boat and a car...it doesn't change)

RC MODE: no drivers just the cars, can still conroll yours.

CLASSIC MODE:scenery black and white

TUBO CHARGE: you get extra speed

NOTE: when you use a code you get no money...and no place flag...only use for SECRET CALLNGE #3, but they are cool.