Currently roughing it through a starring stint opposite Harrison Ford in “Six Days, Seven Nights,” Anne Heche has committed to star in Alan Rudolph’s next directorial outing, “Trixie,” for Redeemable Features.

Redeemable’s Ira Deutchman will produce along with longtime Rudolph collaborator Robert Altman.

Heche will star as the title character in the noir comedy, which sources close to the project said had flavorings of “Fargo” and “Grosse Pointe Blank.” Rudolph penned the script about an eccentric, unconventional woman whose naive aspirations to rise from her job as a security guard to full-fledged private eye lead her into a tangled mess.

The producers are working toward a fall start on the film, and now, with Heche attached to star for Rudolph, it’s understood that Redeemable and ICM — which reps Rudolph and the financing and distribution rights of the film — will soon begin submitting the project to the studios.

Rudolph, who is repped by ICM’s Ken Kamins and Bart Walker, currently is in post-production on “Breakfast of Champions,” starring and produced by Bruce Willis. The helmer, who took three years off after helming “Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle” in 1994, is in the midst of a revival, having directed the Julie Christie starrer “Afterglow” last year, before moving on to “Breakfast” — and next up, “Trixie.”

Rudolph and Altman first worked together in 1973 when the former was an assistant director on Altman’s “The Long Goodbye.” Altman produced Rudolph’s first feature, “Welcome to L.A.,” in 1976.

“Trixie” will mark the first time Heche has worked under Rudolph’s helm. The actress, who is marking her first big romantic lead in “Six Days, Seven Nights,” appeared in five films last year, including co-starring roles in “Donnie Brasco,” “Volcano” and “Wag the Dog.”

Having wrapped a starring stint opposite Vince Vaughn in Polygram’s “Force Majeure,” Heche currently is shooting Gus Van Zant’s remake of “Psycho,” also with Vaughn, for Imagine Entertainment and Universal Pictures.

The actress is repped by Creative Artists Agency.