A little goes a long way.

Or, as "Trixie" might say, a long way to go little.

Emily Watson is the title character in director Alan Rudolph's latest film. She's a security officer-turned-detective and is the centerpiece in this comedy-turned-mystery-turned-I don't know what.

She's the Forrest Gump of private dicks, one that would elevate Casey Stengel into one of mankind's great orators.

It's not what she does, it's what she says. She butchers the syntax and definition of any phrase and compulsively mixes her metaphors.

The malapropisms never cease, and after laughing at the first dozen or so, you accept this as her speech.

It's a case of too much of a good thing, and once that entertaining portion of the film's makeup is gone, the dialogue sends you squinting at your watch, trying to get enough light from the screen to see what you've invested and what you have left in this tiny window of your life.

The film has little to offer, which should come as no surprise. It's Rudolph's follow-up to "Breakfast of Champions," perhaps one of the more confusing and disappointing films of the last few years. With a cast that included Bruce Willis and Nick Nolte, that one had potential; and then it began.

Rudolph's "Afterglow," which also starred Nolte, was highly acclaimed, but his follow-ups have been unsuccessful and downright weird.

Nolte returns to the Rudolph lineup, this time as corrupt and oversexed politico Drummond Avery.

Trixie begins a relationship with Dex Lang (Dermot Mulroney), a casino rat who fancies himself as a womanizer. He works for Red Rafferty (Will Patton), an all-around rotten guy hooked to Avery, his politics, and his shady real estate dealings.

All parties come together when Lang invites Trixie to a party on Rafferty's boat. Nolte is joined by Dawn Sloane (Lesley Ann Warren), a gold-digger with sights on Avery's dirty money.

The film becomes murky, and what was once as a comedy turns into a bad "Murder, She Wrote" episode.

Watson is definitely the shining light in Rudolph's dud, one he calls a "film noir satire." Nathan Lane, who plays ex-con casino lounge act Kirk Stans, also provides limited entertainment.

They are the strengths of a bad one, and without them it would've been even more difficult to endure.

Archive ID: 818297