Student schedules will be available on Student Vue the week of August 12-16

Schedules were built using the information students provided when they selected their own classes and forecasted last spring. The students will follow the schedules that were made based on their choices. The school counselors will be available to assist students with incomplete schedules. An incomplete schedule is indicated with a SEE COUNSELOR in one of their class periods.

School Counselors will be available to meet with students who have incomplete schedules in person, on a first come first serve basis on the following dates and times:

New to WLWV School District Students: Tuesday August 13, 8:00 AM - 3:30 PM

12th grade: Wednesday August 14, 9:00 AM-12:00 PM and 1:00-3:30 PM

11th grade: Thursday August 15, 9:00 AM-12:00 PM

10th grade: Thursday August 15, 1:00-3:30 PM

9th grade: Friday August 16, 9:00 AM-12:00 PM

If you are a new family to WLWV School District and do not have a schedule, the school counselors will be available on a drop in basis on Tuesday August 13 from 8:00-3:30 to select courses

WKOA- online students will receive a message about their classes the week of August 26. Dr. Baldwin or your school counselor can assist you with any questions about your academic program and courses.

View your student’s account in My School Bucks

You can find the online web store by going to “Quick Links” and scroll down and click on “more”

and then click “web store”. This will take you to My School Bucks where you can create your

login and add your student (s) to your account. Just click on the blue “Sign Up Free” box. Once

you’ve created your account and added your student, you’ll be able to view the items requiring

payment on their account. There are a few helpful how to videos under the “Help” tab that you

may find useful, as well as a number of FAQ’s you can browse, and a “Contact Us” choice.

If you have items you need to purchase, such as, Athletic Fees, National Honor Society Fee,

Yearbook, etc. you can click on “School Store” in My School Bucks and view all the items that

have been made available, add what you need to your cart, and make payment there.

If you’re having any issues, please reach-out to me at stonekiw@wlwv.k12.or.us. I’m happy to

help in any way I can. Also, let me know if you’re looking for a specific item that’s not available.

And as always, thank you for your patience!