The back and forth battle between the Frontline and the Main Event Mafia continued through TNA’s first PPV of 2009, Genesis. After several Mafia vs. Frontline clashes, the end of the PPV saw yet another stalemate between the two factions.

After both Kurt Angle and Sting were successful in their match-ups against Frontline members, Mafia members, Scott Steiner and Booker T teamed up with Cute Kip (subbing for an injured Kevin Nash), to take on their Frontline counterparts, AJ Styles, Brother Devon and Mick Foley.

The Mafia came out first and Cute Kip was named the replacement for Kevin Nash. Kip said that he was worthy of being a member of the Main Event Mafia for one night. The Frontline then entered and went right to work, brawling on both the inside and outside of the ring.

When things got under control, the battle went back and forth, with both sides exchanging the momentum. The match eventually broke down again and the referee called for the bell, declaring the bout a no contest.

Jim Cornette came out and said that main event wasn’t going to end that way and the match had to be restarted. Booker T complained and said that Cornette had no authority to do that. Mick Foley agreed, but said that he did have the authority to restart the match, and he was doing it under hardcore rules.

Steel chairs, trash can lids and a table were brought into the mix, with AJ Styles hitting an amazing Frog Splash off the top rope onto Cute Kip through the table on the outside. Steiner and Devon went back and forth, with Devon taking Steiner down and hitting the top rope headbutt.

Booker T got involved and laid out Devon, before executing a spinaroonie. As Booker got up, Foley caught him with Mr. Socko. Steiner got back to his feet and hit Foley with a trash can. The duo then used the chair on Foley and attempted to hit the axe kick on Foley into the chair.

Foley fought back and grabbed the chair to use for himself. He eventually cleaned house and was able to hit a DDT on Steiner onto the chair to pick up the big win for the Frontline.

TNA Genesis 2009 PPV Report

The show began with a package the highlighted all the carnage caused by the Main Event Mafia.

Mike Tenay and Don West did their usual rundown and talked about Christy Hemme’s injury and the Six Knockout Tag Team match that will replace her vs. Awesome Kong. They also say that Rhino has yet to arrive and hasn’t answered several calls made to him.

Match One – Six Man Tag Team Elimination Match – Eric Young and LAX (Homicide and Hernandez) vs. Jimmy Rave, Sonjay Dutt and Kiyoshi

This was a good opener. During the match, Jim Cornette was seen knocking on the Main Event Mafia’s door. Eric Young had things going his way, but got hung up the ropes and hit with a springboard legdrop by Sonjay Dutt, who used the ropes and got the pin.

Elimination One Via Pinfall – Eric Young

Homicide and Jimmy Rave went back and forth, with Rave blocking the Gringo Killer and Homicide blocking the Rock the World. Homicide charged Rave, who avoided the attack and got rolled up, with Rave hooking the tights to get the pin.

Elimination Two Via Pinfall – Homicide

Rave, Dutt and Kiyoshi teamed up on Hernandez, who tossed them around. Hernandez hit the Border Toss on Kiyoshi and covered him for the pin.

Elimination Three Via Pinfall – Kiyoshi

Dutt attempted a crossbody, which got reversed into a sitdown powerbomb.

Elimination Four Via Pinfall – Sonjay Dutt

Rave and Hernandez exchanged shots. Hernandez skinned the cat and went up top, but was caught by Rave. Hernandez pushed Rave off and hit a huge splash for the final elimination.

Elimination Five Via Pinfall – Jimmy Rave

Winners Via Pinfall – Eric Young and LAX (Homicide and Hernandez) – Hernandez was the Sole Survivor

Match Rating – 6/10

Jim Cornette was shown yelling at Scott Steiner, demanding to know where Rhino was. Steiner claimed he was innocent.

A package was shown for the TNA X Division Championship match.

Match Two – TNA X Division Championship Match – Alex Shelley vs. Chris Sabin

This was a tremendous match. Lots of back and forth action and several near falls. Sabin was able to execute a Cradle Shock on Shelley for a very near fall. Sabin attempted a top rope Cradle Shock, but was countered and hit with the Sliced Bread for another very near fall. They continued to fight and Sabin attempted another Cradle Shock, but was reversed. Shelley attempted another Sliced Bread, but was reversed and looked to have hurt his foot. As Sabin was checking on him, Shelley rolled him up and got the pin.

Winner Via Pinfall and NEW TNA X Division Champion – Alex Shelley

Match Rating – 7.5/10 (The finish could have been stronger.)

After the match, The Motor City Machine Guns hugged.

Jim Cornette says that Kevin Nash is out with staph infection.

A package was shown for Sheik Abdul Bashir vs. Shane Sewell.

Match Three – Shane Sewell vs. Sheik Abdul Bashir

Shane Sewell came out in a referee shirt. Sewell went right on the attack and fought off Sheik Abdul Bashir’s offense. Bashir was able to get Sewell and mount him with some shots. As Earl Hebner tried to pull Bashir off, he shoved him. Hebner responded by decking Bashir. Bashir chased Hebner around, until Sewell hit him with a clothesline, followed by a sunset flip for the win.

Winner Via Pinfall – Shane Sewell

Match Rating – 5.5/10

Jim Cornette was shown asking Booker T about Rhino. Booker was offended and caused a scene. Shane Sewell came in a broke things up, only to get threatened by Booker.

Match Four – TNA Tag Team Championship Triple Threat Match – Consequences Creed and Jay Lethal (C) vs. Beer Money Inc. (James Storm and Robert Roode) w/ Jackie Moore vs. Abyss and Matt Morgan

This was another great match on the PPV. Jackie Moore got involved on several occasions. The end came when Abyss intercepted one of the tag team titles being tossed into the ring by Beer Money Inc. Abyss went to hit Robert Roode, but instead cracked Matt Morgan. Jay Lethal hit an elbow drop on Robert Roode and had the pin, but the referee was distracted by Moore. James Storm came in and superkicked Lethal, before rolling Roode onto Morgan for the pin and the win.

Winners Via Pinfall and NEW TNA Tag Team Champions – Beer Money Inc. (James Storm and Robert Roode)

Match Rating – 7/10

After the match, Abyss and Matt Morgan stared at each other.

Backstage, Jeremy Borash spoke to Kurt Angle who said that he was mad that Jim Cornette didn’t come to him first. He said that the Main Event Mafia went to Rhino’s hotel room, beat him up, then gave him cab fare.

Match Five – Six Knockout Tag Team Match – Taylor Wilde, ODB and Roxxi vs. Sojourner Bolt, Rhaka Kahn and Riesha Saeed)

This match was okay. Both teams battled back and forth, with Taylor Wilde hitting a nice crossbody to the outside. Back in the ring, ODB fought with Riesha Saeed and was able to roll her up for the pin.

Winners Via Pinfall – Taylor Wilde, ODB and Roxxi

Match Rating – 4.5/10

After the match, Awesome Kong came out and the fight was on. Rhaka Kahn choked out Taylor Wilde, while Kong hit a chokeslam on ODB.

A package was shown for Kurt Angle vs. Jeff Jarrett.

Match Six – Jeff Jarrett vs. Kurt Angle

This was an excellent match. Jarrett attempted a suicide dive to the outside and caught his foot on the rope, causing him to land face first on the ground. Angle then hit him with the ring bell and busted him open. The two fought up the ramp, with Angle hitting an Angle Slam on Jarrett off the stage, through a table. The eventually fought back into the ring and reversed each other on several occasions. Angle almost forced Jarrett to tap out to the Ankle Lock, but Jarrett was able to hang on. A steel chair was brought into the mix, since Jarrett’s guitar was broken. Jarrett clocked Angle and both men went down. Jarrett crawled and made the cover for a two count, only to have Angle reverse him into a crucifix pin to get the win.

Winner Via Pinfall – Kurt Angle

Match Rating – 8/10

After the match, Kurt Angle took the chair and pounded away on Jeff Jarrett’s ankle.

In the back, Rhino was shown taping up, saying that he would fight Sting.

Back to ringside, Jeff Jarrett was shown being carried away on a stretcher.

Match Seven – TNA Heavyweight Championship Match – Sting (C) vs. Rhino

Rhino went right after Sting and took the fight to the outside, bouncing Sting around. Rhino had things going his way, despite being bandaged up. Rhino was able to fight out of the Scorpion Deathlock, but when he missed a Gore and was hit with the Scorpion Deathdrop, that was enough to put him away for the win.

Winner Via Pinfall and STILL TNA Heavyweight Champion – Sting

Match Rating – 6/10

Backstage, Mick Foley was with the Frontline, getting them prepared for battle.

Match Eight – Six Man Tag Team Match – The Frontline (AJ Styles, Brother Devon and Mick Foley) vs. The Main Event Mafia (Booker T, Scott Steiner and Cute Kip)

Winners Via Pinfall – The Frontline (AJ Styles, Brother Devon and Mick Foley)

Match Rating – 7/10

Overall PPV Rating – 7/10