Question: What is Praise and Worship Music?

Answer: Praise and Worship could be any type of music that glorifies God regardless of the style or what types of instruments are used. However, "Corporate Praise and Worship Music" is commonly found in contemporary churches of today. Lyrically, it features generally short and easy to sing (and remember) choruses that repeat several times. This is part of what makes the style perfect for corporate worship because even people who aren't familiar with a particular song can sing along with ease after hearing one or two repeats of the chorus.

Some of the more popular Praise and Worship artists of today are:

Chris Tomlin

Fernando Ortega

Hillsong

Matt Maher

Matt Redman

Ricardo

Salvador

Selah

SONICFLOOd

WOW Worship is the most popular compilation series

Top Worship Bands

More Praise & Worship Artists

Recommended Praise and Worship Albums

Have It All (Live) - Bethel Music

Let It Echo (Live) - Jesus Culture

Blessed Be Your Name The Songs of Matt Redman Vol. 1 - Matt Redman

Fill The Earth - Ron Kenoly/High Praise

Offerings II: All I Have To Give - Third Day

Passion: White Flag

Just Like My Father - Vincent Lott

Zion - Hillsong United

More About Praise and Worship

Black Gospel Praise and Worship Videos

Top Songs from Fernando Ortega

Playlist: Christian Praise Songs - 10 songs of praise that will get you on your feet

Playlist: Christian Worship Songs - 10 songs that worship our risen Savior

Playlist: 5 Popular Christian Hymns - timeless classics that never get old

Format

mla apa chicago

Your Citation

Jones, Kim. "What is Praise and Worship Music?" Learn Religions, Mar. 4, 2021, learnreligions.com/what-is-praise-and-worship-music-709775. Jones, Kim. (2021, March 4). What is Praise and Worship Music? Retrieved from https://www.learnreligions.com/what-is-praise-and-worship-music-709775 Jones, Kim. "What is Praise and Worship Music?" Learn Religions. https://www.learnreligions.com/what-is-praise-and-worship-music-709775 (accessed August 15, 2024).