RUDECO

Vocational Training in

Rural Development and Ecology

Module No 1

Introduction to Sustainable

Rural Development:

Key Concepts and Theoretical

Foundations

Responsible University Russian State Agrarian University - Moscow Timiryazev Agricultural Academy

159357-TEMPUS-1-2009-1-DE-TEMPUS-JPHES

This project has been funded with support from the European Commission. This publication reflects the views only of the authors, and the Commission cannot be held responsible for any use which may be made of the information contained therein.

УДК 631 ББК 4 С 40

ISBN 978-5-906069-62- Introduction to Sustainable Rural Development: Key Concepts and Theoretical Foundations / A. Merzlov [and others]. Series of training manuals &quot;RUDECO Vocational Training in Rural Development and Ecology“. М., 2012. – 48 p

RUDECO Vocational Training in Rural Development and Ecology

National Project Coordinator Sustainable Rural Development Centre Russian State Agrarian University- Moscow Timiryazev Agricultural Academy, Russia

Grantholder and Project Management Eastern Europe Centre University of Hohenheim, Germany

Authors Alexander V. MERZLOV (RSAU-MTAA) Valeriya P. CHAYKA (RSAU-MTAA) Maxim R. SADYKOV (RSAU-MTAA) Liubov A. OVCHINTSEVA ( VIAPI of A. Nikonov) Olga A. POPOVA (Ministry of Agriculture of the Russian Federation) Helene Wehrlin-CROZET (ASP, France) Thomas RUGER (ASP, France) Martin DIETRICH (University of Hohenheim) Angelika THOMAS (University of Hohenheim)

Responsible University Russian State Agrarian University - Moscow Timiryazev Agricultural Academy (RSAU-MTAA), Russia

Working Group Partners Ministry of Agriculture of Russia All-Russian Institute of Agrarian Problems and Informatics. A. Nikonov (VIAPI), Russia Agency de Services et de Paiements (ASP), France University of Hohenheim, Germany

Reviewer Vitaliy V. LAZOVSKIY, Doctor of Agricultural Sciences, Corresponding Member of RAAS, RSAU-MTAA Ruhman H. ADUKOV, Doctor of Economics, Professor, Head of VNIOPTUSKH department

Contact This text book or parts of it can be reproduced in any form for educational purposes with prior permission. For more information contact: Dr. Alexander V. Merzlov, RSAU-MTAA, Centre of Sustainable Development Rural. Email: a@gmail tempus-rudeco/

November 2012

Series of manuals covers the following topics:

Sustainable development: key terms and theoretical basis (Introductory Module1, Rus- sian State Agrarian University – Moscow Timiryazev Agricultural Academy)

Sustainable rural development: approaches for regional and local programmes elabo- ration (Module 2, Russian State Agrarian University – Moscow Timiryazev Agricultural Academy)

Ecolabeling and marketing of environmental and regional products from rural areas (Module 3, Orel State Agrarian University)

Eco-tourism and tourism in rural areas (Module 4, Buryat State Agrarian Academy of Agriculture named after V.R)

Conversion of conventional farming into organic farming (Module 5, Yaroslavl State Agricultural Academy)

Environmental regulations and laws (Module 6, Stavropol State Agricultural University)

Ecological related problems of intensive agriculture (plant and animal production) (Module 7, Omsk State Agrarian University)

Participatory approach in rural development (Module 8, Kostroma State Agricultural Academy)

Reducing pollution in rural areas caused by agricultural, industrial and municipal solid waste (Module 9, Novosibirsk State Agrarian University)

Sustainable use of water resources in rural areas (Module 10, Samara State Agricultural Academy)

Food safety and product quality control (Module 11, Moscow State Agroengineering University named after Goryachkin V.)

Management of biological resources of rural areas (Module 12, Tambov State University named after G. Derzhavin)

Listeners should begin with the study of the introductory module, which serves as a conceptual and methodological basis for the above mentioned thematic modules. For train- ing on the above areas readers can contact all universities developers.

Table of Content........................................................................................................................................

Table of Content

Preface

Table of Content........................................................................................................................................

List of Figures

List of Tables

Introduction

1 Basic Terms

2 Defining Sustainable Development.................................................................................................

3 Theoretical Aspects of Sustainable Rural Development

3 Functions and types of rural areas

3 Goals and objectives for rural development

3 Differences between the sectoral and integrated territorial approaches...........................................

3 Globalization and regionalization (localization).................................................................................

4 Policy for Sustainable Rural Development

4 EU policies........................................................................................................................................

4 Socio-economic characteristics of the Russian countryside.............................................................

4 Policy for Sustainable Rural Development in Russia........................................................................

5 Policy-making for Sustainable Development of Rural Areas in Russia

References...............................................................................................................................................

List of Acronyms.....................................................................................................................................

Annex: Training material

RUDECO partners and contact information

Introduction

This module contains the scientific and theoretical basis for sustainable rural development, including key terms and concepts, general characteristics of rural territory of the Russian Federa- tion, the types of rural areas, the comparative analysis of content and tools for rural development policy in Russia and in Western Europe. This Module gives detailed description of mechanisms for rural development on the example of France.

Module serves as an introduction to the series manuals developed under the project TEMPUS 159357-TEMPUS-1-2009-1-DE-TEMPUS-JPHES «Vocational Training in Rural Development and Ecology» (RUDECO) TEMPUS program.

Goals and objectives

The purpose of the module is to provide knowledge on the theoretical foundations of sustainable development of rural areas

The module objectives include:

learn the basic terms used in the field of sustainable development of rural areas;

understand the conceptual basis of sustainable development of rural areas;

familiarize with the policy of sustainable development of rural areas

Trainee requirements:

Higher education in agrarian and/or humanitarian specialties.

During their work on the module, the trainees will learn:

Terminology, the scientific basis for sustainable rural development. Russian and European approaches to policy-making for sustainable rural development

After the module is completed, the trainees:

will know the basic terms used in the field of sustainable development of rural areas;

understand the conceptual basis of sustainable development of rural areas;

know the main types of rural areas;

will be introduced to the Russian European policy for sustainable rural development (more on the example of France)

This module was developed to demonstrate the possible approaches to the implementation of rural development policies at the regional and district levels, expanding the range of its instruments used in the regions.

This module was prepared by: PhD Merzlov A. (Center for Sustainable Development of Rural Areas RSAU-MTAA), Ph. Ovchintseva L. (VIAPI them. A.A), Ph. Popov O. (Min- istry of Agriculture of the Russian Federation), Sadykov M.(RSAU-MTAA, Russia) Rukin V. (Tambovstat, Russia), Wehrlin-Crozet (Agency Service and Payments, France), Thomas Ruger (agency Service and payments, France), Martin Dietrich (University of Hohenheim), Angelika Thomas (University of Hohenheim)

1 Basic Terms

Rural areas (rural): area of rural settlements and related inter-settlement territories (Rus- sia); areas outside of major cities with their populations, his way of life, traditions, material and cul- tural accumulations of the past, natural conditions and resources (EU).

Rural population: people living permanently in the totality of rural settlements;

Agriculture: Synonym for agricultural production - a sector of the economy that produces agricultural products, ensuring the needs of most food products and raw materials for light industry and food industry (RF). In the category of agriculture besides the agricultural production is also in- cluded fishing, seafood, forestry and collection of raw, goods forestry (FAO approach, the EU).

Rural economy: a diversified set of economic units of all types of owner-ship, and house- holds as economic agents located in rural areas and entering into economic relations with regard to production and exchange of products. In the broad sense of the word - a system of sectors and socio-economic relations in the rural areas..

Sustainable Development: is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. Development, which leads to economic development and at the same time fairly distributes the results, restoring the environment to a greater extent than destroying it, increases opportunities for people, not impoverish them. This is, people centred development, focused on preservation of nature, employment, women&#039;s and youth’s empowerment. The concept of stability are not yet fully formed, but the authors adhere to this interpretation

Sustainable development of rural areas: is defined in the Russian Federation as stable socio-economic development of rural areas, optimizing agricultural and fisheries production, in- creasing the effectiveness of agriculture and fisheries industry, the achievement of full employment of the rural population and improve his life, as well as rational use of land (RF). The European Un- ion defines it as long-term, cost-effective development of rural communities while preserving the natural foundations of life and ensuring social protection of all segments of the population (EU)

Fig. 2 Components of the paradigm of sustainable rural development: trends, levels, areas

There are many definitions of the term &quot;sustainable development&quot;. The concept of transition to sustainable development of the Russian Federation stated that this is a sequential process, provid- ing a balanced solution between socio-economic problems, and problems associated with the pres- ervation of a favourable environment and natural resources to meet the needs of present and future generations.

In theory of ecosystem the sustainability is the ability to withstand external shocks. The higher the species diversity of the ecosystem is - the more are the options for development, &quot;degrees of freedom&quot;, the higher is its sustainability. With regard to the territorial socio-economic systems, sustainability means the ability to effectively carry out its functions under any influence of internal and external factors of development. There are varying degrees of stability in the development of socio-economic systems, taking into account their natural subbase. Based on this fact more and less sustainable development is released. Schematically, sustainable development can be represented as the interaction of three components: &quot;population - nature – economy” or “Society -Ecology – Econ- omy” (Fig. 2).

EcologyEcologyEcology

EconomicsEconomicsEconomics

Social sphere

Social sphere

Social sphere

active participationof the population

environmental damage internalization of

intergenerational equity

Concept of sustainable Culture/ traditiondevelopment

the right to participate in decisions raising of living standards the fight against poverty

development of production

efficiency stability

clean environment Biodiversity conservation of natural resources resilience

Fig. 2 The main components of sustainable development

In the concept of sustainable development, this triad is taking on new priorities: the goal - the welfare and future generations, the basis - natural and ecological life support system and the economy is the engine of development.

The economic approach to sustainable development involves the optimal use of limited re- sources.

The social component is aimed at preserving basic well-being and social stability and cul- tural diversity.

For environmental safety and to assure continued productivity of ecosystems sustainability of natural systems and their ability to self-repair and adapt to changing external conditions must be assured. Biodiversity is the currency that grants adaptability of ecosystems and their processes.

Reconciling these different points of view imposed new problems for humanity. Thus, the interaction of economic and social aspects arose task of an equitable distribution of income within a generation. The relationship of environmental and economic elements generated a problem of valuation and internalization of environmental impacts. Joint consideration of social and environ-

3 Theoretical Aspects of Sustainable Rural Development

3 Functions and types of rural areas

The functions of rural areas

The peculiarity of the rural area is determined by the fact that it is a source of many bless- ings: food and agricultural raw materials, storage of natural resources, place of residence, recreation facilities, a place for recycling of organic waste.

National functions of rural areas are diverse and are, at least the following:

Production function - to meet society&#039;s needs for food and raw materials for industry, forest products and hunting and fishing economy, as well as products from other industries and economic activities

Socio-demographic feature - the reproduction of the rural population, support of agriculture and other economic sectors with human resources;

Cultural and ethnic feature - the keeper of distinctive national language and culture, folk tra- ditions, customs, ceremonies, folklore and experience in farming and natural resources, pro- tection of monuments of nature, history and culture in rural areas;

Ecological function - the maintenance of ecological functions and services (soil regenera- tion, water purification, pest control) in agrobiocenosis and throughout the country; may be supported by areas of extensive use, maintenance of reserves, game reserves, national parks, accumulation of pollution, protection of landscape, etc.;

Recreation function - to create conditions for restoring health and human well-being through recreation (outdoor experience - hiking, having picnics, swimming, hunting, fish- ing),

Dimensionally/communication functions - providing a basis for the spatial distribution of production and maintenance of utilities (roads, power lines, communications, water, oil and gas pipelines);

Political function - the rural population is more homogeneous, conservative and tolerant of the society in opposite of big cities population, and therefore serves as a basis of stability in society,

Function of social control over the territory - promoting rural public authorities to ensure public order and security in the sparsely populated settlements and slightly populated areas, mineral resources, land, water and forest resources, flora and fauna. In geopolitical terms, rural areas (the countryside) cover a large part of the territory of any state, including the most developed countries. The level of security, integrity and territorial unity of the state and its potential to resist external threats generally depends on level of economic develop- ment, population density and arrangement of rural areas. This is especially true for the Rus- sian Far East.

Types of rural areas

The main factors determining the development of rural areas are the natural conditions, socio-demographic potential, development of transport and energy infrastructure, and geography. We can distinguish four types and 9 subtypes of Russian regions with a different character devel- opment, agricultural uses, potential and limitations of rural development:

Type 1: Regions with a predominantly agricultural specialization of the country-side, favourable natural and social conditions of its development. They occupy only 18% of Russian territory, but concentrate 64% of the rural population and agricultural production. This is the main agricultural area of the country, its share in agriculture and the rural population of Russia in the pe- riod 1990-2007 increased. Type 1 is divided into 4 subtypes.

Subtype 1a: Regions with intensive agriculture and relatively dense resettlement (Cen- tral Chernozem and plains of North Caucasus). These regions cover 2% of the whole area of the Russian Federation. 20% of the rural population is living in these areas and 23% of gross agri- cultural output of Russia is produced here. They are characterised by a high share of agricultural land (70-80%), migration attractiveness, highly productive agriculture (grain yield - 2-3 tons / ha, average milk yield of 3-4 tons per cow per year). Agriculture development is based on the favour- able natural conditions for agriculture, high-quality human resources, quick returns of investment and is associated with large and medium agricultural enterprises, farms and house-holds. Socio- economic problems are caused by inadequate regulation of land controls, the rise of unemployment in mainly agricultural areas, lack of compliance with environmental regulations relating to land use and ethnic conflicts.

Subtype 1b: Regions with extensive agriculture and sparse rural settlements (south of the Volga, the Urals and Western Siberia). These regions are mainly specialized on grain produc- tion. In terms of contribution to gross agricultural production they are comparable with subtype 1a (22%), but they occupy a large area (7%). The share of agricultural land is 15-36%, migration rate – minus 2,2 ‰, grain yield – 1 tons/ ha, average milk yield of 3,2 to 3,5 tons per cow year. The de- velopment potential of the regions is associated with relatively favourable demographic composi- tion of the population even at its low density (7 persons per 1 km2), significant land resources (some of which have moved into the category of permanent fallow land), the expansion of crop production in agricultural organizations, and farms and the development of livestock keeping in private households. The main socio-economic problems include a mono mainly agricultural rural economy and the relatively weak development of infrastructure, the dependence of income on the fluctuations in crop yields, dramatic reduction in livestock in agricultural organizations and the complexity of farm production marketing.

Subtype 1c: the Volga and Ural region with intensive agriculture, occupying 2% in Rus- sia, providing for 13% of the agricultural production. Under conditions of maintaining the tradi- tional way of rural migration attractiveness and considerable support for agriculture from regional budgets (capital investment from the federal and regional budgets - 96 rub./ ha) agricultural organi- zations and private households are relatively well developing in this regions. Socio-economic prob- lems are associated with poor development of social and market infrastructure.

Subtype 1d: Republic of Northern Caucasus and Siberia with extensive conventional agriculture are characterized by relatively favourable demographics (the average natural growth

as a smaller seriousness of social problems than in the type 3a, but at the periphery of these regions a zone of social and economic depression is also formed. Prospects for agricultural development of regions of this subtype is more linked to the restoration of the role of agricultural organizations and private individuals. The problems of rural areas: the deficit of qualified personnel, the polarization of the agricultural organizations, retarded development of social infrastructure, the outflow of young people and aging of the population.

Subtype 3c: Regions with a combination of adverse social and environmental condi- tions for rural development (the Urals, some regions of southern Siberia and the Far East). They are characterized by a low density rural population (an average of two people on 1 km2), a combi- nation of agricultural, forestry and the industrial use of mining territory. The problems of rural areas include the outflow of the rural population and labour shortages, lack of transport and social infra- structure.

Type 4: Regions with weak focal mastering of countryside and adverse climatic condi- tions of its development. To this type belong in the main northern and eastern regions, which oc- cupy 62% of the country and are home of 6% of the rural population. The role of these regions in agriculture is low (figure as above), but they created a fifth of the gross national product of Russia, mainly in the extractive industries.

Subtype 4a: Regions with a predominance of focal development of mining and forest industries (north of European Russia, Khanty-Mansi, Irkutskaya region, the regions of the Far East). The rural area there is represented mainly by forestry and mining towns. Microfocal peri- urban agriculture exists due to strong support from the state budget (capital investment from the federal and regional budgets up to 500 rouble. 1 ha of farmland). The problems of rural areas of this type include forestry crisis of enterprises, unemployment, out-migration.

Subtype 4b: sparsely populated northern regions (Far North). Regions of this subtype occupy the largest area (44%), but they account for only 2% of the rural population is extremely low (an average of 0 people per 1 km2). The agricultural sector is represented by the traditional crafts of indigenous peoples: reindeer herding, hunting, farming, fishing. The problems of the rural areas of this type include poor social infrastructure, the outflow of population, pollution, mining ventures.

Thus, type 1 is characterized by the expansion of the role of agriculture in rural develop- ment through modernization, but needs strengthening and improvement of infrastructure arrange- ment of rural settlements. Type 2 is characterized by the close interpenetration of urban and rural areas, the rapid development of service and recreation leading to the displacement of large and effi- cient agricultural organizations. Type 3 covers the most depressed rural areas, with the cri-sis com- panies. Here are the main constraint is the development of human re-sources and the social envi- ronment. Type 4 - underdeveloped rural areas with difficult natural conditions, micro-focal devel- opment or traditional economy of indigenous peoples.

Fig. 3. Types of rural areas in the level of the Russian Federation

Interregional differentiation does not cover the diversity of the country-side, often intra- regional differences are greater than differences between regions. Especially great contrasts can be recorded from intra-type 3 and 4 (the difference between the suburbs and periphery).Within each region can be identified relatively developed areas, depressed areas with severe socio-economic is- sues and rural areas in transition. Intra-regional zoning should be made in the development of sus- tainable rural development of the Russian Federation.

3 Goals and objectives for rural development

The main objective of sustainable development of rural areas is to create conditions for achieving of well-being by creating a self-developing socio-ecological-economic territorial system. This purpose is the preservation and enhancement of cultural heritage, ensuring the reproduction and long-term use of natural resources and the conservation of species diversity, diversification of activities in rural areas through the development of local industry, handicrafts, fisheries, tourism and other economic activities.

Types of rural areas in the level of the Russian Federation

Fig. 3 The transition to sustainable development of rural areas

The lower part of the scheme shows three main areas of human activity in rural areas: eco- nomic, social and environmental. Through the use of special tools for rural development (module 2) there is a mobilization of human and economic potential of the self-development of rural areas, which ultimately helps to over-come rural poverty and raises living standards, which are a prerequi- site to sustain-able development, based on the use of regional and local resources.

3 Differences between the sectoral and integrated territorial approaches

Forced intensification of agricultural production was for many years the main approach to the development of rural areas. At present, in the Russian society the awareness for the need of a focused and sustainable development of rural areas is growing. While many problems have been identified, applicable strategies for their solution have not yet been developed. As a rule, there is an attempt to cope with the problems of rural areas with scattered, unrelated activities. There is mostly no proper co-ordination and co-coherence of programs and projects. This is due to a lack of experi- ence, and often due to the ability of the specific vision of rural development. And it involves more than the sum of individual measures to support agriculture and promote entrepreneurship.

The sectoral approach in addressing the problems of rural areas should be supplemented by projects, covering the basic problems of rural areas, that is not only agriculture but also forestry, water conservation and other industries and activities, without which sustainable development is not feasible (protection of the environment, social programs).

Overcoming poverty, rising welfare

Sustainable rural development based on effective use of own resources

Potential: knowledge and skills of people, natural resources

Increasing of production efficiency

Development of local self-government

Economic growth

Conside- ration of environmental constraints

Social security

Mobilization of internal self-potentials for development

Framework conditions for sustainable agricultural development

Planning and organization of development

Policy on rural areas concerns the welfare of the population of a territory, while sectoral ap- proaches have narrower goals, some of which coincide with the objectives of rural development policy, others coincide partially, and others, may even contradict them. Obvious shortcomings of sectoral projects served as a starting point for the design of complex integrated rural development programs. The main characteristics of this approach are: multidisciplinary focus, regional ap- proach. The complexity of the problems of rural development is indicated by its research base (Fig. 3).

Fig. 3 Research base for sustainable rural development.

Sectoral approaches perceive the spatial development of the rural population only in accor- dance with their specific role: the peasants - as producers of food, bus passengers - as participants in traffic, the patients - as patients or as users of medical institutions, etc. However all aspects of hu- man life should be equally considered.

In rural communities, there are many different needs and a number of different problems. In the technical language it is called the &quot;orientation of the target group.&quot;

Thus, people with their problems represent a starting point for sustainable development and human problems in their entirety require interdisciplinary solutions. For example, problems of the peasants of Nonchernozem regions are not just a backward agricultural technology, but the whole set of different, interrelated factors.