EURASIAN LAW JOURNAL №8(159)2021

CONTENT OF NUMBER AND SUMMARIES OF ARTICLES

EURASIAN LAW JOURNAL №8(159)2021

SUMMARIES OF ARTICLESSUMMARIES OF ARTICLES

PERSONA GRATA

I.L. Trunov:

From the “country of prisons” to the liberal and humane criminal policy of Russia

Interview with Igor L. Trunov, Doctor

of Judicial Science (S.J.D.), Candidate of Economic Sciences, Professor,

Honorable Lawyer. Deputy Chairman of the International Union of

lawyers. The President of the Union of Lawyers of Russia

EURASIAN GEOPOLITICS AND INTERNATIONAL LAW

FarkhutdinovI.Z.

Triumph of the Taliban or a new round

of civil war. How likely is the Taliban seizure of the territories of

neighboring countries?

INTERNATIONAL LAW

MishalchenkoYu.V.,KarasaevaL.V.

International legal and economic aspects of the development of the European Union and the UK after BREXIT

GagloevO.F.

International legal aspect of the right of dual nationals to take part in government

KleminA.V.

The “direct effect” of EU law

ShugurovM.V.

Eurasian engineering center as a mechanism of production-industrial and technological cooperation within the EAEU: legal aspects

DonskayaD.S.

Problems of unification in the sphere of online resolution of cross-border disputes

MisrokovT.Z.

Activities of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization to combat terrorism

MohammadSarwarMohammadAnwar,RagimovT.S

Environmental protection in the 21st century:Sustainable development and international law

BulavchikE.V.

International Legal Regulation of Environmental Entrepreneurship: international experience of legal regulation

ShugurovaI.V.,ShugurovM.V.

Protection of intellectual property rights in the context of development of digital platforms: prospects for the EAEU

VasyakinaE.V.

The new version of the Constitution of

the Russian Federation:an expected reality or an opportunity for

non-application of international law?

INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LAW

OmranMohamadAghyad

Eviction of the tenant under the civil law of the Syrian Arab Republic

SurzhanovS.V.

About some features of the bankruptcy legislation of Australia

INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICAL LAW

UlyanovYa.A.

Legal regulation of competition in the Eurasian Economic Union: controversial issues

LAW OF THE FOREIGN COUNTRIES

TranThanhThao

Improving the regulatory framework for corruption crimes in Vietnam in the context of international integration

THEORY OF STATE AND LAW

KozhenkoYa.V.,AgafonovaT.P.

Genesis of legal regulation on responsibility for crimes against family and minors in Russia

KodzokovI.A.

The influence of the conditions of globalization on the main areas of activity of states

MukhamatulinaL.M.,VasiljevaK.S.

Implementation of the norms of Russian

and international legislation aimed at protecting fundamental rights

and freedoms, in the light of the reform of the Constitution of the

Russian Federation

PiskunovaO.V.

The method of persuasion in the process of ensuring legal realization

RomadanovaE.I.

Legal and organizational aspects of the introduction of antimonopoly compliance in the activities of Russian legal entities

SamusevichA.G.,NegamutzyanovaA.S.

On the issue of the use of information from social networks in the process of proving

KodzokovI.A.,KodzokovaK.A.

Social purpose and social value of the state and their relationship with the essence of the state

HISTORY OF STATE AND LAW

YakovetsE.N.,ZhuravlenkoN.I.,OzhiganovaM.I.

Legal status of foreign citizens and

representatives of the Non-Russian population of the Russian State

during the period of the reforms of the Peter the Great. Part I

DashkovT.K.,UsachevS.I.

The history of distribution and legal measures to combat tobacco smoking in Russia

ZotovaK.V.,FedotovaI.N.

The Soviet correctional labor camp through the eyes of a prisoner (based on the works of V. Shalamov and E. Ginzburg)

Permyakov M.V.,KhodasevichO.N.,KilinA.G.

Organization of the bar in Russia

SaberovaM.Sh.,KhaninS.V.,PolyakovaE.S.

Formation and development of procurement legislation in pre-revolutionary Russia

YakovetsE.N.,ZhuravlenkoN.I.,GrigorusL.N.

Development of production relations in Russia at the times of Peter the Great

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

GryaznovaE.A.

Ensuring the right to freedom and personal inviolability, the grounds and procedure for restricting it in criminal proceedings

DibirovM.T.,MurtazalievaP.Z.

Guarantees of citizens’ electoral rights

IdrisovI.K.,VerdievM.A.

Priority directions and ways to optimize the activities of the social institute of patriotism

GadzhiemenovaZ.M.

The role of constitutional control in ensuring the rule of law

DamirovaK.R.,RamazanovaE.T.

Constitutional and legal framework for ensuring the national security of the Russian Federation

ADMINISTRATIVE LAW

Biruykova E. R.

On the question of the correct understanding of the concept of «civil servant»

Kirillovykh A. A.

The system and competence of public administration bodies in the field of higher education in Russia

Mikhaylov M. Yu., Polskoy I. P.

Some issues arising during the

implementation of the legislation on administrative supervision of

persons released from the places of detention

Pavlov N. V., Ovchinnikov E. B., Pulikov V.G.

Powers of the Government of the Russian Federation in special conditions related to the COVID-19 pandemic

Peganova Yu. A.

«Transfer of powers»: analysis of terminological substitution in Russian legal doctrine and law-making practice

Shabanov T. V.

Problems of regulating the administrative and legal status of the Ministry of Construction of the Khabarovsk Territory

Kutskel M. V.

On the issue of the formation of administrative responsibility for drug trafficking

Kashtanova A. O., Kozlova A. A.

Maintaining accounts in social

networks as a factor in attracting the attention of applicants to the

federal Penitentiary Service (using the example of the TikTok online

platform)

Shcherbakov I. S.

Features of professional training of employees of the road patrol service

MUNICIPAL LAW

Belousov V. P.

Specific features of the foundations of local self-government in the CIS countries

Shumal V. I.

Is it a democracy? On the status of municipal election commissions

CIVIL LAW

Ananjeva E. O., Ivliev P. V.

Advantages and disadvantages of the transition of the Russian education system to the online environment

Gulyaeva T. B.

Problems for determining reasonable compensation for moral damage

Gurkina D. A.

Inheritance fund as a special format of a legal entity

Guseva I. I., Zubkov V. N.

Compensation for moral damage from the Russian Pravda to the present day: are there any prospects?

Zvereva V. S., Levashova A. V., Shestova V. E.

Fundamentals of regulation of artificial intelligence in Russia and prospects for its development

Dadova Z. I., Burayeva L. A.

Gender-based approach to the study of crime

Miftakhov A. M.

The advantages of implementing the rule of Islamic law on drinking alcohol for society

Ryzhenkov A. R.

Peculiarities of understanding legal facts in the countries of the “common law” tradition

Fadeeva A. V., Sheremetjeva A. K.

Functional need for the existence of the institute of joint will of the spouses

Ivliev P. V., Kondrashov S. V.

The activities of journalists in the context of the imposed restrictions associated with the coronavirus pandemic regime

Usupova Z. F.

Legal regulation of the inheritance fund in the Russian Federation: problems and prospects

Semyonova Ya. O.

A reasonable period as an evaluative concept in civil law

CIVIL PROCESS

Solyanichenko O. S.

Issues of standardization and quality of defense in civil proceedings by a lawyer

INFORMATION LAW

Zorina N. S.

About the factors and prevention of computer addiction in adolescents

FINANCIAL LAW

Asadov B. M.

Control and supervisory activities of the FAS of Russia on countering anti-competitive agreements

TAX LAW

Dreval L. N., Polyakova S. A.

To the question of unreasonable tax benefit

Kupriyanov A. S.

Analysis of current judicial practice in terms of tax control of transfer pricing

Ponomarev O. V., Berezina T. E., Cheremisina M. V.

Tax Code gaps to the extent of tax audits regulation

Sugak I. V.

Specific features of the attorney’s activities in case of tax disputes

CRIMINAL LAW

Abazov I. S., Voskoboev A. I.

Extremism and terrorism as products of globalization

Aripshev A. M.

Fraud committed using official position

Akhmedkhanova S. T., Umarova V. A.

Prevention of violations of traffic rules and operation of vehicles

Gadjiev S. S., Magomedova A. I.

Legal characteristics of objective elements of the corpus delicti

Galyautdinov R. F., Chembarisov T. I.

Statistics and methods of combating crimes in the field of theft of cell phones

Ivanyakov R. I., Vasenkov M. V.

Features of juvenile delinquency in the 19th – early 20th century

Ilidzhev A. A.

Some aspects of identifying signs of a completed crime under the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation

Kardanov R. R., Kurin A. A., Kuchmezov R. A.

On the issue of initiating cases related to violation of administrative legislation

Karpushkin A. V.

To the question of the criminal legal assessment of harm to the person who committed the crime

in the process of his detention

Kashirgov A. H., Gutaev A. M.

Forms of implementation of criminal liability

Kodzokova L. A., Kumysheva M. K.

Fine as a type of punishment in administrative and criminal law

Kumysheva M. K., Fedina L. M.

The legal aspect of the termination of a criminal case or criminal prosecution in connection with the imposition of a court fine

Kurbanov Z. A., Akhmedkhanova S. T.

Problematic issues of sentencing for crimes related to the misuse of budgetary funds and funds of state extra-budgetary funds

Lapin I. V.

Servitude: the concept and expediency of criminalization in the Russian Federation

Latypova D. M.

Influence of optional signs of the subjective side on the qualification of crimes committed in correctional institutions

Lyadov E. V.

Arrest as a type of criminal punishment alternative to deprivation of freedom

Mazdogova Z. Z., Makoeva E. R.

Some issues of prevention of offenses committed by minors

Magomedova H. M., Radjabov Sh. R.

Abuse of authority by businesses and other organizations:investigation issues

Nabiev F. F., Migranov R. N.

On the issue of legislative regulation

of criminal liability for knowingly false testimony, expert opinion,

specialist or incorrect translation (Art.307 of the Criminal Code of the

Russian Federation)

Nabiullina V. R.

Criminal liability for public

dissemination of knowingly false information in the Republic of

Kazakhstan and in the Russian Federation

Rogova N. N.

General and special rules for mitigating punishment

Stupina S. A.

The identity of the guilty person as

one of the grounds for fear of carrying out a threat of murder or

causing serious harm to health

Tokbayev A. A., Bitov A. A.

On the question of general social prevention of illegal traffic drugs in the Russian Federation

Pisarevskaya E.A.

On the rationale for lowering the age of criminal responsibility

Safonov A. A., Kangezov M. R.

Problemic aspects of involving a teacher (psychologist) in investigating criminal cases with the participation of minors

Selezneva N. A., Kabaha Mahdi F. M.

Criminal law characteristics of murder committed by poisoning under the criminal law of Jordan

Kashirgov A. H., Gutaev A. M.

Confiscation of property as a criminal law measure

Permyakov M. V., Khodasevich O. N., Kotov V. V.

Corruption as a factor of economic stagnation and increased crime

Radzhabov M. R., Esenbulatova E. Kh.

Individualization of punishment for violation of traffic rules and operation of vehicles

Tarchokov B. A., Tarchokova M. A.

On the distinction of the concepts of “extremism” and “terrorism”: a differentiated approach

Teppeev A. A., Misrokov T. Z.

Preventive measures to protect population from telephone fraud

Fakov A. M.

On the issue of preventing and combating corruption in modern Russia

Shaganova O. М.

Illegal cultivation of narcotic plants under the criminal legislation of foreign countries

Gladych N. V.

Criminal liability for crimes in cyberspace:international legal aspects

Makoeva E. R., Kravtsova A. M.

Foreign experience in the prevention of juvenile delinquency

Shumal V. I., Grechko A. A., Perebeynosov M. S.

Some aspects of corruption

Shogenov Z. A., Karachaev A. R.

Features and types of remote fraud

Urusov Z. Kh., Kodzokov B. V.

Drug smuggling: features of counteraction

CRIMINAL PROCESS

Bulygin A. V., Bulygina Yu. Ya.

Determination of the period of

familiarization with the materials of the criminal case: certain aspects

of the implementation of Part 3 of Article 217 of the Criminal

Procedure Code of the Russian Federation

Levchenko O. V.

On the issue of the separation of criminal and criminal procedure law

Gaydarov A. A., Radjabov Sh. R.

The accused in the criminal process: rights and obligations, the main problems of their implementation

Gutieva I. G.

Problems of state protection of officials and participants in criminal proceedings

Erina K. A., Novikov D. S.

Role of using video conferencing during interrogation at the stage of preliminary investigation of corruption

Nazarkin E. V., Suleymanov T. A., Zakharova S. S.

Features of the working stage of the

inspection of the scene of the incident during the investigation of a

crime in the field of computer information

Zharko N. V., Roman E. M.

Criminal-legal and criminalistic means

of countering illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs, psychotropic

substances and their analogues: current state, problems, issues and ways

to solve them

Kovalenko E. V.

Use of the results of OSA as evidence in a criminal case

Lukyanov E. V.

About some guarantees of legal

activity at the stage of admission of a lawyer as a defender: the

practice of Russian courts and the European Court of Human Rights

Medizhov R. K., Radjabov Sh. R.

The mechanism of pre-trial adoption of an indictment: problems of theory and practice

Prokhorova T. L.

Problems of defining the concept of temporary suspension from office

Suleymanov T. A., Nazarkin E. V., Zakharova S. S.

Application of the principles of criminal procedure in the investigation of penitentiary crimes

Fayrushina R. D.

Organization of prosecutor’s

supervision in the process of implementing a preliminary investigation

in the form of inquiry (based on the materials of the territorial body)

CRIMINAL-EXECUTIVE LAW

Bevz L. V.

Improving the technical security of the objects of the UIS as one of the means of ensuring the regime

Belova E. Yu.

On the issue of international penitentiary standards

Vasilenko S. N.

Conditions and factors affecting the safety of the penitentiary system personnel

Girenok G. A., Sergeenko A. E.

Special features of inmates’ employment in prisons of Great Britain

Milova I. E., Azarkhin A. V., Evtushenko K. A.

Criminal legal characteristics of crimes of non-payment of taxes on an especially large scale

Ulendeeva N. I.

Problems of regulating the responsibility of convicts to compulsory labor

Cherezova M. A.

Social work with prisoners (foreign experience)

CRIMINALISTICS

Datsko N. I.

Features of solving crimes related to the illegal extraction of aquatic biological resources

Shagieva G. R.

Linguistic evidence

CRIMINOLOGY

Kodzokova L. A., Anikina N. E., Bezobrazova O. V.

Criteria and indicators for assessing the state of neglect of minors

Koryagina S. A.

The need-motivational sphere of the personality of a minor criminal

Kushkhov R. Kh., Animokov I. K.

Female crime as an object of criminological research

Tolgurova Z. H., Khakunov A. M.

The role of the media in the crime prevention system as a criminological category in Russia

Trunov I. L., Aivar L. K.

Criminological aspects of surrogacy

LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES

Babin A. V.

Sports games as a necessary tool for improving the physical fitness of police officers

Gutieva I. G.

The place of the internal affairs bodies in the system of executive authorities and their interaction

with other bodies

Mashekuasheva M. Kh., Gelyakhova L. A.

Features of the formation of professionalism of the head of the internal affairs bodies: psychological aspect

Kоrkmazov A. V., Kuchmezov R. A., Ashkhotova L. A.

The role of the educational organization in the personal and semantic self-determination of a police officer

Manukyan A. R.

Special skills of police officers for transporting and escorting a protected person

Safronov D. M., Shamaev A. M.

Features of legal regulation in

standard and special conditions when performing operational and service

tasks by the forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia and

the troops of the National guard of Russia

SECURITY AND LAW

Aripshev A. M.

Countering terrorism as an integral part of extremism is one of the most important tasks of modern states

Bondarev S. P., Kangezov M. R., Bokhan A. P.

Countering terrorism and extremism: legislation and practice

Volkhovskiy R. A., Smirnova I. N.

To the question of the influence of

risks in the professional the activities of the staff of the

criminal-executive inspections for the security of penitentiary system

Givel L. E., Korotkova O. V.

Countering information and psychological terrorism in times of pandemic COVID-19: a private legal aspect

Kоrkmazov A. V.

«Terrorism» and «extremism» as a danger of modern realities

Mazdogova Z. Z., Urusova L. Kh.

Youth tolerance formation as means of terrorism prevention

Misrokov T. Z.

Activities of the internal affairs

bodies of the Russian Federation on the prevention of extremism among

pupils of educational organizations

Romanov A. A., Nelyubin R. V.

Improving the legal framework for prevention of unsurveillance and offenses of minors

Teppeev A. A.

Ways to combat the financing of terrorism

Mashekuasheva M. Kh., Gelyakhova L. A.

Electoral processes and countering extremist manifestations

STATE AND LAW

Dadova Z. I., Kurashinova A. Kh.

Traditional culture transformation and its consequences

Ryabtsev A. M.

Legal status of a civil servant

Tlupova A. V., Karchaeva K. A.

Public coercion as a method of public administration

PEDAGOGY AND LAW

Garipova F. M.

The formation of economic and legal competence of university students by means of the English language

Kurilkina O. A., Sholokhov A. V.,

Samoylova I. N., Serdyukova Yu. A.

Corrective role of education in the “inheritance rights” of the ruling classes

Smirnova M. I.

Interference as a problem of speech purity of employees of the interior agencies of the Republic

of Crimea

SPORTS LAW

Lebedev A. V., Andreev S. A., Sayafarov V. S.

On the issue of the effectiveness of the resolution of sports disputes by specialized arbitration courts

SOCIOLOGY AND LAW

Le Hoang Viet Lam

Corporate social responsibility in COVID-19 pandemic contributes to sustainable development: a case study of Vietnam

ECONOMICAL SCIENCES

Ishmeeva A. S., Salikhova S. F.

Globalization and economic security of the state

Korgun I. A., Nguen K.H., Gorbacheva V. O.

Vietnam’s participation in regional integration processes:interim results and prospects

Loginova A. S., Odinokova A. V., Mayorova S. A.

Analysis of the development of foreign economic relations of the EAEU member states

Mikheev P. N.

Methodological approaches to organization of risk management and internal control division in oil and gas companies

Naboko S. Yu., Vasiljeva E. V., Sichenko N. S.

The current trends of development of the car tourism in Russia:infrastructure and digitalization of services

Fazrakhmanov I. I., Nabieva K. I.

The role and importance of investments in a modern oil and gas company

Shalaginova N. A., Shvachkin I. E.

On the issue of legal regulation of smart contracts:problem statement

Chernyavskaya E. V.

The mechanism of customs regulation of

intra-industry trade of the Russian Federation in meat and meat

products on foreign markets and on the territory of the EAEU

Chervontseva M. A.

Problem aspects of intellectual performance management in industrial technoparks

Arzhaev F. I.

Yuan in the foreign exchange market of Asian countries:the impact of the coronary crisis and prospects

PHILOSOPHICAL SCIENCES

Bondarenko N. G.

The phenomenon of alienation in historical and philosophical retrospect

Vinogradov A. V., Zaytsev N. N., Levchenko D. V.

Transformation of Plato’s political philosophy into National Socialism

Borovoy E. M.

Simulacrum and fake as tools of the formation of the image of another

Zubkov S. A., Frolov M. O.

Ecophilic philosophy and environmental organizations and parties

Ilikaev A. S.

Totemism in the traditional Mari religion

Istomina O. B., Shtykov N. N.

Demographic structure as an object of socio-philosophical analysis

Nikitina V. V., Shtanko M. A.

Construction of the ethnic picture of the world

Pushkareva M. A., Pushkarev A. V.

The ratio of natural and artificial intelligence:the experience of methodological analysis

Chudina-Schmidt N. V., Gomenko Yu. O.

Personal features as background of anti-social behavior

Chudinov S. I.

Deviant consciousness and metaphysics of «ideological crime» in F. M. Dostoevsky’s novel The Brothers Karamazov»

Yashin A. N., Zandelov V. V.

The idea of social justice in religious and philosophical views I. A. Ilyin

Diarov V. O.

The genesis of the problem of determination in evolution

Popkova N. A.

Stages in the development of ideas about global problems

Avdonin А. N.

On the foundations of social foresight. Part 3. (Alternative-attractor approach to the war of 1941-1945 and modernity)

Khaziev Z. A., Neganov F. M.

Philosophical notes on the concept of history:about the presence of the speakable and unspeakable in history

BOOK REVIEW

Buryanov S. A.

From the creative heritage of Igor

Ivanovich Lukashuk to the Cambridge edition of Insur Zabirovich

Farkhutdinov In search of a new just world order. “The mysterious and

obvious in American diplomacy: from Monroe to Trump. Cambridge scholars

publishing

INFORMATION FOR AUTHORS

EURASIAN GEOPOLITICS AND INTERNATIONAL LAW

Farkhutdinov I.Z.

Triumph of the Taliban or a

new round of civil war. How likely is the Taliban seizure of the

territories of neighboring countries?

The radical Islamist Taliban movement

originated precisely among the Pashto people in 1994, and in 1996, after

overthrowing the Mujahideen government called the Northern Alliance, it

seized power throughout Afghanistan. In 2001, the Americans forced the

Pashtuns to hide in northern Pakistan. The Taliban cultivate a form of

Muslim religion that seeks to establish Sharia law as fundamental in the

state and society. The Taliban are promoting the ideas that appeal to

the Afghan majority, namely the peasants.

The 20-year American effort to create a

functioning government and military in the country has turned into one

of the most deafening failures in US history. The pro-American Afghan

government fell after the Taliban took over Kabul.

The Taliban have several options for

arranging Afghanistan. For example, to return society to the medieval

way of life, or again, having entered into an alliance with some

terrorist group, to begin expansion into neighboring countries, which

will end in another war.

The Taliban Islamist movement

originated precisely among the Pashtun people in 1994, and in 1996 it

seized power throughout Afghanistan. In 2001, the Americans forced them

to hide in northern Pakistan. The Taliban are the part of Islam that

seeks to establish Sharia law as fundamental in the state and society.

The Taliban are promoting ideas that appeal to the Afghan majority,

namely the peasants.

The 20-year American effort to create a

functioning government and military in the country has turned into one

of the most deafening failures in US history. The pro-American Afghan

government fell after the Taliban took over Kabul.

The Taliban have several options for

arranging Afghanistan. For example, to return society to the medieval

way of life, or again, having entered into an alliance with some

terrorist group, to begin expansion into neighboring countries. There is

also a third option – will the Taliban be able to abandon the most

radical measures to rebuild Afghan society?

Keywords: Taliban,

Pashtuns, Afghan war, “cemetery of empires”, Sharia, Afghan Vendee,

Waziristan, “Islamic State”, Shiism, Sufism, Taliban allies.

Work bibliographic list

1. Arzamaskin Ju.N. Velika li ugroza

psevdoislamskogo jekstremizma v Jugo-Vostochnoj Azii // Islam v

sovremennom mire. 2017. Tom 13. # 4.

2. Krechetnikov A. Vyhod iz tupika:

kak zakonchilas’ vojna v Afganistane // BBC Russian Com. United Nations

Security Council Resolution 1401 (2002) on 28 March 2002.

3. United Nations Security Council Resolution 1401 (2002) on 28 March 2002.

4. United Nations Security Council Resolution 1401 (2002) on 28 September 2021.

5. Rezoljucija 2462 Soveta Bezopasnosti ot 28 marta 2019 g.

INTERNATIONAL LAW

Mishalchenko Yu.V., Karasaeva L.V.

International legal and economic aspects of the development of the European Union and the UK after BREXIT

With all the importance of the

benefits of integration development, all this time the threat of leaving

the EU remained for Great Britain, and the idea of their own project

for the future was strengthened in the minds of many British. Therefore,

“Brexit” became a natural consequence of all those objective and

subjective reasons that were formed as a result of the evolutionary

development of British-European politics. This article examines and

substantiates the issues of a civilizational perspective, both for the

UK and the European Union after Brexit. The authorshighlights the

prerequisites for “Brexit” and the problematic issues of the UK exit

from the EU for Ireland and Northern Ireland. In particular, the article

analyzes the possible legaland economic consequences of the UK’s exit

from the EU, taking into account the UK-EU Trade Agreement signed at the

end of 2020.

Keywords: Brexit, EU, UK, USA, referendum, agreement, coronavirus, economy, backstop.

Work bibliographic list

1. Adonis A. ‘Victor’ Varadkar could

lead modern Ireland into a new era // The New European. 11 January

2020.[Electronic resource]. – Access mode:

https://www.theneweuropean.co.uk/top-stories/boris-johnson-leovaradkar-brexit-crisis-winners-1-6468881

(accessed:28.08.2021).

2. Boffey D. UK and EU agree Brexit

trade deal // The Guardian. 24 December. 2020. [Electronic resource].

-Access mode:

https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2020/dec/24/uk-eu-agree-brexit-trade-deal-agreement

(accessed:14.08.2021).

3. Brexit: the impact on Ireland //

European Parlament News. 29.09.2017[Electronic resource]. – Access

mode:https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/eu-affairs/20170925STO84610/brexit-the-impact-onireland(accessed:

03.08.2021).

4. Herszenhorn D. EU and UK wrap up

Christmas Eve deal on post-Brexit trade // Politico. December 24, 2020.

[Electronic resource]. – Access mode:

https://www.politico.eu/article/uk-eu-brexit-trade-deal-agreed/(accessed:

23.08.2021).

5. Koopman S. Brexit: Outlook 2020.

[Electronic resource].- Access mode:

https://economics.rabobank.com/publications/2020/february/brexit-outlook-2020/(accessed:

04.08.2021).

6. Sandford A. Post-Brexit Guide:

Where are we now– and how did we get here? // Euronews.

10.09.2020.[Electronic resource]. – Access mode:

https://www.euronews.com/2020/06/11/brexit-draft-deal-first-ofmany-hurdles-to-a-smooth-exit

(accessed: 16.08.2021).

7. The EU in the world – population //

Eurostat. January 2020. [Electronic resource]. – Access mode:

https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/The_EU_in_the_world_-_population

(accessed:28.08.2021).

8. The Economic Consequences of the

Brexit Deal, Centre for Economic Performance, The UK in a Changing

Europe. [Electronic resource]. – Access mode:

http://ukandeu.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/Theeconomic-consequences-of-Brexit.pdf

(accessed:19.08.2021).

9. The draft EU-UK Trade and

Cooperation Agreement: Protecting the European Union’s interests,

ensuring fair competition, and continued cooperation in areas of mutual

interest on 24 December 2020. [Electronic resource]. – Access mode:

https://ec.europa.eu/info/sites/info/files/brexit_files/info_site/tca-20-12-28.pdf(accessed:

10.08.2021).

10. UK votes to leave the EU 2016.

[Electronic resource].- Access mode:

https://www.bbc.com/news/politics/eu_referendum/results (accessed:

02.08.2021).

11. Understanding the economic impact

of Brexit, Institute for Government. [Electronic resource]. – Access

mode:

https://www.instituteforgovernment.org.uk/sites/default/files/publications/2018%20IfG%20%20

Brexit%20 impact%20%5Bfinal%20for%20web%5D.pdf(accessed: 25.08.2021).

12. VabStolk Ch., Hafner M. The Cost

of Brexit Uncertainty and the Negative Implications for the UK Economy//

The RAND Blog. July 8, 2020. [Electronic resource].- Access mode:

https://www.rand.org/blog/2020/07/the-cost-of-brexit-uncertainty-and-the-negativeimplications.

html (accessed: 11.08.2021).

13. Wintour P. Joe Biden warning

dashes UK hopes of early US trade deal // The Guardian. 2 December 2020.

[Electronic resource]. – Access mode:

https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2020/dec/02/uk-hopesof-early-us-trade-deal-dashed-by-biden-warning(accessed:

29.08.2021).

14. Ziady H. A no-deal Brexit will

destroy 300,000 jobs and push up food prices // CNN. December 8,

2020.[Electronic resource]. – Access mode:

https://edition.cnn.com/2020/12/07/business/no-deal-brexit-economicconsequences/index.html

(accessed: 31.08.2021).

INTERNATIONAL LAW

Gagloev O.F.

International legal aspect of the right of dual nationals to take part in government

The article is concerned with the

possibility of dual nationals to take part in the government of one of

their citizenships state through the eligibility to public service or

entering the civil service. This question arise from the “problem” of

bipatrides loyalty.

The author analyzes the suitable

universal, regional and bilateral international treaties, legal cases

and scientific literature.

The author comes to the conclusion

that modern international law does not restrict the right of dual

nationals to take part in the government of their citizenship state. At

the same time, international law contains a number of mechanisms aimed

at the possibility of establishing reasonable restrictions by the

domestic legislation of the interested states themselves. Accordingly,

due to the ambiguity of certain formulations, there is a conflict in

international legal acts on the issue of the right of states to impose

restrictions on the right of dual nationals to take part in government.

The author considers it necessary to

eliminate ambiguities in international law on this issue, considering

that a further increase in the number of cases of dual citizenship is

inevitable.

Keywords: dual

citizenship, dual nationality, dual nationals, the right to take part in

government, bipadrids, multiple citizenship,multiple nationality.

Work bibliographic list

1. Gagloev O. F.

Mezhdunarodno-pravovoe razvitie dvojnogo grazhdanstva: istoriko-pravovoj

aspekt.// Zhurnal zarubezhnogo zakonodatel’stva i sravnitel’nogo

pravovedenija. – 2020. – # 3.– S. 115-129.

2. Lysenko V. I. K voprosu ob

institute «dvojnogo» grazhdanstva i passivnom izbiratel’nom prave pri

provedenii vyborov: zarubezhnyj i rossijskij opyt. – [Jelektronnyj

resurs]. – Rezhim

dostupa:http://www.rfsv.ru/law/normy-i-printsipy/k-voprosuob-institute-dvoinogo-grazhdanstva-i-passivnomiz

b i r a t e l n o m – p r a v e – p r i – p r o v e d e n i i – v y b o

r o v -zarubezhnyi-i-rossiiskii-opyt.

INTERNATIONAL LAW

Klemin A.V.

The “direct effect” of EU law

«Direct effect» is how the refusal of

states to ratify EU acts usually called. It is considered that they do

not need to be implemented.

It’s showed concrete examples in what

forms the states have retained control and supremacy over the incoming

acts of the EU. On the basis of Germany, as the state most committed to

national implementation, it was possible to show its mechanism, a number

of German acts reflecting it and expand the scientific picture of the

membership of states in an international organization. The issues of the

EU status, the generic and species nature of their acts have been

clarified.

Keywords: European

law, EU direct effect, implementation, EU law, international

organization, international treaty, subject of international law

INTERNATIONAL LAW

Shugurov M.V.

Eurasian engineering center as a mechanism of production-industrial and technological cooperation within the EAEU: legal aspects

This article is devoted to the

analysis of the system of legal foundations for functioning of the

Eurasian Engineering Center for Machine Tool Building as an industry

integrator within the framework of production and technological

cooperation of the EAEU member states. The author have justified that

the structure of legal regulation of cooperation of all interested

parties in format of the Center corresponds to the legal model of

research and production and technological integration within the EAEU

and is able to ensure the fulfillment of the tasks assigned to it.

Keywords: Eurasian

Engineering Center, integration in science and technology, digital

transformations, machine tool technologies, law of the EAEU.

Work bibliographic list

1. Butov A. Rynok produkcii stankostroenija (2020 g.).– M.: Vysshaja shkola jekonomiki, 2020. – 95 s.

2. EJeK. Informacija o dejatel’nosti inzhiniringovyh centrov na territorii EAJeS. – M.: EJeK, 2016. – 49 s.

3. EJeK. Informacija o rezul’tatah

analiza sostojanija i razvitija stankostroenija v gosudarstvah-chlenah

TS i EJeP. – M.: Evrazijskaja jekonomicheskaja komissija, 2014. – 81 s.

4. Salieva R. N. Pravovye osnovy

nauchno-tehnicheskogo sotrudnichestva gosudarstv Evrazijskogo

jekonomicheskogo sojuza // Vestnik jekonomiki, prava i sociologii. –

2019. – # 3. – T. 2. – S. 144-147.

5. Serov V. Oboronnoe stankostroenie: proshloe i nastojashhee // Stankoinstrument. – 2016. – # 2. – S. 26–28.

6. Sokolova N. A. Evrazijskij jekonomicheskij sojuz:pravovaja priroda i priroda prava // Leh Russica. –2017. – # 11. – S. 47-57.

INTERNATIONAL LAW

Donskaya D.S.

Problems of unification in the sphere of online resolution of cross-border disputes

Unification as a process of developing

uniform legal regulation at the international level is important in the

context of the formation of cross-border online dispute resolution

system, since it will help to create a single legal space and thereby to

expand productive cooperation of the turnover participants. At the same

time, nowadays there exist a number of obstacles that impede the

large-scale unification in this area. The article analyzes the key

pitfalls of the international unification process and substantiates

their applicability to online dispute resolution sphere. The author

notes that the existing problems of unification are more likely the

peculiarities of the unification process and are surmountable in case of

the international community’s interest in creating appropriate

regulators and conducting lawmaking process through the prism of the

cooperative approach based on the application of the best practices in

cross-border dispute resolution sphere and their adaptation to online

proceedings via modern mechanisms with the balance of the parties`

interests. The article also draws attention to possible approaches to

regulating mechanisms for online resolution of cross-border disputes

within the transition period, that is, until the adoption of the act of

unification.

Keywords:

unification, international treaty (convention), online dispute

resolution, ODR, alternative dispute resolution, ADR, crossborder

dispute, international private law, harmonization, non-state regulation,

New-York Convention, European Convention on International Commercial

Arbitration, Singapore Convention on Mediation, UNCITRAL.

Work bibliographic list

1. Gajdaenko Sher N. I. Konvencija o

privedenii v ispolnenie mirovyh soglashenij, dostignutyh v rezul’tate

mezhdunarodnoj kommercheskoj soglasitel’noj procedury: v nachale puti //

Zhurnal rossijskogo prava. – 2017. – # 3. – S. 157-168.

2. Unifikacija i garmonizacija v

mezhdunarodnom chastnom prave. Voprosy teorii i praktiki: monografija/

otv. red. G.K. Dmitrieva, M.V. Mazhorina.– M.: Norma: INFRA-M, 2019. –

208 s.

3. Zasemkova O.F. Singapurskaja

konvencija o privedenii v ispolnenie mirovyh soglashenij, dostignutyh v

rezul’tate posrednichestva (mediacii): ot mechty k real’nosti? // Lex

russica (Russkij zakon).– 2019. – # 3. – S. 60-72.

4. Magomedov S.K. Unifikacija

terminologii normativnyh pravovyh aktov Rossijskoj Federacii. Avtoref.

dis. … kand. jurid. nauk. – M., 2004. – 32 s.

5. Problemy unifikacii mezhdunarodnogo

chastnogo prava: monografija / Otv. red. A.L. Makovskij, I.O. Hlestova.

– M.: Institut zakonodatel’stva i sravnitel’nogo pravovedenija pri

Pravitel’stve Rossijskoj Federacii; ID «Jurisprudencija», 2012. – 535 s.

6. Nikitina N.K. Rossijskoe

zakonodatel’stvo v uslovijah globalizacii (voprosy teorii i praktiki).

Avtoref. dis. … kand. jurid. nauk. – M., 2008. – 27 s.

7. Portnova E.V. Nekotorye problemy

unifikacii mezhdunarodnogo chastnogo prava v sovremennom mire//

Jelektronnyj nauchnyj zhurnal «Nauka. Obshhestvo. Gosudarstvo». — 2016. —

T. 4. # 2. – [Jelektronnyj resurs]. — Rezhim dostupa:

http://esj.pnzgu.ru.

8. Cirina M.A., Vlasova N.V., Muratova

O.V. Problemy unifikacii mezhdunarodnogo chastnogo prava v sovremennom

mire // Zhurnal rossijskogo prava. 2014. N 3. S. 128-139.

9. Calliess G.-P., Heetkamp S. J.Online Dispute Resolution:Conceptual and Regulatory Framework TLI Think! Paper 22/2019.

10. Del Duca L. F. and Rule C. and

Rogers V. Designing a Global Consumer Online Dispute Resolution (ODR)

System for Cross-Border Small Value – High Volume Claims – OAS

Developments (July 6, 2010). Uniform Commercial Code Law Journal, Vol.

42, p. 221, 2010, Penn State Legal Studies Research Paper No. 24-2010,

Stanford Public Law Working Paper No. 1635463.

11. Halili F. and Kutllovci Sh.

UNCITRAL — With a Special Glance Model Law and Arbitration, August 29,

2014. [Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa:

https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2488968(data

obrashhenija: 05.08.2021).

12. Hanriot M. Online Dispute

Resolution (ODR) as a Solution to Cross Border Consumer Disputes: The

Enforcement of Outcomes// McGill Journal of Dispute Resolution, Vol. 2,

No. 1, 2016.

13. Nicolas de Witt. “Online

International Arbitration: Nine Issues Crucial to its Success”, (2001)

12 American Review of International Arbitration.

14. Stephan Paul B. The Futility of

Unification and Harmonization in International Commercial Law.

University of Virginia School of Law, Legal Studies Working Paper No.

99-10, June 1999.

INTERNATIONAL LAW

Misrokov T.Z.

Activities of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization to combat terrorism

The article analyzes the coordinating,

organizational work of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization in the

field of combating terrorism. The author examines the conditions that

allowed this international organization to achieve visible results in

countering extremist threats and comes to the conclusion that the key to

success in this direction is the formation of a solid legal foundation

for interaction and cooperation, a systematic approach to the

coordination of efforts, and the comprehensive application of

counter-terrorism measures. On the positive side, it should be noted the

constant positive expansion of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization,

the accession to it of new states facing the threat of terrorism, as

well as its cooperation with other major international organizations.

Keywords: countering

terrorism, coordination of activities, consolidation of efforts,

international legal regulation, joint anti-terrorist activities,

exchange of experience and information.

Work bibliographic list

1. Shanhajskaja Konvencija o bor’be s

terrorizmom, separatizmom i jekstremizmom // Sobranie zakonodatel’stva

Rossijskoj Federacii ot 13 oktjabrja 2003 goda. # 41. St. 3947.

2. Federal’nyj zakon «O ratifikacii

Konvencii Shanhajskoj organizacii sotrudnichestva protiv terrorizma» //

Sobranie zakonodatel’stva Rossijskoj Federacii ot 4 oktjabrja 2010 g. #

40. St. 4979.

3. Soglashenie mezhdu

gosudarstvami-chlenami Shanhajskoj organizacii sotrudnichestva o

Regional’noj antiterroristicheskoj strukture //Sobranie zakonodatel’stva

Rossijskoj Federacii 2004 g. # 48. St. 4692.

INTERNATIONAL LAW

Mohammad Sarwar Mohammad Anwar, Ragimov T.S

Environmental protection in the 21st century:Sustainable development and international law

The article is devoted to the current

problem of environmental protection. The problems of environmental

safety affect all States without exception, regardless of their

political and economic system. Currently, humanity is facing such

problems as global climate change, the consequence of which may be a

global environmental catastrophe. Special attention is paid to

international law, international environmental law, as well as

international organizations, the international community as a whole, in

their efforts to protect the global environment.

Keywords: ecology, environment, sustainable development, international legal order, sovereign equality, environmental management.

Work bibliographic list

1. Baburin S. N., Ursul A. D. Politika

ustojchivogo razvitija i gosudarstvenno-pravovoj process. –

M:Magistr-Press: INFRA-M, 2010. – 556 s.

2. Emel’janova N. N.

Mezhdunarodno-pravovye problemy obespechenija global’noj bezopasnosti na

sovremennom jetape. Avtoref. dis. … dokt. jurid. nauk.– M., 2012. – 41

s.

3. Kopylov M. N., Emel’janova N. N.

Bor’ba s izmeneniem klimata – vklad v podderzhanie global’noj

bezopasnosti // Evrazijskij juridicheskij zhurnal.– 2011. – 9 (40).

4. Kopylov M. N. Vvedenie v mezhdunarodnoe jekologicheskoe pravo. – M.: RUDN, 2007. – 267 s.

5. Kopylov M. N., Mohammad S. A., Jakusheva E. A. Istorija mezhdunarodnogo jekologicheskogo prava. –M.: RUDN, 2007. – 248 s.

6. Makarov O. I. Jekocid: mezhdunarodno-pravovye aspekty. Avtoref. dis. … kand. jurid. nauk. – M., 1992. – 22 s.

7. Mezhdunarodnyj porjadok: politiko-pravovye aspekty / pod obshh. red. G. H. Shahnazarova. – M.: Nauka, 1986. – 229 s.

8. Natapov S. L. Privlechenie k

otvetstvennosti transnacional’nyh korporacij za narushenie norm

mezhdunarodnogo prava v oblasti prav cheloveka. Avtoref. dis. … kand.

jurid. nauk. – M., 2011. – 26 s.

9. Nashe obshhee budushhee: Doklad

Mezhdunarodnoj komissii po okruzhajushhej srede i razvitiju (perevod s

angl. /Pod red. S. A. Evteeva, R. A. Pereleta; [Predisl. G. Harlem

Brundtland]. – M.: Progress, 1989.– 371 s.

10. Timoshenko A. S. Pravovoj rezhim

prirodnyh resursov, razdeljaemyh dvumja i bolee gosudarstvami

//Sovetskoe gosudarstvo i pravo. – 1977. – # 6.

11. Allott Ph. Eunomia: New Order for a New World. –N.Y.: Oxford University Press, 1990. – Pp. xxiii, 427.

INTERNATIONAL LAW

Bulavchik E.V.

International Legal Regulation of Environmental Entrepreneurship: international experience of legal regulation

The article analyzes the experience of

foreign countries in the legislative regulation of environmental

entrepreneurship. The current approaches to the support and development

of environmental education in the world are identified. It is proposed

to amend the current Russian regulation of environmental

entrepreneurship issues by implementing the best international

experience in the regulatory legal acts of the Russian Federation.

Keywords:

environmental entrepreneurship, environmental entrepreneurship law,

eco-business, ecology law, environmental development, legislation of

environmental protection, ecology support measures.

Work bibliographic list

1. Vurganov M.G., Gorbunova O.V.,

Konstantinova L.F. Zarubezhnyj opyt stanovlenija i razvitija

jekologicheskogo predprinimatel’stva v oblasti ispol’zovanija vtorichnyh

material’nyh resursov i perspektivy dlja Rossii // Global And Regional

Research. – 2019. – # 3.

2. Serova O. A., Barkov A. V.

Mezhdunarodnye standarty ISO i sertifikacija «b Corporation» v pravovoj

modeli obespechenija jekologicheskogo predprinimatel’stva //

Juridicheskie issledovanija. – 2019. – #7.

3. Sirotkina T.A., Pepeljaev S.G. Opyt Rossii i OJeSR v stimulirovanii jekologichnogo biznesa // Zakon. –2017. – # 5.

4. Reform of pollution charges in the

Russian Federation: Assessment of Progress and Opportunities and

Constraints for Further Improvement. – Paris, France:Secretary-General

of the OECD, 2004.

INTERNATIONAL LAW

Shugurova I.V., Shugurov M.V.

Protection of intellectual property rights in the context of development of digital platforms: prospects for the EAEU

This article conceptually formulates

the main points of the EAEU’s possible agenda in the field of

intellectual property rights protection within the framework of national

and Eurasian digital platforms.

Much attention is paid to the problem

of legal means and technical protection measures. Based on the use of

the comparative legal method, authors substantiated that the objective

basis for the development of this area of cooperation is the latest

changes in the legislation of the member states of the Union, as well as

the use of digital technologies in the field of ensuring the

circulation of intellectual property rights.

Keywords: Eurasian Economic Union, intellectual property law, digital transformation, digital platforms, protection of exclusive rights

Work bibliographic list

1. Ahmedov G. A., Vojnikanis E. A.,

Glazunova K. D. i dr. Osnovnye tendencii razvitija prava

intellektual’noj sobstvennosti v sovremennom mire, v tom chisle novye

ob”ekty intellektual’nyh prav i global’naja zashhita. – M., 2017.

2. Ivliev G. P. Transformacija sfery

intellektual’noj sobstvennosti v sovremennyh uslovijah. – M.:

Izdatel’skij Dom «Gorodec», 2020.

3. Kuprevich T. S. Cifrovye platformy v

mirovoj jekonomike: sovremennye tendencii i napravlenija razvitija //

Jekonomicheskij vestnik universiteta. –2018. Vyp. 37/1. – S. 311–318.

4. Shugurov M. V. Direktiva ob

avtorskom prave na Edinom cifrovom rynke: diskussionnye voprosy

//Intellektual’naja sobstvennost’. Avtorskoe pravo i smezhnye prava. –

2019. – # 12. – S. 5-24.

5. JuNKTAD. Doklad o cifrovoj jekonomike – 2019. –N’ju-Jork, 2019.

6. Parker G. G., Alstyne M. W.,

Choudary S. P. Platform Revolution: How Network Markets Are Transforming

the Economy – and How Make Them Work for You. –N.Y. Norton &

Company, 2016.

7. Yang C. Intellectual property policy for internet platforms // WIPO-WTO Colloquium Papers. – 2017. –Vol. 8. – P. 27-36.

INTERNATIONAL LAW

Vasyakina E.V.

The new version of the

Constitution of the Russian Federation:an expected reality or an

opportunity for non-application of international law?

The article examines the provisions of

the Constitution of the Russian Federation, amended in 2020, which

regulate the general foundations of the relationship between the norms

of international and domestic law. From the content of Part 4 of Article

15 of the Constitution of the Russian Federation, it is impossible to

unequivocally determine which source will have priority in the Russian

legal system: a federal law or an international treaty. For the correct

interpretation of this rule, it was necessary to refer to the provisions

of federal laws and judicial practice. The article analyzes the

provisions of Articles 79, 79.1 and 125 of the Constitution in the new

edition and concludes about the regularity and objective nature of the

adopted amendments. According to the author, the amendments to the

Constitution, adopted in 2020, made it possible to more clearly

understand the relationship between international and domestic law in

the Russian Federation, unmistakably determine the dominant role of the

Basic Law of the country, and also confirmed the model of interaction

between international and domestic law built earlier in the Russian

Federation.

Keywords: amendments

to the Constitution of the Russian Federation, application of

international law, correlation of international and domestic law.

Work bibliographic list

1. Barnashov A.M. Konstitucii

gosudarstv i mezhdunarodnoe pravo // Vestnik Tomskogo gosudarstvennogo

universiteta. Pravo. – 2013. – # 2 (8). – S. 24-28.

2. Bekjashev K.A. Mezhdunarodnoe publichnoe pravo. Uchebnik. – M: Prospekt, 2021. – 1048 s.

3. Zor’kin V.D. Predel ustupchivosti

// Rossijskaja gazeta. – 2010. – # 246 (5325). [Jelektronnyj resurs].–

Rezhim dostupa: https://rg.ru/2010/10/29/zorkin.html(data obrashhenija:

20.06.2021).

4. Ispolinov A.S. Popravki v

Konstituciju i prioritet mezhdunarodnogo prava: v poiskah novoj formuly

// Internet-portal «Zakon.ru. [Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa:

https://zakon.ru/blog/2020/1/22/ (data obrashhenija: 10.06.2021).

5. Kurdjukov G.I. O metodologii

sootnoshenija gosudarstva i mezhdunarodnogo prava // Metodologija

issledovanija teoreticheskih problem mezhdunarodnogo prava. – Kazan’:

Kazanskij universitet, 1986.– 136 s.

6. Lukashuk I.I.

Mezhdunarodno-pravovoe regulirovanie mezhdunarodnyh otnoshenij

(sistemnyj podhod). – M.: Mezhdunar. otnoshenija, 1975. – 176 s.

7. Mezhdunarodnoe pravo: Uchebnik / Otv. red. R.M. Valeev, G.I. Kurdjukov. M., 2017. – 496 s.

8. Javich L.S. Ob issledovanijah mehanizma dejstvija prava // Sov. gos-vo i pravo. – 1973. – # 8. – S. 26-32.

9. Webster’s Third New International Dictionary. Cambr.(Mass.), 1966. – 2772 p.

INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LAW

Omran Mohamad Aghyad

Eviction of the tenant under the civil law of the Syrian Arab Republic

The article examines various aspects

of relations arising in connection with the lease of real estate, the

regulation of which is carried out by special legislation and acts and

differs from the general rules established by the Civil Code of the

Syrian Republic.

The history of the development of

civil legislation in Syria on the lease of real estate in terms of the

procedure for terminating this type of agreement is considered. Reveals

and considers the grounds for termination of the lease of real estate by

the lessor unilaterally and eviction of the tenant. General

characteristics of the tenant’s eviction are given as one of the types

of civil liability for violation of the terms of the real estate lease

agreement. The problem of abuse by the Syrian landlord of the right to

eviction assigned to him is identified and a solution to this problem is

proposed. The article examines the restrictions on the landlord’s right

to evict in relation to certain categories of citizens, stipulated by

the Syrian civil legislation.

Keywords: lease agreement, real estate, termination, legal responsibility, eviction.

Work bibliographic list

1. Grazhdanskij Kodeks Sirijskoj

Arabskoj Respubliki. [Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim

dostupa:https://www.syrian-lawyer.club/%D9%86%D8%B5-% D 9 % 8 5 % D 9 % 8

8 % D 8 % A 7 % D 8 % A F – % D 8 % A7 % D 9 % 8 4 % D 9 % 8 2 % D 8 % A

7 % D 9 % 8 6 % D 9 % 8

8%D9%86-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D8%AF%D9%86%D9%8A-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B3%D9%-88%D8%B1%D9%8A/

(data obrashhenija: 5.08.2021).

2. Zakon ob arende # 6 ot 2006 goda.

[Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa:

http://www.casi.gov.sy/node15/arabic/index.php?node=5518&cat=14806&(data

obrashhenija: 5.08.2021).

3. Zakonodatel’nyj dekret # 111 ot

1952 goda Sirija. [Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa:

https://www.parliament.gov.sy/arabic/index.php?node=200&RID=-1&Last=10206&First=0&CurrentPage=8&Vld=-1&Mode=&Service=-1&Loc1=&Key1=

&SDate=&EDate=&Year=&Country=&Num=&Dep=-1&&or_t=1.

4. Muhammad Bashir Dzhazajerli. Novye

pravovye normy v novom Zakone ob arende zhil’ja # 6 ot 2001 g.

//Stat’ja, opublikovannaja v zhurnale «Advokaty» Sirijskoj kollegii

advokatov. 2004. ## 3 i 4. S. 210.

5. Panchenko P.V., Frolova E.E.

Sootnoshenie principa sodejstvija storon objazatel’stva s principami

objazatel’stvennogo prava // Vestnik Akademii prava i upravlenija. 2018.

# 2 (51). S. 122-129.

6. Trezubov E.S., Rusakova E.P.

Jevoljucija poruchitel’stva v rimskom i rossijskom objazatel’stvennom

prave // Vestnik Omskogo universiteta. Serija: Pravo. 2020. T. 17. # 1.

S. 82-93.

7. Haled Al’-Maliki, Raz”jasnenie Zakona ob arende # 6 ot 15 fevralja 2001 g. (Fond Al’-Nuri,s. 250, Damask, 2002 g.).

INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE LAW

Surzhanov S.V.

About some features of the bankruptcy legislation of Australia

This article discusses the first part

(Preliminary) of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 No. 33. The problem of the

entry into force of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 is touched upon. The

structure of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 is compared with the structure of

the Federal Law «About Insolvency (Bankruptcy)» No 127-FZ of October 26,

2002. The differences in the order of reflection of the amendments made

to the Acts, as well as the peculiarities of reflection in the

Bankruptcy Act 1966 of the amendments made by the First Parliamentary

Counsel and the Misdescribed amendments are considered. The essence and

meaning of this term is revealed.

Keywords: insolvency,

bankruptcy, proclamation, amendment to the law, First parliamentary

counsel, misdescribed amendments, insolvency law reform.

Work bibliographic list

1. Surzhanov S.V. Rol’

zakonodatel’stva o nesostojatel’nosti i bankrotstve v razvitii

jekonomiki gosudarstva na primere Avstralii // Nauchnoe obozrenie. 2015.

# 6. S. 188-194.

2. Koncheva V.A., Odincov S.V.

Perspektivy i tendencii razvitija v Rossii jelektronnogo

deloproizvodstva i dokumentooborota v trudovyh pravootnoshenijah» //

Sovremennoe pravo. 2020. # 3. S. 73-79.

INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICAL LAW

Ulyanov Ya.A.

Legal regulation of competition in the Eurasian Economic Union: controversial issues

The article considers controversial

issues of current legal regulation of competition on cross-border

markets in the Eurasian Economic Union, namely the lack of harmonization

in the approaches to the powers of national antimonopoly authorities of

the member states and supranational – the Eurasian Economic Commission,

as well as the problem of unprotected rights of individuals in the

event of adverse consequences for them as a result of the enforcement

procedure of such a supranational body.

Keywords: Eurasian

Economic Union, supranationalism, regional integration, competition,

antitrust, private persons status, international courts, cross-border

markets.

Work bibliographic list

1. Avdasheva S.B., Shastitko A.E.

Koncepcija transgranichnyh rynkov kak osnova opredelenija polnomochij

nadnacional’nogo organa konkurentnoj politiki // Bjulleten’ konkurentnoj

politiki. 2012. Vyp. # 6. Maj.

2. Bykovskij V.K. Stanovlenie i

razvitie zakonodatel’stva o zashhite konkurencii na prostranstve SNG i

EAJeS // Mezhdunarodno sotrudnichestvo evrazijskih gosudarstv: politika,

jekonomika, pravo 2018. # 1 (14).

3. D’jachenko E.B., Jentin K.V.

Svojstva prava Evrazijskogo jekonomicheskogo Sojuza skvoz’ prizmu

praktiki Suda EAJeS // Zhurnal rossijskogo prava 2018. # 10.

4. Ispolinov A.S., Kadysheva O.V.

Praktika primenenija dosudebnogo porjadka rassmotrenija sporov v sudah

evrazijskoj integracii // Zakon. 2016. # 10.

5. Moskalevich G.N. Pravovoe

regulirovanie konkurentnyh otnoshenij Evrazijskom jekonomicheskom

sojuze: problemy i puti ih reshenija // Bol’shaja Evrazija: Razvitie,

bezopasnost’, sotrudnichestvo. 2018. # 1-2.

6. Konkurentnoe pravo v Evrazijskom

jekonomicheskom sojuze: ucheb. pos. // Obshh. red. M.A. Kusainov, A.G.

Sushkevich, A.M. Dzhumabaeva, V.V. Savchenko, A.A. Akopjan.M., 2019.

LAW OF THE FOREIGN COUNTRIES

Tran Thanh Thao

Improving the regulatory framework for corruption crimes in Vietnam in the context of international integration

This article analyzes the inadequacies

in the application of Vietnamese criminal law to corruption crimes.

Thereby, determining the main cause of this situation is that the legal

framework for corruption crimes still has many gaps. Through the study

of the United Nations Convention against Corruption and the criminal law

of other countries, the author offers solutions to improve the legal

framework for corruption crimes in Vietnam.

Keywords: corruption, corruption crimes, Criminal Code, United Nations Convention against Corruption, Vietnam.

Work bibliographic list

1. Konvencii Organizacii Ob”edinennyh Nacij protiv korrupcii ot 30 oktjabrja 2003 g.

2. Zakon «O protivodejstvii korrupcii» ot 20 nojabrja 2018 g.

3. Ugolovnogo kodeksa Socialisticheskoj Respubliki V’etnama 2015 g. (red. ot 2017 g.).

4. Svodnyj otchet 2020 g. Verhovnogo narodnogo suda

V’etnama, Hanoj, 2020 g.

5. Svodnyj otchet perioda 2016-2020 Verhovnogo narodnogo suda V’etnama, Hanoj, 2020 g.

6. Otchet «O antikorrupcionnoj». Gosudarstvennaja inspekcija, 2020 g. S. 183.

7. Chan Van Dat. Korrupcionnye

prestuplenija v sootvetstvii s ugolovnym zakonodatel’stvom

V’etnama.Doktorskaja dissertacija. Hanoj, 2018.

8. Chan Van Zung Otvetstvennost’ za

sluzhebnye prestuplenija po ugolovnomu pravu V’etnama. Doktorskaja

dissertacija. Hanoj, 2013.

9. Hanojskij juridicheskij

universitet. «Prestuplenija korrupcii s prisvoeniem sobstvennosti i

protivodejstvii s jetimi prestuplenijami vo V’etname v tendencii

mezhdunarodnoj integracii». Nauchnyj proekt universitetskogo urovnja.

Hanoj, 2008.

10. Gosudarstvennaja inspekcija (2019

g.), Osnovnye objazannosti i problemy V’etnama posle ratifikacii

Konvencii Organizacii Ob”edinennyh Nacij protiv korrupcii. Nauchnyj

proekt na Ministerskom urovne. Hanoj, S. 375.

11. Nguen Ngok Tin’. Diskussija o prichinah korrupcii// Zhurnal «Professii jurista». 2013. # 2. S. 8.

12. Ministerstvo justicii (2012 g.),

Propaganda i rasprostranenie zakona «O protivodejstvii korrupcii»,

Konvencii Organizacii Ob”edinennyh Nacij protiv korrupcii sredi kadrov,

gosudarstvennyh sluzhashhih i grazhdan s 2012 g. po 2015 g. Izdatel’stvo

sudebnoj sistemy. Hanoj. S. 409.

THEORY OF STATE AND LAW

Kozhenko Ya.V., Agafonova T.P.

Genesis of legal regulation on responsibility for crimes against family and minors in Russia

The article examines the historical

stages of the evolution of domestic legislation on responsibility for

crimes against the family and minors in the context of chronological

time periods with their inherent level of legal technology, the level of

legal thinking and law enforcement, the specifics of the legal system;

the problems of differentiation of responsibility for these crimes and

the directions of development of state policy in the field of protecting

the institution of the family are analyzed. From the standpoint of

legal technique, the

article identifies the problems of

designing the twentieth chapter of the Criminal Code of the Russian

Federation, analyzes the difficulties of applying administrative

prejudice.

Keywords: crimes against family and minors, prejudice, child rights, latent crimes, media safety, criminal liability.

Work bibliographic list

1. Kolmakova O. S. Konstruktivnye

priznaki podmeny rebenka // Gumanitarnye, social’no-jekonomicheskie i

obshhestvennye nauki. – 2014. – # 10–1.- S. 222-226.

2. Kornakova S. V., Chigrina E. V.

Razglashenie tajny usynovlenija: problemy realizacii kompleksnogo

pravovogo mehanizma v Rossijskoj Federacii // Vserossijskij

kriminologicheskij zhurnal. – 2018. – T. 12. – # 6. – S. 817-825.

THEORY OF STATE AND LAW

Kodzokov I.A.

The influence of the conditions of globalization on the main areas of activity of states

This articles examines the functions

of the states, in particular, their changes occurring under the

influence of the condition of globalization. Both positive and negative

consequences arising under influence of globalization processes are

analyzed. The main factors of globalization influencing the functioning

of the state in the era of globalization are determined.

Keywords: functions of the state, globalization, unification, internationalization.

Work bibliographic list

1. Meljakina K. B. Vlijanie

globalizacii na jekonomicheskuju funkciju gosudarstva // Chelovek:

prestuplenie i nakazanie. – 2012. – # 4. – S. 43-45.

2. Morozova L. A. Vlijanie globalizacii na funkcii gosudarstva // Gosudarstvo i pravo. – 2006. – # 6.- S. 101-107.

3. Patrugimov V. V. Vlijanie globalizacii na funkcii gosudarstva // Vestnik ChitGu. – 2011. – # 1. – S. 86-90.

4. Potencial i opasnosti globalizacii.

[Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa:

https://www.imf.org/external/np/exr/ib/2000/rus/041200r.htm.

5. Jekonomicheskaja mysl’ HHI v. // Sb. nauch. trudov. – Kaliningrad, 2001. – # 1. – S.61-63.

6. Morozova L. A. Theory of State and law. – Moscow:Eksmo, 2019.

THEORY OF STATE AND LAW

Mukhamatulina L.M., Vasiljeva K.S.

Implementation of the norms of

Russian and international legislation aimed at protecting fundamental

rights and freedoms, in the light of the reform of the Constitution of

the Russian Federation

The article examines the problems of

the implementation of the norms of Russian and international legislation

in the field of protecting fundamental human and civil rights and

freedoms through the prism of the Constitution of the Russian Federation

updated in 2020. It focuses on the constitutional amendment on the

possibility of executing decisions (judgments) of the European Court of

Human Rights imposing obligations on the Russian Federation, if such

decisions are recognized by the Constitutional Court of Russia as

contradicting the foundations of public order of the Russian Federation.

Keywords: European

Court of Human Rights, protection of fundamental human rights and

freedoms, constitutional amendment, Constitutional Court of the Russian

Federation, human and civil rights and freedoms, implementation of law.

Work bibliographic list

1. Aranovskij K. V., Knjazev S. D.

Konstitucionnye osnovy ispolnenija postanovlenija ESPCh v pravovoj

sisteme Rossijskoj Federacii // Pravoprimenenie. – 2017. – T. 1. – # 1. –

S. 139-150. DOI:10.24147/2542-1514. 2017.1(1).139-150.

2. Demidov I. F. Principy ugolovnogo

sudoproizvodstva v svete Konstitucii Rossijskoj Federacii (problemy i

reshenija) // Zhurnal rossijskogo prava. – 2009. – # 6 (150). – S.

66-76.

3. Zhujkov V. M. Rossijskoe

zakonodatel’stvo i mezhdunarodnoe pravo: problemy vzaimodejstvija na

osnove Konstitucii Rossijskoj Federacii // Zakon.– 2020. – # 3. – S.

115-125.

4. Karpovich O. G. Problemy

neispolnenija reshenij Evropejskogo Suda po pravam cheloveka: teorija i

praktika // Mezhdunarodnoe publichnoe i chastnoe pravo. – 2020. – # 4. –

S. 17-21. DOI: 10.18572/1812-3910-2020-4-17-21.

5. Kuzakbirdiev S. S. Ob

otvetstvennosti gosudarstva za kompensaciju poterpevshim ushherba,

prichinennogo prestupleniem ili zloupotrebleniem vlast’ju // Aktual’nye

problemy juridicheskoj otvetstvennosti (sbornik statej). – Tjumen’:

Tjumenskij juridicheskij institut MVD RF, 2000. – S. 8-11.

6. Kuzakbirdiev S. S. Realizacija norm

prava v pravovom gosudarstve // Issledovanija teoreticheskih problem

pravovogo gosudarstva. Trudy Akademii MVD Rossijskoj Federacii. – M.:

Akademija MVD Rossii, 1996. – S. 41-46.

7. Kuzakbirdiev S. S. Rol’ instituta

otvetstvennosti gosudarstva v realizacii prav i svobod grazhdan

//Nauchnye issledovanija vysshej shkoly (jubilejnyj vypusk

mezhvuzovskogo sbornika nauchnyh trudov). – Tjumen’: Tjumenskij

juridicheskij institut MVD RF, 1997. – S. 44-47.

8. Kuzakbirdiev S. S. Formy realizacii

norm prava v dejatel’nosti organov vnutrennih del: dis. … kand. jurid.

nauk. – M.: Akademija MVD RF, 1996. – 217 s.

THEORY OF STATE AND LAW

Piskunova O.V.

The method of persuasion in the process of ensuring legal realization

The article examines the theoretical,

legal and practical aspects of the method of persuasion in the process

of ensuring the implementation of the right, reveals its legal nature

and regulatory regulation. Persuasion accompanies the action of a legal

norm at different stages of the legal regulation mechanism – from

development to implementation. The author pays attention to the

practical purpose of this method, as well as to various forms of its

manifestation. Special attention is paid to the method of stimulation as

one of the forms of persuasion and the forms of its expression: the

method of benefits, incentives and legal orientation. The author

considered a special type of benefits, characterized by its own

specifics – privileges.

Key words: implementation of law, method, persuasion, law-making, enforcement of law.

Work bibliographic list

1. Baranov V. M. Pooshhritel’nye normy sovetskogo socialisticheskogo prava / Pod red. M. I. Bajtina. – Saratov, 1978. – S. 57.

2. Bobrova N. A. Garantii realizacii gosudarstvenno-pravovyh norm. – Voronezh, 1984.

3. Bol’noj jenciklopedicheskij slovar’. – M., 1998.

4. Djurjagin I. Ja. Grazhdanin i zakon. – M., 1989.

5. Lenin V. I. So br. soch. – T. 3.

6. Novik Ju. I. Normy prava v

reguljacii pravovogo povedenija lichnosti (psihologicheskie aspekty) //

Aktual’nye voprosy gosudarstva i prava /Otv. red. Ju. P. Brovka. Vyp. 4.

– Minsk, 1994. – S.14.

7. Polenina S. V. Zakon kak sredstvo realizacii zadach pravovogo gosudarstva. Teorija prava: novye idei. Vyp. 3. – M., 1993.

THEORY OF STATE AND LAW

Romadanova E.I.

Legal and organizational aspects of the introduction of antimonopoly compliance in the activities of Russian legal entities

This article will analyze the work of

antimonopoly compliance at Russian enterprises, as well as the position

of the FAS on the introduction of a compliance system and encouragement

of enterprises, as well as the pros and cons of introducing and using

the institute of antimonopoly compliance. An analysis of the need to

implement a compliance system in Russian enterprises will be carried

out.

Keywords: antimonopoly compliance, compliance system, antimonopoly legislation, Russian enterprises, competition.

Work bibliographic list

1. Analiticheskij doklad Upravlenija

po konkurentnoj politike Analiticheskogo centra pri Pravitel’stve RF

«Antimonopol’nyj komplaens: tekushhaja praktika i perspektivy

razvitija». 2015.

2. Interv’ju rukovoditelja antimonopol’noj praktiki Anastasija Jaremchuk.

3. Interv’ju s rukovoditelem FAS

Rossii I.Ju. Artem’evym. Rabota FAS Rossii nad izmeneniem

zakonodatel’stva v oblasti antimonopol’noj dejatel’nosti // Rossijskoe

konkurentnoe pravo i jekonomika. 2016).

4. [Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa: http://government.ru/docs/all/115553/ (data obrashhenija:12.03.2018).

THEORY OF STATE AND LAW

Samusevich A.G., Negamutzyanova A.S.

On the issue of the use of information from social networks in the process of proving

The article deals with issues related

to the possibility of using materials from the Internet and social

networks as evidence when bringing offenders to justice. In particular,

the authors analyze the problems of the legal status of information

located in the global information space for its reliability,

admissibility, relevance and significance for the resolution of the

case. The authors come to the conclusion that today the regulatory legal

regulation in this area requires improvement, since the procedure for

using these materials is quite difficult.

Keywords: monitoring, Internet, social networks, information, offense, fixation, detection, properties of evidence.

Work bibliographic list

1. Bekmurzinova K.K., Golovko V.V.

Foto-, videomaterialy, poluchennye grazhdanami, kak otdel’nyj vid

dokazatel’stv po delam ob administrativnyh pravonarushenijah v oblasti

dorozhnogo dvizhenija// Aktual’nye problemy dejatel’nosti po

obespecheniju bezopasnosti dorozhnogo dvizhenija (sostojanie, problemy,

puti sovershenstvovanija): sbornik trudov konferencii. 2019. S. 30-32.

2. Bekmurzinova K.K. Foto-,

videomaterialy, poluchennye grazhdanami, kak otdel’nyj vid dokazatel’stv

po delam ob administrativnyh pravonarushenijah v oblasti dorozhnogo

dvizhenija //Preemstvennost’ i novacii v juridicheskoj nauke: sbornik

trudov konferencii. Omsk: Omskaja akademija Ministerstva vnutrennih del

Rossijskoj Federacii, 2019. S. 8-10.

3. Zhurkina O.V. Jelektronnye dokazatel’stva: ponjatie i priznaki // Rossijskaja justicija. 2020. # 9.S. 44-46.

4. Nobel’ A.R. Opredelenie

dopustimosti dokazatel’stv po delam ob administrativnyh

pravonarushenijah // Aktual’nye problemy rossijskogo prava. 2016. # 1

(62). S. 76-84.

5. Novoselova L.A. Dokazatel’stva iz

seti «Internet»// 2020 – Sovremennaja kodifikacija civilisticheskogo

processual’nogo zakonodatel’stva: vlijanie na pravovuju sistemu,

juridicheskuju nauku i formirovanie komfortnoj jurisdikcii: sbornik

trudov konferencii. Kazan’: Izd-vo Kazanskogo universiteta. 2020. S.

120-127.

6. Samusevich A.G., Negamutzjanova

A.S. Monitoring social’nyh setej v dejatel’nosti organov policii po

vyjavleniju pravonarushenij: problemnye voprosy // Evrazijskij

juridicheskij zhurnal. 2021. # 4. S. 123-125.

7. Fomichjova Ja.S. Sredstva

obespechenija dostovernosti dokazatel’stv, poluchennyh iz seti Internet

// Prestupnost’ v SNG: problemy preduprezhdenija i raskrytija

prestuplenij: sbornik trudov konferencii. Voronezh: Voronezhskij

institut MVD Rossii, 2018. S. 283-285.

8. Junoshev S.V., Kondratjuk S.V. K

probleme processual’nogo oformlenija dokazatel’stvennoj informacii,

poluchennoj iz Internet-istochnikov // Vektor nauki tol’jattinskogo

gosudarstvennogo universiteta. Serija: juridicheskie nauki. 2018. # 3

(34). S. 52-57.

THEORY OF STATE AND LAW

Kodzokov I.A., Kodzokova K.A.

Social purpose and social value of the state and their relationship with the essence of the state

This article examines the relationship

between the social purpose of the state and the essence at various

historical stages of its development. An attempt is made comprehensively

consider the mutual relationship between the essence and its social

purpose and value.

Keywords: state,

society, social purpose, essence of state, treaty theory, theory of

elites, Marxist doctrine, social policy, functions of state.

Work bibliographic list

1. Alekseev A. S. Makiavelli kak

politicheskij myslitel’. [Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim

dostupa:http://az.lib.ru/a/alekseew_a_s/text_1880_makkiavelli.shtml6.

2. K. Marks – F. Jengel’s. Manifest

Kommunisticheskoj partii. [Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa:

https://www.marxists.org/russkij/marx/1848/manifesto.htm#13.

3. Stat’ja o platonovskom dialoge

«Gosudarstvo».[Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa:

https://iphlib.ru/library/collection/newphilenc/page/about.

4. Hropanjuk V. N. Teorija gosudarstva i prava. – M.:Interstil’, 2008.

5. Chanyshev A. N. Kurs lekcii po drevnej filosofii. – M.: Vysshaja shkola, 1991.

6. Shevchuk D. A. Teorija gosudarstva i prava. – M.: Jeksmo, 2009.

HISTORY OF STATE AND LAW

Yakovets E.N., Zhuravlenko N.I., Ozhiganova M.I.

Legal status of foreign

citizens and representatives of the Non-Russian population of the

Russian State during the period of the reforms of the Peter the Great.

Part I

The article examines the origins of

the xenophobia of the Great Russians and the Russophobia of

representatives of other nationalities in Russia, the influence of these

phenomena on inciting information wars, the merits of Peter the Great

in neutralizing interethnic contradictions.

Keywords: xenophobia, Russophobia, Russification national policy, preservation of national identity, religious tolerance.

Work bibliographic list

1. Kostikov V. Prizrak brodit… Kakie opasnosti podsteregajut Rossiju // Argumenty i fakty. 2010. – # 51.- S. 6.

2. Kostomarov N. I. Domashnjaja zhizn’

i nravy velikorusskogo naroda / sost., predisl., primech. S. L.

Nikolaeva. – M.: Jekonomika, 1993.

3. Romanova N. M.

Nacional’no-kul’turnye i religioznye organizacii Sankt-Peterburga. SPb.,

2004.[Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa:

http://www.ethnomuseum.ru/section343/63/326/3811.htm (data obrashhenija:

23.07.2021).

4. Solov’ev S. M. Chtenija i rasskazy po istorii Rossii. – M.: Izd-vo «Pravda», 1989.

5. Fedoseev Ju. G. Romanovy. Vek pervyj. – M.: Izd-vo«V.A. Streleckij», 2008.

6. Shevchenko O. M. Ksenofobija v

istorii Rossii: faktory formirovanija i dominirujushhie vidy // ISOM.-

2013. – # 5. [Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa:

https://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/ksenofobiya-v-istoriirossii-faktory-formirovaniya-i-dominiruyuschie-vidy(data

obrashhenija: 23.07.2021).

HISTORY OF STATE AND LAW

Dashkov T.K., Usachev S.I.

The history of distribution and legal measures to combat tobacco smoking in Russia

This article is devoted to the history of the emergence and distribution of tobacco in Russia. The

relevance of the topic lies in the

fact that limiting the spread of tobacco consumption will save the life

and health of millions of people, will ensure a decrease in GDP losses

from the consequences of tobacco smoking. The article also examines the

regulatory legal acts adopted to ensure the protection of human health

on the territory of the Russian Federation from the effects of second

hand tobacco smoke and the consequences of tobacco consumption.

Keywords: smoking, tobacco, life, health, economy, healthcare, state.

Work bibliographic list

1. Gerasimenko N. F., Aleksandrova O.

Ju., Biksolt A. M. Novoe zakonodatel’stvo ob ogranichenii tabakokurenija

v Rossijskoj Federacii // Social’nye aspekty zdorov’ja naselenija. –

2014. # 2.– [Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa:

https://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/novoe-zakonodatelstvo-obogranichenii-tabakokureniya-v-rossiyskoyfederatsii/viewer

(data obrashhenija: 12.08.2021).

2. Ivanova L. Ju. Sokrashhenie

kurenija v Rossii sredi podrostkov i vzroslogo naselenija // Sociologija

i obshhestvo: tradicii i innovacii v social’nom razvitii regionov:

Sbornik dokladov VI Vserossijskogo sociologicheskogo kongressa (Tjumen’,

14–16 oktjabrja 2020 g.) / Otv. red. V. A. Mansurov; red. E. Ju.

Ivanova. – M., 2020. – [Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa:

https://www.ssa-rss.ru/files/congress/congress_2020.pdf (data

obrashhenija: 16.08.2021).

3. Katkova I. P. Aktual’nye problemy

stanovlenija monitoringa tabachnoj jepidemii i obuslovlennyh eju

posledstvij v Rossii // II Vserossijskij demograficheskij forum s

mezhdunarodnym uchastiem: materialy foruma (Moskva, 4 – 5 dekabrja 2020

g.) / Otv. red. S. V. Rjazancev, T. K. Rostovskaja.– Moskva, 2020. –

[Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa:

https://www.isras.ru/publ.html?id=8679(data obrashhenija: 16.08.2021).

4. Kuznecova P. O. Kurenie kak faktor

sokrashhenija ozhidaemoj prodolzhitel’nosti zhizni v Rossii //

Demograficheskoe obozrenie. – 2019.– # 3 (6). – [Jelektronnyj resurs]. –

Rezhim dostupa:

https://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/kurenie-kakfaktor-sokrascheniya-ozhidaemoy-prodolzhitelnostizhizni-v-rossii/viewer

(data obrashhenija: 12.08.2021).

5. Ramochnaja Konvencija Vsemirnoj

organizacii zdravoohranenija po bor’be protiv tabaka ot 23 maja 2003 g.,

prinjata na 56-j sessii Vsemirnoj assamblei zdravoohranenija

(rukovodjashhij organ VOZ) v Zheneve // Oficial’nyj internet portal

pravovoj informacii. – [Jelektronnyj resurs]. –Rezhim dostupa:

https://www.un.org/ru/documents/

decl_conv/conventions/pdf/tobacco.pdf (data obrashhenija: 12.08.2021).

6. Sapunova I. D., Koncevaja A. V.,

Myrzamatova A.O. i dr. Jekonomicheskij ushherb ot kurenija,

associirovannyj s chetyr’mja gruppami hronicheskih neinfekcionnyh

zabolevanij v Rossijskoj Federacii v 2016 godu // Kardiovaskuljarnaja

terapija i profilaktika. – 2019. – # 18 (6). – [Jelektronnyj resurs]. –

Rezhim dostupa:

https://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/ekonomicheskiy-uscherb-ot-kureniyaas s

o t s i i r o v a n n y y – s – c h e t y r m y a – g r u p p a m i

-hronicheskih-neinfektsionnyh-zabolevaniy-vrossiyskoy/viewer (data

obrashhenija: 12.08.2021).

7. Suhovskaja O. A., Kulikov V. D.

Kurenie: sovremennoe sostojanie problemy v RF // Astma i allergija.–

2016. – # 4. – [Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa:

https://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/kureniesovremennoe-sostoyanie-problemy-v-rf/viewer(data

obrashhenija: 11.08.2021).

HISTORY OF STATE AND LAW

Zotova K.V., Fedotova I.N.

The Soviet correctional labor camp through the eyes of a prisoner (based on the works of V. Shalamov and E. Ginzburg)

The article presents analysis of the

works of prisoners of Kolyma camps V. Shalamov and E. Ginzburg. Based on

their testimonies, the authors reveal little-known aspects of camp life

that were not reflected in the regulations and office documentation.

The correctional labor camp as an

element of the Soviet punitive system is characterized through the prism of the prisoners’ personal perception.

Keywords: Varlam Shalamov, Yevgenia Ginzburg, GULAG, correctional labor camp, prisoners.

Work bibliographic list

1. Ginzburg E. S. Krutoj marshrut: Hronika vremen kul’ta lichnosti. – M.: Kniga, 1991. – 734 s.

2. GULAG: Glavnoe upravlenie lagerej. 1918-1960 /sost. A. I. Kokurin, N. V. Petrov. – M.: Materik, 2000. – 888 s.

3. Istorija stalinskogo GULAGa. Konec

1920-h – pervaja polovina 1950-h gg.: sobr. dok. v 7 t. / otv. red. I

sost. O. V. Hlevnjuk. – M.: ROSSPJeN, 2004.

4. Medvedev R. A. K sudu istorii: O Staline i stalinizme. – M.: Vremja, 2011. – 656 s.

5. Shalamov V. T. Kolymskie rasskazy. – M.: Jeksmo, 2007. – 656 s.

6. Shalamov V. T. Levyj bereg: Rasskazy. – M.: Sovremennik, 1989. – 559 s.

HISTORY OF STATE AND LAW

Permyakov M.V., Khodasevich O.N., Kilin A.G.

Organization of the bar in Russia

The desire to democratize the

political and economic spheres of society and the gradual desire to

establish the rule of law in Russia have led to the necessary changes in

the activities of all legal institutions aimed at protecting the rights

and freedoms of citizens, one of which is really the bar. The

improvement of this legal institution, in our opinion, is a necessary

step towards the establishment and development of democracy in Russia,

since the presence of people in the state who are able to provide

competent and professional legal assistance is a guarantee of the

democratic development of society as a whole.

Keywords: lawyer,

judge, democracy, legal aid, competence, law school, bar association,

oath, license, client, situation, incident, insurance claims, financial

losses, damage, claim.

Work bibliographic list

1. «Konstitucija Rossijskoj Federacii»

(prinjata vsenarodnym golosovaniem 12.12.1993 s izmenenijami,

odobrennymi v hode obshherossijskogo golosovanija 01.07.2020).

2. Zatonskij V. A. Pravovaja kul’tura

lichnosti – vazhnyj faktor social’noj modernizacii: teoreticheskij

aspekt // Pravovaja kul’tura. – 2010. – # 2. – S. 145.

3. Lizneva D. S., Chadnova I. V.

Nravstvennost’ v professii advokata-zashhitnika po ugolovnym delam//

Gumanitarnye nauki: sb. st. na mat. XIV Mezhdunarodnaja studencheskaja

nauchno-prakticheskaja konferencija # 14. – [Jelektronnyj resurs]. –

Rezhim dostupa: http://sibac.info/archive/humanities/guman8 (11).pdf

(data obrashhenija: 16.04.2018).

4. Moral’ i dogma jurista. Professional’naja juridicheskaja jetika // Pod obshhej redakciej I. L. Trunova.– M.: JeKSMO, 2008.

HISTORY OF STATE AND LAW

Saberova M.Sh., Khanin S.V., Polyakova E.S.

Formation and development of procurement legislation in pre-revolutionary Russia

The article analyzes the process of

the emergence, formation and development of the institute of public

procurement. The need for this study is caused by the role of public

procurement in modern society. The law on the Contract System is the

most subject to changes more than any other federal law. This speaks,

first of all, about its imperfection. The study of history can make it

possible to eliminate existing gaps and conflicts with the help of past

experience.

Keywords: contract system, public procurement, history of procurement development, state order, corruption in procurement.

Work bibliographic list

1. Postanovlenie Pravitel’stva RF ot

05.11.2019 #1401 «O tipovyh formah zajavok na uchastie v jelektronnyh

procedurah, zakrytyh jelektronnyh procedurah, trebovanijah k

soderzhaniju, sostavu, porjadku razrabotki tipovoj dokumentacii o

zakupke i vnesenii izmenenija v dopolnitel’nye trebovanija k operatoram

jelektronnyh ploshhadok, operatoram specializirovannyh jelektronnyh

ploshhadok i funkcionirovaniju jelektronnyh ploshhadok,

specializirovannyh jelektronnyh ploshhadok».

2. Goncharov E. Istorija torgov v Rossii // Konkursnye torgi.1998. # 8.S. 39-44.

3. Seljametov A.M. Sovershenstvovanie

rynochnyh mehanizmov osushhestvlenija goszakupok v Rossii. Dissertacija

na soiskanie uchenoj stepeni kand. jekonom. nauk, 2000, 216 s.

4. Hanin S.V., Saberova M.Sh. Princip

otkrytosti i prozrachnosti v zakonodatel’stve o kontraktnoj sisteme //

Juridicheskaja tehnika. 2020. # 14.S. 336-339.

HISTORY OF STATE AND LAW

Yakovets E.N., Zhuravlenko N.I., Grigorus L.N.

Development of production relations in Russia at the times of Peter the Great

The article examines the reform

activities of Peter the Great in the economic sphere, which made it

possible to increase state revenues by more than five times by

increasing the number of manufactories, creating and developing

joint-stock companies, forming a legislative basis for joint-stock

entrepreneurship, developing trade, organizing credit relations, forming

a system of state banks, creation of private banking houses, formation

of exchange activities.

Keywords: manufactory, joint-stock company, joint-stock entrepreneurship, credit relations, state bank, exchange activity.

Work bibliographic list

1. Vsemirnaja istorija. V 10 t. – M: Izd-vo social’no-jekonomicheskoj literatury, 1958.

2. Kljuchevskij V. O. Sochinenija. V 8 t. – M.: Gosudarstvennoe izd-vo politicheskoj literatury, 1956.

3. Solov’ev S. M. Chtenija i rasskazy po istorii Rossii. – M.: Izd-vo «Pravda», 1989.

4. Fedoseev Ju. G. Romanovy. Vek pervyj. – M.: Izd-vo«V. A. Streleckij», 2008.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Gryaznova E.A.

Ensuring the right to freedom and personal inviolability, the grounds and procedure for restricting it in criminal proceedings

The article considers the grounds and

procedure for restricting the right to freedom and personal

inviolability provided for by the procedural legislation of the Russian

Federation. There is a contradiction between national and international

legislation regarding the permissibility of restricting personal

inviolability. The issues of restriction of the right to freedom and

personal inviolability are considered on the example of the detention of

a suspect. It is proposed to expand the list of guarantees to minimize

the risk of erroneous restriction of personal integrity.

Keywords: personal inviolability, grounds, criminal procedure, personal inviolability, freedom, preventive measure.

Work bibliographic list

1. Konstitucija Rossijskoj Federacii

(prinjata vsenarodnym golosovaniem 12.12.1993 s izmenenijami,

odobrennymi v hode obshherossijskogo golosovanija 01.07.2020) //

Rossijskaja gazeta. – 4 ijulja 2020 g. – # 144.

2. Konvencija o zashhite prav

cheloveka i osnovnyh svobod (Zakljuchena v g. Rime 04.11.1950) //

Sobranie zakonodatel’stva RF. – 08.01.2001. – # 2. – St. 163.

3. Ugolovno-processual’nyj kodeks

Rossijskoj Federacii ot 18.12.2001 # 174-FZ (red. ot 01.07.2021)

//Sobranie zakonodatel’stva RF. – 24.12.2001. – # 52(ch. I). – St. 4921.

4. Il’in N. L. Mezhdunarodno-pravovye

principy sudebnogo kontrolja za sobljudeniem prav na svobodu i lichnuju

neprikosnovennost’ // Sud’ja. –2019. – # 3 (99). – S. 28-31.

5. Bulanova N. V.

Ugolovno-processual’nye garantii konstitucionnogo prava na svobodu i

lichnuju neprikosnovennost’ // Zakonnost’. – 2019. – # 10 (1020).– S.

55-59.

6. Burashnikova N. A. Kriterii

spravedlivosti sudebnogo kontrolja za sobljudeniem prava na svobodu i

lichnuju neprikosnovennost’ // Sud’ja. – 2020.# 4 (112). – S. 29-33.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Dibirov M.T., Murtazalieva P.Z.

Guarantees of citizens’ electoral rights

The article analyzes the concept of

guarantees of citizens’ electoral rights, provides opinions of various

authors on the content of this category. The author focuses on the

guarantees of the protection of electoral rights, namely, the judicial

and administrative procedure for the consideration of electoral

disputes. As a result of a comprehensive legal analysis of the

provisions of the Federal Law “On Basic Guarantees of Electoral Rights

and the Right to Participate in a Referendum of Citizens of the Russian

Federation”, the author comes to the conclusion that the administrative

procedure for considering and resolving electoral disputes has certain

shortcomings due to the lack of proper legal regulation.

Keywords: electoral

rights, guarantees of electoral rights, the right to judicial

protection, administrative procedure for consideration of electoral

disputes, electoral legislation.

Work bibliographic list

1. Baglaj M. V. Konstitucionnoe pravo Rossijskoj Federacii. – M., 2003.

2. Bornovolokov P. A. Ponjatie i

klassifikacija konstitucionno-pravovyh garantij izbiratel’nyh prav

grazhdan Rossijskoj Federacii // Akademicheskij vestnik. – 2008. – # 2. –

S. 137-148.

3. Ishhenko E. P., Ishhenko A. E. Izbiratel’nye spory:vozniknovenie, razreshenie, preduprezhdenie. – M.,RCOIT, 2002.

4. Katkov D. B., Korchigo E. V. Izbiratel’noe pravo. –M., 2001.

5. Keshikova N. V. Porjadok

organizacii i provedenija vyborov v organy gosudarstvennoj vlasti v

Rossii:avtoref. dis. … kand. jurid. nauk. – SPb., 2001.

6. Postnikov A. E. Izbiratel’noe pravo Rossii. – M., 1996.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Idrisov I.K., Verdiev M.A.

Priority directions and ways to optimize the activities of the social institute of patriotism

The social order of the Russian state

for the education of a person who is modernly educated, moral,

enterprising, ready to make decisions independently in a situation of

choice, capable of cooperation and intercultural interaction, having a

sense of responsibility for the fate of the country over the past two

decades has been reflected in many regulatory documents: the National

Doctrine of Education of Russia, the Concept of Modernization of Russian

Education, Concepts and State Programs of Patriotic education of

Russian citizens, as well as Programs for the education of cadets,

trainees, students of educational institutions of Russia. This process

was constantly in the focus of attention of social, state institutions

and the public.

Keywords: patriotic education, priority areas, national security.

Work bibliographic list

1. «Patrioticheskoe vospitanie

grazhdan Rossijskoj Federacii na 2016-2020 gody». Postanovlenie

Pravitel’stva Rossijskoj Federacii ot 30 dekabrja 2015 g. # 1493.

2. Ambarjan H. M. Problemy boevoj podgotovki Suhoputnyh vojsk i puti ih reshenija: Dis. … dokt. voen. nauk. – M.: VAF, 1978.

3. Ancupov A. Ja., Malyshev A. A.,

Piliponskij A. G. Metody izuchenija politrabotnikami

social’no-psihologicheskih javlenij v polku. – M.: VPA, 1989.

4. Tipovoj Kodeks jetiki i sluzhebnogo

povedenija gosudarstvennyh sluzhashhih Rossijskoj Federacii i

municipal’nyh sluzhashhih: odobren resheniem prezidiuma Soveta pri

Prezidente Rossijskoj Federacii po protivodejstviju korrupcii ot 23

dekabrja 2010 g. (protokol # 21) // Oficial’nye dokumenty v obrazovanii.

– 2011. – # 36.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Gadzhiemenova Z.M.

The role of constitutional control in ensuring the rule of law

The author considers the principle of

the rule of law in the political and legal field of the Russian

Federation and the role of constitutional control in ensuring and

implementing this principle. The experience of foreign countries in

implementing this principle within the framework of their basic laws is

analyzed.

Keywords: rule of law, rule of law, constitutional control, Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation, legal principles.

Work bibliographic list

1. Konstitucija. – M., 2020.

2. Gadzhiev G. A. O sudebnoj doktrine verhovenstva prava // Sravnitel’noe konstitucionnoe obozrenie. – 2013. – # 4.

3. Gracheva S. A. Doktrina verhovenstva prava i sudebnye pravovye pozicii // Zhurnal rossijskogo prava. – 2015. – # 4.

4. Zor’kin V. D. Verhovenstvo prava i vstrecha civilizacij // Zhurnal konstitucionnogo pravosudija.– 2008. – # 1.

5. Zor’kin V. D. Rol’ Konstitucionnogo

suda RF v realizacii Konvencii o zashhite prav cheloveka i osnovnyh

svobod // Materialy VIII Mezhdunarodnogo foruma po konstitucionnomu

pravosudiju «Implementacija reshenij Evropejskogo suda po pravam

cheloveka v praktike konstitucionnyh sudov stran Evropy». – M., 2005.

6. Morozova D. G. O verhovenstve prava i pravovogo zakona // Leningradskij juridicheskij zhurnal. – 2011.

7. Chirkin V. E. Verhovenstvo prava: sovremennye varianty terminologii // Zhurnal rossijskogo prava. – 2015. – # 12.

8. Jebzeev B. S. Konstitucija, vlast’ i svoboda v Rossii:opyt sinteticheskogo issledovanija. – M.: Prospekt, 2014.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW

Damirova K.R. ,Ramazanova E.T.

Constitutional and legal framework for ensuring the national security of the Russian Federation

This article discusses some issues

related to the foundations of constitutional and legal support of

national security, as well as the protection of national interests in

the Russian Federation today.

Keywords: state

security, national security, objects of national security, content of

national security, structure of national security, subjects of national

security.

Work bibliographic list

1. Zolotarev V. A. Nacional’naja bezopasnost’ strany.- M., 2013. – 289 s.

2. Konjuhova T. V. Pravovoe obespechenie bezopasnosti Rossijskoj Federacii. – M.: Jurajt, 2015. – 251 s.

3. Senchagov V. K. Jekonomicheskaja bezopasnost’ Rossii:Obshhij kurs: Uchebnik. – M.: Jurajt, 2014. – 321 s.

ADMINISTRATIVE LAW

Biruykova E. R.

On the question of the correct understanding of the concept of «civil servant»

The article considers the concept of

“civil servant”, focuses on the role of a civil servant in the life of

society. Today, state-building requires the formation of a wide layer of

highly qualified civil servants. Serving the people and working for the

benefit of the population is the main goal of the activity of a civil

servant. The creation of a highly effective public service is a

necessary condition for strengthening the Russian democratic statehood. A

civil servant must comply with his appointment.

Keywords: civil servants, state, citizenship, people, people, society.

Work bibliographic list

1. Ashin A. A., Nekrasova M. A. Imidzh

gosudarstvennyh sluzhashhih: ponjatie, soderzhanie, znachenie //Uchenye

zapiski. – 2020. – # 1 (33). – S. 18.

2. Barabashev A. G. Gosudarstvennaja

sluzhba v Rossijskoj Federacii: sovremennoe sostojanie, problemy i

perspektivy analiticheskij obzor napravlenij i soderzhanija

reformirovanija gossluzhby v Rossijskoj Federacii. [Jelektronnyj

resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa: http://www.pareform.ru/bulletin/ (data

obrashhenija: 27.07.2021).

3. Zapol’nova L. A., Bedov G. A. Gosudarstvennaja, municipal’naja sluzhba i kadrovaja politika: uchebnoe posobie. – M., 2010.

4. Markin V. N. Grazhdanstvennost’ kak

professional’noe kachestvo gosudarstvennogo sluzhashhego.[Jelektronnyj

resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa: https://elibrary.ru/ (data obrashhenija:

04.02.21).

5. Muradjan V. A. Produktivnost’

upravlencheskoj dejatel’nosti rukovoditelej v sisteme gosudarstvennoj

sluzhby: dis. … kand. psihol. nauk. – M., 2003.

ADMINISTRATIVE LAW

Kirillovykh A. A.

The system and competence of public administration bodies in the field of higher education in Russia

The article is devoted to the

organizational, legal and functional aspects of building a system of

governing bodies in the field of higher education in the Russian

Federation, taking into account the need to ensure the progressive

development and modernization of the educational sector of public

administration in the framework of the administrative reform carried out

in the country. It is concluded that at the federal level of state

power, a system of higher education management bodies of general (the

President of the Russian Federation, the Government of the Russian

Federation) and special (the Ministry of Education and Science of the

Russian Federation, Rosobrnadzor of Russia) competence has been formed

and operates. At the same time, Rosobrnador plays a special role in the

development of the higher education system as a body designed to use a

wide range of regulatory tools, including standard-setting in the field

of licensing and state accreditation, within the framework of the

coordination model of direct interaction with the Government of the

Russian Federation.

Keywords: law, education, management, competence, system, body, power, state.

Work bibliographic list

1. Borisov A. M. Reformirovanie

sistemy organov ispolnitel’noj vlasti i novaja shema gosudarstvennogo

territorial’nogo upravlenija // Administrativnoe i municipal’noe pravo. –

2012. – # 9. – S. 33-37.

2. Volkov A. M., Ljutjagina E. A. K

voprosu o roli i meste Administracii Prezidenta Rossijskoj Federacii //

Administrativnoe pravo i process. – 2012.– # 3. – S. 34-39.

3. Kostennikov M. V., Kurakin A. V.,

Kononov A. M., Kononov P. I. Aktual’nye problemy administrativnogo

prava: uchebnik dlja studentov vuzov, obuchajushhihsja po special’nosti

«Jurisprudencija». – M.:Juniti-Dana, 2013.

4. Lahtina T. A., Komovkina L. S.

Voprosy sovershenstvovanija sistemy i struktury federal’nyh organov

ispolnitel’noj vlasti // Administrativnoe pravo i process. – 2019. – #

6. – S. 38-40.

5. Mickevich L. A. Ocherki teorii administrativnogo prava: sovremennoe napolnenie. – M.: Prospekt,2016.

6. Ozhiganova M. V. Razmyshlenija o

reforme gosudarstvennogo kontrolja i nadzora v sfere vysshego

obrazovanija // Pravo i obrazovanie. – 2019. – # 1. – C. 68.

7. Pashencev D. A., Zaloilo M. V.,

Ivanjuk O. A., Golovina A. A. Cifrovizacija pravotvorchestva: poisk

novyh reshenij. – M., 2019.

8. Prokof’ev V. N. Predely kompetencii

Administracii Prezidenta Rossijskoj Federacii: konstitucionno-pravovoj

aspekt // Konstitucionnoe i municipal’noe pravo. – 2015. – # 12. – S.

45-50.

9. Rossinskij B. V.

Administrativno-pravovye aspekty gosudarstvennogo upravlenija v Rossii.

Sistemnye podhody. – M.: Norma: INFRA-M, 2020.

10. Rossinskij B. V. K voprosu o

reformirovanii sistemy federal’nyh organov ispolnitel’noj vlasti //

Administrativnoe pravo i process. – 2004.– # 1. – S. 20-24.

11. Rossinskij B. V. Razmyshlenija o

reforme sistemy federal’nyh organov ispolnitel’noj vlasti //

Administrativnoe pravo i process. – 2019. – # 10. – S. 38-42.

12. Starilov Ju. N. Celesoobraznost’

ili zakonnost’:kakoj kriterij luchshe dlja praktiki formirovanija

sistemy federal’nyh organov ispolnitel’noj vlasti? // Administrativnoe

pravo i process. –2017. – # 3. – S. 24-32.

13. Starostina I. A. Universitety v

konstitucionno-pravovom prostranstve Rossii // Konstitucionnoe i

municipal’noe pravo. – 2013. – # 10. – S. 21-25.

14. Haritonova Ju. S. Upravlenie v grazhdanskom prave: problemy teorii i praktiki. – M.: Norma:Infra-M, 2011.

ADMINISTRATIVE LAW

Mikhaylov M. Yu., Polskoy I. P.

Some issues arising during the

implementation of the legislation on administrative supervision of

persons released from the places of detention

This article examines a number of

issues arising in the implementation of administrative supervision by

the internal affairs bodies of persons released from places of detention

and provides the necessary recommendations for use in practice by

police officers.

Keywords: administrative supervision, supervised person, criminal record, police, behavior control.

Work bibliographic list

1. Kodeks Rossijskoj Federacii ob

administrativnyh pravonarushenijah ot 30.12.2001 # 195-FZ.[Jelektronnyj

resurs]. – Rezhim dostupa: http://www.consultant.ru/ (data obrashhenija:

10.02.2021).

2. Federal’nyj zakon ot 06.04.2011 #

64-FZ «Ob administrativnom nadzore za licami, osvobozhdennymi iz mest

lishenija svobody». [Jelektronnyj resurs].– Rezhim dostupa:

http://www.consultant.ru/ (data obrashhenija: 10.02.2021).

3. Prikaz MVD Rossii ot 08.07.2011 #

818 «O Porjadke osushhestvlenija administrativnogo nadzora za licami,

osvobozhdennymi iz mest lishenija svobody». [Jelektronnyj resurs]. –

Rezhim dostupa: http://www.consultant.ru/ (data obrashhenija:

10.02.2021).

4. Chistova L. E. Metodika

rassledovanija uklonenija ot administrativnogo nadzora:

uchebno-metodicheskoe posobie / Chistova L. E. — Moskva: Justicin-form,

2016. — 136 s. — ISBN 978-5-7205-1346-7. [Jelektronnyj resurs]. – Rezhim

dostupa: https://book.ru/book/921411 (data obrashhenija: 10.02.2021). —

Tekst:jelektronnyj.

ADMINISTRATIVE LAW

Pavlov N. V., Ovchinnikov E. B., Pulikov V.G.

Powers of the Government of the Russian Federation in special conditions related to the COVID-19 pandemic

The Coronovirus infection pandemic is a

serious test for almost all states of our planet. Some states were able

to almost completely cope with it and return to their usual way of

life, while some countries, where until recently there was a favorable

epidemiological situation, have just begun their fight against this

disease. Such drastic changes in the usual way of life in any country

inevitably require the prompt elaboration of legislation, which will

minimize all possible negative consequences. An example of such changes

in legislation can be our state, where, in the shortest possible time,

changes were made in the legislation in the field of the powers of the

Government of the Russian Federation, which greatly helped to level the

negative consequences of the pandemic.

Keywords: Changes in legislation, powers of the Government of the Russian Federation.

Work bibliographic list

1. Grazhdanskij kodeks Rossijskoj

Federacii (chast’ pervaja): federal. zakon ot 30.11.1994 # 51-FZ: v red.

ot 09.03.2021 // SZ RF. – 1994. – # 32. – St. 3301.

2. O vnesenii izmenenij v otdel’nye

zakonodatel’nye akty Rossijskoj Federacii v celjah prinjatija

neotlozhnyh mer, napravlennyh na obespechenie ustojchivogo razvitija

jekonomiki i predotvrashhenie posledstvij rasprostranenija novoj

koronavirusnoj infekcii: federal. zakon ot 08.06.2020 #166-FZ: v red. ot

8.06.2020 // SZ RF. – 15.06.2020. – #34. – St. 3740.

3. O kommercheskoj tajne: federal. zakon ot 29.07.2004 #98-FZ : v red. ot 2.02.2006 // SZ RF. – 09.08.2004. – #32. – St. 3283.

4. Ob osobennostjah osushhestvlenija v

2020 godu gosudarstvennogo kontrolja (nadzora), municipal’nogo

kontrolja i o vnesenii izmenenija v punkt 7 Pravil podgotovki organami

gosudarstvennogo kontrolja (nadzora) i organami municipal’nogo kontrolja

ezhegodnyh planov provedenija planovyh proverok juridicheskih lic i

individual’nyh predprinimatelej: postanovlenie Pravitel’stva RF ot 3

aprelja 2020 g. – # 438. – SZ RF. – 13.04.2020. – # 15.– St. 2292.

5. Ob osobennostjah predostavlenija

kommunal’nyh uslug sobstvennikam i pol’zovateljam pomeshhenij v

mnogokvartirnyh domah i zhilyh domov: postanovlenie Pravitel’stva RF ot 2

aprelja 2020 g. – # 424.– SZ RF. – 13.04. 2020. – # 15. – St. 2281.

6. Gorelikova H. A., Pavlov N. V. K

voprosu konstitucionnyh izmenenij v sfere mestnogo samoupravlenija. —

Tekst: neposredstvennyj // Molodoj uchenyj. — 2021. — # 8 (350). — S.

82-84. — [Jelektronnyj resurs] – Rezhim dostupa:

https://moluch.ru/archive/350/78734/ (data obrashhenija: 10.06.2021).

7. Mishustin M.V. Ezhegodnyj otchet

P