Moscow is the capital city and the most populous federal subject of Russia. The city is a major political, economic, cultural and scientific center in Russia and in Eastern Europe. According to Forbes 2013, Moscow has been ranked as the ninth most expensive city in the world by Mercer and is one of the world's largest urban economies, being ranked as an alpha global city according to the Globalization and World Cities Research Network and is also one of the fastest growing tourist destinations in the world according to the MasterCard Global Destination Cities Index. Moscow is the northernmost and coldest megacity and metropolis on Earth, one of the most populous in Europe and the 8th largest city proper in the world, as well as the largest amongst high income economies. It is home to the Ostankino Tower, the tallest free standing structure in Europe; Mercury City Tower, the tallest skyscraper in Europe and the Moscow International Business Center. It is the largest city in Russia, with a population of 12,197,596 people (2015). By its territorial expansion on 1 July 2012 southwest into the Moscow Oblast, the capital increased its area 2.5 times; from about 1,000 square kilometres up to 2,511 square kilometres, and gained an additional population of 233,000 people.

Moscow is situated on the Moskva River in the Central Federal District of European Russia making it the world's most populated inland city. The city is well known for its unique architecture which consists of many different historic buildings such as Saint Basil's Cathedral with its brightly coloured domes. With over 40 percent of its territory covered by greenery, it is one of the greenest capitals and major cities in Europe and the world, having the largest forest in an urban area within its borders-more than any other major city even before its expansion in 2012. In the course of its history the city has served as the capital of a progression of states, from the medieval Grand Duchy of Moscow and the subsequent Tsardom of Russia to the Soviet Union.

Moscow is considered the centre of Russian culture, having served as the home of prestigious Russian artists, scientists and sports figures during the course of its history and because of the presence of many different museums, academic and political institutions and theaters. Moscow is also the seat of power of the Government of Russia, being the site of the Moscow Kremlin, a medieval city-fortress that is today the residence of the Russian president. The Moscow Kremlin and the Red Square are also one of several World Heritage Sites in the city. Both chambers of the Russian parliament (the State Duma and the Federation Council) also sit in the city.

The city is served by an extensive transit network, which includes four international airports, nine railway terminals, numerous trams, a monorail system and one of the deepest underground metro systems in the world, the Moscow Metro, the fourth-largest in the world and largest outside of Asia in terms of passenger numbers. It is recognised as one of the city's landmarks due to the rich and varied architecture of its 194 stations.

More information is available on Wikipedia

Moscow

Overlay image (Before and After)

Today we feature the city of Moscow, the capital, inland port, and largest city of Russia, Moscow is situated on the banks of the Moskva River, which flows for just over 500 km through the East European Plain in central Russia. 49 bridges span the river and its canals within the city's limits. The elevation of Moscow at the All-Russia Exhibition Center (VVC), where the leading Moscow weather station is situated, is 156 m. Teplostanskaya highland is the city's highest point at 255 metres (837 feet). The width of Moscow city (not limiting MKAD) from west to east is 39.7 km, and the length from north to south is 51.8 km. Moscow is the traditional Holy Mother of the Russians and the economic, political, and cultural centre of Russia. Railways and numerous airlines converge on the city from all parts of Russia and the other successor states of the USSR. Navigable waterways, including the Moscow Canal, Moskva River, and Volga-Don Canal, make the port areas of the city directly accessible to shipping from the Baltic, White, Black, and Caspian seas and the Sea of Azov. Population 10,101,500 (2002).

These images acquired by the Landsat 5 and 8 satellites have a time window of acquisition (before / after) of twenty six years and aim to show the urban difference from 1988 until today. The two images show how the areas around the city have experienced large growth in urban development during this period.

Another aim of these images is to promote the opportunity to download Landsat data through the ESA portals, where images captured every day are made available in near real time to the users and the scientific community.

Landsat full resolution data products are freely available for immediate download at:

LANDSAT-8 portal

LANDSAT 1-7 portal

View large format slider

View Landsat 5 TM high resolution image (JPG 4.8 MB)

View Landsat 8 OLI high resolution image (JPG 4.3 MB)

Multicolour merge image by Sentinel-1 ASAR

These images acquired by the Sentinel-1 satellite in March and April 2015, show the city of Moscow using a merge combination of three radar images. The aim of this image is to promote this new radar satellite space mission from ESA in the Copernicus Programme. The Sentinel-1 mission consists of a constellation of two satellites, the first of which was launched in April 2014. This merge image also aims to demonstrate the future monitoring of Earth through the Sentinel satellites.

The payload of Sentinel-1 is a Synthetic Aperture Radar in C-band that provides continuous imagery (day, night and all weather).

More information is available on Wikipedia

View Sentinel-1 high resolution merge image (JPG 5.4 MB)

Map of area