Your complete guide to the early Charlie Chaplin shorts at Keystone, Essanay and Mutual!

Signing a contract with Keystone Studios in 1913, Charlie Chaplin left the vaudeville to begin what would become a legendary career on the silver screen. After several dozen short films with Keystone in 1914, Chaplin signed with the Essanay Film Manufacturing Company. There, he produced an additional 14 shorts before a record-breaking contract brought him to the Mutual Film Corporation in 1916.

Flicker Alley has had the honor of releasing three different sets of Charlie Chapin shorts, offering his entire extant filmography from Keystone, Essanay and Mutual. In case you’re not familiar with his early filmography, we’ve pulled together the following chronological guide, following Chaplin through his very first appearances, the introduction of his iconic Tramp and more! Included is the running time for each of the shorts, the films’ original premiere dates and, where available, alternate titles used for film re-releases.

A few more shorts not included in this guide were subsequently produced when Charlie Chaplin moved to First National in 1918. It is there that Chaplin began his shift into feature film, beginning with 1921’s The Kid.

Making a Living

February 2, 1914 – 12’53 – Directed by Henry Lehrman

In his first short, Charlie Chaplin stars as a swindler by the name Edgar English who, attempting to con a young lady, finds himself face to face with the Keystone Kops.

AKA: “Doing His Best,” “A Busted Johnny,” “Troubles” and “Take My Picture”

Kid Auto Races at Venice

February 7, 1914 – 6’33 – Directed by Henry Lehrman

The Little Tramp makes his big screen debut attending a baby-cart race where he’s unable to keep from causing a nuisance.

AKA: “The Pest,” “The Children’s Automobile Race”

Mabel’s Strange Predicament

February 9, 1914 – 11’51 – Directed by Mabel Normand

Although it was released after “Kid Auto Races at Venice,” this short was the first appearance of Charlie Chaplin’s Little Tramp to be produced. Here, he teams with Mabel Normand for a mixed up comedy set in a hotel.

AKA: “Hotel Mixup”

A Thief Catcher

February 19, 1914 – 8′ – Directed by Ford Sterling

Believed lost for nearly a century, a print was discovered in 2010, revealing Charlie Chaplin’s minor role in this cops and robbers comedy adventure. Although only a six minute excerpt is available in our “Chaplin at Keystone,” the full eight minute short is included in our “Mack Sennett Collection”.

Between Showers

February 28, 1914 – 14’01 – Directed by Henry Lehrman

Charlie Chaplin stars opposite Ford Sterling as two men who fight offer the affections of a lady.

AKA: “Charlie and the Umbrella,” “The Flirts”

A Film Johnnie

March 2, 1914 – 11’46 – Directed by George Nichols

When the Tramp falls in love with an actress that he sees in a Keystone short, he decides to visit the studios to try and track her down. Look for a cameo appearance by Fatty Arbuckle, playing himself.

AKA: “Charlie at the Studio,” “Million Dollar Job,” “Movie Nut”

Tango Tangles

March 9, 1914 – 9’51 – Directed by Mack Sennett

Fatty Arbuckle, Charlie Chaplin and Ford Sterling star as bandleader, a drunk and a musician, respectively, who all vie for the attentions for a hat-check girl during a dance hall performance.

AKA: “Charlie’s Recreation,” “Music Hall”

His Favorite Pastime

March 16, 1914 – 12’11 – Directed George Nichols

When the Tramp follows a woman home from a bar, he winds up having to deal with her enraged husband.

AKA: “The Bonehead”

Cruel, Cruel Love

March 26, 1914 – 9’23 – Directed by George Nichols and Mack Sennett

Chaplin, playing the upper class Lord Helpus, grows so despondent when his wife leaves him that he decides to poison himself. But then she returns and asks for his forgiveness and comedy ensues.

AKA: “Lord Helpus”

The Star Boarder

April 4, 1914 – 11’37 – Directed by George Nichols

Charlie Chaplin plays a tenant who his landlady prizes above all the others, leading to some jealousy from his building’s other residents.

AKA: “The Fatal Lantern,” “In Love with His Landlady,” “The Hash-House Hero”

Mabel at the Wheel

April 18, 1914 – 23’18 – Directed by Mabel Normand and Mack Sennett

A day at the races leads to Mabel Normand taking over as one of the featured cars’ drivers even as she does battle with a villainous Charlie Chaplin and his henchmen.

AKA: “His Daredevil Queen,” “A Hot Finish”

Twenty Minutes of Love

April 20, 1914 – 10’37 – Directed by Joseph Maddern and Charlie Chaplin

Charlie Chaplin makes his directorial debut with a story of the Tramp’s day in the park. There, he finds potential love and faces off against a watch thief.

AKA: “Cops and Watches,” “He Loves Her So,” “Love-Friend”

Caught in a Cabaret

April 27, 1914 – 22’42 – Directed by Mabel Normand

In an attempt to impress a society debutante (Mabel Normand), Charlie Chaplin’s lowly waiter decides to pose as a wealth Greek ambassador.

AKA: “Charlie the Waiter,” “Prime Minister Charlie,” “Faking with Society,” “Jazz Waiter,” “The Waiter”

Caught in the Rain

May 4, 1914 – 11’10 – Directed Charles Chaplin

The first short fully directed by Charlie Chaplin, “Caught in the Rain” offers a comedy of errors set in a hotel.

AKA: “At it Again,” “Who Got Stung?,” In the Park”

A Busy Day

May 7, 1914 – 5’57 – Directed Mack Sennett

Charlie Chaplin dresses in drag to play an unpleasant woman who disrupts a movie set. Director Mack Sennett makes an appearance as the director of the film within a film.

AKA: “Lady Charlie,” “Militant Suggragette,” “Busy as Can Be”

The Fatal Mallet

June 1, 1914 – 13’53 – Directed by Mack Sennett

Charlie Chaplin joins Mack Swain and even Mack Sennett himself to compete for the affections of Mabel Normand.

AKA: “Hit Him Again,” “The Pile Driver,” “The Rival Suitors”

Her Friend the Bandit

June 4, 1914 – 18′ – Dir Charles Chaplin and Mabel Normand

One of only two lost Charlie Chaplin shorts, “His Friend the Bandit” featured Chaplin as a vicious criminal who, after kidnapping a Count, takes his place to win the affections of Mabel Normand. That is, until the Keystone Kops show up.

AKA: “Mabel’s Flirtation”

The Knockout

June 11, 1914 – 30’06 – Directed Charles Avery

Although Charlie Chaplin appears in a supporting role, “The Knockout” really belong to Fatty Arbuckle who, playing a hobo named Pug, then pretends to be a famous boxer named Cyclone Flynn.

Rereleased As: “Counted Out,” “The Pugilist”

Mabel’s Busy Day

June 13, 1914 – 12’39 – Directed by Mabel Normand

Mabel Normand plays an unfortunate hot dog vendor who, thanks to a misunderstanding, loses all her hot dogs to Charlie Chaplin while at a race track.

AKA: “Charlie and the Sausages,” “Hot Dog Charlie,” Hot Dogs,” “Love and Lunch”

Mabel’s Married Life

June 20, 1914 – 14’38 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Mabel Normand and Charlie Chaplin play a married couple. When she is harassed in the park, Mabel decides to purchase a training dummy in an effort to make a fighter out of her husband. Naturally, things don’t exactly go according to plan.

AKA: “The Squarehead,” “When You’re Married”

Laughing Gas

July 9, 1914 – 12’49 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

A dental assistant to one Dr. Pain, Charlie Chaplin winds up taking over the practice to hilarious results.

AKA: “Busy Little Dentist,” “Down and Out,” “Laffing Gas,” “The Dentist,” “Tuning His Ivories”

The Property Man

August 1, 1914 – 24′ – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Charlie Chaplin is responsible for the props at a vaudeville theater and winds up having to deal with the eccentric personalities who have need of his services.

AKA: “Getting His Goat,” “The Rustabout,” “Vamping Venus,” “Charlie on the Boards,” “Hits of the Past,” “Props”

The Face on the Bar Room Floor

August 10, 1914 – 11’47 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Upset at that the woman he was courting has rejected his advances, Charlie Chaplin’s Tramp drinks his worries away and attempts to draw her picture in chalk on the floor of a bar.

Recreation

August 13, 1914 – 6’22 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

So depressed that he’s considering suicide, Charlie Chaplin’s day perks up when he crosses paths with a lovely young lady. Unfortunately, her boyfriend soon arrives and a day at the park quickly becomes a brick-throwing match.

AKA: “Spring Fever”

The Masquerader

August 27, 1914 – 12’21 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Kicked off of a movie set because of his acting, Charlie Chaplin decides he can get another shot at stardom by pretending to be a woman.

AKA: “The Female Impersonator,” “The Perfumed Lady,” “The Picnic”

His New Profession

August 31, 1914 – 11’30 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Charlie Chaplin teams with Charles Parrott (the future Charley Chase) for a whirlwind comedy that begins when Chaplin decides to help a man in a wheelchair.

AKA: “Helping Himself,” “The Good For Nothing”

The Rounders

September 7, 1914 – 13’15 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Charlie Chaplin and Fatty Arbuckle play a pair of neighbors who, coming home drunk, incite the wrath of their respective wives.

AKA: “Revelry,” “Two of a Kind,” “Going Down,” “Oh, What a Night,” “The Love Thief,” “Tip, Tap, Toe”

The New Janitor

September 24, 1914 – 12’03 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Charlie Chaplin plays a janitor who, fired for repeatedly messing everything up, returns just in time to save an attractive stenographer (Helen Carruthers) from would be burglars.

Those Love Pangs

October 10, 1914 – 11’59 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Charlie Chaplin and Chester Conklin play rivals who do battle with one another to win the affection of any woman they come across.

AKA: “Busted Hearts,” “The Rival Mashers,” “Oh, You Girls”

Dough and Dynamite

October 26, 1914 – 28’29 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Charlie Chaplin and Chester Conklin are again teamed, this time as waiters who lose their jobs when all the cooks go on strike. They try to take over the kitchen, but have to contend with dynamite hidden in the dough by the angry striking chefs.

AKA: “The New Cook,” “The Cook,” “The Doughnut Designers”

Gentlemen of Nerve

October 29, 1914 – 14’54 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

It’s another crazy day at the races with Mabel Normand, Chester Conklin and, of course, Charlie Chaplin as a character named Mr. Wow-Woe.

AKA: “Charlie at the Races,” “Some Nerve”

His Musical Career

November 7, 1914 – 13’10 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Charlie Chaplin works as both a piano mover and piano repossessor. Unfortunately, he’s just mixed the two address.

AKA: “Musical Tramps,” “The Piano Movers,” “Charlie as a Piano Mover”

His Trysting Place

November 9, 1914 – 20’44 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

When he accidentally takes the wrong coat after leaving a restaurant, a series of misunderstandings gets Charlie Chaplin’s hapless Clarence in a lot of trouble with his wife.

AKA: “Family House,” “Family Home,” “The Ladies’ Man,” “Very Much Married”

Getting Acquainted

December 5, 1914 – 13’32 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

The final Charlie Chaplin short produced at Keystone, the comedy sees Chaplin and Mabel Normand as a pair who, despite being married to other people, decide to meet up for a secret rendezvous in the park.

AKA: “A Fair Exchange,” “Exchange is No Robbery,” “Hello Everybody”

His Prehistoric Past

December 7, 1914 – 21’49 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

When Charlie Chaplin falls asleep on a park bench, he dreams of a previous life as a prehistoric cave man.

AKA: “A Dream, King Charlie,” “The Caveman,” “The Hula-Hula Dance”

Tillie’s Punctured Romance

December 21, 1914 – 85’17 – Directed by Mack Sennett

In this feature length adventure, Charlie Chaplin and Mabel Normand team as a pair of cons with designs on stealing the wealth inherited by an innocent woman, Marie Dressler’s Tillie.

AKA: “For the Love of Tillie,” “Marie’s Millions,” “Tillie’s Big Romance,” “Tillie’s Nightmare”

His New Job

February 1, 1915 – 28’39 – Directed Charles Chaplin

Poking some fun at his own career, Charlie Chaplin intentionally planned this short to launch his time at Essanay. Look for an appearance by Gloria Swanson in one of her very first roles.

AKA: “Charlie’s New Job”

A Night Out

February 15, 1915 – 27’09 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Charlie Chaplin treads familiar comedy territory with a throwback to “The Rounders,” this time pairing with Ben Turpin to play two drunks who get into some mischief at a hotel.

AKA: “Champagne Charlie,” “Charlie’s Drunken Daze,” “Charlie’s Night Out,” “His Night Out”

The Champion

March 11, 1915 – 30’54 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Charlie Chaplin and his pet bulldog discover an interesting new career: working as professional boxer.

AKA: “Battling Charlie,” “Champion Charlie,” “Charlie the Champion”

In the Park

March 18, 1915 – 13’53 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Charlie Chaplin faces off against a thief in the park.

AKA: “Charlie in the Park,” “Charlie on the Spree”

A Jitney Elopement

April 1, 1915 – 24’46 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

To win the affections of the girl he loves, Charlie Chaplin pretends to be wealthy Count.

AKA: “Charlie’s Elopement,” “Married in Haste”

The Tramp

April 11, 1915 – 26’25 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Named for Charlie Chaplin’s iconic character, this short finds the Tramp looking for love and instead finding work as a farmhand.

AKA: “Charlie the Hobo,” “Charlie on the Farm,” “Charlie the Tramp”

By the Sea

April 29, 1915 – 14’03 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

While looking for love at the beach, Charlie Chaplin comes into conflict with some very angry husbands.

AKA: “Charlie’s Day Out,” “Charlie By the Sea”

His Regeneration

May 7, 1915 – 14’52 – Directed by Gilbert M. “Broncho Billy” Anderson

It’s chaos in a dance hall with Charlie Chaplin’s Tramp making a cameo appearance.

Work

June 21, 1915 – 28’12 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Hired to put up wallpaper at a luxurious mansion, Charlie Chaplin’s Tramp winds up contributing to a ruckus involving a wife, her husband and her secret lover.

AKA: “Charlie at Work,” “Only a Working Man,” “The Paperhanger,” “The Plumber,” “Charlie the Decorator”

A Woman

July 12, 1915 – 23’01 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Invited to dinner by a mother and daughter he meets at the park, Charlie Chaplin must pretend to be a woman named Nora Nettlerash to avoid the family’s angry father.

AKA: “Charlie the Perfect Lady,” “The Perfect Lady”

The Bank

August 9, 1915 – 25’02 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

A loose remake of “The New Janitor,” this one finds Charlie Chaplin working as a janitor at a bank and vying for the affections a secretary played by Edna Purviance.

AKA: “Charlie in the Bank”

Shanghaied

October 4, 1915 – 27’26 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Charlie Chaplin’s Tramp has just found work aboard a ship, but there’s one little problem: the ship owner has plans to sink the vessel for the insurance money.

AKA: “Charlie on the Ocean,” “Charlie the Sailor,” “Charlie Shanghaied”

A Night in the Show

November 20, 1915 – 24’15 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Charlie Chaplin plays duel roles (as Mr. Pest and Mr. Rowdy), both of whom seem intent on ruining a night out for everyone around them.

AKA: “A Night at the Show,” “Charlie at the Show”

Burlesque on Carmen

December 18, 1915 – 31’08 – Directed Charles Chaplin

A parody of Cecil B. DeMille’s Carmen (released that same year), the short finds Charlie Chaplin as unwitting police officer Officer Darn Hosiery, who becomes the target of gypsy smugglers.

Police

May 27, 1916 – 25’44 – Directed by Charles Chaplin

Released from prisoner, Charlie Chaplin’s Tramp teams with a former cellmate who has plans to rob a young woman.

AKA: “Charlie in the Burglar,” “Housbreaker,” “Charlie in the Police”

Triple Trouble

August 11, 1918 – 22’50 – Directed by Charles Chaplin and Leo White

Three years after Charlie Chaplin had finished his work at Essanay, the studio released “Triple Trouble,” a sort of clip show of outtakes. Among the footage highlights are segments from Life, an aborted attempt that, had it been completed, would have marked Chaplin’s first feature film.

AKA: “Charlie’s Triple Trouble”

The Floorwalker

May 15, 1916 – 24′ – Directed by Charles Chaplin and Edward Brewer

Thanks to Charlie Chaplin’s Tramp, comedic chaos erupts in a department store.

AKA: “The Store,” “Shop”

The Fireman

June 12, 1916 – 32′ – Directed by Charles Chaplin and Edward Brewer

Charlie Chaplin is a firefighter who isn’t exactly great at his job. He’s been tricked into letting a house burn because the owner wants to collect on the insurance.

AKA: “A Gallant Fireman,” “The Fiery Circle”

The Vagabond

July 10, 1916 – 24′ – Directed by Charles Chaplin and Edward Brewer

Charlie Chaplin’s Tramp tries to earn money by playing the violin, but he’s soon facing off against the jealous competition.

AKA: “Gipsy Life”

One A.M.

August 7, 191 – 34′ – Directed by Charles Chaplin and Edward Brewer

It’s Charlie Chaplin versus his own home as getting into bed after a night of drinking proves far trickier than it might seem.

AKA: “Solo”

The Count

September 4, 1916 – 34′ – Directed by Charles Chaplin and Edward Brewer

Fired from his job, Charlie Chaplin’s Tramp once gain finds himself pretending to be someone else as he attends a party at the Moneybags estate.

AKA: “Almost a Gentleman”

The Pawnshop

October 2, 1916 – 20′ – Directed by Charles Chaplin and Edward Brewer

Working in a pawnshop, Charlie Chaplin faces all sorts of strange occurrences, including an armed burglar.

AKA: “At the Sign of the Dollar,” “High and Low Finance”

Behind the Screen

November 13, 1916 – 23′ – Directed by Charles Chaplin and Edward Brewer

It’s a biblical retelling as Charlie Chaplin’s David, a movie studio stagehand, faces off against a rival stagehand, Goliath (Eric Campbell).

AKA: “The Pride of Hollywood”

The Rink

December 4, 1916 – 24′ – Directed by Charles Chaplin and Edward Brewer

Charlie Chaplin plays a waiter who isn’t exactly great at his job. When he’s on his lunch break, though, he really shines. That’s when he gets to put on his rollerskates!

AKA: “Rolling Around,” “Waiter”

Easy Street

January 22, 1917 – 19′ – Directed by Charles Chaplin and Edward Brewer

Charlie Chaplin trades in his Tramp identity and becomes a police officer. The only trouble is that he has to face off against a street bully (Eric Campbell).

The Cure

April 16, 1917 – 31′ – Directed by Charles Chaplin and Edward Brewer

Comedy chaos erupts when a drunk (Charlie Chaplin) checks into a day spa.

AKA: “The Water Cure”

The Immigrant

June 18, 1917 – 22′ – Directed by Charles Chaplin

En route to America, Charlie Chaplin’s Tramp has some trouble aboard an Atlantic steamer.

AKA: “A Modern Columbus,” “Broke,” “Hello U.S.A.,” “The New World”

The Adventurer

October 22, 1917 – 31′ – Directed by Charles Chaplin and Edward Brewer

In his final film at Mutual, Charlie Chaplin plays an escaped convict. Tragically, “The Adventurer” also marked the final screen appearance from Eric Campbell. He died in an automobile accident less than two months after the short premiered.