Pankaj Avadhesh Shukla is a renowned Indian actor, director, and writer working as a Hindi Tv actor. He is known for working in English, Hindi, Avadhi, Sanskrit, Tamil, Kannada, and Bhojpuri languages. After he completed his schooling at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Pankaj joined the National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur, for his Bachelor's degree in Ayurveda Medicine and Surgery. In 2012, he joined Barkatullah Vishwavidyalaya for his Master's Degree in Yoga and Physical Awareness. He also pursued a Sales and Marketing Professional at the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Calcutta, in 2014. At the beginning of his career an Event and Promotional Manager at Evershine Entertainment Pvt. Ltd. in 2008. He later worked as a Promotional Manager at different entertainment firms and companies. Pankaj Avadhesh Shukla has been working as an actor at Chaitragrahi Films since 2017 and as the Brand Consultant at Mileage Advertising, Bhopal, since 2012. He is also the Chairperson of Gen-X Era Media Pvt. Ltd. He debuted in the Television industry with a cameo role in a popular Tv show Kumkum Bhagya in 2020. The first notable role played by Pankaj Avadhesh Shukla is Raman for the movie Hansa: Ek Sanyog. The film has directed by Santosh Kashyap and Dhiraj Verma and released on 3 May 2019. He worked with the co-stars Aishwarya Arora , Istiyak Khan, Vaishnavi Mahant , Akhilendra Mishra , and others. In 2021, he appeared in a short drama film, Antarvasna, released in Hindi and Marathi. The film has released on 20 March 2021 and starred Shivani Tanksale , Sanjay Khapre , Shriya Pilgaonkar , Rasika Dugal , and Srinika Patwardhan. In 2021, he appeared in a Tv series starring Parth Samthan, Arshin Mehta , Patralekhaa Paul, and Krishna Kotian , Mai Hero Boll Raha Hu. The action thriller series has streamed on 20 April 2021 on Zee 5, an online video streaming platform. He played his roles excellently and gained attention among the audience. One of the most popular projects by Pankaj Avadhesh Shukla is a short movie, Side Mirror, by Raja Chaudhary , in which he appeared with Akash Athawale, Gaurav Bajpai , and Manish Chauhan in lead roles.

He is mainly known for his role as Lakhan Dubey in a Historical movie, Swaraj: Bharat Ke Swatantra Sangram Ki Samagra Gatha. It has directed by Neeraj Pandey and Arif Shamsi and streamed on DD National on 14 August 2022. Hrishita Bhatt, Manoj Joshi , Himanshu Malhotra, Barkha Bisht, and many other famous stars played the lead roles in Swaraaj. Pankaj Avadhesh Shukla debuted as a director and writer for a short drama, Moment tnemoM, released on 16 July 2021.