LONDON and NEW YORK, June 9 /PRNewswire/ --

- Version 8 Introduces Advanced Functionality For Managing Business Risk, Particularly in High-Risk Areas Such as Corporate Actions, Pricing and Data Quality

GoldenSource Corporation a global software provider of Enterprise Data Management (EDM) solutions for financial and securities institutions worldwide today announced the general availability of Version 8 of the GoldenSource EDM platform. Built around a standards-based J2EE application server framework, the GoldenSource EDM platform is now even easier to configure, integrate and deliver - providing customers with dynamic scalability, security and high availability out-of-the-box.

Functional enhancements include a set of new preconfigured Connections to content providers, and three powerful data quality improvements that provide:

- improved matching and exception management in the area of corporate actions notifications; - sophisticated pricing capabilities for validating vendor data and handling exceptions; - greater flexibility in the definition and management of data completeness, allowing different consumers to specify their critical data attributes in a non-linear way

All of these functional enhancements make it easier for users to control and manage data quality and reliability - and this is fundamental in helping firms more accurately determine their total risk and exposure, so that they can compete more effectively.

Significant technical advancements include: a workflow-oriented and SOA-enabled architecture which allows rapid deployment of end-to-end data management solutions using a graphical configuration interface; and an improved system management interface for easier and faster implementation and production management. All configuration tasks are carried out in a standards-based Eclipse framework, providing a seamless environment to implement solutions from configuration to testing and production. This will dramatically increase the transparency and auditability of business processes, and reduce the time to market for implemented EDM solutions.

"EDM solutions need to allow firms to think big, start small and scale quickly. With this in mind it's essential to provide ease of integration with any data source or consumer, scalability to handle very high volumes and to have high availability built in. We're delivering all of that, and more, with Version 8. We've also made the technology firepower even easier and more accessible for data professionals to use, really helping them to own the process, drive data quality and interact with the data flow at a business level," said Tom Stock, SVP Product Management, at GoldenSource. "A user-friendly interface design, focus on flexible and standards-based workflow, as well as preconfigured connections to specialized vendor data products, make it possible to get data management out of the IT realm and firmly under the control of the business."

New Connections available in Version 8 include:

- Bloomberg Data License: Extended (including: Extended Equity, Extended Preferred, Extended EOD Pricing) - Fidelity ActionsXchange: ActionService ISO 15022 - Interactive Data: ISO 15022 - S&P: GICS Direct - Fitch Ratings: Enhanced RDS [current Issue and Issuer ratings] - Reuters DataScope: DS Select

Key technology innovations in Version 8 include:

- Standards-based J2EE application server - Fully integrated process and resource management - Integrated process monitoring (SNMP traps) - Automatic/dynamic scaling - Application server integrated security - Graphical system management and configuration consoles - Flexible workflow model - Synchronous interfaces - Fully transactional - Single deployment onto cluster - Open messaging standards (JMS)

About GoldenSource

GoldenSource makes it easy to manage critical reference data. We offer an integrated Enterprise Data Management (EDM) platform for the securities and investment management industry. Our innovative products are designed to create, maintain and distribute a trusted Golden Copy. Our unique data model covers all financial instruments, customers and counterparties, and extends to transactions and positions. The ability to connect, organise and aggregate trusted information reduces risk, drives better decisions and helps our customers achieve their goals.

As a pioneer of EDM solutions, GoldenSource powers managed data services via the innovative Powered by GoldenSource(tm) program. Powered by GoldenSource supports outsourced data management services for many of the world's leading global institutions, including IBM, Broadridge, HSBC and OpHedge.

For more information, visit http://www.thegoldensource.com

Notes to Editors

For more information UK press office U.S. press office: Metia Ltd. Metia Inc Jon Angeloni/Daniel Diaz Tinne Teugels Tel: + 44(0)20-3100-3500 Tel: +1-917-320-6459 Email: goldensource@metia.com Email: goldensource@metia.com