This year's winner of the "Stefan M. Ljubiša" award for literary creativity, a prestigious award from the "Grad Teatar" festival, is Miljenko Jergović, while the Theater Award of the Grad Teatar went to the actress Jasna Đuričić.

The decision on this year's literary laureate was made by a jury composed of: Vida Ognjenović, writer and director, David Albahari, writer and Božo Koprivica, playwright and essayist. In the explanation of the jury's decision, it is stated that the prose writer, poet, essayist, commentator and anthologist, Miljenko Jergović, has already convincingly announced with his poetic and prose debuts that a fierce young writer has arrived in contemporary literature, with a sharp tongue and sharp observation, who is no stranger to anything literary. and little in life can escape her.

"He entered the literary life and public social discussion like a hearty boxer in a dangerous ring, but determined not to back down, but to stay and withstand the most difficult trials of literature, a disillusioned society and the time spent. And he really didn't back down. The collection of short stories 'Sarajevo Marlboro', which he published after the poetry books in the early nineties, became cult reading in this region, and was awarded and frequently translated into several languages, and won a wide readership beyond these linguistic boundaries," the jury explained.

"Like Stefan Mitrov Ljubiša, Jergović feels the call of the public scene and bravely responds to it"

"Just like Stefan Mitrov Ljubiša, Jergović feels the call of the public scene and bravely responds to it. He is the one who, in his columns, reminds the public that a common cultural idiom is an asset, not a threat to identity. He consistently calls for intellectual alarm, as chauvinism threatens to become the accepted social norm. "He warns with fear and concern how dangerous it is to live in a society where only hatred can be safe," the jury explained.

The award to Miljenko Jergović will be presented on the Budva Municipality Day, November 22, 2013.

Novi Sad actress Jasna Đuričić is the winner of the award for dramatic creativity of the "Grad Teatar" Festival, which the audience of this year's edition of the festival had the opportunity to see in three exceptional plays: "Ship for Dolls" of the Serbian National Theater from Novi Sad, "Finger" of the Bitef Theater and "Odysseus" by Ulyses Theater. The jury that decided on this year's prize for dramatic creativity was composed of Jelena Kajgo, playwright and director of Bitef, president, Jasen Boko, playwright and theater critic, and Mladen Nelević.

In the explanation of the jury's decision, it is stated that Jasna Đuričić is an actress with an extremely striking and powerful stage appearance.

"With her reduced and extremely exciting acting tools, she creates characters that are associated with the best tradition of German drama theater. Charismatic, distinctive, brave in approaching new forms, Jasna Đuričić is an actress who escapes from clichés, stereotypes and established theater conventions, and thus belongs to that selected part of the acting profession that the theater reforms and leads forward", the jury explained. The Jasna Đuričić award will be presented on Budva Municipality Day.