This article's content is marked as Mature

The page contains mature content that may include coarse language, sexual references, and/or graphic violent images which may be disturbing to some. Mature pages are recommended for those who are 18 years of age and older.

If you are 18 years or older or are comfortable with graphic material, you are free to view this page. Otherwise, you should close this page and view another page.

The Poultrygeist Zombies are the titular main antagonists of the 2006 comedy musical horror film Poultrygeist: Night of the Chicken Dead.

They are a mutated race of undead human-chicken hybrids who were created after being infected from the curse of the ancient Indian burial ground that has brought upon them.

Plot[]

The military-themed fast food chain "American Chicken" is building its next restaurant on the site of an ancient sacred Indian cemetery in the town of Tromaville in New Jersey.

In the end, people who are in a restaurant and have eaten something here turn into zombie chickens. There are only a few people who have not mutated in the restaurant, who hide under the counter out of desperation. They are rescued by a certain adult man who introduced himself as "Arby from the future". He destroys the zombies in the building with the help of a machine gun he has in store, but he dies himself. Despite the fact that the restaurant is free of zombies, the survivors cannot leave it, as many zombie chickens surround it from the outside. Arby and Wendy find the antidote. It turns out to be alcohol. The fact is that all zombies have Indian souls inside, which tolerate it very badly. When the beer runs out, an Arab Hummus kitchen worker volunteers to destroy the remaining zombies by blowing herself up among them. Arby and Wendy, along with the little girl they found in the pantry, leave the restaurant by car. Suddenly, the girl lays a large chicken egg, and Arby, shocked by what he saw, can't control the car, the car gets into an accident and explodes.