At KPMG, our people are our number one priority. With a wealth of learning and career development opportunities, a world-class training facility, and leading market tools, we make sure you’ll continue to grow both professionally and personally. If you’re looking for a firm with a strong team connection where you can be your whole self, have an impact, advance your skills, deepen your experiences, and have the flexibility and access to constantly find new areas of inspiration and expand your capabilities, then consider a career in Advisory.

Deal Advisory & Strategy (DAS)

As an integrated team of specialists, Deal Advisory & Strategy (DAS) helps clients find and drive value throughout the transformation and transaction lifecycle. Whether it’s steering through industry-disrupting changes, driving growth through mergers & acquisitions, or finding ways to operate more efficiently, organizations need to be more forward-looking and data-driven. DAS professionals help clients transact, grow, and realize value by bringing industry centered solutions tailored to meet their needs. Our approach brings the unique parts of our firm together to deliver a seamless, integrated, end-to-end client experience that provides deep insights at deal speed, all powered by our people and data.

Support Team

Having an integrated support team helps our professionals navigate their careers at KPMG. From your first day, your Transitional Coach will ensure that you have a seamless onboarding experience and be there for any questions you may encounter as a newcomer to the firm. Your Performance Management Leader (PML) will serve as your advisor, coach, and performance evaluator, with the goal of helping you to become a valuable member of the team. To be successful, continuous feedback is essential. Our feedback process is designed to help our professionals improve their technical skills by receiving honest, timely feedback. It enables our professionals to be more accountable for their growth and own their own success.

Team of Choice

Advisory Team of Choice (ToC) is a collection of leading practices, tools, and resources that is embedded in our culture and values.

Career Mobility

The Career Mobility Program (CMP) is a resource to help employees navigate the many potential career opportunities the firm has to offer. Our team of dedicated Career Mobility Advisors provide guidance and education on how to: identify potential internal opportunities, learn about different practice groups, receive career guidance and assistance, and explore domestic and global rotation opportunities.

Rotations

Rotations enable our professionals to broaden their skills and experiences by taking on a fixed-term assignment with another team from elsewhere within the U.S. firm in support of their near- and longer-term career development. A rotation can be a great way for you to learn about a different part of our business, challenge and stretch yourself, or leverage your skills and experience in a new way, all while remaining part of the KPMG team.

Well-being

To support your whole self at work, we value the importance of taking time to recharge and unplug.

One hour a month towards activities that prioritize our professionals physical, spiritual, mental, or emotional wellness

Jumpstart kicks off summer weekends early

Weeklong Winter and Summer firm-wide shut down breaks

Heads Down Wednesdays to focus on work uninterrupted

No Camera Fridays

DAS Analytics

Solving the most complex business and deal challenges requires the right mix of business and technical resources. Through the KPMG Intelligence Platform (KI), we use advanced data analytics to deliver insights at deal speed. Our advanced deal science focuses on questions that are harder to answer using traditional analysis techniques.

By utilizing the KI platform, our experienced teams combine vast data sets (proprietary and external) with leading technology to drive better business decisions. Our deal-speed insights span the following:

© 2024 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and a member firm of the KPMG global organization of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Limited, a private English company limited by guarantee. All rights reserved.

The KPMG name and logo are trademarks used under license by the independent member firms of the KPMG global organization.

For more details about the structure of the KPMG global organization, please visit https://home.kpmg/governance

KPMG LLP offers a comprehensive compensation and benefits package. KPMG is an affirmative action-equal opportunity employer. KPMG complies with all applicable federal, state, and local laws regarding recruitment and hiring. All qualified applicants are considered for employment without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, protected veteran status, or any other category protected by applicable federal, state, or local laws. The attached link contains further information regarding the firm's compliance with federal, state, and local recruitment and hiring laws. KPMG maintains a drug-free workplace.

Employment with KPMG is "At Will," which means that employment may be terminated with or without cause and with or without notice at any time at the discretion of either KPMG or the employee.