A large number of Royal Netherlands Air Force personnel work at locations in Europe and the United States.

The Royal Netherlands Air Force in Europe

A number of Air Force personnel do not work for one of the Air Force’s units or at one of the air bases in the Netherlands, but at other locations in Europe. This could involve units or members of personnel acting as points of contact for the Air Force or the Netherlands Defence organisation.

An overview per country:

Belgium

Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE) in Mons.

NATO headquarters, Brussels.

Germany

Headquarters Allied Air Command in Ramstein.

The Combined Air Operations Centre Uedem (CAOC-U) in Uedem.

Joint Air Power Competence Centre (JAPCC) in Kalkar.

NATO Airborne Early Warning Force in Geilenkirchen.

Luftwaffenführungskommando in Cologne.

Greece

NATO Missile Firing Installation (NAMFI) on Crete.

United Kingdom

European Air Group in High Wycombe.

Hungary

Heavy Airlift Wing (HAW) in Pápa.

Italy

Headquarters Allied Joint Force Command in Naples.

Netherlands Central Staff of the Ministry of Defence in The Hague. Operations centre and policy divisions.

Defence Explosives Ordnance Disposal Service in Soesterberg.

Defence Ground-based Air Defence Company in Vredepeel.

Headquarters Allied Joint Force Command in Brunssum.

Multinational Coordination Centre Europe in Eindhoven.

Amsterdam Airport Schiphol in Hoofddorp.

The Royal Netherlands Air Force in the United States

A number of Royal Netherlands Air Force personnel work at locations in the United States. This involves positions at embassies and aviation industry companies, but particularly positions at flight training locations. An overview of training locations:

Fort Novosel: basic training for helicopter pilots.

Fort Cavasos: training for Apache and Chinook helicopter pilots and airmobile operations.

Fort Sill: coordination with US ground-based air defence and air defence training.

Sheppard: fighter pilot training.

Luke: F-35 training for fighter pilots.

Edwards for the F-35 test and evaluation phase

A detachment from 323 Squadron is based at Edwards Air Force Base in California for the operational test and evaluation (OT&E) phase of the F-35.