REYKJAVIK, Iceland (AP) — Swansea midfielder GylfiSigurdsson scored both goals Monday as Iceland pulled off a shock 2-0 defeat of the Netherlands in a European Championship qualifier to hand new coach GuusHiddink his third loss in four matches since taking over after the World Cup.

It was Iceland's first ever victory over the Netherlands in 11 meetings.

The win kept Iceland perfect in three qualifiers and left it level atop Group A with the Czech Republic, which got its third straight win by beating Kazakhstan 4-2 in Almaty. Turkey remained anchored to the bottom of the group with Kazakhstan after gaining its first point with a 1-1 draw at Latvia

Sigurdsson scored twice before the break. He fired home from the spot in the 10th minute after Stefan de Vrij had brought down Birkir Bjarnason and volleyed powerfully into the roof of the net in the 42nd after the Dutch defense failed to clear a corner.

"It really is painful that we lost here," said Dutch captain Robin van Persie, who was kept in check almost all night by a tight Iceland defense.

The second Iceland goal came after a spell of Dutch pressure when Van Persie came close and Arjen Robben squandered a great chance by heading wide after a cross from the left by Daley Blind.

But those chances were interspersed by sloppy passing and clumsy defending by a Dutch team that appeared a shadow of the side that finished third at the World Cup.

"Iceland was just waiting for our mistakes," Van Persie said. "That is how they play, we knew that."

Why Gareth Bale and Cristiano Ronaldo may not make it to Euro 2016

Since the successful tournament in Brazil, the Dutch have lost a friendly to Italy, lost to the Czech Republic, struggled to victory over Kazakhstan and now lost to Iceland, a dismal record that will put pressure on Hiddink, who is in his second stint in charge after previously leading the Netherlands to the World Cup semifinals in 1998.

Van Persie said it was not fair to blame Hiddink.

"Guus is a fantastic coach," he said. "We are all working as hard as we can to play well."

Hiddink brought on a second striker — Klaas Jan Huntelaar — at halftime for Wesley Sneijder, but the Schalke striker who came off the bench Friday night to score against Kazakhstan could not make an impact this time.

And as the Netherlands pushed forward trying to claw its way back into the match, it gave room to Iceland's forwards and Kolbeinn Sigthorsson and Bjarnason both came close to extending the host's lead after the break.

After opening its campaign with a surprise 2-1 win over the Netherlands and beating Latvia 3-0 on Friday, the Czechs wrapped up victory over Kazakhstan inside an hour thanks to goals by Borek Dockal, David Lafata and Ladislav Krejci.

The hosts showed off their prowess at set pieces with two late goals by Yuri Logvinenko from corners sandwiching a fourth Czech strike from Tomas Necid.

In Latvia, Bilal Kisa opened the scoring shortly after halftime with a long-range shot and Valerijs Sabala equalized with a 54th-minute penalty.