Downtown Lock Haven, Inc.’s 8th Annual Hometown Hero Banner Ceremony highlighted over 100 veterans, whose banners have been hung along Main, Grove and Water streets, Bellefonte Avenue and the levee walkway along the West Branch of the Susquehanna River.

Clinton County Director of Veterans Affairs, and retired US Army Col. Todd Warner – who served as the ceremony’s keynote speaker – summed up what the program signified.

“This day is a simple love story. This event is a simple love story. It’s a three-pronged, multi-generational love story,” he said.

Warner, who served for decades in the Army including during major operations such as Desert Storm and Iraqi Freedom, explained his thought process the following way:

“The love of the family, leads to the love of community which leads to love of a nation,” Warner said. “It’s that simple. It always has been and God willing it always will be.”

Warner noted, during his walk from the Veterans Affairs office on Jay Street to Triangle Park, he studied the banners that have recently been displayed on light poles along the streets.

“Everybody is represented. Nurses, first responders, law enforcement, obviously the overwhelming number are military veterans in a county that currently has almost 3,000 veteran residents,” he said.

Warner commended the City of Lock Haven and Clinton County for its unwavering commitment to showcasing veterans, first responders and medical personnel bi-annual since 2008.

Three local dignitaries also spoke during the event, all introduced by MCee and Hometown Hero Committee Chair Cara Montarsi-Jackson.

First was Clinton County Commissioner Jeff Snyder, who noted the ceremony would not exist without our veterans.

“These are outstanding men and women who unselfishly serve their country in the name of freedom and we proudly display and honor their banners,” he said.

Snyder also thanked the Hometown Hero Committee, City of Lock Haven and its council along with many others for making the program possible.

State Representative Stephanie Borowicz spoke about the importance of honoring and remembering veterans and their stories.

“Along my path the last few years, (I’ve been) trying to take the time to listen to every story, as many as I can from veterans that understand what freedom really means,” Borowicz said. “Some of us that didn’t serve cannot understand the sacrifices of what it was like in Vietnam, what it was like in World War II. All we can do is honor them, respect them, listen to their stories, pass them down from generation to generation.”

Borowicz repeatedly thanked veterans in the audience and those who were unable to attend Saturday’s ceremony and those who made the event and program possible.

“Thank you for your service, thank you to everyone who puts this on – I know it takes a lot of time for you to do this,” she said. “It represents the best of America – our veterans.”

Lock Haven City Mayor Joel Long reminisced on the first ever ceremony that took place in 2008.

“I was here 15 years ago when we had our very first hometown heroes celebration. I have very vivid memories,” he said. Long recounted seeing, while he spoke during the ceremony, a veteran in a World War I uniform saluting in the crowd.

“The emotion that swept over me at that time was… it’s hard to explain,” he said.

“These are the kinds of things we need to do to celebrate you,” he said of the veterans in attendance.

Following the reading of a list featuring names of every veteran and first responder that will be displayed along the streets for two years – one veteran in particular was placed in the spotlight.

“This young man has been on the earth long enough to see the sun rise 36,526 times,” Hometown Hero Committee member Jeff Croak began.

Croak gestured to the front row, where Corp. Leo Stahl was seated. Stahl watched with surprise as Croak spoke about his time served during World War II as a forward observer from March of 1945 to February 1946.

“He was there in the final days as the Germans surrendered and for several months afterward to help the allied occupation,” he said. “Yesterday was Leo’s 100th birthday and he is here with us today so we can present him with his Hometown Hero banner.”

“Leo, on behalf of the committee and a grateful community, please accept these tokens of our gratitude for everything you have done for us,” Croak concluded.

Stahl was presented with a banner, of which duplicate was placed at the tip of Triangle Park for all to see. He was also gifted a shadow box, featuring his military photo, a recent picture of himself and a map that showcased where he was the day the Germans surrender. The shadow box was created by two Central Mountain High School seniors, Evan Orner and Colton Hanley.

The honors and gifts didn’t stop there, Borowicz also presented Stahl with a citation on behalf of the Pennsylvania State House of Representatives and the entire crowd joined in singing him “Happy Birthday.”

Downtown Lock Haven, Inc. Board President, and Clinton County Commissioner, Angela Harding closed out the day’s ceremony with a plethora of thank yous to the many volunteers, sponsors and individuals who helped make the ceremony and banner program possible.

“Thank you to the heroes of Clinton County. Both the ones whose faces are adorning these banners and the ones who don’t,” Harding said. “Heroes past and present, your sacrifices have and will not go unnoticed. We appreciate you, we honor you and we are eternally grateful to you.”

Harding took a moment to thank outgoing DLH Manager Kira Rosmailia for her efforts regarding the program and more over the past two years.

Harding noted that Rosamilia, who will be taking on the role of Tourism Director at the Clinton County Economic Partnership, requested she not start the position until after the Hometown Hero Ceremony.

“She could have left three weeks ago, and she told those interviewing her that it was very important for her to stay with Downtown Lock Haven to make sure that this program was as successful as it could possibly be,” Harding said.

“It was because of her incredible hard work, her detailed focus – and I mean detailed — dedication to our community … her unwavering time commitment,” she continued. “This program this year would not be nearly as successful without the work of Kira Rosamilia. Downtown will miss her but we know she’s going to do amazing things for the county of Clinton.”

Following the conclusion of the ceremony, the community was invited to enjoy cake and refreshments in honor of Stahl and his birthday.

NEWSLETTER

Today's breaking news and more in your inbox