View waymark gallery

Grave of Prime Minister John Thompson - Halifax, Nova Scotia

N 44° 38.347 W 063° 34.638

20T E 454215 N 4943024

Sir John Sparrow David Thompson is buried in Holy Cross Cemetery. He served as Prime Minister of Canada from December 5, 1892 until his sudden death in office on December 12, 1894.

Waymark Code: WMK3WE

Location: Nova Scotia, Canada

Views: 12

Sir John Sparrow David Thompson is buried here. He served as Prime Minister of Canada from December 5, 1892 until his sudden death in office on December 12, 1894.

Besides being the fourth Prime Minister of Canada, Thompson also served as the fifth Premier of the Province of Nova Scotia. He was a lawyer, judge, and university professor who founded Dalhousie University's law school.

Thompson successfully defended the government in various politico-religious controversies, including reactions to the 1885 execution of Louis Riel, to the Jesuits’ Estates Act (1888–89), and to the subordination of the French language. In 1888 he helped arrange a fisheries treaty between Great Britain and the United States, and for this work he was knighted (1888).

Thompson died in office from a heart attack at the age of 49. He was on a visit to the United Kingdom at the time and was at Windsor Castle when the heart attack struck. Only minutes before his death Queen Victoria made him a member of her Privy Council. After an elaborate funeral was staged for him by Queen Victoria, Thompson's remains were transported back to Canada aboard the armoured cruiser HMS Blenheim, which was painted black for the occasion. He was buried on January 3, 1895.

Canadian artist Frederick Bell-Smith witnessed the arrival of the Blenheim and was inspired to paint three scenes concerning the death of Thompson. One, The Arrival of the Blenheim, was destroyed in the House of Commons fire of 1916. The other two, The State Funeral and The Queen's Tribute, have been restored by the National Archives.

Description:

Besides being the fourth Prime Minister of Canada, Thompson also served as the fifth Premier of the Province of Nova Scotia. He was a lawyer, judge, and university professor who founded Dalhousie University's law school.Date of birth: 11/10/1845Date of death: 12/12/1894Area of notoriety: PoliticsMarker Type: Tomb (above ground)Setting: OutdoorFee required?: NoWeb site: [Web Link]Visiting Hours/Restrictions: Not listed

Visit Instructions:

To post a visit log for waymarks in this category, you must have personally visited the waymark location. When logging your visit, please provide a note describing your visit experience, along with any additional information about the waymark or the surrounding area that you think others may find interesting.

We especially encourage you to include any pictures that you took during your visit to the waymark. However, only respectful photographs are allowed. Logs which include photographs representing any form of disrespectful behavior (including those showing personal items placed on or near the grave location) will be subject to deletion.

Search for...

Geocaching.com Google Map

Google Maps

MapQuest

Bing Maps

Nearest Waymarks

Nearest Grave of a Famous Person

Nearest Geocaches

Create a scavenger hunt using this waymark as the center point