Warning: Spoilers ahead for the “Mean Girls” musical.

Lindsay Lohan fetched a huge paycheck for her appearance in the new “Mean Girls” musical flick.

The 37-year-old “Falling for Christmas” star makes a small but poignant cameo appearance in the film, but she was still paid a hefty sum after working just half a day.

Sources told Variety Lohan raked in $500,000 for her quick appearance in the Tina Fey film.

Lohan starred as Cady Heron in the original 2004 teen flick.

“Mean Girls” ran for 833 performances on Broadway from 2018 to 2020 before it was adapted into a movie musical.

The Post has reached out to Lohan’s reps for comment.

In the new movie, the “Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen” star appears in a scene that involves a math competition.

Lohan even jetted to New York City from her home in the United Arab Emirates to attend the premiere on Jan. 8.

“It’s stood the test of time,” she told “Entertainment Tonight” about the film.

“I feel really grateful. I mean, it’s not very often that you have all these movies that do that. ‘Mean Girls’ really opened the doors for a lot of things going on in schools. I think it’s also a really fun movie, so it’s really a blessing,” she added.

Despite her mini appearance in the musical, Lohan was reportedly upset over a line present in the story.

In the film, Megan Thee Stallion makes a joke toward Cady (played by Angourie Rice) over her outfit.

“We are going back red! Y2K fire crotch is back,” the rapper quips.

As fans may know, in a 2006 paparazzi clip, Lohan was referred to as a “fire crotch” by friend Paris Hilton’s pal, Brandon Davis.

“Lohan’s movie bombed because she’s a fire crotch,” Davis said at the time. “Her dad’s hotter than her!”

Lohan’s rep released a statement about the jab Monday, telling “E! News”: “Lindsay was very hurt and disappointed by the reference in the film.”

An insider then divulged that Lohan was “surprised and taken aback” when she heard the reference at the Manhattan premiere.

The “Parent Trap” alum was the only original “Mean Girls” star to return to the movie.

Castmates Lacey Chabert, Rachel McAdams and Amanda Seyfried were asked to make cameos. However, their schedules didn’t allow them.