Overview: Cradle of Fear is a 2001 British horror film, directed by Alex Chandon. It was released direct-to-video on 4 July 2001. Taking inspiration from the anthology films produced by Amicus Productions in the ...

Release date: 4 July 2001

Director: Alex Chandon

Writer: Alex Chandon

A gruesome homage to the cult Amicus anthology Asylum, Cradle of Fear unfolds four screamplays all linked...

Overview: Inbred is a 2011 British horror film directed by Alex Chandon and co-written with Paul Shrimpton and produced by Margaret Milner Schmueck.

Release date: 3 February 2011

Genre: Horror

Director: Alex Chandon

Four young offenders and their workers spend a weekend in the remote Yorkshire village of Mortlake, which prides on keeping itself to itself. A minor ...

Overview: The Sleeping Room is a 2014 British horror film that was directed by John Shackleton. It had its world premiere on 23 August 2014 at the London FrightFest Film Festival and stars Leila Mimmack as a call ...

Overview: Slice and Dice: The Slasher Film Forever is a 2012 documentary feature directed and produced by Calum Waddell and edited and produced by Naomi Holwill. The two had previously set up their High Rising ...

Genre: Horror, Documentary

Director: Calum Waddell

A celebration of slasher cinema - from PSYCHO to the present day, with a focus on highlighting many of the genre's forgotten cult classics...

Overview: Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels is a 1998 British crime comedy film written and directed by Guy Ritchie, produced by Matthew Vaughn and starring an ensemble cast featuring Jason Flemyng, Dexter Fl ...

Release date: 28 August 1998

Genre: Comedy, Crime, Thriller

Director: Guy Ritchie

Writer: Guy Ritchie

A botched card game in London triggers four friends, thugs, weed-growers, hard gangsters, loan sharks and debt collectors to collide with each other in ...

Overview: Pervirella is a 1997 adventure-comedy film which was directed by Alex Chandon, the film stars Emily Booth in the lead role and featured brief cameos from Jonathan Ross and Mark Lamarr.

Release date: 5 February 2002

Genre: Comedy, Adventure

This is the story of the beautiful young Pervirella. Set in the mythical English land of Condon, the grotesque...

Overview: Comedy Lab is a British television series which showcases pilots of experimental comedy shows. Series have been aired irregularly on Channel 4 and E4 since 1998.

Release date: 11 November 1998

Genre: Comedy

A selection of one-off new comedies, sitcom, stand-up or other, from different writers and production companies. Some have served as pilots, and have been ...