This area is a part of the Mancomunidad of the Nalon Valley formed by the councils of Langreo, San Martin del Rey Aurelio, Laviana, Sobrescobio and Caso. It is located in the south east of Asturias and connected by the Nalon River.

In this area you have two main protected landscapes; the first one is the wonderful natural landscapes of the Redes Natural Park which is a Biosphere Reserve in Sobrescobio and Caso. The second one is the Protected Landscapes of the Mining Basins in Langreo, San Martin del Rey Aurelio and Laviana.

The area of San Martin del Rey Aurelio is very valuable for its industrial legacy. In the middle of XVIII and XIX century the Nalon Valley was immersed in an authentic industrial Revolution that transformed the face of the valley and its way of life. Coal mining, iron and steel production together with the development of the railways, were the basic pillars for this industrialisation process.

San Martin del Rey Aurelio is based in the banks of the Nalon River and surrounded by mountains. It preserves civil and industrial architecture related to the coal extraction. Some examples are La Maquinilla Bridge or Los Gallegos Bridge in Sotrondio, The Villar Colliery of San Mames, The San Vicente Colliery in El Entrego, the Miramar Bridge in El Entrego, Les Chapes Bridge or La Oscura Bridge or The Entrego Colliery in El Entrego or the Cerezal Colliery in La Cruz, among others. They offer different Routes around the industrial areas such as The Pithead Route or Carrocera-La Gueria Carrocera Route.

Regarding to artistic patrimony in the council of San Martin del Rey Aurelio you can find the Dolmen of La Campa L’Españal, the Estela of Los Cuetos, the Church of San Martin or the Casona del Bravial in Blimea.

In the council of San Martin del Rey Aurelio you can also find a large representation of ethnographic patrimony through traditional housing, stables and barns, horreos and paneras, grinding mills, public springs, washing places and animal troughs.

The council of San Martin del Rey Aurelio enjoys the mountains of the Protected Area of the Cuenca Minera made up of the headwaters of the rivers Samuño, Santa Barbara and the Villoria, tributaries rivers of the River Nalon. There are many Walking Routes in the council such as Blimea-La Casilla Route, El Entrego-La Camperona Route, Carrocera-La Gueria de Carrocera Route, El Entrego-Valley of Santa Barbara Route or The Green Belt of La Bobia- La Colladiella Route.

In this area you can practice a wide range of activities according to the season, fishing and hunting are two of the most deeply rooted in the Valley. In autumn you can listen the sounds of braying deer. Also the reservoirs of Tanes and Rioseco are a unique situation for bird watching, especially at Rioseco where there are two purpose-built observation posts.

This is also a fantastic area for the practice of different sports such as walking, trekking, mountaineering, mountan biking, rock and ice climbing, horse riding, cycling and Nordic Skiing.

The other main attraction of the area is the Gastronomy enjoying Asturias traditional food based in Stews, Asturias beef, fish from the rivers, local Asturias sweets. But the star of the region is the high Nalon trout, the Casin Cheese, one of the oldest in Spain, and the Nalón whispers which are exquisite butter pastries.

More info: San Martín del Rey Aurelio Tourist Office

If you want more information contact Where is Asturias at info@whereisasturias.com