Patch talked with Morgan Kane, driver of the iconic Grave Digger, ahead of Monster Jam in San Diego.

SAN DIEGO, CA – Monster Jam is racing back into San Diego not once, but twice this month!

Fans can expect an action-packed, family-friendly motorsports experience complete with a new level of high-flying, four-wheel excitement, featuring two Saturday events of high-octane racing and freestyle stunts on Jan. 19 and Jan. 26 at Petco Park in downtown San Diego.

This year's massive truck lineup features appearances by Monster Jam super-truck icons Grave Digger and Max-D,along with World Finals Champions El Toro Loco, Son Uva Digger, Monster Mutt, Bounty Hunter & Avenger. The 2019 season is highlighted by five San Diego debut truck appearances including Overkill Evolution, Kraken, Black Stallion, Bad Company and Hooked plus the newly rebranded Monster Jam Fire & Ice trucks.

We talked with Morgan Kane, driver of the iconic Grave Digger, ahead of Monster Jam. He is set to make his San Diego debut Jan. 19.

Patch: How did you get started driving monster trucks and competing in Monster Jam?

Morgan Kane: Steve Sims with Stone Crusher gave me a shot to get behind the wheel in June of 2010. I was playing collegiate level soccer and the choice to put my studies on hold was a tough one, but it was simply an opportunity I could not pass up.

Patch: Were you a big fan growing up?

Kane: Not really. I mean I thought it was cool because the home of Grave Digger was just down the street, but I never pictured myself piloting a Monster Jam Truck.

Patch: How does it feel to drive the iconic Grave Digger?

Kane: I love it. I love the pressure associated with the name and enjoy being that driver everyone wants to beat. I bleed Grave Digger because it is a true representation of my hometown.

Patch: Tell me about your first time driving Grave Digger. What has been your favorite experience?

Kane: First time behind the wheel of Grave Digger was January 2016. Season kickoff for the Triple Threat Series was in Council Bluffs, Iowa, and it was 2 degrees outside. 2016 was a great year for us. We won the Series Points Championship and won a World Racing Title in March. The feeling of winning a World Championship will always be my favorite experience.

Patch: What is your favorite part about competing in Monster Jam?

Kane: Competing in Monster Jam is not only driving a Monster Jam Truck, it is much more. We are all heroes to thousands of children and being a positive role model for them is my favorite part. Helping them develop values and understanding that sometimes your goals don’t always go the way you plan them. It is very important to improvise and keep working hard at everything you do.

Patch: How do you train/prepare for competing in Monster Jam?

Kane: Focus is a key factor when piloting a 12,000-pound Monster Jam Truck. I have continued to be very active in soccer and I feel the physical demands from soccer helps keep my mind sharp.

Patch: What do you enjoy most about competing in San Diego?

Kane: This will be my first time to San Diego! I am excited to meet new fans and enjoy the weather and landscapes. One of the best perks working for Monster Jam is we travel to so many fantastic cities and experience all the culture from around the world.

Patch: What can San Diego fans expect from the upcoming two Monster Jam events at PETCO Park?

Kane: San Diego fans have seen some amazing shows in the past, but the next generation is here and it’s amazing what our drivers can do now. Everyone is pushing it to the limit. It’s going to be WILD!

Both events start at 7 p.m. Jan. 19 and Jan. 26 at Petco Park in downtown San Diego. Pit parties will take place from 2:30 to 5:30 p.m. both days.

Tickets and pit passes are available for purchase online at Tickets.com, charge by phone at 619-795-5555 or in-person at the Petco Park Box Office.

For more information, visit www.monsterjam.com/en-US/tickets

Images via Monster Jam

Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.