Charleston Personal Injury Attorneys

South Carolina Wrongful Death Lawyer

Personal Injury - Family Law

Have the reckless actions of another person left you with a serious injury?

Has your family recently suffered the wrongful death of a loved one?

Are you and your spouse heading for divorce?

No matter what type of personal injury you have sustained or what your family situation entails, you will find the straight answers you have been looking for and dedicated attorneys you can trust at the Rosen Law Firm. We want to help you in this difficult time. We are a small law firm, providing personal attention - we care about our clients.

Contact our Charleston law office at 1-843-377-1700.

Personal Injury and Family Law Attorneys - Charleston, South Carolina

At the Rosen Law Firm, we understand that while the laws and the legal system may be clear to us - they are not always clear to our clients. Attorneys Robert Rosen, Susan Rosen, and Robin Meihaus have made it a point to change that fact one client at a time. If you have been injured in an auto accident, a trucking collision, injured by a doctor's or hospital's negligence or the wrongful conduct of another, we are here to help.

Bar and the Judiciary. Martindale-Hubbell Ratings fall into two categories - legal ability and general ethical standards.

Areas of Practice

Although much of our practice is devoted to personal injury and family law, the Rosen Law Firm also provides high quality services and outstanding representation in a wide variety of other legal areas.

Contact Our Tri-County Area Law Office

If you have a legal issue involving one of our practice areas - we have answers and we can help. Call us in Charleston, South Carolina, at 1-843-377-1700 or contact us via e-mail with a brief description of your situation and legal needs.

Attorneys Robert and Susan Rosen offer 60 years of combined courtroom experience, have each received an AV® Rating* under Martindale-Hubbell's peer review rating system, and are both listed in The Best Lawyers in America® reference guide.

*CV, BV and AV are registered certification marks of Reed Elsevier Properties Inc., used in accordance with the Martindale-Hubbell certification procedures, standards and policies. Martindale-Hubbell is the facilitator of a peer review rating process. Ratings reflect the confidential opinions of members of the Bar and the Judiciary. Martindale-Hubbell Ratings fall into two categories - legal ability and general ethical standards.