Home / Journal of Moral Education, Volume 48, Number 4

Stages of moral judgment development: Applying item response theory to Defining Issues Test data

Download Article:

download Stages of moral judgment development: Applying item response theory to Defining Issues Test data Download

(PDF)

Authors: van den Enden 1 ; Boom 1 ; Brugman 1 ; Thoma 2 ;

Source: Journal of Moral Education, Volume 48, Number 4, 2 October 2019, pp. 423-438(16)

Publisher: Routledge, part of the Taylor & Francis Group

DOI: https://doi.org/10.1080/03057240.2018.1540973

This article is Open Access under the terms of the Creative Commons CC BY-NC-ND licence.

Abstract

References

Citations

Supplementary Data

Suggestions

The Defining Issues Test (DIT) has been the dominant measure of moral development. The DIT has its roots in Kohlberg’s original stage theory of moral judgment development and asks respondents to rank a set of stage typed statements in order of importance on six stories. However, the question to what extent the DIT-data match the underlying stage model was never addressed with a statistical model. Therefore, we applied item response theory (IRT) to a large data set (55,319 cases). We found that the ordering of the stages as extracted from the raw data fitted the ordering in the underlying stage model good. Furthermore, difficulty differences of stages across the stories were found and their magnitude and location were visualized. These findings are compatible with the notion of one latent moral developmental dimension and lend support to the hundreds of studies that have used the DIT-1 and by implication support the renewed DIT-2.

No References for this article.

No Supplementary Data.

No Article Media

No Metrics

Keywords: Defining Issues Test (DIT); item response theory (IRT); moral judgment; stage

Document Type: Research Article

Affiliations: 1: Department of Developmental Psychology, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands 2: Department of Educational Psychology, University of Alabama, College of Education, Tuscaloosa, AL, USA

Publication date: 02 October 2019

More about this publication?

Editorial Board

Information for Authors

Subscribe to this Title

Ingenta Connect is not responsible for the content or availability of external websites

Share Content

Access Key

Free content

Partial Free content

New content

Open access content

Partial Open access content

Subscribed content

Partial Subscribed content

Free trial content