Everything is possible. The impossible just takes longer

I wanted something different than the usual fantasy novels I’ve been reading for awhile, so I decided to start on the Dan Brown novels since this fall there is going to be a new novel by him. I have read all his works at least once, but never wrote any reviews by him, so here is the first.

Book Review: Digital Fortress by Dan Brown

Rating:

Title & Author: Digital Fortress by Dan Brown

Genre: Mystery, Thriller

Release Date: February 1 1998

Series: Standalone

Publisher: St. Martin’s Press

<

blockquote class=”book-synopsis”>

Synopsis

When the NSA’s invincible code-breaking machine encounters a mysterious code it cannot break, the agency calls its head cryptographer, Susan Fletcher, a brilliant and beautiful mathematician. What she uncovers sends shock waves through the corridors of power. The NSA is being held hostage…not by guns or bombs, but by a code so ingeniously complex that if released it would cripple U.S. intelligence.

Caught in an accelerating tempest of secrecy and lies, Susan Fletcher battles to save the agency she believes in. Betrayed on all sides, she finds herself fighting not only for her country but for her life, and in the end, for the life of the man she loves.

From the underground hallways of power to the skyscrapers of Tokyo to the towering cathedrals of Spain, a desperate race unfolds. It is a battle for survival–a crucial bid to destroy a creation of inconceivable genius…an impregnable code-writing formula that threatens to obliterate the post-cold war balance of power. Forever.

<

blockquote>

I gave Digital Fortress three out of five hearts, this because I thought is read pretty chaotically. Like there were multiple POV even of the same scene. So the novel could just go from being character A’s POV talking about how she entered the cafe to being from character B’s POV how A likes her latte. It made it confusing with all the scientific jargon on top of it.

The story overall was interesting, because the events of this novel are set up so far before the actual novel is taking place. I like all the scientific jargon that Dan Brown uses, but it is sometimes a bit confusion what he exactly means at all times.

I do not know if the story would have worked if the novel had been written from only 1 POV, but Dan Brown went a bit overboard with it, 2 or 3 POVs would have worked too.

The characters are okay, the only character that stands out is Ensei Tenkado. He is a character from Japan and disfigured by the events of Hiroshima (which have always interested me).

The others were not all that special, I liked the proposal between Susan and David at the end of the book, but it did not do much for the story overall.

The novel mostly hangs on the story, not that much on the development of the characters, which is not a problem, but not my style that much.

Let me know what you thought of this book!

If you have any requests for which book I should talk about next, please let me know in the comments down below.

For now, let books enrich your life!

Goodreads

Author