1. Don - this poster is just fabulous, the mad colours and the great depiction of Amitabh too, and here's a gun that fits with the theme of the movie! 2. Kabhi Kabhi - this poster is lovely, I love how it shows the different stages of Amitabh during the movie as a hearbroken poet and a stern moustachioed father, and a poor looking Shashi, the side painting are beautiful too, Raakhee with Shashi and Amitabh

3. Muqaddar Ka Sikandar - this image I had printed on a t-shirt and everybody loved it! The funky title letters, and the gritty green colouring work well to show the tone of the movie too, and of course Amitabh on a bike needs to be there as he's the headliner 4. Jaani Dushman - This isnt quite painted, but it combines the stills and drawing, but it looks ghoulish and hilarious as that movie ranks as one of the biggest star casts in such an awfully bad/yet trashily good film! I love that the beast looks more scarier than it is in the movie too!

5. Mera Naam Joker - the big Citizen Kane-esque opus of Raj Kapoor's ranks as one of my favorite Bollywood movies, and the posters is pretty cute too, the "Rosebud" of the movie is the joker a thinly veiled alter ego of Raj, and the poster has got the clownish letters and the sad clown reaching out. It also has the circus feel to as well as showing the three loves of the joker too.

6. Pyaasa - the famous image here, what I like about this poster is the simplicity: its got the three main characters and funnily drawn Mala Sinha and the Hindi all around it. The lyrics i think are written at the side of their faces which makes it nice. 7. Silsila - this one I would love in my room! It's simple and it shows basically the plot of the movie in two basic iconic images in the film. I like how gorgeous the ladies look in their face off, the artist really captured their angry faces.

8. Guide - the iconic pose, I really want to order this from somewhere, the yellow tone and lovely expression on Dev's face and the little poof is featured in the poster too!

9. Bobby - this is my funkadelic pyschedelic favorite poster of all time, true the Barsaat and Mother India are iconic and wonderful. But as a mad kid, I ADORRREEEE this poster it is so colourful and funky that i made it a poster on my wall and on my t-shirt! I think all the colours are vibrant and capture the rash and impetuous love in the movie!

10. Dharmatma - something from the King of my funkadelic heart Feroz Khan! Lol imagine this crazy poster as the poster for the actual Godfather. Michael Corleone meets his Indian funky alter ego in this poster that highlights some of the characters, and the best moments in the film!

Th-Tha-thats all folks! A part 2 will definitely follow, I have sooo many other favorites!