Joel Archuleta is the internet sales and marketing manager at Pikes Peak Acura.

Daniella Cauffiel is a program coordinator in CSU Pueblo's Extended Studies department.

Felix Cordova is the online/social media editor and writer at Pueblo PULP.

Anais Escobar is a Latin America recruiter in the International Student Services office at CSU-Pueblo.

Amy Ha is the front desk assistant for Vladimir Jones.

Janae Heiser is a recruiting coordinator at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory.

McKenzie Taylor Joseph is the athletics annual fund coordinator at California State University Bakersfield.

Nick Jurney is a sportswriter at The Pueblo Chieftain.

Kyle Major is an inside sales representative with Service Source.

Daniel Manos is a licensed sales professional with AllState.

Jeremy Mathis works in field marketing with Platts McGraw Hill Financial.

Lyle McCartee is "livin' the dream in Cape Coral, Florida" as the overnight breaking news photojournalist for WFTX-TV FOX4. Lyle works midnight to 9 a.m., M-F. This station is owned by E.W. Scripps and serves the southwest Florida region consisting of Fort Myers/Naples/Cape Coral. Lyle still plans to retire in Costa Rica in 20 years.

Lynnea Phillips was accepted into the postgraduate intern program at the NCAA national office in Indianapolis, IN.

Dalton Ries is a pharmacy technician/claim adjudication specialist with Philidor RX Services.

Haley Sue Robinson is an assistant golf pro at Pueblo Country Club and CEO and Founder of Love 580.

Jessica Rojas works at Friendship Village Retirement Community in Chesterfield, Missouri.

Emma Ruehl is an administrative sales coordinator at Humana.

Benjamin Sandeen is an account executive at Ricoh.

Amber Willems is a membership development lead at Camp Jackson, YMCA.

Shilay Willis is a physician selection services representative and liaison at Kaiser Permanente.

Javier Banuelos is an on-air personality at La Kalle, KKRG 101.3 FM, in Albuquerque, New Mexico.

Skyler Chase is working production at KOAA-TV in Pueblo.

Jishirll Clifton is an admissions counselor at CSU-Pueblo.

Nico Fatta is a business services sales representative at Comcast Business.

Garrett Finke is the sports information director for Western State College.

Marcus Hill is a sports reporter at the Mountain Mail in Salida (Colorado).

Diandra Howell is a training specialist for Brinker International's corporate office, the parent company of Maggiano's Little Italy and Chili's Bar and Grill, in Dallas, Texas.

Chris Lujan is a graduate student at University of Colorado Colorado Springs.

Megan Kane is an English language teacher with Academia de Idiomas del Norte.

Sean MacIndoe is a law enforcement academy student at Pueblo Community College.

Jenna Mangino is the station manager for REV 89 at CSU Pueblo.

Nikki Martinez is attending graduate school at CSU-Ft. Collins and will be working on her master's degree in communication. She is the student social media specialist at the CSU Office of the Vice President for Research.

Ye 'Charlotte' Ming is a content editor for Getty Images, the world's largest photo agency. She also contributes frequently to National Geographic, TIME.com, Chinafile.com and the Chinese-language news site Tencent. She is based in New York.

Lorissa Myers is master control operator at KOAA News 5.

John Pantoya is the College of Humanities and Social Sciences recruiter at CSU-Pueblo.

Chelsea Reese is a customer service representative with Pacific Office Automation.

Timothy Sparks is president of Deep Field Cinema.

Rose Wambsganss is marketing and communications manager for the Cerebral Palsy Association in Alberta, Canada.

Corri (Benson) Atencio is a claims service adjuster at CSAA Insurance Group.

Zak Bratton is a sales area supervisor at Kohl's.

Samantha Dosen is internal communications coordinator at Parkview Medical Center in Pueblo.

Sean Ender is the owner of Ender Post Inc., a production company that creates film, television and videos out of Fort Collins (Colorado).

Nikki Grams is a graduate assistant at Central Michigan University.

DaMarkus James is an General Technical Writer with Frontier Airlines.

Randi Jameson is social media content writer for Susan J. Campbell Copywriting Solutions.

David Laird is a business operations analyst at Comcast Spotlight.

Kendra Marcovecchio-Case is a substitute teacher for Pueblo County School District 70.

Renee Milano is an office technician for the state of California.

Simone Peinkofer is working on her Ph.D. at the University of Arkansas in the supply chain management department and was awarded a graduate assistantship and a Doctoral Academy Fellowship (DAF). The DAF is the highest award for doctoral students at the University of Arkansas.

Lindsay Reeves is community engagement director with Pueblo Triple Aim Corporation.

Josiah Rodriguez is museum educator with the San Francisco 49ers.

Jenna Smith is a news producer at television station, KWES-TV NewsWest 9 in Midland, Texas.

Nick Sosa is a volunteer coordinator/case manager with Pueblo Rape Crisis Services.

Amanda Spicola is an investment advisor with Medallion Financial Distributors in Scottsdale, Arizona.

Rachel Stewart is a financial foundations associate with USAA.

Tracy Thompson is a language teacher and communicator for twelve schools in Japan.

Brittney (Whatley) Gurule is a writer for T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services Special Correspondence Group. The Special Correspondence Group handles written inquiries via mail or email, creates and edits special correspondence requested by clients or internal departments, monitors social media outlets that T. Rowe Price participates in, drafts and edits letters from the officers within the company and files qualified complaints with FINRA or the SEC as needed.

Tayler Zinanti is a student ambassador with Pueblo Community College.

Channing Brooks works with a Christian publisher of curricula, fiction/nonfiction books and Integrity Music.

Jolynn Crownover is development director for the nonprofit Environmental Learning for Kids, in Denver.

Nathan Duncan is a QA inspection technician at EVRAZ North America.

Neva Espinoza is a Girl Scout executive with Colorado Girl Scouts, located in the Pueblo area, while also continuing her broadcast work.

Brandon Hopper is the sports editor for the Canon City Daily Record.

Emily Lamberson is development director at YWCA.

Audrey Lundahl received her Ph.D. in multicultural women's and gender studies at Texas Woman's University. She teaches at TWU and North Central Texas College.

Matthew Maes is a filmmaker and videographer at NOMAD Channel.

Erica Nelms is an internet account executive with KOAA television in Pueblo.

Sareth Ney is the journalist for A Quarter and a Dream Pictures. He is a former apprentice to master of horror Clive Barker. He is an award-winning short filmmaker, a stand-up comedian, motivational speaker, founder and co-host of Pueblo's Independent Multimedia Podcast and festival director/producer at Sareth-Fest Music and Comedy Festival.

Adena Page works for the HARP project in Pueblo.

Nick Palmiotti is an integrated marketing strategist at The CSK Group in Colorado Springs, Colorado.

Laurie Pierce is a support services manager at Multiply 6.

DeAnna Power is a publications specialist for Pueblo Community College.

Aaron Wolking is a national sales manager for Sentry Siren Inc.

Calondra Yarbrough is marketing administrator for Workplace Resource LLC.

Gina (Artioli) Hickman is the partnership marketing executive for Professional Bull Riders Inc. in Pueblo.

Deniz Ates is general manager and communications director at Roos Subaru in Denver.

Eileen Bauer moved to Dubque, Iowa, for her husband’s job and is seeking career opportunities.

Travis Bliss is studying to be a teacher.

Kaley Burkhalter is a direct care staff at El Pueblo…An Adolescent Treatment Community in Pueblo.

Jackie Craddock is a news reporter on radio KVOR in Pueblo.

Shanna Farmer is the grants manager for Catholic Charities, Diocese of Pueblo.

Cassidy Ferguson is outreach coordinator for the Big Brothers/Big Sisters organization in Casper, Wyoming.

Bianca Graves Hicks is the resource development coordinator for United Way of Pueblo.

Eric Gilliland is senior director of employee relations and institutional equity and Title IX coordinator at College of Southern Nevada. He earned his MBA in 2011.

Farah Jadran is an anchor and reporter at WSYR-TV NewsChannel 9 in Syracuse, New York.

ShaNetta Judge is studying to be a speech language pathologist in her home state of Texas, but plans to return to Colorado after her education is complete.

Terry (Lile) Burks currently works at Oppenheimer Funds as an operations supervisor.

Michelle Lujan is marketing contact manager with the Sam Proal Farmers Insurance Agency in Pueblo.

Derek McDermott is a drywall specialist with Dirigo Drywall.

Bonnie Brown Monteleone is a career counselor at the University of Washington in Seattle, Washington.

Jenna Myers is a clerk for a magistrate of the court in Alaska.

Heather O’Dorisio is marketing coordinator for Power Credit Union in Pueblo.

Nick Potter is the director of annual giving and scholarships in the CSU-Pueblo Foundation office.

Megan Richmond is a banker with Wells Fargo in Pueblo.

Jen Robles is a direct care staff at El Pueblo…An Adolescent Treatment Community in Pueblo.

Soledad Sandoval is the income maintenance case worker at the Department of Social Services in Pueblo.

Tiffany (Sciacca) Kingrey is Director of Admissions at CSU-Pueblo.

RaeAnne Short is senior campaign manager for AOL.

Amber (Valdez) Bliss is a real estate agent with Remax of Pueblo Inc. She is married to Travis Bliss (A'08).

James Vaughn is an ad operations technician for Traffic Dude web marketing company in Pueblo.

Joshua Birchfield is working toward a career in the Army Chaplain Corp.

Kristi Alfonso is the marketing director for the Pueblo Mall.

Maria Charles is a special education preschool teacher with Chandler United School District in Chandler, Arizona.

Jennifer Adamson Elledge works as a program assistant for the Pikes Peak Sustainable Business Network at the Catamount Institute in Colorado Springs.

Nicki Hart is CEO/creative director at Multi-Designs in Colorado.

Ali Helgoth is a reporter at the Elko Daily Free Press in Elko, Nevada.

Ron Koch is assistant sales manager, NEBC at FCA Fiat Chrysler Automobiles.

Nicole Kochis is an independent practitioner currently serving as marketing director for the Pueblo Performing Arts Guild and a web designer for the Teacher Education Program at CSU-Pueblo.

Korey McKenney is getting her elementary education degree from CSU-Pueblo.

Michelle Mohnhaupt works in social media for the Evergreen Tennis Club in Evergreen, Colorado.

Jennifer Patel works for the Phoenix Suns and lives in Phoenix, Arizona.

Paul Prutch is a sales consultant and representative for Langendorf Supply, a mechanical contracting company in St. Louis.

Michelle Randall Garcia is restoration justice coordinator for the 10th Judicial District Attorney's office in Pueblo.

Maggie Roark is sales/marketing manager at the Pueblo Convention Center.

Sol Tafoya is a supervisor for Pueblo County Department of Social Services.

Sarah Wolgram Sapeda is a reporter for the City News Service in San Diego, California.

C.J. Sidebottom is working in sales and marketing with Citadel Broadcasting.

Adina Vega is the outreach coordinator/case manager at Pueblo Rape Crisis Services.

Lallo Vigil is a web developer in Information Technology at CSU-Pueblo and married to alumna, Lisa Vazquez Vigil.

Jeff Williams is a marketing associate for Sysco Foods in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Keith Willschau is the program manager at Leadership Pikes Peak. He is also a part-time yoga teacher and an adjunct lecturer at the University of Colorado-Colorado Springs.

Orlando White is a residential life building manager at the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York City.

Matthew Valdez is a case manager at Crowley County Correctional Facility. He has worked in Law Enforcement since 2009.

Andrea Austin works with The Boys and Girls Club in Arlington, Texas.

Vince Autry is a photographer/news director at KKTV Channel 11 in Colorado Springs.

Nikki Carter Bougeno is assistant manager of The Villas at Pueblo West and co-owns Andy McCarthy’s in Pueblo.

Tony DiIorio is an account executive with SKC Communications in Denver.

Khalida DuBose is a clinical specialist at Medtronic.

Lindsay Erskine is a claims adjuster for Pinnacol Assurance in Denver.

Christine Evans works in marketing for Estes-Cox Manufacturing in Pueblo.

Kyle Fritzke works for Artistic Paper Representatives in Colorado Springs.

Rick Gallina is the journalism and broadcasting teacher at Centennial High School in Pueblo.

Tyson Grahn is a computer technician and head football coach at Vilas Schools in Colorado. He also serves as assistant basketball coach and assistant baseball coach.

Dan Hardee is afternoon drive personality on 99.5 The Mountain for Entercom Communications in Denver.

Nicole Juliano is the marketing and admissions coordinator for the Belmont Senior Care Assisted Living and Adult Day Care Community in Pueblo.

Josh Kiel is an account executive with 103.5 The Fox in Denver.

Kelly Kobylinski is manager of the men’s department at JC Penney in Denver.

Josh Koschke is director of marketing/promotions for CSU-Pueblo Athletics and director of golf at CSU-Pueblo. He is also the golf professional at Walking Stick Golf Course in Pueblo.

Vanessa Madrid is a home consultant for Clayton Homes.

Lauren Masias is director of transportation programs with the Denver South Economic Development Partnership.

Natalie Ortiz is an advertising account representative for Yellowbook in Denver.

Reah Santangelo is a therapeutic mentor at Shadow Mountain Recovery.

James Santistevan is a data entry clerk with the Pueblo County Department of Social Services.

Sara Shea Davila is an associate regional support service specialist at GOAL Academy High School in Pueblo.

Ira Scher is a play by play broadcaster for the Las Vegas Wranglers ECHL hockey team and an enrollment advisor at the University of Phoenix.

Anitta Skul is the advertising and promotions manager for Loaf ‘n Jug, headquartered in Pueblo.

Gina Livingston Skul is a background investigator with the Colorado Department of Social Services based in Pueblo.

Rhonda Tucker is a marketing assistant with Dividend Capital Securities in Denver, Colorado.

Lisa Vazquez Vigil is an admissions counselor at CSU-Pueblo and married to alumnus, Lallo Vigil.

Sayra Bassett is the teen and adult coordinator at the Pueblo YMCA.

Brian Dunlap is director of broadcast for the World Racing Group in Concord, North Carolina.

Jon-Todd Baker is an intelligence analyst with the FBI in Quantico, Virginia.

Keri Hoggatt Funkhouser is the marketing director at Goodwill Industries of Colorado Springs.

Brittany Holligan is marketing director for Texas Roadhouse restaurant in Pueblo.

Lydia Hunter has a master's degree in library science from University of Denver.

Sherri-Jo Keener is a parks marketing and projects specialist for the City of Aurora, Parks and Open Spaces Department.

Samantha (Kuykendall) Lindsey is managing partner for Blue 32 Sports Grill in Phoenix, Arizona.

Brian Lucas is the owner of Big Bear Wine & Liquor.

Inge Malone Burbank is co-owner and advertising copywriter for J&J Coins in Pueblo.

Michael Masias is a producer for KOAA-TV in Pueblo.

Megan Matousek is production manager for Industrial Light and Magic, Lucasfilm Ltd. She received the department's Distinguished Alumni Award in 2016.

Natalie Ortiz is in corporate communications for Van Gilder Insurance Company in Denver, Colorado.

Krystal Pino is music director and morning show host with 106.3 The Groove KTGV in Tucson, Arizona.

Mike Pettigrew is a photojournalist at KRDO television working out of Pueblo fulltime.

Lisa Seley is marketing coordinator for the Colorado Veterans Nursing Home in Florence, Colorado.

Tyler South is a flight attendant with Frontier Airlines.

Dalton Sprouse is communications director with Pueblo City Schools.

Gabe Toth left his sports editor position to work at the Santa Fe Brewing Company in Santa Fe, New Mexico.

Adam Uhernik is a multimedia journalist with KKTV 11 News in Colorado Springs and Pueblo.

Gabe Barajas is assistant service manager for Vidmar Motors in Pueblo.

Tara Baros Crowe works for Blue Sky Enterprises, a nonprofit working with disadvantaged persons, in Pueblo.

Danielle Benge is employed in public relations and advertising at the Vladimer Jones Agency in Colorado Springs.

Ben Blecha is sports director for KSTC-AM/KNNG-FM in Sterling, Colorado.

Jessica Cipriani is a resource development and operations manager for NeighborWorks of Pueblo.

Wanda Foster is in management with Enterprise Rent-a-Car in Pueblo.

Mario Gernazio is marketing and admission coordinator at Sangre de Cristo Hospice and Palliative Care.

Lisa Harrison is marketing director for Pikes Peak Hospice in Colorado Springs.

Komissa Kalafatis is management coordinator for ARD, a U.S. based consulting firm working with USAID-funded agencies, located in Botswana.

Albert "Gene" Lucero is an educational development specialist at CSU Pueblo.

"Masa" Sakai Masayuki is an English teacher to middle school students in Japan.

Jenna Meyers is communications coordinator for the YMCA of South Hampton Roads in Virginia Beach, Virginia.

Jillian Osleson Maes is the marketing director for Penrose-St. Francis Hospital.

Adam Pocius is coordinator of the Instructional Technology Center at CSU Pueblo.

Brittany Quintana is an account executive with 944 Magazine based out of Las Vegas, Nevada.

Anthony Reyes works in advertising with JWT based in Denver.

Jacob “Junior” Robinson is a filmmaker in Los Angeles.

Afton Rossi Volk is working to re-establish the historic Walters Brewing Company in Pueblo.

Brian Wheeler is the Radio and Television Department Chair at Pikes Peak Community College, in Colorado Springs.

Ben Blecha is sports director and education specialist for Track 1 Media of Sterling radio corporation in Sterling, Colorado.

Amy Brockman is sales manager for Quality Inn Valley Suites Hotel in Spokane, Washington.

April Candelario Emilio is a promotions and marketing director for Clear Channel Communications in Pueblo.

Pierre Carrillo is an editor and photographer in the news department at KRDO-TV in Colorado Springs.

Jennifer Bergles Castelli is a media buyer at Zenith Media in Denver, Colorado.

Lisa Checketts is handling publicity for group and convention marketing at Disneyworld.

Joe Fox is an implementation specialist, deploying software for school districts nationwide for Pearson Publishing. He received his master’s degree in 2004.

Dan Harkness completed his graduate degree at Abilene Christian University.

Matt Hart continues his goal of becoming a professional golfer.

Shelly Heaston is managing a WalMart in Salida, Colorado.

Emma Hopkins Roe is executive director of the Rape Crisis Center in Pueblo.

Scott Lewis is a project manager for ServiceMaster Inc. in Salt Lake City, Utah.

Chris Mascarenas is a graphic designer for an action sports company called Volcom Stone Wear in California.

Gena Molello Alfonso is director of student engagement and leadership at CSU-Pueblo.

Aaron Moore is the general manager of the Chicago Bandits and a member of the Women’s National Pro Fastpitch Softball league.

Michelle Oreskey is an account manager at Land Title Guarantee in Pueblo.

Trisha Pocius is the assistant to the dean of CSU-Pueblo's College of Humanities and Social Science (CHASS).

Becky Penrod has been hired by the promotions department at "Alice 106" in Denver.

Anthony Sandstrom is sports reporter and editor for the Pueblo West View.

Apryl Stone Huelskamp does ad layout and design for The Miles Saver Shopper in Flagler, Colorado.

Robyn Stone is a golf professional at the Pueblo Country Club.

Jeffery Sutherland is web developer/desktop application specialist for the Madison Metropolitan School District in Madison, Wisconsin.

Deb Wall is a district court clerk in the 10th Judicial District located in Pueblo.

Ashleigh Wilson is in the United States Air Force and is currently studying foreign languages.

Danielle Banks received her nursing degree from CSU-Pueblo.

Maria Briceno is an advertising consultant for Miami Today, a business development publication in southern Florida.

Danielle Brown is a case management coordinator for the Denver Health Medical Center.

Amanda Burns is working at Disneyworld in Orlando, Florida.

Matt Centner is an account executive in the Southern Colorado area for Comcast Spotlight, the advertising division of Comcast.

Jen Freeman Myers is the social networking coordinator for In Pueblo Magazine & Marketing Systems.

Karin Kyte is the public relations and marketing specialist for a Pueblo mortgage company.

Kenny Maestas has completed his master's degree in communication at UCCS.

Melissa Martinez is a sales manager for JCPenney in Independence, Missouri.

Jason McLaughlin is starting a restaurant in Los Angeles, California.

Robyn Mikunda is in public relations and marketing with the Chicago Wolves professional hockey team.

Aaron Moore is president of Lowe Entertainment and general manager of the Rockford Thunder Pro Fastpitch team in Rockford, Illinois.

Juan Muniz is a local quality assurance executive with Wordbank in Denver specializing in localizing marketing communications for global companies.

Jenniffer Newby is public relations director at Complete Care Health Services in Denver.

David Ortiviz is the public outreach manager for the Pueblo Chemical Stockpile Outreach Office. He also serves as a board member for Pueblo Rape Crisis Services.

Joey Perrone is the finance manager for Southwest Motors in Pueblo.

Seb Sheldon continues to work with Montina Growers Cooperative but is based in Pueblo.

Jessica Green Shown is currently a branch manager for Spherion Corporation in Vancouver, Washington.

James David Smith works for CALF News and Travel Hosts magazines in Blackforest, Colorado, as ad coordinator.

Ryann Thaxton lives in Greeley, Colorado.

Joey Thomas is a media relations and corporate affairs manager with JCPenney in Plano, Texas.

Joe Wilson is currently working on a docudrama.

Adam Woullard is in public relations for Fleishman-Hillard and based in Chicago.

Ryan Billiet is in communications for the Pueblo Association of Home Builders.

Mindy Chapman is technical editor for the Transportation Technology Center in Pueblo.

Carrie Chase is administrative assistant at Kavley's Business and Technology Center.

Deanna Cordo is community relations manager for the American Cancer Society based in Colorado Springs.

Daneya Esgar is the lead community organizer at Colorado Progressive Coalition in Pueblo.

Matt Garbiso is incentives and communications manager at Chrysler in New York City.

Shane Hale received his master's degree in political science with an emphasis in public policy administration. He is currently city manager of Grand Lake, Colorado.

Dave Kleiber is a manager at Enterprise Car Rental in Denver.

Matt Miller is manager for AKKA Karate in Pueblo.

Masami Okado is an associate producer for NHK in Washington, DC.

Rico Ramirez is manager of community engagement at the Cosmopolitan Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas.

Troy Rivera is working on his Ph.D. while teaching English and theater arts in his hometown of Rocky Ford, Colorado.

Jerry Rojas works in publicity for Focus Features in Los Angeles.

Matt Shumaker is an account executive at DD Marketing in Pueblo.

Jillian Starcer Lewis is a supervisor at J.L. Sorenson Recreation Center.

Jamie Swenson Barton is public relations manager for the Real Salt Lake professional soccer team in Salt Lake City, Utah.

Niki Toussaint Whitaker is the executive assistant in the president's office at CSU-Pueblo.

Mary Weber is a legal aide for a law firm in Colorado Springs and continues her Democratic political activities.

Andy Wood is an automobile adjuster for Zurich Services in Colorado Springs.

Emily Yeap Wildes is the community relations manager at Springfield Victory Mission in Springfield, Missouri.

Lisa Younger Anderson has completed a master's degree in management and leadership, and is currently working in child support services for the state of Colorado, 4th Judicial District.

Chris Berumen works at 1350 KGHF and 590 KCSJ calling play-by-play and also works at Edward-James Surveying.

Crystal Carson is employed at the Greenway and Nature Center in Pueblo.

Philomena Cato is a technical support representative for HealthRamp Inc in Brooklyn, New York.

Kari Conklin is an account coordinator and junior copywriter for The Creative Alliance in Lafayette, Colorado.

Pam Davis is a marketing materials specialist with R.W. Beck in Denver.

Stephanie (Espinoza) Swearngin is design director at the Gazette in Colorado Springs. She is a graduate student at the University of Denver, completing a master's degree in information and communications technology with a concentration in web design and development.

Chris Fry is program director for KGHF AM, Clear Channel in Pueblo.

Chris Kolomitz is the managing editor at The Mountain Mail newspaper in Salida, Colorado.

Venita Laumbach is Branch Manager/Loan Officer at The Heritage Bank, in Hinesvile, Georgia.

Corry Lohse is in public relations for Hewlett-Packard Nederland, B.V. in the Netherlands.

Michael Macias is the news editor at KOAA-TV, Channels 5&30, Pueblo/Colorado Springs.

Rory Malone is a news photographer in Grand Junction, Colorado.

Patricia Mansfield-Sammons and her husband own Greenhorn Valley True Value in Colorado City, Colorado.

Chris Mascarenas is a graphic designer for My Friend the Printer in Pueblo.

Anthony Mestas is a reporter for The Pueblo Chieftain and covers CSU-Pueblo.

Candi Miell is editorial director for three newspapers that include the La Junta Tribune-Democrat, Fowler Tribune, and the Bent County Democrat. She resides in La Junta, Colorado.

Greg Mueller has left KKTV to become an editor/photographer for WB, channel 2, in Denver.

Brenna Myers is teaching 6th grade language arts and social studies at Skyview Middle School in D49 in Colorado Springs.

Deb Pargaetzi is a graphic designer doing tourism and travel publications in Kamloops, Canada.

Amy Richardson is Relay for Life Director for the American Cancer Society in Denver.

Moritz Rossbach left his job as producer/director with KVBA-TV, Channel 8, in Vail to return to Germany where he is completing his master's degree in American Studies.

Marlaina Scalese Quintana is a senior account executive in public relations for Hoffman York Inc. in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Haven (Schreiber) Kerchner works for the North Carolina Motorsports Association in Concord, North Carolina.

Ember Talent works as a business systems analyst for the state of Oregon in Portland.

Erica Vecchio is a state public defender located in Pueblo.

Anthony Welch works for the Trail-Gazette in Estes Park, Colorado.

Sarah Angel-Herwitt is the director of sales and marketing at The Westin Governor Morris Hotel in Morristown, New Jersey.

David Arduini is on studio crew and graphics for KOAA, Channels 5/30 in Pueblo.

Ruth Baranowski completed a master's degree in technical communications from CU Denver and is communications coordinator for the Wind Powering America program at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, Colorado.

Maja Belamaric is outreach director for the Mesothelioma Applied Research Foundation in Santa Barbara, California.

Justin Bregar is working in web development in Denver, Colorado.

Maile Brown Horner is travel industry sales manager for the Kaua'i Visitors Bureau in Lihu'e, Hawaii.

Shawn Cook is a recruiter for Creighton University in the master’s of science programs in Omaha, Nebraska.

Greg Dirito left broadcasting to work in his family restaurant business in Canon City.

Johnnie Meinzer Echer is in admissions and orientation for Otero Junior College in La Junta, Colorado.

Beth Eden is project coordinator for Bond & Pecaro.

Norma Engelberg is reporter/editor for two newspapers in the Woodland Park, Colorado, area. Norma writes for both the Ute Pass Courier and the Gold Rush.

Chris Lightcap is a producer and technical director at KOAA television in Pueblo/Colorado Springs.

Chad Logan is pursuing a master’s degree in leadership at Regis University in Denver, Colorado.

Angela Maestas Mabe is an interactive media consultant for KRDO-TV in Colorado Springs.

Brad May is a student financial counselor in the CSU-Pueblo Financial Services Office.

Victoria Miller is the curator of the Steelworks Museum of Industry and Culture and the Bessemer Historical Society in Pueblo.

Zach Parry is a ceramic artist and backstage caterer in Washington state.

Rebekah Spenst Eppley is employed by the Bristol Development Group in Nashville, Tennessee.

Casey Sumpter is communications and marketing director with the Colorado Association of Wheat Growers in Denver.

Ember Talent is an account executive on the advertising staff of the Portland (Oregon) Business Journal.

Lyna Tucker is a photojournalist for the post newspaper, The Wheel, as part of the Army Public Affairs Office at Ft. Eustis, Virginia.

Matt Wiley is a copy editor in the Colorado Springs Gazette's sports department.

John Alexander is a broadcast operator for Direct TV in Pueblo.

Ben Auch is working for the city of Greeley as a facility service tech. Ben recently returned from Bulgaria where he had been serving as a Peace Corp volunteer.

Eileen Bauer Anderson is teaching 5th grade at St. Bernadette School in Lakewood, Colorado.

Corilyn Berndt works at Lockheed Martin in Littleton, Colorado, as an editor in the Proposal Development Center.

James Brown is the traffic reporter and weather forecaster for KKTV, Channel 11, in Colorado Springs.

Armando "Mundy" Burciaga is regional manager for the Daniels College Prep Program dedicated to helping promising, low-income students attend college. He is headquartered at CSU-Pueblo.

Melanie Christensen Burns is a public relations consultant and full-time mom.

Michelle Bolte Bynum is a full-time mother of a daughter and son.

Eric Escudero is senior communications specialist for the U.S. Department of Energy in Golden, Colorado.

Megan Fillmore McClure works for the YWCA in Pueblo.

Laurie Geiser is with KOZI radio in Denver.

Gloria Gutierrez is executive assistant with SyCare, LLC in Pueblo.

Shannon Hartsell Warren is a graphic designer for Trammell Crow, a commercial real estate company.

Scott Hovet is a journalism teacher at Doherty High School in Colorado Springs.

Koko Kadairo has joined Sanyo Corp. in Richardson, Texas, as a bi-lingual Japanese/English administrative assistant.

Vern Larson owns Major Mortgage in Pueblo.

Niki Latino is completing her Ph.D. in student personnel at CU-Denver.

Melissa Maw is a corporate development officer at Rocky Mountain PBS in Denver.

Luke Pachymuthu is an energy reporter covering Asian energy for Reuters in Singapore.

Richard Post is a quality assurance manager for The Springs Research in Colorado Springs.

Brian Rantala is a communications specialist in aviation at the corporate level for the Boeing subsidiary, Jessesen, in Denver.

Art Razo is an account executive for RPA, a division of Rubin Postaer and Associates in Denver.

Tracie Rentzelman McKnight is a public relations assistant with Associated Advertising Agency Inc. in Wichita, Kansas.

Krista Roney is an event manager for Disney Youth Group Programs at Disneyworld.

Azuza Ryu is living in Japan.

Gina Tortessi Smith is a language arts and journalism teacher for East High School in Pueblo.

Naomi Valenti Milavec is manager and graphic designer for 6th Street Printing, a subsidiary business of the Pueblo Chieftain.

Khang Vankey is Senior Purchasing Agent for Georgetown University in Washington, D.C.

John Voss is a materials handler for the Colorado Lottery in Denver.

Nathan Ward is a member of the studio crew at KOAA-TV, Channels 5/30.

Dana Albo is marketing director for Womack's Gold Club Casino in Cripple Creek, Colorado.

Shirley Bendell passed away February 2014.

Mike Castellucci is a vice president and business banker manager at Vectra Bank of Colorado, located in Pueblo.

Earl Emery is a supervisor for Fleet Credit Card Services in Colorado Springs.

Monty Hatch is a sales representative for Western Murray Distributing, a Denver-based beverage company.

Lori Lehew Lovato is a Pueblo Chieftain advertising account executive.

Martha Martin Lockhart is in professional girl scouting with Colorado Girl Scouts in Colorado Springs.

Georgeanne Nelson is an instructional systems designer for the USAF Space Operations School in Colorado Springs.

Amy Pannells Cummings is a special education teacher in Hoboken, Georgia.

Marcie Reynolds-Bain passed away in 2014.

Mary Ann Roney Chevalier is media coordinator at NASA for the Kennedy Space Center in Florida.

Bob Schelling is retired as editor of the Canon City Daily Record.

McNelly Torres is a consumer watchdog reporter for the South Florida Sun-Sentinel in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

Kirsten Vold manages the Harry Vold Rodeo Co., one of the largest rough stock rodeo suppliers in the nation.

Stuart Westen is vice-president of retail banking at Oak Brook Bank in Oak Brook, Illinois.

Ray Weston is a news director for KCSJ-KDZA radio in Pueblo.

Meredith Wilson Lanis is a paralegal for Lynn, Jackson, Schultz & LeBrun, P.C. in Rapid City, South Dakota.

Becky Woods Rogers is employed as an EEG technician at Parkview Medical Center in Pueblo.

Nate Anderson is an internet marketer specializing in search engine optimization at metawebs.com based in Pueblo and has his own consulting business.

Mike Aragon is an educational technology specialist with the Fowler and Rocky Ford school districts.

Euclidian "Clee" Ceasar is a captain in the United States Army.

Misa Dunkel is in tutorial services at Pueblo Community College.

Jenny Ems Sherman is an academic dean at Pueblo Community College.

Deb Fisher Eissner is a commercial real estate and banking group coordinator for Bank of the West in Albuquerque, New Mexico.

Ted Gipson in working the cable industry and doing freelance event videography in Georgia.

Jennifer Janssen is a student loan specialist at SunWest Education Credit Union in Pueblo.

Kevin Lockhart works at Pan Studios in Denver specializing in voiceovers.

James Muller is a commercial editor/producer for KOAA-TV, Channels 5/30.

Michelle Stephens Peulen is communications manager for Region 2 of the Colorado Department of Transportation.

A.J. Rhodes is director of marketing in the Disney Interactive Media Group for Disney in Los Angeles.

Dana Riccatone Trujillo is pursuing a master's degree in English.

Brittany Cox Kristan is provider relations coordinator at St. Mary Corwin Medical Center working with physicians.

Marc Harris works in real estate in Denver.

Jeremy Hebert is business administrator for Master Communications in Colorado Springs.

Gary Flail left Nebraska radio to pursue teacher certification at the University of Denver's College of Education.

Christi Lightcap is director of communications for the Colorado Department of Agriculture and lives in Denver.

Cindy McCombe Spindler lives in San Diego, California, and has become an advocate for children with epilepsy.

Tammy Moore is a graphic designer at Parkview Medical Center.

Tressa Panepinto Colalancia is senior specialist, internal communications, for Kaiser Permanente Colorado in Denver.

Jill Snider is a senior programming manager at Starz Entertainment in Texas.

Tracy (Tucker) Samora is director of alumni relations at CSU-Pueblo.

Chris Valentine works in public relations for the Penrose/St. Francis Health Care System in Pueblo and Colorado Springs.

Ron Vigil sold his interest in Vigil Heating and Air Conditioning and is retired on his ranch.

Barbi Wolffe Moore is director of the McCandless State Veteran's Home in Florence, Colorado.

Michael Wong is principal producer for the News and Information Services Division at TVB in Hong Kong. He producers a weekly program called "Money Magazine."

Maurnee Zobel Scanion is a senior manager at Capgemini in Denver.

Andrea Aragon is executive director of the Pueblo United Way. She was the recipient of the department's 2008 Distinguished Alumni Award.

Lisa Aragon is vocational support services coordinator for Pueblo Community College at its Canon City campus.

Lori Bier Sisneros works in graduate admissions for University of Colorado at Denver.

Teri Bukowski Bloyd owns a traveling fitness program called Fun Bus, Fitness FUN on Wheels, for schools, daycares and privates parties in Centennial, Colorado.

Mike Giglio is with Georgia Pacific in Denver.

Dan Green is teaching television production at the high school level in Portland, Oregon.

Carrie Gruyman Wills is a sales assistant for Comcast Cable in Pueblo.

Rhonda Hall is director of sales for Carefree Resort Hotels, based in Phoenix, Arizona.

Dana Huff Cranmer is a stay-at-home mom and retail merchandiser for Hallmark in Parker, Colorado.

Tim Karlinger, a mass communications minor, is a financial aid advisor/loan default manager at Pueblo Community College.

Sam Lovato is a professor in the mass communications department at CSU-Pueblo and advisor in the electronic media emphasis.

Barbara White Melin left her position at American Cancer Society in Denver and is retired.

Carey Parr Moreschini is an account executive with AT&T Media Services in Pueblo.

Dana Perino-McMahon is seen daily on Fox Network and is co-host of The Five after serving as press secretary to President George W. Bush. CSU-Pueblo named her Alumna of the Year in 2003 and in 2007 Perino received the MCCNM department's Distinguished Alumni Award.

Michelle Nesmith is traffic coordinator for Rocky Mountain PBS and chair of the PBS Traffic Advisory Committee in Denver.

Janelle Rodriguez is a communications associate for Wells Fargo in Denver.

Brett Romero is a human resource manager in the J.C. Penney Corporation, at its Sumner, Washington, Store Support Center.

Sean Ryan is a career US Army officer stationed in Schweinfurt, Germany.

Michael Wong is a senior producer for a weekly half-hour television finance program called Money Magazine, for the English Channel on TVB Television in Hong Kong.

Bob Quist (McQuiston) is director of sales for Vibrant Solar in Denver.

Stephanie Abeyta is a human resources specialist and assistant to the president of the Transportation Test Center in Pueblo.

Lisa Acuna is a marketing executive with Phil Long Ford in Pueblo.

Louise Burg is a public relations and advertising consultant.

Charlotte Burrous is community living editor for the Canon City Daily Record.

Ken Fujitake is a governmental policy researcher for Nihon Sogo Kenkyusho.

Gina Herrera-Parker owns and operates Blue Banana Graphics Inc. in Pueblo.

Laura Wilson Kelly is chief development and foundation officer for the Pueblo Community Health Center.

Sandra MacTavish is director of global communications for Sandoz International GmbH in Munich, Germany.

Kim Masias Passanante is associate director of Posada, a homeless shelter in Pueblo.

Chris Moore Sandoval is assistant director to human resources at the worldwide Newmont Gold Mining Corporation based in Denver.

Ken Sciacca is owner of Sciacca Productions in Pueblo.

Rick Sciacca is a school counselor in his hometown, La Veta, Colorado.

Ashley Albo Valdez is communications manager for San Isabel Electric Association headquartered in Pueblo West.

Robert Walter is the associate director of technology development at AT&T in Atlanta, Georgia.

Jeff Ziolkowski is living in Cleveland, Ohio, where he is the technical arts pastor at Cuyahoga Valley Church. He is married to Laryssa and they have a daughter, Alexa.

Renee Aragon is the editor of WHERE Denver Magazine, a 35,000 circulation, four-color monthly publication distributed in upscale hotels, bookstores and other select locations throughout Denver.

Janet Baer is agent development specialist for the district office of Farmers Insurance in Colorado Springs.

Miki Burg lives in Mission Viejo, California.

Marcelino Dodge is a certified fund specialist with Allianz Securities in Lamar, Colorado.

Jen Jensen lives in Alaska.

Todd Kelly is the CEO/President of the CSU-Pueblo Foundation.

Damien Lamb is vice president of business development for Hospital Housekeeping Systems in Austin, Texas.

Daniel A. Masterson is assistant curator of education for the Sangre de Cristo Arts Center in Pueblo.

Lou Minatta is the degree audit clerk for graduation in the admissions department at CSU-Pueblo.

Dianne Schwab Perea is director of marketing and public relations for Experience Colorado Springs at Pikes Peak, also known as the Colorado Springs Convention and Visitors Bureau.

Heather Tindall is director of public relations, media relations, and marketing for Waterbury Hospital in Hartford, Connecticut.

Dave Toller is a member of the US Air Force Academy's sports information staff.

Kathy Walker is news director for KOA-Radio in Denver. Kathy received the department's Distinguished Alumni Award in 2014.

Susie Chinn moved to Sarasota, Florida, where she continues her photography business.

Deb Darrow is executive director of Rosemont Museum in Pueblo.

Ron Eccher works at the Pueblo Chemical Stockpile Outreach office.

David Grant Long is a counselor at the Southwest Colorado Mental Health Center's detox facility in Durango. He also writes for the Four Corners Free Press, which is co-owned by his wife, alumna Gail Binkley, '78.

Larry McFarland is a copy editor in the sports department of the Colorado Springs Gazette.

Dolores Perea Quintana does medical public relations and marketing for Lincare Inc. in Pueblo.

Brian Phillips is assistant dean of international relations at Mahidol University International College in Thailand.

Sean Straziscar is a statistics coordinator for the NCAA.

Jon Budd is the assistant brand manager for the Lincoln Mercury Division of the Ford Motor Company's Mercury Cougar in Irvine, California.

Dennis Darrow is a reporter for The Pueblo Chieftain.

Monica Lucero works in communications for the Colorado Department of Corrections.

Scott McIntyre is the vice president of communications for the Iowa Hospital Association in Des Moines.

Mike Palmer, the mass communications department's 1998 Distinguished Alumnus, is development manager for the Associated Press in Washington, D.C.

Jack Passanante passed away in January 2012.

Gayle Perez is a reporter for The Pueblo Chieftain.

Tony Wright is sports director for KCSJ, Clear Channel Radio, Pueblo.

Cathy Zimmer is director of College Relations, University College, University of Toledo, Scott Park Campus.

Marge Cortez Behrens is an editorial writer for the Deseret News in Salt Lake City, Utah.

Dominic Frederico, the mass communications department's 1989 Distinguished Alumnus, is president and owner of Appaloosa Productions in Palmer Lake.

Viana Kelly Rockel is the assistant director at the University of Iowa, Vaughan Institute.

Barbara Larsen Samuel has authored a book on Pueblo called "No Place Like Home."

Pete May manages two radio stations in Salt Lake City, Utah.

Richard Mestas is an education services specialist for the Navy Recruiting Command in Cheyenne, Wyoming.

Jennifer Maroney Tripodi is a computer systems analyst with the Lockheed Corporation.

Troy Schwindt is editor of Skating Magazine for the U.S. Olympic Committee in Colorado Springs.

Lisa A. Siegel, 2002 Distinguished Alumna, is director of marketing and foundation at Parkview Medical Center in Pueblo.

Sandy Torres Romero is communications manager for Bechtel’s office in Pueblo where the company is the main contractor in the Pueblo Chemical Demilitarization Project.

Bruce Bradshaw is the assistant principal of Wasson High School in Colorado Springs.

Jim Brooks continues to be a sports broadcaster in his spare time, working with the Center for New Media sports coverage in coordination with PCC and the mass communications department.

Stephanie McGee is manager of Applebee’s in Pueblo.

Ricky Pavlik is a senior software engineer, developing new Army combat simulation software at White Sands Missile Range at New Mexico State University.

Dee Renfrow continues to be actively involved in Toastmasters in Pueblo.

Frank Ruybalid is district attorney for the Third Judicial District headquartered in Walsenburg, Colorado.

Shelby Trevithick Pickerill is currently a family advocate for the Head Start program in Limon, Colorado.

Geri Weiss Koncilja is an instructional designer at Pueblo Community College.

Russ Boley passed away in 2004 after spending his career at KOAA, 5/30 in Pueblo.

June Forte works for the Air Force at the Pentagon in Washington, D.C.

Dave Hinton is president and CEO of the Similasan Corporation in Highlands Ranch, Colorado, producing Similasan and Health Relief brands for Walgreens and King Soopers.

Jon Lundberg is president and chief executive officer of The Corporate Image in Bristol, Tennessee.

Jennifer Mullen retired from the mass communications department and university administration as Chief of Staff at CSU-Pueblo in December 2013.

Bobbie Newbauer Bush passed away in August 2008.

Paul Pumphrey is retired from his ownership of Cleaver Carpets in Pueblo.

Steve Randall is an arena manager for Anheuser Busch in Loveland.

Joe Sajbel is creative services director and office manager for RPA, a division of Rubin Postaer and Associates in Denver.

Shelby Trevithick works in communications for the Colorado Correction System in Limon, Colorado.

Marilyn Trunk Eldridge is a paralegal specializing in intellectual property in Garner, North Carolina.

Nanette Anderson is communications director for School District 20 in Colorado Springs.

Tim Bergsten is a sports editor at the Colorado Springs Gazette.

Mike Cafasso is vice president of operations at St. Mary Corwin Hospital in Pueblo.

Erin Emery, 2001 Distinguished Alumna, is southern Colorado bureau chief for the Denver Post.

Steve Fleming is the communications director for the Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association in Colorado Springs. His wife, Terri, is the editor of the Colorado Springs Gazette.

Patty Garnhart Knudson is an account executive at Cox Media in Omaha, Nebraska, while she pursues a teaching certificate in secondary education.

Tallie Huber Koncilja is mother to four boys and managing the Pueblo Depot, which she owns with her husband, Joe.

Craig Hunter passed away in February 2003.

Jan Jones is resident advisor at Balfour Retirement Community in Denver.

Keith Jones is public relations director for Scottsdale Healthcare in Scottsdale, Arizona, which comprises three different hospitals in the area.

Lisa Lancaster Wheeler recently retired back to Colorado after a 33-year career in TV/radio news and as a media spokesperson for various Texas state agencies.

Rick Macaluso is marketing manager at the Villa Pueblo, a retirement community in Pueblo.

Thyrza Miller Holland is an account manager in directional marketing for TMP Worldwide in Colorado Springs.

Bob Moore, the department's 2000 Distinguished Alumnus, is an editor at El Paso Times in Texas.

Shelley Moreschini is director of the President's Leadership Program at CSU-Pueblo.

Susan Pfeifer has a Ph.D. in organizational leadership from Regent University and is currently the director of resource development for Butler Community College in Andover, Kansas.

Craig Timm is manager of Communications and Government Relations for Domtar Industries Inc. in Port Edwards, Wisconsin. He also serves as an adjunct professor at the University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point and Lakeland College in Sheboygan, Wisconsin.

Kenny Wilhite passed away in 2005.

Tom Young recently retired after 21 years with the Gillette Company, responsible for the Gillette Blade/Razor business at all Kroger stores across the nation. He now owns American Custom Trailers and lives in Ohio with his family. Even Jay Leno owns Tom’s trailers!

David Beauvais is a territory manager for Alliant Foodservice Inc. in Denver.

Michael Collins is vice president of public affairs for REI, Recreational Equipment Inc.

Mark Craddock is a website design consultant and teaches part-time for Pueblo Community College.

Rebecca Davis is an extension educator teaching health, nutrition and youth development in the University of Maryland's outreach program. She lives in Harpers Ferry, West Virginia.

Stephanie Davis, the mass communications department's 1999 Distinguished Alumni Award recipient, owns Davis Communications and lives just outside San Francisco.

John Dorland is a firefighter.

Cathy Ames-Farmer is publisher/owner of Accolades, a magazine for high school students in Pueblo.

John Jaques is a photographer for the Pueblo Chieftain.

Richard Joyce is professor emeritus of mass communications at the CSU-Pueblo.

Rick Lozano is a sergeant with the Colorado Department of Corrections. He is assigned to the Arkansas Valley Correctional Facility in Crowley, Colorado.

John Pendleton is the art director for the Quiznos Corporation producing all work behind the counter in over 4,500 stores worldwide. Along with his partner, Jodi Torpey, he received the department's 2006 Distinguished Alumni Award. John and Jodi live in Denver.

Marjorie Ann Colwell Reeves has written a book, "A Chapter in Pacific Northwest History."

Zella Richardson works for the Better Business Bureau in Pueblo.

Michelle Boedecker Latka is owner of Sunrise Travel Agency in Pueblo.

Nancy Gerlock, the mass communications department's 1982 Distinguished Alumna, is a Social Security Administration officer in Canon City.

Robin Hill is president/founder of Friendly Harbor Drop in Center, a nonprofit dedicated to restoring hope, dignity, and direction to those with a mental illness. Robin also has a master's degree in human relations from the University of Oklahoma.

Tim Howk Jeffreys handles weekdays 3-7 on the classic rock station, KSAN in San Francisco. He also hosts a motor sports show Saturday mornings on sister station KNBR. He's been in California since 1989.

Tim Lannon is vice-president of operations for the McKesson Corporation in Denver.

Judi (Schreiber) Lee works in a volunteer capacity for non-profit organizations. She is located in Madison, Alabama.

Lori Sword Vialpondo is religion editor for The Pueblo Chieftain.

Greg Boyce left KOAA, 5/30 in Pueblo and is in public relations for Trinidad State Community College in Trinidad, Colorado.

Bob Campbell is the marketing and events manager at Sangre de Cristo Arts & Conference Center since Sept. 2016.

Lee Douglas (aka Doug Cooley) passed away in February 2012.

James Fetig is associate vice president of communications and public affairs at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta.

Tom Hitchcock died of cancer in February 2007.

Jody Torpey is co-owner of She Writes, He Draws in Denver with John Pendleton,'81. She and John received the 2006 Mass Communications Department Distinguished Alumni Award.

Karen L. Vigil is the night city editor for The Pueblo Chieftain.

Paul Caffrey is the manager of the Media Production Center at the Office of Public Affairs for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security in Washington, D.C. He is also the recipient of the Mass Communications Department 2005 Distinguished Alumni Award.

Doug Carlson has retired as a guard at the Department of Corrections.

Chuck Hart is a stockbroker employed as a senior financial consultant with Security Service Federal Credit Union in Pueblo.

Glenn Miller has retired from his position as assistant professor of mass communications at the University of Southern Colorado.

Ray Sullivan is senior publisher with Freedom Newspapers c/o Clovis News Journal in Clovis, New Mexico.

Jack Carter, aka J. Ralph Carter passed away in 2009.

Judy Hildner retired from her sports editor position with The Pueblo Chieftain in 2012. She received the department's Distinguished Alumni Award in 2013.

Patty Giarratano Price is director of development for The Federalist Society in Washington, D.C.

Robert Mobeck is an agency management specialist for the Farmers Insurance Group.

Bill Scharton, the mass communications department's 1979 Distinguished Alumnus, is a public affairs specialist at the U. S. Air Force Academy in charge of Cadet Wing media.

Don Shafer is station manager for WEYI, an NBC affiliate television station in Flint, Michigan.

Frank Slak is court commissioner for the Washington State of Appeals in Spokane, Washington.

Jeanne Munn Hickman, the mass communications department's 1970 Distinguished Alumna and first graduate of the department, is housing and community development coordinator for Pueblo's Department of Housing and Community Development.

Tom Hickman is an independent insurance company photographer based in Pueblo.

Patricia Prijatel, director of Drake University's School of Journalism and Mass Communication in Des Moines, Iowa, and the E.T. Meredith distinguished professor of journalism, retired from teaching in 2007.

Jim Simmons is retired in Green Valley, Arizona, after a career working in public relations capacities for such organizations as the Colorado Association of Commerce and Industry, Johns/Manville Corporation, Coors Brewing Company, and Intercollegiate and Professional Sports Liaisons. Jim earned the department’s Distinguished Alumnus Award in 1993.

Mary Kay Tanner Valencia owns her own dry cleaning business in Broomfield, Colorado.