CAMPBELL J.

The employer and insurance carrier are here asking a review of a judgment of the district court of the city and county of Denver, affirming the findings and award of compensation made by the State Industrial Commission to F. L. Richardson under the Workmen's Compensation Act (Laws 1919, p. 700). There is no serious conflict in the evidence, and, if there was its weight and sufficiency are determined for the courts by the commission. Both the employer and employee were subject to the provisions of the statute. Richardson was seriously injured August 8, 1919. A voluntary agreement, which the commission approved, was entered into between the insurance carrier, one of the plaintiffs in error, with the claimant on September 19, 1919, for the payment of $10 per week, running for a period of 92 weeks. The case was then set down for hearing, to determine whether the claimant was entitled to any further compensation, and the extent of his permanent disability, if any. It seems that there were several hearings. At the one held by the referee May 23, 1921, the finding was that, as a permanent result of the accident, the claimant had sustained a 33 1/3 per cent. loss of the use of his right leg, and that the permanent disability thereby occasioned would have been, and was, approximately 80 per cent., had it not been for two operations performed at the claimant's expense by the Mayo Clinic, of Rochester, Minn., and the compensation was made on that basis. The award also required the employer and insurance carrier, as provided by section 51 of the Act, to pay for such medical, surgical, and hospital attention as the claimant received during the 60 days immediately following his accident, but not to exceed $200 in value. On November 3, 1921, these findings and the award of the referee were approved by the Industrial Commission. Upon a rehearing granted, the commission again, in a supplemental award of December 3, 1921, affirmed and approved the previous award of November 3d, which affirmed the referee's award of May 23d. The district court affirmed this award, and the employer and insurance carrier are asking, on this review, to have it set aside.