OK, so Final Fantasy XII (or FF12, so that it can be searched in google) for PS2 was not long time ago just released, 1.7 million copies of it were sold in the first four days, and the theme song, "Kiss Me Good-bye" sung by Aki Angela was ranked sixth in Oricon top 10 sales chart for single CDs.

Oke, jadi Final Fantasy 12 (atau FFXII, biar kecari di gugel) untuk Playstation 2 belum lama ini terbit, masih bahasa Jepang, terjual 1.7 juta kopi hanya dalam 4 hari, dan lagu temanya, "Kiss Me Good-bye" yang dinyanyikan Angela Aki berhasil naik ke peringkat 6 di top 10 penjualan Oricon untuk CD single.

From the beginning I liked to search quickly new FF song that is just released, so do this time. And the lyrics that can be obtained from the Internet had a lot of spelling mistakes. So I searched using the Japanese language and I tried to translate and transliterate it below to Romaji (or Roomaji). I hope this one is more correct.

Dari dulu aku suka cepat2 mencari lagu FF yang baru keluar, maka kali ini juga. Dan lirik yang berhasil didapat di Internet kebanyakan salah eja. Maka kucari pakai bahasa Jepang dan kuterjemahkan di bawah ini. Semoga ini yang lebih benar.

There are two version of the song, one is the Japanese version, and another is in English. So in this site we provide both versions. The Japanese version includes the romanization, English and Indonesian translation.

The Lyrics - Japanese Version

アーティスト アンジェラ・アキ

作詞 アンジェラ・アキ

作曲 植松伸夫

あなたは迷っていても ドアは開いているよ

二人の世界だけでは 満たされないのでしょう?

羽をあげるから信じて飛べばいい

Kiss me good-bye, love is memory

あなたを失っても

愛した記憶が強さに変わるから

確かな物を探して 誰もが恋するが

揺るがない愛は自分の中にある

Kiss me good-byeさようなら

新しい私に変わる

Kiss me good-bye, love is memory

新しい二人に変わるなら

Kiss me good-bye泣かない

あなたを愛せたから

あなたを愛せたから

The Lyrics - Romanized (pronouncation-style)

Artist: Angela Aki

Writer: Angela Aki

Composer: Uematsu Nobuo

anata wa mayotte ite mo, DOA wa aite iru yo

futari no sekai dake de wa, mitasarenai no deshou?

hane o ageru kara shinjite tobeba ii

Kiss me good-bye, love is memory

anata o ushinatte mo

aishita kioku ga tsuyosa ni kawaru kara

tashika na mono o sagashite, dare mo ga koi suru ga

yuruganai ai wa jibun no naka ni aru

Kiss me good-bye sayounara

atarashii watashi ni kawaru

Kiss me good-bye, love is memory

atarashii futari ni kawaru nara

Kiss me good-bye nakanai

anata o aiseta kara

anata o aiseta kara

The Lyrics - Romanized (writing-style)

AATISUTO: ANJERA AKI

sakusi: ANJERA AKI

sakkyoku: uematu nobuo

anata ha mayotte ite mo, DOA ha aite iru yo

futari no sekai dake de ha, mitasarenai no deshou?

hane wo ageru kara sinjite tobeba ii

Kiss me good-bye, love is memory

anata wo usinatte mo

aisita kioku ga tuyosa ni kawaru kara

tasika na mono wo sagasite, dare mo ga koi suru ga

yuruganai ai ha jibun no naka ni aru

Kiss me good-bye sayounara

atarasii watasi ni kawaru

Kiss me good-bye, love is memory

atarasii futari ni kawaru nara

Kiss me good-bye nakanai

anata wo aiseta kara

anata wo aiseta kara

The Lyrics - English Translation

Even though you are lost, the door is open.

Aren't you satisfied with the world of just two of us?

Because I give you wings, please believe me and you will be okay to fly.

Kiss me good-bye, love is memory

Even though I lose you

Because the loved memory changes to strength

even though everybody fall in love looking for a definite thing,

the love that does not shake is inside myself

Kiss me good-bye, goodbye

I will change to a new me

Kiss me good-bye, love is memory

If we change to a new us

Kiss me good-bye, I will not cry

Because I was able to love you

Because I was able to love you

Liriknya - Terjemahan Indonesia

Walau engkau tersesat, pintunya terbuka loh.

Tidak puaskah engkau dengan dunia milik hanya kita berdua?

Karena kuberi sayap, percayalah, terbanglah saja.

Kiss me good-bye, love is memory

Walau aku kehilangan engkau

Karena kenangan bercinta berubah menjadi kekuatan

Walau siapapun jatuh cinta mencari hal yang pasti

Cinta yang tak bergoyang ada di dalam diri

Kiss me good-bye, selamat tinggal

Berubah menjadi diriku yang baru

Kiss me good-bye, love is memory

Kalau kita berdua berubah menjadi yang baru

Kiss me good-bye, takkan menangis

Karena dulu aku bisa mencintaimu

Karena dulu aku bisa mencintaimu

The Lyrics - English Version

You say my love is all you need, to see you through

but I know these words are not quite true

Here is the path you're looking for, an open door

Leading to worlds you long to explore

Go, if you must move on alone

I'm gonna make it on my own

Kiss me good-bye, love's memory

Follow your heart and find your destiny

Don't shed a tear, for love's mortality

For you put the dream in my reality

As times goes by I know you'll see this of me

I loved enough to let you go free

Go, I will give you wings to fly

Cast all your fears into the sky

Kiss me goodbye, love's mystery

All of my life I'll hold you close to me

Don't shed a tear for love's mortality

For you put the dream in my reality

Kiss me goodbye, love's memory

You put the dream in my reality

Final Fantasy 12 Kiss me goodbye Free Download MP3 Video and PV and Music Parent Directory iPod iTunes Song