Freshen up your playlists with Italy’s best rock bands

When we think of rock and roll, our minds often go straight to artists from the United States or England. Given that Chuck Berry invented the genre in the United States in the 1950s and went on to influence larger-than-life English acts The Beatles and The Rolling Stones, it’s only fitting. However, in the decades since rock’s first boom, the genre has grown exponentially. Not only has the music itself gotten more diverse in sound, but it has also sprung forth from musicians all across the globe – including Italians.

In the late 1960s, many young people in Italy were inspired by the counterculture that was growing in the United States and England. Of course, rock music was the counterculture’s soundtrack. It wasn’t long before Italians put their own spin on the genre and created their own rock and roll scene. Some of these bands even gained followers outside of Italy.

From the 1970s prog-rockers Banco del Mutuo Soccorso to today's rising stars Maneskin, we’re taking a look at some of the most influential Italian rock bands.

Maneskin

In 2021, the Los Angeles Times named Maneskin “America’s favorite new rock band.” Playing sold-out shows in New York and Los Angeles after winning the Eurovision Song Contest with the track “Zitti e buoni,” the Italian band was bringing glam rock back to the place where it all started. The band’s fashion sense can be traced back to the infamous David Bowie, while sonically fans can hear traces of Aerosmith and the Italian rock band, Marlene Kuntz. Maneskin may be a rising band, but it's already made history. Maneskin is the first Italian rock band to reach the top 10 on the UK Singles charts – and the band has done it more than once with "Zitti e buoni", "I Wanna Be Your Slave,” and “Beggin.”

Marlene Kuntz

Formed in 1990, the alternative rock band Marlene Kuntz paved the way for today’s Italian rockers like Maneskin. The band was first formed by Luca Bergia and Riccardo Tesio. Over the years, the band’s lineup experienced some changes, but today consists of Bergia, Tesio, Cristiano Godano, Davide Arneodo, and Luca Saporiti. The band gained recognition throughout Italy with its first two albums, Catartica and Il vile. From there, Marlene Kuntz’s prominence rose. In 2001, the band was nominated for Best Italian Act at the MTV Europe Music Awards. Fans can check out the band’s compilation album, Best Of, for must-hear tracks.

Negramaro

When Negramaro first formed in 1999, their alternative sound didn’t land with Italian listeners. Determined to find success, the band leaned into an easier pop-rock sound on their sophomore album, 000577. The album went platinum and from there Negramaro had a place in the hearts of Italian fans. The band’s 2005 follow-up album, Mentre Tutto Scorre, went six times platinum. American fans will recognize Negramaro’s track "Nuvole e Lenzuola” from the popular game Guitar Hero World Tour. The band’s latest album Contatto embraces an indie-rock sound that listeners around the world will gravitate to.

Negrita

With its namesake taken from the Rolling Stones’ song “Hey, Negrita,” the Tuscany-based band formed in 1991 and has released ten studio albums to date. Negrita enjoyed both critical and commercial acclaim, earning multiple nominations throughout the years for Best Italian Act at the MTV Europe Music Awards. The band’s 1999 album Reset is considered one of the best Italian rock albums.

Subsonica

Blending elements of alternative rock and electronic music, Subsonica is known for its eclectic sound. The band has roots in Turin, Italy, and released its debut album in 1997. However, it was in 2000 when Subsonica gained success and acclaim by performing at the Sanremo Music Festival, also known as the Italian Song Festival. The band also became recognized throughout Europe. In 2000 and 2002, Subsonica won the Best Italian Act award at the MTV Europe Music Awards.

Banco del Mutuo Soccorso

As prog rock was booming in England, the scene in Rome was flourishing, too. At its helm was the band Banco del Mutuo Soccorso founded by two brothers Vittorio and Gianni Nocenzi. Over the years, the band has had eighteen different members, though the sound has always remained distinct and innovative. The band found fans at home and abroad, and even recorded translated material (such as Banco and The Last Supper) which helped increase their influence around the world. Today, the band continues to tour.

Mario Schifano

Mario Schifano may be an artist, not a band, but that doesn’t diminish his lofty influence on Italian rock and roll. As a filmmaker and a musician, he was heavily involved in the postmodern art scene, making connections around the globe. He had a relationship in the late 1960s with Marianne Faithful, and he was also in similar circles as the Rolling Stones. Schifano inspired the Stones’ song “Monkey Man” from the iconic album Let it Bleed, and Mick Jagger and Keith Richards even appeared in a film Schifano directed. As for his own musical ambitions, Schifano set up Le Stelle di Mario Schifano (The Stars of Mario Schifano), a highly experimental psychedelic rock band.

Devil Doll

To say that Devil Doll is an unconventional rock band is an understatement. When the experimental, gothic rock band formed in 1987, it had two lineups: one based in Venice, Italy, and the other based in Ljubljana, Yugoslavia. If that wasn’t peculiar enough, the band was helmed by a highly mysterious figure, Mr. Dr. Only one copy was made of the band’s first album, The Mark of the Beast, and it was kept by Mr. Dr. Only 150 copies of the band’s next album The Girl Who Was…Death was released. While this doesn’t sound like a recipe for success, Devil Doll went on to accumulate a cult-like following in Italy and Slovenia.

Gianna Nannini

Gianna Nannini is one of Italy’s most popular and influential female rock singers of all time. Nannini’s first hit in Italy was her 1979 single “America.” Six albums later, Nannini rose to international fame with Puzzle. The album hit the top 10 on the Italian, German, Austrian, and Swiss music charts. Throughout her career, she’s performed with musicians from around the world such as Sting, Jack Bruce, and Toše Proeski. She’s also been featured on the cover of the Italian edition of Vanity Fair.

Le Omre

Along with Banco del Mutuo Soccorso, Le Omre was one of the most popular Italian prog-rock bands to emerge from the 1970s. The band’s album Felona e Sorona was one of the most beloved Italian prog-rock albums of the time, and the band released a translated version for the English audience. The album launched the band’s international fame. The band toured across the United Kingdom and Europe, and even performed in North America. Le Omre’s last release was in 2011.

Vanilla Sky

Vanilla Sky was formed in 2002, bringing the American pop-punk genre to Italy. After recording their first album, Waiting for Something, the band set out to tour Europe. Vanilla Sky performed alongside genre-veterans like Yellowcard, Good Charlotte, and My Chemical Romance. At the height of the band’s popularity, Vanilla Sky won fans in North America, Europe, and even Japan.