Advertising Account Executive

Cincinnati CityBeat has served the Greater Cincinnati area for 25 years with cultural and political reporting, entertainment previews, food and drink reviews, events coverage and much more.

Today, we are a diverse media entity, serving our clients needs via digital, print, ecommerce, social and experience-based marketing solutions.

Our Account Executives are key members of a dedicated team, focused on mutual success for our clients and our business.

If the following sounds like you, we’d love to speak with you:

You are energetic, outgoing and passionate

You live with integrity

You are fearless and welcome challenges

You have a track record of getting to the decision maker

You conduct yourself with professionalism in person, in writing and over the phone

Essential Duties and Responsibilities:

Aggressively prospect develop and close new business via a variety of sources

Work cohesively with prospects and clients to discover their needs and recommend our best solutions

Maintain ownership of the sales cycle from first contact through maintenance

Meet and exceed monthly, quarterly and annual sales goals

Compensation:

Base salary + commission + Bonus

Paid Vacation/PTO

401(k)

Spiffs and prizes around special events

Basic Requirements:

Excellent written & verbal communication skills

Excellent attention to detail and follow through

Proficient with Microsoft Office

1-2 Years sales experience preferred

Email resume and cover letter to: [email protected]

No phone calls, please.

News Internship for Fall 2024

Compensation: Recommendations for college credit

This intern will be fully immersed in CityBeat’s day-to-day news operation, ranging from writing quick-turn news updates to assisting with longform investigative storytelling.

This internship will take place leading up to and during an exciting, high-stakes general election. Much of the intern's responsibilities will focus on covering the voter landscape, including voter ID laws, registration issues and issues at polling locations. Interns will contribute to researching and writing CityBeat's 2024 Election Guide. Part of this coverage will include assisting CityBeat's news reporter with covering vice-presidential nominee J.D. Vance and his relationship to his hometown of Middletown. Interested applicants should be available during the evening of Nov. 5 to assist in real-time election result coverage, social media alerts, candidate correspondence and more duties as assigned.

Interns can expect to:

Transcribe interviews

Research news topics and gather data

Fill out records/FOIA requests

Attend City Council meetings

Write short news briefs on local and state-wide topics

Shadow CityBeat’s staff news writer during field interviews, press conferences and during breaking news events

Shoot photos on a standard DSLR camera and on iPhone

Republish syndicated content from partner publications and Creative Commons sites

Preferred candidates will have:

1-3 years experience writing for an online or print publication, including student news organizations or freelance outlets

1-3 years of higher education majoring in journalism, communications, English or a related department

An energetic willingness to learn and accept constructive feedback

Nice-to-haves include:

Experience shooting and editing photos using Adobe Photoshop or related editing programs

Experience shooting and editing iPhone video for TikTok and Instagram Reels

The internship is unpaid. You should be able to join us for 12-15 hours each week and have transportation (or the ability to access public transit), since we’ll be sending you out on assignment. You must live within our coverage area for that same reason.

If this sounds appealing, please send a cover letter, résumé and three samples of your work to Ashley Moor, at [email protected], and Madeline Fening, at [email protected]. We'll consider applications on a rolling basis, but please aim to have your application turned in by Friday, Aug. 9 at 5 p.m. to be considered for the fall semester.

Music News Internship for Fall 2024

Compensation: Recommendations for college credit

CityBeat is looking for a fall 2024 music intern to assist in the paper’s music coverage. If you’re interested in learning more about the world of music journalism, this internship is for you.

The music intern will be fully immersed in CityBeat’s day-to-day editorial operation as it relates to music coverage, ranging from writing quick-turn music news to assisting with longform music pieces about local and national acts.

Interns can expect to:

Write quick-turn online articles on local music news, including album releases, concert announcements, etc.

Meet with the movers and shakers in the local music industry to help broaden our reporting

Assist in the planning of music coverage in CityBeat’s print issues

Transcribe interviews

Attend local concerts for CityBeat coverage

Shoot photos on a standard DSLR camera and on iPhone

Attend press conferences and any breaking news events related to the local music industry

Preferred candidates will have:

1-3 years experience writing for an online or print publication, including student news organizations or freelance outlets

1-3 years of higher education majoring in journalism, communications, English or a related department

An energetic willingness to learn and accept constructive feedback

The internship is unpaid. You should be able to join us for 10-15 hours each week and have transportation (or the ability to access public transit), since we’ll be sending you out on assignment. You must live within our coverage area for that same reason.

If this sounds appealing, please send a cover letter, résumé and three samples of your work to Ashley Moor, at [email protected]. We'll consider applications on a rolling basis, but please aim to have your application turned in by Friday, Aug. 9 at 5 p.m. to be considered for the fall semester.

Social Media Internship for Fall 2024

Compensation: Recommendations for college credit

CityBeat is looking for a Fall 2024 intern to assist CityBeat’s digital content editor with social media.

This intern will be fully immersed in CityBeat’s day-to-day editorial operations as they relate to social media, ranging from creating TikToks and Reels to scheduling and posting content.

Interns can expect to:

Assist the digital content editor in planning, scheduling and posting editorial content across all social media channels (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Threads and TikTok)

Brainstorm ideas and create content for Reels and TikTok

Track insights on Facebook and Instagram and analytics on GA4

Monitor and reply to comments and DMs on social platforms

Attend events, such as press conferences and restaurant openings, for social media coverage

Preferred candidates will have:

1-3 years experience working in social media and/or journalism

1-3 years of higher education majoring in journalism, communications, marketing, English or a related department

An energetic willingness to learn and accept constructive feedback

Experience using Canva or similar graphic design software

Experience shooting and editing video for TikTok and Instagram Reels

The internship is unpaid. You should be able to join us for 12-15 hours each week and have transportation (or the ability to access public transit), since we’ll be sending you out on assignment. You must live within our coverage area for that same reason.

If this sounds appealing, please send a cover letter, résumé and three samples of your work to Ashley Moor, at [email protected], and Katherine Barrier, at [email protected]. We'll consider applications on a rolling basis, but please aim to have your application turned in by Friday, Aug. 9 at 5 p.m. to be considered for the fall semester.

Photography/Web Edit Internship for Fall 2024

Compensation: Recommendations for college credit

Schedule: Varies based on credit requirements, but generally 10-15 hours per week

Position Summary: Our photography/edit internship gives students the opportunity to further their education in photojournalism and editorial photography as well as content creation. Interns will schedule, photograph and edit photos that will be used alongside stories in print and online in articles/blogs/slideshows. Interns will gain experience in event photography with CityBeat-hosted events as well as events held throughout the city. In addition to photography, interns will also learn how to source, build slideshows and create captions that will be used on the web.

Requirements/Qualifications: Interns should be comfortable with basic journalistic and photography principles. High ethics are required. You should have your own photography equipment and be familiar with Photoshop/Lightroom. While our hours are flexible, interns must also cope with a varying workload. The ideal intern is an avid CityBeat reader and someone familiar with the sides of Cincinnati we cover.

How to apply: Send your portfolio, cover letter and resume to [email protected].

Editorial Internship for Fall 2024

Compensation: Recommendations for college credit

Schedule: Varies based on credit requirements, but generally 10-15 hours per week

Position Summary: Internship revolves around working directly with CityBeat editorial staff to help produce the weekly print and online content.

Requirements/Qualifications: Interns are required to be pursuing a degree or certificate in journalism. We are looking for highly motivated, skilled writers with a working knowledge of AP style. Interns should have taken courses including news writing and journalism law and ethics. Advanced feature writing courses are preferable. While our hours are somewhat flexible, interns must also cope with a varying workload. The ideal intern is an avid CityBeat reader and someone familiar with the sides of Cincinnati we cover.

How to apply: Send two writing samples, cover letter and resume to [email protected].

CityBeat is Cincinnati's area’s multimedia source of events, news, arts and culture since 1988. We provide locally targeted advertising solutions to help businesses reach the highly-desirable, socially and culturally-engaged consumers.