Quick facts for kids

Mary Poppins

Theatrical release poster

Directed by Robert Stevenson Produced by Walt Disney Screenplay by Bill Walsh

Don DaGradi Starring Julie Andrews

Dick Van Dyke

David Tomlinson

Glynis Johns

Karen Dotrice

Matthew Garber Music by Richard M. Sherman

Robert B. Sherman (Songs)

Irwin Kostal Cinematography Edward Colman Editing by Cotton Warburton Studio Walt Disney Productions Distributed by Buena Vista Film Distribution Company Release date(s) August 27, 1964 ( ) Running time 139 minutes Country United States Language English Money made $102,272,727

Mary Poppins is a 1964 American musical movie starring Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke. It was produced by Walt Disney. It was based on the Mary Poppins book series by P. L. Travers. It was shot at Walt Disney Studios in Burbank, California.

Julie Andrews won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance as Mary Poppins. The movie also won Oscars for Best Movie Editing, Original Music Score, Best Song for "Chim Chim Cher-ee" and Best Visual Effects. The movie received a total of 13 nominations.

Plot

The movie is about a family named Banks that live in London of 1910. The family members are George Banks - a serious man that works in the bank, Winifred Banks - a Women's rights active (someone or something that is in action) and their children Jane and Michael.

George Banks is busy in his bank work while Winifred is busy in her Women's rights activities and both of them almost never dedicate (to be strongly into something and giving a lot of time for that) time for their children but instead keep them with different nannies. When one of the nannies named Katie quits the job, Mr. Banks begins to search for a different nanny. At night, the children write their father a letter that describes the kind of nanny they want, but he then rips the letter and throws it into the fire and writes for himself the kind of nanny that he wants, someone that is serious and arranged.

Many nannies come to the house in order to be chosen as the nanny but the strong wind blows them all. At the same time the children who are looking from the window see a woman flying into their house, her name is Marry Poppins and she is the kind of nanny the children really wanted. With her magic and love she takes care of the children and takes them to special adventures. In the beginning Mr. Banks does not like the way she takes care of the children but later in the movie she manages (is able to do something, especially something difficult) to connect between him and the children and makes the Banks family all happy again.

Cast

Julie Andrews as Mary Poppins, a magical and loving woman who descends from the clouds in response to the Banks children's advertisement for a nanny. She is firm in her use of authority but gentle and kind as well, a major departure from the original books, in which the character was strict and pompous.

Dick Van Dyke as Bert, a cockney jack-of-all-trades and Mary Poppins's closest friend, who is completely accustomed to her magic. Their playful interactions imply that they have known each other for a long time and that this kind of story has repeated itself many times. Bert has at least four jobs throughout the film: a one-man band, a pavement chalk artist, a chimney sweep, and a kite seller.

Van Dyke also portrays Mr. Dawes Sr., the old director of the bank where Mr. Banks works. During the film's end titles, "Navckid Keyd", an anagram of Dick Van Dyke, is first credited as playing the role before the letters unscramble to reveal Van Dyke's name.

David Tomlinson as George Banks, Mary Poppins' employer and father of Jane and Michael. He works at the Dawes Tomes Mousley Grubbs Fidelity Fiduciary Bank in London. He is a driven and disciplined man.

Glynis Johns as Winifred Banks, the easily distracted wife of George Banks and the mother of Jane and Michael. She is depicted as a member of Emmeline Pankhurst's "Votes for Women" suffragette movement. Mrs. Banks was originally named Cynthia, but this was changed to the more English-sounding Winifred per Travers.

Hermione Baddeley as Ellen, the maid of the Banks residence.

Karen Dotrice as Jane Banks

Matthew Garber as Michael Banks

Elsa Lanchester as Katie Nanna, the disgruntled nanny who quits the Banks family.

Arthur Treacher as Constable Jones, a police officer.

Reginald Owen as Admiral Boom, the Banks' eccentric neighbor and a naval officer. He has his first mate, Mr. Binnacle, fire a cannon from his roof every 8 a.m. and 6 p.m.

Ed Wynn as Uncle Albert, a jolly gentleman who suffers from an unknown condition where he floats in the air during fits of uncontrollable laughter. Although he likes having company over, he becomes very sad and cries when his guests have to leave (he falls back to the ground, since it is the inversion of laughing).

Reta Shaw as Mrs. Brill, the cook of the Banks residence.

Don Barclay as Mr. Binnacle, Admiral Boom's first mate.

Marjorie Bennett as Miss Lark, owner of the dog named Andrew, who frequently runs away.

Arthur Malet as Mr. Dawes Jr., the director's son and member of the board.

Jane Darwell as the "Bird Woman", an old woman who sells breadcrumbs for the pigeons on the steps of St Paul's Cathedral.

Marjorie Eaton as Miss Persimmon

James Logan as a doorman who chases after the children in the bank.

Alma Lawton as Mrs. Corry, an old shopkeeper of a gingerbread shop and mother of two daughters.

Betty Lou Gerson as Old Crone (uncredited)

Kay E. Kuter as Man in Bank (uncredited)

Doris Lloyd as Depositor (uncredited)

Queenie Leonard as Depositor (uncredited)

Voices

Julie Andrews as Robin, Female Pearly

Marc Breaux as Cow

Daws Butler as Penguin Waiter, Turtles

Peter Ellenshaw as Penguin Waiter

Paul Frees as Barnyard Horse

Bill Lee as Ram

Sean McClory as Bloodhound, Reporter #4

Dallas McKennon as Fox, Bloodhound, Penguin Waiter, Horse, Carousel Guard

Alan Napier as Huntsman, Reporter #3, Bloodhound

Marni Nixon as Geese

J. Pat O'Malley as Bloodhound, Hunting Horse, Master of Hounds, Pearly Drummer, Penguin Waiter, Photographer, Reporter #2

George Pelling as Bloodhound, Reporter #1

Thurl Ravenscroft as Hog

Richard M. Sherman as Penguin Waiter, Male Pearly

Robert B. Sherman as the "Bird Woman", Pearly Banjo Player

David Tomlinson as Penguin Waiter, Jockey, Race Track Stewards, Mr. Binnacle, Mary Poppins' Parrot Umbrella

Ginny Tyler as the Lambs

Awards

Mary Poppins is the most Oscar-winning and Oscar-nominated Disney movie in history.

Awards:

Best Actress in a Leading Role -- Julie Andrews

Best Original Song for "Chim Chim Cher-ee"-- Richard M. Sherman and Robert B. Sherman

Best Substantially Original Score—Richard M. Sherman and Robert B. Sherman

Best Film Editing -- Cotton Warburton

Best Visual Effects -- Peter Ellenshaw, Eustace Lycett and Hamilton Luske

Nominations: