Strategic Counsel has counseled leading technology companies including:

Bigfoot Networks (network optimization hardware and software for games and media): all agreements including technology development, inbound licenses, and distribution agreements. Manufacturing, OEM and VAR agreements with Dell, Foxconn, Gigabyte, Asus and others. Terms for sweepstakes, contests and sponsored events. Representation of executives in investments by North Bridge Venture Partners, Venio Capital Partners, Palomar Ventures, and in the company’s acquisition by Qualcomm.

BitGo (Bitcoin security): corporate formation, seed financing, business development contracts, enterprise contracts, and general counseling. Investors include Redpoint Ventures, Bridgescale Partners, Jeff Skoll (co-founder of eBay), Eric Hahn (former CTO of Netscape), and Bill Lee (founder of Remarq and Self Aware Games).

Connexus (online advertising, formerly Netblue, now merged with Epic Media Group): corporate formation, equity incentives, online advertising agreements, incentive advertising agreements, FTC and state law compliance, business development, acquisitions, $20M investment by Oak Investment Partners.

DeviceScape (wireless networking): corporate formation, seed financing, all inbound technology licensing and development, channel agreements, executive legal counseling leading, investments by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and August Capital.

Orchestria (enterprise security): multimillion dollar agreements with international commercial and investment banks for enterprise-wide protection of networks, communication platforms, databases and workstations. Investors included Benchmark Capital and Goldman Sachs. Acquired by CA.

PacketHop (MESH networking): spin-out of intellectual property from SRI, all inbound technology licensing and development, business development, trials by emergency service agencies, $20M in investments by U.S. Venture Partners and Mayfield Fund.

Self Aware Games (mobile and online games): corporate formation, terms and privacy policies for mobile and online games, IP strategy, compliance for user generated content, investments by top-tier angles. Acquired by Big Fish Games. All legal counseling for Card Ace: Casino, a top-ten selling app on iOS and Android.

Social Concepts (social networking): Formation, terms and privacy policies for social networks with virtual goods, IP strategy, compliance for user generated content, investments by top-tier angles.

Twist (mobile apps): corporate formation, capital structuring, all inbound technology licensing and development, privacy policies, channel agreements, and executive legal counseling.

Undertone and Intercept Interactive: All contracts for operations including ad server services, publisher network terms, advertising services for Fortune 100, ad delivery auditing, ad technology, and content license agreements. Privacy audits and policies. Compliance with FTC directives and Network Advertising Initiative guidelines.

In addition to providing general corporate counsel, our clients benefit from industry-specific transactions. The following lists a selection of our attorneys’ current and/or prior clients and representative transactions:

SEMICONDUCTORS, COMPUTERS

Apple

Intel

NexGen (acquired by AMD)

Magma Design: Multimillion dollar sales agreements with Hitachi, Sun and others.

Digital 5 (aquired by Rovi): Joint DSP technology development agreement with Zoran, semiconductor manufacturing agreements, all agreements for operations, representation of executives in acquisition.

S3: representation of the S3 corporate investment division, joint venture and marketing agreements with game publishers, technology license agreements with SRS, Dolby and others.

G2 Networks, ZSP and other semiconductor manufacturers: Gigabit Ethernet chip development agreements, international sales representation and distribution agreements, technology license agreements.

SOFTWARE AND OTHER TECHNOLOGY

Alchemedia: All software license and support agreements; OEM agreements, including integration with RSA Security’s BSAFE (encryption) technology; Reseller and distribution agreements with Adobe, Akamai, SPSS and OpenText; Strategic alliance agreements with Oracle and Lotus/IBM.

Digital 5: Overseas manufacturing agreements; OEM agreements with leading consumer electronics companies including Thomson and Philips; Intellectual property counseling to help launch leading MP3 and other consumer electronics products.

Lyris: Acquisition of SparkLIST.com that closed in August 2002; Revenue generating contracts, including enterprise and consumer software license and distribution agreements; Enforcement of confidentiality agreements.

Rebis: VAR and distribution agreements for CAD/CAM software.

Data Circle: Service agreements for cloud-based healthcare software.

INTERNET TECHNOLOGY, MEDIA, ECOMMERCE AND INTERNET INFRASTRUCTURE

Adaptive Media (renamed Vuent), Aptimus, Best Internet, Deluxe Digital Media, Internet Devices (acquired by Alcatel), InTouch Group, NETCOM, Network Solutions Inc. (NSI), SoftCoin, Xpedior