Red Rock Country Club is a guard-gated community in Las Vegas secured by two 24-hour guard-gated entrances—the East gate and the West gate. There are two guard-gated entrances because Red Rock Ranch Road splits the community and golf course into two sides. Golfers and residents can access both sides of the community via pedestrian and golf cart tunnels that pass under Red Rock Ranch Road. There are also additional resident-only access gates so residents can enter the community quickly: two on the west side and one on the east side.

Red Rock Country Club has a comprehensive security system in place to protect its residents and guests. The system includes:

Two guard-gated entrances: Red Rock Country Club is gated and secured 24/7 by professional security guards.

Video surveillance: Red Rock Country Club is equipped with a video surveillance system that monitors all entry and exit points.

Security patrols: Red Rock Country Club has a team of security guards who patrol the community 24/7.

Access control: Red Rock Country Club has an access control system that restricts entry to authorized individuals only.

Transponder system: Residents are issued transponders for their cars that allow them to enter the community.

Guest registration: All guests must register with security before entering Red Rock Country Club.

Security awareness: Members and staff are trained in security awareness and are encouraged to report any suspicious activity to security.

The Estates at Red Rock Country Club

The Estates is an exclusive gated community within Red Rock Country Club. It is located behind a secondary gate on the west side of the community, which provides an extra layer of security for residents. The Estates contains a total of 86 semi-custom and custom properties, with lot sizes ranging from .35 to .87 acres.

The Vistas at Red Rock Country Club

The Vistas is an exclusive gated community within Red Rock Country Club. It is located behind a secondary gate on the west side of the community, which provides an extra layer of security for residents. The Vistas contains a total of 74 properties, with lot sizes ranging from .23 to .39 acres.

Red Rock Country Club is the only golf course community in Las Vegas that features two challenging Arnold Palmer golf courses: the public Arroyo course and the private Mountain course.

Red Rock Country Club’s Public Arroyo Golf Course

The Arroyo Golf Club—one of two golf courses enveloped by the guard-gated community of Red Rock Country Club—is a public course showcasing the spectacular landscapes of Red Rock Canyon. Designed by Arnold Palmer, this 6,883-yard course offers a par-72 links-style layout with “Bermuda grass fairways and Bentgrass greens,” according to their official website. Local golf coach Michael Morales (@michaelmoralesptfit on Instagram) says: “Red Rock Arroyo is definitely one of my favorite courses to play in Vegas. It’s a wonderful experience. The course layout is set up as a PGA course with fast and true greens and beautiful views of the Vegas strip.” For the course’s best panoramic view of the Las Vegas cityscape, you should check out hole #7—or head to the clubhouse, which features a full-service golf shop, men’s and women’s locker rooms, and a bar and grill with terrace dining.

Red Rock Country Club’s Private Mountain Golf Course

Red Rock Country Club’s private Mountain golf course strikes a fine balance between natural landscapes and city views. Designed by Arnold Palmer, this par-72 course boasts over 7,000 yards of rolling fairways, multiple water features, and various tiered greens. Brandon Wilde, a golf course reviewer at GolfCourseGurus.com, says: “The thick Rye grass penalizes errant balls, many large bunkers also collect less than ideal shots, but the large greens roll fast and true and provide opportunities to card good scores if the long game is on.” Several of the holes border the nearby mountains, providing an incredible atmosphere, especially as the sun sets behind the hills. Paid membership tiers grant you various amenities, from dining access at the restaurants to exclusive golf privileges on not only this course but also the Arroyo Golf Club and Siena Golf Club (a sister golf course).

Red Rock Country Club offers a variety of privileges and amenities depending on which membership level you choose. Membership is optional, and you can find more details on pricing in the next section. Red Rock Country Club’s amenities are split between the prestigious 44,000-square-foot Main Clubhouse and the 9,500-square-foot Sports Clubhouse.

Here is a list of amenities and services offered by Red Rock Country Club:

Two golf courses designed by Arnold Palmer

Golf practice facility and pro shop

Three dining options (Oasis Grill, Palmer Lounge, and Cabana Grill)

Private rooms for social events, weddings, and banquets

Lively social calendar with regularly scheduled events

Fitness center with weight training, cardiovascular equipment, and personal trainers

Group fitness classes, including yoga, pilates, spin, stretch, Zumba, and more

Nine tennis courts

Four pickleball courts

Childcare

Spa with a full menu of treatments

Aquatic center with a resort-style family pool, an adults-only pool, a lap pool, a therapeutic spa, and a mini water park for children

*Please note that some of the amenities mentioned above may have additional fees or membership requirements.