President George Bush and Croatian President Stipe Mesic toast during a social dinner at the Office of the President in Zagreb, Croatia, Friday, April 4, 2008.

President George Bush and first lady Laura Bush are welcomed by Croatian President Stipe Mesic and his wife Milka before their meeting in Zagreb on Friday, April 4, 2008. Bush arrived for an official two-day visit to Croatia.

First lady Laura Bush sits with Croatian first lady Milka Mesic at the Office of the President in Zagreb, Croatia, Friday, April 4, 2008.

President George W. Bush, right, arrives to review an honor guard with Croatian President Stjepan Mesic, left, in Zagreb, Croatia, Friday, April 4, 2008. Bush, the first U.S. leader to visit Croatia in 12 years, received a warm welcome from the government on Friday, but about 250 people used the occasion to protest the U.S.-led war in Iraq.

President George Bush and his Croatian counterpart Stipe Mesic, unseen, inspect an honor guard before their meeting in Zagreb on Friday, April 4, 2008. Mr. Bush arrived for an official two-day visit to Croatia.

President Bush, left, and Croatia President Stjepan Mesic, right, review the troops during an arrival ceremony at the Office of the President, Friday, April 4, 2008, in Zagreb, Croatia.

Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, center, stands in a receiving line with other U.S. and Croatian officials during an arrival ceremony for President Bush, Friday, April 4, 2008, at the Office of the President in Zagreb, Croatia.

President George W. Bush, left, listens to Croatian President Stjepan Mesic, right, during a welcome ceremony in Zagreb, Croatia, Friday, April 4, 2008.

A Croatian honor guard stands at attention after the arrival of President George Bush and first lady Laura Bush at the Office of the President in Zagreb, Croatia, Friday, April 4, 2008. Mr. Bush, the first U.S. leader to visit Croatia in 12 years, received a warm welcome from the government on Friday, but hundreds of people used the occasion to protest.

An unidentified member of the cleaning staff sweeps the red carpet as final preparations are made for the arrival ceremony for President Bush at the Office of the President, Friday, April 4, 2008, in Zagreb, Croatia.

President George W. Bush, left, reviews an honor guard with Croatian President Stjepan Mesic, right, in Zagreb, Croatia, Friday, April 4, 2008.

President George W. Bush and first lady Laura Bush wave from Air force One upon their arrival at the Zagreb airport, Croatia, Friday, April 4, 2008. The Bushes were beginning a two day visit to Croatia.