“The real trick of it is to find the villain’s caper. Once you’ve got that, you’re off to the races and the rest is fun.”

—Screenwriter Richard Maibaum

Tonight I watched From Russia with Love (1963) for the first time. I wanted to see how Sean Connery as James Bond in 1963 held up in 2021. But I realized that I knew very little about the screenwriters of the early bond films so I did a little digging and found yet another unlikely connection to Iowa.

Richard Maibaum, who co-wrote the screenplay for From Russia with Love, graduated from the University of Iowa. Maibaum is not a name quite as familiar today as James Bond or Ian Fleming, but he played a key role in helping create one of the most iconic screen characters in the history of cinema.

“Richard Maibaum never intended to write witty spy dramas when he began. His roots are in Broadway, where he had his first play produced while a 19-year-old student at the University of Iowa. After several plays and a brief acting stint with the Shakespearean Repertory Theatre, Maibaum journeyed to Hollywood, where he would eventually write such films as O.S.S., The Great Gatsby, and Captain Carey, USA. During their making, he cultivated a close friendship with the late Alan Ladd, which led Maibaum, in turn, to London in 1951. Ladd had been signed by Broccoli for three movies Maibaum would later be hired to script.”

—Lee Goldburg

Starlog interview

After getting his master’s degree at Iowa in 1932, Maibaum had a 25 year run writing screenplays and for the theater (and even a detour in the Army creating morale films during WWII) before co-writing (along with Johanna Hardwood and Berkely Mather) the first Bond film Dr. No (1962). He would go on to earn screenwriting credits on the Bond classics Thunderball (1965), On Her Majesty’s Secret Service (1969), Diamonds Are Forever (1971), The Man with the Golden Gun (1974), The Spy Who Loved Me (1977), For Your Eyes Only (1981), A View to a Kill (1985), The Living Daylight (1987), and Licence to Kill (1989).

He might be still writing scripts for James Bond films if he hadn’t of died in 1991. But if you look at that second act of his career it’s rather amazing. I can’t help but think back to when he was a teenager at college in Iowa just after the 1928 stock market crash and the beginning of The Great Depression. Could this Jewish kid from New York City sitting in his dorm in Iowa City ever fathom where his writing would take him? (Well, maybe. After all, he was excelling in acting and playwriting. And he was actually still a student when his anti-lynching play, The Tree, was produced on Broadway. )

I have not read the James Bond novels by Fleming, but Maibaum is credited by some of giving Bond his trademark humor. Would James Bond even be James Bond without his one-liners?

I’ll spend a few days looking at Bond’s enduring popularity, some of the criticisms through today’s lens, and some surprising influences on Ian Fleming, and the influence of Bond on films on characters like Ethan Hunt and Jason Bourne.

P.S. Screenwriters Scott Beck and Bryan Woods (A Quiet Place) and Diablo Cody (Juno) also graduated from the University of Iowa, and I’d bet that any of them would love to have a crack at writing a James Bond film. The Richard Maibaum Papers are part of the University of Iowa Special Collection.

1/08/21 update: Just learned of the book Speaking of Writing by Richard Maibaum (complied and edited by his wife Sylvia Kamion Maibaum). Look for some Maibaum quotes in the coming weeks.

Scott W. Smith is the author of Screenwriting with Brass Knuckles