Other peripheral neuropathies (lumbosacral herpes zoster, genitourinary herpes, tabes dorsalis, Guillain–Barré syndrome)

Jacques Corcos, David Ginsberg, Gilles Karsenty in Textbook of the Neurogenic Bladder, 2015

Syphilis is a sexually transmitted disease caused by the spirochete Treponemapallidum. Voiding dysfunction secondary to neurosyphilis is nowadays a very rare finding in the developed world, but may still be endemic in some underdeveloped countries. Approximately 10% of patients with primary syphilis will develop neurosyphilis. More males are affected than females. There are different types of neurosyphilis: asymptomatic, meningovascular, and parenchymatous.20 The asymptomatic form only has positive cerebrospinal fluid. The meningovascular form involves the vasculature and meninges. If it affects the lumbosacral spinal cord, bladder dysfunction may result. As the posterior spinal cord mediates sensation, lumbosacral meningomyelitis may cause decreased bladder sensation and increased bladder capacity. Parenchymatous neurosyphilis includes syndromes known as tabes dorsalis and general paresis of the insane. Tabes dorsalis is a demyelinating atrophy of the dorsal spinal cord that affects the posterior column, resulting in impaired bladder sensation, detrusor areflexia, and hence overdistention and eventual detrusor decompensation if left untreated. Out of the three forms of neurosyphilis, parenchymatous neurosyphilis presents the latest, occasionally up to 20 years after the primary infection.

General Physical

Keith Hopcroft, Vincent Forte in Symptom Sorter, 2020

SMALL PRINT: scans, lumbar puncture, angiography. FBC, ESR/CRP, RA factor, uric acid: some forms of arthritis will result in an anaemia of chronic disorder. ESR/CRP may also be raised. Depending on the pattern of joint pain, RA factor and uric acid may provide useful information in the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis and gout.X-rays useful in bony trauma. Limited value in OA except to exclude other bony pathology.Syphilis serology: if tabes dorsalis suspected.If neurological signs of incoordination, consider CT/MRI scan and lumbar puncture – usually arranged by the specialist.Angiography: arranged by the vascular surgeon if surgery contemplated in claudication.

Spinal Disease

John W. Scadding, Nicholas A. Losseff in Clinical Neurology, 2011

Tabes dorsalis is a progressive demyelination of the posterior columns, as a result of untreated syphilis. Clinical features, which may not appear for decades after the initial infection, include weakness, paraesthesia, dysaesthesia, formication (a sensation like that produced by small insects crawling over skin) and episodes of intense pain. ‘Tabetic ocular crises’ are characterized by intense ocular pain, lacrimation and photophobia. Patients may demonstrate a high steppage ‘tabetic gait’ or have Charcot joints. Dementia, deafness and visual impairment may also be seen, as well as light-near dissociation (Argyll Robertson pupil). The treatment includes antibiotics (e.g. penicillin), but existing neural damage cannot be reversed (see also Chapter 25).

Synergies and Motor Equivalence in Voluntary Sway Tasks: The Effects of Visual and Mechanical Constraints

Published in Journal of Motor Behavior, 2018

Mariusz P. Furmanek, Stanisław Solnik, Daniele Piscitelli, Omid Rasouli, Ali Falaki, Mark L. Latash

When visual information is unavailable(e.g., when a person stands with eyes closed, sensory signals of other modalities become highly important. Earlier In the XX-th century, untreated syphilis could lead to a state called tabes dorsalis, characterized by disrupted transmission of sensory signals along the dorsal columns of the spinal cord. Those patients could only stand with their eyes open. Similar observations have been made in patients with peripheral sensory problems caused by advanced stages of diabetes and by large-fiber peripheral neuropathy (Sanes, Mauritz, Dalakas, & Evarts, 1985; van Deursen & Simoneau, 1999). The importance of proprioceptive information is also demonstrated by so-called vibration-induced fallings during the application of high-frequency, low-amplitude muscle vibration to leg muscles (Eklund & Hagbarth, 1967; Roll & Vedel, 1982).

Tabes dorsalis: Not, at all, “Elementary my dear Watson!”

Published in Journal of the History of the Neurosciences, 2018

Régis Olry, Duane E. Haines

Tabes dorsalis belongs, with general paresis, to the late (tertiary, the onset of symptoms usually occurring 25–30 years after infection) manifestations of parenchymatous neurosyphilis. It is histologically characterized by a demyelination of the posterior columns, posterior roots, and posterior root ganglia. Its clinical manifestations include ataxic wide-based gait, paresthesia, loss of some sensations (position sense, deep-pain, thermal sense), bladder disturbances, trophic joint degeneration—the famous French neurologist Charcot’s (1825–1893) arthropathy2The term “Charcot’s Arthropathy” was coined after the 1881 London Medical International Conference (Thuillier, 1993, p. 83). (Charcot, 1868)—and the Argyll Robertson (1837–1909) pupil (Robertson, 1869), among others (Cabanne & Bonenfant, 1986, p. 1282; Lukehart, 2015, p. 1136).

Gabrielle Lévy and the Roussy-Lévy syndrome

Published in Journal of the History of the Neurosciences, 2018

Peter J. Koehler

At the lower extremities, the extensor of the hallucis longus was paretic, in particular on the right side and “the antero-extern group on the left.” Areflexia was found at all tendon reflexes. No cerebellar signs. Sensory examination was normal “for all modalities: touch, hot prick, cold, position sense, stereognosis.”28A tous les modes: tact, piqûre chaud, froid, sens des attitudes, stéreognosies. A certain Mrs. De Brancas performed the electric examination which showed “very remarkable faradic and galvanic hypoexcitability, predominantly at the level of the small extremity muscles.” Two of Berthe’s children (Simone, 7 years old and Raymond, 2s year old; III-1 and III-2 in Figure 5b) and her sister Julia Ur… (II-2 in Figure 5b) suffered from the same disease. Raymond (Figure 6) walked like “un petit tabétique” [a small tabetic; at the time this usually indicated a sensory ataxic gait as seen in syphilitic tabes dorsalis].