2. z INTRODUCTION  Neurosyphilis is a sexually transmitted disease that affects the nervous system by Treponema pallidum.  It has been becoming uncommon disease after the introduction of modern broad-spectrum antibiotics like penicillin.

3. z CLINICAL TYPES  Asymptomatic neurosyphilis  Meningovascular neurosyphilis  Tabes Dorsalis  General paralysis of insane

4. z 1.ASYMPTOMTIC NEUROSYPHILIS  It is manifested by a reactive non-treponemal CSF serology(VDRL Test)  There will be no signs and symptoms of focal neurological disturbances  The CSF usually reveals elevated protein levels, lymphocytic pleocytosis and glucose levels

5. z 2. MENINGOVASCULAR NEUROSYPHILIS  It occurs in the second stage of syphilis and effects the meninges and vessels of the brain.  Syphilitic endateritis causes infarction which is clinically similar to stroke.  The luminal narrowing predisposes to cerebrovascular thrombosis, ischemia and infarction  The most common artery involved is middle cerebral artery  The clinical manifestations include headaches, vertigo, insomnia and personality disorders.  If the base of the brain is involved, cranial nerve palsies can be evident.  There may be formation of leptomeningeal granulomas which are avascular in nature called gumma.

6. z 3. TABES DORSALIS  It is a slowly progressive parenchymatous degenerative disease involving the posterior columns and posterior roots of the spinal cord.  Symptoms include loss of pain sensation, loss of peripheral reflexes, impairment of vibration and joint position sense and ataxia which is progressive.  Bladder incontinence and loss of sexual function are common.  15% of patients experience episodes of excruciating epigastric pain with associated nausea and vomiting.  These are 3 stages of Tabes dorsalis 1. Preataxia 2. Ataxia 3. Paralysis  There will be wide based gait with slapping.  Charcot joints and trophic ulcers develop in later stages.  The pupils are bilaterally small and fail to constrict but demonstrate normal constriction to accommodation

7. z 4. GENERAL PARALYSIS OF INSANE  It is commonly referred as dementia paralytica  It occurs approximately 20-30 years after the initial exposure to Treponema pallidum.  It represents a chronic progressive frontotemporal meningoencephalitis with resultant ongoing loss of cortical functions.  There will be insidious onset of psychiatric symptoms of general paresis  These include loss of interest in work, memory lapse, irritability, unusual giddiness, apathy, social withdrawal.  Later stages, the symptoms of schizophrenia, euphoric mania, paranoia, toxic psychosis.  After approximately 5 years of onset, there will be convulsions.  Abnormal gait, paresthesias, lightening pains of extremities, loss of proprioception, Romberg sign positive.

8. z INVESTIGATIONS  CSF analysis  Serological tests  VDRL test  Treponomal tests  Non-treponomal tests  Radiological examination  Electrodiagnostic tests

9. z MEDICAL MANAGEMENT Penicillin G, administered parenterally, is the preferred drug for treating persons in all stages of syphilis.

10. z PRINCIPLES OF PHYSIOTHERAPY ASSESSMENT The principles of assessment follow the routine neurological assessment with emphasis on the following:  Take history of onset of general or constitutional symptoms like headache, fever, fatigue, weakness, and dizziness.  Check the patient about the symptoms like pain, redness in eyes, loss/double vision, photophobia, ringing of bells I ears, loss of hearing  Check the musculoskeletal symptoms like neck pain, stiffness, muscle weakness.  Enquire the patient about the neurological symptoms like headache, dizziness, muscle weakness, confusion, loss of consciousness, seizures, difficulty in speaking etc.

11. z  Obtain the clear personality changes, if any, from family members of the patient.  Assess the cranial nerves to identify the cranial nerve palsies  Perform a clear and accurate sensory examination. Usually there will be loss of superficial and cortical sensations.  Motor examination reveals the muscle weakness. In case of meningococcal neurosyphilis, there will be motor dysfunction like stroke-spasticity, synergies, loss of voluntary control etc.  Examine the reflexes-hyperreflexia  Nuchal rigidity testing: Assess for meningeal inflammation by following tests: Brudzinski’s sign and Joint accentuation maneuver  Assess for neurological bladder symptoms  ADL assessment which shows diminished capabilities  Co-ordination and balance is impaired  On examination of gait, there will be abnormal gait pattern usually ataxic gait is seen.

12. z PHYSIOTHERAPY MANAGEMENT  AIMS  To educate the patient abouts STD’s.  To improve the muscle power  To improve cardiovascular and respiratory endurance  To improve balance and equilibrium  To improve co-ordination  To prevent contractures and deformities  Early ambulation  Improve the functional capacity of the patient