Fisher is the 177th former Northwoods League player to debut in MLB

Rochester, Minn. – Former Madison Mallards outfielder, Derek Fisher, made his Major League debut for the Houston Astros on Wednesday, June 14, 2017. Fisher is the 177th former Northwoods League player to reach the Major League level.

Fisher, who played collegiately at Virginia, played for the Madison Mallards in 2012. He was drafted by the Houston Astros in the 1st round, 37th overall, of the 2014 MLB Draft.

In 2012 with the Mallards, Fisher hit .315 over 51 games and had eight home runs, 10 doubles and two triples. He also drove in 36 runs and stole eight bases.

Fisher started his Minor League career in 2014 with the Astros Rookie Level team in the Gulf Coast League. After one game, he was promoted to the Tri-City ValleyCats of the Short-Season A New York-Penn League. Between the two teams he hit a combined .310 with two home runs, three triples, two doubles and 18 runs driven in. He also stole 17 bases and scored 31 runs.

Fisher started the 2015 season with a promotion to the Quad Cities River Bandits of the Lo-A Midwest League. After 39 games with Quad Cities he was sent to the Lancaster JetHawks of the Hi-A California League. For the season, he hit .275 in 123 games with 22 home runs, 21 doubles and eight triples. To go along with those impressive numbers, he also stole 31 bases and drove in 87 runs.

A promotion again for the 2016 season saw Fisher begin the year with the Corpus Christi Hooks of the AA Texas League. He would play in 102 games before another promotion to end the season to the Fresno Grizzlies of the AAA Pacific Coast League. Over 129 games he hit .255 with 21 home runs, 21 doubles, four triples and 76 runs driven in. He also tacked on 28 stolen bases and scored 71 runs.

Prior to his call-up to Houston, Fisher had played in 60 games and was hitting .335 with 16 home runs and 45 RBI. He also had 19 doubles and had stolen 13 bases.

In his Major League debut against the Texas Rangers, Fisher started the game in left field. In the 6th inning he hit the second pitch he saw from Jeremy Jeffress for a home run to left field for his first Major League hit. Then again later in the 6th inning he would single off of Rangers reliever and former Brainerd Blue Thunder pitcher Dillon Gee. Fisher would finish the game 2 for 3 with a home run, two runs scored, two RBI and two walks.

###

The Northwoods League is the proven leader in the development of elite college baseball players. The 23-year old summer collegiate league is the largest organized baseball league in the world with 20 teams, drawing significantly more fans, in a friendly ballpark experience, than any league of its kind. A valuable training ground for coaches, umpires and front office staff, more than 170 Northwoods League players have advanced to Major League Baseball, including two-time Cy Young Award winner Max Scherzer (WAS), two-time World Series Champion Ben Zobrist (CHC) and MLB All-Stars Chris Sale (BOS), Jordan Zimmermann (DET), Curtis Granderson (NYM) and Lucas Duda (NYM). All league games are viewable live via the Northwoods League website. For more information, visit www.northwoodsleague.com or download the Northwoods League Mobile App on the Apple App Store or on Google Play.

Privacy Policy for Northwoods League (northwoodsleague.com, northwoodsleague.net, & the NWL mobile app)

If you require any more information or have any questions about our privacy policy, please feel free to contact us by email at Send us your privacy questions.

At the Northwoods League we consider the privacy of our visitors to be extremely important. This privacy policy document describes in detail the types of personal information is collected and recorded by northwoodsleague.com, northwoodsleague.net, & the NWL Mobile App and how we use it.

Log Files

Like many other Web sites and mobile apps, northwoodsleague.com, northwoodsleague.net, & the NWL Mobile App make use of log files. These files merely logs visitors to the site – usually a standard procedure for hosting companies and a part of hosting services’s analytics. The information inside the log files includes internet protocol (IP) addresses, browser type, Internet Service Provider (ISP), date/time stamp, referring/exit pages, and possibly the number of clicks. This information is used to analyze trends, administer the site, track user’s movement around the site, and gather demographic information. IP addresses, and other such information are not linked to any information that is personally identifiable.

Cookies and Web Beacons

northwoodsleague.com, northwoodsleague.net, & the NWL Mobile App use cookies to store information about visitors’ preferences, to record user-specific information on which pages the site visitor accesses or visits, for analytics and marketing, and to personalize or customize our web page content based upon visitors’ browser type or other information that the visitor sends via their browser. We use cookies from third-party partners such as Google for marketing purposes. Google offers an Opt-Out Browser Add-On to provide website visitors the ability to prevent their data from being used by Google Analytics.

DoubleClick DART Cookie

→ Google, as a third party vendor, uses cookies to serve ads on northwoodsleague.com, northwoodsleague.net, & the NWL Mobile App.

→ Google’s use of the DART cookie enables it to serve ads to our site’s visitors based upon their visit to northwoodsleague.com, northwoodsleague.net, & the NWL Mobile App and other sites on the Internet.

→ Users may opt out of the use of the DART cookie by visiting the Google ad and content network privacy policy at the following URL – http://www.google.com/privacy_ads.html

Our Advertising Partners

Some of our advertising partners may use cookies and web beacons on our site. Our advertising partners include …….

Google Ads

AdMob (including use of the Android advertising identifier and Apple advertising identifier)

While each of these advertising partners has their own Privacy Policy for their site, an updated and hyperlinked resource is maintained here: Privacy Policies.

You may consult this listing to find the privacy policy for each of the advertising partners of northwoodsleague.com, northwoodsleague.net, & the NWL Mobile App.

These third-party ad servers or ad networks use technology in their respective advertisements and links that appear on northwoodsleague.com, northwoodsleague.net, & the NWL Mobile App and which are sent directly to your browser. They automatically receive your IP address when this occurs. Other technologies (such as cookies, JavaScript, or Web Beacons) may also be used by our site’s third-party ad networks to measure the effectiveness of their advertising campaigns and/or to personalize the advertising content that you see on the site.

northwoodsleague.com, northwoodsleague.net, & the NWL Mobile App has no access to or control over these cookies that are used by third-party advertisers.

Third Party Privacy Policies

You should consult the respective privacy policies of these third-party ad servers for more detailed information on their practices as well as for instructions about how to opt-out of certain practices. northwoodsleague.com, northwoodsleague.net, & the NWL Mobile App privacy policy does not apply to, and we cannot control the activities of, such other advertisers or web sites. You may find a comprehensive listing of these privacy policies and their links here: Privacy Policy Links.

If you wish to disable cookies, you may do so through your individual browser options. More detailed information about cookie management with specific web browsers can be found at the browsers’ respective websites. What Are Cookies?

Children’s Information

We believe it is important to provide added protection for children online. We encourage parents and guardians to spend time online with their children to observe, participate in and/or monitor and guide their online activity.

northwoodsleague.com, northwoodsleague.net, & the NWL Mobile App do not knowingly collect any personally identifiable information from children under the age of 13. If a parent or guardian believes that northwoodsleague.com, northwoodsleague.net, & the NWL Mobile App has in its database the personally-identifiable information of a child under the age of 13, please contact us immediately (using the contact in the first paragraph) and we will use our best efforts to promptly remove such information from our records.

Online Privacy Policy Only

This privacy policy applies only to our online activities and is valid for visitors to our website and regarding information shared and/or collected there.

This policy does not apply to any information collected offline or via channels other than this website.

Consent

By using our website, you hereby consent to our privacy policy and agree to its terms.

Personal Information We Collect

You may access many elements of northwoodsleague.com, northwoodsleague.net, & the NWL Mobile App without disclosing any personal information about yourself. However, should you choose to engage with certain advanced features (e.g. submit a form, make a purchase, take a survey) available on the northwoodsleague.com, northwoodsleague.net, & the NWL Mobile App, you may be asked to share certain personal information so those elements function properly. The personal information we collect may include, but is not limited to:

Full name

Email address

Password

Street address

Telephone number(s)

Payment card information

If we collect your information, in most instances, the applicable page(s) within the northwoodsleague.com, northwoodsleague.net, & the NWL Mobile App will include statements regarding what information is required and functionality for you to submit the required or requested information.

Update

This Privacy Policy was last updated on: Friday, December 7, 2018.

Should we update, amend or make any changes to our privacy policy, those changes will be posted here.

Terms of Service for northwoodsleague.com

Introduction

These terms and conditions (these “Terms” or these “NWL.com Standard Terms And Conditions”) contained herein, shall govern your use of the NWL.com website, including all pages within this website (collectively referred to herein below as this “Website”). These Terms apply in full force and effect to your use of this Website and by using this Website, you expressly accept all terms and conditions contained herein in full. You must not use this Website, if you have any objection to any of these NWL.com Standard Terms And Conditions.

This Website is not for use by any minors (defined as those who are not at least 13 years of age), and you must not use this Website if you a minor.

Intellectual Property Rights

Other than content you own, which you may have opted to include on this Website, under these Terms, Northwoods League, Inc. (“NWL”) and/or its affiliates and licensors own all rights to the intellectual property and material contained in this Website, and all such rights are reserved.

You are granted a limited license only, subject to the restrictions provided in these Terms, for purposes of viewing the material contained on this Website.

Restrictions

You are expressly and emphatically restricted from all of the following:

publishing any Website material in any media without the written prior approval of NWL;

selling, sublicensing and/or otherwise commercializing any Website material;

publicly performing and/or showing any Website material without the written prior approval of NWL;

using this Website in any way that is, or may be, damaging to the NWL, its owners, officers, directors, employees, agents and affiliates;

using this Website in any way that impacts user access to this Website;

using this Website contrary to applicable laws and regulations, or in a way that causes, or may cause, harm to the Website, NWL, or to any person or business entity;

engaging in any data mining, data harvesting, data extracting or any other similar activity in relation to this Website, or while using this Website;

using this Website to engage in any advertising or marketing without the written prior approval of NWL;

Certain areas of this Website are restricted from access by you and NWL may further restrict access by you to any areas of this Website, at any time, in its sole and absolute discretion. Any user ID and password you may have for this Website are confidential and you must maintain confidentiality of such information.

Your Content

In these Website Standard Terms And Conditions, “Your Content” shall mean any audio, video, text, images or other material you choose to display on this Website. With respect to Your Content, by displaying it, you grant NWL a non-exclusive, worldwide, irrevocable, royalty-free, sublicensable license to use, reproduce, adapt, publish, translate and distribute it in any and all media.

Your Content must be your own and must not be infringing on any third party’s rights. NWL reserves the right to remove any of Your Content from this Website at any time, and for any reason, without notice.

No warranties

This Website is provided “as is,” with all faults, and NWL and its owners, officers, directors, employees, agents and affiliates make no express or implied representations or warranties, of any kind related to this Website or the materials contained on this Website. Additionally, nothing contained on this Website shall be construed as providing consult or advice to you.

Limitation of liability

In no event shall NWL, nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents and affiliates be liable to you for anything arising out of or in any way connected with your use of this Website, whether such liability is under contract, tort or otherwise, and NWL, including its officers, directors, employees, agents and affiliates shall not be liable for any indirect, consequential or special liability arising out of or in any way related to your use of this Website.

Indemnification

You hereby indemnify to the fullest extent NWL from and against any and all liabilities, costs, demands, causes of action, damages and expenses (including reasonable attorney’s fees) arising out of or in any way related to your breach of any of the provisions of these Terms.

Severability

If any provision of these Terms is found to be unenforceable or invalid under any applicable law, such unenforceability or invalidity shall not render these Terms unenforceable or invalid as a whole, and such provisions shall be deleted without affecting the remaining provisions herein.

Variation of Terms

NWL is permitted to revise these Terms at any time as it sees fit, and by using this Website you are expected to review such Terms on a regular basis to ensure you understand all terms and conditions governing use of this Website.

Assignment

NWL shall be permitted to assign, transfer, and subcontract its rights and/or obligations under these Terms without any notification or consent required. However, you shall not be permitted to assign, transfer, or subcontract any of your rights and/or obligations under these Terms.

Entire Agreement

These Terms, including any legal notices and disclaimers contained on this Website, constitute the entire agreement between NWL and you in relation to your use of this Website, and supersede all prior agreements and understandings with respect to the same.

Governing Law & Jurisdiction

These Terms will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota, and you submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in Minnesota for the resolution of any disputes.

Update

These Terms of Service was last updated on: Monday, February 12th, 2018.

Should we update, amend or make any changes to our terms of service, those changes will be posted here.