Lottie Beth Hobbs, religious speaker, author, publisher, and conservative political activist, was born in Rowden, Texas, on July 7, 1921. She was the ninth child of Alonzo Graves Hobbs and Sarah Elizabeth (Sikes) Hobbs. She attended Abilene Christian University where she earned a bachelor of science degree in 1943. After her graduation she moved to Fort Worth, where she lived until her death. Hobbs worked for a defense contractor until 1946, when she became a secretary at Fort Worth’s Polytechnic Church of Christ. There she began her career as a Bible teacher, a position which she held until 1964. In 1959 Hobbs founded Harvest Publications, which published her books and other religious materials. Through Harvest she published several books about leading a Christian life, including Daughters of Eve: Strength for Today…from Women of Yesterday (1963), If You Would See Good Days: Help for Daily Decisions (1965), Victory Over Trials: Encouragement for the Life of Job (1968), and Your Best Friend (1969). Her books were studied in church groups and many reflected her staunch belief in the importance of traditional gender roles and the nuclear family. Hobbs became a sought-after speaker and lecturer. She spoke to Christian women’s organizations and girl’s youth groups at churches and schools across Texas. Hobbs often covered topics regarding life as a Christian woman.

Hobbs was a member of the Texas Democrats for Nixon and Lodge in 1960 and soon thereafter became active in the Republican party. As her political involvement grew, she increasingly spoke on conservative and, in the months following the construction of the Berlin Wall, anti-communist themes. In 1974 Hobbs co-founded (with Becky Tilotta) and served as president of Women Who Want to be Women (later the Association of the W’s), a political advocacy group that sought to convince the Texas legislature to revoke its ratification of the national Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) and to rescind the Texas Equal Rights Amendment, which voters approved in November 1972. Initially shunning media attention, Hobbs adopted the pseudonym “Miss X” to lead the organization, which successfully mobilized previously politically-inactive conservative Christian women and developed a large mailing network. The group evolved into the national Pro-Family Forum, of which Hobbs also served as president, and, in close partnership with conservative activist Phyllis Schlafly’s Eagle Forum (of which Hobbs served as vice-president), successfully campaigned against adoption of the ERA. Among other arguments, Hobbs asserted that the ERA would subject women to the draft, result in unisex prisons and bathrooms, end laws protecting women in the workplace, create new financial burdens for married and divorced women, and pave the way for marital and adoption rights for homosexual couples. She also planned the Pro-Family Rally, a counter-protest held concurrently with the National Women’s Conference in Houston in November 1977 The rally helped to unify and galvanize the anti-feminist movement. Influenced by Hobbs, Schlafly, and others, more Christian conservative women became politically active and eventually formed an important voting base for the Republican Party in the 1980s. They also helped cement the phrase “pro-family values” into the national political lexicon.

In 1977 Hobbs received the Newsmaker of the Year award from the Fort Worth Press Club and a Distinguished Alumni Citation from Abilene Christian University. The following year she was named Woman of the Year by Women for Constitutional Government and earned a Christian Literature Award from Christian Educators of California. After the ERA expired without ratification in 1982, Hobbs, concerned that public, secular education was threatening the ability of Christian parents to raise their children according to their religious convictions, shifted her advocacy toward education issues. In 1982 she became president of the Family Education Foundation. She also edited The Family Educator, a newsletter published by the Association of the W’s until 1994. She served on President Ronald Reagan’s Council on Family Values and on the Council for National Policy. In the 1990s she resumed her focus on writing.

Lottie Beth Hobbs died in Fort Worth on June 4, 2016, at the age of ninety-four and was buried in Fort Worth at Shannon Rose Hill Memorial Park. She was portrayed by Cindy Drummond in Mrs. America, a 2020 television miniseries dramatizing the fight over ratification of the ERA.