The Reinactors is a surreal story which Director David Markey says ‘‘plays like a great-depression era Hollywood classic retold for the new millennium. It’s also a film about the cutthroat nature backstage and behind the scenes of show business. A profound statement on where we are at culturally in America at the moment. An ‘American Idol’ on crack, if you will.”

For reviews and more info see: www.thereinactors.com

To send characters to your friends on Facebook use Reinactor Gifts:

www.facebook.com/apps/application.php?id=42588558798

SEE THE TRAILER HERE!

David J. Markey is a resilient and resourceful filmmaker who has sustained a truly independent career in the shadow of Hollywood and against the backdrop of corporate America for over two and a half decades. He is a self-taught filmmaker and musician who brings together underground music, experimental cinema and contemporary culture in a direct and insightful way.

The majority of his work has been self -funded, -directed, -produced and -distributed. His body of work is also historically significant, representing a unique record of the punk scene in Southern California throughout the 1980s and 90s. Markey has worked with Raymond Pettibon, Sonic Youth, Nirvana, Mudhoney, Redd Kross, The Ramones, Black Flag and the Meat Puppets to name but a few. His films include the acclaimed documentary 1991: The Year Punk Broke (1992) and the Los Angeles Punk Super-8 cult classics The Slog Movie (1982) Desperate Teenage Lovedolls (1984), and the sequel Lovedolls Superstar (1986).

His unique take on pop culture and dark wit are present throughout his work and his indefatigable DIY aesthetic continues to drive him, as well as inspire a new generation of filmmakers, musicians & artists.

For full details see his website: www.wegotpowerfilms.com

Markey's work was first shown in the UK in 2005 under the title of Desperate Cinema, a UK tour which included a curated programme of his experimental shorts, music videos and documentaries that was shown alongside a selection of features. The six city tour began in Newcastle and was curated & produced by Michelle Hirschhorn.