June 1, 2022 – Paramount+ today announced Amanda Peet (Dirty John: The Betty Broderick Story) will join the cast of the service’s upcoming original series Fatal Attraction, from Paramount Television Studios and Amblin Television. Peet joins previously announced cast members Lizzy Caplan (Castle Rock, Masters of Sex), who stars as Alex Forrest and Joshua Jackson (Dr. Death), who stars as Dan Gallagher.

Peet will star as Beth Gallagher, a loyal wife, loving mother and successful small business owner whose world unravels when her husband Dan’s (Jackson) indiscretion threatens to destroy their life together.

A deep-dive reimagining of the classic psychosexual thriller and ‘80s cultural touchstone, the new series will explore fatal attraction and the timeless themes of marriage and infidelity through the lens of modern attitudes toward strong women, personality disorders and coercive control.

Amanda Peet starred in season two of the anthology series Dirty John: The Betty Broderick Story. Before that, she was in The Romanoffs, Brockmire, and Togetherness, created by the Duplass Brothers, as well as Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip. She has appeared in the films Please Give, Something’s Gotta Give, The Whole Nine Yards, Syriana and Igby Goes Down, among others. Her play The Commons of Pensacola, which was produced by Manhattan Theatre Club, starred Blythe Danner and Sarah Jessica Parker. Her most recent play, Our Very Own Carlin McCullough, ran in 2018 at The Geffen Playhouse in Los Angeles. Most recently, Peet created the series The Chair starring Sandra Oh.

Alexandra Cunningham (Dirty John, Chance) serves as writer, showrunner and executive producer on the series alongside executive producer Kevin J. Hynes (Perry Mason), with whom Cunningham shares co-story credit, and executive producers Darryl Frank and Justin Falvey for Amblin Television. Silver Tree will also executive-produce and direct.

Fatal Attraction joins Paramount+’s growing lineup of original series, including 1883, Evil, The Game, The Good Fight, Halo (with Amblin Television), Mayor of Kingstown, The Offer, Star Trek: Discovery, Star Trek: Picard, Star Trek: Strange New Worlds and more, as well as upcoming series including Grease: Rise of the Pink Ladies, Tulsa King and Wolf Pack, among others.

About Paramount+

Paramount+, a direct-to-consumer digital subscription video on-demand and live streaming service from Paramount Global, combines live sports, breaking news and a mountain of entertainment. The premium streaming service features an expansive library of original series, hit shows and popular movies across every genre from world-renowned brands and production studios, including BET, CBS, Comedy Central, MTV, Nickelodeon, Paramount Pictures and the Smithsonian Channel. The service is also the streaming home to unmatched sports programming, including every CBS Sports event, from golf to football to basketball and more, plus exclusive streaming rights for major sports properties, including some of the world’s biggest and most popular soccer leagues. Paramount+ also enables subscribers to stream local CBS stations live across the U.S. in addition to the ability to stream Paramount Global Streaming’s other live channels: CBS News Streaming Network for 24/7 news, CBS Sports HQ for sports news and analysis, and ET Live for entertainment coverage.

For more information about Paramount+, please visit www.paramountplus.com and follow @ParamountPlus on social platforms.

About Paramount Television Studios

Paramount Television Studios is a leading studio, developing and financing a wide range of cutting-edge and entertaining television content across all media platforms for distribution worldwide. The studio’s robust slate includes The Offer (Paramount+), Grease: Rise of the Pink Ladies (Paramount+), Fatal Attraction (Paramount+), American Gigolo (Showtime), Made for Love (HBO Max), Station Eleven (HBO Max), Shantaram (Apple TV+), Time Bandits (Apple TV+), Defending Jacob (Apple TV+), Home Before Dark (Apple TV+), Tom Clancy’s Jack Ryan (Prime Video), Reacher (Prime Video), Devil in the White City (Hulu), The Spiderwick Chronicles (Disney+), Joe Pickett (Spectrum Originals), Long Slow Exhale (Spectrum Originals), The Haunting of Bly Manor (Netflix) and The Haunting of Hill House (Netflix, both with Amblin Television), among others. Paramount Television Studios is a subsidiary of Paramount (NASDAQ: PARA; PARAA), a global content company with premier television, film and digital entertainment brands.

About Amblin Television

Amblin Television, a long-time leader in quality programming, is a division of Amblin Partners, a content creation company led by Steven Spielberg. Amblin Television’s Presidents, Darryl Frank and Justin Falvey, oversee all development, production and programming for the company. Amblin Television currently has twelve projects in various stages of production and release including season two of Resident Alien for SYFY, Halo and Fatal Attraction for Paramount+, Billy the Kid for Epix, Masters of the Air for Apple, a third season of Animaniacs for Hulu, season four of Roswell, New Mexico for The CW, two seasons of Gremlins: Secrets of the Mogwai for HBO Max, two seasons of Tiny Toons Looniversity for HBO Max and Cartoon Network, and documentaries Big Vape for Netflix, Good Night Oppy for theatrical and Amazon Prime Video, and Mama’s Boy an adaptation of Oscar-winner Dustin Lance Black’s autobiography.

Amblin Television also produced the Emmy, Golden Globe and Peabody Award-winning drama The Americans for FX, the Golden Globe-nominated and double Emmy Award-winning mini-series Into the West for TNT, Emmy-winning documentary series Why We Hate for Discovery, the Emmy-nominated HBO movie All the Way starring Bryan Cranston, Smash for NBC, Under the Dome for CBS, Falling Skies for TNT, The Borgias and The United States of Tara for Showtime, and Las Vegas for NBC. For more information, go to www.amblin.com.

# # #