Great News from our latest album!

Two songs from our latest album "Doin' What We Do" have received special recognition! "El Caballo del Fuego" written by Doug Figgs, Floyd Beard, and Mariam received the "Wrangler Award" from the National Cowboy and Western Heritage Museum for Outstanding Western Composition! Also, "Don't Say Goodbye to the Cowboy Way" written by Randy Huston and Jim Jones received the "Spur Award" from the Western Writers of America for Best Western Song! We are very honored to have received these prestigious awards!!

The "White Album" is here at last!

We are pleased to announce that our new "White Album" titled "Doin' What We Do" is finally here! An eclectic collection of 14 songs including 3 covers and 11 songs written or co-written by Jim Jones, Doug Figgs, and Mariam with special help by collaborators Floyd Beard and Randy Huston. Also featuring the amazing talents of Hailey Sandoz and Kristyn Harris on the cover of "Route 66". We hope you enjoy listening as much as we enjoyed creating this album!

2019 was a great year for the Cowboy Way!

We are very pleased to report that The Cowboy Way trio was named 2019 IWMA group of the Year! This makes 3 years in a row! Our latest album "Go West" was honored with 2019 IWMA Western Album of the Year and our very own Jim Jones was awarded 2019 IWMA Song of the Year with his song "It's a Cowboy I Will Be" from the album "Go West"! Thank you to all of our friends and fans for supporting us! We do this for you all. Looking forward to a great 2020!

2018 IWMA Group of the Year!

The Cowboy Way trio is very honored to have been named IWMA Group of the Year for 2018! This makes two years in a row! Group member Doug Figgs also took home top honors as 2018 IWMA Male Performer of the Year! We are thrilled to be given this recognition and want to thank the IWMA and all our friends and fans for supporting us. We were also blessed with nominations in the following categories:

Mariam Funke, IWMA Instrumentalist of the Year

Jim Jones, IWMA Male Performer of the Year

Doug Figgs, IWMA Entertainer of the Year

Our latest CD The Cowboy Way/Go West is now available!

Our latest CD The Cowboy Way/Go West is now here and available for purchase! That's right, the "red" CD is here and available on the "Store" page of this web site!

2017 WMA Group of the Year!!

During the recent national convention of the Western Music Association held annually in Albuquerque, NM The Cowboy Way took home top honors as 2017 Western Music Association Group of the Year.

We also felt honored to be recognized with nominations in the following categories:

"The Cowboy Way" CD as Western Album of the Year

Mariam Funke as Instrumentalist of the Year

Jim Jones as Male Performer of the Year

Doug Figgs as Male Performer of the Year

Doug Figgs as Entertainer of the Year