Platinum-selling triple threat Jon Pardi brings his acclaimed blend of “fiddles, twangy Bakersfield-style guitars and swinging pedal steel” (Associated Press) to a new version of his current hit single with today’s surprise release of “Ain’t Always The Cowboy” (Western Version). Originally appearing on Pardi’s critically-lauded, ACM-nominated album HEARTACHE MEDICATION, the track pays homage to the 1984 George Strait classic “The Cowboy Rides Away” with “a clever twist” (Billboard). With “Ain’t Always The Cowboy,” the 2X ACM Album of the Year nominee “proves that Country music is still thrillingly alive” (Rolling Stone) with “…a song of female empowerment wedged into a breakup storyline…It figuratively turns a classic on its ear since the full hook.” (Billboard). To listen to “Ain’t Always the Cowboy (Western Version) visit https://strm.to/JPAintAlwaysTheCowboyWesternPR.

“Like a nicely aged Tennessee Whiskey, Pardi’s music is strong stuff.” – Associated Press

“A hero in the making” (Variety),

“He proves that Country music is still thrillingly alive.” -Rolling Stone

“Jon Pardi cut a path through modern country by stubbornly sticking to fiddles, steel guitar, and dive-bar jukebox energy.” – The New York Times

“Jon Pardi brings Authenticity back into country music.” -People

“Jon Pardi’s hyperactive honky-tonk brings the past into the present.” -NPR

“ Pardi…deserves credit for combining throwback twang with modern production techniques in a way that appeals to country music fans of all ages and listening preferences.” -Wide Open Country

The ACM/CMA winning artist recently became the first country artist to have two #1 singles on Country Radio in 2020.“Ain’t Always the Cowboy” (Western Version) follows Pardi’s latest release, RANCHO FIESTA SESSIONS– an eight-song album that features a combination of songs Pardi is both inspired by, and loves to perform-and his ACM nominated album, HEARTACHE MEDICATION. HEARTACHE MEDICATION debuted among the top albums on Billboard’s Country Albums chart and was named on Rolling Stone’s “Best Albums of the Year” and The Los Angeles Times “Best Albums of the Year” (#4) list as the only country artist/album represented. A “hero in the making” (Variety), Pardi is noted for his “long-lasting mark on the genre” (Music Row) and his impressive ability to carve out his own path creating “the kind of country music multiple generations came to know, and love can still work on a mass scale” (Variety). Filled with fiddle, twang and steel guitar, Pardi continues to “apply new ideas to country’s old sounds” (Los Angeles Times) and “bring authenticity back into Country music” (People).