Jerudong International School (JIS), Brunei, South-East Asia is a fully accredited ‘British School Overseas’. It is a large, thriving boarding and day school with over 1680 students from 55 countries from 3 – 18 years in age. A leading British international school preparing students for I/GCSEs, A levels and the IB Diploma, we pride ourselves on providing an education that is not only academically challenging but also seeks to develop the whole student.

JIS examination results have been truly excellent with students entering the best Universities in the world every year. Recent graduate destinations include: UK – Cambridge, University College London, Imperial College. USA – Harvard University, Brown University, Cornell University, Berkeley University. Canada – University of British Columbia, The University of Toronto. Australia – Australian National University and Melbourne University. National University of Singapore.

JIS is an international member of the prestigious UK based HMC organisation, accredited by The Good Schools Guide as well as COBIS, FOBISIA and the BSA. JIS is proud to be an IB World School.

JIS has almost 200 highly qualified teachers primarily from the UK but also a small number from Australia, New Zealand. Our language teachers are native language speakers from China, France and Brunei.

The School is divided into two main sections: Junior School, for children ages 3 -11 years and Senior School. Within Senior School, the Middle Years consists of students in Years 7-9 (ages 11-14 years) whilst students in the Upper Years, Years 10-13, follow the IGCSE, IB Diploma and A Level programmes.

Academic Excellence

In January 2019, Jerudong International School (JISBrunei) was the first international school in the world to achieve the highest rating in all 9 areas inspected by the British Schools Overseas (BSO) inspectorate. These are:

Quality of Education provided

Spiritual, moral, social and cultural development of pupils

Welfare, health and safety of pupils

Suitability of proprietor and staff

Premises and accommodation

Provision of information to parents, carers and others

Manner in which complaints are handled

Quality of leadership in and management of schools

Minimum standards for boarding

Founded in 1997, JISBrunei is located in South East Asia, in the small, country of Brunei Darussalam, on the island of Borneo. A direct flight from major regional hubs – Singapore, Bangkok, Beijing, Dubai, Shanghai, Jakarta, Kuala Lumpur, it is easy to access, making it an ideal school of choice for parents seeking an outstanding school in a safe, secure environment.

The School aims are: Communication, Engagement, Integration, Leadership, Resilience and Thinking. Students are encouraged to Challenge Yourself, Respect Others and Inspire Change.

Campus

The 120 acre single campus is exceptional. The purpose-built, fully WiFi and ICT networked school facilities is located near the coast – a short drive from the capital city. Students can use the Arts Centre (725 seat auditorium, dance studio, black box theatre and rehearsal rooms), 27 science laboratories, extensive music faculty, art, design and technology and textile studios, libraries and traditional classrooms as well as the 2 swimming pools (50m and 25m), 3 large air-conditioned Sports Halls, outdoor netball/basketball and tennis courts and 3 soccer/rugby pitches. A well- equipped medical centre with 3 Nurses is on site to take care of students. . An award winning Outdoor Discovery Centre – an eco-forestry initiative on tropical heathland on the campus is regularly used for activities and also as an Outdoor Classroom learning space.

Boarding facilities

The recently inspected and accredited ‘outstanding’ Boarding facilities for students age 11 years + are purpose designed and built for the community of boarders. 180 girls and boys presently enjoy separate Boarding Houses cared for by experienced staff. The Boarding Housemaster or Housemistresses are all teachers in the School. Boarders can also use the school facilities. A special partnership exists between the boarding staff and a student’s family with mutual trust at the heart of the relationship between home and school.

Pastoral Care

All students and teachers in the School are members of a House (a community of about 70 students) which plays a vital role in establishing and maintaining a strong school spirit and enabling leadership opportunities. The 16 Houses in Senior School, named after birds in Borneo, provide leadership, mentoring and teamwork opportunities. Weekly House sports competitions and other House Events including House Debates, House Music, JIS has Talent and Spelling Bees in addition to House social events are highlights.

Co-curricular programme

A strong co-curricular programme exists with almost 300 activities on offer including a wide range of sports and arts activities. JIS has a well-established International Award (Duke of Edinburgh) programme – Bronze, Silver and Gold level. The Model United Nations club is particularly popular at Middle Years and Upper Years. Eco JIS, a student led group have developed a number of school wide initiatives and lead Earth Day each year. The School takes full advantage of the wonderful unique tropical environment of Brunei.

Facts about Schools in Brunei

The school system in Brunei is relatively new, since formal schooling just started in the 20th century.

The first English school in Brunei was founded in 1931.

There are both private and government schools in Brunei. Although the national language is Malay, most of the private and government schools in Brunei are taught through the medium of English. So English is well spoken in Brunei.

The government and most private schools follow the same syllabus approved by the Ministry of Education. The School Year is January – December.

The International Schools follow a British International curriculum and school year (August – July).

Most of the private and government schools study the Cambridge O Level at 16 years of age and then go to Sixth Form Colleges to study A Levels. Some Colleges now offer the UK BTECs and Diploma programmes.

The two largest International Schools are IB World Schools and offer the IB Diploma programme.

Why not contact us to find out more? Either email us on [email protected] or Telephone us: +6732411000 (Ask for Extension 1206 / 7100)

In addition to our website, why not follow us on social media as we post daily about life in our lovely school!

We look forward to hearing from you!