BUNNELL, Fla. - A man is facing a first-degree murder charge after he stabbed his wife to death outside their home in Bunnell on Friday morning, according to police.

Jermaine Mandell Williams Sr., 52, is currently in custody in Flagler County after the alleged incident that happened in the 400 block of South Pine Street just before 8:15 a.m.

Officials received a 911 call from a resident in the home who said a "stabbing of their relative" was "in progress" in the 400 block of South Pine Street. Officials with the Bunnell Police Department, Flagler County Sheriff's Office and Flagler County Fire Rescue responded.

Police said they found a woman, identified as Williams' wife, 50-year-old Yolonda, in the driveway with stab wounds to her neck. She was treated on-site and then transported to a local hospital in critical condition, where she was later pronounced dead.

Innocent bystander killed in Orlando gas station shooting after suspect returns to scene of fight: deputies

Jermaine Williams was lying on the ground with blood on his clothes, police said.

Multiple witnesses in the neighborhood told police they heard screaming and saw Williams allegedly stabbing his wife. They were able to see the kitchen knife being used and described it as having a 6- to 8-inch blade and black handle with blood on it, deputies said. The knife was located by police.

Other neighbors tried to intervene, telling him to stop. One of the bystanders was Williams' father who yelled at his son "to stop or he was going to shoot him" as he held him at gunpoint, deputies said.

Deputies said that's when Williams stopped stabbing his wife.

"(It was) the only thing that probably stopped him from going forward with what he was doing," Chief of Police David Brannon told FOX 35.

As the woman "laid motionless on the ground," Williams was heard saying, "I'm tired of the s***," police said.

Williams was then taken into custody.

Story continues below photo gallery

STAY CONNECTED: Download the FOX 35 News app for latest breaking news alerts

Police were able to review surveillance footage of the incident, which showed Williams allegedly attacking his wife with a knife outside their home.

In an interview with detectives, Williams said he and his wife had been "fighting for a few weeks," causing him to sleep in the driveway in his truck.

"Williams said he woke up this morning, went into the home, and told the victim he didn’t want to live this way anymore and was making efforts to get back together," police said. "The victim was not responsive to these remarks and she walked outside to go to work, but discovered her car would not start. Williams offered to take the victim to work, but she said she was going to call someone else to come get her.

"Williams told detectives that during their argument, the victim made a statement to the effect of, ‘Poor Jermaine. Do you want me to play you a violin?’ Williams said this remark pushed him over the edge and made him feel like he had nothing else to live for."

That's when Williams walked back into his house to retrieve a knife from the kitchen, police said.

"He claimed he ‘blacked out,’" police added. "Williams admitted he then attacked the victim but could not remember how many times he struck her with the knife, but knew it was more than once."

SIGN UP: Click here to sign up for FOX 35's daily newsletter

Police said Williams was on probation for charges stemming from a domestic violence incident involving his wife from 2022 where he was charged with aggravated battery, aggravated assault, false imprisonment and tampering with a witness.

Williams was only allowed to have contact with his wife "in writing" as a result of this incident, police said.

"Records indicated an injunction for protection was entered by the court following the 2022 incident and arrest; however, it was dismissed in the same year," police said.

Florida deputy was 'likely sleeping' when inmate escaped, causing hospital lockdown, manhunt: officials

Williams was charged with first degree premeditated murder and violation of probation. He remains in custody in Flagler County without bond.

"Generally, there is a buildup of anger and emotion that usually leads to that level of violence," Brannon said regarding the violent act of stabbing. "It's usually something very personal and a lot of rage and anger involved in the suspect. Usually they take advantage of the victim when they're defenseless, in most cases."