It is with great sadness that the family of Mary Williams Harris of 945 Wateree Blvd, Camden announces her passing on Tuesday, September 11, 2018 at KershawHealth Medical Center in Camden, South Carolina, at the age of 103.

Mary was born to the late Ned and Mary Williams on August 20, 1915 in Cassatt, South Carolina.

Mary accepted Christ at an early age and was a lifelong member of Grace Episcopal Church in Camden, South Carolina.

She was united in holy matrimony to the late Henry Russell Harris and raised two kids, Rosalin Harris and the late Russell Harris.

Mary was most known for her hard work and dedication. After her jobs as a factory worker and a nurse’s aide, she became a member of the Senior Citizens Club. She had a strong passion for traveling to different states and deep sea fishing, but most importantly she lived her life through simple pleasures like spending time with her friends and family, cooking, and taking walks around her neighborhood. Mary touched everyone she encountered and was truly a blessing to be around.

Mary will lovingly be remembered by her daughter, Rosalin Harris of Camden, South Carolina; her longtime friend Mary Halley; three grandchildren: Phyllis Mack of Hackensack, New Jersey, Tionese Alexander of Camden, South Carolina, and Arthur Mack of Camden, South Carolina; nieces: Eunice Thomas, Clarissa Thomas-Bracey, Tonya Thomas, and Hope Williams; nephews: Michael Thomas and Ray Williams; fourteen great-grandchildren: Alexander King, Dominique King, Marcus King, Solomon King, Fetima Mack, Kathleen Alexander, Jalen Alexander, Rajon Jefferson, Jordan Alexander, Kiera Alexander, Isaiah Mack, Sha’Born Davis, Shyriana Mack, and Levi King; and two great-great-grandchildren: Mckenzie Moses and Kaidren Byrd.

Mary was preceded in death by her two sisters: Charity Jones and Natalie Clark; her son; Russell Harris; and her grandson Eugene Mack.

Funeral services will be held on Monday, September 17, 2018 at 11:00 AM at Grace Episcopal Church in Camden. Interment will follow at Cedar Cemetery. Public viewing will be held on Sunday from 3:00 PM until 6:00 PM at the funeral home.

Family and Friends may call or visit at the residence.

Compassionate Professional Care has been entrusted to Brown's Funeral Home.