Soap star Roberta Taylor has died at the age of 76 after suffering from health complications.

The actress, known for her roles in The Bill and EastEnders, sadly passed away on July 6 and is survived by her actor husband Peter Guinness, her son Elliott, a granddaughter and two stepbrothers. Her last major TV series appearance came on the private investigator's comedy Shakespeare & Hathaway.

The star joined EastEnders in 1997 before leaving three years later in 2000. The actress was introduced as the matriarch of the Hills family, who stopped by to visit her estranged kids Sarah (Daniela Denby-Ashe) and Tony (Mark Homer). Roberta took on many dramatic storylines over the years and had several love interests, including Terry Raymond (Gavin Richards).

When Roberta departed the Walford Cobbles in 2000, she chatted with the Mirror about her time on the show and said: "I was always thinking, 'When can I learn my lines?' I gave over much of my life to the show and if I was to carry on at such a pace I'd have to continue to put my life on hold.

"I didn't want to do things at half-cock [...] I had a lot of fun playing Irene, and Gavin, who plays my screen husband Terry, and I got on brilliantly. Irene was a complicated lady. I never knew what was going to happen next, but that's what life is like. We worked hard at our characters. People thought we were comical but actually there was a lot of sarcasm."

She jumped ship to ITV's The Bill in 2002 where she played no-nonsense Inspector Gina Gold until 2008. Aside from the two popular soaps, Roberta's impressive CV saw her star on the likes of Silent Witness, Inspector Morse and Doctors. She also featured in the film adaptation of Roald Dahl’s The Witches as one of the malevolent magic practitioners, and 2005 BBC period drama Bleak House.

Away from the cameras, smoker Roberta had been battling emphysema - a lung disease that damages the alveoli in your lungs, leading to shortness of breath. Her ill health worsened when she suffered a fall two months ago, exacerbating her symptoms.

She was then diagnosed with pneumonia, an infection she could not overcome. Following the news of her death, fans took to social media to share emotional tributes. Taking to Twitter /X, former co-star on The Bill, Stuart Antony penned: "Sad to hear lovely Roberta Taylor has passed away. She was a joy to work with and always great fun when I saw her - RIP x"

One fan of the actress wrote: "Sad news about the passing of Roberta Taylor. Gina Gold was one of my favourite TV characters growing up and I still think of her one liners, some well needed comic relief in what could be a pretty heavy episode."

And a third added: "Heartbreaking news. RIP Roberta Taylor, one of the finest actors this country has ever seen. Thinking about her family, friends and fellow fans."