Normal weather for Zurich in May

It's pleasantly warm in May in Zurich with an average temperature of 19°C. Temperatures this month range from a low of 13°C to a high of 23°C. At night, you can expect temperatures between 7°C and 12°C.

In May, there is an average of 121 mm of precipitation, spread over 14 days days. Of the total precipitation, about 0,3 cm falls as snow in May. The wind speed is around 3 Bft, mostly coming from the South.

After some sun? Then May isn’t the best time to be in Zurich. The temperature is pleasant, but there’s too much chance of rain this month.

Check out the climate of Zurich for all months and discover the best travel time

Zurich in May

London

Average Temperature

19°C 18°C

High Temp

23°C 21°C

Low Temp

13°C 14°C

Total Precipitation

121 mm 53 mm

Rainy Days

14 days 19 days

Total Snowfall

0,3 cm 0 cm

Snowy Days

1 day 0 days

The UV index is a maximum of 8 this month. That's a very high value on the intensity scale of 1 to 11. Unprotected skin can burn within 10-15 minutes.

With 31°C, Zurich hit the highest temperature in the last 10 years in May 2022. The lowest daytime temperature in this month was 6°C in 2016. The extreme night temperatures ranged from a low of -1°C to a high of 18°C.

Discover cheap trips to Zurich

Daily Temperature in May in Zurich

This chart shows the average daily high temperatures in May in Zurich, measured in degrees Celsius. The bottom of the chart shows the days of May. Based on historical data, it shows the average daily temperatures for this month.

Daily Precipitation in May in Zurich

This chart shows the average daily precipitation in May for Zurich, measured in millimetres over the past years. Precipitation is always measured as water, even if it’s snow or hail. The bottom of the chart shows the days of May. Based on historical data, this chart gives an idea of how much rain you can expect each day.

Daily Snowfall in May in Zurich

This chart shows the average daily snowfall in May in Zurich, measured in centimetres. The bottom of the chart shows the days of the month. The data is based on historical measurements and gives an idea of the average snowfall in May.

Daily UV Index in May in Zurich

This chart shows the average daily UV index in May in Zurich, with the UV index ranging from 0 to a maximum of 11. The bottom of the chart shows the days of the month. Based on historical data, this chart provides an idea of the daily UV radiation levels you can expect.

Temperature in May in Zurich Over the Years

This chart shows the average temperature in May in Zurich, measured in degrees Celsius, over the past years.

Total Precipitation in May in Zurich Over the Years

This chart shows the average precipitation in May in Zurich, measured in millimetres over the past years. Precipitation is always measured as water, even if it’s snow or hail.

Snowfall in May in Zurich per year

This chart shows the average snowfall in May in Zurich, measured in centimetres, over the past years.