Normal weather for Zurich in December

It's cold in December in Zurich with an average temperature of 6°C. Temperatures this month range from a low of 3°C to a high of 9°C. At night, you can expect temperatures between 0°C and 4°C.

In December, there is an average of 82 mm of precipitation, spread over 13 days days. Of the total precipitation, about 17 cm falls as snow in December. The wind speed is around 3 Bft, mostly coming from the South.

Check out the climate of Zurich for all months and discover the best travel time

Zurich in December

London

Average Temperature

6°C 8°C

High Temp

9°C 11°C

Low Temp

3°C 6°C

Total Precipitation

82 mm 82 mm

Rainy Days

13 days 12 days

Total Snowfall

17 cm 2,3 cm

Snowy Days

12 days 2 days

The UV index is a maximum of 3 this month. That's a moderate value on the intensity scale of 1 to 11. Unprotected skin can burn in about 30 minutes.

With 15°C, Zurich hit the highest temperature in the last 10 years in December 2022. The lowest daytime temperature in this month was -5°C in 2022. The extreme night temperatures ranged from a low of -12°C to a high of 11°C.

Discover cheap trips to Zurich

Daily Temperature in December in Zurich

This chart shows the average daily high temperatures in December in Zurich, measured in degrees Celsius. The bottom of the chart shows the days of December. Based on historical data, it shows the average daily temperatures for this month.

Daily Precipitation in December in Zurich

This chart shows the average daily precipitation in December for Zurich, measured in millimetres over the past years. Precipitation is always measured as water, even if it’s snow or hail. The bottom of the chart shows the days of December. Based on historical data, this chart gives an idea of how much rain you can expect each day.

Daily Snowfall in December in Zurich

This chart shows the average daily snowfall in December in Zurich, measured in centimetres. The bottom of the chart shows the days of the month. The data is based on historical measurements and gives an idea of the average snowfall in December.

Daily UV Index in December in Zurich

This chart shows the average daily UV index in December in Zurich, with the UV index ranging from 0 to a maximum of 11. The bottom of the chart shows the days of the month. Based on historical data, this chart provides an idea of the daily UV radiation levels you can expect.

Temperature in December in Zurich Over the Years

This chart shows the average temperature in December in Zurich, measured in degrees Celsius, over the past years.

Total Precipitation in December in Zurich Over the Years

This chart shows the average precipitation in December in Zurich, measured in millimetres over the past years. Precipitation is always measured as water, even if it’s snow or hail.

Snowfall in December in Zurich per year

This chart shows the average snowfall in December in Zurich, measured in centimetres, over the past years.