Audio is given in a fairly strong (original) 4.0 track with optional English (CC) or Spanish subtitles.

Extras: First off in the supplements we have a commentary by the producer's son Bill Bronston and Bronston biographer Mel Martin (author of The Magnificent Showman-The Epic Films of Samuel Bronston). It starts with the claim that there has been no home video of this film available since the LaserDisc of the 90's - which we now know is inaccurate (they obviously don't surf Beaver). There are plenty of gaps as the film is so long to try to fill with a running commentary. When the two do chat - it's not bad - stuff about doing this film in Spain (as courted by the Spanish tourism board) and how it revived the community it was produced with so many jobs for craftsmen creating the sets and so on - the enormity of the production that flowed almost directly from El Cid with the same crew etc. How Heston, Richard Harris (coincidentally later playing Marcus Aurelius in Gladiator) and Kirk Douglas were pursued for the lead role - each rejecting for a different reason. Briefly mentioned is how Gladiator is a virtual remake of the film. It's a fairly good commentary but I actually prefer just watching the film (again) than listen to the informative interruptions. Also on disc one we have a 30 minute featurette 'Rome in Madrid' showcasing the enormity of the set design. There is a Trailer Gallery with El Cid, Fall of the Roman Empire, Cinema Paradiso and Control, some stills galleries (a 'Behind the Scenes' and another 'Promotional' one). Finally on disc one - text filmographies of director and 13 member of the cast.

Disc 2 continues the commentary and there are 4 more featurettes - Fall of the "Real" Roman Empire (10:56), The Rise and Fall of a Production - The Making of Fall Of The Roman Empire featurette (29:12), Hollywood vs. History featurette (9:45) and an interesting one about Dimitri Tiomkin and Scoring the Roman Empire (20:04).

Wow! - stacked and of all the Bronston films I have seen - this is probably my favorite. The Weinstein's appear to spare little expense and I know fans will truly enjoy the loaded presentation. You couldn't ask for much more and less than $20 seems like excellent value. We recommend!

***

ON THE JAPANESE RELEASE: This is a fairly dirty image from Japanese DVD production - anamorphic and progressive. NOTE: Gordon has warned us that his Japanese ordered copy of El Cid is actually region 2 now - I can assure you that mine is region 0, but when we find out about the discrepancy we will let you know.

I found the Dimitri Tiomkin soundtrack a little overpowering at times as I cocked and ear to discern the dialogue, but I imagine this was how it was meant to be. On this DVD there is 4.0 surround audio and removable Japanese subtitles.

This is definitely the edition to own and to quote DVD times HERE - "The Region 2 release from Universal UK is a travesty. Not only is it grainy and packed with artifacting, it's also severely cropped from 2.35:1 to 1.66:1. For an RRP of £17.99 it's a bad joke. So, to sum up that point, DO NOT BUY THE UNIVERSAL UK RELEASE OF THIS FILM."

We recommend this Japanese DVD release until it is done (properly) in region 1.

NOTE: We have reviewed 3 more similarly decent Japanese DVD releases (El Cid, 55 Days at Peking and Circus World) to include in a possible group order from Amazon Japan or Yesasia.com.

Gary W. Tooze