Born in Brasília (1980), Túlio Borges studied communications, law, and psychology, but music was the driving force in his life. We are fortunate to have a new composer adding beautiful songs to the vast Brazilian music songbook. He is an … Continued

Comprised of Helio Alves (piano), Duduka da Fonseca (drums, percussion) and Nilson Matta (bass), the Brazilian Trio is carrying on the tradition of the piano-bass-drum trios with impeccable productions. This group’s discography is available in Spotify. You can subscribe to … Continued

A Minas Gerais native and now Brasília resident, Leonel Laterza has one of those gorgeous voices that could read a phone book and still please your senses. His albums show an incredible taste in production and superb performances. Official web … Continued

Educator, guitarist, composer, arranger Conrado Paulino has performed with the best in Brazilian music, including Rosa Passos, Johnny Alf, Sueli Costa, Zimbo Trio, Paulinho Nogueira, Roberto Menescal, and Alaíde Costa among dozen others. Official web site: Conrado Paulino Quarteto (2007) … Continued

Whether performing with the group Terra Brasil or accompanying Rosa Passos, Leni Andrade, Chico Pinheiro, Simone Guimarães and others, Zéli Silva is quickly becoming well known as a classy bassist. Official web site: Zéli Silva Voando Baixo (2002) Em … Continued

Daughter of singer Telma Costa and niece of songwriters Sueli Costa and Lisieux Costa, Fernanda Cunha carries music in her veins. Her voice quality is charming and captivating in her classy performances of Brazilian music. She began her musical career … Continued

Chilean-born acoustic guitarist Rick Udler makes his residence in Brazil since the 1980′s. He blends the best of Brazilian genres — samba, bossa nova, choro — in his original compositions. Official web site: Rick Udler Rhythm & Romance (1996) Papaya … Continued

A truly sensitive voice, Ceumar has been captivating the Brazilian and World music scene with each release and concert of hers. She is an excellent singer with an impeccable taste for simplicity and excellent quality. Born in Minas Gerais, Ceumar … Continued

À Deriva is a São Paulo jazz quartet that showcases its original compositions with strong musicality and good doses of improvisation. The quartet is formed by Rui Barossi (bass), Daniel Müller (piano, accordion), Guilherme Marques (drums, percussion) and Beto Sporleder (saxophones … Continued

This group is based in Japan, but the music is all Brazilian and with strong influences from Minas Gerais and a solid dose of Brazilian jazz. You can visit Silvio Anastacio to learn more about Minaswing. Beautiful Horizon (2003) Mineral (2005)

Four accomplished guitarists – Paulo Aragão, Marcos Alves, Marcus Tardelli, Carlos Chaves – are responsible for the sublime music we hear in Quarteto Maogani’s recordings. Formed in 1995, the group has performed with Leila Pinheiro, Guinga and Zé Nogueira, among others, … Continued

Producer, composer, arranger, guitarist and singer, Adnet comes from a musical family. Besides his own original albums, Adnet also continues to delve deeper into the Brazilian songbook with outstanding recordings. Website: Mario Adnet Alberto Rosenblit & Mario Adnet (1979) Planeta … Continued