Forming the ITA

1946: Dr. Levine’s students and other interested doctors, nurses, and oxygen orderlies meet at the University of Chicago Hospital to form the Inhalation Therapy Association (ITA). 1947: The ITA is formally chartered as a not-for-profit entity in the state of Illinois. The new Association boasts 59 members.

Manual of Oxygen Therapy Techniques

Albert Andrews, MD, outlines the structure and purpose of a hospital-based inhalation therapy department in his book, Manual of Oxygen Therapy Techniques.

Setting the Stage for Formal Education

The New York Academy of Medicine publishes a report, “Standard of Effective Administration of Inhalation Therapy,” setting the stage for formal education for people in the field.

First Annual AAIT Meeting

The AAIT holds its first annual meeting at the Hotel St. Clair in Chicago.

American Registry of Inhalation Therapists (ARIT)

The American Registry of Inhalation Therapists (ARIT) is formed to oversee a new examination leading to a formal credential for people in the field.

The Board is Formed

The Board of Schools of Inhalation Therapy Technicians is formed in Chicago.

Technician Certificate Program

The AAIT launches the Technician Certification Program to offer a credential to people working in the field who do not qualify to take the Registry exams.

Joint Review Committee for Respiratory Therapy Education

The Board of Schools of Inhalation Therapy Technicians becomes the Joint Review Committee for Respiratory Therapy Education (JRCRTE)

NBRT and ARTF

The profession’s two credentialing programs merge into the National Board for Respiratory Therapy (NBRT); the AAIT forms the American Respiratory Therapy Foundation (ARTF) to support research, education, and charitable activities in the profession.

Lung Health Day

The AARC launches Lung Health Day to promote better lung health to consumers. The Day takes place every year on the Wednesday during National Respiratory Care Week.

The Last Contiguous State to Pass Credentialing Law

Vermont becomes the 48th state to pass a licensure or other legal credentialing law governing the profession of respiratory care, effectively bringing legal credentialing to all 48 contiguous states