The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and its director general, Mohamed ElBaradei, were named the winners of the 2005 Nobel peace prize today.

The award was made in recognition of their efforts "to prevent nuclear energy from being used for military purposes" and to ensure the safety of nuclear energy, judges said.

The 63-year-old Egyptian lawyer said the announcement was an "absolute surprise" and that it sent a very strong message to the Vienna-based IAEA to "keep doing what we are doing".

Mr El Baradei has steered the UN agency through a series of crises in Iraq, North Korea and now Iran. Under his leadership, it has developed from a little-known bureaucracy monitoring nuclear sites to a pivotal institution at the centre of efforts to disarm potentially nuclear regimes.

"Everyone who has contributed to the IAEA has a part in this important prize," the Nobel committee chairman, Ole Danbolt Mjoes, said as he announced the award.

Speaking in Vienna, Dr ElBaradei, said he was "humbled and honoured".

He said the IAEA was not just a watchdog but also like a "caring mother" trying to spread the benefits of nuclear power while keeping it safe from atomic weapons and the "world free from nuclear terrorism". He said he was proud of several of the agency's achievements, including eliminating the Iraqi nuclear weapons program between 1991 and 1997 and dealing with the threat of nuclear terrorism that has increased since the September 11 2001 attacks.

"I am here to further peace and development, and that I will continue to do," he said.

The Nobel citation states: "At a time when the threat of nuclear arms is again increasing, the Norwegian Nobel committee wishes to underline that this threat must be met through the broadest possible international cooperation. This principle finds its clearest expression today in the work of the IAEA and its director general."

The committee said that the IAEA's work was of "incalculable importance" at a time when "disarmament efforts appear deadlocked, when there is a danger that nuclear arms will spread both to states and to terrorist groups, and when nuclear power again appears to be playing an increasingly significant role".

IAEA spokeswoman Melissa Fleming said: "I never thought we'd see this day. This is the proudest day for the IAEA. For an organisation like us there is no prouder award."

Dr ElBaradei and the IAEA had been among the favourites from the 199 nominations for the award this year, the 60th anniversary of the US atomic bombings of the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.

The prize, named after Swedish philanthropist Alfred Nobel, is worth $1.3m (£735,000) and is due to be presented in Oslo in December.

The judging panel noted that in his will, Alfred Nobel wrote that the world's most prestigious prize should, among other criteria, be awarded to whoever had done most for the "abolition or reduction of standing armies".

The IAEA was set up in 1957 within the United Nations. The agency works with member states and partners worldwide to promote safe, secure and peaceful nuclear technologies.

Dr ElBaradei, an austere and methodical diplomat, took a strident line as he guided the IAEA through the most serious troubles it faced since the end of the cold war.

He accused North Korea of "nuclear brinkmanship" in December 2002 after it expelled two inspectors who were monitoring a mothballed nuclear complex.

Much of its recent work was associated with attempts to assess weapons capabilities in Iraq before the US-led invasion of the country in 2003.

The former British ambassador to the United Nations, Sir Jeremy Greenstock, said: "Dr ElBaradei worked extremely hard on Iraq and a whole host of other issues. The institution remains extremely important in Iran."

Tony Blair, who is in Paris for talks with the French president, Jacques Chirac, welcomed the announcement.

"It is well deserved and very important and shows the significance that is attached to the work that that agency does," he said.

"[Dr ElBaradei and the IAEA have] for a long time, and namely during the current difficult period, brought a decisive contribution to the search for peace and security in the world of today," he said.

Former chief UN weapons inspector Hans Blix said: "I see it as an endorsement of the professional and independent role of the IAEA and of international verification in the field of nuclear power and non-proliferation."

Dr ElBaradei qualified as a lawyer in his native Egypt before undertaking post-degree studies in New York. He began his career in the Egyptian diplomatic service in 1964, rising through the ranks to be in charge of political, legal and arms control issues.

He joined the IAEA in 1984 and was appointed director general in December 1997. He was reappointed for a second term in September 2001.

He is married to Aida Elkachef, a teacher. They have a daughter, Laila, a lawyer, and a son, Mostafa, a sound engineer, both of whom live and work in London.