George Denis Patrick Carlin was an American actor, stand-up comedian, author, and social critic. For Disney, he voiced Zugor in the 2005 Disney direct-to-DVD film Tarzan II and Fillmore in the 2006 Disney/Pixar film Cars and several video games. Lloyd Sherr replaced him as the voice of Fillmore in Cars 2 onward after his death in 2008. He also portrayed Frank Madras in Outrageous Fortune, Justin Case in the TV movie of the same name, and Bart Trinke in the 2004 Miramax film Jersey Girl. Additionally, he was mentioned in the The Muppets episode "Hostile Makeover".

Carlin was born at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He said that he picked up an appreciation for the effective use of the English language from his mother, though they had a difficult relationship and he often ran away from home. He attended various schools before joining the U.S. Air Force and trained as a radar technician. He was stationed at Barksdale Air Force Base in Bossier City, Louisiana, and began working as a disc jockey at FM radio station KJOE in nearby Shreveport. Labeled an "unproductive airman" by his superiors, he received a general discharge on July 29, 1957.

Upon becoming a comedian by the 1960s, Carlin appeared in various comedy films and television shows. He was noted for the seven dirty words comedy routine. He was best known for his roles as Rufus in the Bill & Ted film series, and for narrating the U.S. dub of the first four series (replacing Ringo Starr in the first two) of the long-running children's television series Thomas & Friends (1991–1995), as well as portraying Mr. Conductor in Shining Time Station from seasons 2 to 3. Other films he notably appeared in included Car Wash, The Prince of Tides, Dogma, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, Scary Movie 3, and Happily N'Ever After.

Carlin had a history of heart problems much of his life, which included heart attacks in 1978, 1982, and 1991. Despite treatments, he died of heart failure on June 22, 2008, at Saint John's Health Center in Santa Monica, California. His death occurred one week after his last performance at The Orleans Hotel and Casino. He was cremated and his ashes were scattered in front of various New York City nightclubs and over Spofford Lake in New Hampshire.

Roles[]

Gallery[]

[]