Namibia's local Cement Factory, situated on Farm Sargberg near Otavi. The Ohorongo cement plant can produce in excess of one million tons cement per annum, not only satisfying Namibia's own demand, but also supplying in export needs beyond the borders of Namibia. The company currently employs in excess of 280 people on a permanent basis. All raw materials required for the production of Ohorongo Cement products are sourced within Namibia, making it a truly and proudly Namibian product. Regular audits ensures the highest international quality products, eg SABS and vdz audits. It is also certified by the NSI. Ohorongo Cement supports Vision 2030 and the Harambee Prosperity Plan of the Namibian Government, the Growth At Home Strategy and supports NDP. For further information, visit our website at www.ohorongo-cement.com or follow us on Facebook.

Read more

Namibia's local Cement Factory, situated on Farm Sargberg near Otavi. The Ohorongo cement plant can produce in excess of one million tons cement per annum, not only satisfying Namibia's own demand, but also supplying in export needs beyond the borders of Namibia. The company currently employs in excess of 280 people on a permanent basis. All raw materials required for the production of Ohorongo Cement products are sourced within Namibia, making it a truly and proudly Namibian product. Regular audits ensures the highest international quality products, eg SABS and vdz audits. It is also certified by the NSI. Ohorongo Cement supports Vision 2030 and the Harambee Prosperity Plan of the Namibian Government, the Growth At Home Strategy and supports NDP. For further information, visit our website at www.ohorongo-cement.com or follow us on Facebook.

Read more

Reach More Decision-Makers with Scale Plans

Let us show you how our accurate B2B company and contact data can help you reach the right decision makers and close more deals.

What can you expect?

See how Lusha can speed up your workflow

Learn how to reach your ideal prospects

Discover the practices of the best performing sales teams

Trusted by 280,000+ revenue teams of all sizes