April 10, 1940 - January 24, 2023

January 24, 2023, Beloved wife of Edward Schmidt. Dear mother of Lisa (John) Schulte, Steven (Sally) Schwartz, and the late Scott (the late Carrie) Schwartz. Loving grandmother of 12 and great-grandmother of 15. Dear sister and sister-in-law of Mark (Louise) Pultman and Diane (Bill) Arft. Services: Graveside service Friday, January 27, 1:00pm at New Mt. Sinai Cemetery, 8430 Gravois Road.

Make a Donation in memory of Patricia Schmidt

Donald F Roth

May 25, 1928 - February 11, 2023

Donald F. Roth, Saturday, February 11, 2023. Beloved husband of the late Louise B. Roth (nee Friedman); dear father of Stephen (Lori) Roth and Andrew (Fran) Roth; dear grandfather of Anne and Claire Roth.

Services: Chapel service to be held on Wednesday, February 15, 11:30 a.m. at New Mount Sinai Cemetery. Charitable contributions to the Humane Society of Missouri appreciated. Kutis Affton service.

Make a Donation in memory of Donald F. Roth.

Fred Ashner

June 14, 1930 - February 12, 2023

Fred Curtis Ashner, February 12, 2023. Beloved husband of Eva Ashner. Dear cousin and friend.

Visitation Wednesday February 15th, 9:30 AM at United Hebrew Congregation, 13788 Conway Road at Woods Mill, followed by funeral service at 10:00 AM. Interment at New Mt. Sinai Cemetery. Memorial contributions preferred to United Hebrew Congregation. Visit bergermemorialchapel.com for more information.

Make a Donation in memory of Fred Ashner.

David Mason

October 13, 1951 - February 12, 2023

Beloved husband of Deborah Mason; dear father and father-in-law of Matthew Mason (Abby), Daniel Mason (Eileen), and Benjamin Mason (Kelly); dear grandfather of Henry, Russell, Sophie, Ian, Luke, and Hailey; dear son of the late Irving and the late Alice Mason; dear brother and brother-in-law of James Mason (Mary Ann), the late Mary Sayles (Robert), and Suzanne Mason; dear uncle, cousin, and friend.

Visitation Monday, February 27th at 1 PM at the Mausoleum at New Mt. Sinai Cemetery, 8430 Gravois. Funeral service follows at 1:30 PM. (PLEASE NOTE NEW SERVICE DATE)

Make a Donation in memory of David Mason

Robert L. Rosenfeld

May 21, 1932 - January 29, 2023

Robert Louis Rosenfeld, passed away peacefully on Sunday, January 29, 2023, surrounded by family.

Beloved father of Robert L. (Emily) Rosenfeld, Jr. and Thomas P. (Dena Ladd) Rosenfeld, of St. Louis, and Michael A. (Bettina) Rosenfeld of Altadena, CA. Loving grandfather of Louis Rosenfeld, of St. Louis, Will Rosenfeld, of Los Angeles, CA, Jeremy Smith, of Washington, D. C., Theo Rosenfeld, of Atwater Village, CA, Max Rosenfeld, of Altadena, CA and Abby Rosenfeld, of St. Louis. Dear brother of Karole (the late Thomas) Green and Donald (Lynne) Rosenfeld, of St. Louis. Dear uncle, cousin and friend.

Born on May 21, 1932, Bob was a lifelong St. Louisan, attending Flynn Park Elementary, John Burroughs School, and the University of Missouri. Bob served in the Air Force for two years, stationed at Whiteman Air Force base. In the late 50’s, Bob entered the garment industry, working with his father, Milton, at Western Garment. In the mid 1960’s, Bob took over management of Southeastern Textiles, a textile processor, started by his grandfather, Louis Korach, and continued in that role until his retirement in 2000.

Bob was an active sportsman. In his youth, he played many sports, including football, basketball and baseball, and enjoyed summers at Camp Nebagamon. As an adult, he devoted much time to coaching his boys in their athletic endeavors. An avid fan, especially of the Cardinals, he attended at least one game in each of their World Series appearances, since 1942. Bob’s favorite activity was golf, a sport he enjoyed with lifelong friends and his children and grandchildren. He was a solid high single digit handicapper known for booming drives and an unreliable putting stroke.

Bob was an energetic, outgoing man, who enjoyed an active social life, cooking and dining out, reading, travel, an occasional wager, and spending time with his family. He was funny. He will be missed.

There will be a private memorial service at a future date. In lieu of flowers, please consider making donations to the Jewish Federation of St. Louis (jfedstl.org) or to Evans Scholars Foundation (wgaesf.org).

Make a Donation in memory of Robert L. Rosenfeld

Leonard Missler

November 26, 1945 - March 11, 2023

Beloved husband of Elaine Missler; dear father and father-in-law of Kathy Schultz (Terry) and Dr. Michael Missler (Wendy); dear grandfather of Bryce and Sylvie Schultz; dear brother and brother-in-law of Elaine Kammer (late David) and Myra Snow (late Brian); our dear uncle, cousin and friend.

Graveside service Tuesday, March 14, at 11:00 am, at New Mt. Sinai Cemetery, 8430 Gravois Rd. Memorial contributions preferred to a charity of your choice.

Make a Donation in memory of Leonard Missler

Richard Alan Blath

July 02, 1946 - March 16, 2023

Richard Blath, son of Melva and Joe Blath, was born in St. Louis in 1946. After three years at Miami University of Ohio, earning him cum laude and a membership in Phi Beta Kappa, he attended Washington University School of Medicine. He married Lorry (Adelson), his life partner of 54 years. During his residencies at Vanderbilt University and Washington University, Richard published many medical articles and a book chapter.

Following his two years as a major and Chief of Urology in the Air Force at Wright Patterson Air Force Base, Richard joined St. Louis Urological Surgeons where he was managing partner for several decades. He initiated a program for Washington University surgical residents, and as a result was invited to establish a clerkship program for third year medical students. He loved his patients and even as the demographics in North County changed, he believed in helping that underserved community.

Richard was dedicated as Chief of Surgery and Chief of Staff at Christian Hospital and as a member of the board of directors of BJC. He was also a president of Washington University Medical School Alumni Association. Richard was the initial chairperson of the Mallory-Wilson Center of Miami University. His enthusiasm for Miami was the impetus to establish a scholarship.

Richard’s top priority was spending time with his cherished family. He was sure to be home for dinner with them and enjoyed engaging Jeff and Lisa every evening. He and Lorry took the beloved Crawford grandchildren, Zach, Landon and Allie, on many spring break trips, and he treasured several adventure trips with Lisa, Troy (Crawford), Jeff and Lisa (Kalik). Abe and Vivi Blath, the precious toddler grandchildren, brought him much joy, and he loved being silly and making them laugh.

Over the course of the last difficult six months not a person who visited would say they left without a laugh or at the very least a smile. His humor, even after speaking became difficult, was evident.

Richard is survived by wife Lorry, beloved children Lisa and Troy Crawford, Jeff Blath and Dr. Lisa Kalik; dear grandchildren Zach, Landon, and Allie Crawford and Abe and Vivi Blath; loving sister Barbara Sinclair; sister-in-law Amy Conders (Andrew); brother-in-law Gene Adelson (Danette); and sister-in law Shauna Tucker (Trey). Richard loved his brother-in-law Bob Adelson (Deena) like a brother.

His family, near and far, meant everything to him.

Funeral Service Monday, March 20 at 10 AM at Congregation Shaare Emeth, 11645 Ladue Road. Please use South Entrance at Ladue and Ballas Roads. Interment follows at New Mt. Sinai Cemetery, 8430 Gravois.

Contributions can be made to Congregation Shaare Emeth, the Mallory-Wilson Center at Miami University, or charity of your choice.

Make a Donation in memory of Richard Alan Blath

Elaine Bloomquist

April 7, 1935 - March 19, 2023

On March 19, 2023, a light went out of our lives with the peaceful passing of Elaine Bloomquist, 87, in St. Louis, MO. Born in St. Louis, Missouri, Elaine was the first of three daughters for the late Harold and Nettie (Jacobson) Cohn. Elaine’s long life was filled with family, creativity, and joy underpinned by the necessary strength and perseverance to face many challenges.

Elaine graduated from University City High School and attended Washington University in St. Louis studying Fine Art. She married the late Bernard Grossman in 1955, and had three children. When her youngest started school, Elaine went back to school to study Graphic Design at Meramec Community College and worked with her former professor. This transition proved fortuitous when she was widowed in 1974. At 39, Elaine suddenly becoming the breadwinner and single parent that she never anticipated. “Always be able to support yourself,” was the mantra Elaine passed along to her children.

Starting as a designer at Ferguson and Associates, Elaine stayed for more than 20 years, eventually becoming a partner and helping bring in assignments to the agency that supported local corporations and other agencies. Agency work was demanding, yet Elaine always made sure there was a casserole in the refrigerator ready for her children to heat up for dinner. Instructions began with “remove the aluminum foil and plastic wrap” since the time when it all fused together at one hastily warmed up dinner.

Upon her retirement, Elaine started volunteering at the City Museum; using her art talents to help visitors create rubbings among other activities, and she enjoyed spending time with her family and grandchildren.

Along the way, her relationship with former in-law, Edmund Bloomquist, deepened into marriage in 1995. Ed helped fix and repair things around her house, and Elaine fixed the dinners. The two shared 23 years together and enjoyed travel, reading, theater, and spending time with family. Ed passed away after a brief illness in January 2019, leaving Elaine with an even emptier nest.

Her children rallied around her with the advent of Covid—delivering groceries, fixing and sharing meals, and carefully arranging visits with family, including a new great-grandson. She never caught the disease, though her health and mobility began to decline.

Elaine is survived by her sisters Judy (late Sol) Kranzberg and Sallie (Lowell) Craig; her children Jeanne Harwin, Julie (Brad) Bloomquist, Michael (Paula) Grossman, and Jill (Mark) Chapman; her grandchildren Veronica (Matt) Potter and Lauren Harwin; and great grandson Simon Potter. Cousin, aunt, godmother, and friend.

Graveside service Thursday, March 23, 10:00 am at New Mt. Sinai Cemetery, 8430 Gravois Road. Memorial contributions preferred to the Humane Society of Missouri.

Make a Donation in memory of Elaine Bloomquist.

Louis "Lou" H Heyman

January 7, 1926 - March 26, 2023

Beloved husband of the late Maxine Heyman; dear father and father-in-law of Steve Heyman (Barb) and Larry Heyman (Ellen); dear grandfather of Hilary Dysart (Doug), Kevin Heyman (Lauren), Scott Heyman, and Brian Heyman and family; amazing GGpa of Amelia and Olivia Heyman and Louise Dysart; dear brother of the late Sam Heyman (late Jean); dear brother-in-law, uncle, great-uncle, cousin, and friend.

Lou was a lifetime member of the Boy Scouts of America, is an Eagle Scout, and received many honors through that organization.

Visitation Thursday, March 30 at 10:30 AM at Temple Emanuel, 12166 Conway Road. Funeral service follows at 11 AM. Private Interment. Memorial contributions preferred to The Backstoppers Inc., PO Box 795168, St. Louis, MO 63179 or to the charity of your choice.

Make a Donation in memory of Louis Heyman.

Judith Francis Gall

March 03, 1931 - March 28, 2023

Beloved wife of the late Dr. Ira C. Gall for 60 years; Mother of Steven, Thomas and the late Jeffrey (Carol) Gall; Grandmother of Jocelyn (Wesley) Masurat, Andrew, Brett and Melissa Gall; Great grandmother of Noah and Natalie Masurat; Sister of the late Lois Friedman.

Judith was born in Cincinnati, Ohio on March 3, 1931 and moved to St. Louis for her husband’s medical residency in the ‘50s. She followed St. Louis sports, loved musical theatre, treasured her family and was devoted to giving back to her community. She and her late husband were widely admired for their generous support of Washington University, Miriam School, the St. Louis Zoo and the St. Louis Holocaust Museum and Learning Center amongst others.

Funeral Service Monday, April 3. 10:30 AM at the Mausoleum at New Mt. Sinai Cemetery, 8430 Gravois. No visitation prior to the funeral service.

In lieu of flowers, memorial gifts may be made to the Jeffrey Scott Gall Memorial Scholarship Tribute Fund, Miriam Foundation, 1138 N Warson Rd., St. Louis, 63132 (www.miriamstl.org); the St. Louis Kaplan Feldman Holocaust Museum, 36 Millstone Campus Dr, St. Louis, 63146 (www.stlholocaustmuseum.org); or the charity of your choice.

Make a Donation in memory of Judith Gall.

Judith Sharon Vogel

November 17, 1942 - April 7, 2023

Judith passed away peacefully on April 7, 2023.

Beloved wife of Roger Vogel. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Elizabeth (Corby) Cox, Meredith (Steve) Friedman, Nicole (Brian) Smith and Derek (Rebecca) Hoffman. Proud “Nana” to Marlowe Hanis, Malone Friedman, Sydney and Skyler Smith, Landon Cox, and “Nana Judi” to Gwendolyn and Gabrielle Hoffman. Beloved sister of James (Linda) Resnick. Dear sister-in-law, aunt, great-aunt, cousin, and friend.

Judi was an active member of the reunion committee at her alma mater, University City High School and earned a bachelor’s degree from Washington University and a master’s from Saint Louis University. She enjoyed bowling, playing bridge, and time with family and friends. One of her biggest enjoyments was taking her daughters and granddaughters out for mani-pedis and “lunch-brunch.”

Graveside service Monday, April 10, at 10:00am at New Mt. Sinai Cemetery, 8430 Gravois Rd, St. Louis, MO 63123. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions are preferred to the Siteman Cancer Center, MSC 1247-414-2100, 7425 Forsyth Blvd., St. Louis, MO 63105 (https://siteman.wustl.edu/, 314-935-4725).

Make a Donation in memory of Judith Vogel.

David Michael Ellenbogen

November 17, 1958 - April 08, 2023

David Michael Ellenbogen passed away on April 8, 2023. David was born on November 17, 1958 in Queens, New York. He attended Stony Brook University before moving to St. Louis, Missouri to attend Chiropractic school at Logan College of Chiropractic. David was a well respected practitioner, owning his own practice, and teaching at Logan, as well as being a mentor to many chiropractors.

David loved the outdoors. He liked to fish, hunt and spend time at his lake house in Owensville, Missouri. He enjoyed many things that influenced his youth, including Star Trek and playing record albums on his 1970's stereo.

David will be missed by a community of people whom he gave chiropractic care, as well as loved ones, his wife, Janalee Ellenbogen, his sons, Sam and Scott Ellenbogen, his siblings, Laurie Sinatra (Michael), Caryn Dayney (Jack), and Joshua Ellenbogen (Sara), as well as many nieces, nephews, cousins and friends.

Memorial contributions can be made to the American Cancer Society.

Make a Donation in memory of David Ellenbogen.

Eve Rosemary Wilde

August 14, 1927 - April 16,2023

Beloved wife of Kenneth Wilde; dear mother of Thomas Wilde (Alyssa), Larry Wilde, and Carol York (Kevin); dear grandmother of Ky, Laura, Deborah, David, Nathan, Alaina, Amanda, and Samantha; dear great-grandmother of two.

Eve loved classical music and the piano but above all, she loved her family.

Visitation Thursday, April 20 at 11 AM at Congregation Temple Israel, 1 Alvan D. Rubin Drive. Funeral service begins at 11:30 AM. Interment follows at New Mt. Sinai Cemetery, 8430 Gravois, 63123. Please see below for Live Stream details.

Memorial contributions preferred to the St. Louis Kaplan Feldman Holocaust Museum, 36 Millstone Campus Drive, 63146.

Make a Donation in memory of Eve Wilde.

Barry Torgove

March 21 1936 - December 24, 2022

Beloved husband of Diane Zucker Torgove. Dear step-father of Scott (Sheri Mead) Sandler and the late Billy Sandler. Beloved brother of the late Lois Schrier (Edward) Richman. Dear brother-in-law of Les (Marilyn) Zucker. Dear uncle, cousin and friend.

A celebration of Barry’s life will be held at a future date. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Harvey Kornblum Jewish Food Pantry, 10950 Schuetz Road, St. Louis, MO, 63146 or to the charity of the donor’s choice.

Make a Donation in memory of Barry Torgove.

Gloria Ann Nuell

June 30, 1942 - February 26, 2023

Loving wife of the late Eugene Nuell; dear mother and mother-in-law of Stuart Nuell (Becky) and Susan Steinmeyer (Steve); loving grandmother of Sam, Spencer, Anna, and Sara; dear sister of Lester Tettenhorst (Sharon) and the late Eugene Tettenhorst (Dorothy);loving cousin, aunt and friend.

Gorgeous Gloria, beautiful on the inside and out she made friends wherever she went. She was an avid reader, a lover of art, music and theatre. She was passionate about politics, serving as an election official for over 20 years. Gloria loved travel and could spend hours getting “lost” in an art museum or a botanic garden. She had amazing stories to tell and had a fabulous karaoke repertoire. She truly was the life off the party!

Graveside Services in St. Louis and a Celebration of the Life of Gloria will be planned and announced at a later date.

Make a Donation in memory of Gloria Ann Nuell.

Steven Lee Blives

August 29, 1938 - May 03, 2023

Heaven just got a little livelier with the welcoming of Steven Lee (Steve) Blives who passed away Wednesday, May 3, 2023, after a grand farewell party during his short hospitalization—with his children and grandchildren—which included merriment and 50’s music. No more of a fitting send-off could have been had because his family was the most important thing to him.

Steve graduated from Clayton High School and received his BFA from Washington University’s School of Fine Art, where he met his sweetie, Judith “Judy” in Art Class. After college, Steve began his career at Monsanto as a graphic designer until going out on his own to start Blives Consulting Company with Judy in 1973, which he ran for 40+ years. It was a design, marketing, and advertising company and because of his humor and wit, many of his clients became his best friends. He was also a member of the St. Louis Business Marketing Association.

When he wasn’t working, he could often be seen at the JCC working out early with his friends and running with the Asphasia jogging club. Steve was a very charitable person and served on various Boards of Directors. Every year he helped his friends Joanie and Alan Protzel with the Joe Stone Memorial Golf tournament which raises money for military and pediatric cancer charities.

Steve loved his grandkids, classic cars, pistachios, long back scratches, and a cold coke in a bottle. Even when suffering from Dementia he never forgot his sense of humor. During the hardest parts of life, he still could find something to laugh about. His last words were, “I want a pickle and I want to take a nap and DO NOT wake me up for dinner.”

He is survived by the great loves of his life, his family: Beloved husband of 60 years to Judith Mendica Blives; Dear Father of Mindy (Bruce) Blives McCoy, Missy (Anthony) Blives Castro; Loving Paw Paw to Zoe Castro, Zinnia Castro, Sicily Castro, Aidan McCoy and Connor McCoy; Dear brother to Carole Scroeder, Robin Creager, and half-sisters Marla Barry, and Dawn Klumpers.; dear friend to many. He will be dearly missed by all. To further carry on Steve’s memory, help make the world a better place and do one thing today that makes you share a laugh with someone.

Graveside service Thursday, May 18, 2023, 2:00pm at New Mt. Sinai Cemetery, 8430 Gravois Rd, St. Louis, MO 63123. Tributes in memory of Steve Blives may be made to Rainbows for Kids, a 501 (c) charity near to his heart by going to RainbowsForKids.org to donate or mailing a check to Rainbows for Kids, 7221 Waterford Drive, St. Louis, MO 63123.

Make a Donation in memory of Steven Lee Blives.

Bret Tauben

August 28, 1954 - June 2, 2023

Beloved husband of Janet R. Tauben; son of the late Sheldon and the late Claire Tauben; dear brother of Scott Tauben (Melodie) and Jamie Demsky (Howard); dear brother-in-law of Ken (Mary), Tim (Cindy) and Rob (Dainna) Vance; dear uncle of Elizabeth, Alexandra, Lindsay, Dana, Sarah, Julia and Robert Jr. Dear cousin and friend to many.

Graveside service Wednesday, June 7, 10 AM at New Mt. Sinai Cemetery, 8430 Gravois, 63123.

Memorial contributions preferred to the Humane Society of Missouri, 1201 Macklind Avenue, 63110.

Make a Donation in memory of Bret Tauben.

Sven Gustav Eliason

April 16, 1928 - June 4, 2023

Beloved husband of Michele S. Kopolow; dear father of Anders Carl Gustav Eliasson (the late Marybeth), David Sven Eliasson (Kim), and Stephen Keith Eliasson (Kate); dear grandfather of Davin Eliasson (Lauren), Kelsey Allen (Tim), Lauren Roth, Jordan Eliasson, Wren Eliasson, and Lilly Eliasson; dear great-grandfather of Dresden, Miles, and Avery. Dear brother-in-law of Bonnie Kopolow and the late Robin Lowy. Dear uncle and dear friend.

Sven Gustav Eliasson was born in Malmo, Sweden, on April 16, 1928. Having received a Ph.D. in physiology and a Medical degree specializing in Neurology from Lund University in Sweden, he decided to move to the United States in 1954. After practicing in California and Texas, he accepted a position in the Department of Neurology at Washington University Medical School and Barnes-Jewish Hospital in St. Louis in 1964 where he remained until his retirement in 1992. He was an outstanding physician and researcher and an esteemed professor and educator. He inspired students, not only in medical school and residency, but also taught and advocated tirelessly for those students and professionals in the Departments of Occupational and Physical Therapy. A gifted linguist, knowing 14+ languages, he contributed these skills as a translator for the Missouri Botanical Gardens, the Missouri Historical Society and USC Medical School after retiring from the Washington University Medical School. Survived by his loved ones and those who knew him, he leaves behind a legacy of love, knowledge and care.

Graveside service Wednesday, June 7, 2023 at 1:30 PM at New Mt. Sinai Cemetery, 8430 Gravois.

Make a Donation in memory of Sven Gustav Eliason

Joy Melman

January 15, 1927 – June 13, 2023

Beloved wife of the late Albert “Al” M. Melman; dear mother and mother-in-law of Robin Feder (Gary), Ken Melman, MD (Kathy, Ph.D.) and Mark Melman, MD (Felicia); dear grandmother of Jessica Gamlin (Jeremy), Rabbi Amy Feder (Rabbi Michael Alper), Jenna Melman (Dolphy Jordan) and David Melman (Rachael); dear great-grandmother of Mackenzie, Parker and Miles Gamlin, Jonah and Molly Alper, Maya and Eliana Jordan, Kaia, Sonya, and Zoe Melman; dear sister of the late Neil Werner; dear sister-in-law of the late Leonora Koggan (the late Dr. David); our dear aunt, cousin and friend to many.

Joy was deeply dedicated to her community. She was on the board of many organizations, including the Arts and Education Council, KETC, the St. Louis Symphony and Dance St. Louis. She chaired KETC’s Camelot Auction and NCJW‘s Couturier Sale, and was proud to be honored as a Woman of Achievement. She taught at Central Institute for the Deaf and inspired her children and grandchildren to serve their communities in a variety of ways.

Make a Donation in memory of Joy Melman

John Daniel Newport

October 25, 1961 - June 13, 2023

Beloved husband of Rhonda Lee Dreggors-Newport; dear father of Daniel Isaac Newport (fiancée Katharina Schoeneck), Aaron Michael Newport, and Joshua Robert Newport; dear son of Judy Newport; dear brother of Angela Newell and Kaye Vaughan (Bill); dear uncle of Travis Newell; cousin, and friend to many.

John touched all he met and will be missed by more than he ever knew. He fought his battle with Leukemia with strength, determination, and grace. He was the epitome of strength, kindness, and humility. He was the best husband and father that any family could have been blessed with.

Graveside service Monday, June 19 at 12 PM at New Mt. Sinai Cemetery, 8430 Gravois, 63123.

Memorial contributions in John’s honor preferred the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society, PO Box 22324, New York, NY 10087.

Make a Donation in memory of John Newport

Lois Marshall

June 18, 1929 - July 24, 2023

Lois, 94, passed peacefully, surrounded by loved ones. She is preceded in death by her beloved husband, Kenneth Aloe Marshall of 67 years; and is survived by her three children: Linda Peterson (Michael), Larry Marshall, and Ken Marshall Jr. (Lois); five grandchildren: Sarah (Josh), Nathanael (Christine), Blair (Kevin), Marlee and Dylan; and five great-grandchildren: Fiona, Wyatt, Maya Pearl, Amelia, and Peter.

Lois, who spent her early childhood in Granite City, IL, never met a stranger and had the magical ability to make everyone she loved feel like she loved them most of all. From 1972 to 2000, she extended this attention and commitment to girls involved with the St Louis County Juvenile Court as a Volunteer Deputy Juvenile Office (DJO). As a DJO, she counseled girls who had committed status offenses and their parents, often single mothers. She attended Court hearings, referred them to community programs, and, most importantly, made them feel seen and important. She stayed in contact with many of the girls after their cases were closed, exchanging letters, and inviting them to her home.

In addition to her cases, Lois was instrumental in growing the Payback program, which funds and administers restorative justice programs. Originally funded by a single grant, Lois organized and hosted many fundraising events, which helped to support the children and their families but also to grow the program significantly. She also helped plan, promote, and produce annual fundraisers for Jewish Hospital and the St Louis Zoo.

Lois, known in her youth as “Sunny'' and later as “Yoyo,” would light up a room with her charm and grace. She cherished long walks, card games, and lifelong friends. She was a devoted sister, wife, mother, grandmother, and great grandmother. She loved her people, especially when she was surrounded by them. Never missing an opportunity to express her joy, Lois’s life was filled with moments that made her “cup runneth.”

A private family service will be held. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to PayBack, 702 E. Monroe Ave, St. Louis, MO 63122 or to the charity of your choice.

Make a Donation in memory of Lois Marshall

Dr. Carl S. Neblock Ed.D

February 12, 1953 - July 27, 2023

Dr. Carl S. Neblock Ed.D., 70, of O’Fallon, MO, born Thursday, February 12, 1953, in New Braunfels, TX, passed away Thursday, July 27, 2023, at St Louis University Hospital in Saint Louis, MO.

Carl was a generous, loving, brilliant, man of many talents. His greatest pride was in raising his son Eric.

He obtained a Doctorate of Education in 1996 from Texas Tech University, having previously received an MBA from The University of Dallas in 1991 and a BA in Chemistry from Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville in 1984. He was a member of Golden Key National Honor Society and Sigma Iota Epsilon. (honorary management fraternity). He was employed as an engineer at General Dynamics (Lockheed). He dedicated himself to teaching and enjoyed his time at Frenship High School in Wolfforth, TX (outside of Lubbock). Carl’s hobbies included amateur radio, electronics (including building his own computers), and Cardinals baseball.

Carl volunteered for over 50 years with the Boy Scouts of America. He obtained the rank of Eagle Scout at age 14. He was honored with the Silver Beaver Award, the highest honor that can be bestowed upon a volunteer at the Council Level. He also served as the District Commissioner for Okaw Valley Council (prior to its merger into Greater St Louis Council) and the South Plains Council (Lubbock, TX).

He was preceded in death by his:

Father: Charles Ernest Neblock

Sister: Marjorie Susan Jonas

Loving in-laws:Dr. Eric Lehr

Mrs. Marlys Lehr

Surviving are his:

Wife of nearly 48 years, Michele (Lehr) Neblock of O’Fallon, MO

Son: Eric Neblock of St. Charles, MO

Mother: Rosemary, nee McQueen, Neblock of Macomb, IL

Sisters:Tracy (Richard) Payne of College Station, TX

Sheila Dietz of Macomb, IL

Many dear nieces, nephews, cousins and beloved pets, Rascal, Ricky and Kitzy.

Memorials: Memorials may be made to the Boy Scouts of America, Salvation Army, or the Humane Society of Missouri.

Visitation: Visitation from 4:00 – 8:00 pm, Saturday, August 5, 2023, at Kurrus Funeral Home in Belleville, IL.

Funeral: Funeral Services will be held at 12:00 pm, Sunday, August 6, 2023, at Kurrus Funeral Home. Interment will follow at New Mt. Sinai Cemetery in St. Louis, MO.

Make a Donation in memory of Carl Neblock

George L. Markus Jr.,

August 3, 1933 – August 4, 2023

George Markus died peacefully one day after his 90th birthday, which he had celebrated with family and friends.

George had a long career in real estate, working with his team of partners – Milton Goldenberg, Shelley Fisher and Seymour Bailis. George was a lover of the arts, especially the St. Louis Symphony. He was a serious collector of art, wine, antique carpets and plants.

George is survived by his wife Phyllis Woollen Markus, his children, Ellen Markus (Bill Sherman), David Markus, Suzanne Alpert (Gary), Katie Silberman (Bryan Knapp), Bryce Woollen (Stefanie), Hilary Cedergreen (Jacob), and his many loving grandchildren, Elliot and Grace Sherman, Hannah and Abigail Alpert, Lincoln and Haven Knapp, Benjamin, Chloe and Eliza Cedergreen and Cooper and Sydney Woollen. He will be sorely missed.

Visitation Sunday, August 6th, 3:00 PM at New Mt. Sinai Mausoleum, 8430 Gravois, followed by funeral service at 3:30 PM. Memorial contributions preferred to the Missouri Botanical Gardens or the charity of your choice. Visit bergermemorialchapel.com for more information.

BERGER MEMORIAL SERVICE

Make a Donation in memory of George L. Markus, Jr.

Ray Dobinsky

Unknown - 08/24/2024

Make a Donation in memory of Ray Dobinsky

Ellen Weiss

February 25, 1940 - September 08, 2023

Ellen Louise Coppersmith Weiss was born February 25th, 1940, in St. Louis, Missouri, eldest daughter of Manuel and Geraldine Coppersmith. Ellen attended Ladue High School, then the Journalism School at the University of Missouri.

She met the love of her life, Sanford Weiss, in 1959, and they married in 1960 and had two sons, Stephen and David.

Ellen went back to college in 1969 and graduated from Washington University in 1972. She then began her career as a writer, creating and publishing and newsletters and more for the family business, Weiss-Neuman Shoe Company.

Ellen had many hobbies. She played tennis and golf, and was an avid hiker. She read fiction and non-fiction, and played Mahjong, Bridge, and Canasta. She also had an affinity for casinos and shopping malls. Ellen often pursued these interests with her many friends, both new and old, who knew her as a fun, lovable friend who was never afraid to speak her mind.

Ellen and Sanford enjoyed traveling and saw most of the world during their 62 years of marriage. For their last decades, they had a home base in St. Louis, and homes in Breckenridge, Colorado and Jupiter, Florida.

Ellen served on the board of the Alzheimer's Association of St. Louis, and was President of the Jewish Center for the Aged. Despite her advocating for the care and treatment of dementia, many in her family developed the disease, including herself and Sanford, who died in 2022 and her sister Carol who preceeded her in death.

She is survived by her sons, Stephen and David (Bobby Sanderson), her brother, Kenneth Coppersmith, and her four grandchildren, Mackenzie, Shelby, Madison and Jonathan Weiss.

Services: Visitation Sunday, September 10 at 2:30 p.m. in the May Chapel at Congregation Temple Israel, 1 Alvan D Rubin Drive. A Funeral Service follows at 3 p.m. Donations may be made to the Alzheimer's Association, or the charity of your choice. Please visit bergermemorialchapel.com for more information.

Make a Donation in memory of Ellen Weiss

Cynthia Fishel

December 19, 1956 - July 22, 2023

Cynthia Anne Fishel, devoted wife, mother, grandmother, sister, aunt, and friend. She is survived by her husband Arthur Fishel Jr., her children Artie Fishel and Holly Johnson (Jack), and grandchildren Patrick, Noelle, and Juliet Johnson. She was the daughter of the late Margaret Mary Calliott and William Calliott. Devoted sister of Lynne, Renee, and Bill Calliott and sister-in-law to Marlene (Howard) Soll and Kristin Sanders.

A dog lover, she leaves behind her faithful companion, Toby. A caregiver at heart, Cindy volunteered at Evelyn’s House hospice center where she spent her last few days. Cindy valiantly fought Multiple Sclerosis for 34 years and ALS for 2. She maintained a positive attitude through it all.

Celebration of Life, Tuesday, July 25th, 4:00-7:00 PM at the Switzer House, 570 Priory Lane, 63141.

Funeral Mass Wednesday, July 26th, 10:00 AM at St. Anselm Parish, 530 S. Mason Road, 63141.

In lieu of flowers please consider a donation to the ALS Association.

Make a Donation in memory of Cynthia Fishel

Sandra Greenberg

June 23, 1943 - September 14, 2023

Beloved wife of the late Lawrence H. Greenberg; survived by Ted Greenberg (Laura) and Amy Nelson; dear grandmother of David Greenberg (Aysylu), Michael Greenberg, and Samuel Nelson; sister-in-law of Robert and Maureen Greenberg, Ronald and Jan Greenberg, and Elaine and Harold Blatt; dear aunt, cousin, and friend.

Funeral Service Sunday, September 17th, 1:30 PM at the Mausoleum at New Mt. Sinai Cemetery, 8430 Gravois. The family will receive friends at 1 PM.

Memorial contributions preferred to the St. Louis Zoo, the Siteman Cancer Center, or the charity of your choice.

Make a Donation in memory of Sandra Greenberg

Stephen Jonas

December 3, 1935 - September 18, 2023

Make a Donation in memory of Stephen Jonas

Debra Jonas

June 20, 1940 - September 27, 2023

Make a Donation in memory of Debra Jonas

Margery Loren Plotkin

April 13, 1971 - October 25, 2023

Margery Loren Plotkin, April 13, 1971-October 25, 2023, 52 years old, peacefully passed on, at home, with her beloved dogs and cats by her side. Beloved and adored daughter and bestest girl friend to her mother, Lynn Friedman Hamilton, Margery was the daughter of Martin Plotkin.

Treasured by her brothers: Edward Plotkin (Ruth) and Hacker Plotkin (Laura), Margery doted on her nephews, Robert, Noah, Sam, and Jason. She also leaves her aunt, Leslie Friedman, PhD.

Many families benefited from her care and strength. There was not a dog or cat that she did not give her heart and undying love to. Margery was proud of her AKC certification as a dog trainer. Volunteering to help animals was her favorite career and some of the happiest times in her life.

Among the many organizations where Margery made a difference are Stray Rescue, Dolly’s Dream Home Rabbit Rescue, The Feral Cat Outreach, the APA, and the Humane Society of Missouri. She attended Mary Institute, Miss Halls School, MA and the University of Hartford and amazingly was Sally Jesse Raphael’s intern! We will never stop loving her…always and forever.

Funeral service Sunday, October 29thm 2:00 PM at New Mt. Sinai Mausoleum, 8430 Gravois. No visitation prior to service. Memorial contributions preferred to the Animal Welfare Institute, awionline.org.

Make a Donation in memory of Margery Plotkin