Atla is looking to collaborate with publishers in religion and theology to expand our indexing of essay collections in the Atla Religion Database® (Atla RDB®), a database available by institutional subscription via EBSCOhost with approximately 1,500 subscribers in more than 70 countries.

Working with publishers to acquire essay collections will allow us to feature hard-to-find content while showcasing the indispensable value of your collaboration and support. Outside of complimentary access to books in print or electronic format, there is no cost to publishers for our indexing. Atla does not host any full-text versions of the material provided to us.

The Process

Once Atla receives the essay collections, our in-house team of ten+ subject experts gets to work analyzing the material and assigning essay-level metadata. The team, comprised of scholars in the fields of religion, theology, anthropology, and philosophy, can index in more than forty languages.

Atla’s comprehensive metadata allows for discovery not only by a specific author and essay title but also by subject. This serves as a powerful discovery tool for content that otherwise can be difficult to locate. The team assigns subjects from our recently revamped thesaurus which improves the user experience by returning more relevant search results. As the Library of Congress’s subject schema authority for religion, we are dedicated to maintaining the highest level of quality in our vocabulary.

Our team also includes any identifying numbers that the book itself provides — ISBNs and even essay-level DOIs. These unique identifiers make relevant content even more discoverable for the user, allowing them to locate the material wherever it may be in their library’s collection, at another library through interlibrary loan, a retailer, etc.

Through this partnership, we hope to be able to offer even more pertinent and robust content to our users, while showcasing the indispensable value of your collaboration and support.