"The Art of the Personal Essay" presents more than seventy-five personal essays, including influential forerunners from ancient Greece, Rome, ...Show more "The Art of the Personal Essay" presents more than seventy-five personal essays, including influential forerunners from ancient Greece, Rome, and the Far East, masterpieces from the dawn of the personal essay in the sixteenth century, and a wealth of the finest personal essays from the last four centuries, editor Phillip Lopate, himself an acclaimed essayist, displays the tradition of the personal essay in all its historical grandeur, depth, and diversity. Show less

The Fire Next Time" consists of two "letters," written on the 100th anniversary of the Emancipation Proclamation, in which Baldwin describe...Show more The Fire Next Time" consists of two "letters," written on the 100th anniversary of the Emancipation Proclamation, in which Baldwin describes his early life in Harlem, and examines the possible consequences for America if racial injustice is not addressed. Show less

One of the most influential works of this century, this is a crucial exposition of existentialist thought. Influenced by works such as Don Juan and the no...Show more One of the most influential works of this century, this is a crucial exposition of existentialist thought. Influenced by works such as Don Juan and the novels of Kafka, these essays begin with a meditation on suicide: the question of living or not living in an absurd universe devoid of order or meaning. With lyric eloquence, Camus posits a way out of despair, reaffirming the value of personal existence, and the possibility of life lived with dignity and authenticity. Show less

All copies in use Availability details

This classic collection of journalism defined the state of America during the upheaval of the sixties revolution. The essays feature barricades and bombings, mass murders and kidnapped heiresses. This classic collection of journalism defined the state of America during the upheaval of the sixties revolution. The essays feature barricades and bombings, mass murders and kidnapped heiresses. Show less

A collection of his classic essays, including "Self-Reliance," together with discourses on history, art, politics, nature, friendship, love, and much more. A collection of his classic essays, including "Self-Reliance," together with discourses on history, art, politics, nature, friendship, love, and much more. Show less

A collection of essays exploring empathy, using topics ranging from street violence and incarceration to reality television and literary sentimentality to ask questions about people's understanding of and relationships with others. A collection of essays exploring empathy, using topics ranging from street violence and incarceration to reality television and literary sentimentality to ask questions about people's understanding of and relationships with others. Show less

Michel de Montaigne was one of the most influential figures of the Renaissance, singlehandedly responsible for popularising the essay as a literary form. Michel de Montaigne was one of the most influential figures of the Renaissance, singlehandedly responsible for popularising the essay as a literary form. Show less

"Upstream," is a collection of essays in which beloved poet Mary Oliver reflects on her willingness, as a young child and as an adult, to lose herself within the beauty and mysteries of both the natural world and the world of literature. "Upstream," is a collection of essays in which beloved poet Mary Oliver reflects on her willingness, as a young child and as an adult, to lose herself within the beauty and mysteries of both the natural world and the world of literature. Show less

Included among the more than 240 essays in this volume are Orwell’s discussion of pacifism, “My Country Right or Left”; his views of imperialism “Shooting an Elephant”; and his thoughts on how to make tea “A Nice Cup of Tea.” Included among the more than 240 essays in this volume are Orwell’s discussion of pacifism, “My Country Right or Left”; his views of imperialism “Shooting an Elephant”; and his thoughts on how to make tea “A Nice Cup of Tea.” Show less

A collection of essays by the humorist author that traces his offbeat world travel experiences, which involved surreal encounters with everything from Fre...Show more A collection of essays by the humorist author that traces his offbeat world travel experiences, which involved surreal encounters with everything from French dentistry and Australian kookaburra eating habits to Beijing squat toilets and a wilderness Costco in North Carolina. Show less

Contains both new and previously published essays discussing topics such as recent cultural and political events, social networking, libraries, and the failure to address global warming. Contains both new and previously published essays discussing topics such as recent cultural and political events, social networking, libraries, and the failure to address global warming. Show less

This volume, edited by Sontags son David Rieff, presents the full texts of four essential books: "Against Interpretation," "Styles of Radic...Show more This volume, edited by Sontags son David Rieff, presents the full texts of four essential books: "Against Interpretation," "Styles of Radical Will" (1969), "On Photography" (1977), and "Illness as Metaphor" (1978). Also here as a special feature are six previously uncollected essays including studies of William S. Burroughs and the painter Francis Bacon and a series of reflections on beauty, aging, and the emerging feminist movement. Show less

Presents twenty-seven essays by nineteenth-century American nature writer and political thinker Henry David Thoreau, in which he addresses a variety of topics and concerns. The volume includes a selection of Thoreau's poems. Presents twenty-seven essays by nineteenth-century American nature writer and political thinker Henry David Thoreau, in which he addresses a variety of topics and concerns. The volume includes a selection of Thoreau's poems. Show less

This collection of essays shares whimsical observations about such topics as the Bush-Kerry presidential race, the pain experienced by lobsters while they are being prepared for the feast, and Franz Kafka's questionable sense of humor. This collection of essays shares whimsical observations about such topics as the Bush-Kerry presidential race, the pain experienced by lobsters while they are being prepared for the feast, and Franz Kafka's questionable sense of humor. Show less