They tied the knot on the idyllic Caribbean island last year, after five years of romance.

And Zoe Salmon and her husband William Corrie no doubt reminisced on their nuptials on Sunday, as they returned to Barbados for a spot of winter sunshine.

The former Blue Peter presenter, 37, showed off her impressively toned stomach in a skimpy red and black bikini, as she packed on the PDA with her hunky beau on the beach.

Scroll down for video

The Northern Irish star displayed her enviably slender waist and rippling abs, as she wandered the sand in a barely-there bikini top and quirky black sarong bottoms.

The red halterneck bra plunged at the chest to give a saucy flash of cleavage, while the unusual bottoms featured a tiny black skirt on top of the briefs - cutting off high at her thigh to leave her long and lean legs on show.

Sweeping her hair into a high bun and adding only retro cat-eye sunglasses to her face, Zoe let her clear and glowing complexion take centre stage as she soaked up the sunshine with her husband.

Will meanwhile displayed his muscular physique in bright blue and white swim shorts, as he walked hand-in-hand with his stunning wife.

Laughing and joking as they wandered the coastline, the pair were then seen indulging in a quick kiss as they prepared to enjoy a cooling dip in the sea.

Zoe and William are known to be fans of the holiday hot spot, after eloping to the same Barbados resort to get hitched last year.

After tying the knot at the exclusive Sandy Lane Hotel - where golfer Tiger Woods got married in 2004 - Zoe told Hello: 'I didn't even tell my mum and dad, although running off to get married does run in the family so they will be thrilled for us.

'We'll have a big party when we get home, I'm sure of that. I want an excuse to wear my dress and feel the magic again.'

However, the beauty later revealed the heartbreaking reason behind their secret wedding - explaining that her mother Priscilla, who passed away last year after a long battle with two terminal illnesses, was too poorly to travel at the time.

Speaking to Belfast Live, the TV personality said: 'My parents knew all about it, they paid for our wedding. But mum was just too ill to be there. Mum's illness was so private, she didn’t want anyone to know.

'I couldn't have married at home because mum couldn’t have made it. But the fact we all did it meant it didn’t feel sad that Will and I got married on our own.'

The couple have been together for five years after meeting at a friend's wedding in Castle Leslie, County Monaghan - where Sir Paul McCartney famously married Heather Mills in 2002.

Zoe's romance with William comes after she dated another fellow Northern Irish man - former Hollyoaks actor Gerard McCarthy.

The pair split in 2009 after 18 months, with Gerard declaring 'there's plenty more Salmon in the sea' following the end of their romance.

The blonde started her career when she won Miss Northern Ireland in 1999, before turning her attention to presenting.

She co-hosted iconic children's show Blue Peter to 2004 until 2008, and went on to appear as a contestant on Dancing On Ice in 2009.