While other Dancing On Ice stars were busy worrying about horrific injuries, TV presenter Zoe Salmon had more embarrassing matters on her mind.

Rather than panicking about being impaled on a skate blade or breaking a limb, self-confessed prude Zoe, 29, was more concerned about where her partner’s hands were going.

“Some of the lifts are very intimate and I’m such a prude!” she admits. “I mean, on date 64 you might get a kiss on the cheek if you’re lucky!

“It was a massive hurdle for me to overcome. I used to just stand on the ice and giggle because I was embarrassed.

“I’d get told, ‘You need to stick your boobs out’ or ‘I’m going to put my hand round by your thigh and your f****’. That shocked me as I just think it’s a really vulgar term.

“At first, I said, ‘Excuse me, is there any way you can call that something else?’ but then I realised I needed to get over it. In training they call a spade a spade as it’s the quickest way.

“Now I don’t raise an eyebrow. It’s a very intimate sport!”

Despite having to banish her inner goody two shoes every Sunday before she takes to the ice with skating partner Matt Evers, the former Blue Peter presenter says she’s still squeaky clean at heart.

“I was suited to Blue Peter,” claims Zoe, who is a qualified solicitor. “As a defence litigator I’ve never done anything illegal. I’ve never done drugs, I don’t fall out of nightclubs drunk. I’ve never done any topless modelling.

“It was a responsibility to be a role model but I was happy to take it on and it wasn’t

an effort.”

However, good girl Zoe does reveal a less-than-flattering fact about her former co-presenter, Welsh heart-throb Gethin Jones.

“All the girls love Gethin,” she agrees. “But he does fart a lot, which is quite off-putting!”

And cryptically Zoe claims to be single despite dating Hollyoaks’ Gerard McCarthy.

She giggles when he is mentioned and says: “I don’t talk about him at all. Unless I have a ring on my finger I’m single!”

Indeed, lawyer Zoe navigates the question cleverly.

“Well, I’m not married. I just mean ‘single’ in that I don’t have a husband and I don’t live with anyone.”

So would “single” Miss Salmon be freaked out by a proposal right now?

“I don’t know,” she laughs. “I do like jewellery! I would possibly find it hard to say no to a big diamond!”

She adds that she’d like to have children one day but not just yet.

“I’m still too much of a kid myself,” she says. “I think the process begins with an engagement ring then plans to get married or looking for a house. I haven’t started on that process yet but I think it will all naturally fall into place. I hope it will.

“I personally would never want children out of wedlock so I won’t think about kids until I’m on the marriage path.”

Although her single status is debatable Zoe admits to being charmed by Ewan McGregor and Harry from McFly.

“Ewan McGregor I really liked. He came on Blue Peter and that day I’d dropped my talkback down the toilet, so he told me he’d done it before and we had a conversation about wee.

“If a guy can make me laugh then I’m swept off my feet. It’s not enough to fancy someone, I just love funny people.

“And I always thought the bands who came in were really fanciable. Harry, the drummer from McFly, he’s cute. I was always like, ‘You’re hot!’”

But for now Zoe is focusing her attention on skating.

“I have to pinch myself,” she says. “I just want to be good at it, as this is the first sport I’ve fallen in love with. Growing up I wanted to be a ballerina so I just pretend I’m a ballerina on the ice. It’s a childhood fantasy.

“I do get nervous because it’s so dangerous. Honestly even the elegant and pretty lifts would bring you to tears they’re so painful. You can eventually master it and make it look so easy but it still hurts!

“I fell really badly last Saturday so I’ve been bandaged up but if you’re not falling you’re not learning – we’re all in the same boat.”

Zoe claims that it’s this camaraderie that has ensured there is no backstage bitching.

“I know it’s dull but there is honestly none,” she says. “Everyone is lovely. Melinda, Michael and Ellery... they’re just really genuine people!

“I am honestly being serious, I have seen bitchiness – I’ve been in beauty pageants! Maybe it’s still to come,

who knows? But I haven’t seen or heard anything diva-ish. We all appreciate how difficult a task this is. At the end of the day, it’s flipping dangerous.”

Zoe also reveals that training for at least two hours every day has given her a huge appetite.

“We were all told to avoid eating a massive hot dinner before live shows but the first week Roxanne Pallett was like ‘Anyone for McDonald’s?’

“So she went out and got me a Big Mac meal and large chocolate milkshake. I finished it only half an hour before the live show.

“It’s such hard work that you do need treats. Do you know what I ate before I came here? I had a Toffee Crisp, a Cadbury’s Caramel and a full tub of Ben and Jerry’s Phish Food!”

Zoe needn’t worry – a former Miss Northern Ireland, she has a naturally willowy figure and is slim and toned from skating.

“I was watching the show back and I thought, ‘Arrgh, Madonna arms!’” she jokes. “But my clothes fit better and I definitely feel sexy. You have got to when you wear those little costumes! I think all the girls and boys feel like a sexy bunch.”

So who is going to win?

“It’s anyone’s game,” says Zoe. “Who’s to say Todd Carty can’t be as good as Ray? It’s down to the public votes and you just can’t tell who they’ll want to win. It’s only week three and I wouldn’t put my money on anyone!”

Zoe on her rivals

/ Coleen She’s really cheeky. We get on really well. Coleen and I will have a wee chat although she tells me to be quiet because I talk too much.

/ Roxanne She’s funny as she’s quite rude. She just comes out with the most obscene things. She’s very naughty. And she’s a Capricorn just like me.

/ Michael I want to start up a TV presenter war with Michael! He is one of the nicest people you could meet. He’s witty and intelligent and just super lovely.

/ Melinda She’s an absolute sweetheart. Any time I’m down she just comes out with words of wisdom. She is gorgeous. I wish she was my sister.

/ Jess She’s very sincere. There is an air of calmness about her. She’s very together and when I’m nervous she’s a good person to be around.

/ Todd He is hilarious! He’s very sincere as well. He’s quite quiet but very real – what you see is what you get.

/ Ray I need lessons from Ray! He’s just fearless. I wish I had a bit more of Ray in me. He’s got a really good attitude. He’s one of those people who just want to get out there and do it.

/ Ellery A complete gentleman. He’s the kind of guy who makes your heart melt because he’s so nice.

- Tune in to see Zoe competing in Dancing on Ice on Sunday at 7pm on ITV1.