Masood Ahmed Khattak completed his LLB from the Islamia University Bahawalpur (IUB), and his Masters in Political Science from Kohat University of Science and Technology (KUST). He has also obtained two Bachelor’s degrees prior to commencing his Law Degree; B.A. from KUST and B.Com from Allama Iqbal Open University (AIOU).

LEGAL EXPERIENCE

Masood joined the firm’s Islamabad office as an intern in 2016 and a Junior Associate in 2017. He represents the firm’s clientele before different forums and handles cases pertaining to land, service, family and criminal matters.

His specialized area of expertise is litigation including real estate, Land Acquisition, Dispute Resolution criminal law, family law, civil law, labour laws and service law.

Mr. Khattak managed and contesting in high level cases on daily basis of Government Organization various bench of High Courts i.e. Islamabad High Court, Lahore High Court Rawalpindi Bench, Peshawar High Court, Peshawar High Court Abbottabad Bench, Special Courts, Commission, Tribunals and Authorities.

Drafted legal opinions, Contracts, research papers, court pleadings, applications, letters, legal memos etc.

Managed and Contesting cases in different stations i.e. Abbottabad, Taxila, Attock, Fateh Jang, Kahuta, Hari pur, Karak, Islamabad, Rawalpindi, Peshawar, Sawabi etc.

DISPUTE RESOLUTION

Settled the matters of 150 million on behalf of the Government Organization in large number of cases with more than one thousand parties and recorded their statements before the Court.

LEGAL CONSULTANCY

Mr. Khattak worked as a legal consultant with the Sustainable Development Policy Institute Islamabad (SDPI) on a project involving Impact Evaluation of the Strengthening Rule of Law Programme (SRLP), organized by the United Nations Development program (UNDP). The project took all over the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province, including the post-crisis area of Malakand Division, i.e. Swat, Buner, Upper Dir, Lower Dir, Chitral, and three District of Southern KP. i.e. Kohat, Bannu and D.I. Khan. Conducted a large number of meetings/interview with Judiciary, Police Department, Prosecution Department, members of Alternative Dispute Resolution Council, members of KP Bar council, Presidents of different Bar Associations, Paralegals, NGOs and all related institutions and local initiatives. Survey of the Model Police station in KP, Swat forensic lab and Alternate Dispute Resolutions Council (DRC) were also conducted. Prepared a draft report regarding the same.

WRITING EXPERIENCE

Mr. Khattak is the Author of the:

Introduction to Litigation First Edition 2019

A newcomer’s key to Success in the Legal Profession

Introduction to Litigation Second Edition 2021

A newcomer’s key to Success in the Legal Profession

Introduction to Litigation Third Edition 2022

A newcomer’s key to Success in the Legal Profession

The book is aimed to provide the students of law and legal practitioners, keeping in view the earlier stages of practice, to impregnate with practical skills and procedural knowledge that they will need for their carriers.

A Practical Approach to Litigation First Edition 2020

The way to success is the way of continuous pursuit of knowledge

This book provide complete trial, from the start of litigation till the end of litigation, i.e. “Civil Suit, Written Statement, Execution, Contempt of Court, Appeal, review, revision, Bail Petitions, Criminal Trial, RFA, ICA, Writ Petitions, Bail Petitions before High Court, petition, appeal before NIRC, Appeal, Review before FST, CPLA, Civil Appeal, Cr.PLA, Constitution Petitions and Bails Petitions before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of Pakistan.

A Statutory and Regulatory Framework of life in Pakistan

A Practical and Comprehensive book of Legal Procedure documentation, Licensing, and Registration of personal and corporate life

This book is designed to provide the necessary guidance with regard to registration, certification, and other legal requirements that every individual faces in his/her social, legal, or corporate life.

The ultimate aim of Mr. Khattak is to equip every citizen of Pakistan, professional or layman, with the requisite arsenal of regulatory, documentary, and legal information in a basic and crude manner. Through his work, Mr. Khattak endeavors to instill confidence so as to make the readers self-reliant through their daily walk of life.

This book is the first of its kind published in Pakistan that educates both ordinary and professional citizens on the parallel streak of documentary and legal requirements during their lifetime. The style of writing is deliberately kept simplistic to better resonate with the public at large.

Authored an Article titled “Ensuring an efficient justice delivery system” in the daily Frontier Post.

SELECTION OF BOOKS AS A SYLLABUS IN BAR VOCATIONAL COURSES

The First two books of Mr. Khattak are Selected by the Punjab Bar Council as a Syllabus for Bar Vocational Course.

REPORTED JUDGMENTS

2021 YLR 341 Peshawar

2021 Y L R 1222 Peshawar

2021 CLC 909 Peshawar

2021 P L C (C.S.) 1309 Islamabad

LECTURES