Artstor is JSTOR’s cross-disciplinary collection of over 2 million* rights-cleared images from around the world, discoverable alongside JSTOR’s journals, books, and other primary sources on one feature-rich platform.

By joining images with vital critical and historical background, Artstor on JSTOR expands avenues of research in one convenient workflow, and empowers educators to support active learning, build critical skills like visual literacy, and engage students with diverse primary sources in in-person, online, and hybrid settings alike.

Diverse and interdisciplinary

With more than 2 million images* (and growing), scholars can easily examine wide-ranging material such as Native American art from the Smithsonian, treasures from the Louvre, and modern architectural plans from Columbia University.

Composed of approximately 300 curated sub-collections, Artstor supports and enriches study across disciplines, including world events from Magnum Photos, anthropology from Harvard’s Peabody Museum, and archaeology from Erich Lessing Culture and Fine Art Archives and, making it a resource for your whole institution.

Ideal for teaching and learning in any setting

Users can explore, discover, and interact with images from around the world using a suite of tools that encourage direct interaction with content, including zooming in on images to explore details, comparing and contrasting images side by side, and creating presentations with embedded text and annotations. These tools can help students engage with the material in a more immersive way, enhancing their learning experience in any instructional modality.

Trustworthy, rights-cleared, and contextualized

The images in Artstor are curated from reliable sources and have been rights-cleared for use in education and research — you are free to use them in classroom instruction and handouts, presentations, student assignments, and other noncommercial educational and scholarly activities.

Unlike results from commercial search engines, the images are accompanied by high-quality metadata from the collection catalogers, curators, institutions, and artists themselves. And, with Artstor’s images integrated alongside JSTOR’s library of full-text and other media, students can more easily situate the content in a historical, critical or cultural context, while educators and researchers can strengthen the depth and quality of their teaching and research, make innovative connections, and spark unexpected discoveries.

* The number of images available varies by country due to copyright restrictions.

What faculty and students are saying