GARY ROGERS knows exactly what is required to overtake Ollie Cahill.

But overcoming AEK Larnaca will be a means to an end.

After playing for Dundalk against Levadia Tallinn last Thursday, Rogers joined Owen Heary and Dan Murray in joint second in the all-time list of European appearances for League of Ireland players.

Rogers, 36, has played 37 times, just four shy of former Cork City and Shelbourne winger Cahill, and both are well aware of it thanks to PFA Ireland general secretary Stephen McGuinness.

The Dundalk keeper is the PFA Ireland’s chairman with Cahill the union’s player executive and Rogers said: “I’m creeping up on Ollie, Stephen keeps us informed as to where we are.

“It would be great to get up there with Ollie, playing in Europe is the high of the season for a lot of players and it’s the same for me.”

Cahill first played in Europe in 1997 for City with his final ­appearance in 2011 for Bohemians.

But Rogers has crammed all his games since 2009 with the following year the only season since in which he has not played in a continental competition.

And he recalled: “I remember my first game was for St Pat’s against Valletta. We drew 1-1 at home but then won 1-0 away.

“In the next round, we defeated Krylia Sovetov 1-0 in Richmond Park.

“We lost 3-2 in Russia but that was enough for us to go through on away goals.

"When we got to Dublin Airport there were St Pat’s fans there waiting for us, ­singing, and it gave me a real taste of what a good result in Europe can mean to people.

“One major plus of playing in the League of Ireland is the opportunity to go and play in Europe and test yourself against top-class opposition.

"It’s something players in the ­Championship, League One and League Two in England don’t have.”

Rogers was twice called into the Ireland squad in 2016 but knows that, for most home-based players, ­European games are the most ­recognition they will get.

He explained: “You look upon it that you’re representing the league and everyone takes great pride in doing that.

“Everyone wants to give a good account of themselves for the league, there are plenty out there who will knock it, so it’s an ideal opportunity to show what you can do.

"And if teams do well in Europe, the wider public take notice.”

Rogers took notice of AEK last year when they defeated City 2-0 over two legs.

Several key players, including captain David Catala and French striker Florian Taulemesse — who scored in the game in Cyprus — are ruled out through injury.

He said: “A lot of their players are still there from last year.

“Most of us would have seen the Cork game and would have a good idea of what to expect, although they’ve a new manager so their ­tactics are a bit different.

“We’ve been doing plenty of video analysis and know what their strengths and weaknesses are.

“We feel it’s a winnable tie. It’s a step up from Levadia but not so much of a step up for us not to think we can’t get through.

“The fact it’s their first competitive game of the season is a bonus because we’ve already got a lot of games, including a European tie, under our belts.”

Ajax or Sturm Graz await the winners and Rogers insisted the prospect of facing the four-times European Cup winners is not a distraction.

He added: “It’s always nice to know who is waiting down the line. It was Celtic last year.

“We didn’t make it but hopefully this year we can go the extra step and win a second tie.”