Adam Mickiewicz Institute External

The Adam Mickiewicz Institute is a national cultural institute, whose mission is to build and communicate the cultural dimension of the Poland brand through active participation in international cultural exchange. The Institute has carried out cultural projects in 70 countries. As of early 2016, the AMI has presented more than 5,500 cultural events, attracting an audience of more than 52 million on five continents.

Museum of Polish History External

The Polish History Museum in Warsaw has created this English-language website for university lecturers, students, and history buffs as a means to present its expanding collection of historical sources related to the history of Poland between the tenth and the twentieth centuries. The site has been designed as a sort of Web-based ABCs using the selected historical records to show the most important events and processes in Polish history. Each document, accompanied by the indispensable explanatory notes and a brief introductory note, is presented in the Polish and English version.

Museum of the History of Polish Jews External

Sources documenting the history of Poland’s Jewish community are scattered all over the world. They can be found in many countries, including Poland, the United States and Israel. The POLIN Museum Resource Center gathers information on resources available from other institutions, and facilitates access to them. We also offer access to a library as well as various types of resources for conducting historical, genealogical and local research. We invite scholars, students, teachers and all those with a passion for Polish Jewish history to take advantage of our tools, professional consultations and workshops.

National Library of Poland External

The central library of the state in Poland. Its mission is to protect national heritage preserved in the form of handwritten, printed, electronic, recorded sound and audiovisual documents. The primary task of the National Library is to acquire, store and permanently archive the intellectual output of Poles, whether the works of citizens living on Polish soil, the most important foreign works, or publications related to Poland and published abroad.

Polona External

Polona is one of the most modern digital libraries in the world and at the same time the largest library of its kind in Poland. The National Library of Poland, Polona’s administrator, provides not only its collections but also other institutions’ digitised ressources, using state-of-the-art technologies to achieve the highest quality. Library resources, digitised and made available via Polona, increase daily by up to 2,000 objects: books, early printed books, manuscripts, graphics, maps, scores, photographs, flyers, posters and postcards.

Records of the American-Polish Information Service, 1939-1947 External

Collected records of an organization founded in September 1939, and dedicated to the dissemination of accurate information concerning Poland, Polish culture and history, and the Polish people in Europe and in the United States. The group's stated purposes were to refute deliberate untruths, and in particular, to combat Nazism and pro-Nazi sentiments in the United States. Articles by Majewski, scrapbooks, pamphlets, clippings, photos, and other items, relating chiefly to Majewski's coin collecting; together with articles, reviews, and publicity on his reminiscences, When Hamtramck and I Were Young (1986). Includes papers of his wife, Marianne Rytlewski Majewski, relating to her political activities in Wayne County, Mich., and with the Michigan Republican Party.