Day 1 - Turin, the capital of Piedmont

Description:

Turin is certainly worth a visit for its artistic and architectural beauties, its churches and museums. Among the monuments that deserve a visit there is certainly the Mole Antonelliana, the symbolic building of Turin and home to the National Cinema Museum. You can go up to the top of the Mole with the panoramic lift to enjoy a splendid view of the city. The Cathedral is the place where the Holy Shroud is kept. Not far away is Piazza Castello, the central square where you can admire the Royal Palace, Madama Palace and the Royal Theatre. Heading towards the river Po, you will find Piazza Vittorio Veneto, a large square overlooking the city hill. And the Church of the Gran Madre, in neoclassical style. Another important church in Turin is the Chiesa della Consolata. In front of the church is the “Caffè Confetteria Al Bicerin”. Open since 1793, in this historic cafes where you can taste the traditional "Bicerin". It is a hot drink made from coffee, chocolate and milk cream.

Torino TO, Italia

Day 2 - Sacra di San Michele

Description:

About 40 km from Turin, in Susa Valley, you can visit the imposing Sacra di San Michele, an ancient abbey built between 983 and 987 on the top of Mount Pirchiriano, which has become a symbol of the Piedmont Region. From the top of its towers you can admire Turin and a breathtaking view of the Susa Valley. Inside the main church of the Sacra, dating back to the 12th century, members of the royal family of the House of Savoy are buried. Dedicated to the cult of the Archangel Michael, the Sacra di San Michele is part of a pilgrimage route over 2000 km long that goes from Mont Saint-Michel, in France, to Monte Sant'Angelo, in Puglia. The history and the breathtaking landscape that surrounds the abbey make the Sacra a destination of attraction for visitors from all over Europe: pilgrims, faithful, tourists, but also sportsmen who follow climbing or mountain biking trails.

Via alla Sacra, 14, 10057 Sant'Ambrogio di Torino TO, Italia

Day 3 - Susa and its Valley

Description:

In less than an hour by train you can reach Susa, the capital of the homonymous valley, one of the most beautiful in Piedmont. Susa is a small but interesting town at the foot of Alps, where it is still possible to visit the ancient Roman ruins, including the aqueduct, the Roman amphitheater and a triumphal arch built in honour of Caesar Augustus. Also not to be missed is the nearby Novalesa Abbey, founded in 726 AD. Located along an important pilgrimage route: the Via Francigena. Furthermore, also near Susa, between the towns of Cesana Torinese and Claviere, there is the longest Tibetan Bridge in the world: a path of 468 meters at a height of 35/40 meters. You will enjoy an uncontaminated and rich nature and many things to see and views to admire.

10059 Susa TO, Italia