It was also, perhaps most importantly of all, the birth of radio. The BBC and Radio Moscow made their first broadcasts in 1922 and 500 radio stations launched in America as the first ever radio was installed in The White House. This new form of communication, bringing voices directly into your home, undulating in and out of signal, meant a woozy, unpredictable invasion of the future into everyday life. It was the sound of Modernism.

Sweet’s series takes a broad sweep of Modernism’s influence, illuminating the links between the architecture in Moscow of the 1920s and its influence on subsequent international buildings including The Gherkin in London. In future episodes, he considers Egyptomania and the experimental publishing scene that gave us Joyce, Eliot, Woolf and Pound, writers probing new and old darknesses and exploring streams of consciousness.

He’s not the only one giving it some hype, either. “Everything snapped, crackled and popped” in 1922, according to Kirsty Wark on Start the Week (Radio 4, Monday), perhaps commencing her morning’s broadcast shortly after finishing a bowl of Rice Krispies (arguably a Modernist invention in themselves, first on sale in in 1928). This discussion was a general overview of Modernism, with contributions from Sweet as well as literary academic Suzanne Hobson, historian of science Charlotte Sleigh, and musician Soweto Kinch.

Kinch gave some of the most enlightening observations, talking about the rise of atonal music in the 1920s in pursuit of a “cacophonous sound” encapsulating the age, while Sweet deftly compared Louis Armstrong’s scat singing with TS Eliot’s The Waste Land, as both men dispensed and experimented with language and grammar in the musicality of sounds. The visionary Armstrong made a formative move to the Chicago music scene in 1922, and the show discussed how he played the trumpet in a way that mimicked the voice, while also using his singing voice in a way that mimicked his instrument.

And Book at Bedtime (Radio 4, Monday to Friday) is Virginia Woolf’s Mrs Dalloway, read with cut-glass reserve and a sense of building tension by Siân Thomas, an exercise in immersion in the 1920s and “life, London, this moment of June”.

All this radio gives a sense of the beginning of something that may even have had more impact on the social and political transformations of the last 100 years than the Swinging Sixties.

It’s tempting to wonder if, given all of the parallels between 1922 and 2022, we might again be at the start of an era that’s just as transformative. After all the malaise and suffering of the pandemic, wars and political scandal, what might the future hold when, again, the centre cannot hold?

Correction: the original article incorrectly attributed Professor Karen Leeder's quote to Matthew Sweet, and Sweet's comments on Louis Armstrong to Soweto Kinch. These points have been amended.

Do you see parallels between 2022 and any other years in history? Let us know in the comments section below