The LSOA atlas provides a summary of demographic and related data for each Lower Super Output Area in Greater London. The average population of an LSOA in London in 2010 was 1,722 compared with 8,346 for an MSOA and 13,078 for a ward.

The profiles are designed to provide an overview of the population in these small areas by combining a range of data on the population, diversity, households, health, housing, crime, benefits, land use, deprivation, schools, and employment.

Due to significant population change in some areas, not all 2011 LSOA boundaries are the same as previous LSOA boundaries that had been used from 2001. A lot of data is still only available using the 2001 boundaries therefore two Atlases have been created - one using the current LSOA boundaries (2011) and one using the previous boundaries (2001).

If you need to find an LSOA and you know the postcode of the area, the ONS NESS search page has a tool for this.

The LSOA Atlas is available as an XLS as well as being presented using InstantAtlas mapping software. This is a useful tool for displaying a large amount of data for numerous geographies, in one place (requires HTML 5).

CURRENT LSOA BOUNDARIES (2011)

NOTE: There is comparatively less data for the new boundaries compared with the old boundaries

PREVIOUS LSOA BOUNDARIES (2001)

For 2011 Census data used in the 2001 Boundaries Atlas: For simplicity, where two or more areas have been merged, the figures for these areas have been divided by the number of LSOAs that used to make that area up. Therefore, these data are not official ONS statisitcs, but presented here as indicative to display trends.

NB. It is currently not possible to export the map as a picture due to a software issue with the Google Maps background. We advise you to print screen to copy an image to the clipboard.

IMPORTANT: Due to the large amount of data and areas, the LSOA Atlas may take up to a minute to fully load. Once loaded, the report will work more efficiently by using the filter tool and selecting one borough at a time. Displaying every LSOA in London will slow down the data reload.

Tips:

- Select a new indicator from the Data box on the left. Select the theme, then indicator and then year to show the data.

- To view data just for one borough, use the filter tool.

- The legend settings can be altered by clicking on the pencil icon next to the LSOA tick box within the map legend.

- The areas can be ranked in order by clicking at the top of the indicator column of the data table.

Beware of large file size for 2001 Boundary Atlas (58MB) alternatively download Zip file (21MB).

Themes included in the atlases are Census 2011 population, Mid-year Estimates by age, Population Density, Households, Household Composition, Ethnic Group, Language, Religion, Country of Birth, Tenure, Number of dwellings, Vacant Dwellings, Dwellings by Council Tax Band, Crime (numbers), Crime (rates), Economic Activity, Qualifications, House Prices, Workplace employment numbers, Claimant Count, Employment and Support Allowance, Benefits claimants, State Pension, Pension Credit, Incapacity Benefit/ SDA, Disability Living Allowance, Income Support, Financial vulnerability, Health and Disability, Land use, Air Emissions, Energy consumption, Car or Van access, Accessibility by Public Transport/walk, Road Casualties, Child Benefit, Child Poverty, Lone Parent Families, Out-of-Work families, Fuel Poverty, Free School Meals, Pupil Absence, Early Years Foundation Stage, Key Stage 1, Key Stage 2, GCSE, Level 3 (e.g A/AS level), The Indices of Deprivation 2010, Economic Deprivation Index, and The IMD 2010 Underlying Indicators.

The London boroughs are: City of London, Barking and Dagenham, Barnet, Bexley, Brent, Bromley, Camden, Croydon, Ealing, Enfield, Greenwich, Hackney, Hammersmith and Fulham, Haringey, Harrow, Havering, Hillingdon, Hounslow, Islington, Kensington and Chelsea, Kingston upon Thames, Lambeth, Lewisham, Merton, Newham, Redbridge, Richmond upon Thames, Southwark, Sutton, Tower Hamlets, Waltham Forest, Wandsworth, Westminster.

These profiles were created using the most up to date information available at the time of collection (Spring 2014).