No. 115

Foreign Affairs Minister Pierre Pettigrew and International Cooperation Minister Aileen Carroll today welcomed the signing of the Post-Tsunami Operations Management Structure. This joint agreement between the Government of Sri Lanka and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) will serve to facilitate the identification, approval and monitoring of reconstruction projects in selected districts of Sri Lanka's north and east.

"We recognize the considerable challenges that the Government of Sri Lanka has faced in going ahead with this agreement and commend President Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga for taking this bold step," said Minister Pettigrew. "We also commend both the Government of SriLanka and the LTTE for agreeing to include equitable Muslim representation in the management of the structure. Canada hopes that, with the goodwill of all parties, an effective structure will foster an environment conducive to reinvigorating the stalled peace process."

"This agreement will be an important step toward ensuring effective, equitable and transparent delivery of post-tsunami aid and will also expedite the recovery process in the north and east of Sri Lanka," said Minister Carroll.

Minister Pettigrew also reiterated Canada's concerns, however, about the political and human rights situation in Sri Lanka. "While this accord is a positive step, Canada remains gravely concerned about the escalating violence in Sri Lanka and urges both sides to rigorously respect the terms of the cease-fire agreement," added the Minister. "We call on the LTTE to immediately end its recruitment of child soldiers and to implement all the provisions of the 2003 action plan on this matter."

When Prime Minister Paul Martin visited Sri Lanka in January, he pledged that Canada would help Sri Lanka rebuild after the disaster. The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has announced a four-year strategy to support Sri Lanka's post-tsunami reconstruction efforts. As part of the strategy, Canada will expand programming in three pre-tsunami sectors of focus (governance, gender and economic well-being) and in two new sectors (environmental rehabilitation and management, and fisheries). The Government of Canada has allocated $425million toward relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction in tsunami-affected countries.

For further information, media representatives may contact:

Sébastien Théberge, Director of Communications, Office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, (613) 995-1851

Media Relations Office, Foreign Affairs Canada, (613) 995-1874

Andrew Graham, Director of Communications, Office of the Minister for International Cooperation, (819) 953-6238

Media Relations Office, Canadian International Development Agency, (819) 953-6534, info@acdi-cida.gc.ca