Former Wimbledon finalist David Nalbandian is now a rally car driver in Argentina.

Nalbandian, now 41, finished runner-up at Wimbledon in 2002 after being beaten 6-1, 6-3, 6-2 by Australian Lleyton Hewitt, but he’s now left behind the lawn of Wimbledon for the gravel of rally.

The Argentine called time on his 13-year career as a tennis pro on the ATP Tour in 2013 and has since been enjoying the adrenaline of rally racing that started back in his homeland and has taken him to compete in the World Rally Championships.

Despite staring death in the face after crashing in 2021 – sending the car into five rolls which miraculously he and his co-pilot escaping unharmed, Nalbandian continues to thrill in what he calls his ‘hobby’.

READ MORE: Six tennis players and which football team they support - including pair of Spurs fans

Nalbandian quickly grew a promising reputation in the world of tennis after he beat eight-time Wimbledon champ Roger Federer in the US Open boys’ singles final.

After only stepping up to the seniors in 2000, Nalbandian reached his first and only Grand Slam final against Hewitt at Wimbledon.

Do you remember Nalbandian’s tennis career? Let us know in the comments section.

Nalbandian went on to reach four more major semi-finals and won 11 career titles – reaching a world ranking high of number three in March 2006.

But in June 2012, Nalbandian’s most infamous moment came following an outburst at the Aegon Championships at the Queen’s Club. After being broken to trail 3-4 in the second set, Nalbandian lashed out and kicked a wooden partition in front of the judge line, with the piece of wood striking a linesman and drawing blood.

The Argentine was disqualified and fined £44,114 for forfeiting and conduct fines, he was also docked 150 ranking points and entered that year’s Wimbledon unranked – being knocked out in straight sets by Janko Tipsarevic in the first round.

Nalbandian retired from tennis just two years later following shoulder surgery, making the incredible switch to the world of rally, beginning in the Argentine Rally Championship. On his change of career path, Nalbandian said: “Tennis was my job and racing is a hobby. It’s very different.

“I don’t have pressure here. I am learning and trying to do my best but not as a professional. Rally is something I always wanted to do, and now I have the time to do it.

“I enjoy the traditional rally the most, over rallycross, those are completely different. Tennis and rally racing are two very different specialities, almost impossible to compare. The adrenaline in the car is even difficult to explain."