A pep rally held in the Bakersfield High School gym was supposed to be for the purpose of raising school spirit for the Drillers football team. It was 2010 and BHS was to awaiting to play Clovis West High School for a championship game. But it quickly went awry, ending with BHS senior class president Mitch Carter reportedly suffering a brain injury and other debilitating injuries.

In 2012, Carter's family filed a suit against the Kern High School District alleging negligent supervision resulting in Carter's injuries. Two separate cell phone videos of the incident obtained by Eyewitness News shows Carter dressed as a golden eagle, the mascot of Clovis West. The video shows Carter playfully pushing a student wearing a Drillers football jersey. Seconds later, the video shows Carter being mobbed by a group of others in football jerseys as other students appear to come out of the stands, run and jump of the pile as Carter is at the bottom. Cheerleaders join in.

At one point, the euphoria appears to take on a different tone with students screaming.

"He was piled on by roughly 30 students some pounding, some kicking and the like," said Bakersfield attorney Ralph Wegis who is representing Carter. The attorney said Carter told BHS Activities Director Annaliesa Lovan he did not want to participate in the event any longer. "She persuaded him that no, please continue," said Wegis.

The suit claims Carter sustained a brain injury resulting in slurred speech, disorientation and a pituitary gland injury. "Those injuries manifest themselves by an altered state of consciousness being dazed, disoriented, slurring your words things like that," said Wegis.

According to court documents, it appears this is not the first time someone has been severely injured while participating at pep rally at BHS. According to Wegis, "In a very stark troubling parallel, exactly the same thing happened."

Only this time it wasn't a student who was mobbed and assaulted while wearing a costume of the opposing team's mascot. It was a teacher. According to a deposition, in 2005 BHS teacher Bob Stone was part of a two man team wearing a costume depicting a mustang. This particular pep rally was held at Griffith Field, as the Drillers were preparing to play cross town rival Stockdale High School.

Stone testified he suffered five broken ribs, torn rotator cuff, torn bicep muscle, low back injury and left shoulder injury and required neck surgery. Stone said that after the incident, five to six football players went to his office to apologize.

The suit claims BHS principal David Reese, football coach Paul Golla and activities director Lovan were present when Stone suffered his injuries. It claims the three were not only present at the attack on Stone, but worked with him after his injuries and were fully aware of the consequences to him. Stone said KHSD compensated him around $40,000 for his injuries.

Wegis claims the same BHS administrators were also present at the pep rally in 2010. Lovan asked Reese for permission to have Carter dress in costume and Reese granted permission, according to Wegis.

Carter did not graduate from BHS that year. Wegis alleges Carter was ostracized and left BHS. He continues to suffer academic problems to date. "He's succeeded as being a hamburger cook, he's succeeded as being a hotel clerk," said Wegis.

Kern High School District attorney Michael Keller issued a statement about the case.

"We are sorry that this incident happened to Mr. Carter. The Kern High School District recognizes its obligation to defend itself when necessary and to only pay claims on behalf of the taxpayers where the full extent of injury has been verified. A dispute exists between these parties as to the nature and severity of the injuries that were sustained by Mr.Carter. The District continues its efforts to resolve this matter through negotiation. Should the case proceed to trial, every effort will be made by the District, through its counsel, to explain the District's position on the issues that remain in dispute."

Keller made a motion Friday afternoon requesting that Kern County Superior Court Judge David Lampe issue a gag order precluding anyone involved in the case from talking to the media about the case. Lampe denied the motion.