From a 110-million-year-old dinosaur skeleton to 19th-century botanical samples, the Manchester Museum is home to over 4.5 million objects. Since 1888, they have been housed on Oxford Road in an imposing Gothic building designed by Alfred Waterhouse (also the architect of the Natural History Museum in London). Closed to the public since August 2021, the “transformed” museum re-opens this weekend following a £15 million redevelopment.

Above the airy new entrance hall are three new permanent galleries: the Belonging Gallery, the South Asian Gallery, and the Lee Kai Hung Chinese Culture Gallery. These exhibitions are designed not just to display the museum’s eclectic collection but to reflect the diverse culture of modern Manchester — with multilingual signage, and curation reflecting the city’s global links. But while the desire to make the museum open to all who visit is laudable, in places these additions fall flat.

It’s most obvious in the slightly nebulous Belonging Gallery. One of the museum’s most exciting new acquisitions – a 12th-century religious “Mosan” plaque which was discovered in a field in Oldham in 2019 – is displayed as part of a case demonstrating how “movement” affects “belonging”; its value as an undamaged medieval religious artefact is hampered by the choice to display the curatorial text in the form of comic strips. A decision intended to make the gallery more accessible seems, instead, rather patronising.

When walking through the South Asian Gallery, the “story first” approach to curation is more successful. From a collection of posters about South Asian LGBT spaces in Manchester in the 1980s and ’90s to a specially commissioned rickshaw, this gallery is less a traditional museum exhibition than it is a fascinating tribute to Manchester’s diverse and changing heritage.

Then, downstairs – where the old entrance used to be – is the new exhibition space, and the real success of the re-opening. The inaugural show, Golden Mummies of Egypt, is comprised wholly of objects from the Manchester collection, including the world-famous Fayum portraits of mummies from the Greco-Roman period; it suggests that, far from simply preserving the bodies, mummification was designed to transform the dead into the divine.