As first revealed yesterday, iHeartMedia has conducted a double flip in the Tampa Bay are with Spanish CHR “Rumba 106.5/102.9” WRUB Sarasota/W275AZ Tampa moving to the full-market signal of 95.7 WBTP Clearwater, while Hip Hop “95.7 The Beat” moved in reverse to 106.5 and 102.9 with a flip to Classic Hip Hop positioned as “The Suncoast’s Throwback Station”.

“106.5/102.9 The Beat” will be anchored by former WBTP midday host Anjali ‘Queen B’ McGuire featuring Hip Hop and R&B throwbacks with songs from artists including Eminem, 50 Cent, 2Pac, Mariah Carey, Nelly and more.

SVP/Programming Tommy Chuck stated, “We are excited to launch this fresh brand which is dedicated to curating over 25 years of iconic music for the Suncoast which encompasses the Tampa and Sarasota markets. 106.5/102.9 The Beat offers a fun playlist that will resonate with a diverse group of listeners across many generations.”

“We are thrilled to announce the launch of this exceptional new brand,” said Chris Soechtig, Division President. “106.5/102.9 The Beat is poised to offer a playlist that’s as diverse as it is vibrant, providing the perfect backdrop for listeners and a prime platform for advertisers seeking to forge meaningful connections with the Tampa, St. Petersburg, Bradenton and Sarasota communities.”

“Rumba 95.7” will feature a mix of music from Reggaetón, Urban Pop, Bachata, and Salsa from artists such as Bad Bunny, Feid, Karol G, and Marc Anthony.

Launching with “thousands of songs commercial-free”, the station will feature iHeart’s “Enrique Santos Show” in mornings along with Sarykarmen Rivera, Los Anormales, Rodolfo El Chamo, and Laura Laserna and additional local personalities coming soon.

iHeartLatino SVP/Programming PJ Gonzalez stated, “Rumba 95.7 will feature a special mix of music tailored specifically to the local Latino community in Tampa Bay. We’re also excited to have Enrique Santos hosting our morning show on a far superior signal, ensuring that his unique content reaches even more listeners.”

Soechtig added, “We are thrilled to expand coverage of Rumba 95.7 on a massive 100,000-Watt signal, in addition to being available across multiple platforms via the iHeartRadio app, dedicated to serving and celebrating the vibrant Latino community in Tampa Bay. This station will provide a platform for diverse voices, culture and music, and we are excited to foster stronger connections within our community.”

Super Martinez continues as Program Director of “Rumba” commenting, “I’m thrilled to provide our listeners with our brand Rumba and to become the largest Spanish-language station with the strongest signal in all of Tampa Bay”

First on RadioInsight: iHeartMedia is conducting a double-flip in the Tampa Bay area on Thursday, July 18.

Spanish CHR “Rumba 106.5/102.9” WRUB Sarasota/W275AZ Tampa will move to the full-market signal of 95.7 WBTP Clearwater, while Hip Hop “95.7 The Beat” will move in reverse to 106.5 and 102.9 and flip to Classic Hip Hop positioned as “The Suncoast’s Throwback Station”.

WBTP began stunting at 3pm with non-stop Bad Bunny as both stations are running sweepers between songs promoting the moves.

WBTP has been struggling since Cox Media Group’s launch of Adult R&B “101.5 The Vibe” last September hovering in the mid 1’s shares. Due to lack of a signal in the northern parts of the market, WRUB currently holds a 0.8 share in the Tampa/St. Petersburg market. The move will leave Beasley Media Rhythmic CHR “Wild 94.1” WLLD as the only current based Hip Hop station in the market.