Post by mst3k on

Hard to tell at this point... Wild has the benefit of being an established station, with a very popular morning show and great personalities. So far The Beat is music only, we'll have to see what happens after they play their "10,000th joint in a row".

One positive to come out of it is that FLZ is no longer Clear Channel's main competitor against Wild, so their playlist is becoming a bit more balanced.

Post by tico on

mst3k1 said:

One positive to come out of it is that FLZ is no longer Clear Channel's main competitor against Wild, so their playlist is becoming a bit more balanced.

I figured that would happen. Speaking of balanced playlists, maybe it's me but it does seem like some Clear Channel CHRs are becoming more balanced. KHTS is slightly less rhythmic than it has been and WDBT/Jackson is definitely much more mainstream that what it was when it first came out.

Post by jimmy74747 on

tico said:

I figured that would happen. Speaking of balanced playlists, maybe it's me but it does seem like some Clear Channel CHRs are becoming more balanced. KHTS is slightly less rhythmic than it has been and WDBT/Jackson is definitely much more mainstream that what it was when it first came out.

WKSS in Hartford has also becomed more balanced in the last two or so years (at least since 93.7 became rhythmic)

Post by ct2874 on

From what I read in the format change article in one of

the local papers, a CC rep stated that the shift for WSSR

was that they wanted to cater to "an untapped

market". Question: doesn't this market already have

WLLD and WTMP that play to similar audiences? May-

be they meant it as an untapped market for Clear

Channel listeners, but if that's the case, how come

CC doesn't have a country station as well? Things

that make you go hmmm.....

Speaking of country stations here in the Tampa Bay

area, WYUU has tweaked their format a little and

now calls themselves "Renegade Country". Here's

what boggles me--while flipping from 620AM to

FM on my walkman (it lands on 92.5), I'm hearing

"Legs" by ZZTop. My first thought is, "great, now we

have a fourth classic rock station (along with Thunder

103.5, 102.5 Real Classic Rock, and 107.3 the Bay,

which is classic lite rock)." Then I hear whoever the

DJ was state "92.5 Outlaw Country..." OK, hold up

here, since when was ZZTop considered a country

artist? I know they're from Texas, but come on,

this is ridiculous. I'm not a country fan by any stretch

of the imagination, but if I were, I would consider this

move by Infinity Broadcasting as a slap in the face.

This in my opinion is another reason as to why other

than 99.5WQYK-FM and Oldies 104.5, Infinity Tampa

Bay looks clueless when it comes to their radio stations.