Overview: KEQQ-LP (88.3 FM) is a radio station licensed to serve the community of Grand Forks, North Dakota. The station is owned by the Grand Forks Bible Study Group. It airs an educational talk radio format.

Overview: KMSR (1520 AM) is a radio station in Mayville, North Dakota, serving the Red River Valley of eastern North Dakota and northwest Minnesota. KMSR, also known as Sports Radio 1520, is on the air in the daytime ...

Overview: KRWB is a classic rock formatted radio station, licensed to Roseau, Minnesota. It's owned and operated by Border Broadcasting, along with sister station KKWQ-FM. They share studios at 113 Lake St NW, in ...

Overview: KFJM (90.7 FM) is a public radio station in Grand Forks, North Dakota airing an adult album alternative format with news in the mornings, jazz in the late evenings and blues and folk on the weekends.

Overview: KKXL-FM (92.9 FM, "XL93") is a radio station broadcasting a Top 40 (CHR) format serving the Grand Forks, North Dakota area. It first began broadcasting in the 1970s as KKDQ. The station is currently owned ...

Overview: Real Presence Radio is a lay apostolate Catholic talk radio network in the United States, with stations and translators (low power re-broadcasters) in North Dakota, Minnesota, South Dakota, Wisconsin ...

Overview: KTRF is a radio station in Thief River Falls, Minnesota. The station is part of the Minnesota News/Farm Network. KTRF reports local news, sports, weather, community information and obituaries. KTRF is ...

Overview: KMAV-FM (105.5 FM) is a radio station in Mayville, North Dakota, serving the Red River Valley of eastern North Dakota and northwest Minnesota with a country music format on weekdays and oldies format on ...

Overview: KWTL (1370 AM) is a radio station airing Catholic talk radio programming. The station is the flagship station for Real Presence Radio covering parts of three states and two Canadian provinces. KWTL airs ...

Overview: KJKJ (107.5 FM, "KJ108") is an American commercial Rock radio station serving Grand Forks, North Dakota. It first began broadcasting in 1985. The station is currently owned by iHeartMedia, Inc. and the ...

Overview: KZGF (94.7 FM, "Z94.7") is a radio station broadcasting a Top 40 (CHR) format serving Grand Forks, North Dakota. It first began broadcasting in the 1970s under the call sign KYTN and used the call sign ...

Overview: KKEQ (107.1 FM or 104.9 FM, "Your Q FM") is a Christian radio station licensed to Fosston, Minnesota with its main studio in Grand Forks, North Dakota and additional studios in Bemidji, Minnesota. Q FM's ...

Overview: KROX is Crookston, Minnesota's only local radio station. It airs a locally based news/talk format in the day and a classic rock format at night. While not located in Grand Forks-East Grand Forks, the ...