On January 17, Idaho-born and Austin-based Reckless Kelly headlined the show at the historic Cain’s Ballroom to a packed house, with Jeff Crosby and The Refugees opening. If you have ever seen Crosby and Reckless live, then you know exactly why they have been fan favorites for over twenty years.

Born and raised in Idaho, Jeff Crosby has been writing songs, grinding out shows, and sharing his unique perspective on Americana throughout the United States and beyond for the better part of the last decade. Together with The Refugees, playing alongside him, they have created a force of honest, provoking rock and roll that is quickly gathering a fervent fan base and critical acclaim wherever they go.

With lots of energy and interaction with the crowd, they set the tone for a fantastic night, belting out songs like “She’s Hurtin”, from Crosby’s 2014 album All Nighter, “The Homeless and the Dreamers” from his album Waking Days released in 2015, and well-known “Hearts too Heavy” and “Best $25 I Ever Spent” from his fourth full-length album Postcards from Magdalena, a collection of songs that was inspired by the places and cultures Crosby experienced traveling across the U.S. and beyond. I am a little ashamed to admit that I hadn’t previously listened to him, but his show quickly won me over, and now he’s in steady rotation on my playlist. If you get a chance to see him, do it. You will not be disappointed. More about Jeff Crosby here: jeffcrosbymusic.com

It’s been a little over a year since Reckless Kelly played in Tulsa, so everyone was anticipating the band’s return to the historic stage. They showed up and immediately began to dole out hit after hit, playing fan favorites such as “Nobody’s Girl,” “Ragged As the Road,” “Vancouver,” “Mirage” (a personal favorite), “Seven Nights in Eire,” and their rendition of Richard Thompson’s “1972 Vincent Black Lightning.”

There was a special moment when lead singer Willy Braun played an acoustic version of “Wicked Twisted Road,” with his older brother Cody joining him on the fiddle. The audience fed off the band and vice versa as Cody Braun led the crowd in “Wild Western Windblown Band” and then stopped to let the crowd sing “Crazy Eddie’s Last Hurrah.” Reckless Kelly is a band of relentless road warriors – but lucky for us, they have ties to Cain’s, telling a sweet story of how their grandparents used to visit the ballroom for date nights and how it is one of their favorite places to perform at.

In both music and mindset, these guys lead by example. And, as always, they continue to do it on their own terms. I have loved them for the better part of sixteen years, and I can honestly say I have never seen the same show from them twice. That pent-up anticipation was not wasted; it brought those stand-on-the-speakers moments that make you love them all the more. Reckless Kelly will surely get you on your feet the next time you see them, so when they come near you, don’t miss them. You won’t regret it.