By David Suk, Saint Luna Spirits Co-founder & CEO

It was Thanksgiving 2016, and after having cooked a fabulous meal for my family I sat to unwind with a good glass of wine, okay, maybe several. Perhaps it was the great conversation or the wine, but nonetheless, the idea for Saint Luna was born.

I thought, you have this amazing piece of American history that had yet to be made premium, and if I could be the person to do that, I could essentially create a new category of spirit and a blank canvas to create something special. I’d need to create something smooth, delicate and easily mixed. But, I wasn’t a distiller, just someone with an idea. By way of fate, I was introduced to my now partner and good friend, Scott Smith. Scott is a chemical engineer by day, and as it turned out, a moonshiner in his spare time.

At the time I had the idea for Saint Luna I was thriving in my career, and knew I didn’t have the bandwidth for Saint Luna, so I put the idea on hold. A few years later, things at work had changed in a way that I knew it was time to leave and start my own business. I woke up one morning and called Scott to ask him if I could try his moonshine. Later that week I flew down to Chattanooga, met up with Scott and drove out to his friend’s farm in Georgia, right on the other side of Lookout Mountain. He had a homemade still set up in the driveway, and we sat there all afternoon stilling the most beautiful spirit ever, Saint Luna.

Next, I recruited my best friend TJ Rutkowski, based on his experience, to be a partner in Saint Luna to manage our operations, technology and finances. Saint Luna officially launched in May 2019 at Jean-Georges’ Nougatine and Employees Only and has continued to expand across the US.

Most recently, Aubrey Slater joined the Saint Luna founding team as our Chief Brand Development Queen and Head Mixologist.

By Scott Smith, Saint Luna Spirits Distiller

I brewed my first batch of beer at age sixteen. The process of crafting a mash and fermenting it into the bubbly treat that is beer was amazing to me.

My beer making hobby lasted into sophomore year of college. I was brewing beer every two to four weeks, experimenting with different yeasts, sugars, malts, hops, etcetera. One of the realities of experimentation is failure, and fermentation is no exception. If something is not clean enough, the yeast isn’t quite right, the formula/recipe is too far to one side or the other you will have a failure. These failures are typically just really bad tasting beer. Which was unfortunate, because as a college student money was quite tight and it was a pretty sad state of affairs when I had to dump out the batch of beer I waited so patiently to enjoy.

How does this relate to distillation? One October in Johnson City, Tennessee, I was at a field party. I was handed a mason jar filled with purple liquid that everyone was drinking and passing around the fire. Of course, I had to taste it. When I put the jar to my lips I was greeted with a strong alcohol nose, then a taste with a rough alcohol bite, followed by a subtle blackberry flavor that burned all the way to my stomach. The look on my face must have been quite interesting because the guy next to me slapped me on the back and said, “damn good hooch aint it”.

This was my first taste of moonshine, and at that moment it hit me; distillation is the answer to the bad tasting beer batches, only I did not have to wait for a bad batch of beer because the mash-to-still process is much faster than mash to drinkable beer. The next day I set out to construct a still capable of turning my fermenting beer mash into moonshine.

Having grown up in a family of chemists, and being a chemistry student myself, distillation skills were already in my wheelhouse. Four days later my own moonshine was born, and needless to say I pretty much abandoned brewing beer after that day. I focused on how to make a spirit that embodied the soul of beer, in that it didn’t come from corn. Admittedly, corn is an exciting part of moonshine history, but in my opinion, it does not make the best “sipping whiskey.”

Over the next 25 years I experimented with many different distillation set-ups, modifying my still and testing various sugar sources. While living in East Tennessee I grew apples, peaches, black berries and muscadine grapes, all of which became mainstay ingredients for my batches. Many of my experiments had quite good flavor, however something wasn’t quite matching my vision. In reality, I was creating some really great farm to table Schnapps, but that was not my goal. I wanted to make a unique whiskey.

Looking back, the real transition to what is Saint Luna Moonshine today happened when I met a gentleman who owned a molasses production facility. He provided me with fresh molasses for baking, which I promptly used to make mash. The first few batches were truly amazing! The yield was very high, the waste was minimal, and most importantly the flavor was very close to what I knew I was looking for.

Not long after I started using molasses, I moved to West Tennessee. Low and behold became friends with a guy who farmed rye, among other things. From my beer making past I knew I liked the spicy edge rye puts on a mash.

So, living in the small community High Point Terrace, in Memphis, Tennessee, with my still, local rye, pure molasses, and a passion for the chemical process, I zeroed in on the flavor profile and process that is Saint Luna Moonshine. I hope you try it, and love it as much as I do.