Packaging plays a critical role in the protection of drug and pharmaceutical products from damage and contamination. Pharmaceutical packaging companies supply the pharmaceutical industry with a range of packaging materials to preserve the integrity of their products.

The choice of materials used in pharmaceutical packaging depends on the type of drug or pharmaceutical product being packaged. Pharmaceutical companies need to consider factors such as the degree of required protection, the dosage, convenience of use and cost of packaging.

Finding the right pharmaceutical packaging companies and suppliers

Pharmaceutical Technology has listed the leading suppliers of pharmaceutical packaging, containers and containment solutions based on our extensive knowledge and experience in the packaging and pharmaceutical sector. The list includes providers of plastic pharmaceutical packaging and containment solutions, pharmaceutical glass, and custom packaging solutions, apart from labelling and printing solutions.

The information contained within the download document is designed for pharma packaging development specialists, logistics executives, packaging materials procurement and purchase executives, packaging technicians and packaging process management executives.

The download contains detailed information on the suppliers and their product lines, alongside contact details to aid your purchasing decision.

Related Buyer’s guides which cover an extensive range of pharmaceutical equipment manufacturers, solutions providers and technology, can also be found here.

Materials used in pharmaceutical packaging

Packaging materials and containment solutions used by pharmaceutical manufacturers and pharmaceutical packaging companies include:

Pharmaceutical glass containers such as vials, bottles and ampoules for dry powder and liquid-based pharmaceuticals

Plastic pharmaceutical packaging for tablets, capsules, powders and granulates

Aluminium foil for blister packaging of tablets and capsules

Plastic and polymer-based packaging such as pharmaceutical sachets, polybags, and blister packs

Tamper-resistant plastic closures and caps

Pharmaceutical packaging companies also use carton boxes, shipping containers and injection trays for secondary and tertiary packaging of pharmaceutical products.

Pharmaceutical labels and inserts

Packaging of pharmaceutical products also includes the labels displayed on the packaging, apart from information booklets and inserts. Multi-layer labels are essential to display the prescribing information, cautionary data, and usage instructions on the package.

Inserts, booklets, and brochures are also needed to provide patient labelling and medication guides, drug facts and other product details in a clear and concise manner to ensure that consumers can use the product safely.