Ray has spent the last 20+ years as an entrepreneurial technology professional, he has extensive sales and customer engineering experience along with proven management team leadership in dynamic, emerging technology companies. Recently Ray played a key leadership role in professional and customer services, business development, pre-sales and technical marketing while at Sonus Networks, a market leader in Voice over IP technologies. Ray was a founding member of Sonus’s services organization, recruiting many of its most senior members. From 1996 until 1999 Ray was a key technical leader and sales consultant for Cascade Communications’ worldwide sales organization. During his tenure Cascade was purchased by Ascend Communications. Ascend, a leader in remote access technologies for the Internet market, was subsequently absorbed by Lucent in a merger. Prior to 1996, Ray’s tenure with Digital Equipment Company included positions as Senior Consultant for Worldwide Network Operations, and Technical Leader and Senior Consultant for the Network Products Group. He attended the University of Maine.

Daniel E. Smith, Jr. was co-founder, President and CEO of optical networking pioneer Sycamore Networks, Inc. The company developed a broad range of optical networking products that enabled network service providers to transform the capacity created by their fiber optic networks into bandwidth for the delivery of high-speed data services. Previously, he co-founded and led Cascade Communications, another pioneering data communications company, which is now part of Alcatel-Lucent. Dan served as an officer in the United States Navy from 1971-73. He is currently a member of the USS Constitution Museum’s Board of Trustees, and a member and past chairman of Lehigh University’s Board of Trustees. Dan graduated with an MBA in Finance and General Management from Harvard University, and a BS in Industrial Engineering from Lehigh University.

Rick Burnes is the Co-founder and CEO of Charles River Ventures, a venture capital firm dedicated to helping startups turn their ideas into real, viable businesses. Founded in 1970, Charles River Ventures takes a value-added approach to investing by providing entrepreneurs with access to more than just financial backing, such as offering its network of industry contacts or helping to build advisory boards for fledgling companies. At Charles River Ventures, Mr. Burnes’ investments have focused mainly in the fields of communications and information services. He has played a significant role in noteworthy investments such as: Cascade Communications, Chipcom Corporation, Epoch Systems, Abacus Direct, Summa Four, Concord Communications, Prominet, Aptis and Sonus Networks.

Mr. Burnes holds a Master’s Degree in Business Administration from Boston University, and an undergraduate degree in History from Harvard College. He serves as Chairman for the Boston Museum of Science and the Entrepreneur’s Foundation of New England, as well as Vice Chairman of Sea Education Association, and Director of The Boston Foundation.