One of the most acclaimed movies of 2023 featured one of the biggest stars in the history of show business: Godzilla.

The world's most famous movie monster saw something of a renaissance with the release of "Godzilla Minus One." With a 98% on Rotten Tomatoes and an Academy Award for Best Visual Effects, the Japanese-produced drama was loved by longtime Godzilla fans and kaiju newcomers alike.

Fans have been salivating for the chance to watch it again at home, and now "Godzilla Minus One" has finally come to streaming.

Godzilla Minus One

"Godzilla Minus One" arrived on Netflix on Saturday, June 1. This is major news for movie fans, what with the disaster movie only being available to home streamers via Prime Video Japan last May. Non-Netflix users can rent or purchase "Minus One" on Apple TV, Amazon, and Google Play for as low as $5.99.

What is 'Godzilla Minus One' about?

It's 1945, in the final days of World War II, and Kamikaze pilot Koichi Shikishima (Ryunosuke Kamiki) lands his plane on a Japanese air base for some repairs. Suddenly, the base is ravaged by a towering, horrifying creature, and Koichi is the only survivor. He makes it home alive to find his family gone and his city destroyed during the U.S. bombing runs of Tokyo.

Racked with guilt and grief, he takes in a young woman (Minami Hamabe) and an orphaned baby while getting a new gig minesweeping out on the sea. It's there where he and others find other ships destroyed by that same terrifying beast: Godzilla. With the big brute threatening to destroy what remains of Japan, Koichi and other citizens band together to figure out how to stop the monster.

"Godzilla Minus One" is the 33rd Godzilla movie produced by Toho Co., Ltd., the Japanese entertainment outlet behind the original "Godzilla" released in 1954. The last Toho-produced live-action Godzilla movie was "Shin Godzilla" in 2016, which itself was the first Toho-produced live-action feature since "Godzilla Final Wars" in 2004.

Godzilla has conquered the Western world too, having five American-produced films to his name, including the most recent, "Godzilla x Kong: The New Empire," released this March. Big 'Zilla has also starred in a few animated movies and is currently featured in the Apple TV+ series "Monarch Legacy of Monsters."

Where is 'Godzilla Minus One' streaming?

At the time of writing, "Godzilla Minus One" is currently streaming on Netflix. It made its global streaming debut back in May on Prime Video in Japan. This is the first time "Minus One" has had any home video release since its theatrical run in December 2023. A few classic Godzilla movies are streaming on Prime Video right now, including "Godzilla vs. Megalon" and "Godzilla vs. Mechagodzilla."

How do I sign up for Netflix?

You can watch "Godzilla Minus One" and many other movies by signing up for Netflix today. Plans start at $6.99 a month with few ad breaks and the ability to watch titles on two devices simultaneously. You can also get ad-free streaming for $15.49 a month or the Premium plan at $22.99 a month, and watch shows in 4K (Ultra HD) + HDR resolution on up to four devices at the same time.