Believe the hype: Godzilla Minus One is a really good Godzilla movie. Directed by award-winning Japanese filmmaker Takashi Yamazaki, this 2023 Japanese movie got a surprise Netflix release in the U.S. last month, making it all the easier for Americans to watch the buzzy movie that many fans are calling the best Godzilla movie in years. The film takes place earlier than any other film in the franchise (hence the title—one year before the original 1954 movie takes place), in postwar Japan from 1945 to 1947. Ryunosuke Kamiki stars as an ex-kamikaze pilot, Shikishima, who fakes a mechanical problem in order to stay alive. His guilt over this decision is increased tenfold when Godzilla attacks the repair garrison, and Shikishima is one of only two survivors. In addition to some very fun “Godzilla smashing Tokyo” scenes, Godzilla Minus One offers a genuine, heartfelt message on war, survivor’s guilt, and the true meaning of sacrifice.

Photo: ©Toho Company Ltd/Courtesy Everett Collection

‘Working Girl’

There are several reasons to watch Working Girl while it's still streaming on Hulu, and it's not just because of the outrageous '80s hair Melanie Griffith and Joan Cusack sport for most of the movie. Griffith stars as Tess, the sweet, often underestimated secretary working in business who's been looking for a leg up in a male-dominated business.... Read more

‘Cobra Kai’ Season 6

The first five episodes of the sixth and final season of Cobra Kai are a mere appetizer of the madness to come. Part 1 set the stage as Miyagi-Do selected who would represent their dojo in the dangerous Sekai Taikai world karate tournament while giving us a slew of unforgettable moments (Johnny vs. Barnes! the introduction of formidable badass ... Read more

‘Lady in the Lake’

Apple TV+'s latest star-studded TV show is Lady in the Lake, an ambitious adaptation of Laura Lippman's novel of the same name starring Natalie Portman, Moses Ingram, Mikey Madison, and David Corenswet. The series follows two very different heroines in 1969 Baltimore. Maddie Morgenstern (Natalie Portman) is a disaffected Jewish housewife who is... Read more

Where to Stream:

Lady in the Lake

Powered by Reelgood

‘Find Me Falling’

Find Me Falling, which began streaming on Netflix on Friday, stars Harry Connick Jr. as a misanthropic rock star named John Allman who moves to the island nation of Cyprus in order to get away from all the pressure and fame. Unfortunately, John failed to do his research. As he quickly learns—after he yells at a trespasser to get off his... Read more

‘Sunny’

Calling all A24 fans! Apple TV+ has a new original series for your watch list. Created by Katie Robbins (The Affair, The Last Tycoon) and directed by Lucy Tcherniak (Station Eleven, The End of the F***ing World), Sunny is based on Colin O’Sullivan’s popular novel, The Dark Manual. The compelling thriller with a dark comedic edge is produced ... Read more

Where to Stream:

Sunny

Powered by Reelgood

‘Shrek’

It may come as a shocker that Netflix is removing Shrek from its catalog, but don't get overly — or rather, ogre-ly upset just yet. You still have a little less than two weeks to enjoy this animated comedy classic on the streaming giant. Featuring the comedic vocal talents of Mike Myers, Eddie Murphy, Cameron Diaz, John Lithgow, and more, Shrek ... Read more

‘Greyhound’

Though there are a plethora of World War II movies to choose from today, Greyhound is one that should not be missed. Based on the 1955 novel The Good Shepherd, the film follows Tom Hanks' US Navy Commander Ernest Krause as he is assigned to lead a convoy of ships across the Atlantic during the height of the war. Once his convoy is out of... Read more

‘Where the Crawdads Sing’

Before you head out to see Twisters this weekend, acquaint yourself with star Daisy Edgar-Jones in the 2022 thriller-mystery Where the Crawdads Sing, based on Delia Owens’ book of the same name. Edgar-Jones plays Kya, a young woman who was abandoned by her entire family as a girl and forced to raise herself in the perilous North Carolina... Read more