High school is hell for people like Jenna Dewan’s put-upon character in the 2006 horror movie Tamara. The pathetic namesake doesn’t have any friends to call her own, and she spends most of her time daydreaming about her hunky teacher when she’s not playing with the dark arts. Now, Tamara thinks her life is finally starting to improve when her crush comes a-calling, but as things tend to go in these kinds of movies, the sudden attention isn’t real. No, someone is out to humiliate her. And like other wronged women in the horror genre, Tamara won’t rest until she gets her revenge.

Before Tamara Riley takes the stage as a violent vixen from beyond the grave, Dewan plays a smart yet frequently bullied girl at Hafton High School. The performance is convincing, quickly endearing her to viewers. Director Jeremy Haft’s movie then goes down a familiar path to reach the revenge portion of the story; here Tamara’s classmates lash out after she writes an exposé about steroid use among the football team. The article is praised by the object of Tamara’s affection, Mr. Natolly (Matthew Marsden), but jocks Shawn and Patrick (Bryan Clark and Gil Hacohen) use it as motivation for a cruel and foreboding prank.

For those who can’t wait for the carnage to occur, the vengeance parts of Tamara come along sooner than later. After the audience absorbs just how unhappy Tamara’s life is, at home and school, they are forced to watch her die. Shawn and Patrick’s scheme includes preying on Tamara’s unrequited feelings for Mr. Natolly; they lure her to a seedy motel for a secret dalliance between the student and teacher. And with a few classmates waiting in another room (Katie Stuart, Chad Faust, Marc Devigne and Melissa Elias), three of them unaware of the hosts’ hidden agenda, Tamara’s utter embarrassment is caught on video.

Jeffrey Reddick’s screenplay for Tamara channels Carrie at first, but the act of burying Tamara’s body and then taking a vow of secrecy — Tamara died from an accidental blow to the head — is a callback to movies like Prom Night and I Know What You Did Last Summer. The main difference, though, is Tamara doesn’t hide the identity of its angry avenger. No sooner than the following Monday does Tamara show up to Mr. Natolly’s class, fully made-over and itching to kill. The fact that Tamara doesn’t disclose the others’ crime creates a short-lived amount of tension before the story moves on to the actual payback.

Dewan is clearly having fun as her foxy character parades around the school, reveling in her transformation, and making Shawn and the other wrongdoers sweat. The audience is also undoubtedly enjoying the show. Reddick’s penchant for outlandish death sequences eventually comes out as Tamara delivers tailor-made punishments to all those connected to her premature passing. First up is the token nerd whose involvement in the prank wasn’t exactly malicious, yet like the others, he didn’t do the right thing in the end. His public demise is the appetizer before the remaining offenders are tracked down at an ill-fated house party.

One distinct visual aspect placing Tamara squarely in the noughties decade is its level of lingering violence. The moderate use of practical effects and makeup manages to cause a few winces from time to time. Tamara’s killing spree is neither brief nor unimaginative — no one would expect anything less from Reddick, the creator of the Final Destination franchise. And the ensuing murders are as enthusiastic as they are customized. From Tamara compelling her perverted, drunken father to literally eat beer bottles, to her preying on someone’s eating disorder, the movie gets damn nasty at certain points.

Thoughts of other horror movies crop up when watching Tamara. Carrie is the go-to comparison, but this movie’s back end shows more traces of the sequel, The Rage: Carrie 2. Going a touch deeper into the history of teen-horror, Hello Mary Lou: Prom Night 2 is an even more accurate spiritual companion; these two movies would make for a killer double feature. And while Tamara isn’t granting wishes, her magic powers echo those of other masters of manifestation, such as The Djinn of Wishmaster. She has the potency of Death from the Final Destination series, but Tamara’s knack for bizarre butchery makes her more like Damien from the Omen series.

Tamara feels like something out of straight-to-video, nineties horror. It’s lurid, gory and darkly amusing. Despite its mean streak, though, this movie has an emotional element; after Tamara gets the vengeance out of her system, she realizes what’s been missing since she came back from the dead. In the same moment, viewers remember why they cared about Tamara in the first place. So if the body count and gruesomeness don’t win you over, perhaps Jenna Dewan’s persuasive performance as the titular villain will.

Horror contemplates in great detail how young people handle inordinate situations and all of life’s unexpected challenges. While the genre forces characters of every age to face their fears, it is especially interested in how youths might fare in life-or-death scenarios.

The column Young Blood is dedicated to horror stories for and about teenagers, as well as other young folks on the brink of terror.

Bemoaning how Hollywood treats its franchises these days is quite the cliche. So much so that it’s become a favorite pastime for movie geeks all over the world. It’s even more “basic” to spill ink about the nostalgia treadmill that no studio exec can resist jumping on with a glee usually reserved for kids in candy stores. Specifically, they seem to have an aversion towards moving forward and sowing new ideas on grounds fans deem oh-so sacred. And yet, here we are on the precipice of yet another vaunted horror franchise reaching into the past to chart its creative future.

Neve Campbell’s recent comments about Scream’s seventh installment compared it to Halloween’s 2018 recipe. The irony is David Gordon Green’s film owes a debt to Halloween H2O. To say nothing of Scream 4, which already riffed on the idea of an older Sidney Prescott facing off with not only another deranged teenager in a Ghostface mask but also her survivor’s guilt and complicated feelings about her hometown. Notice a theme?

Horror is overflowing with original ideas and stories; this isn’t about the genre. But there’s something to say about the fact legacy films can’t quit examining, well, their legacies. A longing for the “good old” days and fears of upsetting even moderately vocal fanbases created a cul-de-sac for franchise horror with no way out in sight.

Before going any further, this isn’t some new creatively bankrupt phenomenon. The Texas Chain Saw Massacre and Halloween famously tried that whole evolution thing in the 1980s. While connoisseurs appreciate those deviations now, those wild swings didn’t generate the necessary box office or fan response at the time. The Halloween franchise felt the sting so hard that they ensured everyone knew the fourth installment featured Michael Myers. Halloween 4: The Return of Michael Myers was comfort food for those who found Halloween III: Season of the Witch a little hard to digest. But only to a point. While Halloween 4 looked like a series going back to basics for most of its runtime, it did something very different in its final minutes that telegraphed a unique direction going forward. And yet, that moment gets explained away and rendered moot by the time Halloween 5: The Revenge of Michael Myers arrives one year later.

The creative urge for something new constantly clashes with the business need for something that prints money. The dollars and cents worshipers at the top of the industry often believe that taking the most minor creative risks makes the most sense because it leads to more dollars.

That’s why Nancy and her dad couldn’t escape Elm St. Or why Michael rarely stopped chasing his relatives. Or even the improbability that the Brody’s couldn’t escape Great White Sharks even while vacationing in the Bahamas. As the calendar turned and fandoms grew more significant, the demand for that type of thing only got louder. To quote one of the great fictional philosophers of our imaginary time, Philip J. Fry, “Clever things make people feel stupid and unexpected things make them feel scared!” Futurama’s insight is a bit harsh, but there’s still some truth buried in the satire.

In some cases, shifting to tried and true formulas is somewhat understandable. While they’re tacit admissions that sometimes the best idea is the first one, they’re also, at times, necessary business decisions. John Carpenter never envisioned Halloween as more than one movie. The same goes for Wes Craven and A Nightmare on Elm Street. Dollars to donuts, that’s probably the same story for most films that morph into the two words familiar to most people reading this website: intellectual property. That distinction comes with responsibilities to shareholders and CEOs and, no pun intended, the lifeblood of some companies. Ghostface is no longer just a person in a Spirit Halloween robe and a cheap dime store mask; Scream’s chief killer is a brand.

What was once taboo is now a t-shirt at almost any department store. There are Ghostface Funko Pops, ceramic mugs, backpacks, and even a hockey jersey for the little ones. Let’s keep it real: Scream and other franchises of its ilk have more in common today with McDonald’s or Burger King than the original horror flicks studios produce. That’s not an inherently bad thing, but it is a thing; viewing these properties through that prism makes the math add up. That’s why Jamie Lee Curtis found herself at the center of not one, but two Halloween “reboots” twenty years apart from one another. The movies about the psycho wearing the William Shatner mask established their formula in ’78, so no matter what, they always revert to something from that time period. Even the proposed Halloween TV series is a “creative reset” returning to… ’78.

Staying trapped in the familiar is on the con side of the ledger when horror becomes more significant than just a simple movie. Easily discernible why? Sure. But can it also mean preaching to the same choir from one installment to the next? Also yeah.

Fede Alvarez embraced yesteryear with Alien: Romulus, but he believes he did so without alienating (pun very much intended) a new audience. “You never want an audience to go see a movie and furrow their brow thinking, ‘Who is this person?’ Why is half the cinema so excited about this man and I don’t know who he is?” said Alvarez in a recent interview. “It becomes an excess I’m not interested in.”

How one feels about the excesses of which he showed great interest in Romulus aside, his overall point rings true. Rooting franchises in their glory days means not making them relevant for today. Everyone involved becomes so focused on paying homage to the past or dealing with older characters that they don’t justify the present or chart a future. That’s precisely where Scream finds itself right now. There’s a lot to how the seventh entry arrived at this point. So much so that there isn’t enough ink to cover it all here. What matters now is the beloved series moving away from a story that attracted old fans and created new ones in favor of playing the hits. Given the circumstances, the creative team behind the next Scream didn’t simply break glass in case of emergency so much as they shattered it by throwing a 100 mph fastball in the form of the Sidney Prescott solution.

For several reasons, some that look incredibly cynical, Scream can’t escape the vicious cycle even though it charted new waters.

We had a new core cast. The Grim Reaper finally collected on Dewey Riley’s long-term debt. Sidney was out of the picture, and who knows how many more attempts on her life Gale Weathers could weather. Scream and Scream VI reflected on their legacy without bathing in it. The movies looked fresh through the eyes of new characters rather than being slavish to Generation X and Millennials. Scream 4’s original ending almost pulled off this same high-wire act in 2011 until it didn’t. Some people behind the scenes got cold feet in the 9th inning for whatever reason. Writer Kevin Williamson’s bold move went bye-bye in favor of the status quo. Almost 15 years later, the Scream franchise still suffers from chili digits. Sadly, it’s not the only one.

For a genre built on punk rock sensibilities, there’s far too much conformity and timidness at the top of the food chain. Cul-de-sacs keep us in comfortable places by design, but horror isn’t about comfort. It never was. The second these prominent properties remember that is the reason Target happily sells t-shirts to children with masked killers etched on the front, we might finally get off this road to nowhere.