Publishing House and Owner: Lucian Blaga University of Sibiu, Romania

ACTA TERRAE SEPTEMCASTRENSIS (ActaTR) is an international scientific journal devoted to the advancement and dissemination of scientific knowledge concerning archaeology, ancient history, medieval history, anthropology. It is an international peer-reviewed, open access journal published one time per year only in the English language. The Journal "ActaTR" covers all scientific aspects of archaeology and ancient and medieval history such as: prehistory, roman history and archaeology, post-roman period, early medieval history and archaeology, church archaeology, funeral arachaeology, environmental archaeology, landscape archaeology, anthropology.

The Journal "ActaTR" accepts review articles, original scientific articles, short communications, case reports, from the field of history and archaeology.

All articles in Journal "ActaTR" first are published in print form.

The Journal "ActaTR" does not charge for processing or submission of articles, which means that all articles submitted for publishing in ActaTR are FREE of CHARGE.

The full text of PDF files, published in the last "Current Issue" are available on the Journal archive webpage at www.arhin.ro, arheologie.ulbsibiu.ro/studii.htm.

Why subscribe and read

It is an international peer-reviewed, open access journal published one time per year only in the English language.

The Journal “ActaTR” publishes original research from all areas of prehistory, roman history and archaeology, post-roman period, early medieval history and archaeology, church archaeology, funeral archaeology, environmental archaeology, landscape archaeology, anthropology.

The Journal “ActaTR” represents an international forum for the dissemination of scientific knowledge concerning archaeology sciences and related academic disciplines.

The Journal is designed to facilitate the exchange of ideas between researchers from different countries all around the world.

The “ActaTR” sets a high standard for its contents. It has good publishing quality in electronic and printed form.

Acta Terrae Septemcastrensis has been published for more than 17 years by the Department of History, Patrimony and Protestant Theology at the Lucian Blaga University of Sibiu.

Why submit

the Journal is always freely available online

fast, fair and constructive peer review procedure

the article publishing that is citable by the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) allowing permanent resolution to each article and giving publishers the ability to link their references to articles whenever they are cited

no payment for article processing or publishing fee is required from authors

free language-correction services for all authors especially from non-English speaking regions

free publication of color figures, graphs and tables in published articles

extensive promotion of each published article

worldwide dissemination and unrestricted access to all published articles

high quality publishing, available in both forms, electronic and printed

promotion of each article in numerous abstracting

Acta Terrae Septemcastrensis (ActaTR) appears under the patronage of the “Lucian Blaga” University of Sibiu, of the Department of History, Patrimony and Protestant Theology and Socio-Cultural History Research Center. Founded in 2002, ActaTR was published annualy, at the beginning in Romanian and for the last 10 years just in English. In recent years it edited a journal supplement in English which usually brought together international acts of conferences or workshops.

ActaTR hosts in its pages scientific studies of large thematic diversity, chronologically stretching from prehistory until medieval times, also including debates on the theory of history and auxiliary sciences, archaeology, as well as reviews and bibliographical notes meant to capture the phenomenon of contemporary historiography.

ActaTR pays particular attention to the dissemination of material and immaterial heritage research, social and cultural history. The journal encourages interdisciplinary research and open collaboration with researchers equally Romanian and foreign, especially on specific topics of Central, Eastern and South-Eastern Europe history. The Editorial Staff and Editorial Board consist of nationally and internationally renowned specialists, and its reviewers are carefully selected from among experts in the field, both from the country and abroad.

The journal has been integrated into international databases such as ERIH+, Ebsco, Scipio which guarantee the global access to our articles & reviews. Starting with 2018, the double-blind peer review has been adopted and progresses have been made in terms of quality of our articles.

Archiving

Sciendo archives the contents of this journal in Portico - digital long-term preservation service of scholarly books, journals and collections.

Plagiarism Policy