National college resource favors undergraduate engagement over brand-name prestige

Wichita, KS: — Friends University has received national recognition for the integrity of its truly individualized and engaging education. As an institution whose primary goals are based on student success and satisfaction, Friends University confirms its honor as one of the renowned Colleges of Distinction.

This award is unique among popular college guide classifications, which typically rank schools on the basis of hollow or unclear numbers like the size of endowment, selectivity, and faculty salaries. Friends University instead earns its recognition for the excellence exhibited in the classroom, incorporating High-Impact Practices throughout every student’s undergraduate education. Such student-centered programs include first-year seminars, community-based learning programs, service-learning programs, diversity and global learning programs, intensive language programs, intensive writing courses, interdisciplinary programs, collaborative assignments and projects, undergraduate research, common intellectual experiences, capstone projects, study abroad programs and internships.

“We are so proud to see Friends University walking the walk,” said Tyson Schritter, Chief Operating Officer for Colleges of Distinction. “Colleges of Distinction knows that a truly valuable education can’t be measured by rank or reputation. Students learn and thrive best when they embrace hands-on learning in a vibrant, welcoming community. That’s why it’s so encouraging to find Friends University taking such an innovative approach with its curriculum: its High-Impact Educational Practices ensure that the undergraduate experience is worthwhile and unique.”

Colleges of Distinction’s selection process consists of detailed interviews and research for each institution’s freshman experience and retention efforts alongside its general education programs, career development, strategic plan, student satisfaction, and more. Schools are accepted on the basis that they adhere to the Four Distinctions: Engaged Students, Great Teaching, Vibrant Community, and Successful Outcomes.

“Colleges of Distinction doesn’t rank schools, because we know that every student is different in what they need to best learn, grow, and succeed,” said Schritter. “Instead, we value schools that embrace those differences. Friends University puts the student experience first, providing all the tools and opportunities they need to become lifelong learners who are ready to take on any challenge in today’s ever-evolving society.”

About Colleges of Distinction

Since 2000, the Colleges of Distinction website and guidebook have honored schools throughout the U.S. for their excellence in undergraduate-focused higher education. The cohort of schools in the Colleges of Distinction consortium distinguish themselves through their focus on the undergraduate experience. The website and annual guidebooks provide dynamic college profiles, customized tools, and resources for students, parents, and high school counselors. For more information, and to learn how to become a College of Distinction, visit CollegesofDistinction.com.

Friends University, a Christian University of Quaker heritage, equips students to honor God and serve others by integrating their intellectual, spiritual and professional lives.