Quiz Answer Key and Fun Facts

1. On which date did "All My Children" make its debut on ABC?

Answer: January 5, 1970

The basic theme and characterizations for "All My Children" were actually written several years earlier by Agnes Nixon, whose creation was eventually accepted by ABC to begin airing in January of 1970.

2. The three families that "All My Children" originally focused on were:

Answer: the Martins, the Tylers, and the Kanes

The Chandlers, the Cortlandts, and the Maricks were all introduced in later years.

3. Which of the Martin children was written out of the plot during the show's first year?

Answer: Bobby

Widower, Joe Martin's youngest son, Bobby went off to military school, and was never mentioned again.

4. What was the name of the girl who both Phil Brent and Chuck Tyler were in love with?

Answer: Tara Martin

Phil Brent, Tara Martin, Chuck Tyler, and Erica Kane were the prominently featured teenage characters of the early days of "All My Children" . A long lasting rivalry developed between Phil and Chuck who both wanted Tara. Though Tara eventually married each of them, Phil was her one true love.

5. What town provided the inspiration for Agnes Nixon's fictional Pine Valley?

Answer: Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania

Agnes Nixon drew inspiration from her own home town; a college town in pennsylvania ,when creating the fictional Pine Valley. Some of the "All My Children" plots were even modeled after real life stories, such as those of friends of her own children.

6. Who was Phil Brent's biological father?

Answer: Nick Davis

Nick Davis was unaware that he had fathered the child that Ruth Brent's teenage sister, Amy, gave birth to. Phil was adopted and raised by Ruth and her husband Ted. Ruth later married Dr. Joe Martin, after the death of Ted Brent.

7. How was Chuck Tyler related to Phoebe Tyler?

Answer: Chuck was Phoebe's step-grandson

Chuck was the son of Charles Tyler Jr., who was the son of Dr. Charles Tyler and his late first wife. Chuck was raised by his grandfather, and his second wife, Phoebe since his early childhood, when both of his parents were killed in an auto accident.

8. Which of the following "All My Children" characters were included in the show's original cast?

Answer: none of the above

None of these long standing characters were part of the show's original cast. Eileen Herlie was hired to play Myrtle Lum 1n 1976. James Mitchell began his role as Palmer Cortlandt in 1979; and David Canary joined the cast as twins, Adam and Stuart Chandler in 1983. All of these roles have been consistently played by the same actors since their creation, and their roles remain active(as of July,2003).

9. What was the name of Erica Kane's mother when "All My Children" first began?

Answer: Mona Kane

She was later known as Mona Kane Tyler, after becoming Dr. Tyler's third wife. The part of Mona was played by Frances Heflin until her passing in 1994.

10. Chuck Tyler grew up to become:

Answer: a doctor

Chuck followed in his grandfather's footsteps to become the young Dr. Charles Tyler.

11. Who was the first man to marry Erica Kane?

Answer: Jeff Martin

Jeff was the first of many men to walk down the aisle with Erica. Others include Phil Brent, Tom Cudahy, Travis Montgomery (twice), Adam Chandler(twice), and Dimitri Marick.

12. What was the first name of Dr. Joe Martin's mother, who was known to her grandchildren as "Gran"?

Answer: Kate

Actress, Kay Campbell played the role of Kate Martin, the perfect mom and grandmother. She was often seen baking cookies and offering good advice to her family and friends, until her passing in 1985, when the actress was tragically hit by a bus (Kay Campbell was however, the second actress to play the role of Kate Martin, which was originated by Kate Harrington for a short time in 1970).

13. Tara Martin and Phil Brent were legally married prior to the conception of their son, Charlie?

Answer: False

The young couple attempted to tie the knot before Phil was to be shipped out to Viet Nam, but their efforts were aborted by a blinding snow storm that made finding a minister on the spur of the moment impossible. They then proceeded to exchange their vows privately by candle light in an otherwise empty chapel.

14. What was the true given name of Phil Brent and Tara Martin's son, Charlie?

Answer: Philip Charles

He insisted upon using the name of Charlie when he was a child, rejecting his former nickname of "little Phillip". This decision was based on his loyalty to Chuck Tyler, who was believed to be the boy's biological father until Phil Brent returned from Vietnam after years of being presumed dead. It took some time for Charlie to form a bond with his biological father.

15. Where did Ruth and Joe Martin originally meet Tad Gardner, whom they later adopted?

Answer: at Pine Valley Hospital

Tad was brought to the hospital with a broken leg, after he was pushed out of a car and abandoned at a state park by his cruel biological father, Ray Gardner. Dr. Joe and nurse Ruth Martin were drawn to the little boy's charismatic personality. They arranged to take him home as a foster child, and later adopted him.

Source: Author memorylane42

This quiz was reviewed by FunTrivia editor Gamemaster1967 before going online.

Any errors found in FunTrivia content are routinely corrected through our feedback system.