1. PARIS

• Charles de Gaulle Airport- Paris

Charles de Gaulle Airport Paris (CDG) is said to be the second busiest airport in Europe. Located to the north-east of Paris, 26 km from Paris city center, it opened in 1974 and is today, the main international gateway to France and a major aviation hub in Europe. The airport has three terminals, with free shuttles to navigate between the terminals. To get to the city center of Paris from CDG, you can take the train, bus or taxi. Airport Code- CDG

• Paris Orly Airport

Prior to the opening of the Charles de Gaulle Airport Paris, Orly was the main airport in the city. This airport in France is located 13 km south of central Paris and is the second-largest airport serving France and the Paris Metropolitan region. It has four connected passenger terminals called Orly 1-2-3-4. You can take the shuttle or the Orlyval- an automated metro - to transfer between shuttles. To get to the city center of Paris from Orly, you have the option to take the bus, taxi, train or metro. Airport Code- ORY

• Paris Beauvais Airport

Built in the 1930s, the Paris Beauvais Airport, also known as the Beauvais–Tillé Airport, is located about 80 km north of Paris, near the city of Beauvais. The airport has two terminals. You can take a bus, train or taxi to get to the city center. Airport Code- BVA

2. LILLE

Lille Airport

Lille airport is located 7 km southeast of Lille, in a town called Lesquin in Northern France. It is also known as Lille-Lesquin Airport or Lesquin Airport and is only 15 minutes from the city center of Lille. The airport has a compact terminal, consisting of three floors. You can take a bus or a taxi to get to the city center from this airport in France. Airport Code- LIL

3. STRASBOURG

Strasbourg Airport

Strasbourg Airport is a minor international airport situated in the municipality of Entzheim, 10 km southwest of Strasbourg in Alsace. This airport in France consists of a single 2-story terminal building. A train or a taxi will transfer you to Strasbourg’s city center. Airport Code- SXB

4. LYON

Lyon-Saint Exupéry Airport

Lyon-Saint Exupéry Airport is located 20 km south east from Lyon’s city center and is the main international airport that serves Lyon. This airport in France has two passenger terminals which are interconnected on the landside by a central building that itself has a foot-bridge to the nearby Gare de Lyon Saint-Exupéry high-speed railway station and the Rhônexpress terminus. Taking a taxi or a train will get you to the city center. Airport Code- LYS

5. NICE

Nice Côte d'Azur Airport

Located 6 km south west of downtown Nice, the Nice Côte d'Azur Airport is the third largest airport in France, and is a gateway to the city of Nice, the French Riviera, and the Principality of Monaco. The airport has three passenger terminals, with Terminals 1 and 2 being linked by shuttle buses. You can make use of the bus, tram, taxi or train to get to the city center. Airport Code- NCE

6. AJACCIO

Ajaccio Airport

Ajaccio Airport, also known as Ajaccio Napoleon Bonaparte Airport, is the main airport serving Ajaccio in Corsica. Named after Napoleon Bonaparte, who was born in Ajaccio, this airport in France is located 5 km east of Ajaccio’s harbour. The airport has a single passenger terminal. You can take a shuttle bus that connects the airport to the city center or a bus to transfer to downtown Ajaccio. Airport Code- AJA

7. BASTIA

Bastia – Poretta Airport

Bastia Airport is located 20 km from Bastia and is Corsica’s second largest airport. The airport has one terminal. Regular shuttle buses and taxis can take you to the city center. Airport Code- BIA

8. FIGARI

Figari South Corsica Airport

Opened in 1975, the Figari South Corsica airport is located 3 km northwest of Figari, on the island of Corsica, halfway between Bonifacio (22 km away) and Porto-Vecchio (25 km away). This airport in France has one passenger terminal. To get to the city center, you can take a bus or a taxi. Airport Code- FSC

9. TOULON

Toulon-Hyères Airport

Opened in 1966, the Toulon-Hyères Airport is a small airport in the south of France, close to the Mediterranean Sea, serving the city of Toulon, an important port city. It is located 19 km east of Toulon. The airport has a two-storey terminal. You can travel by bus or a taxi to reach the city. Airport Code- TLN

10. MARSEILLE

Marseille Airport

The Marseille airport is located 27 km north west of Marseille’s city center and serves the city of Marseille. The Marseille Airport was the first-ever airport in Europe to dedicate a terminal to only low-cost flights when it first opened in 2006. It is considered to be the fifth busiest airport in France in terms of passenger traffic and has two terminals. You can take a bus, taxi or train to get to the city center.

Airport Code- MRS

11. MONTPELLIER

Montpellier Airport

Opened in 1946, the Montpellier airport is located 7 km southeast of Montpellier, in the south of France. It is also known as the Fréjorgues Airport. The airport has one terminal. To get to Montpellier city from the airport, you can take the shuttle bus, tram or train. Airport Code- MPL

12. TOULOUSE

Toulouse Blagnac Airport

The Toulouse Blagnac Airport is located 6.7 km northwest of Toulouse and just south of Blagnac. It provides easy access to the region of Occitanie and Nouvelle Aquitaine. The airport consists of one passenger terminal divided into four halls – Hall A, B, C, and D. You can make use of the tram and Tisséo airport shuttle to get to the Toulouse city center. Additionally, there are specific buses for travelling to the surrounding area from this airport in France. Airport Code- TLS

13. BIARRITZ

Biarritz Airport

The Biarritz Airport, also known as Biarritz Pays Basque or Biarritz-Parme Airport, serves the cities of Biarritz, Bayonne and Anglet in the south of France. This airport in France is located 4 km from the center of Biarritz and has one terminal that serves domestic and international destinations. You can take a bus or a taxi to get to the city center. Airport Code- BIQ

14. MÉRIGNAC

Bordeaux–Mérignac Airport

Bordeaux–Mérignac Airport is located in Merignac, 12 km west of Bordeaux city center. It consists of three passenger terminals- Terminal, A, B and Terminal Billi (Bordeaux illico)- which is a separate facility for low cost carriers. There are two types of transport options to reach the city center- the bus or a taxi. Airport Code- BOD

15. BERGERAC

Bergerac Airport

Bergerac Dordogne Périgord Airport, also known as Bergerac-Roumanière Airport, is situated at 3 km south of Bergerac in the Dordogne, in the Nouvelle Aquitaine region of France. This airport in France has one small terminal. There is neither a bus nor a train station – you can take a taxi to get to the city center. Airport Code- EGC

16. NANTES

Nantes Airport

Nantes Atlantique International Airport is located 8 km southwest of Nantes. This airport in France has one terminal building. To reach downtown Nantes, the transport options available are the bus and the taxi.

Airport Code- NTE

17. BREST

Brest Bretagne Airport

The Brest Bretagne Airport is the gateway to France's Brittany region. The airport lies 10.2 km northeast of the city of Brest. It has one small and modern terminal. The bus, tram and taxi will take you to the city center from this airport in France. Airport Code- BES

18. RENNES

Rennes Airport