The Senior OpenLink Developer is a senior level position responsible for establishing and implementing new or revised application systems and programs in coordination with the Technology team. The overall objective of this role is to be able to perform applications systems analysis and programming activities.

Key responsibilities include:

Applicant will work closely with existing development team to enhance the current Openlink platform including integrating with the Global Commodities application stack

The successful applicant must demonstrate drive and initiative, be goal-oriented, dedicated and self-sufficient. He/she should be able to work well under pressure, adapt quickly to changing priorities and maintain focus on key tasks during busy periods.

Responsible for designing and developing a technology stack, leveraging on a combination of existing platforms and building new strategic platforms, and migrate existing business functions from legacy systems.

Close interaction with Traders and Quants to understand new requirements for applications across the platform, specifically focused on trade modelling and lifecycle.

Increase productivity of the technology teams’ build and delivery cycles, and design system solutions to maximize operational efficiency of the business processes/workflows.

Engage senior business heads, providing frequent & timely updates and managing expectations wherever necessary.

Design systems which are scalable in size, and can be rapidly deployed across multiple centers and generic enough to cater to multiple use cases.

General Responsibilities:

Partner with multiple management teams to ensure appropriate integration of functions to meet goals as well as identify and define necessary system enhancements to deploy new products and process improvements

Resolve variety of high impact problems/projects through in-depth evaluation of complex business processes, system processes, and industry standards

Provide expertise in area and advanced knowledge of applications programming and ensure application design adheres to the overall architecture blueprint

Utilize advanced knowledge of system flow and develop standards for coding, testing, debugging, and implementation

Develop comprehensive knowledge of how areas of business, such as architecture and infrastructure, integrate to accomplish business goals

Provide in-depth analysis with interpretive thinking to define issues and develop innovative solutions

Serve as advisor or coach to mid-level developers and analysts, allocating work as necessary

Appropriately assess risk when business decisions are made, demonstrating particular consideration for the firm's reputation and safeguarding Citigroup, its clients and assets, by driving compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, adhering to Policy, applying sound ethical judgment regarding personal behavior, conduct and business practices, and escalating, managing and reporting control issues with transparency.

This job description provides a high-level review of the types of work performed. Other job-related duties may be assigned as required.

Qualifications

Minimum of 7+ years CTRM/ ETRM experience (preferred OpenLink Endur)

Strong technical background in AVS, JVS, OpenComponents (Java/C#), SQL

Strong grasp of different SDLC methodologies

Experience in commodities products implementation across multiple product classes such as Oil, Metals, Gas, Power and Emissions etc.

Grasp of Software Development Lifecycle methodologies

Excellent oral and written communication skill

Strong analytic and problem solving skills

Delivery focused

Education:

Bachelor’s degree/University degree or equivalent experience

------------------------------------------------------

Job Family Group:

Technology

------------------------------------------------------

Job Family:

Applications Development

------------------------------------------------------

Time Type:

Full time

------------------------------------------------------

Primary Location:

Houston Texas United States

------------------------------------------------------

Primary Location Full Time Salary Range:

$125,760.00 - $188,640.00

In addition to salary, Citi’s offerings may also include, for eligible employees, discretionary and formulaic incentive and retention awards. Citi offers competitive employee benefits, including: medical, dental & vision coverage; 401(k); life, accident, and disability insurance; and wellness programs. Citi also offers paid time off packages, including planned time off (vacation), unplanned time off (sick leave), and paid holidays. For additional information regarding Citi employee benefits, please visit citibenefits.com. Available offerings may vary by jurisdiction, job level, and date of hire.

------------------------------------------------------

Anticipated Posting Close Date:

May 16, 2024

------------------------------------------------------

Citi is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer.

Qualified applicants will receive consideration without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, or status as a protected veteran.

Citigroup Inc. and its subsidiaries ("Citi”) invite all qualified interested applicants to apply for career opportunities. If you are a person with a disability and need a reasonable accommodation to use our search tools and/or apply for a career opportunity review Accessibility at Citi.

View the "EEO is the Law" poster. View the EEO is the Law Supplement.

View the EEO Policy Statement.