DRW is a diversified trading firm with over 3 decades of experience bringing sophisticated technology and exceptional people together to operate in markets around the world. We value autonomy and the ability to quickly pivot to capture opportunities, so we operate using our own capital and trading at our own risk.

Headquartered in Chicago with offices throughout the U.S., Canada, Europe, and Asia, we trade a variety of asset classes including Fixed Income, ETFs, Equities, FX, Commodities and Energy across all major global markets. We have also leveraged our expertise and technology to expand into three non-traditional strategies: real estate, venture capital and cryptoassets.

We operate with respect, curiosity and open minds. The people who thrive here share our belief that it’s not just what we do that matters–it's how we do it. DRW is a place of high expectations, integrity, innovation and a willingness to challenge consensus.

We are seeking a Team Lead to oversee our Commodities - Trade Management team, which includes Openlink Endur software engineers, trade support engineers, and generalist software engineers. Forming a critical component of DRW's trade management and system operations, this role encompasses people leadership, technical expertise, project ownership, and hands-on involvement in development and support activities. The ideal candidate will possess a blend of people management skills, technical acumen in Openlink Endur, software development experience, and an understanding of systems architecture and distributed systems.

Key Responsibilities:

Lead and mentor a team of engineers with a variety of skill sets, fostering a culture of excellence, innovation, and continuous improvement.

Use strong leadership skills in mentoring, coaching, feedback, development, negotiation, and conflict management to enhance team performance and help people have a great experience in their work life.

Lean on Openlink Endur experience to provide guidance, oversee projects, and ensure the seamless integration of Endur with other trading systems.

Engage in hands-on software development and support activities, including pair programming on new features and troubleshooting.

Drive project ownership, including defining requirements, scheduling, resource allocation, and ensuring timely delivery of projects.

Collaborate with developers, traders, back office, and various management teams globally to ensure optimal system performance and user satisfaction.

Contribute to system and architecture design discussions, challenging ideas and actively participating in the new feature development.

Oversee the integration and support of systems connected to Openlink Endur, including message buses, workflow orchestrators, and various third-party integrations.

Required Qualifications:

10+ years of hands-on experience with Openlink Endur, with the ability to guide projects and support activities related to this platform.

3+ years of experience leading 5+ engineers in a technical environment, with a strong emphasis on mentoring, development, and team management.

Experience writing Endur software using OpenJVS or OpenComponents.

Experience writing production non-Endur software applications.

Familiarity with system and architecture design principles, especially in the context of distributed systems.

Desirable Qualifications:

Familiarity with energy trading risk management asset classes, especially natural gas and power.

Experience with financial trading environments and understanding of related technologies.

Experience integrating additional systems to Openlink Endur and supporting them.

Experience managing both software engineers and support engineers.

Ability to own projects, define requirements, and lead development and support initiatives.

Excellent problem-solving skills, with the capacity to work on both software development and support tasks.

Strong communication and interpersonal skills, capable of fostering collaboration and effective teamwork across global locations.

For more information about DRW's processing activities and our use of job applicants' data, please view our Privacy Notice at https://drw.com/privacy-notice.

California residents, please review the California Privacy Notice for information about certain legal rights at https://drw.com/california-privacy-notice.