Peppa Pig is coming to the big (pig) screen with an hour-long cinema release in February, but tickets will go on sale December 7th at PeppaPigCinemaParty.com and in certain markets via Atom and Fandango. Audiences will get to see 10 exclusive never before Peppa Pig Season 10 episodes, which include the 3-part Wedding Party Special. There will also be some new entertainment that has Peppa and her friends coming into the real world with animation and live action as they give us new songs and dances. You can find all the information below and over at the website, so get ready for Peppa Pig and friends as they come into cinemas for the 20th anniversary in February 2024.

#PeppaPig #PeppaPigFullEpisodes #KidsVideos

JUMP INTO THE SPECIAL SING-AND-DANCE-ALONG CINEMA PARTY WITH AN ALL-NEW TRAILER HERE

Hasbro, Inc. (NASDAQ: HAS), a leading toy and game company, announced today that PEPPA PIG will jump into cinemas for the character’s 20th anniversary and biggest cinema celebration ever beginning February 2024.

The hour-long cinema release, Peppa’s Cinema Party, will screen in English in cinemas in Australia, Canada, Ireland, the United Kingdom and the United States, offering 10 exclusive never-before-seen PEPPA PIG Season 10 episodes including a 3-part Wedding Party Special, of which one episode features the voices of Katy Perry as Ms. Leopard and Orlando Bloom as Mr. Raccoon. A party bus bonus episode will also be included, as well as new interactive entertainment featuring Peppa and her friends breaking into the real world through a mixture of animation and live action featuring five brand new songs to sing along to and dances to move to. Little ones and the entire family will be able to have the ultimate cinema outing and celebrate along with their favorite onscreen characters. Plus, the fun continues outside cinemas, with parents and little ones able to stream the all-new music at home, in the car or on the go!

“As we celebrate 20 incredible years of making memories with Peppa, our team is proud to bring Peppa’s Cinema Party to the big screen across the globe, enabling fans to come along and join in the party,” said Esra Cafer, SVP Global Brand Management, Hasbro. “Peppa encourages kids and families around the world to jump in together with confidence, and this new cinema experience will bring those beloved characters to life in a new way.”

Tickets for this cinema-exclusive release will go on sale on December 7, 2023 at PeppaPigCinemaParty.com and in certain markets via Atom and Fandango. All new music will be available on music streaming platforms on Feb 2, 2024.