This is a list of notable events, premieres, releases, series cancellations and endings, and other business ventures for Nickelodeon in the year 1994.

Original shows[]

Series premieres[]

April 16: All That airs its pilot episode; the series officially begins regularly airing on January 21st of the next year.

October 8: The Secret World of Alex Mack

October 15: My Brother and Me

October 24

Allegra's Window

Gullah Gullah Island

October 30: Aaahh!!! Real Monsters

November 5: U to U

December: Teacher to Teacher with Mr. Wizard

Season premieres[]

June 6: Legends of the Hidden Temple, season 2

September 4: The Adventures of Pete & Pete, season 2

September 25: Rocko's Modern Life, season 2

October 1: The Ren & Stimpy Show, season 4

Series finales[]

January 2: Doug ends after four seasons. The series would later be bought by The Walt Disney Company with its parent company Jumbo Pictures.

June 26: Hillside ends after four seasons

October 1

Special Delivery

Clarissa Explains It All ends after five seasons

Nick Jr. Rocks

Specials[]

December 31: The Weinerville New Year's Special: Lost in the Big Apple

Non-original shows[]

Debuts

February 14: I Love Lucy

March 2: Papa Beaver's Storytime

March 7: The Alvin Show

April 4:

The Muppet Show

Beetlejuice

June 6: Gumby

June 6: I Dream of Jeannie

July 2: The Lucy-Desi Comedy Hour

September 3: The White Shadow

October 3: The Adventures of Tintin

November 6: Taxi

Departures

January 23: You Can't Do That On Television (The show ended in 1990, and the last regular airing of the show came on January 23, 1994 before reruns began up until the show's departure from Nickelodeon)

October 2: Danger Mouse (was rerun between September 30, 1991 and 1994 after ending its first run on the channel in December of 1987)

October 21: Sharon, Lois & Bram's Elephant Show

October 29: Dennis the Menace

Programming blocks[]

December 1: SNICKtoons Xmas Gift Pack begins.

Comic books[]

Marvel Comics begins publishing a monthly comic book based on Rocko's Modern Life; it only lasts for seven issues.

Video games[]

April: Rocko's Modern Life: Spunky's Dangerous Day

June: The Ren & Stimpy Show: Fire Dogs

November

Nickelodeon GUTS

The Ren & Stimpy Show: Time Warp

Albums[]

June: Peanut Butter Jam and Songs from the Back Seat

August 9: This is What "Na Na" Means

VHS releases[]

January 11: The Ren & Stimpy Show: On Duty

January 18

Clarissa Explains It All: Dating

Nickelodeon Mushfest

March 30

Are You Afraid of the Dark?: Ghostly Tales

Clarissa Explains It All: Take My Brother, Please!

The Ren & Stimpy Show: In Disguise

April 12

Rugrats: Angelica the Divine

Rugrats: Chuckie the Brave

May 31

The Adventures of Pete and Pete: Classic Petes

Are You Afraid of the Dark?: Nightmare Tales

Double Dare: Super Sloppiest Moments

GUTS All-Star Special

The Ren & Stimpy Show: More Stinky Stories

June 28

Lassie: To Fetch a Thief

Lassie to the Rescue

July 26

The Adventures of Pete & Pete: School Dazed

Clarissa Explains It All: Enslaved by the Bell

Doug: Cool in School

August 21: Nickelodeon Frightfest

August 30

Doug: Christmas Story

Lassie: A Christmas Tail

Lassie: Come Ho Ho Home

The Ren & Stimpy Show: The Classics II

Rugrats: The Santa Experience

Events[]

February 17: Nickelodeon takes over Marley Middle School in Glen Burnie, MD.

People[]

Births[]

Reginald Davis Jr. (voice actor on The Backyardigans)

Cedric L. Williams (actor and singer on Face's Music Party)

Lizbeth Velasco (director of Rocko's Modern Life: Static Cling, The Adventures of Kid Danger, Hey Arnold!: The Jungle Movie, and Breadwinners)

Eric M. Myrick (actor in Bixler High Private Eye)

Colby Jackson (actor on The Casagrandes)

Jarrell Singleton (actor on Go, Diego, Go!)

Robbie Torres (actor and singer on The Really Loud House)

Brittany Bardwell (actress on The Really Loud House)

Leslie Valdes (writer, producer, and actor on Dora the Explorer, Dora and Friends: Into the City!, ¡DORA!, Go, Diego, Go!, Santiago of the Seas, Kamp Koral: SpongeBob's Under Years, and The Backyardigans)

Dylan Clark Marshall (actor on Dora the Explorer, ¡DORA!, and Go, Diego, Go!)

Anthony Hord (actor and editor in A Really Haunted Loud House)

Jason Sermonia (actor on Blue's Clues and You!)

Kyle Dooley (actor and writer on Top Wing and PAW Patrol)

Kelsey Leos Montoya (actor on The Really Loud House)

Kyle McCarley (actress on The Really Loud House and The Fairly OddParents: A New Wish)

Luc Latulippe (storyboard artist on Middlemost Post and Face’s Music Party)

Kailani Coba (actress on Dora the Explorer)

January 26: Brayden Scott (actor on Tyler Perry's Young Dylan)

February 1: Harry Styles (singer, songwriter, and actor on iCarly (2007))

February 3: Paul Butcher, Jr. (actor on Zoey 101)

February 14: Paul Butcher (actor and singer on All That, Avatar: The Last Airbender, The Mighty B!, Zoey 101, and Barnyard)

February 23: Dakota Fanning (actress in Charlotte's Web)

March 1: Justin Bieber (actor on True Jackson, VP and performer at the 2010 Kids' Choice Awards)

March 11: Colton Davis (storyboard revisionist on The Loud House)

March 12: Tyler Patrick Jones (actor in Yours, Mine & Ours and The Spiderwick Chronicles)

March 22: Serena Kerrigan (actress on Go, Diego, Go!)

March 23: Nick Powell (director of Nacho Libre)

March 24: Nicole Gibson (voice actress on Blue's Clues)

March 26: AJ Bridel (actress on Blue's Clues & You!)

March 30: Jake Green (actor on The Thundermans and voice actor on The Loud House)

March 31: Thomas Batuello (actor on The Naked Brothers Band)

April 2: Sofie Zamchick (singer-songwriter on Whoopi's Littleburg and Wonder Pets!)

April 4: Chris O'Neal (actor in Swindle, How to Rock, and You Gotta See This)

April 14: Skyler Samuels (actress on Drake & Josh)

April 16: Liliana Mumy (voice actress in Barnyard, The Loud House, Winx Club, Catscratch, Shimmer and Shine, and The Casagrandes)

April 18: Moisés Arias (actor in Nacho Libre)

April 24: Jordan Fisher (actor on iCarly (2007), The Thundermans, Butterbean's Café, and It's Pony and guest star at the 2022 Kids' Choice Awards)

May 6: Noah Galvin (actor and singer on Welcome to the Wayne)

May 14:

David Teas (storyboard artist and storyboard revisionist on The Loud House, Harvey Beaks, and The Casagrandes)

Laura Sreebny (writer on Monsters vs. Aliens, The Loud House, The Casagrandes, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Rise of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Hey Arnold!: The Jungle Movie, Sanjay and Craig, Breadwinners, Kung Fu Panda: Legends of Awesomeness, Pig Goat Banana Cricket, Harvey Beaks, SpongeBob SquarePants, Wallykazam!, T.U.F.F. Puppy, The Fairly OddParents, The Legend of Korra, Robot and Monster, and Planet Sheen)

May 18: Lillian Doucet-Roche (actress on Blurt!)

May 22: Gabriel Garza (creator of Bella and the Bulldogs)

June 8:

Nick Benson (actor on True Jackson, VP and Best Player)

Josette Halpert (actress and writer in The Other Kingdom)

June 15: Tatum Neally (actress on The Really Loud House)

June 18: Takeoff (rapper and guest star at the 2008 Kids' Choice Awards)

July 5: Stacey Kay (singer on Blue's Clues and You!)

July 6: Lauren Elizabeth (YouTuber on AwesomenessTV)

August 2: Angus Imrie (actor on Star Trek: Prodigy)

August 18:

Jessie Flower (voice actor on Avatar: The Last Airbender, The X's, The Legend of Korra, and Random! Cartoons)

Michaela Jill Murphy (actor on Avatar: The Last Airbender)

August 24: Giselle Vasquez (actor on Blue's Clues)

August 25: Josh Fitter (actor on Blue's Clues)

August 26: Buddy Vedder (actor and singer in Paws of Fury: The Legend of Hank)

August 29: Eduardo Franco (actor on The Tiny Chef Show and singer on Face's Music Party)

September 2: Blake Hightower (actor, producer, and composer in Imagine That)

September 4: Tarreyn Van Slyke (voice actress on The Loud House)

September 6: Ashlee Fuss (actress on Marvin Marvin, Side Hustle, and The Thundermans)

September 9: Darian Mark (dancer and actor in The J Team and Monster High: The Movie)

September 13: Mitch Holleman (actor on Avatar: The Last Airbender)

September 17: Denyse Tontz (actor on Big Time Rush and The Last Day of Summer)

September 21

Chris David (actor on iCarly (2007) and Zoey 101)

Jessica Conde (actress on Dora the Explorer, Dora and Friends: Into the City!, and Go, Diego, Go!)

September 22: J Diego Gonçalves (actor on The Really Loud House)

September 25: Jansen Panettiere (actor on Blue's Clues, Marvin Marvin, The X's, and The Last Day of Summer)

October 5: Zachary Isaiah Williams (actor on Maniac Magee and Romeo!)

October 12: Scot Boland (casting director of The Adventures of Tintin)

October 13: Noah Crawford (actor on You Gotta See This, Swindle, How to Rock, Figure It Out, and True Jackson, VP)

November 16: Brandon Larracuente (actor on Every Witch Way)

November 17: Bryce Charles (singer on Big Nate)

November 18: Mateo Castel (actor on The Really Loud House)

November 29: Cole Kornell (actor in Fun Size)

December 3: Jake T. Austin (actor in Hotel For Dogs, Dora the Explorer, Blue's Clues, and Go, Diego, Go!)

December 17: Nat Wolff (actor and singer on The Naked Brothers Band)

December 20: Gabriela Aisenburg (actress on Dora the Explorer and Go, Diego, Go!)

December 23: Reed Alexander (actor on iCarly, Henry Danger, and Sam & Cat)

December 24: LaShawn Tináh Jefferies (voice actress on The Backyardigans)

December 26: Samantha Boscarino (actress on How to Rock, Bucket and Skinner's Epic Adventures, and True Jackson, VP, and panelist on Figure It Out (2012))

December 27: Nicholas Coombe (actor in Dora and the Lost City of Gold)

Deaths[]

January 8: Pat Buttram (voice actor on Rugrats (1991))

February 22: Cyril Schneider (President of Nickelodeon from 1980-1984 and actor on You Can't Do That on Television)

July 1: Dominic Lucero (actor on Wienerville)

Nickelodeon character debuts[]

Aaahh!!! Real Monsters: Ickis, Krumm, Oblina, Gromble

Rocko's Modern Life: Dr. Paula Hutchison, Ralph Bighead

Allegra's Window: Allegra, Lindi, Rondo, Riff, Mr. Cook, Sonata, Cliff, Reed, Ms. Melody, Ellington

Gullah Gullah Island: Binyah Binyah, the Daise family

Rugrats: Jonathan Kraskell

All That: Baggin' Saggin' Barry, Miss Fingerly, Earboy, Mavis and Clavis

Face (the Nick Jr. mascot)

Accolades[]

Rugrats wins its second Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Children's Animated Program.

Behind the scenes[]

May 22: Rugrats goes on hiatus after ending production on its third season; it would resume production in 1996.