Princeton Athletics and PNC Bank are proud to recognize our Spring 2022 PNC Student-Athlete Achiever Award recipients -- Serena Starks (softball) and Nathan Phelps (men's heavyweight rowing) -- for their efforts as all-around student-athletes.

NATHAN PHELPS '23 (Men's Heavyweight Rowing)

A junior for Princeton men's heavyweight rowing, Nathan Phelps helped lead the Tigers' First Varsity to victories in its opening two races this spring. He is a member of US Rowing's under-23 National Team, most recently competing in the quadruple sculls at the 2021 World Rowing Championships. Off the water, Phelps coaches young rowing athletes with the Special Olympics of New Jersey. He is also a lead coordinator for Princeton Rowing's new STEM to Stern partnership, providing local underserved middle school students access to the sport of rowing and STEM curriculum. Additionally, Phelps is a Student-Athlete Wellness Leader and previously supported The College Prep Project, helping to prepare high school seniors for college. Phelps is an economics major from Ridgefield, Connecticut pursuing, certificates in finance and linguistics.

SERENA STARKS '23 (Softball)

Serena Starks is a junior outfielder and leadoff hitter for Princeton softball. As a sophomore, she was awarded the program's Patton-Poole Award as the team's most valuable player. Starks has embodied a commitment to service through her involvement with the Student-Athlete Service Council, Student-Athlete Wellness Leaders, Service Focus program and as Co-President of the Princeton Disability Awareness Board. Additionally she has been active with the Special Olympics, Best Buddies and Academic Success Today programs. Starks serves on the Department of Athletics' Tigers Together Executive Committee for Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, and co-founded the Asian Student-Athletes of Princeton student affinity group. A native of Huntington Beach, California, Starks is studying in the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs.