About Fun With Annuities Episode #54

This week's celebrity co-host Barry Dyke can legitimately be called "one of a kind." In this podcast, Barry and I dig deep into the details about how the global financial system works and how you can protect yourself. From the first words that come out of Barry's mouth, you know that he is a straight-shooter and is concerned about America and people trying to take care of their money.

To give you a little background, his book "The Pirates of Manhattan,” is one of the most unique financial books ever written. It was published in May of 2007 and gave consumers and financial advisors a detailed historical overview of the underlying problems within the American financial system. He actually warned us of the financial crisis before it happened. In the follow up "The Pirates of Manhattan II: Highway to Serfdom," Barry warns us that America is an empire in decline. We have an asset management industrial complex that controls the nation's savings and credit for the enrichment of Wall Street, mutual fund companies, global asset managers, executive insiders, and the media. If you want to know "how the sausage is made" in the financial world, Barry Dyke is that factual truth-teller. And we pack in a lot of juicy insights into episode #54.

Barry chimed in with this gem, "Do your own research. If something sounds too good to be true, it generally is." I swear, I did not pay him to say that! I'm pumped for you all to listen in to this conversation.

Bio Celebrity Co-host: Barry Dyke

Barry Dyke is a best-selling author, nationally respected RIA (Registered Investment Advisor), and keynote speaker. He's committed to telling the truth about how today's financial service and retirement planning systems continue to serve Wall Street, the government, the media, Ivy League academia, and giant asset managers such as mutual funds.

That is why he started his advisory firm, Castle Asset Management, LLC – a firm focused on the efficient and effective creation of wealth and protecting that wealth from being transferred to the government, financial institutions, and other third parties.

His best-selling books about Wall Street include The Pirates of Manhattan and The Pirates of Manhattan II: Highway to Serfdom. His most recent book, Guaranteed Income: A Risk-Free Guide to Retirement, is a must-read. He also has a terrific YouTube series: Barry James Dyke: The Economic Warrior that I think you will find interesting.

In This Episode:

Compliance at family offices, hedge funds, and other securities offices.

Possible hiccups and downturns on the horizon.

The misinformation around the 4% Rule.

The research behind Barry’s book, The Pirates of Manhattan.

Key Takeaways:

Family offices have more assets (money under management) than hedge funds.

The general public doesn’t know what is going on and most people don’t know that they don’t know what is happening.

Major banks buy more life insurance and fixed annuities than anybody.

All things tend to return to the mean. Essentially, people with major pension plans could get the same return just by throwing their money into 10-30 year treasuries.

Fun With Annuities® Podcast is hosted by America’s Annuity Agent®, Stan Haithcock, The Annuity Man®. Hear brutal annuity facts with no sales pitches from the top independent agent in the country, licensed in all 50 states. Author of 7 books, Stan dives deep on all annuity types and strategies. It’s fun, learning the contractual truths on how annuities actually work and if they’ll fit your personal retirement lifestyle.