One of the last of the living survivors of the 1941 attacks on Pearl Harbor has died at the age of 102.

Richard C. Higgins died on Tuesday at his home in Bend, Oregon, of natural causes, according to his granddaughter Angela Norton.

Higgins was born on a farm near Mangum, Oklahoma, on July 24, 1921, and joined the Navy in 1939.

He was a radioman stationed in Pearl Harbor and was assigned to a patrol squadron of seaplanes based at the Hawaii naval base on the morning of the December 7 Japanese attacks.

The airstrike killed more than 2,400 Americans and prompted the United States to declare war on Japan. As of now, just 22 survivors of the attack are still alive.

Higgins frequently recounted his experience as a veteran during the Pearl Harbor attacks later in his life.

In an Instagram video uploaded in May, 2020, Higgins described the day of December 7 from his point of view.

On an account called @quarantine_chats_with_gramps, Higgins recalled how he pushed planes away from each other as bombs fell around him during the attack.

'I was moving planes away from ones that were on fire, because when the tanks exploded, they threw burning gas on the others,' he said.

Higgins recalled the historic day in an oral history interview published in 2008. He remembered being awoken by explosions and then dashing to the porch of his quarters.

'I jumped out of my bunk, and I ran over to the edge of the lanai and just as I got there, a plane went right over the barracks,' he recalled.

The plane had 'big red meatballs on it,' he said, referencing Japan's rising sun flag, 'so there was no doubt what was happening in my mind.'

Higgins became a superhero in his Oregon neighborhood, and was recently honored on the 82nd Pearl Harbor anniversary by Bend High School.

At the December 7, 2023, service - Higgins was met with standing ovations, tears and gratitude as the community showed up to demonstrate their love and support.

The veteran had celebrated his 102nd birthday on July 24, 2023, alongside community members who had shown up to visit Higgins, who was wearing a festive '102' birthday crown, bringing balloons and U.S. flags.

A parade of vintage cars and motorbikes drove down Higgins' street to honor the birthday boy and he even got a visit from Oregon cops who turned up to pay their respect.

Higgins described himself as a '102-year-old Pearl Harbor survivor, husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather' and said he was 'sharing my stories before I forget them.'

Higgins's wife, Winnie Ruth, died in 2004 at the age of 82 after the pair had been married for 60 years.

After he went to hospice last Thursday, he told his granddaughter 'I'm ready to go see Winnie Ruth.'