Documentary juggernaut Kirby Dick joins us this week on BYOD to provide expanded insight into his films and the craft of film making. Our conversation spans from his recent Sundance Audience Award winning film “The Invisible War,” through his 25 year body of work.

As it is Valentine’s day, we are naturally drawn to some of the person to person elements that define his output. After the tease interview we got at

Sundance this year, its great to get to expand our understanding of one of the truly great documentarians working today. Enjoy!

Watch new episodes of BYOD live each week on Tuesdays at noon on TheLip.TV, or tune in for the archived replay starting here on the following Thursday.

ABOUT BYOD:

BYOD is co-hosted by Ondi Timoner, director of “DIG!,” “JOIN US” and “WE LIVE IN PUBLIC,” and has the rare distinction of winning the Grand Jury Prize at Sundance twice, and Vladimir Radovanov, entertainment attorney, and executive producer of “WE LIVE IN PUBLIC.” Each week the show explores a different documentary filmmaker or aspect of filmmaking, with special guests and a live Q&A– diving deep into creative process and the business realities of producing and distributing films. Ondi and Vladimir share their insider views, opinions, and personal stories, welcoming audience participation. BYOD aims to entertain, inform, and elevate documentaries in general by bringing attention to films and film makers that deserve exposure.

GUEST BIO:

Kirby Dick is an Academy Award-nominated documentary director, one of the most prolific and eclectic filmmakers working in the field today. Dick has been a regular contributor at Sundance Film Festival over the years. His films have screened at the Venice, Berlin, Toronto, San Sebastian, Locarno, Edinburgh, Yamagata Film Festivals and many others as well.

His latest film “The Invisible War” received this year’s coveted Audience Award: Documentary at Sundance 2012.

Dick is also one of the founders and creative directors of Chain Camera Pictures, a Los Angeles-based company that produces critically acclaimed documentaries for international theatrical and television release.

ADD’L LINKS:

http://kirbydick.com/

http://www.sundance.org/festival/

http://invisiblewarmovie.com/