JOSEF SVOBODA, who has died aged 81, was one of the most influential theatre set designers of the 20th century, credited with more than 700 productions in theatres and opera houses around the world.

Renowned for his technical wizardry, Svoboda was one of the first designers to introduce mixed media technology into the theatre, cleverly balancing the static and active using devices such as mirrors, abstract projections, hydraulically powered ramps, mobile rostra, multiple tiers and dramatic chunks of scenery.

A brown-eyed sunburned, smiling man with a wide high-cheekboned face, Svoboda was described as looking "more like a shepherd who lives all day in the open air than a theatre designer".

He projected his own craggy vitality on to his sets, making them an inseparable part of the dramatic action. "Theatre sets should be part of the audience", he explained. "Ideally the audience should be able to see the stage in every dimension."

Svoboda became chief designer of the National Theatre in his native Czechoslovakia at the age of 28, and gained international recognition at the world exhibition, EXPO 58, held in Brussels.

There, with the Czech theatre director Alfred Radok, he created a multi-media performance combining film projection, sounds, lights, pantomime and dance, and called it "Lanterna Magika".

He incorporated Lanterna Magika principles into his stage work, often projecting images on to such surfaces as plastic, mirrors and netting.

Not everyone appreciated Svoboda's artistry. His famous designs for Gotz Friedrich's Ring at Covent Garden (1974), in which the Niebelungs hammered away in a murky subterranean sweatshop beneath a huge platform raised and lowered by a giant piston, caused an outcry among the more traditionally-minded critics, one of whom described his sets as "nothing more than a huge box of tricks". Others, though, found them "magical" and "visually stunning".

Josef Svoboda was born at Caslaw, Czechoslovakia, on May 10 1920 and trained at a special school for interior architecture and at the Academy of Applied Arts, Prague. His multi-media ideas developed from experimental work carried out in the 1930s by F. Buria and Miroslav Kouril, who offered Svoboda the support of his Prague Institute of Scenography.

But it was not until the Communist regime eased restrictions after his appointment as chief designer of the National Theatre in Prague in the late 1940s that Svoboda had a chance to develop his ideas.

He first visited Britain during the 1964 Edinburgh Festival, designing the sets for Prague Opera's productions of Smetana's Dalibor, Dvorak's Rusalka and Janacek's Katya Kabanova.

He also designed the production of the Capeks' The Insect Play which the Czech National Theatre took to London in the World Theatre Season of 1966, and in which slanting mirrors enabled the actors to float insect-like in the air, swim in the flowers or suddenly disappear.

As a result of that visit, Svoboda was commissioned by the National Theatre Company to design a production of Ostrovsky's The Storm (1966) with moody, abstract settings.

The following year, he teamed up with Laurence Olivier on Chekhov's Three Sisters, designing a set which astonished with its dazzling construction of silver hanging cords masquerading as walls and forests. He returned to the Old Vic in 1970 to design Simon Gray's adaptation of Dostoevsky's The Idiot.

At Covent Garden, his designs for Debussy's Pelleas and Melisande (1969) delighted the eye with floating gauzes, smoky patterns and kaleidoscopic colours. He gave a flying start to Verdi's Nabucco in 1972 and to Tannhauser the following year.

Svoboda retired as chief designer at the Prague National Theatre in 1973 to become artistic director of the city's Lanterna Magika Theatre. Despite the Communist authorities' clampdown on Czech theatres in the late 1970s, he was allowed to continue his work because of his international reputation.