Derby technology firm continues to lead from the front with global exports on the up

24/08/2023

Category: General

Derby-based STRUMIS Ltd continues to grow with the firm now exporting to 68 countries worldwide.

The specialist software provider, which has had a 40 per cent increase in turnover during the past two years, along with a 15% uplift in their workforce, is currently supplying 45,000 users with its MRP technology to help steel fabrication companies increase their efficiency and productivity whilst also assisting their digital transformation. Today, STRUMIS Ltd delivers supply chain solutions with sustainability and compliance at the top of their development agenda.

Founded in 1986, STRUMIS Ltd is recognised as the global leader in MRP type software programs for steel fabrication, servicing customers from its offices in the UK, America, Australia, South Africa and UAE. STRUMIS Ltd serves many of the world’s largest structural steel fabricators, and, through Workstations Specialists, many recognisable organisations such as NASA, Glaxo SmithKline Beecham and UK Atomic Energy Authority its specialist, high-end hardware solutions.

With a rich history, the firm is also a proud member of the British Constructional Steelwork Association, a trade body which has been representing the UK and Irish structural steel sector for over a century.

In a recent visit, 1 August 2023, to the STRUMIS Ltd office, Amanda Solloway, MP for Derby North, recognised the firm’s determination for growth and was shown the innovative software solutions that are being designed for the constructional steel industry.

Amanda Solloway MP said: "It was lovely to meet the Strumis team and learn about their global leading work delivering software solutions to the steel industry. Following a presentation about the company, I had a tour of their offices and met all of the staff many who have been there for over twenty years. Strumis is a testament to the very best of British software development and it is fantastic to see yet another global leader in innovation taking advantage of the opportunities Derby has to offer."

Stuart Thompson, CEO of STRUMIS Ltd said: “It was a pleasure to host Amanda Solloway MP, along with David Moore from the BCSA, at our Head Office in Derby. The interest that Amanda showed in both STRUMIS and Workstations Specialist was very well received. We are immensely proud of our Derby heritage; it is the foundation of our global business. We will continue to invest in our people and in our products in order to best serve our customers and the constructional steel industry. In this ever more testing business environment, it is reassuring to know that we have the support of both our industry association, the BCSA, and our elected member of Parliament.”

David Moore, Chief Executive Officer of BCSA said: “I would like to personally thank Ms Holloway for taking the time out of her busy constituency schedule to visit STRUMIS. “At a time of considerable challenge in the steelwork construction sector, not least driven by inflation and energy pricing fluctuations, the work of STRUMIS is very valuable across the steelwork sector in delivering efficiency and productivity. It was great to be able to showcase this value, especially given the wider context of manufacturing in the current climate.”