Leo has a warm way of dealing with colleagues. That helped him quickly win sympathy from members of the film crew Titanic. “What I felt about Leo at that time was freedom, generosity, and a vibrant source of energy that was very attractive. Right then, I knew I would have an interesting collaboration, we would definitely get along, reality showed it," Kate said.

Throughout filming with Leo, Kate realized the very natural chemistry between the two in all aspects. They can easily find harmony. Later on, every time I look back at the filming process Titanic (1997), Kate always cherishes the wonderful experience she had with her closest co-star in her career.

Kate said that to this day, she and Leo are still very close, they still remember the filming process Titanic and was very interested in how the film was received by the contemporary public.

Whenever they remember each other or think back about the experience of filming together, they can call each other immediately to chat, and both sides are always excited to receive each other's calls. Communication between them happened very easily. They never let busyness become the reason why both sides gradually lose interest in each other. For Kate, this really makes sense.

Because he has loved Kate for the past 25 years, Leo will never get married?

Over the years, the public has always questioned whether there are feelings "above friendship" between Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio.

There have always been rumors that because he loved Kate so much, Leo only dated young girls and refused to get married, even though Kate had... her third marriage.

Speculation about the love story between Kate and Leo appeared right after they appeared so beautiful as a couple Titanic.

In fact, Kate and Leo became close friends after filming Titanic, they have maintained a close friendship ever since. After two good on-screen pairings, the two friends still create a bit of poetry and romance in their relationship, causing the public to continue to speculate.

Up to now, every time they appear together at an event, Kate and Leo still seem a little special and passionate.

Coming out of the movie Titanic (1997), Kate and Leo made the public expect that the two would love each other, but they would always just be close friends. In 2017, Kate Winslet revealed: "You won't want to know the details of our conversations. Because we are really silly and funny, which makes us laugh a lot every time we see each other."

Kate Winslet explains that the friendship between the two is so strong because they have no romantic feelings for each other, so the two can cheer each other on very carefree in both career and life.

“I understand people will be quite disappointed, because in the movie Titanic, Leo and I fell in love at first sight and had many intimate scenes, but in real life we ​​are not like that. Leo always considered me a... friend. I was never a girly girl in his eyes," Kate said.

As for Kate and Leo, they always insist that there is only friendship between the two, but the way they express their feelings for each other always raises speculations.

In 2008, director Sam Mendes (Kate Winslet's husband from 2003 to 2011) made the movie Revolutionary Road (Desire for Love), Kate and Leo are paired in the movie.

For this role, Kate won a Golden Globe Award Best Drama Actress. When she heard her name being announced, Kate immediately turned to hug and share her joy with Leo. After that, she turned to her husband - director Sam Mendes - to share her joy.

In her acceptance speech, she thanked Leo for their on-screen chemistry and their close friendship in real life.

Kate said: “Leo, I'm so happy to be standing here and telling you how much I've loved you all these years. His acting in this movie is amazing. I love you with all my heart.”

To respond to Kate's feelings, Leo, sitting from below, blew a kiss onto the stage. After the awards ceremony, Leo shared with reporters: "She is still as beautiful and shining as the day I first met her. She is the most wonderful person."

The earnest eyes that Kate directed at Leo when he stepped up to receive the Oscar made many people interested.

Whenever they talk about each other, Kate and Leo always use the most beautiful words. Kate commented on her longtime friend: “Leo is a trustworthy and very loyal friend. He was wonderful, not only to me but to many others as well. In many respects, Leo has not changed over time."

Meanwhile, Leo once said about Kate: "She is truly a scary person because she always makes her character's emotions blossom very naturally on screen, as you can see. In the film Titanic, we really liked each other as two people in real life."

The trick of the "Titanic" couple has made the public nervous for the past 25 years?

In 2022, a psychologist once said that Kate and Leo had collaborated to create a classic "fake flirting" scene in showbiz. “Fake flirting” is when two people, even though they have no real feelings, like to appear to “fall in love” with each other.

British psychologist - Ms. Judi James - said that behind all the "fake flirting" of stars, is the expectation that the movie they participate in will receive a lot of attention from the media and general public.

According to Ms. Judi James, both Leo and Kate are masters of acting, they deliberately create speculation to continue "raising their roles". This makes their romantic roles on screen still powerful enough to convince many generations of the public over the years. At the same time, this move also helps increase the couple's appeal to the media.

Source link