Happy Rockefeller (pictured in 1963) was 88 when she died at her home in Tarrytown, New York. Born Margaretta Fitler Murphy, she was 18 years younger than Nelson Rockefeller who was in the second of his four terms as governor when they married. "The first shock waves generated by the marriage of Governor Rockefeller to the former Mrs Murphy seem to have simmered down to a ripple," Gwen Gibson reported in The New York Herald Tribune at the time. "One look at this wholesome, dimple-chinned woman, and the most critical matron is apt to remark: 'She doesn't strike me as a femme fatale." While Rockefeller's governorship remained secure until 1973, he came no closer to the Oval Office than the vice-presidency, to which President Gerald R. Ford appointed him in 1974, ending the musical-chairs turmoil set off by the Watergate scandal.

Rockefeller and his wife had two sons, Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller Jr. in 1964 and Mark Fitler Rockefeller in 1967. She appeared with the governor at official and unofficial functions, and when he was an undeclared candidate for the Republican presidential nomination in 1968, she took an active part in his effort to win support, becoming a political asset in the view of many.

Though Nelson Rockefeller did not enter primaries, he campaigned, sought uncommitted delegates and cited his availability for a draft. Richard M. Nixon was nominated on the first ballot and went on to defeat Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey for the presidency.

In 1974, as her husband awaited Senate confirmation as vice-president, Happy Rockefeller learned she had breast cancer and had two mastectomies, five weeks apart. Weeks earlier, Ford's wife, Betty, also had a mastectomy. They and Shirley Temple Black were among the first to announce mastectomies publicly and were widely credited with raising national awareness for the early detection of breast cancer.

During his vice presidency, Rockefeller and his wife lived in their own home in Washington, though the official vice-presidential residence was established during his tenure at the former home of the chief of naval operations on the grounds of the U.S. Naval Observatory. They hosted several official functions there.

As the nation's second lady, Happy Rockefeller was a low-key presence in Washington, and often spent time in New York and at the Rockefeller estate at Pocantico Hills, New York. Rockefeller served until a defeated Ford left office in January 1977.

A year after Nelson Rockefeller died, in 1979, Ronald Reagan became the only divorced man elected to the presidency. His 1949 divorce from Jane Wyman was not a major campaign issue in 1980, largely because it had occurred three decades earlier

Margaretta Large Fitler was born in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, on June 9, 1926, one of two children of Margaretta Large Harrison Fitler and her first husband, William Wonderly Fitler Jr., a yachtsman and heir to an $8 million cordage fortune. A scion of Main Line privilege, Happy - she acquired the nickname for her sunny disposition - was a descendant of Gen. George Gordon Meade, who commanded Union forces at the Battle of Gettysburg. She and her brother, William, were often left in the care of servants, and her parents divorced when she was 10.

She was a popular but indifferent student at the Shipley School in Bryn Mawr. After graduating in 1944, she became a wartime driver for the Women's Volunteer Service in Philadelphia. She made her debut in 1946 and married Murphy two years later. They had four children, three of whom survive her: James B. II, Margaretta M. Bickford and Carol M. Lyden. The fourth, Malinda M. Menotti, died in 2005.

Happy Rockefeller is also survived by her sons with Nelson Rockefeller, Nelson Jr. and Mark, and 14 grandchildren.