BEML Limited bags new contract from Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation (BMRC) for the supply of Rolling Stock

BEML Limited has received the Letter of Acceptance from Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation (BMRC) for supply of Rolling Stock contract 5RS-DM valued at approximately Rs. 3,177 crores.

More Details:

BEML Limited is a leading multi-technology ‘Schedule A’ company under the Ministry of Defence, has secured the Letter of Acceptance from Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation (BMRC) for supply of Rolling stock contract 5RS-DM valued at approximately Rs. 3,177 crores.

About BMRCL:

Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL), a joint venture of Government of India and Government of Karnataka, is a Special Purpose Vehicle entrusted with the responsibility of implementation and operation of Bangalore Metro Rail Project.

Bangalore Metro, christened as “Namma Metro”, not only adds to the beauty of Bangalore city skyline, but more importantly provides a safe, quick, reliable and comfortable public transport system. Besides this, Namma Metro is a major environment friendly addition to the Bangalore City as it significantly contributes to the reduction of carbon emissions.

Metro services have been in operation on 56 KM on East-West corridor – 25.6 km long, starting from Baiyappanahalli in the East and terminating at Kengeri Terminal in the West and on 30.4 km North-South corridor commencing at Nagasandra in the North and terminating at Silk Institute in the South.

This is the First Metro rail project in India commissioned with 750V DC Third Rail Traction on Standard Gauge.

About BEML Limited:

BEML Limited (formerly Bharat Earth Movers Limited) was established in May 1964 as a Public Sector Undertaking for manufacture of Rail Coaches & Spare Parts and Mining Equipment at its Bangalore Complex.

The Company has partially disinvested and presently Government of India owns 54 percent of total equity and the rest 46 percent is held by Public, Financial Institutions, Foreign Institutional Investors, Banks and Employees.

BEML Limited, a ‘Schedule-A’ Company, plays a pivotal role and serves India’s core sectors like Defence, Rail, Power, Mining and Infrastructure.

The Company operates under three major Business verticals viz., Mining & Construction, Defence and Rail & Metro.

The three verticals are serviced by nine manufacturing units located at Bangalore, Kolar Gold Fields (KGF), Mysore, Palakkad and Subsidiary – Vignyan Industries Ltd, in Chikmagalur District.

Source: BEML- Press Release | Image Credit: BEML