Tupac Amaru Shakur, most known by the name 2Pac and briefly also known as Makaveli, was an american rapper and actor. He was born on June 16, 1971 in East Harlem, New York. Tupac was raised by his mother as a child and she was a member of the “Black Panthers”. But during the time of her pregnancy with Tupac, she was in jail with bombing charges. She was facing a possible sentence of up to three hundred years in prison. But she was her own attorney and she beat the charges and was released from jail just in time for Tupacs birth (one month before his birth). His father was not present during Tupac's childhood, in fact Tupac said he never knew his father or who was his father. His godfather, Geronimo Pratt, was also a Black Panther but he was more of a high-ranking Black Panther. His step-father, Mutulu, was a drug dealer, so based on what Tupac said he was pretty much never around to discipline him. Much of Tupac's childhood was influenced by the Black Panthers. Tupac moved around from home to home with his mother and half-sister. As a result he only had a few friends and wrote poetry to keep himself busy. At the age of 12, Tupac joined a Harlem theatre group and acted in “A Raisin in the Sun.” In 1984, Tupac, his mother, and his half-sister moved to Baltimore, Maryland. They lived on Greenmount Ave. in East Baltimore. There he was despised because of the way he looked, his name, and the clothing he would wear. But he did make quite a few friends. There he went to Roland Park Middle School. He then went to Paul Lawrence Dunbar High for his freshmen year, then he went to Baltimore School for the Arts for his sophomore. There he was a gifted student, but also gained respect by acting like a tough guy. Tupac later wrote a song by th... ... middle of paper ... ...m were Dr. Dre, Nas, Jay Z, LL Cool J, Chino XL, Lil Kim, Junior Mafia, etc. But the most famous one probably was with his former friend The Notorious B.IG. after a dispute between them because Tupac accused Biggie of having something to do with the robbery and his attempted murder. On September 7, 1996 in Las Vegas, Nevada, Tupac was killed in drive-by shooting after attending a boxing match between Mike Tyson and Bruce Seldon. He died six days later from four gunshot wound in the University of Nevada Hospital. Tupac and Death Row Records usually depended on the Bloods gang for protection while Biggie and the Bad Boy Records depended on the Crips for protection. Its rumored that Biggie (who was also in Las Vegas during the fight) offered to pay the Crips in exchange for Tupac's murder. But Biggie was murdered six months later after Tupac's death in a similar way.