A rum and coke seems an odd choice for toasting the new James Bond film, No Time To Die, but my drinking partner doesn’t like vodka martinis. We’re sitting high above the powder-white Jamaican coastline at the Jamaica Inn hotel, formerly a favourite of Ian Fleming’s, and the longer we stay the more my guest’s drink feels out of place. How so? Because it was right here in this very bar, I learn, that Fleming devised the famous “shaken not stirred” martini.

I’m drinking at a table on the terrace which is, I learn, the exact spot Fleming loved so much. Between 1946 and 1964, the Bond author escaped Britain for the peace and tranquility of Jamaica for two months each winter, where he’d conjure inspiration for the Bond novels. It was here he’d relax and socialise with a cohort of wartime friends – the likes of Noel Coward and Roald Dahl – away from a nation he perceived to be tirelessly politically correct. Fleming once posed the question: “Would the books have been born if I had not been living in the gorgeous vacuum of a Jamaican holiday?” to which he replied himself: “I doubt it.”

Back at the Inn, General Manager Kyle Mais is regaling me with that story. “Fleming and a bunch of friends were having drinks one night when they decided to have martinis,” he says. I get the sense he’s told this story once or twice before. “But we’re in Jamaica, it’s hot and humid. So they add ice to the shaker and ask the bartender to shake it for as long as he can. He pours it into a martini glass and that’s where the concept of shaken, not stirred came from.”

The Jamaica Inn is one of a several luxury properties across Jamaica that can boast a storied James Bond past. And gloriously for Bond fans, very little has changed in the 60 years since the first Bond film, Dr No was filmed here. Recognisable locations from that film and 1973’s Live & Let Die lie largely unbothered by locals, unchanged with the passing of time.

“Bond’s retiring where it all began,” Kyle responds when I ask why he thinks Bond returns to Jamaica for a fourth outing with No Time To Die (The Man With the Golden Gun is also set on Jamaica but was filmed in Thailand). Replacing my drink, barman Derek joins in by gesturing across the hotel lawn towards the ocean. “The only thing that’s changed over the years are the coconut palm trees. Most of those washed away.”

The palms may have gone, but Derek asserts that all else is “basically the same” as it was in Fleming’s day. He should know: Derek’s in his 40th year of employment and another employee remembers the filming of Live And Let Die. His name is Teddy and he now runs Teddy’s Bar on the beach. It seems a fair reward for 57 years of service.

A few miles down the coastline at Fleming’s private home Goldeneye and there’s a more obvious sense of Bond history. (You’d certainly hope so for the price tag at this former home turned lux retreat.) In the villa, the minimalist style Fleming enjoyed so much requires very little modernising: large oblong windows frame the seaview and only a few expensive-looking sofas and carefully positioned coffee table books give away the secret that this private home is now an incredibly expensive hotel suite. Access to the whole Fleming Villa starts from $6,365 a night in down season from September to October. Interested in the Villa for Christmas, towards the end of peak season? That’s $15,270 per night.

“You sometimes see guests arrive to breakfast with outfits copied from the Bond films,” a staff member tells me as we look at the blue and white waves from a reception room stuffed with Bond paraphernalia. “Someone wore a famous and not particularly flattering outfit worn by Sean Connery in one of the films once. Shorts and a blue collared top.” A handmade-looking wooden plank bridge leads down to a row of ocean view villas that are also part of the hotel. On either side of the walkway simple metal stairways give access to secluded pockets of ocean. An infinity pool curves flirtatiously by the bar.

A short drive into the Blue Mountains along a steep side road takes me to Firefly, once the hilltop hideaway of playwright Noel Coward, a great friend of Fleming’s. Here, he’d seek discretion with his lover Graham Payne and a different sort of discretion with Fleming: in the mountains the duo could enjoy rampant and uncensored creative and political debates. Coward said in his final interview with The New York Times that “one’s real inside self is a private place and should always stay like that… I have taken a lot of trouble with my public face.” This pronouncement feels especially pertinent at the remote Firefly, where Coward’s garden grave faces the ocean before a magnificent view, one of Jamaica’s most sprawling and magnificent.

Laughing Waters is perhaps the island’s most iconic Bond attraction. Here Dr. No’s Honey Ryder, played by Ursula Andress, rises from the water to meet Bond. Private beach status means the spot remains as untouched today as it was for the shoot nearly 60 years ago. “We haven’t had any Bond visitors in three months,” one staff member tells me as I’m signed onto the discreet property by security.

Almost nothing seems to have changed here since Connery serenaded Andress with “Underneath the Mango Tree”. Eager fans will remember a sandbank where Bond, Ryder and Quarrell hid from Dr. No’s henchman. Storms and erosion have made role-playing that particular scene impossible as the sandbank has disappeared – but I’d recommend sauntering out of the water in swimwear just as Honey did. (One word of warning: you’ll have to bring your own conch shell to recreate the scene; shells on the beach are scarce and tiny.)

The beach is named after the Laughing Waters waterfall, which babbles away metres from where Andress would have posed for the promo shot that she’s spent decades autographing for fans at memorabilia shows. Dr. No fans will remember Ryder, Bond and Quarrell escaping up this waterfall to evade Dr. No’s henchmen. Recreating this scene is easier, or simply remove your shoes and paddle past the tumbling falls to experience the sensation of the cool mountain water clashing with the bathtub-warm ocean. Try it: you’ll be stirred, not shaken.