SuperiorityWire Threaded Inserts are novel and indispensable thread fastening system, provide simple and cost saving for repairing or creating stronger threads. Inserts are precision formed screw thread coils which, when installed into Wire Thread tapped holes, provide permanent and wear resistant thread in parent material i.e. generally stronger than the original thread. The inserts are designed to be greater in diameter than the tapped hole and compress as they are installed. This allows maximum surface contact area with the tapped thread, permanently anchoring the inserts into the place.

The inserts action shares the load over the entire bolt and hole increasing holding or pull out strength. With a Wire Thread Insert in place, load and stress are evenly distributed.

Features

The unique design features of insert offer many benefits for OEMs:

Stronger Assemblies

No Thread Wire

Corrosion Resistance

Design Flexibility

Eliminate Stress

Minimize Space & Weight

Minimize Total Cost

True Clamping Torque

Wide Temperature Range

Total Reliability

Free Running InsertsFree running inserts have a spring like appearance. When installed using any one of a variety of manual or automatic tools they provide strong permanent internal threads which resist heat and corrosion.

SJ EXIM Tech is a top notch leading Cosmetic Licensing company in India providing cosmetic registration services to pan India and abroad. Our worldwide clientele and in-depth experience has reached us to meridians in EXIM Industry. Initiating a foreign trade business brings tedious process and brain draining complex procedures in mind. But, we make it easier and convenient for you to complete and assure the entire cosmetic registration process and getting approval without leaving any roadblocks.

We, at SJ EXIM Tech follow a punctilious metrology to assure the quality of ingredients and labeling for registration in India. The cosmetic application form should clearly define the products in respective of categories and descriptions. With our distinct experience in assisting several product registrations and certifications, we are the most authentic regulatory partner you need to appoint for getting your cosmetic registration approval without any glitches.

Cosmetic Registration is an intricate process, as it needs a prolonged documentation, proceedings and tedious legal formalities. Here, at SJ EXIM Tech, we assist you in getting you a smooth and hassle free Cosmetic Licensing registration in India by deploying our strategically designed online E-filling software tool. Our dynamic online E-filling software tool enables to fulfill all the necessary legal documentations to ensure the license approval on your finger tips. Our quality services can assure you to have better experience and reliability and not only this but also keep you ahead of your competitors.

For Manufacturer

SJ EXIM Tech is a prime Cosmetic Registration consultancy company proffering the niche services in cosmetic licensing domain. We assist cosmetic manufacturers to attain the cosmetics manufacturing license and also test their products and ingredients via certified labs in India. The following licenses are required for cosmetic product manufacturing and market in India according to D & C Act, 1940.

The Cosmetics Import Registration is governed as per G.S.R. 426(E) dated: 19th May 2010 published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary Part-II, Section-3. The rules are called as The Drugs & Cosmetics Rules, 1945 and The Drugs & Cosmetics Act, 1940.

For ImportersSJ EXIM Tech is the reliable cosmetic licensing consultancy company providing panoptic regulatory services in diverse regions and different verticals for many years. We are the most trusted helping hand for cosmetic manufacturers and importers for giving our vigorous assistance in clearing mandatory liaison work with the cosmetic authorities without any hitches.

For Labeling Assistance

Cosmetic Labeling is required to be done as per the regulations set by the Govt. authorized cosmetic advisory board CDSCO. SJ EXIM Tech has been providing cutting edge cosmetics labeling services to our precious clients around the world. We give 100% assistance to ensure all accurate legal regulatory information regarding the products like (Registration Certificate) RC number, font format, manufacturing details, ingredients descriptions, chemical compositions and validity etc. need to be declare prior to launching the product in the market.

SJ EXIM Tech provides consultation for cosmetic labeling instruction in India as per the norms and conditions set by the cosmetic licensing authority CDSCO in application form no. 43.

For Sample TestingWith the rapid growth in fashion industry and latest trend, cosmetics and health care products have been playing a pivotal role in our daily life. Using hygienic products, it becomes indispensible to firstly ensure the quality of these products. The indigenously manufactured as well as imported products should be undergone a stringent quality parameters to ensure the quality control checks before they reach the consumer. We SJ EXIM Tech provide you highly scalable, reliable, and smooth cosmetic sample testing services right from the sample testing via certified labs to completing entire liaison work to ensure the approval in cosmetic licensing.

We are the eminent Advance Authorization Consultants of India providing the cutting edge solutions for advance authorization. The company has unturned many milestones in assisting our worldwide clients with our exotic advance authorization consultancy services. As per the norms and conditions an Advance Authorization can be issued to duty free import of inputs, which are physically incorporated in the export product, intermediate supplies and deemed exports. In addition, fuel, oil, energy, catalysts etc. are also allowed those are required to consumed/utilized in the course of their use to obtain the export product. The advance authorization scheme can also be drawn to duty free import of mandatory spares up to 10% of the CIF value of the (AA). Though, DGFT has authority to exclude any product from the diameter of advance authorization.

Since the inception of SJ EXIM Tech, we have been serving as one of the most trusted Advance Authorization consultants and reliable partner on behalf of our clients for more tactful and speedy EXIM of your products. Our vast experience and versatile professional team assist you in throughout the regulatory authorization process ensuring successful submissions and approvals. Our prime motto is to provide you hassle free regulatory proceedings by our strategically designed online E-filing software tool. Our well-structured automation tools can help you to fulfill all the mandatory legal regulatory documentations on a single click. Our comprehensive advance authorization services ensure you to get the advance authorization approvals by obviating any chance of rejection.

However, the entire process is too complicated but we make it easy for you to get all liaison work for getting Advance Authorization. At SJ EXIM Tech, we assist you by our 24x7 technical support and proud to underline the necessary guidelines for Advance authorization.

Advance Authorization scheme strictly follows certain obligation as mentioned below:-Advance Authorization scheme is applicable only for the manufacturer exporter or merchant exporter those are tied-up with the supporting manufacturer(s) of:-

Physical exports

Intermediate supplies and

Deemed Exports.

Advance Authorization is subject to ADHOC norms and conditions mentioned in Para 4.7 of handbook of Procedures, which emphasize that it is non- transferable and inhibited to sell out. In addition, the AA scheme is beneficial for the imports and export items given under SION.

Export obligation form can be fulfilled within a stipulated time frame of 36 months.

The validity for Imports is 24 Months.

Advance Authorizations are exempted from payment of following Duties:

Basic Customs Duty

Additional Customs duty, Education Cess

Anti dumping duty and

Safeguard duty, if any.

Value Addition: Minimum Value Addition is 15%.

The mandatory legal documents required for Advanced Authorization are as follows:

I.E. code copy

RCMC

Digital key

Performa Invoice

Letter head - 10 sheets

S.S.I. or IEM certificate

Import Order copy/Re-export order copy

Chartered accountant certificate

SJ EXIM Tech has a very unique solution for Exporters & Importers in terms of online Freight Booking for their EXIM cargo. We have built the world class online freight booking process by Air mode for all your EXIM cargo. The system works on a real time quote generation for your cargo booking requirements. It is a hassle free system which facilitates an online Freight Quote Generation on a Real time basis. Based on the Freight Quote Generated online you may further proceed to book your Cargo by Air transportation.

An Exporter can close their business deal with their buyer by using this online tool to submit their CIF or FOB Commercials. There is no tool globally which can generate Freight Quotes on a Real time basis. Hence this tool shall certainly help Exporters & Importers to ship their goods at the fastest possible TAT.

The Project Imports shall apply for the assessment and clearance of goods falling under heading No. 98.01 of the First Schedule to the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975). Under this act, only those goods can be imported which are being used for initial start- up of an industrial plant or substantial expansion of an existing unit. This act regulates to assess all goods under uniform stipulated custom tariffs to avert any problematic issue with respect to their classification. Our Project Imports consultants ensure you to stimulate the entire liaison work for government authorized projects like Irrigation project, power project, Mining project, and Oil Exploration projects.

At SJ EXIM Tech, We have been providing a broad spectrum of Project Imports services including registration, application formats, legal documentations, representation and coordination with the concerned government authorities. We follow a unique metrology to assure the approval of your dreamed project. Our hard core experienced and professional team works together to maximize the benefits out of this scheme to get optimum returns from your investments. Not only approval, we also assist you in getting redemptions of Bonds/ BG customs. In addition if EPCG is also envisaged, we can assist in getting the same issued by DGFT office.

We are dedicated to provide customized solutions to get extreme satisfaction to our precious worldwide clients. To achieving this task, SJ EXIM Tech is undertaking the turnkey jobs of a particular project in association with our associates. This may include logistics, customs clearances, licensing, approvals, duty benefit schemes like EPCG and related requirements. Our consolidated services and portfolio enables you to take strategic decisions for getting optimum results within your budgetary constraints.

With a broad spectrum of legal advisory services in Central boards of Excise & Customs, we are the most expletive CBEC Consultant in India. Carrying a versatile experience in EXIM industry, we hold up with a core technical team to handle your legal issues at the Board level in Central Board of Excise & Customs. We are an ideal and trustworthy CBEC legal advisory partner to represent your EXIM issues at CBEC and committed to assist you throughout the approval process at every stage pursuing International Foreign trade business. We optimize the methodology by adopting the best practices and proactively develop approach to achieve extreme clients' satisfaction.

To make tranquil procedures and hassle free proceedings, we have designed an integrated online E-filling Software tool. Our comprehensive and strategically structured online E-filling software tool will support you to represent the entire liaison work at central board of Excise & Customs at single click.

Our motto "Doing Business at Ease" fetch your each and every requirement by using our authentic online software tool to have better experience being working with us.

We are providing a panoptic range of legal advisory services in following domains:-

Central Excise & Service Tax

Consultancy for technical and non technical issues

Legal advisory

Appealing liaison work in CBEC

Registration and Licensing Assistance

Cosmetic Registration Assistance for Manufacturers and Importers

Cosmetic Re-registration Assistance

Cosmetic Labeling Assistance

Cosmetic Sample Testing in certified labs

Rewards/Incentive Schemes under FTP

Served from India (SFIS)

VKGUY – Vishesh Krishi and Gram Udyog Yojna

Focus Market Scheme (FMS)

Status Holder Incentive Script (SHIS)

Duty Exemption and Remission Schemes

Advance Authorization

DGFT Assistance

DFIA Assistance

DEPB Assistance

EPCG Assistance

Redemption Assistance

Refund Assistance

Refund of Terminal Excise duty against supply to EOU, SEZ and deemed export

Duty drawback against Export from Excise exempted zone

Please subscribe our Blog for further update on the changing regulatory guidelines in India.

Our highly qualified and experienced Customs and Central Excise agents and technology partners support you to complete the entire custom affairs process at ease. Our basic concept and the punch line "Ease of Doing business" formularized to make all the legal formalities at your convenience. To excel our productivity, we have introduced a well integrated online E-filling software tool to firm all the hassle free documentations and legal process on a single click. Our comprehensive online E-filling software tool has been strategically structured in such a way that you can access it from anywhere (Mobile/ Tab/ PC) at real time.

We are offering our comprehensive suit of Custom and Central Excise services for the following streams:-

SVBa

ACP

AEO

Project Import contract registration

Customs clearance and approvals

Policy & Procedural advisory

SJ EXIM Tech, a pioneered brand in DGFT Consultancy. We have been providing an extensive range of DGFT licensing services across diverse regions and diverse verticals. With our extremely hard core expertise in DGFT licensing constancy services, the company has been successfully satisfying the worldwide clients in foreign trade arena.

Our doctrine is to assist you throughout the entire Export – Import Trade via our vigorous policies. In order to facilitate you, we follow a simple mantra "Doing Business at Ease". We have designed online E-filling management software to automate the entire documentation process at real time. Our highly integrated E-filling tool will help you to do all legal formalities on a single click.

Our wide array of Export-import Licensing services is as follows:-

Export Import Committee proceedings

Import – Export code issue & modifications

EPCG License

Advance Authorization License

Norms Committee Permits

Export Incentives: DBK, DEPB, DFIA, EPCG

Indigenous Sourcing under EPCG

Redemptions of TED, Advance Authorization

SION process / modifications and Status Certificates etc.

Star Rating Licenses

Restricted Items special permits licensing

Repatriation and Clearance of Undrawn / Outstanding / Dead Export Proceeds.

D.E.P.B. License

V.K.G.U.Y License

4% S.A.D. refund from DGFT

4% Refund duty from customs.

In addition, our online E-filling software tool allows every entrepreneur to access it from anywhere. You can get updated yourself by using this authentic and dynamic E-filling software tool from your mobile, laptop or Tab. We are globally committed to give our quality services to reach you at new meridians at your budgetary constraints.

SJ EXIM Tech, a pioneered financial and legal consultancy company in India is not only providing A to Z EXIM services but also stretching its arms into IT consultancy domain. SJ EXIM Tech excel in IT consultancy providing vibrant services including Mobile Application Development, Customized Software Applications and Web development. We don't pause here even we are also taking up the digital marketing challenges rising up in the market. Our ethical and strategic SEO online techniques not only promote your marketing activities but also scale up your business selling records.

SJ Exim Tech assists you to develop variant mobile apps as per your requirement. To give you best IT solutions, firstly we get into the in-depth study of your business prototype. After the immersion of entire business scenario, we incorporate the best fitted IT solutions as per your need and suggestions. We deploy highly integrated and comprehensive customized software applications to achieve the target and fixing an exemplary feeling for better experience and better credibility.

We are globally committed to encapsulate our resources for your International appearance, marketing, automations, joint ventures, hassle free transactions, launching of new arrivals and many more across the world. SJ EXIM Tech will always support you to improve and dignified your business strategies enlighten your pathway running your business till never ending Endeavour.

Presenting our broad spectrum of IT services as follows:

Mobile Application Development

Customized Software Applications

Web development

Digital Marketing

SEO-Web Promotion

Content Development and So on.