Final Report Summary - FEED-TO-FOOD (Reinforcement of FEED-TO-FOOD Research Center at Institute for Food Technology of the Univetsity of Novi Sad)

Executive Summary:

Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD with proven high level Scientific and Technological capacities exists as the independent working unit for almost 50 years, and now it acts as a part of Institute of Food Technology (FINS) at the University of Novi Sad in Serbia. It is unique research institution specialized for feed technology in Southeast Europe and wider. When we proposed FP7 REGPOT-3-2007 project FEED-TO-FOOD we want to confirm our regional reputation and to upgrade own research potentials. Objectives stated in the REGPOT-2007-3 call were just what we lacked in order to become the leading institution at the European level in the research area that covers technological processes in the feed to food chain. The objectives of this project involve (i) reinforcement of the Centre for Feed and Animal Products into a modern Research Centre FEED-TO-FOOD upgraded with new researchers and pilot plant equipment capable of investigations in feed manufacturing technology; (ii) creation of a network for cooperation between research teams with scientific interests concerning the feed to food production chain;(iii) improvement of research capacities and filling the gap in experience in how to take part in complex and long-term EU research projects.

As a result of this project Research Centre FEED-TO-FOOD has developed through the upgrade and renewal of pilot plant equipment, by recruiting new researchers, by the training of staff (in particular young researchers), and by academic visits, trans-national two-way exchanges of research staff between project beneficiaries, workshops and similar activities. All project activities were aimed at providing a stimulating and inspiring climate for scientific activities within Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD, not only for experienced researchers, but more importantly for the young generation of researchers, thus preventing “brain drain”.

Objectives were achived in cooperation with project beneficiaries, well-known European research Institutions such as International Forschungsgemeinschaft Futtermitteltechnik, Braunschweig, Germany (IFIF), Institute National de la recherché agronomique, Clermont Ferrand - Teix, France (INRA) and the most prominent Institutes from European convergence regions such as National Research- Development Institute for Animal Biology and Nutrition, Bucharest-Balotesti, Romania (IBNA) and Institute of Animal Science of Lithuania, Baisogala, Lithuania (IAS). About thirty researchers from participating institutes were directly involved in FEED-TO-FOOD project activities, but much more people from research institutes, Universities, laboratories, SMEs and other stakeholders from EU and our regions were included through knowledge transfer (workshops, roundtable), FOOD CLUSTER INITIATIVE and other dissemination activities.

Under different type of activities through the FEED-TO-FOOD project, Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD is developed into the Institution ready to start with providing trainings and research opportunities to students, scientists and industry. Now, beside tradition and regional recognition, we have respectable reinforced research potential to fulfill stringent demands indicated in new FP7, Horizons 2020 and other EC calls. As the result of international cooperation eminent EU Institutes accepted us as the participants in FP7 and some other EU projects. The resulting cooperation will be based on a mutual benefit approach within the perspective of further integration of the Balkan region into the European Research Area (ERA) and therefore the European RTD activities and networks. This type of involvement improves the WBC research potential and favors a brain-gain environment. Research Centre FEED-TO-FOOD is widely recognized as the leader in feed technology and it is ready to participate in European RTD activities and assist in successful integration of Serbia, other West Balkan Countries and the whole region into the Europe.

Project Context and Objectives:

Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD with proven high level Scientific and Technological capacities exists as the independent working unit for almost 50 years, and now it acts as a part of Institute of Food Technology (FINS) at the University of Novi Sad in Serbia. It is unique research institution specialized for feed technology in Southeast Europe and wider. Following the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding associating the Republic of Serbia to the Seventh Framework Program of European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007-2013), research group from Institute of Food technology concerned with feed technology take the chance and get the FP7-REGPOT-2007-3 project “Reinforcement of Feed to Food Research Centre at Institute for Food Technology of the University of Novi Sad” (Acronym: FEED-TO-FOOD).

When we proposed this project we want to confirm our regional reputation and to upgrade own research potentials. Objectives stated in the REGPOT-2007-3 call were just what we lacked in order to become the leading institution at the European level in the research area that covers technological processes in the feed to food chain. The program planned through proposed FEED-TO-FOOD project forms a coherent set of coordination, training, dissemination, and development actions directly aimed at:

• Improving research capacities of Research Centre FEED-TO-FOOD

• Increasing networking with EU research institutions and

• Making experience in how to take part in EU research projects.

The FEED-TO-FOOD project has fully achieved its objectives and technical goals and has even exceeded expectations:

• Research capacities are improved by:

o Purchasing of new equipment

o Employment of young researchers;

o Employment of nationals

• Closer S&T cooperation is established between project beneficiaries:

o Western Balkan Countries –WBC ( Serbia)

o EU member States (Germany and France), and

o EU regions of convergence (Romania and Lithuania);

? National Research - Development Institute for Animal Biology and Nutrition, Bucharest-Balotesti, Romania (IBNA)

? Institute of Animal Science of Lithuania (IAS).

• Networking with EU research institutions is increased;

• Exchanging of research experience are constantly in progress;

• Great experience in how to take part in EU research experience is obtained;

• Participation in FP7 and some other international project is provided;

• Visibility of Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD is greatly increased.

Objectives were achived in cooperation with project beneficiaries: Forschungsgemeinschaft Futtermitteltechnik, Braunschweig, Germany (IFIF); Institute National de la recherché agronomique, Clermont Ferrand - Teix, France (INRA); National Research - Development Institute for Animal Biology and Nutrition, Bucharest - Balotesti, Romania (IBNA) and Institute of Animal Science of Lithuania, Baisogala, Lithuania (IAS). About thirty researchers from participating institutes were directly involved in FEED-TO-FOOD project activities, but much more people from research institutes, Universities, laboratories, SMEs and other stakeholders from EU and our regions were included through knowledge transfer (workshops, roundtable), FOOD CLUSTER initiative and other dissemination activities.

We are particularly proud to the fact that we have taken a very proactive approach to the new challenges of ERA. We are active member of FOOD CLUSTER INITIATIVE of EC, which helps us to build partnership across the Europe, get information, exchange knowledge and experience, and improve our future activities trough regional food sector networking. As the result of international cooperation eminent EU Institutes accepted us as the participants in FP7 and some other EU projects. The resulting cooperation will be based on a mutual benefit approach within the perspective of further integration of the Balkan region into the European Research Area (ERA) and therefore the European RTD activities and networks. This type of involvement improves the WBC research potential and favors a brain-gain environment.

Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD, has started reinforcement by upgrading and renewal of pilot plant equipment (for milling, mixing, extruding/expanding, pelleting, drying-cooling and vacuum coating). Processing lines are completed with appropriate conditioners for steam and liquid component dosing, with steam generator and with devices for measuring flow, pressure and temperature of passing materials and/or working parts of equipment. Four young researchers, one technician and one national, who left the country during political and economic crisis were employed in Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD. Young employers successfully improved their skills in working on all devices in Pilot Plant. They were also trained to work in laboratories for analyzing of physical and chemical characteristics of feed. The young researchers had opportunity to upgrade their knowledge not only in Institute of Food Technology, but also in other national and international research institutions. The aim of all activities was to upgrade their knowledge step-by-step to the level of good professionals. Through these activities, funded by EC, we strongly developed our research potentials and provide opportunities for more research activities in the research area that covers technological processes in the feed to food chain. We are ready to ready to start with providing trainings and research opportunities to students, scientists and industry and to share obtained knowledge and research experience, with partners from industry and other stakeholders.

All project activities were aimed at providing a stimulating and inspiring climate for scientific activities within Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD, not only for experienced researchers, but more importantly for the young generation of researchers, thus preventing “brain drain”.

Research Centre Feed-to-Food organized two Workshops and Roundtable in Novi Sad, Serbia These were a part of planed activities of FEED TO FOOD project related to knowledge transfer at national and international level and also one of the main dissemination activities through which research potentials of the project beneficiaries were presented to a wider circle of researchers and other participants. Both Workshops allowed a very good opportunity for project promotion and networking with all participants. Scientific networking efforts continued through, short stay visits to IFF INRA IBNA and IAS, trainings of young researchers from FINS in developed Institutions, and through secondments of research staff between beneficiaries.

A major contribution to the unlocking of the research potential is the participation of the project partners to scientific events which was also an occasion to communicate joint work of the project teams. Thus, FEED-TO-FOOD beneficiaries participated with scientific papers at numerous scientific events and presented 37 scientific papers of which 15 were joint publications as the results of networking and cooperation between project partners. Beside the presentation of the research potentials by scientific papers, beneficiaries participated at various meetings and events aiming for networking of researchers working in similar or compatible research areas in order to create the basis for future joint project proposals and they were successful in this effort.

FEED-TO-FOOD project partners join the FOOD-CLUSTER INITIATIVE organized by EC (DG RTD-B.4 - Regions of Knowledge and Research Potential) for the “food related” funded projects and they were active members (except INRA). The Food Cluster Initiative has proved that to be beneficial as its critical mass allowed it to attain outcomes that would not have been reached at individual project level. It allowed notable unlocking of the research potential in the European Food Research Area by bringing together regional research actors that would not have met otherwise.

In addition to presenting their research potential, exchanging research experience and networking, all beneficiaries have used scientific and other meetings to present FEED TO FOOD project and to highlight EC financial support.

Under different type of activities through FEED-TO-FOOD project we attained European standards as scientific link in the production chain from feed to food. Now, beside tradition and regional recognition, we have respectable reinforced research potential to fulfill stringent demands indicated in new FP7 and other EC calls and we are competent to take important role in European Research Area. It must be emphasized that we have made a great progress trough FP7-REGPOT-2007-3 project FEED-TO-FOOD, funded by EC, and we have many reasons to be satisfied with the “harvest” of our common investment in research potentials: research capacities are improved, networking with EU research institutions is increased, great experience in how to take part in EU research is obtained, etc. Research Centre FEED-TO-FOOD is widely recognized as the leader in feed technology and it is ready to participate and assist in successful integration of Serbia, other West Balkan Countries and the whole region into the Europe.

The international visibility of the Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD and other project beneficiaries is much higher than at the beginning of the project. Now we are involved in a numerous FP7 and other EU projects. That would enable us long-term cooperation with eminent EU institutions. Beside the scientific impact of such cooperation and FEED-TO-FOOD project it is also important to mention ethical, social and political impact in situation when regional cooperation and good neighborly relations are more important than ever for enabling Serbia and the region as a whole to continue moving towards the EU.

The scope and variety of the project partners research work have greatly contributed to the progress of new technologies, products and procedures of particular importance for the advancement of feed and animal production. The scientific experience contribute not only to theoretical and methodological development of feed and animal production as the biotechnological science, but are also directly applied in practice, which means, in resolving the problems the feed manufacturers and food producers are encountered with, as well as in making professional bases and justifications for endorsing agrarian measures aimed at development, revitalization and enhanced competitiveness of feed industry and the progress in animal feeding and food production in general. With scientifically-based long termed experience, Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD helps producers to go forward to EU and WTO integration. That is an example of good collaboration between knowledge and practice and one of the ways for wider social implications of FEED-TO-FOOD project. The impact of such collaboration will be, among other things, the establishment of integrated scientific and technological basis needed to develop an environmentally friendly production and distribution chain of healthier, tastier and safer feed and food. In return, Europe will get clear picture of our scientific-research potentials in the field of feed and food technologies and assurance that it can count on these potentials in the framework of European integration and provision of assistance to WBC and other countries in the region.

There is an increasing societal awareness of the opportunities to improve the quality of life through healthy eating and of the contribution that sustainable production can make to improvement of the overall environment. In some sectors, such as food safety, process engineering and sustainability, Europe is already a world leader and innovation and investment is high. It is thus a very obvious target for research, innovation and implementation of achieved results and real opportunity for Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD to proposed new projects and to participate in these chelenges.

Project Results:

DESCRIPTION OF THE MAIN S & T RESULTS/FOREGROUND

Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD with proven high level Scientific and Technological capacities exists as the independent working unit for almost 50 years, and now it acts as a part of Institute of Food Technology (FINS) at the University of Novi Sad in Serbia. It is unique research institution specialized for feed technology in Southeast Europe and wider. Following the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding associating the Republic of Serbia to the Seventh Framework Program of European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007-2013), research group from Institute of Food technology concerned with feed technology take the chance and get the FP7-REGPOT-2007-3 project “Reinforcement of Feed to Food Research Centre at Institute for Food Technology of the University of Novi Sad” (Acronym: FEED-TO-FOOD).

When we proposed this project we want to confirm our regional reputation and to upgrade own research potentials. Objectives stated in the REGPOT-2007-3 call were just what we lacked in order to become the leading institution at the European level in the research area that covers technological processes in the feed to food chain. The program planned through proposed FEED-TO-FOOD project forms a coherent set of coordination, training, dissemination, and development actions directly aimed at:

• Improving research capacities of Research Centre FEED-TO-FOOD

• Increasing networking with EU research institutions and

• Making experience in how to take part in EU research projects.

The FEED-TO-FOOD project has fully achieved its objectives and technical goals and has even exceeded expectations:

• Research capacities are improved by:

o Purchasing of new equipment

o Employment of young researchers;

o Employment of nationals

• Closer S&T cooperation is established between project beneficiaries:

o Western Balkan Countries –WBC ( Serbia)

o EU member States (Germany and France), and

o EU regions of convergence (Romania and Lithuania);

• Networking with EU research institutions is increased;

• Exchanging of research experience are constantly in progress;

• Great experience in how to take part in EU research experience is obtained;

• Participation in FP7 and some other international project is provided;

• Visibility of Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD is greatly increased.

Objectives were achived in cooperation with project beneficiaries, well-known European research Institutions such as International Forschungsgemeinschaft Futtermitteltechnik, Braunschweig, Germany (IFIF), Institute National de la recherché agronomique, Clermont Ferrand - Teix, France (INRA) and the most prominent Institutes from European convergence regions such as National Research- Development Institute for Animal Biology and Nutrition, Bucharest-Balotesti, Romania (IBNA) and Institute of Animal Science of Lithuania, Baisogala, Lithuania (IAS). About thirty researchers from participating institutes were directly involved in FEED-TO-FOOD project activities, but much more people from research institutes, Universities, laboratories, SMEs and other stakeholders from EU and our regions were included through knowledge transfer (workshops, roundtable), FOOD CLUSTER initiative and other dissemination activities. Under different type of activities through the FEED-TO-FOOD project, Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD was developed into the Institution ready to start with providing trainings and research opportunities to students, scientists and industry and to participate in European RTD activities.

We are particularly proud to the fact that we have taken a very proactive approach to the new challenges of ERA. We are active member of FOOD CLUSTER INITIATIVE of EC, which helps us to build partnership across the Europe, get information, exchange knowledge and experience, and improve our future activities trough regional food sector networking. As the result of international cooperation eminent EU Institutes accepted us as the participants in FP7 and some other EU projects. The resulting cooperation will be based on a mutual benefit approach within the perspective of further integration of the Balkan region into the European Research Area (ERA) and therefore the European RTD activities and networks. This type of involvement improves the WBC research potential and favors a brain-gain environment.

Reinforcement of research potentials

Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD, has started reinforcement by upgrading and renewal of pilot plant equipment for milling, mixing, extruding/expanding, pelleting, drying-cooling and vacuum coating.

Before the equipment delivery, space for pilot plant laboratory was redesigned to meet the requirements for proper operation of the new equipment (this was funded by FINS). Purchased equipment was installed according to master project documentation.

Processing lines are completed with appropriate conditioners for steam and liquid component dosing, with steam generator and with devices for measuring flow, pressure and temperature of passing materials and/or working parts of equipment.

Lines equipped in such a way could be used for investigation in production chain from feed to food and will provide additional possibilities for development of new technological processes and products.

Reinforced Pilot Plant Laboratory was opened by Prof. Viktor Nedovic,, assistant minister for international cooperation and European integration in the Ministry of Science and Technological Development of Serbia at the inauguration ceremony held on 29th of September during the 1st FEED-TO-FOOD project Workshop. After opening all Workshop participants have opportunity to visit Pilot Plant and FINS Laboratories. By opening the Pilot Plant Laboratory the major objective of FEED-TO-FOOD FP7-REGPOT-2007-3 project funded by EC was achieved. Now Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD will start providing training and research opportunities to scientists, researchers, students and also for feed and food industry.

Four young researchers, one technician and one national, who left the country during political and economic crisis were employed in Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD. Young employers successfully improved their skills in working on all devices in Pilot Plant. They all passed trainings done by equipment producers which qualified them for working in pilot plant Research laboratory. Amandus Kahl Company was the host and organized training for 4 young researchers (1 week), technician (2 weeks) and one senior researcher (1 week). Practical and theoretical training in Amandus Kahl Company, held from 29th of June to 3rd of July 2009. Practical consisted of trials on pellet press, extruder/expander and conditioner. Experienced Kahl Company engineers helped young researchers and technician to learn how to manipulate with processing equipment. Beside practical training, young researchers and technician took part in theoretical course about application of extruders/expanders in animal feed production. This training was free and staff in Amandus Kahl Company was very devoted in order to train our researchers and technicians. Young researchers were also trained to work in laboratories for analyzing of physical and chemical characteristics of feed. They have opportunity to upgrade their knowledge not only in Institute of Food Technology, but also in other national and international research institutions.

Training for new young researchers from FEED-TO-FOOD Research Centre in IFF institute were organized and they passed basic course - Compound feed production (15-26, Jun, 2009). They also passed visited IFF Instutute in Braunshcweig - Thune, from 15th to 23rd of November, 2010. The main aim of this visitation was to attend two courses: „Innovative Hygienic Concepts“ and „Current Research Topics of Feed Technology“. Both courses were international, with reputable lecturers from world’s leading companies in field of feed producing and processing, such as Amandus Kahl - Germany, Bühler AG - Switzerland, Antiox Corp. – USA, Biomin – Germany, etc. Researchers used this one week visitation as an opportunity to visit the most important exhibition for animal husbandry and management in the world – Hannover EuroTier, where they made some interesting and useful conversations with new and also with well-known business partners. Over 1900 exhibitors came to this fair to share information about machinery and equipment, genetics, farm inputs and services for modern animal husbandry, as well as potentials in the field of bioenergy and local energy supply.

During their visitation of Braunschweig, tour to Bühler AG Company in Braunschweig and Institut für Getreideverarbeitung (IGV GmbH) in Nuthetal near Potsdam, were organized. IGV GmbH is divided into five mostly independent scientific and service-oriented organizational units: Bakery Technology, Biotechnology, Food Technology, Renewable Resources, and Test Lab and Analytics. The compatibility between IGV Institute and FINS encouraged researchers to discuss possibilities for further scientific cooperation and joint researches.

Radmilo Colovi? and Djuro Vukmirovic were in USA from 26th of September to 1st October, 2010 and they participate at 17th Annual Practical Short Course on Aquaculture Feed Extrusion, Nutrition and Feed Management. It was organized by Food Protein Research & Development Center at the Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas. The aim of this course was: training in principles and characteristics of extruders and support systems (conditioners, dryers, coolers...) reviewing current practices for preparation of aquaculture feeds, review of aquaculture nutrition and feed management practices.After theoretical part of the course practical demonstrations have been held in the pilot plants. The courses were held by eminent experts in the area of extrusion, nutrition, feed technology, etc. from companies like Insta-Pro, Wenger, Kemin, Buhler, etc. and by professors from Texas A&M University.

The aim of all activities, concerned with young researchers, during project duration was to upgrade their knowledge step-by-step to the level of good professionals. At the beginning of year 2011 (February, 1st 2011), four young researchers and young technician finished their full engagement in FEED-TO-FOOD project and were permanently employed in Research Centre FEED-TO-FOOD, at Institute of Food Technology (FINS) of University in Novi Sad. From mentioned date they have been involved in national research projects and international cooperation and their salaries are funded by Ministry of Education and Science of Republic of Serbia and other sources like other employes in FINS. Their trainings gave good results and they became useful members of Research Centre FEED-TO-FOOD. Through their employment, we strongly developed our research potentials and provide opportunities for more research activities in the research area that covers technological processes in the feed to food chain. We are ready to share obtained knowledge and research experience, with partners from industry and other stakeholders.

All project activities were aimed at providing a stimulating and inspiring climate for scientific activities within Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD, not only for experienced researchers, but more importantly for the young generation of researchers, thus preventing “brain drain”.

Developing and transfer research potentials

Participation at scientific events

A major contribution to the unlocking of the research potential is the participation of the project partners to scientific events which was also an occasion to communicate joint work of the project teams. Thus, FEED-TO-FOOD beneficiaries participated with scientific papers at numerous scientific events and presented 37 scientific papers of which 15 were joint publications as the results of networking and cooperation between project partners. Beside the presentation of the research potentials by scientific papers, beneficiaries participated at various meetings and events aiming for networking of researchers working in similar or compatible research areas in order to create the basis for future joint project proposals and they were successful in this effort.

Networking and cooperation activities with European research groups and joint future EU FP proposal possibilities were discussed during these meetings. Participation at these meetings was funded by FP7-REGPOT-2007-3 project FEED-TO-FOOD and from other sources but unlocking and promotion of the research potential was the common objective of all these meetings.

Participation at other events

Beside the presentation of the research potentials by scientific papers, FEED-TO-FOOD beneficiaries participated at various meetings and events aiming for networking of researchers working in similar or compatible research areas in order to create the basis for future joint project proposals:

Macedonia, Ohrid, September 2010 - Final Conference of Chromlab-antioxidans project (participants: Slavica Sredanovic and Olivera Djuragic from FINS)

Austria, Viena, July 2011 – kick-off meeting of the FP7 FoodSEG project (participants: Daniela Marin, Ionelia Taranu from IBNA; Jovanka Levic and Slavica Sredanovic from FINS – funded by FoodSEG project)

France, Clermont Ferrand, September 2011 – preparatory meeting with INRA teams (participant: Ionelia Taranu from IBNA)

Greece, Thesaloniki, September 2011 - kick-off meeting of the Southeast networking project (participants: Jovanka Levic and Olivera Djuragic, from FINS- funded by Southeast)

Researchers from IAS took part in Conference „Scientific support for Food Security and Global Governance" organized by European Commission's Joint Research Centre in September 28, 2011 in Brussels and were participated in debate on questions related to food security with a focus on scientific needs and how research, technology and innovation could contribute to food for all in a sustainable manner.

Conferences organized by EC

In order to help researchers and institutions to contribute to the overall European research effort EC take on different activities:

Conference "Research Connection 2009”, organized by the European Commission Directorate-General for Research (DG-RTD), which was held in Prague at May 2009 under the Czech EU Presidency was one of these activities that can help to achieve this goal. As the participants of these Conference beneficiaries received first hand information about the main EU programmes and initiatives regarding research, technological development and innovation with a view to stimulate further involvement and networking, in particular on the side of the new EU Member States. It was major event on EU research programmes and we gathered information about the 7th EU Research Framework Programme 2007-2013, the Structural Funds 2007-2013 and the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme. Over two days, scientists, industrialists, researchers and politicians were connecting to discuss the future of research and science in Europe, ways of improvement through collaboration and one of the topics was the Guidance on how to participate in EU research projects (rules, tips, measures for small- and medium-sized enterprises etc).

The Spanish Ministry of Science and Innovation and the European Commission jointly organized the Week of Innovative Regions in Europe (WIRE 2010) that was held in Granada – Spain, on 15-17 March 2010, under the auspices of the Spanish EU Council Presidency. The event was focused on how to move from “synergies of policies” to “synergies of actions” for the optimal use of EU instruments, with the objective of making regions full protagonists in building the knowledge-based society. WIRE 2010 is the result of merging three different conferences:

• Conference on the efficient and effective use of budget earmarked in the Structural Funds for RTD and Innovation, including their synergies with the FP and the CIP.

• "Research Potential" conference, which focuses on the assessment of the results and the identification of best practices of the Research Potential (REGPOT) calls within the FP7 Capacities Programme, aimed at the increase of the research capabilities of the best research centres of the European regions, with an special emphasis in Convergence and Outermost regions.

• "Regions of Knowledge" conference, which deals with the assessment of the results and the identification of best practices of the Regions of Knowledge (REGIONS) calls within the FP7 Capacities Programme, aimed at fostering regional cooperation through "research-driven clusters" by means of a comparison of the different regional strategies and joint action plans defined.

Topics, discussed in common sessions were, among others, the aggregation of the good practices found in the development of the two programmes, REGPOT and REGIONS, and some possible synergies, such as the stimuli to foster research potential of areas of interest of a cluster in a given region or groups of regions, or the clustering around a high quality research centre in a certain regions. The synergies between the different innovation instruments (FP, SF and CIP, the National and Regional initiatives) were also the common subject of study during the European Week of Innovative Regions.

The conference was one of the major events of the Spanish presidency with approximately 450 participants. WIRE 2010 was a high-level forum for discussion of stakeholder's good practices and ideas on how to make the best of European, national and regional funding for R&D and innovation and more efficient ways to conduct future actions. In this line, REGPOT and REGIONS programmes (Capacities – FP7) can play a crucial role. The Research Potential Program and the role of the WBC within REGPOT were among the topics discussed. FOOD CLUSTER INITIATIVE was presented as the successful EC project by professor Keith Adrain Harrap.

FEED-TO-FOOD project beneficiaries (IAS and FINS) participate at conference and presented the poster.

Under the aegis of the Hungarian EU Council Presidency the conference ‘Week of Innovative Regions in Europe 2011 (WIRE2011) were organized jointly with the European Commission on 7-9 June 2011 in Debrecen, Hungary dedicated to possible synergies between research infrastructures and cluster policy.

The conference – considering the document of ‘EUROPE 2020, a strategy for a smart, sustainable and inclusive development strategy’ and the ‘Innovation Union Flagship Initiative’ - focused on questions related to knowledge, innovation and competitiveness in economy with respect to research infrastructure investments, clusters and their effects on how they can support smart growth in the regions. WIRE2011 connected cluster development and research infrastructure policy in order to enhance innovation performances and regional development. Researchers from FINS and IAS take part at this conference.

During the Conference, exhibitions were organized for regions and clusters. Participating in the exhibition at WBC-INCO NET STAND with roll up poster was an excellent opportunity for us to present FEED-to-FOOD project as an example of good practice.

The WIRE 2011 Organizing Committee jointly with the European Commission organised a Cocktail Reception of the WIRE2011 on the December 5, 2011 in Brussels. The researcher from IAS had possibility to join this event and to participate in discussion about ensuring the visibility for the continuation of WIRE activities.

EC Conferences organized in Serbia

The European Research Information event: “Towards Integration into the European Research Area” with more than 400 participants was held in Belgrade on 29th of June 2009 in organization of the Ministry of Science and Technological Development of Republic of Serbia and the General Directorate for Research of the European Commission in Belgrade.

Vice-prime minister and Minister for Science and Technological Development Bozidar Djelic and the European Commissioner for Research Janez Potocnik addressed the participants during the Opening Statements. Feed to Food Research team proposed FOOD CLUSTER INITIATIVE as one of the topics and Prof Dr Xavier Gelink as the lecturer for this event. Prof Dr Xavier Gelink coordinator of Food Cluster Initiative took part in EC delegation and gave presentation “Pathways to develop a cluster approach: Experiences from the EU Food Cluster. During this event Prof Gelink have a meeting with Vice-prime minister for Science and Technological Development Prof Dr Victor Nedovic, their assistents and researchers from FEED-to-Food project about possibilities for Food Cluster Initiative in Serbia. Suggested concrete actions of this meeting were presented during the concluding session. Realisation of the conclusions was followed up in the forthcoming period both by the Ministry and European Commission.

TAIEX Workshop on Feed Safety, AGR 32323 organized in cooperation with Serbian Chamber of Commerce & FEFAC was held in Novi Sad on February 20th, 2009. Research Centre Feed-to Food supported this event as the host organizer and through presentation “Update on adoption/implementation of the EU feed legislation at national level” by Dr Jovanka Levic, FEED-TO FOOD project coordinator. The aim of the meeting was to inform the participants on the HACCP-based Quality Assurance systems and different feed technology issues. Beside local organizer, experts from EU presented their experiences from EU Member States about practical approach to feed legislative, quality assurance systems and management in feed industry. Dr Alexander Feil from IFF-Institute, Feed-to Food project beneficiaries was engaged as the expert in FEFAC team, but after that meeting he visit FINS. All employees from Research Centre Feed-to Food and Alexandra Kirchner from IFF-Institute, which was at one week secondment’s visit in FINS attended this meeting.

In the frame of this workshop, Feed-to Food project was presented through oral presentation, leaflets and roll-up banner, press conference for state TV Canal RTV 1 as well as through different contacts with participants.

Common projects / initiatives

The Feed to Food project activities and the foster of the collaborations among project partners contributed to joint participation in common projects / initiatives.

Thus, a follow up of the FP6-FeedSEG symposium – Mosonmagyarovar, Hungary, 2008 was the joint participation of IBNA and FINS in FP7- FoodSEG (a project lead by Austria, already financed, running between 2011 and 2014).

Also, IBNA and FINS jointly participate in another project, COST FA0802 “Feed for Health” (a project lead by Italy, financed, running between 2009 and 2013)

IFF and Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD by networking with EUFETEC (European Feed Technology Centre) has built the consortium which make proposal for the call FP7-KBBE-2010-2-4-03.(failed)

Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD also has made the proposal for FP7- REGPOT-2010-5 project FEED-TECH-EXCEL (failed)

One more result was the joint participation of the IBNA and FINS teams in the FP7 project proposal “EuroProgFarmMast” (lead by SIGRA from Latvia, submitted in 2012, currently under evaluation). Connection with proposed project coordinator was established at Food Cluster Initiative meetings.

Although didn’t lead to joint participation, the activities organized within Feed to Food project constituted the occasion for new collaborations established by the project partners (outside the Feed to Food consortium), via new contacts.

Thus, FEED TO FOOD project beneficiaries got involved in following project proposals:

• two Romania - Greece bilateral projects - submitted in 2011, one of which financed for 2012-2013,

• ERC Starting Grant project proposal “HerbsForGutHealth” – submitted in 2011 (failed) and resubmitted in 2012 (under evaluation)

• Serbia-Croatia bilateral cooperation financed in 2011 and 2012

• FINS became the partner in Southeast project together with Institute from Romania which is outside the Feed to Food consortium but but owing to project connections.

Through contacts, established during some of before mentioned meetings project beneficiaries corresponded with a large number of Institutes and Universities for possible EU FP7 project proposal collaboration which are not finished yet.

Exchanging research experience through secondments of research staff

Exchanging research experience and know-how and networking through secondments of research staff from IFF, IBNA, IAS and INRA in Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD was organized successively during the project duration. Main activities of this task were realized in the 3rd reporting period. Activities were as follows:

Researchers from IAS- Lithuania visited FINS (29th May to 26th, Jun, 2010)

Two doctors – Virginijus Uchockis, Saulius Bliznikas and young researcher – Raimundas Matulaitis from Institute of Animal Science of LVA visited Institute for Food Technology (FINS) in Novi Sad. Doctors were in two weeks, young researcher – four weeks scientific visit and training at FINS (from June 1st until June 14th and 30th 2010). The aim of this visit was knowledge transfer. They have oportunity to improve research skills and to learn new physical and chemical methods in analysis of food and feed.

Catalin Dragomir from IBNA- Romania visited FINS (12-25, July, 2010)

Catalin Dragomir, scientific director of IBNA-Romania and team leader of this beneficiary in FEED-TO-FOOD project visited FINS in charge with scientific cooperation. The objective of the visit was to identify areas of collaboration, including joint research, in order to reach Feed to Food project objectives and initiate a long-term sustainable cooperation between the two institutions. Within this context, Catalin Dragomir got acquainted with the facilities built under Feed to Food project and existing laboratories in FINS. Also, he together with the Feed to Food team browsed the current research subjects of institutes,identified the convergence areas and the complementarities in terns of equipments and implemented research methods and in terms of expertise. Subjects for joint projects were identified and discussed.

A group of scientists from Romanian institute IBNA visited FINS (June, 2011)

Dr. Eng. Smaranda Toma, scientific researcher, Gabriela-Maria Cornescu, research assistant, dr. eng. Teodor Michalcea, technician director of development department, Anca Bercaru, CTC unit, and eng. Vlad Cristian, chief of pilot plant station for compound feed from IBNA visited FINS institute in Novi Sad for two weeks in June, 2011. Researchers from IBNA institute were introduced with research capacities of FINS (people, pilot plant equipment for feed production purchased through FEED-TO-FOOD project and all FINS laboratories). Researchers arranged some future collaboration and mutual experiments, considering feed production in Novi Sad, and animal experiments in Bucharest. According to knowledge transfer, these two weeks were very useful, but also amusing, since this was professional but also friendly visit, to the delight of all colleagues.

Dr Dominique Bauchart from INRA, France visited FINS (February, 2012)

Prof. Dr Dominique Bauchart visited FINS in February, 2011, as a partner responsible within the FP7 Feed to Food project, and also as head of the Nutrients and Metabolism Group in INRA institute, Clermont-Ferrand, Teix. The aim of the visit was transferring of professor’s knowledge and experience in practical experimental and laboratory work, as well as in the area of numerous research activities that dr Bauchart has been dealing with. During the visit, professor held a two-day lecture entitled „Lipids and fatty acids in ruminant“. Many colleagues from University of Novi Sad and Belgrade and students from Faculty of Technology from Novi Sad attend this lectures. In following days, professor had an individual conversations with several PhD students that were interested in the topics of their research work.

Two researchers from IBNA institute visited FINS (25-31 March, 2012)

Two scientists from IBNA Institute, Bucharest visited FINS as a part of activities related to the exchanging research experience. Dr biol. Cristina Tabuc works in IBNA institute as a senior researcher is in charge of microbiology, mycotoxicology and bacteriology in biotechnology, while dr eng. Carmen Ciurescu is dealing with development of nutritional and managerial strategies. They were introduced with research capacities and possibilities of the FINS laboratories in order to get overall impression about the FINS for composing possible future cooperation. They also were introduced with the possibilities for research work with FEED-TO-FOOD pilot plant equipment. The atmosphere during the visit was working and dynamic. Although their stay in Novi Sad was short, the communication between the researchers was intensive and useful for both sides.

Task 3.5. Encourage the return of nationals having left the country

Dr Dragan Palic is encouraged to return in Feed to Food Research Center as experienced researcher in the field of feed chemistry by the EC funding of FEED-TO-FOOD project. He was employed at FINS from Febuary 1st 2009. at the 13th project month and after period of full engagement in FEED-TO-FOOD project he get permanent position and salary as researcher in FINS.

Knowledge transfer

Research Centre Feed-to-Food organized two Workshops in Novi Sad, Serbia. These were a part of planed activities of FEED TO FOOD project related to knowledge transfer at national and international level and also one of the main dissemination activities through which research potentials of the project beneficiaries were presented to a wider circle of researchers and other participants. Both Workshops allowed a very good opportunity for project promotion and networking with all participants. Scientific networking efforts continued through, short stay visits to IFF INRA IBNA and IAS, trainings of young researchers from FINS in developed Institutions, and through secondments of research staff between beneficiaries.

The 1st Workshop “Modern Trends in Production Chain From Feed to Food” and 13th International Symposium on Feed Technology, Quality and Safety were organized and held in September 29-30 and October 01, 2009 at Research Centre FEED TO FOOD of Institute for Food Technology at University of Novi Sad. Prof. Viktor Nedovi?, PhD, Assistant Minister for International Cooperation and European Integration in Ministry of Science and Technological Development of Serbia, Prof. Radmila Marinkovi?-Nedu?in, PhD, rector of University of Novi Sad, Aleksander Döring, general secretary of FEFAC (European Feed Manufacturers Federation) from Brussels, Prof. Mia Eeckhout, PhD, representative of EUFETEC (European Feed Technology Center) and professor at Ghent University from Belgium, Prof. Roger Fenwick, PhD, from Institute of Food Research in Norwich-United Kingdom, general manager of Institute for Food Technology in Novi Sad and Dr Jovanka Levic coordinator of FEED-TO-FOOD FP7-REGPOT-2007-3 project, gave opening talks at the beginning of these important meetings.

These were well-attended international Workshop and Symposium where speakers from Germany, France, Romania, Lithuania, United Kingdom, Norway, Belgium, Croatia, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Ukraine and Serbia gave research and technical presentations on feed technology quality and safety and about latest trends in feed technology. At this international Symposium eminent researchers delivered the lectures on Modern Trends in production chain from feed to food and on feed technology quality and safety. On September 30th Prof. Viktor Nedovic, PhD, and Prof. Roger Fenwick, PhD, spoke about European Technological Platform “Food for Life”. Jovanka Levi?, PhD, and Slavica Sedanovi?, MSc, from FEED-TO-FOOD Research Centre presented FP7-REGPOT-2007-3 project “FEED-TO-FOOD” funded by EC and delivered the lecture on “Future Challenges for Research and Development In Feed Technology”.

2nd Workshop „Exstrusion technology in food and feed processing“ together with 14th International Feed Technology Symposium „Feed technology, quality and safety” was held in Novi Sad from 19 to 21 October 2010. 2nd Workshop is also a part of activities related to the FP7 project „Feed-to-Food“ work package No4 (WP4)-Knowledge transfer. Workshop is the result of the three-year cooperation of Research Centre FEED-TO-FOOD, with Institutes- project beneficiaries from Romania, Lithuania, Germany and France.

Meetings were opened by prof dr Miroslav Veskovic, Rector of the University of Novi Sad. Representatives of the organizers, patrons, authorities and industry welcomed the participants and wished them a successful work. Workshop started on October 19th, with the „Presentation of the FP7 project Feed-to-Food outcomes“ given by dr Jovanka Levic, project coordinator and president of organizing board. Next dr Keith Harrap, „Food Cluster Initiative“ coordinator, gave a lecture “The EC Food Cluster as a tool for policy“. One of the best known researchers in the world in the field of extrusion Prof. Mian Nadeem Riaz, Ph.D. head of Extrusion Technology Program, Director of the Food Protein R&D Center, at the Texas A&M University System gave presentation “Role of extruders in food and feed industries” as the invited lecturer.

Program concerned the extrusion technology continued with oral presentations of the lecturers from France, Poland, Norway, Germany and Serbia. During the second and third day the scientific aspects of contemporary feed and food technologies were presented. Project beneficiaries from Romania, Germany and Lithuania participated with lectures providing the participants knowledge in feed technology, animal science and More than 200 participants From Universities, Institutes, Laboratories, Governmental organizations, Agencies, Feed Industry and other stakeholders attended 2nd Workshop and 14th International Symposium. Project beneficiaries and other participants have opportunity to make new contacts with researchers from almost all European countries and from USA. Lecturers were from 23 countries and beside oral presentations 36 papers were presented in Poster section. The success of 2nd Feed-to-Food Workshop confirm that all previous activities planned as tasks necessary for good organization in DoW (definition of the list of invited speakers; definition of overall structure of Workshop; preparing of lectures and participation at the Workshop and posting the Workshop anouncement and invitations) were conducted on the best way.

Roundtable discussion titled „Better regulation and self-control in feed industry”

Roundtable discussion regarding legislation in the feed production planed for the 2nd project year was than postponed and was held on July, 13th, 2011 at FINS in Novi Sad. The main objective of the Roundtable entitled „Better regulation and self-control in feed industry” was to discuss about problems which has been occurred in harmonization between new regulation and practice in feed industry of Serbia and EU legislative. More than fifty participants from Serbia and abroad took part in this event, most of them directly connected to the feed production. Dr Jovanka Levic, director of the Institute and coordinator of FEED TO FOOD project, welcomed all guests at the beginning, and afterward several representatives from republic authorities held their opening presentations. Mr. Milan Prostran spoke in front of Serbian Chamber of Commerce, an institution that connects national industry and government, and Mrs. Erna Sumec spoke in front of the Provincial Secretariat for Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Working section started after opening words, with several presentations regarding regulation in EU and Serbia, followed by discussion, which was very dynamic and interesting. Lecturers were from Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Chamber of Commerce and FINS. The Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD is in permanent contact with state authorities and is trying to harmonized the aspirations of legislators and all stakeholders in production chain from feed to food with EU rules.

Announcement for Roundtable discussion planed for the end of 2nd project year regarding legislation in the feed production chain was prepared and send as the report to EC. Due to the fact that this meeting was delayed for 3rd project reporting period new updated Announcement was prepared and distributed later.

More than fifty participants from Serbia and abroad from feed industry, republic authorities, chamber of commerce, laboratories for feed quality control, faculties, institutes, inspections and other stakeholders attained this meeting and discuss about harmonization of Serbian legislative with the rules in EU. They also have opportunity to visit laboratories in FINS and Pilot plant equipment purchased by EC support through FP7 FEED TO FOOD project and to be introduced with FINS activities.

At the meeting they get new 3rd Leaflet concerned with FEED TO FOOD project in which research potentials of Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD were presented.

Dissemination and promotional activities

Public presentation of papers and articles

Throughout the 3rd reporting period huge number of public presentations of papers and articles concerned with project were made in Serbia, Romania, Lithuania, Germany and France in order present and unlock research potentials of project beneficiaries. Some of the research papers presented at Scientific meetings mentioned in Chapter 3.2.2 or published in Scientific Journals are prepared as the results of networking and cooperation between project beneficiaries. Researchers from FEED-TO-FOOD project were presented and/published following joint research papers:

1. Marija Bodroža-Solarov, Jovanka Levic, Saulius Bliznikas, Bojana Kokic, Nedeljka Spasevski, Sandor Kormanjos: Potential of Planting Amaranthus Sp. in Agroecological Climate of Vojvodina, 2nd Workshop FEED-TO-FOOD and XIV International Feed Technology Symposium , Novi Sad, 19 to 21 October 2010. Proceedings p. 209-214 (researchers from IAS and FINS).

2. Nedeljka Spasevski, Bojana Kokic, Saulius Bliznikas, Gintautas Svirmickas, Djuro Vukmirovic, Radmilo Colovic, Jovanka Levic: Effect of Different Thickness of Die on the Stability of Amino Acids in Pelleting Pig Feed, 2nd workshop FEED-TO-FOOD and XIV International Feed Technology Symposium , Novi Sad, 19 to 21 October 2010, Proceedings p. 447-453 (researchers from IAS and FINS).

3. Untea Arabela Elena, Duca Radu Corneliu, Olteanu Margareta, Cornescu Gabriela Maria, Criste Diana Rodica, Nedeljka Spasevski: Research on the use of boron supplements in the diets for broilers, 4th lnternational IUPAC Symposium for Trace Elements in Food (TEF-4), held at King's co||ege, Abberdin, Scotland 19-22. June 2011. Proceedings, p.71. (researchers from IBNA and FINS).

4. Elena Untea, C. Papuc, R. Diana Criste, V. Nicorescu , Slavica Sredanovic: Evaluation of the antioxidant potential of some phytogenic additives given to weaned piglets, 4th International Congress on Food and Nutrition, held at Istanbul, Turkey, October 12-14. 2011. Proceedings, P.119. (researchers from IBNA and FINS).

5. Catalin Dragomir, Smaranda Toma, Jovanka Levic: The effect of byproducts from the corn grain processing on the postprandial dynamic of rumen pH. Biotechnology in Animal Husbandry, 3rd International Congress, 5-7 October, 2011, Belgrade, 571-581, ISSN: 1450-9156, UDC: 636.087. (researchers from IBNA and FINS).

6. Smaranda Toma, Margareta Olteanu, Maria Cornescu, Matjaz Cervek, Iulia Maros, Slavica Sredanovic: Effects of using dietary Camelina seeds and oil on layer performances, 18th European Symposium on Poultry Nutrition, held in Cesme, Izmir, Turkey October 31-November 04. 2011, Proceedings, p. 536-538 (researchers from IBNA, FINS and Slovenia).

7. Anca Gheorghe, Georgeta Ciurescu, Daniela Marin, Arabela Untea, Slavica Sredanovic, Vasile Mihoc: Dolomite as Natural Locsl Source of Calcium in Broile diets, 18 th European Symposium on Poultry Nutrition, held in Cesme, Izmir, Turkey October 31-November 04. 2011, Proceedings, p. 434-436. (researchers from IBNA and FINS).

8. Georgeta Ciurescu, Anca Gheorghe, Nedeljka Spasevski: Effect of the Calcium Source on Layer Performance and egg shell Quality, 18 th European Symposium on Poultry Nutrition, held in Cesme, Izmir, Turkey October 31-November 04. 2011, Proceedings, p. 342-344. (researchers from IBNA and FINS).

9. Andreea Vasilachi, Rodica Criste, Maria Cornescu, Margareta Olteanu, Tatiana Panaite, Slavica Sredanovic, Nedeljka Spasevski: EFFECT OF THE DIETARY CAMELINA MEAL ON LAYER PERFORMANCE, 6th International CEFood Congres, Novi Sad, Serbia, 23 to 26 May 2012, Proceedings pg. 1558-1563 (researchers from IBNA and FINS).

10. Arabela Untea, Tatiana Panaite, Rodica Criste, Mariana Ropota, Margareta Olteanu, Dusica Ivanov, Nedeljka Spasevski Effect of the High Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids Layer Diets Supplemented With Antioxidants on the Cholesterol Level of Egg, 6th International CEFood Congres, Novi Sad, Serbia, 23 to 26 May 2012, Proceedings pg. 1648-1653 (researchers from IBNA and FINS).

11. D. Bauchart, Esperanza Bispo Villar, Agnès Thomas, B. Lyan, Mihaela Habeanu, D. Gruffat, D. Durand, Linseed and rapeseed supplements diversely altered trans 18:1 isomers in total lipids of Longissimus thoracis muscle of finishing Normand cows, Archiva Zootechnica, 13:1, 5-11, 2010 (researchers from IBNA and INRA).

12. Colovi?, R., Vukmirovic, Dj., Matulaitis, R., Bliznikas, S., Uchockis, V., Juskiene, V., Levic, J.: Effect of die channel press way length on physical quality of pelleted cattle feed, Food and Feed Research, 2010, Vol. 37 No. 1, pg. 1-6, UDK: 631.811.98 : 66.012. (researchers from IAS and FINS).

13. R. Colovic, Nevena Misljenovic, Dušica Ivanov, Gordana Koprivica, C. Dragomir, Lj. Levic, Jovanka Levic, Slavica Sredanovic: Wheat milling fractions as a carrier of sugar beet molasses - physical properties of pellets, Archiva Zootechnica 14:2, 17-27, 2011. (researchers from IBNA and FINS).

14. Saulius Bliznikas, Virginijus Uchockis, Violeta Juskiene, Gintautas Svirmickas, Raimundus Matulaitis, Djuro Vukmirovi?, Nedeljka Spasevski, Radmilo Colovic: Studies of thermal processed compound feed using different technologies, Animal Husbandry, 2011, Vol. 57, str. 40-56, UDK 636.085 ISSN 1392-6144 (researchers from IAS and FINS).

15. Alexandra Kirchner, Alexander Feil, Radmilo Colovic, Djuro Vukmirovic, Jovanka Levic, Investigation on the influence of a liquid addition in an intensive mixer on the achievable mixing homogeneity and physical properties of mineral feeding stuffs (under revision) (researchers from IFF and FINS).

In addition to presenting their research potential, exchanging research experience and networking, all beneficiaries have used scientific and other meetings mentioned in previous chapters to present FEED TO FOOD project and to highlight EC funding.

As a part of activities related to Feed-to-Food project, Research Centre Feed-to-Food organized 2 Workshops and Roundtable. These meetings were the great opportunity for FEED TO FOOD project promotion.

Beside through FEED-TO-FOOD project web-site Announcement and information about these meetings were distributed through web-sites of:

• FINS: http://www.fins.uns.ac.rs

• University of Novi Sad: http://www.uns.ac.rs

• IFIF: http://www.ifif.org

• Tehnologija hrane: http://www.tehnologijahrane.com

• IBNA: http://www.ibna.ro

• IAS: http://www.lgi.lt/

• Food Cluster Initiative: http://www.foodclusterinitiative.eu etc.

Information about these meetings were announced by TV and radio shows:

• National Television (Radio and Television of Vojvodina -RTV 1) – Informative morning show “Jutarnji program”;

• National Television (Radio and Television of Vojvodina -RTV 1) – Evening informative show “Novosadske razglednice”;

• Local TV (TV Jesenjin) – Informative and talk show about agriculture “Otkos” ;

• Local TV (TV Apolo) - Informative morning programme

Proceedings from both Workshops were published in Serbian and English language in 200 printed copies each and were distributed to participants, authorities, University libraries and National library of Serbia. Proceedings also were published at the CD and distributed to some of participants. Detailed agenda, most of power point presentations and the list of presented posters are available at www.feed-to-food.uns.ac.rs project website.

Thematic Proceedings „Extrusion Technology in Food and Feed Processing“ was also published in 200 printed copies in Serbian and English language and distributed to the participants of the 2nd Feed-to-Food Workshop, Libraries and to other stakeholders.

These Proceedings are good promotional materials due to the fact that lecturers from all over the Europe take it to their Institutions and also as other participants can have it for using in future.

Roundtable „Better regulation and self-control in feed industry” concerned with legislation in the feed production chain was held on July, 13th, 2011 at FINS in Novi Sad. This meeting increased visibility of the Center to state authorities and to other participants from Serbia and surounding countries in WBC region.

Roundtable also deserved the media attention and reports from this meeting were published at web portal of Serbian Chamber of Commerce, at http://www.zdravoskop.rs/ispravnost-hrane/73-vesti3/343-zakon-o-hrani-za-zivotinje-neophodno-doneti-sto-pre and at www.agroservisvesti. The same text were available in a few newspapers.

All project beneficiaries take different activities to engage with public and the media about the project aims and results and to highlight the European Community financial support.

Information about project activities and achieved results were presented on Lithuanian radio “Žini? radijas” on March 26, 2012 and Lithuanian TV during broadcast “Panorama” on December 04th , 2011.

Roll-up banner of FEED-TO-FOOD project were displayed at huge number of conferences and Leaflets were distributed during more of the meetings with project beneficiaries participation.

Some of the promotional activities have been disseminated through other meetings and events supported not only by EU but from other sources of funding:

In addition to presenting their research potential, exchanging research experience and networking, all beneficiaries have used scientific and other meetings to present FEED TO FOOD project and to highlight EC financial support

Food Cluster activities

FEED-TO-FOOD project partners join the FOOD-CLUSTER INITIATIVE organized by EC (DG RTD-B.4 - Regions of Knowledge and Research Potential) for the “food related” funded projects and they were active members (except INRA). The Food Cluster Initiative is a scheme designed to establish European Clusters of coordination in order to enhance regional research capacity building and regional economic development with significant impact at local level. The Food Cluster Initiative has proved that to be beneficial as its critical mass allowed it to attain outcomes that would not have been reached at individual project level. It allowed notable unlocking of the research potential in the European Food Research Area by bringing together regional research actors that would not have met otherwise.

During the project duration 7 Food Cluster meetings were organized.

1st Food Cluster Meeting, February 11-12th, Brussels

At the first day of meeting, participants were presented their projects and main project objectives. FEED TO FOOD project was presented by coordinator of project, dr Jovanka Levi?. After that, it was held plenary session on Cluster business, future working arrangements, methodologies, communication, desired outputs and visits. All participants also were exchanged information’s from their regions.

Second day of meeting was dedicated to SWOT Training Session. All participants were trained how to conduct SWOT analysis in their regions, together with food companies and stakeholders, as well as policy makers. One example about food industry in European countries was carried out, together with moderators from University of Ghent, Belgium. It is also explained how to make Strategic Orientation Round (SOR) preparation as required for presentation at September meeting.

Through the next period, simultaneously, SWOT analyses with emphasis on the enhancement of research and development in the food sector were performed by each partner within the activities in the FOOD CLUSTER. This activity was instructed by the FOOD CLUSTER coordinators, monitored by the project coordinator and realized by each project partner. FEED TO FOOD project realized that activity until the end of Jun and sent results to Food cluster coordinator.

2nd Food Cluster Meeting, September 15-16th, Brussels

The first day of meeting begun with presentations of the NEW projects from the 2008 calls as well as presentations of SWOT analyses by project. Olivera ?uragi?, presented results of SWOT analysis in Vojvodina region which has been done by FEED TO FOOD project and stakeholders in region. Also, results of the SWOT and SOR analysis in Romania South region performed within the project, were presented. It was discussed about development of project SORs and some SOR example as introduction for next project activities under the Cluster Initiative.

Next day, practical guide on "Synergies" communication from the commission “Competitive European regions through research and innovation” was presented by Jean-David MALO, Head of Unit. It was presented initiative "Regions for economic change" by L.Sanches “Cluster policy” by C. Schierenbeck and “Food Sciences” specific program within FP7 program. Mr Keith Harrap, cluster coordinator presented main outcomes from the Food Cluster and their potential impact on policy formulation.

Preparing for 3rd Cluster Meeting, February 23-24th,2009, Mersin - Turkey

After second meeting, in December 2008, FEED TO FOOD project, together with main provincial stakeholders, made SWOT and SOR analysis. Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD prepared 3 Power point presentations about FEED-TO-FOOD project, FOOD-CLUSTER initiative and SWOT and SOR analyses and presented them at the meeting organized together with Provincial Secretary for Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry of Vojvodina. Stakeholders from policy, industry and science were invited.

Results of SWOT and SOR analysis were sent to Cluster coordinator. The other partners also sent results made in their regions particulary.

3rd Food Cluster Meeting, February 23-25th, Mersin, Turkey

Third Food Cluster Meeting was held in Mersin, Turkey under the title “Connecting European Food Clusters” and it was dedicated to Strategic Orientation Rounds: experiences from different regions. Food cluster effectiveness was expressed through next activities:

• transfer of good practices through inter-regional partnerships

• strengthening the research effort of European regions

• reinforcing the capacity of regional actors to participate in wider FP7 activities

• development of regional research driven clusters that associate universities, research centers, enterprises and regional authorities

• integration with strategies arising through other instruments

• enhancing the full integration of the convergence regions and outermost regions into the EU RTD activities

Mr Keith Harrap, cluster coordinator presented main outcomes from the Food Cluster and their potential impact on policy formulation.

Discussion about further activities continued in 6 small groups where participants discussed about practical preparation activities for 2009: development of a website and preparing for next meetings (?Prague in May 2009 and Wageningen in October 2009).

4th Food Cluster Meeting 7, 8 & 9 October 2009, Wageningen, The Netherlands

Within the scope of the Food Cluster Initiative, this meeting was organized by the Development Agency East Netherlands (OOST NV) and the meeting is funded through the project AGFORISE. Also, meeting was co-organized with the Eureka Euro Agri Food Chain and all participants took part in the final Food Valley award ceremony.

Through three days of meetings, all participants had opportunity to take part in different workshops dedicated to European Funding tools for research and innovation, divided into next thematic areas:

• International, National and Regional Food initiatives.

• Project development.

• Food clusters succesful work

• SME participation in the European research area.

• Research potential of Convergence Regions: development of research organisations

In the same time was organized exibition under the title „Innovation Plaza“ where many of succesful food companies presented their products and innovations. European Commision stand was placed for promotional material. Roll-up banner of FEED-TO-FOOD project was displayed and first leaflets were distributed on this stand. Final Presentation of the Food Valley Award pronounced the most innovative, cooperative and socially responsible project in the food or food-related industry.

5th Food-Cluster Meeting March 07-09, 2009, Thessaloniki, Greece

5th Food-Cluster Meeting was held in March 07-09, 2009 in Thessaloniki, Greece. The RAF Regions project successfully organized the “Mind Your Food!” International Conference. More than 160 participants from 14 countries across Europe participated in the Conference. The Conference hosted the 5th Food Cluster Initiative Meeting and it was adjoined to the 3rd International Organic Food Products Fair, Biologica 2010. During the first day of the Conference, the RAF Regions project results were presented with a focus to the results of SWOT analysis in the 3 participating regions of Central Macedonia, Puglia and Pazardjik and the Action Plan which is under development. International trends in Food Innovation were discussed, as well as the European policies and initiatives for clustering food research and industry and promoting innovation in regional food systems. Finally the possibilities for internationalization of the Greek organic food products industry were presented. During the second day of the Conference parallel workshops were organized with an emphasis to supporting the participation of research entities and the industry in European funded research and innovation projects; funding instruments such as FP7, CIP, Structural Funds, Territorial Cooperation Programmes etc. were discussed. The final plenary session was related to the furthering of the activities of the Food Cluster Initiative.

All FEED-TO-FOOD beneficiaries (except INRA) participate at 5th Food Cluster Initiative Meeting and at the International Conference “Mind Your Food!”. It was a forum for the exchange of know-how and experience, as well as a chance for the elaboration of new ideas for research projects. All participants had opportunity to talk about international co-operation, networking and clustering.

6th Food Cluster Meeting December 8.10 Ghent, Belgium

6th Food Cluster Meeting was held in December 8-10, 2010 in Ghent, Belgium. It was focused on improving the links with industry in the triple helix when building regional clusters and on how to spot relevant support sources to ensure a sustainable concept. We have opportunity to hear relevant stakeholders from the European triple helix, among which participants from the European Commission, regional authorities, regional clusters, companies, RTD performers and also notably academics from all over the Europe.

The following topics were addressed:

• key experiences in cluster building (success stories, bottlenecks and success factors);

• the role of the different stakeholders (policy, research and industry) in building successful clusters;

• the impact of food clustering;

• funding schemes to further support the capacity building efforts of regional clusters;

• the future strategy of the Food Cluster Initiative

Furthermore, a series of interactive workshops were organized in order to

• define future funding needs and ways to address them;

• improve cluster cooperation;

• evaluate the performance of clusters

In its Europe 2020 new long term strategy, the European Commission aims to tackle the challenges of the reshaped social market economy and turn the EU into a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy. By stimulating smart growth through innovation and knowledge building, an ‘Innovation Union’ with more competitive and innovative regions will arise. Strengthening partnerships between research, business and policy is one of the key innovation pathways to achieve this and at Food Cluster Initiative meetings we were fully informed about new EC strategy.

7th Food Cluster Meeting 13-14 October 2011, Brussels, Belgium

7th Food Cluster Meeting was held on 13-14 October 2011 in Brussels- Belgium. This meeting was orienting much more towards 'research' (KBBE programme etc.) since the organizers consider that participating institutions have or they are about to finish their „capacity building“. A lot of interesting points were discussed. As usually, we met many interesting potential partners. Slavica Sredanovic and Olivera Djuragic from Research Centre Feed to Food participate at this meeting and distribute 3rd Leaflet of Feed-to-Food project and 1st Announcement for 6th Central European Congress on Food (CEFood) to other participants. FINS is one of the main organizers of this important event which will be held in Novi Sad 23-26th May 2012.

During this meeting we start to talk about new project proposal with SIGRA Institute from Latvia which we were proposed later.

Our project officer dr Irmela Brach changed the workplace in EC and during the cocktail which was held in STANHOPE hotel participants are parted from her and thanked for the good cooperation.

Development, launch and maintaining of Web portal

Project Website is established as a tool to disseminate information about FEED-TO-FOOD project and main achieved results. In the 3rd Reporting period, developement and updating of project web-site was continued. The number of visits of www.feed-to-food.uns.ac.rs site grew and it is still growing. Web-site developing has been achieved its goal; constant informing and dissemination of Feed to Food project activities. Links to project web site were established on web sites of all project beneficiaries, on different EC portals, on the web site of Food Cluster Initiative and on the web sites of the most participants in this action.

Leaflet preparation and publishing

Leaflet containing project description and achieved results were prepared, printed and distributed to project partners and than to researchers, authorities, EC, SMEs etc. In final year of project duration, we wanted to present the development of Research Centre Feed to Food and achieved results and we have prepared a more extensive and better assorted Leaflet than in previous years. The leaflets were prepared in both Serbian and English language and distributed on the numerous conferences and meetings all over the world.

Communications with interested partners and authorities

Research Centre FEED-TO-FOOD has had permanent communication with Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Ministry of Agriculture of Republic Serbia, Provincial Secretariat of Agriculture and other state authorities regarding legislation in feed production chain and implementation of knowledge to practice. We have had participate in working groups of experts, which are dealing with harmonization of Serbian and EU regulative. The Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD was in constant contact with state authorities and feed producers about organization of Roundtable discussion and they participate with presentations also as experts from FINS.

We have shared obtained knowledge and research experience, especially in area of feed technology and quality assurance, with partners from industry and other stakeholders. We permanently organized Feed Technology Symposiums and other meetings were feed producers and other participants in feed production chain can get information about development in FEED-TO-FOOD research area.

Research Centre FEED-TO-FOOD is opened for all kind of communication, research and other activities with Institutes, Faculties, Farmers, Producers of equipment, feed raw materials, additives, compound feed etc. They all have opportunity to visit laboratories in FINS and Pilot plant equipment purchased by EC support through FP7 FEED TO FOOD project and to be introduced with FINS activities. We are always ready for cooperation and we are ready to share knowledge and experience.

Contacts about public presentations

We made a great effort to invite large number of different media houses in order to highlight workshop and roundtable topics and to promote Feed-to-Food project funded by EC.

2nd FEED-TO-FOOD Workshop titled “Extrusion Technology in Feed and Food Processing“ and the Roundtable regarding legislation in the feed production deserved much media attention. Numerous television programs, radio and newspapers have devoted considerable time and space to this events.

All these activities required prior contacts and the organization. We contact a lot of radio and TV studious and newspapers in order to promote topics of both meetings and to highlight FEED TO FOOD project and EC contribution in funding of our activities. Also, we prepared previous reports for journalist in order to inform them about these events.

We have established communication with a few local and with State radio and TV studious and they are ready to follow our important event when we call them.

Project management during the period

Project Management Work Package 1 (WP1), corresponds to the management structure of the project. Due to its nature, WP1 spans from the start until the end of the project. While scientific excellence of proposals and project results is of the greatest importance for FP7 projects, effective and correct management that follows all the rules and principles is essential to satisfy the programme's formal requirements. Administrative, financial, and legal management is thus an inevitable part of FP7 project preparation and implementation.

Successful realization of FP7 projects is connected not only with achieving the research objectives but also with successful administrative, legal, and financial project management. Knowledge of FP7 financial rules and principles is a necessary prerequisite for correct budget preparation and correct spending and cost reporting. Effective financial project management should thus ensure smooth and trouble-free project preparation and implementation (both for researchers and project administrators involved), as well as cost justification to project officers and financial auditors.

To provide a better and clearer explanation of rules, a number of workshops were organized by Serbian Ministry of Science in Belgrade and we participate at these meetings.

The main objective of FEED-TO-FOOD project management was to ensure the basic infrastructure of the CSAs for coordination and administration and to allow the Research Center FEED-TO- FOOD to reinforce as planned on time and within budget.

Coordinator managed all the tasks indicated in Articles II.2.3 and Article II 16.5 of the Grant Agreement and the tasks from WP1 in Annex I of the Grant Agreement. The Consortium management tasks include:

• Overall project management

• Budget management

• Coordination assistance

• Local coordination

• Organization of international board meetings

• Organization of training

• Organization of workshops and roundtable

• Audit certification

Overall project management

Management of FP projects requires participants to handle administrative, legal and financial matters. These activities inevitably connect with the project’s administrative management within FINS and involve communication with other beneficiaries. Moreover, the coordinator also has to communicate with the EC on behalf of the whole consortium and report periodically on the project’s implementation. Even though projects are carried out jointly by all beneficiaries in the consortium (i.e. technical collective responsibility exists), project management lies mainly in the hands of the coordinator. The coordinator is responsible for both the internal and external management of the project. Good governance and effective communication between partners is essential for smart project management and we had it. Within this task coordinator has made efforts to:

• manage the overall legal, ethical, financial and administrative project activities for each beneficiaries;

• ensure focus on the direction of the project’s objectives in accordance with the project plan

• guarantee the nontechnical, technical and administrative coordination among all activities involved in the project

• monitor milestones and ongoing tasks, as well as coordinate the production of reports and deliverables

• manage and administer the procedure for modification of project duration

The main management activities are listed below together with achievements :

• Keep up communication between EC and beneficiaries;

• Intensive communication with EC about modification of project duration;

• Collaboration with project partners about project overall progress;

• Promotion of the detailed working plan;

• Organization of International Board meetings;

• Organization of Scientific Committee meetings;

• Organization of scientific visits, young researchr trainings and participation at different meetings and conferencess (invitation letters, visas, traveling and accommodation).

• Communication about networking and future collaboration;

• Communication with Wageningen University (coordinator) about writing Proposal for new FP7-KBBE-2010-2-4-03 EC call

• Communication with Austrian Agency about FP7-KBBE-2010-4 EC call and preparing necessary materials

• Communication with RAF REGION project and company Euroconsultants S.A. about new EU project

• Communication with EU institutes and researchers about Letters of intent for FP-7 REGPOT-2010-5 call and organization concerned writing of proposal.

• Cooperation with other projects/programs like as FEED-SEG, BALTFOODQUAL, FEED SAFETY, FOOD CLUSTER INITIATIVE….

• Organization of 2nd FEED-TO-FOOD Workshop (definition of the overall structure of the workshop, preparation and posting of announcement, calls for papers and invited speakers, organization of paper peer reviewing, scientific committee, program, simultaneous translation, space, technical details, promotional materials and contacts, registrations, accommodation for guests, social activities, publishing Proceedings and CD etc…)

• Organization of Roundtable discussion

• Contacts with State authorities

• Detailed monitoring of reinforcement of Research Centre FEED-TO- FOOD

• Delivery of periodic report and all deliverables

• Approving the time recording shits

• Coordination with FINS administration including instructions about archiving of contracts, invoicing, payments, travel orders, travel tickets, receipt and delivery of postal and other mail, procurement of office supplies and other consumable material etc.

• Procurement of office supplies and other consumable material

• Keeping records related to the project

Technical work related to coordination of work between project coordinator and administrative department of FINS was performed by technical secretary of FEED-TO- FOOD project.

Management is also involved in activities concerned with tasks in WP5 through the organization of all dissemination and promotional activities like as:

• Public presentation of papers and articles concerned with project;

• FOOD-CLUSTER INITIATIVE;

• Updating of web portal;

• Leaflet preparation and publishing;

• Communications with interested partners and authorities;

• Contacts about public presentations of reinforced research capacities and networking results in newspapers, radio and on TV

Budget management

EU funding for FP7 grants of SP Cooperation and Capacities is mainly based on the reimbursement of direct and indirect eligible costs. FP7 financial rules and principles described by the EC in various legally binding or guidance documents define certain requirements for costs to be eligible, describe specific conditions for categories of direct costs, and identify methods for the calculation of indirect costs. EC reimburse the total amount of all eligible costs for this kind of project. To know and understand these rules is an important prerequisite for correct budget preparation, correct cost spending, and cost reporting.

Within these tasks the following management activities were done by project coordinator:

• On behalf of the beneficiaries administer the Community financial contribution regarding its allocation between beneficiaries and activities, in accordance with Grant agreement and the plans taken by the consortium;

• Ensure that all appropriate payments are made to the other beneficiaries without unjustified delay;

• Approve and confirm all bank transactions;

• Keep the records and financial accounts of any financial contribution paid to the purposes of the project;

• Collaborate with project partners and ensured the correctness of financial reports and invoices;

• Preparing data for financial Audit control;

Coordination assistance

Researchers from all Institutes project beneficiaries were cooperative to help in management activities beside their main duty. Internal reporting to the coordinator were more frequent than project meetings (i.e. face-to-face communication). All partners send their reports at the end of important activities while annual reporting was obligatory.

For communication between partners, usually e-mails, Skype, telephone calls, project meetings and internal reporting were used. Internal reporting provides the coordinator with, better control over the project, potentially detecting problems in their early stages, and ensuring smooth project implementation.

This task include help and assistance to coordinator in all management activities whenever appropriate to ensure that the project is carried out in accordance with the terms and conditions of this grant agreement. Coordination assistance was necessary during the whole reporting period because of added activities concerned with increasing networking, forming the consortiums for new EU projects, preparing the new proposals, modification of project duration and especially in the absence of coordinator during the holiday.

Local coordination

This task include communications with:

• Ministry of Science and Technological development RS

• Ministry of agriculture RS

• Chamber of Commerce RS

• Provincial Secretariat for Science and Technological Development

• Provincial Secretariat for Agriculture

• Association of Feed Producers RS etc.

Beside permanent communication with listed governmental bodies, project coordinator and other researchers from Research Center FEED-TO-FOOD, were participated in working groups of experts, which are dealing with harmonization of Serbian and EU legislation and organized Roundtable discussion with feed producers and other stakeholders in feed chain.

Organization of International board meetings

Internal management of relationships between project partners and communication inside the consortium is formally based mainly on provisions set out in Annex I - “Description of work”. The structure of governance depends on the size of the consortium, i.e. the number of beneficiaries and of course on the type of project. International board of FEED-TO-FOOD project represents all beneficiaries and it was assembled of 6 members (project coordinator, vice coordinator and team leaders from Institutes – project beneficiaries). It was planed to have International board meetings at the beginning of the project and at the end of each reporting period, but we have it more frequently because we take each opportunity during the other meetings or visits to talk about future activities and project development at formal and informal meetings. Some of the project activities scheduled for International board meeting and another tasks in FEED-TO-FOOD project were done during the meetings with different topics were some of beneficiaries met each other, like as WIRE Conferences in Granada-Spain and Debrecen-Hungary, short scientific visits to Braunschweig-Germany, 9th and 10th International Symposium of Animal Biology and Nutrition in Bucharest, Romania etc. in order to organize future project activities, upgrade collaboration between project partners and contribute to project progress.

All project beneficiaries participated, along the project, to the project meetings where necessary activities for project realization (as planned within the project) were detailed and reports about realized activities were discussed.

The Final International board meeting was organized by IAS Institute and it was held at 22 to 26 February 2012 in Lithuania. The first part of meeting was held in Vilnus, Capital town of Lithuania. The work started from close communication with project coordinator and other partners concerning meeting agenda and presentations. All project beneficiaries participate at this meeting and present activities which they performed during the project duration. Both, technical and financial results were sumarized and after discusion participants get instructions about preparation of Final report and established dead lines for each of final activities. The meeting place and services were chosen in accordance with the EU and Lithuanian national legislation. Additionally, except working program, the social events were performed during which the project partners had possibility to become familiar with Lithuanian culture, traditions and customs. The second day was used for visiting the IAS Institute which is located in Baisogala. During this visit participants of International board meeting got information about research activities of IAS and research methods used in their laboratories.

Organization of these meetings include communication with Project officer and beneficiaries concerned with timetables, agendas, presentations, social events, venues, participants registration, invitation letters for visas, contacts with embassy, bucking hotels, buying tickets etc.

Organization of trainings

Trainings in FINS laboratories, in Feed manufacturing companies, in IFF, INRA, IAS and IBNA Institutes and at Texas A&M University were organized for hired young researchers during project duration. The purpose of these trainings was the upgrading of their knowledge in feed to food research area. Organization include decisions about participants, planning of training programmes, arrangement of travelling and accommodation, payments etc.

Organization of workshops and roundtable

Organization of Workshops include definition of the overall structure of the workshop, preparation and posting of announcement, calls for papers and invited speakers, organization of paper peer reviewing, scientific committee, program, space, simultaneous translation, technical details, promotional materials and contacts, registrations, accommodation for guests, social activities, publishing Proceedings and CD etc. This task is finished successfully.

Roundtable discussion was organized in collaboration with state authorities which take part in presentations about Serbian and EU legislative. Beside presentations performed by experts in this area organization of Roundtable discussion include different management activities like as: definition of overall structure and agenda; preparation and posting of announcement and invitations by regular post and by E-mails; contacts with industry, inspections and other stakeholders; technical details like as space, sound system, etc; promotional materials; registrations; accommodation for guests; social activities etc This task was finished successfully and were performed by FINS.

Audit certification

Considering that the amount of money spent in the 1st reporting period was up to 375.000,00 €, audit certification was necessary than and now at the end of project and it was organized by project coordinator and done by IEF certified auditor..

Problems which have occurred and how they were solved or envisaged solutions

The biggest problem for management was the fact that IFR Institute quitted the project. At the 2nd International board meeting held together with the 2nd Food Cluster Initiative meeting on 15-16 September 2008 in Brusseas consortium made the decision to change beneficiary IFR according to its request with new beneficiary. Activities which were dedicated ti IFR Institute were completely taken by INRA from France, after finishing of changing procedure. In requested documentation for Ec we write that the starting date in FEED-TO-FOOD project for INRA will be 11th November, 2008 but we received Amendment 1 almost 1 year later. So beneficiary INRA have a big problem to organize all activities in short time until the end of project.

The project activities were modified during the 3rd reporting period according to the progress of the project, thus the timing of the project activities were differing from the proposed plan. Two prolongation of project get formal EC notification through Amendment No. 2 and Amendment No 3 to grant agreement No. 207043 – Project title “FEED-TO-FOOD” during the 3rd reporting period. With reference to these amendments project duration was prolonged to 44 and later to 50 months. It was cost neutral prolongation of project. Depending on the last month of the project, last reporting period was prolonged. Extension of the project is requested concerning the lack of time to adjust and complete the activities related to the beneficiaries No 6 (INRA), the new member from 10th month of project. Their activities started much after the scheduled start of the contract because documentation was not completed. For this reason, some activities were allocated between beneficiaries and in accordance with these changes, a new commitment in the months and time of individual activities was defined. Part of funds in WP1 (27000 Euro) provided for the management is diverted for:

• WP2 for salaries of 2 new researchers hired according to approval of the project officer 2 and 4 months earlier than originally planned (a total of 4200 Euro for 6 months)

• WP2 for financing the purchase of equipment (5150 Euro)

• WP5 for funding FOOD-CLUSTER activities (5000 Euro)

• Personal cost for researcher except young researchers and nationals (12650 Euro)

All other provisions of the grant agreement and its annexes remained unchanged.

Unfortunately, beneficiaries No 6 (INRA) did not spend money because they shortened the stay in secondment visit at FINS in Novi Sad due to other commitments they had.

List of project meetings dates and venues

It was planed to have International board meetings at the beginning of the project and at the end of each reporting period, but we have it more frequently because we take each opportunity during the other events (Food Cluster Initiative meetings, Workshops, WIRE and other Conferences etc.) to talk about project development and future activities at formal and informal meetings. Researchers from all Institutes project beneficiaries were cooperative to help in achieving good project results.

• In the 3rd Reporting period International board meeting was organized on 24th September 2010 during the 9th International Symposium of Animal Biology and Nutrition in Bucharest, Romania.

• International board meeting was also organized during the 2nd FEED-TO-FOOD project Workshop held in Novi Sad at 19-21 October, 2010.

• The Final International board meeting was organized by IAS Institute in Lithuania and it was held at 22 to 26 February 2012 in Lithuania.

Project planning and status

Feed to Food project (grant agreement No 207043) has been finished...

...but this is not the end of successful scientific cooperation!

All beneficiaries will continue with mutual activities, following latest trends in EU researches.

Potential Impact:

The objective of the REGPOT-2007-3 programme was to contribute to the realization of the FP7’s international dimension by implementing actions - under the ‘Research Potential’ activity - promoting closer S&T cooperation opportunities between Europe and the Western Balkan Countries (WBC). The Research Potential international dimension component targets several identified needs in terms of Human and material capacities improvement, scientific networking and exchange of know-how and experience. This could improve the WBC participation in the RTD Framework Programme and favor brain-gain environments through trans-national two-way exchanges of research staff between centers established in the EU’s convergence and outermost region’s, in other European regions and in the WBC. The resulting cooperation will be based on a mutual benefit approach within the perspective of further integration of the Balkan region into the European Research Area (ERA) and therefore the European RTD activities and networks.

Expected impact was identified as:

• Upgrading the RTD capacity and capability (human potential: number of new researchers and training of research staff, improvement of research management, scientific equipment) as well as the quality of research carried out by the selected research entities;

• Better integration of the selected research entities in the ERA as a whole (partnerships, including twinning with research groups elsewhere in Europe);

• Contribution to regional capacity building;

• Improvement of the potential of the selected research entities to participate in research activities at EU (FP7 and other projects).

All these expected impacts were achieved during the project duration but in RTD activities it is always possible to do more and better. Under different type of activities through FEED-TO-FOOD project we attained European standards as scientific link in the production chain from feed to food. Now, beside tradition and regional recognition, we have respectable reinforced research potential to fulfill stringent demands indicated in new FP7 and other EC calls and we are competent to take important role in European Research Area. Research Centre FEED-TO-FOOD is widely recognized as the leader in feed technology and it is ready to participate and assist in successful integration of Serbia, other West Balkan Countries and the whole region into the Europe.

Project promotion and dissemination strategy is very important for upgrading the research potentials of research Centre FEED-TO-FOOD. Due to difficult political situation in Serbia in the past decades, poor economic situation in general, and the previous isolation of the country, our researchers does not have resources necessary to stay on the top of developments in the scientific world and had no chance to participate in EU projects. Thus we all take the chance for unlock and promote our research potentials through FEED-TO-FOOD project. Throughout the reporting 3rd reporting period all project beneficiaries takes different activities to engage with public and the media about the project aims and results and to highlight the Community financial support.

Results of the project were presented at conferences at national and international level, and through Food Cluster Initiative. Promotions of the developed Resear