Claire Cross

Much more by accident than by design for most of my life I seem to have been following in the footsteps of the godly Henry Hastings, third earl of Huntingdon. I first encountered the earl while still in the sixth form when, encouraged by an inspirational school mistress, Ruth Bird, (the author of The Turbulent London of Richard II and a contributor to the Leicester Victoria County History) I worked in the local record office on the sources for a history of the Leicester grammar school, which he had re-founded early in Elizabeth’s reign. Consequently, when I went on to research after taking my first degree, it seemed obvious to focus on a biography of Huntingdon, who spent the second part of his adult life in York as President of the Council in the North.

Having completed my thesis, and been employed for nearly three years as county archivist for Cambridgeshire, I obtained a fellowship to study the only partially calendared Hastings family papers acquired after the first World War by the Henry E. Huntington Library in Pasadena, California. I returned from a year in America to a three year research fellowship at Reading University, which enabled me to turn my thesis into a book and edit the letters of Huntingdon’s even more Protestant younger brother, Sir Francis Hastings. The University of York was one the ‘new’ universities founded in the 1960s, and I was very fortunate in 1965 to be appointed a lecturer in the History Department then located at the King’s Manor, once the house of the abbot of St Mary’s Abbey and after the dissolution of the monasteries the headquarters of the Council in the North. Since the Borthwick Institute for Archives was a constituent part of the university, it has always been possible for interested History undergraduates to work on original manuscript sources for part of their degree.

The wheel turned full circle when one such student, who had gone on to become an archivist in Shropshire, discovered in the Shrewsbury Record Office (and kindly allowed me to edit) a moving contemporary account of Huntingdon’s last days. Having taught at York for virtually the whole of my academic career, when I retired in 2000 the University generously allotted me a little room in the King’s Manor -and I write this within a stone’s throw of the chamber in which Huntingdon died on 14 December 1595.

Claire Cross, Vice President