Chennai: It’s a rare honour that visited Tamil Nadu nearly 21 years after the thespian Sivaji Ganesan was conferred the prestigious Chevalier de L’Ordre Arts et Lettres. Veteran actor Kamal Haasan will be conferred with the Chevalier de L’Ordre Arts et Lettres award (Knight in the National Order Arts and Letters) by the minister of culture and communication, France.

The award is recognition of significant contributions to the arts, literature, or the propagation of these fields, as well as people who have contributed significantly to furthering the arts in France and throughout the world. The award will be conferred on Kamal Haasan at a special ceremony soon.

“The distinction, which is yet another laurel for the actor, is in recognition of his high level of artistic excellence and his distinguished career achievements. The award will be conferred on Kamal Haasan at a special ceremony,” a statement from the actor said.

Apart from Sivaji Ganesan who received the award in 1995, Amitabh Bachchan, Aishwarya Rai, Nandita Das and Shah Rukh Khan are among other Indians who have been conferred with the Chevalier Order for actors.

“Ulaganayagan” Kamal Haasan has been giving hits every year, though some of the films like Vishwaroopam (2013), Dasavatharam (2008) and Hey Ram (2000) to name a few, kicked up controversies. Currently, he is busy shooting the trilingual comedy Sabash Naidu.

He has won three national awards for the Best Actor and President’s Gold Medal for the Best Child Artist for the film Kalathur Kannamma (1960) and was awarded the Padma Bhushan by the Indian government in 2014, in his spectacular career spanning over half-a-century. Kamal’s magnum opus Vishwaroopam 2, sequel to the blockbuster film is to be released soon.

In a statement issued by South Indian Artistes Association, the Sangam congratulated Ulaganayagan Kamal Haasan who has been conferred with French government’s highest award Chevalier. “After Nadigar Thilagam Sivaji Ganesan, Kamal has been honoured with the prestigious title. Nadigar Sangam will felicitate the veteran at a grand function at a later date,” it said.

The actor took to Twitter in January this year and within 24 hours over 30,000 people started followed him. He also surprised his fans with his version of national anthem. His daughter Shruti Haasan welcomed “appa” who made his debut on Twitter.

Born on Nov.7, 1954 in Paramakudi, Kamal debuted as a child artiste in the film Kalathur Kannamma (1960). Since then, he has starred in over 200 films in the major Indian languages including Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam and Hindi and he donned the mantle of numerous roles from child artiste, to romantic lead to one of the most respected and revered heroes of the film industry today.

He wrote his first script at age 18 for the film Unarchigal (1976), which was followed by films that have gone on to become cult classics —Rajapaarvai (1981),

Sathya (1988), Apoorva Sahotharargal (1989), Thevar Magan (1992), Mahanadhi (1994), Kurudhippunal (1995), Avvai Shanmugi (1996), Hey Ram (2000), Pammal K Sambandam (2002), Panchathanthiram (2002) and Anbe Sivam (2003).

‘I dedicate this award to admirers, audience’

Reacting to the announcement, Kamal Haasan said, “the French Government has kindly conferred the Chevalier Award for arts and letters on me. On this occasion, I bow before my more deserving forerunners Mr Sathyajit Ray and Mr Sivaji Ganesan who made even the common man realise the value of the Chevalier award. I thank the Ambassador of France in India Mr Alexandere Ziegler, who intimated me of this honour. This award humbles me rather than stifle me with pride.

I realise my journey in my chosen field has not been alone. Teachers and admirers abounded around me with motherly care and they have applauded my every little step forward. The melancholy of my parents not being alive to see this day is allayed by the fact the elders and the young are still around in my family to enjoy it. I dedicate this award to my admirers and audience who give me the tenacity of purpose to purse to this day and moment my arts and letters.”