Actor Kamal Haasan has been chosen for the famous French honor of Chevalier Award. Kamal Haasan has been appointed Chevalier de l’Ordre des Arts et Lettres (Knight in the National Order Arts and Letters) by the Minister of Culture and Communication, France.

Chevalier de l’Ordre :-

The Ordre des Arts et des Lettres (Order of Arts and Letters) is an Order of France, established on 2 May 1957 by the Minister of Culture, and its supplementary status to the Ordre national du Mérite was confirmed by President Charles de Gaulle in 1963. Its purpose is the recognition of significant contributions to the arts, literature, or the propagation of these fields.

Its origin is attributed to the Order of Saint-Michel as acknowledged by French government sources.

Chevalier(Knight) — medallion worn on ribbon on left breast; up to 200 recipients a year.

The médaille of the Order is an eight-point, green-enameled asterisk, in gilt for Commanders and Officers and in silver for Knights; the obverse central disc has the letters “A” and “L” on a white enameled background, surrounded by a golden ring emblazoned with the phrase “République Française”.

The reverse central disc features the head of Marianneon a golden background, surrounded by a golden ring bearing the words “Ordre des Arts et des Lettres”. The Commander’s badge is topped by a gilt twisted ring.

French citizens must wait a minimum of 5 years before they are eligible to be upgraded from Chevalier to Officier, or Officer to Commandeur, and must have displayed additional meritorious deeds than just those which originally made them a Chevalier.

This means that were someone to be made a Chevalier of the Order of Arts and Letters one year, then made an officer of the Legion of Honour the next year, that person can be upgraded to Officer of the Order of Arts and Letters and bypass the five-year rule.

Kamal Haasan :-

Kamal Haasan is an Indian film actor, screenwriter, director, producer,playback singer, choreographer, lyricist, philanthropist and dancer. His birth name is Parthasarathy.

Haasan has won several Indian film awards including four National Film Awards and 19 Filmfare Awards. With seven submissions, Kamal Haasan has starred in the highest number of films submitted by India for the Academy Award Best Foreign Language Film. Haasan’s production company,Rajkamal International, has produced several of his films.

Kamal Haasan was titled Kalaimamani in 1979, the Padma Shri in 1990, the Padma Bhushan in 2014 and the prestigious French honour Chevalier of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres in 2016.

After several projects as a child, Haasan’s breakthrough as a lead actor came in the 1975 dramaApoorva Raagangal, in which he played a rebellious youth in love with an older woman.

He won his first National Film Award for his portrayal of a guileless schoolteacher who cares for a childlike amnesiac in Moondram Pirai (1983). Haasan was noted for his performances in Mani Ratnam‘s crime filmNayagan(1987), rated by Timeas one of the best films in cinema history as well as Shankar‘s vigilante filmIndian(1996) which saw him playing dual roles of a father and a son.

Since then he has appeared in a number of films including Hey Ram (2000), Virumaandi (2004), Vishwaroopam (2013) which were his own productions and Dasavathaaram (2008) in which he played ten different roles.