Arthur Patrick Oliver was born on 6th November 1919 to Peter and Alice McArdle in Blackrock, The eldest of five children, Art spent the first years of his life in the Rock, known by all and a favourite of fishermen who fished from the shore opposite the house and would occasionally take him out in their boats. itive examination. By 1945, aged 25,

He was a brother of Peter McArdle he was a Senior Clerk at several who was a long-distance runner who, provincial offices and the GPO, though born in Dundalk, represented Dublin. the United States, winning gold in the Whilst travelling to and from men's 10,000 metres at the 1963 Pan Dublin and sharing lifts Art met his American Games in São Paulo, and life long friend, Michael Finnegan. who established himself as one of the Together they knew every part of nation's top distance runners finishDublin and Art enjoyed amateur draing 20th in the marathon in the 1964 matics, politics and debating. While Summer Olympics in Tokyo. . in Dublin he came across lots of char

Art loved to learn and relished a acters and socialised with writers, acchallenge even at an early age. He told tors and broadcasters who were eithe story how he took himself off to ther in the Civil Service or had access school aged three unknown to his to the GPO via the canteen. mother. On the way he got his coat In 1948 his father, Peter, died and caught on a gate post and with typical Art did everything he could to ensure tenacity he wriggled out of it and carhis mother and younger siblings were ried on only to be sent home for anwell supported whilst working and atother year or two. tending Trinity College, Dublin study

He left school in 1937 with an honing law, politics and economics. As a ours Leaving Certificate and in 1937 Catholic this was unusual at that time entered the Department of Post and and needless to say Art had a lively Telegraphs in Dundalk. discussion with his local priest about

He had early boyhood memories of this. soldiers coming through the house in His studies were interrupted in Blackrock looking for family mem1950 when he was involved in a car bers after a Republican jail breakout crash that fractured his spine and left and soon became interested in local him in a body cast for six months. He politics and was invited to stand as a was left with a legacy of back pain in TD for a splinter party. one form or another for the rest of his

Art was transferredlife.to Kells in 1938 and his career progressed by compet-Nevertheless, his career within the GPO continued as Art served in various Government Ministries, bringing him into close touch with senior civil servants occasionally meriting personal interviews with Government Ministers, including Erskine Childers who went on to become the fourth President of Ireland.

In 1956 Art became a delegate of the Royal Liver Friendly society and quickly established himself as something of a "live wire", never afraid to jump to his feet and voice his opinion. The friendships he forged whilst a delegate were treasured by him even after his election to the Committee of Management in 1963. He was the first Irishman to be elected to the Committee of Management and his delegate colleagues stood on their chairs, waving their order papers exclaiming it a great day for the Irish.

He left the Civil Sservice to move to Royal Liver HQ in Liverpool bringing his beloved wife, Breda, whom he had married in 1961. They had started married life in St Lawrence Road, Clontarf but moved to England and again created a new life, settling in Bromborough, just outside Liverpool. In 1965 their son, Sean was born followed in 1970 by their daughter, Aisling.

Family life was happy with Art's sense of purpose and drive balanced by Breda's calm and loving influence. Together they were a complete and unbeatable team. At every available opportunity the family returned to Ireland to visit family.

Art was a proud Irish speaker who at one time judged Irish verse and poems. Blessed with a keen intellect he was a voracious reader and read until a few days before his death.

He was genuinely interested in people and their lives and enjoyed talking to them. While he was in the Royal Liver he was as relaxed and familiar with all the support staff as he was with the other board members and proud of it. As an Irishman he felt he moved easily through all levels of society in England, met many of the top UK politicians and even had lunch with the Queen.

While he lived in Bromborough the only radio the family listened to was RTE 1. He had an Irish paper every day and three on a Sunday and his sister also sent over the Dundalk papers each week and these were intensively scanned so much that he was generally more aware of events than people living at home.

Art retired from the Royal Liver in 1988. He was the longest continuous serving member of the Committee of Management that century and the longest serving Chairman the society has ever had. He rose to all the challenges in his career both good and bad and never forgot his roots in Ireland. Above all he loved people and their stories. He had a great fondness for Liverpool and all the people he met and experiences he had there.

In retirement he enjoyed long periods in Ireland where he was always reinvigorated by his return. He also travelled abroad with Breda and kept up with all the news and politics in England and Ireland.

Art is survived by his son, Sean, daughter, Aisling, their partners, Sara and Martin and his beautiful grand daughter, Eibhlin. He is also survived by his sisters, Nancy Gernon (Blackrock) and Maeve O'Neill (Blackrock).

When Breda died suddenly in 2004 there is no doubt that the light went out of Art's life and he is also predeceased by his sister, Mona Clarke and brother, Peter who collapsed and died in June 1985 during a cross-country practice run at Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx when aged 56.

Art's ashes were taken home to St. Oliver Plunkett Church in Blackrock for Requiem Mass celebrated by Very Rev. O. Brennan P.P. and were interned with those of his wife in Haggardstown cemetery.