“Without accountability, there is no trust, and without trust, there is no leadership.”

– Dave Ramsey, Finance Guru & American radio personality

LAST Tuesday, Dewan Rakyat Speaker Tan Sri Johari Abdul issued a stern warning to Members of Parliament (MPs) who frequently skip parliamentary sittings.

MPs who miss too many sessions may risk losing their allowances. This will happen once the Parliamentary Services Act (PSA) is in effect.

And if they are absent for six consecutive months without a valid reason, they might also lose their seats.

The attendance requirements for MPs are clearly stipulated in the law. So far, the speaker said no MPs have lost their seats due to this reason.

Johari reminded the MPs that they are elected by the people to attend Parliament.

Hence, MPs should not take this warning lightly. As elected representatives, they are duty-bound to attend parliamentary sessions. Through these sessions, they can effectively voice the concerns of

their constituents.

He told a press conference after visiting the Penang state legislative assembly in George Town on Aug 6, the Speaker’s Office was only waiting for the PSA to be finalised, which may have already received Cabinet’s clearance. “It may be tabled at the end of the third Parliament sitting.”

Currently, the Malaysian Parliament has a total of 222 MPs.

Of them, 82 are from Pakatan Harapan (PH), 74 from Perikatan Nasional (PN), 30 Barisan Nasional (BN), 23 from Gabungan Rakyat Sarawak (GPS), seven from Gerakan Rakyat Sabah (GRS), three from Warisan, two independents, and one from Parti Bangsa Malaysia (PBM).

PH comprises Parti Keadilan Rakyat (PKR), Democratic Action Party (DAP), and Parti Amanah Negara (Amanah) while BN is a coalition of United Malays National Organisation (Umno), Malaysian Chinese Association (MCA) and the Malaysian Indian Congress (MIC). GPS, a Sarawak-based coalition is made up of Parti Pesaka Bumiputera Bersatu (PBB), Parti Rakyat Sarawak (PRS), Sarawak United People’s Party (SUPP) and Progressive Democratic Party (PDP). GRS, which is a coalition of Sabah-based parties comprises Bersatu, Parti Bersatu Sabah (PBS), Parti Solidariti Tanah Airku (STAR), Sabah Progressive Party (SAPP) and the United Sabah National Organisation (Usno).

The Madani government is formed by the combination of PH, BN, and the Borneo block – GPS and GRS. The opposition coalition, PN, consists of Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia (Bersatu) and Parti Islam SeMalaysia (PAS).

Making it mandatory for MPs to attend sessions, unless they have valid reasons, is a much-needed change. It will help discipline those MPs who are known to be absent frequently and encourage them to be more committed representatives. Being an MP requires them to fulfil their duties and responsibilities to the people who elected them.

It might also be beneficial if the august House publicly lists MPs who frequently miss sessions without valid reasons. This transparency would help voters know whether their MPs are fulfilling their duties, allowing them to make more informed decisions in future elections.

I suggest that every state and region in the country adopt a similar law, if one doesn’t already exist, to ensure that all elected assembly members attend Legislative Assembly sessions and do not miss them without a valid reason.

I’m sorry if it seems like I’m suggesting that some elected representatives aren’t fulfilling their duties. While I recognise, that most, if not all, are very committed, having laws to ensure attendance at sessions would be significantly beneficial for holding everyone accountable.

Implementing similar laws across states and regions would not only help ensure that all elected representatives are present and engaged in their legislative duties. This would also promote accountability and better serve the interests of the people they represent. It would be a win-win for everyone involved.

This approach also shows the public that the government is genuinely committed to addressing their concerns by ensuring that elected representatives fulfil their duties. It would also encourage political parties to nominate only those who are truly dedicated to serving the people. Otherwise, it could negatively impact both the individual representatives and their parties.

I hold no grudge against any elected representatives, particularly those in Sarawak, as I sincerely believe they are dedicated to their legislative duties.

However, regardless of our status in society, we should remember that we are all human, and some may be tempted to take the easy way out if left unchecked.

Also, the law, ultimately, is not meant to imply that current legislative members are undisciplined. Instead, it also serves as a safeguard for the future, as we can never fully predict how things will evolve. As the famous Malay proverb says, “Prepare your umbrella before it rains.”