You’re Cordially Invited, the new film starring Will Ferrell and Reese Witherspoon, has released its first teaser trailer.

The Prime Video comedy depicts a madcap set of circumstances as a father (Ferrell) discovers that his daughter’s wedding is in jeopardy after the location is double-booked.

The other party, led by a wedding planner (Witherspoon), refuses to budge, meaning the two families clash over who should be given priority at the venue.

Related: Will Ferrell brings back Anchorman character in Tom Brady Netflix roast

The trailer begins as the leading pair realise the gravity of the situation, with the rest of the minute-long teaser showcasing the lengths each party will go to in order to make the most of their big day.

In addition to Ferrell and Witherspoon, the cast includes Geraldine Viswanathan, Meredith Hagner, Celia Weston, Keyla Monterroso Mejia, Leanne Morgan, Jimmy Tatro and Jack McBrayer, with Nicholas Stoller serving as both writer and director.

Ferrell and Witherspoon both serve as producers for the project, which is scheduled to be released on Prime Video on January 30, 2025, so be sure to pencil in the date on your calendars!

While it may be a while before You’re Cordially Invited is released, Witherspoon did recently announce a project with another streaming service, with the star set to produce a Formula 1 documentary for Netflix.

Related: The Morning Show’s Reese Witherspoon addresses Bradley jail time

The show, called F1 Academy, will reportedly delve into the world of the female-only racing series F1 Academy, which runs on the support bill for Formula 1 Grands Prix. It is currently in production, with an aim to release in 2025.

“We started Hello Sunshine to change the narrative for women, and [F1 Academy's managing director] Susie Wolff and F1 Academy are doing just that by creating new opportunities in the thrilling world of motorsport,” said Witherspoon in a statement.

“As these dynamic and fearless drivers break barriers behind the wheel, we are excited to partner with Netflix to tell the stories of these powerhouse leaders. What we know is that when we put women at the centre, people show up to watch.”