West Midlands Police officers PC Mat Evans and Sergeant Antony Ashton have been awarded the prestigious Queen’s Police Medal (QPM) for the outstanding contributions they have made to policing and protecting the public from harm.

As well as the two Federated officers, former Federation workplace representative Karen Geddes, who is now a superintendent, was also awarded the QPM.

Mat hit the headlines last year when he won a regional Police Bravery Award for tackling a knifeman during an off-duty day trip to London.

PC Mat Evans.

But the QPM comes in wider recognition of a career throughout which he has gone out of his way to ensure the safety of the communities he serves.

In 2009, Mat realised that gangs were responsible for a 58 per cent increase in pickpocketing and distraction-type crimes against elderly, disabled and vulnerable members of the local community.

Acting on his own initiative he created Operation Share, a national network of more than 300 police officers dedicated to identifying offenders by sharing information on transient pickpocket gangs who try to avoid detection by touring the country’s shopping centres.

As a result, crime rates for these types of offences dropped by 42 per cent between 2011 and 2019 and produced an estimated saving of more than £11 million to the criminal justice system and community.

On 12 October 2019, Mat was enjoying a day out in London when he witnessed a violent, armed offender stab a member of the public in the heart in the grounds of Royal London Hospital.

Despite having no protective equipment or help, he intervened and put himself between the attacker and the victim to prevent the attack continuing and worsening. When the offender ran off Mat chased him down a busy high street and brought him to the ground.

The victim was given urgent first aid and then received emergency heart surgery at the scene and miraculously survived thanks to the officer’s courageous actions.

Sergeant Ashton has played a key role in reducing violence as part of the Force dedicated gangs team in #Coventry.

His work has helped contribute to an 82 per cent reduction in firearms offences and 65 per cent fall in violence between October 2020 and May 2021. He has been involved in securing injunctions to stop violence and drugs, and worked with partner agencies to ensure those at risk of becoming involved in crime have been diverted away.

West Midlands Police Federation deputy secretary Chris James said: “The Queen’s Police Medal is a tremendous accolade and Mat, Tony and Karen richly deserve this special recognition for their outstanding professionalism and dedication to duty.

“They personify all that is good about policing and we are extremely proud of their outstanding achievements.”

Eighteen officers are recipients of the prestigious Queen’s Police Medal in the 2022 Queen’s Birthday Honours, alongside colleagues from across England and Wales who are being recognised with MBEs, OBEs and CBEs.

Police Federation national chair Steve Hartshorn said: “It is humbling to see the number of police officers and police staff awarded such prestigious recognition for their contribution to policing.

“To be recognised with an honour from Her Majesty the Queen is an enormous privilege. I therefore want to congratulate all those individuals who received an award for their extraordinary achievements.”