In this course, we will learn the basic tools that every Web developer needs to know. We will start from scratch by learning how to implement modern web development with JavaScript, Microsoft ASP NET C#, and MySQL.

Learning to code JavaScript, Microsoft C# language and MySQL database is The first step to Coding you need to learn to succeed in web development, it is easy to learn and understand our online JavaScript, asp net C#, and MySQL Training course is designed for you with the complete steps to require learn Complete Developer topics. Mr. Sekhar Metla [MCP - Microsoft Certified Professional] will explain to you even complex topics to simplify and teach you that even beginners can easily understand with real-time examples.

This Development course is without a doubt the most comprehensive web development course available online. Even if you have zero programming experience, this course will take you from beginner to mastery. Here's why:

The course is taught by the lead instructor having 20+ years of professional experience.

Become a Full-Stack Web Developer with just ONE course. Developers complete courses for web design, and development with scripting, coding, and database queries!

The course has been updated to be trending technology ready and you'll be learning the latest tools and technologies used at large companies such as Apple, Facebook, Google, and Netflix.

The curriculum was developed over a period of four years, with comprehensive student testing and feedback on who is working and applying these coding examples.

We've taught many students how to code and many have gone on to change their lives by becoming professional developers or starting their own tech startups.

We'll take you step-by-step through engaging video tutorials and teach you everything you need to know to succeed as a web developer.

The course includes HD video tutorials and builds your programming knowledge while making real-world websites and web apps.

Learn from real-world experts

Throughout this comprehensive course, we cover a massive amount of tools and technologies, including:

JavaScript [Client side scripting]

Front-End Web Development

Client-side scripting

Datatypes

Operators

Statements

Loop statements

HTML DOM objects

On click events

Responsive events

HTML5 event code

Dynamic event handling

Functions

Validations

Error Handling

and more.

Asp Net with C# Language

Visual Studio

Variables

Data types

Statements

Control flow statements

Code Development

Web Design

Strings

Operators

Loop statements

List items

Arrays

Functions

Advanced C# Coding

Object-oriented programming [OOPs]

Classes and Objects

Methods

Inheritance

Polymorphism

Abstraction

Interface

Error Handling

and more.

MySQL Database

Installation

Database

Tables

SELECT statements

Filtering data statements

SQL functions

SQL statements

SQL operators

SQL Joins

Advanced SQL

Timestamp

Filtering data

Analyzing data

Grouping data

Constraints

Reports

Backup and Restore

and more.

By the end of this course, you will be fluent in programming and ready to make any website you can dream of.

Sign up today, and look forward to:

HD Video Lectures

Code Challenges and Coding Exercises

Beautiful Real-World dynamic Projects

ABOUT YOUR INSTRUCTOR

Sekhar Metla is a software engineer with 20+ years of professional experience. He is the author of several online-selling courses with more than 50,000+ students in many countries. He has a Master of Science in Computer Applications in Software Engineering. His students describe him as passionate, pragmatic, and motivational in his teaching.