The Classic Gangster Movie

A good gangster movie immerses you in a world of suspense, glamour, love, and crime. It epitomizes the magic of Hollywood. Best of all, the stories are often true. Characters like Al Capone, John Dillinger, and “Baby Face” Nelson are part of the landscape of anyone native to Chicago.

For a short time, ordinary life is suspended. The viewer enters a mind-blowing world where the bad guys are the heroes. Extraordinary people bound by family and loyalty. Immigrants with nothing to lose. Outsiders striving for the American Dream. Ambitious and dutiful to a fault, they cross the line into a world of crime. Once they enter, there is no way out, they’re in too deep.

A mafia dynasty is built in the criminal underworld of drugs, gambling, prostitution, and coercion. Mobsters will do anything to protect themselves from rival mobs and the FBI, who are always on their tail. The action and suspense are perfectly woven in, to provide the ultimate movie-going experience. Yet, despite the near perfection of this movie genre, one might wonder if these movies captivate modern day audiences. Can the magic of The Godfather and Goodfellas stand the test of time?

Have Gangster Movies Lost Their Appeal?

Mafiosos or mobster bosses, organized crime and gruesome scenes of violence – these characteristics are the order of the day when it comes to gangster movies. But one begs to question: Have they lost their charm? Perhaps certain predictable scenes which border on the cliche – such as your typical brick and mortar casino setting – might seem a little outdated. Many might wonder whether such establishments of entertainment have lost their appeal too, given the fact that online sites like Pokie Pop and Bet 365 offer an equally exhilarating experience.

5 Gangster Movies Audiences Will Love in 2022

Despite the indisputable fact that The Godfather is clearly the greatest gangster movie of all time, this might not be the opinion of present-day audiences, particularly the younger generations. But it just so happens that there are many gangster movies of more recent times. And, it turns out, they’re pretty good too! Here’s a handful of some recent favorites.

1. The Gentlemen (2019)

This is a great way to introduce anyone to the world of gangster films. And with actors like Matthew McConaughey and Colin Farrell you know you’re in for a treat. The protagonist is relatable, an American college graduate. The Gentlemen has all the action and criminal drama of a true gangster movie, while Its comic tilt makes for a fun movie night.

2. The Irishman (2019)

This award-winning movie features Academy Award winners Al Pacino, Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci. These iconic actors from The Godfather and Goodfellas have brought the classic gangster movie to modern times. With over 26 million views on Netflix, and 10 Academy Award nominations, this movie has what it takes!

3. Silk Road (2021)

Based on a true story, this movie really captivates its audience. A criminal empire is on the line, with the FBI and DEA on the verge of bringing it to its knees. True to the times, Silk Road brings this classic tale to the digital age and the underworld of the dark web.

4. John Wick: Chapter 3 – Parabellum (2019)

Grossing $321 million worldwide, it’s easy to see that this modern-day gangster thriller is a winner! With international crime lords and assassins, the non-stop action in this film can’t be beat!

5. Nobody (2021)

What happens when an upstanding citizen becomes the target of a Russian crime lord? A fantastic action flick that engulfs you in the world of the Russian mafia in 2021.

And if you were still on the fence on whether gangster movies are your thing, the above-mentioned list should do the trick to convince you that they’re indeed here to stay. The settings may change, from the streets to the dark web. Immigrant mafia families may come from different parts of the world. The drugs are more addictive. The weapons are more powerful. The details are new. The stories, however, are timeless.