David Fincher, the shrewd technician behind grim amazements like Gone Girl and Zodiac, doesn’t often show his softer side. There is humanism in his work, peeking out from the shadows, but outside of The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, there has been little positive sentiment, few warm gazes, few tender asides while a dark machine clangs in the background. Which makes Fincher’s wry and amiable new film, Mank (in theaters November 13, on Netflix December 4), a rather disarming surprise.

A long gestating labor of love, Mank’s script was written by Fincher’s late father, Jack, a journalist who died in 2003. So there is a closely personal aspect to the film, a son ardently giving breath and body to his father’s unpublished opus. But Mank taps into a vein of feeling that reaches farther than mere family tribute. The film also serves as a political cri de coeur, one that inspires as much as it dismays. In making a film that’s sort of about the making of another film, Fincher has many metatextual layers to work with, which he does with trademark precision and unexpected gentility.

The film centers on Herman J. Mankiewicz, a prolific though often uncredited writer for MGM, and the Oscar-winning screenwriter of Citizen Kane—a film that is, in essence, the subject of Mank. Though Mank could easily have been a straightforward biopic of a man and a movie, the Finchers have more on their mind than the relatively quotidian pains of the filmmaking process. Mankiewicz, played wise and sozzled by Gary Oldman, becomes a sort of picaresque character on a journey toward a noble act, channeling his conscience into his writing to hit back at a towering figure manipulating the levers of American life. In making that trek, our hero writes what many people regard as the best film of all time.

But in the present tense of Mank, Mankiewicz is not so concerned with future legacy; he’s writing an immediate reaction to particular events of his time. Mank is an investigation into Mankiewicz’s writerly motivation—a hunt, in some senses, to uncover Citizen Kane’s own Rosebud. Mank’s structural allusions to, or perhaps its mimicry of, Citizen Kane are myriad, yet Fincher never gives way to aping gimmick. Instead, there is a genuine poignancy in the way Mank matches and honors Citizen Kane’s narrative contours, flowing between past and present just as Orson Welles’s masterpiece does. True to Fincher form, Mank has an intelligent, meticulous design, though in that careful craft Fincher still finds room for modest swells of passion, sadness, and triumph.

Citizen Kane was largely inspired by the corroded life of William Randolph Hearst, with whom Mankiewicz was socially familiar. Mank’s flashbacks trace Mankiewicz’s souring estimation of the media tycoon and his acolytes, as the nation staggers its way through the Great Depression and socialist sentiment is quashed by men like Hearst, a former champion of progressive causes. Audiences hoping for lots of juicy backstage gossip might at first be disappointed that so much of Mank’s tour of the sausage factory is actually a look at Upton Sinclair’s failed run for California governor in 1934, thwarted by powerful Californians. In Mank, the movie stuff seems secondary to Hearst—and to MGM heads Louis B. Mayer and Irving Thalberg, who use their might and influence to shape things well beyond the realm of Hollywood fiction.

But they do use fiction to meet those ends: insidiously effective anti-migrant propaganda reels whose conception, Mank posits, was Mankiewicz’s unwitting fault. Mankiewicz watches all this backroom meddling unfold in a daze that gradually sobers into weary outrage, which he pours into his damning but strangely compassionate portrait of a newspaper baron emptied out by his greed and ambition. Mank delineates Mankiewicz’s growing disillusionment in delicate, empathetic terms, drifting fluidly between two time periods: Mankiewicz stumbling his way down Hollywood’s halls of power in the 1930s, and laid up in a motel room a few years later, pouring all that he’s learned onto soon-to-be sacred paper. Mank isn’t so much about political awakening as it is descriptive of renewed conviction, a man returning from the fog of life’s compromises to say one true and poetic thing about what he’s seen.

Mank is, in its way, adamant about cinema’s ability to illuminate injustice, to address its agents through pointed allegory. But unlike many navel-gazing movies about moviemaking, Mank is ambivalent, neither overly reverent nor hellbent on skewering Hollywood with inside-baseball satire. We see the industry’s unethical rot, its hypocritical postures—in Mayer, in Thalberg, in Mankiewicz himself. And we see its graces, its capacity for wonder, its not-always-responsibly-held mirror, shining a fractured and altered version of our world back at us.

“This is a business where the buyer gets nothing for his money but a memory. What he bought still belongs to the man who sold it. That’s the magic of the movies,” Mayer says in one riveting walk-and-talk scene. I don’t think Fincher himself believes that, though. He seems convinced that that memory—and what one does with it—is a very potent kind of ownership, maybe the only true kind. Rather than being cynical about commodified art, Fincher may actually be imploring contemporary Hollywood to be more cognizant of, and conscientious with, its power. To better cherish and exercise the medium’s ability to inspire and persuade and connect on a more lasting and meaningful plane than simple entertainment. If that plaint exists in Mank, though, it’s there subtly. The film is not a screed. It’s a humble imagining of history, barbed but loving.

Mank feels cozily small, intimate despite its years-spanning scope and intricate period stylings. Fincher films in enveloping black-and-white, more homey than stately. The aesthetic dimensions of the film reference Citizen Kane’s luxe grandeur, but Fincher adds dashes of wear and tear, a presence of everyday life. He smuggles us into old rooms and lets us peer in at things as they might actually have been. The true flourishes come in the elder Fincher’s script, which patters along at an agile, ring-a-ding clip. Oldman, though about 25 years too old for the role, maneuvers the film’s zingy rejoinders and torrents of talk with a savvy professional’s ease. It’s a pleasure to watch him be so clever, and such a mess.

One of the more winning examples of Mank’s gracious evenhandedness is its consideration of Marion Davies, the actress who was Hearst’s romantic partner and would inspire—to what extent is up for debate in the film—the Susan character in Citizen Kane. Davies is played by Amanda Seyfried, who gamely approximates a “hey there, mister” 1930s cool-girl cadence. Davies and Mankiewicz share a lively, platonic rapport, appealingly rendered by Seyfried and Oldman. Arliss Howard, as two-faced bulldozer Louis B. Mayer, is another standout in a sprawling cast of not-quite-bold-faced names. Howard, like so many in his company, blends seamlessly into the fabric of the film. Mank is smartly performed, somehow mellow in all its crackling repartee.

It may all prove too mellow for some, perhaps those looking for the greatest story never told (at least, in fictionalized film form) about Mankiewicz and Welles fighting over writing credit and Hearst’s war against the film. But in turning our gaze toward an unexpected direction, Fincher makes more salient, more interesting arguments—about film, and about a kind of moral fortitude. Mank suggests it may never be too late to step back and make an honest assessment of whatever bad systems one has, consciously or unconsciously, become a component of.

Does Mank insist that more people who have kowtowed, say, to Trump—or at least shrugged off his cruelties and machinations, out of deference or material want—should prickle themselves back into alertness, and then act upon that new clarity, seized from the jaws of complicity? Maybe. Or maybe Mank is much narrower than that, and is instead simply an affectionate and curious ode to one writer’s searing, erratic intellect. The film generously allows itself to be interpreted from various distances. Sometimes a sled is just a sled. Other times, it’s most definitely not.

More Great Stories From Vanity Fair

— Borat 2 Spoilers: How Sacha Baron Cohen Pulled Off His Biggest Stunts

— Jane Fonda Talks Her Life, Her Activism, and Her New Book

— Sex and Texts, Secrets and Lies: How the Charlotte Kirk Saga Blew Up Hollywood

— India Oxenberg Opens Up About Her Family’s NXIVM Nightmare

— Eric Andre Isn’t Going Anywhere

— The Best TV Shows and Movies on Amazon, Hulu, Disney+, and More in November

— The Low-Key, Life-Affirming Insanity of The Drew Barrymore Show

— From the Archive: The Birth of Bond

— Not a subscriber? Join Vanity Fair to receive full access to VF.com and the complete online archive now.