Reports of sexual abuse at the hands of priests and other members of the Catholic church have been going around for a couple of decades now. But you may not known how widespread the problem really was. Examination of Conscience is a docuseries that talks about cases of abuse in Spain that have lasted for decades. Read on to find out more…

EXAMINATION OF CONSCIENCE: STREAM IT OR SKIP IT?

Opening Shot: In London, we see and hear from Miguel Angel Hurtado, a psychologist who now lives in England so he can escape the pain of being sexually abused at his Marist Brothers school in Spain.

The Gist: This three-part series discusses different cases of sexual abuse at the hands of priests or other people associated with the Catholic church in Spain, the lack of support for these victims from the church or church-related organizations, and how the laws in Spain some of the worst in Europe when it comes to prosecuting cases when they’re reported decades after the fact.

The first episode concentrates on the “Maristas,” known here as Marist Brothers schools, which are Jesuit institutions for young, mostly at-risk students. After an investigation into those schools by some of the country’s biggest newspapers, it was revealed that sexual abuse was systemic in those schools for decades, only subsiding during the past decade. In a couple of accounts, victims like Hurtado describe the incidents where they were either touched, or in some cases, actually had sexual acts performed on them, by priests and school faculty, and how the Maristas always sided on the priest or faculty member’s side, allowing them to continue teaching and abusing students.

In one case, one of the accused abusers, Joaquin Benitez, actually gets on camera to discuss why he had the impulses to perform sexual acts on his physical education students, and how his childhood background may have played a part.

Our Take: Albert Sole’s miniseries Examination of Conscience (original title: Examen de Conciencia) is an unsparing, harrowing account of sexual abuse at the hands of members of the Catholic church and the denial and protection that was afforded the abusers by both the local church authorities as well as the Vatican. Unlike some of the stories of abuse we’ve heard here — whether it’s in documentaries like this one or based-on-real-events scripted films like Spotlight — some of the victims go into detail about the abuse, talking about the disturbing acts they suffered through in a matter-of-fact way, likely brought on by years of therapy.

The accounts of Hurtado and other victims are squeamish enough to listen to — one victim says he used to tell his mother that he has a priest “who doesn’t hit me, he loves me”, and another confronts his attacker and films it with a spy camera, and we hear the attacker give chilling denials like “It was between kids”. But when we get to Benitez and the descriptions by Carlos Suarez, one of the first victims of his to report the abuse, the degree of the abuse and how it was covered up really came to light. Suarez’s description of what Benitez did to him was sickening, but the interview with Benitez made it even worse, from his delusions about not being a pedophile to blaming his behavior on his childhood. He not only didn’t take responsibility for his actions, he was allowed to do it for over 30 years with very little intervention by the school’s administration. Those scenes were some of the most harrowing descriptions of abuse we’ve seen so far.

Parting Shot: As Hurtado looks down at his old school, a graphic says that on average, a Spanish victim of sexual abuse takes 21 years to remember the abuse. “Under Spanish regulation, practically all the crimes have gone unpunished.”

Most Pilot-y Line: Giving Benitez the time to excuse his behavior like it’s an OCD-style tic, and that what he went through was so much worse than what he did, gave us interesting insight into the mind of a pedophile, but we felt that the victims should have gotten way more time than Benitez did.

Our Call: STREAM IT. Examination of Conscience will leave you shaken, but that means it’s done its job.

Joel Keller (@joelkeller) writes about food, entertainment, parenting and tech, but he doesn’t kid himself: he’s a TV junkie. His writing has appeared in the New York Times, Slate, Salon, VanityFair.com, Playboy.com, Fast Company’s Co.Create and elsewhere.