Serena Williams is one of the best women tennis players in the world. You may know that she is from the USA. The 2005 Tennis Magazine ranked her as the 17th best player in 40 years.

Serena Williams has had an outstanding career on the tennis court despite having to overcome several obstacles such as growing up in a tough neighborhood, the death of her older sister by shooting, and injuries. She has won 22 Grand Slam titles including 11 singles, 9 doubles and 2 mixed doubles. She has won all four Major Grand Slam titles in both singles and doubles. This is a significant achievement. She has also won 2 Olympic Gold Medals in women’s doubles. Serena Williams has been ranked the World Number 1 on five separate occasions as of July 2009.

Serena’s achievements on the court have been well compensated. She has won more career prize money than any other female athlete in history!

Serena was born on September 26th, 1981, in Saginaw, Michigan, to Richard Williams and Oracene Price. She is one of 5 sisters. Her elder sister Venus is also a former World’s Number 1 Women’s professional tennis player.

Serena’s off the court passions include acting and fashion.

Her latest TV credit is the reality show titled “Venus and Serena For Real” where cameras follow Serena and Venus on and off the court. She has also appeared in TV shows such as “ER”, “My Wife and Kids”, “Street Time” and “The Division”. Her voice was used in “The Simpsons” and Disney’s “Higglytown Heroes”.

In 2002 Serena won the Italian Open, French Open, Wimbledon and U.S. Open. She became the World Number 1 for the first time in July 2002. She was named Associated Press “Female Athlete of the Year”.

In 2003 Serena won the Australian Open (singles & doubles), NASDAQ Open, French Indoors and Wimbledon. She became only the fifth woman in history to hold all four Grand Slam titles simultaneously. Sadly, her dominance of the women’s sport came to an abrupt end in mid 2003 when she had to undergo surgery to repair a partial tear in a knee tendon.

2009 was a great year for Serena. She won the Australian Open. This victory made her the World Number 1 again and also the highest earner in the history of Women’s sports. Serena also partnered with Venus to win the doubles title at this event. At the start of the clay court season Serena had a four match losing streak which is the longest in her career. This losing streak meant that she lost her World Number 1 ranking to Safina.

She came back at Wimbledon winning the Singles and Doubles titles with Venus.

At the US Open Serene lost in the semifinals to eventual champion Kim Clijsters in a controversial match. Trailing 6-4, 6-5 (15-30) Serena’s second serve was called foot fault giving Kim match point. Serena lost her temper and was abusive to the woman line judge. The referee decided to penalize a point for this outburst and a previous racket abuse violation awarding Kim victory. The Grand Slam committee eventually decided to fine her $175,000 and put her on a 2 year probation so that if she commits another violation during the next two seasons at any of the Grand Slam events she will be banned from the next US Open. Despite this controversy Serena partnered with Venus to win the Women’s doubles at the US Open.

Serena won the WTA Season Ending Championship for the second time.

She finished the year as the World Number 1 for the second time in the career. She also beat Justine Henin’s record for the most money won during a season by a Women’s tennis player. Serena earned $6,545,586 during the year.

Serena was named the Female Athlete of the Year by the Associated Press for 2009 and ITF World Champion in Singles and Doubles.