Founded by Samuel Merrill, Sr. in 1850, what was initially a bookstore gradually expanded into a publishing house under his son, Samuel Merrill, Jr., and subsequent partners following the Civil War. The name went through several permutations: Merrill, Meigs, and Company; the Bowen-Merrill Company; and finally Bobbs-Merrill, named in part after director William Conrad Bobbs, in 1903. Bobbs-Merrill published works of many significant authors, including James Whitcomb Riley, Ayn Rand, Irving Bacheller, John Erskine, Ring Lardner, and L. Frank Baum. The company's vast array of publishing topics included regional literature, international publishing, cooking and etiquette, travel, business, law, children's literature, and the history of literary criticism. Notable book series include Child Classic Readers, Childhood of Famous American Series, The Library of Liberal Arts, Live Dolls series, and Raggedy Ann series. Bobbs-Merrill was purchased by the Howard W. Sams Company in 1959, which was in turn acquired by Macmillan in 1985.

The largest series, Author Files, contains correspondence, promotional and production materials, readers' reports, and other items pertaining to the works of authors published by Bobbs-Merrill. Editorial Files contain statements, royalty agreements, orders, contracts, invoices, estimates, copyright, CIP forms, permissions and notes pertaining to publications. The Curtis Brown Files feature materials pertaining to Curtis Brown, Ltd., the British publishing arm of Bobbs-Merrill. A specific series of Readers' Reports is included for authors not listed in the original Author Files. The series of Promotional Files includes general promotional materials for the years 1938-1959, as well as for juvenile works. Business Records include bound Royalty Reports from 1898-1917 and Royalty Records from 1919-1939. Miscellaneous Files are divided into subseries which include: Printed Materials; Chronological Files, containing mainly correspondence received by Bobbs-Merrill for the years 1900-1959; Title Indexes; Photographs of company presidents; and Artwork for various publications.

Note on Indexing Term - "Art": Included is artwork for books in production.

Note on Indexing Term - "American Literature--Indiana": This company dealt with many Indiana authors.

Note on Indexing Term - "Riley, James Whitcomb, 1849-1916": Includes biographical material on Riley, correspondence, book production material and miscellany pertaining to Riley and his books published by Bobbs-Merrill.

Note on Indexing Term - "Law": Legal materials present in files for Bertita Harding, John Erskine, Eugene Lyons, and Herbert O. Yardley.