Robert F. Elsbury, 58, of Rock Island, died Friday, Oct. 6, 2000, at his home.

Services will be 1 p.m. Monday at First Lutheran Church, Rock Island. Burial will be in Greenview Memorial Gardens, East Moline. Visitation will be 2-6 p.m. Sunday at Wheelan Funeral Home, Rock Island. Memorials may be made to the church.

Mr. Elsbury was born March 17, 1942, in Manchester, Iowa, the son of Earl and Gail Nelson Elsbury. He married Doris J. Holley Nov. 2, 1996, in Rock Island.

Robert graduated from Western Illinois University, Macomb. He was an insurance agent for the All American Insurance Co. and previously for Mutual of New York and Hawkeye National Life Insurance Co. He was a lifetime member of the National Merit Underwriters Association, lifetime member of the Million Dollar Round Table and was inducted into the Mutual of New York Hall of Fame. He was a featured motivational speaker for many events.

In earlier years he taught biology at Galva High School, Mt. Olive High School and Rockford Harlem High School. He also coached football, wrestling and basketball.

He was a member of the Rock Island Elks and the Rock Island Moose. He was an avid Greenbay Pakcer fan and Iowa Hawkeye fan.

Survivors include his wife, Doris; daughters, Michelle Elsbury, Kailua, Hawaii, Kristen Elsbury, Northridge, Calif., Faythe Elsbury, Rock Island; sons and daughters-in-law, Michael and Rhonda Elsbury, Moline, Robert E. Elsbury, Scobey, Mont., Robert A. and Rita Elsbury, Sherrard, Erik Holley, Encinitas, Calif.; grandchildren, Royal, Mark Anthony, Shayna and Michaela; his mother, Gail, Milan; sisters, Joan Elsbury, Rock Island, and Pam Berenger, Reynolds; a brother, Roger Elsbury, Topkea, Kan.; and nieces, nephews and many friends.

His father Earl and a brother Ronald preceded him in death.

James Earl Martin, 90, died Sunday, May 28, 2000, in Kirkland, Wash., after a short illness.

Mr. Martin was a 29-year resident of Rock Island. He graduated from Rock Island High School and attended Augustana College for one year.

He was born March 5, 1910, in Grafton, W.Va.

He is survived by his wife of 63 years, Dorothy (Runkel) Martin, a Moline High School graduate; and children, Mrs. Dusty Hanson, Bothell, Wash., Rod Martin, Valencia, Calif., and Tim Martin, Quito, Ecuador.

Ervin J. Panther, 87, Rock Island, died Wednesday, Oct. 4, 2000, at Trinity Medical Center, West Campus, Rock Island.

Services are 10 a.m. Monday at St. Pius X Catholic Church, Rock Island, where he was a member. Entombment is 9 a.m. Tuesday at Calvary Cemetery Mausoleum, Rock Island.

Visitation is 2 to 5 p.m. Sunday at Wheelan Funeral Home, Rock Island, where a rosary will be recited at 4:30 p.m. Memorials may be made to the American Diabetes Association, Alleman High School or the church.

Mr. Panther was born March 12, 1913, in Kingston, Iowa, the son of Leonard and Bertha Vorweck Panther. He married Mildred C. Siefken, Nov. 28, 1934, in Dodgeville, Iowa. She died Nov. 3, 1991.

Ervin had been in the transportation industry for 50 years. He had been employed by H.B. Green Trucking Co., Burlington, and retired as co-chairman of Service Transportation Lines, Inc., Rock Island.

Mr. Panther was a member of Allouez Council 658, Knights of Columbus, Rock Island. He enjoyed his summers in Hayward, Wis., where he was a member of the Hayward Country Club and AARP Chapter 914.

Survivors include a daughter and son-in-law, Barbara and Gary Stolley, Coal Valley; sons and daughters-in-law, Dr. Roger and Patricia Panther, Nashville, Tenn., Clifford and Sharon Panther, Rock Island; grandchildren, Michele Lorenz, Ann Schiefelbein, Kenton Stolley, Jeff, Bart, Scott, Curt, Todd and Tom Panther; 18 great-grandchildren; and a sister, Ruth Etzell, Jesup, Iowa. He was preceded in death by a sister, Charlotte, and brothers, William, Paul, Howard and Louis.

Florence L. Ray, 87, Rock Island, died Thursday, Oct. 5, 2000, at Trinity West Medical Center, Rock Island.

Services are 2:30 p.m. today at Knox-Larson Funeral Home, Rock Island. Burial is in Western Township Cemetery, Orion. Visitation is one hour prior to service time.

She was born Aug. 13, 1913, in Moline. She married Thales W. Ray April 16, 1938, in Davenport. He died in 1982.

Survivors include special best friends, Kathleen ``Kathy'' and Jack Carman, Tucson, Ariz.; and her dog, Mickey.

Martha Schafer, 90, Rock Island, died Thursday, Oct. 5, 2000, at Trinity Medical Center, West Campus, Rock Island.

Services are 10:30 a.m. Monday at Good Shepherd Presbyterian Church, Rock Island, with the Rev. J.D. Georlett officiating. Burial is in Greenview Memorial Gardens, East Moline.

Visitation is 2 to 5 p.m. Sunday at Hodgson Funeral Home Ltd., Rock Island. Memorials may be made to the church, where she attended.

Martha was born May 23, 1910, in Harrington, Kan., the daughter of Fred and Mary Gerlach Schultz. She married Mathew H. Schafer June 11, 1932, in Morris, Ill.

Mrs. Schafer worked for Sears Warehouse, Moline, for 10 years. She worked at Visiting Nurses for 10 years.

She was a member of the sewing circle at her church. She enjoyed sewing, knitting and quilting. She dearly loved her grandchildren.

Survivors (and spouses) include her husband, Mathew H. Schafer; daughter, Linda (Ken) Carlson, Rock Island; granddaughters, Ann M. (David) Jordan, Rock Island, Christine L. (Joshua) Schraeder, Skokie, Ill., and Erin E. Carlson, Rock Island; sisters, Elsie (Francis) Kinney, Madrid, Iowa, and Esther Sparrow, Rock Island; a brother, Milton (Rita) Schultz, Kankakee, Ill.; and many nieces and nephews. She was preceded in death by her parents and brothers, Lester and Walter.

Frank A. Somolski, 90, of 111 20th St., Rock Island, died Wednesday Oct. 4, 2000, at Trinty West Medical Center, Rock Island.

It was the wish of Mr. Somolski to be cremated and that there be no service or visitation. Inurnment is in National Cemetery, Arsenal Island.

He was born June 4, 1910, in Dalzell, Ill., to John and Mary Dargevich Somolski. He worked as a warehouseman for the Inlander-Steindler Paper Co. when they were located in Rock Island, retiring in 1975. In earlier years, he worked at the Rock Island Arsenal and Eagle Food Warehouse.

He was an Army veteran.

Survivors include two nieces; one nephew; and good friends, Delores Valentin and Opal Theel, both of Rock Island.

Retired Circuit Judge John Martin Telleen, 77, Rock Island, died Thursday, Oct. 5, 2000, at his home.

Services are 10 a.m. Tuesday at Faith Lutheran Church, Moline. Burial is in Chippiannock Cemetery, Rock Island.

Visitation is 4 to 8 p.m. Monday at Wheelan Funeral Home, Rock Island. Memorials may be made to Augustana College, the Telleen Family Scholarship or to the church.

He was born Dec. 16, 1922, in Cambridge, the son of Leonard E. and Vina Elm Telleen. He married Nell Joanne ``Ticki'' Larson in 1950. She died in 1987. He married Kari Arentzen Larson in 1988.

He was class valedictorian at Cambridge High School. He served in the Navy on the USS Hollandia aircraft carrier in the Pacific during World War II. He graduated from Augustana College in 1947 in economics and earned a law degree from the University of Illinois. He practiced law for many years in the Rock Island law firm of Reidy, Katz, McAndrews, Durkee and Telleen until he was appointed circuit judge of the 14th Judicial Circuit of Illinois in 1981. He retired in 1993.

He was active in civic affairs thoughout his life. He co-founded Prairie State Legal Services, which was the first legal aid program in Rock Island County. He was chairman of the board of Augustana College, president of the board of Lutheran Hospital, president of the Rock Island County Bar Association and a founding member of Faith Lutheran Church and president of the church council. He received an outstanding service award from Augustana College in 1977.

The love of his family and friends meant more to him than honors. He maintained friendships through the years with many people from all walks of life and these relationships were very important to him. He was a wonderful husband, brother, father and grandfather. He inspired us but most of all he loved us, and that is the most precious gift of all.

Survivors (and spouses) include his wife, Kari; children, Jane Telleen (Richard Urban), Minneapolis, Minn., Mary Telleen Boster (Drew), Moline, John D. Telleen (Amy), LeClaire, Iowa, Tom Telleen (Rachael), Oak Park; stepchildren, Ann Larson, Lawrenceburg, Ind., Eric Larson (Anne), Pleasanton, Calif., Linn Larson (Rendol Barlow), Burlington, Vt., and Jens Larson (Maggie Keane), Phoenix, Ariz.; brothers, Kenneth (Esther), Batavia, and Frank (Carla), Rock Island; sisters, Margaret Houghton, Bethel Park, Pa., and Anita Wait (Ward), Evanston; a sister-in-law, Margaret Telleen, Cambridge; grandchildren, Ray, Dan and Nell Urban, Andrew, Eric and Blake Boster, Loring Telleen, Claire and Ian Telleen, J.R., Sharon and Whitney Larson, Esthena and Graham Barlow and Kyle Larson. He was preceded by his parents; brother, Leonard; and brother-in-law, Edward Houghton.

Doris Mae Bancroft, 92, East Moline, died Friday, Oct. 6, 2000, at Parkview Nursing Home, East Moline.

Private services will be held at a later date. Trimble Funeral Home, Moline, is in charge of arrangements. Memorials to one's favorite charity.

The former Doris Mae Paxson was born Feb. 13, 1908, in Louisa County, Iowa, the daughter of Bailey and Zella Berkshire Paxson. She married Walter H. Knorr June 16, 1928, in Rock Island. She married Dow H. Bancroft Aug. 16, 1945, in Moline, he died in 1970.

Doris was employed as a sales clerk at Grossman's in Moline. She was also employed at the John Deere Harvester Works in East Moline, and the Rock Island Arsenal.

Doris was a former member of the Port Byron Methodist Church, World War II Mothers, Coe-Lamb Auxiliary-American Legion, Port Byron, the Augustana Acappella Choir and the Handle Oratorial Society, she was also active in the Port Byron PTA.

She enjoyed singing, she sang at many weddings and funerals around the Quad-City Area, and at WOC Radio Station in the early 1920's.

Survivors include her sons and daughters-in-law, Dow T. and Sarah Bancroft, Walter H. and Ella Knorr, all of East Moline, and Robert B. and Ruth Knorr, Soldotna, Alaska; 14 grandchildren; 18 great-grandchildren; and 10 great-great-grandchildren.

Services for Stephen John ``Steve'' Kaschke, 36, East Moline, will be 10 a.m. Monday at Christ the King Catholic Church, Moline. Burial will be in Moline Memorial Gardens.

Visitation will be 3-8 p.m. Sunday at Christ the King Church Moline, with a liturgy service held at 7:30 p.m. Van Hoe Funeral Home Ltd., East Moline, will be in charge of arrangements.

Mr. Kaschke died Friday, Oct. 6, 2000, at his home from complications from a bone marrow transplant. The family strongly encourages that in lieu of flowers and statuary, memorials will be accepted for the Kaschke Children's Education Fund.

Steve was born April 15, 1964 in Streator, Ill., the son of Kenneth L. and Mary Ann Winkler Kaschke. He married Katherine Sherman June 27, 1987 in Streator.

He worked as a physical therapist at Rock Valley Physical Therapy, Moline, since 1993.

Steve was a member of Christ the King Church, where he was very active. He was a Cub Scout leader and he loved hiking and playing with his children, but most of all he loved his family.

Survivors include his wife, Kate, daughter Ellen, and sons, Tyler, Michael and Daniel, all at home; his father and stepmother, Kenneth and Lois Kaschke, Streator; sisters and brothers-in-law, Carol and Andy Varney, Springfield, Ill., Julie and David Rashid, Streator, Rebecca and Tony Wilhelm, Arlington Heights, Ill.; brothers and sisters-in-law, Kevin and Jennifer Kaschke, Hoffman Estates, Ill., Michael and Kim Kaschke, Streator.

Steve was preceded in death by his mother, Mary Ann Kaschke who died in 1987 and his grandparents.

Marian F. Weiss, 87, East Moline, died Friday, Oct. 6, 2000, at Forest Hill Health and Rehab Center, East Moline.

Visitation is 2 to 4 and 6 to 8 p.m. Sunday at Sullivan-Phillips Mortuary, East Moline.

Claude Curtis, 73, of Fort Worth, Texas, a retired USAF Master Sgt., died Sunday, Sept. 24, 2000, in Gunnison, Colo.

Funeral was Oct. 2 at Greenwood Chapel, Fort Worth; burial in Greenwood Memorial Park.

He was born Aug. 16, 1927, in Cabool, Mo. He was a deacon of Southcliff Baptist Church. He attended Sherrard High School. He retired from General Dynamics.

Surviving are his wife of 51 years, LaJunana Jo Curtis; son and his wife, Chris and Dorothy Curtis, grandchildren, Brad Curtis and his wife Jessica and Chad Curtis, all of Fort Worth; great-granddaughter, Esmeralda; sisters, Betty Turner, Matherville, and Bonnie Spivey and her husband Lyle, Aledo. He was preceded in death by his parents, Claude and Naomi Curtis, brother, Robert L. Curtis and sister, Katy Hartman.

Albert C. Gripp, 83, rural Annawan, died Thursday, Oct. 5, 2000, at Hillcrest Home, Geneseo.

A Mass of Christian burial will be held 10 a.m. Monday at Sacred Heart Catholic Church, Annawan, where he was a member. The Rev. Timothy Sauppe will celebrate.

Visitation is 5 to 7 p.m. Sunday at Vandemore Funeral Home, Atkinson. Memorials may be made to Annawan-Alba Rescue Squad or the Beacon of Hope Hospice Program.

Albert was born March 14, 1917, in Dingley, Ill., the son of Rany and Ella Croegaert Gripp. He married Wanda Murphy July 20, 1925, in Annawan.

Albert was a lifetime farmer in rural Annawan, retiring in 1987. He loved farming and tractors.

Survivors include his wife, Wanda; a son and spouse, Robert and Ann Gripp, Sheffield; a daughter, Ruth Gripp, Moline; a sister, Mae DeGrengel, Geneseo; two grandchildren, Chad and TeNeille Gripp, Sheffield, and Stephanie and Chad Whise, Joliet, Ill.; and a great-grandson, Chase Gripp. He was preceded by his parents and a sister, Maryetta Gentry.

Kenneth Larson, 83, of 101 Randall Dr., Morrison, died Friday, Oct. 6, 2000, at home.

Services are 10:30 a.m. Monday at Bethesda Lutheran Church, Morrison. Burial is in Oak Knoll Memorial Park, Sterling.

Visitation is 2 to 5 p.m. Sunday at Bosma-Renkes Funeral Home, Morrison.

He was born Dec. 22, 1916, in Morrison, to Nels and Nannie Nelson Larson. He married Verna Radatz Feb. 5, 1938, in Clinton, Iowa.

Survivors include his wife; daughters, Esther Hook, Wenona, Ill., and Marjory Mulnix, Wentzville, Mo.; a son, James, Morrison; nine grandchildren; 15 great-grandchildren; three stepgreat-grandchildren; and a brother, Irwin, Morrison. He was preceded by a son-in-law, Irwin Larson, Morrison; and a brother, Paul.

Martha J. Moens, 95, resident of the extended care unit of Hammond-Henry Hospital, Geneseo, formerly of Atkinson, died Friday, Oct. 6, 2000, at the hospital.

A Mass of Christian burial will be said at 11:30 a.m. Monday at St. Anthony's Catholic Church, Atkinson. The Rev. Don Fitzpatrick will celebrate. Burial will be in the St. Anthony's Cemetery, Atkinson. Visitation will be from 2 to 4 and 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. Sunday at the Vandemore Funeral Home, Atkinson. A rosary will be recited at 5 p.m. Sunday at the St. Anthony's Church. Memorials may be made to the St. Anthony's Church.

Martha was born April 22, 1905, in Lovendegem East Flanders Belgium, the daughter of Modest and Erma DeSchyuer DePaepe. She married Phillip Moens Sept. 30, 1925, in St. Mary's Church, East Moline. He died in April of 1982. She and her husband, Phil Sr., farmed in rural Atkinson for many years.

Mrs. Moen was a member of the St. Anthony's Church.

She enjoyed crocheting, gardening and her grandchildren.

Survivors include sons and spouses, Phil and Betty Moen, Erie, and David and Jane Moens, Geneseo; grandchildren, Michelle Mulcahy, Mary Poulton, Melissa Gyuer and Steven Moens; great-grandchildren, Eian Mulchay, Alexander Poulton and Michaela Gyuer; and brothers, Adolph DePaepe and Fred DePaepe, both of East Moline.

She was preceded in death by two sisters and one brother.

Juanita M. Betourne, 77, Davenport, passed away Thursday, Oct. 5, 2000, at Genesis Medical Center, West Campus, Davenport.

Arrangements are pending at Runge Mortuary, Davenport.

Services for Peter F. Castro, 62, Bettendorf, will be 10:30 a.m. Monday at St. John Vianney Catholic Church, Bettendorf. Burial will be in National Cemetery, Arsenal Island, with military rites.

Visitation will be 4-7 p.m. Sunday at Halligan-McCabe-DeVries Funeral Home, Davenport, with prayers recited at 6 p.m. Memorials to St. John Vianney Church or American Heart Association.

Mr. Castro died Thursday, Oct. 5, 2000, at Genesis East Medical Center, Davenport, after a sudden illness.

Peter Francis Castro was born Jan. 29, 1938, in Bettendorf, to Joe and Jessie Dilgado Castro.

He attended Marycrest and Palmer Colleges in Davenport.

He was an United States Marine Corps veteran. He attended an informal weekly breakfast with his fellow veterans Jim Drury, Wayne Jens and Marshall Herrera.

He married Beatrice Aldape Aug. 19, 1961, at St. Alphonsus Catholic Church, Davenport.

Mr. Castro retired from Alcoa in 1997 as a supervisor after 35 years of employment.

He was a member of St. John Vianney Catholic Church, Bettendorf, former member of Toastmasters, and charter member of the WWII Memorial Society.

While at St. Ambrose Academy he played basketball. He also was an IHSA swimming official. His hobbies included photography, fishing, boating and golf. He always cherished the time he spent with his grandchildren.

Survivors include his wife, Beatrice; sons, Michael J. Castro, Bettendorf, Steven J. Castro, Arlington Heights, Ill.; five grandchildren; sisters, Lupe Herrera (Mrs. Marshall), Bettendorf, Ermalinda Ahlgren (Mrs. Donald), East Moline, Ernestine Ortiz (Mrs. William), Rock Falls, Ill., and Mary Ellen Ortiz (Mrs. Richard), Rock Falls; and brothers, Joseph Castro Jr., Moline, and Paul Castro, Bettendorf.

He was preceded in death by his parents, brothers, Richard and David Castro, a sister, Charlotte Castro, and his mother-in-law, Lucy Aldape on Sept. 13, 2000. May they rest in peace.

Anita Louise Davis, 63, Davenport, died Thursday, Oct. 5, 2000, at Illini Hospital, Silvis.

Services are 10 a.m. Monday at Runge Mortuary, Davenport. Burial is in Davenport Memorial Park. Visitation is from 3-6 p.m. Sunday. Memorials to the family or Multiple Sclerosis Society.

She was born June 22, 1937.

Survivors include her husband, Ernest; daughter, Barbara Blieu, Blue Grass; sons, Russell, East Moline, Ricky, Davenport; five grandchildren; her mother, Marguerite Goodman, Davenport; and brothers, Mike and William, Davenport, and Ronald, Tennessee.

Evelyn K. Lawton, 85, formerly of Davenport, died Friday, Oct. 6, 2000, at Covenant Medical Center, Waterloo.

Arrangements are pending at Runge Mortuary, Davenport.

Kenneth W. Major, 71, Bettendorf, died Friday, Oct. 6, 2000, in the emergency room of Genesis Medical Center, East Campus, after suffering an apparent heart attack at home.

Arrangements are pending at McGinnis, Chambers and Sass Funeral Home, Bettendorf.