Yianna Americanou studied film in the US and the UK. Her short films premiered at Rotterdam IFF, Oberhausen ISFF and many more while receiving prestigious awards. Her short film titled Lullaby received the Tonia Marketaki Award for Best Directing in Drama. At the same time, it was taken by STOP Trafficking and Anti Human Trafficking Organizations in order to promote anti-trafficking legislation. .dog is Yianna’s debut feature film premiered at the 62nd Thessaloniki International Film Festival at Meet the Neighbours and won the Special Youth Award. It has also won Best Cypriot Film, Best Director and Honorary Award for the Actor Dimitris Kitsos at the 20th Cyprus Film Days International Film Festival. .dog is represented by the French distribution company URBAN and has received distribution deals with HBO Max, Mubi, Arte France, Aeroflot, Qatar Airways, Emirates etc. Yianna is currently developing her second feature, My Name is Lily, which has been accepted by MIDPOINT Workshop for Script Development and presented at Eastern Promises at Karlovy Vary IFF, 2022.

Omiros Panayides is an Associate Professor in the Department of Multimedia and Graphic Arts at the Cyprus University of Technology, and coordinator of the Semiotics and Visual Communication Laboratory.

He is a founding member and vice president of the Association of Graphic Designers and Illustrators of Cyprus since 2016.

His practical and research activities revolve around the art of the book, zincography, typography, experimental printing, social design, and the preservation of Visual Communication in Cyprus through Graphic Design.

Alexis Vassiliou was born in Limassol in 1978. He studied dance (Diploma in Dance Studies) at Trinity-Laban Conservatoire of Music and Dance- United Kingdom (2007-2008), music (B.A in Music) at the University of East Anglia- United Kingdom (1998-2001) and composition of music for films and theatre at the University of Bristol- United Kingdom (2001-2002). In 2008 he was the recipient of Dance-Web scholarship programme at the 25th ΙmpulsTanz Vienna International Dance Festival in Austria.

He directed /choreographed the works: Blissfully Happy (2009) , Peep Hole (2010) , Snap (2011) , Blame It On Me (2012) , Generation Y (2012) , Please Be Gentle (2013) , Stay With Me (2014) , sheisheisheis.him/ work in progress (2015), Noon (2015), the short film EGKATA (2021) and ΣΑΚΡΑ (2022).

With Please Be Gentle he was selected as an Aerowaves Dance Network priority company for 2014 and participated in several festivals abroad. The work was supported by the EU Culture Programme 2007-2013 and co- produced by the European programme Act Your Age (Dance House Lemesos / Centro per la Scena Contemporanea/ Dutch Dance Festival).

His works have been presented at the following festivals: Dublin Dance Festival-Ireland, B-Motion Bassano del Grappa-Italy, Spring Forward festival Umea -Sweden, Dance Dutch Festival-The Netherlands, Michael Cacoyannis Foundation, Burgenländische Tanztage-Αustria. During 2012 and 2013 he was selected to participate as a choreographer in the European programmes E-motional Bodies and Cities and Act your Age.

Alexis has also been collaborating as a performer/choreographer and movement coach with various dance and theatre companies/organizations in Cyprus.

From 2016-2023 he was the general and artistic director of Dance House Lemesos.

In October 2023 he was appointed as the Deputy Director of Rialto Theatre.

Theseas Mouzouropoulos graduated from Central Saint Martins College of Art & Design in 2003 with a Masters degree in Communication Design. He also holds a BA degree in Graphic Communication from the University of the West of England as well as a diploma in Graphic and Advertising Design from the Frederick Institute of Technology in Cyprus.

He taught Graphic Design at the Department of Fine & Applied Arts of Frederick Institute of Technology for eight years and he was the Creative Director of Cherrycube Design Studios Ltd until 2010.

He is currently lectures at the Multimedia & Graphic Arts Department of the Cyprus University of Technology and he offers design consultancy for various Graphic Design projects related to his current research. His professional work has been awarded and recognized in both national and international design awards. He has participated in several international graphic design exhibitions and his work has been acknowledged in various publications both locally and internationally. He was also invited in several international judging committees on various disciplines based on Graphic Design and Motion Graphics.

He was a founding member of the Cyprus Association of Graphic Design & Illustration Design (CAGDI) and the Cyprus Creative Club (CCC). Currently, he is an active member of CAGDI and CCC, as well as a member of the Research Lab of Semiotics & Visual Communication at the Technological University of Cyprus.

Eva Korae studied Furniture Conservation and Construction (BA Hons - UK) and obtained a postgraduate degree in Contemporary Design (MA - UK). Since 2003, she has been teaching in higher education, and since 2007, she has been a Special Educational Staff member at the Technological University of Cyprus.

She creates and exhibits her own contemporary design objects in Cyprus and abroad, with an emphasis on sustainable green design.

Since 2005, she has been involved in scenographic collaborations in the field of contemporary dance and theater, through which she has traveled to international festivals beyond the borders of Cyprus.

In 2016, she graduated from the Fab Academy program (Amsterdam), and since 2019, she has been running the open workshop "Makers Will Make" in Limassol.

Christos Panagiotou is a researcher and digital artist from Limassol. He has a doctorate degree from the Department of Communication and Internet Studies of the Cyprus University of Technology. He also possesses a Master's degree in Interactive Multimedia from the Department of Multimedia and Graphic Arts of the same university and a second Master's degree in Art History and Theory from the Department of Fine Arts of the Cyprus University of Technology. Through his academic and artistic work, he examines the topological characteristics of time and space as they appear in discourse, narration, meaning and identity. He has worked as a postdoctoral researcher in the Lab for Animation Research at the Department of Fine Arts, C.U.T.. and has participated in art exhibitions and academic conferences involving alternative forms of narrative in visual media.