The 42nd edition of the Short Film Festival in Drama was completed with the awards ceremony on September 21.

The Jury of the 42nd National Competition section presided by film critic Dimitris Haritos and including Director Maria Lafi, Animation Director and 3D animation assistant professor Spyros Siakas, Director and artistic director of Olympia Film Festival Dimitris Spyrou, and Cinematographer Yannis Fotou as members, awarded this year’s best Greek short films from 60 films that made it to the National competition section. The Jury decided to bestow the Golden Dionysos award to the film “Index” directed by Nikolas Kolovos. “Index”, a story about the refugee crisis was awarded for its “skillful camera choreography in a 12-minute one-take and the wonderful utilization of the cinematic language, which underlines a universal issue starting from a child’s desperate action”.

“The Distance between Us and the Sky” by Vasilis Kekatos, which made its Greek premiere in Drama – and was awarded at this year’s Cannes Festival – won Best Direction for its rhythm, its successful dialogues and its successful use of the frame, while Nikolakis Zeginoglou was awarded Honorary Distinction for Actor in a Leading Role, and Ioko-Ioannis Kotidis won special mention for his outstanding performance.

“Index” (2019), dir. Nikolas Kolovos

“Sleepwalking”, directed by Melissa Anastasi won the Greeks of the World Award. The Documentary Award was bestowed to Anna Antonopoulou for her film “Cleoniki”, for highlighting the imprint of an era that is about to disappear, through the memory of a super-centenarian old woman.

“DINOS KATSOURIDIS”, a Special Award for the Best Newcomer Director established by the great Greek filmmaker 19 years ago went to “Rouge”, directed by Kostis Theodosopoulos who also won the Best Screenplay Award for the same film as well as Honorary Distinction for Best Make-up for Ioanna Lygizou.

“Sad girl weekend”, directed by Dimitris Tsakaleas and Leda Vartzioti, won Best Student Film Award and Honorary Distinction for Best Costumes for Vaggelis Kaberis’ work.

Artemis Athanasiadou won the Tonia Marketaki Award for Best Female Director for her film “I am Mackenzie”.

“Violent equation”, directed by Antonis Ntousias won the Best Animation Film Award.

“The weight of the sea”, directed by Kostis Alevizos won Best Cinematography Honorary Distinction for George Frentzos GSC, as well as Honorary Distinction for an Actress in Leading Role for Sissy Toumasi.

Honorary Distinction for Best Editing was awarded to Livia Neroutsopoulou for the editing of “Postcards from the end of the world”, by Konstantinos Antonopoulos.

“The Distance between Us and the Sky” (2019), dir. Vassilis Kekatos

Giannis Antypas won Honorary Distinction for Best Sound for the film “Pathologies of everyday life”, directed by Alexandros Papathanassopoulos, while Christos Giannakopoulos won Honorary Distinction for Best Sound Design for the film “Sable Noir”, by Thanasis Trouboukis.

Honorary Distinction for Best Original Music was awarded to Nikos Giannakakis and Dimitris Giannoulis for the music of the film “Chopper”, by Giorgos Kapsanakis.

Christos Symeonidis won Honorary Distinction for Best Set for the film “Flickering souls at night”, by Iakovos Panagopoulos. Giannis Patsiaouras and Berta Valverde won Honorary Distinction for Special Effects for the film “W”, by Stelios Koupetoris. “W” also won the Award for Technical Excellence by the Film, Television & Audiovisual Technicians Union

PITCHING LAB awards

Finos Film bestowed the “PITCHING LAB” award to Anngelica-Marie Eshesimua and Matthew Allen for the project “The Broken Key”- USA, while Authorwave bestowed the “PITCHING LAB” award to Kaki Wong for the project “The Wild Child” – Hong Kong – China. The Greek Film Center bestowed its “PITCHING LAB” award to Marta Gonzalez De La Vega for the project “The Valdomeros” – Spain.

“Violent Equation” (2019), dir. Antonis Doussias

Greek Film Center Motivation Distinctions

The Greek Film Center awards young directors, who are now taking their first steps and offers them the “MOTIVATION” to keep creating in the field of cinema. The GFC bestowed three MOTIVATION distinctions to the following new filmmakers: to Andreas Vakalios for the film “Mila”, for the film “O Karahiozis” by Michael Gigintis and for the film “In the room», by Yeorgia M. Sotirchou.

Greek Society of Cinematographers Award

The Greek Society of Cinematographers (GSC) represented by Pantelis Mantzanas, Kostas Stamoulis, and George Frentzos, bestowed the GSC award to Fili Olsefksi for the film “Mila” by Andreas Vakalios, for its excellent use of simple means as natural light. ‘Mila was also bestowed the Greek Film Clubs Association Best Film Award and the Greek Film Critics Association award.

For the International Competition section read here.

Read also: 42nd Short Film Festival in Drama: Youthful and Mature, Filming Greece | Yorgos Teltzidis and his stories of people in free fall

F.K.