Pres. Sergio Osmenia Collection

Scope and Content Note

Second and last president of the Philippine Commonwealth (Aug 1944 - May 1946) . His papers consists of reports, memoranda. letters, speeches and messages, cablegrams and radiograms, bills executive orders, petitions and resolutions, proclamation, printed matters, and news clippings. Though small in quantity, the papers are rich in the following subjects dealing with Philippine- American relations, namely: the Lones Law and the Hare-Hawes Cutting Act, the Philippine-American policy during his brief tenure as president of the Philippines and on the rehabilitation of the country after the war.

Biographical Sketch

Name : Sergio Osmena, Sr. Date of birth : September 9, 1878 Date of death : October 19, 1961 Town : Cebu, Cebu First Wife : Estefania Veloso Second Wife : Esperanza Limjap

Children from first wife : Nicasio, Vicenta (now Mrs. Juan Veloso), Edilberto, Emilio, Millagros (now Mrs. Eugenio Alonso), Maria, Jose, Teodoro, Sergio, Jr. Children from second wife : Ramon, Rosie, Victor.

Schools attended : San Carlos Seminary (Secondary education); San Juan de Letran (AB degree); University of Sto. Tomas (LLB and LLD).

Public service held : Appointed fiscal of Cebu and Negros Oriental in 1904; elected governor of Cebu in 1906; elected delegate for the second district of Cebu and speaker of the first Philippine Assembly, re-elected delegate and speaker of the Philippine Assembly, 1909-1916; elected senator for the 10th district, Cebu vice chairman of the Council of State in 1918; President Pro-tempore of the Senate in 1922; headed Philippine Independence Mission to the United States, the most important was OSROX Mission which worked for the passage of the Hare-Hawes Cutting Act in 1932 granting Philipine independence after a transition period of ten years; vice president and made concurrently Secretary of the Philippine Commonwealth; liberated the Philippines on Oct. 20 1944 by landing in Leyte with General Douglas McArthur.

Biographical Notes