Teams checking on the trade availability of Brooklyn Nets forward Andrei Kirilenko have been told a family matter is complicating Kirilenko's status, according to Adrian Wojnarowski of Yahoo! Sports.

Teams including the Cleveland Cavaliers, Los Angeles Lakers and Philadelphia 76ers have reportedly expressed varying levels of interest in Kirilenko, who hasn't played since Nov. 13. For the season, he is averaging 0.4 points and 1.1 rebounds in 5.1 minutes.

Wojnarowski reports that teams inquiring about Kirilenko have been told that a trade is "impractical for the foreseeable future" given the 13th-year veteran's desire to deal with a family matter in New York. Kirilenko separated from the Nets when the team traveled to Oklahoma City for a Nov. 21 game vs. the Thunder.

• MAHONEY: Pistons' Drummond must step up

Kirilenko, 33, never fit into first-year Nets coach Lionel Hollins' rotation. According to Wojnarowski, the Nets are looking for teams that will take Kirilenko's $3.3 million contract for 2014-15, but his unavailability has complicated potential deals.

For teams with salary cap space and rebuilding mantras, the Nets would need to include future second-round draft picks to move Kirilenko. Those teams would simply waive Kirilenko, paying him the balance of his contract. For the Nets, though, it probably isn’t wise to unload more future draft picks to simply rid themselves of his contract now. Waiting until closer to the February trade deadline, when contending teams know Kirilenko will be prepared to report to them, makes more sense and wouldn’t require the sweetener of added draft picks.

While Kirilenko battled injuries last season, he did average 19 minutes per game in 45 games under Kidd. This season, the former All-Star has played just 36 minutes total in seven games.

In addition to his 2004 All-Star appearance, Kirilenko also made the 2006 All-NBA Defensive Team. His 12 seasons have been spent with the Utah Jazz, Minnesota Timberwolves and Nets.

- Mike Fiammetta