After making it through their first preseason game Tuesday in Washington with an overtime win – and, more importantly, injury free – the new-look Nets will play their first game of the season in Brooklyn Saturday night when they host the Detroit Pistons. It’ll be the first chance for the hometown fans to see Kevin Garnett, Paul Pierce and Andrei Kirilenko, among others, in Nets uniforms in person, as well as to see Jason Kidd’s first game on the sidelines.

Game info: 7:30 p.m. tip; the game will not be shown on any television, either in New York or Detroit. The game will also not be on the radio.

Last game: The Nets won their preseason opener, 111-106, in overtime in Washington Tuesday night. The starting five (with Shaun Livingston replacing the injured Deron Williams) looked good in its brief time together, while the Nets also got impressive showings from Andrei Kirilenko and Alan Anderson off the bench.

Injury report: Out: Deron Williams (sprained right ankle), Jason Terry (offseason left knee surgery), Tornike Shengelia (offseason left knee surgery). Questionable: Gary Forbes (illness).

Projected Starting Lineups

Nets: Shaun Livingston, Joe Johnson, Paul Pierce, Kevin Garnett, Brook Lopez

Pistons: Brandon Jennings, Chauncey Billups, Josh Smith, Greg Monroe, Andre Drummond

On The Pistons: For basketball junkies, there isn’t a more fascinating team in the entire NBA this season than the Pistons. Between a terrific pair of young big men in Monroe and Drummond and the offseason acquisitions of Jennings and Smith, the Pistons are the definition of a “League Pass” team. Detroit is 1-1 so far this preseason, having beaten Israeli power Maccabi Haifa and losing to the Heat this week.

Key Matchup: Monroe and Drummond versus Garnett and Lopez

Few teams have the kind of one-two punch inside of size and skill that Monroe and Drummond present to opponents. It’ll be interesting to see how Garnett and Lopez handle the two of them just a couple of weeks into their partnership.

Stat of the Day: Lopez had no rebounds in a little more than 12 minutes in the preseason opener in Washington Tuesday. Lopez’s rebounding has been the biggest knock against his credentials to be considered among the NBA’s elite centers, and he’s said he wants to improve upon it this season. We’ll see how he does when squared off against a board monster like Drummond Saturday.