EVERY SECRET THING is a psychological crime thriller produced byAcademy Award-winning actress Frances McDormand (FARGO). Directed by Amy J. Berg (DELIVER US FROM EVIL, WEST OF MEMPHIS) and written by Nicole Holofcener (FRIENDS WITH MONEY, ENOUGH SAID), it is based on a 2004 novel of the same name by New York Times best-selling author Laura Lippman about the chilling consequences of the secrets we keep. The film stars Diane Lane, Elizabeth Banks, Dakota Fanning, Danielle Macdonald, Nate Parker, and Common.

Detective Nancy Porter (Banks) is still haunted by her failure to save the life of a missing child from the hands of two young girls. Eight years later, another child goes missing in the same town just days after Ronnie and Alice (Fanning and Macdonald), the two girls convicted of the former crime, were released from juvenile detention. Porter and her partner (Parker) must race against the clock to prevent history from repeating itself. But as they begin to investigate the girls and their families, especially Alice’s protective mother (Lane), they unearth a web of secrets and deceptions that calls everything into question.

After the film, there will be a simulcast Q&A featuring stars Diane Lane and Dakota Fanning, director Amy Berg, and producer Frances McDormand.

About the NY Film Critics Film Series: A regular series of ongoing preview screenings is established in approximately 50 selected major markets. Audiences experience all of the excitement of live Q&A sessions held in New York City, hosted by Peter Travers. The big screen events deliver 9-13 curated pre-release films per year to discerning audiences on a monthly basis. Each movie in the Screening Series is introduced live by Peter Travers. Audiences then see award contenders prior to their release followed by live, HD Q&A between Travers, audiences and talent from the films. Each piece brings the energy and VIP nature of prestigious, NYC screenings for nationwide audiences to interact with stars and directors via two way simulcast.

“Berg directs the hell out of every crime segment in the film.” –Roger Perez, INDIEWIRE.COM