Faith: Spirituality

Career: Musician

Birthday: September 01, 1946

Barry Gibb is a singer, musician, record producer, and songwriter. Along with his younger brothers Maurice and Robin, he rose to worldwide fame as a member of the Bee Gees, one of the most commercially successful groups in the history of popular music. Gibbs is well known for his wide vocal range, which includes a far-reaching high-pitched falsetto. His career has spanned over 60 years. As a songwriter, he shares with Paul McCartney and John Lennon the record for most consecutive Billboard Hot 100 number ones, each having six. In total, he’s written or co-written 16 Billboard Hot 100 number ones.

In 1994, Gibbs was inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame with his brothers and in 1997, he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of the Bee Gees. In 2007, Q Magazine ranked him number 38 on its list of the “100 Greatest Singers.” Guinness World Records lists him as the second most successful songwriter in history, behind McCartney. Gibbs was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 2002 New Year Honours for services to music and entertainment and a Knight Bachelor in the 2018 New Year Honours for services to music and charity. He was also made an Honorary Companion of the Order of Australia in 2022.

Barry Alan Crompton Gibb was born in Douglas, Isle of Man, in 1946 to Barbara and Hugh Gibb, both Manchester natives. He has an older sister, Lesley and his second name, “Alan,” comes from his father’s younger brother, who died in infancy. According to Hugh Gibb, in a mix of fiction and fact, his third name, “Crompton,” came from the Gibbs’ ancestor, Sir Isaac Crompton. When Gibb was born, his father worked as a musician at various hotels in Douglas while his mother stayed at home and took care of the children. Later, the family moved to Chapel House. When he was almost two years old, Gibbs was badly scalded in an accident involving a hot teapot his mother had set on the table, which he was able to reach and knock over.

He was in Nobles Hospital for almost two and a half months. He later commented on the accident, saying, “Then the gangrene set in. Because in those days, the advancement of medicine simply didn’t apply to people with bad scalds, so you didn’t have skin grafts, you didn’t have things like that. But this was a particularly bad scald, and I think I had 20 minutes to live at some point. The incredible thing for me is that the whole two years is wiped from my memory, the whole period of being in hospital. The idea of being burnt is in there somewhere, but I have no knowledge of it. I’ve got the scars, but I have no knowledge.”

What religion is Barry Gibb?

Barry Gibb identifies as religious but doesn’t associate himself with any particular religion. In one interview, he said, “I am a religious person in that I am a person with a lot of faith. But I try to study all religions and don’t really belong to one particular religion. When I was a kid, it was Church of England. But when you base that on the fact that Henry VIII invented it, that’s not really a religion, is it?”

Back to the Celebrity Faith Database