Love grows by giving. The love we give away is the only love we keep. The only way to retain love is to give it away. After years of facing adversity in his health, we gave our dad, our husband, and our grandfather away. On Wednesday, April 10, 2024, after just 79 years, we handed our Barry W. Gibbs over from time and gave him to eternity.

Home is the starting place of love, hope, and dreams. It’s where love resides, memories are created, friends always belong, and laughter never ends. Barry was born in Woodbury and spent his early formative years in Glassboro before his family moved to Barrington when he was 10 years old. During these early years, he was established in love with a young Janet (nee Arnold) and spent their entire circle of days together. Barry graduated from Haddon Heights High School as Senior Class President in 1963, took Janet’s hand in marriage in 1965, and made their home to raise a family in Oaklyn. His hearth was rooted in commitment and built on strength and permanence. A festive one, Barry meticulously decorated the house for Christmas. He was an enthusiast who was active in his Children’s lives and activities. He dabbled in baseball playing Little League, Babe Ruth, Garden State and softball in the PNB Financial League… coaching his boys for both their Little League careers (1973-1982) plus being treasurer for the Oaklyn Bettlewood Little League during that time, bowling in the Oaklyn bowling league for a few years, jigsaw puzzles, model trains, and internet games in later years. From home, he was a music and television trivia buff. He cheered on the Phightin’ Phils and of course, the “Iggles”.

Mr. Gibbs made his career in banking, 29 years, at Philadelphia National Bank (PNB) later becoming Corestates and leaving as an Assistant Vice President of the Corporate Trust Department. Following that, he spent his time working at several part-time jobs (R.F. Powers, Record Masters, Source 4 Teachers). The Gibbs enjoyed traveling, summered in Avalon, and enjoyed the opportunities to experience the world by sea, cruising.

Mr. Gibbs leaves to cherish his memory, in a remarkable commitment to love and dedication, his loving and doting wife of 58 years and lifetime partner Janet (nee Arnold). He is the father of Steven & his wife Barbara and Douglas & his wife AnnMaree Gibbs. Barry is the proud “Pop Pop” of Michael, Eddie, Greg, Jack, and Ryan. Mr. Gibbs was predeceased by his sister Doris and her husband Bruce Capie and is survived by his in-laws, Bette & her husband Dick Cella as well as his God-daughter Alicia Arnold, nieces and nephews.

Relatives, friends, and neighbors are invited to gather with the Gibbs family. We’ll come together in a festive time of remembrance to take comfort in each other on Saturday, April 27, 2024, between 11:00 am and 1:00 pm at Creran Celebration Etherington & Creran Funeral Homes 400 White Horse Pike, Oaklyn.

As an expression of sympathy and in lieu of flowers, contributions can be given to the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia at www.chop.edu Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia Foundation P.O. Box 781352, Philadelphia, PA 19178-1352.

#crerancelebration #heartfelt

© 2024 Creran Celebration LLC. All Rights Reserved