It’s undeniable that Colorado has one of the hottest music scene’s in the country right now, and if the last couple of years has been any indication, electro-funk outfit SunSquabi has been one of the biggest up-and-coming bands to come out of the Rocky Mountain state in that period. The trio of Kevin Donohue (guitars/keys/production), Chris Anderson (drums), and Josh Fairman (bass/synth) have had a huge 2017, playing Red Rocks Amphitheatre – for the third time – in support of Papadosio, major festival plays at Electric Forest, Camp Bisco, and Summer Camp. The band is currently on Fall tour with livetronica titans STS9, and will make their triumphant return to their hometown of Denver to play their biggest headlining gig to date at The Fillmore Auditorium on Saturday, November 11th with a massive lineup featuring The Russ Liquid Test, Escort Live Band, Defunk, and Flamingosis spinning sets between each act (get tickets here).

“The first concert I ever paid for a ticket, got on a bus and went to by myself was Rise Against at The Fillmore when I was 15,” explains the excited guitarist/keyboardist/producer Kevin Donohue. “We have all been to so many countless shows there.. (particularly STS9) and it’s honestly hard to describe what it feels like to be finally throwing our own show there. We have so many memories of riding the party bus down from Boulder with all of our friends to see our favorite bands – sometimes 2 or 3 nights in a row. It’s humbling beyond description to be creating that experience for other people now.”

Even more, touring with STS9 has been a huge deal for SunSquabi, who are longtime fans of the livetronica cohorts. “It’s a dream come true. It’s like actually living in a dream,” Kevin continues. “The band has been so kind and so supportive to us so far, the crew has been helpful beyond measure. They are iconic for a number of reasons and it’s incredible to share the stage and see them do their thing every night. The inspiration night to night going back and forth is the greatest thing ever. Watching them play every night has been a treat, but it’s really amazing to be sharing the experience with them more than anything. We love every single one of them.”

The entire lineup is worth the price of admission, with The Russ Liquid Test, Escort Live Band, Defunk, and Flamingosis supporting SunSquabi on this huge accomplishment. “It’s really amazing to invite our friends that we have met from all over the place to come and play in our hometown,” Kevin explains. “We wanted to do something different and really bring a certain feeling to the whole night. We’ve met and performed with all of these artists all over the country before and it really is a privilege to have them all come out to Colorado to do this show with us.”

Reflecting on the past year or two of Sunsquabi’s success, Kevin emphatically concludes, “We want to tour all over the world. Something that has become clear to me lately is that creating music and having the opportunity to travel and touch so many people with it…there are so many things we can accomplish by bringing people together through our music. We’re currently writing and creating in new ways all of the time, and really enjoying the process.”

If you aren’t yet hip to the rest of the lineup, now is the perfect chance…

The Russ Liquid Test

Fusing that vintage New Orleans funk sound with modern electronic dance stylings, The Russ Liquid Test trio of producer Russell Scott, along with guitarist Andrew Block and drummer Deven Trusclair have created an accomplished resume in just a short time, recording with the likes of Ivan Neville, Russell Batiste Jr., Thievery Corporation’s Mr. Lif, and their most recent collaboration with hip-hop sensation ProbCause on “World Gone Crazy” (listen here).

Escort

Brooklyn-based nu-disco act Escort has provided plenty of dance parties since their inception back in 2006. With the sexy voice and fashion-forward vision that is Adeline Michèle fronting the band, founders Dan Balis, Eugene Cho, and Darius Maghen have gone from mixing the old-school samples from the disco and house scene’s that they were using in their college days to creating their own unique blend of modern dance hits.

[via JBTV]

Defunk

Based in Denver, CO by way of Calgary, Canada, Defunk merges the retro sounds of jazz, soul, disco, and funk with the current styles of hip-hop and bass music. What comes out of that intermingling is a sexy, glitchy sound that gets heads bobbin’ and bodies moving, as can be witnessed via “In The Mix” below:

Flamingosis

Following the footsteps of beatmaking icons such as J Dilla and Flying Lotus, Flamingosis is delivering fresh, electronic-inspired beats to audiences around the country, making new fans with each stop he makes. He is about to head out on a Fall tour with funk jammers Pigeons Playing Ping Pong for a run of dates from October through early November before ending up at The Fillmore with SunSquabi.

Tickets are currently available and can be purchased here. For show updates and additional information, join the Facebook Event page.

Sunsquabi are proud TUNES ambassadors for the Oskar Blues CAN’d Aid Foundation. SunSquabi and Oskar Blues team up to spread a love of music by hosting music workshops and donating instruments to public school programs in need. In order to support these ongoing efforts, $1 from all tickets sold for the show at the Fillmore Auditorium will go to benefit the foundation. In conjunction with this show, Sunsquabi members are teaming up with CAN’d Aid to host a music workshop and instrument donation for Title I schools in the Denver area. To learn more about the CAN’d Aid Foundation and their work, visit www.candaid.org