Rock and soul history is studded with examples of stars who did time, but in the annals of pop, only one band is known to have formed and actually made records behind bars – the Escorts.* And not just any bars: these ’70s soul men were incarcerated at New Jersey’s notorious Rahway State Prison, site of some of America’s worst jailhouse riots and the place where inmates terrified juvenile gangstas for the Oscar-winning 1978 documentary Scared Straight.

Founded by Reginald Haynes, who had been convicted as a teenager of armed robbery, the Escorts were discovered at a prison talent show by noted soul producer George Kerr. Unprecedentedly, he convinced the authorities to let him record the seven-piece group inside Rahway, resulting in 1973′s All We Need Is Another Chance. With slow jams like “Look Over Your Shoulder” and “Ooh Baby Baby” and the simmering psychedelic soul of the title track, the record sold some 300,000 copies, according to a contemporary New York Times account, and led to a follow-up album and a sold-out show at Newark Symphony Hall.

Nearly 40 years later, Haynes and the Escorts’ story is finally being told in full in a music documentary in the early stages of production, also fittingly called All We Need Is Another Chance. Now raising money for the project on Kickstarter, the filmmakers aim to cover more than just an unusual chapter in pop history. As director Corbett Jones noted when I spoke to him, Haynes, and co-producer Christopher Black last week, the Escorts were witnesses to and participants in key moments and movements in recent US history – prison unrest and reform, civil rights and black power politics.

Haynes’ personal story is one of redemption and rebirth after circumstances robbed him of a shot at stardom following the Escorts’ initial success. Today his convictions have more to do with Jesus than with jail, and he continues to perform across America with the Legendary Escorts, the re-formed group he launched in 1986. He talked to MFW from his New Jersey home while Jones and Black joined the conference call from LA.

MFW: Cory and Chris, how did you discover the story of the Escorts?

Christopher Black: I’m a big record collector. Soul music is one of my favorites – any record store I go to, I always hit that section up first. I had the second [Escorts] album, 3 Down 4 to Go, and didn’t really connect that they had been in prison and recorded this album in prison. Then I did some research and found their other album, All We Need Is Another Chance. I did more research found out that yeah, they actually recorded this album behind bars, and was super surprised that no one has really covered this story. People knew about it, but it wasn’t known. What were the circumstances behind them being in prison, and how did they record? I held on to this idea for a couple of years and then met Cory and basically pitched it to him, and here we are today.

I read at the film’s website that you first heard the Escorts because they were sampled on a hip hop record.

CB: Yeah. The record was [by] a guy by the name of J Dilla. He put together this album of different samples, and at the time J Dilla was dying, of lupus and a blood disease. The name of his song is “Don’t Cry,” and [it samples] one of the Escorts songs, where they sing, “I can’t stand to see you cry.” When you know this about their story, you understand that these guys are singing to loved ones – I can’t stand to see you crying because I’m behind bars. J Dilla, who’s dying, he’s basically using their message, telling his family and friends, I can’t stand to see you cry, don’t cry, it’ll be all right.

I think that’s the message of the movie too. Music has changed. What we consider R&B today, it’s not soul music. It’s a different emotive quality, there’s a different feeling. And hearing Reggie’s story and the group’s story, it’s like, man, this is where soul music comes from – from struggle, from harsh conditions. Reggie has told us many times that music saved him. Music saves people. That’s definitely what we’re trying to capture – that music is a positive thing that can change people’s lives.

Did you have any trepidation jumping into something that runs so deep in so many areas – that isn’t just about music but is about the American justice system, the politics of the ’60s and ’70s, race?

Corbett Jones: That was one of the things that was so appealing. It would have been very easy to just re-tell the story of how they managed to record behind bars. After talking to Reggie the first couple of times and getting on the phone with the group as a whole, Chris and I both came to realize that there’s more there than just the historic re-telling.

Reggie, what were your thoughts when these youngsters approached you about doing a film about your life and the band?

Reginald Hayes: My first thought was, “Who are these youngsters?” [Laughs] Ironically, at the same time that they approached me, I was approached by two other groups, one out of California and one out of Chicago. We had to make a decision of who we were going to deal with. We looked at all of the ABCs and chewed on it a little bit, and I decided – myself and the other members of the [Legendary Escorts], Billy Martin and La’Grant Harris – we came to a decision that Chris and Cory and Annie [co-producer Anna Rau] were the best group to put the story out there and put it out there right, to put it out there with class and to cover all of the bases.

Had you been approached previously?

RH: Several years ago I was approached by a production company out of Hollywood that wanted to do a movie on the Escorts. We were very excited at that time. But they presented one very large problem that I couldn’t wrap my mind around, I just couldn’t swallow it, and that was that they wanted to present the Escorts as being white.

Wow. What did these Hollywood people tell you to justify this?

RH: It was something to the effect that either Hollywood or America was not prepared, in their opinion, to accept an all-black group recording an album while the entire group was in a maximum security prison. They didn’t think that would go. Of course, our position was, if that wouldn’t go, how is it that a couple of months after our first release, we were in the top 10 in Record World, Billboard, and Cash Box back in ’73? Basically they didn’t know their heads from their behinds, and they blew it.

Tell us a little bit about how the Escorts got started.

RH: OK, I’m gonna give you the short version.

Yes, save the good stuff for the movie.

RH: [Laughs] I was sentenced to prison when I was 18 years old, and I was just not into the things I found were going on around me. So I found a couple of guys who were around my age and put together a group. We had no name. We just sang to occupy our time, give ourselves something to do. That was in Trenton State Prison in New Jersey. I was transferred to Rahway State Prison, and Rahway had what they called institutional talent shows, in which groups and individual singers, guys who had any type of talent, would get together and put on a show for the prisoners. They allowed us to invite our families, mothers, sisters, brothers, wives, etc.

A very good friend of mine who also had the misfortune of being in Rahway at that time, by the name of JJ Jones, he was the twin brother of the late, great [soul singer] Linda Jones. He invited Linda to come in. No one knew about this. Linda came in, and her producer/manager came in, hanging out with her, just something to do, fellow by the name of George Kerr. After our performance this guy came running backstage and said his name was George Kerr and he’s been in the business for over 30 years, he was with Motown, and we’re the best group he’s ever heard and he’s got to record us.

Of course, we thought he was crazy. This was a maximum security prison and we were all doing time. It was unheard of. But he was serious. He convinced us that he was willing to put forth the time and energy, and it wasn’t as if our dance card was full. He worked from the outside, we worked from the inside. We wrote everybody we could think of, we begged and cajoled, and two years later George got permission to come in and record us. In fall of 1972 we recorded, in a little over nine hours, the totality of our first LP, All We Need Is Another Chance. January 15, Martin Luther King’s birthday, the first 45 was premiered on a local radio station in New Jersey, WNJR, and the rest is pretty much history.

Are the guys who were in the original Escorts still around? Are you still in touch with any of them?

RH: Unfortunately, the majority of them are no longer with us. They’ve passed on. There are two that are still living, both of them are down South somewhere. I run into relatives every now and then, but there’s been no communication at all between us and them.

Is George Kerr gone as well?

CJ: George Kerr is alive.

Have you made any effort to reach him?

CJ: That’s still a conversation that we are looking to have with Reggie, because as Reggie has explained it to us, there was a bit of a falling out between [Kerr] and the group. Personally I think his side of the matter is important to cover, but with respect to Reggie and his involvement with the project.

RH: That was so very nicely put [laughs]. There’s no love lost between us.

What stage are you in now with the film?

CJ: Kickstarter, that is our No. 1 goal right now, to see if that can get funded. That’s going to allow us a lot of the next steps we need to take – to be able to get back out there and start shooting again, afford a little bit better camera gear, insurance for that gear, and allow us the time to spend out there [in New Jersey]. The filming that we’ve done so far has only been a weekend or two. We would like to be able to go out for a longer period of time and really sit down with these guys on a regular basis and get very familiar with the story.

Reggie, is it difficult for you revisiting some parts of the story? There was a long period when the band wasn’t active, and a big part of that is because you went back into prison.

RH: At times there are some things that cause agony, for lack of a better description. Someone told me, and they were right, I’m really the only one left that can tell the whole story. The group has turned over many times, even in the prison system. The group that I put together in the beginning in 1968 was not the group that George Kerr recorded in 1972. The only constant that there has ever been is me. I’m the only one that knows everything. If I don’t tell it, it won’t be told. Yeah, that entails me to feel a little bit of pain every now and then, but if that’s the price that I have to pay, so be it.

What do you hope the film will accomplish? In your heart, what do you want to come out of this project?

RH: First, of course, we absolutely want it to be entertaining. More importantly, we want it to be educational. We’re not only telling the story of portions of my life, the story of the Escorts, but we’re also trying to get forth messages to today’s youth. Somehow so many of the young people today seem to think that there’s some type of a positive stigma by going to jail. I’m like, wait a minute, hold up, stop! You been hoodwinked. You been bamboozled. You been lied to. There is no glory in going to jail. It doesn’t exist. To me jail is a living graveyard. It’s the world of the living dead. These are the things that are important to me, to try to impress on the youth. Whoever told you that it was a status symbol going to jail, they lied to you.

The $30,000 Kickstarter campaign for All We Need Is the Another Chance ends October 3. Click on the widget below to contribute or learn more.

* Note to history geeks: ’50s doo-wop group the Prisonaires did form in a Tennessee jail but they recorded at Sun Records with Sam Phillips, albeit under guard. Return to article