A new true crime drama/documentary is airing on Channel 5 this summer. The Child Snatcher: Manhunt, tells of one of the UK's largest police investigations after a killer kidnapped and murdered four young girls – Jennifer Cardy, Susan Maxwell, Caroline Hogg, and Sarah Harper – in the 1980s.

Robert Black, born in Scotland in 1947, had a long history with sexually deviant and violent behaviour, the Mirror previously reported. He had attempted to rape a girl at the age of 12, though no charges were brought, and as a delivery boy in Glasgow he molested girls while on his rounds.

In 1976 he was given a job as a van driver for a London-based delivery firm meaning he was on the road around the country. But it was in the 1980s his crimes became deadly and on August 12, 1981, he committed his first known murder by killing nine-year-old Jennifer Cardy. She was cycling from her home in Ballinderry, County Antrim, in Northern Ireland to meet a friend.

Read more:The horrific true story behind the killing of June Fox-Roberts

Her bicycle was recovered close to her home. Her body was found at McKee's Dam near Hillsborough, County Down, six days later. She had been sexually assaulted.

Less than a year later, on July 30, 1982, he murdered 11-year-old Susan Maxwell. Susan lived on her family's farm near the village of Cornhill on Tweed on the English side of the Scottish border. On July 30 she was walking back from a tennis match in Coldstream two miles away when she vanished. Two weeks later her body was found 264 miles away lying a ditch at a roadside layby just outside Uttoxeter in the Midlands. It was later discovered that Black had been travelling between Edinburgh and Newcastle on the day Susan vanished and often visited a friend in London via the Midlands.

In 1983, on July 8, five-year-old Caroline Hogg was snatched off the street by Black as she was playing in Edinburgh and 10 days later her badly decomposed and naked body was found dumped in the East Midlands. His next known victim was Leeds 10-year-old Sarah Harper who Black took as she popped out to get some bread. Sarah was found three and a half weeks later by a dog walker in the River Trent at Wilford. A post-mortem examination showed that Sarah was subjected to a violent sexual assault.

He was eventually caught in 1990 when he was stopped by police in the Scottish village of Stow with a six-year-old girl hooded, gagged, bound, and stuffed in a sleeping bag in the back of his van. The girl had been taken from a village fete and the criminal was sentenced to life imprisonment for the kidnap and attack.

It was while in jail Black was found guilty of the murders of Susan Maxwell, Caroline Hogg, and Sarah Harper, in 1994. Black was also found guilty in 2011 of abducting and murdering Jennifer Cardy. It is strongly suspected he's behind multiple other murders including that of paper girl Genette Tate who vanished in a country lane close to her Devon home in 1978.

Where is Robert Black now?

Robert Black died of heart disease in Maghaberry high-security prison, Northern Ireland, in 2016, aged 68. He was cremated and his ashes were scattered at sea after prison authorities in Northern Ireland revealed no-one wanted his remains.