Child killer Robert Black, who murdered four children across the UK in the 1980s, has died in prison aged 68.

Black was serving multiple life sentences for the brutal abductions and murders of four girls in the early 1980s.

He was born on 21 April 1947 in Grangemouth, Stirlinghshire, to Jessie Hunter Black, who immediately had him fostered.

He was brought up by a couple in their 50s, Jack and Margaret Tulip until he was 11 when he was put in a children's home in Falkirk.

Aged 12, he was transferred schools after attempting to rape a girl in a field with two other boys.

He started work aged 15 as a delivery boy in Greenock near Glasgow. He later admitted that, while on his rounds, he molested 30 to 40 girls.

In 1963, he received his first conviction for luring a seven-year-old girl from a play park to a disused air raid shelter after promising to show her a box of kittens.

He choked her until she fell unconscious and then molested her. He then left her for dead.

Read more:

She was later found wandering on her own, in tears and bleeding.

Remarkably, Black was not incarcerated for the crime after being found guilty of only "lewd and libidinous" behaviour.

In 1966, he returned to Kinlochleven, when he had been raised, to again target a seven-year-old girl, who was the daughter of a couple he was lodging with.

When he was left to babysit, Black instead took the opportunity to repeatedly violate her.

He was convicted of three counts of indecent assault and sent to borstal at Polmont near Falkirk for a year.

On August 12 1981 he committed his first known murder, killing nine-year-old Jennifer Cardy. She was cycling from her home in Ballinderry, County Antrim in Northern Ireland to meet a friend.

Her bicycle was recovered close to her home. Her body was found at McKee's Dam near Hillsborough, County Down six days later. She had been sexually assaulted.

Black, who at the time was working in the area for a poster-delivery company, was convicted of her kidnap, sexual assault and murder at Armagh Crown Court on 27 October 2011.

On July 30, 1982 he killed Susan Maxwell.

The 11-year-old schoolgirl lived on her family's farm near the village of Cornhill on Tweed on the English side of the Scottish border.

On July 30, she was walking back from a tennis match in Coldstream two miles away when she vanished.

Her game finished at 4pm and Susan was last seen crossing the bridge back into England over the River Tweed.

Two weeks later, her body was found 264 miles away lying a ditch at a roadside lay-by just outside Uttoxeter in the Midlands.

Still wearing her T-shirt and shorts, her pants had been removed, folded and placed under the dead girl's cheek.

Black had been travelling between Edinburgh and Newcastle on the day Susan vanished and often visited a friend in London via the Midlands.

On July 8 1983, he snatched five-year-old Caroline Hogg off the street as she was playing.

Caroline, from Portobello near Edinburgh, who was wearing a princess dress, was given permission to play for five minutes in the school grounds opposite her house.

Eyewitnesses saw her with a scruffy man playing in the promenade and the funfair.

Ten days later her badly decomposed and naked body was found dumped in the East Midlands.

Black was later traced to the area near Stafford.

On March 26 1986 he murdered Sarah Harper, 10, who lived in Morley in greater Leeds.

She was sent on an errand to buy a loaf of bread at the corner shop and was last seen heading down a short alleyway on her way home.

Three and a half weeks later, a man walking his dog along the River Trent at Wilford near Nottingham spotted her body floating in the water.

Her anorak was gone, as was her skirt.

A post-mortem showed she was subjected to a violent sexual assault.

Black was later traced to the area.

On Sunday April 4 1988 he tried and failed to abduct Teresa Thornhill, 15, in the the Radford area of Nottingham.

In 1990, Black was finally court when he was stopped by police in the Scottish village of Stow with a six-year-old girl hooded, gagged, bound and stuffed in a sleeping bag in the back of his van.

He had snatched her from the village fate 20 minutes earlier and had taken her to a lay-by to molest her.

Black was sentenced to life imprisonment for the kidnap and attack.

While he was in jail, detectives linked him to the other murders, and in 1994, he was found guilty of killing Susan, Caroline and Sarah Harper, 10.

Genette Louise Tate disappeared on 19 August 1978 at the age of 13 from her home town of Aylesbeare in Devon, while she was delivering newspapers.

Investigators tried to link her disappearance to Black in 2005 but they did not find sufficient evidence to charge him.

Black died of natural causes in Maghaberry prison, it was confirmed today.