House of Burgundy (1139–1383)[]

The House of Burgundy, known as the Afonsine Dynasty, was the founding house of the Kingdom of Portugal. Prior to the independence of Portugal, the house ruled the feudal County of Portugal, of the Kingdom of Galicia. When Alphonso I Henriques declared the independence of Portugal, he turned the family from a comital house to a royal house which would rule Portugal for over two centuries. When Ferdinand I died, a succession crisis occurred and Ferdinand's daughter Beatrice of Portugal was proclaimed queen and her husband John I of Castile proclaimed king by the right of his wife. Her legitimacy as a monarch is disputed.

House of Aviz (1385–1581)[]

The House of Aviz, known as the Joanine Dynasty, succeeded the House of Burgundy as the reigning house of the Kingdom of Portugal. The house was founded by John I of Portugal, who was the Grand Master of the Order of Aviz. When King John II of Portugal died without an heir, the throne of Portugal passed to his cousin, Manuel, Duke of Beja. When King Sebastian of Portugal died, the throne passed to his uncle, Henry of Portugal (he might be called Henry II because Henry, Count of Portugal, father of Alphonso I of Portugal, was the first of that name to rule Portugal). When Henry died, a succession crisis occurred and António, Prior of Crato, was proclaimed António of Portugal.

House of Habsurg (1581–1640)[]

The House of Habsburg, known as the Philippine Dynasty, is the house that ruled Portugal from 1581 to 1640. The dynasty began with the acclamation of Philip II of Spain as Philip I of Portugal in 1580, officially recognized in 1581 by the Portuguese Cortes of Tomar. Philip I swore to rule Portugal as a kingdom separate from his Spanish domains, under the personal union known as the Iberian Union.

House of Braganza (1640–1932)[]

The House of Braganza, also known as the Brigantine Dynasty, came to power in 1640, when John II, Duke of Braganza, claimed to be the rightful heir of the defunct House of Aviz, as he was the great great grandson of King Manuel I. John was proclaimed King John IV, and he deposed the House of Habsburg in the Portuguese Restoration War.

The descendants of Queen Maria II and her consort, King Ferdinand II (a German prince of the House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha), came to rule in 1853. Portuguese law and custom treated them as members of the House of Braganza, though they were still Saxe-Coburg and Gotha dynasts. This has led some to classify these last four monarchs of Portugal as members of a new royal family, called the House of Braganza-Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, though this view is not widely held.

Regency Council (1932–1934)[]

After Manuel II died heirless, Duarte Nuno was theoretically King of Portugal. However, there was a problem: Duarte Nuno was the grandson of Miguel I, an absolutist who was deposed following the Liberal Wars. This caused a crisis, if a Migeulist took power, it could mean the end of the parliamentary system and a new age of absolutism, but no else was there to take the throne. A Regency Council was formed to determine the next course of action. Two main factions emerged, one in favor of Durte Nuno's crowning, lead by Manuel Gomes da Costa, and one in favor of abolishing the monarchy, lead by Óscar Carmona. António de Oliveira Salazar, a former Minister of Finance, was selected as President of the Regency. Lacking any affiliation with either side, parliament hoped he could work out a compromise between them, which would be his goal for the next two years. At one point, writer and journalist Maria Pia, who claimed to be the bastard daughter of Carlos I, was investigated as a possible compromise monarch. It soon turned out that, even if her claims where true, she legally could not inherit the throne, and they rejected her claim.