Showing Tag: " terry vainoras" (Show all posts)

ALBUM RELEASE: Subterranean Disposition - Contagiuum and the Landscapes of Failure

Posted by Nick Skog on Wednesday, June 15, 2016, In : Album Releases

Today's the day! The second album from the eclectic apocalyptic doom band Subterranean Disposition is officially released through Hypnotic Dirge Records / Solitude Productions!

Nearly four years after releasing the debut self-titled album, Melbourne based Experimental Death-Doom band Subterranean Disposition returns with a massive new full-length album entitled “Contagiuum and the Landscapes of Failure.” With over two decades of experience in various projects, (including in bands such as C...

Continue reading ...

Subterranean Disposition/Lycanthia Dual Album Launch Tour 2013

Posted by Nick Skog on Thursday, January 24, 2013, In : Live Shows

Hypnotic Dirge Records, Metalobsession.net and MMK promotions proudly presents a dual album launch for two of Australia's best Doom exports, Lycanthia and Subterranean Disposition, on their Australian east coast tour this February, March and April.

Longstanding Australian Death-Doom/Gothic Metal band Lycanthia are due to release their latest Album 'Oligarchy' in a digi-pak format, through Hypnotic Dirge Records. Their music is described as dark, aggressive and emotional sound scapes fused wit...

Continue reading ...

Subterranean Disposition interview w. Metal Soundscapes [Nov 12, 2012]

Posted by Nick Skog on Monday, November 12, 2012, In : Interviews

Subterranean Disposition interview with Metal Soundscapes

November 12, 2012

Original Link

Subterranean Disposition is a new doom/death metal band from Australia. It’s the solo project of Terry Vainoras, who is an active member of the Melbourne metal community since 1995. He has also performed and recorded with bands like Order of Chaos, Damaged, Earth, Hellspawn, Cryptal Darkness, The Eternal and Insomnius Dei. His main instruments are Vocals, Guitar, Bass and Keyboards. Let’s see what he h...

Continue reading ...

Subterranean Disposition interview with Metal Obsession [November 1, 2012]

Posted by Nick Skog on Saturday, November 3, 2012, In : Interviews

Subterranean Disposition Interview with Metal Obsession

Novemeber 1, 2012

Not too long ago, “new” doom project Subterranean Disposition signed to and released their new album through Hypnotic Dirge Records. It’s a stunning release, as you can find out in our review, and has been spinning regularly since. The whole band is a bit of a mystery though, especially in regards to what we can expect in the future. Thankfully, as you can read below, Terry Vainoras (the one man behind the band) has...

Continue reading ...

Subterranean Disposition Interview w. Doom-metal.com [Oct.15, 2012]

Posted by Nick Skog on Tuesday, October 16, 2012, In : Interviews

Subterranean Disposition interview w. doom-metal.com

October 15, 2012

Subterranean Disposition interview with doom-metal.com

Original Link

Subterranean Disposition is Terry Vainoras' new Doom project. Based in Melbourne, Australia, Terry has been working with various Australian extreme Metal acts such as Cryptal Darkness or Insomnius Dei. Inspired by his contribution to the latter, he decided to form a Doom band of his own…

(1) Hello Terry, and thanks very much for agreeing to be interviewed f...

Continue reading ...

Subterranean Disposition album streaming in full and available to order!

Posted by Nick Skog on Sunday, October 14, 2012, In : Album Releases

Subterranean Disposition album streaming in full and available to order!

Subterranean Disposition is an experimental death-doom recording project from Terry Vainoras, a veteran of the underground Australian metal scene spanning a career almost two decades in length and also known for his involvement with Cryptic Darkness, The Eternal, and Insomnius Dei. The debut album from Subterranean Disposition is now available to order from Hypnotic Dirge Records, in both digipack and jewel cases formats....

Continue reading ...