Threatened sites

The archaeological sites of the Mosul region, whose looting and destruction were less widely publicised, also suffered terribly under the Daesh occupation. This was particularly true for the three ancient capitals of the Assyrian Empire — Nimrud, Khorsabad and Nineveh. Daesh also posted a video on social media showing the deliberate destruction of the ancient city of Hatra, the capital of a wealthy kingdom in the 2nd century AD.

Nimrud

The city of Nimrud is historically considered the second Assyrian capital. The site is mentioned under the names Kalhu in cuneiform texts and Calah in biblical texts. It is one of the archaeological sites most damaged by Daesh.

On 17 November 2016, Daesh released a video showing the destruction of the site. Their methodical assault on the monuments has left a deep impression on the world. Between 31 August and 2 October 2016, Daesh bulldozed the main façade of the site, demolished the Assyrian reliefs and razed the ziggurat to the ground. Cemeteries were also severely damaged and looted, as was a well located behind one of the rooms of the ancient palace. Fortunately, the interior spaces were not affected.

Khorsabad

On 8 March 2015, several sources reported that Daesh extensively looted and then destroyed — using bulldozers and heavy machinery — the archaeological site of Khorsabad, the ancient Dur-Sharrukin, located 15 kilometres northeast of Mosul.

Dur-Sharrukin, or "Sargon's fortress," was the ancient capital of Assyria built by order of King Sargon II (722‒705 BC). Located on the front lines of the conflict with Daesh in 2016, this remarkable site was severely damaged, especially its southwestern part.

Nineveh

At the heart of Assyria, its last capital — ancient Nineveh — was a vast and prosperous city. Unfortunately, the archaeological site saw an unprecedented scale of destruction, suffering some of the most extensive damage carried out by Daesh. Daesh targeted the city walls and many archaeological remains: sculptures, inscriptions and other iconic monuments created by human hands over two thousand years ago.

Of the 15 city gates built in the Neo-Assyrian period, Daesh destroyed three. The first gate, dedicated to the god Ea — also called mashqi or "gate of the water carriers" — was located opposite an agricultural area and was used to lead cattle out to the waters of the Tigris River (located 1.5 kilometres to the west). The second gate, dedicated to Adad, god of storms and climatic elements, was located opposite the ceremonial platform. Both gates were demolished on 12 April 2016. The next day, Daesh destroyed the third gate, the gate "of Nergal," god of the underworld. Finally, Daesh bulldozed all the stone walls and towers that extended to the Nergal Gate.

Hatra

In April 2015, Daesh posted a video on social media showing scenes of deliberate destruction at the ancient site of Hatra. Using pickaxes, cables and weapons, Daesh destroyed and shattered sculptures on the walls of the outer enclosures, as well as many statues inside the building.

Situated about 100 kilometres south of Mosul in a desert region, the city of Hatra dates from the 3rd or 2nd century BC. Considered one of the most important religious and commercial centres of the Parthian Empire, the walled city contained vast temples whose architecture reflected a mixture of Greek, Roman and Oriental influences.