This is a well acted and reasonably staged film production of Harold Pinter's play. The story seems to be that the IRA have been searching for and finally found a British member who left the organization and went into hiding. He's spent a year living at a run-down boarding house in a coastal town. His cover story is that he's an out of work musician with funds available to support himself. His two pursuers pose as lodgers on a few days break. The three of them beat around the bush a bit but finally everyone puts their cards on the table. There's an interrogation while no one's around, then there's a birthday party where tensions are on edge and finally the man on the run has a nervous breakdown. It ends with him being taken away by his pursuers to be killed. That's the main thrust of the story, but there's also a lot of "comic" business with the landlady, who's a bit mentally impaired. It's all played out in an implied way, with very little direct explanation for what's going on. I saw the BBC version of this play many years ago, but this was better. Robert Shaw was good casting. William Freidkin keeps it cinematic. As a drama it works, and holds the interest. However, it should be stated, there is very little purpose or point to this film. It's not a political commentary in any way.

A matinee, a Pinter Play. A child's drum and a birthday party. It's simply an acting exercise, probably not for everybody, but if you are familiar with metaphorucal theatrical drama, a bit more interesting than if you are not. There are more questions than answers in the film version of this play that director William friedkin later of "The French Connection" and "The Exorcist") pursued as a passion project, and when you do that with an abstract play like this, you can only hope for the best. I'll give credit to his Direction. It does seem to work, as do the performances. But for the play being on the transition to film, I don't even think that I don't think I'd be able to get the point of the play.

It's Stanley's birthday. The gruff performance of veteran actor Robert Shaw starts off with him dealing with the nosy but lovable boardinghouse landlady Dandy Nichols, then being visited by two strangers (Patrick Magee and Sydney Tafler) who badger him with seemingly pointless questions to the point where he explodes. There's also a young, married pretty neighbor (Helen Fraser) who collects like a hen when she gets drunk and starts giggling, before making out with one of the visitors.

Individual parts of the conversations are interesting, but even the most diligent of concentration will make the whole thing a bizarre party. Nichols in party dress into Yara seems to be emulating the queen, or maybe Florence Foster Jenkins, and slightly resembles Jean Stapleton. Party games ensue, and more confusion takes hold. It's a difficult film to rank and review, because unless you get the apparent metaphors, all can be lost. I've never seen this on stage before but I have read the script, and seeing it on film still didn't answer the questions I had before. I guess we can thank Friedkin for at least attempting to give this a motion picture treatment, because otherwise, we might not have a record of it. For that I'm grateful. For whatever the film is supposed to mean and the fact that I didn't get it, I am not.

THE BIRTHDAY PARTY is the screen adaptation of a Harold Pinter play set mainly in the front room of a seaside boarding house somewhere in the UK. It's dark stuff indeed, unsettling in its depiction of weird events getting progressively weirder, and it's a directorial tour-de-force for William Friedkin, later to go on to make some of the most iconic movies of the 1970s. Now, I've never been a big fan of Pinter and this is a typically obtuse and unwieldy piece of work; if you're looking for sense or explanation, you'll be sorely disappointed.

The game cast sees an against-type Robert Shaw playing an on-the-edge guy visited by two sinister strangers, as played by popular actors Patrick Magee and Sydney Tafler. All three performances are excellent and naturalistic. The whole story sees the gruesome twosome driving Shaw out of his mind, so it ends up being a disturbing and disorientating viewing experience. Is it fun? Nope. Entertaining? Not at all. Engrossing? Not particularly. Maybe I'm missing something. I accept that this is more frightening as a horror film than a mundane vampire-on-the-prowl movie, but it's not something I'd choose to watch again.