A young officer is billeted with a bourgeois couple with a beautiful daughter. To his astonishment, the girl makes advances to him and they embark on a silent nocturnal affair, carried out with some difficulty since her bedroom leads off that of her parents. The intrigue culminates in a surprise tragic ending. Astruc, novelist and film critic, who coined the phrase ‘camera stylo’, wrote that cinema should be ‘a means of writing s supple and as subtle as that of written language’. In this, his first film, the direcor practised what he preached, achieving a stylish, unusual and moving work in which narative takes the place of dialogu and the camera and silent presences of the actors convey the drama. This little gem of a short feature, demonstrating the maximum that less is more, remains the best work of Astruc, whose later films, tend towards the turgid and lack clarity of purpose. Reference: Bloomsbury Foreign Film Guide.

Credits: Producers, Anatole Dauman, Philippe Lifschitz ; director, Alexandre Astruc ; writer, Alexandre Astruc ; photography, Eugene Schuftan ; music, Jean-Jacques Grunenenwald.

Cast: Anouk Aimee, Jean-Claude Pascal, Marguerite Garcya.

Our collection comprises over 40,000 moving image works, acquired and catalogued between the 1940s and early 2000s. As a result, some items may reflect outdated, offensive and possibly harmful views and opinions. ACMI is working to identify and redress such usages.

Learn more about our collection and our collection policy here. If you come across harmful content on our website that you would like to report, let us know.

Please note: this archive is an ongoing body of work. Sometimes the credit information (director, year etc) isn’t available so these fields may be left blank; we are progressively filling these in with further research.

Cite this work on Wikipedia

If you would like to cite this item, please use the following template: {{cite web |url=https://acmi.net.au/works/116462--le-rideau-cramoisi-the-crimson-curtain/ |title=Le Rideau Cramoisi = the Crimson Curtain |author=Australian Centre for the Moving Image |access-date=22 August 2024 |publisher=Australian Centre for the Moving Image}}