VISION FOR OUR CHURCH:

This statement reflects the vision of our church, so that we are able to understand who we are and where we are going. This statement directly incorporates who our church is currently, who we are becoming in this current season, and who we desire to become in the future.

We are a diverse expression of the Family of God, who welcomes our neighbor, who loves each other, and who encourages believers to live the Gospel.

CORE VALUES:

Core Values are the guiding terms of how we engage our vision. Each core value aligns with some aspect of our vision to create cohesive purpose and motivation to everything we do in our church. We call them the 5 “I”s. Everything we do is filtered through these principles.

5 “I”s of Newsong

INHERITANCE.

Everyone is family. We value what each person carries with them, the grace, the gifts, the culture, and their spiritual journey. God is our father and Jesus is the son of God. Jesus carried the inheritance of heaven into the earth to give it away. We are all sons and daughters of God. We share our lives in our church.

Romans 8.16-17; Galatians 4.1-9

INVITATIONAL.

Everyone is a host. We value the power of invitation. We see Jesus employs the heart of welcoming people who others didn’t believe should be included. We invite our neighbors to join our family.

Mark 12:31; Matthew 25:40; John 1:39

INTENTIONAL.

Everyone is a servant. We value the intentionality of love. We acknowledge Jesus’ love is always intentional, it has attention to others and action towards others, which is service. We position ourselves to see one others needs and to respond to them.

John 13:1-35

INFLUENTIAL.

Everyone is a witness. We value the transforming influence of the Gospel of Jesus. We believe in encouraging those in our church to influence their family, their work, their community with the Good News of Jesus. We believe telling others the Good News will disciple the nations and change the world.

Matthew 28.16-20; Acts 1:8

INSPIRATIONAL.

Every moment is an encounter with God. We value the Holy Spirit and his activity in our church. We believe in cultivating an awareness of the Presence of God in our lives. We ask the Holy Spirit to breathe upon all aspects of our church. We believe in the prophetic, transformation, healing, redemption, reconciliation, and the power of God demonstrated.

1 Corinthians 2:14; 1 Cor 12; Acts 2

THE CREEDS:

NewSong affirms, confesses and holds to the historic Creeds of the Church.

The Apostles' Creed:

I believe in God, the Father almighty, the Creator of heaven and earth, and in Jesus Christ, his only Son, our Lord; Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and was buried. He descended to hades (or the dead). The third day he arose again from the dead. He ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of God the Father almighty, whence he shall come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit, the holy universal Church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. Amen.

Nicene Creed:

We believe in one God, the Father, the almighty, maker of heaven and earth, of all that is,

seen and unseen.

We believe in one Lord, Jesus Christ, the only Son of God, eternally begotten of the Father,

God from God, Light from Light, true God from true God, begotten, not made, of one being with the Father. Through him all things were made. For us men and for our salvation

he came down from heaven; by the power of the Holy Spirit he became incarnate of the Virgin Mary, and was made man. For our sake he was crucified under Pontius Pilate; he suffered death and was buried.

On the third day he rose again in accordance with the scriptures; he ascended into heaven

and is seated at the right hand of the father. He will come again in glory to judge the living and the dead, and his kingdom will have no end.

We believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the giver of life, who proceeds from the Father and the Son. With the Father and the Son he is worshipped and glorified. He has spoken through the Prophets.

We believe in one holy catholic and apostolic Church. We acknowledge one baptism for the forgiveness of sins. We look for the resurrection of the dead, and the life of the world to come. Amen.

DOCTRINAL BELIEFS:

There is only one true God who is the eternal King, Creator and Redeemer of all that is. He is perfectly holy, just, loving and truthful. He has revealed Himself to be eternally self-existent—one being in three persons: God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit.

The Bible to be the inspired and infallible and authoritative Word of God and Jesus Christ is perfect theology.

Humankind was created in the image of God to know and enjoy Him, yet we willfully rejected the Lordship and glory of God for which we were intended. Because of this, sickness, death and judgment entered the world and now creation experiences the effects and consequences of sin.

The Lord Jesus Christ, the one and only Son of God, was conceived of the Holy Spirit, born of the virgin, Mary, and is God's Anointed One, empowered by the Holy Spirit to inaugurate God's Kingdom on earth. He was crucified for our sins, died, was buried, resurrected and ascended into heaven, and is now alive today, in the presence of God the Father and in His people. He is "true God" and "true man."

We are saved by God's grace, through faith in the person and work of Jesus Christ. Anyone can be restored to fellowship with God through repenting, believing and receiving Jesus as their Savior and Lord. The Holy Spirit, convicts, regenerates, justifies, and adopts us as we enter the Kingdom of God as His sons and daughters.

In the sanctifying power of the Holy Spirit, by whose indwelling the Christian is enabled to live holy and minister super-naturally. The baptism of the Holy Spirit according to Acts 1:4–8 and 2:4 is poured out on believers that they might have power to be witnesses.

The victorious redemptive work of Christ on the cross provides freedom from the power of the enemy: sin, lies, sickness and torment.

The Church consists of all who put their faith in Jesus Christ. He gave His church the ordinances of Baptism and Communion. The Church exists to carry on the ministry of Jesus Christ and further advance His kingdom by undoing the works of the enemy, preaching and living the good news of God's love, disciple the nations, baptizing and teaching them to love and obey God.

In the ever increasing government of God and in the Blessed Hope, which is the glorious visible return of our Lord Jesus Christ for His overcoming bride, His church. Heaven and hell are real places. There will be a resurrection of the saved and the lost, the one to everlasting life and the other to everlasting death.