The fourth film in the Kino Quickies season, screened on April 24th 2022, was Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street from 1936.

Directed by George "King of the Quickies" King and starring Tod Slaughter, it's the well known story of the murderous barber who polishes off his victims who are then processed into pie filling by his next door neighbour. Yum!

Our specially invited expert guest for the post show Q&A, Jade Evans, had a minor disaster the night before the screening when she tested positive for the dreaded Covid. Luckily, we had the technology to enable her to attend remotely via the wonders of the internet and the sound quality was only slightly affected.

Follow Jade on Twitter or Instagram and find links to her research HERE.

Your hosts are Dom Delargy and Dr Lawrence Napper

None of the prints of Sweeney Todd, as far as we can tell, are in perfect condition but if you'd like to watch a scratchy copy online, you can do that HERE.

And this British Pathe short feature starring Tod Slaughter is hoot!

Book tickets for any of the films in the Kino Quickies season HERE

Subscribe to our other film related podcast, Soho Bites.

On April 7th, our very own Lawrence Napper gave an online talk for Westminster Libraries called, Quota Quickies: the worst films ever made? If you missed it, all is not lost as it will soon be posted to YouTube. Watch this space for more details.

Follow Lawrence on Twitter

Follow Kino Quickies on Twitter and Facebook for updates.

Here's a very good article explaining what Quota Quickies are from the Cinema History Blog

Well that was fascinating but now I want to find out more

Don’t forget to subscribe to the Kino Quickies podcast. It comes out a couple of days after each screening.

They don't just screen ninety year old films at the Kino - they show recent ones too! Keep up to date with their Twitter, Instagram and website.

Twiddling the knobs for this recording was Robin Warren AKA Robin the Fog - investigate him on his website and follow him on Twitter.

We are delighted to have received support from Talking Pictures TV - the UK's best TV station. You can find them on your television on these channels: Sky 328, Freeview 82, Freesat 306 and Virgin 445 and register for their online catch-up service, TPTV Encore

You can hear the trailer preview episode of the Kino Quickies HERE.